Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Seventeen

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their
authors. Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
General editor Iraj Ayman
Cover design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.com
Typeset and edited by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
and the Nadia Saadat Memorial Scholarship Grant
173 B.E. 2016 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-29-9
Copyright © 2016, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

Study the Bahá’í Teachings More Deeply
Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Bahá’ís
(who asked his advice, and in general also) to
study history, economics, sociology, etc., in
order to be au courant with all the progressive
movements and thoughts being put forth
today, and so that they could correlate these
to the Bahá’í teachings. What he wants the
Bahá’ís to do is to study more, not to study
less. The more general knowledge, scientific
and otherwise, they possess, the better.
Likewise he is constantly urging them to really
study the Bahá’í teachings more deeply.
— From A Compilation on Scholarship pp. 17-18

Table of Contents
Preface ............................................................................................. 3
Addressing the Rising Tide of Globalization and Amorality in the Present
World Order and Its Implications on Extremes of Wealth and Poverty
Rama Ayman ............................................................................ 9
Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
JoAnn M. Borovicka ................................................................ 37
The Language of the Heart: From Dream Language towards Understanding
the Language of the Heart
Wolfgang Klebel ...................................................................... 65
Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings: A First Look
Ian Kluge .............................................................................. 111
Memorials of the Faithful: Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
Marlene Koswan .................................................................... 179
Memorials of the Faithful: The Democratization of Sainthood
Moojan Momen ..................................................................... 205
The Concept of ‘Faithfulness’ in the Bahá’í Texts in English Translation
Wendi Momen ....................................................................... 225
An Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Julio Savi .............................................................................. 277
Significance of some Sites Mentioned in Memorials of the Faithful
Foad Seddigh ......................................................................... 305
Hagiography: The Art of Setting Inspirational Examples for a Religious
Community
Iscander Micael Tinto ............................................................ 325
Elucidations, by the Universal House of Justice
Translation of Key Bahá’í Terms ............................................. 347
Suggestions about Changes in the Administrative Order ........... 349
In Memoriam
Houshang Arjmand (1930-2015) ................................................. 353
Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations ....... 357
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-16 ..................................... 359
Publications and Distributors of the ‘Irfán Colloquium ............... 372
Vision and Aims of the ‘Irfán Colloquium .................................. 374

Preface
Lights of ‘Irfán is an annual publication containing a
selection of research papers and texts of the presentations
delivered at various sessions of the Irfán Colloquium conducted
in English language. The ‘Irfán Colloquium aims at
promoting and supporting systematic studies of fundamental
principles of the Bahá’í beliefs, the Writings of the Central
Figures of the Bahá’í Faith, the interface between the Bahá’í
Faith and various religions and schools of thought as well as
investigating current challenges in human society from the
Bahá’í perspective.
In 1915 the fire of the World War was in full blast and
traffic to and from Holy Land was practically stopped. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá took the initiative of sharing with the friends who were
present in the Holy Land, the life stories of a number of
believers of all social strata by showing how they had faithfully
served the Cause and demonstrated their loyalty and dedication
to the best interests of the Bahá’í Faith. Thus a unique
collection was produced and soon afterwards published under
the title of Memorials of the Faithful. In the course of
2015, ‘Irfán Colloquium celebrated the centenary of that
precious gift by inviting presentations of the studies covering
various aspects and contents of that book. Most of the articles
in the present volume are a selection of such studies that were
produced and delivered in English language.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Memorials of the Faithful: The Democratization of
Sainthood starts with a definition and a brief review of
hagiography throughout religious history. It is a kind of
comparative study of hagiographies and Memorials of the
Faithful. It examines the manner in which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has
used the traditional literary format of hagiographies and used it
in an innovative manner to cover all social strata of the
believers. It could be considered as democratization of
sainthood, in its broad sense. Memorials of the Faithful:
Hagiography and Models to Set Examples in a Religious
Community attempts to present examples of life in a religious
community, which is that of hagiography: the story of the lives
of the saints. In the Christian world, the life of Jesus was the
example against which saints were measured, and the lives of
saints were the examples against which the general population
measured itself. In the Middle Age hagiography became a
literary genre par excellence for teaching a largely illiterate
audience. This study includes a brief comparison between two
examples from Memorials of the Faithful, Mishkín Qalam,
and Shams-i-Îuhá, and two examples from Persian classical
texts of hagiographies in the works of Farídu’d-Din A††ár, and
Báyazid Bastámí.
The Concept of ‘Faithfulness’ in the Bahá’í Texts in
English Translation is a preliminary examination of the
concept and various usages of this term, faithfulness, in the
Bahá’í texts available in English language. It reviews the
behaviours expected from those who are faithful and references
to faithfulness such as being faithful as an individual; God being
faithful to His people; believers being faithful to the Covenant
established
by
Bahá’u’lláh.
As
individuals’
behaviour,
faithfulness is a spiritual quality that manifests itself in
relationships as, for example, loyalty, trustworthiness and
reliability.
Homage to Memorial of the Faithful and to eight
of its heroes is a composition of eight poems on eight of the
personages of the book. The features of Memorials of the

Preface
Faithful have led the author to compose these poems. They have
not been chosen because they were considered in any way
superior to or better than all the others. They were chosen
because some of their personal qualities and of the events of
their lives raised louder echoes in the author’s heart and mind.
Significance of Some Historical and Holy Places
Cited in the Memorial of the Faithful — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in
the course of portraying the life history of some believers, has
cited many villages, cities, and sites, some of which are blessed
by the foot-steps of the twin manifestations of God for this
age, and others are important due to being the scene of
significant historical events of the Faith. In this article four
such places are selected from among them and their niche in
history is further elaborated. These are (1) the Most Great
House in Baghdad, (2) the ruins of Madayen, located some thirty
kilometers south of Baghdad, on the banks of Tigris, where the
Blessed Beauty visited many times, and once graced the palaces
of great kings of Sassanid dynasty which were destroyed by the
army of Arab invaders and subsequently lost their glory, (3)
surroundings of the Sheikh Tabarsí’s tomb where Baha'u’llah
visited once, and (4) the city of Mosul in the northern Iraq on
the banks of River Tigris, which is built on the ruins of the
ancient and historical city of Nineveh where a number of
believers and the Holy family were kept as captives for several
years, and Baha’u’llah’s caravan, exiled to the seat of the
Ottoman Empire, passed through it.
The Language of the Heart claims the Bahá’í Religion
could justifiably be called the “Religion of the Heart.” The
heart in the Bahá’í Writings is given a special meaning; concepts
like the city of the heart and the citadel of the heart are
emphasizing the importance of the heart. The heart is described
as possessing sensory capacities. The question raised in this
article is about the form and style of the language of the heart,
in what way is this language different from our normal language
and thinking as it is developed in the human brain. The faculty
of reason, which is an endowment of the spiritual soul, uses

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
different bodily instruments, i.e., the brain and the heart. They
always need to work together, but they have different
languages, so that spiritual truth has to be reasonable even in
the logical linguistic sense, and the heart has to be pure in
a moral sense, otherwise it will contaminate logical reason or
even pervert it. Clearly we need both, a pure heart and a clear
mind to understand the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings: An Introductory
Exploration — Though at first glance Nietzsche and the Baha’i
Writings appear to be totally contrary, this article is an attempt
to show that Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche’s philosophy share a
surprising number of features that seem to be in common. It
invites a re-vision of Nietzsche from a new perspective. The
basis of this re-visioning is the Aristotelian elements in the
Writings. Nietzsche calls on man to “become what he is,” i.e. to
actualize his potential to become an Uebermensch. In other
words, both the Writings and Nietzsche analyze reality in
Aristotelian terms: actuality and potential; essence/substance
and attribute; matter and form; essential and accidental as well
as causality. Both have a dynamic understanding of reality and
both see human life as a process towards a new and superior
form of mankind, i.e. as a quest for greater actualization of our
potentialities. Viewed from a Bahá’í perspective, being “beyond
good and evil” also takes on a new meaning. Interestingly
enough, the Bahá’í Writings offer a way to interpret the “will to
power” in a way that resolves various contradictory
understandings. They also agree on the need for ‘superior
individuals’—called ‘Manifestations’ by the Writings—to guide
humankind. Of course, there are significant differences between
the Writings and Nietzsche, the most obviously being
Nietzsche’s sometimes hysterical tone in which he reaches
rhetorical excesses that seem to lead his thinking into absurdity.
Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih (1817-1852) and
Paul (circa 5-64) is a study pointing out ten parallels in the
ministries of Táhirih and Paul and a reflection on the value of
this knowledge in interfaith application. Táhirih and Paul are

Preface
separated by gender, religion, nationality, culture, and eighteen
hundred years, yet, when stories of their lives and apostolic
ministries are compared, parallels arise—the most significant of
which is that both are known for singular initiatives that helped
differentiate new Revelation from the old.
The
rise
of
extreme
inequality
in
wealth:
Implications of converging trends in amorality and
globalization: The tremendous strides made in globalization,
especially since WWII, have converged with a trend in growing
amorality as the fabric of international business conduct in
society. This convergence has led to extreme inequality within
majority of nations in the world at a time when, on aggregate,
wealth inequality between nations actually has been falling at
impressive rates. Here, the author discusses the impact that the
rise of amorality and globalization have had on wealth
inequality and the guidance we observe in the Bahá’í scriptures
to alleviate extremes of wealth and poverty in the context of a
world that increasingly selects amorality and acting in self-
interest as its new ethical foundation and globalization as its
tool to optimize wealth concentration.
The section on Elucidation contains the messages of the
Universal House of Justice providing guidance regarding the
following two key issues:
1. Translation of Key Bahá’í Terms
2. Suggestions about Changes in the Administration
In Memoriam section in this volume pays tribute to one of
the main and steadfast sponsors and supporters of the ‘Irfán
Colloquium, Mr. Houshang Arjmand, who passed away in
2015. Mr. Arjmand was the founder and main supporter of Haj
Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund which has been the major
source for financing Irfán Colloquium activities and its
publications.
Appendix I is the Bibliography of Bahá’í Writings and
Their Abbreviated Titles used in the text of the papers

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
published in this book, to facilitate referring to the sources of
the quoted statements.
Appendix II, Contents of Previous Volumes of Lights
of ‘Irfán, is a listing of the contents of previous volumes also
shows the range, types, methodological approaches and scope of
the papers that are presented, and are welcome to be presented,
at the ‘Irfán Colloquia. In addition to the papers presented at
the ‘Irfán Colloquia, research papers related to the main goals
of the ‘Irfán Colloquium are welcome to be directly submitted
for publication in the Lights of ‘Irfán.
Starting with Book Six, we have made two changes to the
‘Irfán Colloquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications
are cited by an abbreviation, and Words of Prophets/
Manifestations, i.e. quotations from Sacred Writings, (not
including statements by Shoghi Effendi or the Universal House
of Justice), are italicized.
All papers published in this book present the views and
understanding of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors. Their writing styles and
scholarly approaches are, therefore, different. Articles are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of
the authors’ surnames.
Iraj Ayman

Addressing the Rising Tide of
Globalization and Amorality in the
Present World Order and Its Implications
on Extremes of Wealth and Poverty 1
Rama Ayman
Over the past few decades, we have witnessed a simultaneous
rise in “Globalization” and “amorality” in the world—the
combination of these two trends has been the principal
contributor to the extreme inequality of wealth distribution we
witness in most regions of the world.
Bahá’u’lláh, in one of his Tablets, calls upon us to “Be
anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live in, and
center your deliberations in its exigencies and requirements.”2
Although the history of wealth inequality and poverty can be
traced back throughout much of human history as witnessed in
patterns of colonialism, conquests of nations and oppression of
peoples, and dominion of tyrannical governments dating back
to the early civilizations that arose in Mesopotamia over 4000
BC and perhaps ever since early societies were formed, near
river banks, over 10,000 years ago, we shall focus here on
developments in the past few decades as the extreme level of
inequality in wealth distribution has now emerged as one of the
key concerns of 21st century, and it will be our duty to center

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
our deliberations in understanding its causes and identify
potential remedies.
We shall examine the state of globalization and its darker
side, the concept of amorality and its hold on our physical
reality, the extent of inequality in the world, and the potential
remedies that we need to seriously consider in order to
eventually eliminate extreme poverty and wealth. These topics,
as we shall see, are quite complex and inter-connected, and
require a multi-disciplinary approach, including sociology,
political and behavioral economics and finance, technology and
ethics, to be adequately examined, which render simple
conclusions largely erroneous.
Our thesis, explored herein, is that in the absence of a strong
moral foundation, globalization, largely driven by profit
maximization, could further lead to increased extremes of
wealth and poverty regardless of regulatory framework.
This is not an academic research paper, but a practitioner’s
viewpoint focused on the inter-play between globalization and
amorality, and on formulating a thesis based on an
understanding of the Bahá’í Writings, which would subsequently
require much needed in-depth academic research, and detailed
statistical studies to test our thesis and substantiate potential
causalities among concepts discussed herein. Moreover, this
article does not attempt to provide a formal Bahá’í point of
view, but should be considered an attempt to explore some of the
manifold layers of a very complex issue based on the author’s
experience in the fields of international business and economics
and his understanding of the writings of the Bahá’í Faith.
Globalization
Globalization, according to the Universal House of Justice
(the International governing body of the Bahá’í Faith), “itself is
an intrinsic feature of the evolution of human society. It has
brought into existence a socio-economic culture that, at the

Rising Tide of Globalization
practical level, constitutes the world in which the aspirations of
the human race will be pursued in the century now opening” [CL
134].
Globalization is complex and not easily packaged in one
definition, but it encompasses the trend of businesses and
technologies to spread beyond national borders and across the
time zones—this trend often creates opportunities for further
integration and attainment of economies of scale, previously
unimaginable, limited only by the extend regulations allow for
free flow of trade, labor and capital. This “free” flow of goods
and services and labor around the world could be positive for
the global economy, but its impact on wealth distribution could
be adverse if exploitation of either labor or capital by business
enterprises takes hold as a sacrifice for profit maximization as
their only objective.
It is no longer possible to compartmentalize globalization
outside of our lives, in fact, globalization today impacts most
aspects of our life—it is front and center in our lives; from
being a fringe topic only 30-40 years ago, it has entered popular
discourse on mainstream media and has penetrated our
collective psyche.
Globalization has enhanced cross border integration of value
added economic activity through increased super-mobility of
labor, capital, goods, and services which, in turn, have made
them widely accessible. Consequently, globalization has
increased our economic interdependence, which in turn, might
have helped avert WWIII. Global trade is now a necessity for
most countries, and for existential reasons, countries have come
to rely more on globalization to facilitate their commerce and
ensure their economic survival. Nations around the world
witnessed the harmful effects of isolationism that had
devastating impact on economies of Eastern Europe an Former
Soviet Union until 1990s, and continued to destroy the
economies North Korea, Iran and Cuba where global sanctions
have isolated them from much of global trade until presently

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
when many of these sanctions are being removed presently in
the case of the latter two countries.
The best example of the positive impact of globalization can
be clearly seen in terms of physical progress made in China over
the past two decades. China’s population today is 1.3 billion,
which equals the world population of 200 years ago. Since early
1990s, with the help of globalization, China was able to build
effectively mega cities (2 of the world’s top 10 cities are in
China) as well as over 40 cities of over 1 million in population,
with related infrastructure, benefiting inter alia from iron ore
and coking coal imports from Australia and other needed
natural resources from Africa and Latin America to build out.
Over the past two decades, China has also emerged as number 2
manufacturer in the world with market share of over $3 trillion.
Share of China’s global exports grew form 6% to 18%, while
during the same period, US’s share went from 18% to 9%.
China, in December 2014, surpassed the US, as the Number 1
economy in the world on a purchasing power parity basis at
$17.6 trillion versus the US at $17.4 trillion, and in the process,
it brought over 800 million people out of poverty.
Another well-known example of globalization is how the US
is financed. The US National Debt is $19 trillion: $6 trillion is
inter-governmental debt, $13 trillion is outstanding debt, 50%
of which is owned by foreigners. Namely, as a result of
globalization, foreign lenders provide funds to the US so it can
rebuild its roads, telecom infrastructure, and finance its social
security and healthcare. Without Globalization, these funds
would likely not be available.
Many tools have helped increase the rate of globalization,
including: Internet, travel, communication, technologies, which
when considered together, often generate a mood which is one
of ebullience and a sense of “shared community”, but much of
globalization we observe on a daily basis is actually an
illusionary material uniformity, especially as promoted by
fashion, tourism and entertainment industries that have

Rising Tide of Globalization
encouraged people to wear similar clothes, play with the similar
toys (PlayStation or Xbox), drive similar cars, go to similar
vacation destinations, enjoy similar foods, utilize similar mobile
phones and social networking applications—materially, it
certainly appears as though we have emerged united as
“consumers of one country”.
Amorality
Although globalization can facilitate equity, global peace and
eventually world unity, our thesis is that without strong moral
fabric, Globalization can yield global crises and ever increasing
inequality. Conversely, globalization can not be sustained if
amorality dominates social and commercial relationships.
Here, we have defined “amorality” as acting under strict rules
of law but without any moral considerations; acting morally is
not the objective as long as legally the act is legally allowed in a
given jurisdiction. By extension, acting without moral
consideration, or acting amorally, is to act only out of self-
interest as long as the act complies with legal framework—the
key word here is “only”, i.e. if benefitting the self is the only
objective, the associated act could be considered as amoral3.
One can distinguish an amoral act from a moral act if the act
has been done completely out of self-interest and without any
consideration for others (amoral), instead of an act, which has
been centered on the interest of others (moral). Defining sole
pursuit of self-interest as amoral may go against the grain for
many economists who have long held the belief that pursuing
self-interest generates economic benefits in the broader
context, and in fact, legitimizes selfish behaviour—a theoretical
notion which has formulated our economic thought since Adam
Smith linked self-interest to economic activity in the 18th century.
Although it is empirically challenging to embark on gathering
statistical data to measure the trends of amorality over the
course of human history, we can certainly witness its

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
prominence in global business and finance evidenced by most
global companies which hold maximization of shareholder value
as their primary objective—an objective that is deemed not only
legitimate but thought in business schools as a core virtue, in
managing a business, throughout the world. This objective is
based on a fundamental belief, prevalent in many societies, that
acting in self-interest is a necessity and a sufficient goal, and by
extension this belief is applied by executives and businesses
alike. The result has been manifold and omnipresent: the spread
of tax haven jurisdictions around the world, the movement of
capital to jurisdictions that facilitate tax avoidance, the
smallness of corporate contributions to social improvement
causes, the exploitative rush of global corporations to regions
that have cheaper labor force are among a few of the examples
that can be considered. While these trends are not necessarily
illegal, they are driven largely out of self interest of companies
on behalf of their shareholders.
It is over the past century that trends in globalization and
amorality, for the first time in history, have coincided and have
jointly become so prominent, leading to the disastrous effect on
inequality of wealth we witness in most countries. The
intriguing moral question remains, if within the current rapid
rise of globalization, would acting in “self-interest” for short
term gains dissipate as the benefits of longer term global
interdependence become apparent.
Extreme Inequality
World population today is 6 times larger than the world
population in the middle of 19th century; i.e. the past century
has seen an unprecedented rise of human population—it took
over 3 million years for human population to grow to 1 billion,
and in a space of less than 200 years, the world population
surpassed 7 billion. However, the fast growth of population,
especially since WWII, has now slowed down, and with it the
world economic growth rate may continue to be more limited,

Rising Tide of Globalization
contributing further to the severity of wealth inequality in the
world in the coming years.
Today, without any exaggeration, we witness extreme
inequality of wealth across the world, both in wealthy countries
like the US (the richest nation) and in the poorest countries. The
numbers are staggering: Top 5% of the population in the US
own 63% of national wealth; The top 1% now own over 41
percent of all the wealth in the country4—during post WWII
years, partly due to rise in population and high rate of economic
growth, the top 20% of the population’s wealth was 3x the
bottom 20% in 1970s; this ratio has risen to 8x today.
1800 individuals in the world have a wealth of $7 trillion or
about 10% of world GDP5—this number represents a record
1,826 billionaires with an aggregate net worth of $7.05 trillion,
up from $6.4 trillion a year ago.
The richest 85 individuals in the world control as much
wealth as the lowest 3.5bn people (bottom half of the world
population)6.
These extremes of wealth and poverty have created unequal
societies around the world, with devastating results across a
broad range of vital indicators—the link between extremes of
wealth inequality and these indicators has been substantiated by
many, including research by Richard Wilkinson7, who has shown
that unequal societies rank lowest on multiple factors that can
directly contribute to extreme poverty:
o Life expectancy
o Infant mortality
o Homicide
o Trust
o Imprisonment
o Obesity
o Addiction
o Health issues

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
o Social mobility
o Intergenerational mobility
Unequal societies rank worse on psycho-social values, and as
such will be a threat to globalization itself and in turn to
durability of growth in the long term. When these values worsen
to alarming degrees8, sustaining peace within or without the
countries becomes far more challenging, and achieving unity of
humankind becomes a distant goal until these great disparities in
wealth dissipate.
Since 1980s, free flow of capital, increasing competition
between nations to attract investments, declining population
growth, technological revolution and increase in productivity
have increased concentration of wealth. Thomas Piketty, a well-
known French economist, has studied 20 countries, income and
wealth distribution in the past 200 years and has demonstrated
that when rate of return (“r”) exceeds growth rate (“g”), wealth
concentration increases9:


Seeking r > g; result in accelerated wealth concentration
There has been much debate on how to reduce inequality—
current debate revolves around:
o Progressive global wealth tax
o Authoritarian capital controls: expropriation
o Mutlilateral and Bilateral Grants

Rising Tide of Globalization
o Role of multi-lateral financial institutions: World Bank,
International Monetary Fund, International Finance
Corporation, European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development,
European
Investment
Bank,
Asian
Development Bank and numerous others, as well as the
newly established Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank
o Philanthropic wealth distribution
Although there has been some success in increasing
transparency, and reducing inequality through progressive
taxation and eliminating tax havens and tax avoidance by the
wealthier sections of society, in general, there has been little
impact on extreme inequality of wealth we see today in the
society. Given the stance of amorality, taxes will be avoided as
long as a legal solution can be found, and legal solutions have
always been in abundance. As taxes are raised, new financial and
tax innovations are developed to assist tax avoidance. As long
as taxes are forced on people, tax avoidance can not be
prevented. Thomas Picketty’s own solution to establish a Global
net worth tax will likely end with the same tax avoidance issues.
Jeffrey Sachs, another renowned economist and specialist on
poverty, in his book End of Poverty 2005, outlined 10 action
plans to raise 0.7% of global GDP and reduce poverty; this plan
was partially adopted in the UN Millennium Plan whose goal
was to reduce extreme poverty by 50% by 201510:
o Improve agriculture
o Improve basic health
o Invest in education
o Bring power
o Provide clean water and sanitation
To achieve these lines of action, the Plan called for:
o Unified plan of action
o Promote sustainable development
o Improve science

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
o Make personal commitments
o Gain public acceptance
o Strengthen UN and global agencies
However, Sachs is silent on necessity for spiritual and moral
education, and without a moral grounding, personal commit-
ments, public acceptance and unified plan of action would not
be possible. Nothing short of a moral education that would help
the individual combat acting only on self interest, transforming
of hearts of men one by one, can adequately address the
prerequisites for such global plans to eradicate poverty.
The Dark Side of Trends in Globalization and
Amorality
Acting only in self-interest, instead of then striving towards
helping others, eradicating poverty, and eventually achieving
greater degrees of world unity, promotes actions that only see
profit maximization (or “creating shareholder value”), as the
only existential goal, which under the framework of
globalization effectively means:
o Access to cheaper labor / cheaper sources of raw
materials / cheaper feedstocks for their companies to
maximize profits
o Access to more markets for their products to maximize
profits
o Access to jurisdictions with more favorable tax policies
to maximize profits
This is the effect of the convergence of globalization and
amorality that allows actions, which are legal but not necessarily
always “moral” (as defined by acting in the interest of others),
with respect to equity and justice, on a global scale.
The now omnipresent mantra of many businesses “go global”
has gained acceptance, because from their respective personal
standpoint, “going global” benefits “me”, not because of

Rising Tide of Globalization
embracing some utopian ideology of global unity. In aggregate,
acting in self interest (at individual level) or for companies
(acting for their shareholders) or for governments (acting in
their national interest) lead to a vicious cycle of zero:sum game,
creating and perpetuating strategies that are in contradiction
towards working for global equity, and instead we are on a
downward trajectory that will lead to more inequality and
human suffering.
To address the amorality of acting only in self interest, a
fundamental transformation, at individual and at collective
levels, is required—at the individual level, moral conviction is
needed that acting on self interest is wrong, and in turn, this
conviction at aggregate would transform shareholders of
companies, members of unions, technocrats in governments,
leading to policies that would consider interest of others as
priority. In such a context, this transformation would lead to:
o Stronger global institutions who are empowered
o More effective global security that can be relied upon
Given the vital importance of this individual conviction and
its subsequent implications on world order, globalization brings
us face to face with very existential questions about the
assumptions we have regarding human nature and whether
humans are inherently “Selfish” and “Material”, seeking material
accumulation as the ultimate goal in life, or whether humans are
inherently “Selfless” and “Spiritual”, seeking higher virtues of
love and fellowship and helping humanity as their ultimate goal
in life. Depending on which set of assumptions we subscribe, in
aggregate, societies are either doomed to be driven towards
competition and ultimately mutual destruction if the former set
of assumptions prevail, or can learn to work in cooperation if
individuals are inherently orientated not towards self but
towards helping others.
According to the Bahá’í belief system, human nature is
inherently spiritual. Any human has the capacity for turning

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
towards God or turning away from Him. During this physical
life, any human being can acquire spiritual qualities, and this
stands in contrast to the perspective that human nature is
inherently and essentially selfish. Therefore, human beings have
the capacity to be selfless in character, and ultimately be
capable of having the conviction to act in others’ interests, and
subsequently, work towards mutually beneficial goals of the
Unity of Humankind and the Most Great Peace.11 The Bahá’í
Faith’s principles of a united world order stand in contrast to
today’s world order where there is:
o No global leadership, no legitimacy for any one country
or a small group of countries to lead (failure of G7 or
even G20 to act definitively on any global decision
regarding
security,
environment,
distribution
of
resources etc.).
o No global vision regarding how to bring the diverse
nations together to solve complex economic and
financial issues facing most countries.
o No truly empowered global executive, legislative, or
judiciary bodies for implementing authoritatively and
with legitimacy equitable global laws (e.g. global welfare
tax, standardization of policies, criminality, human
rights violations).
o Inadequacy of exiting global institutions to effectively
confront global challenges facing humankind—World
Bank and its affiliates, United Nations, International
Monetary Fund, World Court in Hague, though having
been major steps in humanity’s progress towards global
governance, nevertheless, have not yet eradicated
poverty.
o No will to unify and coordinate response and adequately
address global challenges:
o environment,
o resource management,

Rising Tide of Globalization
o Infrastructure demand: $57 trillion needed by 2030
(energy, water, transport, social projects),
o health,
o immigration,
o poverty,
o corruption
We can clearly witness the lack of fundamental spiritual
values of Trust, Truthfulness, Justice in both economic and
political circles, in the current global world order, and
understand that various forms of adherence to “Game Theory”:
if “I” act selflessly, and others don’t, “I” will lose, so “I” have
to act selfishly to get a minimum prosperity, is structurally
deficient to institute the necessary principles and governing
institutions that would eventually bring about the desired world
unity, which in turn is a pre-requisite to eliminate extremes of
wealth and poverty.
Furthermore, we can also witness that the “Rule of Fear” and
a deep sense of insecurity underlie the current global world
order, which inherently perpetuates the existing animalistic
behavior towards self-preservation, rather than addressing first
the needs of others. The effect of this “Fear” has only deepened
the darkness of a globalized world, where sovereign self interest
would not allow for fiscal and eventually political union in
Europe while their monetary union has been inadequate to solve
their economic problems, where self interest of nations would
not allow for equitable global distribution of natural resources
to eradicate poverty; where the search for super profits, as
opposed to responsible use of technological and scientific
discoveries has diminished positive impact that science could
have on society.
Globalization has been in fact moving in a trajectory that is
in many ways counter-productive to the realization of a more
united world order. Relative absence of moral and spiritual
values and lack of any consultative framework has weakened the

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
efficacy of today’s global institutions to adequately address its
concerns—a state of existence that has frustrated many political
leaders. For example, interestingly, President Putin made the
following statement during his speech in Sochi in October 2014:
Sadly there is no guarantee and no certainty that the
current system of global and regional security is able to
protect us from upheavals. This system has become
seriously weakened, fragmented and deformed.
The Response of the Bahá’í Faith
The Bahá’í Faith addresses the issue of extremes of wealth
and poverty, in the context of globalization and morality, in a
comprehensive fashion with allocated responsibilities for the
Wealthy, the Poor, the Society and the Global Institutions. All
responsible stakeholders must do their part. Any one
stakeholder acting in isolation will not yield satisfactory results.
It is the integrated action of all these stakeholders, benefiting
from positive global forces, under a moral umbrella, that will
ultimately eradicate poverty.
1. Transformation of the Individual
For effects of Globalization to be more equitable in terms of
wealth distribution, and lead to the eradication of poverty, the
Bahá’í Faith calls for transformation of individuals to act
morally (i.e. act in the interest of others) instead of acting
amorally (i.e. act in the interest of self)—according to
Bahá’u’lláh:
That one indeed is a man who, today, dedicateth himself
to the service of the entire human race. The Great Being
saith: Blessed and happy is he that ariseth to promote the
best interests of the peoples and kindreds of the earth.
In another passage He hath proclaimed: It is not for him
to pride himself who loveth his own country, but rather

Rising Tide of Globalization
for him who loveth the whole world. The earth is but
one country, and mankind its citizens. [GWB 249-250]
The call for service and its importance to derive universal
benefits, was again discussed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Universal benefits derive from the grace of the Divine
religions, for they lead their true followers to sincerity
of intent, to high purpose, to purity and spotless honor,
to surpassing kindness and compassion, to the keeping
of their covenants when they have covenanted, to
concern for the rights of others, to liberality, to justice
in every aspect of life, to humanity and philanthropy, to
valor and to unflagging efforts in the service of
mankind. [SDC 98]
In fact, to pursue one’s own interest ahead of others is likened
to the behavior of animals and not worthy of human nature:
If man were to care for himself only he would be
nothing but an animal for only the animals are thus
egoistic. If you bring a thousand sheep to a well to kill
nine hundred and ninety-nine the one remaining sheep
would go on grazing, not thinking of the others and
worrying not at all about the lost, never bothering that
its own kind had passed away, or had perished or been
killed. To look after one's self only is therefore an
animal propensity. It is the animal propensity to live
solitary and alone. It is the animal proclivity to look
after one's own comfort. But man was created to be
a man—to be fair, to be just, to be merciful, to be kind
to all his species, never to be willing that he himself be
well off while others are in misery and distress—this is an
attribute of the animal and not of man. Nay,
rather, man should be willing to accept hardships for
himself in order that others may enjoy wealth; he should

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
enjoy trouble for himself that others may enjoy
happiness and well-being. [FWU 42]
This elevated status of human nature, the purpose of human
beings in this life, and in fact the purpose or goal of his
creation in general is core to the Bahá’í Faith’s theological and
existential beliefs and centers squarely around service to
humanity.
All men have been created to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization. [GWB 215]
Given the centrality of placing the individual’s conviction in
“service to humanity” and considering interests of others above
self-interest, as the very purpose/goal of creation, in Bahá’í
theology, the transition from self-centeredness towards human
society-centeredness is an outcome that is self evident. The
implications of this belief system are enormous, and in stark
contrast against the belief system prevalent in modern society
where the basic assumption about the human nature is in fact
that individuals act selfishly, and in this context, individuals in
aggregate would feel insecure about their future as they believe
no one would consider their interest—this feeling of insecurity
about their well-being, leads to self-accumulation of wealth and
power as means for safeguarding security, and in turn, on
aggregate, such acting in self-interest leads to harmful
competition and lack of true cooperation—seeking super
returns above economic growth, as discussed previously, would
lead to extremes in distribution of wealth and poverty. Thomas
Piketty stated that “there is no natural force that would bring
inequality under control”. As such, concentration of wealth
grows till it is unacceptable, but in the meantime such extremes
of wealth and poverty shall undermine institutions and
democracies around the globe.
On the other hand, under the world view of the Bahá’í Faith,
where individuals act out of interest for others, each individual,
in turn, becomes a recipient of selfless acts, which on aggregate

Rising Tide of Globalization
shall result of feelings of security rather than insecurity, thus
creating a virtuous cycle of everyone behaving selflessly in
service of others and enhancing social security at large and
eliminating extremes of wealth and poverty.
On the other hand, if we see ourselves as alone and view the
world as hostile, we see lack of social security, become fearful,
and only consider self-interest. To act selflessly today takes
courage and an enormous Faith in spiritual character of
humanity and a single-minded purpose to fearlessly act—any
slight giving to fear would accelerate our behavior towards
acting out of self-interest.
The implication of this core issue regarding morality and
amorality in a global context can be realized when Globalization
is viewed as an opportunity to help less materially fortunate
communities—in the longer term these communities will develop
and become significant markets by themselves: 6 countries of
Brazil, Nigeria, Indonesia, Pakistan, Ethiopia and Bangladesh,
with a total population of 1bn (equaling world population of
less than 200 years ago), and incomes of $500-3000 per year,
once empowered, these countries, as we have seen much
progress over the past 2 decades, develop businesses and
contribute to science and education. The “game” changes from
“zero:sum” to “win:win”12, and the trend shifts towards having
less inequalities in the world.
In order to achieve this “win-win” scenario, we need to
achieve a proper balance between material progress and
corresponding emphasis on morality. Without observing moral
standards of Justice and Equality, globalization can have
perverse outcomes—“spiritual” and “moral” forces must play an
essential role in achieving solutions to such urgent problems [CL
59].
When morality is compromised or neglected, regardless of
the legal framework, the dark side of globalization looms ever
larger and in extreme cases globalization, when unchecked, will
grow and transfer economic activity out of accountable

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
institutions into the hands of those with no moral compass.
Examples of these situations have been outlined in a recently
published book “Deviant Globalization”13:
o Illegal smuggling of labor
o Sex trade reaching 10s of millions, creating multi-billion
dollar global industry
o Black market for human organs—kidney
o Semi-slave labor
o Waste Trade
o Drug trade—the failed US war on drugs since 1970s has
costed $2.5T
o Weapon Trade
o Global criminal organizations
o Global terrorism
Another major pre-requisite for the transformation of the
individual is the leap from nationalism to world-citizenship—a
true belief in world citizenship, rather than seeking only
national interest, is a core and uncompromising precondition
without which a balanced globalization would not be possible.
The founding principle of world citizenship is real belief in
Oneness of Humankind:
The principle of the Oneness of Mankind—the pivot
round which all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh revolve—is
no mere outburst of ignorant emotionalism or an
expression of vague and pious hope. Its appeal is not to
be merely identified with a reawakening of the spirit of
brotherhood and good-will among men, nor does it aim
solely at the fostering of harmonious cooperation among
individual peoples and nations. Its implications are
deeper, its claims greater than any which the Prophets of
old were allowed to advance. Its message is applicable
not only to the individual, but concerns itself primarily
with the nature of those essential relationships that must

Rising Tide of Globalization
bind all the states and nations as members of one human
family.... It implies an organic change in the structure of
present-day society, a change such as the world has not
experienced....
It
calls
for
no
less
than
the
reconstruction and the demilitarization of the whole
civilized world—a world organically unified in all the
essential aspects of its life, its political machinery, its
spiritual aspiration, its trade and finance, its script and
language, and yet infinite in the diversity of the national
characteristics of its federated units. [WOB 42-43]
2. Responsibility of the Wealthy
Bahá’u’lláh on numerous occasions discusses the status and
importance of taking care of the poor “Bestow wealth upon the
poor”; the “Poor are My Trust”. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also encouraged
the wealthy to provide for the poor, exulting them to “not be
intent on your own ease”; “expend on philanthropic purposes”
[SDC 24].
This willingness to help those less fortunate should become
an innate desire. The wealthy are to expend on the poor out of
their own volition, without being pressured legally or forcefully
to do so; otherwise, they would spend their wealth trying to find
loopholes to avoid giving.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá himself states that one should not imagine that
his remarks
constitute a denunciation of wealth or a commendation
of poverty. Wealth is praiseworthy in the highest degree,
if it is acquired by an individual's own efforts and the
grace of God, in commerce, agriculture, art and
industry, and if it be expended for philanthropic
purposes. Above all, if a judicious and resourceful
individual
should
initiate
measures
which
would
universally enrich the masses of the people, there could
be no undertaking greater than this, and it would rank in

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
the sight of God as the supreme achievement, for such a
benefactor would supply the needs and insure the
comfort and well-being of a great multitude. Wealth is
most commendable, provided the entire population is
wealthy. If, however, a few have inordinate riches while
the rest are impoverished, and no fruit or benefit
accrues from that wealth, then it is only a liability... [SDC
24]
The “giving” of the wealthy would come naturally as the
fundamental thesis of society would be transformed from being
self centered towards considering the interests of others before
self as previously explained. As mentioned before, this requires
a spiritual transformation of individuals.
3. Responsibility of the Poor
Within the larger context of the responsibility of society and
the wealthy to ensure that all have the opportunity to do useful
work, there is a complementary obligation to work and the
prohibition of begging in the Bahá’í Writings where it does
discuss how we are forbidden to idly “sit and beg” [KA 30]. These
teachings of the Bahá’í Faith should not be taken out of
context, and must be treated as part of the more global solution
of eliminating poverty—the obligation to work and the
prohibition of begging are not meant to blame the poor for
their own fate because they chose to beg (or, in countries with
social safety nets, receive welfare) rather consider their
responsibility, in relation to their capacity, to be productive
members of society. Bahá’u’lláh, thus, proclaims that it is
“incumbent to engage in crafts and profession”14. In fact, in the
same paragraph, Bahá’u’lláh further elaborates that work is
elevated to the status of worship if done in the spirit of service.
In this regard, society also has direct responsibility for the
poor, especially in the case of those who cannot take care of
themselves—here, Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, further

Rising Tide of Globalization
clarifies: “All have been enjoined to earn a living, and as for
those who are incapable of doing so, it is incumbent on the
Deputies of God15 and on the wealthy to make adequate
provision for them.” This is further elaborated upon in note 62
of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained that “The object
is to uproot mendicancy altogether. However, if a person is
incapable of earning a living, and is stricken by dire poverty or
becometh helpless, then it is incumbent on the wealthy or the
Deputies to provide him with a monthly allowance for his
subsistence....” The note continues, “The prohibition against
giving charity to people who beg does not preclude individuals
and Spiritual Assemblies from extending financial assistance to
the poor and needy or from providing them with opportunities
to acquire such skills as would enable them to earn a
livelihood.” Note 56 of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas elaborates further on
the duty to engage in a trade or profession, and quotes a letter
written on behalf of the Guardian stating: “It is the duty of
those who are in charge of the organization of society to give
every individual the opportunity of acquiring the necessary
talent in some kind of profession, and also the means of
utilizing such a talent, both for its own sake and for the sake of
earning the means of his livelihood.”
As such, one can study the responsibility of the poor in
eradication of poverty is equally important and goes hand in
hand with the responsibilities of the wealthy and of the society.
4. Responsibility of the Society
The role of Huqúqu’lláh
The society, and the wealthy, as ‘Abdul-Bahá advised, should
“initiate measures that would universally enrich the masses”.
One important instrument founded by Bahá’u’lláh exactly to
improve distribution of wealth and eradicate poverty is the
institution of Huqúqu’lláh,16 which would be an important
source of funds for enriching the masses.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
The key distinguishing factor between Huqúqu’lláh and the
Global Net Worth Tax suggested by economists and policy
makers is the spiritual and voluntary nature of Huqúqu’lláh,
unique in the annals of history, and its spiritual obligation on
the individual without any one or any institution having the
right to police its compliance—although it is calculated as 19%
of a person’s increase in wealth or assets after necessary
expenses are deducted, it is deemed to be a spiritual exercise
since what constitutes as “necessary” is left to the consciousness
of the individual, and furthermore the very fact that its
compliance can not to be imposed or scrutinized by anyone
means that avoidance, unlike the case of taxation which is
imposed and heavily scrutinized, is a non-issue.
Along with the important institution of Huqúqu’lláh, Shoghi
Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, called for
coordination of economic resources of the world: “The
economic resources of the world will be organized, its sources
of raw materials will be tapped and fully utilized, its markets
will be coordinated and developed, and the distribution of its
products will be equitably regulated” [WOB 203-204]. Clearly, this
would require striking the balance between national ownership
and utilization of natural resources globally. However, in the
context of the universally accepted principles of world
citizenship, striking this balance would not be as challenging.
The role of laws, regulations, taxation
As part of the role of Society and its responsibilities,
fundamental changes in laws, regulations and economic
structures must take place that would directly address the
relationship between capital and labor. In a statement of the
Bahá’í International Community, February 12, 1993, “Human
Rights and Extreme Poverty” it is noted that the economic
system shall evolve to adequately address the issues of wealth
distribution: “Although it will resemble the present system in
many ways, the evolving economic system which Bahá’ís

Rising Tide of Globalization
envision will have significant points of distinction.” One of the
key points of distinction is the Bahá’í view on income
distribution, which allows for differences in wealth between
individuals, but would also allow for societies to eliminate both
extreme wealth and extreme poverty.
The accumulation of excessive fortunes by a small number of
individuals, while the masses are in need, is, according to Bahá’í
teachings, an inequity and an injustice. Moderation should,
therefore, be established by means of laws and regulations that
would hinder the accumulation of excessive fortunes by a few
individuals and provide for the essential needs of the masses.
Among the methods that future societies may adopt in order to
achieve this objective is a modification in the taxation system—
‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke about an innovative and revolutionary
method of taxation to eliminate extremes of wealth and
poverty:
Each person in the community whose need is equal to his
individual producing capacity shall be exempt from
taxation. But if his income is greater than his needs, he
must pay a tax until an adjustment is effected. That is to
say, a man’s capacity for production and his needs will
be equalized and reconciled through taxation. If his
production exceeds, he will pay a tax; if his necessities
exceed his production, he shall receive an amount
sufficient to equalize or adjust. Therefore, taxation will
be proportionate to capacity and production, and there
will be no poor in the community. [PUP 217]
Clearly, future generations of economists, lawyers, tax
accountants, and policy makers would have to devise a fair
regulatory regime that would consider needs of individuals as
well as their capacity for income generation. This is another
example of how legal or structural solutions must be developed
as part of a society’s responsibility to eliminate extremes of
wealth and poverty.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
5. Role of Global Institutions and their
responsibilities
In addition to detailing the responsibilities at the individual
and societal levels, Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í
Faith, called upon the creation of world institutions with
powers far surpassing the present day international institutions:
o A world legislature, whose members will, as the trustees
of the whole of mankind, ultimately control the entire
resources of all the component nations, and will enact
such laws as shall be required to regulate the life, satisfy
the needs and adjust the relationships of all races and
peoples.
o A world executive, backed by an international Force, will
carry out the decisions arrived at, and apply the laws
enacted by, this world legislature, and will safeguard the
organic unity of the whole commonwealth.
o A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its
compulsory and final verdict in all and any disputes that
may arise between the various elements constituting this
universal system....
o Strong globally-empowered world institutions that can
coordinate universal ownership of resources and their
fair distribution internationally [Call to Nations]
It is now universally accepted that the current global
institutions do not have the mandate or the resources to be
effective in addressing global problems like poverty. Much
stronger empowered institutions are needed to adequately
address global issues and eradicate arbitrage opportunities.
Without
adequately
empowered
global
institutions,
the
economic resources of the world cannot be organized and
managed in a manner that shall be conducive to the realization
of the unity of human race.

Rising Tide of Globalization
The unity of the human race, as envisaged by
Bahá’u’lláh, implies the establishment of a world
commonwealth in which all nations, races, creeds and
classes are closely and permanently united, and in which
the autonomy of its state members and the personal
freedom and initiative of the individuals that compose
them are definitely and completely safeguarded. [WOB
203]
The economic resources of the world will be organized,
its sources of raw materials will be tapped and fully
utilized, its markets will be coordinated and developed,
and the distribution of its products will be equitably
regulated. [WOB 203-204]
According to a statement prepared under the supervision of
the Universal House of Justice:
Yet, the unification of humankind under a system of
governance that can release the full potentialities latent
in human nature, and allow their expression in programs
for the benefit of all, is clearly the next stage in the
evolution of civilization. The physical unification of the
planet in our time and the awakening aspirations of the
mass of its inhabitants have at last produced the
conditions that permit achievement of the ideal,
although in a manner far different from that imagined
by imperial dreamers of the past. To this effort the
governments of the world have contributed the founding
of the United Nations Organization, with all its great
blessings, all its regrettable shortcomings....Somewhere
ahead lie the further great changes that will eventually
impel acceptance of the principle of world government
itself. The United Nations does not possess such a
mandate, nor is there anything in the current discourse
of political leaders that seriously envisions so radical a
restructuring of the administration of the affairs of the

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
planet. That it will come about in due course Bahá’u’lláh
has made unmistakably clear. That yet greater suffering
and disillusionment will be required to impel humanity
to this great leap forward appears, alas, equally clear. Its
establishment will require national governments and
other centers of power to surrender to international
determination, unconditionally and irreversibly, the full
measure of overriding authority implicit in the word
“government.” [CL 91-92]
Present day attempts by policy makers to address extremes of
wealth and poverty lack a coherent approach and have been
short on results. It is the integrated holistic approach of the
Bahá’í Faith, providing, at once, (i) a robust set of core
principles for individuals to transform, (ii) an exacting set of
directives for the rich and the poor, (iii) a just allocation of
responsibilities at individual and societal levels, and (iv) the
creation of empowered global institutions, that collectively can
adequately reverse the rise of amorality, and in turn, effectively
address the complexities surrounding our trajectory towards
extremes of wealth and poverty in a world that is rapidly
becoming globalized and in want of equitable distribution of
resources.

NOTES
1 This presentation is based on my experience and information gained from
working in the field of international finance, capital markets, and mergers
and acquisitions for the past 25 years.
2 “The All-Knowing Physician hath His finger on the pulse of mankind. He
perceiveth the disease, and prescribeth, in His unerring wisdom, the
remedy. Every age hath its own problem, and every soul its particular
aspiration. The remedy the world needeth in its present-day afflictions can
never be the same as that which a subsequent age may require. Be anxiously
concerned with the needs of the age ye live in, and center your
deliberations on its exigencies and requirements.” [GWB 213]

Rising Tide of Globalization

3 Acting “only out of self-interest as long as the act complies with legal
framework” refers mainly to global business and finance and individual
actions. For government actions, and even much of individual/corporate
action, there is little or no enforceable legal framework, and to the extent
it exists it is heavily skewed in favor of the status quo of inequality.
Further legal studies are needed to institute remedies within the relevant
national and international legal and institutional framework, as the
problem lies not just with private actors’ amorality while abiding by the
letter of the law. It is beyond the scope of this article to examine these
legal aspects within the wider public sector as well.
4 Yellen Report at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Economic Conference
on Inequality of Economic Opportunity, 2015
5 Forbes (15.03.15)
6 IMF REPORT, April 2015
7 Richard Wilkinson, Kate Pickett and Allen Lane, The Spirit Level: Why
More Equal Societies Almost Always Do Better, March 2009,
ISBN 978 1 84614 039 6
8 In US alone close to 1% of the population lives in prisons and jails, and if
we add the total number of those on probation, it reaches 7 million out of
the total population of 319 million or 2.2% of the US population—source:
Bureau of Justice Statistics, www.bjs.gov
9 topincomes.parisschoolofeconomics.eu; Thomas Piketty, Capital in the
Twenty-First Century, 2014, Belknap Press
10 Jeffrey D. Sachs, The End of Poverty, 2006, Penguin Books; also reported
by Time magazine, 14 March 2005, p. 36, in an interview with Jeffrey
Sachs as Director of the UN Millenium Project
11 One of the central beliefs of the Bahá’í Faith is the unity of humankind—
that there are no differences among races, colors, sexes, nationalities,
ethnicities, and that the ultimate goal of human civilization is to arrive at
the Most Great Peace when the world is united as one country and
mankind as its citizens. The Bahá’í Writings include details of principal
requirements at individual and societal levels to achieve this objective.
12 In Game Theory, zero:sum means that if one party wins the other must
lose; however, under a win:win scenario, both parties can win.
13 Deviant Globalization: Black Market Economy in the 21st Century; edited
by Nils Gilman, 2011
14 Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitab-i-Aqdas, paragraph 33: “O people of Bahá! It is
incumbent upon each one of you to engage in some occupation—such as a
craft, a trade or the like. We have exalted your engagement in such work
to the rank of worship of the one true God. Reflect, O people, on the
grace and blessings of your Lord, and yield Him thanks at eventide and
dawn. Waste not your hours in idleness and sloth, but occupy yourselves

Lights of Irfán vol. 17

with what will profit you and others. Thus hath it been decreed in this
Tablet from whose horizon hath shone the day-star of wisdom and
utterance. The most despised of men in the sight of God are they who sit
and beg.”
15 Deputies of God are members of Houses of Justice, which are
administrative governing bodies of society at local, national and
international levels.
16 Huqúqu’lláh is an Arabic word meaning the Right of God—it is a law
instituted by Bahá’u’lláh (the founder of the Bahá’í Faith) as one of the
fundamental spiritual ordinances of the Bahá’í Faith, requiring each Bahá’í
to give 19% of the increase in wealth or assets, after deducting “necessary”
expenses. The definition of what constitutes as a “necessary” expense is
left to the conscious of each individual. Furthermore, no one can police
the individuals for calculating and giving of Huqúqu’lláh; abiding this law
is left wholly to the individual as a spiritual obligation. Source:
Huqúqu’lláh, The Right of God, compilation of extracts from the Bahá’í
writings, compiled by the Research Department of the Universal House of
Justice, Bahá’í World Center, 1989.

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and
Paul
JoAnn M. Borovicka
Táhirih, a woman born into the Islamic religion in the
nineteenth-century Persian Empire, is the most renowned
heroine of the earliest days of the Bahá’í Faith.1 Paul, a man
born into the Jewish religion in the first century Roman
Empire, is the most prominent apostle in the early history of
Christianity.2 Táhirih and Paul are separated by gender, religion,
nationality, culture, and eighteen hundred years. And yet, when
stories of their lives and apostolic ministries are compared,
parallels arise—the most significant of which is that both are
known for singular initiatives that helped differentiate new
Revelation from the old: Táhirih played a central role in
distinguishing the Bahá’í Revelation3 from Islam, while Paul
played a central role in distinguishing the Christian Revelation
from Judaism. This and additional parallels regarding their
conversions, the challenges they faced, and some of the
circumstances of their ministries are surprisingly harmonic. The
purpose of this paper is to point out nine parallels in the
ministries of Táhirih and Paul and to reflect on the value of this
knowledge in interfaith dialogue.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Parallel 1: A Vision of the Manifestation of God
before Conversion4
Both Táhirih and Paul had a vision of the Manifestation of
God prior to acceptance of the new Revelation. Táhirih’s vision
and conversion came shortly after the Báb’s Declaration while
Paul’s came years after Christ was crucified. We will look at
Táhirih’s story first.
Táhirih (“the Pure One”) is a title given by Bahá’u’lláh to
Fátimih Baraghání5 who was born about 1817 in Qazvín, Persia,
to a family well placed in traditional Islam: her father was a
mujtahid6 and her paternal uncle was the leader of prayers in the
cathedral mosque. Although the culture in which she lived
generally denied education to girls, Táhirih’s father educated her
from childhood. She excelled in Islamic studies and literature
and was a master of Arabic and Persian. ‘Abdu’l Bahá states:
“Such was the degree of her scholarship and attainments that her
father would often express his regret, saying, ‘Would that she
had been a boy, for he would have shed illumination upon my
household, and would have succeeded me!’” [MF 188]
As a young adult, Táhirih was inspired to investigate the
teachings of Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í and Siyyid Kázim-i-Rashtí—
forerunners of the Báb who taught the imminent coming of the
Qá’im in the Shaykhi school of the Shi‘ah sect of Islam—even
though this greatly agitated her family [MF 189]. In 1844 she set
out on a journey to study with Siyyid Kázim in person, but he
passed away before she arrived. She continued to follow his last
instructions to his disciples to “Go forth... and seek out your
Lord” [MF 190]. It was in the course of her religious disciplines
to this end that she had a vision of the Báb in a dream. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá relays her experience:
In her vision a youth, a Siyyid, wearing a black cloak and
a green turban, appeared to her in the heavens; he was
standing in the air, reciting verses and praying with his
hands upraised. At once, she memorized one of those

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
verses, and wrote it down in her notebook when she
awoke. After the Báb had declared His mission, and His
first book, “The Best of Stories”7 was circulated, Táhirih
was reading a section of the text one day, and she came
upon that same verse, which she had noted down from
the dream. Instantly offering thanks, she fell to her
knees and bowed her forehead to the ground, convinced
that the Báb’s message was truth. [MF 190]
Táhirih sent a letter to the Báb declaring her belief. When it
was received the Báb declared her an apostle—one of His
Eighteen Letters of the Living. Táhirih was the only woman to
achieve that station.
Paul’s mystical vision and conversion happened quite
differently. Paul, also called Saul, was born around 5 A.D. to a
Jewish family in the Hellenistic Diaspora; he describes himself
as “circumcised on the eighth day, a member of the people of
Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews; as
to the law, a Pharisee.”8 Nothing is known of his early
education, but New Testament scholars report that through
analysis of his letters it is evident that Paul was educated in
Greek rhetoric and philosophy as well as Hebrew and many
fields of Jewish teachings—this at a time when most people were
illiterate.9
As a young adult, Paul believed that the Jesus-movement was
a dangerously heretical sect and he participated in the
persecution of its followers.10 Paul’s conversion, which took
place a few years after the crucifixion, is described in the Book
of Acts as a vision of and conversation with Christ that came to
him suddenly as he was travelling to Damascus—a vision so
powerful that it knocked him off his horse and blinded him for
three days.11 Whether Paul was physically or figuratively
knocked off his horse we don’t know, but according to his
Second Letter to the Corinthians (which is widely believed by
biblical scholars to be an authentic letter of Paul’s12), he did
have a vision of Christ and he was transformed.13 From a

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
persecutor of the Jesus-movement, Paul became a persecuted
follower of Jesus Christ.
Paul’s calling as an apostle was surprising. The gospels report
that Jesus chose twelve men as apostles in His lifetime: Simon
(also called Peter), Andrew, James, John, Phillip, Bartholomew,
Thomas, Matthew, James, Thaddeus, Simon, and Judas Iscariot.
Paul never met Jesus in person and Paul was not one of these
initial twelve; but, through this and other visions, Paul believed
himself commissioned by God as an apostle of Christ and
empowered to speak with authority to individuals and
communities in the Jesus-movement.14 Was this legitimate? In a
reference to Paul ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
Physical nearness or remoteness [to the Manifestation] is
of no importance; the essential fact is the spiritual
affinity and ideal nearness. Judas Iscariot was for a long
time favored in the holy court of His Holiness Christ,
yet he was entirely far and remote; while Paul, the
apostle, was in close embrace with His Holiness. [TAB 3
719-20]
Thus, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá seems to confirm Paul’s inspiration.
It is interesting that Táhirih’s vision reinforced the spiritual
path that she was investigating, while Paul’s vision resulted in a
radical reorientation of his beliefs—yet both visions resulted in
conversions of prominent apostles in the new Revelations.
Parallel 2: Distinguishing New Revelation from
the Old
The most significant parallel between Táhirih and Paul, and
the factor that sets them apart from all of the other apostles in
the Bahá’í and Christian Dispensations, is that both are
recognized for singular initiatives that contributed significantly
to distinguishing new Revelation from the old.

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
In Memorials of the Faithful, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá introduces
Táhirih as a burning brand of the love of God, a lamp of His
bestowal [MF 190]. One of the functions of this “lamp” was to
be the point from which some of the most challenging features
of the Bahá’í Revelation shone the earliest and brightest. The
most famous demonstration of Táhirih’s unique role in this
regard took place at the Conference of Badasht, a meeting of
eighty-one leaders early in the Bábí movement in 1848.15 One of
the primary purposes of this conference was to address the
question of the Báb’s precise claim. This was necessary because
at that time the Báb’s spiritual station, how His teachings
related to Islam, and what the Bábí movement required on a
social level was not fully disclosed. In the early years of the
Báb’s Dispensation, many people, Muslims and Bábís alike,
understood the teachings of the Báb to be a reform movement
of Islam—part of the Shaykhi school of the Shiah sect of Islam.
At the Conference of Badasht, Bahá’u’lláh, at this time a leader
in the Cause of the Báb, revealed a new Tablet every day,
gradually educating the Báb’s followers on the distinctiveness of
the Báb’s teachings. But it was through Táhirih’s announcement,
supported and protected by Bahá’u’lláh and Quddús, that the
new Dispensation’s break with the past was unmistakably
demonstrated.16 Speaking of Táhirih’s unique role, the Guardian
states:
It was owing to her initiative, while participating in the
Conference of Badasht, that the most challenging
implications of a revolutionary and as yet but dimly
grasped Dispensation were laid bare before her fellow-
disciples and the new Order permanently divorced from
the laws and institutions of Islam. [GPB 74]
Táhirih is often noted as a champion of the emancipation of
women, but here we see that her function in the Bahá’í
Revelation was much broader—Táhirih is attributed with
publicly proclaiming the emancipation of the Báb’s movement

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
from Islam and announcing the Advent of a new Day. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá describes the happening:
Táhirih, with her face unveiled, stepped from her garden,
advancing to the pavilion of Bahá’u’lláh; and as she
came, she shouted aloud these words: “The Trumpet is
sounding! The great Trump is blown! The universal
Advent is now proclaimed!” The believers gathered in
that tent were panic struck, and each one asked himself,
“How can the Law be abrogated? How is it that this
woman stands here without her veil?” [MF 198]
Explaining the magnitude of Táhirih’s action, the Guardian
states: On that memorable day the “Bugle” mentioned in the
Qur’án was sounded, the “stunning trumpet-blast” was loudly
raised... The call she sounded was the death-knell of the twelve
hundred year old law of Islam” [GPB 33-34]. The message is
unmistakably
clear
that
through
her
initiative
Táhirih
contributed significantly to establishing the distinction between
the early Bahá’í Revelation and Islám.
Paul carried out a similar role, albeit in a different fashion, in
the early days of the Christian Revelation. At the time of Christ
there were many sects of Judaism in the Roman Empire. These
included the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Zealots, the Essenes,
and the Jesus-movement.17 Just as the early Bábí movement was
considered a sect of Islam, so the early Jesus-movement was
considered a sect of Judaism. In today’s literature, these early
Jewish followers of Jesus are often referred to as ‘Jewish
Christians.’18 The Jewish Christians believed in Jesus as the
Messiah (the Christ), believed His teachings confirmed Judaism
and the Jewish Law (also called Mosaic Law or the Torah), and
followed the traditional Jewish rites and ceremonies of
purification such as sacrificial offerings at the Temple, dietary
laws, and the law of male circumcision.19 But the Jews were not
the only people attracted to Jesus; Gentiles were also attracted
to His teachings.

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
The word Gentile means clan, tribe, or nations and, as used in
the New Testament, it refers to anyone who is not Jewish.
Gentiles—the Greeks, Romans, and other nationalities of the
Near East—surrounded the Jews who had been a minority
religion in that area for several hundred years. Some Gentiles
became followers of Jesus Christ and these Gentile Christians
differed from the Jewish Christians in that they did not
necessarily follow the Jewish ritual and ceremonial laws of
purification, particularly the law of male circumcision—a
practice
which
the
Greeks
and
Romans
considered
a
mutilation.20 Of the early followers in the Jesus-movement, the
Jewish Christian community was the great majority and many
believers within it believed that all of the followers of Christ
should follow Jewish Law. Referring to this dynamic, the
Guardian states: “How great was the obstinacy with which the
Jewish converts among the early Christians adhered to the
ceremonies of their ancestors, and how fervent their eagerness
to impose them on the Gentiles!” [WOB 57] As the Gentile
Christian
community
increased,
conflict
about
the
responsibility of the members to adhere to Jewish rites and
ceremonies also increased.21
The question confronting the leaders in the Jesus-movement
was: Must a Gentile who wants to join a community of
followers of Christ first become a Jew? Of particular interest
was the question of male circumcision, because at that time the
traditional belief was that “Unless you are circumcised
according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.”22
Paul,
who
had
been
ministering
to
Gentile
Christian
communities for years, argued against this requirement. Paul
taught that the law of circumcision as well as other social laws
of Judaism were not obligatory for Gentile followers of the
Messiah, that Christ brought a new Covenant, and that the
disciples should be “ministers of a new Covenant.”23 Paul taught
that salvation for the Gentiles was possible by spiritual
transformation through the love of Christ and that Gentile
adherence to the law of circumcision was not necessary. As

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
stated in his Letter to the Galatians: “Neither circumcision nor
uncircumcision is anything; but a new creation is everything!”24
Some of the leaders in the Jesus-movement disagreed with
Paul’s proactive support of Gentile members living outside of
the Jewish laws. The Book of Acts states: “Paul had no small
dissension and debate with them.”25 But eventually Paul and a
small group of Jesus-movement leaders (including Peter) met in
Jerusalem and came to the agreement that circumcision would
not be required of Gentile members, and that only a few Mosaic
Laws would be obligatory: three dietary laws and the
prohibition against sexual immorality and idolatry.26 It was
understood, however, that the Jewish members of the Jesus-
movement would continue with their traditional observance of
Jewish law.27 At this point, Paul assumed a greater leadership
role in the Gentile mission. In his Letter to the Galatians he
states that the outcome of the meeting was “I had been
entrusted with the gospel for the uncircumcised, just as Peter
had been entrusted with the gospel for the circumcised.”28
But the matter was far from settled. There was no universal
agreement concerning the nature of the mission to the Gentiles
and contention continued in the Jesus-movement: the large
“Jewish Christian conservative wing” on one side and the small
“Gentile Christian liberal wing” on the other.29 Some of the
Jewish followers saw the Gentiles as ritually unclean, and there
was a tone of Gentile subordination. Meanwhile, Paul preached
that these two groups could exist together respectfully in one
community.30 In his Letter to the Galatians he states: “In Christ
Jesus you are all children of God through faith. There is no
longer Jew or Greek... for all of you are one in Christ Jesus.”31
Eventually, Paul, on his own authority, abrogated the three
dietary laws that had been made obligatory for Gentile
Christians by the leadership in Jerusalem [SAQ 20:2]. He traveled
throughout the Roman Empire cultivating Jesus-movement
communities open to all, encouraging lovers of Jesus Christ to
work together in unity. Over time, the Jewish Christian sect of

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
Judaism declined and virtually disappeared. It was the Gentile
Christian movement championed by Paul that increased to a
new, international, and separate religion—Christianity. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá praises this outcome. He states: “Observe how numerous
were the diverse nations, races, clans, and tribes who, after the
advent of Christ, gathered through the power of the love of
God under the shadow of His Word” [SAQ 84:5]. Although the
distinction of Christianity as a separate religion did not fully
evolve until decades after Paul’s martyrdom, it is widely
acknowledged in Christian scholarship that Paul is most
responsible for this outcome because it was Paul who
championed the Gentile mission outside of the laws of the
Torah—during his thirty-year ministry as well as through several
of his letters that were preserved over centuries.32
In Bahá’í history, Táhirih’s role as the ‘trumpet’ of the new
Advent is presented as beginning suddenly with her dramatic
announcement at the conference of Badasht. She then continued
with the same message in her personal teaching until her
martyrdom four years later. Conversely, in Christian history,
Paul’s role as the champion of the new Advent was not focused
on a specific event or dramatic announcement, but was, from
the beginning, a slow process of teaching—in various localities
over a thirty-year period and over centuries through his letters—
what he believed he had been chosen by God to declare: that
Gentiles could find salvation in Christ without adhering to
Jewish rites and ceremonies. Although achieved in different
ways, in their respective religions both Táhirih and Paul are
recognized as the apostles whose singular initiatives contributed
significantly to distinguishing the new Revelation from the old.
Parallel 3: Brilliant Communicators
Táhirih and Paul were both brilliant communicators. Most of
Táhirih’s writings were destroyed after her martyrdom;
however, the Guardian describes the variety and influence of her
communications. He states: “Through her eloquent pleadings,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
her fearless denunciations, her dissertations, poems and
translations, her commentaries and correspondence, she
persisted in firing the imagination, enlisting the allegiance of
Arabs and Persians alike to the new Revelation” [GPB 73].
Táhirih was so effective in her teaching that certain religious
authorities became alarmed and lodged complaints. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá explains that when challenged by religious leaders “she
presented them with unanswerable proofs, and when one or
another appeared before her she offered him convincing
arguments” [MF 192].
Despite Táhirih’s restricted travel and her short eight-year
ministry, some of her writings, particularly her poetry, traveled
outside of the Persian Empire. This was made possible in part by
nineteenth-century Western interest in Orientalism, new
communication
technologies,
and
a
lively
culture
of
international journalism. The Guardian states: “The fame of this
immortal woman was noised abroad, and traveling with
remarkable swiftness as far as the capitals of Western Europe,
aroused the enthusiastic admiration and evoked the ardent
praise of men and women of divers nationalities, callings and
cultures” [GPB 75]. Martha Root, a Bahá’í teacher who made
numerous trips around the world in the 1920s and 30s reported:
“I have seen the influence of Táhirih in all the five continents I
had visited.”33
The proof of the effectiveness of Paul’s communications is
in the outcome of his ministry. He made numerous travel-
teaching trips throughout the Roman Empire where he
established several major centers of Christian activity. He
nurtured these communities with lengthy visits, but when
problems arose and he could not be there in person he wrote
letters to advise and encourage. Many of his letters were
preserved; seven of the Epistles in the New Testament are
considered by most scholars to be authentically Pauline; they
may also represent the earliest Christian writings in existence.34
By virtue of his letters, modern scholars describe Paul as a
literary genius, a conveyor of eternal verities, and one of the

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
most influential figures in the West.35 His letters, which are still
the focus of intense study, are revered as Scripture in the New
Testament of the Christian Bible—the most published as well as
the most widely distributed book in the history of civilization.
Parallel 4: Vilified from Within
Both Táhirih and Paul were vilified from within their
respective new religious communities. Persecution from those
outside of the new Faith was a tragic reality in the Apostolic
Age of both the Bahá’í Faith and Christianity, and this was
something that Táhirih and Paul endured with most of the early
believers. But being vilified by many of one’s co-religionists is
something that sets Táhirih and Paul apart.
Concerning the vilification that Táhirih suffered, the
Guardian states: “The trumpeter was a lone woman, the noblest
of her sex in that Dispensation, whom even some of her co-
religionists pronounced a heretic” [GPB 33-34]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states that Táhirih’s outspoken teaching activities so alarmed
her more rigid fellow-believers that they complained to the Báb
that her behavior was immoral. In the Dawn-Breakers it is
reported that “The Báb, to whom these complaints had been
addressed, replied in the following terms: ‘What am I to say
regarding her whom the Tongue of Power and Glory has named
Táhirih?’” [DB 293] The Báb defended the truth of Táhirih’s
words and confirmed her station as “the Pure One.”
Like Táhirih, Paul suffered attacks from his co-religionists.
His doctrine of a new Covenant with God through Christ
conflicted with certain Jewish Christians who infiltrated Gentile
Christian communities causing confusion and dissension and
undermining Paul’s authority.36 Biblical scholar Paul Segal notes:
“Almost no Pauline letter forgets to mention Paul’s status as an
apostle through God, underlining his constant need to establish
his credentials.”37 In 2 Corinthians Paul names many of the
dangers that he faced in his ministry including “danger from
false brothers and sisters”38—those being fellow believers early

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
in the Jesus-movement who tried to sabotage his Torah-free
Gentile mission. Acknowledging Paul’s constant struggles,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: “In Saint Paul’s own time no one duly
recognized him; nay, rather, he spent his days amidst difficulties
and contempt.”39 Thus, both Táhirih and Paul were persecuted
from without and vilified from within.
Parallel 5: Appeals to the Government
Another similarity between Táhirih and Paul is that both
made successful appeals to governmental authorities. In
Memorials of the Faithful ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions three
occasions where Táhirih wrote to government officials with
requests. In all three cases her correspondence was heard, action
was taken, and the outcome was what she desired. First, she
wrote to the Governor of Karbilá informing him of her location
when she learned that the authorities had arrested Shamsu’d-
Duhá, believing Shams was Táhirih. In this case, Shams was
released and Táhirih was arrested as she requested [MF 191].
Second, she wrote again to the Governor of Karbilá when the
house arrest he had ordered had gone on for months with no
confirmation from higher authorities. She requested to go to
Baghdad to await an answer there—the governor gave his
consent [MF 192-194]. Third, she wrote to the Governor of
Kirmánsháh when she and her companions were assaulted and
abandoned in the desert by Kirmánsháh officials [MF 194]. The
governor commanded that their belongings be returned and they
be allowed to continue on their journey.
Traditions recorded in the Book of Acts have Paul
successfully appealing to government authorities as well. In
Philippi, Paul and a companion, Silas, were thrown in jail
without a trial. When an earthquake mysteriously opened the
prison and the nervous magistrates ordered that the two
prisoners be quietly released, Paul refused to leave and, instead,
made a demand for an official governmental apology—which he
got.40 Second, when Paul’s teaching in Jerusalem agitated the

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
people and this accelerated to mob violence, he was arrested by
the Roman centurions who were going to take him to the
barracks to flog him for disturbing the peace. Paul reportedly
asked the rhetorical question: “Is it legal for you to flog a
Roman citizen who is uncondemned?”41 Consequently he was
taken to Caesarea in safety to await trial before the governor.
And third, after Paul had remained in Caesarea for some time
with no trial decision, he appealed to be tried before the
Emperor in Rome. The appeal was granted and Paul was
transported to Rome where he was able to teach from “his
house” while awaiting trial.42
Although these stories concerning Paul relayed in the Book of
Acts may not have the historical accuracy of Táhirih’s
biography, it is noteworthy that these particular stories
withstood the test of time: there is something important about
the example of religious visionaries making direct appeals to the
government for justice.
Parallel 6: Rescued by Small Bands of Co-religionists
In the histories of both faiths there are stories of coordinated
efforts by a few of Táhirih’s and Paul’s co-religionists to rescue
them from certain death early in their ministries.
Táhirih was rescued in 1847 while she was under house arrest
in Qazvín under false charges of being complicit in the murder
of her uncle, Mullá Taqí. The Mullá’s heirs were demanding her
death. By Bahá’u’lláh’s direction, Táhirih left the house at night
in the company of a fellow believer, met another friend who had
horses outside of the city gates, and rode with her rescuers to
Bahá’u’lláh’s house in Tihrán. Describing this event ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá states, “They managed by a stratagem to free her from that
embroilment and got her to Tihrán in the night” [MF 197]. She
went on to teach for another five years.
Paul’s Second Letter to the Corinthians, as well as the Book
of Acts, reports a similar situation. When Paul was teaching in

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Damascus his co-religionists learned that the governor intended
to have him killed, and that government officials were
monitoring the city gates day and night in order to capture him.
To rescue Paul from certain death “His disciples took him by
night and let him down through an opening in the city wall,
lowering him in a basket.”43 This enabled Paul to get out of
Damascus alive and to continue in his thirty-year ministry.
These stories of coordinated rescues speak to the prominence
of Táhirih and Paul’s positions and their importance in these
early religious communities.
Parallel 7: Never Attained the Physical Presence
of Her/His Lord
It is surprising that neither Táhirih nor Paul attained the
physical presence of her/his Lord. Although Táhirih lived during
the time of the Báb, communicated with Him in writing, and
was one of His specially designated Letters of the Living, she
never attained the Báb’s presence in earthly form [MF 188-200].
Similarly, Paul lived during Jesus’ physical lifetime but never
met Him in person. Paul became a follower of Christ after the
crucifixion, and there is no record of His having met Jesus
before his conversion.44
Parallel 8: Contributed to the Process of
Realizing the Equality of Women and Men
Traditionally, Táhirih and Paul would be seen as polar
opposites on the issue of gender equity. Because of Táhirih’s
investigation of truth independent from her father and
husband, her participation in religious debates, her challenges to
religious authority, her teaching of men and women alike, and
her
overall
courageous
disregard
for
cultural
gender
restrictions, she was the very embodiment of the promotion of
a radical gender equity for her day [MF 188-200]. By virtue of her
initiatives the Guardian states that she was “the first woman

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
suffrage martyr” [GPB 75]. Paul, on the other hand, is
traditionally associated with biblical verses that uphold a strict
patriarchy.45 However, modern New Testament scholarship has
discovered reasons to vindicate Paul to the degree that many
now recognize him as a visionary for gender equity.46
One key to “liberating Paul”47 has been the application of
textual analysis48 to the thirteen Pauline Letters,49 resulting in
the
discovery
of
what
many
scholars
believe
to
be
pseudonymous letters in the Pauline collection; that is, letters
claiming Pauline authorship that were not written by Paul
himself.50,51 These pseudonymous letters include 1 Timothy,
home to this notorious verse: “Let a woman learn in silence with
full submission. I permit no woman to teach or to have
authority over a man; she is to keep silent.”52 Like this passage,
many of the patriarchal messages that were once believed to
present Paul’s teachings are found in what, now, are largely
believed to be inauthentic or disputed letters.53
Another key to the “new Paul”54 of modern scholarship is the
identification of what many scholars believe are interpolated
verses in the authentic Pauline Letters; that is, passages added to
Paul’s letters by an unknown author or authors some time after
his death.55 One example of a suspected interpolated verse is
this passage in First Corinthians that echoes the sentiment cited
above in First Timothy: “As in all the churches of the saints,
women should be silent in the churches. For they are not
permitted to speak, but should be subordinate, as the law also
says. If there is anything they desire to know, let them ask their
husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in
church.”56 A widespread claim, and one that is supported by
textual criticism, asserts that the above passage was added to
First Corinthians decades after Paul’s death. This and other
patriarchal teachings attributed to Paul after his martyrdom are
seen by Karen Elliott and other scholars as “sad evidence to how
quickly the Church retreated from Paul’s more egalitarian
practice” in the decades after his martyrdom.57 While in the
Bahá’í
Writings
there
is
no
commentary
on
possible

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
interpolations in or the authenticity of any of the Pauline
Letters, it is the personal opinion of this author that the
prevailing scholarship on this topic—which supports the
identification of certain inauthentic letters as well as
interpolated verses—has great integrity. The analysis presented
in the rest of this paper is based on that premise.
In addition to scholarship regarding inauthentic letters and
interpolations in the Pauline Letters, understanding verses in
light of Paul’s historical context has assisted in recovering what
is widely believed to be Paul’s more egalitarian original message.
For example, in 1 Corinthians Paul declares that a woman
should be veiled in meetings when she prays and prophesies,
while a man should remain bareheaded. A conventional
interpretation of this instruction is that it was an example of
Paul’s subjugation of women. However, Sara Ruden, a scholar
of ancient literature, believes that Paul’s insistence on the
veiling of women in his churches was a movement toward
egalitarianism. At that time the veil was a sign of purity, honor,
and authority58 that was legally denied less fortunate women
such as slaves, prostitutes, or those labeled ‘adulteress.’ Ruden
states:
I think Paul’s rule aimed toward an outrageous equality.
All Christian women were to cover their heads in church,
without
distinction
of
beauty,
wealth,
[or]
respectability... This had never happened in any public
gathering before... This, I believe, was Paul’s ingenious
combination of common sense and radical defiance for
dealing with a very touchy set of issues.59
It is noteworthy that the rigid roles assigned to women in the
verses proven or suspected to be inauthentic contradict Paul’s
overall egalitarian treatment of women and his authentic
teaching that: “There is no longer male and female; for all of
you are one in Christ Jesus.”60 In this verse and others like it,
Paul challenges the gender prejudice of his time.61 There is also
evidence that he backed up his teachings in action. Although

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
surrounded by a religious culture that denied women leadership
roles, Paul’s authenticated letters demonstrate that he supported
the leadership of women. For example, he refers to Priscilla as a
“fellow worker in Christ,”62 Euodia and Syntych are described as
“co-workers” whose names “are recorded in the book of life,”63
Phoebe is named as a “deacon,”64 and Junia is praised as an
“apostle of Christ.”65 Paul’s genuine letters abound with
appreciation for the leadership of women in the early Christian
communities. In addition, Paul taught a mutual respect for and
responsibility between husband and wife that was revolutionary
in his day. For example, he states, “In the Lord, woman is not
independent of man or man independent of woman.”66 And
“The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and
likewise the wife to her husband.”67 This was radical teaching in
Paul’s Hellenistic world where women were considered property
in marriage.
In short, the arguments supporting the identification of
inauthentic letters and interpolations, along with increased
consideration of historical context—all of which have resulted
in a paradigm shift in modern Pauline studies—present
substantial evidence that a “new perspective on Paul”68 is
justified; one that recognizes him as being progressive for his
day in the area of social justice, including gender equity. From
the point of view of studies on the “new Paul,” contributing to
the process of the realization of the equality of women and men
is something that Táhirih and Paul have in common.
Parallel 9: Martyrdom During the Time of
Wholesale Massacre of Early Believers
If tradition faithfully carries the truth of Paul’s death, he and
Táhirih may share another parallel—martyrdom at a time of
wholesale massacre of early believers.
Táhirih was martyred during the time of the slaughter of the
followers of the Báb after the attempt on the life of the Sháh in
August of 1852. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Thus she remained, a helpless captive. Then came the
attempt on the life of the Sháh;69 a farman was issued;
she was sentenced to death. Saying she was summoned to
the Prime Minister's, they arrived to lead her away from
the Kalantar's house. She bathed her face and hands,
arrayed herself in a costly dress, and scented with attar
of roses she came out of the house.
They brought her into a garden, where the headsmen
waited; but these wavered and then refused to end her
life. A slave was found, far gone in drunkenness;
besotted, vicious, black of heart. And he strangled
Táhirih. He forced a scarf between her lips and rammed
it down her throat. Then they lifted up her unsullied
body and flung it in a well, there in the garden, and over
it threw down earth and stones. But Táhirih rejoiced; she
had heard with a light heart the tidings of her
martyrdom; she set her eyes on the supernal Kingdom
and offered up her life. [MF 200]
While the circumstances of Táhirih’s martyrdom are known,
there is no official record of Paul’s passing. However, it is
traditionally believed that Paul was martyred around 64 A.D.
after the burning of Rome during the slaughter of Christians
ordered by Emperor Nero.70 A passage in 1 Clement, an early
Christian letter written from Rome to the Corinthians, suggests
that Paul was killed in Rome. The letter states:
Through jealousy and strife, Paul showed the way to the
prize of endurance; seven times he was in bonds, he was
exiled, he was stoned, he was a herald both in the East
and in the West, he gained the noble fame of his faith,
he taught righteousness to all the world, and when he had
reached the limits of the West he gave his testimony
[martyrēsas, or “was martyred”] before the rulers, and
thus passed from the world and was taken up into the
Holy Place—the greatest example of endurance.71

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
Although not corroborated by numerous sources, it is a
common “historical guess” that “Paul, and presumably Peter as
well, died among those many Christians martyred by Nero in 64
A.D.”72 Both Táhirih and Paul suffered for their Cause; Táhirih
suffered martyrdom, and it is traditionally believed that Paul
suffered martyrdom as well.
In summary, both Táhirih and Paul:
1. Had mystical visions of the Manifestation of God before
their conversions.
2. Are recognized for singular initiatives that contributed
significantly to distinguishing the new Revelation from
the old.
3. Were brilliant communicators.
4. Were vilified from within their respective new religious
communities.
5. Made successful appeals to government authorities.
6. Were rescued by small bands of co-religionists early in
their ministries.
7. Never attained the physical presence of her/his Lord.
8. Contributed to the process of realizing the equality of
women and men.
9. Táhirih suffered martyrdom; tradition holds that Paul was
also martyred.
Conclusion
A Type of Early Apostle—This Time, a Woman
The parallels in the ministries of Táhirih and Paul paint a
picture of a type of early apostle who bears much of the burden
of distinguishing new Revelation from the old: a pure channel
with the capacity to envision a new kind of community; a

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
person of action at once valued by and threatening to his or her
co-religionists; a kind of maverick in the new religious order. It
is notable that this role—which in the Christian Dispensation
was accomplished by a man—was, in the Bahá’í Dispensation,
carried out by a woman. Táhirih’s ministry is evidence that
spiritual qualities and capacities of service know no gender
restrictions.
Knowledge Leads to Unity
In the Persian Bayán the Báb describes the Letters of the
Living as the first to have knelt before the throne of God:
Let there be no doubt that man’s glory is in testifying
unto God’s unity, in recognizing Him, acknowledging
His justice, obeying Him and seeking His good pleasure.
It is, however, certain that these sacred souls have
attained, before anyone else, unto that which is the
quintessence of all excellence and glory. Further, there
can be no doubt that they were the first Lights who
bowed down before God, accepted the verses He hath
revealed unto His Báb, and proclaimed them to the
world. (Persian Bayán 1:273)
The spiritual station of the Letters of the Living is
unimaginably glorious—they inspire love, admiration, and
humility in the Bahá’í community. It is especially interesting,
then, that the Báb continues His commentary by stating that the
Letters of the Living are the return of the spiritual qualities of
the holy souls of each Dispensation before them:
They are the lights which in the past have eternally
prostrated themselves and will prostrate themselves
eternally in the future, before the celestial throne. In
each Dispensation, they are called by different names
amongst the people, and in each Revelation, their
individual names are also changed. Yet, the names of

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
their inmost realities, which refer unto God, are manifest
in their hearts. [Persian Bayán 1:274]
Although there is no direct comparison of Táhirih and Paul in
the Bahá’í Writings, the concept of the Letters of the Living as
the return of the spiritual qualities of the first believers of past
Dispensations seems to be demonstrated in their ministries. In
several ways, Táhirih and Paul carried out similar functions,
rose to similar challenges, and, in doing so, demonstrated
similar spiritual qualities. The principle of progressive
revelation recognizes every Manifestation of God as the
spiritual return of the Manifestations of the past [KI 152];
according to the above passages from the Bayán, we might also
understand the apostles in any religious history to be the
“return” of the spiritual qualities of the apostles before them.
To reflect on this point—that the beloved figures in one’s
religious history are, in a spiritual sense, the return of the
beloved figures of other religious traditions—could be a helpful
step toward unity. Because of their affinity in mission,
circumstances, and spiritual qualities, to love and revere Táhirih
is, in a sense, to love and revere Paul. In the same sense, to love
and revere Mulláh Husayn, Quddús, Vahid, and all of the
Letters of the Living is to love and revere Peter, Phillip, James,
and all of the Apostles of Christ.
When reaching out in goodwill to those of different religious
traditions, there is, perhaps, no better strategy than to
authentically love and revere the spiritual giants of those
traditions. Bahá’u’lláh states: “Cleave unto that which draweth
you together and uniteth you” [GWB CXI]. Knowledge of the
parallels in the ministries of Táhirih and Paul is valuable because
these parallels remind us of the shared spiritual ancestry of the
Bahá’í Faith and Christianity and prompt us to hold onto that
unity.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Alexander, Loveday. “Acts” in The Oxford Bible Commentary.
Barton, John and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2000, pp. 1028-1061.
Balyuzi, H. M. Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1985.
Balyuzi, H. M. The Báb—The Herald of the Days. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1973.
Barclay, John. “1 Corinthians” in The Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed.
John Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2013, pp. 1108-1133.
Beker, J. Christaan. Paul the Apostle: The Triumph of God in Life and
Thought. Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1980.
Borg, Marcus J. and John Dominic Crossan. The First Paul:
Reclaiming the Radical Visionary Behind the Church’s
Conservative Icon. New York: HarperCollins, 2009.
Bristow, John T. What Paul Really Said About Women: The Apostle's
Liberating Views on Equality in Marriage, Leadership, and Love.
New York: HarperCollins, 1991.
Cameron, Glenn and Wendi Momen. A Basic Bahá’í Chronology.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1996; www.bahai-library.com/chronology.
Crossan, John Dominic and Jonathan L. Reed. In Search of Paul: How
Jesus’s Apostle Opposed Rome’s Empire with God’s Kingdom. A
New Vision of Paul’s Words & World. San Francisco: Harper
Collins, 2004.
Donaldson, Terence L. “Introduction to the Pauline Corpus” in The
Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed. John Barton and John Muddiman.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2013, pp. 1062-1083.
Drury, Clare. “The Pastoral Epistles” in The Oxford Bible
Commentary. Ed. John Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 2013, pp. 1220-1233.
Dunn, J. D. G. “Ephesians” in The Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed.
John Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2013, pp. 1165-1179.
Elliott, Karen M. Women in Ministry and the Writings of Paul.
Winona, MN: Anselm Academic, 2010.
Elliott, Neil. Liberating Paul—The Justice of God and the Politics of
the Apostle. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1994.

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul
Esler, Philip F. “2 Thessalonians” in The Oxford Bible Commentary.
Ed. John Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2013, pp. 11213-1220.
Gager, John G. Reinventing Paul. Oxford: University Press, 2000.
Gulpaygani, Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l. The Brilliant Proofs. Los Angeles:
Kalimat Press, 1997.
Hill, Craig C. “Romans” in The Oxford Bible Commentary. Ed. John
Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2013, pp. 1083-1108.
Luedemann, Gerd. Paul, Apostle to the Gentiles: Studies in
Chronology. Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1984.
MacDonald, Margaret. “2 Corinthians” in The Oxford Bible
Commentary. Ed. Barton, John and John Muddiman. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 2000, pp. 1134-1151.
Murphy-O’Connor, OP. “Colossians” in The Oxford Bible
Commentary. Ed. John Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 2013, pp. 1191-1199.
Nakhjavání, Bahiyyih. Asking Questions—A Challenge to
Fundamentalism. Oxford: George Ronald, 1990.
Root, Martha. Táhirih the Pure. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1981.
Ruden, Sarah. Paul Among the People: The Apostle Reinterpreted and
Reimagined in His Own Time. New York: Pantheon, 2010.
Saiedi, Nader. Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the
Báb. Canada: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 1995.
Schnelle, Udo. Apostle Paul: His Life and Theology. Grand Rapids:
Baker Academic, 2005.
Segal, Alan F. Paul the Convert: The Apostolate and Apostasy of Saul
the Pharisee. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1990.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Vol. 2. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1977.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Vol. 3. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1983.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1992.
Universal House of Justice. Memorandum written by the Research
Department of the Bahá’í World Centre. “Whether the Apostle
Paul was a False Teacher.” 22 February 1998.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Universal House of Justice. Memorandum written by the Research
Department of the Bahá’í World Centre. 10 January 1988.
Wills, Garry. What Paul Meant. NY: Viking, 2006.
Wyscchogrod, Michael. “A Jewish View of Christianity,” in Toward a
Theological Encounter—Jewish Understanding of Christianity, Ed.
Leon Klenicki. NY: Paulist Press, 1991.

NOTES
1 Describing Táhirih’s high spiritual station, the Guardian states that Táhirih
is, along with Bahiyyih Khánum, comparable in rank to those immortal
heroines: Sarah, Ásíyih, the Virgin Mary, [and] Fátimah. [GPB 75; MBW
74]
2 Paul is mentioned favorably in the Bahá’í Writings: Bahá’u’lláh refers to
him as Saint Paul [ESW 91]; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, One's conduct must be
like the conduct of Paul [SWAB 189.5]; and in a London talk ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
refers to him as Saint Paul the Great Apostle [ABL 23]. In the opinion of
biblical scholars John Dominic Crossan and Marcus Borg, “Paul is second
only to Jesus as the most important person in the origins of Christianity.”2
[Borg and Crossan, p. 1; See also Donaldson, p. 1062; Hill, p. 1083]
3 “The Bahá’í community ... has its origins in the Bábí movement, a religion
which began in Iran in 1844. Its founder, Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad Shirazi,
who took the title the Báb (1819—1850), was executed in 1850 in the midst
of a general persecution of the Bábís that culminated in a general massacre
in 1852. In about 1866, Mírzá Husayn ‘Alí Nuri (1817—1892), who took
the title Bahá’u’lláh, openly claimed to be the religious leader prophesied
by the Báb in his writings. Since more than 90% of the surviving Bábís
became followers of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’ís, at about this time, it is
legitimate from the sociological and historical view-point to regard these
two movements, the Bábís and the Bahá’ís, as one movement: the Bahá’í
Faith” [Momen, p. 221].
4 In this paper, by “conversion” is meant the recognition and following of
the Manifestation of God in a new Revelation, not the denial or rejection
of the traditional religion. (Concerning the nature of Paul’s conversion,
see Segal, p. 117, 129-30; Gager, p. 53)
5 Táhirih is also known as Qurratu’l-‘Ayn (“Solace of the Eyes”) and Zarrin-
Taj (“Crown of Gold”).
6 Mujtahid: an Islamic religious leader.
7 The “Ahsánu’l-Qisás,” the Báb's commentary on the Súrih of Joseph, was
called the Qur’án of the Bábís, and was translated from Arabic into
Persian by Táhirih [MF 191].

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul

8 Philippians 3:5
9 Crossan and Reed, p. 75
10 Paul states: “For I am the least of the apostles, unfit to be called an
apostle, because I persecuted the church of God” [1 Corinthians 15:9].
11 Acts 9:1-9
12 Macdonald, pp. 1134-35.
13 2 Corinthians 12; More visions followed—Paul refers to visions that he
received over a fourteen year period [2 Corinthians 12:2].
14 Segal, p. 70
15 The Conference of Badasht took place from 17 June to 26 July 1848 in the
Badasht hamlet in the region of Mazindaran, Persia [GPB 33].
16 In the Dawn-Breakers Nabíl describes Táhirih’s announcement as it
appeared to the group: an unexpected appearance that aggravated Quddús
who represented the more conservative of the believers. However, the
Guardian explains that this apparent confrontation was planned by
Bahá’u’lláh with Táhirih and Quddús in order to educate the followers of
the Báb and still safeguard Táhirih. The Guardian states, “Quddús,
regarded as the exponent of the conservative element within it, affected,
in pursuance of a pre-conceived plan designed to mitigate the alarm and
consternation which such a conference was sure to arouse, to oppose the
seemingly extremist views advocated by the impetuous Táhirih” [GPB 31].
As stated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “there was a wisdom in it” [MF 2000].
17 Segal, p. 80
18 The terms “Christian” and “Christianity” were not used at the time of Paul.
These terms evolved decades after Paul’s ministry [Gager, p. 8].
19 Beker, p. 74
20 Ruden, p. xvi
21 It should be noted that this conflict was within the Jesus-movement itself,
not between the Jesus-movement and the Jews. The Jewish communities in
the Roman Empire had a history of welcoming Gentile participants
(“Gentile synagogue adherents” or “God-fearers”) in services and
observances without pressure to convert to Judaism [Borg and Crossan
pp. 87-90; also see Gager p. 35].
22 Acts 15:1
23 2 Corinthians 3:6
24 Galatians 6:15
25 Acts 15:2
26 SAQ 20:20; Schnelle, p. 123
27 Wyschogrod, p. 119
28 Galatians 2:7

Lights of Irfán vol. 17

29 Borg & Crossan, p. 217
30 Segal, p. 114, 265
31 Galatians 3:28
32 Schnelle, p. 138; Borg and Crossan, p. 2; Segal, p. 161
33 Root, p. 85
34 Donaldson, p. 1062
35 Beker, pp. 62-63
36 Gager, p. 69
37 Segal, p. 191
38 2 Corinthians 1
39 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá cited in Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 353-354
40 Acts 16
41 Acts 22:25
42 Acts 28:20, 30
43 Acts 9:25
44 Segal, p. xi, 13, 14
45 Wills, p. 1; Gager, p. 3-4; Neil Elliott, pp. 3-24
46 See Wills, pp. 89-104; Borg and Crossan, pp. 48-58; Karen Elliott, pp. 41-
65; Neil Elliott, pp. 52-54
47 Neil Elliot, p. 226; Karen Elliott, pp. 63-65
48 Factors that are considered in textual analysis include style, language,
vocabulary, theology, and historical indicators [see Borg and Crossan pp.
14-15; Dunn, p. 1166; Drury, p. 1220].
49 The Pauline Letters (Epistles), so named because they begin with Paul’s
name and therefore appear to claim Pauline authorship, are, in order of
appearance in the New Testament: Romans, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians,
Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, 1 Thessalonians, 2
Thessalonians, 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, Titus, and Philemon.
50 There is wide agreement in New Testament scholarship that 1 Timothy, 2
Timothy, Titus, and Ephesians are pseudonymous letters [Drury, p. 1220;
Dunn, p. 1166], while Colossians and 2 Thessalonians are “hotly debated”
[Murphy-O’Connor, p. 1191; Esler, p. 1213].
51 J. D. G. Dunn and other scholars describe the pseudonymous letters as
understandable considering the accepted tradition of the time of
pseudonymously writing in the name of a revered teacher. However, Neil
Elliott states that these letters are not typical pseudonymous writings, that
is, “transparent fictions”, but are, instead, deliberate forgeries “written to
subvert other second-century Christian communities that had preserved
elements of Paul’s truth” [Neil Elliott, p. 31].

Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and Paul

52 1 Timothy 2:11-12
53 Neil Elliott, p. 21
54 Gager, p. 146
55 Karen Elliott, pp. 63-64; see also Barclay, p. 1130
56 1 Corinthians 14:33-36
57 Karen Elliott, p. 65. See also Wills, p. 98; Crossan and Reed, p. 69; Borg
and Crossan pp. 48-58; Neil Elliott, pp. 52-54
58 To this point, consider: have you ever seen a portrait or sculpture of the
Virgin Mary without a veil on her head?
59 Ruden, pp. 87-88
60 Galatians 3:28
61 Karen Elliott, pp. 41-6
62 Romans 16:3
63 Philippians 4:3
64 Romans 16:1
65 Romans 16:7
66 1 Corinthians 11:11
67 1 Corinthians 7:3
68 Neil Elliott, p. 22
69 “On August 15, 1852, a half-crazed Bábí youth wounded the Sháh with shot
from a pistol. The assailant was instantly killed” [MF 200].
70 Borg and Crossan, pp. 220-221
71 1 Clement 5:5-7 cited in Borg and Crossan, pp. 220-221
72 Borg and Crossan, p. 222
73 Cited in Saiedi, p. 271-272
74 Cited in Saiedi, p. 272

The Language of the Heart:
From Dream Language towards Understanding
the Language of the Heart
Wolfgang Klebel
In this paper, an attempt is made to describe a new
understanding of the heart and the way it is expressing itself.
The assumption is made that what used to be called the human
soul, is expressing itself in two different ways, using either the
brain or the heart for this self-expression in the physical world.
At the present time, usually the only acceptable way to study
this is to ignore the heart and only talk about the brain’s logical
and rational way of expressing itself. That there is more to
human self-understanding and self-expression to others is usual
not even considered.
What is crucial in this investigation is the fact that we have
awareness and self-consciousness only in the brain, i.e., we
know that we think and what we think, we are aware of what
happens, when we think and then talk or act. While this
awareness is limited, and there are things that are happening in
the brain, of which we are not aware, like how we balance our
bicycle when we ride it; in general, we know when we think. Our
thinking always can express itself in words or actions and we
can communicate with others in that way.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
What happens in the heart is usually not in our awareness.
Different from the brain, the heart does not express itself in
words, but in feelings only. We get angry, or loving, we feel
disgust or annoyance etc. When these feelings become aware in
the brain we know about them, but we still do not know what
had happened in the heart to create these feeling. It is important
that the heart expresses these feelings and they are expressed in
body language, even before the brain becomes aware of it.
We all are familiar of the person who gets angry and who
shows the anger so that others can see it. When they tell him,
you are angry, he would scream back, “I am not angry,” because
his body shows the anger, but his brain was not yet aware of it.
The conclusion of this event is evident, the feelings start in the
heart, are expressed in the body first, and only later will the
brain become aware of these feelings. Every good actor knows
that the bodily expression must happen before the feelings are
verbally expressed; otherwise, the acting looks wooden and
artificial. Only when the bodily expression is prior to the verbal
expression does the acting look natural. The same is true for a
singer and we like dancing, because we can feel what the dancer
expresses.
Another issue must be stated before the findings of this
paper are described and correlated with the Writings of the
Bahá’í Faith. When this writer presents his understanding of any
statement of the Bahá’í Faith, i.e., of the Writings of the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh or of their official interpreters, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or
Shoghi Effendi, he only expresses his personal understanding
and does not in any way speak for the faith, leaving it always
open to every reader to find other or different interpretations
of the same Writings. It is hoped that the difference of
opinions will find a conclusion, as in any true consultation,
which is coming closer to the truth, and can be found helpful to
others.

Language of the Heart
The ability to correlate the Bahá’í Revelation with modern
thinking in science and philosophy was encouraged by Shoghi
Effendi in several places like the following.
It is useful to review a number of statements written by
Shoghi Effendi on this subject. To a believer who had
completed advanced academic studies in a subject
related to the Teachings the Guardian stated, in a letter
written on his behalf:
It is hoped that all the Bahá’í students will follow the
noble example you have set before them and will,
henceforth, be led to investigate and analyze the
principles of the Faith and to correlate them with the
modern aspects of philosophy and science. Every
intelligent and thoughtful young Bahá’í should always
approach the Cause in this way, for therein lies the very
essence of the principle of independent investigation of
truth.1
Returning to the theme of this article, there is a connection
between the heart and the word. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
language is opening the box of the heart, which contains the
heart’s mysteries and secrets. Language is unlocking the heart so
we can be aware and understand what is in the heart.
... the function of language is to portray the mysteries
and secrets of human hearts. The heart is like a box, and
language is the key. Only by using the key can we open
the box and observe the gems it contains. [PUP 60]
Bahá’u’lláh tells us in the Seven Valleys that the wayfarer in
his mystical travel after having reached the Valley of Unity with
the True One, experiences the new mystical life and asserts that
this can only be communicated from heart to heart.
The tongue faileth in describing these three Valleys, and
speech falleth short. The pen steppeth not into this

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
region; the ink leaveth only a blot. In these planes, the
nightingale of the heart hath other songs and secrets,
which make the heart to stir and the soul to clamor, but
this mystery of inner meaning may be whispered only
from heart to heart, confided only from breast to breast.
Only heart to heart can speak the bliss of mystic
knowers... [SVFV 30]
Clearly language is not only connected with the heart, but
there is a language of the heart, which is distinct from the
regular logical and discursive language we call the language of
the brain. In this paper we will look into this difference
between the brain language and the heart language and will
explore how they work together.
The heart in the Bahá’í Writings is given a special meaning;
concepts like the city of the heart and the citadel of the heart
are emphasizing the importance of the heart. The heart is
described as possessing sensory capacities. Bahá’u’lláh talks
about the “eye of thine heart” [KI 90], “ear of his inmost heart”
[SLH 86], “hearts have been sorely shaken” [PM 12] and the “wise
and understanding heart” [ESW 65] and suggests that one
“Ponder this in thine heart” [ESW 74].
Bahá’u’lláh seems to speak about the senses of the heart,
attributing to the heart sensual capacity like it exists in the
sense of hearing.
The senses of hearing, of the heart, and the like, are
similarly to be reckoned among the gifts with which the
human body is endowed. [GWB 193]
Bahá’u’lláh’s use of the concept of the heart as a metaphor is
not scientifically or logically inconsistent with recent research
on the heart as a physical organ. There is no necessary conflict
between the two so in this paper I will demonstrate how the
metaphorical and literal concepts of the heart can work
together. In this writer’s opinion, there is a new understanding

Language of the Heart
of the relationship between the material and the spiritual
presented in the Bahá’í Writings, which is often expressed in
statements about the seen and the unseen, or the manifest and
the hidden of reality. Since this affects the understanding of the
heart, it will be presented first, before we can talk about the
language of the heart.
Based on this understanding, Bahá’u’lláh’s statements can be
correlated with the findings of modern neurocardiology, which
describes the “little brain” of the heart possessing perception,
memory and decision making ability.
Recent
work
in
the
relatively
new
field
of
Neurocardiology has firmly established that the heart is a
sensory organ and a sophisticated information encoding
and processing center. Its circuitry enables it to learn,
remember, and make functional decisions independent
of the cranial brain.2
Considering the role of the heart, the question raised in this
presentation is about the form and style of the language of the
heart. Another issue is the question, in what way is this language
different from our normal language and thinking as it is
developed in the human brain? There are about 2,000 heart
transplants made in the USA annually, giving us a sufficiently
large number to study what is in the physical heart and how the
recipients of these transplants experience the new heart. There
is evidence that dreams can be transplanted together with the
heart from one person to another. Therefore, it can be
concluded that the language of the heart is similar to the
language of dreams.
Studying dream language the following distinction needs to
be made.
The logic that we miss in the dream work is the
syntactical logic of speech—the syntactical logic that is
essential for the framing and testing of propositions and
reasoning from them.3

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Consequently, dreams express syntactical logic differently,
for example, causality is expressed in terms of continuity,
contradictions and conflicts are described by following pictures
that are contradictory, as will be exemplified below.
Another conclusion is made by this author from seeing many
patients with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Memories
heavily loaded with emotions seem to be located in the heart and
not in the brain; therefore, they can be transplanted with the
heart and are difficult to remove and will disturb the patient for
a long time. This sheds some light at some fundamental truth
about the heart revealed in the Bahá’í Writings.
It can be stated that the therapy based on this idea was
almost always successful in eliminating the disturbing intrusive
memories and nightmares of these patients, suffering from
Posttraumatic
Stress
Disorder.
When
my
patients
wholeheartedly remembered, or actually re-lived the emotions
connected with these disturbing memories, the feelings were
released and the memories stopped being intrusive and
disturbing. That this process happens in the heart is an
assumption this psychologist made, because in regular
memories, there is no connection of memory with strong and
disturbing feelings, and placing feelings in the heart suggests
that these memories need to be placed there too. Additionally,
as will be explained below, heart transplants tell us that dreams,
especially traumatic dreams, are transplanted with the heart to
the recipient patient.
That there is more going on in the heart than previously
known, is expressed by the Báb as well, because He has placed
the ability to understand the middle way between extremes
exclusively into the heart.
Such conclusive truth hath been revealed through the
gaze of the heart, and not that of intellect.
For intellect conceives not save limited things.
Verily, bound by the realm of limitation, men are unable

Language of the Heart
to gaze upon things simultaneously in their manifold
aspects. This it is perplexing for them to comprehend
that lofty station. No one can recognize the truth of the
Middle Way between the two extreme poles except after
attaining unto the gate of the heart and beholding the
realities of the worlds, visible and unseen. [Provisional
translation by Nader Saiedi]4
When Bahá’u’lláh reveals that the heart is the seat of the
Revelation, we need to consider that it is the human heart where
this connection between the spiritual message and the physical
experience happens and we need to understand the language of
the heart to understand the Revelation as it is written in the
books and scriptures:
Unlock, O people, the gates of the hearts of men with
the keys of the remembrance of Him Who is the
Remembrance of God and the Source of wisdom
amongst you. He hath chosen out of the whole world the
hearts of His servants, and made them each a seat for the
revelation of His glory. [GWB 296]
In conclusion, it needs to be said that the faculty of reason,
which is an endowment of the spiritual soul, uses different
bodily instruments, i.e., the brain and the heart. They always
need to work together, but they have different languages, so
that spiritual truth has to be reasonable even in the logical
linguistic sense, and the heart has to be pure in a moral sense.
Otherwise, it will contaminate logical reason or even pervert it.
Clearly we need both, a pure heart and clear mind to understand
the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
The relationship between matter and spirit has occupied
philosophers
throughout
history,
from
materialisms
of
Democritus to Hobbes’ Leviathan and finally to Karl Marx and
the dialectical materialism of Communism, as described by
Stalin. There is the dualistic solution as presented by Descartes,
which is dominating modern science and modern thinking, and

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
the conflict between Plato and Aristotle, about what is reality,
the eternal ideas of Plato or the concrete reality as presented in
the physics and metaphysics of Aristotle, which conflict has
never really been resolved.
In recent times, Teilhard de Chardin has attempted a novel
solution by stating that matter and spirit are fundamentally
connected, are dependent on each other and are in a process of
development that has come in our days to a significant solution.
Teilhard does not see matter as very different from spirit; like
Descartes, he acknowledges an essential connection between
matter and spirit.
It [the spirit] in no way represents some entity, which is
independent of matter or antagonistic to it, some force
locked up in, or floating in, the physical world. By spirit
I mean ‘the spirit of synthesis and sublimation’, in which
is painfully concentrated, through endless attempts and
setbacks, the potency of unity scattered throughout the
universal multiple: spirit, which is born within, and as a
function of matter.5
Here we have an understanding that matter can be described
as diverse and multiple, while spirit presents unity and
integration. Both spirit and matter are together born from each
other in this description. The Bahá’í concept of Unity in
Diversity can be applied to this description of matter and spirit
as well. They need to be seen together and not separated. They
are different and the same, as Bahá’u’lláh stated when describing
the origin of the world.
That which hath been in existence had existed before,
but not in the form thou seest today.
The world of existence came into being
through the heat generated from the interaction between
the active force and that which is its recipient.
These two are the same, yet they are different.

Language of the Heart
Thus doth the Great Announcement inform thee about
this glorious structure. Such as communicate the
generating influence and such as receive its impact are
indeed created through the irresistible Word of God
which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else
besides His Word are but the creatures and the effects
thereof. Verily thy Lord is the Expounder, the All-Wise.
[TB 140]
This verse from the Tablet of Wisdom by Bahá’u’lláh was
originally one paragraph and is here separated into its
meaningful parts for better understanding. I will present here
my personal understanding of this verse, Bahá’u’lláh calls a
glorious structure. This certainly is not the only possible
understanding of this verse, nor is it of any authority. Yet, it is
the best I can present and it is open to critique. Needless to say,
it follows the prompting of my heart and has become for me a
guidance into the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Here is my
understanding as related to the topic of this paper.
The reason, I think that this is an important statement is the
fact that it is a change from the Worldview as presented in the
Christian tradition towards a new worldview as presented in the
Bahá’í Writings. For Christian philosophy, which follows the
Platonic tradition, the spirit is good and the matter is bad, or at
least less valuable. Dealing with the world is less valuable than
going in the monastery and dedicating oneself to the
contemplative life. Bahá’u’lláh told monks to leave the
monastery and become active in the world. Work in the world is
regarded by Him as equal to prayer if it is performed in the
right intention. Consequently, both spirit and matter are
created by God, are valuable and the difference is only that the
heart should be pure and dedicated to God, while it is detached
from everything that is worldly. The difference is in the ethic, in
the direction of the life towards God not in the matter as such.
The main obstacle for this is vain imagination that places our
desire into something worldly and false.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Bahá’u’lláh, in this verse, responds to a question about the
origin of this world. He speaks of two principles, the active
force and that which is its recipient, in this description
following seemingly the Aristotelian idea of form and primal
matter. What differentiates this verse from Aristotle is clearly
stated as well. For one, Bahá’u’lláh introduces heat into this
understanding, somehow comparable with the idea of modern
physics about the role of energy in the creation and in the
development of the world.
Then He says something surprising, namely: These two are the
same, yet they are different. Does that not mean they are
different in one aspect and the same in another? When
questioning how they are the same, Bahá’u’lláh answers this later
when stating, they are indeed created through the irresistible
Word of God which is the Cause of the entire creation, this
means they are the same because they are equally created by
God. Their difference is in their function of being polar
opposites. Here again we have Unity in Diversity. Two opposite
principles exist in Unity of being created.
Then Bahá’u’lláh describes further that all differences of
reality are caused by these two principles, created by God’s
Word when stating all else besides His Word are but the
creatures and the effects thereof. This understanding fits well
into the Bahá’í concept of inwardness versus outwardness, or
hidden versus manifest, or seen versus unseen, which describe
the external, material aspect of this world and the internal
spiritual aspect of reality. The world is always both seen and
unseen as in this Verse:
Glorified be God Who hath vouchsafed this grace that
encompasseth all things, whether seen or unseen! [SLH 25]
Bahá’u’lláh uses these words frequently and is always
describing this created world in those terms as seen and unseen,
as hidden and manifest. Concluding we must say that spirit and
matter in the Bahá’í understanding are not separate, they rather

Language of the Heart
constitute a unity in their opposition. This understanding needs
to be applied to the human person as well, because Bahá’u’lláh
has stated
And thus firstness and lastness, outwardness and
inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself...
[SVFV 27]
From this consideration, we should conclude that the heart is
constituted in this inwardness and outwardness as well; so that
the material heart is the seen aspect and what we may call the
spiritual heart, is expressing the inwardness of the human
reality. This is much more than a metaphor or an analogy
combining the different use of the word heart. Therefore,
Bahá’u’lláh stated that the heart is one and undivided [PB 52] and
the direction of the heart needs to be as well one and undivided
towards God and not towards the world.
In the following verse, Bahá’u’lláh describes the world in a
specific way as “the worlds of unity and diversity, of variation
and oneness, of limitation and detachment.” In my personal
understanding of this Verse, Bahá’u’lláh appears to explain what
He said in the other statement about the two aspects of
creation, i.e., “the active force and its recipient.” Here as well
always both sides are mentioned, the inner and outer side of
reality.
Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and
advance into the ocean of acceptance, so that we may
perceive, with an eye purged from all conflicting
elements, the worlds of unity and diversity, of variation
and oneness, of limitation and detachment, and wing our
flight unto the highest and innermost sanctuary of the
inner meaning of the Word of God. [KI 160]
The three statements about ‘Unity and Diversity’, ‘Variation
and Oneness’, ‘Limitation and Detachment’ always speak about
the same two reality principles in different words. Unity is in

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
polar opposition to Diversity, as Oneness is to Variation. The
dynamic side of this opposition is explained in the next word,
when Bahá’u’lláh speaks about Limitation and Detachment. The
physical aspect of reality, expressed in variation and
multiplicity, is the limited aspect of the world and needs to be
treated with detachment, in order that we experience the Divine
Unity and Oneness in the spiritual realm. This is indicated by
the last sentence that we wing out flight in this process unto
“the highest and innermost sanctuary of the inner meaning of
the Word of God.” This Word of God is the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh that is experienced in our heart.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains this twofold aspect of reality further
when He is talking about physical atoms held together by love.
As we look upon the universe, we observe that all
composite beings or existing phenomena are made up
primarily of single elements bound together by a power
of attraction. Through this power of attraction,
cohesion has become manifest between atoms of these
composing
elements.
The
resultant
being
is
a
phenomenon of the lower contingent type. The power of
cohesion expressed in the mineral kingdom is in reality
love or affinity manifested in a low degree according to
the exigencies of the mineral world. [FWU 88]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes that the power of connection in the
physical world is the power of attraction, He leaves no doubt,
that this is a spiritual power, when he said that it is actually love
of a lower degree that has this effect. In other words, he claims
that the universe is held together by a spiritual force, something
that can be compared with the unseen aspect in Bahá’u’lláh’s
description of the world of existence.
Writing in Star of the West, an early Bahá’í, Mírzá ‘Abu’l-
Fa∂l, in a speech given to Mrs. Corinne True, in the summer of
1914, explained it this way and placed the human heart in the
middle of this connection between spirit and matter. He

Language of the Heart
compared the world with the body of man, seeing the world as
an organism, as a unity composed of spirit and matter and the
heart as being the place where these two aspects connect.
The likeness of the world is like the body of man; the
likeness of God is like the spirit in the body. As the spirit
pervades and controls the whole body, so likewise God
pervades and controls the whole universe. As none of the
limbs on the body of man are in communication with the
spirit in the body of man and not one of the five senses
can ever feel the spirit, therefore, God has created the
heart in man to be the central ruler and has endowed it
with two phases, spiritual and material. Through its
spiritual phase the hearts absorbs the commandments of
the spirit, and then through its material phase it
transmits them to all parts of the body through the
agency of the organs, veins, arteries, muscles, etc.6
Historically, it needs to be remembered here, that philosophy
until recently has never understood this unity in diversity of
matter and spirit, in this way. Only in the Bahá’í writings, and
much later in the writings of Teilhard Chardin, this rather new
and revolutionary idea was presented. Therefore, in this paper
we will not make the conventional separation of the heart as a
physical concept, and the word “heart” used in a metaphorical
sense for the spiritual aspect of man, following the statement
quoted above: “God has created the heart in man to be the
central ruler and has endowed it with two phases, spiritual and
material.”
These statements seem to be based on a description of the
sympathetic nervous system by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, who answered a
question about the autonomous nervous system with a brief but
interesting statement about this connection in the autonomic
nervous system that is connected in the heart.
The powers of the sympathetic nerve are neither entirely
physical nor spiritual, but are between the two. The

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
nerve is connected with both. Its phenomena shall be
perfect when its spiritual and physical relations are
normal.
When the material world and the divine world are well
co-related, when the hearts become heavenly and the
aspirations grow pure and divine, perfect connection
shall take place. Then shall this power produce a perfect
manifestation. Physical and spiritual diseases will then
receive absolute healing.
The exposition is brief. Ponder and thou shalt
understand the meaning. Although, on account of lack
of time, the answer is short, by close reflection it shall
be made long. [TAB 308]7
These and similar statements seem to be based on the
following statement of Bahá’u’lláh, Who in my opinion,
attributes to the heart all the spiritual qualities, seemingly not
distinguishing what we today call the spiritual concept of heart
as a metaphor, which is taken from the physical heart.
Obviously, when he describes the heart as the seat of His
Revelation or when He stated that God regards the human heart
as His possession, this can only be attributed to the spiritual
aspect of the heart, yet as Bahá’u’lláh said, these two aspects of
creation, the seen and the unseen are the same and are different
which we here apply to the heart as well.
In my opinion this is expressed by Bahá’u’lláh in the
following quote, where He states that the spirit, mind, soul, is
one single reality which uses the body faculties and senses as its
instruments. Does that not mean that the human body, being an
instrument of the spirit, is directly connected with this spiritual
power, which makes us do and act according to our will?
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and
hearing are but one single reality, which hath manifold
expressions owing to the diversity of its instruments. As

Language of the Heart
thou dost observe, man's power to comprehend, move,
speak, hear, and see all derive from this sign of his Lord
within him. It is single in its essence, yet manifold
through the diversity of its instruments. This, verily, is a
certain truth. [SLH 235]
Here again Bahá’u’lláh seems to uses the concept of unity in
diversity, when He said It is single in its essence, yet manifold
through the diversity of its instruments. What must not be
forgotten, in my opinion, is the fact that this unity of the spirit
and diversity of the bodily instruments needs to be seen
together or better it must be seen one in the other and not
artificially separated as modern thinking usually does. When in
the following the heart is mentioned we need to look into the
instrumentality of the heart as defined by neurocardiology and
make the conclusion towards the spirituality, which is using this
instrument for its spiritual purpose.
It needs to be explained how the science of quantum physics
can contribute to the understanding of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement
that the spirit or the soul uses the body, in our case the heart
and the brain as an instrument. The dualism of Descartes cannot
really explain this instrumentality of the body towards the
spiritual in the human person.
Descartes suggested that the body works like a machine, that
it has material properties. The mind (or soul), on the other hand,
was described as a nonmaterial and does not follow the laws of
nature. Descartes argued that the mind interacts with the body
at the pineal gland. Leibniz introduced the monad, a
preprogrammed entity where this interaction occurred more or
less by itself. Neither of these solutions really solved the
problem.
In the interpretation of quantum mechanics, a new solution
to this problem seems to be presented. There, the possibility is
described that the nerve connections, the synapses in the brain
are so small, that quantum effects are happening. By definition,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
quantum effects are not physically determined, but are
determined by human consciousness, actually by the instrument
that forces one or the other complementary effects to become
observable. Since the instruments are manmade, it is the human
consciousness that causes these effects. Depending on the
instrument, light shows its wave aspect or its particle aspect.
This
is
called
complementarity;
the
two
aspects
are
complementary.
When this is applied to the quantum effects in the nerve
endings, in the synapses, than it appears possible that the human
consciousness makes the difference and therefor it can be said
that the human spirit or will does influence the quantum
mechanical effects in the brain and similarly in the little brain
of the heart to cause the body to do what the spirit wants. If
this idea is carried to its conclusions, then this would be the
mechanism by which the mind directs the body. This way, it is
explained how the body becomes an instrument of the spirit as
stated by Bahá’u’lláh.
This is described by Evan Harris Walker in his book The
Physics of Consciousness, The Quantum Mind and the Meaning
of Life:8
Consciousness is the collation of potentialities that
develop as these electrons and these structures of the
brain interact (as quantum elements). By creating the
possibilities, that we experience as consciousness, and by
selecting—by willing—which synapse will fire, mind
brings into reality each moment’s thoughts, experiences
and actions.
Correlating this interpretation of quantum mechanics with
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh about the instrumentality of the
body gives a deeper understanding to theses scientific findings.
On the other hand, it is suggested here, that this explanation can
be helpful in understanding what Bahá’u’lláh stated, that the
mind uses the body as an instrument. The transition from the

Language of the Heart
spiritual mind to the physical brain becomes understandable,
when we assume that there are quantum effects involved. This
makes sense, because quantum effects even in physical
experiments, are not physically determined, but are caused by
human conscious decisions. In these physical experiments, it is
the human consciousness that causes one or the other of the
complimentary aspects of reality to become evident.
As I understand this, and this is my personal opinion,
without any authority, the following can be stated. An
instrument shapes what it does according to the shape of the
instrument. The physical shape of an instrument is certainly in
relation with its function and use. Therefore, the physical
quality of the instrument is important and needs to be related to
its use.
Unfortunately, today, people see the spiritual and the
material as separated and the connection is only in the fact that
the material provides the metaphor to express the spiritual. The
following monograph about the heart is based on this outdated
understanding.
As the muscle which is the original source of these
metaphorical applications brings life to the whole body,
so heart refers to the core-force of personality at the
center of its life. Because we do not want to limit the
self with the name of intellect alone, or will alone, or
feeling alone, nor to see these as separate, we have
invented the sensibly opaque name of heart for the
identifying core of our agency.9
A new and fundamentally different understanding of reality
is what is guiding me in this and other papers about the heart
and I have developed this understanding when trying to
understand the Bahá’í Writings. Therefore, the metaphorical use
of the concept heart is actually based on more than external
similarity; it is based on a real essential connection between the

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
seen and the unseen, the spiritual and the material as the
fundamental principles of reality.
From this very specific point of view, I have tried to
understand what the different instrumentality of the heart is, as
compared with that of the brain. The following findings are to
be understood in this way and the formulation of the language
of the heart is based on this difference. This difference between
the heart and the brain becomes apparent in the little child and
in dreams where the brain does not play an important role,
because it is shut down in sleep and yet undeveloped in the
child.
The heart does not sleep and is fully functioning when the
child is born; so we now turn our attention to the language of
the dream and the little child. Michael Robinson, in analyzing
Freud’s The Interpretation of Dreams, comes to a new
understanding of the primary process thinking as it is expressed
in dreams. He finds that the primary process thinking is
essentially different from the secondary or normal process of
reasoning. Freud had developed the understanding that there is a
difference between primary process thinking, which is the
thinking of the little child and which is present in dreams as well
and secondary thinking, which is the logical discursive thinking
of the adult.
Beginning with Freud, a number of authors have
attempted to articulate the grammatical or syntactic
structure of dreaming, and there is general agreement
that it is qualitatively distinctive from that of ordinary
language. Dream language depicts causality in terms of
sequence or contiguity, and contradiction, contrast, or
conflict in terms of such things as difference in imagery
or pace of action. There seems to be no way to depict
time or to distinguish the past and memory from the
present. In other words, dream language lacks the
abstract, reflective, comparative, multilevel, or parallel-
processing quality of ordinary language that enables such

Language of the Heart
things as conflict, ambivalence, simultaneous conscious
and unconscious thought past and present tense, action
and contemplation. French and Fromm (1964) summarize
this distinctive feature of dream language as follows:
“The logic that we miss in the dream work is the
syntactical logic of speech—the syntactical logic that is
essential for the framing and testing of propositions and
reasoning from them.”10
Let us follow up on this consideration that primary process
thinking is found in dreams and in little children. In both cases,
the thinking is concentrated in the heart. The brain of the little
child is not much developed before the age of two and the
development of higher logical thinking is possible only after the
age of twelve, according to Piaget. A similar situation is found
in dreams, when the brain is sleeping, but the heart is still
working normally.
As stated before, according to modern neurocardiology there
is a “little brain” of the heart, which has perception, memory
and decision making ability.
Recent
work
in
the
relatively
new
field
of
Neurocardiology has firmly established that the heart is a
sensory organ and a sophisticated information encoding
and processing center. Its circuitry enables it to learn,
remember, and make functional decisions independent
of the cranial brain.11
The question we need to ask her is the following: Is this
“little brain” of the heart involved in dreaming? We must ask
because from evidence gathered from heart transplant patients
we know that some of them dream dreams of the previous
owner of the heart. This cannot be explained any other way then
by assuming that the dream memory was transplanted with the
heart. One especially significant case is reported in a book by
Paul Pearsall:

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
The Heart That Found Its Body's Killer
I recently spoke to an international group of
psychologists, psychiatrists, and social workers meeting
in Houston, Texas. I spoke to them about my ideas
about the central role of the heart in our psychological
and spiritual life, and following my presentation, a
psychiatrist came to the microphone during the question
and answer session to ask me about one of her patients
whose experience seemed to substantiate my ideas about
cellular memories and a thinking heart. The case
disturbed her so much that she struggled to speak
through her tears.
Sobbing to the point that the audience and I had
difficulty understanding her, she said, I have a patient,
an eight-year-old little girl who received the heart of a
murdered ten-year-old girl. Her mother brought her to
me when she started screaming at night about her dreams
of the man who had murdered her donor; she said her
daughter knew who he was. After several sessions, I just
could not deny the reality of what this child was telling
me. Her mother and I finally decided to call the police
and, using the descriptions from the little girl they found
the murderer. He was easily convicted with evidence my
patient provided. The time, the weapon, the place, the
clothes he wore, what the little girl had said to him...
everything the little heart transplant recipient reported
was completely accurate.
As the therapist returned to her seat; the audience of
scientifically
trained
and
clinically
experienced
professionals sat in silence.... The very real possibility of
a heart that remembers seemed to touch all of us in our
own hearts.12

Language of the Heart
The fact that the heart after a transplant can remember
dreams, and details of traumatic events, as reported in several
other cases of this book as well,13 seems proof that the
memories located in the heart can be remembered as dreams. It
is reported in this book that a heart transplant patient had
“surprisingly accurate dreams about her donor” together with
other changes, such as food tastes, music preferences, and
emotional states, which these patients never experienced before.
In contrast to normal memories that are probably located in
the brain and can be reached by association, memories which
happened under severe emotional stress are located in the heart
and remembered in dreams or in intrusive memories, as is
known in the Post-traumatic Stress Disorder. Having treated
many patients with this disorder, the explanation that traumatic
memories are in the heart seems to explain best what could be
observed in their treatment. That is what happened to the girl in
question. She remembered the traumatic experience of the
previous owner of the heart in her dreams, just like this girl
would have remembered it if she was not killed. The heart
survived and did the same what it would have done in the other
girl, i.e., remembering the traumatic experience in recurring
nightmares.
If this is the case, then we have to conclude that the dream-
work that produces the dream is located in the “little brain of
the heart” also or better, that the heart is used by the mind of
the dreamer, when she is dreaming. That means that dreams are
not made up and remembered by using the brain but the heart,
they are following the primary process of thinking, not the
normal secondary process. Yet, when dreams are remembered,
they are remembered in the brain and translated into the normal
language of the brain, which makes it difficult to interpret
them. Therefore, the conclusion seems to be convincing that
they are originally not in the brain, but in the heart.
An example of this primary process dream thinking can be
presented by a communication from a patient to this

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
psychologist. Here a conditional situation is presented in two
opposing dreams following immediately each other. The patient
reported several experiences where she had dreamed about the
future death of family members, with the details of the time and
the circumstances of their death.
Then she reported another situation, where she had dreamed
about the death of her son, who was a teenager and involved at
the time in gang violence and one time was almost killed. She
reported that she had two dreams about him; one was that her
son is being killed and in the immediately following dream, her
son was being placed in detention. Following this dream
message, she reported to the therapist that she called daily the
police about her son’s illegal activities until the police arrested
him and placed him into custody.
She further told this psychologist that her son did well after
that and is now a responsible adult with a nice family.
Interestingly enough, she reported that her son never forgave
her for putting him into prison. She, on the other hand,
understood the message of her heart given her in the dream as
correct and never regretted what she needed to do.
Another dream told by a Bahá’í friend tells another way how
a dream can solve a problem of the dreamer not in logical
explanations but in presenting an action, which is solving the
problem. This Bahá’í friend reported that as child she was the
only Bahá’í in school and could not understand why nobody
understood the truth about religion. She blamed Christ who had
not educated Christians well enough so they could understand.
Many years later, she had the following dream:
First, she was at the sermon of the mount, and tried to get
close to Christ and tell him of her concern, but could not get
near to him to tell him. This picture depicts her frustration
about Christ not having informed Christians well about the fact
of progressive revelation.

Language of the Heart
In the next picture she was at the Garden of Ridván, the
place near Bagdad where Bahá’u’lláh announced his prophetic
claims to his followers. She was at the entrance wall near a door,
hoping to see Bahá’u’lláh in the tent in the midst of the Garden.
Suddenly Christ came and walked into the garden and then
turned into the Tent where Bahá’u’lláh was.
So she understood that Christ and Bahá’u’lláh in their Divine
station, are the same person, like all the other Manifestations of
God as Bahá’u’lláh has stated, describing progressive revelation:
Viewed in this light, they are all but Messengers of that
ideal King, that unchangeable Essence. And were they all
to proclaim, “I am the Seal of the Prophets,” they, verily,
utter but the truth, beyond the faintest shadow of
doubt. For they all are but one person, one soul, one
spirit, one being, one revelation. [GWB 53]
The unity of all Divine Manifestations is presented in this
dream by the fact that wanting to see Bahá’u’lláh she only
observed Christ going to where she expected Bahá’u’lláh to be.
These dreams explain that in the primary process thinking,
conditional thoughts and complex relationships cannot be
expressed directly, except, like in this case, as describing one
event or a complex relationship in two opposing or different
pictures, following immediately after each other. In the first
situation the dreamer decided in her heart that her son needs to
be in custody, otherwise, he would be killed, and she followed
this extremely difficult decision, as soon she has become aware
of it during the remembering of her dream.
In the dream of the Bahá’í lady, one Manifestation going into
the tent of another Manifestation expressed the fact that they
are in their divine station one, as is described in the Bahá’í
Writings. Both these dreams tell us how dream language
expresses thoughts that are difficult to understand in the logical
discursive way of thinking, but can also be presented in a

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
language using pictures and events expressing the same truth.
This way of understanding is deeper and afterwards may be
expressed and available to the logical mind. The implications of
these pictures are that they have a higher degree of
understanding and certitude, which logical discursive language
and thinking cannot give.
When considering these two ways of thinking as a Gegensatz
or Polar Opposites, we must realize that in human thinking
always both ways are present in a balanced but always changing
mixture. This fact gives human thinking a quality that is not
only deeper than computer logic, but also able to reach into
areas of reality where logic alone cannot go very far, especially
into the spiritual realm where the deepest truths about man and
reality are considered. Most Westerners are raised in the
scientific way of thinking, which generally does not regard the
human heart as more than a blood-pump and uses simple
deductions and logical structures, unable to go deeper and listen
to the heart.
When people first read the Bahá’í Writings, they are difficult
to understand until one opens the heart and follows the
language of the heart; usually then understanding follows and
the Writings become valuable and personally meaningful. The
same is true about other religious writings like the Bible or the
Qur´an. This issue needs much more investigation and scientific
verification, but is here mentioned because it opens up the issue
of consciousness and of different ways of thinking that underlie
some of the Bahá’í Writings.
Another understanding of this way of thinking and of its
importance is the story of scientific inventions being made in
dreams, like the following story of the invention of the
chemical formula of benzene by Kekulé in the so-called
ouroboros dream as described in Wikipedia under the name
Kekulé:

Language of the Heart
The new understanding of
benzene, and hence of all
aromatic compounds, proved
to be so important for both
pure and applied chemistry
after 1865 that in 1890 the
German
Chemical
Society
organized
an
elaborate
appreciation
in
Kekulé's
honor, celebrating the twenty-
fifth anniversary of his first benzene paper. Here Kekulé
spoke of the creation of the theory. He said that he had
discovered the ring shape of the benzene molecule after
having a reverie or day-dream of a snake seizing its own
tail (this is an ancient symbol known as the ouroboros.)
This vision, he said, came to him after years of studying
the nature of carbon-carbon bonds.14
In this picture, we can see the heart’s way of thinking in the
primary process in the picture of the snake swallowing her own
tail, which Kekulé then translated into the secondary or logical
secondary process of thinking as the solution of a chemical
formula organized in a circular way as a ring.
Here we encounter again the issue of the difference between
the heart as a biological organ with what is called “the little
brain of the heart” and the distinct existence of a mind, in this
case using the heart and not the brain to express itself. This
different instrument of the mind seems to result in a different
kind of language that is called primary process thinking in the
psychoanalytic theory. The reason to place this thinking into the
heart has to do with findings from heart transplants, where
dreams, which could only belong to the original owner of the
heart, are dreamt by the person who received the heart
transplant.
We need to assume that the memory of dreams is in the heart,
so it stands to reason that the actual dream work is done be the

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
heart as well, but can only become aware in the mind. The mind
using the brain then understands the dream that originally is
expressed in primary process thinking now in secondary process
thinking. In fact, that is the theme of the article of Michael
Robins. Placing all of this thinking of the heart as the
instrument of primary process thinking, solves this problem and
explains how this thinking that happens outside of awareness is
eventually translated into the normal thinking and language in
using the brain.
In this understanding, we use the mind or consciousness as
encompassing two different styles of thinking, i.e. the primary
process of dream thinking and the normal secondary process of
logical thinking. What makes this understanding so difficult is
the fact that consciousness or awareness is only present in the
normal or secondary process thinking and we have only indirect
access to the primary process thinking if it is translated into
secondary process thinking.
Correlating this to the Bahá’í Writings we can make the
assumption that the special way of understanding that is placed
in the heart has to do with this difference. It further can be
assumed that the primary process thinking of the heart, as
evident in dreams, might not totally describe all what is
happening when the mind uses the heart’s way of thinking.
The following statement is the epistemological explanation
of why there are different meanings possible of the same
statement. The answer is clear: because of the different ways of
understanding. In a one-dimensional world, only one meaning is
possible, if there are more than one dimensions or levels of
understandings of the world then more than one meaning is
possible, which relate to the different dimensions of the world
and of the understanding of the world.
The German Theologian Romano Guardini at the end of his
book Der Gegensatz15 presents another interesting consideration
about the way concrete reality is understood. He distinguishes
three levels of understanding: rational, trans-rational and super-

Language of the Heart
rational (in German: “Rational,” “Außer-Rational” and “Über-
Rational”).
This consideration is essential to the topic of this paper. It is
the self, it is the human consciousness that attempts to
understand the reality of this world, the method of this
understanding is part and partial of what reality is all about.
Strangely enough, most scientific inquiries into the issue about
reality do not seem even to consider this question.
When science excludes anything besides materiality from
investigation, when the mind is understood as a function of
physical nerves and their interaction, then such questions can be
avoided totally. This gives us the classical understanding of
reality as organized like a machine, no wholeness, no meaning,
just efficient cause and effect. This picture is then applied to
the mind; the way they understand reality and consciousness
becomes an epiphenomenon of the nervous system, but has no
reality other than a material, which can then be described as
functioning strictly in a causal sense, excluding free will and
purpose, meaning and beauty from serious considerations. Man
is nothing more than a reacting physical entity, reacting to
stimuli like the pigeon in the Skinner box or like a mechanical
machine to the forces impinging on it in the environment.
In contrast to this so-called “scientific” understanding and its
corresponding epistemology, Guardini describes three ways of
understanding reality. The first is the rational understanding
forming concepts, which abstracts from the concrete individual
reality and forms a general idea. In order to individualize we
have to give this thing, this animal or person a name or indicate
that we mean this house and not the other house next to it.
Fortunately, houses have numbers and people and pets have
names, otherwise we could not speak about an individual person
without describing some features that are specific to that
individual, or pointing to that individual, like in criminal court.
Guardini describes another way of understanding, which he
calls intuition. This way of understanding Guardini calls trans-

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
rational (“Außer-Rational”), which he describes as a clear and
normal way of understanding. Additionally, he places these two
ways of understanding in polar opposition, so that the
conceptual, abstract way of understanding can never be totally
separated from the intuitive concrete way of understanding.
Whenever we think of a general abstract concept, like that of
“cat”, or felineness, we somehow have the concrete experience
and picture of a specific individual cat or cats in mind. Only
that makes the abstract thought possible and meaningful.
And whenever we think or talk about an individual cat, for
example, the abstract concept of cat is in the horizon of our
understanding as well, because we know always both, the focus
and concentration may be on the individual or on the abstract
concept, but both cannot be thought about without the other
side, i.e., its opposite being included and in some way this
defines the idea of either a particular animal or person or, on
the other hand, the idea of animal-ness, or humanness which is
considered. Even if we invent a fictitious animal, like the
unicorn, we have to make a picture of it in our mind, and this
picture will be concrete of such an animal and not abstract as
the concept of unicorn-ness would be.
We can say that these two ways of understanding are
complementary. The word intuition is used in the German
language and in English in the same way, as defined in
dictionaries and as presented here from Wikipedia.
Intuition, a phenomenon of the mind, describes the
ability to acquire knowledge without inference or the
use of reason. The word “intuition” comes from Latin
verb ‘intueri’ translated as consider or from late Middle
English word intuit, “to contemplate”. Intuition is often
interpreted with varied meaning from intuition being
glimpses of greater knowledge to only a function of
mind; however, processes by which and why they happen

Language of the Heart
typically remain mostly unknown to the thinker, as
opposed to the view of rational thinking.
After that discussion, the third way of understanding is
mentioned by Guardini with some caution. He claims that the
mystery of the living is not in the intuitive versus the rational
understanding, but in this third way of understanding that he
calls super-rational. It is a higher understanding than reason or
intuition, it is the understanding of the whole, of the unity of
reality and it is achieved in the tension between rational and
intuitive understanding. It is not a Hegelian synthesis, which
abolishes the other ways of understanding; it is an original, a
first and essential understanding, which is actually very simple
in its complicatedness. Any attempt to define this logically, is
bound to fail. The core and the mystery of the concrete reality
can only be understood in an act of knowing, that has the same
structure as the reality, and this is what Guardini calls vision
(Anschauung):
To understand the core of the living reality and to
approach its mystery is not a nebulous imagination, it
rather takes vision (Anschauung), which is possible only
in the tension, and in respect of the mystery, which
requires discipline and self-control.16
Guardini describes further this concept and indicates that any
one-sidedness destroys this tension of understanding reality;
that it leads to erroneous simplifications, and to false
explications and failure to understand truthfully. Only the
oppositeness of this relationship allows the human mind to
grasp the whole and to use rational understanding and intuitive
perception in a scientific and philosophically correct way in
approaching reality. Rationalism and intellectualism, if used
one-sidedly, will be opposed by Intuitionism, or Romanticism
and Mysticism and both will fail to understand reality as it
really is.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Three quarters of a century before Guardini described the
three ways of understanding reality, Bahá’u’lláh had talked
about three differing planes of understanding in the Seven
Valleys. In the following these statements of Bahá’u’lláh and
Guardini will be correlated with each other to better understand
both, even though these two statements have been made in
different centuries.
Here is the statement of Bahá’u’lláh:
Thus, for that they move on these three differing planes,
the understanding and the words of the wayfarers have
differed; and hence the sign of conflict doth continually
appear on earth.
For some there are who dwell upon the plane of oneness
and speak of that world, and some inhabit the realms of
limitation, and some the grades of self, while others are
completely veiled. [SVFV 20]
This chart shows
how the statements
of Guardini can be
correlated with the
Verse
from
the
Seven
Valleys
of
Bahá’u’lláh.
This
correlation actually
is
seen
in
the
arrangement here, in
spite of the fact that
the order of description is different and Guardini orders the
first two ways of understanding different from Bahá’u’lláh’s
planes of understanding. Since these two ways of understanding
are polar opposites, they can be seen from one side or the other.
The third way of understanding of Guardini, and the first in
Bahá’u’lláh’s description is described by Bahá’u’lláh as used by

Language of the Heart
those who dwell on the Plane of Oneness. According to the
Bahá’í Faith, this oneness or unity is understood as ‘Unity in
Diversity’ [WOB 41] and the better and deeper we understand
this concept the more and deeper we are dwelling upon the
plane of oneness.
Finally, it is described by Bahá’u’lláh what this vision or this
way of understanding actually produces, it sees the unity in the
polar opposites so that this paragraph concludes in the
statement: “Then what life have words, on such a plane, that
‘first’ and ‘last’ or other than these be seen or mentioned! In
this realm, the first is the last itself, and the last is but the
first.” This can be correlated with what Guardini’s epistemology
describes as “Anschauung” or Vision.
The next not transcendent and more limited plane or mode of
understanding is, according to Bahá’u’lláh, that “some inhabit
the realms of limitation.” This is the realm of rational and
logical thinking, where understanding is based on abstractions
from the concrete. Therefore, this understanding is limited;
abstraction meaning limiting the understanding from the
concrete to the less concrete and more abstract. Guardini calls
this Rational Understanding; it is the rational understanding and
the area of discursive logic.
Another plane described by Bahá’u’lláh is by “some [inhabit]
the grades of self” including those who use concrete intuition
of the reality, which is based on the understanding self and is
not the full understanding of oneness. In Guardini’s
epistemology, this grade is similarly called Trans-Rational or
Intuitional.
Not much has to be said about those who are “completely
veiled.” This would include the strict materialists, who ignore
anything except the material that can be counted and used in
mathematics. They do not see reality-as-it-is—material and
spiritual—at all.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
It needs to be noted that this text from the Seven Valleys by
Bahá’u’lláh was written almost hundred years before Guardini
independently found a similar understanding in contemplating
reality, seen in the light of Catholic Philosophical Theology.
Nevertheless, the correlation is astonishing. It is important to
consider that Bahá’u’lláh talks about three differing planes of
understanding and Guardini calls all of them rational, even
though he distinguishes between rational, trans-rational and
super-rational, none of these ways of knowing are irrational and
the rational faculty of man encompasses all three of these
capabilities.
This Vision is necessary to understand the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh; it is the understanding of Spirituality, of Unity and
Oneness, as being revealed in the Writings of the Bahá’í Faith.
In the following verse, Bahá’u’lláh is praying for his followers
to acquire this vision, so they can understand His Revelation.
I beg of Thee, O my Lord, by Thine eye that sleepeth
not, to guard mine eyes from beholding aught beside
Thee. Strengthen, then, their vision that they may discern
Thy signs, and behold the Horizon of Thy Revelation.
[PM 263]
This adds a new understanding to these polar opposite
concepts of Inwardness and Outwardness, as presented in the
Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh, [SVFV 27] an understanding that
perceives these concepts from the point of Oneness and brings
the Unity of these concepts to light. In this paragraph, more is
said about the wayfarers who find this new understanding of
reality. In any logical description and graphical presentation of
this unity in diversity, this essential unity is not shown and has
to be introduced by the observer, because the opposite terms
are in and through each other, are in unity and not separated.
The wayfarers observing this situation are described by
Bahá’u’lláh as “those personages who in a single step have
passed over the world of the relative and the limited, and dwelt

Language of the Heart
on the fair plane of the Absolute, and pitched their tent in the
worlds of authority and command.” Here the transcendence of
this understanding is stressed from the relative and limited,
logical and rational understanding to the understanding of the
absolute and to an understanding that is based on authority and
command. This seems to indicate the authority of the
Revelation and the command of the Manifestation.
The process of this endeavor is described by Bahá’u’lláh as
having “burned away these relativities with a single spark, and
blotted out these words with a drop of dew” [SVFV 27]. In fact,
this process of violently burning away something is contrasted
in the next picture of blotting it out with a drop of dew, a
rather quiet and insignificant activity, so we can conclude that
Bahá’u’lláh indicates that this process is mild and insignificant
as well as violent and drastic, a polar opposite of processes
directing our intention into a higher level of action, a level that
can be called mystical or spiritual, which transcends the polar
oppositeness of burning versus blotting out with a drop of dew.
In this context, it needs to be noted that even Guardini in
similar ways mentioned that this vision requires a special effort,
when he states that this “is possible only in the tension, and in
respect of the mystery, which requires discipline and self-
control.”
Bahá’u’lláh further asserts, that “they swim in the sea of the
spirit, and soar in the holy air of light” [SVFV 27]. This clearly
indicates that this approach to knowing is a spiritual effort and
presupposes an understanding of the spiritual aspect of reality,
which is expressed in the vision of unity of the polar concepts
of Inwardness versus Outwardness.
Whenever this concept is mentioned this transcendent
understanding, this vision of unity of the modes of
understanding, needs to be always kept in mind. When the polar
opposite concepts that form this structure are considered in this
way, their unity is actually the spiritual understanding of reality.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Depending on how we look at the self, we see different and
opposing aspects, which have to be understood as potential
aspects of the one reality, or modes of how reality can be
perceived. The principal unity of this reality of the self or of
the physical reality should never be overlooked and has always
to be considered in order to see the whole. In other words, we
cannot understand the whole of reality in our rational mind, we
have to see these different modes and perceive them as
complementary in order to see the whole, to see reality as it
actually is. Similarly, Guardini said this vision takes discipline
and self-control, and this process is compared by Bahá’u’lláh as
burning away the differences and blotting out the oppositeness
of created reality.
It needs to be considered that this approach is not irrational;
it is super-rational as Guardini called it and it exists in the
tension between the rational and trans-rational, i.e., between
the abstracting rational mind and the intuitional concrete
understanding of reality. It adds a third dimension to the human
rationality, a dimension that is open to understanding the super-
rational, the ultimate reality, which is the mystery of the world.
How the mind and the heart are involved in this process has
been described above, so the Bahá’í understanding of the heart
can be compared with the new science of neuroradiology and
quantum mechanics, where a new correlation between these two
understanding of the function of the heart are developed.
Bahá’u’lláh describes this primary process thinking of the
heart as the thinking of unity or oneness, or the thinking of
those who “swim in the sea of the spirit, and soar in the holy air
of light” or the thinking of those who “have passed over the
world of the relative and the limited, and dwelt on the fair plane
of the Absolute” [SVFV 27]. Placing this kind of thinking into
the heart makes good sense because the Writing of the Báb and
of Bahá’u’lláh seem to do just that. In conclusion, it can be
stated that the heart has a different way of thinking, as is
known from our interpretation of dreams, but that dream
thinking is only part of heart thinking, which includes the

Language of the Heart
thinking of oneness or of the spirit, as the Bahá’í Writings
claim.
The two aspects of the spiritual and physical or the seen and
unseen is the topic of several of Bahá’u’lláh statements like this.
I beseech Thee, by Thy Cause that hath encompassed the
world of being, and by Thy Name wherewith Thou hast
subjected the seen and unseen, to adorn the peoples of
the earth with the light of Thy justice, and to illuminate
their hearts with the brightness of Thy knowledge. [ESW
37]
First Bahá’u’lláh seems to state here that His Cause is
encompassing the world of being, which he then describes as the
seen and the unseen, and then he states that His believers have
to illuminate their hearts with the brightness of Thy knowledge.
This new knowledge of the Bahá’í Revelation seems to be this
very new understanding of the world as seen and unseen, as
spiritual and material.
As mentioned before, the Báb proposes how such conflicting,
yet complementary attributes of the same thing or idea are to be
unified only in the heart when He said:
Such conclusive truth hath been revealed through the
gaze of the heart, and not that of intellect. For intellect
conceives not save limited things.
Verily, bound by the realm of limitation, men are unable
to gaze upon things simultaneously in their manifold
aspects. This it is perplexing for them to comprehend
that lofty station.
No one can recognize the truth of the Middle Way
between the two extreme poles except after attaining
unto the gate of the heart and beholding the realities of
the worlds, visible and unseen. (translated by Saiedi, ibid.)17

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
What the Báb calls here the middle way of understanding is
called the understanding of oneness by Bahá’u’lláh and this
vision of reality needs to be placed in the heart according to the
Báb. This is expressed by Bahá’u’lláh as the heart being the seat
of the Revelation. In our thinking of the language of the heart
we have to add another consideration.
As the rational process in the heart is without awareness, we
only know about this process if we become aware of it in the
thinking, which is based on the brain. In other words, this vision
of the unity of reality is unconscious and has to become
conscious in the brain on the level of the rational and
intuitional thinking process; therefore, it takes effort and
experience to do this, in fact the ongoing reading of the Bahá’í
Revelation will produce this effect, as this Revelation needs to
be understood in the heart and will eventually become aware in
the brain in a logical and discursive manner.
It seems to be the specific ability of the heart to see the unity
in any oppositional statements. There is an interesting
consequence to all these considerations. The importance of the
heart over the brain, which seems to be expressed in the Bahá’í
Writings, is based on the fact that both are necessary but
emotionally and spiritually the heart—when pure and under the
influence of the Divine Spirit—is the seat of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh:
Unlock, O people, the gates of the hearts of men with
the keys of the remembrance of Him Who is the
Remembrance of God and the Source of wisdom
amongst you. He hath chosen out of the whole world the
hearts of His servants, and made them each a seat for the
revelation of His glory. [GWB 296-297]
It must be understood here that the language of the heart is
not the same as the language of the brain and needs translation
to be understood. This means several things. Poetry, for
example, is originated in the heart and then translated into the

Language of the Heart
brain language, which makes it an art and, therefore, it speaks
to the heart of the reader. The same process underlies the poetic
aspect of the revelation; hence the special language of any
revelation has this poetic style and needs to be understood by
the heart. It speaks directly to the heart but needs to be
understood by the brain; or rather, it needs to be internally
translated to the logical and intuitional ability of the human
brain to be fully understood.
This is a process that can be observed in anybody that at first
is presented by the Bahá’í Revelation. When I became a Bahá’í
at first I could not really understand what it meant, but enjoyed
the poetic style and was convinced of its truth. Only when I
became more deepened in the Writings, the meaning and
structure became apparent, a process that does not end so that
new meaning is forthcoming, whenever a text of the Revelation
is read again or a new text is approached.
It is not easy to describe this process, but most Bahá’ís go
through this development. The fact that Bahá’u’lláh asks us to
daily read his Writings is based on this need to practice this
process, to learn more and more how to translate from the heart
to the mind and ever deeper step into the Ocean of His
Revelation.
Interpreting the biblical concept of the New Heaven and
New Earth Bahá’u’lláh revealed that here heaven means the
Divine Revelation and earth the Understanding of man of this
Revelation.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first
heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there
was no more sea. [Revelation 21:1]
In the following verse, He speaks of the earth of the heart of
the believer, indicating that their hearts understand His
Revelation and its divine knowledge and wisdom.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Know thou, that upon whatever hearts the bountiful
showers of mercy, raining from the “heaven” of divine
Revelation, have fallen, the earth of those hearts hath
verily been changed into the earth of divine knowledge
and wisdom. [KI 45]
The process of translating the language of the heart into the
language of the brain is used frequently when interpreting
dreams. In a letter ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives an example of dream
interpretation.
O thou handmaid of God! In this day, to thank God for
His bounties consisteth in possessing a radiant heart, and
a soul open to the promptings of the spirit....
As for that mighty solar orb which thou didst behold in
thy dream, that was the Promised One, and its spreading
rays were His bounties, and the translucent surface of
the mass of water signifieth hearts that are undefiled and
pure, while the surging waves denote the great
excitement of those hearts and the fact that they were
shaken and deeply moved, that is, the waves are the
stirrings of the spirit and holy intimations of the soul.
Praise thou God that in the world of the dream thou hast
witnessed such disclosures. [SWAB 179]
In the introduction, he remarks that the writer of the letter
to him is a person with a radiant heart and a soul open to the
prompting of the spirit. This is allowing interpreting the dream
and finding the mystical meaning of this dream.
We can conclude that what in brain thinking is called
opposition, or conditional thinking, is seen by heart as thinking
in unity or in spiritual unification. This appears to be a
Gegensatz in the sense of Guardini, or the specific way of
human thinking that always includes sides, the brain-thinking
and the heart-thinking, with the emphasis on thinking when
awake on the brain, and in dream thinking on the heart, because

Language of the Heart
the brain is asleep. This seems to be what distinguishes human
thinking from the work of the computer, were only the logical
thinking of the brain is introduced into the machine. In the
human mind, there is always the Gegensatz, the polar opposition
of brain and heart present, in a more or less intensive
connection. Only in the dream, when the brain is excluded by
sleep, the heart thinking is present, but, when we wake up, that
kind of thinking has to be translated by the brain into the
normal style of thinking to become aware and to be possibly
understood.
When it is understood that the human rational understanding
of reality is a limited understanding, it becomes clear that there
must
be
another
understanding
that
transcends
this
understanding and is more adequate to understand reality. This
higher understanding is described by Bahá’u’lláh as the Dwelling
on the Plane of Oneness and they swim in the sea of the spirit,
and soar in the holy air of light. The correlation of this
statement with the idea of vision, as presented by Guardini,
seems to expand what Guardini said and helps us to understand
the vision of oneness as is presented in the above quoted verse.
These considerations are based on the understanding of the
Bahá’í Writings that the mind or the soul, with its rational
faculty, is using the body, in this case the brain and the heart, as
instruments of their action. When the mind is active, most of
the time both, the brain and the heart are used as instruments,
yet, not all what is in the mind can be in the brain or heart, like
for example a typewriter has all the letters of the writing and
brings them to paper, without having any understanding of
what the writings communicate.
The fact that in all rational thought both, the primary
process thinking of the heart and the logical discursive thinking
of the brain are involved makes reason essentially different
from computer logic of a machine. Using Guardini’s
epistemology as correlated with the Bahá’í Writings, we find
that the brain thinking consists in a polar opposite between

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
rational and intuitive thinking. Transcending this way of
thinking of the brain is the thinking of the heart, which is
expressed in primary process thinking, which we called vision.
Rationalism, therefore, must always be understood as open
to the different way of thinking of the heart. Both of these two
ways of thinking, the one that uses the brain i.e. rationalism and
the other that uses the heart as an instrument, we can call
mysticism, must be open and interpreted by the rational brain.
The problems involved into this relationship have activated the
history of philosophy and it could be conceived that placing the
mystical or primary process thinking into the heart, as the
Bahá’í Writings seem to do, could be a new and heuristic
valuable way of seeing this issue of the human rational faculty,
which is usually understood under the concept of the human
mind using the brain.
The respective quotes from the Bahá’í Writing will follow
here. It is clearly stated that both the heart and the brain must
work together to find the truth, especially the truth about
religion.
And among the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is that religion
must be in conformity with science and reason, so that it
may influence the hearts of men. The foundation must
be solid and must not consist of imitations. [SWAB 299]
One of the most distinguishing differences between the brain
and the heart is the fact that the brain is divided into a right and
left hemisphere and how they work together in logical and
discursive though is not yet fully understood. In opposition to
this is the fact that the little brain of the heart does not have
this distinction or separation and seems to be undivided as
expressed in this statement by Bahá’u’lláh. This has ethical or
moral consequences, which are important to notice especially
when considering the understanding of the Divine Revelation.

Language of the Heart
And as the human heart, as fashioned by God, is one and
undivided, it behoveth thee to take heed that its
affections be, also, one and undivided. Cleave thou,
therefore, with the whole affection of thine heart, unto
His love, and withdraw it from the love of any one
besides Him, that He may aid thee to immerse thyself in
the ocean of His unity, and enable thee to become a true
upholder of His oneness. [PB 52]
This issue needs much further investigation, but is here
mentioned because it opens up the issue of consciousness and
of different ways of thinking that underlie some of the
understanding of the Bahá’í Revelation.
As mentioned before, the Báb proposes how such conflicting,
yet complementary attributes of the same thing or idea are to be
unified only in the heart. It seems to be the specific ability of
the heart, or better, of the mind using the heart as his
instrument of expression to be able to see the unity in any
oppositional statements. There is an interesting consequence to
all these considerations. The importance of the heart over the
brain which seems to be expressed in the Bahá’í Writings is
based on the fact that both are necessary but emotionally and
spiritually the heart—when pure and under the influence of the
Divine Spirit—is what gives peace and certitude to human
understanding as stated here by Bahá’u’lláh and as has been
found in the study of the heart by the HeartMath Institute.
God shall bestow upon his heart a divine tranquillity and
cause him to be of them that are at peace with
themselves. [GDM 23]
Another conclusion of this paper is the understanding that
the revelatory writings of all religions are actually speaking to
the heart more than to the brain. Nevertheless, the brain is not
neglected either because it must be used in order to make the
language of the heart come to awareness in the brain and be
interpreted in the logical way of the brain. To approach any

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Revelation with this understanding can explain the specific style
of all revelatory scriptures and will further explain, why it is
difficult to understand these writings in the beginning, until the
mind gets used to this approach and learns to use the heart in
the process of understanding. It explains further, how these
writings can be misunderstood and called irrational and not
meaningful by persons, who do not use their heart or by people
who have a morally corrupted heart and do not want to
understand.
That the heart has an important function in understanding
Divine Revelation is stressed by Bahá’u’lláh who insists that to
understand revelation the heart must be pure. Further He
frequently states that the heart is the seat of revelation and that
His words have to be pondered in the heart.
Do thou ponder these momentous happenings in thy
heart, so that thou mayest apprehend the greatness of
this Revelation, and perceive its stupendous glory. [KI
236]
The affinity revelatory writings have with poetry and the fact
that some of them even take the form of poetry can be
explained by the fact that poetry speaks primarily to the heart
and only secondarily can be understood by the brain. This is
true also for revelations, they are understood by the heart and
only after that are scrutinized and evaluated by the logical
mind. It could be said that the language of the heart is not only
the language of dreams but also the language of poesy; it is how
spiritual values and understandings are expressed. Ultimately, it
can be stated that the language of the heart is the language of
Divine Revelation.
The difficulty of this way of distinguishing between language
of the heart and of the brain is in the fact that we can
understand the language of the heart only with the mind, using
the logical brain for this process, so we always have to do with a
translation from the heart to the brain and have no awareness in

Language of the Heart
the heart itself, except its feelings, to become aware of what
goes on in the heart, we can only use the logical mind.
The awareness of the heart is in its feelings, in other words,
when the heart responds, there are responding feelings of which
we are aware. That might be the reason why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá often
asked Bahá’ís, “are you happy?” which happiness would be
indicating the positive response of the heart.
Most Westerners are well trained in using the brain and have
little access to their understanding heart. They have to
overcome this brain training in order to understand better the
writings of revelation. This can only be done when one
immerses oneself into these writings and slowly learns to
understand them.
In conclusion, the following can be stated:
1. There are three ways of seeing reality, according to
Guardini and as revealed more deeply before by
Bahá’u’lláh in the Seven Valleys.
2. The first is the abstract and limited logical thinking; the
second is the intuitive and concrete thinking, which both
always are present as polar opposites of thinking.
3. There is a third ways of understanding reality, which was
called ‘vision’ (Anschauung) by Guardini and thinking on
the plane of oneness by Bahá’u’lláh, which can be called
the mystical way of understanding reality.
4. This third way of thinking seems to be happening in the
“little brain of the heart” and follows the rules of “primary
process” thinking as described in psychoanalysis.
5. Since there is no awareness in the heart, heart language
must be interpreted by the brain in order to become aware
to the self of the person experiencing it, be it in dreams or
in vision.
6. The same problem is present in the understanding of
revelation. The part of the revelation, which is speaking to

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
the heart must be interpreted and translated from “heart
language” to “brain language”, from primary process
thinking to secondary process thinking, in order to
become aware to the thinker.
7. All Divine Revelations can only be fully understood when
the third way of thinking is used, therefore, they are often
written in poetic or mystical language and speak primarily
to the heart.
8. This process of translating mystical or heart language into
rational or brain language or thinking is needed to
understand revelatory writings.
9. Only a pure heart as Bahá’u’lláh stated or as it is said in
the Gospel of Matthew [5:8] “Blessed are the pure in heart:
for they shall see God” is able to understand this, which
becomes an issue of the ethical behavior of the reader, and
which is a precondition of understanding the Word of
God in any revelation.
These conclusions shed light on some issues of revelation and
personal communication between people. It is the need to
consider the language of the heart and the requirement of the
heart to be pure in order to see God and understand His
revelation. This ethical requirement for the acceptance of a
revelation needs to be further explored, especially as it affects
the heart and the ability to develop a vision that can understand
revelation.
It appears that one must get seriously involved in the
writings of any revelation to understand them; especially
modern man who is trained only in the rational understanding
and often has lost the ability to understand mystical writings
that speak to the heart. The moral condition that the heart must
be pure to understand such writings is a prerequisite, which
needs to be considered in any deeper understanding of truth,
truth that is revealed by a Manifestation of God, or even is
revealed between people in fully understanding each other. The

Language of the Heart
psychological condition of the state of a pure heart could be a
special topic for further investigations.
This condition was stated by Bahá’u’lláh in His Arabic
Hidden Words:
1. O SON OF SPIRIT!
My first counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly and
radiant heart, that thine may be a sovereignty ancient,
imperishable and everlasting. [HW Ar. #1]

NOTES
1 The Universal House of Justice, 1997 July 20, “Scholarship and Related
Subjects”
2 Rollin McCray, Ph.D. and Doc Childre, The Appreciative Heart, The
Psychophysiology of Positive Emotions and Optimal Functioning,
Published by the Institute of HeartMath, Boulder Creek, CA,
www.HeartMath.org
3 Michael Robins, “Another Look at Dreaming: Disentangling Freud’s
Primary and Secondary Process Theories, in Journal of American
Psychoanalytic Association, 2004, 52, pp.361-362
4 Nader Saiedi, provisional translation in Gate of the Heart, Understanding
the Writings of the Báb, Association for Bahá’í Studies and Wilfrid
Laurier University Press, Canada 2008, p. 177
5 Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, Christianity and Evolution A Harvest Book,
Harcourt Brace & Company, San Diego, 1969, pp. 107-108
6 Star of the West X:7, 13 July 1919, page 115
7 This e-text is based on Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas (Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, New York, 1930), p. 308—a provisional translation.
8 Evan Harris Walker “The Physics of Consciousness, The Quantum Mind
and the Meaning of Life” Basic Books, Perseus Books Group, New York
200 p. 237. Compare Wolfgang A. Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of
Revelation, Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision, ‘Irfán Colloquia
Publications 2009, where the ideas of Walker are explained more
thoroughly.
9 Thomas Taaffe, in Cross Currents, Fall 95, Vo. 45, Issue 3, “Education of
the Heart” p. 380-392, It needs to be stressed that Taaffe in his article

Lights of Irfán vol. 17

contributes very important aspects to the “Heart”, even if this definition
seems to limit him.
10 Michael Robins, “Another Look at Dreaming: Disentangling Freud’s
Primary and Secondary Process Theories, in Journal of American
Psychoanalytic Association, 2004, 52, pp. 361-362
11 Rollin McCray, Ph.D. and Doc Childre, The Appreciative Heart, The
Psychophysiology of Positive Emotions and Optimal Functioning,
Institute of HeartMath, Boulder Creek, CA, www.heartmath.org.
12 Paul Pearsall, Ph.D., The Heart’s Code, Tapping the Wisdom and Power of
Our Heart Energy, The New Findings About Cellular Memories and Their
Role in the Mind / Body / Spirit Connection, Broadway Books, New York
1998, p. 7
13 Ibid., pp. 11, 77, 88
14 Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/August_Kekulé.
15 Romano Guardini Der Gegensatz, Versuch zu einer Philosophie des
Lebendig-Konkreten, (Polar oppositeness, an attempt towards a
philosophy of the living-concrete) Matthias-Grünewald Verlag, Mainz,
fourth edition 1998, “page 161-175 While many of the theological and
pastoral books of Guardini have been translated into English, this book,
unfortunately, has not yet found a translator.
16 Guardini ibid. p.174 passim
17 Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, Understanding the Writings of the Báb,
Wilfrid Laurier University Press (Bahá’í Study Series), 2008, p. 177

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings:
A First Look
Ian Kluge
1. Introduction
The purpose of this paper is to identify and evaluate
correlations between the Bahá’í Writings and the philosophy of
Friedrich Nietzsche. Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í
Faith, calls on Bahá’ís “to investigate and analyse the principles
of the Faith and to correlate them with the modern aspects of
philosophy and science.” He also says
The Cause needs more Bahá’í scholars, people who not
only are devoted to it and believe in it and are anxious
to tell others about it, but also who have a deep grasp of
the Teachings and their significance, and who can
correlate its beliefs with the current thoughts and
problems of the people of the world.
The Guardian adds,
If the Bahá’ís want to be really effective in teaching the
Cause they need to be much better informed and able to
discuss intelligently, intellectually, the present condition
of the world and its problems. We need Bahá’í scholars,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
not only people far, far more deeply aware of what our
teachings really are, but also well-read and well-educated
people, capable of correlating our teachings to the
current thoughts of the leaders of society.

It is worth noting that the Guardian associates effective
Bahá’í teaching with the ability to “correlate” current issues in
society with the Bahá’í Teachings. Given the enormous influence
of Nietzsche’s thought and especially vis-à-vis the “new
atheism,” finding correlations and correspondences with the
Writings is an effective way of introducing the Writings to new
audiences. The Universal House of Justice echoes the
Guardian’s guideline.
Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Bahá’ís (who
asked his advice, and in general also) to study history,
economics, sociology, etc., in order to be au courant
with all the progressive movements and thoughts being
put forth today, and so that they could correlate these to
the Bahá’í teachings.
In our understanding, the guidance of the Guardian and the
Universal House of Justice, to “correlate” means to identify
connections between different things. It can also refer to
finding correspondences and various degrees of similarity.
Finding correspondences or similarities is useful in dialoguing
with other beliefs.
While correlations will be our primary focus, we shall, of
course, identify and discuss major differences between the
Writings and Nietzsche in order to forestall over-identification
of the two. After all, the Writings come from Bahá’u’lláh, Who
is the Manifestation of God for this age, and, therefore, set the
standard for the truth by which to evaluate Nietzsche’s work.
This difference remains no matter how many correlations we
find between the Writings and Nietzsche. Among the most
important stumbling blocks contradictions and problems are
the master-slave morality, the transvaluation of values, and the

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
often nasty manner of expression and demeaning tone of
Nietzsche’s writings. None of these disagreements can be swept
away and they will always stand as impediments to an over-
identification of the Writings and Nietzsche. However, as we
shall explain below, there are different ways of understanding
or interpreting these conflicts and how they relate to the
correlations.
One of the perennial questions in Nietzsche studies is, ‘How
can we evaluate and interpret what Nietzsche says?’ How can we
know, as Robert C Solomon and Kathleen M Higgins put it,
“what “Nietzsche really said”? Reading him presents a knot of
intertwined challenges that are not encountered to nearly the
same degree with most other philosophers. The major sources of
this problem are, in our view, three-fold. First, as we shall see
throughout this paper, are Nietzsche’s intellectual self-
contradictions, as, for example, the existence or non-existence of
a metaphysical substratum to reality. Furthermore, sometimes
the subtext undermines or flatly contradicts the apparent
meaning of the text. Second, the foregoing problem is
exacerbated by Nietzsche’s highly rhetorical and metaphorical
style which makes interpretation difficult and easily leads to
conflicting views. In addition, Nietzsche’s use of exaggeration
and bombast which makes it difficult to identify his ‘real’
position because of the resulting ambiguity. Third, he writes in
a mixture of styles and genres, i.e. he does not consistently
present his arguments by step-by-step inferences from premises
to conclusions. Styles and genre can include serious extended
discussions; shorter ‘notebook’ entries that are often modified
or contradicted by later entries; clever aphorisms, provocations,
insults, and ad hominem attacks; quasi-biblical works like Thus
Spake Zarathustra and philosophical myths such as the master-
slave morality.
Obviously, reading Nietzsche is a very complicated business.
What is central and essential? What is peripheral and accidental?
Is there a ‘litmus test’ for testing his ideas? One well-known
group of philosophers and scholars denies that such a test exists

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
and that we can find ‘meaning’ or coherent philosophy in
Nietzsche’s texts. Among these are Jacques Derrida, Sarah
Kofman, Karl Jaspers, Alexander Nehamas and Ruediger
Safranski. These scholars agree that there is no single ‘meaning’
in Nietzsche waiting to be discovered. Nietzsche’s texts are
essentially, an on-going process of discovery in which ideas are
suggested and then explored in different contexts and with
different issues. Often, they are varied and undermined to lead
us to new ideas. Of course, other philosophers and scholars
disagree, asserting that to one extent or another, and varying
from subject to subject, Nietzsche does, in fact, have a positive
philosophy to promulgate. Notable among these are Walter
Kaufmann, with his foundational, Nietzsche: Philosopher,
Psychologist, Antichrist; Robert C Solomon and Kathleen M
Higgins, whose book title sums up their position, What
Nietzsche Really Said; John Richardson who wrote Nietzsche’s
System; and Arthur C. Danto whose Nietzsche as Philosopher is
an early but enduring text. As we can see, the range of
Nietzsche interpretation is considerable.
Our study of the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche is based on
Walter Kaufmann’s Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist,
Antichrist (1950). We do so for three main reasons. First, this is
the book that re-introduced Nietzsche to the English-speaking
world by studying him as a philosopher with a coherent
foundational idea applied to a large number of issues. Second,
Kaufmann’s work has withstood almost seventy years of debate
and critique and still remains essential in contemporary
Nietzsche studies. Kaufmann’s approach to Nietzsche as a
serious philosopher with important ideas has left its indelible
mark on Nietzsche studies. Kaufmann’s key idea is that “the will
to power is the core of Nietzsche’s thought but inseparable
from his idea of sublimation.” Nietzsche’s concept of
“sublimation” entails the necessity for self-overcoming to which
Nietzsche returns so frequently. In his book, Kaufmann
explores the various applications of Nietzsche’s central insight.
Sixty years later, the Blackwell Dictionary of Western

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Philosophy (2009) shows the endurance and pervasive influence
of Kaufmann’s belief, stating that “the will to power is
characterized by self-overcoming and is life-affirming.” Third,
using the will to power and its concomitant concepts of
sublimation and self-overcoming allows Kaufmann to include
almost all of Nietzsche’s ideas into a reasonably coherent whole.
In our view, his book provides unity or at least more unity than
other interpretations.
Are the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche compatible in regards
to their final end, goal or ultimate purpose?’ There is no simple
answer to this question. Shoghi Effendi says that “the supreme
and distinguishing function of His Revelation, which is none
other than the calling into being of a new race of men.”
Certainly Nietzsche’s work can agree with this. A “new race of
men” is Zarathustra’s goal, and his means, i.e. sublimation and
self-overcoming correspond—up to a point—with the Writings.
However, whether or not Nietzsche can endorse the concept of
spiritual development, depends very much on if we accept
Nietzsche’s atheism at face value. Our interpretation does not
for reasons to be seen below.
The major, unbridgeable difference vis-à-vis ultimate goals
appears in the Bahá’í goal of establishing a unified, federal
world commonwealth united by “one common faith.” In other
words, the current world-order needs to be replaced and the
means to this end is the transformation or increased
spiritualization
of
human
character
and
the
resulting
establishment of new institutions. This contrasts with
“Nietzsche’s lack of a political philosophy.”
Certainly, he had
political opinions but opinions by themselves do not necessarily
make a coherent political philosophy. Even his support for rule
by a neo-aristocracy does not deal with the issues a genuine
political philosophy must deal with—power and power transfers,
hierarchies of responsibility, law and so on—thereby leaving his
political thought unformed and largely a matter of speculation.
In other words, insofar as Nietzsche has a coherent vision of an
institutional order, it is completely incompatible with the Bahá’í

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
goal of a new world order for all of humankind. This topic will
be discussed in more detail below.
As so often with Nietzsche, we require a word about Nazism.
The idea that Nietzsche was a precursor or proto-Nazi has few
if any supporters in modern Nietzsche scholarship. Tracy B
Strong in The Cambridge Companion to Nietzsche states,
“perhaps no opinion in Nietzsche scholarship is more widely
accepted than that the Nazis were wrong and/or ignorant in
their appropriation of Nietzsche.” Logically, just because the
Nazis thought they understood Nietzsche and (mis)used him,
does not mean Nietzsche himself was truly a Nazi or proto-
Nazi. A parallel error would be to (mis)use Christ’s statement
“Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to
send peace, but a sword” to ‘prove’ that He was a warmonger.
The Oxford Companion to Philosophy says Nietzsche has
received “considerable attention in the English-speaking world
as the shadow cast by the travesty of his appropriation by the
Nazis and Fascists has receded.” The Concise Routledge
Encyclopedia of Philosophy amplifies this point, stating that
Nietzsche
gives a large role to the will to power and he proposes to
replace the values he attacks with new values and a new
idea of the human person (the Uebermensch meaning
‘overhuman’
or
‘superhuman’).
Although
Nazi
theoreticians attempted to associate these ideas with
their own cause, responsible interpreters agree that
Nietzsche despised and unambiguously rejected both
German nationalism and anti-Semitism.
This last point deserves commentary. Extreme German
nationalism, imperialism and anti-semitism are three signature
doctrines of Nazi theory and rejection of them is absolutely
incompatible with being a Nazi or even proto-Nazi. Further
evidence for this comes from Nietzsche’s advocacy of
cosmopolitanism and interracial intermarriage, and, as we shall
see below, his rejection of party politics, socialism and mass

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
movements of any kind because they destroy individual
independence. The idea that Nietzsche (who died in 1900) was a
pre-Nazi or proto-Nazi begins with his sister Elizabeth who was
also the literary executor of his work. Unlike Nietzsche, she was
a staunch German nationalist and imperialist who funded copies
of Thus Spake Zarathustra for German soldiers heading to the
front in 1914. She was also a fanatic anti-semite married to a
prominent anti-semite, which is why Nietzsche refused to attend
her wedding. She was enthralled with National Socialism and
Hitler and encouraged the belief that Nietzsche would have
been a follower of the ‘new superman.’ It is difficult to
suppress a smile imagining Nietzsche as a follower of anyone.
As Solomon and Higgins note, it makes no sense to blame
any thinker for the abuse of his ideas by others after his death.
Among other things, that is a dangerous and infeasible practice
that would hold all authors responsible for the misapplication
of their ideas. For example, we could blame Darwin for
significant portions of Nazi ideology vis-à-vis the survival of
the fittest and its applications to individuals and societies. The
term ‘superman’ may have come from Nietzsche but the concept
of the ‘fittest’ animal dominating the others has a distinctly
Darwinian ring. In fact, Richard Weikart’s Hitler's Ethic: The
Nazi Pursuit of Evolutionary Progress relates Nazism to
Darwin. In the case of Nietzsche and Darwin, the Nazis misused
other people’s ideas but this tells us more about the Nazis than
it does about these two thinkers. We do not believe that it is
fair to taint the work of an author because others mishandled
his or her ideas.
Nonetheless, the fact remains that even without the Nazis, a
number of Nietzsche’s ideas that can be read as advocating rule
by and for the violent. His theory of master-slave morality and
the transvaluation of values are clearly of this kind. However,
three points should give us pause before reacting against passing
judgment on his work as a whole. First, we must not throw out
the baby with the bathwater: it is hard to see why our antipathy
to some of his ideas should prejudice us against his other ideas.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Second, we should recognize that Nietzsche was not always a
consistent thinker and these parts of his philosophy are
inconsistencies in his thought at least from vis-à-vis the “core,”
i.e. the will to power, sublimation and self-overcoming. Third,
because they are not compatible with the “core” of Nietzsche’s
thought, these inconsistencies cannot logically undermine those
parts that are compatible. They do not work from the same
premise, i.e. the “core.”
Finally, as a Bahá’í, I am convinced that as a result of
Bahá’u’lláh’s mysterious influence, Nietzsche was one of those
individuals who felt—albeit unconsciously or “through a glass
darkly”—the necessity of transforming ourselves to prepare for
the coming end of European civilization and a new world.
Shoghi Effendi refers to “those hidden and transforming
influences which, from the source of Bahá’u’lláh's mystic
strength, continue to flow with ever-increasing vitality into the
heart of this troubled world.” This, of course, is a matter of
personal faith, but even for those who do not share my belief,
the fact that there are significant correlations between the
widely separated Bahá’í Writings from the Middle East and the
European bourgeois Nietzsche is, at the very least, of interest in
the history of ideas.
2. The Common Foundation Between the Bahá’í
Writings and Nietzsche
First appearances notwithstanding, there are at least three
major general foundational elements which the Bahá’í Writings
and Nietzsche share: (1) the radical critique of modern society as
suffering from irreversible social, intellectual, ethical and
spiritual degeneration; (2) the absolute necessity for the
establishment of a new kind of society and a re-constitution of
humankind, and (3) at the most fundamental level, the
Aristotelian substratum of their thought.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
2.1. The World in Decline
Both Bahá’u’lláh and Nietzsche viewed the modern world as
being in a degenerating condition, marked by “selfish disorders,
intellectual maladies, spiritual sicknesses, imperfections and
vices.” Not surprisingly, such conditions lead to mass despair,
i.e. an overwhelming conviction of the loss of all values, the
loss of all hope for the future and the loss of all confidence in
ourselves or anything else, including God. Bahá’u’lláh writes,
“The winds of despair are, alas, blowing from every direction,”

and,
The world is in travail, and its agitation waxeth day by
day. Its face is turned towards waywardness and
unbelief. Such shall be its plight, that to disclose it now
would not be meet and seemly. Its perversity will long
continue.
Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, provides
the most comprehensive description of the decaying world order
of our time.
No wonder, therefore, that when, as a result of human
perversity, the light of religion is quenched in men’s
hearts, and the divinely appointed Robe, designed to
adorn the human temple, is deliberately discarded, a
deplorable decline in the fortunes of humanity
immediately sets in, bringing in its wake all the evils
which a wayward soul is capable of revealing. The
perversion of human nature, the degradation of human
conduct, the corruption and dissolution of human
institutions,
reveal
themselves,
under
such
circumstances, in their worst and most revolting aspects.
Human character is debased, confidence is shaken, the
nerves of discipline are relaxed, the voice of human
conscience is stilled, the sense of decency and shame is
obscured, conceptions of duty, of solidarity, of

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
reciprocity and loyalty are distorted, and the very feeling
of peacefulness, of joy and of hope is gradually
extinguished.
The ultimate cause of this universal decay and loss of
direction is the failure of spirituality and religion in the lives
modern men and women.
The first sign of this inner collapse is
the rejection of God’s Manifestation for this age, the denial of
the “divine physician”
Whose task is to renew and revitalize
humankind and to help it advance towards its next stage of its
psycho-spiritual and social evolution. Another sign of this
“perversity” is the inability of humans to recognize their
desperate and spiritually impoverished condition. As Bahá’u’lláh
says, “The Hour hath come upon them, while they are disporting
themselves. They have been seized by their forelock, and yet
know it not.” The third sign is inability to understand that
material progress alone does not tend to uplift man. On
the contrary, the more he becomes immersed in material
progress, the more does his spirituality become
obscured.
We cannot find materialist solutions to spiritual problems.
This impossible quest only increases despair—and fuels still more
desperate efforts to fill the ‘hole in the soul’ with more ‘stuff.’
Similarly, Nietzsche realizes that the “Ultimate Man” cannot
find happiness in the quest for more psycho-spiritual comfort
because the only way to true well-being is the quest for self—
overcoming. It is important to note that for both the Bahá’í
Writings and Nietzsche, the origin of the modern crisis is not
technological, scientific or political but rather spiritual. In The
Gay Science, Nietzsche writes that Europe faces
[t]he peasant rebellion of the spirit—We Europeans
confront a world of tremendous ruins ... The church is
this city of destruction: We see ... Christianity shaken to
its lowest foundations; the faith in ... God has collapsed.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Nietzsche identifies nihilism with destruction of values and
purpose brought on by the end of the Christian church and
Christianity itself. The collapse of religion and spirituality leads
to what Nietzsche calls “European nihilism.”
In The Will to
Power, he defines nihilism:
Nihilism as a psychological state will have to be reached,
first, when we have sought a “meaning” in all events that
is not there: so the seeker eventually becomes
discouraged. Nihilism, then, is the recognition of the
long waste of strength, the agony of the “in vain,”
insecurity, the lack of any opportunity to recover and to
regain composure—being ashamed in front of oneself, as
if one had deceived oneself all too long.
In words reminiscent of the opening of The Communist
Manifesto, he announces, “Nihilism stands at the door: whence
comes this uncanniest of all guests?” This “guest” is
characterized by
Skepticism regarding morality ... Buddhistic, yearning
for Nothing ... the air of mediocrity, wretchedness,
dishonesty,
etc.
Nationalism,
Anarchism,
etc.
Punishment. The redeeming class and human being are
lacking—the justifiers—He adds that moral skepticism is
decisive because it leads to nihilism.
Noteworthy among these deficiencies is the lack of a
“redeeming class and human being” i.e. an inspirational figure
who can re-invigorate and mobilize mankind’s flagging energies.
None of these deficiencies can be cured by material possessions
comfort or progress. Providing that required spiritual remedy is
the major aim of Nietzsche’s philosophy, as seen in
Zarathustra’s valiant efforts to regenerate and re-energize the
“Ultimate Men,” i.e. the comfort-loving denizens of the valley.
In vain, he offers to cure them of their self-contented and
materialistic sloth by inner, personal or spiritual transformation

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
won through painful self-overcoming. This is a significant part
of the unavoidable cure for the illnesses of modernity that
Bahá’u’lláh offers by “calling into being of a new race of men.”
Of course, in the Bahá’í context this self-overcoming requires
recognition of God whereas in Nietzsche, this is, as will be
shown below, a matter of interpretation.
For Nietzsche, nihilism has two aspects, a “passive nihilism”
and an “active nihilism.” “Passive” nihilism is a sign of
decreased power, despair, “the weary nihilism that no longer
attacks.” By contrast “active” nihilism is a sign of increased
power and is a “violent force of destruction,” i.e. a nihilism that
clears away all the traditional beliefs and ideas—all the
thoughtless and comforting imitations—that prevent us from
actualizing our full potentials as conscious beings. “Active”
nihilism corresponds to the Bahá’í concept of destroying not the
world but rather of “[T]ear[ing] aside the veils that have
grievously blinded your vision and ... scatter the idols of vain
imitation.” In the words of Bahá’u’lláh, “None have believed in
Him except them who ... have shattered the idols of their vain
imaginings and corrupt desires and entered the city of certitude.
In both the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche we must choose to
make a radical break with the past. It is important to notice the
strong language used in the Writings—tearing, scattering
shattering—to show that spiritual evolution requires great
energy and is not always a comfortable process. Nietzsche, of
course, uses similar language in this regard.
2.2. The Need for Revolutionary Change
Note: In order to frame the following discussion, it is
imperative to point out that the ultimate aim of the Bahá’í
dispensation is the establishment of a new world order, i.e. the
unification of humankind in a world-wide federal state united
by “one common faith” in which the “spiritual susceptibilities”
of humankind are more awake than they are now. Nietzsche,
however, has no clear ultimate goal in mind—although some

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
have inferred such—as we shall discuss below. Therefore, the
correspondences between the Writings and Nietzsche are
similarities regarding means in contrast to differences regarding
the ultimate ends. It is also important to note that although
Bahá’u’lláh’s goal is revolutionary change in humankind, His
method is evolutionary, i.e. spiritual, psychological, social
development of our “spiritual susceptibilities which are
merciful and heavenly characteristics.”
In our view, Bahá’u’lláh does not see Himself as yet another
reformer whose purpose is to prolong the existence of the old
world order by a patchwork of ‘fixes.’ Rather, His goal is to
establish a new world order: “Soon will the present-day order be
rolled up, and a new one spread out in its stead.” He takes full
responsibility for and makes no secret of the momentous
changes destabilizing the world as a prelude to establishing a
new world order.
The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the
vibrating influence of this most great, this new World
Order. Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized
through the agency of this unique, this wondrous
System—the like of which mortal eyes have never
witnessed.
In The Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, He describes the Manifestation as
“fully capable of revolutionizing the world through the power
of a single Word” and calls on humanity to
[c]ast away that which ye possess, and, on the wings of
detachment, soar beyond all created things. Thus biddeth
you the Lord of creation, the movement of Whose Pen
hath revolutionized the soul of mankind.
Here we see the radical—and spiritual—nature of this
Revelation, demanding nothing less than a radical break with the
past and a total commitment by divesting ourselves of whatever

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
attaches us to the old world. Bahá’u’lláh even draws attention to
the radical or even traumatic nature of His revelation.
the whole creation was revolutionized and all that are in
the heavens and all that are on earth were stirred to the
depths. Through that Word the realities of all created
things were shaken, were divided, separated, scattered,
combined and reunited, disclosing entities of a new
creation.
It must be remembered that the focal point of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revolution is spiritual. Unlike revolutionaries in the past, He
begins the process of revolution and transformation from
within, so that His new world order begins with “a new race of
men” who do not simply repeat the errors of the past. Of course
the primarily spiritual focus of His revelation does not preclude
the daily tasks of mitigating the suffering of individuals or
striving for justice in our society. However, these activities are
most valuable and reach their fullest potential in the framework
of serving the Bahá’í Cause.
One consequence of these tumultuous times is an inevitable
struggle with opposing forces. Shoghi Effendi writes,
We have only to refer to the warnings uttered by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in order to realize the extent and character
of the forces that are destined to contest with God's holy
Faith peoples, nations, adherents of divers faiths, will
jointly and successively arise to shatter its unity, to sap
its force, and to degrade its holy name. They will assail
not only the spirit which it inculcates, but the
administration which is the channel, the instrument, the
embodiment of that spirit.

Shoghi Effendi also writes of
the burden of the impending contest that must be
waged, sooner or later ... between the rising institutions

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh's embryonic divinely appointed Order,
and the exponents of obsolescent doctrines and the
defenders, both secular and religious, of a corrupt and
fast-declining society.
Shoghi Effendi even assigns responsibility for the start of the
inexorable conflict on the way to a new world order:
Our adversaries in the East have initiated the struggle.
Our future opponents in the West will, in their turn,
arise and carry it a stage further. Ours is the duty, in
anticipation of this inevitable contest, to uphold
unequivocally and with undivided loyalty the integrity of
our Faith.
Given human nature, revolution without contest and conflict
is not possible—but the key issue is by what means and towards
what end the contest is waged. In the case of the Bahá’í Faith,
this “agonistic engagement” is waged not by coups, political
opposition, subversion or extra-parliamentary movements but
by means of new ideas, revitalized values, good personal
examples, energized hope, and appeals to the spiritual elements
in human nature. The underlying principle is that by the power
of example these transformational activities will gradually
encourage people to turn their loyalties and activities away
from the old world order and turn towards Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation. It is only in this way—a shift of loyalties—that the
Bahá’í Faith can be said to be impact negatively on the old
world order. In other words, the Bahá’í Faith will not actively
work to weaken or bring down the old world order but rather
emphasizes
spiritual
renewal
and
personal
and
social
transformation that will allow people to build a new world.
Nietzsche appears to suggest somewhat similar action.
Through his fictional character Zarathustra as an ideal example
and by means of attacking the West’s foundational concepts in
metaphysics,
ethics,
logic,
religion,
science
and
social
organization, he aims at clearing away the out-dated and/or un

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
supportable concepts that prop up the old world order and
hinder the arrival of the Superman. Zarathustra says,
O my brothers, am I then cruel? But I say: That which is
falling should also be pushed!
Everything of today—it is falling. It is decaying: who
would support it? But I—want to push it too!
... I am a prologue to better players, O my brothers! ...
Follow my example!
And him you do not teach to fly, teach—to fall faster!
The essential message here—the dramatic flare and hyperbole
aside—converges with the Bahá’í Writings in rejecting reform
and desiring revolution and a future that is not merely a
repetition of the past in a different disguise. Their method is
similar—up to a point. The shift of loyalties suggested in the
Writings is dedicated to building a positive new order, but does
not mandate action against the old order as Zarathustra does by
encouraging us to push it down.
2.3. The Rejection of Politics
Both the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche reject partisan
political activity as a viable way of changing the world. Shoghi
Effendi says,
Bahá’ís should remember that we stand above politics.
That that field does not interest us; that we attribute
importance to things of the spirit, that we await
salvation to come from the Faith that burns in our
hearts.
Of course, non-participation in partisan politics does not
mean Bahá’ís should not engaged in positive works to help
individuals or striving for justice but we must be sure that

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
neither we nor the Faith are being co-opted for partisan
purposes. Moreover, non-participation in partisan politics does
not mean that the Bahá’í Writings do not have certain principles
vis-à-vis governance. They make it clear, among other things,
that free, open and democratic government is better for human
progress than autocratic government; that elected parliaments
are good—if conducted properly; and that undue centralization
is a source of ill. However, partisanship is to be avoided
because it is ‘partial’ by nature whereas the Bahá’í focus is on
the good of the whole. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
universality is of God, Bahá’ís in every land are ready,
nay anxious, to associate themselves by word and deed
with any association of men which, after careful
scrutiny, they feel satisfied is free from every tinge of
partisanship and politics and is wholly devoted to the
interests of all mankind.
In the words of Shoghi Effendi, “[t]he bonds which hold
together the body-politic are not sufficient to unify a nation—
or the world. They hold mankind back from its destiny as a
global commonwealth.
R. Kevin Hill notes that “Nietzsche rejects all the political
ideologies on offer, from left to right as delusions,
‘convictions’ with no foundation.” Politics as practiced in
Europe during his time no longer serve any useful purpose: “the
time for small politics is gone,” a point also emphasized in his
disparaging reference to “the wretched gabble of politics and
nationalism and nationalism” Indeed, his contempt for politics
is expressed even more strongly: he describes it as a
“prostitution of the spirit.” Nietzsche scholar Ted Sadler states,
For Nietzsche as for Heraclitus, politics is one of the
most overestimated things in the world, mainly because
it
caters
for
the
instincts
of
the
common,
unphilosophical natures who are always in the majority.
Politics
stands
in
opposition
to
the
radically

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
individualizing character of philosophy expressed in
Heraclitus’ statement (Diels-Kranz: Fragment 246) ‘I searched
out myself.’

Like Bahá’u’lláh, Nietzsche is no mere reformer; he has no
confidence in contemporary partisan politics or in political
revolutions to solve the problems of nihilism and societal decay.
Both insist that we must not confuse and conflate the desire to
make revolutionary changes in society by means of individual
transformation in goals and values, with the work of political
parties, programs and partisan conflicts. In fact, these two will
often work at cross purposes. If people are not inwardly
transformed, they will inevitably repeat the very behaviors the
revolution was supposed to eliminate.
Like Bahá’u’lláh, Nietzsche rejects the partisan politics but
most of his political principles not only contradict the Bahá’í
Writings but also contradict other aspects of Nietzsche’s
philosophy as we shall see below. Unlike the Writings, Nietzsche
despised democracy as “not only a deterioration, that is to say,
the depreciation of a human type, a mediocratizing and
lowering of values.” Instead, he appears to advocate what Mark
Warren calls a “neoaristocratic conservatism ... [that looks]
forward to a time when similar cultural aristocracies might be
established. Bruce Detwiler calls Nietzsche’s political views “the
politics of aristocratic radicalism” which establishes rule by the
most powerful and ruthless. It is not hard to find evidence for
such beliefs in Nietzsche who writes,
Every heightening of the type “man” hitherto has been
the work of an aristocratic society—and thus it will
always be; a society which believes in a long ladder of
rank order and value differences in men, which needs
slavery in some sense ... To be sure, we must not yield to
humanitarian self-deception ... Men whose nature was
still natural, barbarians in every frightful sense of the
word, men of prey ... such men threw themselves upon
weaker, better-behaved, more peaceable races ... The

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
distinguished caste in the beginning was always the
barbarian caste; their superiority lay not primarily in
their physical but in their psychic power; they were more
whole human beings (which on every level also means
“more whole as beasts).
Nietzsche approves of the aristocrats for their leadership
because they “heighten[ed] “the type of ‘man’ “ In other words,
the human race as a whole benefits by their rule. Even if
violence is only instrumental at the start of their ascent and
their real superiority lay in “their psychic power” the fact
remains that they seize and keep power by violence for such is
the nature of life itself. Nietzsche writes,
Life is essential assimilation, injury, violation of the
foreign and the weaker, suppression, hardness, the
forcing of one’s own form upon something else,
ingestion and—at least in its mildest form—exploitation
... life is simply will to power ... “Exploitation” is not a
part of a vicious or imperfect or primitive society; it
belongs to the nature of living things.
In other words, Nietzsche justifies the aristocrats as realists who
accept the conditions of natural life and take advantage of
them. This is simply incompatible with the Bahá’í vision of a
new world order.
For Nietzsche, the struggle for domination is based on the
universally present will to power which is ontologically integral
to life. Being ontologically integral to life, it cannot be removed
without eliminating life itself. Consequently, for Nietzsche
“exploitation” “suppression” or domination i.e. “the forcing of
one’s own form upon something else” does not necessarily mean
a society is “primitive” or “vicious” as most ethical systems
would assert. These are natural and necessary activities. In
Nietzsche’s view, the aristocrats ought to rule precisely because
they have attributes listed above and they accept the nature of

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
reality without any shame and/or guilt, and therefore the
aristocrat
feels himself the value-determining; he does not need to
be ratified; he judges that “which is harmful to me is
harmful as such; he knows that he is the something which
gives honor to objects; he creates values ... his morality
is self-glorification.
In our view, Nietzsche’s ideas on the will to power in regards
to politics have at least two inherent problems which not only
conflict with his other teachings but also conflict with the
Bahá’í Writings. First, his neo-aristocratic views contradict his
doctrine of continuous self-overcoming. A ruling class without
interest in self-critique and self-evaluation, i.e. a ruling class
which sincerely experiences itself and whatever it does as “the
good” is unlikely to engage in self-overcoming since the
necessary ‘good’ has already been achieved. The problem is that
for Nietzsche the ethics of self-overcoming “distinguish[ ] the
moral from the nonmoral [person].” Furthermore, as Kaufmann
notes, “self-criticism, i.e. man’s critical reflection on his own
intentions and actions—is the core of morality.” The inescapable
conclusion is that Nietzsche’s aristocrats are inherently immoral
not by Christian standards but the standards set by Zarathustra
who is—supposedly—the prime embodiment of Nietzsche’s
ethics. The same conclusion follows from Bahá’í ethics in which
self-overcoming is also essential to creating “new race of men.”
2.3.1 Loyalty to the Earth
The second problem concerns the relationship between
morality and nature, a subject on which Nietzsche is deeply
conflicted. On one hand, he justifies the cruelties of his
aristocracy by appealing to nature, thereby falling into the
Humean fallacy of confusing ‘what is’ with ‘what ought to be,’
i.e. of confusing ‘description’ with ‘prescription’ and ‘knowing
what is the case’ with ‘endorsing what is the case.’ Describing

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
and prescribing (endorsing, obligating) are not logically
equivalent. Just because Alexis always cooks supper at our
house does not mean that Alexis should always cook supper at
our house. Just because mother rabbits sometimes eat their
young in times of danger does not mean that we can justify
human mothers doing the same. In other words, Nietzsche wants
to base his ethics on nature, on what is ‘natural’ as part of his
philosophy of loyalty to the earth. Nietzsche admonishes us to
remain true to the earth and do not believe those who
speak to you of superterrestrial hopes! They are
poisoners whether they know it or not ... To blaspheme
the earth is now the dreadful offence, and to esteem the
bowels of the Inscrutable more highly than the meaning
of the earth.
There are two problems here. First, self-overcoming is not
part of the natural order of things; a crocodile is what it is and
does what it does and shows no sign of trying to be ‘better’ in
some way. This loyalty to earth also conflicts with the
‘transcendental impulse’ we see in his work. Second, it is not
necessarily
true
that
belief
in
the
existence
of
a
“superterrestrial” world devalues and degrades the earth and our
earthly existence. Why would any believer in God denigrate the
Creator’s work? That would, in effect, be an attack on the
Creator Himself. Nietzsche fails to recognize that there is an
essential difference between being excessively attached to the
Creator’s work and being attached to the Creator. Condemning
the undue attachment to nature, i.e. God’s work, condemns a
faulty response to nature but does not devalue creation itself.
Nietzsche’s claim that belief in a “superterrestrial” world is in
itself a devaluation of the natural world is contradicted by the
Bahá’í Writings: “How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge
that shine in an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that
surge within a drop!”
Furthermore, there is Bahá’u’lláh’s
condemnation of asceticism and monasticism: they impede the
full celebration of earthly life and the divine gifts it offers:

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Living in seclusion or practising asceticism is not
acceptable in the presence of God. It behoveth them
that are endued with insight and understanding to
observe that which will cause joy and radiance.
It is worth noting that Bahá’u’lláh emphasises the “joy and
radiance” of earthly life just as Nietzsche does. Moreover, He
clearly condemns such practices as originating in “idle fancy”
and “superstition” and, thereby, unmasking them as distortions
of human existence. Moreover, since the Bahá’í view of human
life is a process view, i.e. a character-building journey from
earth to the endless spiritual evolution of the Abhá Kingdom,
there is no rationale for devaluing the necessary first step of
pilgrimage. Without the first step, the others are impossible;
indeed, in a process view past steps are implicitly included and
even raised to a higher level. Nietzsche’s reasoning on this
matter does not hold.
However, there is another, in effect, opposing line of
thought about nature in Nietzsche. Zarathustra’s demand for
self-overcoming i.e. self-transcending requires us to tame and
transform our natural, animal impulses into something higher.
That is why Nietzsche says,
The spiritualization of sensuality is called love: it is a
great triumph over Christianity. A further triumph is
our spiritualization of enmity. It consists in profoundly
grasping the value of having enemies: in brief, in acting
and thinking in the reverse of the way in which one
formerly acted and thought.
We must transform, or sublimate animal lust into love and
spiritualize our conflicts. As Kaufmann notes, Nietzsche “used
another word side by side with sublimation: Vergeisterung,
spiritualization.” We should not view our enemies in the natural
way and rise above our impulses to find value in our foes. We
must go beyond nature—as is already obvious in Nietzsche’s
advocacy of self-overcoming to be better humans, not better

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
animals. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “The Prophets come into the
world to guide and educate humanity so that the animal nature
of man may disappear and the divinity of his powers become
awakened.” It is also noteworthy that Nietzsche’s statement
about enemies converges with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s admonition:
Let them see no one as their enemy, or as wishing them
ill, but think of all humankind as their friends; regarding
the alien as an intimate, the stranger as a companion,
staying free of prejudice, drawing no lines.
3. Master and Slave Morality
The issue of Nietzsche’s “aristocratic radicalism” brings us to
one of the most challenging, controversial and thought-
provoking aspects of Nietzsche’s philosophy—master and slave
morality as presented in On the Genealogy of Morals and
Beyond Good and Evil. This is one of the places where the
Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche can only be reconciled to a
limited degree.
In outline, Nietzsche’s theory is simple enough. There exist
two kinds of morality, i.e. on one hand, the morality of the
ruling aristocrats, nobility and masters, and, on the other hand,
the morality of the slaves i.e. the subservient classes of people.
Nietzsche’s description of the masters is provocative: they are
hard, proud, intolerant of weakness, self-confident, challenge-
seeking, war-like, active and energetic, strong, bluntly truthful
about themselves and the world, and focused on law and what is
right. In direct contrast, slave morality values the useful i.e. the
comfortable and advantageous over the right; it values
weakness, kindness and compassion, humility, patience, equality
of all things as well denigrating earthly life in favor of a
heavenly life after death.
According to Nietzsche, these two moralities clash—although
one of them, i.e. slave morality, is the victor in the modern
world. Nietzsche links this historical downfall with the rise of

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
the priestly class in Judaism and Christianity which he identifies
with slave morality. However, it is essential to remember that to
one degree or another, the struggle between the two kinds of
morality continues within us today.
Nietzsche’s views on this subject are summarised in the
following passage from On the Genealogy of Morals:
All the world's efforts against the “aristocrats,” the
“mighty,” the “masters,” the “holders of power,” are
negligible
by
comparison
with
what
has
been
accomplished against those classes by the Jews—the Jews,
that priestly nation which eventually realized that the
one method of effecting satisfaction on its enemies and
tyrants was by means of a radical transvaluation of
values, which was at the same time an act of the cleverest
revenge. Yet the method was only appropriate to a
nation of priests, to a nation of the most jealously
nursed priestly revengefulness. It was the Jews who, in
opposition to the aristocratic equation (good =
aristocratic = beautiful = happy = loved by the gods),
dared with a terrifying logic to suggest the contrary
equation, and indeed to maintain with the teeth of the
most profound hatred (the hatred of weakness) this
contrary equation, namely, “the wretched are alone the
good; the poor, the weak, the lowly, are alone the good;
the suffering, the needy, the sick, the loathsome, are the
only ones who are pious, the only ones who are blessed,
for them alone is salvation—but you, on the other hand,
you aristocrats, you men of power, you are to all
eternity the evil, the horrible, the covetous, the insatiate,
the godless; eternally also shall you be the unblessed, the
cursed, the damned!”
Before proceeding, we hasten to add that this passage is not
an anti-Semitic outburst—Nietzsche openly despised anti-
semitism especially in his sister and brother-in-law; rather, it is
an observation of a historical turn of events, i.e. the Edict of

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Thessalonica in 380 CE by which Christianity and its slave
morality became the only authorized religion in the Roman
Empire. This event marks the success of the slave revolt and the
“transvaluation of values.”
The Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche’s master and slave
morality are incompatible for at least one reason: the Writings
identify the “slave morality” with the ethical teachings of the
Manifestations of God and the “master morality” with the
proud and corrupt rulers and leaders of the world to whom
Bahá’u’lláh wrote admonitory epistles. In other words, the
Bahá’í Writings favor what Nietzsche calls “slave morality”: the
morality of the weak, the oppressed, the humble, the
compassionate, and the long-suffering as well as the values of
dedication to God, unselfishness and service to others.
Conversely, the Manifestations have sought to overcome the
unself-critical, unreflective self-satisfaction of our animal
natures that marks the cruelty and ruthlessness of beasts—and
Nietzsche’s master class.
Unlike Nietzsche, the Manifestations understood the
superiority of the ‘slave’ morals insofar as they maintained the
ethics of self-overcoming which “distinguishes the moral
[person] from the nonmoral [person].” Kaufmann notes that
“self-criticism, i.e. man’s critical reflection on his own
intentions and actions—is the core of morality.” In contrast, of
master morality shows it to be painfully smug, self-satisfied and
arrogant even about inflicting violence and, therefore, highly
unlikely to lead to the kind of self-critical awareness required
for self-overcoming. Ironically, Nietzsche’s own standard of
self-overcoming means that the aristocracy fails Nietzsche’s test
for being moral. In sharp contrast, the slave morality with its
intense awareness of its own weakness and other deficiencies is
far more likely to be open to the process of self-overcoming
and, thereby, according to Nietzsche’s own standards, becomes
more fit to rule.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Once again, we face a division in Nietzsche’s philosophy. On
one hand we have the “master-and-slave” morality justified by a
ruthless vision of life:
What is life?—Life—that is: continually shedding
something that wants to die. Life—that is; being cruel
and inexorable against everything about us that is
growing old and weak—and not only about us. Life—that
is, then: being without reverence for those who are
dying, who are wretched, who are ancient? Constantly
being a murderer?—And yet old Moses said: “Thou shalt
not kill.”
The mocking tone of “old Moses”—far more derisive in German
than in English—makes clear his contempt for the attributes of
slaved morality. On the other hand we have Zarathustra, the
exemplar of what humankind should become, i.e. a bridge to the
Superman, who engages in constant self-overcoming, who
preaches to the “last men” in hopes of awakening the adventure
of self-overcoming, who is hard on himself and does not always
sing his own praises, who uses the power of words to attain his
goals, not violence and who has no real interest in dominating
others by force.
Walter Kaufmann tries to avoid this dilemma by suggesting
that Nietzsche “would like us to conform to neither [master nor
slave morality] and become autonomous, i.e. grow beyond
both. However, it is difficult to see how being “autonomous”
prevents us from having to make choices that either agree more
with the stark differences between master and slave morality
and their respective consequences. Moreover, it is also difficult
to see how one can—or would want to—grow beyond self-
overcoming (to what?) and compassion. As soon as we adopt
these in any way, we are forced to abandon the master morality.
In our view, there is a genuine conflict in Nietzsche’s thought
on this matter and there is no choice but to recognize one or the
other as being consistent with the whole body of Nietzsche’s
philosophy.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Can the Bahá’í Writings be brought into alignment with
Nietzsche’s master-slave-morality? In our view, no direct
agreements or convergences are evident. However, we find
some tenuous parallelism between certain ideas, i.e. we can find
ideas that are different in content but fulfill some of the same
functions. We might also think of mirror images in which one is
the reverse of the other. As we understand the Writings,
Nietzsche’s concept of ‘domination’ must be replaced by the
concept of ‘service,’ i.e. the ‘leaders’ or ‘aristocrats’ serve
humankind. They are ‘masters’ in the art of promoting spiritual
evolution. Thus, both the Writings and Nietzsche have a
concept of rank i.e. ways of distinguishing ourselves by special
attributes and/or actions but these work in antithetical ways.
One obvious difference is that for Nietzsche there is a
relationship of enmity and forceful, even violent domination
between the masters and slaves. In contrast, in the Bahá’í
Writings the ‘leaders’ neither rule nor dominate nor regard
others as foes and inferiors nor are they part of a permanent
class. They lead by force of good example and exemplary
behavior, by obedience to Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation, by constant
striving to develop their “spiritual susceptibilities” and in
service to others. Among Bahá’ís, the ‘masters’ themselves are
‘slaves’ insofar as they ultimately seek to serve God and not
themselves. It is, so to speak, a quest to be part of an
‘aristocracy of slaves’!
The Bahá’í Writings themselves encourage this sense of
spiritual competition to serve. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Happy the
soul that shall forget his own good, and like the chosen ones of
God, vie with his fellows in service to the good of all.”

Bahá’u’lláh says, “Vie ye with each other in the service of God.”
The Universal House of Justice tells us that Bahá’u’lláh
“encouraged a competitive spirit in its noblest form.” In short,
the Writings and the guidance from the Universal House of
Justice recognize the value of spiritual competition in service.
To the objection that this sounds too combative, we point
out that there is an agonistic aspect in the Writings as already

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
seen in Shoghi Effendi’s warnings about future “contests” with
opposition to the Faith. Furthermore, lower animal traits can be
transformed and transvalued into higher, more spiritual traits.
For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, reminds us that greed—an animal
trait—can become a prized spiritual characteristic.
greed, which is to ask for something more, is a
praiseworthy quality provided that it is used suitably. So
if a man is greedy to acquire science and knowledge, or
to become compassionate, generous and just, it is most
praiseworthy.
The same principle underlies the use of military imagery in the
Writings. For example, in one of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prayers we
read:
These souls are Thy heavenly army. Assist them and, with
the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse, make them
victorious, so that each one of them may become like
unto a regiment and conquer these countries through the
love of God and the illumination of divine teachings.
In another prayer he says,
Confirm me in Thy service, assist me with the cohorts of
Thy angels, make me victorious in the promotion of Thy
Word and suffer me to speak out Thy wisdom amongst
Thy creatures.
In the world-view presented in the Writings—and Thus Spake
Zarathustra—the many of the qualities of the ‘masters’ can be
spiritualized i.e. transformed and transvalued to achieve higher
goals than mere earthly dominion. They continue the never-
ending process of self-overcoming by being cruel and relentless
to themselves in defeating their stubborn weaknesses and self-
deceptions.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Unlike Nietzsche’s masters, his exemplary hero Zarathustra
could agree with much of what the Writings say on the issue of
service as well as with the following by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
O people! Ye are the fruits of one tree and the leaves of
one branch. At most it is this, that some souls are
ignorant, they must be educated; some are sick, they
must be healed; some are still of tender age, they must be
helped to attain maturity, and the utmost kindness must
be shown to them. This is the conduct of the people of
Bahá.
At the beginning of his journey down the mountain,
Zarathustra, tells the old man in the forest, “I love mankind”
and answers the old man’s objections by saying, “I am bringing
mankind a gift.” His mission is to educate, to heal, to mature
and to show his insights with a sincere heart and kindness. In
effect, he comes down to serve in agreement with the words of
Bahá’u’lláh that “The people are ignorant, and they stand in
need of those who will expound the truth.” If there is an
‘aristocracy’ in the Bahá’í Writings, it is an ‘aristocracy’ of
service –certainly not an aristocracy of power, domination and
harshness.
To conclude: the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche are reversed
mirror images of each other in regards to ‘masters’ and slaves.’
Both embody the concepts of ‘rank,’ ‘contest’ and ‘leadership
but one does so in the service of self and the other in the service
of humankind and God. Furthermore, Nietzsche’s aristocrats
dominate by force and live in a state of enmity with others.
They are also part of a permanent class structure and are
centered on themselves as highest form of human existence.
Their actions are justified in and of themselves. This stands in
sharp contrast to the Bahá’í understanding of leadership in
terms of service to humankind with the purpose of helping all
develop their highest “spiritual susceptibilities” both as
individuals and as members of society. There is no permanent
ruling class.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
4. The Bahá’í Writings, Nietzsche and Aristotle
The pervasive presence of Aristotelian metaphysics and
ontology in both the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche identifies
another important area of agreement and convergence between
the two. Because of this common foundation, the correlations
between the Writings and Nietzsche are not serendipitous
coincidences but—for the most part—the outcome of working
with the same philosophical concepts in analyzing and
explaining reality. At this point it must be said that Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have affirmed the validity of certain
Aristotelian concepts—especially in metaphysics and ontology—
by using them extensively throughout the Bahá’í Writings.

Similarly, in the case of Nietzsche, numerous authors have
detected
Aristotle’s
influence,
among
them
Kaufmann,
Richardson, Solomon, Hough, Silk and Stern, Emden and
Williams. Since Nietzsche was a trained philologist specializing
in Greek and Latin supports the belief that he was at least
passingly familiar with Aristotle’s major principles.
The Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche use Aristotle’s ontology
of potentials to analyze, understand and explain reality. Of
course, this ontology implicitly includes all the major elements
of Aristotelian metaphysics. Let us see how. For Aristotle,
potentials are (a) the ability or power of a thing to initiate or
stop change in oneself or others or (b) the ability to change into
or be changed into something else or be acted upon. Moreover,
every single thing or kind of thing is identified and limited by
its particular combination of potentials. That is why we cannot
make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear. It lacks the potentials for
such a transformation. Furthermore, the essence of a thing is
the collection of potentials that distinguish a particular kind
and/or individual from other kinds and/or individuals.
Little reflection is needed to see that the ontology of
potentials also implies the concept of ‘actuality’ or what a thing
is at a specific moment as distinct from what it can/will be in
the future. This, in turn, implies the distinction between

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
appearance—what a thing is at any particular moment—and its
reality, i.e. its full albeit ‘bundle’ of potentials both actualized
and unactualized. Anything that has its own unique ‘bundle’ of
potentials is a ‘substance’ i.e. something that stands by itself
and is not an attribute of something else. “Silver” the Lone
Ranger’s horse, is a substance because he is not a quality of
some other thing. The ontology of potentials also implies the
existence of ‘force’ or ‘power’—or ‘will’ in Nietzsche’s
language—to actualize a potential, i.e. cause change within
oneself or in others. Finally, the ontology of potentials requires
that all things have a goal, a ‘telos’ i.e. a certain preferred
direction or goal towards which things develop. Maple trees
never grow into lobsters. The potentials a thing has limit what it
can become, i.e. set it towards certain goals. Nietzsche, of
course, claims to have rejected these concepts as part of a now
irrelevant philosophical past, but numerous passages show that
in fact, he consistently made use of them either explicitly or
implicitly.
Aristotle’s ontology of potentials—including teleology—is
most dramatically illustrated in Zarathustra’s command,
“Become what you are!” This command only makes sense on the
assumption that we have an essence made up of certain
potentials unique to us as members of the human race and as
human individuals. It requires the distinction between
appearance, i.e. what we are now, and reality, i.e. our
unactualized potentials. Furthermore, this command requires
free will in order to struggle for a goal within our range of
potentials. In addition, this command only makes sense if we
have an essence that is stable, i.e. is continuous enough to be
given instructions that can be meaningfully followed over a
period of time, i.e. has continuity through change. In short, it
must have identity or ‘being’ or be a ‘substance.’ Thus it
appears that Nietzsche did, albeit implicitly—or perhaps
inadvertently—accept the concepts of potential, essence, goals,
free will, cause-and-effect, the distinction between appearance
and reality and substance since without them, a significant

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
portion of his philosophy of self-overcoming would lose its
logical and ontological foundations.
Another appeal to essences—and implicit to potentials and
the ontology of potentials—is what Nietzsche says at the end of
The Will to Power. He tacitly assumes the reality of essences—
and by implication potentials—by saying, “This world is the will
to power—and nothing besides! And you yourselves are also this
will to power and nothing besides! This statement plainly asserts
that in their essential natures, the world, all beings in it and all
human beings are the will to power. However, the matter does
not end here. In Beyond Good and Evil, Nietzsche writes,
The world seen from within, the world defined and
designated according to its “intelligible character”—it
would simply be “Will to Power,” and nothing else.
This claim identifies the ‘inner’ essence of the world and its
“intelligible character” as the will to power even though it does
not appear as the will to power. In other words, it establishes
the distinction between appearance and reality. The same
Aristotelian ontology of potentials and essence is present in the
following:
The victorious concept of “force,” by means of which
our physicists have created God and the world, still
needs to be completed: an inner will must be ascribed to
it, which I designate the “will to power,” i.e. an
insatiable desire to manifest power, or as the
employment and exercise of power as a creative drive,
etc.
Nietzsche’s
objections
to
the
concept
of
‘essence’
notwithstanding, this is essentialism, i.e. the view that all things
have an inner nature which, in Nietzsche’s view is “will.”
Consequently, we can always look ‘though’ the outward
appearance of a thing and deduce the reality, the “intelligible
character” of a particular thing while observing the will to

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
power in one of its particular modes. We may see this will to
power in a stone or a pike or a baby but in each case the essence
operates under the same mandate, to ‘become what it is.’ In
light of the foregoing discussion, it is difficult to avoid the
conclusion that Nietzsche’s overt denial of concepts like
essence, free will, teleology and the ontology of potentials
cannot be taken at face value because he implicitly re-
introduces them in the course of his major teachings.

The Bahá’í Writings harmonize with those aspects of
Nietzsche that make use of the ontology of potentials, essence
and the appearance/reality distinction. The ontology of
potentials is one of the foundational philosophical ideas in the
Bahá’í Writings as seen in the following:
Man is the microcosm; and the infinite universe, the
macrocosm. The mysteries of the greater world, or
macrocosm, are expressed or revealed in the lesser world,
the microcosm. The tree, so to speak, is the greater
world, and the seed in its relation to the tree is the lesser
world. But the whole of the great tree is potentially
latent and hidden in the little seed. When this seed is
planted and cultivated, the tree is revealed. Likewise, the
greater world, the macrocosm, is latent and miniatured
in the lesser world, or microcosm, of man. This
constitutes the universality or perfection of virtues
potential in mankind.

In this passage, mankind’s relationship to the universe is
explained in terms of hidden potentials and actualization or
revealing of the hidden. There is the present actuality or
appearance and the future actuality after latent potentials have
been actualized. Bahá’u’lláh states,
Consider, moreover, how the fruit, ere it is formed, lieth
potentially within the tree. Were the tree to be cut into
pieces, no sign nor any part of the fruit, however small,
could be detected. When it appeareth, however, it

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
manifesteth itself, as thou hast observed, in its
wondrous beauty and glorious perfection.
Once again we observe the appearance/reality distinction: the
actual appearance is the tree but the tree’s reservoir of
potentials or essence remains hidden until actualized in the
fruit. Of course, the Writings apply these ideas to the role of
the Manifestations in human history:
The holy Manifestations of God come into the world to
dispel the darkness of the animal, or physical, nature of
man, to purify him from his imperfections in order that
his heavenly and spiritual nature may become quickened,
his divine qualities awakened, his perfections visible, his
potential powers revealed and all the virtues of the
world of humanity latent within him may come to life.
From this it follows that the doctrine of progressive revelation
also fits into the ontology of potentials. As seen above,
humankind contains latent attributes or potentials and as these
are actualized under the guidance of various Manifestations,
humankind makes spiritual and material progress.
Nietzsche also agrees with the Writings insofar as we should
“become what [we] are”—indeed, one might well argue that
enabling us to do so is the whole point of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revelation. Unless we humans become what we really are, instead
of living hypocritically by professing one thing and doing
another, we hinder our growth personally and collectively. This
raises the question, ‘Who, really, are we?’ and to that, the Bahá’í
answer is clear:
As for the spiritual perfections they are man's birthright
and belong to him alone of all creation. Man is, in
reality, a spiritual being, and only when he lives in the
spirit is he truly happy. This spiritual longing and
perception belongs to all men alike, and it is my firm

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
conviction that the Western people possess great
spiritual aspiration.
Because of our essentially spiritual nature, human beings
have a spiritual destiny or vocation in this world (and beyond)
and our true happiness is fulfilling this nature no matter how
hard this may be. How could we be happy if we are, so to speak,
living against ourselves by forgetting that our residence in
nature, while a necessary part of our development, is only
temporary? The task of being a Bahá’í is the task of becoming
our spiritual selves.
There is no question that the Bahá’í Writings see all things
endowed with an essence (as described by Aristotle as a reservoir
of potentials) and, therefore, connect with the implicit
recognition of essences in Nietzsche’s work. In The Kitab-i-Iqan
Bahá’u’lláh tells us that “the light of divine knowledge and
heavenly grace hath illumined and inspired the essence of all
created things, in such wise that in each and every thing [is] a
door of knowledge.” Here is a partial list of things which the
Writings identify as having an essence: God; the human soul;
humankind; justice; “all created things”; beauty; species of
living things; truth; religion; “this new age”; and the spirit.
Indeed, references to ‘essence’ are even more wide-spread once
we realize that such phrases as “inmost reality”; “the realities
of”; “reality of”; “inner reality”; and “inner realities”; also refer
to the essence of things.
It should be noted that the concept of ‘essence’ does not
deny the relational or—as we shall see below—the process nature
of things and bestow them with “an intrinsic non-relational
character.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
For all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to
the properties of things are the causes of the existence,
development and growth of created beings.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
All things, including their essences, are relational, i.e. they
exist as part of a complex of relations. However, this does not
preclude essences. The essence of a particular thing is made up
of a certain set of relations—and not a different set of relations.
In other words, the relations that make up a human being are
not the same relations as those that make up a horseshoe crab
with its blue blood. In short, there is no logical contradiction
between relationality and essence.
Aristotle’s ontology of potentials—and by extension the
Bahá’í Writings’ and Nietzsche’s—implicitly embodies other
Aristotelian concepts such as substance. For Aristotle, a
substance is a thing that exists independently of other things,
or, a thing that is not an attribute of something else and a thing
that continues through change, i.e. a continuant. For example, a
horse exists independently—it does not die if the farmer dies—
and it is not a quality that something else has nor is it a
different horse tomorrow than it is today. Some of its non-
essential attributes may have changed but a slight graying of the
mane or a thinner belly does not make it a different horse
because there is an observable—or filmable—continuity from
birth until today. We shall explain the false contradiction
between being and becoming below. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses this
definition of substance to prove the immortality of the soul:
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by
itself, and that the spirit is accidental and depends upon
the substance of the body, although, on the contrary, the
rational soul is the substance, and the body depends
upon it. If the accident—that is to say, the body—be
destroyed, the substance, the spirit, remains.
Because the soul is a ‘substance’ in the Aristotelian sense, it
exists independently of the body or, conversely, the body is an
accidental attribute of the soul and needs the soul to actually be
a body and live. Obviously, the soul-substance is a continuant
and because it is not an attribute of the body, can exist without
it.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Nietzsche’s views on ‘substance’ are ambiguous, i.e. overtly
denying the validity of this concept and covertly using it. He
writes,
Insofar, however, as all metaphysics has had principally
to do with sugarystance and freedom of will, one may
designate it the science that treats of the fundamental
errors of mankind—but does so as though they were
fundamental truths.
His words notwithstanding, the problem is obvious: without the
Aristotelian concept of substance, Nietzsche’s philosophy
encounters fatal obstacles. For example, Nietzsche describes the
will to power as the essence of all things, manifesting in
everything in the phenomenal world—and, thereby, the will to
power that persists through all kinds and all changes is a
continuant, i.e. a ‘substance’ in the Aristotelian sense. Nor is
the will to power as such an attribute of anything else, nor does
it depend on anything else for its existence. Therefore, one of
Nietzsche’s key concepts is an example of what he explicitly
denies. The same argument can be applied to Zarathustra and
the Superman. Once again, we find that the implicit content of
his work is in full agreement with the Bahá’í Writings while his
explicit statements are not.
5. Process Philosophy
Aristotle’s ontology of potentials solves the ancient
philosophical problem of the apparent conflict between ‘being’
and ‘becoming’ and, thereby creates one of the connecting
points between the Writings and Nietzsche who seems to deny
that the concept of ‘being’ has any validity: “Heraclitus will
always be right in this, that being is an empty fiction.” ‘Being’
refers to the continuity of a thing, to the retention of identity
according to Aristotle. In contrast ‘becoming’ refers to the
changes a thing undergoes, i.e. a process of actualizing its
potentials and changing from one state or condition to another.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Thus, Aristotle’s ontology of potential tells us that the
traditional absolute dualism between ‘being’ and ‘becoming’ is
false. Nothing is ever in just one condition or the other: a
sprouting sunflower seed actualizes its particular sunflower
potentials and, by doing so, is being or be-ing a sunflower seed.
Or, we could say a plant is being a sunflower by becoming more
of a sunflower as more of its various potentials are manifested.
In regards to Nietzsche, this means there is no basis to the
argument that Aristotle’s alleged philosophy of being is
intrinsically incompatible with Nietzsche’s philosophy of
becoming. In more general terms, process philosophies are not
necessarily irreconcilable with philosophies of being.

Both the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche are based on a
process metaphysics, i.e. a philosophy that is based on the
principle that reality is fundamentally constituted by change.
The Writings explicitly state:
Know that nothing which exists remains in a state of
repose—that is to say, all things are in motion.
Everything is either growing or declining; all things are
either coming from nonexistence into being, or going
from existence into nonexistence ... This state of motion
is said to be essential—that is, natural; it cannot be
separated from beings because it is their essential
requirement, as it is the essential requirement of fire to
burn ... ?
Thus it is established that this movement is necessary to
existence, which is either growing or declining.
According to the Bahá’í Writings, motion, i.e. change, i.e.
the actualization of potentials is an essential attribute of all
existing things. Indeed, a dialectical process between the present
actual form of something and the potentials that are trying to
actualize and to develop new forms is always underway. In fact,
these dialectical ‘battles’ constitute all things as what they are.
The moment this process stops, a thing stops existing.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
According to Kaufmann, in Nietzsche’s “dialectical monism”
“will to power ... is always at war with itself.” In humankind
this might appear as a dialectic between “reason and impulse” or
between the drive for self-overcoming and the fear of suffering.
Here, too, the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche are similar insofar
as Nietzsche sees an inner conflict as we have already seen in the
doctrine of self-overcoming. He rejects “being” which he
identifies with stasis. The “opposition and war” refers to this
inward struggle of self-overcoming.
I retained some doubt in the case of Heraclitus in whose
proximity I feel altogether warmer and better than
anywhere else. The affirmation of passing away and
destroying, which is the decisive feature of Dionysian
philosophy; saying yes to opposition and war; becoming
along with a radical repudiation of the very concept of
being—all this is clearly more closely related to me than
anything else ...
5.1. Agreement on Teleology
Nietzsche’s overt denials of teleology notwithstanding,
teleology plays an essential role in his thought. Indeed, because
the teleological strain in Nietzsche’s philosophy is so clearly
evident, Nietzsche scholar R. Kevin Hill says that Nietzsche’s
work shows “in nature a teleological tendency towards the
production of higher human beings: artists, philosophers and
saints.” John Richardson adds,
I take it to be evident from the expression itself that
‘will to power’ is a potency for something, a
directedness towards an end ... Nietzsche, despite his
repeated attacks on (what he calls) teleology really has
such a theory himself: the beings or units in the world
are crucially end-directed and to understand them
properly is to grasp how they’re directed or aimed.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Above all, it’s to grasp how they’re aimed at power, an
end essential to them.
For his part, Nietzsche states:
But all expansion, incorporation, growth means striving
against something that resists; motion is essentially ties
up with states of displeasure; that which is here the
driving force must in any event desire something else ...
For what do the trees in the jungle fight each other? For
“happiness”—For power!
In his view, whatever we do is motivated—consciously or not—
by the purpose of increasing power. In Thus Spake Zarathustra,
we can see the implicit teleological influence at work when he
says:
I teach you the Superman. Man is something that should
be overcome. What have you done to overcome him?
All creatures hitherto have created something beyond
themselves: and do you want to be the ebb of this great
tide, and return to the animals rather than overcome
man?
“Creating something beyond themselves” is the goal towards
which all beings are naturally oriented. Humans are encouraged
to mobilize, i.e. actualize their capacities or potentials in order
to “overcome” themselves as they presently are to become
something better or to clear the way for something better. That
is what “all creatures hitherto” have done, and is, by
implication, the natural destiny of humankind. Failing in this
regard, means we are no longer acting as ‘natural’ beings and
have become something ‘unnatural’ by missing our natural
teleological destiny.
The Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche agree on the teleological
nature of all things, which is to say, all thing are goal-oriented.

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that “All beings, whether large or small,
were created perfect and complete from the first, but their
perfections appear in them by degrees.” This process of
actualizing their potentials is, in fact, their being or be-ing (the
process remains constant) and shows that they are teleological in
nature, i.e. there is a natural progression from potential or
latency to actualization. The difference between humans and a
seed is that we must strive for our goal consciously whereas the
seed does so unconsciously or automatically. Not only are
individual lives teleological but so is the collective life of
humankind:
All men have been created to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization. The Almighty beareth Me
witness: To act like the beasts of the field is unworthy of
man. Those virtues that befit his dignity are forbearance,
mercy, compassion and loving-kindness towards all the
peoples and kindreds of the earth.
Here Bahá’u’lláh lists some of the moral potentials humanity
should actualize as it fulfills its goal achieving progress.
Humans must not “act like the beasts of the field” because
doing so conflicts with our spiritual nature and is, in effect, a
betrayal of ourselves because our essential spiritual nature
remains unactualized. Humans—indeed, all beings—can only be
happy when they actualize their appropriate potentials—which is
precisely their goal. Indeed, actualizing our higher, specifically
spiritual potentials is, in effect, the Bahá’í ‘definition’ of
happiness. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “True happiness
depends on spiritual good and having the heart ever open to
receive the Divine Bounty.” Opening our hearts to God or
awakening our “spiritual susceptibilities”
is, of course, our chief
spiritual potential.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
6. Nietzsche’s “Alleged Atheism—The Death of God
Although Nietzsche is probably the world’s most famous
atheist, we shall demonstrate that his atheism is highly
ambiguous. In fact, Roy Jackson aptly characterizes Nietzsche
as “a ‘sort’ of atheist.” What he destroys with one hand he
restores with the other. We should add that Nietzsche’s
ambiguity about religion and the transcendent is no surprise. It
is already evident in his first major work, The Birth of Tragedy
in which he uses two Greek gods, Apollo and especially
Dionysus, as concrete symbols of transcendental powers of
order and exuberance.
Metaphysically speaking, Nietzsche is not an atheist. It is true
that he overtly rejects the personal God of Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob but in The Will to Power, he offers a metaphysical
description of the will to power in language that effectively re-
creates the ‘God of the philosophers,’ i.e. something with all the
ontological attributes of God. The will to power underlies and
is present in everything; it is unlimited power; it has no
beginning or end; it is mysterious and unknowable; and it is
beyond space and time. Moreover, it is absolutely independent
of each of the forms in which it manifests itself, i.e. it depends
on nothing and, therefore, cannot be constrained by anything.
It is super-natural because nothing in nature has any of these
attributes. We need not belabor the point that in the Bahá’í
Writings, God possess all of these ontological attributes.
At the end of The Will to Power, Nietzsche writes,
And do you know what “the world” is to me? Shall I
show it to you in my mirror? This world: a monster of
energy, without beginning, without end; a firm, iron
magnitude of force that does not grow bigger or smaller,
that does not expend itself but only transforms itself ...
as a becoming that knows no satiety, no disgust, no
weariness: this, my Dionysian world of the eternally self-
creating, the eternally self-destroying, this mystery world

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
of the twofold voluptuous delight, my “beyond good
and evil,” without goal, unless the joy of the circle is
itself a goal; without will, unless a ring feels good will
toward itself—do you want a name for this world? A
solution for all its riddles? A light for you, too, you
best-concealed,
strongest,
most
intrepid,
most
midnightly men?—This world is the will to power—and
nothing besides! And you yourselves are also this will to
power—and nothing besides!
In Nietzsche’s view, this ground of being is amoral, i.e.
beyond good and evil. However, the Bahá’í Writings reveal a
convergent idea—namely that God “doeth what He willeth, and
ordaineth that which He pleaseth.” In other words, God—or the
will to power—determines what is good or not and thereby
shows Himself to be “beyond good and evil.” This idea is
illustrated by Bahá’u’lláh’s statement “Shouldst Thou regard him
who hath broken the fast as one who hath observed it, such a
man would be reckoned among them who from eternity had
been keeping the fast.” The disagreement between the Writings
and Nietzsche arises as a result of giving mere humans, i.e. the
aristocrats and nobles, the same power of deciding their own
morality on their own intrinsically limited human terms. This is
logically unjustifiable because they lack the qualifications i.e.
God’s absolute independence from all external influence and
constraint and His complete knowledge of human nature that
entitles them to make decisions for all. Without these
qualifications, their moral choices are, in the end, self-serving
and arbitrary and will inevitably have to be maintained by force.
Moreover, Nietzsche’s description of the will to power cannot
hide one obvious implication: its creativity and the gift of
existence to all things as well as the fact that existence is freely
given since we are not there to earn it. This creativity and
ontological generosity can easily be the basis of positive moral
principles insofar as this super-natural munificence provides a
model for human behavior.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Nietzsche’s atheism is very tentative. For example, in The
Gay Science, the Madman says, “God is dead. God remains dead.
And we have killed him”—and then suggests that we must
become gods to be worthy of this great act.
Even in such a
forthright declaration, we can detect signs of what we call the
‘transcendental impulse’ in Nietzsche’s work, an inclination
expressed in both ideas and word choice to re-introduce the
divine or transcendental into our consciousness and our
understanding of life. There is nothing about the death of God,
i.e. atheism, which logically demands that we should take God’s
place by becoming gods.
Here is an example of Nietzsche’s ambiguous language from
Thus Spake Zarathustra, written in the ‘chapter and verse’ style
of the Bible and showing the ‘transcendental impulse’ in his
word choice. Speaking of the “Sublime Men,” Zarathustra says,
To be sure, I love in him the neck of the ox; but now I
want to see the eye of an angel, too.
He must unlearn his heroic will, too: he should be an
exalted man and not only a sublime itself should raise
him up, the will-less one!
He has tamed his monsters, he has solved riddles: but he
should also redeem his monsters and riddles, he should
transform them into heavenly children ...
Then your soul will shudder with divine desires; and
there will be worship in your vanity!
This indeed is the secret of the soul: only when the hero
has deserted his soul does there approach it in dreams—
the superhero.
The religious tenor of his word choice is supported by the
narrative of the entire Thus Spake Zarathustra itself:
Zarathustra, a Moses-like prophetic figure descends from his

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
mountain retreat—like Moses bringing His gifts of new
commandments and wisdom—so that humans may continue their
evolution to make way for a higher being called the Superman.
In the idea of becoming gods, he invokes Genesis in which the
Serpent promises Eve, “Ye shall be as gods.” In short, the
Serpent promises to help Adam and Eve to transcend their
human condition. Throughout his work, there are constant
references to words such as ‘spirit,’ ‘holy’ and ‘soul’ words
whose ambiguous scared and non-sacred connotations display
Nietzsche’s ambiguity in regards to the transcendent. The
following statement also his use of religious language even when
repudiating Christian morality:
Every act of contempt for sex, every impurification of
it by means of the concept of ‘impure’ is the crime par
excellence against life—is the real sin against the holy
spirit of life.
However, the convergences between the Bahá’í Writings and
Nietzsche about God go even further than a common belief in a
transcendental entity. In our view, Nietzsche missed and loved
religion so much he struggled to create, if not a new religion of
his own, then at least an adequate substitute world-view. For
example, he sees the collapse of religion as the basis of the
modern crisis. Nietzsche refers to “the end of Christianity” and
the Writings state “as a result of human perversity, the light of
religion is quenched in men's hearts”
This belief logically implies
that religion provides something necessary for the well-being of
human beings and without religion (for whatever reason)
humankind suffers and degenerates. Paradoxically, Nietzsche
seeks a Christ-like ‘redeemer.’ He says of the Superman—whose
name alone carries transcendent connotations—”Behold! I teach
you the Superman: he is the sea, in him your great contempt can
go under.” In this description, the Superman is truly super-
human, i.e. the sea into which we can save ourselves from
overwhelming self-contempt. Like Christ, he can take our sins
on Himself; the Superman can take into himself our contempt

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
for ourselves and thereby offer us new opportunities for
growth. This, too, points to transcendence for no natural
human being can do such a thing. In addition, this suggests that
the Superman is not entirely natural and somehow beyond
nature. Ironically, this implication of the Superman violates
Zarathustra’s own injunction to be loyal to the earth and to
deny the super-natural. Moreover, the need for a ‘redeemer’
converges with the Bahá’í teaching that Manifestations of God
are necessary for humankind to progress. The pervasive
presence of this ‘transcendent impulse’ helps give a religious
dimension to a thinker who is—superficially perhaps—anti-
religious.
Nor should we overlook that the “eternal return” is itself
strongly tinged with religious and transcendental colors. Seen in
a religious light, it seems much like a non-Christian version of
heaven and hell. R. Kevin Hill states
the doctrine of eternal recurrence is best understood as a
replacement for the Christian doctrine of an afterlife of
rewards and punishments. Recurrence is like a reward for
those who live well and are strong and a punishment for
those who live badly and are weak.
Seen as a metaphysical doctrine, i.e. a doctrine about the
basic nature of the universe, the eternal return reveals its
transcendental nature by imposing on the universe the super-
natural attribute of lasting forever. No empirical observation
has ever encountered such an object in nature. So much for
remaining loyal to the earth! In effect, the eternal return claims
that the universe is beyond time since the same results occur
again and again. Such timelessness is precisely one of the
attributes of God in the Writings. Furthermore, the absolute
repetition inherent in the eternal return also means there is no
essential change—an attribute which converges with the Bahá’í
belief that God is not subject to change. On a strictly empirical
basis, Nietzsche was bound to reject these attributes—and the
fact that he did not, highlights his ambiguity about religious

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
beliefs. But this ambiguity deepens. On the basis of scientific
knowledge of his time, Nietzsche would have known that the
random collision of atoms, i.e. collisions that were causally
unconnected to each other, would not necessarily have brought
about the eternal return. If the collisions are truly random, i.e.
not determined by any preceding event or object, then there is
no necessity whatsoever that today’s world will ever return in
its exact present form. In fact, in a world of genuinely random
actions, there is no necessity of any kind at all: things just
happen without being conditioned, i.e. limited by foregoing
events or other objects. The concept of the “eternal return”
only works if we tacitly assume that atoms have been bestowed
with suitable nature and that laws of nature exist—which
inevitably leads to the issue of how these attributes and laws
originated.
In
other
words,
Nietzsche
slipped
into
transcendental thinking, i.e. thinking that implicitly includes
God. There is nothing in our empirical, earthly experience on
which such concepts can be based for which reason we may say
the “eternal return’ itself is an example of the ‘transcendental
impulse’ in Nietzsche.
Of course, it may be argued that Nietzsche does not mean
‘transcendent’ in any non-physical way, especially in light of his
command to “remain true to the earth.” But that is exactly the
point; as we have shown above by examining Nietzsche’s
language and thought, he cannot live up to his own ideal—he is
fundamentally conflicted and the Transcendent as Jaspers calls
it, is present throughout much of his work. This presence is
exactly where the Bahá’í Writings make contact with Nietzsche.
In light of Nietzsche’s ‘transcendental impulse’ it is highly
improbable that he was an ‘atheist’ as usually understood: a
person who denies any transcendent powers. It is far more likely
that “Nietzsche means the god of transcendental monotheism
and Christian morality ... it is the ‘God’ of Judeo-Christianity
who is dead, but the divine is something totally different.”
From a Bahá’í perspective, this idea poses no difficulties as long
as we understand that Nietzsche is not making an ontological

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
claim about the existence or non-existence of God or a ground
of being but rather is making a sociological claim about the role
of God in the lives of individuals and societies. In other words,
he is saying—among other things—that the concept of God no
longer plays any significant role in the modern world, that
people have more confidence in themselves, in government and
in science and technology than they do in God or in their own
faith in God. He is also pointing out that organized religion, its
institutions, its hierarchies and theologies have become corrupt
and feeble.
The Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche agree on the ‘death of
God’ if taken as the recognition that genuine religion—as
distinct from its superficial outward appearances—is no longer a
major force among modern individuals and societies in the
modern world. Free thought, i.e. the independent investigation
of truth, is imprisoned by the clergy. As already noted,
Bahá’u’lláh recognizes that “The vitality of men's belief in God
is dying out in every land.”
Speaking of Islam and Christianity,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that only the “form has remained in the
hands of the clergy.”

For both the Writings and Nietzsche, the renewal of
humankind involves an unavoidable struggle against clergy who
seek to retain their power. Both seek to overcome the clergy,
but even as Nietzsche clearly aims at the destruction of
priesthood, he still feels a certain kinship and pity with them,
admitting, “There are heroes even among them; many of them
have suffered too much: so they want to make others suffer ... I
want to know my blood honoured even in theirs.” In a similar
attitude of reconciliation, the Writings invite the clergy to join
the Bahá’í dispensation.
Wherefore flee ye? The Incomparable Friend is manifest.
He speaketh that wherein lieth salvation. Were ye, O
high priests, to discover the perfume of the rose garden
of understanding, ye would seek none other but Him,

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
and would recognize, in His new vesture, the All-Wise
and Peerless One.

7. Self-overcoming
One of the central concepts of ethical practice in the Bahá’í
Writings and Nietzsche is ‘self-overcoming,’ i.e. taking an
active part in actualizing one’s own potentials, removing
undesirable traits and increasing their powers and capacities.
Self-overcoming is Nietzsche’s strategy for defeating nihilism
which, in his view, is corrupting and destroying modern culture.
This converges with the Bahá’í Writings belief that “Man must
now become imbued with new virtues and powers, new
moralities, new capacities” Obviously, when we gain “new
virtues and powers” our powers will be expanded.
Both in the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche we see what may
be called “ethics of power, i.e. an ethics of the growth of power
in the sense of ‘capacity.’ The ultimate purpose of Bahá’u’lláh’s
guidance is allow us to expand our power, i.e. to “awaken [our]
spiritual susceptibilities” and make possible both spiritual and
material progress. This requires conscious self-overcoming and
transformation inspired by Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation; in the case
of Nietzsche, this is achieved by conformity with the will to
power. In both cases, humans have to submit to a Power greater
than themselves and greater than anything in the natural world.
What Zarathustra wants from the people in the valley, does
not contradict what Bahá’u’lláh wants from us.
Self-overcoming is crucial for two reasons. First, it is the
only way to become a bridge to the Superman because by
overcoming ourselves, we remove an obstacle—the present
selves we cling to—so that the Superman may advance. Second,
self-overcoming is the only way to free ourselves from our weak
and cowardly aspects and, thereby, to grow in our pursuit of the
will to power and to become one with our essential selves. In
short, self-overcoming is necessary to end our alienation from

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
our true identity and, thereby, come into possession of our
selves. Like the Bahá’í Writings, Nietzsche endorses the paradox
that to become our best selves, we must surrender our current
identities. In addition, this “true self” becomes “a shining and
wonderful reality” because, in Nietzsche’s terms, it has done
what is good, i.e. that which “heightens the feeling of power in
man, the will to power, power itself.”
The importance of self-overcoming to Nietzsche is evident in
his belief that self-overcoming “distinguishes the moral [person]
from the nonmoral [person].” This is more evidence that
Nietzsche does, in fact, have a moral code including an
objective standard by which to evaluate our actions: the
willingness and effort to surpass ourselves, the willingness to
suffer the inevitable discomfort and pain of simultaneously
actualizing our potentials for the future and leaving behind our
presently achieved actuality. Zarathustra says that he loves those
who “will [their] own downfall,” i.e. he loves those who are
willing to sacrifice themselves for something greater than
themselves. Later, Zarathustra says,
And life itself told me this secret: ‘Behold,’ it said, ‘I am
that which must overcome itself again and again ... ‘I
would rather perish than renounce this one thing; and
truly where there is perishing and the falling of leaves,
behold, there life sacrifices itself—for the sake of power.
Nietzsche carries on this theme in On the Genealogy of Morals:
All great things bring about their own destruction
through an act of self-overcoming: thus the law of life
will have it, the law of the necessity of ‘self-overcoming’
in the nature of life
Here we observe the ‘pruning’ or ‘self-pruning’ mentioned in
the Writings. For his part, Zarathustra informs us that “only if
he [man] turns away from himself will he jump over his own
shadow—and jump into truth, into his own sunlight.” In other

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
words, the current self must be rejected for our better or higher
selves which can only be done by embracing transformational
change.
Unlikely as it may seem at first, Nietzsche’s statements
converge strongly with the Bahá’í Writings. In the first place,
there is strong convergence if not outright agreement in regards
to self-overcoming as a necessary aspect of living ethically and
making true progress in self-actualization and living as moral
beings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
For I have supplicated and beseeched before the
Threshold of the Almighty that thy wish may be realized,
so thou mayest overcome the self and perform charitable
deeds and that human perfections may appear from thee.
In other words, self-overcoming is needed to “to awaken
spiritual susceptibilities in the hearts of mankind” The theme of
‘self-overcoming’ is also presented in the Writings as ‘sacrifice’
and ‘service’ since, in the Bahá’í view, these lead to the kind of
self-overcoming we need to make.
Speaking of the higher and lower self, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
The other self is the ego, the dark, animalistic heritage
each one of us has, the lower nature that can develop
into a monster of selfishness, brutality, lust and so on. It
is this self we must struggle against, or this side of our
natures, in order to strengthen and free the spirit within
us and help it to attain perfection.
Self-sacrifice means to subordinate this lower nature and
its desires to the more godly and noble side of ourselves.
Ultimately, in its highest sense, self-sacrifice means to
give our will and our all to God to do with as He pleases.
Then He purifies and glorifies our true self until it
becomes a shining and wonderful reality.”

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
This, too, converges with Nietzsche in significant ways. We
must “give our will and our all to God” in the same way as
Nietzsche expects us to obey the imperative will to power that
functions as ‘God’ in his philosophy.
Self-overcoming also requires us to overcome the traditional
beliefs—especially ethical beliefs—that we have passively
accepted. To the extent that we do not, our self-overcoming is
incomplete and, thereby, less effective and gives us less power
or capacity. Nietzsche believes that we must create our own
ethics and norms—a task that he held as impossible for religious
believers. However, the Bahá’í Writings find no difficulty with
Nietzsche’s requirements insofar as they unequivocally reject
“ancestral imitations” and insist on our obligation to the
independent
investigation
of
truth.
The
independent
investigation of truth in ethics does not mean we have to reject
the moral guidance of the Manifestations—but rather that we
must to the best of our ability consciously understand such
guidance since otherwise our acts become blind imitation
instead of a rational choice. Investigating and understanding a
given moral law, in effect, makes that law ours even if it is a re-
discovery. As Goethe says, “What you have inherited from your
forefathers, it takes work to make it your own.” In this way, the
principle of the independent investigation of truth absolves the
acceptance of revealed truth from being a mere “ancestral
imitation.” In other words, those who are willing to make the
sacrifices of self-overcoming will be blessed with “the
quickening of mental capacity and the increase of spiritual
susceptibilities.
It may be objected that the Writings proclaim that humans
were meant for happiness—which indeed, they are—but
happiness for the Writings and Nietzsche consists in the
expansion of our powers not in mere ease and comfort be it
psycho-spiritual and/or physical. Athletic training illustrates
this point: the training itself is inevitably uncomfortable,
painful and gruelling—yet the athlete who views this pain in
light of his/her goals, is happy because s/he because s/he can

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
feel the growth of his/her capacity. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: “The
mind and spirit of man advance when he is tried by suffering.”

In short, the suffering required by self-overcoming is necessary
for the happiness that is to come both in this world and the
next. As seen in Thus Spake Zarathustra, Nietzsche also
recognizes the need to be willing to suffer on the way to
becoming a bridge for the Superman or even a Superman
himself.
8. Perspectivism and Truth
One of the most controversial and influential aspects of
Nietzsche’s philosophy is perspectivism according to which we
can only have perspectives on things but have no true
knowledge of anything.
Against positivism, which halts at phenomena—“There
are only facts”—I would say: No, facts is precisely what
there is not, only interpretations. We cannot establish
any fact “in itself”: perhaps it is folly to want to do such
a thing.
“Everything is subjective,” you say; but even this is
interpretation. The “subject” is not something given, it
is something added and invented and projected behind
what there is ... Finally, is it necessary to posit an
interpreter behind the interpretation? Even this is
invention, hypothesis ...
It is our needs that interpret the world; our drives and
their For and Against. Every drive is a kind of lust to
rule; each one has its perspective that it would like to
compel all the other drives to accept as a norm.
In short, Nietzsche denies the existence of ‘facts’ or ‘truths’
and replaces them with “interpretations” or perspectives or,
more colloquially, opinions. This is the view described by Hales

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
and Welshon as “strong perspectivism [which] is what many
think Nietzsche offers ... [and which] is self-refuting.” This
claim that there are no ‘facts’ is self-refuting because it cannot
itself be taken as factual. We find “strong perspectivism”
exemplified in the following statement by Nietzsche:
The apparent world, i.e., a world viewed according to
values; ordered, selected according to values, i.e., in this
case according to the viewpoint of utility in regard to
the preservation and enhancement of the power of a
certain species of animal.
The perspective therefore decides the character of the
“appearance”! As if a world would still remain over after
one deducted the perspective! By doing that one would
deduct relativity!
Every center of force adopts a perspective toward the
entire remainder, i.e., its own particular valuation, mode
of action, and mode of resistance. The “apparent
world,” therefore, is reduced to a specific mode of
action on the world, emanating from a center.

In other words, all we have is appearances determined by the
perspectives we adopt. There is no “noumenal” or underlying
reality or ‘real’ truth existing independently of some
perspectives. Moreover, Nietzsche states that all truth-claims
are relative since all are the subjective products of a particular
perspective. Since all truth-claims or perspectives are relative,
we cannot judge between contradictory truth-claims because
there is no privileged perspective or viewpoint to function as a
standard by which to judge. This leads to the startling
conclusion that either there is no truth at all or even if there is a
truth, it cannot be known by humankind. Nietzsche writes,
‘Truth’ is therefore not something there, that might be
found or discovered—but something that must be
created and that gives a name to a process, or rather to a

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
will to overcome that has in itself no end—introducing
truth,
as
a
processus
in
infinitum,
an
active
determining—not a becoming conscious of something
that is in itself firm and determined. It is a word for the
“will to power.
Struggles about truth are ultimately struggles about authority
and power. The concept of ‘truth’ depends on the will to power
insofar as all human activities are shaped by each person’s will
to power. He states,
The “will to truth’ would then have to be investigated
psychologically: it is not a moral force, but a form of
the will to power. This would have to be proved by
showing
that
it
employs
every
immoral
means:
metaphysicians above all.
In short, there is no such thing as even attempting to seek the
truth objectively.
“Strong perspectivism” has at least five major weak points.
The first results from self-reference: logical self-refutation
(encountered in many postmodern thinkers). If all truth-claims
are perspectival, then this view itself is perspectival—and
therefore, the opposite view that truth is absolute may well be
true at least from some perspectives. But that is exactly what
“strong perspectivism” denies. It says that all truth-claims are
perspectival, thereby including itself. In short, if strong
perspectivism is true, then it may also be false. This is a logically
untenable foundation for any attempt at a coherent philosophy
because it undermines every additional argument built on this
principle.
Second, since perspective determines ‘truth’ there can be no
non-perspectival or extra-perspectival standpoint point from
which to judge among different or competing ‘truths-claims.’
Consequently, there can be no such things as errors. In effect,
all perspectives are true even though we may personally prefer

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
some to others—but preferences do not constitute truth.
Nietzsche’s view effectively says that there can be no errors
since all perspectives must be accepted as equally valid. This is
not only improbable but also impractical: nature is not so
malleable and accommodating to our perspectives as to let us
think that pencils are genuinely broken in a glass of water—or
that the traffic light is green just because we think so. At some
point we often discover one perspective or the other is false,
i.e. that there is a real, ‘noumenal’ truth underneath our
perceptions that may, in some cases, quite rudely correct our
mistaken views. Furthermore, the Bahá’í the Writings plainly
contradict such ego-inflating ‘infallibilist’ views and clearly
acknowledge the existence of “error”, “idle fancies and vain
imagining,” “ignorance,” “heedlessness and superstition,” and
ideas that are “absurd.” Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh even recognizes that
some religions “are the outcome of human perversity.” The
existence of error harmonizes, as we shall see below, with “weak
perspectivism” i.e. the viewpoint that not all perspectives are
necessarily true.
Third, there is a category mistake insofar as Nietzsche’s
conflation of the will to power with the will to truth mistakes
God with man. In the case of God, the two are the same:
whatever God wills is the truth since God’s will determines the
nature of reality and all parts of reality. “He doeth whatsoever
He willeth, and ordaineth that which He pleaseth.” However,
this is not the case for humans. Who has not had the experience
of interpreting a shadow on a forest walk as a ferocious animal?
Obviously, our interpretations do not ‘make’ facts or reality.
Nature will quickly correct us if our perspective lets us mistake
a crocodile for a convenient log.
Fourth, if perspectives or standpoints determine the truth,
then, there can be no absolute truth that is true in the same way
in all perspectives. This is incompatible with the Writings
because if the statement ‘Bahá’u’lláh is the Manifestation of
God for this age’ is not objectively true across all perspectives

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
(though not necessarily recognized as true), then the universality
and potency of His revelation is negated.
The problem with Nietzsche, of course, is that on this issue
as on so many others, he is conflicted, making it difficult to
know which view is really his. After all, there is significant
evidence from his work that he is convinced that there are no
absolute truths of any kind. Yet, he blatantly violates his own
principle. The entire doctrine of the will to power would be
negated if its existence were dependent on perspective.
Moreover, there would be an easy escape from Nietzsche’s
philosophy by adopting a different perspective in which the will
to power is not true! If truth is strongly or purely perspectival,
all of Nietzsche’s critiques of European culture, of Christianity
(which he loves to hate) and of spirituality are moot. They have
no validity for other perspectives. How can he purport to
‘unmask’ morality in The Genealogy of Morals if there is
nothing
to
unmask
from
Christian
morality—except
a
perspective whose morals are as valid as the morality that
emerges from Nietzsche’s own perspective? If truth is
perspectival, how can Zarathustra condemn the morals of the
common man—which are true in their perspective? We need not
multiply examples of Nietzsche’s obvious logical entanglements
caused by the conflict between his overt statements that appear
to accept “strong perspectivism” and his actual practice.
Clearly, the Bahá’í Writings reject “strong perspectivism.”
Nowhere do they suggest that truth is entirely subjective, i.e.
wholly dependent on our outlook and perspective. If this were
true, there would be no point in teaching the independent
investigation of truth. There could only be an exploration of
our own perspectives/opinions which are often likely to be
mere “vain imaginings.” Would God really cease to exist if no
one’s perspective included Him? Is Bahá’u’lláh’s station as the
Manifestation for this age or God’s existence really dependent
on human perspective and subjective opinion? If that were the
case, why would Bahá’u’lláh declare,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Their belief or disbelief in My Cause can neither profit
nor harm Me. We summon them wholly for the sake of
God. He, verily, can afford to dispense with all
creatures.
In other words, God and the Cause of God are independent of
any human perspective or interpretation. There truths are not
relative.
Clearly, the Bahá’í Writings suggest that all perspectives are
not equally true or valid, and that at least on some issues, truth
is not relative. In other words, our own perspectives, which may
be based on the false imaginations may lead us to deny the
existence of the Manifestation—but this perspective is false
even if it is sincerely held. Sincerity itself is not a guarantor of
truth or logical validity; sincerely held beliefs can be wrong.
Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh advises us to “meditate profoundly ...
so that light may be distinguished from darkness, truth from
falsehood, right from wrong, guidance from error, happiness
from misery, and roses from thorns.” These distinctions
demonstrate there is no attempt made to salvage all possible
views by attributing them to differing standpoints or
perspectives and by declaring them all to be relatively true. At
least some perspectives are able to provide truth while others
are not.
There is a fifth problem with “strong perspectivism,” viz. it
also leads to problems vis-à-vis understanding the Bahá’í
Writings. For example, after explaining that the four methods
of acquiring truth are flawed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes, “there is no
standard in the hands of people upon which we can rely.” This
sounds like “strong perspectivism.” However, if we accept this
interpretation non-reflectively, i.e. without analysis, a serious
problem rapidly arises: Shall we understand ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
declaration to mean that we cannot know with certainty even
the most ‘elemental facts’ such as (1) human beings need food or
they will starve to death; (2) the seasons progress in a specific
and orderly manner; (3) lobsters do not grow up to be maple

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
trees and (4) the sun appears to move from east to west across
the sky? Do the Writings really mean to suggest that there is no
certain human knowledge about anything at all including
Napoleon’s defeat at Moscow, yesterday’s sunrise, and the law
of gravity? If we take the “strong” view at face value, needless
entanglements arise from one of Bahá’u’lláh’s statements:
In pursuance, however, of the principle that for every
thing a time hath been fixed, and for every fruit a season
hath been ordained, the latent energies of such a bounty
can best be released, and the vernal glory of such a gift
can only be manifested, in the Days of God.
The message here would be undermined or even negated if
seasonal change were disputed or even disputable. The moment
we deny the certainty of our knowledge of seasonal change, the
whole point Bahá’u’lláh is trying to make becomes moot. It
would cause needless confusion because we would not really
‘know’ that “for every fruit a season hath been ordained.”
Bahá’u’lláh knows—but could we know that our knowledge of
the seasons is what He is actually referring to? The same
problem would arise if Bahá’u’lláh used other examples, such as
the tides or the moon’s course around the earth. It is difficult
not to conclude that the Writings are not intended to cause
such difficulties.
While there is no agreement about “strong perspectivism” in
the Bahá’í Writings and Nietzsche, there is far-reaching
agreement in regards to “weak perspectivism” which Welshon
attributes to Nietzsche. He explains it as follows:
Suppose weak perspectivism is true for every other
statement except itself. It then turns out that for the
thesis of weak perspectivism, absolutism is true. Why?
Because truth absolutism claims there is at least one
statement that is true in all perspectives. Perhaps the
only such statement is the thesis of weak perspectivism.
Here, then is a way to rescue Nietzsche’s truth

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
perspectivism without abandoning the spirit behind it ...
Perhaps there are other statements in addition to the
thesis of weak perspectivism that are true across all
perspectives.
The possibility of some absolute truths, i.e. truths from all
perspectives means that, in effect, some truths are not
dependent on perspective, and even opens up the possibility of
“extra-perspectival” truths which is how the Bahá’í Writings
characterize God’s revelations. Furthermore, this also revives
the possibility that there exist some objective standards by
which to judge various perspectives. Finally, error is possible;
not all perspectives necessarily give us the truth.
A significant agreement between “weak perspectivism” and
the Bahá’í Writings emerges when he examine Shoghi Effendi’s
statements about progressive revelation. He writes,
The mission of the Founder of their Faith, they conceive
it to be to proclaim that religious truth is not absolute
but relative, that Divine Revelation is continuous and
progressive, that the Founders of all past religions,
though different in the non-essential aspects of their
teachings, “abide in the same Tabernacle, soar in the
same heaven, are seated upon the same throne, utter the
same speech and proclaim the same Faith.”
Further, he asserts that each Manifestation
restates the eternal verities they enshrine, coordinates
their functions, distinguishes the essential and the
authentic from the nonessential and spurious in their
teachings, separates the God-given truths from the
priest-prompted superstitions.
To summarize in Hales’ and Welshon’s language about “weak
perspectivism,” the relative truths, i.e. those which were not
valid in all perspectives could be changed as historical

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
conditions alter. Among these were the “spurious” “priest
prompted superstitions” and the “non-essential” specific
adaptations to geographic and cultural circumstances. They are
completely dependent on perspective i.e. the standpoint of a
particular culture at a particular time under particular
circumstances. However, there are also “eternal verities” and
“God-given truths” that are valid in all perspectives, i.e. they are
absolute. Such “verities” are “restat[ed]” in every dispensation—
across multiple perspectives—and while they may be expanded
or given new form, the essential truths they convey remain true.
In other words, the Bahá’í Writings can accept the doctrine that
all statements come from a particular perspective—but in “weak
perspectivism” that does not mean that some statements cannot
be true across all perspectives.
“Weak perspectivism” also allows a robust commitment to
the unity of truth. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirms, “No one truth can
contradict another truth.” He supports this by stating, that
“truth or reality is not multiple; it is not divisible” and “truth is
one, although its manifestations may be very different.”
Differences in the “manifestations” of truth do not necessarily
imply logical contradictions which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá seeks to avoid.
Shoghi Effendi re-affirms this theme, saying, “Truth may, in
covering different subjects, appear to be contradictory, and yet
it is all one if you carry the thought through to the end.” He
adds, “Truth is one when it is independently investigated, it
does not accept division.” “Weak perspectivism” easily
accommodates the Writings on this issue and so does Nietzsche
if read in this way.
Our conclusion is clear: if Nietzsche’s perspectivism is
understood
in
Hales’
and
Welshon’s
sense
as
“weak
perspectivism” and as implicitly practiced by Nietzsche, there is
agreement with the Bahá’í Writings. “Weak perspectivism,”
provides a more flexible outlook because it recognizes relative,
perspectival truths such as seen in the cultural adaptations of
the divine teachings and, it recognizes absolute cross-
perspectival truths as seen in the “eternal verities” restated by

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
the Manifestations. It also recognizes that at least some of
Nietzsche’s teachings must be accepted as absolutely true, viz.
self-overcoming, the will to power and the eternal return. If
Nietzsche’s
perspectivism
is
understood
as
“strong
perspectivism,”
as
overtly
stated
by
Nietzsche—though
implicitly contradicted in much of what he writes—then there is
no agreement between him and the Writings.
“Weak perspectivism” avoids outlandish consequences that
needlessly complicate and impede the quest for knowledge and
truth. After all, it is indisputable that Beethoven is physically
dead; that tides come in and go out and a broken leg is really
broken. What is to be gained by understanding the Bahá’í
Writings in a way that opens them to such critiques as have seen
above?
“Weak perspectivism” as in the following example from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is immune from the critiques that undermine
“strong perspectivism.”
He has bestowed upon [man] the power of intellect so
that through the attribute of reason, when fortified by
the Holy Spirit, he may penetrate and discover ideal
realities and become informed of the mysteries of the
world of significances.
This statement embodies “weak perspectivism” insofar as under
some circumstances—the inspiration of the Holy Spirit—reliably
true knowledge about the “ideal realities” and the super-natural
“world of significances” can be attained. There is no suggestion
here that we need to doubt elemental facts such as difference
between apples and horse shoe crabs. We should also remember
that the inspiration of the Holy Spirit may impart such
intellectual virtues as true independence in the investigation of
truth; justice in the quest for fair and accurate presentation;
humility to accept the truths we find even though they may not
be what we hoped or expected; and wisdom in applying what we
find in a positive way. There is no reason to limit the Holy

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
Spirit’s inspiration to such theological virtues as faith, hope and
charity. When we understand this, we can also see how and why
we have true knowledge of the ‘elemental facts’ because nothing
prevents the Holy Spirit from acting in our lives on a
continuous basis at least vis-à-vis the basic intellectual virtues.
Elsewhere, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá notes,
the bounty of the Holy Spirit gives the true method of
comprehension which is infallible and indubitable. This
is through the help of the Holy Spirit which comes to
man, and this is the condition in which certainty can
alone be attained.
Under the right circumstances—receiving the bounty of the
Holy Spirit—we can know spiritual truths with certainty. The
argument that ‘truth’ is not the same as ‘certainty’ is weak since
that implies the Holy Spirit can give us certainty about
untruths. That defeats the purpose of trusting in the Holy
Spirit. Speaking about love, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá concludes,
This is a proof perceptible to the senses, acceptable to
reason, in accord with traditions and teachings of the
Holy Books and verified by the promptings of human
hearts themselves. It is a proof upon which we can
absolutely rely and declare to be complete
Here, too, we observe the possibility of attaining reliable
knowledge from some perspectives and, thereby, the agreement
with “weak perspectivism” not just vis-à-vis elemental facts but
also spiritual truths such as the existence of God, which,
according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá can be logically proven: “The
existence of the Divine Being hath been clearly established, on
the basis of logical poofs.” “Weak perspectivism” also allows us
to accommodate such statements as “Numerous and conclusive
proofs exist that go to show that this infinite world cannot end
with this human life.” Elsewhere, he adds,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
It is my hope that from day to day your gatherings will
grow and flourish, and that those who are seeking after
truth will hearken therein to reasoned arguments and
conclusive proofs.
And,
Day and night must you think, strive and investigate,
that you may attain to the mysteries of the Kingdom;
that you may attain certainty in knowledge; that you may
know this world has a Creator, has a Maker, has a
Resuscitator, has a Provider, has an Architect—but know
this through proofs and evidences, not through
susceptibilities; nay rather through decisive proofs,
evident arguments and real vision—that is to say,
visualizing it just as you visualize the sun. May you with
complete certainty behold the signs of God and attain to
the knowledge of the holy divine Manifestations.
Each one of these passages—and there are others to choose
from—makes use of the idea of “conclusive” knowledge, or
“certainty” or “proofs” and, thereby, show that the Writings are
in harmony with “weak perspectivism” and the possibility of at
least some statements being true across all perspectives.
9. Conclusion
In the foregoing exploration, we have shown that, despite
first appearances to the contrary, there are a surprisingly large
number of correlations between the Bahá’í Writings and
Nietzsche’s philosophy. Among them we find such issues as
1. teleology;
2. perspectivism in Hale’s and Welshon’s sense of “weak
perspectivism;”
3. the process nature of reality;
4. Aristotle’s ontology of potentials,

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
5. the existence of a transcendent power or force
manifesting in all things;
6. the importance of the transcendent aspects of existence;
the religious impulse in man;
7. the unavoidable agonistic aspects of life, not by political
means but by means of new ideas, revitalized values, good
personal examples, energized hope, and appeals to the
spiritual elements in human nature;
8. the decline of the present world order;
9. the need for revolutionary change (though not change by
political revolution);
10. the rejection of partisan politics, nationalism and
imperialism;
11. the universal will to power as the self-overcoming and
actualization of potentials;
12. the central role of sublimation and self-overcoming;
13. the call for “a new race of men” transcending the current
state of human development;
14. life as a agonistic process in various ways;
15. loyalty to the earth;
16. will as present in all things.
Of course, there are also areas of difference and irresolvable
disagreement:
1. the master and slave morality;
2. the transvaluation of values and the slave revolt;
3. “violent aristocratic radicalism” (see Detwiler);
4. the often nasty manner of expression and demeaning tone
of his writings;
5. the eternal return (unless understood in Hill’s way);

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
6. perspectivism, if interpreted as “strong perspectivism”;
7. atheism, if taken at face value;
8. the principle of beyond good and evil.
9. lack of an ultimate vision of a future world order;
At this point a question arises: ‘To what degree do the
differences undermine the correlations between the Bahá’í
Writings and Nietzsche?’ The answer depends on how we choose
to read Nietzsche. If we read him in light of Kaufmann’s claim
that the will to power and sublimation (which includes self-
overcoming) are the “core” of Nietzsche’s philosophy, then the
undermining capacity of these differences is limited. As we have
shown, the master-slave morality, the transvaluation of values,
“the violent aristocratic radicalism,” the atheism if taken at face
value and the “strong” interpretation of perspectivism and
living beyond good and evil are not compatible with
Kaufmann’s understanding of the “core” of Nietzsche’s
philosophy. In one way or another, they conflict with the ethic
of sublimation and self-overcoming in order to actualize our
potentials both individually and socially. Thereby, they frustrate
human development which requires us to be more than we are.
If we think we are beyond good and evil; that we are aristocrats
and masters with a right to rule over ‘slaves’; that there is no
truth to know or that can be known; that there is no progress
and everything stays as it is or that the material world is all there
is, then there will be little or no incentive to pursue a life of
self-overcoming and sublimation of our animal natures. In all
likelihood, we will find ourselves among the self-satisfied and
comfortable. In our view, neither the Writings nor Nietzsche
advocate such a life.
From our Kaufmannian perspective, because these points
negate or at least avoid the principle of self-overcoming and
sublimation, they do not really undermine the correlations we
have identified. That is because the differences are based on
premises incompatible with Kaufmann’s view. Consequently, we

Nietzsche and the Bahá’í Writings
must
conclude
that
Nietzsche’s
work
is
divided
by
inconsistencies.
This
fact
weakens
his
philosophy
and
encourages us to turn to the Bahá’í Writings instead.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Acampora, Christa. Contesting Nietzsche. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 2013.
Allison, David, B. editor. The New Nietzsche: Contemporary Styles of
Interpretation. New York: Dell Publishing, 1977.
Aristotle Metaphysics. Trans by W.D. Ross. Chicago. Encyclopedia
Britannica 1971.
Chamberlain, Leslie. Nietzsche in Turin. New York: Picador, 1996.
Clark, Maudemarie, Dudrick, David. The Soul of Nietzsche’s ‘Beyond
Good and Evil’. New York: Cambridge University press, 2012.
Danto, Arthur C. Nietzsche as Philosopher. New York: Macmillan, 1965.
Hales, Steven D. and Welshon. Nietzsche’s Perspectivism. Chicago:
University of Illinois Press, 2000.
Hill, R Kevin Nietzsche: A Guide for the Perplexed. New York:
Continuum, 2007.
Hollingdale, R.J. Nietzsche: The Man and His Philosophy. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1999.
Hovey, Craig. Nietzsche and Theology. New York: Y & T Clark, 2008.
Jaspers, Karl. Nietzsche: An Introduction to the Understanding of
His Philosophical Activity. (Walraff, Schmitz) South Bend,
Indiana: Regnery, 1965.
Kaufmann, Walter. Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist.
New York: Meridian Books, 1959.
Leiter, Brian, Sinhababu, Neil, editors. Nietzsche and Morality.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007.
Nehamas, Alexander. Nietzsche: Life as Literature. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press, 1985.
Nietzsche, Friedrich. Beyond Good and Evil, (Marianne Cowan),
Chicago: Regnery, 1955.
———. The Birth of Tragedy, (Francis Golffing). New York:
Doubleday, 1956.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
———. Ecce Homo, (R.J. Hollingdale). Harmondsworth: Penguin
Books, 1979.
———. The Gay Science (Walter Kaufmann). New York: Vintage
Books, 1974. Republished New York: Dover Publications, 2006.
———. Human, All Too Human, (Helen Zimmern, Paul Cohen). New
York: Dover Publications, 2006.
———. On the Genealogy of Morals, Ecce Homo. (Walter Kaufmann),
New York: Vintage Books, 1969.
———. The Will to Power, (Kaufmann, Hollingdale). New York:
Vintage Books, 1968.
———. Thus Spake Zarathustra, (R.J. Hollingdale). Harmondsworth:
Penguin Books, 1961.
———. Twilight of the Gods, The Antichrist, (R.J. Hollingdale),
Harmondsworth: Penguin Books, 1968.
Bernd Magnus, Kathleen M. Higgins. The Cambridge Companion to
Nietzsche. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1996.
Mueller-Lauter, Wolfgang. Nietzsche: His Philosophy of
Contradictions and the Contradictions of His Philosophy. (David
Parent). Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1999.
Bernard Reginster. The Affirmation of Life. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press, 2006.
Richardson, John. Nietzsche’s System. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1996.
Safranski, Ruediger. Nietzsche: A Philosophical Biography. (Frisch)
New York: W.W. Norton, 2000.
Schacht, Richard. Making Sense of Nietzsche. Chicago: University of
Illinois Press, 1995.
Stern, J.P. Nietzsche. Glasgow: Fontana, 1978.
Taha, Abir. Nietzsche’s Coming God. United Kingdom: Arktos Media,
2013.
Solomon, Robert and Kathleen M Higgins, What Nietzsche Really
Said. New York: Schocken Books, 2000.
Warren, Mark. Nietzsche and Political Thought. Cambridge, Mass.:
The MIT Press, 1991.
Woodward, Ashley. Interpreting Nietzsche, New York: Continuum,
2011.

Memorials of the Faithful:
The Virtues of Inner and Outer
Transformation
Marlene Koswan
1. Introduction
The appearance of God’s Manifestation initiates a twofold
process of disintegration of the old world order and integration
of the new world order.1 ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s book Memorials of the
Faithful provides insights into the integration process
associated with the lives of a group, who recognized the new
Manifestation of God, and later accepted His eldest son,
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá as the appointed Center of the Covenant and sole
Interpreter of His Writings. This study was initiated after
reading two observations Marzieh Gail included in her Proem to
Memorials of the Faithful. “...it is a kind of testament of values
endorsed and willed to us by the Bahá’í [sic] Exemplar.... These
are short and simple accounts, but they constitute a manual of
how to live, and how to die” [MF xi]. What values did
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá identify for these 79 individuals who were closely
associated with Bahá’u’lláh during his period of exile from
Baghdad to the prison of Akká? Why did ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá feel it
was important to leave a record? Some insight comes from
Bahá’u’lláh:

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
And yet, is not the object of every Revelation to effect a
transformation in the whole character of mankind, a
transformation that shall manifest itself both outwardly
and inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and
external conditions? For if the character of mankind be
not
changed,
the
futility
of
God's
universal
Manifestations would be apparent. [KI 240]
In order to identify the inward and outward transformation
of the Faithful2, a simple process for analysis was used. Each
time a virtue was mentioned for an individual it was recorded.
If a virtue was mentioned multiple times for one of the
Faithful, it was recorded as a single occurrence. No attempt has
been made to interpret any actions as being an example of a
virtue. The summary was then reviewed to identify how the
internal and external virtues were demonstrated in the
character, manners and conduct of the Faithful, and when
details were provided by ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, how the Faithful
achieved the virtue. The Faithful’s conduct was investigated in
greater detail using the stages of transformation described in
Bahá’u’lláh’s book, The Seven Valleys, and will be used as a
guide for achieving the goal of recognizing the Manifestation
of God.
Before presenting the results of this study it would be useful
to summarize the evolution of our understanding of spiritual
values in the context of religious history. A brief review of the
Judaic, Christian and Islamic teachings related to the
development of moral principles will be presented. This is not
meant to be a comprehensive study, but provides background to
Bahá’u’lláh’s quotation above, that one of the reasons the
divine Messengers have been sent is to effect internal and
external changes in the life of the faithful that are in accordance
with the requirements of the time in which they live.

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
2. Jewish, Christian, and Islamic moral principles
Judaism
In Judaism, Moses presented the guidance of God to His
followers in the form of the Ten Commandments [Exodus 20:2-
17]. The first four Commandments focused on mankind’s
behavior in his relationship to his Creator.
1. You shall have no other gods before Me.
2. You shall not make for yourself a carved image... you shall
not bow down to them nor serve them...
3. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain...
4. Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy...
The remaining six Commandments guide the believers’ behavior
with the rest of mankind and their external conduct.
5. Honor your father and your mother...
6. You shall not murder.
7. You shall not commit adultery.
8. You shall not steal.
9. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.
10. You shall not covet your neighbor's house... neighbor’s
wife, his male... female servant, nor his ox, donkey, nor
anything that is your neighbor’s....
The limited number of rules makes sense given pen and paper
were not available during the time of Moses; most people could
not read; and a list of ten rules was easily memorized.
Christianity
Christians continued to use the Ten Commandments as
guidance for their daily conduct, plus they adopted the spiritual

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
values of Christ. Several examples of these values are
summarized in the Beatitudes. The Beatitudes appear in two
locations, in Mathew during the Sermon on the Mont eight were
identified3, and in Luke, four were mentioned. The Beatitudes
unique to Matthew include the meek, the merciful, the pure of
heart, and the peacemakers. These teachings are spiritually
focused, and include guidance for both internal (e.g. “Blessed
are the pure in heart”) and external transformation (e.g.
“Blessed are the peacemakers”).
The Catholic Church later adopted seven additional virtues—
four Cardinal virtues and three Theological Virtues. The
number seven is significant because it represents God and divine
perfection. The Cardinal virtues were identified by Greek
philosophers Aristotle and Plato, who regarded temperance,
wisdom, justice, and courage as the four most desirable
character traits. The number four refers to the material world
(e.g. four seasons, four directions). These virtues were called
Cardinal, which means hinge, because all the other virtues hang
on them. After the New Testament was written, faith, hope and
charity were referred to as the Theological virtues. The number
three references the Holy Trinity, and it is believed that these
virtues may only be acquired and improved through the Grace
of God. The source of these virtues comes from Paul, First
Corinthians 13:13: “...and now abide faith, hope, love, these
three: but the greatest of these is love...” The use of the word
charity should not be confused with the donation of money or
goods to the needy; this virtue is referring to man’s Love of
God and love of humanity on behalf of God.
Islam
In the Quran, Mu˙ammad provides new guidance for the
believer which focuses on their inner and outer behavior. Some
of the areas addressed included behavior related to knowledge,
spiritual development, speech, and manners and new virtues

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
such as moderation, honour, courtesy, generosity, and
truthfulness.
Mu˙ammad stresses the importance of truth and knowledge:
“and shun the word that is false” [al-Hajj 22:30], “O ye who
believe! If a wicked person comes to you with any news,
ascertain the truth, lest ye harm people unwittingly, and
afterwards become full of repentance for what ye have
done” [Al-Hujurat 49:6], and “And pursue not that of which thou
hast no knowledge...” [al-Isra' 17:36].
Mu˙ammad’s guidance for spiritual development includes:
“There is a mosque whose foundation was laid from the first day
on piety; it is more worthy of the standing forth (for prayer)
therein. In it are men who love to be purified; and Allah loveth
those who make themselves pure...” [at-Taubah 9:108]. “Most
Gracious are those who walk on the earth in humility” [al-Furqan
25:63], “eat and drink: But waste not by excess, for Allah loveth
not the wasters” [al-Ar'af 7:31], and “be moderate in thy
pace” [Luqman 31:19].
The believers received the following guidance related to
speech and its use: “Invite (all) to the Way of thy Lord with
wisdom and beautiful preaching; and argue with them in ways
that are best and most gracious” [an-Nahl 16:125], “no burden do
We place on any soul, but that which it can bear;- whenever ye
speak, speak justly” [al-An'am 6:152], and “When a (courteous)
greeting is offered to you, meet it with a greeting still more
courteous or (at least) of equal courtesy...” [An Nisa 4:86].
Fellow human beings are to be treated with magnanimity,
“Those who spend (freely), whether in prosperity, or in
adversity; who restrain anger, and pardon (all) men;- for Allah
loves those who do good” [al-E Imram 3:134], and “do good to
parents, kinsfolk, orphans, those in need, neighbours who are
near, neighbours who are strangers, the companion by your side,
the wayfarer (ye meet), and what your right hands possess: For
Allah loveth not the arrogant, the vainglorious...” [An Nisa 4:36].

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
3. Overview of Virtues in Memorials of the Faithful
Memorials of the Faithful is a gift from ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá to
future generations. In these brief accounts we are provided with
“a testament of the values endorsed and willed to us by the
Bahá’í Exemplar”. We will now see how the Faithful lived these
virtues through the eyes of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá. The Faithful includes
a group of 79 believers, including some family members, who
were exiled and or imprisoned with Bahá’u’lláh, or provided
Him some type of service. A list of the 82 virtues ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá
mentioned in Memorials of the Faithful has been summarized in
Table 1.
acquiescence
faithfulness
long suffering
self-sacrifice
assurance
fear of God
love
selflessness
bravery
firmness
love of God
sensitivity
calmness
forbearance
love of Manifestation serenity
candour
freedom
lowliness before God servitude
certitude
friendliness
loyalty
severance
chastity
generosity
magnanimity
spirituality
cheerfulness
gentleness
meekness
steadfastness
composure
godliness
mildness
strength
constancy
God's love
modesty
submissiveness
contentment
gratitude
nobility
tenderness
courage
happiness
patience
thankfulness
detachment
high-mindedness peacefulness
tranquility
determination holiness
perception
trust
devotion
honour
perseverance
trustworthiness
dignity
humility
piety
truthfulness
eloquence
illumination
purity
wisdom
endurance
independence
radiance
wonderment
energy
joy
reliability
zeal
evanescence
kindness
resignation

faith
knowledge
righteousness

Table 1: Memorials of the Faithful mentions 82 virtues

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá found virtue in everyone, from the servant and
water carrier to the calligrapher and scholar. When the data was
analyzed to determine if certain occupations were identified
with the same virtues, no pattern was found. This was a
difficult analysis to perform because of the small sample size
and the occupation was not identified for everyone in the
Memorials (16% were not identified). The individuals with the
highest number of different virtues mentioned included a group
of people from diverse backgrounds, Óájí ‘Alí-‘Askar-i-Tabrízí,
a merchant, Mishkín-Qalam, calligrapher, Áqá Ibráhím-i-
Ißfahání, trader, Óájí Mu˙ammad-Ridáy-i-Shírází, servant,
Ismu’lláhu’l-Aßdaq,
scholar,
Mu˙ammad-Ibráhím-i-Tabrízí,
trader, ‘Azím-i-Tafríshí, water carrier, Ustád Báqir and Ustád
Ahmad, carpenter, Óájí Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Taqí, the Afnán,
merchant, Ustád Qulám-‘Alíy-i-Najjár, carpenter, and Áqá
‘Alíy-i-Qazvíní, occupation unknown.
The virtues mentioned most frequently were faith (28
individuals), loyalty (28), Love of God (27), love (23),
trustworthiness (21), patience (19), contentment (18), joy (17),
happiness (16), and detachment (15). Table 1 distinguishes two
types of love including: the Faithful’s love of the Manifestation
and love of their fellow human beings. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s
description of how the Faithful demonstrated the three virtues
faith, loyalty and trustworthiness will be presented now.
Faith
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá describes different aspects of the virtue of
faith. In the first group of phrases, “unsullied in faith” [MF 63]
and “His faith is unalloyed” [MF 74], his focus is on purity of
faith. The purifying of their faith and leaving their religious
traditions behind was a way of expanding their love for their
new Faith. As an example, during the early days of Christianity
there were two types of Christians—Jewish and Gentile. These
two groups did not associate with each other because the Jewish
Christians continued their traditions (eating kosher food,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
circumcision4, etc.) and felt the Gentiles were unclean.5 Over
time, the Gentile Christians, who did not bring their traditions
into Christianity, grew in numbers to become the religion we
know today. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá has highlighted the importance of
leaving these traditions behind once one has recognized the
newest Manifestation of God.
The second group of adjectives ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá uses to describe
faith includes “strong” [MF 127], “firm” [MF 164], “firmly
rooted” [MF 164], “and sound in faith” [MF 141]. This description
of faith is not a surprise given the extreme levels of sacrifice the
Faithful had made in order to be in such close proximity to
Bahá’u’lláh. These descriptions of the Faithful are easy to
understand because they use the senses to convey the virtue.
Another form used by ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá to convey faith is the
metaphor of light. In two examples, the reality of faith, which
has no outward form, is described in a way that the reader must
use his inner ears, eyes and heart to understand how it was
demonstrated by the Faithful, “and his brows shone with faith”
[MF 98] and “he had lit the light of faith in the chapel of his
heart” [MF 131].
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá also brings to our attention that faith is not
static, and mentions for one of the Faithful, “his faith and
certitude growing stronger with every passing day” [MF 154].
How did they increase their faith? Guidance is provided by the
activities of various individuals who spent their days and nights
in “the remembrance of God and in teaching His Cause” [MF
180], “reciting Holy Writ, or expounding the Texts, or
unraveling the most complex of spiritual themes” [MF 181],
“communing with God and chanting prayers” [MF 42], “chanting
prayers, communing with God and calling upon Him” [MF 146],
and “remembering and praising God; he chanted prayers, and
carefully attended to his religious duties...” [MF 66].

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
Loyalty
When ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá mentions the virtue loyalty, he refers to
loyalty to the Covenant. This was particularly important
following the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh when “the fires of tests
leaped up and a whirlwind of violation battered the edifice
down” [MF 159]. During this time, “the absence of Bahá’u’lláh
was not to be endured” [MF 107], “separation consumed us, the
once bright days turned black as night, and all those roses of
other hours were dust and rubble now” [MF 23], and “they were
consumed with sorrow, like candles flickering away; they longed
for death, and stayed firm in the Covenant and labored hard and
well to spread that Daystar’s Faith...” [MF 41]. It is no surprise
that this virtue was second on the list given the critical period
of the Faith’s history, when the Bábís were tested by the
appearance of Him whom God will make manifest, and later
when the early Bahá’ís were tested following the ascension of
Bahá’u’lláh with accepting the Will and Testament of
Bahá’u’lláh and recognizing ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá as the one Center of
the Covenant.
Trustworthiness
Closely related to loyalty, is trustworthiness. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá
addresses this virtue by identifying who trusted the Faithful and
in what capacity they were trusted. The Faithful were
“trusted companions of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá” [MF 41], and “Trusted by
everyone...” [MF 55]. Their trustworthiness was demonstrated in
several capacities, “a trustworthy friend” [MF 57], “confidant”
[MF 102], “attendant and companion” [MF 119], “helper to every
traveler” [MF 154] and “a trusted refuge...” [MF 107]. Further
explanation will not be provided here because the history of
how both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá suffered betrayal by
their half brothers, Mírzá Yahya and Mu˙ammad-‘Alí, is well
documented elsewhere.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
4. Character, Manners and Conduct
The study of the virtues mentioned in Memorials of the
Faithful will be defined within the framework for trans-
formation outlined by ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, “The most vital duty, in
this day, is to purify your characters, to correct your manners,
and improve your conduct” [SWAB 13].
The Merriam Webster dictionary defines character, manners
and conduct as follows:
Character: the way someone thinks, feels, and behaves
Manners: the way that a person normally behaves
especially while with other people
Conduct: the way that a person behaves in a particular
place or situation
Bahá’í Character
In order to narrow down the list of 82 virtues for the
discussion of character, a search of the Bahá’í writings, which
have been translated into English, was conducted. It turned up
six virtues used to describe character. These six virtues appeared
in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s writings and include happiness6, humility7,
serenity8, mercy9, nobility10 and spirituality11. All of these
virtues were also used to describe individuals in Memorials of
the Faithful, with the exception of mercy. A brief summary of
how the Faithful demonstrated these character virtues follows.
The Faithful were happy under all conditions. One would
expect the Faithful would be happy having recognized and
attained the presence of their Beloved, and ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá
describes one such person, “his heart happy in the presence of
the Beloved of mankind” [MF 68]. This happiness was maintained
even when the external situation worsened. “For some time he
prospered and was happy” [MF 76], “they were perfectly content
with their frugal life, supremely happy” [MF 40], “Now I am

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
homeless, and happy” [MF 130], and “the greater the tyranny of
the oppressors, the happier he was...” [MF 163].
The Faithful expressed humility before God. While they may
have been humble people before friends, family and coworkers,
this was not the focus of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s comments. “I turned
toward God and, humbly beseeching Him” [MF 44], “and
humbly practicing her devotions” [MF 193], “Humbly entreating
Thy heavenly Realm” [MF 176], “turning their faces toward Thy
Kingdom, humbly supplicating Thy lofty Realms” [MF 176] and
“spent his time humbly calling upon God, entreating Him,
offering praise...” [MF 79].
The Faithful also experienced serenity in this material plane
and the next world. The majority of the statements in
Memorials of the Faithful were related to the passing of their
souls to the Abhá Kingdom. “...By nature was spiritual
and serene” [MF 55], “he lived to be eighty years old, at which
time, serenely patient, he soared away to the Threshold of God”
[MF 139], “he hastened away, tranquil, serene, rejoicing in the
tidings of the Kingdom, out of this swiftly fading life to the
world that does not die” [MF 155], and “serene and happy,
rejoicing in the tidings of the Kingdom, he soared away to that
mysterious land” [MF 153]. How were they able to achieve this
serenity? They were happy based on their rejoicing in receiving
the Glad tidings on the Kingdom, and humbled by recognizing
the Manifestation of God.
During one of his talks, while visiting the United States,
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá commented that people should express their
thankfulness for the favors of God through action, and not just
verbal thanks. He noted:
To express his gratitude for the favors of God man must
show forth praiseworthy actions. In response to these
bestowals he must render good deeds, be self-sacrificing,
loving the servants of God, forfeiting even life for them,
showing kindness to all the creatures. He must be

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
severed from the world, attracted to the Kingdom of
Abhá, the face radiant, the tongue eloquent, the ear
attentive, striving day and night to attain the good
pleasure of God. Whatsoever he wishes to do must be in
harmony with the good pleasure of God. He must
observe and see what is the will of God and act
accordingly. There can be no doubt that such
commendable deeds are thankfulness for the favors of
God. [PUP 236-237]
The virtues of happiness, humility and serenity focus on how
the Faithful were feeling on a sustained basis. The remaining
two character virtues focus on how the Faithful expressed their
gratitude through praiseworthy actions.
Nobility is defined as the quality of being noble in character,
and having high moral principles or ideals. Three examples of
nobility are summarized here as examples of external
transformation of behavior, through showing kindness,
goodness, generosity and virtuousness. “He spent most of his
time in showing kindness to friend and stranger alike; he was
a magnanimous being, with open hand and heart” [MF 165], “This
man, noble and high-minded ... Learning that his father was a
captive there, he came with all speed to the fortress so that he
too might have a share of those dire afflictions” [MF 140],
“suffering, in his surrender to God’s will he was selflessness
itself. He had no personal aims whatever, no feeling of
attachment to this fleeting world. His one desire was to please
his Lord...” [MF 117].
The last virtue included in this group is spirituality.
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s comments draw attention to the unity of the
spiritual and the physical where the life of the spirit must be
reflected in the physical world. This state was achieved by
“Persevering in his devotions, known for holy practices and
nightly communings and vigils, his heart was illumined, and he
was spiritual of mind and soul...” [MF 84]. Spirituality was thus
demonstrated: “In him the inner and outer perfections,

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
the spiritual and physical, were joined together” [MF 147],
“spiritual of heart, a man detached from all worldly things” [MF
78], “his life spiritual” [MF 8], and “high, spiritual aims...” [MF
119].
Bahá’í Manners
Bahá’u’lláh identifies good deeds which transform virtues
into spiritual manners in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Among the virtues,
He identifies in this Holy Book, the Faithful are to be truthful,
trustworthy, faithful, righteous, fear God, just and fair, tactful
and
wise,
courteous,
hospitable,
persevering,
detached,
hospitable and to be: absolutely submissive to the Will of God.
In the synopsis and codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, there is
also a list of guidelines for how the Faithful should behave in
relationship to one another. This list includes, “Not to: stir up
mischief, be hypocritical, be proud, be fanatical, prefer one’s
self to one’s neighbor, contend with one’s neighbor, indulge
one’s passions, lament in adversity, contend with those in
authority, lose one’s temper, anger one’s neighbor.”
There are not a lot of examples of how the Faithful
demonstrated manners in Memorials of the Faithful. The reason
for the lack of examples is unknown. It may not have been the
focus of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá recording these accounts or it may reflect
the living conditions of the Faithful. They were constantly being
persecuted
or
imprisoned,
and
the
opportunities
for
interactions were limited. This period represents that point in
history where the two fold process of the fall of the old world
order and the rise of the new world order was just beginning.
Through the conduct of the Faithful, they achieved the
objective of recognizing the Manifestation of God, and with
His passing accepting His appointed Center of the Covenant.
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá acknowledged one example of manners related to
the virtue of courtesy in the story of Siyyid Mu˙ammad-Taqí
Manshádí.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
He was a treasury of justice and righteousness, entirely
free from any attachment to worldly things. He had
accustomed himself to a very spare way of life, caring
nothing for food or sleep, comfort or peace. He lived all
alone in a single room, passed the nights on a couch of
palm branches, and slept in a corner. But to the,
travelers, he was a spring in the desert; for them, he
provided the softest of pillows, and the best table he
could afford... [MF 55].
Bahá’í Conduct
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá provided further context for studying the
conduct of the Faithful during one of the talks he gave during
his visit to the United States.
Strive
with
all
your
power
to
be
free
from
imperfections. Heedless souls are always seeking faults
in others. What can the hypocrite know of others’ faults
when he is blind to his own? This is the meaning of the
words in the Seven Valleys. It is a guide for human
conduct. As long as a man does not find his own faults,
he can never become perfect. Nothing is more fruitful
for man than the knowledge of his own shortcomings.
The Blessed Perfection says, “I wonder at the man who
does not find his own imperfections.” [PUP 244]
The Seven Valleys was written in Baghdad after Bahá’u’lláh
returned from the mountains near Sulaymániyyih. It was written
in response to a question from a judge who was a student of
Sufi philosophy. The goal of the Sufi was to attain the presence
of God through meditation, prayer, contemplation and ecstasy.
In The Seven Valleys Bahá’u’lláh describes the seven stages of
the wayfarer’s path with the two goals of recognizing God’s
Manifestation for the age and breaking attachment with the
material world, purifying and preparing the mind and heart. The
Seven Valleys acts as a guide for conduct, and we will now look

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
at ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s description of the Faithful as they
demonstrate the process of walking through the Valleys.
Comments will be limited here to a few examples per Valley,
with a brief summary of the virtues needed, or actions needed,
to pass through the Valley, followed by one or two examples
from Memorials of the Faithful which demonstrate the virtue or
action.
Valley of Search
In order to pass through the Valley of Search, Bahá’u’lláh
recommends the seeker focus on their inner transformation and
spiritual search. Success in passing this Valley is achieved when
the Faithful demonstrate, “The steed of this Valley is
patience...” [SV 5], “Nor should he be downhearted...” [SV 5], “It
is incumbent that they cleanse the heart...” [SV 5], “...turn away
from blind imitation...” [SV 5], and “...sacrifice all things...” [SV
7].
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá cites an example of the Faithful demonstrating
patience, and freeing themselves of attachment from this world,
when he recounts the story of Ismu’lláhu’l-Aßdaq in the battle
of Fort Tabarsi. ”To begin with, they were far from home,
surrounded and cut off by the foe; again, they were starving;
and then there were the army’s sudden onslaughts and the
bombshells raining down and bursting in the heart of the Fort.
Under such circumstances to maintain an unwavering faith and
patience is extremely difficult, and to endure such dire
afflictions a rare phenomenon.” [DB 395 n. 1]
The story of ‘Abdu’lláh Baghdádí  is provided as an example
of someone’s inner transformation, and how he demonstrated
his purity by cleansing his heart.
Even among the nonbelievers, people were astonished at
the change. What could have come over this youth, they
wanted to know; how did it happen that he was suddenly
detached from the world, eager and devoted? “He was

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
tainted, corrupted,” they said; “today he is abstemious
and chaste. He was sunk in his appetites, but is now the
soul of purity, living a righteous life. He has left the
world behind him...” [MF 130]
The words of Táhirih remind us of the importance in turning
away from blind imitation.
Let deeds, not words, testify to thy faith, if thou art a
man of true learning. Cease idly repeating the traditions
of the past, for the day of service, of steadfast action, is
come. Now is the time to show forth the true signs of
God, to rend asunder the veils of idle fancy, to promote
the Word of God, and to sacrifice ourselves in His path.
Let deeds, not words, be our adorning! [MF 200]
Valley of Love
In order to pass through the Valley of Love Bahá’u’lláh
revealed the Faithful must “forsake thine outward eyes; thou
shalt never open the eye of thine inward being...” [SV 9], “A
lover feareth nothing and no harm can come nigh unto him...”
[SV 9], and “...veils of the satanic self be burned away at the fire
of love...” [SV 9].
When describing the Love of God, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá gives
physical form to the unseen, by using the metaphor of burning
candles, fire and stars. Fire has at least two functions in the
Bahá’í writings; it can be used to burn away the veils and
illusions which are blocking the seeker, or with increased
intensity it acts as a power of attraction and welds together
diverse elements. The inner transformation of the Faithful is
very clear in the following descriptions of their veils of satanic
self being burned away, “Then his love of God burned away
every obstructing veil and idle thought...” [MF 22], “...but
the love he had for God was past all concealing. It burst from
his heart, flamed out and consumed its coverings...” [MF 2],
“...and they burst into flame with yearning love for God...” [MF

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
176], and “...the love of God sparked a revolution in the country
of his inner self...” [MF 83].
The love the Faithful experienced for the Manifestation of
God, transformed them to the point where they were willing to
accept pain and endure great hardship for extended periods of
time. One example of an individual, who demonstrated this
love, feared nothing and no harm came to him, was Mullá ‘Alí -
Akbar. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá recounts,
Things came to such a pass that in the end whenever
there was an uproar Mullá ‘Alí would put on his turban,
wrap himself in his ‘abá and sit waiting, for his enemies
to rouse and the farráshes to break in and the guards to
carry him off to prison. But observe the power of God!
In spite of all this, he was kept safe. “The sign of a
knower and lover is this, that you will find him dry in
the sea.” That is how he was. His life hung by a thread
from one moment to the next; the malevolent lay in wait
for him; he was known everywhere as a Bahá’í—and still
he was protected from all harm. He stayed dry in the
depths of the sea, cool and safe in the heart of the fire,
until the day he died... [MF 11]
Valley of Knowledge
In the Valley of Knowledge Bahá’u’lláh explains that the
wayfarer is now aiming for higher spiritual goals. These are
demonstrated when the Faithful “...turn to the guiding light of
the fear of God...” [SV 11], “He beholdeth justice in injustice,
and in justice, grace...” [SV 12], “...if he meeteth injustice, he
shall have patience...” [SV 13], “...if he cometh upon wrath he
shall manifest love...” [SV 13], and are “...freed from turning
towards ourselves...” [SV 16].
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá acknowledges how the Faithful “...longed
for knowledge of God...” [MF 106], and after recognizing
Bahá’u’lláh as the new Manifestation “...drank the red wine

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
of knowledge from the hands of the Cupbearer of grace...” [MF
49]. He also noted that their education was not limited to
religious studies and included the sciences of the material world.
For example, one gentleman was “...well versed in many
branches of knowledge. For a long time he was in the schools,
specializing in the fundamentals of religion and religious
jurisprudence, and making researches into philosophy and
metaphysics, logic and history, the contemplative and the
narrated sciences...” [MF 156]. The importance of educating
women is also confirmed with his comments about Táhirih,
“...she studied various branches of knowledge and the arts,
achieving remarkable ability in literary pursuits. Such was the
degree of her scholarship and attainments that her father would
often express his regret, saying, “Would that she had been a
boy...” [MF 191].
The transformation of the Faithful is once again reflected in
their conduct. Living under difficult situations ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá
records how Mishkín-Qalam turned to the guiding light of the
fear of God.
After the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, Mishkín-Qalam
remained loyal, solidly established in the Covenant. He
stood before the violators like a brandished sword. He
would never go half way with them; he feared no one
but God; not for a moment did he falter, nor ever fail in
service... [MF 100]
The story of the wayfarer in the Valley of Knowledge, who
beholds “justice in injustice, and in justice, grace”, shares
similarities with the story of Nabíl-i-Akbar.
Here, his enemies struck at him again. He was pursued
by the watchmen; guards looked everywhere for him,
asking after him in every street and alley, hunting him
down to catch and torture him. Hiding, he would pass by
them like the sigh of the oppressed, and rise to the hills;
or again, like the tears of the wronged, he would slip

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
down into the valleys. He could no longer wear the
turban denoting his rank; he disguised himself, putting
on a layman’s hat, so that they would fail to recognize
him and would let him be. In secret, with all his powers
he kept on spreading the Faith and setting forth its
proofs, and was a guiding lamp to many souls... [MF 3]
Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar, was an example of one who if he came
upon wrath, he manifested love.
For the sake of God he cast all caution aside, as he
hastened along the ways of love. He became as one
frenzied, as a vagrant and one known to be mad. Because
of his new Faith, he was mocked at in Tihrán by high and
low. When he walked through the streets and bázárs, the
people pointed their fingers at him, calling him a
Bahá’í... [MF 10]
Valley of Unity
In order to pass through the Valley of Unity Bahá’u’lláh
revealed the Faithful must “With the ear of God he heareth,
with eye of God he beholdeth the mysteries of divine
civilization...” [SV 17], “...seeth in himself neither name nor
fame nor rank...” [SV 18], and “...looketh on all things with eye
of oneness...” [SV 18].
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá identifies several of the Faithful who “He seeth
in himself neither name nor fame nor rank.” One of these was
Mírzá Mihdíy-i-Káshání. “This noble personage had been
honored among men, but for God’s love he lost both name and
fame. He bore manifold misfortunes with never a complaint.
He was content with God’s decrees, and walked the ways of
resignation...” [MF 97]. This level of detachment from personal
fame and rank could have been used to describe each of the
Faithful, for they had sacrificed their social status and jobs, and
the possibility of improving their fame and rank, in order to be
close to the Manifestation of God. Being so close to Bahá’u’lláh

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
they were able to listen as the Revelation was revealed and with
their eyes witnessed His behavior under these difficult
situations. ‘Abdu’lláh Baghdádí was one whose “...burning heart
broke
when
he
saw
how
victimized
was
Bahá’u’lláh,
how patiently He suffered. ‘Abdu’lláh yearned to die for Him.
And thus it came about that he offered up his life for his tender
Companion, and hastened away, out of this dark world to the
country of light...” [MF 130].
Valley of Contentment
In order to pass through the Valley of Contentment
Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Faithful “...feeleth winds of divine
contentment...” [SV 29], “...burneth away the veils of want...”
[SV 29], “From sorrow he turneth to bliss, from anguish to
joy...” [SV 29], and “...throw thy life down in His path...” [SV
31]. We can only imagine the joy, happiness and contentment
the Faithful must have experienced having recognized the
Manifestation of God, and living in such close proximity to
Bahá’u’lláh.
One person who felt the winds of divine contentment was
Mu˙ammad-‘Alí Sabbáq of Yazd who ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá  notes,
The friends, one and all, were pleased with him, and he
was cherished at the Holy Threshold; in this state he
soared to abiding glory, leaving his kin to mourn. He
was a kind man, an excellent one: content with God’s
will for him, thankful, a man of dignity, long-
suffering... [MF 58]
Mírzá Mustafá Naráqí is an example of one who did throw
his life down in His path. ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá recounts,
The farráshes hunted them down, and caught Mírzá
Mustafá. But then the oppressors said, “Mírzá Mustafá
had two long locks of hair. This cannot be the right
man.” At once, Mírzá Mustafá took off his hat and

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
down fell the locks of hair. “Behold!” he told them. “I
am the one.” They arrested him then. They tortured him
and Shaykh Ahmad until finally, in Tabríz, those two
great men drained the cup of death and, martyred,
hastened away to the Supreme Horizon. At the place
where they were to be killed, Mírzá Mustafá cried out:
“Kill me first, kill me before Shaykh Ahmad, that I may
not see them shed his blood!...” [MF 149]
Valley of Wonderment
The state of the Faithful in the Valley of Wonderment, is like
no other, and appears totally mystical for “...the traveler is
flung into confusion...” [SV 32], “...wearied out with his own
life...” [SV 32], and Bahá’u’lláh alludes to “...how many worlds
concealed...” in dreams [SV 32], and “...planes and states are
folded up and hidden away within him...” [SV 34].
The world of dreams is provided as proof of a spiritual
existence, where people see without eyes, hear without ears, and
speak with out mouths. The story of Táhirih provides one
example,
One night when it was getting along toward dawn she
laid her head on her pillow, lost all awareness of this
earthly life, and dreamed a dream; in her vision a youth,
a Siyyid... appeared to her in the heavens; he was
standing in the air, reciting verses and praying with his
hands upraised. At once, she memorized one of those
verses... After the Báb had declared His mission, and His
first book, “The Best of Stories,”6 was circulated, Táhirih
was reading a section of the text one day, and she came
upon that same verse...she fell to her knees and bowed
her forehead to the ground, convinced that the Báb’s
message was truth... [MF 193]
Two interesting examples of planes and states folded and
hidden away are summarized here as examples of the sudden

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
appearance of knowledge and what appears to be a miracle.
Pahlaván Ridá, brother of Áqá Mu˙ammad-Báqir and Áqá
Mu˙ammad-Ismá‘íl,
...was a man to outward seeming untutored, devoid of
learning. He was a tradesman, and like the others who
came in at the start, he cast everything away out of love
for God, attaining in one leap the highest reaches of
knowledge. He is of those from the earlier time. So
eloquent did he suddenly become that the people of
Káshán were astounded... [MF 167]
Mírzá Ja‘far -i-Yazdí,
Then the sick man breathed his last. Mírzá Áqá Ján ran
to Bahá’u’lláh, with word of the death. Not only had the
patient ceased to breathe, but his body was already going
limp. His family were gathered about him, mourning
him, shedding bitter tears. The Blessed Beauty said, “Go;
chant the prayer of Yá Sháfí—O Thou, the Healer—and
Mírzá Ja‘far will come alive. Very rapidly, he will be as
well as ever.” I reached his bedside. His body was cold
and all the signs of death were present. Slowly, he began
to stir; soon he could move his limbs, and before an hour
had passed he lifted his head, sat up, and proceeded to
laugh and tell jokes... [MF 158]
Valley of True Poverty and Absolute Nothingness
In order to pass through the Valley of True Poverty and
Absolute Nothingness Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Faithful must be,
“...poor in the things of the created world, rich in the things of
God’s world...” [SV 36], “...burn away all veils and wrappings...
outer wealth or personal opinions...” [SV 36], and “...must stray
not the breadth of a hair from the law...” [SV 39].
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá provides guidance on what the Faithful
detached themselves from in order to be rich in the things of

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
God’s world. “His detachment from the things of this world and
his attachment to the life of the spirit are indescribable” [MF
43], “...a man who lived free and detached from friend and
stranger alike” [MF 36], “they freed themselves from friend and
stranger alike, escaped from the superstitions that had blinded
them before...” [MF 63], “He was detached from every selfish
thought,
averse
to
every
mention...”
[MF
70],
and
“...kept free from every unseemly thought, and shunned
whatever went contrary to the Covenant of God...” [MF 56].
One of the Faithful who gave up everything was Ustád Ismá‘íl.
Composed, happy, Ustád gave up his work, closed his
eyes to his possessions, and left for Iraq, where he lived
in poverty. He had recently taken a bride, and loved her
beyond measure. Her mother arrived, and by subterfuge,
obtained his permission to conduct the daughter back to
Tihrán, supposedly for a visit. As soon as she reached
Kirmánsháh, she went to the mujtahid, and told him that
because her son-in-law had abandoned his religion, her
daughter could not remain his lawful wife. The mujtahid
arranged a divorce, and wedded the girl to another man.
When word of this reached Baghdad, Ismá‘íl, steadfast as
ever, only laughed. “God be praised!” he said. “Nothing
is left me on this pathway. I have lost everything,
including my bride. I have been able to give Him all I
possessed... [MF 29]
Bahá’ís have a two-fold responsibility: the first is to
recognize the Manifestation of God, and the second is to follow
His commandments. We will end this section on conduct, with
the story of one who did not stray the breadth of a hair from
the law, Hájí ‘Alí-‘Askar-i-Tabrízí.
Then he took a little merchandise with him from
Adrianople, and left for the city of Jum‘ih-Bázár, to
earn his livelihood. What he had with him was trifling,
but still, it was carried off by thieves. When the Persian

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Consul learned of this he presented a document to the
Government, naming an enormous sum as the value of
the stolen goods. By chance the thieves were caught and
proved to be in possession of considerable funds. It was
decided to investigate the case. The Consul called in Óájí
‘Alí-‘Askar and told him: “These thieves are very rich. In
my report to the Government, I wrote that the amount
of the theft was great. Therefore you must attend the
trial and testify conformably to what I wrote.”...”The
Óájí only smiled. “Jináb-i-Khán,” he said. “I have given
up my life for the truth. I have nothing else. You are
telling me to lie and bear false witness. Do with me as
you please; I will not turn my back on what is right...”
[MF 162]
5. Conclusions
This study was initiated with the objective of answering three
questions: What virtues did ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá highlight for this
group of faithful individuals? How did they demonstrate inner
and outer transformation in their character, manners and
conduct? How did they achieve this transformation?
What were the virtues? ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá recorded 82 virtues in
Memorials of the Faithful which we need to “purify our
characters, correct our manners and improve our conduct”.
Faith, loyalty, love of God, love, trustworthiness, patience,
contentment, joy, happiness, and detachment were the most
frequently mentioned virtues.
How was it demonstrated? The Faithful succeeded in knowing
themselves and recognizing that which leads to loftiness.
Studying The Seven Valleys along with Memorials of the
Faithful provides a basis for understanding the conduct of the
Faithful and a framework for identifying the behavior which led
them to recognize the new Manifestation of God and later
accept ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá as the Center of the Covenant.

Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation
How was it achieved? ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá explains virtues are not
static, and the Faithful worked on increasing their faith daily by
praying, remembering God, calling upon God, communing with
God, and teaching His Cause. Tests and obedience to the laws
also developed the Faithful’s virtues.
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá provides us with the context for the virtues in
Memorials of the Faithful, and his focus changed depending
upon the situation or relationship of the individual he was
discussing. Character, manners and conduct will change
depending upon the needs of the day: for example, loyalty to
the Covenant during the time the Faithful lived referred to
following Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá, but today this
obedience has grown to include obeying and supporting the
Universal House of Justice.


NOTES
1 See Jena Khodadad, “The Phenomenon of Newly Emerging Entities and the
Twofold Process” (Irfán Colloquium at Louhelen, 2015)
2 “Faithful” will be used to refer to the group of early believers ‘Abdu’l Bahá
included in his book Memorials of the Faithful.
3 The eight Beatitudes in Matthew 5:3–12:
Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of Heaven. (5:3)
Blessed are those who mourn: for they will be comforted. (5:4)
Blessed are the meek: for they will inherit the earth. (5:5)
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness: for they will be
filled. (5:6)
Blessed are the merciful: for they will be shown mercy. (5:7)
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they will see God. (5:8)
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they will be called children of God. (5:9)
Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness sake: for theirs is
the kingdom of heaven. (5:10)
Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you and falsely say all
kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, because
great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the
prophets who were before you.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17

4 “Within the movement, the hotly debated questions were whether Gentile
followers of Jesus needed to become Jews, that is, whether male members
needed to undergo circumcision. Did Gentile followers need to observe
the Torah, the law of Moses? Paul’s answer was unequivocal—Gentiles were
not required to adopt circumcision or to follow the Jewish law.” (Gager,
John G 26). Reinventing Paul. Oxford: University Press, 2000.
The Apostle Paul: “So if anyone is in Christ, there is a new creation:
everything old has passed away; see, everything has become new!” (2
Corinthians 5:17)
5See JoAnn Borovicka, “Parallels in the Ministries of Táhirih and St. Paul,”
Irfán at Louhelen, 2015
6 Mu˙ammad-‘Alíy-i-Ardikání: “He served with a loyal heart. He had a
happy nature, a comely face; he was a man believing, seeking, tested and
tried ...” [MF 141]
7 “Know thou, verily, submissiveness is the good quality of the maid-servants
of God, and humility is the character of the God-fearing leaves who have
sprung forth from the Tree of Mercifulness ....” [TAB 77]
8 Siyyid Mu˙ammad-Taqí Manshádí:  “... for them, he provided the softest of
pillows, and the best table he could afford. He had a smiling face and
by nature was spiritual and serene ...” [MF 55]
9 “O my friend, it is incumbent upon thee to be severed (from all else save
God), to be attracted, to be sincere, and to spend thy life in the path of
God. Be thou holy, spiritual, divine, lively, brilliant, godlike, sanctified,
pure, with merciful character, firm in the Covenant, fluent and knowing;
and gaze toward the Kingdom of El-ABHA with a heart brimming over
with the love of God, with tears flowing the commemoration of God, with
a face scintillating through the light of God, with a heart sincere to the
beloved of God, and with a sword which divides truth from falsehood ....”
[TAB 166]
10 ‘Abdu’s-Íáli˙, the Gardener: “He emigrated to the Most Great Prison and
here, at the Ri∂ván, achieved the honor of being appointed gardener. At
this task he was second to none. In his faith, too, he was staunch, loyal,
worthy of trust; as to his character, he was an embodiment of the sacred
verse, “Of a noble nature art thou.” That is how he won the distinction of
being gardener at the Ri∂ván, and of thus receiving the greatest bounty of
all: almost daily, he entered the presence of Bahá’u’lláh ...” [MF 26]
11 “Now amidst all the peoples of the world must the beloved arise, with a
heart even as the day-star, a strong inward urge, a shining brow, a musk-
scented breath, a tongue speaking ever of God, an exposition crystal-clear,
a high resolve, a power born of heaven, a spiritual character, a
confirmation nothing short of the divine ....” [SWAB 241]

Memorials of the Faithful:
The Democratization of Sainthood
Moojan Momen
This paper considers the literary genre and literary history
behind Memorials of the Faithful (Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá) as well as
examining what is new about the book. The paper will first
consider the genre of hagiography in Judaism, Christianity and
Islam. It will then look at the specific literary precedent set by
Farídu’d-Dín’s Tadhkiratu’l-Awliyá (Memorials of the Saints),
which is the oldest work of this genre in Persian. Next, it looks
at the contents of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s book, giving some examples
of the manner in which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá follows the hagiographic
tradition and where he departs from it; in particular where he
highlights particular virtues that related to the needs of the
Faith. Finally the paper will examine the manner in which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá took this traditional literary format and used it in
an innovative manner to make a profound statement about a
fundamental principle of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
Hagiography in the World’s Religions
Throughout religious history, there has been a desire to
portray the holy figures of each religion both as a way of
pointing to the power of that religion to transform lives—thus

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
often the holy person is portrayed as living an evil and immoral
life before conversion and then being transformed by their new
religion—and also as a way of providing specific examples of the
sorts of virtues and lives of detachment and service that are the
ideals of that religion. In most religions, there has therefore
developed a genre of literature called hagiography—the writing
of the lives of holy people (saints).
Hagiography has been one of the main genres of religious
literature over many centuries. Hinduism has a vast range of
hagiographical literature with each of the numerous religious
traditions within Hinduism having its own list of saints. Indeed
there are many words that are used across the spectrum of
Hinduism to denote what would in English be called a saint,
including sadhu, siddha, nayanmars, bhagat. There are thus many
hagiographies coming from each of the various traditions in
Hinduism. A representative title from two of these traditions
can be mentioned: from the Tamil Shaiva tradition, there is
Sekkhizhar’s
Tiruthondar
Puranam
(also
known
as
the
Periapuranam), which portrays the lives of 63 Tamil Shaiva
devotees (Nayanmars); from the Varkari Vaishnava tradition,
there is the Bhaktavijay of Mahipati, which in the course of
recounting the life of Namdev, a 12th-13th century poet-saint,
also recounts the lives of early saints.1
Buddhism also has its hagiographic literature with many
books written about boddhisatva and siddhas (in the Tibetan
tradition). For example, Abhayadatta’s lives of 84 Siddhas has
been translated into English as Buddha’s Lions (translated by
James Robinson).2
In Judaism, medieval Jewish scholars wrote hagiographies
both of figures from Biblical times and about contemporary
figures. In Christianity, hagiographies were used in the
commemoration of saints days in both the Orthodox and
Catholic traditions.
In Islam, hagiographic accounts were written of many
prophets and of the important figures from early Islamic

Democratization of Sainthood
history. In Sufism in particular, hagiography was one of the
main ways of inculcating the ideal of Sufi sainthood. The word
used to convey the sense of saint in Islam is usually walí (plural
awliyá). This word however has a range of meanings, among
which are authority, guardianship, patronage, protection,
friendship, companionship, spiritual guidance and sanctity.
While in Islam, there is a concept, as indeed there is in
hagiographic literature in general, of a hierarchy of holiness
with the saint at the apex, there are some nuances to this that
are of particular interest to a theme that is discussed at the end
of this paper. For example, in writings of Ibn ‘Arabí, while he
subscribes to the concept of a hierarchy of holiness and indeed
he names various levels of saints, there is also the idea in his
writings that the most noble and accomplished of these saints,
the friends of God, are also unknown, anonymous and
inconspicuous.3
As would be expected, the hagiography of each religion
emphasizes those qualities that are considered to be of
particular value in that religious tradition. Thus for example,
the saints portrayed in the above-mentioned Tiruthondar
Puranam of Sekkhizhar are portrayed as being completely
devoted to the Lord Shiva; the theme of devotion and worship is
a strong one in the Bhakti tradition in which this book lies.
Some polemical elements also enters these stories since one of
the saints in this book is a convert from Buddhism and another
a convert from Jainism. Other Hindu accounts emphasize the
austerities and self-mortification that the saint has undergone,
which is also considered an important marker of devoutness.
The Buddhist hagiographies emphasize the theme of compassion
which is important to the Buddhist tradition.
Western readers sometimes complain that hagiographies
present an idealized and unreal picture of the saint portrayed.
But that only betrays a lack of understanding of what
hagiography is about. Hagiography is not biography. The details
of how the saint ate and drank and slept, details of their home,
even their date of birth and death is of no interest to the

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
hagiographer. What is important to the hagiographer is the
inner life of the saint, not the outer details. What is of interest
to the hagiographer is the inner struggle that the saints went
through, how low they went at first in their moral and spiritual
life, the event that caused the change in direction, and the
heights that they rose to after this, what moral and spiritual
qualities they exhibited in their lives.
One particular feature of hagiographies is that the saints
depicted often come from poor and disempowered backgrounds
as well as the rich and powerful, they often include women as
well as men, and this within societies and religious traditions,
which are usually strongly hierarchical and patriarchal, where the
formal positions at the head of government and the religion are
held by rich and powerful men. Secular histories and biographies
and even church histories have all tended to be about powerful
men, but hagiographies also include a sprinkling of the poor,
the disempowered and women.
Whatever the background of the saints depicted in the
hagiographies of the various religious traditions, however
debauched or evil their early life may have been, the
hagiography describes their rise to spiritual greatness. At the
end, one is given the impression that this was no ordinary
human being; this was a spiritual giant. Often this point is
emphasized by recounting miracles performed by these saints
either during their lifetimes or by their graves or relics or by
calling upon them after their deaths.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Authorship of Memorials of the
Faithful
During the First World War, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was relatively
much more cut off from the rest of the world than at other
times. This meant that he did not have the mountain of
correspondence from Bahá’ís from all parts of the world coming
in, that overwhelmed him at other times. One result of this
lessening of his correspondence workload was that he produced

Democratization of Sainthood
the important Tablets of the Divine Plan in the latter half of the
First World War. Another is Memorials of the Faithful. This is
not a book that he wrote but rather a collection of discourses
of his which, according to the Introduction of the first edition
of the work, can be dated to 1915, at the start of the First
World War. Just before the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Áqá
Mu˙ammad Husayn ‘Alí Akbaroff, known as Kahruba’i
(because he worked on the electrical lighting of the holy shrines
in Haifa and Bahji) sought and obtained from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
permission to publish this work. The grief of the passing of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Kahruba’i’s preoccupation with his lighting
project, delayed publication until 1924, when it was eventually
published with an introduction written by Nuru’d-Din Zayn as
secretary of the Haifa Spiritual Assembly and with the seal of
that assembly appended, stating that permission for this
publication had been sought from and given by Shoghi Effendi.
It was published by the Matba‘at al-‘Abbasiyyah in Haifa.
The title of this collection of talks of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá, Memorials of the Faithful, places it firmly
within the literary genre of hagiography. We can be sure that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was fully aware and deliberate in choosing a title
that resonated so strongly with the leading work of Sufi
hagiography in the Persian literary tradition, Farídu’d-Dín
‘A††ár’s Tadhkiratu’l-Awliyá (Memorials of the Saints). Both
works are in prose. ‘A††ár’s work gives short accounts of 38
prominent Sufis from the past; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s work gives short
accounts of some 79 Babis and Bahá’ís, all of whom had died by
the time the discourses were given. The accounts bring the
individual being memorialized to life by recording anecdotes
about them; although ‘A††ár, whose individual accounts are
longer than ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s, tends to do this more.
The English translation (by Marzieh Gail) of Memorials of
the Faithful has a slight difference from the Persian published
original (in 1924). The Persian original contains 68 chapters,
whereas the English has 69. This is because the Persian original
combines the biographies of Abu’l-Qásim of Sultanabad and

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Áqá Faraj into one chapter. In addition, the original Persian
publication has a prayer or tablet of visitation “He is God!
Thou seest, O my Lord, the assemblage of my loved ones ... the
Bestower, the Forgiver, the All-Merciful” placed after the
section on Shams-i-Îuhá as indeed does the first edition (1971)
of the English translation. However, the prayer is clearly about
the previous entry, the “Consort of the King of Martyrs”. The
1997 edition of the English translation of Memorials of the
Faithful and the online edition of the English translation of
Memorials of the Faithful4 have the prayer in the correct place,
after the Consort of the King of Martyrs.
Continuities and Discontinuities in Memorials of
the Faithful
In many ways Memorials of the Faithful is a continuation of
the tradition of hagiography, but there are some important
discontinuities also. The continuities will be listed first and then
a more detailed consideration of the discontinuities will be
undertaken, since it is the discontinuities that are of more
interest.
Among the continuities are:
1.
That
many
of
the
persons
chosen
for
these
memorializations
are
from
poor
and
disempowered
backgrounds, indicating that even persons from humble
background can aspire to a high spiritual station. Among the 84
Mahasiddhas in Abhayadatta’s Buddhist hagiography are
individuals whose backgrounds include being a beggar,
washerman and fisherman; and in Islamic hagiographies, there
are slaves and even criminals. The 79 people memorialized by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá can be divided into two groups, some five or six
individuals who were clearly among the first rank of Bahá’ís and
who were honoured with designations such as Letter of the
Living (Táhirih), Hands of the Cause (Óájí ‘Alí Akbar
Sháhmírzádí, Ismu’lláh al-Asdaq, Nabíl-i Akbar), Apostles of
Bahá’u’lláh (Áqá Músá Kalím, Mishkín Qalam, Nabíl-i A`zam),

Democratization of Sainthood
and possibly also the Trustee of the Huqúqu’lláh (Sháh-
Mu˙ammad Amín) and the rest who were ordinary Bahá’ís, some
of them in very humble positions of service, including servants
and janitors.
2.
Among
the
individuals
memorialized
in
these
hagiographies, there are often a handful of women, thus
indicating that holiness is even capable of transcending the
norms of the patriarchal power structure that prohibited
women from becoming Buddhist nuns or Christian priests.
Abhayadatta’s Buddhist hagiography includes four women
among the 85 Mahasiddhas he memorializes. Alban Butler’s
Lives of Saints (published between 1756 and 1759) includes
some three or four women saints among the saints allocated for
each month of the year; most Islamic hagiographies, including
‘A††ár’s Tadhkiratu’l-Awliyá, include at least one woman Sufi
saint, Rábi‘ah al-‘Adawiyyah. Memorials of the Faithful includes
three women among the 79 people memorialized.
The discontinuities that can be seen in Memorials of the
Faithful are of interest:
1. In the standard hagiographical accounts there is a tendency
to emphasize a moment of transformation, whether this the
Buddhist awakening or the Christian conversion. This is seen as
a critical moment in a saint’s life; everything before this
moment, is secular, unimportant or, in many cases, portrays a
life of sin and human weaknesses; everything after this moment
is transformed with the saint now a model of that religion’s
virtues. Memorials of the Faithful rarely mentions let alone
emphasizes the conversion experience despite the fact that
almost all those depicted are converts. Instead, most of the
emphasis is on the transformation that occurs after conversion.
This is of importance in that the Bahá’í idea of salvation
involves not just recognition of the Manifestation of God for
one’s age (the conversion experience), but rather also following
the laws and teachings of that Manifestation. Bahá’u’lláh rejects
the idea that one can enter a state of Grace just by affirmation

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
of one’s belief and thus become one of God’s elect (the
Christian Protestant view); one also has to tread a path of
obedience to the law and teachings:
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the
recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His
Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who
representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His
Cause and the world of creation. Whoso achieveth this
duty hath attained unto all good; and whoso is deprived
thereof hath gone astray, though he be the author of
every righteous deed. It behoveth every one who
reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of
transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him
Who is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are
inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other.
Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Source of
Divine inspiration. [KA v. 1]
2. In the standard works of hagiography, there tends to be an
emphasis on miracles performed by the holy person or by the
relics of that person as evidence of their high spiritual state.
Indeed the assumption is that being able to perform miracles is
a function of sainthood. Numerous stories of miracles
performed by the saint are told as well as stories of miracles
performed by their relics or by praying for their intercession
with God. Indeed, the Catholic church makes miracles a
condition for sainthood; it requires evidence of two confirmed
miracles brought about by praying to a person to intercede with
God for that person to be declared a saint.
Memorials of the Faithful appears to discount miracles
altogether. Miracles do not form the centre-piece of any of the
stories of those memorialized. This is in keeping with the
attitude towards miracles in other areas of Bahá’í discourse.
Bahá’u’lláh constantly argued against miracles being a sign of a
Manifestation of God (as many of the people in his time
thought); he resisted calls on him to perform evidentiary

Democratization of Sainthood
miracles (although he did accede to such requests on a few
occasions when he knew those making the request would never
agree on the miracle to be performed nor on their obligation to
recognize him if he succeeded) and he tried to dissuade his
followers from recounting his miracles.
Highlighting Virtues—General
In Memorials of the Faithful, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá highlighted a
number of virtues that are to be found in hagiographies in
general, and some that are more specific to the Bahá’í Faith. He
also uses the text to describe the nature of the path towards
perfection. Among the virtues that can be found in
hagiographies in general, there are:
1. Sacrifice and detachment. Several of the stories in
Memorials of the Faithful portray this theme. Among these is
the story of Ustád Ismá‘íl Banna. When he became a Bahá’í, his
employer, Farrukh Khán Amínu’d-Dawlih protected him for a
time but when this became impossible, he advised him to leave
the country. “Composed, happy, Ustád gave up his work, closed
his eyes to his possessions, and left for Iraq, where he lived in
poverty.” But even that was not the end of the sacrifices he
would have to make for the Faith. “He had recently taken a
bride, and loved her beyond measure. Her mother arrived, and
by subterfuge, obtained his permission to conduct the daughter
back to ˇihrán, supposedly for a visit. As soon as she reached
Kirmansháh, she went to the mujtahid, and told him that
because her son-in-law had abandoned his religion, her daughter
could not remain his lawful wife. The mujtahid arranged a
divorce, and wedded the girl to another man.” But, to highlight
his detachment, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reports that “When word of this
reached Baghdad, Ismá‘íl, steadfast as ever, only laughed. ‘God
be praised!’ he said. ‘Nothing is left me on this pathway. I have
lost everything, including my bride. I have been able to give
Him all I possessed.’” [MF 28-29] See also the story of Pidar Ján
of Qazvín.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
2. Radiance and certitude. Regarding Mírzá Mu˙ammad-‘Alí
Afnán, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
What a radiant face he had! He was nothing but light
from head to foot. Just to look at that face made one
happy; he was so confident, so assured, so rooted in his
faith, and his expression so joyous. He was truly a
blessed being. He was a man who made progress day by
day, who added, every day, to his certitude and faith, his
luminous quality, his ardent love. [MF 17]
3. Thankfulness. Regarding Mu˙ammad ‘Alí Ißfahání,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
Mu˙ammad-‘Alí would carefully consider every blessing
that came his way. “How delicious my tea is today,” he
would comment. “What perfume, what color! How
lovely this meadow is, and the flowers so bright!” He
used to say that everything, even air and water, had its
own special fragrance. For him the days passed in
indescribable delight. Even kings were not so happy as
this old man, the people said. “He is completely free of
the world,” they would declare. “He lives in joy.” It also
happened that his food was of the very best, and that his
home was situated in the very best part of ‘Akká.
Gracious God! Here he was, a prisoner, and yet
experiencing comfort, peace and joy. [MF 25]
4. Contentment. In the account about Mírzá Mahmúd
Káshání and Áqá Ridá Qannad, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
There was in Baghdad a company of seven leading
believers who lived in a single, small room, because they
were destitute. They could hardly keep body and soul
together, but they were so spiritual, so blissful, that they
thought themselves in Heaven. Sometimes they would
chant prayers all night long, until the day broke. Days,
they would go out to work, and by nightfall one would

Democratization of Sainthood
have earned ten paras, another perhaps twenty paras,
others forty or fifty. These sums would be spent for the
evening meal. On a certain day one of them made twenty
paras, while the rest had nothing at all. The one with the
money bought some dates, and shared them with the
others; that was dinner, for seven people. They were
perfectly content with their frugal life, supremely happy.
[MF 40]
5. True seeking. This matter is dealt with in several places.
Regarding Mírzá Mu˙ammad Ißfahání, the servant at the
Travelers’ Hospice in ‘Akká, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
This youth of God was from Ißfahán, and from an early
age was known to its leading divines for his excellent
mind. He was of gentle birth, his family was known and
respected, and he was an accomplished scholar. He had
profited from philosophy and history alike, from
sciences and arts, but he thirsted after the secret of
reality, and longed for knowledge of God. His feverish
thirst was not allayed by the arts and sciences, however
limpid those waters. He kept on seeking, seeking,
carrying on debates in gatherings of learned men until at
last he discovered the meaning of his longing dream, and
the enigma, the inviolable secret, lay open before him.
Suddenly he caught the scent of fresh flowers from the
gardens of the splendor of God, and his heart was ashine
with a ray from the Sun of Truth. Whereas before, he
was like a fish taken from the water, now he had come to
the wellspring of eternal life; before, he was a questing
moth; now he had found the candle flame. A true seeker
after truth, he was instantly revived by the supreme Glad
Tidings; his heart’s eye was brightened by the new dawn
of guidance. So blinding was the fire of Divine love that
he turned his face away from his life, its peace, its
blessings, and set out for the Most Great Prison. [MF 106]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
6. True knowledge. Regarding Óájí Mu˙ammad Khán Baluch,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
Far and wide, he carried on his search. He would speak
to everyone he met. But what he longed for was the
sweet scent of the love of God, and this he was unable to
detect in anyone, whether Gnostic or philosopher, or
member of the Shaykhi sect. All he could see in the
dervishes was their tufted beards, and their palms-up
religion of beggary. They were “dervish”—poor in all
save God—in name only; all they cared about, it seemed
to him, was whatever came to hand. Nor did he find
illumination among the Illuminati; he heard nothing
from them but idle argument. He observed that their
grandiloquence was not eloquence and that their
subtleties were but windy figures of speech. Truth was
not there; the core of inner meaning was absent. For true
philosophy is that which produces rewards of excellence,
and among these learned men there was no such fruit to
be found; at the peak of their accomplishment, they
became the slaves of vice, led an unconcerned life and
were given over to personal characteristics that were
deserving of blame. To him, of all that constitutes the
high, distinguishing quality of humankind, they were
devoid. [MF 90]
7. Honesty and trustworthiness. Regarding Óájí ‘Alí-Akbar
Tabrízí, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
Then he took a little merchandise with him from
Adrianople, and left for the city of Jum‘ih-Bázár, to
earn his livelihood. What he had with him was trifling,
but still, it was carried off by thieves. When the Persian
Consul learned of this he presented a document to the
Government, naming an enormous sum as the value of
the stolen goods. By chance the thieves were caught and
proved to be in possession of considerable funds. It was

Democratization of Sainthood
decided to investigate the case. The Consul called in Óájí
Alí-‘Askar and told him: “These thieves are very rich. In
my report to the Government, I wrote that the amount
of the theft was great. Therefore you must attend the
trial and testify conformably to what I wrote.”
The Óájí replied: “Your Honor, Khán, the stolen goods
amounted to very little. How can I report something
that is not true? When they question me, I will give the
facts exactly as they are. I consider this my duty, and
only this.”
“Óájí,” said the Consul, “We have a golden opportunity
here; you and I can both profit by it. Don’t let such a
once-in-a-lifetime chance slip through your hands.”
The Óájí answered: “Khán, how would I square it with
God? Let me be. I shall tell the truth and nothing but the
truth.”
The Consul was beside himself. He began to threaten and
belabor Alí-‘Askar. “Do you want to make me out a
liar?” he cried. “Do you want to make me a
laughingstock? I will jail you; I will have you banished;
there is no torment I will spare you. This very instant I
will hand you over to the police, and I will tell them that
you are an enemy of the state, and that you are to be
manacled and taken to the Persian frontier.”
The Óájí only smiled. “Jináb-i-Khán,” he said. “I have
given up my life for the truth. I have nothing else. You
are telling me to lie and bear false witness. Do with me
as you please; I will not turn my back on what is right.”
When the Consul saw that there was no way to make Alí-
’Askar testify to a falsehood, he said: “It is better, then,
for you to leave this place, so that I can inform the
Government that the owner of the merchandise is no

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
longer available and has gone away. Otherwise I shall be
disgraced.”
The Óájí returned to Adrianople, and spoke not a word
as to his stolen goods, but the matter became public
knowledge and caused considerable surprise. [MF 162]
Highlighting Virtues—Specific
Regarding virtues that may be seen as specific to the
concerns of the Bahá’í community, the following appear to be
key:
1. Teaching and how to teach. There are many examples in
Memorials of the Faithful of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá extolling Bahá’ís who
teach the Bahá’í Faith to others. In a few instances, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá uses the opportunity to also say a little about how to
teach. Regarding Óájí Mu˙ammad Taqí Afnán, he says:
After he had achieved the honor, in Baghdad, of meeting
Bahá’u’lláh, he returned to Persia, where he proceeded to
teach the Faith with an eloquent tongue. And this is how
to teach: with an eloquent tongue, a ready pen, a goodly
character, pleasing words, and righteous ways and deeds.
Even enemies bore witness to his high-mindedness and
his spiritual qualities, and they would way: “There is
none to compare with this man for his words and acts,
his righteousness, trustworthiness, and strong faith; in
all things he is unique; what a pity that he is a Bahá’í!”
That is: “What a pity that he is not as we are, perverse,
uncaring, committing sins, engrossed in sensuality, the
creatures of our passions!” Gracious God! They saw with
their own eyes that the moment he learned of the Faith
he was transformed, he was severed from the world, he
began to emit rays from the Sun of Truth; and still, they
failed to profit by the example he set. [MF 127]

Democratization of Sainthood
2. Travel teaching. The Bahá’í scriptures also extol the virtue
of travelling to teach the Bahá’í Faith. In the following story
from Memorials of the Faithful, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá appears to be
saying that even the slightest and least successful effort (and the
effort and effectiveness in this case were very slight) to spread
the Bahá’í Faith will bring joy to the heart of Bahá’u’lláh:
The Ilkhání had been a man of unlimited wealth, but he
had wasted it all on the desires of the flesh. He was now
destitute, to such a point that he did not even dare to
step outside his house, because of the creditors waiting
there to fall upon him. Bahá’u’lláh directed him to go to
Umar Pasha, the Governor of Damascus, and obtain
from him a letter of recommendation to Constantinople.
The Ilkhání complied, and he received every assistance
from the Governor of Baghdad. After utter despair, he
began to hope again, and left for Constantinople. When
he arrived at Diyarbakr he penned a letter on behalf of
two Armenian merchants. “These two are about to leave
for Baghdad,” his letter said. “They have shown me every
courtesy, and have also asked me for an introduction. I
had no refuge or shelter except Your bounty; thus I beg
of You to show them favor.” The superscription, that is,
the address he had written on the envelope was: “To His
Eminence Bahá’u’lláh, Leader of the Bábís.” The
merchants presented this letter to Bahá’u’lláh at the head
of the bridge, and when He inquired about it their reply
was: “In Diyarbakr, the Ilkhání gave us particulars as to
this Cause.” Then they accompanied Him to His house.
When the Blessed Beauty entered the family apartments,
Áqáy-i-Kalím was there to meet Him. Bahá’u’lláh cried
out, “Kalím, Kalím! The fame of the Cause of God has
reached as far as Diyarbakr!” And He was smiling,
jubilant. [MF 89]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
3.
Faithfulness
to
the
Covenant.
Regarding
Sayyid
Mu˙ammad Taqí Manshadí, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says:
After the Daystar of the Supreme Concourse had set,
Siyyid Manshadí remained loyal to the Covenant, a sharp
sword confronting the violators. They tried every ruse,
every deceit, all their subtlest expedients; it is beyond
imagining how they showered favors on him and what
honors they paid him, what feasts they prepared, what
pleasures they offered, all this to make a breach in his
faith. Yet every day he grew stronger than before,
continued to be staunch and true, kept free from every
unseemly thought, and shunned whatever went contrary
to the Covenant of God. When they finally despaired of
shaking his resolve, they harassed him in every possible
way, and plotted his financial ruin. He remained,
however, the quintessence of constancy and trust. [MF 55]
The Democratization of Sainthood
What was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá trying to achieve with Memorials of
the Faithful? Of course, one answer is to say that he wished to
memorialize a number of faithful and devoted Bahá’ís who had
died. It is also quite correct to affirm that he was highlighting
through these biographies some of the virtues that human
beings should acquire. But it is possible to speculate that there
is a deeper message in this work. The Bahá’ís memorialized in
this work do not have the usual characteristics of saints. They
are not put up on a pedestal as beings elevated beyond the
human level, as occurs in most hagiographies. Miracles and
super-human powers are not attributed to them. Indeed, one
gets the impression that if we were to have met and known the
majority of these people, the seventy or more one who were not
distinguished Bahá’ís, we would not have recognized them as
being extraordinary in anyway. We would not have picked them
out for memorialization.

Democratization of Sainthood
So in effect, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was seeing in these people
something we would not have seen. His message, is then perhaps
firstly, that if you try, you can see the heroic in everyone, even
the lowly. Much more innovative is that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá appears
to be saying that it is possible for all of us to manifest saintly
virtues, to achieve the rank of saint. A saint is not some
extraordinary creature that is far above us. This can be called
the democratization of sainthood. A saint can be just an
ordinary person who has striven to acquire one or more of the
Divine attributes.
Bahá’u’lláh started this process of the democratization of
sainthood. In his writings, he refers to the Bahá’ís by the term
“awliyá’”, which is exactly the same term as is usually used for
“saint” in Sufi literature—for example A††ár’s Tadhkiratu’l-
Awliyá’—Memorials of the Saints. The following are just a small
selection from many examples of Bahá’u’lláh referring to the
generality of his followers as awliyá’:
We shall herewith cite a few passages from Tablets
specifically revealed to this people, so that every one
may know of a certainty that this Wronged One hath
acted in a manner which hath been pleasing and
acceptable unto men endued with insight, and unto such
as are the exponents of justice and equity:
“O ye friends (awliyá’) of God in His cities and His
loved ones in His lands! This Wronged One enjoineth on
you honesty and piety. [ESW 22]
[In the Lawh-i-Ra’ís:] Erelong will God raise up from
among the kings one who will aid His loved ones
(awliyá’ihi). He, verily, encompasseth all things. He will
instill in the hearts the love of His loved ones
(awliyá’ihi). [Qtd. in PDC 73]
[Referring to Tehran:] It behoveth every one that
visiteth thee to glory in thee and in them that inhabit

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
thee, that have branched from My Tree, who are the
leaves thereof, who are the signs of My glory, who
follow Me (awliyá’í) and are My lovers (ahibbá’í), and
who, with the most mighty determination, have turned
their faces in the direction of My glorious station. [GWB
122]
I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the sighs of Thy lovers
throughout the world, and by their lamentation in their
remoteness from the court of Thy presence, and by the
blood that hath been shed for love of Thee, and by the
hearts that have melted in Thy path, to protect Thy
loved ones (awliyá’ika) from the cruelty of such as have
remained unaware of the mysteries of Thy Name, the
Unconstrained. [ESW 35]
We have admonished Our loved ones (awliyá’iná) to fear
God, a fear which is the fountain-head of all goodly
deeds and virtues. [ESW 134]
Say: O people of God! Adorn your temples with the
adornment of trustworthiness and piety. Help, then,
your Lord with the hosts of goodly deeds and a
praiseworthy
character.
We
have
forbidden
you
dissension and conflict in My Books, and My Scriptures,
and My Scrolls, and My Tablets, and have wished thereby
naught else save your exaltation and advancement. Unto
this testify the heavens and the stars thereof, and the sun
and the radiance thereof, and the trees and the leaves
thereof, and the seas and the waves thereof, and the
earth and the treasures thereof. We pray God to assist
His loved ones (awliyá’ihi), and aid them in that which
beseemeth them in this blest, this mighty, and wondrous
station. [ESW 135]

Democratization of Sainthood
Thus Bahá’u’lláh regarded all of his followers as (potentially)
saints—they were all capable of manifesting the qualities of
sainthood.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is thus following the precedent set by
Bahá’u’lláh when he describes ordinary Bahá’ís as saints
(awliyá’). He is making sainthood applicable to and attainable
by all. The condition for achieving sainthood is not at
instantaneous transformation (the conversion experience) that
elevates the person to a state above the rest of humanity, but
rather the willingness to engage upon the task of perfecting
oneself, to walk together with others along a path of selflessness
and service. It is the fact of being on the path that makes one a
saint—not how far along the path one has travelled.
Thus, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá can be said to have redefined a saint for
the purposes of the Bahá’í Faith. A saint is not someone who has
arrived at a state of perfection but someone who has engaged in
the process of self-perfection, one who is prepared to walk a
path towards that goal. It is the striving for perfection not the
achievement of it that defines a saint. Sainthood is no longer a
station but is now a process. The hierarchy of holiness that has
saints at the apex and the rest of humanity below it is now
transformed into a level playing-field with saints being all those
engaged on the path of striving for perfection.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17

NOTES
1 See Christian Lee Novetzke, Religion and Public Memory: A Cultural
History of Saint Namdev in India. New York: Columbia University Press,
2008.
2 Berkeley: Dharma Publishing, 1979.
3 Todd Lawson “Friendship, Illumination & the Water of Life”, paper
presented to the annual meeting of the Mu˙yiddin Ibn ‘Arabí Society
(NA): “A Living Legacy: Ibn ‘Arabi in Today's World”, Columbia
University, New York City, 23-24 October 2015.
4 www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/memorials-faithful—
the online edition of the Persian, as at the time of completing this paper (5
November 2015), had not yet been transferred to the new website and
reprints the original 1924 edition.

The Concept of ‘Faithfulness’ in the
Bahá’í Texts in English Translation
Wendi Momen
The Bahá’í texts abound with references to faithfulness:
being faithful as an individual; God being faithful to His
people; believers being faithful to the Covenant established by
Bahá’u’lláh; Bahá’u’lláh calling the believers of a former era to
be faithful to the new Manifestation of God. For people,
faithfulness is a state of being, an attitude of mind and soul
that reflects itself in behaviour and deeds, a spiritual quality
that manifests itself in relationships as, for example, loyalty,
trustworthiness and reliability.
This is a preliminary examination of the concept of
faithfulness in Bahá’í English-language texts and the behaviours
expected from those who are faithful.1
Dictionary definitions of faithful
Dictionaries provide a large number of definitions for the
word ‘faithful’:
o strict or thorough in the performance of duty: a faithful
worker
o true to one’s word, promises, vows, etc.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
o steady in allegiance or affection; loyal; constant: faithful
friends
o reliable, trusted, or believed
o adhering or true to fact, a standard, or an original;
accurate: a faithful account; a faithful copy
o obsolete. full of faith; believing
o the faithful; the believers, the body of loyal members of
any party or group
Some of these definitions relate to objects, such as a faithful
copy of something, for example, a manuscript or model train;
or to the accuracy or truth of an idea. Most, however, can be
ascribed to the people. Some also relate to God and His
Manifestations and their relationship with people.
Dictionaries also provide synonyms for ‘faithfulness’:
o true, devoted, staunch
o faithful, constant, loyal imply qualities of stability,
dependability, and devotion.
o faithful implies long-continued and steadfast fidelity to
whatever one is bound to by a pledge, duty, or
obligation: a faithful friend
o constant
suggests
firmness
and
steadfastness
in
attachment: a constant affection
o loyal implies unswerving allegiance to a person,
organization, cause, or idea: loyal to one’s associates,
one’s country
o precise, exact
These definitions and synonyms are helpful when considering
the way in which the concept of faithfulness is used in the
English translations of Bahá’í texts.

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Some of the contexts in which ‘faithfulness’ is used in
Bahá’í texts
The concept of ‘faithfulness’ is used in a variety of contexts
within the Bahá’í writings and texts in English. These largely
correspond with the variety of definitions of the term and
synonyms found in dictionaries. While any selection of
categories in which ‘faithfulness’ or similar terms are used
cannot be exact, nevertheless it is useful for a deeper
understanding of the concept to group together those which
seem generally to relate to the same ideas. These are my own
categories and understandings and I do not wish to suggest that
they are anything more than one way to study the concept of
faithfulness, which appears so often in the Bahá’í writings. Thus
these categories imprecise and fluid and if a particular
quotation is categorized in one way and could be categorized in
another, this merely demonstrates the limitations of the
exercise.
With this caveat in mind, below are the categories of the
concept of ‘faithfulness’ and related ideas, such as loyalty and
fidelity, which are I have found most frequently in the available
Bahá’í writings and texts in English, along with some examples
of each.
The two primary ways in which the concept of ‘faithfulness’
is used in the Bahá’í writings is in relation to God and His
Manifestations, on the one hand, and in relation to people, on
the other. Each of these has numerous ways which the term
‘faithfulness’ or ‘faithful’ is used and I have selected several of
these by way of example. Thus in relation to the faithfulness of
God and His Manifestations, we find ‘Faithfulness as one of the
attributes of God’, ‘God is faithful to His promises’.
‘Manifestations are faithful mirrors of the divine’ and other
ways in which the writings convey to human beings ideas and
realities that are actually beyond their comprehension.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
In conveying the idea of faithfulness as it relates to human
beings, the writings seem to describe many more forms of
faithfulness that take account of the myriad ways in which
people think, behave and work with others, or ought to do; and
their spiritual condition. Thus we find texts that remind us that
‘people are to be faithful to God’, explain how we can ‘develop
the spiritual quality of faithfulness’, describe how we are to
relate to others, and outline the implications of being faithful,
and unfaithful, for all people in general and for followers of
Bahá’u’lláh in particular. Some texts describe particular
attitudes that need to be developed to be a considered a faithful
person, others look at actions and deeds that need to be done.
The writings give examples of faithful people who have been
spiritual lives and qualities are worthy of emulation; indeed
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has composed a large number of tributes to such
individuals, brought together in the book Memorials of the
Faithful.
A third important way in which the concept of faithfulness is
used in the writings is in the context of unfaithfulness, those
who are not faithful, those who have broken the Covenant.
Further, there are references to faithfulness in some of the
mystical writings of Bahá’u’lláh and references to the Faithful
Spirit.
The Faithfulness of God and His Manifestations
The concept of the faithfulness of God and His
Manifestations appears numerous times in the Bahá’í texts. It is
presented as absolute truth, a statement of fact that is
foundational to one’s understanding of the nature of religion
and of the attributes of God.
Faithfulness as one of the attributes of God
It is axiomatic in the Bahá’í teachings that God is ‘the
unknowable Essence’ and is ‘immensely exalted beyond every

Concept of “Faithfulness”
human attribute, such as corporeal existence, ascent and
descent, egress and regress’ [GWB 46]. People come to know
about God through His Manifestations, ‘those luminous Gems
of Holiness’, who ‘appear out of the realm of the spirit, in the
noble form of the human temple’ and are ‘made manifest unto
all men, that they may impart unto the world the mysteries of
the unchangeable Being, and tell of the subtleties of His
imperishable Essence’ [GWB 47]. It is by ‘the revelation of these
Gems of Divine virtue’ that ‘all the names and attributes of
God, such as knowledge and power, sovereignty and dominion,
mercy and wisdom, glory, bounty, and grace, are made manifest’
[GWB 48]. God ‘chose to confer upon man the unique distinction
and capacity to know Him and to love Him’ and upon ‘the
reality of man’ has ‘focused the radiance of all of His names and
attributes, and made it a mirror of His own Self’ [GWB 65].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained that ‘Just as the light and effulgence of
the sun when cast upon a polished mirror are reflected fully,
gloriously, so, likewise, the qualities and attributes of Divinity
are radiated from the depths of a pure human heart’ [PUP 69] and
therefore the ‘most important thing is to polish the mirrors of
hearts in order that they may become illumined and receptive of
the divine light’ [PUP 14].
Thus it is that human beings come to ‘know’ God and His
attributes and try to reflect them. Among the attributes of God
described in the Bahá’í writings is faithfulness:
I call on Thee O Exalted One, O Faithful One, O
Glorious One! Thou the Sufficing, Thou the Healing,
Thou the Abiding, O Thou Abiding One! — Bahá’u’lláh
[BP 102]
Verily thy Lord is the faithful, the perfect. — Bahá’u’lláh
[BS 193]
No God is there save Thee, the Strong and the Faithful.
— Bahá’u’lláh [BP 25]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Verily, Thou art the All-Powerful, the Ever-Faithful, the
Omnipotent. — The Báb [SWB 4]
God is faithful to His promises
The keeping of promises is highly valued by many as a sign of
a person’s trustworthiness and reliability. The promises God are
even more significant, as are part of the Greater Covenant
‘which every Manifestation of God makes with His followers,
promising that in the fullness of time a new Manifestation will
be sent, and taking from them the undertaking to accept Him
when this occurs’.2 That promise is often cast in religious
scripture as a prophecy of events that will occur in the end time
or in thousands of years:
Verily Thou art God, the Lord of creation, the
All-Sufficing. Thou art faithful to Thy promise and
doest whatsoever Thou pleasest. — The Báb [SWB 209]
When Bahá’u’lláh arrived at this prison in the Holy
Land, discerning souls were awakened to the fact that
the prophecies which God had voiced through the tongue
of His Prophets two or three thousand years before had
been realized and that His Promises had been fulfilled...
— ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SAQ 37]
Indeed such a consummation [arrival of Bahá’u’lláh in
‘Akká], He assures us, had been actually prophesied
‘through the tongue of the Prophets two or three
thousand years before.’ God, ‘faithful to His promise’,
had, ‘to some of the Prophets’ ‘revealed and given the
good news that the “Lord of Hosts should be manifested
in the Holy Land”.’ Isaiah had, in this connection,
announced in his Book: ‘Get thee up into the high
mountain, O Zion that bringest good tidings; lift up thy
voice with strength, O Jerusalem, that bringest good
tidings. Lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Judah: “Behold your God! Behold the Lord God will
come with strong hand, and His arm shall rule for
Him.”’ David, in his Psalms, had predicted: ‘Lift up your
heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting
doors; and the King of Glory shall come in. Who is this
King of Glory? The Lord of Hosts, He is the King of
Glory.’ ‘Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath
shined. Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence.’
Amos had, likewise, foretold His coming: ‘The Lord will
roar from Zion, and utter His voice from Jerusalem; and
the habitations of the shepherds shall mourn, and the top
of Carmel shall wither.’ — Shoghi Effendi [GPB 183]
God’s promises to those who are faithful
Blessed the one who hath remained faithful to the
Covenant of God... Say: This is the Day of Bounty!
Bestir yourselves that I may make you monarchs in the
realms of My Kingdom. If ye follow Me, ye shall behold
that which ye were promised, and I will make you My
companions in the dominion of My majesty and the
intimates of My beauty in the heaven of My power
forevermore. — Bahá’u’lláh [SLH 64-65]
No God is there but Him. All creation and its empire are
His. Unto Him return the works of the faithful. —
Bahá’u’lláh [SLH 211]
For verily I say, the heavenly Father is ever with you and
keeps watch over you. If you be faithful to Him, He will
assuredly deliver into your hands all the treasures of the
earth, and will exalt you above all the rulers and kings of
the world. — The Báb [DB 93]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Manifestations are faithful mirrors of the divine
As we have seen, God makes Himself known to His people
through the Manifestations of God, who have appeared on earth
from time to time throughout the whole created history of
humankind. They are perfect mirrors of all the attributes of
God:
These Prophets and chosen Ones of God are the
recipients and revealers of all the unchangeable
attributes and names of God. They are the mirrors that
truly and faithfully reflect the light of God. Whatsoever
is applicable to them is in reality applicable to God,
Himself, Who is both the Visible and the Invisible. —
Bahá’u’lláh [KI 141]
The face of nature is illumined, the grass, the stones, the
hills and valleys shine; but they shine not of themselves,
but because they reflect the rays of the sun. It is the sun
which shines. In the same way, our minds reflect God.
Those who live thinking good thoughts, doing good
deeds, and with love in their hearts... A stone reflects
but slightly the rays of the sun; but if a mirror be held
up, though it be small, the whole of the sun will be
reflected in it, because the mirror is clear and bright.
Just so it is with the minds of men and the Sun of
Reality. The great Masters and Teachers so purified their
minds by the love of God and of men that they became
like polished mirrors, reflecting faithfully the Glory of
God. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [BS 302-303]
People are to be Faithful to God
Faithfulness is a spiritual quality that individuals can develop
as they strive to come closer to God and ‘polish’ the ‘mirrors’ of
their ‘hearts’ [PUP 14]. While the concept of faithfulness is used
to describe a fact about the nature of God and His

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Manifestations, when used in relation to human beings it is
often set out as an appeal or injunction for them to improve
their attitude, behaviour and spiritual character, or as a
reminder of the requirements and benefits of spiritual progress.
O Ye People that Have Minds to Know and Ears to
Hear! The first call of the Beloved is this: O mystic
nightingale! Abide not but in the rose garden of the
spirit. O messenger of the Solomon of love! Seek thou
no shelter except in the Sheba of the well beloved, and O
immortal phoenix! dwell not save on the mount of
faithfulness. Therein is thy habitation, if on the wings of
thy soul thou soarest to the realm of the infinite and
seekest to attain thy goal. — Bahá’u’lláh [HW Persian #1]
Have they not told thee that faithfulness is a duty on
those who follow the mystic way, that it is the true guide
to His Holy Presence? — Bahá’u’lláh [FVSV 74]
Human progress requires faithfulness
All religions teach that we must do good, that we must
be generous, sincere, truthful, law-abiding, and faithful;
all this is reasonable, and logically the only way in which
humanity can progress. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PT 141]
... the Divine religions enjoin upon and encourage all the
faithful to adopt such principles as will conduce to
continuous improvements, and to acquire from other
peoples sciences and arts. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SDC 99]
Faithfulness as one of the spiritual qualities of the
human being
... human reality stands between the higher and the lower
in man, between the world of the animal and the world

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
of divinity... All the imperfections found in the animal
are found in man...
On the other hand, we find in him justice, sincerity,
faithfulness, knowledge, wisdom, illumination, mercy
and pity coupled with intellect, comprehension, the
power to grasp the realities of things and the ability to
penetrate the truths of existence. All these great
perfections are to be found in man. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PUP
465]
No attribute is more commendable than faithfulness. It
is of the greatest of the virtues in the world of
humanity. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TAB3 634]
Be faithful
He Who is the Eternal Truth, exalted be His glory, hath
ever loved faithfulness. Well is it with him who adorneth
his temple with its raiment, and is honoured by this
greatest of distinctions. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [CC2 333]
Give faithful service
... for our attention is directed toward the heavenly
Kingdom unto which we must render faithful service. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PUP 334]
The Guardian sends messages of consolation to you and
all the friends in this bereavement, and he says that in
this calamitous time all must bow down their heads and
be acquiescent, arise in faithful service to His Cause,
and model themselves upon that most exalted, sacred and
resplendent presence. — Bahiyyih Khánum [BK 82]

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Benefits of faithfulness to the individual/rewards for the
faithful
Hadst thou faithfully obeyed the Decree of God, all the
inhabitants of thy land would have followed thee, and
would have themselves entered into the celestial
Paradise, content with the good-pleasure of God for
evermore. — The Báb [SWB 32]
As to those who have faithfully observed the ordinances
in the Bayan from the inception of its revelation until
the Day when Him Whom God shall make manifest will
appear, these are indeed the companions of the paradise
of His good-pleasure who will be glorified in the
presence of God and will dwell in the pavilions of His
celestial Garden. — The Báb [SWB 138]
This is the Day that God hath ordained to be a blessing
unto the righteous, a retribution for the wicked, a
bounty for the faithful and a fury of His wrath for the
faithless and the froward. — Bahá’u’lláh [TB 103]
Whoso hath searched the depths of the oceans that lie
hid within these exalted words, and fathomed their
import, can be said to have discovered a glimmer of the
unspeakable glory with which this mighty, this sublime,
and most holy Revelation hath been endowed. From the
excellence of so great a Revelation the honour with
which its faithful followers must needs be invested can
be well imagined. By the righteousness of the one true
God! The very breath of these souls is in itself richer
than all the treasures of the earth. Happy is the man that
hath attained thereunto, and woe betide the heedless. —
Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 10]
Happy is the faithful one who is attired with the vesture
of high endeavour and hath arisen to serve this Cause.
Such a soul hath truly attained the desired Goal and hath

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
apprehended the Object for which it hath been created.
— Bahá’u’lláh [TB 257]
... after departing from this world the faithful ones will
enter into paradises which have no likeness, and enjoy
winning graces which are beyond comprehension: verily
those paradises are the fruits of their deeds which they
have accomplished in this world. — Bahá’u’lláh [BS 202]
Know thou, moreover, that those who faithfully serve
the All-Merciful will be enriched by Him out of His
heavenly treasury... — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [CC2 513]
Entrance into the Kingdom/The life of the soul after
the body’s death
... O immortal phoenix! dwell not save on the mount of
faithfulness. Therein is thy habitation, if on the wings of
thy soul thou soarest to the realm of the infinite and
seekest to attain thy goal. — Bahá’u’lláh [HW Persian #1]
Know, verily, that the soul is a sign of God, a heavenly
gem whose reality the most learned of men hath failed to
grasp, and whose mystery no mind, however acute, can
ever hope to unravel. It is the first among all created
things to declare the excellence of its Creator, the first
to recognize His glory, to cleave to His truth, and to
bow down in adoration before Him. If it be faithful to
God, it will reflect His light, and will, eventually, return
unto Him. — Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 158-159]
Thou hast, moreover, asked Me concerning the state of
the soul after its separation from the body. Know thou,
of a truth, that if the soul of man hath walked in the
ways of God, it will, assuredly, return and be gathered to
the glory of the Beloved. By the righteousness of God! It
shall attain a station such as no pen can depict, or

Concept of “Faithfulness”
tongue describe. The soul that hath remained faithful to
the Cause of God, and stood unwaveringly firm in His
Path shall, after his ascension, be possessed of such
power that all the worlds which the Almighty hath
created can benefit through him. Such a soul provideth,
at the bidding of the Ideal King and Divine Educator,
the pure leaven that leaveneth the world of being, and
furnisheth the power through which the arts and
wonders of the world are made manifest. Consider how
meal needeth leaven to be leavened with. Those souls
that are the symbols of detachment are the leaven of the
world. Meditate on this, and be of the thankful. —
Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 161]
Entrance into the Kingdom is through the love of God,
through detachment, through sanctity and holiness,
through truthfulness, purity, through steadfastness and
faithfulness and through self-sacrifice. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
[SAQ 281]
Examples of faithfulness
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s book Memorials of the Faithful is a tribute to
a number of believers who were outstanding examples of
faithfulness, courage and spiritual strength in the face of many
challenges and difficulties. Below is an example of just one such
individual, together with another story told by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
describing the faithfulness and selflessness of Christ’s disciples:
Faithfulness of Christ’s disciples
The most memorable instance of spiritual consultation
was the meeting of the disciples of Jesus Christ upon the
mount after His ascension. They said, ‘Jesus Christ has
been crucified, and we have no longer association and
intercourse with Him in His physical body; therefore, we
must be loyal and faithful to Him, we must be grateful

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
and appreciate Him, for He has raised us from the dead,
He made us wise, He has given us eternal life. What shall
we do to be faithful to Him?’ And so they held council.
One of them said, ‘We must detach ourselves from the
chains and fetters of the world; otherwise, we cannot be
faithful.’ The others replied, ‘That is so.’ Another said,
‘Either we must be married and faithful to our wives and
children or serve our Lord free from these ties. We
cannot be occupied with the care and provision for
families and at the same time herald the Kingdom in the
wilderness. Therefore, let those who are unmarried
remain so, and those who have married provide means of
sustenance and comfort for their families and then go
forth to spread the message of glad tidings.’ There were
no dissenting voices; all agreed, saying, ‘That is right.’ A
third disciple said, ‘To perform worthy deeds in the
Kingdom we must be further self-sacrificing. From now
on we should forego ease and bodily comfort, accept
every difficulty, forget self and teach the Cause of God.’
This found acceptance and approval by all the others.
Finally a fourth disciple said, ‘There is still another
aspect to our faith and unity. For Jesus’ sake we shall be
beaten, imprisoned and exiled. They may kill us. Let us
receive this lesson now. Let us realize and resolve that
though we are beaten, banished, cursed, spat upon and
led forth to be killed, we shall accept all this joyfully,
loving those who hate and wound us.’ All the disciples
replied, ‘Surely we will—it is agreed; this is right.’ Then
they descended from the summit of the mountain, and
each went forth in a different direction upon his divine
mission. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PUP 74]
Zaynu’l-Ábidín Yazdí
One of the emigrants who died along the way to the
Holy Land was Zaynu’l-Ábidín Yazdí of Yazd. When, in
Manshád, this devoted man first heard the cry of God,

Concept of “Faithfulness”
he was awakened to restless life. A holy passion stirred
him, his soul was made new. The light of guidance
flamed from the lamp of his heart; the love of God
sparked a revolution in the country of his inner self.
Carried away by love for the Loved One’s beauty, he left
the home that was dear to him and set out for the
Desired Land.
As he travelled along with his two sons, gladdened by
hopes of the meeting that would be his, he paused on
every hilltop, in every plain, village and hamlet to visit
with the friends. But the great distance stretching out
before him changed to a sea of troubles, and although
his spirit yearned, his body weakened, and at the end he
sickened and turned helpless; all this when he was
without a home.
Sick as he was, he did not renounce the journey, nor fail
in his resolve; he had amazing strength of will, and was
determined to keep on; but the illness worsened with
every passing day, until at last he winged his way to the
mercy of God, and yielded up his soul in a longing
unfulfilled.
Although to outward eyes he never drained the cup of
meeting, never gazed upon the beauty of Bahá’u’lláh,
still he achieved the very spirit of spiritual communion;
he is accounted as one of those who attained the
Presence, and for him the reward of those who reached
that Presence is fixed and ordained. He was a stainless
soul, faithful, devoted and true. He never drew a breath
except in righteousness, and his single desire was to
worship his Lord. He walked the ways of love; he was
known to all for steadfast loyalty and pure intent. May
God fill up reunion’s cup for him in a fair country, make
him to enter the everlasting Kingdom, and console his

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
eyes with beholding the lights of that mysterious Realm.
— ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [MF 83-84]
Being a Faithful Person
The Bahá’í texts also describe what a faithful person is like
and how one can become faithful. These texts could apply to
the generality of humankind, not just to those who have already
recognized Bahá’u’lláh and are trying to follow His teachings.
These quotations seem to guide such people towards recognition
of the Manifestation of God by building on their faithfulness to
God:
Since thou hast faithfully obeyed the true religion of
God in the past, it behoveth thee to follow His true
religion hereafter, inasmuch as every religion proceedeth
from God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. — The
Báb [SWB 138]
Who are the faithful?
... the faithful, they that have believed in God and in His
signs, whose hearts witness to His unity, whose tongues
proclaim His oneness, and who speak not except by His
leave. — Bahá’u’lláh [SLH 231]
The requirements of faithfulness
Our requirements of faithfulness is that thou mayest
sacrifice thyself and, in the divine path, close thine eye
to every pleasure and strive with all thy soul that thou
mayest disappear and be lost, like unto a drop, in the
ocean of the love of God. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TAB3 552]

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Developing the spiritual quality of faithfulness
Turn with the whole of thy being to God, forget aught
else save God, and supplicate God to make thee a sign of
guidance in the midst of people who are veiled from
God; perchance they may be guided to the Orb of all
horizons, enter the kingdom of harmony, drink of the
cup of the love of God, rejoice at the manifestation of
the Kingdom of God, taste the delight of the mention of
God, and shelter themselves in the shadow of the Tree of
Life in the midst of the Paradise of God.
This beseemeth the believers; this is the qualification of
the sincere; this is the path of the knowers, and this is
the utmost aim of the faithful.
Exert thy utmost power that thou mayest share this great
bounty. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [JWTA 21]
Faithfulness of women
Woman has everywhere been commended for her
faithfulness. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [ABL 105]
Consider thou how the faithful women in the time of
Christ, and after the departure of His Highness,
underwent hardships! What difficulties did they not
bear; and what calamities did they not endure! But
adversity and trial, misfortune and derision, became the
cause of imperishable and deathless glory and rest. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TAB2 264-265]
What sustains the faithful
The faithful are ever sustained by the presence of the
Supreme Concourse. In the Supreme Concourse are

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Jesus, and Moses, and Elijah, and Bahá’u’lláh, and other
supreme Souls. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [ABL 97]
Being a faithful Bahá’í
Many of the verses concerning faithfulness found in the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh and in the letters and talks of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá are directed towards those who have already recognized—
or are about to recognize—the Manifestation of God and are
striving to be more faithful to His teachings. The guidance
found in these passages explains who is considered to be
faithful; what faithfulness is; the characteristics of a faithful
Bahá’í; the attitudes, qualities, virtues, behaviours and actions
that the faithful are to acquire and those they are to avoid or
overcome. They outline the requisites for spiritual growth, the
need for loyalty to the Cause and steadfastness in the Covenant,
the trials and sacrifices that the faithful are to endure. Several
of the examples below are taken from Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
written to individual believers in the West, often in response to
their letters to Him. Many convey very detailed guidance about
how Bahá’ís should conduct themselves, provided to those who
were new to the Faith and were learning attitudes and
behaviours that were sometimes very different from those they
held before becoming Bahá’ís. It is noticeable that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s Tablets mention a large number of spiritual qualities in
addition to faithfulness.
Who are the faithful?
Indeed those whose souls have been created through the
splendour of the light of thy Lord recognize the Truth
and are numbered with such as faithfully obey the One
True God and are well assured... — The Báb [SWB 24]
... the favoured among the faithful, [are] they that truly
uphold the unity of God and are wholly devoted to His
Cause. — Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 344]

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Use of the terms, ‘the faithful’, ‘faithful followers’, ‘faithful
workers’, ‘faithful servants’, ‘faithful lovers’, ‘faithful friends’,
etc. to mean ‘believers’ or followers of Bahá’u’lláh
To live the teachings of the Cause should be the
paramount concern of every true believer, and the only
way to do so is to commune both in spirit and through
actual concrete means with the entire community of the
faithful. — From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi to an individual, 13 August 1936 [LG 475]
From the excellence of so great a Revelation the honour
with which its faithful followers must needs be invested
can be well imagined. By the righteousness of the one
true God! The very breath of these souls is in itself richer
than all the treasures of the earth. Happy is the man that
hath attained thereunto, and woe betide the heedless. —
Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 10]
... it devolves upon the faithful workers in India to
follow up the work, to seize every opportunity and to
give to her hasty and in many places insufficient services
a more permanent and lasting character. — Shoghi
Effendi [DND 17]
If His faithful servants could realize how meritorious
are benevolent deeds in these days, they would all arise
to do that which is meet and seemly. — Bahá’u’lláh [CC1
488]
I appeal in particular to those faithful lovers of His
Cause in that vast and distant dominion. — Shoghi
Effendi [DND 1]
It is a great pleasure and privilege to me to enter into
direct, and I trust, permanent correspondence with those
faithful friends of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, who though few in
number and scattered over that vast and flourishing

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
country, will I trust act as a powerful leaven to the mass
of that spiritually-minded people. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [MC 3]
Faithfulness as one of a cluster of spiritual qualities
of the believer
Cleave ye at all times to the cord of trustworthiness and
hold fast the hem of the garment of truthfulness: thus
biddeth you He Who is the Truthful, the Trusted One.
God is my witness, trustworthiness is a light that shineth
refulgently from the heavens, and leadeth to the
exaltation of the Cause of God, the Omnipotent, the
Incomparable, the All-Praised. Whoso hath remained
faithful to the Covenant hath been steadfast in his
adherence to trustworthiness, whilst those who have
repudiated it have erred grievously. — Bahá’u’lláh [CC2
334]
We call to remembrance every one of the friends and
exhort them to have regard to trustworthiness, which is a
charge that God hath entrusted to the safe-keeping of
His servants; to righteousness, which He hath made to be
a citadel of strength for His well-favoured ones and
faithful, humble servants; and to whatever virtues shall
conduce to their dignity and honour among all peoples.
— Bahá’u’lláh [CC2 330]
... ye must conduct yourselves in such a manner that ye
may stand out distinguished and brilliant as the sun
among other souls. Should any one of you enter a city,
he should become a centre of attraction by reason of his
sincerity, his faithfulness and love, his honesty and
fidelity, his truthfulness and loving-kindness towards all
the peoples of the world, so that the people of that city
may cry out and say: ‘This man is unquestionably a
Bahá’í, for his manners, his behaviour, his conduct, his
morals, his nature, and disposition reflect the attributes

Concept of “Faithfulness”
of the Bahá’ís.’ Not until ye attain this station can ye be
said to have been faithful to the Covenant and
Testament of God. For He hath, through irrefutable
Texts, entered into a binding Covenant with us all,
requiring us to act in accordance with His sacred
instructions and counsels. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 70]
Characteristics of the faithful believer
One of the teachings is that love and faithfulness must
so prevail in the hearts that men may see the stranger as a
friend, the sinner as an intimate fellow, may count
enemies as allies, regard foes as loving comrades, call
their executioner the giver of life, consider the denier as
a believer and the unbeliever as a faithful one—that is,
men must behave in such a manner as may befit the
believers, the faithful, the friend and the confidant. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [BWF 413]
I desire distinction for you. The Bahá’ís must be
distinguished from others of humanity. But this
distinction must not depend upon wealth—that they
should become more affluent than other people. I do not
desire for you financial distinction. It is not an ordinary
distinction I desire; not scientific, commercial, industrial
distinction. For you I desire spiritual distinction—that is,
you must become eminent and distinguished in morals.
In the love of God you must become distinguished from
all else. You must become distinguished for loving
humanity, for unity and accord, for love and justice.
In brief, you must become distinguished in all the virtues
of the human world—for faithfulness and sincerity, for
justice and fidelity, for firmness and steadfastness, for
philanthropic deeds and service to the human world, for
love toward every human being, for unity and accord
with all people, for removing prejudices and promoting

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
international
peace.
Finally,
you
must
become
distinguished for heavenly illumination and for acquiring
the bestowals of God. I desire this distinction for you.
This must be the point of distinction among you. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PUP 190]
Faithfulness of women believers
Many of the western believers who corresponded with
‘Abdu’l-Bahá were women. The two excerpts from His Tablets
below are a very small example of how He encouraged women
to develop their spiritual capacities and strength.
Convey thou unto the handmaids of the Merciful the
message that when a test turneth violent they must stand
unmoved, and faithful to their love for Bahá. In winter
come the storms, and the great winds blow, but then will
follow spring in all its beauty, adorning hill and plain
with perfumed plants and red anemones, fair to see.
Then will the birds trill out upon the branches their
songs of joy, and sermonize in lilting tones from the
pulpits of the trees. Erelong shall ye bear witness that
the lights are streaming forth, the banners of the realm
above are waving, the sweet scents of the All-Merciful
are wafted abroad, the hosts of the Kingdom are
marching down, the angels of heaven are rushing
forward, and the Holy Spirit is breathing upon all those
regions. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 163-164]
Be thou a light to every darkness, a dispeller of every
sadness, a healer for every sick person, a quencher for
every thirst, a shelter for every refugee, a refuge for
every captive. If the Pharisees interfere with thee, it is
incumbent upon thee to implore God to guide them to
the road of salvation! And it is incumbent upon thee to
be affable to them under all circumstances, to be patient
in afflictions, to be courteous with the enemies and to

Concept of “Faithfulness”
pray for the hateful sinners! This is the nature of the
faithful and convinced women believers whose hearts are
dilated with the fragrances of God and who instruct
people in the teachings of God! — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TAB2
285]
Through the insults and indignities suffered by the well-
assured and faithful maidservants of God, portals of
everlasting honour will be flung open before the face of
the women in Persia, nay everywhere in the world... —
Shoghi Effendi [FL 33]
How to recognise the faithful servant
The bounties of God are: to love each other, to speak the
truth, to sever our hearts from the world, to be reverent,
to be humble, to be hospitable. By these things you
know the faithful servant of God. How do we know the
light? By its rays. So when you see these qualities, you
will know that the servant of God has received the
regeneration. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [BS 501]
How to become faithful/how to develop faithfulness
O banished and faithful friend! Quench the thirst of
heedlessness with the sanctified waters of My grace, and
chase the gloom of remoteness through the morning-
light of My Divine presence. Suffer not the habitation
wherein dwelleth My undying love for thee to be
destroyed through the tyranny of covetous desires, and
overcloud not the beauty of the heavenly Youth with the
dust of self and passion.
Clothe thyself with the essence of righteousness, and let
thine heart be afraid of none except God. Obstruct not
the luminous spring of thy soul with the thorns and
brambles of vain and inordinate affections, and impede

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
not the flow of the living waters that stream from the
fountain of thine heart. Set all thy hope in God, and
cleave tenaciously to His unfailing mercy. Who else but
Him can enrich the destitute, and deliver the fallen from
his abasement? — Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 323]
It behoveth the loved ones of the Lord to be the signs
and tokens of His universal mercy and the embodiments
of His own excelling grace. Like the sun, let them cast
their rays upon garden and rubbish heap alike, and even
as clouds in spring, let them shed down their rain upon
flower and thorn. Let them seek but love and
faithfulness, let them not follow the ways of unkindness,
let their talk be confined to the secrets of friendship and
of peace. Such are the attributes of the righteous, such is
the distinguishing mark of those who serve His
Threshold. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 257]
But we, and the friends of God, should on no account
slacken our efforts to be loyal, sincere and men of good
will. We should at all times manifest our truthfulness
and sincerity, nay rather, we must be constant in our
faithfulness and trustworthiness, and occupy ourselves
in offering prayers for the good of all.
O ye beloved of God, these are days for steadfastness,
for firmness and perseverance in the Cause of God. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 294]
Divine verses evoke love in the faithful
... the divinely-revealed verses shine as the sun, whilst all
others are as stars. To the peoples of the world they are
the abiding testimony, the incontrovertible proof, the
shining light of the ideal King. Their excellence is
unrivalled, their virtue nothing can surpass. They are the
treasury of the divine pearls and the depository of the

Concept of “Faithfulness”
divine mysteries. They constitute the indissoluble Bond,
the firm Cord, the Urvatu’l-Vuthqá, the inextinguishable
Light. Through them floweth the river of divine
knowledge, and gloweth the fire of His ancient and
consummate wisdom. This is the fire which, in one and
the same moment, kindleth the flame of love in the
breasts of the faithful, and induceth the chill of
heedlessness in the heart of the enemy. — Bahá’u’lláh [KI
204]
Prayers for faithfulness
Many of the prayers revealed by Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá beseech God to assist the believers to remain faithful to
the Covenant and to God and to help them remain strong and
committed believers during times of tests and trials.
Entreat thou the one true God to enable His faithful
servants to fulfil that which is conducive to the good of
this world and the world to come. This is the
commandment of God that hath been prescribed in His
weighty and inviolable Book. — Bahá’u’lláh [CC1 489]
O God, my God! I beg of Thee by the dawning of the
light of Thy Beauty that hath illumined all the earth, and
by the glance of Thy divine compassion’s eye that
considereth all things, and by the surging sea of Thy
bestowals in which all things are immersed, and by Thy
streaming clouds of bounty raining down gifts upon the
essences of all created things, and by the splendours of
Thy mercy that existed before ever the world was—to
help Thy chosen ones to be faithful, and assist Thy loved
ones to serve at Thine exalted Threshold, and cause them
to gain the victory through the battalions of Thy might
that overpowereth all things, and reinforce them with a
great fighting host from out of the Concourse on high.
— ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 5]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
O my Lord and my Hope! Help Thou Thy loved ones to
be steadfast in Thy mighty Covenant, to remain faithful
to Thy manifest Cause, and to carry out the
commandments Thou didst set down for them in Thy
Book of Splendours; that they may become banners of
guidance and lamps of the Company above, wellsprings
of Thine infinite wisdom, and stars that lead aright, as
they shine down from the supernal sky. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
[SWAB 259]
Faithfulness necessary for spiritual growth
Bahá’u’lláh has stated quite clearly in His Writings the
essential requisites for our spiritual growth, and these are
stressed again and again by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Talks and
Tablets. One can summarise them briefly in this way:
1. The recital each day of one of the Obligatory Prayers with
pure-hearted devotion.
2. The regular reading of the Sacred Scriptures, specifically at
least each morning and evening, with reverence, attention
and thought.
3. Prayerful meditation on the teachings, so that we may
understand them more deeply, fulfil them more faithfully,
and convey them more accurately to others.
4. Striving every day to bring our behaviour more into
accordance with the high standard that are set forth in the
Teachings.
5. Teaching the Cause of God.
6. Selfless service in the work of the Cause and in the
carrying on of our trade or profession. [From a letter written
on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to a National Spiritual
Assembly, 1 September 1983]

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Acting faithfully
O ye beloved of the Lord! Commit not that which
defileth the limpid stream of love or destroyeth the
sweet fragrance of friendship. By the righteousness of
the Lord! Ye were created to show love one to another
and not perversity and rancour. Take pride not in love
for yourselves but in love for your fellow-creatures.
Glory not in love for your country, but in love for all
mankind. Let your eye be chaste, your hand faithful,
your tongue truthful and your heart enlightened. Abase
not the station of the learned in Bahá and belittle not the
rank of such rulers as administer justice amidst you. Set
your reliance on the army of justice, put on the armour
of wisdom, let your adorning be forgiveness and mercy
and that which cheereth the hearts of the well-favoured
of God. — Bahá’u’lláh [TB 138-139]
Faithfulness, trials, tests and sacrifice
Trials for the faithful believers are like unto divine
bestowal and everlasting gifts. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TAB2 277]
In the estimation of the loved ones of God abasement is
exaltation itself, and affliction leadeth to faithfulness. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [FL 29-30]
Neither the world-wide growth of the Bahá’í community
nor the process of learning it was experiencing... tell the
whole story of these tumultuous and creative decades.
When the history of the period is eventually written, one
of its most brilliant chapters will recount the spiritual
victories won by Bahá’í communities, in Africa
particularly,
who
survived
war,
terror,
political
oppression and extreme privations, and who emerged
from these tests with their faith intact, determined to
resume the interrupted work of building a viable Bahá’í

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
collective life. The community in Ethiopia, homeland of
one of the world’s oldest and richest cultural traditions,
succeeded in maintaining both the morale of its members
and the coherence of its administrative structures under
relentless pressure from a brutal dictatorship. Of the
friends in other countries on the continent, it may be
truly said that their path of faithfulness to the Cause led
through a hell of suffering seldom equalled in modern
history. The annals of the Faith possess few more
moving testimonies to the sheer power of the spirit than
the stories of courage and purity of heart emerging from
the inferno that engulfed the friends in what was then
Zaire, stories that will inspire generations to come and
represent priceless contributions to the creation of a
global Bahá’í culture. Such countries as Uganda and
Rwanda added unforgettable achievements of their own
to this record of heroic struggle. — Universal House of
Justice [CL 105-106]
Be faithful to the Cause/Bahá’u’lláh
Whatsoever is thy desire is found in the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh. If thou art asking confirmation and
assistance, be thou faithful, firm and steadfast. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TAB2 246]
Bahá’u’lláh endured the greatest hardships. He found
neither rest by night nor peace by day. He was
constantly under the stress of great calamity—now in
prison, now in chains, now threatened by the sword—
until finally He broke the cage of captivity, left this
mortal world and ascended to the heaven of God. He
endured all these tribulations for our sakes and suffered
these deprivations that we might attain the bestowals of
divine bounty. Therefore, we must be faithful to Him
and turn away from our own selfish desires and fancies

Concept of “Faithfulness”
in order that we may accomplish that which is required
of us by our Lord. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PUP 461]
For such benefits, for such an arresting and majestic
vindication of the undefeatable powers inherent in our
precious Faith, we can but bow our heads in humility,
awe and thanksgiving, renew our pledge of fealty to it,
and, each covenanting in his own heart, resolve to prove
faithful to that pledge, and persevere to the very end,
until our earthly share of servitude to so transcendent
and priceless a Cause has been totally and completely
fulfilled. — Shoghi Effendi [MA 104]
Strive to be faithful
But we, and the friends of God, should on no account
slacken our efforts to be loyal, sincere and men of good
will. We should at all times manifest our truthfulness
and sincerity, nay rather, we must be constant in our
faithfulness and trustworthiness, and occupy ourselves
in offering prayers for the good of all.
O ye beloved of God, these are days for steadfastness,
for firmness and perseverance in the Cause of God. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 294]
O saints of God! at the end of Our discourse We enjoin
on you once again chastity, faithfulness, godliness,
sincerity, and purity. Lay aside the evil and adopt the
good. This is that whereunto ye are commanded in the
Book of God, the Knowing, the Wise. Well is it with
those who practice [this injunction]. At this moment the
pen crieth out, saying, ‘O saints of God, regard the
horizon of uprightness, and be quit, severed, and free
from what is beside this. There is no strength and no
power save in God.’ — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TN 48]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
How can people demonstrate they are faithful
Oh, friends of God! If ye will trust in the Word of God
and be strong; if ye will follow the precepts of
Bahá’u’lláh to tend the sick, raise the fallen, care for the
poor and needy, give shelter to the destitute, protect the
oppressed, comfort the sorrowful and love the world of
humanity with all your hearts, then I say unto you that
ere long this meeting-place will see a wonderful harvest.
Day by day each member will advance and become more
and more spiritual. But ye must have a firm foundation
and your aims and ambitions must be clearly understood
by each member. They shall be as follows:
1. To show compassion and goodwill to all mankind.
2. To render service to humanity.
3. To endeavour to guide and enlighten those in
darkness.
4. To be kind to everyone, and show forth affection
to every living soul.
5. To be humble in your attitude towards God, to be
constant in prayer to Him, so as to grow daily
nearer to God.
6. To be so faithful and sincere in all your actions
that every member may be known as embodying
the qualities of honesty, love, faith, kindness,
generosity, and courage.
7. To be detached from all that is not God, attracted
by the Heavenly Breath—a divine soul; so that the
world may know that a Bahá’í is a perfect being.
Strive to attain this at these meetings. Then, indeed and
in truth will ye, the friends of God, come together with
great joy! Render help one to the other, become as one

Concept of “Faithfulness”
man, having reached perfect unity. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PT
73-74]
A word or two from Shoghi Effendi [at the
commemoration in the Holy Land to mark the passing of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá] made them feel the Master nigh, and made
them realise as never before that it was only in following
in His steps, and in living the life that He had, that we
can prove our faithfulness to our Master’s Cause. It was
indeed a night of meditation and prayer... — From a
letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi [UD 18]
Faithfully work for the Faith
Ours is the solemn, the inescapable duty to labour
faithfully
and
unremittingly
to
ensure
that
no
opportunity is being missed, that no avenues are left
unexplored, that might, however indirectly, contribute
to the furtherance of those tasks that claim so insistently
our immediate attention. That those into whose hands
this dynamic Plan has been entrusted are aware of the
essential character of their obligations and will discharge
worthily their duties no one, viewing the range and
quality of their achievements, can entertain the slightest
doubt. — Shoghi Effendi [TDH 29]
Deeds of the faithful Bahá’í
Be ye not seated and silent! Diffuse the glad-tidings of
the Kingdom far and wide to the ears, promulgate the
Word of God, and put into practice the advices and
covenants of God; that is, arise ye with such qualities
and attributes that ye may continually bestow life to the
body of the world, and nurse the infants of the universe
up to the station of maturity and perfection. Enkindle
with all your might in every meeting the light of the love
of God, gladden and cheer every heart with the utmost

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
loving-kindness, show forth your love to the strangers
just as you show forth to your relations. If a soul is
seeking to quarrel, ask ye for reconciliation; if he blame
you, praise him; if he give you a deadly poison, bestow
ye an all-healing antidote; if he createth death,
administer ye eternal life; if he becometh a thorn, change
ye into roses and hyacinths. Perchance, through such
deeds and words, this darkened world will become
illuminated, this terrestrial universe will become
transformed into a heavenly realm, and this satanic
prison become a divine court; warfare and bloodshed be
annihilated, and love and faithfulness hoist the tent of
unity upon the apex of the world.
These are the results of the divine advices and
exhortations, and the epitome of the teachings of the
Bahá’í Cycle. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [BWF 353]
Duties of the faithful Bahá’í
The duty of the concourse of the faithful in this day
should be but one duty, their purpose but one purpose,
their aim but one aim, and the object of their endeavour
but one object, and this is none other than to foster the
spirit of unity and harmony, to serve and teach His
Cause and to promote His Word. Such is the meaning of
true faithfulness; and in this lies the good-pleasure of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. — Bahiyyih Khánum [BK 174]
Faithfulness in relationships with others
The faithful are to treat others with joy
They that are endued with sincerity and faithfulness
should associate with all the peoples and kindreds of the
earth with joy and radiance, inasmuch as consorting with
people hath promoted and will continue to promote

Concept of “Faithfulness”
unity and concord, which in turn are conducive to the
maintenance of order in the world and to the
regeneration of nations. — Bahá’u’lláh [TB 36]
Treat people with faithfulness
Wherefore, O my loving friends! Consort with all the
peoples, kindreds and religions of the world with the
utmost
truthfulness,
uprightness,
faithfulness,
kindliness, good-will and friendliness, that all the world
of being may be filled with the holy ecstasy of the grace
of Bahá, that ignorance, enmity, hate and rancour may
vanish from the world and the darkness of estrangement
amidst the peoples and kindreds of the world may give
way to the Light of Unity. Should other peoples and
nations be unfaithful to you show your fidelity unto
them, should they be unjust toward you show justice
towards them, should they keep aloof from you attract
them to yourselves, should they show their enmity be
friendly towards them, should they poison your lives,
sweeten their souls, should they inflict a wound upon
you, be a salve to their sores. Such are the attributes of
the sincere! Such are the attributes of the truthful. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [WT 14]
As to thee, O maid-servant of God! Blessed art thou, for
thou hast dealt with people in goodness and good
favour. Do not seek from them any reward whatever,
but seek all grace and beneficence from thy Lord, and
even deal with the people of great oppression in
faithfulness, for as much as this is becoming of the
people of Bahá. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TAB2 356]
... they view people in the light of the Blessed Beauty’s
call that the entire human race are servants of the Lord
of might and glory, as He hath brought the whole
creation under the purview of His gracious utterance,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
and hath enjoined upon us to show forth love and
affection, wisdom and compassion, faithfulness and
unity towards all, without any discrimination. —
Universal House of Justice [CL 9]
Be friendly to all
Be fair to yourselves and to others, that the evidences of
justice may be revealed, through your deeds, among Our
faithful servants. Beware lest ye encroach upon the
substance of your neighbour. Prove yourselves worthy
of his trust and confidence in you, and withhold not
from the poor the gifts which the grace of God hath
bestowed upon you. He, verily, shall recompense the
charitable, and doubly repay them for what they have
bestowed. No God is there but Him. All creation and its
empire are His. He bestoweth His gifts on whom He
will, and from whom He will He withholdeth them. He is
the Great Giver, the Most Generous, the Benevolent. —
Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 278]
... we, and the friends of God, should on no account
slacken our efforts to be loyal, sincere and men of good
will. We should at all times manifest our truthfulness
and sincerity, nay rather, we must be constant in our
faithfulness and trustworthiness, and occupy ourselves
in offering prayers for the good of all. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
[SWAB 294]
In every dispensation, there hath been the commandment
of fellowship and love, but it was a commandment
limited to the community of those in mutual agreement,
not to the dissident foe. In this wondrous age, however,
praised be God, the commandments of God are not
delimited, not restricted to any one group of people,
rather have all the friends been commanded to show
forth fellowship and love, consideration and generosity

Concept of “Faithfulness”
and loving-kindness to every community on earth. Now
must the lovers of God arise to carry out these
instructions of His: let them be kindly fathers to the
children of the human race, and compassionate brothers
to the youth, and self-denying offspring to those bent
with years. The meaning of this is that ye must show
forth tenderness and love to every human being, even to
your enemies, and welcome them all with unalloyed
friendship, good cheer, and loving-kindness. When ye
meet with cruelty and persecution at another’s hands,
keep faith with him; when malevolence is directed your
way, respond with a friendly heart. To the spears and
arrows rained upon you, expose your breasts for a target
mirror-bright; and in return for curses, taunts and
wounding words, show forth abounding love. Thus will
all peoples witness the power of the Most Great Name,
and every nation acknowledge the might of the Ancient
Beauty, and see how He hath toppled down the walls of
discord, and how surely He hath guided all the peoples
of the earth to oneness; how He hath lit man’s world,
and made this earth of dust to send forth streams of
light. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 20-21]
One of the teachings is that love and faithfulness must
prevail in the hearts that men may see the stranger as a
friend, the sinner as an intimate fellow, may count
enemies as allies, regard foes as loving comrades, call
their executioner the giver of life, consider the denier as
a believer and the unbeliever as a faithful one—that is,
men must behave in such a manner as may befit the
believers, the faithful, the friend and the confidant. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [BWF 414]
Be faithful in marriage
Chastity implies both before and after marriage an
unsullied, chaste sex life. Before marriage absolutely

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
chaste, after marriage absolutely faithful to one’s chosen
companion. Faithful in all sexual acts, faithful in word
and in deed. — From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi to an individual, 28 September 1941 [LG 360]
Trust only those who are truly faithful
Trust no man save him whose breast hath been dilated by
God through the light of faith, whom God hath
confirmed in His religion, and who is severed from all
else save God and attracted by His fragrances. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [BWF 411]
Be loyal to government
Also, Bahá’ís, in accordance with their exalted teachings,
are duty bound to be obedient to their government.
Elucidating this subject, Shoghi Rabbani says: ‘The
people of Bahá are required to obey their respective
governments, and to demonstrate their truthfulness and
good will towards the authorities... Bahá’ís, in every land
and without any exception, should... be obedient and
bow to the clear instructions and the declared decrees
issued by the authorities. They must faithfully carry out
such directives.’ — Shoghi Effendi [qtd. in MUHJ63 597]
If a man deal faithlessly with a just government he shall
have dealt faithlessly with God; and if he render it
faithful service he shall rendered that service to God. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [Trustworthiness]
Government must be loyal and faithful to subjects
Governments should fully acquaint themselves with the
conditions of those they govern, and confer upon them
positions according to desert and merit. It is enjoined
upon every ruler and sovereign to consider this matter

Concept of “Faithfulness”
with the utmost care that the traitor may not usurp the
position of the faithful, nor the despoiler rule in the
place of the trustworthy. Among the officials who in the
past have governed in this Most Great Prison some,
praise be to God, were adorned with justice, but as to
others, We take refuge with God. We beseech the One
true God to guide them one and all, that haply they may
not
be
deprived
of
the
fruit
of
faith
and
trustworthiness, nor be withheld from the light of equity
and justice. — Bahá’u’lláh [TB 127]
Faithfulness to the Covenant
Blessed is he that hath been enraptured by My wondrous
melodies and hath rent the veils asunder through the
potency of My might. Blessed is he who hath remained
faithful to My Covenant, and whom the things of the
world have not kept back from attaining My Court of
holiness. — Bahá’u’lláh [TB 16]
Those who have been faithful to God’s Covenant are of
the highest ones in the sight of the exalted Lord. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [BWF 435]
Ye must be sincere and faithful, ye must follow the
ordinances which refer to the Covenant of God, who is
the solid edifice.
O ye beloved of God, know that steadfastness and
firmness in this new and wonderful Covenant is indeed
the spirit that quickeneth the hearts which are
overflowing with the love of the Glorious Lord; verily, it
is the power which penetrates into the hearts of the
people of the world! Your Lord hath assuredly promised
His servants who are firm and steadfast to render them
victorious at all times, to exalt their word, propagate
their power, diffuse their lights, strengthen their hearts,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
elevate their banners, assist their hosts, brighten their
stars, increase the abundance of the showers of mercy
upon them, and enable the brave lions or teachers to
conquer.
Hasten, hasten, O ye firm believers! Hasten, hasten. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [TAB2 442]
Blessed is that teacher who remaineth faithful to the
Covenant of God, and occupieth himself with the
education of children. For him hath the Supreme Pen
inscribed that reward which is revealed in the Most Holy
Book. Blessed, blessed is he! — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [CC1 251]
Faithful obedience to the teachings and institutions
Whenever My laws appear like the sun in the heaven of
Mine utterance, they must be faithfully obeyed by all,
though My decree be such as to cause the heaven of
every religion to be cleft asunder. He doth what He
pleaseth. He chooseth; and none may question His
choice. Whatsoever He, the Well-Beloved, ordaineth, the
same is, verily, beloved. To this He Who is the Lord of
all creation beareth Me witness. Whoso hath inhaled the
sweet fragrance of the All-Merciful, and recognized the
Source of this utterance, will 13 welcome with his own
eyes the shafts of the enemy, that he may establish the
truth of the laws of God amongst men. Well is it with
him that hath turned thereunto, and apprehended the
meaning of His decisive decree. — Bahá’u’lláh [KA π7]
There are two main principles which the Guardian wishes
the friends to always bear in mind and to conscientiously
and faithfully follow... [the second] is the principle of
complete, and immediate obedience to the Assemblies,
both Local and national. It is the responsibility of these
Bahá’ís administrative bodies to enable the community

Concept of “Faithfulness”
to acquire, and increasingly deepen in the knowledge and
understanding of the Cause. Doctrinal unity and
administrative unity, these are the two chief pillars that
sustain the edifice of the Cause, and protect it from the
storms of opposition which so severely rage against it. —
From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to a
National Spiritual Assembly, 5 September 1936 [DND 61]
Faithfully guard the Cause of God
Let them be a mighty fortress to defend His Faith, an
impregnable citadel for the hosts of the Ancient Beauty.
Let them faithfully guard the edifice of the Cause of
God from every side; let them become the bright stars of
His luminous skies. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 10]
Be faithful custodians of God’s trust
... be faithful custodians of God’s trust, and be assured
that such honesty and faithfulness will be richly
rewarded from on High. — From a letter written on
behalf of the Universal House of Justice [LG 257]
Exhortations to Bahá’ís to be faithful in particular
ways
Be faithful to the word of God
There are two main principles which the Guardian wishes
the friends to always bear in mind and to conscientiously
and faithfully follow... [one] is the principle of
unqualified and whole-hearted loyalty to the revealed
Word. The believers should be careful not to deviate,
even a hair-breadth, from the Teachings. Their supreme
consideration should be to safeguard the purity of the
principles, tenets and laws of the Faith. It is only by this

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
means that they can hope to maintain the organic unity
of the Cause. There can and should be no liberals or
conservatives, no moderates or extremes in the Cause.
For they are all subject to the one and the same law
which is the Law of God. This law transcends all
differences, all personal or local tendencies, moods and
aspirations. — From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi [DND 60]
As regards the statement of our own views and
explanations of the teachings: Shoghi Effendi believes
that we should not restrict the liberty of the individual
to express his own views so long as he makes it clear that
these views are his own. In fact, such explanations are
often
helpful
and
are
conducive
to
a
better
understanding of the teachings. God has given man a
rational power to be used and not killed.
This does not, however, mean that the absolute authority
does not remain in the revealed Words. We should try
and keep as near to the authority as we can and show
that we are faithful to it by quoting from the Works of
Bahá’u’lláh in establishing our points. To discard the
authority of the revealed Words is heretic and to
suppress completely individual interpretation of those
Words is also bad. We should try to strike a happy
medium between these two extremes. — Shoghi Effendi
[PBA 24-25]
Recite ye the verses of God every morn and eventide.
Whoso faileth to recite them hath not been faithful to
the Covenant of God and His Testament, and whoso
turneth away from these holy verses in this Day is of
those who throughout eternity have turned away from
God. — Bahá’u’lláh [KA π149]

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Do your job faithfully
In the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh, it is incumbent upon every
soul to acquire a trade and an occupation. For example,
I know how to weave or make a mat, and you know
some other trade. This, in itself is an act of worship,
provided that it is conducted on the basis of utmost
honesty and faithfulness. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [CC1 4]
All government employees, whether of high or low rank,
should, with perfect integrity, probity and rectitude,
content themselves with the modest stipends and
allowances that are theirs. They should keep their hands
unsullied and preserve their fair name from blemish... If
a man deal faithlessly with a just government he shall
have dealt faithlessly with God; and if he render it
faithful service he shall have rendered that service to
God. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [CC2 344]
Faithfully apply yourself to your studies
Although still young in age, you should endeavour from
now,
through
close
association
with
your
fellow-believers, and through your faithful application
to your Bahá’í studies, to prepare yourself for that day
when you will be called upon, as a grown-up and
responsible member of the Community, to take full part
in the activities of the Cause, and thus prove yourself
worthy of being a member of this world-wide Fellowship
created by Bahá’u’lláh. — From a letter written on behalf
of Shoghi Effendi to an individual, 10 April 1939 [CC2
428]
The secret of faithfulness
Teaching the Cause is of utmost importance for it is the
head corner-stone of the foundation itself. This wronged

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
servant has spent his days and nights in promoting the
Cause and urging the peoples to service. He rested not a
moment, till the fame of the Cause of God was noised
abroad in the world and the celestial strains from the
Abhá Kingdom roused the East and the West. The
beloved of God must also follow the same example. This
is the secret of faithfulness, this is the requirement of
servitude to the Threshold of Bahá! — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [WT
10]
Faithfulness in the Bahá’í Administration
Faithfulness in the conduct of Bahá’í administration
I am much impressed and feel deeply gratified to learn of
your devoted and unremitting labours, individually and
collectively in the field of service to the Cause; of your
constant vigilance and watchful care in upholding its
fundamental principles and guarding its essential
interests; of the efficiency, faithfulness and vigour with
which you are conducting the administration of its
affairs throughout that land. — Shoghi Effendi [BA 47]
Elect faithful Bahá’ís
The strength and progress of the Bahá’í community
depend upon the election of pure, faithful and active
souls... — From a letter of Shoghi Effendi to the friends
in Persia, 9 April 1932 [CC1 317]
The electors... must prayerfully and devotedly and after
meditation and reflection elect faithful, sincere,
experienced, capable and competent souls who are
worthy of membership... — From a letter of Shoghi
Effendi to a National Spiritual Assembly, 1 July 1943
[CC1 317]

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Responsibilities of those elected
... due emphasis should not be placed only on the
concentrated authority, the rights, the privileges and
prerogatives
enjoyed
by
the
elected
national
representatives of the believers, but that special stress be
laid also on their responsibilities as willing ministers,
faithful stewards and loyal trustees to those who have
chosen them. — Shoghi Effendi [BA 143]
Defer to the faithful
Beware that ye swell not with pride before God, and
disdainfully reject His loved ones. Defer ye humbly to
the faithful, they that have believed in God and in His
signs, whose hearts witness to His unity, whose tongues
proclaim His oneness, and who speak not except by His
leave. Thus do We exhort you with justice, and warn you
with truth, that perchance ye may be awakened. —
Bahá’u’lláh [SLH 231]
The faithless/unfaithful
Today the world is experiencing a frightening and horrible
example of the way in which one group of so-called religious
fundamentalists is violently enforcing its understanding of how
to treat those they consider to be ‘faithless’ and ‘infidels’ by
torturing and killing them. This is not the place to discuss
whether they are right in their understanding of who the
‘infidels’ are or their misguided actions but their beliefs have in
any case been overtaken by the teachings of the Manifestation
of God for this day, Bahá’u’lláh. For not only have Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings abolished concepts such as jihad, in the dispensation
of Bahá’u’lláh the religious division of peoples into those who
are faithful and those who are infidels has been abolished. This
does not mean, however, that there is no distinction between
them or that they have the same spiritual status. From the

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
writings it seems that whereas in the past those who were not
faithful to the religion were considered to be cut off from the
bestowals and love of God, in this day they are, like everyone,
recipients of His grace and bounty. As Bahá’u’lláh explains, it is
not God who fails to love an individual but the individual who
fails to love God that creates the appearance that God is not
showering His love on that person:
O Son of Being! Love Me, that I may love thee. If thou
lovest Me not, My love can in no wise reach thee. Know
this, O servant. — Bahá’u’lláh [HW Arabic #5]
The attitude other have about such individuals is also to be
different in this day. They are not evil but ‘asleep’, ‘ailing’ or
‘immature’ and should be ‘awakened’, ‘healed’ or ‘trained’,
treated with kindness and love. Only in extreme cases, now
determined by the Universal House of Justice after long
investigation and attempts to rehabilitate the individual, will a
person be declared a Covenant-breaker, association with whom
by Bahá’ís is forbidden for their own spiritual health. And even
they are still able to receive the bounties of God.
The lack of faithfulness in the world
We exhort mankind in these days when the countenance
of Justice is soiled with dust, when the flames of
unbelief are burning high and the robe of wisdom rent
asunder, when tranquillity and faithfulness have ebbed
away and trials and tribulations have waxed severe, when
covenants are broken and ties are severed, when no man
knoweth how to discern light and darkness or to
distinguish guidance from error. — Bahá’u’lláh [TB 137-
138]
In the night season the beauty of the immortal Being
hath repaired from the emerald height of fidelity unto
the Sadratu’l-Muntahá, and wept with such a weeping

Concept of “Faithfulness”
that the Concourse on high and the dwellers of the
realms above wailed at His lamenting. Whereupon there
was asked, Why the wailing and weeping? He made reply:
As bidden I waited expectant upon the hill of
faithfulness, yet inhaled not from them that dwell on
earth the fragrance of fidelity. — Bahá’u’lláh [HW Persian
#77]
Who are the faithless?
The faithless... by day and night, openly and privily do
their utmost to shake the foundations of the Cause, to
root out the Blessed Tree, to deprive this servant of
service, to kindle secret sedition and strife and to
annihilate ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Outwardly they appear as sheep,
yet inwardly they are naught but ravening wolves. Sweet
in words, they are but at heart a deadly poison. —
‘Abdu’l-Bahá [SWAB 315]
Whoso faileth to quaff the choice wine which We have
unsealed through the potency of Our Name, the
All-Compelling, shall be unable to discern the splendours
of the light of divine unity or to grasp the essential
purpose underlying the Scriptures of God, the Lord of
heaven and earth, the sovereign Ruler of this world and
of the world to come. Such a man shall be accounted
among the faithless in the Book of God, the
All-Knowing, the All-Informed. — Bahá’u’lláh [TB 105]
Among the faithless is he who hath imagined that
calamities can deter Bahá from fulfilling that which God,
the Creator of all things, hath purposed. Say: Nay, by
Him Who causeth the rain to fall! Nothing whatsoever
can withhold Him from the remembrance of His Lord. —
Bahá’u’lláh [SLH 60]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Division of humankind into the ‘faithful’ and the
‘infidels’, is abolished
A fundamental teaching of Bahá’u’lláh is the oneness of
the world of humanity. Addressing mankind, He says,
‘Ye are all leaves of one tree and the fruits of one
branch.’ By this it is meant that the world of humanity is
like a tree, the nations or peoples are the different limbs
or branches of that tree, and the individual human
creatures are as the fruits and blossoms thereof. In this
way Bahá’u’lláh expressed the oneness of humankind,
whereas in all religious teachings of the past the human
world has been represented as divided into two parts:
one known as the people of the Book of God, or the
pure tree, and the other the people of infidelity and
error, or the evil tree. The former were considered as
belonging to the faithful, and the others to the hosts of
the irreligious and infidel—one part of humanity the
recipients of divine mercy, and the other the object of
the wrath of their Creator. Bahá’u’lláh removed this by
proclaiming the oneness of the world of humanity, and
this principle is specialized in His teachings, for He has
submerged all mankind in the sea of divine generosity.
Some are asleep; they need to be awakened. Some are
ailing; they need to be healed. Some are immature as
children; they need to be trained. But all are recipients of
the bounty and bestowals of God. — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PUP
454]
Among the many complementary Teachings in the Faith
which resolve the dilemmas of past societies are those of
the unity of mankind on the one hand, and loyalty to the
covenant on the other. As already mentioned, no one in
this Dispensation is compelled to be a Bahá’í, and the
division of humankind into the ‘clean’ and the ‘unclean’,
the ‘faithful’ and the ‘infidels’, is abolished. At the same
time, anyone who does choose to be a Bahá’í accepts the

Concept of “Faithfulness”
Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh and, while free expression of
opinion within the Bahá’í community is encouraged, this
cannot ever be permitted to degenerate to the level of
undermining the Covenant for this would vitiate the
very purpose of the Revelation itself. — Universal House
of Justice [from a letter, 27 April 1995]
Yet there is a difference between the faithful and the
unfaithful
The sword He [Jesus] carried was the sword of His
tongue, with which He divided the good from the evil,
the true from the false, the faithful from the unfaithful,
and the light from the darkness. His Word was indeed a
sharp sword! — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [PT 56]
The following is an evidence of the sovereignty exercised
by Mu˙ammad, the Day-star of Truth. Hast thou not
heard how with one single verse He hath sundered light
from darkness, the righteous from the ungodly, and the
believing from the infidel? All the signs and allusions
concerning the Day of Judgement, which thou hast
heard, such as the raising of the dead, the Day of
Reckoning, the Last Judgement, and others have been
made manifest through the revelation of that verse.
These revealed words were a blessing to the righteous
who on hearing them exclaimed: ‘O God our Lord, we
have heard, and obeyed.’ They were a curse to the people
of iniquity who, on hearing them affirmed: ‘We have
heard and rebelled.’ Those words, sharp as the sword of
God, have separated the faithful from the infidel, and
severed father from son. — Bahá’u’lláh [KI 111-112]
Be fair: Is the testimony of those acceptable and worthy
of attention whose deeds agree with their words, whose
outward behaviour conforms with their inner life? The
mind is bewildered at their deeds, and the soul

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
marvelleth at their fortitude and bodily endurance. Or is
the testimony of these faithless souls who breathe naught
but the breath of selfish desire, and who lie imprisoned
in the cage of their idle fancies, acceptable? Like the bats
of darkness, they lift not their heads from their couch
except to pursue the transient things of the world, and
find no rest by night except as they labour to advance
the aims of their sordid life. Immersed in their selfish
schemes, they are oblivious of the Divine decree. In the
daytime they strive with all their soul after worldly
benefits, and in the night season their sole occupation is
to gratify their carnal desires. By what law or standard
could men be justified in cleaving to the denials of such
petty-minded souls and in ignoring the faith of them
that have renounced, for the sake of the good pleasure
of God, their life and substance, their fame and renown,
their reputation and honour? — Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 181-182]
Do not follow the faithless
Persevere steadfastly as Thou art bidden and let not the
faithless amongst men nor their utterances grieve Thee,
since Thy Lord shall, by the righteousness of God, the
Most Great, pass judgement upon them on the Day of
Resurrection, and surely God witnesseth all things. —
The Báb [SWB 71]
Fear thou God, thy Lord, and make mention of His
Name in the day-time and at eventide. Follow not the
promptings of the faithless, lest thou be reckoned
among the exponents of idle fancies. Faithfully obey the
Primal Point Who is the Lord Himself, and be of the
righteous. Let nothing cause thee to be sore shaken,
neither let the things which have been destined to take
place in this Cause disturb thee. Strive earnestly for the
sake of God and walk in the path of righteousness.
Shouldst thou encounter the unbelievers, place thy whole

Concept of “Faithfulness”
trust in God, thy Lord, saying, Sufficient is God unto me
in the kingdoms of both this world and the next. — The
Báb [SWB 160]
The evil doings of the faithless
Verily Thou art God; no God is there but Thee. Alone
and unaided, Thou art independent of all created things.
Neither can the devotion of Thy lovers profit Thee, nor
the evil doings of the faithless harm Thee. Verily Thou
art my God, He Who will never fail in His promise. —
The Báb [SWB 204]
Those who are not faithful to the Covenant
O My Friends! Call ye to mind that covenant ye have
entered into with Me upon Mount Paran, situate within
the hallowed precincts of Zaman. I have taken to witness
the concourse on high and the dwellers in the city of
eternity, yet now none do I find faithful unto the
covenant. Of a certainty pride and rebellion have
effaced it from the hearts, in such wise that no trace
thereof remaineth. Yet knowing this, I waited and
disclosed it not. — Bahá’u’lláh [HW Persian #71]
Blessed the one who hath remained faithful to the
Covenant of God, and woe betide him who hath broken
it and disbelieved in Him, the Knower of secrets. Say:
This is the Day of Bounty! Bestir yourselves that I may
make you monarchs in the realms of My Kingdom. If ye
follow Me, ye shall behold that which ye were promised,
and I will make you My companions in the dominion of
My majesty and the intimates of My beauty in the
heaven of My power forevermore. If ye rebel against
Me, I will in My clemency endure it patiently, that haply
ye may awaken and rise up from the couch of
heedlessness. Thus hath My mercy encompassed you.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Fear ye God and follow not in the ways of those who
have turned away from His face, though they invoke His
name in the daytime and in the night season. —
Bahá’u’lláh [SLH 64-65]
Happy is the faithful one who is attired with the vesture
of high endeavour and hath arisen to serve this Cause.
Such a soul hath truly attained the desired Goal and hath
apprehended the Object for which it hath been created.
But a myriad times alas for the wayward who are like
unto dried-up leaves fallen upon the dust. Ere long
mortal blasts shall carry them away to the place ordained
for them. Ignorant did they arrive, ignorant did they
linger and ignorant did they retire to their abodes. —
Bahá’u’lláh [TB 257-258]
The Faithful Spirit
In the Bahá’í writings the ‘Faithful Spirit’ is generally
understood to be Gabriel3, who appears to be a spiritual entity
beyond the understanding of humans. The Faithful Spirit is
mentioned at number of times in the texts:
We have revealed Ourself unto men, have unveiled the
Cause, guided all mankind towards God’s Straight Path,
promulgated the laws and have enjoined upon everyone
that which shall truly profit them both in this world and
in the next; yet they have pronounced judgement to shed
My blood, whereat the Maid of Heaven hath wept sore,
Sinai hath lamented and the Faithful Spirit was made to
sigh with grief. — Bahá’u’lláh [TB 251]
They ascribed unto Him what caused the Spirit Jesus to
lament in His Most Sublime Station, and the Faithful
Spirit to cry out. — Bahá’u’lláh [PB 78]

Concept of “Faithfulness”
They that have forsaken their country for the purpose of
teaching Our Cause—these shall the Faithful Spirit
strengthen through its power. A company of Our chosen
angels shall go forth with them, as bidden by Him Who
is the Almighty, the All-Wise. —Bahá’u’lláh [GWB 334]
Conclusion
The concept of faithfulness appears throughout the English-
language Bahá’í writings in different contexts and is applied to
a number of situations and people. The writings provide
definitions for the sort of people and actions that are ‘faithful’,
for example ‘they that have believed in God and in His signs,
whose hearts witness to His unity, whose tongues proclaim His
oneness, and who speak not except by His leave’ [SLH 231] and
those who are ‘unfaithful’, including those who ‘do their utmost
to shake the foundations of the Cause’ [SWAB 315]. As a spiritual
quality that can be demonstrated in the individual’s attitude,
behaviour and relationships with the Bahá’í Faith and its
institutions as well as with other people, it presents an
opportunity for deepening, reflection, meditation and practice.
As this is but a preliminary sampling of some of the Bahá’í
writings, there is very little analysis possible at this stage but the
subject is worthy of much deeper study.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Abu’l-Fa∂l, Mírzá. Miracles and Metaphors. Los Angeles: Kalímát
Press, 1981.
Balyuzi, H.M. Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh: with some
Historical Background. Oxford: George Ronald, 1985.
Trustworthiness: A Compilation of Extracts from the Bahá’í
Writings. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
The Universal House of Justice. Letter to an individual, 23 March
1975.
———. Letter, 27 April 1995.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
———. Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to a
National Spiritual Assembly, 1 September 1983.


NOTES
1 Many of the passages by Bahá’u’lláh quoted here have been translated by
Shoghi Effendi; those of the Báb were translated by Habib Taherzadeh and
a committee at the Bahá’í World Centre. Some of the passages of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá have also been translated by a similar committee but most quotations
from His talks are translations by various people or from notes taken by
individuals listening to the translations. I have made no attempt to search
out the Persian or Arabic words that are translated as faithful,
faithfulness, loyal and so on, as to do so is not only beyond the scope of
this essay but also beyond my own capacity.
2 From a letter of the Universal House of Justice to an individual, 23 March
1975.
3 See H. M. Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 46. and
Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l, Miracles and Metaphors, p. 21.

An Homage to Memorials of the
Faithful and to Eleven of Its Heroes
Julio Savi
Abstract
Memorials of the Faithful is described as an inspiring “book
of prototypes,” that not only portrays “all of the archetypes
that the various personality theorists have given us in this
century” and “all the human dichotomies” that we may find in
our lives, but also addresses “us in our time... [and] on our own
travels... [in our] tacit dimension, the silent root of human
life.” These features of the book have lead the author to
compose nine poems on eleven of the personages of the book:
Shaykh Salmán, Nabíl-i-Zarandí, Darvísh-i-Íidq-‘Alí, Shaykh
Íádiq-i-Yazdí, Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín Yazdí, Shaykh ‘Alí Akbar-i-
Mazgání, Óájí Ja‘far and his brothers, ‘Abdu’lláh Baghdádí and
Jináb-i-Muníb. They have not been chosen because they were
considered in any way superior to or better than all the others.
They were chosen because some of their personal qualities and
of the events in their lives raised louder echoes in the author’s
heart and mind. The nine poems are presented, with short
explanations of the details that have moved the author to write
them.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Memorials of the Faithful, first published in Persian in 1924
in Haifa by the publisher Ma†ba‘ah al-‘Abbásíyah, under the
title of Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá, is “the first Bahá’í book to be
printed in Haifa under the Guardianship” [Gail xi]. The word
Tadhkirat is a Persian-Arabic word. It derives from the Arabic
root dhakara, translated into English as “he preserved it in his
memory, he remembered it... he sought, or endeavoured, to
remember” [Lane 3:134]. The word Tadhkirat, usually translated
“memory, remembrance... biographical memory, biography”
[Steingass 290], is used in Arabic, Persian and Turkish literature to
denote literary works “concerned with the lives of poets...
calligraphers... or other categories of memorable persons”
[Heinrichs et al.]. One of the most famous of these works is a
book written by the well-known Persian poet Faríd ad-Dín
‘A††ár (c.1142–c.1220), Tadhkirat al-Awliyá, a collection of
hagiographies published in English under the title Memorial of
the Saints (see Muslim Saints and Mystics). Alessandro Bausani
(1921–1988) writes that this book “is similar... to our middle age
Little Flowers” [502]. Western literature is rich in similar books,
such as the Golden Legend (Latin: Legenda Aurea) by Jacobus de
Voragine (Italian: Jacopo da Varagine), a collection of lives of
the saints in Latin, probably compiled around 1260; Acts of the
Saints (Latin: Acta Sanctorum), an encyclopedic text in 68
volumes examining the lives of Christian saints, organized
according to each saint’s feast day, published between 1643 and
1940; and Alban Butler’s (1710–1773) The Lives of the Fathers,
Martyrs and Other Principal Saints, first published in 1756–
1759, a popular compendium of the Acts of the Saints in
English.
‘A††ár’s work, like the hagiographic literature of the Western
world, relates stories of miracles and portents ascribed to the
personages whose lives and utterances the author wishes to share
with his readers. And as a matter of fact he calls them Awliyá,
that literally means “Friends (of God),” but is commonly used to
denote the “saints” [Steingass 122]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s work is
completely different. He celebrates His personages for their

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
vafá’, that is “good faith, fidelity, loyalty, sincerity” [Steingass
1475], a word which Shoghi Effendi has often translated
“faithfulness,” as for example in the following sentence from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament:
In these days, the most important of all things is the
guidance of the nations and peoples of the world.
Teaching the Cause is of utmost importance for it is the
head corner-stone of the foundation itself. This wronged
servant has spent his days and nights in promoting the
Cause and urging the peoples to service. He rested not a
moment, till the fame of the Cause of God was noised
abroad in the world and the celestial strains from the
Abhá Kingdom roused the East and the West. The
beloved of God must also follow the same example. This
is the secret of faithfulness (vafá’), this is the requirement
of servitude to the Threshold of Bahá! [WT 10]
Marzieh Gail (1908–1993), an eminent Bahá’í author and
translator, who translated the book into English in 1969 under
the title Memorials of the Faithful, because she had received this
task from the Guardian himself, when she was “on a pilgrimage
to the Bahá’í world center in Haifa” [xi], writes that this work
“is more than the brief annals of early Bahá’í disciples... it is a
kind of testament of values endorsed and willed to us by the
Bahá’í Exemplar” [ibid.]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s descriptions do not
point out the charismatic or thaumaturgical powers of His
personages. There are only three exceptions, three episodes of
persons healed through the intervention of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Shaykh Íádiq-i-Yazdí recovers from an intestinal disorder
after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has done what Bahá’u’lláh has enjoined Him
to do: “Go... Place your hand on the distended area and speak
the words: ‘O Thou the Healer! [Yá Sháfí]’”1 [MF 43].
Mu˙ammad-Hádíy-i-Ṣa˙˙áf heals from a long-standing chronic
fever after having eaten a special food specifically prescribed by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and two years later he dies after having eaten the
same food in different circumstances [see MF 68]. Mírzá Ja‘far-i-

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Yazdí returns to life right after ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has chanted at his
bedside by the command of Bahá’u’lláh “the prayer of Yá
Sháfí—O Thou, the Healer” [MF 157], while his “family were
gathered about him, mourning him, shedding bitter tears” [ibid.].
These three episodes are narrated as common episodes of
everyday life, without any emphasis on what appears to us as
exceptional events. A few years earlier ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had clearly
explained the meaning of miracles to the eminent American
Bahá’í
Laura
Clifford
Barney
(1979–1974).
First:
“The
Manifestations of God are sources of miraculous deeds and
marvelous signs. Any difficult or impossible matter is to Them
possible and permitted” [SAQ 113]. Second: “in the sight of the
Manifestations of God these marvels and miracles are of no
importance... they would constitute a clear evidence only for
those who were present when they took place, not for those
who were absent” [ibid.]. Third: “These outward miracles are of
no importance to the followers of truth... if a dead body be
revived, what is gained thereby, since it must die again? What is
important is to bestow true insight and everlasting life—that is,
a spiritual and divine life” [ibid. 115]. Faithful to this position,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá prefers to speak of the spiritual portents
performed by His personages: their faithfulness in applying the
divine Law to the actions of their daily lives, as difficult as their
circumstances may have been. It is their high moral standard
that makes of each of the personages of His book an example of
life to be recorded for posterity.
In Memorials of the Faithful ‘Abdu’l-Bahá presents 69
biographies, but in reality He speaks of 79 personages, because
in two cases He speaks of two believers together and in four
cases he speaks about groups of brothers. The believers that He
describes in the same biography are: Áqá Mírzá Mahmúd and
Áqá Ridá, “close and trusted companions of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá” [MF
41], who, together, “devoted their days to all that is best in
human life: they had seeing eyes; they were mindful and aware;
they had hearing ears, and were fair of speech. Their sole desire
was to please Bahá’u’lláh. To them, nothing was a bounty at all,

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
except service at His Holy Threshold” [MF 40-1]; and Mashhadí
Ḥusayn e Mashhadí Mu˙ammad-i-Adhirbáyjání who, “both from
the province of Adhirbáyján” [MF 62], worked as farmers in
Bágh-i-Firdaws and died together because of the hot climate of
the region, to which “they were not accustomed” [MF 63]. The
groups of brothers are: Ustád Báqir and Ustád Ahmad, two
carpenters, who “from the time when both became believers
each held the other in His embrace” [MF 72]; Áqá Ibráhím-i-
Isfáhání and his three brothers, which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes
together although they lived apart from one another, perhaps
not only for their common love for Bahá’u’lláh, but also as a
homage to the early days of their earthly lives when “they all
lived in the same house, and remained together day and night.
Bird-like, they shared the one nest; and they were always fresh
and full of grace, like flowers in a bed” [MF 77]; Óájí Ja’far-i-
Tabrízí and his two brothers, “souls at rest... well-pleased with
their Lord and well-pleasing unto Him” [MF 125]; and finally Áqá
Mu˙ammad-Báqir and Áqá Mu˙ammad-Ismá‘íl, who “died on
the same night, wrapped in each other’s arms” [MF 169] and their
brother Pahlaván Ri∂á, who passed away far from them in
Káshán. Among these 79 personages there are also three women:
the consort of the King of Martyrs [MF 13-5], a Bahá’í beheaded
in Ißfáhán in 1879, Shamsu’∂-Îuhá [MF 175-90] and Ṭáhirih [MF
190-203].
Gail describes Memorials of the Faithful as “a book of
prototypes” [xi]. She advises her readers that they will meet
“mystic, feminist, cleric, artisan, merchant and prince... even
modern Western youth... for example, in the chapter on
Dervishes” [ibid.]. Ronald Frederick Price, a Bahá’í Canadian
writer and poet, guides us throughout the book so that we may
meet “all of the archetypes that the various personality theorists
have given us in this century” and “all the human dichotomies”
[Price 3]: “Jung’s introvert and extrovert... the artist, the
suffering artist-soul within us all, Mishkín-Qalam... [who]
survives in all his seriousness, as we might, with humour” [ibid.];
“the personality constitutionally weighted on the side of cheer,”

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
as for example Ismu’lláhu’l-Aṣdaq, who “always taught
cheerfully and with gaiety, and would respond gently and with
good humour” [MF 6]; or Mu˙ammad-‘Alí of Ißfáhán, “a boon
companion... affable... happy and content” [MF 24], loved by
everyone, who “spent his days in utter bliss” [MF 25] despite his
straitened circumstances; and the opposite personality “the
sombre, more reflective even melancholic type” [Price 3], often
as a “result of the many difficulties these lovers of Bahá’u’lláh
were subjected to and wore them ‘to the bone’” [ibid.; see MF 96],
like Mírzá Mihdí of Káshán, who “was ill almost all the time...
an outcast, and destitute,” but always patient and content [MF
96]; or Óájí Taqí who after the death of his two brothers,
“weary of this life” [MF 115-6], threw himself down from the
roof of his room, because he wanted to die; or Qulám-‘Alíy-i-
Najjár, a man “abstemious and chaste... a mild man, patient
quiet, mostly keeping to himself” [MF 142-3]. “Restlessness is a
dominant
theme”
[Price
3]
in
these
biographies:
Sháh
Mu˙ammad-Amín, “a flame of God’s love” [MF 45], “never
rested for a moment. Not one night did he spend on a bed of
ease, never did he lay down his head on comfort’s pillow. He
was continuously in flight, soaring as the birds do, running like
a deer” [MF 46]; Nabíl of Qá’in, “in ecstasy, burning up with
love” [MF 50], “restless as the waves of the sea” [MF 51], “had no
caution, no patience, no reserve; he cared nothing for reticence,
nothing for dissimulation” [MF 51]; Mírzá Mu˙ammad, after
Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension, “could not stay quiet, day or night...
[and] wasted away, like a candle burning down” [MF 107]. There
also are quiet personages who, like Mishkín-Qalam, had no
match “for patience and inner calm” [MF 101]; or who like Mírzá
Ja‘far-i-Yazdí, “a quiet man, sparing of speech” were “in all
things relying entirely upon God” [MF 157]. Finally, we meet
sociable believers, like Ḥají ‘Abdu’lláh Najaf-Abádí who “spent
his days in friendly association with the other believers” [MF 66-
7]; and Nabíl of Qá’in, whose society was “attractive” [MF 53].
But we also meet people who prefer solitude, like the two
brothers Ustád Báqir and Ustád A˙mad who lived “keeping to
themselves, away from friend and stranger alike” [MF 72-3]; or

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Qulám-‘Alíy-i-Najjár, who “inclined to solitude, apt to stay
apart from friend and stranger alike... much of the time lived by
himself” [MF 144].
Both Gail and Price suggest that “the reader will probably
find himself in these pages” [Gail xi], because ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
... is describing not only the lives of these men and
women in the nineteenth century, He is describing us in
our time. He is addressing us on our own travels. He
addresses the restlessness in us all. He speaks to us in our
victory and our loss. He speaks about what Michael
Polanyi [1891–1976] calls the tacit dimension, the silent
root of human life, which is difficult to tap in
biographies, the inner person. This private, this inner
person, is the person he writes about for the most part.
[Price 3]
These are the features of this “series of spiritual portraits”
[Kazemzadeh] that have enabled me to write nine poems on eleven
personages whose life is described in it. I did not chose them
because I considered them in any way superior or better than all
the others. I chose them because some of their personal qualities
or events in their lives raised louder echoes in my heart and
mind.
Shaykh Salmán
Shaykh Salmán [see MF 13-6; see his photo in Taherzadeh, Revelation
1:206, Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís 231] is well known by the Bahá’ís
because for almost 40 years, “from the year 69 2 until the
Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh” in 1892 [MF 15], and even later until
1898-1899 when he died in Shíráz, he went back and forth,
travelling thousands of miles, mostly on foot, to bring Tablets
and letters from the residences of Bahá’u’lláh and later of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Their lovers in Iran and ‘Iráq and vice versa.
For this reason the Blessed Beauty honored him with the title of
“Messenger of the Merciful (Payk-i-Ra˙mán)” [Revelation 1:109,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Nafa˙át 124]. He was admired for “his simple and unsophisticated
nature, his clear insight, his wisdom and tact when confronted
with dangerous or difficult situations, above all his faith in
Bahá’u’lláh,” as well as his “great physical stamina” [Revelation
1:110, 111]. Adib Taherzadeh (1921–2000), the author of a four
volume study of the life and Writings of the Founder of the
Bahá’í Faith, writes about him: “Salmán was pure-hearted and
very simple. The believers always enjoyed his company but there
were some friends in high positions who were embarrassed and
sometimes afraid to meet him because of his simplicity and
frankness” [Revelation 2:283]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes his services:
He traveled on foot, as a rule eating nothing but onions
and bread; and in all that time, he moved about in such a
way that he was never once held up and never once lost a
letter or a Tablet. Every letter was safely delivered; every
Tablet reached its intended recipient. Over and over
again, in Ißfahán, he was subjected to severe trials, but
he remained patient and thankful under all conditions,
and earned from non-Bahá’ís the title of “the Bábís’
Angel Gabriel.” [MF 15]
These words by the Master resonate in the following poem
[see Savi, Remoteness 270]:
SHAYKH SALMÁN
Bologna, 1 February 1999
Shaykh Salmán,
Gabriel of the Bahá’ís,
how many lands
did you cross,
how many cold
nights, or sunned
days on dusty
roads did you spend.

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
A precious knapsack
on your cane,
a load of love
within your breast.
Smell of onions
on your lips,
musky perfume
in your heart.
Departures
and arrivals
but one joy:
from the human Temple
of the Beloved One,
to the human hearts
of His beloved ones.
Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam
Mu˙ammad-i-Zarandí (1831–1892), known as Nabíl-i-A‘ẓam
[see MF 32-6; see his photo in Revelation 1:238], has been defined by
Shoghi Effendi Bahá’u’lláh’s “Poet-Laureate, His chronicler and
His indefatigable disciple” [GPB 130]. His life is so well-known
among the Bahá’ís that it is not worth dwelling on it. The
episode that inspired my poem [see Remoteness 260-1] is described
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as follows: “And at the end, when the Daystar
of the world had set, he could endure no more, and flung
himself into the sea. The waters of sacrifice closed over him; he
was drowned, and he came, at last, to the Most High” [MF 35].
His own words about his early days also resonated in my heart
and mind:
I was a shepherd by profession, and was given in my
early days a most rudimentary education. I longed to
devote more time to my studies, but was unable to do
so, owing to the exigencies of my situation. I read the
Qur’án with eagerness, committed several of its passages

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
to memory, and chanted them whilst I followed my flock
over the fields. I loved solitude, and watched the stars at
night with delight and wonder. In the quiet of the
wilderness, I recited certain prayers attributed to the
Imám ‘Alí, the Commander of the Faithful, and, as I
turned my face towards the Qiblih, supplicated the
Almighty to guide my steps and enable me to find the
Truth. [DB 433]
DROWNED
Bologna, 25 December 1998
Toward the meadows
of His nearness, heaven
of ecstasy, toward the sea
of nothingness, the ocean
of His love, the poet
laureate of Bahá’u’lláh
advanced that morning
when he was drowned.
From the meadows
of Zarand to the ocean
of the abiding reunion
with the Friend, he went his way.
His feet on the ground,
sometimes pierced,
his heart, by bitter
stings of remoteness,
always alive, his spirit,
to the signs of beauty
lavished near and far
by his Best-Beloved.

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
He is drowned now
at last in that surging
unbounded Ocean.
From there he offers
now his hand and says,
“Drown yourself,
you too, in the Ocean
of His Love.”
Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí
Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí [see MF 36-8] is one of the nine individuals
described in Memorials of the Faithful as “belonging to the
mystic element (‘urafá)” [TV 63, MF 36]. ‘Urafá is the plural of
‘árif, ‘the highest grade to which a mystic can attain’ [Steingass
829]. They are: Nabíl-i Akbar, Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar, Mu˙ammad-
‘Alí from Ißfáhán, Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí, Óájí Mu˙ammad Khán,
Mishkín-Qalam, Óájí Áqáy-i Tabrízí, Mírzá Muß†afá and
Shams-i Îu˙á.
Nabíl-i Akbar excelled in “the teachings of the mystics
(‘urafá) and of the Shaykhí School” [TV 5, MF 1]; Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar “frequented the gatherings of... mystics (‘urafá)...
thoughtfully traversing those areas of knowledge (‘ilm),3
intuitive wisdom (‘irfán),4 and illumination (ishráq)”5 (TV 19, MF
9]; Mu˙ammad-‘Alí from Ißfáhán “was one of the mystics
(‘urafá); his house was a gathering place for them, and the
philosophers” [TV 43, MF 23-4]; Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí “belonged to
the mystic element (‘urafá)” [TV 63, MF 36]; Óájí Mu˙ammad
Khán “became a mystic (‘urafá)” when he was very young [TV
142, MF 91]; Mishkín-Qalam “was among the most noted of
mystics (‘urafá)... [and] a spiritual wayfarer (sálik)6“ [TV 152, MF
98]; Óájí Áqáy-i Tabrízí was “a spiritual man (mard-i-rabbání)”
and “had sensed the mystic knowledge (‘irfán)” [TV 218, MF 142];
Mírzá Muß†afá “was concerned with the anemones of mystic
meanings” [TV 227, MF 148]; and Shams-i Îu˙á, the only woman

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
among the nine, was “strongly attracted to the mystical
teachings (‘irfán) of... Siyyid Kázim-i Rashtí... [and] became
thoroughly informed on subjects relating to Divinity, on the
Scriptures and on their inner meanings” [TV 268; MF 176].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá does not praise these believers for possible
charismas [see Savi, “The Bahá’í Faith and the Perennial Mystical Quest”],
but for having escaped the snares of an obsolete form of
mysticism, with its emphasis on visionary and illogical elements,
and for having become lovers of the Truth as manifested by
Bahá’u’lláh and the champions of his Covenant. While speaking
of Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí He explains that Bahá’u’lláh wrote that the
word darvísh, often used in Persian to mean “mystic,”
“designates those who are completely severed from all but God,
who cleave to His laws, are firm in His Faith, loyal to His
Covenant, and constant in worship” [MF 38].
Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí recognized very early the Blessed Beauty,
perhaps during His residence in Kurdistan. He was the attendant
of the Shrine of Pír-Dávar, on mount Balábanú, “the mountain
of Sulaymáníyyih, to which Bahá’u’lláh went” [Eminent Bahá’ís
316] during His residence in Kurdistan in 1854–1856. There
Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí met Bahá’u’lláh and “on meeting Him came to
see in Him all the signs by which the Promised One was to be
recognized” [Eminent Bahá’ís 316]. Íidq-‘Alí was one of the
believers who were allowed to join the party travelling to
Constantinople. He served as groom on the journey. Taherzadeh
writes that he “used to walk all day beside the convoy, singing
poems which brought joy to the friends, and at night he
attended to the horses. From Constantinople he accompanied
Bahá’u’lláh on His exile to Adrianople, and then to ‘Akká”
[Revelation 1:289]. He died in 1880-81 and is buried in ‘Akká [see
Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh 482].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá informs us that:
While in the barracks, Bahá’u’lláh set apart a special
night and He dedicated it to Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí. He wrote
that every year on that night the dervishes should bedeck

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
a meeting place, which should be in a flower garden, and
gather there to make mention of God. [MF 38]
It has been speculated that Lawḥ-i Laylatu’l-Quds I (Tablet of
the Sacred Night I), which may have been revealed in Adrianople
and is addressed to Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí, may be related to this
“special night.” And the Iranian Bahá’í scholar ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd
Ishráq Khávarí (1902–1972) suggested that the Sacred Night of
this Tablet is the night of the Báb’s Declaration, 23 or 24 May
[see Ra˙íq-i Makhtúm 2:296]. In 1996 an inquirer asked the
Universal House of Justice about the above mentioned words
by the Master. On that occasion the Research Department of
the Universal House of Justice explained:
there is no further information in Memorials about this
event, and there is no clear evidence in historical
documents so far reviewed as to how and by whom this
celebration might have been observed. It also remains a
question when it was discontinued. However, in his
book Ganj-i-Shaygan [Ganj-i-Sháyigán], pages 209-210,
the well known scholar, Ishraq Khavari states that the
ceremonial
practices
of
Bahá’ís
from
dervish
backgrounds
were
subsequently
discouraged
by
Bahá’u’lláh... with the revelation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas in
1873, the laws and ordinances concerning days to be
commemorated
were
given.
Thereafter,
other
celebrations which had developed to that point were
discontinued. [20 August 1996]
That being said, I am aware that this special celebration has
been discontinued. However, the fact that the Blessed Beauty
had “set apart a special night” and that “He dedicated it to
Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí” [MF 38] is captivating. And I was thus moved
to make it the central theme of the following poem [see
Remoteness 262], together with the concept that He has
encouraged a totally new kind of mysticism:

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
THE NIGHT OF ÍIDQ-‘ALÍ
Bologna, 25 December 1998
O cool night of scents and roses,
which Thou, the truest Friend
of human hearts, hast dedicated
to Thy lover Íidq-‘Alí and to all
them who tread with him
the ways of mystery and beauty,
and never stray from the straight
path of Thy laws! How will
the nightingales of their hearts
fail to sing, when face to face
with the beauty Thou Thyself
hast willed to bestow
upon their night! In its scented
dark the gates of mysteries
are opened. Each sign of Thine
is relieved of all weight of sense
and intellect and glows
with boundless beauty. Thou thus
allayest the anguish of their hearts,
harassed by Thy veiling signs,
by any other beauty that yet
defaces Thee. Let others scorn
their unappeased pain of love.
Thou alone well knowest
whence it cometh and where
it leadeth. They can only
ask Thee: “Make Thou this pain
of ours to lead us but to Thee.”

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Shaykh Íádiq-i-Yazdí
Shaykh Íádiq-i-Yazdí [see MF 43-4] was subjected to a very
special test, a kind of torment of Tantalus. When Bahá’u’lláh
left Baghdad to go to Constantinople, in May 1863, he was
among the lucky believers who were allowed to follow Him. But
when the caravan was about to leave Judaydah (‘Iráq), on the
river Tigris, where they had arrived on the seventh day of their
march and had stopped for three days, Bahá’u’lláh instructed
him and three other friends to return to Baghdad. Balyuzi writes
that Shaykh Íádiq “an old man greatly devoted to the person of
Bahá’u’lláh... felt so acutely the pangs of separation from Him
that he could not rest, and not long after, started, a solitary
figure, to walk to Istanbul. But he never finished the journey
and died on the way, at Ma’dan-i-Nuqrih [(Silver Mine)]”
[Bahá’u’lláh 178]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains more specifically: “...
after the arrival of Bahá’u’lláh at Mosul, he could endure the
separation no more. Shoeless, hatless, he ran out alongside the
courier going to Mosul; ran and ran until, on that barren plain,
with mercy all about him, he fell to his rest” [MF 44]. This specific
episode is at the heart of the following unpublished poem:
SHAYKH ÍÁDIQ-I-YAZDÍ
Bologna, 1 February 1999
Shaykh Íádiq
your Beloved
did not want
you to die on
an easy bed.
He wanted you
to follow Him
to Mosul. And
then, shoeless,
hatless, alone, on

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
that barren plain,
He came toward
you, His cup filled
with crystal water,
tempered at the
Camphor fountain.
And you quaffed
it with joy.
Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín Yazdí
Zaynu’l-‘Ábidín Yazdí [see MF 83-4] is one of those passionate
lovers who did their utmost to reach Bahá’u’lláh while He was
confined in ‘Akká, with the prohibition of meeting anyone.
Shoghi Effendi describes them as follows:
The few pilgrims who, despite the ban that had been so
rigidly imposed, managed to reach the gates of the
Prison—some of whom had journeyed the entire distance
from Persia on foot—had to content themselves with a
fleeting glimpse of the face of the Prisoner, as they
stood, beyond the second moat, facing the window of
His Prison. The very few who succeeded in penetrating
into the city had, to their great distress, to retrace their
steps without even beholding His countenance. [GPB 187]
When he began his journey to go and meet his Beloved, he was
so sick that he passed away before attaining his destination, an
episode which is the leitmotiv of the following poem [see
Remoteness 271]:
ZAYNU’L-‘ÁBIDÍN
Bologna, 1 February 1999
You did not reach
your journey’s goal

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
on earth. You did not reach
that sea which roars
beneath the walls
of the crimson City.
Your body did not endure
that journey’s toils.
But when you closed
your eyes for ever
to this life, your Best-
Beloved came toward you
from behind His veils
and the light of reunion
dawned upon
your loving heart.
You never came away
from that shining
Presence. There,
you live now in joy,
devoted and true,
stainless and faithful.
Shaykh ‘Alí Akbar-i-Mazgání
Shaykh ‘Alí Akbar-i-Mazgání [see MF 104-5] “by disposition
and because of the intense love in his heart,... yearned to write
poetry, to fashion odes and ghazals, but he lacked both meter
and rhyme” [MF 105]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá numbers in his book other
seven believers who wrote poetry. Unlike Shaykh ‘Alí Akbar,
they were talented poets. These poets are Nabíl-i-Zarandí,
Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí, Áqá Mu˙ammad-Ibráhím, Mírzá Mihdíy-i-
Káshání, Ustád ‘Alí-Akbar-i-Najjár, Jináb-i-Muníb and Ṭáhirih.
Nabíl-i-Zarandí
... was a gifted poet, and his tongue most eloquent; a
man of mettle, and on fire with passionate love... Day
and night he sang the praises of the one Beloved of both

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
worlds and of those about His threshold, writing verses
in the pentameter and hexameter forms, lyrics and long
odes... His native genius was pure inspiration, his poetic
gift like a crystal stream. In particular his ode ‘Bahá,
Bahá!’ was written in sheer ecstasy. [MF 33, 34-35]7
Darvísh Íidq-‘Alí, also mentioned above as a mystic,
had a fine poetic gift and wrote odes to sing the praises
of Him Whom the world has wronged and rejected.
Among them is a poem written while he was a prisoner in
the barracks at ‘Akká, the chief couplet of which reads:
A hundred hearts Thy curling locks ensnare,
And it rains hearts when Thou dost toss Thy hair.
[MF 36]
Áqá Mu˙ammad-Ibráhím “had a fine poetic gift, and he
would create verses like stringed pearls” [MF 81]. Mírzá Mihdíy-
i-Káshání “in early youth, under his father’s tutelage,... had
studied sciences and arts, and had become skilled in composing
both prose and verse” [TF 95]. Also Ustád ‘Alí-Akbar-i-Najjár
was “a gifted poet, writing odes in eulogy of Bahá’u’lláh” [MF
102]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also cites Jináb-i-Muníb, who “was a
calligrapher second to none, a poet, and... had as well a
remarkable singing voice” [MF 145]. This man will be mentioned
again later on. As to Ṭáhirih, a well-known Iranian poetess,8
‘Abdu’l-Bahá only hints at her “remarkable ability in literary
pursuits” [MF 191]. The auspice that although Shaykh ‘Alí Akbar
had no poetic talent in this world, perhaps in the Great Beyond
his Beloved may have granted him to become the inspirer of
aspiring poet in this nether world is the leitmotiv of the
following unpublished poem:
SHAYKH ‘ALÍ AKBAR-I-MAZGÁNÍ
Bologna, 6 January 1999

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Do not grieve that you lacked
both meter and rhyme.
Your eyes beheld the face
of the Best-Beloved.
Other hearts were granted
a poetical vein and denied
attaining the presence
of the Best-Beloved.
In centuries to come others
like you will look after meter
and rhyme in their praise
of the Best-Beloved.
From your world of love
and light will you help them
to give wings to their verses
for the Best-Beloved?
Óájí Ja‘far and his brothers
‘Abdu’l-Bahá relates the incidents of the lives of Óájí Ja‘far
and his two brothers in a single biography [MF 122-5], because
they were related not only by their blood relationship, but also,
and especially, by their deep love for Bahá’u’lláh. Óájí Ḥasan is
so transported by this love that, because of his imprudence in
teaching the new Faith in Azerbaijan, is treacherously killed in a
garden and his torn body is hidden under-earth. Óájí Ja‘far is so
bound to Bahá’u’lláh that he sacrifices everything so that he
may remain beside Him. When in 1868 in Adrianople he
discovers that the authorities did not permit him to follow
Bahá’u’lláh in the Holy Land, he is so grieved that he cuts his
throat. Bahá’u’lláh later on wrote about him, as well as about
another believer who killed himself out of his love for Him:
Such souls have been influenced by the Word of God,
have tasted the sweetness of His remembrance, and are

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
so transported by the breezes of reunion that they have
detached themselves from all that dwell on earth and
turned unto the Divine Countenance with faces beaming
with light. And though they have committed an act
which God hath forbidden, He hath nevertheless
forgiven them as a token of His mercy. He, verily, is the
Ever-Forgiving, the Most Compassionate. So enraptured
were these souls by Him Who is the All-Compelling that
the reins of volition slipped from their grasp, until at
last they ascended to the dwelling of the Unseen and
entered the presence of God, the Almighty, the All-
Knowing. [SLH 145]
Having survived to this desperate act, Óájí Ja‘far finally
manages to attain the presence of Bahá’u’lláh in the Holy Land
together with his brother Óájí Taqí. There he dies falling from
the roof of the caravanserai where he resides, while he paces
absorbed in his prayers. After this event Óájí Taqí remains
alone. He too dies in the same way: he falls from the roof of the
caravanserai. This human sequel of events binding these three
brothers, three “eagles soaring... three stars of the Faith, pulsing
with the light of the love of God” [MF 122] is the leitmotiv of
the following unpublished poem:
ÓÁJÍ JA‘FAR AND HIS BROTHERS
Bologna, 3 February 1999
You were three brothers of Tabríz
young soaring eagles of the Faith
pulsing lights of the love of God.
Óájí Óasan, by which insanity
of love were you distracted?
Why did you dance and sing
shahnáz melodies in Azerbaijan?

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Brought to that lonely garden,
you were tortured, killed and
your body hidden underground.
But your soul soared to Heaven
well-pleased with her Lord
and well-pleasing unto Him.
Óájí Ja‘far, by which insanity
of love were you distracted?
Attempting suicide
that you might follow an Exile
in His exile. Love healed your
wound, your yearning for exile
was finally fulfilled. Where was
your heart that night on
the roof of the caravanserai?
In the morning your lifeless
body was discovered lying
on the ground. Your exile was past.
Óájí Taqí, silence
personified, now that your
brothers, companions
of former days, left you
alone, always sitting
lonely in your room. Now,
you flied away, you too, as
your brother, from that roof
toward his embrace and the
embrace of your Beloved.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
‘Abdu’lláh Baghdádí
About ‘Abdu’lláh Baghdádí [see MF 129-31] I could not find
any historical reference in the Bahá’í literature. The purport of
what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes about him, and as a matter of fact
about all the other believers described in Memorials of the
Faithful, is clarified by the following remarks by Price:
He [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] describes many pilgrimages and you
and I are left to construct our own. We all must shape
and define our own life. Is it aesthetically pleasing?
Intellectually
provocative?
Spiritually
challenging?
‘Abdu’l-Bahá shapes and defines these lives given the
raw-data of their everydayness added up, added up over
their lives as He saw them. How would He shape my life?
Yours? How would we look in a contemporary anthology
of existences with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the choreographer
and the history of our days as the mise en scène? [Price 3]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes in the beginning of His biography of
‘Abdu’lláh Baghdádí:
When he was very young, people thought of ‘Abdu’lláh
Baghdádí as a libertine, solely devoted to pleasure. He
was regarded by all as the sport of inordinate desires,
mired down in his physical passions. But the moment he
became a believer, he was carried away by the sweet
savors of God, and was changed into a new creation. He
found himself in a strange rapture, completely
transformed. He had been of the world, now he was of
Heaven; he had lived by the flesh, now he lived by the
spirit; he had walked in darkness; now he walked in light.
He had been a slave to his senses, now he was a thrall of
God. He had been clay and earthenware before, now he
was a dear-bought pearl; a dull and lusterless stone
before, now a ruby glowing. [MF 129-30]

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
This incipit is the leitmotiv of the following poem [see Remoteness
272]:
‘ABDU’LLÁH BAGHDÁDÍ
Bologna, 12 February 1999
O friend of joy
your thirst for bliss
is today appeased
the wine you drink
today does not make
you lose your mind
to make you wise
it closes your eyes
to this world
and opens them
to the Veilless Beauty.
Today your feasts
are celestial agapes.
The gazelle-eyed
maids you invite
today are the virtues
of your Lord. Broken
your rusty fetters,
your heart is bound
today by the golden
chains of faithfulness.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Jináb-i-Muníb
The story of Jináb-i-Muníb [see MF 145-7] is one of the most
fascinating and moving biographies of Memorials of the
Faithful. Friendship occupies a prominent position in human
life. And thus this story, revolving around the personal
friendship between ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Mírzá Áqá, the given
name of Jináb-i-Muníb, is full of inspiring details, comprising:
the charming personality of this man; his intimate relation with
the
Master
during
their
migration
from
Baghdad
to
Constantinople; their riding (both of them teen-agers) beside
Bahá’u’lláh’s howdah and singing
To our King though we bow the knee,
We are kings of the morning star.
No changeable colors have we—
Red lions, black dragons we are! [MF 145, see Óáfiẓ, Divan
395-6]
and especially his sickness and final death, alone, in that foreign
hospital in Smyrna, and the Master’s words about that moment
Whenever I think of that moment, the tears come; my
heart is heavy and I summon up the remembrance of
what he was. A great man; infinitely wise, he was,
steadfast, modest and grave; and there was no one like
him for faith and certitude. In him the inner and outer
perfections, the spiritual and physical, were joined
together. That is why he could receive endless bounty
and grace. [MF 146]
Bahíyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf (1846–1932), told
her version of the story of his passing to Sarah Lady Blomfield
(1859–1939), the first distinguished Bahá’í of the British Isles
and the first Bahá’í of Ireland, adding a small and moving detail:

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
A dear friend of the family, Jináb-i-Muníb, was taken
seriously ill. When the boat stopped at Smyrna, Sarkár-i-
Áqá (‘Abdu’l-Bahá) and Mírzá Músá carried him ashore,
and took him to a hospital. The Master bought a melon
and some grapes; returning with the refreshing fruit for
him—He found that he had died. Arrangements were
made with the director of the hospital for a simple
funeral. The Master chanted some prayers, then,
heartsore, came back to the boat. [Lady Blomfield 65]
Taherzadeh writes that Bahá’u’lláh, in a Tablet describing
Jináb-i-Muníb’s passing in Smyrna, “says that when Jináb-i-
Muníb’s spirit ascended to his abode in the eternal worlds of
God, all the angelic souls and the Concourse on high rushed
forward to receive him with eagerness and love” [Revelation 1
286]. This pregnant story has inspired the following poem [see
Remoteness 263-4].
JINÁB-I-MUNÍB
Bologna, 25 December 1998
Winsome, charming, refined,
delicate, sensitive, a poet
and singer, once a lover
of worldly pleasures, a companion
of the young Áqá, beside Him
an escort of the Beloved’s howdah,
a wise messenger of His love,
an attendant at His Threshold.
On that hospital bed in Smyrna,
your mind never lost the memory
of the last touch of His hands
as He laid your head on that pillow.
On that hospital bed in Smyrna,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
your body never lost the warmth
of the last loving embrace
of your youthful Companion.
On that hospital bed in Smyrna,
your heart never lost the fragrance
of His last kisses of love,
as he was forced away from you.
On that hospital bed in Smyrna,
when, in loneliness, your soul winged
its flight, the last glance of love
of the Beloved lifted you into Heaven.
Jináb-i-Muníb, a whole life
is not worth the love of the Beloved
and the youthful friendship
of that Companion of nocturnal rides.
Every tear of love shed
by His celestial eyes,
as He would recall
His last separation from you,
adds beauty to the radiant form
the Beloved gave you in Heaven,
even more beauteous than that
which He gave you on earth.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá’ fí Tarjumat Ḥayát Qudamá’ al-
A˙ibbá’. Haifa: Ma†ba‘ah al-‘Abbásíyah, 1343 AH (1924).
Associate. Newsletter of the Association for Bahá’í Studies (English-
Speaking Europe). London: Association for Bahá’í Studies
(English-Speaking Europe), 1991-2004.
The Bahá’í Encyclopedia Project. www.bahai-encyclopedia-
project.org (accessed 15 March 2015).

Homage to Memorials of the Faithful
Balyuzi. Hasan M. Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1980.
____ . Eminent Bahá’ís In the Tome of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1985.
Bausani, Alessandro. “La letteratura neopersiana,” in Pagliaro and
Bausani: La letteratura Persiana, pp.133-563.
Blomfield, Lady (Sara Louise). The Chosen Highway. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1940. RP Oxford: George Ronald, 2007.
Browne, Edward G. Materials for the study of the Bábí Religion.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1961.
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke
Brill NV, 1999.
Gail, Marzieh. “Proem,” in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Memorials of the Faithful,
pp. xi-xii.
Ḥáfiẓ, Shams ad-Dín. The Divan of Hafiz. Teheran: Aban Book
Publication, 1387 [2008-2009].
Heinrichs, Wolfhart P., Johannes Thomas Pieter (Hans) de Bruijn,
James Stewart-Robinson, “Tadhkira,”in Encyclopaedia of Islam.
Ishráq Khávarí, ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd. Ganj-i-Sháyigán. Teheran: Mu’assisa
Ma†bu‘át Amrí, 123 BE (1967–68).
____ . Ra˙íq-i Makhtúm. 2 vols. Tehran: Mu’assisiy-i-Millí Maṭbu‘át-i-
Amrí, 103 EB [1947-8].
Kazemzadeh, Firuz. “‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbás (1844–1921)”, The Bahá’í
Encyclopedia Project.
Lane, Edward William. An Arabic-English Lexicon. London and
Edinburgh: Williams and Norgate, 1863–93. CD-Rom edition
published by Thesaurus Islamicus Foundation. Cairo: Tradigital,
2003.
Muslim Saints and Mystics: Episodes from the Tadhkirat al-Auliya’
(‘Memorial of the Saints’), trans. Arthur John Arberry. London:
Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1966.
Pagliaro, Antonino; Alessandro Bausani. La letteratura persiana.
Florence: Sansoni Accademia, 1968.
Price, Ronald Frederick. “Memorials of the Faithful: Revisited,” in
Associate, no.35 (Summer 2001), pp. 2-4.
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice, 20 August
1996, to the Universal House of Justice. “Lawh-i-Laylatu’l-Quds:

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, plus translator’s
introduction, notes by Sen McGlinn, Juan Cole, Ahang Rabbani,”
bahai-library.com/resources/tablets-notes/lawh-laylat-
quds/notes.html, retrieved on 15 March 2015.
Savi, Julio. “The Bahá’í Faith and the Perennial Mystical Quest: A
Western Perspective,” in The Bahá’í Studies Review, vol. 14
(2008), pp. 5-22
____ . Remoteness. Selected Poems. Rome: Casa Editrice Bahá’í, 2002.
Steingass, Francis Joseph. A Comprehensive Persian-English
Dictionary Including the Arabic Words and Phrases to be Met with
in Persian Literature. London and New York: Routledge, 1998.
Taherzadeh, Adib. Nafa˙at-i-Ẓuhúr Ha∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh. Vol. 1.
Dundas, Ontario: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian, 1997.
____ . The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. 4 vols. Oxford: George Ronald,
1974–1987.
Táhirih: A Portrait in Poetry. Selected Poems of Qurratu’l-‘Ayn.
Translated and edited by Amín Banani, Ph.D., English poems by
Jascha Kessler, Ph.D. and Anthony A. Lee. Los Angeles: Kalímát
Press, 2005.

NOTES
1 The prayer Yá Sháfí is known among the Bahá’ís as Lawh-i-Anta’l-Káfí or
“Long Healing Prayer” (see Bahá’í Prayers 91-8).
2 1269 AH, or 1853 CE, the year in which Bahá’u’lláh “received the first
intimation of His sublime Mission” (Shoghi Effendi, Messages 99).
3 An Arabic word sometimes translated as science.
4 Among the Sufis this word denotes esoteric knowledge.
5 In the Muslim world this word denotes the oriental theosophy or
philosophy of Suhravardi (1155–1191).
6 An Arabic word denoting among the Sufis the initiated on the mystical
path.
7 The first five verses of this ode have been translated into English by the
British scholar Edward G. Browne (1862–1926). See Materials 353.
8 See Táhirih: A Portrait in Poetry.

Significance of some Sites Mentioned in
Memorials of the Faithful
Foad Seddigh
Abstract
Memorials of the Faithful is not merely a book devoted to
the hagiography of some believers and to some extent a
historical narrative of their lives, it is also a depository of
matchless beauty in Persian writing, an exquisite text with
profound meaning, and a testimonial to the devotion of
believers to the Cause of God and the Covenant. The believers
whose stories appear in the book comprised a diverse cross-
section of the Bábí and Bahá’í communities including believers
that society would consider low in rank as well as high, poor and
rich, semi-literate and learned.
In the book Memorials of the Faithful, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in the
course of portraying the life history of these believers, cited
many countries, cities, towns, villages and sites, some of which
were blessed by the foot-steps of the Twin Manifestations of
God for this age, and others which were important due to their
association with significant historical events of the Faith. In
this paper three such places were selected from among all the
sites mentioned in the book and their niche in the history and
the Writings of the Faith were further elaborated. These are: (1)
The Most Great House in Baghdad, (2) The ruins of Mada’in,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
located some thirty kilometers south of Baghdad, on the banks
of the River Tigris, a place where the Blessed Beauty visited
many times, and which once graced the palaces of great kings of
the Sassanid dynasty, and (3) the city of Mosul in northern Iraq
on the banks of the River Tigris where a number of believers
and the Holy family were kept as captives for several years, a
city which Bahá’u’lláh’s caravan passed through on His journey
to exile in the seat of the Ottoman Empire.
The Most Great House
Bahá’u’lláh arrived in Baghdad on April 8, 1853 and stayed a
few days in the old quarters of the city then moved to al-
Káẓimíyyah (Káẓimayn),
1 a holy town in the eyes of Shí’ah, Islám
[King of Glory p. 106]. Al-Káẓimíyyah houses the shrines of two
Shí‘ah Imáms and therefore is a place of pilgrimage for Shí‘ahs.
At the time, this place was at a distance of 10 km from Baghdad,
and now is one of the nine administrative districts within the
city. Soon after Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival, an official from the
Iranian consulate paid Him a visit and advised Him, in utmost
humility, that this place was not suitable for His residence.
Therefore, after staying a month in al-Káẓimíyyah, He moved to
a house in the Al-Karkh
2 district of Baghdad, referred to as the
House of Óájí ‘Alí Madad. Due to the inadequacy of space in
this house, the holy Family was not comfortable, and lived in
cramped conditions. During the absence of Bahá’u’lláh during
his sojourn in the mountains of Kurdistan, the Family moved to
a house known by the name of Sulaymán-i-Ghannám, belonging
to Musá Javáhirí; this house was also located in the Al-Karkh
district (Bahá’u’lláh left Baghdad for Kurdistan on April 10,
1854 and returned on March 19, 1856 [King of Glory pp. 112-115]).

The Guardian describes this residence of Bahá’u’lláh with the
following words [GPB 129-130]:
Within a few years after Bahá’u’lláh’s return from
Sulaymáníyyih the situation had been completely
reversed. The house of Sulaymán-i-Ghannám, on which

Significance of Some Sites
the official designation of the Bayt-i-‘Aẓam (the Most
Great House) was later conferred, known, at that time,
as the house of Mírzá Músá, the Bábí, an extremely
modest residence, situated in the Karkh quarter, in the
neighborhood of the western bank of the river, to which
Bahá’u’lláh’s family had moved prior to His return from
Kurdistán, had now become the focal center of a great
number of seekers, visitors and pilgrims, including
Kurds, Persians, Arabs and Turks, and derived from the
Muslim, the Jewish and Christian Faiths. It had,
moreover, become a veritable sanctuary to which the
victims of the injustice of the official representative of
the Persian government were wont to flee, in the hope of
securing redress for the wrongs they had suffered.
The exact date of the family’s transfer to this house is not
known. The house of Sulaymán-i-Ghannám was rented at the
beginning and later on became a property of Bahá’u’lláh. This
transition is a fascinating story which has been narrated by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in one of the chapters from the Memorials of the
Faithful where the life history of Mírzá Mu˙ammad-i-Vakíl is
narrated. A brief extract from His explanation is given below:
There was a notable in Baghdád by the name of Óájí
Mírzá Hádí, the jeweler. He had a distinguished son, Áqá
Mírzá Músá,
3 who had received from Bahá’u’lláh the
title “Letter of Eternity.” This son had become a staunch
believer. As for his father, the Óájí, he was a princely
individual known for his lavish open-handedness not
only in Persia and ‘Iráq but as far away as India....
Toward the close of his life he conceived a remarkable
love for Bahá’u’lláh, and most humbly, would enter His
presence.... Such was the situation of that illustrious
prince when he passed away, leaving as heirs a son and
two daughters....

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Mírzá Músá was a staunch believer; his sisters, however, were
from a different mother, and they knew nothing of the Cause.
One day the two sisters, accompanied by the son-in-law of the
late Mírzá Siyyid Ri∂á, came to the house of Bahá’u’lláh. The
two sisters entered the family apartments while the son-in-law
settled down in the public reception rooms. The two girls then
said to Bahá’u’lláh: “The Persian envoy, the judge, and the
faithless mujtahids have destroyed us. Toward the close of his
life, the late Óájí trusted no one but Yourself. We ourselves
have been remiss and we should have sought Your protection
before; in any case we come now to implore Your pardon and
help....” [MF 108 -109]
The Blessed Beauty refused to become involved in such
matters and they insisted and begged him to the extent that they
said they would not leave the house until He acceded to their
requests. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá further explains:
Finally one day Bahá’u’lláh summoned me to His
presence. “These esteemed ladies,” He said, “with all
their
exactions,
have
put
Us
to
considerable
inconvenience. There is no help for it—you will have to
see to this case. But you must solve this entire,
complicated matter in a single day
.”
...  [MF 112]
The Blessed Beauty accepted to intervene and instructed
‘Abdu’l-Bahá to spend only one day to settle the matter.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá followed His instructions and resolved all the
matters of dispute to the best satisfaction of all. In return, they
gave one third of the inheritance to Him which at long last He
accepted and donated in its entirety to Mírzá Músá Javáhirí.
Then ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains further that:

Grateful for the bounty he had received, Mírzá Músá
offered Bahá’u’lláh everything he possessed: orchards,
lands, estates—but it was refused. Then he appointed the
‘ulamás of ‘Iráq to intercede for him. They hastened to
Bahá’u’lláh in a body and begged Him to accept the

Significance of Some Sites
proffered
gifts.
He
categorically
refused.
They
respectfully told Him: “Unless You accept, in a very
short time Mírzá Músá will scatter it all to the winds.
For his own good, he should not have access to this
wealth.”
Then in his own hand, Mírzá Músá penned deeds of gift,
made out according to each of the five creeds, in Arabic
and Persian; two copies he made, and chose the ‘ulamás
as his witnesses. Through certain ‘ulamás of Baghdád,
among them the famed scholar ‘Abdu’s-Salám Effendi,
and the erudite and widely known Siyyid Dávúd Effendi,
he presented the deed of gift to Bahá’u’lláh. The Blessed
Beauty told them: “We are appointing Mírzá Músá
himself as Our deputy....” [MF 119]
This house was later on called the “Most Great House,” by
Bahá’u’lláh, which is one of the three locations designated for
pilgrimage for the Bahá’ís. The Most Great House in Baghdád
and the House of the Báb in Shiráz were designated in the Most
Holy Book (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas) for pilgrimage; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
added to this list the third place which is Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh in
Akká, but He did not specify any rites for this pilgrimage [KA
191]. In Baghdad, Bahá’u’lláh and His family lived in this house
for a longer period than they did elsewhere in Iraq. The Most
Great House witnessed many events during the earlier years of
Bahá’u’lláh’s mission while He had not yet declared. Many
Tablets were revealed in this House, many believers attained
Bahá’u’lláh’s presence in this House, and many dignitaries and
men of status and knowledge met Him in this House.
When Bahá’u’lláh was exiled to Istanbul and Edirnih
(Adrianople) several believers became custodians of the House
among whom were: Gawhar Khánum (His wife from Káshán),
Mírzá Mihdí Káshání (Gawhar Khánum’s brother) and Mírzá
Mu˙ammad-i-Vakíl. Towards the end of Bahá’u’lláh’s stay in
Edirnih, nearly seventy believers among whom was Jináb-i-
Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín were arrested in Baghdad and sent as

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
prisoners to the city of Mosul. This deprived the House of
lawful custodians and in the interim some individuals looked
after the House. This is the earlier period that provided an
opportunity for the enemies of the Cause to transgress against
this House. It has been reported that a number of believers on
their way to ‘Akká stayed in this House. This included Badí‘, the
pride of the martyrs.
In the first year of His stay in Edirnih (Adrianople),
Bahá’u’lláh revealed two Tablets of pilgrimage (Surih-i-Hajj)
4,
one for the House of the Báb and the other one for the Most
Great House and sent them to Nabíl Zarandí (Nabíl A‘ẓam) who
was travelling in Iran at the time proclaiming the news of the
appearance of the promised one of the Bayán. Bahá’u’lláh
instructed Nabíl to perform the pilgrimage according to the
instructions given in the Tablets. Nabíl Zarandí proceeded at
once and performed the pilgrimage according to the
instructions contained in these two Tablets. As far as the
history has recorded, Nabíl Zarandí is the only person who has
performed the pilgrimage in accordance with all the instructions
of the Tablet of Pilgrimage. Sheikh Mu˙ammad Damirtchi
5 was
another person directed by Bahá’u’lláh to visit the House and
read a Tablet of Visitation at the House which had been
revealed in his honor. He performed the pilgrimage according to
the instructions, disregarding the mobs who were throwing
stones at him.
The Nobility of the Most Great House
Bahá’u’lláh extols the station of this House in several
Tablets, including the one which was revealed in the honor of
the aforementioned Sheikh Mu˙ammad Damirtchi. Some
passages from this Tablet appear below:
When thou art departed out of the court of My
presence, O Mu˙ammad, direct thy steps towards My
House (Baghdád House), and visit it on behalf of thy

Significance of Some Sites
Lord. When thou reachest its door, stand thou before it
and say: Whither is the Ancient Beauty gone, O most
great House of God, He through Whom God hath made
thee the cynosure of an adoring world, and proclaimed
thee to be the sign of His remembrance unto all who are
in the heavens and all who are on the earth? Oh! for the
former days when thou, O House of God, wert made His
footstool, the days when in ceaseless strains the melody
of the All-Merciful poured forth from thee! What hath
become of thy jewel whose glory hath irradiated all
creation? Whither are gone the days in which He, the
Ancient King, had made thee the throne of His glory, the
days in which He had chosen thee alone to be the lamp
of salvation between earth and heaven, and caused thee
to diffuse, at dawn and at eventide, the sweet fragrance
of the All-Glorious?
Where, O House of God, is the Sun of majesty and
power Who had enveloped thee with the brightness of
His presence? Where is He, the Day Spring of the tender
mercies of thy Lord, the Unconstrained, Who had
established His seat within thy walls? What is it, O
throne of God, that hath altered thy countenance, and
made thy pillars to tremble? What could have closed thy
door to the face of them that eagerly seek thee? What
hath made thee so desolate? Couldst thou have been told
that the Beloved of the world is pursued by the swords
of His enemies? The Lord bless thee, and bless thy
fidelity unto Him, inasmuch as thou hast remained His
companion through all His sorrows and His sufferings...
[GWB 111-112]
In relation to the names and titles of this House, The Guardian
states:

Most Great House of God,” His “Footstool” and the
“Throne of His Glory,” “the Cynosure of an adoring

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
world,” the “Lamp of Salvation between earth and
heaven,” the “Sign of His remembrance to all who are in
heaven and on earth,” enshrining the “Jewel whose glory
hath irradiated all creation,” the “Standard” of His
Kingdom, the “Shrine round which will circle the
concourse of the faithful” was irrevocably founded and
permanently consecrated. Upon it, by virtue of its
sanctity as Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Holy Habitation” and
“Seat of His transcendent glory,” was conferred the
honor of being regarded as a center of pilgrimage second
to none except the city of ‘Akká, His “Most Great
Prison...” [GPB 110]
It is evident that the high station given to a House is due to its
association with the Manifestation of God and not because of
the materials, stones, bricks and concrete used to construct the
house.
Prophecy of the Desecration of the House
Bahá’u’lláh in some of His Tablets clearly predicted that the
House of God (The Most Great House) will be dishonored:
Grieve not, O House of God, if the veil of thy sanctity
be rent asunder by the infidels. God hath, in the world of
creation,
adorned
thee
with
the
jewel
of
His
remembrance. Such an ornament no man can, at any
time, profane. Towards thee the eyes of thy Lord shall,
under all conditions, remain directed. He, verily, will
incline His ear to the prayer of every one that visiteth
thee, who will circle around thee, and calleth upon Him
in thy name. He, in truth, is the Forgiving, the All-
Merciful. [GWB 114]
Also the Sublime Pen writes in the following terms concerning
the future humiliation awaiting the House:

Significance of Some Sites
Call thou to mind that which hath been revealed unto
Mihdí, Our servant, in the first year of Our banishment
to the Land of Mystery (Adrianople). Unto him have We
predicted that which must befall Our House (Baghdád
House), in the days to come, lest he grieve over the acts
of robbery and violence already perpetrated against it.
Verily, the Lord, thy God, knoweth all that is in the
heavens and all that is on the earth.
To him We have written: This is not the first humiliation
inflicted upon My House. In days gone by the hand of
the oppressor hath heaped indignities upon it. Verily, it
shall be so abased in the days to come as to cause tears
to flow from every discerning eye. Thus have We
unfolded to thee things hidden beyond the veil,
inscrutable to all save God, the Almighty, the All-
Praised.... [GWB 114-115]
Although several attempts were made by the Shí‘ah clergy, the
ever vigilant enemy of the Cause of God in Baghdad, who tried
to wrestle away this House from the hands of its lawful owner,
but all their efforts in this regard failed miserably. Towards the
end of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Ministry, the condition of the House
deteriorated to such an extent that it was in a sorry state. One
of the new adherents of the Faith in Baghdad, Óájí Ma˙múd-i-
Qassábchí,
6 with the permission from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and with his
own resources, undertook to repair the House. This period of
time coincided with the termination of World War I and the
dissolution of the Ottoman Empire. As a result, Iraq came
under the administration of the League of Nations, a new
constitution was adopted and the freedom of religion and belief
was announced. The reconstruction of the House and its
development produced a steadily widening measure of publicity.
This emboldened the Shí‘ah clerics to seize possession of the
House through the favourable judgement of an obscure Shari‘ah
Court which made several obvious and possibly deliberate
mistakes. This crisis which originated about a year prior to

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ascension eventually precipitated in its seizure
by Shí‘ah clerics in the summer of 1922. Since this time the
House has not been returned to the Bahá’ís. This House had
continued to be in the unbroken and undisputed possession of
Bahá’u’lláh’s followers ever since His departure from Baghdád,
a period of more than six decades. As an example of an obvious
mistake committed by the court was that it disregarded the rule
that fifteen years of lawful possession and occupation of a
house disqualifies any dispute attempted at the seizure of the
house.
This unjust ruling became the object of the consideration of
successive tribunals. First by the local Shí‘ah Ja‘faríyyih court in
Baghdád, second by the Peace court, then the court of First
Instance, then by the court of Appeal in Iraq, and finally by the
League of Nations, the greatest international body in existence
at that time. The League of Nations had been empowered to
exercise supervision and control over all Mandated Territories.
Though repossession of the House was not resolved due to a
combination of causes, religious as well as political, it has
already remarkably fulfilled Bahá’u’lláh’s own prediction
concerning the humiliation it will suffer in the hands of the
enemies of the Cause of God.
The appeal of the local Bahá’í community in Iraq, and those
of the International Bahá’í community from around the world,
as well as the letters of the Guardian written as the Head of the
Bahá’í Faith to the highest authorities and to King Faisal
produced no results; and the Government of Iraq under the
leadership of King Faisal
remained adamant in acting in a
manner which was just—as he was much afraid of the religious
passion of the Shí‘ahs. Details regarding these communications
are comprehensively documented in the volumes of the Bahá’í
World: Bahá’í World II pp. 33-34, Bahá’í World III pp. 198-
210, Bahá’í World IV pp. 237-248, Bahá’í World V pp. 351-359,
and Bahá’í World VI p. 437.8 In these volumes, we find the
resolutions of various courts, minutes of the council of the
League of Nations, as well as some important letters. Among

Significance of Some Sites
the various accounts, Arnold Toynbee, the well-respected
British historian provides an informed accounting of the
situation concerning the House [Survey of International Affairs pp.
116-122]. The American Lawyer, Mountfort Mills, exerted
tremendous efforts and dedication towards securing possession
of the House for the Faith. In paying tributes to his effort, the
Guardian referred to him as “Mr. Mountfort Mills, whose
services to the Cause only future generations can estimate” [BA
127]. Other efforts included the audience of Miss Martha Root
with King Faisal I
9 in Baghdad and her request for the
intervention by the King. Finally, the Government of Iraq
gained complete independence in 1932 and joined the League of
Nations in 1933 and all those who were involved with this
matter either died or were replaced and the case has remained
unresolved until this time despite several fundamental changes
of Government in Iraq. The final act was the news released by
the Universal House of Justice in a letter dated 17 July, 2013,
of razing the House almost to the ground by unknown
elements, without any legal permit from the Government,
between 24-26 June, 2013, in order to prepare the ground for
building a mosque on the spot where the Most Great House was
originally standing.
Promise of the Rise of the House of God
Bahá’u’lláh also prophesied that the House will suffer such
humiliation which will cause tears of the faithful to flow; after
that it will rise again and will find its high station which has
been destined for it. The Supreme Pen provides this assurance
with these words:
In the fullness of time, the Lord shall, by the power of
truth, exalt it in the eyes of all men. He shall cause it to
become the Standard of His Kingdom, the Shrine round
which will circle the concourse of the faithful. Thus hath
spoken the Lord, thy God... [GWB 115]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Al-Mada’in Becomes the Seat of Glory
One of the chapters of Memorials of the Faithful is devoted
to the life of Mírzá Mu˙ammad-‘Alí, the Afnán who was
eventually buried in the vicinity of the ancient city of Mada’in.
Mírzá Mu˙ammad-‘Alí, the Afnán, was a cousin of the Báb and
the eldest child of the eldest uncle of the Báb for whom the
Kitab-i-Íqán was revealed. About a year prior to the departure
of Bahá’u’lláh from Baghdád for Istanbul, Mírzá Mu˙ammad-
’Alí who was a resident of Shanghai in China, along with his
younger brother, attained the presence of Bahá’u’lláh and
became aware of His high station. For the second time he gained
admittance to the presence of Bahá’u’lláh in ‘Akká—this is the
visit that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes in these terms:
One day I was up on the roof of the caravanserai. Some
of the friends were with me and I was walking up and
down. It was sunset. At that moment, glancing at the
distant seashore, I observed that a carriage was
approaching. “Gentlemen,” I said, “I feel that a holy
being is in that carriage.” It was still far away, hardly
within sight.” Let us go to the gate,” I told them.
“Although they will not allow us to pass through, we can
stand there till he comes.” I took one or two people with
me and we left... The gatekeeper stayed outside, the
carriage drew up, the gentleman had arrived. What a
radiant face he had! He was nothing but light from head
to foot. Just to look at that face made one happy; he
was so confident, so assured, so rooted in his faith, and
his expression so joyous. He was truly a blessed being....
[MF 17]
During one of his trips from China, Mírzá Mu˙ammad-‘Alí
Afnán arrived in Bombay and took his flight to the Abhá
Kingdom due to an illness. However, the burial of his remains
became problematic and one of the believers by the name Áqá
Siyyid Asadu’lláh-i-Qumí according to the instructions of

Significance of Some Sites
‘Abdu’l-Bahá took the body to Iraq with the intention of
finding a burial place in one of the holy cemeteries of Islám.
Eventually, according to the instructions of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he
buried the body of Mírzá Mu˙ammad-‘Alí in the Salmán
Cemetery near Mada’in. Mada’in was once the seat of the
Government of the Sassanid dynasty which ruled over Iran for
five centuries, and eventually was defeated by the army of the
Arab Muslim invaders who plundered the riches of this
kingdom. Bahá’u’lláh is a descendant from this line of kings.
The city of Mada’in consisted of several smaller fortified cities
on both sides of the river Tigris. The city of Ctesiphon was one
of the cities and the seat of the government, and it housed
sprawling palaces which were the envy of the rulers of the world
at that time—as for its location, Mada’in is located nearly thirty
kilometers south of Baghdad. Salmán was the first Muslim ruler
for the newly opened territories, stationed in Mada’in and after
his death he was buried there in a place where it has become a
cemetery bearing his name; in this place Mírzá Mu˙ammad-‘Alí
Afnán was buried. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that this place is a holy
place because the Blessed Beauty walked there and revealed
Tablets; moreover He states that in this place a house of
worship (Mashriqu’l-Adhkár) should be built. The following is
His statement in the Memorials of the Faithful:
Thus did God’s grace and favor encompass the Persians
of an age long gone, in order that their ruined capital
should be rebuilt and flourish once again. To this end,
with the help of God, events were brought about which
led to the Afnán’s being buried here; and there is no
doubt that a proud city will rise up on this site.....
At last, praised be God, it was laid down in the very spot
to which time and again the Blessed Beauty had repaired;
in that place honored by His footsteps, where He had
revealed Tablets, where the believers of Baghdád had
been in His company; that very place where the Most
Great Name was wont to stroll. How did this come

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
about? It was due to the Afnán’s purity of heart.
Lacking this, all those ways and means could never have
been brought to bear. Verily, God is the Mover of
heaven and earth.
I loved the Afnán very much. Because of him, I rejoiced.
I wrote a long Visitation Tablet for him and sent it with
other papers to Persia. His burial site is one of the
holy places where a magnificent Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár must be raised up. If possible, the actual
arch of the royal palace should be restored and become
the House of Worship. The auxiliary buildings of the
House of Worship should likewise be erected there: the
hospital, the schools and university, the elementary
school, the refuge for the poor and indigent; also the
haven for orphans and the helpless, and the travelers’
hospice .
...  [MF 19-20]
The Guardian made the transfer of the remains of Mírzá
Mu˙ammad-‘Alí Afnán one of the goals of the Ten-Year
Crusade; the Bahá’ís of Iraq identified his grave, and transferred
his remains to the Bahá’í cemetery in Baghdad. The Hands of the
Cause of God residing in the Holy Land informed the Bahá’í
world community of the achievement of this goal of the plan on
June 14, 1959.
Mosul
Mosul is another place which appears in the stories from
Memorials of the Faithful. In fact, the city of Mosul has been
mentioned twenty eight times in the book—this could be due to
a number of reasons, some of which are enumerated as follows:
o Mosul is one of the places where the caravan of
Bahá’u’lláh on His way to Istanbul chose to stop and rest
for a few days.

Significance of Some Sites
o About four to five years after Bahá’u’lláh left Baghdad,
some believers of Persian descent were rounded up and
were sent to Mosul in captivity including the family of
Bahá’u’lláh.
o For some believers who traveled to Edirnih or ‘Akká via
land, Mosul was one of the cities through which they
passed on their way from Baghdad to Syria.
o Mosul is an old city near the ruins of the city of Nineveh
and was built on it.
o Mosul and Nineveh is the city of Jonas the prophet which
is mentioned in the Old Testament as well as the New
Testament, and in the Qur’án.
Now we will offer brief explanation regarding the above topics.
Mosul: Bahá’u’lláh’s Caravan Passed Through
Mosul is located some 350 km north of Baghdad and built on
the eastern banks of the river Tigris. Bahá’u’lláh’s caravan
stopped briefly in Mosul on its way to Istanbul. H.M. Balyuzi
gives a detailed accounts of this phase of the land travel of
Bahá’u’lláh to Istanbul [King of Glory 182]. In addition, the
Guardian writes: “In Mosul, where He tarried three days...” [GPB
156]
Mosul: Place of Captivity of Believers
Mosul is also the place of captivity for some Persian
believers. Approximately five years after Bahá’u’lláh left
Baghdád, through the mischief of the Consul General of Iran in
Baghdád, nearly seventy believers were arrested and sent in
captivity to Mosul for nearly twenty years. Included in this
group was the third wife of Bahá’u’lláh known as Gawhar
Khánum. Her marriage took place sometime in Baghdád before
the declaration of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission. While Navváb and
Mahd-i-’Ulya travelled with Him in all His exiles, Gawhar

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Khánum remained in Baghdad with her brother, Mírzá Mihdiy-i-
Káshání. Bahá’u’lláh writes in the Tablet to the King of Persia:
“O King! The lamps of equity have been extinguished, and the
fire of tyranny hath so blazed on every side that My people have
been led as captives from Zawra’ [Baghdád] to Mosul, known as
Hadba ”.  In here, by “My people” He means his third wife,
Gawhar Khánum.
In this captivity, a believer who rendered unique and valued
services to the community was Mulla Zaynu’l-‘Abidin, named by
Bahá’u’lláh Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín (The Ornament of Those Who
are Nigh). He acted as a father in relation to this small band of
believers. Under his supervision a ‘charity fund’ was established.
His knowledge and learning, his understanding of the Faith, his
intelligent and well-balanced personality, together with a
delightful sense of humour, endeared him to the believers and
made him the focal point of the community. Bahá’u’lláh had
also instructed him in His Tablets to gather the friends together,
exhort them to unity and love, encourage them to deepen in the
Faith, and help them to attain heavenly qualities. He spent most
of his time transcribing the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and making
them available to the friends. In particular he had to make
several copies of those Tablets which were addressed to some or
all of the believers in Mosul, and give each one a copy [Revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh II, p. 335].
The Bahá’ís in Mosul, under the leadership and guidance of
Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín, soon became a model Bahá’í community
reflecting something of the spirit of the ‘Akká community.
While in Mosul, it became Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín's task to
transcribe the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh that arrived from ‘Akká on
their way to Iran. Thus these Tablets could be distributed more
widely and each of those to whom a Tablet was addressed could
have a copy.
In the course of one of his journeys, Óájí Mírzá Haydar-‘Ali,
the Angel of Carmel, visited Mosul. He has written his
impression about the community in his popular book “Bahjat-us

Significance of Some Sites
Sudur”, Delight of Hearts. Mr. Taherzadeh has translated and
quoted this report:
I attained the presence of Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín and other
loved ones of God in Mosul including Áqá Mírzá
Mu˙ammad-i-Vakil. The latter, owing to destitution,
had to work as a cobbler in spite of old age... The
friends in Mosul, together with the person of Zaynu’l-
Muqarrabín, made one remember the days spent in
Bahá’u’lláh’s holy presence in the holy city of ‘Akká.
These believers were living in the utmost unity and
harmony. They vied with each other in their efforts and
their services. They had no desire except first, to gain
the good pleasure of the Blessed Beauty, and secondly, to
attain His presence... [Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh II, p. 335]
In October 1885 Bahá’u’lláh gave permission for Zaynu’l-
Muqarrabín to go to ‘Akká where he took up residence in the
Khán-i-‘Avamíd,
continuing
to
transcribe
Tablets
and
frequently having the honor of being in Bahá’u’lláh’s company.
Conclusion and Acknowledgements
Three locations from among many places mentioned in
Memorials of the Faithful were selected and their significance
elaborated on the basis of events related to the Faith which
occurred in these locations. These are The Most Great House,
Madai’n, and the city of Mosul.
The author wishes to acknowledge the invaluable assistance
of Nabíl Seddigh in preparation of this paper.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Balyuzi, H.M., Bahá’u’lláh, The King of Glory, George Ronald
Publisher, Oxford, 1980.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Ishráq Khávarí, ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd, Mu˙a∂irát, Vol. 1 & 2, Muʼasisih
Millí Ma†bu‘át Amrí, 120 BE, Third print, Hofheim, 150BE.
Ishráq Khávarí, ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd, Tasbíḥ va Taḥlíl, Tehran, Muʼasisih
Millí Ma†bu‘át Amrí, 129 BE, 1973.
Mázindarání, Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fáḍil, Amr va Khalq, Vol. 4, Tehran,
Muʼasisih Millí Ma†bu‘át Amrí, 128 BE, 1971.
Taherzadeh, Adib, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. II, George
Ronald Publisher, Oxford, 1977.
Toynbee, Arnold, Survey of International Affairs—1934, assisted by
V.M. Boulter, Oxford University Press, London, 1935.
NOTES
1 Al-Káẓimíyyah (Káẓimayn), literally “the Two Káẓim” or “the Two who
swallow their anger”, is regarded a holy city by Shí‘ah Islám. It received its
name from the two Shí’ah Imáms buried there: Imám Músá, son of Ja‘far
and his grandson, Imám Mu˙ammad at-Taqí. A shrine was first built over
their tombs, and subsequently the al-Káẓimíyyah Mosque. The area that
now constitutes al-Káẓimíyyah was originally the location of a graveyard
reserved for members of the Quraysh tribe (prophet Mu˙ammad’s tribe).
This land was set aside for this purpose by the Abbasid caliph, Harun ar-
Rashíd.
2 Al-Karkh is a district of Baghdad in western banks of the river Tigris.
3 Mírzá Músá Javahirí who received the title of “Letter of Eternity” from
Bahá’u’lláh was the recipient of several Tablets from Bahá’u’lláh one of
which is known by its Arabic title “Subhána-Rabbíya’l-A‘lá” which means
“My Exalted Lord is free from Imperfections.” He was very much devoted
to Bahá’u’lláh and was one of the firm believers. His father, Óájí Mírzá
Hádí, formerly a Persian vizier, was highly esteemed by the inhabitants of
that city. Towards the end of his life, Óájí Mírzá Hádí became attracted
to Bahá’u’lláh and was devoted to Him, but not as believer. He would
often enter His presence and sit at His feet in humility and self-effacement.
4 In Adrianople (Edirnih), Bahá’u’lláh revealed two tablets concerning
pilgrimage (hajj) to Bahá’í holy places. Surat al hajj II (Lawh-i-Hajj II, or
Surat al-Hajj), addressed to Mírzá Mu˙ammad Nabíl-i Zarandí, describes
the rites of the hajj to The Most Great House. These Tablets are published
in: Amr va Khalq 4: pp. 109-117 and Tasbí˙ va Tahlíl pp. 77-90, 93-113.
5 Mu˙ammad Damirtchi was a staunch believer in Baghdád whose father
deprived him of his inheritance due to his faith and belief in Bahá’u’lláh.
He set out on foot from Baghdád to ‘Akká. Finally he reached ‘Akká
enduring great hardships on the way. Bahá’u’lláh called him to His

Significance of Some Sites
presence and he passed through the rows of soldiers and nobody stopped
him as though they had not seen him. For the story of his life, see
(Mu˙a∂irát 1 & 2: p. 120). Also his picture appears in (Bahá’í World III: p.
214).
6 Óájí Ma˙múd-i-Qassábchí was a newly declared Bahá’í during the time of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He served the cause in Baghdad during the time of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and the Guardian. He was the chairman of the Spiritual Assembly of
Baghdad; his picture could be found in the (Bahá’í World II: p 68).
7 King Faisal of Iraq or Faisal Ibn Husayn Ibn Alí al-Hashimi was the King of
Iraq from 23 August 1921 to 1933. He was a member of the Hashemite
dynasty. While in power, Faisal tried to diversify his administration by
including different ethnic and religious groups in offices. However,
Faisal’s attempt at pan-Arab nationalism may have contributed to the
isolation of certain religious groups. King Faisal supported the forces of
the British army and revolted against the ruling Turks towards the end of
World War I. In 1921, Britain decided to step back from direct
administration and create a monarchy to head Iraq while they maintained
the mandate. Faisal agreed to become king. In August 1921 he was made
king of Iraq. In 1932, the British mandate ended and Faisal was
instrumental in making his country nominally independent. On 3 October,
the Kingdom of Iraq joined the League of Nations. King Faisal died on 8
September 1933, at the age of 48. He was succeeded on the throne by his
oldest son Ghazi. Soon King Ghazi was killed in a car accident and his son
Faisal II who was 3 years old became the successor of his father, but he
had to wait for several years until he reached adulthood. Finally he and the
royal family and his prime minister were assassinated in a military coup
d'état.
8 Many of these League of Nations documents can be found online at bahai-
library.com/author/Permanent+Mandates+Commission
9 Details of the meeting of Miss Martha Root with King Faisal-I and the
question of the Most Great House may be examined in Bahá’í World III
pp. 198-210.
10 Complete letter of the Universal House of Justice dated 17 July 2013.
Refer to the web-site: www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/the-
universal-house-of-justice/messages/
11 Cable of the Hands of the Cause of God residing in the Holy Land, dated
June 14, 1959:
ANNOUNCE WITH PROFOUND GRATITUDE FULFILMENT ONE
MOST DIFFICULT GOALS BELOVED GUARDIAN'S WORLD
CRUSADE IDENTIFICATION REMAINS COUSIN BAB SUCCESSFUL
TRANSFER CEMETERY EVIDENCE UNFAILING GRACE
BAHA`U'LLAH VOUCHSAFED HIS FAITHFUL FOLLOWERS STOP
SHARE JOYFUL NEWS HANDS NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES.

Hagiography:
The Art of Setting Inspirational Examples for
a Religious Community
Iscander Micael Tinto
“... to consign to history a drop of brightness, of humanity, of truth.”
Smisurata preghiera, Fabrizio de André
Abstract
Hagiography (the study of the lives of the saints) is a literary
genre that originated as a way of proposing to a largely illiterate
audience inspirational life histories worthy of emulation.
This paper will present a brief comparison between the
foremost example of Muslim hagiography (A††ár’s Tadhkirat al-
Auliya’) and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Memorials of the Faithful by citing
two biographies from A††ár’s work (Rábi‘ah Al-‘Adawiyya and
Shaykh Báyazid al-Bistámí) and two from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s book
(Mishkín Qalam, and Shams-i-Duhá), to show how hagiography
highlights concrete examples of desirable spiritual virtues.
Hagiography is defined as the writing and critical study of
the lives of the saints. This genre of literature first originated in
the Roman Empire as stories and legends about Christian
martyrs were collected and later presented in a written form.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
The dates of their deaths formed the basis of martyriologies. In
the 4th century, there were three main types of catalogs of lives
of the saints: the Menaion, or biographies of the saints to be
read at sermons; the Synaxarion, a short collection of lives of
the saints, arranged by date; the Paterikon, the biography of
specific saints, chosen by the catalog compiler.
In Western Europe, during the Middle Ages, hagiography
became one of the vehicles for the study of inspirational history
and a pedagogical tool by which a Christian code of conduct
could be taught to a largely uneducated and often illiterate
population. The life of Christ was the benchmark against which
saints were measured, and the lives of saints were the
benchmark against which the general population measured
itself. The stories offered clear patterns to emulate.
Hagiography was fundamental in developing the practice of
veneration of saints that lay at the heart of the practice of late
antique and medieval Christianity. Integral parts of this practice
were the veneration of relics (from the Latin reliquiae or
“remains”: parts of a holy person’s body or possessions, or
simply objects might have come in contact with the saint) and
icons (holy portraits of saints and prophets), and the
commemoration of the day of the saint’s death as a holy day.
Prayers, offerings and pious acts performed on such holy days,
or at the shrines that contained such relics and icons, the living
Christian could seek the help of the saintly dead now residing in
Heaven.
From another perspective, hagiography preserved much
valuable information about religious beliefs, customs, daily life,
institutions, and events over certain historical periods.
Islamic hagiographic literature presents two distinct genres,
one concerning individuals of exclusive religious status (“saints”
or “holy men”) and one devoted to the biographies of the
Prophet Mu˙ammad and the Shi’ite Imams. The primary
purpose of the 11th century works in the Sufi tradition appears
to be the defense of mysticism and its adherents stressing that

Hagiography
the conduct and doctrines of eminent Sufis were in accordance
with the texts of the Muslim revelation.
The
emergence
of
hagiographic
works
devoted
exclusively to an individual Sufi shaikh1 seems to
correspond to a distinct change in mystical practice and
its organizational structures; the authors were often
descendants of the shaikhs themselves or one of their
close companions.... Such biographies of individual
shaikhs served to increase the inner cohesion of this
social group and enhance its prestige with outsiders; in
fact, their status and livelihood may have depended
entirely on their lineage leading back to the shaikh. These
works are made up typically of anecdotes that the final
“authors” had evidently obtained from the oral
tradition, which always remained an important source
for hagiographers; once committed to writing, the
anecdotes still continued to circulate orally, and while
their (oral) narrators may have been conscious of a
written tradition this did not prevent them from
adapting the material to meet their present needs. Thus
the “hagiographic process” could have proceeded from
events witnessed by the saint’s followers, to oral
transmission, thence to written notes, eventually
published as books, while the oral tradition was
continually developing all the time....
Hagiography can be seen as a technique for making
events meaningful or, conversely, for expressing
doctrines in the form of narratives, as a specific sub-
genre of historiography. [Jürgen, “Hagiographic Literature”]
The main purpose of the hagiographer is “to transmit to a
believing and pious audience matters of practical spiritual
value; the specifically ‘human’—the whole stuff of modern
biography—is trivial and profoundly uninteresting from a
traditional viewpoint” [Algar 134] which makes it extremely

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
difficult to extract an actual biography (in the modern sense, as
Algar points out) of the saint from the information at hand.
Hagiographic works reflect not only the development of
Islamic mysticism in its organized form, but also that of
popular piety. It can therefore serve as an important
source for the study of the history of different levels of
Islamic society. However, such literature has usually
been considered only a minor source for the history of
Islamic society and culture, being judged as less reliable
than historiography narrowly defined. Its use has been
restricted to the study of mysticism, where theological
and philosophical issues have tended to be the focus of
scholarly interest. In consequence, hagiography remains
a relatively neglected area of study. [“Hagiographic
Literature”]
A Comparison between Tadhkirat al-Auliya’
(Memorial of the Saints) by Faríd al-Din A††ár
and Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá (Memorials of the Faithful)
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Faríd al-Din A††ár
In the words of Arberry, who translated parts of the
Tadhkirat al-Auliya’, “Faríd al-Din A††ár is accounted amongst
the greatest poets of Persia; his dimensions as a literary genius
increase with the further investigation of his writings, which are
still far from completely explored, though welcome progress has
been made of late in their publication” [Arberry, “Introduction” 1].
Born circa 540 AH (1145-46 CE) at Nishapur (where he died
in 618 AH/1221 CE) A††ár was not only a poet but also a
hagiographer and a theoretician of mysticism. While his
works say little else about his life, they tell us that he
practiced the profession of pharmacy and personally

Hagiography
attended to a very large number of customers.... It seems
that ʿA††ár was not well known as a poet in his own
lifetime, except at Nisapúr.... From the second half of
the 7th/13th century onward, ʿA††ár’s prose work,
the Tadkerat al-awlíáʾ, came to be widely read... but his
greatness as a mystic, a poet, and a master of narrative
was not discovered until the 9th/15th century.... In
regard to ʿA††ár’s general education and culture, no
adequate picture can be obtained from his writings.
[Reinert]
Tadhkirat al-Auliya’, A††ár’s only prose work,
is a collection of biographies dedicated to exponents and
pioneers of classical Sufism... The work gives a sort of
hagiographic summary of his career in the ethical and
experiential world of the Sufis (see above). It is to be
regretted that he hardly ever names his sources. He
appears to have relied almost entirely, if not exclusively,
on written sources. In his choice and narration of
edifying and memorable stories, he shows a distinctive
taste of his own. Comparisons with versions of the same
material in works by other authors suggest that he
presented
and
interpreted
the
stories
somewhat
idiosyncratically.... On the other hand, he translated
sayings of his Sufis, which had come down in Arabic,
very faithfully into Persian. [Reinert]
Why did A††ár write the Tadhkirat al-Auliya’? Islamist Arthur
J. Arberry cites Reynold A. Nicholson (another translator of
A††ár’s work) who summarizes as follows some of the possible
reasons:
1. He was begged to do so by his religious brethren.
2. He hoped that some of those who read the work would bless
the author and thus, possibly, secure his welfare beyond the
grave.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
3. He believes that the words of the Saints are profitable even
to those who cannot put them into practice, inasmuch as
they strengthen aspiration and destroy self-conceit.
....
5. According to the Prophet, “Mercy descends at the mention of
the pious”: peradventure, if one spreads a table on which
Mercy falls like rain, he will not be turned away portion less.
6. A††ár trusts that the blessed influence of the Saints may be
vouchsafed to him and bring him into happiness before he
dies.
7. He busied himself with their sayings in the hope that he might
make himself to resemble them.
8. The Koran and the Traditions cannot be understood without
knowledge of Arabic, wherefore most people are unable to
profit by them; and the Sayings of the Saints, which form a
commentary on the Koran and the Traditions, were likewise
uttered, for the most part, in Arabic. Consequently the
author has translated them into Persian, in order that they
may become accessible to all.
....
10. Spiritual words alone appeal to the author. Hence he
composed this “daily task” for his contemporaries, hoping
to find some persons to share the meal which he has
provided.
11. The Imam Yusuf Hamadhani advised some people, who
asked him what they should do when the Saints had passed
away from the earth, to read eight pages of their Sayings
every day. A††ár felt that it was incumbent upon him to
supply this desideratum.
....
13. In the present age the best men are bad, and holy men have
been forgotten. The Memorial is designed to remedy this
state of things.

Hagiography
14. The Sayings of the Saints dispose men to renounce the
world, meditate on the future life, love God, and set about
preparing for their last journey. “One may say that there
does not exist in all creation a better book than this, for
their words are a commentary on the Koran and Traditions,
which are the best of all words. Anyone who reads it
properly will perceive what passion must have been in the
souls of those men to bring forth such deeds and words as
they have done and said.”
15. A further motive was the hope of obtaining their
intercession hereafter and of being pardoned, like the dog
of the Seven Sleepers which, though it be all skin and bone,
will nevertheless be admitted to Paradise. [xxv–xxviii]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
‘Abbás Effendi, the eldest of three surviving children of
Bahá’u’lláh and His wife Ásíyyih Khánum, was born in
Tehran, Iran, on 23 May 1844, the day on which the Báb
declared His mission in Shiraz. ‘Abbás Effendi—who,
after Bahá’u’lláh passed away, added to His given name
the title ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (the Servant of the Glory)—was
named for His paternal grandfather, ‘Abbás, known as
Mírzá Buzurg Núrí, a member of a well established and
distinguished family. Mírzá Buzurg had served the
government in many capacities and was much admired
for his accomplishments as a calligrapher and respected
as a high government official....
Bahá’ís see ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in the words of Shoghi
Effendi, as “the stainless Mirror” of Bahá’u’lláh’s light,
“the perfect Exemplar of His teachings, the unerring
Interpreter of His Word, the embodiment of every
Bahá’í ideal, the incarnation of every Bahá’í virtue.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is “the ‘Mystery of God’—an expression by
which Bahá’u’lláh Himself has chosen to designate Him,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
and which... indicates how in the person of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
the incompatible characteristics of a human nature and
superhuman knowledge and perfection have been
blended and are completely harmonized.”
... ‘Abdu’l-Bahá passed away in Haifa at the age of
seventy-seven in the early hours of the morning on 28
November 1921. The funeral, held the next day and
attended by thousands of mourners, was a spontaneous
tribute to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s person. [Kazemzadeh]
Professor of Islamic Studies Amín Banani writes:
Memorials of the Faithful, which has only lately (1971)
been translated into English, is a compendium of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s remembrances of some seventy early
believers, spoken to gatherings of Bahá’ís in Haifa
during the early years of World War I. These were
compiled, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s permission for their
publication was granted in 1915 but due to the strictures
of wartime the book was not published until 1924 when
it was again authorized by Shoghi Effendi.
The outward form of Memorials of the Faithful is a
collection of brief biographical sketches. Its title in the
original, Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá, places it in a Persian literary
tradition some nine centuries old. It brings to mind the
Tadhkiratu’l-Awliyá (Remembrance of Saints) of the
twelfth century mystic poet ‘A††ár. The spiritual and
cultural impulses that have given rise to the literary form
of tadhkirib have little to do with the particular, the
personal and the ephemeral aspects of human life. It is
the quality of soul, the attributes of spirit, the
quintessential humanity and the reflection of the divine
in man that is the focus here.
The root word dhikr in the title means prayerful
mention—reverent remembrance. It implies that it is not

Hagiography
the biographer nor the reader who memorializes a human
life, but rather the quality of that life which has earned
immemorial lustre and sheds light on all who remember
that quality. Quite literally this book is a remembrance
of vafá—faithfulness—not just memories of individual
lives, but remembrance of that essential quality which
was the animating force of all those lives.
The people whose “lives” are depicted here all share one
thing in common. They are propelled by their love for
Bahá’u’lláh. So great is this magnetic force in their lives
that they literally travel vast distances and overcome
every barrier to be with Him. Some of them arrive
virtually with their dying breath, to expire happily after
having seen the face of their Beloved; some die on the
arduous path. Despite the peculiarities of time and
place, it should not take the reader long to recognize a
gallery of timeless and universal human types in this
book.
The spoken language of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is figurative and
almost indistinguishable from His written style. He
makes use of a rich fund of literary devices—rhymed
phrases, symmetrical forms, alliterations, assonances,
metaphors, similes, and allusions—that, far from
sounding contrived and artificial, are naturally matched
to the subject matter: the essence of faithfulness. With
concrete images He describes spiritual states and psychic
levels of consciousness, as if to assert the primacy and
reality of the realm of spirit. Should the reader
experience difficulty with the style, let him savour it
slowly, allowing the unfamiliar language to create its
own spirit and breathe life into its allusions. Let the
words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá trace in his mind the shape of the
valley of love and faithfulness.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
In His usual self-effacing way ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ says almost
nothing about Himself in this book. But occasional
events in the lives of these companions are interwoven
with His own. In these passages we have some thrilling
glimpses of that essence of humanity and humility that
was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. [Banani, 70–71]
The Four Saints Compared in this Paper
It is not easy to choose only four stories from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
and A††ár’s books, but I have decided to dwell on the following
characters because their stories highlight divine intervention in
each life. In these stories we can catch a glimpse of both
humanity and eternity in the daily actions of the individuals,
and in the simplicity with which they turn their hearts to their
Creator in prayer and devotion. Just like any of us, these are
people who wish to pray, yet can be distracted by the outward
world and by inner voices; they are bound by the necessities of
material life, yet they can be grateful for both adversity and
prosperity, for the fruits of their labors and for Divine
providence.
Studying the lives of the saints, we can be struck by the
profound spirituality and detachment that characterize them.
These qualities define their lives to the point that they become
symbol and metaphor of our own constant endeavors toward
new heights of comprehension that will open new vistas to our
spiritual eyes, just the way climbing up a mountain expands our
horizons and affords us, puny creatures, an unprecedented view
of the valleys below.
The climb may be arduous and tiring but is the sure path to
the goal of our aspirations: nearness to our Creator, the chance
to reflect the splendour of His attributes in our person, a keen
and crystalline vision of reality.

Hagiography
Rábi‘ah
She was born into a poor but pious family, the fourth of
four daughters. At the time of her birth her family was
so desperately poor that there was no cloth in which to
wrap her, no lamp to light the house, nor oil to anoint
her navel. That night the Prophet appeared to Rábi‘ah’s
father in a dream, comforting him with the news that his
daughter was a “queen among women” who would be the
intercessor for seventy thousand of the Prophet’s
community. After a number of years Rábi‘ah’s parents
both died and she and her sisters became separated
during a famine. She was seized by an evil man and sold
as a slave for a small amount of money. Rábi‘ah’s master
put her to hard labor. One day she was approached by a
stranger. Afraid, she fled, but fell and broke her hand.
She cried out to God, not to remove her sufferings, but
to know if He was satisfied with her or not. Rábi‘ah was
answered by a voice which foretold of her high rank in
the hereafter, and she was inspired to intensify her life
of devotion. One night her master awoke and saw
Rábi‘ah absorbed in prayer with a holy light suspended
in midair above her head. Her master was amazed and
felt ashamed to keep someone of her spiritual rank as a
slave. He freed her and she retired into the desert to
devote her life to worship and seeking proximity to God.
It is around this basic outline that ‘A††ár weaves various
anecdotes, sayings and supplications attributed to
Rábi‘ah in order to fashion and bring to life his image of
this remarkable woman saint. ‘A††ár illustrates not only
Rábi‘ah’s profound level of spiritual insight and
attainment, but also her intense and frequently sharp-
witted personality which together commanded the
respect of all who encountered her. Although ‘A††ár
emphasizes Rábi‘ah’s mystical dimension and particular
spiritual characteristics, he does so within a context that

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
takes into account her relation to orthodox Islamic
practice and the significance of her womanhood. [Helms,
14]
Rábi‘ah in the Tadhkirat al-Auliya’
A††ár wrote: if anyone says, “Why have you included
Rábi‘ah in the rank of men’” my answer is, that the
Prophet himself said, “God does not regard your
outward forms.” The root of the matter is not form, but
intention, as the Prophet said, “Mankind will be raised
up according to their intentions.”
One day Rábi‘ah’s servant girl was making an onion
stew; for it was some days since they had cooked any
food. Finding that she needed some onions, she said, “I
will ask of next door.” “Forty years now,” Rábi‘ah
replied, “I have had a covenant with Almighty God not
to ask for aught of any but He. Never mind the onions.”
Immediately a bird swooped down from the air with
peeled onions in its beak and dropped them into the pan.
“I am not sure this is not a trick,” Rábi‘ah commented.
And she left the onion pulp alone, and ate nothing but
bread.
One night Hasan with two or three friends went to visit
Rábi‘ah. Rábi‘ah had no lantern. Their hearts yearned for
light. Rábi‘ah blew on her finger, and that night till
dawn her finger shone like a lantern, and they sat in its
radiance. If anyone says, “How could this be’” I answer,
“The same as Moses’ hand.” If it is objected, “But Moses
was a prophet,” I reply, “Whoever follows in the
footsteps of the Prophet can possess a grain of
prophethood, as the Prophet says, ‘Whoever rejects a
farthing’s worth of unlawful things has attained a degree
of prophethood.’ He also said, ‘A true dream is one-
fortieth part of prophethood.’” [Arberry 39]

Hagiography
Báyazid
Abú Yazid al-Bistámí, also known as Báyazid (d.874), was
born in Bistám, a very important Iranian town of the Abbasid
age (750-1258). One of the most celebrated Sufis, he is the first
who pronounced those seemingly blasphemous utterances which
imply the mystic’s identification with God, such as: ‘Glory be to
me’ or ‘I am Thou’ or ‘I am I’. He may have escaped
martyrdom, despite his audacious sayings, because he was
thought to be crazy. Báyazid left no writings, but some five
hundred of his sayings have been preserved by his biographers.
Bahá’u’lláh quotes in the Four Valleys words which have been
ascribed to Báyazid:
Hence, one of the Prophets of God... hath asked: ‘O my
Lord, how shall we reach unto Thee And the answer
came, ‘Leave thyself behind, and then approach Me.’ [55]
Words very similar to these are ascribed to Abu Yazid by
‘A††ár in his Tadhkirat al-Awliyá. ‘A††ár writes that once
Báyazid dreamt God Himself, Who told him: ‘What do you
wish, O Báyazid?’ The Highest answered: ‘Whatever is Thy wish,
O God.’ And God answered: ‘O Báyazid! I want you, as you
want Me.’ Then Báyazid asked Him again: ‘But which road is
leading unto Thee?’ And God answered: ‘O Báyazid! Whoever
renounces his own self will attain unto Me.’ Ibn al-‘Arabi
himself ascribes these words to Báyazid in his Futúhát: “The
Prophet... said to Abu Yazid, ‘Leave aside yourself and come’”
[IV. 306.20, quoted in Chittick, Self-Disclosure 180].
... If the words ‘one of the Prophets of God’... refer to
Báyazid, we may think that Bahá’u’lláh considered him as
a spiritually advanced seeker. [Savi 514–15]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Báyazid in the Tadhkirat al-Auliya’
Pir Omar reports that when Abu Yazid wished to go into
seclusion, in order to worship or to meditate, he would
enter his apartment and secure closely every aperture. “I
am afraid,” he would say, “that some voice or some noise
may disturb me.” That of course was a pretext.
One night Abu Yazid could find no joy in worship.
“Look and see if there is anything of value in the house,”
he said. His disciples looked, and discovered half a
bunch of grapes. “Fetch them and give them away,” Abu
Yazid commanded. “My house is not a fruiterer’s shop.”
And he rediscovered his composure.
One night Abu Yazid dreamed that the angels of the first
heaven descended. “Rise up,” they said to him, “let us
commemorate God.” “I have not the tongue to
commemorate Him,” he replied.
The angels of the second heaven descended and said the
same words, and his answer was the same. So it
continued till the angels of the seventh heaven
descended; to them he gave the same reply.
“Well, when will you have the tongue to commemorate
God’” they asked. “When the inhabitants of Hell are
fixed in Hell, and the inhabitants of Paradise take their
place in Paradise, and the resurrection is past, then,” said
he, “Abu Yazid will go around the throne of God and
will cry Allah, Allah!” [Arberry 147]
Mishkín-Qalam
Mishkín-Qalam was born in Shíráz but was a resident of
Ißfahán, which is where he first heard of the Bahá’í Faith.
A few years later he travelled to Baghdad and learned in
more detail from Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín and Nabíl-i-

Hagiography
A‘zam. He became a Bahá’í in Adrianople where he met
Bahá’u’lláh. Before becoming a Bahá’í, he was a Súfí of
the Ni’matu’lláhí order. He was also a skilled
astronomer.
Mishkín-Qalam
was
sent
by
Bahá’u’lláh
to
Constantinople, where he began attracting people
through his art and vigorously teaching the Bahá’í Faith.
The Persian ambassador began to complain to the
Sultan’s vazirs and soon had him arrested. When
Bahá’u’lláh was exiled to ‘Akká, Mishkín-Qalam was
exiled to Cyprus with the followers of Subh-i-Azal,
where he remained a prisoner in Famagusta from 1868 to
1877.
Cyprus eventually left Ottoman control and Mishkín-
Qalam was released. He made his way to ‘Akká in 1886,
and remained there until Bahá’u’lláh died in 1892, after
which he travelled to Egypt, Damascus and India. He
remained in India until 1905, and then returned to Haifa
until his death in 1912.
Mishkín-Qalam was a renowned calligrapher. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá called him a second Mír ‘Imád, a 16th-century
calligrapher of the Safavid dynasty who is perhaps the
most celebrated Persian calligrapher.
Mishkín-Qalam enjoyed a special position among the
court ministers of Tihrán, and he became widely known
for being adept at every calligraphic style.
... When visiting Bahá’u’lláh in Adrianople, he would
often write out the phrase Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá (O Glory of
the All-Glorious) in many different forms, some taking
the form of a bird, and send them everywhere. One of
his renderings of this phrase is now one of the three
common symbols of the Bahá’í Faith, known as the
Greatest Name. [Wikipedia, “Mishkín-Qalam”]

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Mishkín-Qalam in Memorials of the Faithful
He wielded a musk-black pen, and his brows shone with
faith. He was among the most noted of mystics, and had
a witty and subtle mind.
... This highly accomplished man first heard of the Cause
of God in Ißfahán, and the result was that he set out to
find Bahá’u’lláh. He crossed the great distances,
measured out the miles, climbing mountains, passing
over deserts and over the sea, until at last he came to
Adrianople. Here he reached the heights of faith and
assurance; here he drank the wine of certitude. He
responded to the summons of God, he attained the
presence of Bahá’u’lláh, he ascended to that apogee
where he was received and accepted.
... After the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, Mishkín-Qalam
remained loyal, solidly established in the Covenant. He
stood before the violators like a brandished sword. He
would never go half way with them; he feared no one but
God; not for a moment did he falter, nor ever fail in
service.
... He had amazing verve, intense love. He was a
compendium of perfections: believing, confident,
serene, detached from the world, a peerless companion, a
wit—and his character like a garden in full bloom. For
the love of God, he left all good things behind; he closed
his eyes to success, he wanted neither comfort nor rest,
he sought no wealth, he wished only to be free from the
defilement of the world.... For sincerity and loyalty he
had no match, nor for patience and inner calm. He was
selflessness itself, living on the breaths of the spirit. [MF
98–101]

Hagiography
Shams-i-Duhá
Mírzá Hádí, an uncle of the King of Martyrs and the
Beloved of Martyrs, became an ardent believer in the
early days of the Faith. He was present at the Conference
of Badasht, suffered persecutions, was attacked in that
vicinity and died there. His wife Shams-i-Duhá, a close
companion of Táhirih, was described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as
the ‘eloquent and ardent handmaid of God’. [Taherzadeh 16]
Khurshíd Begum, who was given the title of Shamsu’d-
Duhá, the Morning Sun, was mother-in-law to the King
of Martyrs. This eloquent, ardent handmaid of God was
the cousin on her father’s side of the famous
Mu˙ammad-Báqir of Isfáhán, widely celebrated as chief
of the ‘ulamás in that city. When still a child she lost
both her parents, and was reared by her grandmother in
the home of that famed and learned mujtahid, and well
trained in various branches of knowledge, in theology,
sciences and the arts.
Once she was grown, she was married to Mírzá Hádíy-i-
Nahrí. In Karbilá they attended some classes, imbibing the
knowledge of the Siyyid, so that this handmaid became
thoroughly informed on subjects relating to Divinity, on
the Scriptures and on their inner meanings. The couple
had two children, a girl and a boy. They called their son
Siyyid ‘Alí and their daughter Fátimih Begum, she being
the one who, when she reached adolescence, was married
to the King of Martyrs. [MF 180–81]
Shams-i-Duhá in Memorials of the Faithful
From being with Táhirih, Shams profited immeasurably,
and was more on fire with the Faith than ever. She spent
three years in close association with Táhirih in Karbilá.

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
As Táhirih became celebrated throughout Karbilá, and
the Cause of His Supreme Holiness, the Báb, spread all
over Persia, the latter-day ‘ulamás arose to deny, to heap
scorn upon, and to destroy it. They issued a fatvá or
judgment that called for a general massacre. Táhirih was
one of those designated by the evil ‘ulamás of the city as
an unbeliever, and they mistakenly thought her to be in
the home of Shamsu’d-Duhá. They broke into Shams’s
house, hemmed her in, abused and vilified her, and
inflicted grievous bodily harm. They dragged her out of
the house and through the streets to the bázár; they beat
her with clubs; they stoned her, they denounced her in
foul language, repeatedly assaulting her. While this was
going on, Óájí Siyyid Mihdí, the father of her
distinguished husband, reached the scene. “This woman is
not Táhirih!” he shouted at them. But he had no witness
to prove it, and the farráshes, the police and the mob
would not let up. Then, through the uproar, a voice
screamed out: “They have arrested Qurratu’l-‘Ayn!” At
this, the people abandoned Shamsu’d-Duhá.
... She spent her days and nights in the remembrance of
God and in teaching His Cause to the women of that
city. She was gifted with an eloquent tongue; her
utterance was wonderful to hear. She was highly honored
by the leading women of Isfáhán, celebrated for piety,
for godliness, and the purity of her life. She was chastity
embodied; all her hours were spent in reciting Holy
Writ, or expounding the Texts, or unraveling the most
complex of spiritual themes, or spreading abroad the
sweet savors of God.
... So vehement was the fiery love in her heart that it
compelled her to speak out, whenever she found a
listening ear. And when it was observed that once again
the household of the King of Martyrs was about to be
overtaken by calamities, and that they were enduring

Hagiography
severe afflictions there in Isfáhán, Bahá’u’lláh desired
them to come to the Most Great Prison. Shamsu’d-Duhá,
with the widow of the King of Martyrs and the children,
arrived in the Holy Land. Here they were joyously
spending their days when the son of the King of Martyrs,
Mírzá ‘Abdu’l-Husayn, as a result of the awful suffering
he had been subjected to in Isfáhán, came down with
tuberculosis and died in Akká. [MF 182–90]
Conclusions
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s and A††ár’s books differ in one aspect: the
individuals portrayed by A††ár have either performed miracles
or great heroic acts; in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s work, instead, we meet
both people who have distinguished themselves for their
heroism and simple people who demonstrate in their daily
existence the meaning of living a spiritual life. The reason these
latter believers are an example for the reader is their very
simplicity: true heroism is living one’s life and being steadfast
through the tests that give us the opportunity to grow
spiritually. Spirituality is a conscious endeavor developed
through prayer and meditation but also through the simple acts
of daily life: dedication to one’s profession, deeds that benefit
our neighbor, constant control of our impulses, and fellowship
and brotherhood with all people, while remaining confident and
contented even during life’s hardest times. “The point is this,
that faith compriseth both knowledge and the performance of
good works.” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá, cited in Research Department Memorandum
to the Universal House of Justice]
While some may suffer persecution or even martyrdom
because of their beliefs and demonstrate thusly their love for
the Faith, for those of us living in countries that enjoy freedom
of religion, remaining faithful to certain spiritual values in a
society that rejects them is in itself an act of heroism—these two
different sacrifices assume the same meaning. Martyrdom, in
this case, consists of taking hold of our ego—our lower nature—

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
and, through constant effort, raise it to the noble station for
which it is destined.
In the lives celebrated in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Memorials, we can
perceive an exhortation to rethinking the role of the individual
in society. If we observe carefully, we will notice how the
negative example of a single individual—a corrupt politician,
for example, or an employee who is unable to work
cooperatively in a group—can become a problem that affects
the entire community. At the same time, we are impressed by
virtuous individuals who demonstrate in their lives adherence to
behaviors oriented toward fellowship to and respect for others,
and we hold them up as examples to emulate. We feel a strong
attraction for a time and space in which to develop our ideals
and our values. The humble yet powerful lesson of the believers
remembered in Memorials encourages personal discipline in
every aspect of life, that by the dynamic force of our example, a
healthier and more balanced society may come to life.
WORKS CITED
Algar, Hamid. “The Naqshbandi Order: a Preliminary Study of its
History and Significance.” Islamic Studies 63 (1976): 123–56. Print.
Arberry, Arthur J. Muslim Saints and Mystics—Episodes from the
Tadhkirat al-Auliya’. Ames: IA: Omphaloskepsis Press, 2000. Print.
Banani, Amín. “The Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.” World Order 6.1 (Fall
1971): 67–76. Print.
De André, Fabrizio. “Smisurata preghiera.” Anime Salve. 19 Sept.
1996. Fabrizio de André and Piero Milesi. CD.
Helms, Barbara L. “Rábi‘ah as Mystic, Muslim and Woman.” MA
thesis McGill University, 1993. Web. 23 Nov. 2015.
Jürgen Paul. “Hagiographic Literature.” Encyclopædia Iranica. 1 Mar.
2012. Web. 23 Nov. 2015.
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/hagiographic-literature
Kazemzadeh, Firuz. “‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbás, 1844-1921.” Bahá’í
Encyclopedia Project. Web. 23 Nov. 2015. www.bahai-
encyclopedia-project.org

Hagiography
“Mishkín-Qalam.” Wikipedia: The Free Encyclopedia. Wikimedia
Foundation, Inc., 20 June 2015. Web. 23 Nov. 2015.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mishkín-Qalam
Reinert, Benedikt. “A††ár, Faríd-Al-Dín.” Encyclopædia Iranica. 17
Aug. 2011. Web. 23 Nov. 2015.
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/attar-farid-al-din-poet
Savi, Julio. Towards the Summit of Reality. Oxford: George Ronald,
2008. Print.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 4. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1988.
Universal House of Justice, Research Department. “Authenticity of
“Bahá’í World Faith” and “Foundations of World Unity.”
Memorandum dated 28 Mar. 1996. Ocean Bahá’í Library.

NOTE
1 In Islam, a sheikh is a man respected for his piety or religious learning.

Elucidations
Universal House of Justice
1. Translation of Key Bahá’í Terms

19 May 20151
Dear Bahá’í Friend,
Your email letter of 10 March 2015, asking on behalf of a
fellow believer whether it is appropriate to translate the phrase
“Alláh-u-Abhá” into another language for purposes of its
recitation 95 times a day, has been received at the Bahá’í World
Centre and forwarded to our Office for reply. The following
has been provided in response to a similar query posed to the
Universal House of Justice on a previous occasion:
The Universal House of Justice has received your email
letter of 29 December 2008, asking why such terms as
“Alláh-u-Abhá” and “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá” are used by
Bahá’ís rather than being translated into their native
tongues, and has asked us to respond as follows.
The House of Justice on another occasion has clarified
that the Greatest Name is to be used in its original
language for the recitation of “Alláh-u-Abhá” 95 times a

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
day, as well as for its use in the Long Obligatory Prayer
and the Prayer for the Dead. It has also clarified that to
translate words such as “Alláh-u-Abhá”, “Yá Bahá’u’l-
Abhá”, “Mashriqu’l-Adhkár” and “Ḥazíratu’l-Quds”
into one’s native language is not acceptable. One
exception to this is the alternative use of the words
“Right of God” or their equivalent into other languages
while the term “Huqúqu’lláh” gradually becomes a part
of Bahá’í vocabulary.
In general, one should bear in mind that all translations
are, to some degree, inadequate. For instance, the
beloved Guardian has pointed out in... God Passes By
that the word “Bahá” signifies at once the “Glory”, the
“Splendour” and the “Light” of God; there is no single
word in English which can express all these. It is, of
course, desirable that there be no loss of meaning
through translation; thus, it is preferable that certain
terms directly related to the Manifestation of God
remain in their original form. (From a letter dated 22 February
2009 written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an
individual believer.)
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Office of Correspondence

NOTE
1 Originally published at bahai-library.com/uhj_translate_allah-u-abha

2. Suggestions about Changes in the Administrative
Order

18 May 19951
Dear Bahá’í Friend,
The Universal House of Justice has considered your email
message of 4 April 1995 and has instructed us to convey to you
the following.
The House of Justice appreciates your having shared with it
your thoughts and enthusiasm about electronic discussion of the
Teachings. The exchange of ideas related to the Cause in
electronic discussion groups is indeed a very positive
development—one full of great potential for a growing spread
and understanding of the Faith—and the House of Justice is
pleased you are benefiting from your participation. In all such
discussions a sound knowledge of the Bahá’í Teachings is a
powerful touchstone, one enabling those so engaged to assess
the value of what is being set forth.
Your message suggests that the House of Justice “outline
which aspects of current Bahá’í Administration are permanent
and which are subject to change”. You have made this
suggestion in the light of your concern that some of the ideas
you have seen expressed for making the administration work
better might be inappropriate. The House of Justice judges that
for it to make such a categorization would not be fruitful. The
believers’ own study of the writings, especially those of Shoghi
Effendi and including the Constitution of the Universal House
of Justice, should enable them to arrive at an ever greater
understanding of the essentials of the Administrative Order.
The workings of the community, as you will appreciate, are

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
organic in nature and so is its growth. As time passes, the
community expands, and conditions change, the House of
Justice will make such adjustments and developments as are
required. In so doing, the House of Justice takes cognizance of
the conditions prevailing in the community and any views
presented to it, reserving for itself the right of an unfettered
decision in the manner described by Shoghi Effendi in The
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh. Its first consideration must always
be to remain faithful to the revealed purpose of Bahá’u’lláh, as
expounded and interpreted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the Guardian.
Individual believers are entirely free to make their own
recommendations for developments which they feel would be
desirable, but the manner in which they do so is important,
because this relates to fundamental principles of the
functioning of Bahá’í society. On the one hand they may
present their recommendations at the Nineteen Day Feast, or
directly to their Local or National Spiritual Assembly, or even
to the Universal House of Justice. On the other hand, they are
free to discuss these matters informally among themselves. Any
actions, however, which savour of factionalism, of mobilizing
pressure, or of stirring up contention among the Bahá’ís would
be an inadmissible intrusion of the spirit of partisan politics
into Bahá’í community life.
In general the House of Justice advises the friends to be less
concerned with correcting what they conceive to be present
imperfections
in
the
administrative
system,
than
with
thoroughly understanding the principles which underline it, as
clearly expounded by the Guardian, and with perfecting the
application of those principles in practice.
With regard to your question about review requirements for
works related to the Faith written or published by Bahá’ís, no
decision has been taken as to when this practice will no longer
be needed. Concerning access by individuals to source materials
held in the Bahá’í International Archives, incoming requests are

Elucidations
dealt with on a case-by-case basis, as the gradually expanding
facilities of the Bahá’í World Centre permit.
The House of Justice wishes us to assure you that it will
offer prayers in the Holy Shrines on your behalf and as
requested. May your insight and perception of the realities of
the Faith be a constant joy and source of development to you.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
For Department of the Secretariat

NOTE
1 Originally posted at bahai-library.com/uhj_suggestions_administrative_order

In Memoriam
Houshang Arjmand
1930-2015
Mr. Houshang Arjmand, the grandson of the illustrious
Bahá’í scholar and teacher Haj Mehdi Arjmand and the fourth
child of Habibullah Arjmand and Monireh Mobine, was born in
Tehran, Iran on March 20, 1930. He finished his high school
education in Tehran, and thereafter, pursued a higher education
in engineering in Germany, France, and the United States.
Upon his return to Iran, he partnered with his brother-in-law
Mr. Yadollah Mahboubian and together they founded the “Iran
Electric Company,” which became the largest importer,

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
distributor, and manufacturer of electrical cables and
equipment in Iran. After the Iranian revolution in 1979,
Houshang’s life changed drastically when his partner and
brother-in-law, Mr. Mahboubian, was arrested and imprisoned
by the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran for his belief
in the Bahá’í Faith, and ultimately martyred in the path of the
Blessed Beauty. This tragic loss affected Houshang greatly. With
unconditional
love,
he
looked
after
his
sister
Parvin
Mahboubian, the widow or Mr. Mahboubian, and selflessly
took on the guardianship of their daughters, Shiva and Nikoo
Mahboubian.
Mr. Houshang Arjmand had a commitment and dedication to
promote the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. In 1993, through his
ardent efforts, he created the Háj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial
Fund at the Bahá’í National Treasurer’s Office in the United
States as a tribute to his grandfather who as part of his scholarly
work authored the book Gulshan Haqayiq. This book, which was
approved by ‘Abdul-Bahá through a Tablet addressed to Haj
Mehdi, is a study on the fulfillment of the prophesies mentioned
in both the Old and New Testaments with the coming of
Bahá’u’lláh. The ‘Irfán Colloquium was established in 1993 and
has been mainly supported by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial
Fund. The aim of this colloquium is to encourage and support
scholarly studies of the sacred writings, verities, and
fundamental principles and the belief system of the Bahá’í Faith.
This Colloquium is also an attempt to encourage and support
studies aimed at correlating Bahá’í teachings with intellectual
schools of thought, the scientific perspective, various religious
traditions and current challenges in human society.
In a message conveyed to Mr. Arjmand’s family, the
Universal House of Justice states, “His generous support for a
wide range of Bahá’í activities bears testimony to his
magnanimity and ardent desire to promote the interests of the
Cause.” Additionally, in a letter of condolence from the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States
to Mrs. Mahboubian, the Assembly writes: “As we call to mind

In Memoriam
Mr. Arjmand’s devoted efforts through the Haj Mehdi Arjmand
Memorial Fund to provide needed resources to worthy Bahá’í
initiatives and enterprises, our hearts are moved to gratitude
and warmest appreciation.” The Fund’s assistance has enabled
the Irfán Colloquium, for one, to carry on with its noble, far-
sighted, knowledge-building conferences and publications. The
Universal House of Justice welcomed and encourages this
initiative and, following the guidance received from the
Supreme Body, it became one of the activities affiliated with
the Bahá’í National Center of the United States.
During the past twenty-two years Irfán Colloquium has
convened one hundred thirty-five times in North America and
Europe. At these sessions of the Irfán Colloquium a total of
one thousand five hundred research papers were presented in the
English, Persian, and German languages by scholars, and fifty
volumes containing those research papers have so far been
published. All these achievements are due to generous support
of Houshang Arjmand, his sister Mrs. Parvin Mahboubian and
his brother Mr. Sohrab Arjmand. Houshang Arjmand always
insisted that no mention of gratitude and appreciation of
himself and his other family members should be made at Irfán
Colloquium sessions and in Irfán publications, to avoid giving
the impression of any pretensions. This was not the only project
that received Mr. Arjmand’s munificent care and attention
Well known for his generosity, discretion and humility,
Houshang lived his life according to the Bahá’í Principles. He
passed away on 20 August 2015 in San Diego, California, He is
survived by his sisters Mahin Banayan, Parvin Mahboubian, and
Minou Manuchehri; and his brother Sohrab Arjmand. Although
he did not have any children of his own, he was undoubtedly a
devoted father to all his nieces and nephews, as well as an
affectionate grandfather to their children. He will always be
remembered as a true humanitarian who selflessly dedicated his
life
to
love,
kindness
and
friendship
towards
all.

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
Abbreviations used in this book
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi, Advent of Divine Justice
BA
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration
BK
Bahíyyih Khánum, the Greatest Holy Leaf
BP
Compilation, Bahá’í Prayers
BWF
Compilation, Bahá’í World Faith
CC1-2
Compilation of Compilations, volumes 1 and 2
CF
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith
CL
Universal House of Justice, Century of Light
CN
Shoghi Effendi, Call to the Nations
DB
Nabíl, The Dawn-Breakers
DND
Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FL
Compilation, Fire and Light
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity
GDM
Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries
GPB
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
JWTA
Compilation, Japan Will Turn Ablaze
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán
LG
Compilation, Lights of Guidance
MA
Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America. Selected Letters and Cable-
grams Addressed to the Bahá’ís of North America 1932-1946
MBW50-57
Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957
MC
Shoghi Effendi, Messages to Canada
MF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Memorials of the Faithful

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
MUHJ63
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963-1986
PB
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PBA
Compilation, Principles of Bahá’í Administration
PDC
Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day is Come
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SVFV
Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
SWB
The Báb, Selections from the Writings of The Báb
TAB1-3
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas
TDH
Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Traveler’s Narrative
UD
Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny
WOB
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament

Appendices
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-16
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Faríd ud-Din A††ár
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnán
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-
baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of
God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg

Appendices
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan ‘Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-
i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnán
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women
of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne
and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn

Appendices
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafá Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manuchehr Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials
on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey
of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Babe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-
1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel

Appendices
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Alí Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research
Department; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the
Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the
Word

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
‘Alí Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An
Exposition on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat
Amín Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science
Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge

Appendices
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered
Questions
Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures
Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
‘Alí Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a
Letter from Shoghi Effendi
Gerald Keil
The Path of God
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Lawh Basít al-
Haqíqa)
Moojan Momen
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Anupam Premanand
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Lawh-i Qiná’
Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs
Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve, © 2011
The Travels of ’Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Amín Egea
The Essence of Man
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neo-Platonism and the Bahá’í Faith, Part II
Ian Kluge
Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Baharieh Rohani Ma’ani
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Báb
Moojan Momen
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Julio Savi
Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Julio Savi
The Indispensability of Consultation
Ian Semple
The Mystery of Divinity
James B. Thomas
Speaking on Socio-Political Order
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Alí Nakhjavani
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas about
God
Moojan Momen
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen, © 2012
The Fragility of Goodness
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s ’Perpetual Peace’
Ian Kluge
The New Atheism—A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge
The Choice of the West for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Epoch-making trip
Baharieh Rohani Ma’ani

Appendices
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
Wendi Momen
Interpretation and Elucidation
Alí Nakhjavani
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written before 1863
Julio Savi
Clouds and the Hiding God
Moshe Sharon
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912
Robert H. Stockman
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Whether the Apostle Paul was a ”False Teacher”
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based Religions in the
Americas
Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Alí Nakhjavani
In Memoriam: Ian Semple (1928–2011)
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen, © 2013
Yínyáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Collective Security: An Indispensable Requisite for a Lasting Peace
Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing
Celestial Fire: Bahá’u’lláh as the Messianic Theophany of the Divine
Fire (átar, á∂ar, átash) in Zoroastrianism
Farshid Kazemi
“These Four States Conferred Upon Thee”: Tetrarchic Thinking in
Philosophy—Theology—Psychology
Wolfgang Klebel
Reason and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Nayriz on the Naw-
Ruz ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Interred the Remains of The Báb on Mt.
Carmel
Baharieh Rouhani Maani
Role of Principles in the Bahá’í Faith: Principles and Fashion

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Farjam Majd
Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Elucidation of the Concept of the Oneness of
Humanity During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt: September 1910—5 December 1913
Julio Savi
Individual Rights and Freedoms
Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fifteen, © 2014
The Emergence and Organization of Chinese Religions
Phyllis Ghim Lian Chew
Finding the Trace of the Traceless Friend: Reflection on Bahá’í
Scholarship as a Journey in the Valley of Search
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings: A Meta-ethical Excursion
Part I: Background and a First Dive into the Writings
Part II: Deeper into the Writings
Ian Kluge
The Greatest Holy Leaf’s Unparalleled Role in Religious History
and the Significance of the Arc, the Site of Her Resting Place
Bahárieh Rouhani Ma`ani
Origins of Creation
Farjam Majd
Bahá’í Consultation and the Transformation of Society
Moojan Momen
The Inebriation of His Enrapturing Call: (mast-and bulbulán)
Julio Savi
Tablet of Patience: Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh and Selected Topics
Foad Seddigh
Non-Involvement in Politics
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam:
Hushmand Fatheazam (1924-2013)
Amín Banani (1926-2013)
Mahboubeh Arjmand (d. 2013)

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Sixteen, © 2015
The Ten Plagues of the Exodus in Light of the Bahá’í Writings
JoAnn M. Borovicka
Freud’s Transference and the Four States of Bahá’u’lláh
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Procrustes’ Bed: The Insufficiency of Secular Humanism
Ian Kluge
Women and Wisdom in Scripture
Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani
On Existence and Qualities of the Human Soul
Farjam Majd
Shoghi Effendi’s Translation of Terms Related to Law in Bahá’í
Scripture
Moojan Momen
Shared Prosperity: How Does That Work?
Wendi Momen
A Hymn to Love (Sáqí, bi-dih ábí)
Julio Savi
“At Dawn the Friend came to my bed”: An early fruit of the Supreme
Pen
Julio Savi
Intellectual Life and the Future of Bahá’í Studies
Universal House of Justice
In Memoriam
Kamran Ekbal (1946-2014)

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford:
George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions
(Oxford: George Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in English), Books One to Sixteen
(2000–2015)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safíni-yi ‘Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in Persian), Books One to
Eighteen (1998–2015)
Farah
Dustdar
(ed.),
Beiträge
des
‘Irfán–Kolloquiums:
Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in
German), Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í Verlag,
2004–2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá (2004)
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalíl-i Áftáb (The proof of the Sun
is the Sun) (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)
Vahid Rafati, Badáy-i‘-i-Ma‘ání va Tafsír (The Wonders of
Inner Meanings and Interpretation): Selected Commentaries of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Qur’anic Verses and Islamic Traditions
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2013)
Shahbaz Fatheazam, The Last Refuge: Fifty Years of the
Universal House of Justice (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani
Verlag, 2015)

Appendices
Distributors of ‘Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950 Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag (for German publications)
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921 Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293, Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170 Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de

Lights of Irfán vol. 17
Vision and Aims of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
The ‘Irfán Colloquium aims at promoting and supporting
systematic studies of fundamental principles of the Bahá’í
beliefs, the Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith,
the interface of the Bahá’í Faith with intellectual schools of
thought and religious traditions, and looking at current
challenges in human society from the Bahá’í perspective. ‘Irfán
is a Persian word referring to mystical, theological and spiritual
knowledge. The ‘Irfán Colloquium and its publications are
sponsored by Haj Mehdi Memorial Fund and supported by
Nadia Saadat Memorial Scholarships grant.
The Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund was established by
Houshang Arjmand (1930–2015) in 1992 to honor his grand-
father, Haj Mehdi Arjmand, and is dedicated to promoting the
scholarly study of the Bahá’í Faith. Haj Mehdi Arjmand (1861-
1941) was a Persian scholar and teacher of the Bahá’í Faith who
became well known in Iran for his profound knowledge of the
Bible, Qur’an, and Bahá’í scriptures. The primary activity of the
Fund is sponsoring annual sessions of ‘Irfán Colloquium and
‘Irfán publications.
In 2012, benefiting from the guidance received from the
Universal House of Justice, a management board was appointed
for this fund to function as a Bahá’í agency under the direction
of the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States.
Organizing and holding ‘Irfán Colloquia started in 1993 and are
presently held seven times every year in North America and
Western Europe in English, Persian and German languages under
the auspices of the National Spiritual Assembly of the host country.
As of October 2015 one hundred and thirty five sessions of
colloquia have been held. Papers in English presented or
received at the ‘Irfán Colloquia are annually published in a
series of volumes of the Lights of ‘Irfán.