THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

9 February 2022

To selected National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

In recent decades, the international financial collaboration goals programme has enabled selected national communities to provide financial assistance to their sister communities around the world. The approach adopted by the Universal House of Justice has been to invite selected National Spiritual Assemblies, at the beginning of each Plan, to assess how much they could contribute towards the capital expenses of other national communities during the course of that Plan. On the basis of these estimates, the House of Justice then called upon them to assist communities in various countries as and when specific needs came to its attention.

During the Five Year Plan that concluded at Riḍván 2021, 51 National Assemblies contributed approximately US$6,000,000 to over 50 national Bahá’í communities around the globe. This magnificent expression of solidarity has delighted the House of Justice. These funds were used to meet a variety of needs, such as the acquisition of land for multi-purpose facilities in selected clusters, the construction of local Bahá’í Centres, the renovation and enlargement of Bahá’í properties, and the purchase of furniture and equipment necessary for teaching and administrative work. Beyond that, the generosity with which geographically distant national communities have assisted each other has reinforced the bonds of unity and solidarity between them. It is a demonstration of the “spirit of collaboration and mutual assistance” that the House of Justice describes, in its 30 December 2021 message, as being “so essential for progress”.

Given the duration and high expectations of this Nine Year Plan, you will no doubt appreciate that the financial needs of the communities around the world are likely to be considerable. We have been asked to inform you that your National Assembly is one of 57 Assemblies now being invited to participate in the international financial collaboration goals programme for this Plan. The House of Justice would therefore appreciate receiving from you by 15 April 2022 an estimate of the amount you can offer, whatever it might be, for financial collaboration during the coming nine years. Such an estimate would preferably break down the total sum you can make available, indicating how much you anticipate you can provide each year. Kindly note that if monies remain from the pledge your Assembly made at the start of the previous Plan, these may be carried forward to form part of your new pledge.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]