THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2007-11-26

To the Bahá'ís of the World

45

8

26 November 2007

To the Bahá’ís of the World

Dearly loved Friends,

8.1 We are moved on the occasion of this Day of the Covenant

to reflect on the august Institution of the Hands of the Cause

of God in the aftermath of the decease only two months ago

of the last remaining Hand of the Cause, Dr. ‘Alí-Muh .ammad

Varqá. It was just a few weeks before the fiftieth anniversary of the passing of Shoghi Effendi that our world community suffered this grievous loss. How sobering, indeed, it is to realize

that Dr. Varqá’s departure brought to an end the remarkable

stewardship of an institution whose legacy is unparalleled in religious history! At so significant a juncture in the Formative

Age of the Faith, it is only fitting that an effort be made to

understand more deeply than before the significance of the

achievements of so outstanding an organ of the Administrative

Order—one that proved to be so integral to the evolution of our world community during its nascent years.

8.2 We trace the origins of the Institution to Bahá’u’lláh

Himself, Who designated four renowned promoters of His

teachings as Hands of the Cause of God. In a period before

the administrative system of the Faith was inaugurated, they

became rallying points for the friends, as much because of the

virtuous character of their personal lives as for their unceasing endeavors in proclaiming the Teachings and defending the Faith

against its detractors. They remained resolute in such activities

despite the severe persecution, including imprisonment in some instances, to which they were subjected by the authorities.

These distinguished personages remained active during the

ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who, in 1899, instructed them to take

steps to form the Local Spiritual Assembly of T .ihrán, on which

they all served. The focus of these first Hands on propagation

and protection of the Faith, as well as their efforts to edify

46

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONbelievers as to the importance of the new Laws, intimated even

then the pattern of functioning the Institution would adopt at a

later stage in the advancement of the Bahá’í community.

8.3 The Master did not Himself appoint Hands of the Cause,

but referred to four believers posthumously as such. However, His Will and Testament confirmed the Institution and extended

it by authorizing the Guardian of the Faith to appoint con-secrated souls to it. At first,  over a period of three decades,

Shoghi Effendi named ten such souls posthumously; all were

distinguished for the constancy, vigor and impact of their efforts to propagate the Cause and promote its best interests.

The Guardian’s designation in December 1951 of twelve living

believers as Hands of the Cause introduced the Bahá’í world

to a wholly new dynamic in  the operation of the Order of

Bahá’u’lláh; through it the Hands exerted an unusual vitality during the Ten Year Crusade, particularly after the sudden

passing of the Sign of God. His subsequent appointment of

seven more in February 1952 and replacement thereafter of five of those deceased kept the number of living Hands at nineteen

until less than a month before his departure, when in his last

message to the Bahá’í world he identified an additional eight,

bringing the total to twenty-seven. Shoghi Effendi’s description

of them as the “Chief Stewards of Bahá’u’lláh’s embryonic World Commonwealth” prefigured the world-shaking reality of

the unexpected responsibilities that would be thrust upon them

on the morrow of his passing.

8.4 The Guardian now forever gone, the Hands’ first task,

despite the sorrow that overwhelmed them, was to restore the

composure of a grief-stricken community. A vital aspect of that

task was, of course, to settle the minds of the friends about

the direction that the Faith would take. The Hands acted with

dispatch. Only sixteen days after the burial of the Guardian, they issued from the Holy Land a proclamation to the Bahá’ís

of East and West. Declaring that, after a thorough search, no

will or instruction of Shoghi Effendi had been found, they set forth in this message the procedures they would follow in

meeting the daunting challenge they faced. It announced that a

body of nine Hands, designated “Custodians,” was constituted

to function at the  Bahá’í World Centre to protect the Faith,

maintain communications with National Spiritual Assemblies in connection with the prosecution of the Ten Year Plan and on

administrative matters, and attend to all issues related to the

47

erywhere derived from this first communication assurance that

the ship of the Cause would safely traverse the waters severely

troubled by the Guardian’s passing. Subsequent messages issued

from conclaves of the Hands held in the Holy Land further

infused confidence in the believers who arose to meet the goals set before them in the Plan.

8.5 The Hands residing outside the Holy Land, in addition to

giving close attention to the progress of the Plan in their own

regions, undertook extensive journeys to visit and encourage

the believers in every clime. Their travels covered the entire

surface of the planet as they pursued every opportunity to

advance the work of the Plan left by Shoghi Effendi. The obli-gations of the Hands spelled out in the Will and Testament of

‘Abdu’l-Bahá were carried out with the selflessness, fearlessness

and zeal characteristic of their activity. To “diffuse the Divine Fragrances, to edify the souls of men, to promote learning, to

improve the character of all men”—all these they undertook

with outstanding, sometimes astonishing, results. Such travels

did not cease with the conclusion of the Ten Year Plan but

continued with unabated intensity, the legendary journeys of Amatu’l-Bahá Rúh .íyyih Khánum generating immeasurable

stimulus. Thus the activities of the Hands demonstrated to a superlative degree the efficacy of Bahá’u’lláh’s assertion that the “movement itself from place to place, when undertaken for

the sake of God, hath always exerted, and can now exert, its

influence in the world.”

8.6 Among the principal results of their combined labors,

these stand out: maintenance of the stature of the Faith as an

independent and indivisible Order; protection of the Cause

against schism, despite the disloyalty to the Covenant of one

among their exalted company, Mason Remey, whom they were

obliged to cast out; preservation of the properties and main-tenance of the Holy Places and gardens at the World Centre;

success in the vast expansion of the Faith. All these hard-won

accomplishments prepared the path to the smooth transition that the Hands effected from the ministry of Shoghi Effendi,

for whose first election they meticulously prepared the Bahá’í

world, especially the fifty-six National Spiritual Assemblies

that participated in it. The Hands of the Cause delivered to the House of Justice a community that was so greatly transformed

48

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONduring the Ten Year Plan as to place the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh

on the map as a world religion in every legitimate sense. The

grand celebration at the World Congress in London attended

by Bahá’ís from countries of every continent demonstrated the

validity of that claim.

8.7 Beyond the World Crusade, the Hands of the Cause threw

the full weight of their support  behind the newly formed

Universal House of Justice, whose creation their valiant

efforts ensured. They undertook many missions on its behalf

and pursued tasks befitting their continuing obligation to prop-

agate and protect the Faith. As in the absence of the Guardian

there was no way further to appoint Hands of the Cause, the Hands in the Holy Land in particular performed what may well

be viewed as a distinct and final mark of service: they assisted

the House of Justice to extend into the future the functions of

propagation and protection in the special character of their

institution. Hence, in 1968 Continental Boards of Counsellors were raised up and then in 1973 was created the International

Teaching Centre foreshadowed in the writings of Shoghi

Effendi. In their tireless support of the House of Justice in the design of these  institutions and in the guidance they lent to

their development, the Hands left to the Bahá’í world a further

legacy that only future generations will be able adequately to

appreciate. A shining value of their ultimate exertions is evident

in the stature to which the International Teaching Centre has risen in such a short time and the permeating influence of the

institution of the Counsellors which reaches every nook and

cranny of our worldwide community.

8.8 It is highly worthy of note that the body of the Hands,

with one exception, remained unbeguiled by the allurements

of power that commonly corrupt those who are suddenly

thrust by force of circumstances into positions of elevated rank

and authority. In this instance, all of creation cannot but bear

witness to the integrity of their stewardship, the unblemished virtue of their faithfulness to principle.

8.9 A point to ponder as well is the survival to the last of the

one who was simultaneously appointed in 1955 to the two

offices of Hand of the Cause and Trustee of H .uqúqu’lláh. That

he was able to shape the latter institution and finally to see to its administrative transition in the formation in 2005 of the

International Board of Trustees of H .uqúqu’lláh, with branches

spread throughout the globe, is yet another sign of the constan-

49

attended the evolution of the Administrative Order. Clearly,

then, the work of the divinely ordained Institution of the Hands

of the Cause of God was indispensable to the progress of the

Faith from the Heroic Age to an early period of the Formative

Age; its effects are certain to endure as an integral part of the Order of Bahá’u’lláh. The passing of Dr. Varqá marks both the

end of a chapter of Bahá’í history and the beginning of a new

stage in the unfolding of that Order.

8.10 With such thoughts astir in our minds, we recognize with

increasing wonder and appreciation the magnitude of the

contributions of the Hands of the Cause of God to the growth

and consolidation of the Faith in all parts of the world. In our

grateful hearts we recite with deep emotion the benediction so

eloquently exclaimed by the Lord of Hosts: “Light and glory, greeting and praise be upon the Hands of His Cause, through

whom the light of fortitude hath shone forth and the truth hath

been established that the authority to choose rests with God, the Powerful, the Mighty, the Unconstrained, through whom

the ocean of bounty hath surged and the fragrance of the gra-

cious favors of God, the Lord of mankind, hath been diffused.”

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]