Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Copyright ©2025, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their authors.
Reproductions from this compilation are permitted provided that the
sources and authors are clearly indicated, with the exception of provisional
translations, which are not to be further distributed.
Lights of ‘Irfán:
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Volume Twenty-One
‘Irfán Colloquia

Bahá’í National Center 1233 Central Street, Evanston, IL 60201

Phone: (847) 733-3501 · Fax: (847) 733-3527

E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org · www.irfancolloquia.org
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
General Editor Iraj Ayman
182 B.E. 2025 C.E.
ISBN 978-1-89068-88-4
Design & Layout:
Majid C. Nolley
majidnolley.com

Dedicated to
Dr. Iraj Ayman
Feb. 9, 1928 – Nov. 12, 2025
This is the final volume edited by his hand.


“May the memory of his valued contribution to the field of
education in numerous academic and other settings as well as
his endeavors in the promotion of Bahá’í Studies be a source of
enduring inspiration for present and future generations.”
The Universal House of Justice

November 14, 2025

184. All men have been created to carry
forward an ever-advancing civilization.
The Almighty beareth Me witness:
To act like the beasts of the field is
unworthy of man. Those virtues that
befit his dignity are forbearance, mercy,
compassion and loving-kindness
towards all the peoples and kindreds of
the earth.
—Baha'u'llah
Gleanings from the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 215
Whoso hath searched the depths of the
oceans that lie hid within these exalted
words, and fathomed their import, can
be said to have discovered a glimmer
of the unspeakable glory with which
this mighty, this sublime, and most holy
Revelation hath been endowed. From
the excellence of so great a Revelation
the honor with which its faithful
followers must needs be invested can
be well imagined. By the righteousness
of the one true God! The very breath
of these souls is in itself richer than all
the treasures of the earth. Happy is the
man that hath attained thereunto, and
woe betide the heedless.
—Baha'u'llah
Gleanings from the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 10

PREFACE
ARTICLES
Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
Shahbaz Fatheazam.    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   1
A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims
of Islamic Philosophy in the Bahá’í Writings
Vargha Bolodo-Taefi.    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  39
Understanding Traditional Discourses
JoAnn Borovicka.    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .111
Which World Are You In?
Ian Kluge.    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .127
The Invocation “Is There Any Remover
of Difficulties Save God…”
Muhammad Afnan trans. Adib Masumian.    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     189
The Potent God and the Attracting God:
Metaphysics and its Social Consequences
Moojan Momen .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .191
Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations)
and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
Foad Seddigh.    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .215
IN MEMORIAM
Manuchehr Derakhshani.    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   255
Ian Kluge.    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  257

PREFACE

ii
Since its inception, ‘Irfán Colloquium, has strived to encourage
Baháʼís to immerse themselves in the ocean of His words, that they
“may unravel its secrets, and discover all the pearls of wisdom that lie
hid in its depths”, and in this manner deepen their faith and prepare
themselves for sharing its teachings with their communities.  We are
grateful to our authors for having meticulously shared with us those
pearls of wisdom in this collection of articles on topics related to
mystical aspects of the Bahá’í writings.
The “Lights of Irfán Book 21” delves into profound explorations of
Bahá’í beliefs and their intersections with various philosophical and
spiritual discourses. The volume presents an array of scholarly articles
aimed at deepening understanding of the Bahá’í Faith’s principal
teachings and their applicability to contemporary societal issues.  Each
article aims to foster a deeper appreciation of the Bahá’í Faith’s rich
theological and philosophical heritage, encouraging readers to consider
how these insights can be applied to enhance personal growth and
societal advancement. The discussions are rooted in a desire to bridge
the gap between ancient wisdom and philosophies, religious traditions
and contemporary challenges, advocating for a world where spiritual
principles inform and elevate public discourse and personal conduct.
We hope these articles assist the readers in their journey through mys-
tical dimensions of reality, and to better equip them in meaningful
conversations on these important existential topics that are often at
the centre of thoughts and beliefs of humanity at large:

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
by Shahbaz Fatheazam
This article, a profoundly mystical and poetic essay, addresses the
growing detachment from and scepticism toward religion in modern
society, suggesting that this alienation has led to a loss of joy and fulfil-
ment. Fatheazam argues that the rejuvenation of religious sentiment
and practice as well as understanding the profound meanings of love

iii
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
and spirituality can restore a sense of purpose and happiness in individ-
uals’ lives. The article discusses the historical roles of religion in society
and contrasts these with the present-day marginalization, proposing
that rediscovering the joy in religion could counteract the bleakness
of modern secular life - religion is not just a relic of the past but an
essential part of human understanding, providing meaning beyond
empirical knowledge. The reader may also question the tendency of
contemporary culture to dismiss religion as obsolete while appreciat-
ing the ways in which faith has historically guided human progress.
A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims
of Islamic Philosophy in the Bahá’í Writings
by Vargha Bolodo-Taefi
Bolodo-Taefi explores the influence of Islamic thought and intellectual
tradition on the Bahá’í Writings and presents thirty-four cardinal
maxims of Islamic philosophy that are adopted and expounded in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Each section
explains the meaning of a maxim, describes its usage by prominent
figures in Islamic intellectual history, and demonstrates its application
in the Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith.  In doing so,
we gain a better understanding of
the integration of some of the most profound Islamic philosophical
principles within the Bahá’í teachings, and how these philosophical
maxims have been influential in shaping Islamic thought as well as
their relevance and reinterpretation in the context of Bahá’í scriptures.

Understanding Traditional Discourses
by JoAnn Borovicka
Borovicka investigates the challenges and opportunities in interpreting
traditional religious discourses in the modern world.  The author exam-
ines historical narratives, particularly the allegorical nature of religious

iv
Preface
stories. The chapter highlights how Bahá’í interpretations align with
modern historical and hermeneutical approaches, suggesting that reli-
gious texts should be read with an awareness of their metaphorical and
contextual meanings.  She emphasizes the need to understand these
discourses within their historical contexts and explores how they can
be made relevant to contemporary issues. The article advocates for a
balanced approach that respects traditional wisdom while adapting its
teachings to modern circumstances.

Which World Are You In?
by Ian Kluge
The article by the late Ian Kluge engages with philosophical inqui-
ries about the nature of reality, questioning the existence of different
“worlds” such as the material, spiritual, and metaphysical. He discusses
how Bahá’í teachings address these concepts and examine existence of
God. Kluge further argues that human perception of reality is shaped
by philosophical assumptions, and that the Bahá’í worldview inter
alia considers empirical reason and spiritual insight. He also examines
postmodern relativism and defends the idea that objective truth exists
beyond individual subjectivity. The article may challenge readers to
reflect on their perceptions of reality and consider a more integrated
worldview that encompasses both physical and spiritual elements
when reflecting on God’s existence and its implications on our lives.

The Invocation “Is There Any Remover of Difficulties Save God...”
by Muhammad Afnan, translated by Adib Masumian
The article, which was first published by ‘Irfán Colloquium in Persian
in 2006, has now been translated in English and explains the origin of
this invocation in the Bahá’í Faith, discussing its significance in times
of personal and communal hardship. The author examines how this
invocation reflects broader theological themes of divine providence
and human reliance on God.

v
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
The Potent God and the Attracting God:
Metaphysics and its Social Consequences
by Moojan Momen
The article examines two conceptual frameworks in relation to God
by major Western world religions and by philosophers – attracting
God versus Potent God , and their implications on theological thought
and on humanities’ belief in God and religion, and how it influences
their world view and governance.  The “Potent God” represents divine
authority, justice, and law, whereas the “Attracting God” embodies
love, beauty, and personal transformation. Momen argues that societ-
ies dominated by a fear-based view of God tend toward authoritarian-
ism, while those embracing a loving God foster inclusivity and moral
progress. Understanding the difference between these frameworks also
has profound implications on our social relationships based on “power
and hierarchy” or “love and mutuality” and on models of governance
in our society.

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient: Shams-i Jahán
by Foad Seddigh
Seddigh reviews the story and the poems of Princess Sháms-i Jahán – a
grand-daughter of Fátḥ-i-‘Alí Sháh and an aunt of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh,
who declared her belief in the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.  The article also
examines in depth Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Fitnih, which prophesies a
time of great trials and tests for humanity. The author highlights the
esoteric language used in the tablet, discussing its references to cosmic
disturbances (e.g., “the heavens of knowledge will be cleft asunder”
and “resplendent suns will be darkened”). The chapter explores how
Bahá’u’lláh’s warnings about spiritual tests and separations echo ear-
lier religious prophecies, and includes a translation of the Tablet at the
end of the article.

vi
Preface
The In Memoriam section in this volume pays tribute to two of
‘Irfán Colloquium’s closest collaborators and ardent supporters: Dr
Manuchehr Derakhshani (1932-2025) who served for nearly 3 decades
at the Bahá’í National Centre Persian Affairs Office and was most
helpful in reviewing many of the articles that ‘Irfán published over
the past 3 decades, and Ian Kluge (1948-2025) who had an uniquely
in-depth knowledge of philosophical traditions and the intellectual
history of religious thought, and enthusiastically participated and con-
tributed to numerous discussions on these topics over many decades.
We shall miss them dearly.
We thank the authors for their diligent research and their patience;
and hope the readers will have the opportunity to reflect on the pro-
foundly mystical concepts shared in many of these articles, which may
enhance their understanding of the purpose of life as they continue
their journey towards drawing closer to that unknowable essence.
All papers published in this book, present the views and understand-
ing of their authors. The texts of the papers are published as provided
by the authors. Their writing styles and scholarly approaches are,
therefore, different.
Rama Ayman

ARTICLES

Myth or Madness:
The (Lost) Joy of Religion
Shahbaz Fatheazam
Introduction
Religion has become ever remote from modern sympathy, unattract-
ive and unconvincing. As its light, heat and influence wane its position,
once locally central, is now dynamically marginal; its rim farthest from
the hub. Religion holds the deadest part of the universe, the lowest
storey of the house the point at which all light, heat, and movement
descending from a nobler sphere is dying into darkness, coldness and
passivity. This makes for a drab age. In its place, Man, the soul of the
world, with immense powers, rich like Midas but all he touches goes
dead and cold. As the process prolongs itself it ensures that the loss of
the old mythical imagination and the prophetic soul of the wide world
will continue to be replaced with historians of science and practitio-
ners of philosophy. These modern magicians assert human omnipo-
tence while the venerable sense of human impotence never really leaves
us bewailing our plight to feel encompassed. We yearn to awake from
our sleeping sense by some magia divina. Our instincts continue to
tell us that if we and Nature are all one surely there must be some
nearer way to this unity, to a high and holy learning, than by quantum
mechanics and relativity, some more direct way such as one who com-
mands another who is in his power. A way that teaches us that we can
rise above our corporeal and sensitive powers and in that state receive
into ourselves the perfection of heaven and of the divine intelligences.
Spirits obey perfected souls – an affirmation which even makes the
resuscitation of the dead possible! In contemplating religious revival,
however, we must be aware, and beware, of schematizing. We must not
impose either on old things that have died out nor on the new things
coming in a spurious unity. Meaning must be moving and truth must

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
always be aroma to the Light otherwise religion means as little to us
as the atomic structure of water – a barren and profitless look into
this other most valuable giver of life. The labor of the quest for God
only weds us when chained to the cluster of fragrance, the hyacinth of
reunion and the blissful rapture of the Messianic Spirit, enshrined in
the beauty of the Rose. Religion must not be seen just to be true, but
lofty, edifying and unifying. This is a unique aspect of discernment
and the strongest lens with which to comprehend the unrestrained
utility of true religion which adorns us with praiseworthy attributes
and righteousness. Universal recognition of religion’s transformative
power, the magnificent cultivation of mind and heart, is apparent to
all but the leaden.
The business of religion is to draw nigh unto God - the highest form
of contemplation – and to enjoy communion with Him. To bring this
unique ideal upon the life and thought of centuries demands the move
to self-surrender, borne only by the law of love, via crucis, via lucis, the
absolute condition of discipleship. Self-surrender is really a battle term
- to give up all rights to a lord conqueror. The more we surrender the
more we resemble the Lord. We only shine outside of self - an unas-
sailable prescription of the beloved Master that ‘[w]e must release the
kernel from the husk’. [Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 381]
Conversely, the more we conquer away from divinity, the more we
darken liberty and with a sense of doom. In us worldlings, buried deep
beneath the deposits of self, there is an instinct we cannot explain,
the power of which we may attempt to ignore but which leads us, in
spite of ourselves, to a moment of heroic decision - to offer our life
as a ransom to others. In its purest and non dogmatic mode, this is
self-surrender. “If any man will come after me, let him deny himself,
and take up his cross, and follow me.”1 If Creation is the original acte
gratuit than self-surrender, we must readily accept, is the only right
concession to be made, a sublime form of pre-litigation - settle before
judgment day, as it were.

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
Should love, that systematic truth, ‘the holy hush of ancient sacrifice’2,
that which oils the wheels of life, ‘the greatest of all living powers’
[Paris Talks 180], the highest law which allows for all things
to mingle and meet in one spirit, were somehow erased, human
life would vanish. Our history is an ongoing meditation on this
fact. Oftentimes difficult to follow or understand the mystery that
provokes the many forms of love, it remains our most common pos-
session and which gives our existence depth and wonder. Love even
makes death wonderful. When Socrates, ‘the most distinguished of all
philosophers’ [Tablets 146], told the young men gathered around him
before his death, that philosophy is the practice of being dead he had
something specific in mind. He was conveying the idea that as long
as we judge things according to our senses, we shall never grasp the
truth about them. In love’s immortal form the visible and the sensual
have only a limited and passing share. To see it, we must die to the
world and learn to live as if we were no longer alive. The proper use
of meditation is to grasp the timeless order of things. When we think
about love we are beyond death and become deathless ourselves. In the
old chaos of love, whatever we see is extraordinary, wherever we look
things are pretty wonderful. O, joy without end!
Short-lived, physical attraction is love’s pathetic transience but it is not
to be scorned. Loving in a transient world is booted by a twofold misery.
The first is the suffering that comes with possessing enduringly that
which is inevitably lost. And the second is despair, following closely
from the first, the very notion that a future possibility of loss awaits us
and any current pleasure is contaminated by fear. The desire to have
(appetitus habendi) turns into a fear of losing (metus amittendi). But,
mystifyingly, love’s misery becomes essential to its meaning. Personal
relations begin and end, time flows to a final rest, but what becomes of
love’s poignancy and passion were such temporal limits to be removed?
Love would be demystified to the point of pathological emptiness and
shuts the ancient path to contemplative transcendence. Without the
additional sense of incommensurability between time and eternity
love ceases to be what it is, just as science loses its meaning when we

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
subtract eternity from the notion of lawfulness that is the ruling prin-
ciple of all inquiry. (Science is intelligible only if we think of it as mov-
ing toward and understanding of the world that rests on laws whose
validity is timeless. The very idea of ‘law’ implies this). The law of love,
therefore, is a function of our mortality – a surprising, not to say dis-
appointing conclusion, perhaps, but not hopeless because while death
may well bring love’s moment to an end yet its pangs and motions have
not been pointless.
While we try to understand and live with love in its finitude, it is in
a world without limitation where we find its highest expression. All
forms of natural ties, companionship, love of family, patriotic love, love
of race, political affinity, even love of community, are limited, fraught
with inherent interest, and therefore, uncertain.3 The perfect love, we
are told, ‘needs an unselfish instrument, absolutely freed from fetters
of every kind.’ [Paris Talks 37] and this ‘… can only be achieved by
the power of the Divine Spirit. No worldly power can accomplish
the universal love.” [Paris Talks 11] Divine love takes us back to the
deeper appreciation of its all-comprehensive role and forward to the
better comprehension of our own hearts. While all forms of other love
do the things that plainly seem true, divine love again and again has
said the thing that does not seem true but is. Divine love is convincing
where it is least attractive – in its mystery.
The law of God which commands from the outside binds us to the
moral responsibility of living by the law of love which spurs from the
inside. Divine love harbors renunciation. All other forms of love are
self-preservation, a short, fast moving shimmering embedded in our
social and ethical structures.4 This does not show that Divine love is
untenable but that we are stupid or wicked to have failed to apply this
principle for not having passionately desired it. Divine love, simultane-
ously effulgent and enkindling,5 inspired splendid achievements in the
past so why cannot it be renewed with ever brighter examples? The
conversion of the enslaved human mind and the human spirit from
the dehumanizing powers in all culture to this ideal is, as we shall see,

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
a victory both for the individual as well as for the collective life of the
planet.6 The theological basis for liberation is the theology of recon-
ciliation and love.
Love, by definition, is not a conservative creed and its radicality, its
revolutionary potential, lies as much in the intimate sphere as well as in
the outer sphere - dedication to a cause. Love contains both an ideologi-
cal and a personal component. True love and true revolution are insepa-
rable. On the spiritual plain, most especially, we must be revolutionary.
That which comes closest to true stasis is subject to heroic efforts of will
and selfless sacrifice. 7 The panorama of residual love, the love of kin
and country, fights to leave things as they are and we beat our wings in
vain and in a void to maintain the status quo. This is crude and foolish
as we are really leaving these open to a torrent of change.
The idealization of love is preserved on nothing less than change and
revolution guided by a love for a cause, the true criterion for con-
version to moral action - not conscience (a center haunted by moral
ambivalence).8 The revolutionary path from truth to action is not just
paved by love’s ardor, as attested by our early Bahá’í history, its apo-
theosis, but, more importantly, asphalted upon moral values. If the
locus and focus of a cause is moral authority, independent of human
rationality, as in the will of God then the validity of moral values
comes directly from the ultimate sovereign, our Creator.
The stirring accounts of the early faithful, (as Hannah Arendt would
say, to begin at the beginning is an act of memory and gratitude), cap-
tured in storytelling genre in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Memorials to the Faithful,
are short biographies recounted not to sanctify or to deify nor to enlist
men and women in the immortal pantheon.9 They are written, not as
an exercise in nostalgia or antiquarianism, but that we may cultivate
the same religious instinct of our illustrious forbearers – to transform
belief into an intercourse of compelling wonder. The champions of
the Crimson Age saw what we dimly see today even though we tread
their leavened soil, average earth elevated to the plains of heroes. A

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
community of others grounded not in a pre-existing reality but in a
specific possibility – a possibility which is the most radical of all pos-
sibilities, a community of faith which demands not just in loving each
other but a total response from each.
All this happens by obeying, sine mora. 10 The inspiration of the faith-
ful lies not in any array of mundane possibilities but in the untrodden
region of unalloyed divine love. They showed an astonished world how
to remove mountains by faith wedded to love. They personified the
emblem: “He who made you demands the whole you.”11 The greatness
of these enraptured lovers of God lies precisely in the description itself
– the greatness of what they loved - and it is this frenzy that gives birth
to remarkable human powers and achievements which makes the life
of these selfless consorts, these most beautiful of mortals, God enfran-
chised souls, exemplary suppliants, ‘recipients of heavenly grace’, ever
more haunting.12
These early believers, small in number and dimly islanded, interpen-
etrated two worlds, one enabling, the other harshly inhibiting – the
new, aborning community of the Greatest Name opposed to the fierce
rule of an oppressive, unbelieving underworld. The early faithful were
trampled, betrayed and faced tyranny from all sides and they had to
outgrow these vicissitudes digging ever deeper roots of faith to resist
fiercer tempests as the unrelenting ire and hatred of the local popula-
tion reacted with even greater intensity. A brutal and lashing anomaly
understood only by God but accepted by unfailing resignation and
unshaken trust by these faithful admirers in the parched dust of battle.
All this suggests that there is an alternative way of thinking about his-
tory that has a different structure from the idea of history as a stream
of causes and effects, structures and events. Here is an account of what
people thought and believed in a particular epoch; what they wanted
to love; and what social and environmental conditions framed (or sup-
pressed) their choices – illustrated vividly by the conversion of tens of
thousands in Persia in the mid-nineteenth century which led to par-
ticular states of knowledge, belief, and agency. Is history composed of

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
objective causal relations that exist among recorded historical events
and structures or is history an agglomeration of the actions and men-
tal frameworks of individuals, high and low? One brilliant Christian
apologist puts it best: “The greater part of the life actually lived in
any century, any week, or any day consists of minute particulars and
uncommunicated, even incommunicable, experiences which escape
all record.” [Lewis, Literature, 64]
Divine love is clearly not an idle affair. ‘To occupy oneself with God…
is the one occupation of all occupations”13 and the law of love is not
an abstract principle nor prone to personified abstractions but a moral
force gravitating to a unified whole. Rediscovering our love for God
and His creation is itself a preparation for social action and an indis-
pensable stake in the conceptual framework for public discourse.14
The religion of love is not synonymous with the prodigy of austerity.
We do not withdraw from the tents of the world so that angels draw
nigh. Communion with God arises as much from ethical concerns as
in the cloistered chorus of ‘sursum corda, sursum corda’ [‘lift up your
hearts’].15 This higher law of universal love is not subject-centered but
object-centered. Self-surrender is not isolated, penitential abstinence.
Our religion does not avoid the society of man to choose to live to God
in secret. The audience chamber of God is not solitude but the tested
enterprise of fellowship and the well-matured purpose of service. We
only save ourselves by bringing ourselves together.
The philosophy of love is simultaneously both out of and engaged in
the world and unfolds in a three-fold hierarchy - a reality (the mind
of God), a revelation (the revealed Word of God) and respublica16 or
commonweal, its finest fruit, collective conduct governed by the noblest
rules and its associated social arrangements. In this ideal God com-
mands, angels operate and man obeys. It is not the sad song of Gibbon’s
‘unhappy exiles from social life’, but spiritual joy, God’s creed inviting us
to drink from the chalice of joy and bliss. (We are surely more ourselves
when we bear on our faces somehow or other, a gladness of heaven that
comes from no human source.). Truth impels us to joy.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
A compulsive invitation to enormous sorrows and delights, the impli-
cations of universal love bear a philosophical stance and as such can-
not be regarded as innocent. 17 We each are a neighbor to the other
and when the other is no longer a matter for moral concern, a barren
world emerges where the impoverishment of one is the impoverish-
ment of the other. Love is fulfilling of the law.18 By affirming the
worth of our neighbor we are simultaneously affirming the value of
ourselves.19 When I suffer it is misery, but when I suffer with another
it is compassion.
There exists the challenge of how to behave so as to align our world
of finite existence – our need to fend for ourselves and to satisfy our
basic needs – with our status as spiritual beings. Unless I am happy
I am unable to exercise my godlike power to love on anything like a
significant scale. A life obsessed or preoccupied to the satisfaction of
basic needs leaves little room for either science or morality. It follows
that we should do what we can to improve the material circumstances
of human life, so that there may be room for both desires – self satisfac-
tion and self fulfillment.
The neighbor who is poor, hungry, dispossessed, and oppressed, hurts
us and is a sufficient criterion for responsible action.20 Our efforts are
not guided by prevalent growth-based notions of insurance and risk-
reduction. The evils of poverty and subjugation, these are not the hidden
cause of quarrel but are bred in settings of civic conflict eliminated only
by the diverse manifestations of universal love: harmony, social media-
tion and the building of a necessary and new identity of the oneness
of humanity, ‘the pivot round which all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh
revolve’ and which ‘has its indirect manifestations in the gradual diffu-
sion of the spirit of world solidarity which is spontaneously arising out
of the welter of a disorganized society.’ [World Order 45].
In contemplating the idea of love, we are not only endorsing value-
based approaches to the promise of peace but to the importance of
human agency and emotional linkages in spiritual culture as a whole

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
to overcome the upheavals of modern society and to secure its emanci-
pation from impending and recurring calamities. 21 A case in point is
Amartya Sen’s welfare economics, where the governing rule should be
that of moral sentiments assuming the vanguard of shaping economics
and not profit maximization. “Economy is the basis of society. When
the economy is stable, society develops. The ideal economy combines
the spiritual and material, and the best commodities to trade in are
sincerity and love.”22
In the physical (and social) sciences there reaches a point where the
initial stage of wishing must be succeeded by a stage of hard and ruth-
less analysis. The problem here is that religion of love is always seen
as never being able to emancipate itself from utopianism.23 We face a
fundamental antithesis - the antithesis of utopia and reality – but, the
question arises: is not utopia rooted in reality? Mature thought com-
bines utopia or an ideal purpose with observation and analysis. This is
the impact of thinking upon wishing. But both must have their place.
We cannot ignore what was and what is in contemplation of what
should be nor may we scorn to deduce what should be from what was
and what is so as to avoid despair and bewilderment in appreciating the
transitions before us. The social issues referred to above is a function
of thinking and to address them is to study a sequence of events which
we are not powerless to influence or to alter and there comes a stage
where realism is the necessary corrective to the exuberance of utopia
and wishful thinking. “Wherever [we] find truth or reality, [we] must
hold to it, forsaking, discarding all else; for outside of reality there is
naught but superstition and imagination.”24 [Promulgation, 62].
When reality refuses to conform to utopian prescriptions a problem
of diagnosis emerges. We have either been too lazy to understand the
vision or too self-centered to pursue it. Such incompetence is both
intellectual and moral. We are not only ill-disposed to act but suf-
fer from muddled thinking (our need for self-assertion interferes in
belief-formation). It checks our ability to lose or transcend ourselves
in order to learn something from minds different from our own. “The

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
essence of religion’, we are told, ‘is to testify unto that which the
Lord hath revealed, and follow that which He hath ordained in His
mighty Book.” [Tablets, 155]. To translate this affirmation into action,
to make operative the Divine Word we need to understand the Word
and this brings us to an ancient problem: the problem of human fal-
libility in the act of decoding and understanding thoughts and con-
clusions reached in the text which is infallible. To cite a seventeenth
century Oxford academic and one of the earliest defenders of modern
empiricism: “Though everything said in the Text be infallibly true,
yet the reader may be, nay cannot choose but be very fallible in the
understanding of it.”25 The quality of transmission and reception is
determined by our rational faculty but it is the destiny if not doom
of the brightest and highest philosophers and prophets to be endlessly
reinterpreted no matter how correct or simple their doctrines and still
be blamed for the misuse made of their meaning by the reasoning of
their followers. Maybe it is because their supporters are ambitious
young men in a hurry eager to launch their own careers of scholarship
and will ever rarely be Platonic readers, that is, capable of detaching
themselves from all their desires and emotions and animated solely by
the desire for truth. (The political process, too unfortunately, works
as a powerful filter of ideas). Our human bias becomes accentuated in
the presence of the Holy Text because it itself is not neutral implicitly
assuming a particular conception of truth and demanding a particular
approach of investigation coupled with servitude.26 The holy dispensa-
tions, present and past, chart a plan outside the sphere of our personal
motives, interests and talents. This already shakes us punished as we
are by inchoate and unfulfilled human goals. The veil of ignorance is
heavy and constitutes a distinct, nonfoundational, option. We need
something else to fully comprehend a ‘divinely ordained and subtle
Reality, this sign of revelation of the All-Abiding, All-Glorious God…’
[Gleanings, 163] We must be conscious and accepting of the limita-
tion of our human capacity to know the pinnacle of understanding.
A confession of helplessness is required on our part, in itself the acme
of human understanding and the fruit of mature contemplation. The
emotive, loving and believing aspect of learning, that is, placing faith

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
in authority before, but not excluding, rational understanding pre-
cedes all other phases of learning and ensures that what is taught is
assimilated, guarded and cherished, akin to the ancient Greek concept,
nous, whereby we seek truth while attracted and guided by mysti-
cism, a capacity that is the basis of reason.27 The highest service of the
teacher is to acquaint the seeker with his or her true feelings which
are so easily put away in our need to manipulate our workaday world.
Before translating God’s love into social reality, or, to put it in another
way, for devotional verse to be written convincingly in discursive prose,
we must do as we want to feel rather than how we should feel.
“Only when the lamp of search, of earnest striving, of longing desire, of
passionate devotion, of fervid love, of rapture, and ecstasy, is kindled
within the seeker’s heart, and the breeze of His loving-kindness is
wafted upon his soul, will the darkness of error be dispelled, the mists
of doubts and misgivings be dissipated, and the lights of knowledge
and certitude envelop his being.” [Gleanings 268]. In this Dispensa-
tion we are blessed in that Providence has favored mankind in such a
way so as to assure us that if we reason rightly we shall also act rightly.
Such reassurance is based on an incontrovertible promise: “We who
have been enlightened by the new Revelation have the sacred Word to
assure us, a Divine Plan to guide us, a history of valor to encourage us.
Let us therefore take heart not only from the Word we treasure, but
also from the deeds of heroism and sacrifice which even today shine
resplendent…” [Ridván Message 153]
Our love affair with God cannot be an affair just of reasoning, but of
experience. Communicating divine truth to people who have scarcely
felt the grace of a devoted life is akin to attempting to explain the
nature and beauty of colors to a blind man. And more: how are we to
cope with the omnipresent lures of reason’s language, its transitory
and deceptive character already made difficult by the fact that the
process of belief-formation is itself subject to powerful sub-rational
undercurrents? But “...if we be loiterers, if we fail to play our part

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
surely others will be called upon to take up our task as ministers to
the crying needs of this afflicted world.”28

Intellectual Sturm und Drang
‘God’s greatest gift to man is that of intellect’ [Paris Talks 42], and the
‘rational faculty’ is a ‘sign’ of the ‘sovereign Lord’ (Gleanings 164). ‘To
promote knowledge is...an inescapable duty imposed on every one of
the friends of God.’ [Selections 97] ‘Quick-witted and keen of intellect
are the faithful’, is how ‘Abdu’l-Bahá depicts us. [Selections 315] What
knowledge does to us as individuals is the personal ideal of knowledge,
what it does to civilization that is the social ideal of knowledge, but in
either case, independently of scope and importance, knowledge brings
human meaning and sets us free ‘to promote the unity and tranquility
of mankind, to give enlightenment and civilization to the people, to
produce love in all…. and to bring about the universal peace.’ [Paris
Talks 43] But we cannot bend the world to our intelligence and risk
defying the injunctions of love. We are all aware of how the power
of intellect has been used both for the advancement of civilization
as much as its demise and such an awareness seems to congregate in
anxieties over the lives and works of scholars and leaders of thought.29
A leader of thought must be the moral conscience of his society, a role
occupied through the deployment of individual knowledge to the ben-
efit of society. This is the classic engagement which early thinkers of
the Enlightenment even encouraged and venerated.30
Our Bahá’í World may reflect some of the features of the culture and
socio-political organization of the day but the rich intellectual tradition
that it has inherited cannot be stiffened by excessive systematization.
Our Writings are of such a wide intellectual range, thematic grandeur
and breadth of vision that any tincture of wills and passions can easily
generate false dichotomies and systems for man always believes more
readily that which he prefers. “For the mind of man is far from the nature
of a clear and equal glass, wherein the beams of things should reflect

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
according to their true incidence; nay, it is rather like an enchanted
glass, full of superstition and imposture…”31 We are pushed to the art of
rhetoric for its sake alone and not conceiving it as it should be conceived,
namely, as ars disserandi or arts of discourse:”The duty and office of
rhetoric is to apply reason to imagination for the better moving of the
will.”32 In today’s world, our minds are practically formed by rule and
line. Complexity everywhere is presented in statistics, metric modeling
and the tabular form. Imagination, which sees eternity in men and
women, seems out of place from the curious mind submissive to the
norm of rationality which only sees men and women as data and dots,
having learned of their existence only as abstract statistics.
Any decorative literary language is anathema, subversive, the enemy of
political economy and science.33
But scientific writing can never be at the exclusion of the emotional
and spiritual colouring of the events otherwise our emotionless
approach makes our space airless. As observers we survey, scrutinize
but also relive it. The best histories are those that are works of imagi-
native insight in art as well as of science. We may be fascinated by the
subtleties of society’s progress and the flexibility with which these
adjust to strategy but we should not be overwhelmed by such discover-
ies as we tend to magnify the experience out of its real proportion and
to the exclusion of everything else. We must view any social scene not
just with human data but with the detachment of one who stands au
delà de la mêlée - to venture into the arena but remain aloof from its
internal bickering, provide inquiry with understanding and a unique
search for facts and trends, the trees and the wood as it were.
Our ancestors, in revival’s climate and charged emotional atmosphere
of Persia and its mass enthusiasms were seen to behave as revolution-
aries.34 Today, however, the hallowed ground of building read-
ied by heroic and spontaneous sacrifice depends now on order
and stewardship to succeed. Our conduct must be seen to be as
that of reformer. We cannot be imbued sufficiently with raison

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
d’être when we overly emphasize the ethos of raison d’état. Our new
Bahá’í culture carries its own self-justification and, yet, the accumu-
lated habits and traditions of decades, formed and consolidated in the
course of over a century and a half, persist and continue to color the
thought even of the fairest student of the process. Our mind oscillates
to discover the faultless balance between the factors making for the
continuity and the discontinuity of methods.35
Mathematization of the world and its empirical attributes can never
be a substitute for love. Appealing to simple arithmetic to solve our
problems erases the complex mysteries of human motivation. Our
desires and preferences are not exogenous, simply given, but shaped
by social arrangements and varying deprived circumstances. Without
love, complexity is deformed and life becomes its own tomb, not just
as a burial ground for all that we hold precious, but in perpetuating a
perverse lifelessness. So soon as the power of love dies, ‘man becomes
the living sepulcher of himself, and what yet survives is the mere husk
of what once he was.’ [Shelley, Essay on Love]. Without love, we lose
the capacity to worship. Adoration’s space is assailed by the conse-
quences of a loveless world – suffering, injustice and oppression, not
unchangeable but socially contingent upon kindness and benevolence.
Without love there is no imagination, that sacrament which opens
life to the sweetest spells, providing graced occasions of encounter
between humanity and God. What endures imagination provides, the
discovery of a life sufficiently heroic, both wordly (‘weltlich’) and of
the spirit (‘geistlich’). “We shall understand our present, and perhaps
even our future, the better if we can succeed, by an effort of historical
imagination, in reconstructing that long-lost state of mind for which….
love…was a natural mode of expression.”36 Excessive definition in reli-
gion destroys the imaginative wonder of belief, that fierce pleasure in
things being themselves and which sets us free. Love does not share
life’s suspicion of deathliness. The state of loving is not the same as
the state of living. What we call life may scarcely be worth the living;
what we call love is always fulfilling. While the former includes having
one’s limb full of movement and seeing the light of the sun, love helps

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
us while even being in the dark and motionless. The lovelorn (‘áshiq’)
sitting still is preferable to the agitated shrill of the sagacious (‘áqil’).
(A timid attempt by the author to translate provisionally a line from
one of Bahá’u’lláh’s prayer in Persian ‘áshiq-eh neshasteh beh as áqil-
eh moteharek’). It is this multitudinous character of love which means
that encapsulating figures for it is extraordinarily hard to do. Life,
contrary to love, needs a theoretical framework to assimilate experi-
ence and phenomena, some reasoned system; love in itself is conclusive.
Life is being, love is becoming. Love is the organizing principle of all
human striving and gives all movements shape and direction. Life
without love transforms itself into chaos, but with selfless love it is cos-
mos, a world that is ordered and intelligible and wholly suffused with
the real presence of the eternal and the divine, what Weber calls an
‘enchanted garden’. The gifts of life are motivated by exchange, acting
horizontally, while real gifts are acts of love, man’s vertical gratitude
toward God. Life pulls us downward, love cannot resist the gravita-
tional upward pull to salvation. Life is full of crosses preventing the
homecoming, love is the comforting cross we share to look forward
to a homecoming. We try in nihilistic despair to redivinize the world
through the extended wings of science, art and politics. Love is the
more plausible theology for such a project to succeed possessing a resil-
ience which makes it immune to external argument.
Without the free play of the soul, mental creativity and license, things
become ‘grotesque, eccentric, fail of their full returns’, as Whitman
said.37 If there be an anthem to resonate in the ‘vale of soul-making’,
that internalization of a personal authority and a dictum to guide us
through and beyond it, then surely it must carry something special
to make the word God and everything associated with it meaningful,
motivating and life giving. Just as we are born into authority and com-
munity, we are also born into myth and may, if blessed, become a part
of it. In our societies, we are surrounded by the worried well who are
guided solely by relentless ambition, aching envy and despairing disap-
pointment. Words like soul and love are nothing to us if they do not
represent a resigned and conscious acquiescence. We are all tethered to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
the deformities of our individual points of view but by desiring what
is perfectly good even though we don’t quite know what it is and are
unable to do what we would, we are part of the Divine power against
evil, ‘widening the skirts of light and making the struggle with darkness
narrower’ – timeless words from English novelist George Eliot set in a
fictitious Midlands town in 1872. To succeed in this crusade we need
a cosmic backdrop, a religious worldview, a grand narrative of meaning
to give our life meaning as well. Alongside our ‘administrative machin-
ery’ [Directives 2], we are also always in need of a freedom to experience
the full impact of life and unfold our full potential in harmony with the
Unknowable Essence and in submission to the reality of the universe
as it is. In this Dispensation, sacred myths are freed to be donned as
necessary in our collective and individual spiritual development and to
nourish our awe as to the inner silent landscapes of the heart as well as
to the outer vistas that roar on the other side of silence.
Myth has been variously referred to as ‘public dreams’38, ‘the collec-
tive unconscious’39, ‘translucence of the Eternal through and in the
Temporal’40 and which has a profound deathless influence on our
lives, us who live out its symbols and clothe them in meaning through
our experiences. Is there any other way to explain the crusade which
galvanized our Heroic Age and the miraculous, unprecedented story
events which surrounded our dawn-breakers so explosively charged
with archetypal and generic significance that their enduring conse-
quences and abiding influence show us to this day how the new will
to rid the life we planned so as to have the life that is waiting for us
is alive and may be retold and authored anew? These myths do not
belong just to us but to be shared so that society as a whole may survive
and conserved in subsequent cultures. Not projections of infantile or
regressive fantasies, nor cemeteries of moribund metaphors and lost
connections, much less the hinterland of allusion, myths are a timeless
spring for action. Not limited just to the novelistic or dramaturgical
disclosure of secret episodes located in the past, myth is the internal-
ized blueprint, the skeletal or structural armature around which our
community is molded. The charge of the indomitable Mullá Husayn

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
at Shaykh Tabarsí is not a piece of archaic, primitive, outrageous dis-
ease of glorified dissimulated language but an essential part of the
inherited code of our culture showing how the literary redeployment
and reassertion of a mythical figure in the past may yet endow us
with the supernatural powers we have lost and use such inspiration,
in our current period of unprecedented torrential change, to slip the
surly bonds of earth on wings of our own manufacture and match
the valiant acts of our epic hero in his quest-journey for unrevealed
knowledge. While the world exists, so does the great past. It is not what
Mullá Husayn accomplished as a martyr which makes him great but
because of faith and courage manifested in such a deed. It is an ancient
myth the importance of knowing names because it becomes possible
to partake of the power and the qualities of such names.
By being called the ‘spiritual descendents of the dawn-breakers’ [Advent
7], we consciously or subconsciously partake of their power and drama.
As such, myth is not a ‘mistress of fancy’ but, a summoner of power-
ful emotions, at once discomforting as intriguing.41 True myth has
the power to revive us, to serve as an anamnesis (ἀνάμνησις), that is, to
return to right reason.42 We cannot succeed if we half believe myth best
able to attend to trembling hearts rather than to aspiring bones.
Storytelling and literary imagining are not opposed to rational argu-
ment but can provide essential ingredients which are missing in public
discourse. I emphasize the term ingredient because the empathetic
imaginative power of making should never substitute rule-governed
moral reasoning. We need institutions to protect the insights of com-
passionate imagination and which can free us to discuss compassion
and mercy, the role of love and emotions in public discourse, what is
involved in imagining the situation of someone different from oneself
alone and to expand our conception of ourselves so as not to lose the
relationship between the literary imagination and utilitarian reason-
ing with its indispensable technical investigations.43 The philosophy
of wonder standing on its own is not only inadequate, but can lead
into senseless mysticism; imagination alone does not reach us to divine

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
reality but sends us into the depths of paganism. We must, however,
retain (rediscover) faith in imagination to continue to shape us, keep us,
create us – for good or ill. Service and the free play of the imagination
are the one and same thing. To quote British author Doris Lessing in
her acceptance speech of the 2007 Nobel Prize for Literature: “It is our
stories that will recreate us, when we are torn, hurt, even destroyed. It
is… the myth-maker, that is our phoenix, that represents us at our best,
and at our most creative.”44 As builders gazing at a new world order,
we have the obligation to construct a humanistic and multivalued
conception of public rationality and public reasoning in general and
not be allowed to be overwhelmed of standard economic and scientific
paradigms to define our spiritual destiny which seem so reductive and
lacking in human complexity. Life is painting a picture not doing a
sum and we sit down before the picture in order to have something
done to us, not that we may do things to it.
The conviction of this truth is not to punish with a foreign code to
conscience but to emancipate the holders of conscience. It must not be
defiled by politeia (πολιτεία) and its in-built tendency to accept custom
and to encourage uninspired contentment with things as they are.45
The sons of Zion should not battle with the sons of Olympus.46 When
we embrace religion we are not immune to tormenting it with unan-
nounced slumps of agitation and compromise. This is the exhausted
past with no element of life within it. An exodus of despair sets in
when the basis of union is no longer myth, that story which starts with
an empty cosmos, but externalities, positive or negative, which sound-
lessly operate on our substance as instruments of pragmatism disallow-
ing a freedom of ‘everything that is’. 47 This causes religion to become
lightweight, alienable, and too uncertainly alive. To prevent this from
happening, the structure of the interaction between the text and its
imagined readers should be such so as to invite the seeker to see how the
mutable features of society and circumstance bear on the realization of
shared hopes and desires. The appreciation of myth and assessing what
we read becomes ethically viable only in the sense that constructed
in this way the act of deepening our understanding of the tenets of a

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
new Dispensation demands both critical immersion and conducting
‘meaningful and distinctive conversations’48, comparing what one has
read both with one’s own unfolding experience and with the response
and arguments of other readers. Reading in this way, combining one’s
own absorbed imagining with periods of more detached (and interac-
tive) critical scrutiny, and not particularized vision, we begin to see
why we might find in it an activity well-suited to public discourse. 49
The mental world of wonder, mystery, and humor should always gov-
ern us and permeate our beings – an antidote to prevailing material-
ism and misguided idealism and the bed of sanity in a mad world. The
difficulty is to imagine in all its bareness this mental world that existed
before our coming to wipe out all that makes for unhealthy food for
both modern sentimentality and modern cynicism.

Conclusion
We cannot comprehend religion in advance of its living and skepticism,
an omnipresent dangerous modernist idea, erodes our attempts at liv-
ing. We, quite simply, vanish. Modernism and its process of secular-
ization – testing religion for its reasonableness - beginning with the
Renaissance and continuing through the Industrial Revolution, is
problematic. While we may use rational resources and utilitarian phi-
losophy to defend our vision of what civilization might be and society
ought to be, joy and gaiety of spirit in experiencing our finite beings
progressing towards an ever more complete embrace of the world eter-
nal and re-enchantment, is lost, a blight for which we were not born
for.50 Joy in and of itself is a boon with “[g]aiety transfiguring all that
dread.” [Yeats, Lapis Lazuli]. Augmenting the importance of the sci-
entific method to recover our sense of belonging actually encourages a
sense of homelessness. The tradition of belief becomes estranged and
replaced by an awkward process of initiation into a new culture. Alien-
ation grows, not to be seen as a token of intellectual’s serene majesty
but its own self-annihilation because while it touches us, religion can-
not be touched. Its relation with itself is central to our understanding

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
of it. Religion only flourishes on that which we are and feel and this
makes its terms, in essence, difficult to define. Only religion reveals the
fundamental issues of human existence, the deep significance of life,
the universe of human experience. This makes religion everything. To
think in more precise or scientific terms, to shape out new philosophies
or to perfect the old by experiment is fraught with danger.51 The dan-
ger in mutation is that we lose all apprehension, perceptory or intellec-
tual, and this makes for religion’s appeal to end.52 Religion becomes a
haven for casual niceties and oddities, enacting satisfying little dramas,
supplying transcripts for momentary bliss and flashes of insight, now
reduced ignobly and falsely to liturgical nurgatory, however beguiling.
But the solution is not abandoning religion – ‘…by no political alchemy
is it possible to make a golden society out of leaden individuals.’ [Ess-
lemont 43] - nor is it to be found in the debate of spirit versus form, or
in the strength of the immaterial as opposed to radicalized material-
ist philosophy, or testing scientific thinking with poetic practice, but
in how to perpetuate religion’s vitality both as life-giver behind the
dynamic production of life from moment to moment as well as pro-
tector and shield from ‘the gay livery of the world’ [Gleanings XCVI].
The purpose of religion is not just to narrate but aesthetically to enact
the world. This does not mean that we should disengage from science
altogether. On the contrary, the same conception of God that holds the
key to a correct understanding of human happiness is essential to the
advancement of science. The knowledge that science strives to secure is
the essence of the happiness we seek. We are instigated to “[s]tudy the
sciences, acquire more and more knowledge.” [Paris Talks, 11] as ‘[t]he
man of science is perceiving and endowed with vision… attentive, alive.’
[Promulgation, 50] A right theology is crucial to both pursuits. There
can be no sharp distinction between the two overarching knowledge
systems. Our power and activity increase with our understanding of
the world and both science and religion, surely, constitute the highway
to happiness, if not happiness itself, the joyful movement from a lower
level of reality to a higher one, an inherently spiritual and ethical enter-
prise. This articulates both science and religion as a more nuanced
version of each other, both mutually disclosing, ‘indissolubly welded

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
and joined in reality’ [Promulgation 175]. While every natural science
has its nomothetic side, it also has another half of a very different kind.
Scientific knowledge has not lessened the need for mythical frame-
works in life, nor has it robbed us of a cosmology that inspires awe and
reverence. This is not to evade definition but to show how perception
should be and where the basis for true understanding really lies, as
captured in the cryptic phrase, ‘the school of God’.53 There is no gap
between God and the world. This paradoxical notion of simultaneous
separateness and unity, myth and method, science and religion, is true
and real, best captured by the words of St. Paul ‘Utraque unum’ (‘Both
and One’) - that which differentiates us also affirms our oneness — our
materiality is our spirituality.
The divinity of the world is its intelligibility. Our understanding of
the world will not stop at any particular point, but must go on increas-
ing forever, which is the equivalent to saying the world is intelligible,
not merely in certain ways, or within certain limits, but infinitely so,
however little of it we understand at any given moment. Modern sci-
ence also refuses to acknowledge that there are any limits to our under-
standing of the world. It demands that every explanation be probed
and tested until a better one is found that explains its predecessor’s
limits and by doing so transcends them, a process without end.
Utopia is synonymous with a mental state of desperation, always
recovering for lost time, and a feverish pursuit of routes. This
easily makes us intolerant of each other because the high flights and
hopes of some are confronted by deep depressions of disillusionment of
others and this obstructs understanding. Reality is the contrary – it
does not antagonize with exact obedience but unifies around ago-
nizing choices of how to proceed and interpret correctly guidance
from a central authority. To worship a single agenda really makes
us unproductive because the mind that does not change cannot
make change. It also makes us inconsistent with the principle of
unity in diversity which evokes everyone’s admiration because
it facilitates us to build communities and not overthrow them.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
“The heaven of true understanding shineth resplendent with the light of
two luminaries: tolerance and righteousness.”[Tablets 170]
Far from declaring a greater renaissance – ‘the revolt of the soul against
the intellect’ (to borrow from Yeats) - our observations here should not
be seen as mocking the task of adducing proofs, but to be interpreted
to mean that there is no perspective to life outside of religion and its
promised fruit, nascent spirituality. Any understanding of reality prof-
fered by physics, at once certain and unfathomable, can only be provi-
sional and subjected to circumscribed, experimental, objective scrutiny
central to scientific investigation.54 Religion assists science to conquer
the material investigation of the world and bring it into subjection to
the spirit and not subjugation. Religion can never be relegated to the
inferior position to become the enemy when science exploits it by the
tyranny of exactitude and imposes subservience to the smothering
demands of linearity, cause and effect. Ironically, the cognitive deficit
we suffer by losing religion and forfeiting wonder is also abhorrent to
science, almost by definition.55 Religion is a comprehensive body of
doctrine, science has yet to unite its miscellaneous systems but this does
not turn these two stainless mirrors of forms and images of existing
things into deadly rivals. Religion is not a purveyor of ancient proph-
ecy nor is science the sole commentator of current events. The genuine
social importance of each means that none can outlive the other and the
limitless intelligibility of the universe shall forever depend on the net
of laws of both science and religion to capture its unique formulation:
the whole of the world at any given moment is the cause of the world at
the next. 56 Mystery is to be respected, scientism (and not science) to be
rejected, and the importance of play and wonder heightened.
Myth and method are uncuttable, guiding us to touch religion without
touching, a fluent medium (method) binding us to an elusive object
(myth). These ultimate congruent species of value – the one aesthetic
and the other instrumental – must be shown to be apparent in all
fields of service. We live in the tensions of the divine and the human,
the temporal and the eternal, in a permanent state of in-between or

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
metaxy.57 We must learn to walk in such pairs to experience the reli-
gious objective not as object whose vanishing is the price of their vis-
ibility but as an invisible present and motivating force in our lives. We
rejoice precisely because the unresolved ambivalence between myth’s
subject and method’s object sustains wonder. But we must also live
in a reality that harmonizes the human quality of adventurousness
and expansion with humility, resignation and yes, even loss of liberty:
a higher trust threatening free will, a central authority to discipline
spontaneous emotion, an order regulating modern freedom. This
anomalous and suspicious pair will assuredly assist us to regain higher
ground, stanch our tears, halt our fall into indeterminacy or negation
and recover us from the entanglement that began from the moment of
its disavowal.58

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
BIBLIOGRAPHY
`Abdu’l-Bahá.

Paris Talks. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1972.

Memorials to the Faithful. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.

Tablets of the Divine Plan. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1993.

Promulgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.

Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
Aldred, Jonathan. Licence to Be Bad: How Economics Corrupted Us. London: Allen
Lane, 2019.
Bahá’í International Community. “Religious Values and the Measurement of Pov-
erty and Prosperity” Statement issued in Johannesburg, 12th January, 1999.
Bahá’u’lláh.
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed After the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1988.

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1990.

The Call of the Divine Beloved: Selected Mystical Works of Bahá’u’lláh.Haifa :
Bahá’í World Centre, 2019.
Balyuzi, Hassan M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Oxford: George Ronald, 1971.
Campbell, Joseph. The Power of Myth. Saint Louis: Turtleback Books, 1991.
Carr, E.H. The Twenty Years’ Crisis, 1919-1939. London: Macmillan & Co, 1939.
Cheng, Helen & Nash, Catherine. Emblems of Faithfulness: “Pluralism in Meaning
and Beauty in the Ordinary”, Journal of Bahá’í Studies 25.3, 2015.
Collins, William P. “Sacred Mythology and the Bahá’í Faith”, Journal of Bahá’í
Studies Vol:2, N°4, 1990.
da Fonseca, Eduardo Giannetti. Beliefs in Action: Economic Philosophy and Social
Change. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1991.
Engell, James. Imagination, The Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry & Poetics, 4th
edition. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2012.
Gail, Marzieh. Summon Up Remembrance. Oxford: George Ronald, 2013.
Holy Bible, King James Version http://thekingsbible.com/
Javaheri, Firaydoun. “Constructive Resilience”, Journal of Bahá’í Studies, Vol:28,
N°4 Winter 2018.

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
Jung, Carl G. & Kerényi, Karl. Essays on a Science of Mythology: The Myth of the
Divine Child and the Mysteries of Eleusis. Princeton: Princeton University
Press, 1969.
Kant, Immanuel. Religion within the Limits of Bare Reason. https://www.earlymod-
erntexts.com/assets/pdfs/kant1793.pdf.
Khan, Peter. http://bahai-library.com/khan_political_noninvolvement_obedience.
Kidder, Paulette. “The Eclipse of Transcendence in Dickens’ Hard Times”, https:/
sites01.lsu.edu/faculty/voegelin/wp-content/uploads/sites/80/2015/09/Kid-
der2004.pdf
Koswan, Marlene. “Memorials of the Faithful: The Virtues of Inner and Outer
Transformation”. Lights of Irfan 17, 2016
Kronman, Anthony T. Confessions of a Born-Again Pagan. New Haven: Yale
University Press, 2016.
Lample, Paul.

Revelation & Social Reality: Learning to Translate What is Written into Reality.
Florida: Palabra, 2009.

“Learning and the Evolution of the Bahá’í Community”, Journal of Bahá’í
Studies, 32nd Annual Conference of the Association for Bahá’í Studies 2008.
Lewis, C.S.

English Literature in the Sixteenth Century. Oxford: Oxford University Press,
1954.

The Allegory of Love: A Study in Medieval Tradition. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press, 1958.
Momen, Moojan. “Memorials of the Faithful: The Democratization of Sainthood”,
Lights of Irfan 17, 2016
Nussbaum, Martha C. Poetic Justice: The Literary Imagination and Public Life.
Boston: Beacon Press, 1995
Peterson, Jordan B. 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos. Toronto: Random
House, 2018.
Pires, Maria Laura Bettencourt. Public Intellectuals – past, present and future.
Comunicação & Cultura, n.º 7, 2009.
Rabbani, Ruhiyyih. The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969.
Ruben, Ruerd. Can Religion Contribute to Development? The Road from ‘Truth to
Trust’. https://brill.com/abstract/journals/exch/40/3/article-p225_2.xml.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Samet, Jerry. “The Historical Controversies Surrounding Innateness,” The
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2019 Edition. https://plato.
stanford.edu/entries/innateness-history/.
Shelley, Percy B. On Love. http://terpconnect.umd.edu/~djb/shelley/1880onlove.
html.
Shoghi Effendi.

Translation The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of the Early Days of the
Bahá’í Revelation. Wilmette: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932 edition.

The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh 2nd Ed. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1992.

Unfolding Destiny: The Messages from the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the
Bahá’í Community of the British Isles, London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.

Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990.

Directives from the Guardian. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1973.
Singer, Irving. The Nature of Love. Volumes I-III. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 2009.
Ueshiba, Morihei. The Art of Peace. London: Shambhala, 1992.
Universal House of Justice. Letter to the Bahá’ís of the World. Ridvan 153, 1996
Voltaire, L’homme de letters, http://oeuvresouvertes.net/spip.php?
Workman, Herbert B. The Evolution of the Monastic Ideal. London: Charles H.
Kelly, 1918.
Yeats, William Butler. Lapis Lazuli. The Collected Poems of W. B. Yeats. Collier
Books, 1989.

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
NOTES
Gospel of Matthew 16:24 [KJV]
From the poem Sunday Morning, by Wallace Stevens, in his book of poetry
Harmonium published in 1923.
Refer to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk in Paris, October 24th, 1911.
No other word in our vocabulary has created so many striking and globally
itinerant conventions, etched so many compelling plotlines, provided such
limitless imaginative space in which to articulate and contemplate the myriad
forms of human emotions of affection, passion, and idealism as love. A sick-
ness unto death or an exhilarating rebirth of the soul, such is its pre-eminence
in human thought and feeling across historical, geographic, and linguistic
contexts that there is no limit to love’s many possible meanings in our own
lives and those of others. With so many strains in its meaning and construction
across so many traditions it is not surprising to find valiant efforts to write the
definitive narrative. Refer, for example, to Irving Singer’s monumental three
volume series published between 1984 and 1987, entitled ‘The Nature of Love’,
1,300 pages exploring the vast expressions and theories of love from ancient
times to the present. He especially saw love as a ‘saving remnant, a viable and
realistic conception of what is humanly possible’. It is wise to dismiss the
confusing, diversely assorted modern notions of love as these without excep-
tion lean towards ambiguity and disagreement. It is in the Bible and Greek
philosophy, however, where we see stem the dominant themes of love, one
divine and the rest, shades of the residual. For example, what we call (a) affec-
tion, is both storgē (στοργή) and a giving, loyal, reciprocal love of others, kin or
friend or philia (φιλία); (b) there is a side to love which is passion or attraction,
éros (ἔρως), the possessive, all-consuming love of beauty, and (c) the love of
compassion, agapē (ἀγάπη), the transcendental, all-embracing, selfless
love, the closest to unconditional love. The limitations of these residual
loves is that all - familiar, conjugal, or brotherly love (a-c), are natural
loves, and, therefore, volatile and not self-sufficient. They bestow great
importance to an object to ensure a good life but they are not the high-
est object. They also need external assistance for expression, reduced to
human bondage and prone to self-preservation or self-aggrandizement
or both. Universal love, God’s infinite love, is unnatural in this sense.
God is not just the highest object, making for human plenitude and the
more complete life, but is (a) absent of intention i.e. ‘unselfish’ and (b)
not limited to material ties. “… perfect love… can only be achieved by
the power of the Divine Spirit. No worldly power can accomplish the
universal love.” [Paris Talks, 11]

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
‘Effulgent’ is used here to communicate the love that flows from God to man,
and ‘enkindling’ to refer to the love that flows from man to God, adapted from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s four way typology of love. Refer to Paris Talks, UK Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1972, page 180.
Conversion here has none of its modern evangelical significance but connotes
simultaneously the uncontaminated ideal of renunciation to the world as it
does reception into a world renewed.
Self has been created for one purpose only - to be abdicated and self-sacrifice
is synonymous with human development, meaningfulness and security. Psy-
chologists tell us that “...sacrifice... serves far more effectively than short-term
impulsive pleasure at keeping suffering at bay.”  Jordan B. Peterson, clinical
psychologist, in his book, 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos’, Random
House, Canada, 2018, p. 174. But how does one answer the question that sacri-
fices of the highest quality are not rewarded? Isn’t God happy? It makes empty
and futile the debate of how good might the best possible future be if the high-
est sacrifice could be made effective. What is the greatest possible sacrifice for
the greatest possible good? The lamentation from Calvary continues to echo
through the ages: “...Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my God,
why hast thou forsaken me? [Gospel of Matthew 27:46 KJV] God requires
not just sacrifice but the sacrifice of precisely what is loved best because God
conferred upon man the ‘gift of guidance, and in thankfulness for this great
gift certain deeds must emanate from him’ [Promulgation, 236]. We must
make universal love the ground of morality. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá many times reminds
us that when we sacrifice self we break away from imperfection and this opens
the way to ideal union and happy relationships.
The apostle Paul forewarned against the working of the law in conscience or
rational agents alone:“Which shew the work of the law written in their hearts,
their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the mean while
accusing or else excusing one another;” Romans 2:15 (KJV). The scholar
John Rawls, on the other hand, contends the view that moral truth cannot be
metaphysical. It could only be political. Our need for objectivity is practical,
that is, it arises in contexts in which people disagree about what to value and
need to reach an agreement about what to do. This, of course, gives rise to a
host of problems and strongly implies the need for general terms or universals
to act as a referee. To reason about and among individuals depends not only on
abstractive (as distinct from intuitive) cognition, the deferential apprehension
of an antecedent and independent order of some kind, (are our thoughts really
faithful representations of the extramental world they depict?) but on the
priority of will over reason. Kant’s heroic attempt to establish the authority of
human reason by transcendental means still relies on the inventive power in

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion

the human soul whose very spontaneity makes it as mysterious and hence as
unintelligible as God’s creation of the world.
For an inspiring incursion into this unique piece of Bahá’í literature, refer
to the very original article ‘Emblems of Faithfulness: Pluralism in Meaning
and Beauty in the Ordinary’, by Helen Cheng and Catherine Nash published
in the Journal of Bahá’í Studies 25.3, 2015. Moojan Momen provides an
additional descent into the highly innovative aspect of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s book
in a paper entitled Memorials of the Faithful: The Democratization of Saint-
hood, published in Lights of Irfan 17, 2016. In the same publication we find
Memorials of the Faithful: The Virtues of Inner and Outer Transformation,
by Marlene Koswan, who shows how the protagonists of the book exemplified
character, manners and conduct. The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative of
the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation, USBPT, 1932 edition, one of Shoghi
Effendi’s earliest translations ‘which deserves to be counted as a classic among
epic narratives in the English tongue’ [Rabbani, Pearl] surely stands alone as a
historical masterpiece which chronicles in over 600 pages a ‘rehearsing [of] the
beginnings of the Baha’i Revelation and of preserving the remembrance of the
deeds of its early champions.’ The Chronicle of Nabil, the original manuscript
of the author Muhammad-i-Zarandi (1831–1892), titled Nabil-i-Azam, stands
unique in historiography in that the door of contemporary information on
the early adherents of the Babi and Bahá’í Faiths having been forever closed
making the careful collection of witness accounts of the heroic disciples up
to and until 1892 priceless. We are informed by the Guardian that “...parts of
the manuscript were reviewed and approved, some by Bahá’u’lláh, others by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá”, hence its invaluable authenticity.
‘It is much safer to obey than to govern’, said wisely once by a German
theologian of the late Medieval period, Thomas à Kempis, and probable author
of Imitatio Christi (Imitation of Christ), a devotional book that, with the
exception of the Bible, has been considered the most influential work in Chris-
tian literature. Cited in Herbert B. Workman, The Evolution of the Monastic
Ideal, London, 1912, p.69. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses obedience as a measuring-rod
with which to measure the love of His followers, quoted in The Diary of Juliet
Thompson, first written or published in 1947.
St. Augustine, quoted in Love and Saint Augustine by Hannah Arendt,
reprint University of Chicago, Chicago, 1996, page 99.
A modern account of the constancy of the Bahá’ís in Iran and their unquench-
able unconquerable spirit of resilience can be found in the edited transcript
of Dr. Firaydoun Javaheri’s address at the 42nd Annual Conference of the
Association for Bahá’í Studies “Constructive Resilience”, published in JBS,
Vol:28 N°4 Winter 2018.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, the 12th Century French abbot and a major leader
in the reform of Benedictine monasticism, quoted in Herbert B. Workman,
The Evolution of the Monastic Ideal, London, 1912, p.345
The “framework for action” is a term that has been applied repeatedly during
the past two decades (1996–2018) of plans conceived and implemented by
the Universal House of Justice and refers to our effort to be conscious of the
concepts, methods, practices, and instruments required to undertake an
organic process capable of responding to an organic objective. But we can only
understand the components of the framework of action if, by an effort of the
historical imagination, we succeed in reconstructing that long-lost state of
mind for which love, unity, and fellowship become a natural mode of expres-
sion. “O ye friends! Fellowship, fellowship! Love, love! Unity, unity!—so that
the power of the Bahá’í Cause may appear and become manifest in the world
of existence.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan, p.54
The response to this refrain is ‘Habemos ad dominum’
[We have to the Lord’]
Latinate or Greek terminology is used deliberately to direct the reader away
from the conventional connotations of equivalent English words contami-
nated by modern discourse.
We are not suggesting here a political or ethical interpretation to the philoso-
phy of love by inferring for example, that nonviolence is a plausible method
for transforming conflict and building societies of peace. After all, at the core
of nonviolence is the recognition that we all have a shared human identity and
that life is valuable in and of itself. Although nonviolent approaches are several,
they can never be espoused as an alternative course of action for two crucial
aspects, both contrary to the Bahá’í principle of non-interference in political
affairs: (a) their ability to defy authority to reverse the effect of repression, and
(b) their ability to undermine and sever the source of support and power of
the opponent. Both of these characteristics - defiance and overt power struggle
– are shunned in the Bahá’í Faith. The principle of political non-involvement
categorically means ‘to sacrifice...political pursuits and affiliations’. Equally
relevant is the idea that we cannot change faulty systems by being involved
in them; ‘on the contrary they will destroy us.’ http://bahai-library.com/
khan_political_noninvolvement_obedience. This does not mean that Bahá’ís
refrain from engaging in practical activities for social wellbeing. But the ques-
tion inevitably arises: is not shaping social reality in itself a political act? In our
social relations evidently there is a positive expression of power on the level of
the individual but actions only survive on collective volition, not on warring
factions, on patterns of collaboration and not patterns of conflict, on engaging
governmental and wwpromises. Humanity as a whole will forge the

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion

basis of a new world order. The ‘modern politics’, a term used by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
is founded on peace with Bahá’ís reaching out to create unity and love and not
revolting overboard with competing ideas of change and social transformation.
Book of Romans 13:8 [KJV]  “...for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law.”
There exists an intersection here of ‘caritas’ understood to mean neighbourly
love and Augustine’s quaestio “What is the relevance of the neighbour?” when
we are in God’s presence isolated from all things mundane.
Poverty is not itself the criterion nor is oppression for this would leave the rich
and the oppressor without a criterion for moral self-reflection and repentance.
See the Statement from the Bahá’í International Community entitled
‘Religious Values and the Measurement of Poverty and Prosperity’ presented
in Johannesburg, South Africa, 12th January, 1999. Also refer to the article
by Professor Ruerd Ruben calling for a greater and more mature relationship
between religion studies and development studies, in “Can Religion Contrib-
ute to Development? The Road from ‘Truth to ‘Trust.” https://brill.com/
abstract/journals/exch/40/3/article-p225_2.xml
Quoted in the The Art of Peace by Morihei Ueshiba. The irony is that
economics in its origins used to be considered a moral science and not a
natural science i.e. ‘it employs introspection and judgments of value’ [John
Maynard Keynes]. Harmony of interests is considered a solid rational basis for
morality. However, as history has shown, once industrial capitalism and the
class system had become recognized structures of society, the doctrine of the
harmony of interests acquired a distorted significance whereby a dominant
group asserts its predominance by claiming the identity of its interests equal
to those of the community as a whole. Today’s theories seek to explain the
behavior of economic agents through self-interested, rational, and egoistic
motives divorced from ethical considerations and moral reasoning. In the
omnipresent confrontation of markets, moral values seem to deteriorate at the
point of disappearing altogether. But this seems counter-intuitive. Is it not
the laissez-faire school of political economy that popularized the very notion
of the harmony of interests, whereby the individual promotes the interests of
the community for the very reason that those interests were identical with his
own? We can question the sincerity of Mr. Henry Ford when he wrote in 1930
‘that anything which is economically right is also morally right. There can be
no conflict between good economics and good morals’ quoted in E.H. Carr’s
The Twenty Years’ Crisis, 1919-1939, pages 43-44, but he voiced a prevailing
current of accepted thought at the time which stated that men do the greatest
service to the public when they are thinking of nothing but their own gain.
Modern economics, however, cannot dismiss ethics in favor of a narrow focus
on self-interest. All human actions do not have a calculus of maximizing. We

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One

give blood out of a sense of civic duty and in many other social situations, the
idea of compensation even feels as bribery. Refer to Licence to Be Bad: How
Economics Corrupted Us, by Jonathan Aldred, Allen Lane, 2019.
Such scepticism attacks all fields and a good rebuttal is forcibly provided by
E.H. Carr with regard to political science, for example, in his landmark opus,
The Twenty Years’ Crisis, 1919-1939, page 9: “For while the transmutation of
lead into gold would be no nearer if everyone in the world passionately desired
it, it is undeniable that if everyone really desired a ‘world-state’ or ‘collective
security’...it would be easily attained; and the student of international politics
may be forgiven if he begins by supposing that his task is to make everyone
desire it.”
For the sake of clarity the term realism and reality are not the same. Realism is
a thesis, a school of educational thought; reality refers to a state or quality of
being. The doctrine of realism, metaphysical or scientific, aims at the inquiry
of observable and non-observable realities of the world’s constituents.
John Locke (1632-1704), quoted in Beliefs in Action: Economic Philosophy
and Social Change, by Eduardo Giannetti da Fonseca, CUP, Cambridge, 1991,
page 192.
Paul Lample, in his thought provoking book, Revelation & Social Reality:
Learning to Translate What is Written into Reality, Palabra, Florida, 2009
provides an excellent and detailed analysis of the dichotomy - rational cer-
tainty vis-à-vis spiritual certitude - in the Section entitled ‘Human Rationality
and the Bahá’í Teachings’, pages 174-186.
An achievable state of mind best exemplified by the preeminent Bahá’í scholar
Mirza Abu’l-Fada’il (1844–1914), who has been heard to comment “that when
he first read the Iqan [the Book of Certitude], as a non-believer, its deep mean-
ing remained obscure to him, but when he read it afterward as a believer it was
the key that unlocked all the holy Scriptures of the past.” Cited in Summon
Up Remembrance, by Marzieh Gail, page 113.
Shoghi Effendi, letter dated, September 24th, 1924, quoted in ‘Unfolding
Destiny: The Messages from the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’í
Community of the British Isles’, BPT, 1981, p.27
I hesitate to use the term ‘public intellectual’, this ‘vestigial organ of
modernity’, in the Bahá’í context because it assumes a political and ideological
dimension. The ordinary public vacillates between seeing the intellectual as
“unusually sensitive to the sacred [with] an uncommon reflectiveness about the
nature of the universe and the rules which govern their society” (Edward Shills

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion

(Intellectuals and the Powers, 1974, p. 3), or “the industrial technician, the
political economist, the organizer of a new culture and a new law” (Antonio
Gramsci), both are quoted in the article by Maria Laura Bettencourt Pires,
‘Public intellectuals – past, present and future’, published in Comunicação &
Cultura, n.º 7, 2009.
Voltaire, for example, in his article “L’homme de lettres” (Dictionnaire phi-
losophique, published 1764), espouses engagement and shuns “the scholastic
obscurantism of decadent universities and academies.” Quoted in Public Intel-
lectuals – An Endangered Species, Ed. A. Etzioni & A. Bowditch, Rowman &
Littlefield, Oxford, 2006, p 158.
Bacon, from his 1605 book, Advancment of Learning, quoted in Beliefs in
Action: Economic Philosophy and Social Change, by Eduardo Giannetti da
Fonseca, CUP, Cambridge, 1991, page 154.
Bacon’s rhetorical principle is a good reminder of how words are ultimately
about arousing imagination (or emotion) as a mechanism for influencing
behavior (“the will”), whether by intent or effect.
“First, it will be said that literary imagination is unscientific and subversive of
scientific social thought. Second, it will be said that it is irrational in its commit-
ment to the emotions. Third, it will be charged that it has nothing to do with the
impartiality and universality that we associate with law and public judgment.”
Martha C. Nussbaum, Poetic Justice: The Literary Imagination and Public Life,
Beacon Press, Boston, 1995, p.4
The emphasis is one of perception as fair-minded observers never viewed the
Bab and His followers as ‘revolutionary’ or engaging in ‘anarchical conspiracy’.
The ideal of a stationary state reads like a lyric cry and squanders the most pre-
cious thing there is, the spirit. This cannot mean that only the individual agent
knows what his or her needs are, nor can it mean enforcing a re-education to
help enhance our moral or aesthetic capabilities which can be ‘wooden and
awkward’ (a phrase used by Mr. Paul Lample in his talk at the 32nd annual
conference of the Association for Bahá’í Studies – North America 29 August
to 1 September 2008). But guidance from the top is indispensable (a) to give
official scope to experiments designed to permit the practice of new and
essential skills but also (b) address the problem of initiative and efficient use
of existing resources which can only be genuinely solved from below. “The
periodic re-evaluation of the effectiveness of the teaching work is an essential
factor in promoting the growth of every community.” [Universal House of
Justice Message, July 30th 1987]
C.S. Lewis, “The Allegory of Love: A Study in Medieval Tradition”, Galaxy,
New York, Oxford University Press, 1958, page 1.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Religious texts may criticize imagination: “for the imagination of man’s heart
is evil from his youth” [Genesis 8:21 KJV] yet the same texts are interpreted
to provide for a positive imagination that facilitates a dialogue between the
human and the divine. Coleridge identifies Logos as the communicative
intellect in God and man and the ultimate power of making. Refer to the
contributing article by James Engell, Professor of English and Comparative
Literature at Harvard University, in The Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry &
Poetics, 4th edition, 2012, pp 666-674.
Proposed by Joseph Campbell who researched extensively the study of compara-
tive mythology. His widest popular recognition followed his collaboration on
the PBS series, The Power of Myth, which was first broadcast in 1988, the year
following his death. The series discusses mythological, religious, and psychologi-
cal archetypes. A book, The Power of Myth, containing expanded transcripts of
their conversations, was released shortly after the original broadcast.
A term coined by the Swiss psychiatrist Carl G. Jung, or ‘kollektives
Unbewusstes‘ in German, referring to structures of the unconscious mind
shared among human beings. The theory of myth developed by the father of
analytical psychology is one of the few that answers fully the subject matter,
origin, and function of myth. Refer to his work, in collaboration with C.
Kerényi, Essays on a Science of Mythology, published in 1949.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834), leader of the British Romantic movement.
He uses the word ‘symbol’ rather than ‘myth’ in his 1816 Statesman’s Manual.
Symbol is conceived as an expression of unity between the representative and
semantic function of language. Myth and symbol are interchangeable in that
both refer to a ‘structure of significance’ whose power over collective intelligence,
purpose and behavior is strong. Myths operate as mediating symbols.
We use the magical figure of Mullá Husayn, as we can countless others such
as the audacity of the village girl, Zaynab, during the Zanjan upheaval or the
17-year old Mona who was hanged with nine other Bahá’í women in June
1983, precisely to underpin the fact that ‘bios theoretikos’ or contemplative
thinking, cannot stand alone as an essential human activity but must follow or
be followed by other principal human activities, such as willing and judging,
essential roles that lead to action. Hannah Arendt expands bios theoretikos
into these other mental faculties to show that contemplation and actualization
through action are inseparable. It is precisely in the enactment of the ethical
excellences that contemplation is immortalized. Action becomes not an end,
the telos, but rather the beginning, undertaking new ventures whose outcome
or end cannot be foreseen and whose standard is courage, daring to embark on
something new and unpredictable. Augustine’s dictum is Arendt’s start-off
‘Initium ut esset creatus est homo, “man was created so that a beginning be” in

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion

order that entirely new undertakings and ventures could come about in the
historical human world.
As spiritual beings, we are guided in our thought and action by a special gift
from our Creator, who has seen fit to implant in our souls the deeper truth
of the nature of the world, and special guidance about how we are to act in
it. We must discover this inner truth, and adhere to it in the face of the often-
distracting course of our experience. Perception and inquiry remind us of what
is innate in us. The doctrine of anamnesis is not without its historical contro-
versies, however. Refer to Jerry Samet’s article, “The Historical Controversies
Surrounding Innateness”, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer
2019 Edition. https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/innateness-history/.
To quote from a letter written on behalf of the Guardian: “Just as the mus-
cles enable the body to carry out the will of the individual, all Assemblies
and committees must enable the believers to carry... the love of Bahá’u’lláh...”
Directives p. 2
Quoted in ‘The Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry & Poetics’, 4th edition,
2012, p. 674.
The body of doctrines and practices that form the fundamental organizing
principle of a state (its constitution or ‘politeia’) have a built-in tendency for self-
protective stratagems and the conduct of its associated defined arrangements of
offices, functions, and jurisdictions oftentimes engendering sufficient mistrust
so as to exact confrontation with a community’s own thoughts and intentions.
Implied to mean that seekers of heavenly thoughts, inhabitants of a cramped
hill in Mount Zion, are not in battle with the dwellers of the first fiery scientists
of Western civilization, as epitomized by Greece’s towering Mount Olympus.
These three words, ‘everything that is’, readily describe the Greek term ‘cosmos’.
As early as 2001, the Universal House of Justice encourages the Bahá’ís to
engage and seek opportunities to meet individuals “… who are willing to
engage in meaningful conversation, exploring spiritual realities and learning
more and more about the Faith.” Letter dated, 3rd of June, 2001, written on
behalf of the Universal House of Justice to the National Spiritual Assembly of
the Union of Myanmar.
By looking into lives that are not ours, we avoid the personal bias which can
misinterpret information. Martha C. Nussbaum: “… ideally the process of
reading must be completed by a conversation among readers.” Quoted in her
book, Poetic Justice: The Literary Imagination and Public Life, Beacon Press,
Boston, 1995, p. 75. Such empathetic participation and external assessment are
crucial in determining the degree of compassion it is rational for a person

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One

to have. We see this principle in the new approach to Bahá’í culture, ‘to help
the believers draw upon the Writings as a guide for action, while avoiding
both an inflexible literalism intent upon “finding the one right answer” and
an unfocused subjectivism that indulges in a prolonged exchange of personal
views on “what the quotation means to me”.’ Mr. Paul Lample, Revelation &
Social Reality: Learning to Translate What is Written into Reality, Palabra,
Florida, 2009, pp 81-82.
Utilitarian thinking, a product of the nineteenth century, continues to
dominate Western thought, with its tendency to aggregate human beings, to
overlook individual differences, and to reduce the mysteries and complexities of
human motivation to mathematically predictable elements of self-interest. To
conceive order through the greatest good for the greatest number, or through
a balance of enlightened self-interest and the pursuit of economic profit, has
proven at variance with the disorder and human suffering precipitated by the
Industrial Revolution. Voegelin pithily remarks: “The substance of order
moved down in the ontological scale from God, through reason, pragmatic
intellect, usefulness, production forces, and racial determinants, to biological
drives.” Quoted in Dr. Paulette Kidder’s 2004 article The Eclipse of Transcen-
dence in Dickens’ Hard Times, and may be obtained at the site https://sites01.
lsu.edu/faculty/voegelin/wp-content/uploads/sites/80/2015/09/Kidder2004.
pdf .
“The tendency to narrow the field of human experience to the area of reason,
science, and pragmatic action, the tendency to overvalue this area in relation
to the bios theoretikos and the life of the spirit, the tendency to make it the
exclusive preoccupation of man, the tendency to make it socially preponderant
through economic pressure in the so‐called free societies and through violence
in totalitarian communities‐ all these tendencies are part of a cultural process
that is dominated by a flight of magic imagination…” Voegelin (ibid.)
In fact, from a religious point of view apprehension is placed in between the
intellectual and the sensible, its purpose being to see the good in the relation
between perception and existence.
Cited in The Four Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and which could be interpreted to
mean human learning to understand the non-human, grammar’s rules to
guide us to renunciation..
The exotic new theories in physics today – string theory, loop quantum
gravity, and the like – share the common ambition of seeking to explain
features of the universe that quantum physics and modern astrophysics place
beyond the explanatory reach of physical science. Does this not suggest a new
religious cosmology?

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
The Latin apprehensio, from which the English term is derived, was employed
by late medieval logicians, as the three fundamental operations of the scientific
mind: apprehension, judgement and ratiocination.
This is in reference to Laplace’s ‘demon’ in classical mechanics as the canonical
articulation of scientific determinism which has played a vital role in statistical
thermodynamics, quoted in ‘Confessions of a Born-Again Pagan’ by Anthony
T. Kronman, Yale University Press, 2016, page 765. “In this sense, modern
physics is committed to the principle of sufficient reason and to the proposi-
tion, which this principle implies, that the world is infinitely intelligible, while
conceding…that our finitude prevents us from ever exhausting its intelligibility
completely.” (ibid. pp 615-616)
The Greek term metaxy (μεταξύ) denotes the middle, the intermediate, the
in-between or the center.
For a bold and imaginative attempt in searching for a mythological landscape
and substance in the Bahá’í Faith, refer to the article by William P. Collins,
Sacred Mythology and the Bahá’í Faith, JBS, Vol:2, N°4, 1990.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic
Philosophy in the Bahá’í Writings1
Vargha Bolodo-Taefi
Abstract
This paper explores the influence of Islamic thought and intellectual
tradition on the Bahá’í Writings and presents thirty-four cardinal
maxims of Islamic philosophy that are adopted and expounded in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Each section
explains the meaning of a maxim, describes its usage by prominent
figures in Islamic intellectual history, and demonstrates its application
in the Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith.

Introduction
The development of Islamic intellectual tradition witnessed the emer-
gence of four major schools of thought in its Golden Age. A rational-
ist form of Islamic theology was created to formulate the principal
doctrines of Islamic belief and to rebut criticisms levelled against it
by its opponents. It produced able theologians like Shaykh Mufíd,
Al-Ghazálí, Zamakhsharí, Fakhr-i-Rází, ‘Allámah Al-Ḥillí, Íjí, and
As-Suyúṭí. The Peripatetic Islamic school incorporated doctrines of
Greek philosophy, most notably of Aristotle and Neoplatonism, into
early Islamic philosophy. It found such prominent philosophers in its
ranks as Al-Kindí, Al-Fárábí, Avicenna, and Ibn Rushd (Averroes).
Features of Islamic mysticism were gradually incorporated into the
Islamic philosophical tradition. Islamic mystical philosophy became a
method of attaining esoteric wisdom and of rational expression of the
mystical elements within an Islamic milieu. Some outstanding Mus-
lim mystical philosophers include Suhrawardi, Ibnu’l-‘Arabí, Qúnaví,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Ḥaydar-i-Ámulí, and Jílí. Influenced by Peripateticism, Neoplatonism,
Avicenna’s philosophy, and Islamic mystical philosophy, Suhrawardi
founded the school of Illuminationism. Its holistic and innovative
philosophy, based on both discursive and intuitive approaches to
knowledge, revived Islamic philosophy after its Golden Age. Some
notable Illuminationist thinkers after Suhrawardi include Quṭbu’d-
Dín-i-Shírází, Shahrazúrí, Mír Dámád, and Mullá Ṣadrá.
Mullá Ṣadrá synthesized the many tracts of the Golden Age of Islamic
thought into what he termed the Transcendent Theosophy. His several
doctrines, such as the ontological primacy of existence and substan-
tial motion, revolutionized Islamic metaphysics. Through his novel
approach to philosophy that combined theology and mystical intu-
ition, he introduced a holistic method of understanding reality and
philosophical inquiry that harmonized logical and theological reason-
ing, study of the religious texts and scriptural hermeneutics, exegesis,
and spiritual inspiration. Some of the able representatives of the Tran-
scendent Theosophy school of thought include Fayḍ-i-Káshání and
Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí.
In the early nineteenth century, at a time when Mullá Ṣadrá’s thought
had emerged as the dominant philosophical paradigm in the Shí‘ih
seminary in the Islamic East, heterodox doctrines of Shaykh Aḥmad-
i-Aḥṣá’í, and after him Siyyid Káẓim-i-Rashtí, laid the foundations
for a new approach to Shí‘ih theology. This messianic, millenarian
movement, known as Shaykhism, derived its focus from some of the
main themes of the Transcendent Theosophy, such as the names and
attributes of God, and the effusions of existence and revelation, and
acted as an intellectual link between Islam and the Bábí Faith.
Why and how is a study of Islamic thought useful in understanding
the Bahá’í Revelation? Utilizing Aristotle’s philosophical theory of
hylomorphism, the distinguished Bahá’í philosopher Dr. ‘Alí-Murád
Dávúdí explains that all beings—except incorporeal essences, such
as the Essence of God—are composed of matter and form. Religions,

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
likewise, at least inasmuch as they relate to the world of creation, are
composed of matter and form. The form of religion is the Cause of God,
the reality which relates to and emanates from Him. The matter of reli-
gion is the potential which appears in the world of creation to receive
this form. The form of religion is born of divine revelation. The matter
of religion is situated in human civilization in every age and dispensa-
tion. Elements of the cultures, sciences, literatures, philosophies, tech-
nologies, and ethics of every age enter the religion and shape the devel-
opment of practices, rites, observances, and laws of the peoples. Every
religion speaks in the language of the people in that dispensation; steers
the customs, habits, and traditions of its age; benefits from the verse and
prose, science and industry, and laws of the day; and assimilates a por-
tion of the histories, anecdotes, and tales of that time. For instance, the
influence of Greek philosophy, Roman civilization, and Jewish culture
on Christianity, or of Arab, Jewish, Greek, Syrian, and Persian cultures
and civilizations on Islam, is well known. All such influences, from
whatever source they may be, constitute the matter in which the form of
religion appears. The form of religion, however, which is the Cause of
God, has no source but divine revelation. Therefore, caution should be
exercised, lest we confuse the elements which are derived from worldly
sources in any religion with the true and divine source of its revelation
which is the cause of its novelty, or reduce the divine form of religion to
its earthly matter (Áhang-i-Badí‘ 327:23–24).
With this in mind, Islamic thought and intellectual tradition can be
considered as constituting the matter of the Bahá’í Faith and shaping
the appearance of its wondrous form. It is important to note, however,
that Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá do not merely adopt, con-
firm, and cite the elements of Islamic thought in Their Writings. They
rather breathe the spirit of life into the body of Islamic intellectual
tradition; revitalize and reinvigorate the views of the philosophers and
theologians of old; choose them as one of means of establishing the new
Revelation; associate this matter with others that pertain to the refine-
ment of character, the upholding of justice, the establishment of order
and of the kingdom of God on earth; animate this receptive matter

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
with the quickening form emanating from God; and manifest His
Cause in the world of creation. The Bahá’í Faith, therefore, exemplifies,
reunites, and integrates within its Sacred Text some of the wholesome
and noble elements that can be found in Islamic philosophy (ibid. 28).
It must be remembered that the Writings of the Central Figures of
the Bahá’í Faith are not devoid of social and historical context. As the
Universal House of Justice explains (1982, 1998), the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh,
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá chose to employ philosophical themes, terms, and
concepts, among others, as a vehicle, because it is a mode which Their
audience is capable of grasping, not because it reflects Their own state
or voice. Their understanding and perception transcend those of any
human being or the traditions and concepts of any society. They used
the familiar mediums of human language and philosophy and com-
mon standard of acquired knowledge to raise humanity to a wholly
new level of awareness and behavior.
This paper presents thirty-four cardinal maxims of Islamic philosophy
that are adopted and expounded in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the
Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Each section explains the meaning of a maxim,
describes its usage by prominent figures in Islamic intellectual history,
and demonstrates the author’s understanding of its application in the
Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith. Much of this paper
relies on the author’s reading of the Bahá’í Sacred Text in its original
language, Text for which there is no authorized English translation.
The author has provided provisional English translations in a few cases.

1. Contradictory propositions cannot both be true or false
This maxim is comprised of two axiomatic principles that are known in
classical logic as the law of non-contradiction and the law of excluded
middle. The law of non-contradiction stipulates that two contradic-
tory propositions cannot both be true at the same time and in the
same sense. The law of excluded middle states that two contradictory
propositions cannot both be false and that either one proposition or its

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
negation holds. Together, these two laws create a logical dichotomy in
which the two contradictory propositions are mutually exclusive—as
required by the law of non-contradiction—and jointly exhaustive—as
expressed by the law of excluded middle.
This maxim is widely recognized as an a priori axiom and one of the
foremost among primary principles, indemonstrable premises that are
inherent in human intellectual faculty on the basis of their appeal to
self-evidence. It is considered to be a sufficient foundation underlying
rational discourse, human thought, and all the other theorems and
propositions of logic. Without assuming the truth of this maxim, the
truth of no other principle can ever be demonstrated. But this maxim
is itself a primary premise whose truth does not depend on, and is not
inferred from, the proof or the validity of any other principle. Reason-
ing is the process through which the existence of a thing signifies the
existence of another and the non-existence of a thing indicates the non-
existence of another. Were we to assume the law of non-contradiction
and the law of excluded middle to be false, the existence of a thing
would no longer signify the existence of another and its non-existence
the non-existence of another; the foundation of reasoning would
thereby collapse. The truth of this maxim is indemonstrable because in
order to demonstrate the truth of the law of non-contradiction and the
law of excluded middle—that is, in order to reason—one must presup-
pose the truth of this same maxim upon which the truth of all the other
principles and propositions of logic must be founded—and, in so doing,
commit the fallacy of circular reasoning.
Mullá Ṣadrá (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.3:443), Avicenna (Al-
Iláhíyyát 48), Fakhr-i-Rází (Al-Arba‘ín 154), and Íjí (Sharḥu’l-Maváqif
64) have all recognized this maxim as foremost among a priori axioms.
Some Islamic theologians have even gone a step further and relied
on the self-evidence of the law of non-contradiction and the law of
excluded middle in order to demonstrate the axiomatic self-evidence
of existence (ibid. 170). This indicates that this maxim is considered to
appeal to self-evidence more than the concept of existence does.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
In one of His Tablets, Bahá’u’lláh utilizes to the logic of the law of
excluded middle in His reasoning to outline the only two possible
outcomes when an appeal is made to tyrants—either they take heed
or they reject (INBA 31:8). The Báb, in several of His Writings, such
as the Persian Bayán (INBA 62:10–20), the Kitáb-i-Asmá’ (Selections
5:19), the Panj Sha’n (INBA 1:5–6, 43), and the Dalá’il-i-Sab‘ih (25,
44), invokes this principle when describing the contrast between nega-
tion and affirmation, or between denial and acceptance, in the world of
existence. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also employs this maxim in multiple settings.
In one Tablet, for instance, He compares the views of Bahá’u’lláh and
the Arch-breaker of His Covenant, Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí, concern-
ing the appointment of the Center of the Covenant after Bahá’u’lláh’s
passing, establishes that these two views are contradictory proposi-
tions, states that they cannot both be true or false, and suggests that
one guides people while the other leads them astray (Muntakhabát
4:157). Similarly, in the Lawḥ-i-Hizár Baytí, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá empha-
sizes the importance of service over names and titles and states that
one of the following logics must be true: either we succeed in serving
the Faith, in which case all the beauteous names revolve around us;
or we are deprived of such a service, in which case names and appella-
tions avail us nothing (ibid. 250). In His commentary on the Islamic
tradition “I was a hidden treasure” (Makátíb 2:26, 39), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
quotes an adaptation of the law of non-contradiction twice and states
that a thing cannot embody the attributes of its negation. In order to
reject a proposition that before their formal existence in the world of
creation the essences of things were absolutely non-existent, He cites
this maxim and explains that absolute non-existence cannot acquire
the capacity and worthiness to emerge from a state of non-existence
into the realm of existence. He demonstrates that the essences of all
things, as the subjects of God’s knowledge, have a pre-existent intel-
lectual existence in God’s knowledge and are one with His Essence.
In Some Answered Questions (53:7), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá defines death and
non-existence as a transformation in the form of a decomposition of
constituent elements. Rejecting death as annihilation and absolute
non-existence, He relies on this maxim and concludes that insofar as

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
created things still have a mineral existence after their decomposition,
they cannot be in contradictory states of existence and non-existence
simultaneously. In yet another elucidation (ibid. par. 4), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
contrasts the procession of creation from God through emanation
with appearance through manifestation and maintains that a belief in
emanational procession preserves the transcendence and the pre-exis-
tence of God, whereas a belief in manifestational appearance “would
require unconditioned pre-existence to take on the attributes of the
originated, absolute independence to become abject poverty, and the
essence of existence to become pure non-existence.” Applying the law
of non-contradiction, He concludes that a belief in manifestational
appearance is untenable.

2. A reference is identical with its referent in reality and existence
In its existence and reality, a name is identical with its referent. But
in its sense and meaning, a name is different from its referent. Islamic
theologians, according to Fakhr-i-Rází (Lavámi‘ 10), state that a name
signifies the essence of a thing, as it is in itself, without it being charac-
terized by an attribute. Examples of names include God, woman, and
human. They also suggest that an attribute designates the essence of a
thing when that essence is considered from the perspective of a specific
quality or feature.
In reference to God, however, some Islamic mystical philosophers
believe that without any characterization of an attribute, the Essence
is the ineffable station of Supreme Singleness, absolute invisibility, and
the hidden treasure. Therefore, according to Qayṣarí (Sharḥu Fuṣúṣ
44), an expounder of Ibnu’l-‘Arabí’s works, a name, in relation to God,
signifies His Essence as characterized by an attribute—not the unchar-
acterized Essence, as posited by Islamic theologians. In order to explain
this maxim, he thus distinguishes between the Essence as character-
ized by an attribute (name) and the word with which to refer to the
Essence as characterized by an attribute (name of name). The name
“Merciful”, for example, is then identical with the Essence of God in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
the sense that it signifies the Essence as characterized by its mercy—in
the sense of its reality and existence. However, as a word with which
to refer to the name of God “the Merciful”, it is not identical with the
Essence of God in meaning.
Similar to the debate about the relationship between God’s names
and His Essence, there are fundamental differences between the vari-
ous schools of Islamic theology and between Islamic theologians and
philosophers concerning the association of God’s attributes with His
Essence. Ash’arites, for instance, stipulate that God’s attributes are
separate from His Essence. At-Taftázání, a prominent Ash’arite, fur-
ther states that a multiplicity of pre-existences in God’s attributes is
quite plausible; what is logically untenable is rather a multiplicity of
pre-existences in His Essence (Sharḥu’l-‘Aqá’id 50). The Mu’tazilites
find the Ash’arites’ view on the separation between God’s attributes
and His Essence to be indefensible. But they also consider the oneness
of God’s attributes and His Essence to be impossible. As a result, they
completely reject God’s attributes and hold that all qualities and char-
acters attributed to God are to be found directly in His Essence.
Bahá’ís believe that God is invisible, inaccessible, unknowable, and
ineffable (Gleanings no. 84; Selections no. 30). Therefore, as He is in
Himself—not as we recognize Him—He cannot be designated by any
names, nor can He be regarded as possessing any attributes (Tablets
102, 113). Confessing this precept, Bahá’ís state daily in their Long
Obligatory Prayer “I testify that Thou hast been sanctified above all
attributes and holy above all names” Kitáb-i-Aqdas 95). The reason for
this assertion is that God’s embodiment of human attributes, which
are specific and many, would require that His Essence be limited to
specific meanings (Dávúdí, “Discourse” 64), be divided into various
aspects and relationships, and be in need of component parts. But
limitation, plurality, and need are characteristics of created and con-
tingent beings (Some Answered Questions ch. 27). Accordingly, in His
world, God’s names and attributes are identical with His Essence; oth-
erwise, “there would be a multiplicity of pre-existences” (ibid. no 37).

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
Further, if God’s essential names and attributes were not identical with
His Essence, inexorably they would be a creation of His Essence and,
therefore, not befitting its station. Consequently, the Bahá’í teachings
distinguish between the essential names and attributes of God in His
world, which are identical with His Essence and therefore unknowable,
and the names and attributes that we ascribe to Him within the limits
of our existence in the world of creation in order to worship Him and
praise His perfections (Bolodo-Taefi, “God, Revelation, and Manifes-
tation” 177). With this framework in mind, depending on the world
and the station in which the reference of the names of God is consid-
ered, the names of God could signify His Essence; they could refer to
the Essence as characterized by an attribute, such as the All-Knowing
and the Almighty; or they could designate the Essence of God as the
source of an action, such as the Sustainer and the Creator (Dávúdí,
“Discourse” footnote 47).
Bahá’u’lláh (Rafati, Yádnámih 174) writes that names can have mul-
tiple stations, allusions, and indications. In one sense, a name is the
revelation of the referent. In another respect, a name is identical with
its referent and is its truth, its identity, and its essence. In yet another
sense, a name is different from its referent. In yet another, a name can
testify to, and indicate, its referent. From another perspective, it circles
around the referent. He further states that these meanings each have
multiple stations and manifestations. Concerning the relationship
between names and attributes, He writes that, in one sense, names
are the garments of attributes; because attributes, like generosity and
dominion, are actions which proceeds from the source of the action.
He, nevertheless, asserts that names are non-existent in the station of
God’s Essence and of His revelation in the Manifestations of His signs
and perfections.
The Báb cites this maxim in several Tablets. In the Panj Sha’n (INBA
1:7), He writes that when one utters the verse “No God is there but
God” in order to testify to Divine Unity, one exalts and sanctifies the
one Essence of God because none is manifested in names but their

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
referent. Were one, for instance, to utter the words “No sun is there
but the sun”, the referent of the name “sun” will always be the physi-
cal sun. He also states that there are different stations of testifying to
Divine Unity just as there are different stations of names and attributes.
He further instructs (ibid. 72–74) that the reality of all things should
be seen when considering their names and that all names should be
understood as bespeaking God. This, He explains, is because nothing
is manifested in names but their referent, and the referent of all names
is essentially—not numerically—one. He likens names to mirrors fac-
ing the sun and stresses that the essence of all names can be found in
their referent and that nothing is manifested in names but the referent.
He subsequently writes that one should not worship the names of God
next to their referent to the point that one would join partners with
God, nor should one worship the names of God without their referent
to the extent that one would commit blasphemy. He further explains
that, in one sense, the referent of every name occupies the same sta-
tion as that name; nevertheless, all things are of God. For example, the
referent of the name “the powerful” in every station and sense of that
name is a mirror which occupies that same station, but which faces
God and betokens Him. In His Tafsír-i-Súriy-i-Baqarih (commentary
on the Súrih of the Cow), the Báb expatiates upon the relationship
between names, their meanings, and their referent by quoting several
statements from Imám ‘Alí and Imám Muḥammad al-Báqir about
not worshiping names, worshipping names without their meanings,
worshipping names together with their meanings, and worshipping
meanings (INBA 69:206–207).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in His commentary on the Basmalah (Makátíb 1:49–52),
maintains that the names of God derive from attributes which signify
the perfections of His Essence. He stipulates that in God’s station
of Supreme Singleness, names have no manifestation, entification,
or individuation; nor do they signify, indicate, or betoken anything.
But they have an uncompounded reality which is identical with the
Essence. In God’s station of Oneness, however, His names find a mani-
festation, entification, and life-giving existence in the form of Fixed

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
Entities. He then cites this maxim and stresses that in God’s station
of Supreme Singleness, names are identical with their referent and
are its essence and reality. This is because names and attributes are in
truth descriptions of God’s perfections and designations of one reality.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá then clarifies that by names are meant their meanings and
truths which are exalted above and sanctified from all indications. He
distinguishes them from names which are uttered words pronounced
using language and which, He states, are not identical with their refer-
ent. The names of God and their meanings which are identical with
their referent exist in an uncompounded oneness, without any distinc-
tion among them.

3. Knowledge of the realities of things
is impossible to the human mind
This maxim conveys that the realities and the inner identities of things
are inaccessible to human comprehension. This principle is put forward
in the works of Avicenna and Mullá Ṣadrá, who also believed in an intel-
lectual existence as well as a formal existence of things. They postulated
that the essence of things can also exist in the human mind in the same
manner that they exist formally in the world of existence. Some have
suggested that a belief in the intellectual existence of the essence of
things contradicts a belief that knowledge of the realities of things is
impossible to the human mind (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.1:391).
Ṭabáṭabá’í (ibid. fn1) interprets and defends Avicenna’s view of this
maxim. Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí (ibid. 392, fn1) addresses and resolves
the perceived contradiction in Avicenna’s and Mullá Ṣadrá’s state-
ments by differentiating between the ontic reality of existence and its
epistemic understanding. Mullá Ṣadrá (ibid. 392–393) reiterates this
maxim and posits that comprehending the reality of a thing requires
its presence and existence within human knowledge; whereas the outer
form of things, which is their actuality and existence, and which exists
outside of the human mind, cannot become present and encompassed
within human knowledge.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
‘Abdu’l-Bahá utilizes this maxim in His commentary on the Islamic
tradition “I was a hidden treasure” and explains that knowledge of
a thing means encompassing it. Unless and until one encompasses a
thing, one cannot comprehend its reality. He then concludes that since
no being can encompass the Essence of God, the knowledge of His
Essence is impossible (Makátíb 2:13, 29). He also quotes this maxim
in an utterance (Some Answered Questions 59:3–4) and stresses that
the essence of things can only be known through its attributes. Since
we cannot encompass the originated reality of any created being, how
can it be possible to encompass the pre-existent Reality of God? If our
knowledge of all created things, no matter how simple they are, is not
of their essence but of their attributes, how can it be possible to under-
stand the Essence of God?

4. Change is not instantaneous
The existence of change and transformation in the world of creation
is an axiomatic article which cannot be denied. Change and transfor-
mation cannot take place in this world without motion. Motion is a
facet of existence through which things actualize their potential. Until
Mullá Ṣadrá, it was generally accepted that only accidents of things,
such as quantity, quality, and location, are subject of change and
motion. The Peripatetics, in particular, also maintained that change
can be instantaneous or gradual. Mullá Ṣadrá introduced his doctrine
of substantial motion and argued that all material beings undergo
change and transformation in their substance and essence, as well as in
their accidental properties. Gradual change in which things constantly
move from potentiality to actuality can be more evidently understood
as motion. What is referred to instantaneous change, however, is not
as readily understood as motion without accepting the truth of the
doctrine of substantial motion. Just as gradual change is inconceivable
without the existence of motion, what might appear to be an instanta-
neous change cannot take place in the absence of motion either.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
Why do some changes develop gradually, yet others take effect instan-
taneously? Mullá Ṣadrá explains this difference with his doctrines of
substantial motion and the gradation of existence. When, for example,
water evaporates through intense heating, what appears to be an instan-
taneous transformation of liquid into gas is in fact gradual. Notwith-
standing the speed of change from one form or phase to another, it is
not incompatible with it being gradual. Motion remains to be continu-
ous. Unless the liquid and gas phases intersect—in other words, unless
the water and vapor have the same substance—there would be two suc-
cessive moments in time which are disconnected. This is impossible
because time is one continuous whole and there are infinite number
of moments between any two given moments. Another logical prob-
lem with the non-intersection of the two forms in an instantaneous
change is that at the moment of transformation the matter of the water
and vapor would be inevitably without a form, which is impossible
(Naháyatu’l-Ḥikmah 202).
In His utterances, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá confirms substantial motion and
rejects instantaneous change. In Some Answered Questions, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá states that all beings are in motion, that motion cannot be dis-
sociated from them, and that motion takes place at the level of the
essence of things. He refers to this as “essential or natural motion”
(63:1). He explains that it is “the universal and divinely ordained law
and the natural order” that “the growth and development of all beings
proceeds by gradual degrees”, through the gradual appearance of what
is latent in things (51:3, 5).

5. The uncompounded reality is all things,
but it is not any single one of them
Mullá Ṣadrá considers this maxim to be one of the abstruse subjects of
divine philosophy (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 3.1:110). It is reported
to have been espoused by some of the Greek philosophers, such as Aris-
totle (Some Answered Questions 82:2; footnote 162); but Mullá Ṣadrá

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
established it as a philosophical subject and maxim and adduced argu-
ments in its proof. In brief, it asserts that any reality or essence in which
an attribute can be denied or from which something can be negated is
inevitably composed of affirmative and negative aspects and is, there-
fore, compounded. For instance, to say that an essence is X but is not
Y means that it comprises two distinct aspects: the existence of X and
the non-existence of Y. The presence of these distinct affirmative and
negative aspects requires that essence to be a compounded reality. The
contrapositive of this statement infers that in every uncompounded
reality, nothing can be denied or negated. Therefore, the Essence of
God must be all things in order for it to be an uncompounded reality.
Mullá Ṣadrá also asserts that the predicate in this maxim is only the
existential aspects of “all things”; otherwise, a reality that also pos-
sesses the imperfections of things is, of necessity, a compounded reality
(Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 3.1:110).
The uncompounded reality, therefore, possesses and encompasses the
perfections of all things. Then how are God’s attributes that negate
things are to be understood? Mullá Saḍrá explains that to attribute a
negation to the uncompounded reality of God is to negate non-exis-
tence or to deny that He has any imperfections. This reiterates that He
is pure existence and perfection. For example, when we negate matter
from the reality of God or deny that He has a quality or a quantity, we
are negating negative attributes from His Essence and stressing that He
is pure existence (ibid. 114).
After Mullá Ṣadrá, his followers, such as Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí and
Fayḍ-i-Káshání, also propound the doctrine of uncompounded reality
in their works. Mullá Ṣadrá (ibid. 4.1:51) and Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí
(Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah 1:309), for instance, argue that the rational
soul is an uncompounded reality and, therefore, encompasses all the
powers and perfections that are to be found in the animal, vegetable,
and mineral kingdoms. Fayḍ-i-Káshání utilizes this maxim to explain
God’s knowledge of and revelation in His own Essence (Uṣúl 30).

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
In one of His best-known works, known as the Lawḥ-i-Basíṭatu’l-
Ḥaqíqih (the Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality), Bahá’u’lláh
confirms the truth of this maxim and unfolds its meaning. He clarifies
that by “all things” is meant existence and its perfections and asserts
that the Uncompounded Reality, insofar as it is uncompounded in all
senses, possesses and encompasses all perfections infinitely. He rejects
a misinterpretation of this maxim that God is dissolved into innumer-
able forms of existence. He further expatiates upon two stations of pro-
claiming the oneness of God and sanctifying Him from all multiplicity.
Existential monotheism consists of denying all existence other than
God and confessing the evanescence of all things before His revelation
and remembrance. Intuitive, or visible, monotheism involves witness-
ing in all things signs of the revelation and manifestation of the Uncom-
pounded Reality. Bahá’u’lláh also specifies that in one sense, all that is
mentioned concerning the Uncompounded Reality refers to the Mani-
festations of God, inasmuch as God Himself is unknowable and inde-
scribable and His chosen representatives are the manifestations of His
oneness and the dawning-places of His singleness. Outwardly, They are
subject to the bounds of the world of creation; yet inwardly, They are
an uncompounded reality and free from any limitation. Their uncom-
pounded reality, however, is neither absolute nor uncompounded in
every sense; it is a secondary and relative uncompounded reality. This
signifies that Their station, as the Word of God and the manifestation
of His singleness, is the educator of all beings and the possessor of infi-
nite perfections (Iqtidárát 105–109). Bahá’u’lláh also refers to Himself
as the Uncompounded Reality which has been manifested in the form
of a human temple (ibid. 114).
In another Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh informs that the Uncompounded Real-
ity signifies first and foremost the Essence of God. But since all things
are reflections of His names and attributes, it is correct to state that the
Uncompounded Reality is all things (INBA 31:104–105). In yet another
Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh defines the Uncompounded Reality as the Primal
Word from which all beings originate, the splendour and sovereignty of
which they manifest, and to which they return (Yádnámih 207).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
In His commentary on the Uncompounded Reality, the Báb addresses
a misrepresentation of this maxim through which some seek to prove
the appearance of God into all created beings. Rejecting the notion of
the dissolution of God into innumerable forms of existence and multi-
plicity in the Essence of God, the Báb states that the Essence of God is
sanctified from all dissolution, division, comparison, and change. He
highlights the error of those who attempt to comprehend the Essence
of God as though it were a created thing and stresses that, in so doing,
they will either have to believe in a multiplicity of pre-existences in the
Essence of God or downgrade it to the level of corporeal created beings
(INBA 69:422–425).
In an utterance about the unity of existence, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá cites this
maxim, attributes it to some of the Greek philosophers, such as Aris-
totle, and demonstrates how it has been erroneously used in support
of a misconception of the doctrine of the unity of existence by some
Theosophists and Sufis (Some Answered Questions ch. 82). Concerning
statements that affirm certain attributes of the Uncompounded Real-
ity or negate other attributes from Him, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stresses (ibid.
37:6–7) that if we ascribe certain names and attributes to God, we are
not affirming His perfections. This is because we do not understand
them as they are in themselves; we are rather denying that He has any
imperfections. This is the basis of the apophatic theology of the Bahá’í
Faith. Therefore, we consider God’s attributes to be identical with His
Essence and negate everything that is other than His Essence. Were we
to ascribe affirmative attributes to Him, therefore, we are not ascribing
them to Him as things that can be accepted and possessed; this rather
conveys negating some attributes from His Essence—attributes that
we see in His creation and that indicate the imperfection of the world
of creation compared with His world (Dávúdí, “Discourse”65).
Further, the Writings of the Bahá’í Faith are replete with statements
about the uncompounded reality of the rational soul and its possession
of the powers and perfections of the animal, vegetable, and mineral
kingdoms. Bahá’u’lláh writes that some describe the rational soul as

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
the “lesser world”, but He regards it as the “greater world” owing to the
potentialities inherent in it (Gleanings 162:1). In the Seven Valleys, He
stresses that all the perfections of the greater world are folded up and
hidden within the human creation (Call 2:70). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá empha-
sizes that unlike the vegetable and animal spirit, the rational soul is
uncompounded and incorporeal and, therefore, everlasting (Some
Answered Questions 38:8); that it “is the substance through which the
body subsists” (ibid. 66:2); and that it “encompasses all things” (ibid.
55:5), discovers their realities, comprehends their properties, and pen-
etrates the mysteries of existence (ibid. 58:3).

6. An effect cannot be dissociated from its sufficient cause
This maxim stipulates that there is a constant association and union
between a sufficient cause and its effect. Sufficient cause, or complete
cause, is a cause which is adequate to bring about an effect and which
is not in need of any other factor for that effect to occur. Therefore,
as long as a sufficient cause for an effect exists, the effect exists too;
the effect cannot violate its association with its sufficient cause. This
principle plays a prominent role in philosophy and can indeed be con-
sidered a foundation of all philosophical reasoning. This is because if
effects were to be dissociated from their sufficient causes, the impervi-
ous and immutable law of causality would collapse and philosophical
and scientific thinking, as well as daily life, would be interrupted.
Many Islamic philosophers and thinkers invoke this maxim when
demonstrating the truth of other propositions. Some even regard it as
an axiom which is independent of any proof. Avicenna, for instance,
writes that if anything, in its essence, is the cause of the constant exis-
tence of another thing, then, so long as the former exists, the latter
will also exist and as soon as the former appears, the latter will appear
too (Al-Iláhíyyát 166–167, 266). Expounding Suhrawardi’s thought,
Quṭbu’d-Dín-i-Shírází employs the Illuminationist light imagery to
prove the permanence of the world of creation. He explains that since
God, the Necessary Being, is the sufficient cause of the existence of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
world of creation, it will last as long as God Himself will last (Sharḥu
Ḥikmati’l-Ishráq 378–379). Íjí relies on this maxim as a premise to
prove the impossibility of infinite regress of causes and effects, which
is itself one of the foundational principles of philosophy (Sharḥu’l-
Maváqif 400–401). Fakhr-i-Rází (Al-Mabáḥith 458, 477–478), Mullá
Ṣadrá (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.2:131), the mystical philosopher
Ibn Fanárí (Miṣbáḥ 26), and Qúnaví, quoting Ibnu’l-‘Arabí (ibid.), all
adduce proofs and arguments in support of this maxim.
The logical argumentations and reasonings present in the Writings of
the Central Figures of the Faith evidently accord with the law of causal-
ity. The principle of constant association and union between a sufficient
cause and its effect, however, specifically informs ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s proof
of the infinity of God in His Tablet to Auguste Forel. God is the suf-
ficient Cause of the existence of all beings. Beings are created through
the composition of their constituent elements and are infinite. Since the
existence of the effect cannot contradict the existence of its sufficient
cause, the infinity of God can be inferred a fortiori.

7. Infinite regress of causes and effects is impossible
Infinite regress in causation occurs when an endless series of causes
depend on one another—when a thing or an event is caused by another
element, which is itself caused by yet another one ad infinitum. Many
important philosophical arguments and theorems are founded upon,
or derive their truth from, the premise that the chain of causes and
effects cannot logically continue endlessly. One example is the argu-
ment for the existence of the Necessary Being. The existence of all
beings can be either necessary or contingent. For a contingent being to
be brought into existence, a cause is needed. That cause, if not a neces-
sary being, will in turn require another cause in order to be called into
existence. This chain of causation must end with the Necessary Being
Whose existence is not in need of a cause; otherwise, it would continue
endlessly, which is logically impossible.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
Many Islamic philosophers, like Al-Fárábí (“Ad-Da‘áví” 2–3), Avi-
cenna (An-Naját 235), and Suhrawardi (Sharḥu Ḥikmati’l-Ishráq 298),
rely on an infinite regress argument to demonstrate the existence of the
Necessary Being. Very few of them, however, adduce elaborate proofs
to establish the truth of this maxim. Avicenna dedicates a section of
An-Naját to proving this maxim; Fakhr-i-Rází (Al-Mabáḥith 470–476)
produces three arguments to demonstrate its truth; Íjí (Sharḥu’l-
Maváqif 403–412) provides five reasons to substantiate it in one of the
most expansive expositions of this maxim in Islamic theology and phi-
losophy; and Mullá Ṣadrá (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.2:144–169)
also cites ten elaborate arguments in its support.
In His Tablet to Auguste Forel, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá cites this maxim to stress
the absurdity of an infinite regress of causes and to prove the existence
of “the Ultimate Cause”, “the Universal Reality”. In another Tablet
(Selections no. 21), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá similarly employs an infinite regress
argument to demonstrate that the growth and development of all
beings are dependent upon external influences in a process that must
lead to One Who influences all, and yet is influenced by none. In a state-
ment about the connection between God’s Essence and His essential
names and attributes (Some Answered Questions 37:7), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
stresses that the names and attributes of God—as they really are, not
the names and attributes that we ascribe to God in the world of cre-
ation in order to praise His perfections—are identical with His Essence,
otherwise “there would be a multiplicity of pre-existences” and the dis-
tinction between His Essence and attributes would also be pre-existent.
The distinction between all these pre-existences, including between
pre-existent distinctions, would in turn be pre-existent. Therefore,
there would be countless distinctions between distinctions, which are
all pre-existent. He asserts that this represents an infinite regression and
concludes that it is impossible. In a Tablet regarding the Christian doc-
trine of the Trinity (Tablets 512–514), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá resorts to the same
infinite regress argument to reject the pre-existence of the distinction
between God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, which
would lead to an infinite regress of pre-existent distinctions. In a similar

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
statement (Some Answered Questions 82:5–6), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá employs the
same argument in support of the Theosophist and the Sufi belief in the
pre-existent intelligible existence of all beings in the Divine knowledge.
He states that the objects of the Divine knowledge are identical with
His knowledge, which is in turn identical with His Essence. He argues
that if the Knower, the knowledge, and the objects of knowledge were
not one single reality, this plurality of pre-existences would necessitate
an infinite regress of pre-existent distinctions. Refuting their belief in
the manifestational appearance of God in all His creatures, however,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá utilizes the same argument to demonstrate that the infin-
ity of God’s creatures and the distinction between them amounts to
an infinite regress of God’s manifestational appearances (Star 2, nos.
7–8:12). Responding to a question about retributive justice and whether
the person administrating justice and prosecuting the offender also
deserves a sentence for his role in inflicting punishment, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
rejects the notion as one leading to an infinite regress of prosecutions
and prosecutors (Makátíb 1:360).

8. Origination, whether temporal or
essential, is preceded by non-existence
The reality of existence can be divided into origination and pre-
existence. This division is an essential property of existence. In other
words, the undifferentiated reality of existence, before any entification,
specification, or individuation, accepts these attributions. Therefore,
the attributes “originated” and “pre-existent” are essential attributes of
the reality of existence. The concepts of origination and pre-existence
do not require a true definition because they are equal to the concept
of “existence” itself in clarity and self-evidence and because they do not
have a formal and actual existence in order to have a true definition.
Any definition of these two terms, therefore, is purely a description.
An originated being is described as one which is preceded by its non-
existence. Conversely, a pre-existent being is one which is not preceded
by its non-existence. Origination and pre-existence can in turn be

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
divided into temporal and essential. The case of non-existence preced-
ing the existence of a temporally-originated being, like this table or
that bird, is readily understood: there is a point in time before which
some originated beings did not exist. How can the notion of non-
existence preceding the existence of beings which are not originated
in time—essentially-originated beings which have always existed—be
explained? Although essential origination is not preceded by a tempo-
ral non-existence, or a non-existence in time, nevertheless it receives
its existence from another being. Without it being created by another
cause, therefore, essential origination would find no existence. Accord-
ingly, considered on its own merits, as it is in itself, essential origination
is non-existence; it exists only in its relation to its cause. Examples of
essential origination include the Holy Spirit, the world of creation, and
the human species.
Consequently, non-existence precedes all originated beings, whether
temporal or essential: temporal origination is preceded by its temporal
non-existence; essential origination is characterized by non-existence
in its essence—a non-existence which precedes its existence through
the agency of another cause. No time separates essential origination
from its cause. As previously stated, there is a constant association
and union between a sufficient cause and its effect such that as soon
the former appears, so does the latter. This simultaneity and union in
time can be illustrated using an analogy: when a person unlocks a door
using a key, the key, as the effect, and the hand, as the cause of the
turning of the key, move simultaneously.
Now that it is established that essential origination is not preceded by
a temporal non-existence, it also becomes evident that an existence
which is not situated in time cannot be described as temporal, be it
originated or pre-existent. Therefore, temporal pre-existence has no
formal, or actual, application. For an existence described as temporal
pre-existence there are two possibilities: either it is situated in time, or
it is not. If it is situated in time, then it is defined as essential origina-
tion. If it is not situated in time, then it cannot be called temporal.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
It can, therefore, be concluded that all originated beings, whether
temporal or essential, are preceded by their non-existence: temporal
origination is preceded by an actual non-existence; essential origina-
tion is preceded by an essential non-existence. The source of actual
non-existence is the lack of a sufficient cause for the effect to come into
being; the source of essential non-existence is essential contingence, in
which the essence of a thing demands or allows neither its existence
nor its non-existence (Avicenna, An-Naját 213–228; Mullá Ṣadrá,
Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.3:160–162; Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí,
Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah 1:172–173). The essence of a contingent has no
entity prior to its existence: it is neither existent nor non-existent.
In several Tablets (Gleanings 82:10; 81:1), Bahá’u’lláh stresses the
temporal origination of all that is created, including the human soul.
In several others, such as in the Lawḥ-i-Ḥikmat (Tablet of Wisdom),
He asserts that the world of creation is essentially originated, as it is
preceded by a cause, but has no beginning (Tablets 9:8; Tabernacle
2:49). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expatiates upon this maxim in His Writings and
utterances (Selections no. 30; Some Answered Questions 53:5). An entire
chapter of Some Answered Questions (80) is dedicated to the difference
between temporal and essential origination and pre-existence.

9. A circular motion is unnatural
Islamic philosophers divide motion into straight and circular and assert
that a circular motion can never be natural. Al-Fárábí, the founder of
Islamic philosophy, considers motion to be natural when a moving
object which has been separated from its original place and natural
state returns to it. He concludes that the circular motion of celestial
spheres cannot be natural (“Ad-Da‘áví” 7). Avicenna (An-Naját 258)
also argues that the two elements of the definition of a natural motion,
namely evading the unnatural position and returning to the natural
state, are not found in a circular motion and concludes that a circular
motion cannot be natural. In a circular motion, evading the unnatural
position and returning to the natural state is impossible because the

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
moving object will return to any point on the circular path from which
it evades. Additionally, returning to the natural state is also impossible
in a circular motion because a natural motion, unlike a circular motion,
ends once the moving object reaches its target, its original position.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá utilizes this maxim in a statement in which he sets forth
several arguments to refute reincarnation. In one of His arguments
against reincarnation, He intimates that the advancement and the
movement of the human soul in a direct line is according to the natural
order, whereas its return to this world after death is incompatible with
the natural motion and is against the natural and divine order (Some
Answered Questions 81:10).

10. The presence of an effect requires the presence of a cause
Whenever and wherever an effect exists, so does inevitably its cause.
In other words, the existence of a cause is a pre-requisite for the exis-
tence of an effect. This maxim is a law of the intellect upon which all
human thought and investigation is founded and from which there
is no escape. As a primary premise, the truth of this principle is not
established only through experience and inductive reasoning. Rather,
every experience and experiment itself is validated by, and receives its
credence from, the law of causality. Without causality, an observer can
never expect to conclude anything from any experiment.
Avicenna considers facts that come from experience to be axiomatic.
He believes that the rational soul accepts the results of experiments
and verifies experiences without an intermediary. He also suggests that
although experiences are formed after many repetitions of the same
observation and sense perception, nevertheless they are always verified
through logical deduction, which indicates causality. An experience
which is not followed by an inference—which is laden with causality—
cannot be trusted and does not give rise to knowledge (An-Naját 61).
Demonstrating the truth of this maxim, Fakhr-i-Rází stresses that the
essence of any effect is contingent, or, in other words, indifferent toward

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
existence and non-existence, such that potentially it can become either
existent or non-existent. It requires a cause to necessitate its existence
or non-existence. The presence of an effect whose essence is brought
out of its state of indifference and whose existence is necessitated,
inevitably indicates the presence of a cause which has determined that
existence. An implication of this argument is that an effect requires a
cause in both existence and continuance (Al-Mabáḥith 477).
In the Lawḥ-i-Ḥikmat (Tablet of Wisdom), Bahá’u’lláh writes that
the Word of God is the cause which has brought the world of cre-
ation, which is essentially contingent, into existence (Tablets 9:12). In
another Tablet (Gleanings 81:1), He affirms that the human soul has
a contingent existence and depends on a cause, the grace of God, in
order to come into being and to continue its existence after its depar-
ture from this world. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also asserts that the continuance,
as well as the creation, of the world requires a cause (Some Answered
Questions 2:5). In several Tablets and utterances, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá quotes
this maxim to discuss the formation and emergence of life and refutes
an accidental composition of life as representing an effect without a
cause (“Forel”; Makátíb 1:377; Khiṭábát 1:247; Star 6, no. 8:63). In
His Tablet to Auguste Forel, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also employs this maxim to
reason that the existence of this infinite universe requires the existence
of an Ultimate Cause.

11. The presence of a cause requires the presence of an effect
As soon as the existence of a sufficient cause becomes necessary, and
as long as it so remains, it necessitates the existence of its effect. As dis-
cussed in section 6, dissociation of an effect from, and its violation of, its
sufficient cause is logically impossible, because it is tantamount to the
collapse of the law of causality. How is then the association of the pre-
existent God with the originated world of creation to be understood?
The world of creation is an originated effect. Its origination signifies
non-existence preceding it; its being an effect indicates its association
and union with its sufficient cause from eternity. Fakhr-i-Rází states

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
that, as explained in section 8, God’s precedence before the world of cre-
ation is an essential, not temporal, precedence. In essential precedence,
the effect is not separated from its cause in time. The essential pre-
existence, as the cause, is united in time with the essential origination,
as the effect; yet it precedes the effect in essence (Al-Mabáḥith 477–479).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states in numerous Tablets and utterances that the world
of creation has no beginning. Invoking this maxim, He explains that
just as a creator without a creation, a provider without those provided
for, a lord without vassals, a sovereign without subjects, and a teacher
without pupils are inconceivable, the existence of God necessitates that
as long as there has been a God, there has been a creation (Makátíb
2:158; Muntakhabát 3:7–8; Some Answered Questions 47:2; Promulga-
tion nos. 58, 139).

12. A vicious circle is impossible
A vicious circle occurs when in a series of two or more things or propo-
sitions the existence of the first member of the series depends on the
existence of another member whose existence, in turn, depends on the
first member. The logical absurdity of a vicious circle, like that of an
infinite regress of causes and effects, is a foundational maxim upon
which many significant philosophical issues are built. One such issue
is the proof of the existence of the Necessary Being.
Al-Fárábí states that the existence of any being is either contingent
or necessary. A contingent existence requires a cause to bring it into
being—a cause which is itself either contingent or necessary. If this
cause is a contingent being, it will, in turn, require another cause to
necessitate its existence. Were there no Necessary Being, either this
chain of causes and effects would continue endlessly, which is logically
impossible as shown in section 7, or there would be a vicious circle in
which the existence of a being depends on the existence of another
being, which itself depends on the existence of the former. This circu-
larity is logically absurd (“Ad-Da‘áví” 2–3). In his rejection of vicious

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
circle, Avicenna writes that each member of the chain of causes and
effects in a vicious circle would at once be the cause and the effect of
its own existence. This is logically impossible because it necessarily
implies that a thing must precede itself, and succeed itself, existentially,
since the existence of a cause necessarily precedes the existence of its
effect (An-Naját 236). After Avicenna, most Islamic philosophers
and theologians rely on the logical impossibility of a thing’s preceding
itself and succeeding itself in order to refute circularity. Fakhr-i-Rází,
for instance, defines vicious circle as the dependence of a first thing
on a second thing and of the second thing on the first thing without
or without intermediary and rejects it using Avicenna’s arguments
(Al-Mabáḥith 469–470). Íjí similarly defines vicious circle, sets forth
arguments against it, and states that Fakhr-i-Rází considers its impos-
sibility to be axiomatic and not in need of a proof (Sharḥu’l-Maváqif
398). Mullá Ṣadrá adds a third argument, the impossibility of a thing
standing in need of itself, to the previous two—the impossibility of a
thing preceding itself and the impossibility of a thing succeeding itself
(Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.2:142).
Much of the logical reasoning in the Writings of the Central Figures of
the Faith relies on the truth of this foundational maxim. In His com-
mentary on the Islamic tradition “I was a hidden treasure”, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá differentiates between God’s knowledge of the intelligible reali-
ties of all things, which is pre-existent and identical with His Essence,
and a knowledge of the actual existence of all created beings, which
is originated and identical with the existence of created things. He
then expatiates upon the appearance of the matter and the form in
creation, and of the prime matter—the indeterminate substratum or
potentiality—and the prime form. He demonstrates that the matter
and the form of each created being are created simultaneously, just as
the prime matter and the prime form are created simultaneously. The
matter depends on the form in its existence, and the form is in need
of the matter in its appearance. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stresses that this correla-
tion between matter and form does not represent a vicious circle of
causes and effects, but rather a concomitance. He defines vicious circle

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
as dependence of a thing on another, which in turns depends on that
thing, with or without intermediary and asserts that matter and form
are correlative opposites both of which exist simultaneously and each
of which implies the other (Makátíb 2:35–37). Examples of correlative
opposites each of which implies the other, but none of which is the
cause of the existence of the other, include father and child, teacher
and pupil, and king and subject.

13. A subject can only comprehend an object if they are similar
According to this maxim, a similarity between that which compre-
hends and the object of its comprehension is essential, such that no
comprehension would take place without some similarity between the
subject and the object. Avicenna attributes this principle to the Greek
pre-Socratic philosopher Empedocles and states that the rational soul
comprehends the four basic elements of matter—earth, water, air, and
fire—which the ancient Greek philosophers believe constitute every-
thing. He asserts that a subject can only comprehend the objects to
which it resembles and concludes that the rational soul is composed of
the four basic elements (Aṭ-Ṭabí‘íyyát 6:15). Mullá Ṣadrá also affirms
that a similarity between the knower and the object of its knowledge
is a prerequisite for comprehension. But he goes even further than the
notion of similarity and believes in a unity between the subject and the
object (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 4.1:253).
The Bahá’í teachings stress that there is a fundamental separation
and distinction between God and His creation (Paris Talks no. 17).
Bahá’u’lláh writes that while all created things are the signs of God,
they are, nevertheless, His creatures and that the Creator can never be
likened to His creatures (Gleanings 93:7–8). Underlining the absolute
transcendence of God, in the Lawḥ-i-Sarráj (Má’idiy-i-Ásmání 7:7),
Bahá’u’lláh likewise emphasizes that “the One True God, exalted be His
glory, is bound unto none by the least tie of relationship or association,
of similarity or resemblance” (Dávúdí, “Discourse” 62). In the Panj
Sha’n, the Báb cites this maxim and states that since there is no likeness

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
between God and His creation, He cannot be known (INBA 1:30–31).
In His commentary on the Islamic tradition “I was a hidden treasure”,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá likewise rejects any likeness, similarity, or kinship between
God and His creatures in order to demonstrate the difference between
knowledge in the contingent world and that in the world of the Nec-
essary Being (Makátíb 2:33). He then quotes this maxim, gives the
examples of the dissimilarity between the human reality and the lower
kingdoms, and states that consequently animals, vegetables, and miner-
als can never comprehend the human being. Additionally, He defines
the similarity that is meant in this maxim as the likeness of quality. No
two things can be said to be similar unless they are qualitatively alike.
He then asserts that quality is an accident that subsists through physi-
cal bodies and concludes that God has no physical body in order for
an accident to be associated with His reality. Since no created being is
qualitatively similar to God, He cannot be known (ibid. 46–47).

14. A subject can only comprehend the objects which it precedes
Avicenna also attributes this maxim to early Greek philosophers.
According to this principle, that which comprehends always precedes
the mental image and the intelligible form of an object that is being
perceived. As a result, they consider the rational soul to be the ori-
gin of all the objects that can be perceived, including the four basic
elements of matter. As mentioned in the previous section, Avicenna
defends the ancient Greek belief that the rational soul is composed of
the four elements of matter (Aṭ-Ṭabí‘íyyát 6:15). It was also discussed
in section 3 that according to Mullá Ṣadrá, comprehension is the
presence and the existence of the intelligible reality of a thing within
human knowledge. Mullá Ṣadrá further writes that this presence and
existence is impossible without an essential connection between that
which comprehends and the object of its comprehension and defines
this connection as that of cause and effect. Evidently, unlike the early
Greek philosophers, Mullá Ṣadrá considers the rational soul to be
uncompounded. He, therefore, employs this maxim to an entirely dif-
ferent end and concludes that the relationship between the reality of

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
the knower and the object of its knowledge is that of a cause preceding
its effect (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 4.1:251).
The Central Figures of the Faith often utilize the logically equivalent
contrapositive of this maxim as one of the proofs of God’s unknowabil-
ity, a tenet of Bahá’í theology. The Báb, for instance, emphasizes this
principle of precedence in causation in relation to comprehension in
His commentary on the Súrih of the Cow using a rhetorical question:
“how can one who has not created God ever hope to know Him?” (INBA
69:158) In numerous Tablets and utterances, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá similarly
alludes to this principle and stresses that the contingent and originated
human reality can never comprehend the necessary and pre-existence
reality of God (Selections 21:4; “Forel”; Some Answered Questions 59:5;
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London 23; Promulgation 46:2; Khiṭábát 2:280). In
one statement, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that human understanding is
preceded by human existence, which is itself preceded by the divine
reality. He then asserts that it is impossible for human perception to
comprehend the reality of God or for any utterance to unfold its truth
or intimate its mystery (Some Answered Questions 37:3–4).

15. Nothing ceases to exist per se
According to this maxim, nothing by and of itself ceases to exist with-
out the involvement of external factors. The essences of things do not
necessitate their own non-existence; rather, non-existence is always
an accidental property that befalls them. Had the essence of a thing
necessitated its non-existence, it would have never come into being in
the first place. This reasoning is found in the writings of Al-Fárábí
(“At-Ta‘líqát” 19) and quoted by Suhrawardi (Sharḥu Ḥikmati’l-
Ishráq 300). Suhrawardi utilizes this maxim to demonstrate the
immortality of God (ibid).
The theme of the composition and the decomposition of elements—
and consequently of existence and non-existence—appears in several
Tablets and utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In His Tablet to Auguste Forel,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
for instance, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that existence, or the coming together
of the constituent elements, cannot be compulsory, or an essential
property. This would indicate that the essences of created beings
would necessarily need to exist and that a decomposition of formation
becomes impossible. In another Tablet (Makátíb 1:375–376), ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá references material philosophers who posit that all creation is
composed of an infinite number of uncompounded elements and
that non-existence is the decomposition of these uncompounded ele-
ments. While He disagrees with, and refutes, their conclusion that this
composition and decomposition of elements can take place without
God, He agrees with their argument that by non-existence is meant
a relative, not an absolute, non-existence. In a statement recorded in
Some Answered Questions (80:5), He reiterates this argument, disproves
absolute non-existence by equating it with non-existence as an essen-
tial property, and stresses that if the essence of a thing had necessitated
its non-existence, it would have never come into existence. The very
existence of a thing, therefore, indicates that it cannot have been
preceded by an absolute non-existence. In one of His talks (Khiṭábát
1:247), ‘Abdu’l-Bahá similarly rebuts existence and non-existence as
essential properties of things, thereby proving the contingent existence
of all created beings through a voluntary formation. The essences of
things necessitate neither their existence nor their non-existence: nei-
ther existence nor non-existence is an essential property of a created
being. They are both accidental properties imposed upon the essences
of things by the Necessary Being.

16. A thing does not exist unless it becomes necessary
Unless a thing reaches the point of necessity, it does not come into
being. Another related maxim which is briefly addressed in previous
sections, especially sections 10 and 15, is that preponderance without
a preponderant is impossible. The contingent, which is indifferent
to both existence and non-existence, depends for its existence on a
preponderant, a cause which is external to the essence of the contin-
gent and without which it cannot exist. The logical impossibility of

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
preponderance without a preponderant is a foundational principle for
many questions of philosophy. For instance, Islamic philosophers rely
on this principle to posit that the reason a thing requires a cause is its
contingence, not its origination. Islamic theologians, conversely, argue
that the criterion for a thing’s requirement of a cause is its origination.
Islamic philosophers maintain that when a thing is indifferent to both
existence and non-existence, its emergence out of the state of indiffer-
ence is impossible unless an external preponderant brings it out of the
state of indifference to existence and non-existence. This emergence
out of the state of indifference, the state which denotes contingence of
the essence, demonstrates the need for a cause.
Fakhr-i-Rází writes that there is a consensus among Islamic phi-
losophers about the logical impossibility of preponderance without a
preponderant and that some consider it to be an axiomatic primary
premise, whereas others accept it as a proven postulate (Al-Mabáḥith
125; Al-Arba‘ín 104–105). Philosophers who attested to the axiomatic
truth of this maxim include Mullá Ṣadrá (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah
1.1:207) and Fayḍ-i-Káshání (Uṣúl 42). Suhrawardi also utilizes this
principle to prove other questions of philosophy. He affirms that the
essence of the contingent is indifferent to existence and non-existence
and is not in itself drawn to either: for if it were, it would not be con-
tingent; it would be either the Necessary Being or a being the existence
of which is impossible to think (Sharḥu Ḥikmati’l-Ishráq 173). Con-
sequently, an essence which exists without an external factor is not
indifferent to existence and non-existence: existence is a necessity of its
essence; it is the Necessary Being.
Therefore, the possibility of non-existence is never completely removed
from the essence of the contingent, unless all the possible paths to
non-existence are closed to it, that is, unless it reaches the threshold
of necessity. Not only the essence of the contingent but also the pre-
ponderance of the external factor which necessitates the existence
of the contingent must reach the point of necessity in order to cause
the contingent to emerge out of its state of indifference. Thus, a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
preponderant which itself does not reach the point of necessity can-
not act as the sufficient cause for the existence of a contingent being
(Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.1:223–224). Avicenna elaborates on
this maxim in several of his works (An-Naját 226; ‘Uyún 55–56) and
Fakhr-i-Rází adduces arguments in its proof (Al-Mabáḥith 131–132).
In his expositions of this maxim, Mullá Ṣadrá speaks of two necessities:
the necessity which the contingent essence must derive from its cause
in order to exist; the necessity which the cause must reach in order
to act as the sufficient cause of the emergence of the contingent out
of a state of indifference towards existence. He stresses that necessity
in both senses is required for the existence of the contingent essence
(Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.1:223–224). Fayḍ-i-Káshání expounds
on these views of Mullá Ṣadrá’s (‘Aynu’l-Yaqín 71) and Mullá Hádíy-i-
Sabzivárí uses this maxim to prove that the Essence which is necessary
in its existence is likewise necessary in its possession of all attributes
(Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah 1:260, 348).
In the Ṣaḥífiy-i-‘Adlíyyih, the Báb stresses that God necessitated the exis-
tence of all contingent beings, related them to His own Self, and drew
them away from non-existence and toward existence (INBA 82:135–
136). In another Tablet in response to questions from the governor of
Shúshtar, the Báb also states that God, through the operation of His
sovereign will, brought all things into being; for otherwise, they would
never exist (ibid. 67:199). In His commentary on the Islamic tradition “I
was a hidden treasure”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá differentiates between actual non-
existence and state of the indifference of the contingent essence toward
existence and non-existence. He writes that in the latter state, the con-
tingent essence is not absolutely non-existent, because if it were, it could
never come into being. The current existence of contingent beings
disproves the possibility of their former non-existence. He argues that
according to the law of non-contradiction, a thing cannot embody the
attributes of its negation and absolute non-existence cannot acquire the
capacity and worthiness to emerge from a state of non-existence into the
realm of existence (Makátíb 2:39). In one of His utterances, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá also explains that just as absolute non-existence cannot acquire

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
existence, in like manner, things that exist or once existed will not be
entirely destroyed and annihilated. Their death, rather than actual non-
existence, consists of transformation into a mineral existence. He also
affirms that God is the cause that has realized all contingent things and
has brought them into existence (Some Answered Questions 53:5–7).

17. A thing does not create unless it exists
This maxim is similar in meaning and reference to the principle
expounded in the previous section: “a thing does not exist unless it
becomes necessary”. That principle identifies the necessity of a thing
as the criterion of creation, whereas the maxim “a thing does not create
unless it exists” specifies the existence of a thing as the prerequisite for it
to create. Since the two notions of necessity and existence are concomi-
tants, these two maxims can also be said to be concomitants. Unless
existence reaches the point of necessity, creation is impossible, just as
necessity without existence cannot be perceived. This is because neces-
sity is the essential need for existence. Therefore, existence and necessity,
two concepts which denote the same reality, are the criteria and the
prerequisites for the creation of all beings (Dinani, Qavá‘id 1:238).
Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí relies on this maxim to prove the omnipotence
of God. He conditions creation upon existence and argues that since
contingent beings lack true existence, they cannot create in the true
sense of the term. Only the Necessary Being, Who has a true existence,
can truly create (Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah 3:621).
The essence of this maxim is captured in a line of the Persian poet
Jámí’s verse, which is cited in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá often to highlight the principles of the Covenant and the Bahá’í
social teachings:
That soul which hath itself not come alive,
Can it then hope another to revive?

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
This intertextuality, for instance, occurs in the Kitáb-i-Badí‘ (2)
where Bahá’u’lláh questions the ability and the motive of Siyyid
Muḥammad-i-Iṣfahání, the Antichrist of the Bahá’í Revelation, to
guide and to save anyone when he has gone astray himself and broken
the Covenant of the Báb. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also uses this motif (Selections
no. 221; Ma’ákhidh-i-Ash‘ár 3:290, 292) to stress the importance of
perfect unity among the believers before they can invite others to har-
mony and peace, and of purity and sacrifice before one can teach the
Faith. An early translation of this verse also appears in Memorials of
the Faithful (no. 3) where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that a teacher must first
teach and purify himself before he can teach and guide others:
Shall he the gift of life to others bear
Who of life’s gift has never had a share?
‘Abdu’l-Bahá likewise employs this principle to refute that a fallible or
wayward individual can be the interpreter of the Bahá’í Revelation or
the source of guidance (INBA 13:91).

18. The bestower of a thing cannot be deprived therefrom
One can only give what one possesses. An aspect of this principle is
explored in the previous section. This maxim stipulates that all the
perfections of an effect also exist in its cause and that no perfection
can be found in an effect which does not exist in its cause.
In his commentary on the Treatise of Zeno, Al-Fárábí refers to the cause
as the bestower and to the effect as the recipient of grace (“Risálatu
Zínun” 4). Similar expressions can also be found in the works of Avi-
cenna (An-Naját 213). Mullá Ṣadrá uses this principle to demonstrate
the truth of his maxim of the uncompounded reality (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-
Muta‘álíyah 3.1:116) and to support his assertions concerning the
attributes of the Necessary Being and God’s knowledge of His own
Essence (Al-Mabda’ 189). Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí likewise resorts to

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
this maxim in support of his argument for God’s knowledge of His
Essence (Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah 3:561).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá invokes the logic of this principle in several Tablets and
utterances. He states, for instance, that since we can observe infinite
perfections, knowledge, and composition of elements in humankind,
we can conclude that the cause of its existence, God, must also be infi-
nite in perfections, such as knowledge, power, and existence (“Forel”;
Promulgation 46:3). In one of His talks, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts that the
very existence of a worldly being indicates the existence of a Divine
Being (Khiṭábát 1:149). In another talk, He proves by contradiction
that an absence of human perfections—such as the discovery of the
realities of things, the power of idealization or intellection, science,
memory, perception, and volition—in nature demonstrates that
human reality is not a part of, and caused by, the world of nature
(Promulgation no. 111).

19. A thing in its absoluteness does not
yield to distinction or repetition
A thing in its essence and the absoluteness of its substance allows of
no distinction or multiplicity. An assumption that the essence and the
reality of a thing admits of division or multiplicity leads to contradic-
tion. Were we to assume that in the reality of a thing, which is free of
all things beside the pure essence, a duality or multiplicity exists, this
duality or plurality must necessarily come from time, location, quan-
tity, quality, or other accidental properties that the substance possesses
contingently. This contradicts our original assumption that the abso-
lute substance is free of all things beside the pure essence.
Suhrawardi uses this maxim and the above logic to demonstrate that
the reality of existence yields to no repetition or multiplicity. Where
the absoluteness of existence is considered, any secondary factor that
can be perceived in relation to that reality is nothing but existence

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
(Mawsú‘atu Muṣannafát 56). Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí arranges the
logic of this proposition as minor and major premises of a syllogistic
demonstration in order to prove that the reality of existence admits
of no repetition or multiplicity (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.3:338,
fn1). Mullá Ṣadrá draws upon this maxim in his exposition of several
philosophical questions. He writes, for example, about the oneness of
the rational soul in human species insofar as it is what defines human
species. The true reality of human species, without considering acci-
dental properties such as quantity, quality, relation, time, and location,
is one (ibid.). He also employs this logic to refute reincarnation. He
states that the rational soul, just like the prime matter, is one in the
absoluteness of its reality but can accept infinite forms. The oneness
of essence is not incompatible with the multiplicity that can take place
outside of the essence. The oneness of human species despite a plural-
ity of its members can therefore be explained using the existence of
the rational soul, which is one in its essential reality but many in its
external references and forms. But it can admit of no multiplicity or
repetition in its true reality and the absoluteness of its substance (ibid.
4.2:19–20). Sabzivárí relies on this maxim to demonstrate the truth of
Mullá Ṣadrá’s statement about the oneness of the prime matter in its
absolute reality despite the infinite forms it can accept (ibid. 20, fn1).
Fayḍ-i-Káshání uses this principle to prove the supreme singleness of
God and to reject any multiplicity in relation to His Essence (Uṣúl 14).
In the Súriy-i-Haykal (Summons par. 45), Bahá’u’lláh describes His
station of essential unity—a station in which all Manifestations of
God, owing to Their association with the world of God, are seen as
one essence, one soul, and one reality (Bolodo-Taefi, “God, Revelation,
and Manifestation” 184)—as a reality which admits of no duality and
which should be regarded as one with God. The Báb, in His exposition
of the meaning of “the uncompounded reality”, cites this maxim and
demonstrates that the names and attributes of God are identical with
His Essence. He refutes a statement that the multiplicity of the objects
of God’s knowledge is tantamount to a multiplicity in the Essence
of God and highlights the epistemological error of attempting to

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
comprehend the Essence of God in the same manner that His creation
of the world of being can be understood. He stresses that just as the
existence of God is not dependent upon the existence of other forms
of life, His knowledge also does not require objects of knowledge
(INBA 69:423–424). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá likewise explains that the reality
of Divinity admits of no division or multiplicity, which stems from
accidental—not essential—properties of things (Some Answered Ques-
tions 27:2–3). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also appears to appeal to this maxim as one
of His arguments against reincarnation. He states that in the world of
creation, “the divine appearances are not repeated” and “no created
thing can be identical with another in every way”. He concludes that
reincarnation, a “repeated manifestation in this world of the same
spirit with its former essence and conditions”, is impossible (ibid. 81:6).

20. Principle of the nobler contingent
According to this principle, a nobler contingent always precedes a baser
contingent in existence. Therefore, the existence of a baser contingent
necessarily indicates the existence of a nobler contingent prior to it.
This maxim is meant to apply only to what exists beyond the world
of matter and in the specific setting in which the nobler and the baser
contingents are of the same essence, such as the First Intellect or the
Platonic Ideas.
Mullá Ṣadrá attributes this principle to Aristotle (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-
Muta‘álíyah 3.2:244). Avicenna (Rasá’il 2:24), Shahrazúrí (explicated
in Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 3.2:245), and Sabzivárí (ibid. 3.1:97, fn2)
utilize it to prove several philosophical propositions. Suhrawardi quotes
this maxim in several of his works (Mawsú‘atu Muṣannafát 67–68,
623–624) and uses it to prove the existence of the rational soul and its
immortality (ibid. 67). Mullá Ṣadrá also employs it to prove the intellect,
among other things (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 3.2:263).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
He demonstrates the truth of this maxim and writes that for the emana-
tion of a nobler contingent from God to not precede the emanation of a
baser contingent, one of the following scenarios must necessarily occur:
1.
The nobler and the baser contingent must emanate from God
simultaneously: This would suggest the emanation of multi-
plicity from one and extend plurality to the Essence of God.
2.
The nobler contingent must emanate from God after the baser
contingent does: This would indicate that the effect is nobler
than its cause.
3.
The nobler contingent, despite its contingence, must not
emanate from God at all: The non-existence of a contingent
being which God could have brought into existence must be
necessitated by a cause which is nobler and loftier than the
Necessary Being.
It is clear that all of these scenarios are logically impossible
(ibid. 244–246).
In one of His utterances (Some Answered Questions 28:4), after discuss-
ing causal and temporal kinds of precedence, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes
precedence with regard to distinction. He states that “the most dis-
tinctive precedes the distinctive” and cites the example of the reality
of Christ which precedes all created things in essence, attributes, and
distinction.

21. A pre-existent being shall never cease to exist
A pre-existent being is a being which requires no cause for both its
existence and continuance. It is neither preceded nor succeeded by
non-existence. It is a being to which non-existence has no access—it is
beyond non-existence. An equally valid inverse of this statement can
also be inferred: All corporeal beings will cease to exist.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
The first Islamic philosopher, Al-Kindí, considers all material beings
to be composed of the four basic elements of earth, water, air, and
fire and subject to eventual non-existence (Falásifatu’l-‘Arab 8:14).
In his works, he defines this philosophical dictum and demonstrates
its truth (Rasá’ilu Al-Kindí 113–114, 169). Al-Fárábí regards the
existence as the composition, or coming together, of elements and
non-existence as their decomposition and disintegration. He holds
that any composition is ultimately followed by decomposition
(“Masá’ilu Mutafarriqah” 5). Bahmanyár, Avicenna’s distinguished
pupil, adduces proofs in support of this maxim. Originated beings
are preceded by non-existence. This indicates that there was a time
when the matter of the world of existence was devoid of the form of
originated beings. The matter of the world, then, always contains the
potential of being devoid of this form, for without such potential the
non-existence of the form of originated beings could have never been
actualized. Insofar as the matter of the world of existence was at some
point devoid of the form of originated beings, it can also be devoid
of this form in the future (At-Taḥṣíl 630). Mullá Ṣadrá relies on this
maxim occasionally, for instance to demonstrate the immortality of
the rational soul. He writes that any being which is not incorporeal
and uncompounded—and which is therefore accidental or com-
pounded—is subject to non-existence (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah
4.1:314, 388). Sabzivárí equates the maxim “all originated, material
beings are subject to non-existence” with the principle “all composi-
tions are subject to decomposition”. He explains that all compositions
consist of diverse elements. The formation of any being as a result of
a composition of elements requires that its diverse constituent ele-
ments come together against their original nature. This compulsion
in nature cannot persist. All compositions will eventually disintegrate
and their underlying elements will return to their original conditions
according to their respective nature. He also writes that in order for
non-existence to befall a being, that being must possess a prior poten-
tial for it. Potential requires matter, whereas pre-existence beings are
free from matter (ibid. 4.1:388, fn1; Asráru’l-Ḥikam 241–242).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
The Writings of utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are replete with statements
that associate existence with composition and non-existence with
decomposition of constituent elements. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that
composition—and therefore existence—is not an essential property
of corporeal and contingent beings; for otherwise a decomposition of
elements could not take place and nothing would cease to exist. It is,
rather, an accidental property bestowed upon them through a volun-
tary formation fashioned by God (“Forel”; Selections no. 225; Makátíb
1:375–376; ibid. 4:146; Some Answered Questions 36:2, 39:2, 53:7, 55:4,
60:6, 81:7). Further, the human soul is an incorporeal being; conse-
quently, while not pre-existent, once it comes into being, it shall never
cease to exist (ibid. 36:3). Nevertheless, as mentioned in section 10, it
has a contingent existence and depends on a cause, the grace of God,
for its continuance (Gleanings 81:1). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also stresses that
the world of God is free of all composition and decomposition and is
therefore imperishable (Makátíb 4:146).

22. Where an essence is predicated on plural subjects,
its predication is not from itself
If an essence can be predicated on more than one being, this predication
on multiple beings cannot be from the essence itself, but rather from
another thing. Al-Fárábí asserts that if the predication of an essence on
multiple beings is from itself, then that essence per se requires plurality
and it can never be predicated on only one being. However, predication
of essence on a single being is an undisputable fact. It can be concluded
then that the predication of an essence on multiple beings is necessarily
from a thing which is different from the essence itself. Such predica-
tion is, therefore, an effect (“Fuṣúṣ” 4).
It must be noted that essence per se is neither singular nor plural. It is
indifferent in its relation to both singularity and plurality, as it is to
both generality and specificity, or to both actuality and potentiality.
Therefore, just as the essence does not demand plurality, neither does

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
it demand singularity. Both singularity and plurality are accidental
properties that subsist through the essence. The difference between
singularity and plurality, however, is that singularity and existence are
concomitants. Therefore, when an essence exists, it is always predicated
on one being. This is because if singularity and existence are concomi-
tants, then the predication of essence on existence is also concomitant
with the predication of essence on singularity. But the predication of
essence on more than one being requires a cause which is external to the
essence itself. Avicenna, for instance, considers plurality to be the effect
of singularity and its repetition. He also holds singularity and existence
to be concomitants (An-Naját 198). Fakhr-i-Rází (Al-Mabáḥith 90)
and Mullá Ṣadrá (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.2:82) likewise believe
in the concomitance of singularity and existence. Mullá Ṣadrá further
recognizes singularity as the cause and plurality as the effect, suggesting
that a cause is required for plurality to occur (ibid. 122). Sabzivárí simi-
larly upholds the causal relationship between singularity and plurality
and emphasizes that plurality is but the repetition of singularity. He
adduces arguments to conclude that an admission of plurality in rela-
tion to the essence necessitates its non-existence. Therefore, plurality is
concomitant with non-existence (Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah 3:511). Fayḍ-i-
Káshání posits that the only thing which is potentially plural in essence
is the reality of matter (Uṣúl 57).
In His commentary on the Súrih of the Cow, the Báb expatiates upon
the different meanings of life and death and states that singularity
is concomitant with life, while plurality is concomitant with death
(INBA 69:231).

23. For every motion there is a motive force
This maxim is one of the most important means of proving the exis-
tence of God. Through this philosophical principle, as well as the
impossibility of infinite regress and vicious circle, thinkers have proved

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
the existence of the Prime, or the Unmoved, Mover. Such proofs dem-
onstrate either the agency, or efficiency, of the Prime Mover as a cause,
or its finality.
Al-Kindí attributes this maxim to Aristotle. Aristotle describes several
types of motion, but recognizes generation and corruption—chang-
ing from one substantial form to another—as the most notable among
them. In order to explain how things come to be and pass away, he
states that an originated being potentially exists before its coming into
being. Potential existence is nothing but the prime matter; once it
receives a form, that potentiality is actualized in the form of an actual
existence. Aristotle specifies this change from potentiality to actual-
ity as motion. Asserting that every motion requires a motive force,
he identifies the final cause as the motive force which causes things
to actualize their potentiality (Rasá’ilu Al-Kindí 153–154, 162). Al-
Fárábí similarly considers the motive force to be the final cause in rela-
tion to this maxim (“Ad-Da‘áví” 8). Avicenna uses this philosophical
principle to prove the existence of the Prime Mover. He concludes that
the Prime Mover is the motive force insofar as it provides the end and
the purpose of motion (An-Naját 262). Bahmanyár (At-Taḥṣíl 478)
and Sabzivárí (Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah 3:509) consider the Prime Mover
to be both the efficient and the final cause.
Philosophers before Mullá Ṣadrá believed that motion occurs in only
four categories of accidents: place, quality, quantity, and position.
They suggested that the actualization of motion requires a fixed sub-
ject that persists as long as motion itself persists. Were the substance
of a being to be the subject of motion, they claimed, nothing about
that original being would persist through motion. Proving the occur-
rence of motion in the indeterminate substratum of the world, Mullá
Ṣadrá resolved several significant philosophical questions. The scope
of the principle concerning the requirement of motion to motive force
is, however, confined to motion in the four categories of accidents.
Whereas motion in such accidental categories requires a motive force,
substantial motion requires a life force. Therefore, according to Mullá

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
Ṣadrá, the above maxim would change to “For every moving thing
there is a sustainer” (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.3:39–40).
The original form of this principle also gained popularity among
rationalist theologians, such as Allámah Al-Ḥillí (Íḍáḥ 276–278)
and Fakhr-i-Rází, who provides several arguments in its proof. One
such argument, for instance, states that if an object were capable of
moving per se and required no external motive force, then it would
never stop moving and its stillness would be impossible. Since the
essential properties of an object persist so long as its essence does, the
motionlessness of an object indicates that motion is not its essential
property but is caused by an external motive force (Al-Mabáḥith 554).
Another argument, presented by Bahmanyár (At-Taḥṣíl 475), Fakhr-i-
Rází (Al-Mabáḥith 555), and Mullá Ṣadrá (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah
1.3:41–42) among others, states that in order for an object to move
without an external motive force, motion must be its essential property.
This requires the simultaneous potentiality and actuality of the object
in relation to motion, which is logically impossible.
As shown in section 4, in His utterances, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá confirms sub-
stantial motion. Further, in His Tablet to Auguste Forel, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
uses this maxim in His discussion of the chain of causation in order to
prove the existence of the Ultimate Cause. In another Tablet, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá invokes the logic of this maxim to stress that in this day, “the
signs of the revelation of the Sun of Truth are present and manifest
in all created things”, yet the unfair, the ignorant, and the unheeding
“remain utterly unaware of the cause of this growth and development,
and the source of this boundless progress”: “They see the motion, but
reflect not upon its motive force” (Light 45:5). Moreover, Bahá’u’lláh
refers to God in a prayer as the “Prime Mover” of the entire creation
(Prayers 169:2) and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes that the motive force of both
voluntary and involuntary motions in the world of creation is God
(Má’idiy-i-Ásmání 5:103).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
24. All that is known to humankind exists
Whatsoever humankind can know must inevitably exist. The contra-
positive of this statement is also equally valid: That which does not exist
can never be known to humankind. Human ignorance of that which
is non-existent can be considered an axiomatic proposition. Khájih
Naṣíru’d-Dín-i-Ṭúsí (“Al-Fuṣúl” 1) states that from one’s knowledge
of an object one’s recognition of its existence can be inferred a fortiori.
Asserting that human knowledge of an object is inseparable from
human knowledge of the principle of existence, Ṭúsí uses this maxim
to prove the truth of existence. Fakhr-i-Rází adduces a proof to demon-
strate this maxim. That which is known to humankind, according to
Fakhr-i-Rází, is necessarily distinguished from other objects, and that
which is distinguished from other objects necessarily exists. Having
established the truth of this maxim, Fakhr-i-Rází accepts its contra-
positive without further proof (Al-Mabáḥith 377–378), although he
substantiates it elsewhere (Jámi‘u’l-‘Ulúm 7).
As described in section 12, in His commentary on the Islamic tradi-
tion “I was a hidden treasure”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá narrates the views of some
schools of Islamic thought that differentiate between God’s knowl-
edge of the intelligible realities of all things and a knowledge of the
actual existence of all created beings. Concerning the latter, He refers
to the view which considers the objects of knowledge—that which is
known—to be originated and created (Makátíb 2:34–35). While this
discourse takes place in the context of God’s knowledge of His creation,
the principle to which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers, the origination and actual
existence of that which is known, equally applies to human knowledge.

25. All contingents are compositions
According to this maxim, the cause of any composition is its essential
contingence. Conversely, the notions of singleness, simplicity, non-
delimitation, and incorporeality fall outside the contingent realm and
are associated with the Necessary Being. When an essence is consid-
ered in its relation to existence and non-existence, there are only three

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
possibilities: the essence requires existence; it requires non-existence;
or it requires neither existence nor non-existence. If an essence per se
requires existence, its existence is “essentially necessary”. If it requires
non-existence, its existence is “essentially impossible”. If an essence
requires neither existence nor non-existence, it is “essentially contin-
gent”. It is this essential contingence that is the subject of this maxim.
Al-Fárábí discusses this principle in his commentary on the Treatise of
Zeno (“Risálatu Zínun” 3–4). Avicenna states that if the existence of
a reality comes from another source, then that reality is a composition;
it is not an uncompounded reality. According to Avicenna, that which
comes from another source is different from that which the reality pos-
sesses per se. A reality whose existence comes from another source then
has two distinct aspects and is a compounded reality. Therefore, beside
the Essence of God, Which is the only Necessary Being, Whose exis-
tence does not come from another source, and Which is truly uncom-
pounded, all other beings, which are contingent, contain some kind
of composition (Al-Iláhíyyát 47). Mullá Ṣadrá also describes that the
notions of singleness, simplicity, pre-existence, non-delimitation, and
incorporeality are concomitants with the concept of essential necessity
and their referent is the Essence of God. On the contrary, the notions
of plurality, composition, origination, delimitation, and corporeality
are concomitants with the concept of essential contingence and their
referent is to be found in the essences of created beings. All contingent
beings, therefore, are composed of matter and form, of essence and
existence, and of potentiality and actuality. Even the world of creation
itself can be said to comprise an intelligible matter and form: contin-
gence is its matter, whereas composition is its form (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-
Muta‘álíyah 1.1:186–189). He further uses this maxim to assert that
a plurality of the attributes that we ascribe to God does not contradict
the singleness of His Essence. He argues that despite their plurality and
differences in their meanings, all such attributes are united in refer-
ence—with God as their single referent (ibid. 3.2:232). For a discourse
on the difference between meaning and reference in relation to God’s
attributes, see section 2. Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí relies on this maxim

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
to examine composition and demonstrate the need of all creation to a
cause (Asráru’l-Ḥikam 47–48).
A discussion of the Bahá’í Writings concerning composition appears
in several sections of this paper, particularly in sections 15 and 21.
Moreover, as mentioned previously, in His commentary on the Islamic
tradition “I was a hidden treasure”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá narrates the views of
some schools of Islamic thought concerning God’s knowledge of His
creation. According to one such view, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, all created
things are composed of matter and form (Makátíb 2:35).

26. The existence of all things
is commensurate with their station
The portion which every essence takes of existence and its manifesta-
tion are commensurate with the station of that essence. Qúnaví intro-
duced this maxim to elucidate the concept of Fixed Entities according
to the views of the mystical philosophers (An-Nuṣúṣ 70). It is through
the concept of Fixed Entities that Islamic mystical philosophers explain
God’s pre-existent knowledge of, and His relationship with, all cre-
ation. They believe that each essence occupies a station, according to
the portion it takes of existence, along the hierarchy and gradation of
existence. Some beings, therefore, are nobler than others, precede oth-
ers on the continuum of existence, and act as causes; yet some beings
are baser than others, are further down the hierarchy of existence, and
act as effects. Further, any one essence may likewise receive different
gradations of existence and, consequently, have different manifesta-
tions. For instance, any one essence may have an intelligible existence,
an archetypical or ideal existence, an actual or formal existence, a vocal
or literal existence, and a written existence, among others. The stations
that various essences occupy on the continuum of existence, as well
as gradations of the existence of any one essence, therefore, manifest
different intensities of existence. A superior being possesses the proper-
ties and qualities of an inferior being, but an inferior being does not
possess the properties and qualities of a superior being.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
Fixed Entities are described as one manifestation of the existence of
the essences of things—their intelligible existence in God’s knowledge.
Fixed Entities do not have an actual, or formal, existence; they repre-
sent the pre-existent fixity of things in the Divine knowledge—things
as they are known to God. The mystical philosopher Ibnu’l-‘Arabí
and his followers stress the intelligible fixity of all beings in the Divine
knowledge prior to their actual existence. Islamic mystical philosophers
suggest that the manifestation of all things in the world of creation is
determined in the knowledge of God through Fixed Entities, that all
things reflect some of God’s attributes, and that only humankind can
reflect all of the attributes of God (Jundí, Sharḥu Fuṣúṣ 342). Qúnaví
further states that any being can be considered pre-existent when
considered from the perspective of its Fixed Entity—its fixity in the
Divine knowledge. It can also be said that all that is fixed in the Divine
knowledge is originated and contingent when viewed in relation to its
existence in this world (An-Nuṣúṣ 70).
Several aspects of this maxim, such as the oneness of the universal rev-
elation and the outpouring of existence, the difference in stations and
capacities of essences, the gradation of existence, the plurality of the
manifestations of existence in each station, and a superior being’s pos-
session of the properties and qualities of an inferior being, have been
affirmed in the Writings and utterances of the Central Figures of the
Faith. In Tafsír-i-Nubuvvat-i-Kháṣṣih (INBA 40:95), for instance, the
Báb expatiates upon the entification and individuation of the first ema-
nation from God, its manifestation in different stations of existence,
and its reflection in the human soul. In another Tablet (ibid. 176), the
Báb also states that the first emanation from God has different mani-
festations according to the capacities and stations of beings and accord-
ing to the portion that the entification of distinctions and degrees—as
they are enshrined in intelligible existence of essences in the Divine
knowledge—takes of actual and formal existence. As stated in sec-
tion 2, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in His commentary on the Basmalah (Makátíb
1:49–52), stipulates that in God’s station of Oneness, the Divine names
find a manifestation, entification, and life-giving existence in the form

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
of Fixed Entities.2 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Some Answered Questions 82:17)
describes the first emanation in the following words:
The first emanation is the outpouring grace of the Kingdom,
which has emanated from God and has appeared in the realities of
all things, even as the rays emanating from the sun are reflected in
all things. And that grace—the rays—appears in infinite forms in
the realities of all things, and is specified and individuated accord-
ing to their capacity, receptivity, and essence.
Further, in His commentary on the Islamic tradition “I was a hidden
treasure”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá relates the views of Islamic philosophers who
believe in the origination of the essences and stations of beings. They
state, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, that the outpouring of the grace of
existence and of God’s life-giving creation is one and universal in rela-
tion to all beings, without any distinction; each being, however, takes a
portion of existence and occupies a station according to the receptivity
and the capacity its own essence. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes this notion
of the gradation of existence using the Illuminationist light imagery:
The sun shines and bestows its grace upon all its rays equally. Some
rays, however, reside myriad leagues afar, while others abide within the
proximity of the sun. It is not that the sun chooses to keep some rays
close and send others afar. It casts upon all rays the same effusion of its
radiance. Each ray, however, occupies a station according to its own
receptivity and capacity (Makátíb 2:38–39).
In another Tablet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirms and elaborates on the notion
of the gradation of existence by differentiating between the singular-
ity of its meaning and the plurality of its references. He asserts that
the concept of “existence” has only one meaning, but that existence
has different stations in each of which it also has different entifications,
individuations, and specific qualities and properties. The mineral, the
vegetable, the animal, and the human all exist. None of these essences
is deprived of existence. In each station, however, the existence has a
unique manifestation and reflects unique qualities and properties

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
commensurate with the reality and the capacity of that station. In the
human station, for instance, the effusion of the grace of existence is
most effulgent and its manifestation is most intense (ibid. 1:218).
In several talks, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stresses the oneness of the outpouring
of existence and the equality of its life-giving bestowal in relation
to all created things notwithstanding the diversity of the stations of
beings and the difference in their capacities and receptivity (Khiṭábát
1:6; Promulgation 62:3). A corollary to this maxim is that, according to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, owing to the difference in stations and degrees of exis-
tence, an inferior being in the order of existence does not possess the
qualities and perfections of a higher degree and cannot comprehend it.
Conversely, a superior being possesses the qualities and perfections of a
lower degree and can comprehend it (Makátíb 4:57–58; Some Answered
Questions 59:6, 70:5; Paris Talks no. 5; Khiṭábát 1:5; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
London 23; Promulgation 62:2). The human being receives the great-
est share of the effusion of existence, encompasses all created things,
and embodies “all the perfections of the world of creation: the mineral
body, the vegetable tenderness, and the animal senses” (Khiṭábát 1:6,
provisional translation).
Further, as described in section 12, in His commentary on the Islamic
tradition “I was a hidden treasure”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expatiates upon the
appearance of the matter and the form in creation, as well as the prime
matter and the prime form, by narrating the views of some schools of
Islamic thought. He demonstrates that the matter and the form of each
created being are created simultaneously, just as the prime matter and
the prime form are created simultaneously. The undifferentiated mat-
ter depends on the form in its entification, individuation, specification,
and existence, and the form is in need of the matter in its appearance.
Therefore, the capacities of essences and the outpouring of existence are
created simultaneously (Makátíb 2:35–36).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
27. In every motion, the subject must continue to exist
The question of motion has perplexed philosophers since Classical
Greece. Some regard it as the very manifestation of existence, while
others deny its actual existence. One of the most celebrated challeng-
ers of the truth of motion is Zeno of Elea whose arguments against
motion, such as his dichotomy paradox, arrow paradox, and paradox
of Achilles and the tortoise, have puzzled the keenest minds for over
two millennia. At the opposite end of the spectrum is the view that the
world of existence is nothing but the different manifestations of change
and motion—a view immortalized by Heraclitus in his philosophical
dictum, “No man ever steps in the same river twice”. The constant
and ever-present motion of all things is examined thoroughly in Mullá
Ṣadrá’s doctrine of substantial motion. According to this doctrine, not
only accidental properties of things but also the very substance and
the essence of the world is in a constant flux: Nothing is motionless
(Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.3:69–105).
Every motion requires a beginning, an end, a motive force, a distance
traversed, a purpose, and a subject. The subject of motion—that which
moves and changes from one state to another—must continue to exist
throughout the motion. Its continuance is as necessary as its existence
in any motion. Should the subject of motion not remain, but cease to
exist, in the course of the motion, it cannot be said that a thing has
moved and actualized its potentiality; it can only be observed that an
existent thing ceases to exist and then another thing comes into exis-
tence. This would impair the possibility of evolution. Islamic philoso-
phers generally recognize motion in four categories of accidental prop-
erties—location, quality, quantity, and position—with the subject of
motion being the substance, or the essence, of a thing. They posit that
in the case of motion in accidental properties, despite any change, the
substance remains intact. They disagree, however, that the subject
of motion also continues to exist in the case of motion in substance.
Were the substance and the essence of a thing—and consequently its
essential reality—to suffer change, a subject would no longer remain in
motion in order to connect its future to its past, or its actuality to its

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
potentiality. The connecting link between the future and the past and
between the actuality of a thing and its potentiality in a motion is the
continuance of the subject of motion (Dinani, Qavá‘id 2:723–724).
Fayḍ-i-Káshání, Mullá Ṣadrá’s distinguished pupil, maintains that in
substantial motion, a material being has different forms and phases.
Although these forms and phases constantly change, an all-inclusive
factor nevertheless unifies them. Therefore, in its substantial motion,
each material being continually moves from one phase of substantial-
ity to another. The continuance of the subject of motion is achieved
through two means. Firstly, the active intellect, or the agent intellect,
which according to Muslim Peripatetics gives all things their form,
encompasses the entirety of the motion of a being. Secondly, the
prime matter—the indeterminate substratum or potentiality—finds
individuation and specification in each phase of substantial motion by
receiving an essential form. This association between the prime matter
and forms engenders a single continuous existence through which all
phases of substantial motion subsist. These preserve the unique iden-
tity of the being and continue the unscathed existence of the subject of
motion. The phases and forms in substantial motion can be likened to
those in the life of a human being. Through childhood, youth, and old
age, the identity of a person, which is the subject of motion, continues
to exist (Uṣúl 109).
In His utterances, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá confirms motion in essence and sub-
stance in addition to motion in accidental properties. He states that
“nothing that exists remains in a state of repose”, that “all things are in
motion”, that they experience qualitative, quantitative, essential, and
substantial motion, that “they are either growing or declining, either
coming from non-existence into existence or passing from existence
into non-existence”, and that motion is an essential property of exis-
tence (Some Answered Questions 63:1–2; Khiṭábát 1:142–143).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
28. Any being which can be described as
nondelimited is partly delimited
In order to describe a being, one must first perceive it. A being can-
not be perceived unless it is an individuated or a specified entity. Such
entification demonstrates its delimitation. Therefore, that which can
be described as nondelimited is partly delimited.
Islamic mystical philosophers Ibnu’l-‘Arabí (Al-Futúḥát 4.272:313–
315) and Qúnaví (An-Nuṣúṣ 39–40, 66) distinguish between two
different senses of nondelimitation. When considered from the
perspective of their essence, beings can be corporeal, incorporeal, or
nondelimited. Although a nondelimited essence is free from delimita-
tion of corporeality and incorporeality, it is still delimited by its being
described as nondelimited. When considered from the perspective of
existence, however, God, the Absolute Existence, is not only nonde-
limited, but its nondelimitation is such that it is not even delimited
by its nondelimitation. Existentially, God is essentially nondelimited.
He is infinite and absolute, undefined and indefinable, indistinct and
indistinguishable, whereas the world of creation is distinct, defined,
and limited. Therefore, owing to God’s essential nondelimitation,
one must resort to an apophatic theology in order to consider His
existence. His nondelimitation is such that He must be exalted above
any description, including a description of nondelimitation, which is
tantamount to delimitation.
The Writings of the Central Figures of the Faith are replete with state-
ments that negate all that is other than God’s Essence, emphasize His
nondelimitation, and exalt Him above any names and attributes, above
any description (Aqdas 92, 96; Íqán 70; Gleanings 26:1, 26:3–4, 124:1,
148:1; Tablets 102, 113; Áthár 4:95; Má’idiy-i-Ásmání 7:142; INBA
15:179, 31:107, 41:282–83, 82:54, 86:186; Prayers no. 176; Makátíb
1:134, 1:188, 2:141), above any entification and specification (Makátíb
2:7), and even above exaltation and sanctification (Má’idiy-i-Ásmání
7:81; Áthár 6:198; Some Answered Questions 27:2–3). Bahá’u’lláh, for
instance, writes: “Far is the realm of names from the court of His

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
presence to which praise itself is ashamed to claim any relation and
sanctification itself is abashed to allude. Exalted, immeasurably
exalted, is He above every mention and every description” (Dávúdí,
“Discourse” 64, provisional translation).3 Further, in an iteration of
this maxim, Bahá’u’lláh writes: “Whatsoever in the contingent world
can either be expressed or apprehended, can never transgress the limits
which, by its inherent nature, have been imposed upon it. God, alone,
transcendeth such limitations.” (Gleanings 78:2)

29. There is no reason for god’s action save his essence
Any action which proceeds from one’s will is taken for a cause or to
serve a purpose. God’s action proceeds from His will. It is logical to
conclude then that any Divine action is taken for a reason or to serve
God’s purpose. How can the existence of a reason or purpose be justi-
fied in relation to God’s action?
Many Islamic rationalist theologians reject the existence of a reason or
purpose in relation to God’s action. Fakhr-i-Rází, for instance, asserts
that any being who does anything with a motive, an intention, or a goal,
is inevitably imperfect and incomplete. He elaborates that a being who
takes an action according to a motive, with an intention, or toward a
goal, cannot be indifferent to its existence and non-existence. One acts
because one will be better off having taken that action. If one does
not fulfil that which leaves one better off, one will be imperfect and
incomplete. Therefore, one who takes an action according to a motive,
with an intention, or toward a goal, has a need which one seeks to sat-
isfy with that action (Al-Mabáḥith 542–543). Would the existence of a
reason or purpose in relation to God’s action then not be tantamount
to deficiency and imperfection in His Essence?
As described in section 16, according to Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí, the
Essence which is necessary in its existence is likewise necessary in its pos-
session of all attributes (Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah 1:260, 348). This prin-
ciple requires that God be sanctified from all aspects of contingence.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Just as God is necessary in His existence, He is also necessary in His
knowledge, His will, and all the other attributes. Since His will is a
property of His Essence, no reason outside His Essence can exist for
His action. As discussed in section 23, God is at once the efficient and
the final cause. Therefore, the reason for His action is nothing but His
own Essence.
As has been shown in sections 2, 5, and 7, Bahá’ís believe that God’s
names and attributes in His world are identical with His Essence. There-
fore, the reason for the operation of any one of God’s names and attri-
butes through His action is nothing but the necessity of His Essence.
Further, the Central Figures of the Faith reject need and dependence
in relation to God (INBA 69:423–424; Makátíb 2:11; Some Answered
Questions 53:4). This precludes the existence of a reason or purpose
outside God’s Essence in relation to His action. In His exposition of
the meaning of “the uncompounded reality”, the Báb highlights the
oneness of God’s names with His Essence to stress the essential distinc-
tion between the Necessary Being and the contingent and to reject
God’s need of external, contingent factors for the operation of His
attributes. He states that just as the existence of God is not dependent
upon the existence of other forms of life, His knowledge also does not
require objects of knowledge (INBA 69:423–424). By the same token,
the operation of His sovereign will, which, like His other attributes in
His world, is identical with His Essence, is not in need of a reason or a
purpose located outside His Essence. Similarly, in His commentary on
the Islamic tradition “I was a hidden treasure”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Makátíb
2:32–33) contrasts contingence with necessity and completely negates
all aspects of contingence from the Necessary Being. He writes:
It is evidently clear and established that all that pertaineth unto
the contingent world is in no wise possible in relation to God,
inasmuch as no likeness, resemblance, kinship, or affinity can ever
exist between the Creator and the created, between the Necessary
and the contingent, between God and His creation. For, from time
immemorial, the attribute of God, glorified be He, hath been the

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
absolute power, glory, and wealth, and the condition of the created
things and the contingent beings utter abasement, wretchedness,
and poverty. Whatsoever the contingent beings and the created
things possess of essential attributes, that Essence of essences and
Truth of truths is sanctified and exalted therefrom in the supernal
heights of His holiness and the sublime dominion of His sanctity.
Wherefore, how can the Necessary compare with the contingent and
the Creator be likened unto His creatures? (provisional translation)

30. There is a parity between
correlative opposites in potentiality and actuality
This philosophical maxim serves as the bedrock of several important
questions of philosophy. An essential otherness or duality between
two concepts or states which cannot come together in an individual
referent at the same time and in the same respect is known as opposi-
tion. A relation of opposition is of four kinds: contradiction, contrari-
ety, the relation between privation and possession, and correlation. In
correlative opposites, each concept implies the other; neither concept
can be perceived without the other; yet, neither concept is the cause of
the existence of the other. Examples of correlative opposites include
father and child, teacher and pupil, and king and subject (Suhrawardi,
Mawsú‘atu Muṣannafát 51). Therefore, two correlative opposites are
equivalent and alike not only in their potentiality and actuality, but
also in their existence and non-existence. Mullá Ṣadrá (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-
Muta‘álíyah 3.2:238–239) and Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí (Sharḥu’l-
Manẓúmah 3:565–566) rely on this principle to demonstrate the one-
ness of the knower and the objects of knowledge.
As described in section 12, in His commentary on the Islamic tradition
“I was a hidden treasure”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expatiates upon the appearance
of the matter and the form in creation. He demonstrates that the mat-
ter and the form of each created being are created simultaneously. The
matter depends on the form in its existence, and the form is in need of
the matter in its appearance. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stresses that this correlation

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
between matter and form does not represent a vicious circle of causes
and effects, but rather a concomitance. He defines vicious circle as
dependence of a thing on another, which in turns depends on that
thing, with or without intermediary and asserts that matter and form
are correlative opposites both of which exist simultaneously and each of
which implies the other (Makátíb 2:35–37).

31. An effect must resemble its cause
The unique association of an effect with its cause is the foundation of
all philosophical reasoning. Every effect has some similarity, compat-
ibility, and affinity with its cause and every cause has a distinct char-
acteristic in respect to which it can engender its effect. Without this
unique association, any cause would bring about any effect, any effect
would proceed from any cause, the indispensable and fundamental law
of causality would collapse, and philosophical and scientific thinking,
as well as daily life, would be disrupted. Fayḍ-i-Káshání relies on this
principle to advance the views of Mullá Ṣadrá’s Transcendent The-
osophy school of thought on God’s causation of His creation and the
ontological primacy of existence (Uṣúl 71–72).
Notwithstanding its centrality to the law of causality, however, Islamic
rationalist theologians reject this principle in relation to God, as they
consider any notion of resemblance between God and His creation to
be incompatible with a belief in His transcendence. Therefore, while
they recognize God as the original Cause of the entire creation, they
also reject any likeness, similarity, comparison, resemblance, and affin-
ity between God and His creation.
One of the most significant fruits of this principle is the cardinal
maxim which declares that “nothing except ‘one’ can emanate from
‘one’”. This maxim and the above-mentioned objection by Muslim
theologians concerning the similarity between an effect and its cause
in relation to God are explored in section 33.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
In a Tablet explicating the meaning of the maxim “nothing except ‘one’
can emanate from ‘one’”, the Báb rejects a view that the Essence of God
is the cause of His creation. He argues that an effect must resemble its
cause, yet there is no similarity, comparison, and affinity between the
Essence of God and His creation. In the absence of the resemblance
criterion, no direct causal relation between the Essence of God and
His creation can be perceived. The Báb explains that the cause of the
world of creation is rather God’s divine creation itself—His very act of
fashioning the world of creation through the operation of His sover-
eign Will in Himself and by Himself. This is known as God’s station
of Oneness, which is the first revelation, or mention, of divine creation
and the cause of the emanation of multiplicity and the world of cre-
ation (INBA 69:430–432).

32. Privation of a sense is tantamount
to privation of some knowledge
According to this principle, the source of all human knowledge is the
sensory faculty, such that a person who is deprived of some senses is also
deprived of some knowledge. By knowledge in this maxim is strictly
meant mediated—not immediate—knowledge, which is acquired, in
Aristotelian terms, through perception—the reception of a sensible
form by a sensory faculty—and thinking—the reception of an intel-
ligible form by an intellectual faculty. Islamic philosophers generally
subscribe to Aristotle’s views on knowledge and understanding. They
believe that both our universal concepts—concepts like “human”,
“flower”, and “book”, which the intellect abstracts from external real-
ity—and our derivative concepts—a priori concepts like “existence”,
“unity”, “contingence”, and “causality”, which the intellect formulates
through analysis—originate from our senses, albeit indirectly (Fakhr-i-
Rází, Tafsír 20:91–92; Mullá Ṣadrá, Ash-Shaváhid 1:202–203).
Al-Ghazálí recognizes the sensory faculty as the source of all mediated
knowledge. He asserts that immediate knowledge and esoteric wisdom

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
can be acquired, conversely, through sensory deprivation, asceticism,
and attraction of the heart (Iḥyá’ 896). Mullá Ṣadrá utilizes this maxim
to conclude that the rational soul cannot attain to the station of the
active intellect unless it tears away the veils of the senses (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-
Muta‘álíyah 4.2:126).
In His Tablet to Auguste Forel, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá appeals to the truth of
this maxim and states that “the human intellect develops and weak-
ens, and may at times come to naught”, that “for the mind to manifest
itself, the human body must be whole”, that “a sound mind cannot be
but in a sound body”, that “it is by the aid of such senses as those of
sight, hearing, taste, smell and touch, that the mind comprehendeth”,
and that the mind “understandeth not while the senses have ceased to
function”. Beyond the scope of mediated knowledge acquired through
the sensory faculty, however, the Writings of the Central Figures of
the Faith harmonize sensory perception, reason, rational perception,
discursive and intellectual learning, scientific knowledge, religious
revelation, and intuitive and spiritual perception. They state that some
insights, truths, realities, and meanings cannot be comprehended by,
and can in fact be acquired without,4 the sensory and rational facul-
ties, which are susceptible to error (Íqán 148; Some Answered Questions
ch. 83). Nevertheless, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts that none of these criteria
of human knowledge can be entirely relied upon and that certitude
can be attained only through confirmations of the Holy Spirit (Some
Answered Questions ch. 83).

33. Nothing except ‘one’ can emanate from ‘one’
This maxim is one of the most important principles of Islamic phi-
losophy and many questions of philosophy are either directly or indi-
rectly founded upon it. Al-Fárábí attributes it to Aristotle (“Risálatu
Zínun” 3–4). According to this maxim, a thing, insofar as it has only a
single ontological aspect, can be the source of the creation of only one
thing. In other words, if a cause is “one” in the true sense of the term,
is uncompounded, and incorporates no mental, intelligible, or actual

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
composition—such as composition of essence and existence, genus and
differentia, or matter and form—then the effect that emanates from it
is necessarily also “one” and contains no composition. The converse of
this statement is also equally valid: “one” can emanate from nothing
except “one”. This maxim derives its truth from the necessity of the
existence of an essential affinity between a cause and its effect—the
unique association of an effect with its cause which, as described in sec-
tion 31, is the foundation of all philosophical reasoning and without
which any cause would bring about any effect, any effect would proceed
from any cause, and the law of causality itself would be impaired. If it is
assumed that a cause is truly one and uncompounded, yet two distinct
effects emanate from it, then that cause would necessarily have a unique
association with each of the two effects. The existence of two unique
associations in the cause contradicts the assumption of its true oneness
and is tantamount to its composition. Therefore, where multiple effects
emanate from a cause, either the cause is not truly one—that is, it has
more than a single ontological aspect—or the effects are not truly plural.
Al-Kindí (Rasá’ilu Al-Kindí 207) expatiates upon this maxim; Al-
Fárábí (“Ad-Da‘áví” 4) demonstrates its truth in relation to the ema-
nation of creation from God; Avicenna (Al-Ishárát 3:122) adduces
arguments in its proof; and Bahmanyár (At-Taḥṣíl 531) and Averroes
(Taháfatu’t-Taháfat 288–291) discuss it in their works. Suhrawardi
(Mawsú‘atu Muṣannafát 502, 622) elaborates on this maxim in several
of his writings. Khájih Naṣíru’d-Dín-i-Ṭúsí (Al-Ishárát 3:122), who
formulates this maxim mathematically (ibid. 462–463), and the Illu-
minationist thinker and expounder of Suhrawardi’s works, Quṭbu’d-
Dín-i-Shírází (Sharḥu Ḥikmati’l-Ishráq 305), both recognize it as an
axiomatic principle. Mír Dámád (Al-Qabasát 351) acknowledges it as
an immediate axiom and one of the most foundational principles of
reason and Mullá Hádíy-i-Sabzivárí (Asráru’l-Ḥikam 109, 120, 150)
discusses it in relation to the emanation of creation from God.
Owing to its prominent status in philosophical reasoning, this maxim
serves as a major point of divergence between Islamic philosophers and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
rationalist theologians, particularly in relation to its application to the
emanation of the world of existence from God. Some rationalist theo-
logians, the most distinguished of whom are Al-Ghazálí and Fakhr-i-
Rází, reject the truth of this maxim. Al-Ghazálí states that this maxim
is incompatible with a belief in the emanation of the world of creation,
which is characterized by plurality, from God, Who is the essence of
oneness (Taháfatu’l-Falásifah 143). Fakhr-i-Rází questions the argu-
ments which have been adduced in proof of this maxim (Al-Mabáḥith
460–468) and censures it as a proposition which is at variance with a
belief in God’s omnipotence (Al-Arba‘ín 333–335).
How can plurality in the world of creation emanate from God’s oneness?
Mullá Ṣadrá explains, as also described in section 25, that all contin-
gent beings incorporate the two aspects of contingence and existence.
Therefore, the first emanation from God, while it is one, is composed
of essence and existence. It embodies the two aspects of possession and
privation. It is an effect in its relation to God and a cause in its relation to
the world of creation. This composition of aspects, and its concomitant
plurality, is an essential property of the first emanation through which
the rest of the creation comes into being (Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah
3.2:232). Qúnaví similarly identifies further aspects of plurality in the
first emanation from God (Miṣbáḥ 30).
The application of this maxim can be seen in the formulation of
several tenets of the Bahá’í teachings, such as the emanation of the
world of creation from God and the essential unity of the Manifesta-
tions of God despite their diversity and human distinction. The first
emanation from God, the universal reality known as the First Intel-
lect, the Primal Will, and the Word of God (Some Answered Questions
chs. 38, 42, 53, 54), receives the strongest effusion of God’s revelation
and, “even as a clear mirror in which the Sun of Truth is revealed and
manifested in the fullness of its attributes and perfections” (ibid. ch.
27), reflects the light of existence upon the rest of the creation. It is
the channel, Bahá’u’lláh states, through which other creatures come
into being (Íqán 73; Ḥadíqiy-i-‘Irfán 110–111). Further, the first

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
emanation, that single pre-existent revelation that has emanated from
God in eternity, without becoming plural or limited to the bounds of
time, is associated successively with a Manifestation of God in every
age. Therefore, to consider the Manifestations of God to be distinct
and plural in Their station of essential unity, while They are the first
emanation from God, is to extend plurality to His Essence, which is
tantamount to blasphemy (Dávúdí, Ulúhíyyat 182, 187).
In a Tablet explicating the meaning of this maxim, the Báb emphasizes
its truth but rejects a view that the “one” from which only one can
emanate refers to the Essence of God, insofar as the Essence of God
is exalted above any association, relationship, or affinity. He asserts
instead that the “one” from which only one can emanate refers to
God’s station of Oneness from which the first emanation, the Primal
Will, can emanate; that only “one” is capable of reflecting the Supreme
Singleness of the Essence of God; that in the absence of any resem-
blance or association between the Essence of God and anything else
no direct causal relation between His Essence and His creation can be
perceived; that the original cause which God established as the cause
of the entire creation is itself a creation of God; that the “one” which
emanates from “one” is characterized by a duality; and that it is impos-
sible for anything except the first emanation, the Primal Will, to ema-
nate from the “one” which is God’s attribute of creativity itself (INBA
69:429–433).

34. ‘One’ is not a number, but is the source thereof
Philosophers do not generally recognize “one” as a number because
they argue that the definition of quantity as something which is essen-
tially susceptible to division does not apply to it. Instead, according to
Mullá Ṣadrá, they consider it to be the source and the origin of all num-
bers because all numbers are formed through the repetition of “one”.
Metaphysicians also identify every number on the infinite continuum
of numbers as a unique species with a distinct essence and prove the
difference between these essences in the sequence of numbers through

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
the difference between their essential properties. They conclude that
no number can be the cause, or the origin, of the creation of the other
numbers and that only the unit “one” can be the source of all numbers
(Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah 1.2:98–99). This principle is particularly
prominent in Ibnu’l-‘Arabí’s doctrine of the unity of existence and his
view on the emanation of the world of creation from God (Al-Futúḥát
1.46:383; 5.348:298).
In one of His Writings, Bahá’u’lláh reiterates this maxim and describes
“one” as the ornament of all numbers. He states that although “one” is
the source of all numbers and they are all derived from it and com-
posed of it, it is nevertheless not a number itself and is free from such a
designation (INBA 33:1, 3). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá echoes this principle in His
commentary on the Islamic tradition “I was a hidden treasure”:
Consider the unit “one” and how all numbers emanate from it, yet
it is not a number in itself, for it is the basis of all numbers. The first
entification and emanation of the unit “one” is the number “one,”
and from the number “one” do all numbers come into being. And
now, these numbers, in the utmost simplicity and oneness, were
folded up within the unit “one,” which was the hidden treasure of
all numbers, and from which they emanated. (Makátíb 2:9, provi-
sional translation)
In a Tablet, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá likewise asserts that “one” is the source of all
numbers, yet it is not a number itself. It occupies a throne which is the
singularity of the unit “one” (INBA 84:295). In one of His utterances,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá recounts the views of the proponents of the unity of exis-
tence, such as the Theosophists and the Sufis. Narrating their imagery
of the sea and its waves through which they describe the appearance of
the real Existence in countless forms of the originated beings, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá states that “they compare this to the One and the infinite numbers,
in that the former has manifested itself in the degrees of the latter, for
numbers are the repetition of the One. Thus two is the repetition of
one, and so on with the other numbers.” (Some Answered Questions

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
82:4) He then demonstrates and affirms the true meaning of the unity
of existence, the real existence of the One through which all things have
come to exist, and refutes the manifestational appearance of the One in
infinite forms (ibid. 82:12, 16).

Conclusion
This paper demonstrates that topics and concepts within Islamic
thought and intellectual tradition have contributed to the efflorescence
of the Revelation in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. That numerous precepts of Islamic philosophy are adopted and
expounded in the Writings of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith,
however, does not mean that the Bahá’í Writings necessarily endorse
and uphold them in the sense in which they are used in Islamic milieu
and intellectual history. When a philosophical maxim appears in
the Writings of the Central Figures, it has ipso facto been revealed
by Them, thereby showering Their favors upon the philosopher or
theologian who may have first uttered it. In such uses of intertextual-
ity, the Central Figures are engineering Their discourses by weaving
into them maxims of Islamic philosophy, investing these maxims with
new meaning and life, and at times changing them in the process or
even rejecting them. Neither are these dictums static pieces that are
inserted in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, nor
did the Central Figures possess copies of volumes authored by these
litterateurs in order to cite from them.
Elements of the cultures, sciences, literatures, philosophies, technolo-
gies, and ethics of every age enter the religions and shape the devel-
opment of practices, rites, observances, and laws of the peoples. The
Bahá’í Faith, unlike other religions, believes in the historicity of divine
revelation and religion. Divine revelation is not devoid of social and
historical context and does not unfold in a vacuum. It is for this reason
that the Bahá’í Faith maintains that spiritual truth is revealed progres-
sively and divine religions must be renewed.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Before the advent of the Báb, divine revelation sent down in the
form of scripture never explicitly formulated principles of theology,
philosophy, spiritual quest, and law. Therefore, the development of
intellectual life witnessed the conflict between those who established a
philosophical thought independent of religion and those who formu-
lated a philosophy founded on religion. Islam was not immune from
this clash between philosophy and religion either. Even though Islam
sought to unify the Muslim community, the diverging approaches of
Islamic philosophers, rationalist theologians, and mystical philoso-
phers caused a division among the faithful.
The Bahá’í Faith addresses this challenge using several means. Not
only is unity among believers specified as a goal of the Bahá’í Faith
and ensured through the Covenant, principles of theology, philosophy,
spiritual quest, and law are also established, detailed, and explicated
in the Writings of the Central Figures of the Faith. Some distinctive
themes in Bahá’í philosophy, as bodies of knowledge that will emerge
to facilitate the acceptance of the Bahá’í teachings through reason
and faith, may include historicity of divine revelation and renewal of
religion, limitation of the criteria of comprehension, process thinking,
gradation of existence, divine unity and transcendence, Manifestation
of God, oneness, equality of rights, spiritual quest through service and
life in society, and practical wisdom and morality.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London. UK Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987. reference.bahai.
org/en/t/ab/ABL/.

Light of the World: Selected Tablets of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá. Bahá’í Reference Library.
bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/light-of-the-world/.

Má’idiy-i-Ásmání. Vol. 5. Comp. ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd Ishráq-Khávarí. Mu’assisiy-
i-Millíy-i-Maṭbú‘át-i-Amrí, 129 B.E. [1972–3]. reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/
MAS5/index.html.

Majmú‘iy-i-Khiṭábát-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 1. Bahá’í-Verlag, n.d.
reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/KA1/index.html.

Majmú‘iy-i-Khiṭábát-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 2. Bahá’í-Verlag, n.d.
reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/KA2/index.html.

Makátíb-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 1. Kurdistánu’l-‘Ilmíyyih, 1910. reference.bahai.
org/fa/t/ab/MA1/index.html.

Makátíb-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 2. Kurdistánu’l-‘Ilmíyyih, 1912. reference.bahai.
org/fa/t/ab/MA2/index.html.

Makátíb-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 4. Mu’assisiy-i-Millíy-i-Maṭbú‘át-i-Amrí, 121
B.E. [1964–5]. reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/MA4/index.html.

Memorials of the Faithful. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/library/
authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/memorials-faithful/.

Muntakhabátí az Makátíb-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 3. Bahá’í-Verlag,
1992. reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/SWA3/index.html.

Muntakhabátí az Makátíb-i-Ḥaḍrat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Vol. 4. Bahá’í-Verlag,
2000. reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/SWA4/index.html.

Paris Talks. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/
abdul-baha/paris-talks.

Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.
org/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/selections-writings-abdul-baha.

Some Answered Questions. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/library/
authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/some-answered-questions/.

Tablet to Dr. Auguste Forel. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/library/
authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/tablet-august-forel/.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One

Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas. US Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1909. refer-
ence.bahai.org/en/t/ab/TAB/.

The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912. Bahá’í
Reference Library. bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-baha/
promulgation-universal-peace/.
Al-Fárábí.

“Ad-Da‘ávi’l-Qalbíyyah”. Rasá’ilu Abí Naṣri’l-Fárábí. Dá’iratu’l-Ma‘árifi’l-
Uthmáníyyah, 1349 A.H. [1930].

“At-Ta‘líqát”. Rasá’ilu Abí Naṣri’l-Fárábí. Dá’iratu’l-Ma‘árifi’l-Uthmáníyyah,
1346 A.H. [1927].

“Kitábu’l-Fuṣúṣ”. Rasá’ilu Abí Naṣri’l-Fárábí. Dá’iratu’l-Ma‘árifi’l-
Uthmáníyyah, 1345 A.H. [1926].

“Risálatun fí Masá’ilin Mutafarriqah”. Rasá’ilu Abí Naṣri’l-Fárábí.
Dá’iratu’l-Ma‘árifi’n-Niẓámíyyah, 1344 A.H. [1925–6].

“Sharḥu Risálati Zínuni’l-Kabíri’l-Yúnání”. Rasá’ilu Abí Naṣri’l-Fárábí.
Dá’iratu’l-Ma‘árifi’l-Uthmáníyyah, 1349 A.H. [1930].
Al-Ghazálí.

Iḥyá’u ‘Ulúmi’d-Dín. Ibn Ḥazim, 2005.

Taháfatu’l-Falásifah. Fourth Ed. Dáru’l-Ma‘árif bi Miṣr, 1966.
Al-Kindí. Rasá’ilu Al-Kindíyyi’l-Falsafíyyah. Ed. Abú Rídah, Muḥammad ‘Abdu’l-
Hádí. Dáru’l-Fikri’l-‘Arabí, 1950.
At-Taftázání, Sa‘du’d-Dín. Sharḥu’l-‘Aqá’idi’n-Nasafíyyah. Dáru Iḥyá’i’t-
Turáthi’l-‘Arabí, 2014.
Averroes. Taháfatu’t-Taháfat. Dáru’l-Ma‘árif, 1964.
Avicenna.

Al-Iláhíyyát. Vols. 1 & 2. Maktabatu Áyati’lláh Al-Mar‘ashí, 1404 A.H.
[1983–4].

Al-Ishárát va’t-Tanbíhát. Vol. 3. Nashru’l-Balághah, 1435 A.H. [2014].

An-Naját. Maṭba‘atu’s-Sa‘ádah, 1938.

Aṭ-Ṭabí‘íyyát. Vol. 2. Maktabatu Áyati’lláh Al-Mar‘ashí, 2012.

Rasá’ilu Ibn-i-Síná. Vol. 2. Horoz Basımevi, 1952.

Uyúnu’l-Ḥikmah. Dáru’l-Qalam, 1980.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
The Báb.

Dalá’il-i-Sab‘ih. Ocean of Lights. oceanoflights.org/file/Bab-BKW-05-1.pdf.

Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/
library/authoritative-texts/the-bab/selections-writings-bab/.
Bahá’u’lláh.

Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá. Vol. 4. Mu’assisiy-i-Millíy-i-Maṭbú‘át-i-Amrí, 133 B.E.
[1976–7].

Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A‘lá. Vol. 6. Mu’assisiy-i-Millíy-i-Maṭbú‘át-i-Amrí, 132 B.E.
[1975–6].

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.
org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/gleanings-writings-bahaullah/.

Iqtidárát va Chand Lawḥ-i-Dígar. Bahá’í Reference Library. reference.bahai.
org/fa/t/b/IQT/iqt-1.html.

Kitáb-i-Badí‘. Bahá’í-Verlag, 2008.

Má’idiy-i-Ásmání. Vol. 7. Comp. ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd Ishráq-Khávarí. Mu’assisiy-
i-Millíy-i-Maṭbú‘át-i-Amrí, 129 B.E. [1972–3]. reference.bahai.org/fa/t/b/
MAS7/index.html.

Prayers and Meditations. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/library/
authoritative-texts/bahaullah/prayers-meditations/.

Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed After the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Comp. Research
Dept. of the Universal House of Justice. Trans. Habib Taherzadeh. Bahá’í
Reference Library. bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/
tablets-bahaullah/.

The Call of the Divine Beloved. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/library/
authoritative-texts/bahaullah/call-divine-beloved/.

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. US Bahá’í Publishing, 1992. bahai.
org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/kitab-i-aqdas/.

The Kitáb-i-Íqán: The Book of Certitude. US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2019.
bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/kitab-i-iqan/.

The Summons of the Lord of Hosts. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/library/
authoritative-texts/bahaullah/summons-lord-hosts/.

The Tabernacle of Unity: Bahá’u’lláh’s Responses to Mánikchí Ṣáḥib and Other
Writings. Bahá’í Reference Library. bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/
bahaullah/tabernacle-unity/.
Bahmanyár. At-Taḥṣíl. Ṭihrán University Press, 1375 S.H. [1996].

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Bolodo-Taefi, Vargha. “God, Revelation, and Manifestation”. The World of the
Bahá’í Faith. Ed. Robert H. Stockman. Routledge, 2022.
Dávúdí, ‘Alí-Murád.

“Amr-i-Bahá’í va Falsafiy-i-Sharq”. Áhang-i-Badí‘ 327, nos. 23–24 (1353 S.H.
[1974]): 23–30.

“A Discourse on Bahá’í Theology: A Treatise by Dr. ‘Alí-Murád Dávúdí on
God and Revelation”. Trans. and Annot. Bolodo-Taefi, Vargha. The Journal of
Bahá’í Studies 30, no. 4 (2021): 53–105. doi.org/10.31581/jbs-30.4.298(2020).

Ulúhíyyat va Maẓharíyyat. Ed. Vahid Rafati. Institute for Bahá’í Studies in
Persian, 1996. reference.bahai.org/fa/t/o/AM/index.html.
Dinani, Gholam Hossein Ibrahimi. Qavá‘id-i-Kullíy-i-Falsafí dar Falsafiy-i-Islámí.
Vols. 1 & 2. Institute for Humanities & Cultural Studies, 2002.
Ḥadíqiy-i-‘Irfán. ‘Andalíb Editorial Board of the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of Canada, [1994]. reference.bahai.org/fa/t/c/HI/.
Ibn Fanárí. Miṣbáḥu’l-Uns. Fajr, 1363 S.H. [1985].
Ibnu’l-‘Arabí. Al-Futúḥátu’l-Makíyyah. Dáru’l-Kutubi’l-‘Ilmíyyah, 1999.
Al-Jurjání, Ash-Sharíf. Sharḥu’l-Maváqif. Al-Ash‘arí, n.d.
Iranian National Bahá’í Archives (INBA).

Vol. 1. N.p., 132 B.E. [1975]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-001/.

Vol. 13. N.p., 132 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-013/.

Vol. 15. N.p., 132 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-015/.

Vol. 31. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-031/.

Vol. 33. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-033/.

Vol. 40. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-040/.

Vol. 41. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-041/.

Vol. 62. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-62/.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy

Vol. 67. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-067/.

Vol. 69. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-69/.

Vol. 82. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-82/.

Vol. 84. N.p., 133 B.E. [1976]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-84/.

Vol. 86. N.p., 133 B.E. [1977]. Afnan Library Online. afnanlibrary.org/docs/
persian-arabic-mss/inba/inba-vol-86/.
Káshání, Fayḍ.

‘Aynu’l-Yaqín. Vols. 1–2. Dáru’l-Maḥajjati’l-Bayḍá’, 2011.

Uṣúlu’l-Ma‘árif. Dáru’l-Ma‘árifi’l-Ḥikmíyah, 2010.
Mír Dámád. Al-Qabasát. Ṭihrán Univerity Press, 1988.
Qayṣarí, Muḥammad Dávúd. Sharḥu Fuṣúṣi’l-Ḥikam. Shirkat-i-Intishárát-i-‘Ilmí va
Farhangí, 1375 S.H. [1996–7].
Qazvíní, Najmu’d-Dín. Íḍáḥu’l-Maqáṣid min Ḥikmat-i-‘Ayni’l-Qavá‘id. Ṭihrán
University Press, 1959.
Qumayr, Yúḥanná. Falásifatu’l-‘Arab: Al-Kindí. Vol. 8. Al-Maṭba‘atu Káthulíkíyyah,
1954.
Qúnaví, Ṣadru’d-Dín. An-Nuṣúṣ fí Taḥqíqi’ṭ-Ṭúri’l-Makhṣúṣ. Mansha’atu’l-Ma‘árif,
2003.
Rafati, Vahid.

Ma’ákhidh-i-Ash‘ár dar Áthár-i-Bahá’í. Vol. 3. Association for Bahá’í Studies
in Persian, 2000. reference.bahai.org/fa/t/o/MASH3/.

Yádnámiy-i-Miṣbáḥ-i-Munír. Bahá’í-Verlag, 2006.
Rází, Fakhru’d-Dín.

Al-Arba‘ín fí Uṣúli’d-Dín. Maktabatu’l-Kullíyyáti’l-Azharíyyah, 1986.

Al-Mabáḥithi’l-Mashriqíyyah fí ‘Ilmi’l-Iláhíyyát va’ṭ-Ṭabí‘íyyat. Bídár, n.d.

Lavámi‘u’l-Bayyinát fí Sharḥ-i-Asmá’i’lláh Ta‘álá va’ṣ-Ṣifát. Maṭba‘atu’sh-
Sharafíyyah, 1323 A.H. [1905].

Jámi‘u’l-‘Ulúm. Handwritten manuscript. Library of the Iranian Parliament.

Tafsíru’l-Fakhri’r-Rází (At-Tafsíru’l-Kabír). Vol. 20. Dáru’l-Fikr, 1981.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One

“Recent Tablets from Abdul-Baha”. Star of the West 2, nos. 7–8 (1911): 11–13.
bahai.works/Star_of_the_West/Volume_2/Issue_7_and_8.
Sabzivárí, Mullá Hádí.

Asráru’l-Ḥikam fí’l-Muftataḥ va’l-Mukhtatam. Maṭbú‘át-i-Díní, 1383 S.H.
[2004–5].

Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah. Vol. 1. Nashr-i-Náb, 1369 S.H. [1990].

Sharḥu’l-Manẓúmah. Vol. 3. Al-Ḥawzah Online. https://alhawzaonline.com/
almaktaba-almakroaa/book/180-Falsafa/0003-Shar7-al-manzouma/03/book-
name.htm.
Ṣadrá, Mullá.

Al-Ḥikmatu’l-Muta‘álíyah fí Asfári’l-‘Aqlíyyati’l-Arba‘ah. Vols. 1–4. Dáru
Iḥyá’i’t-Turáthi’l-‘Arabí, 1990.

Al-Mabda’u va’l-Ma‘ád. Markaz-i-Intishárát-i-Daftar-i-Tablíghát-i-Islámí, 1380
S.H. [2001–2].

Ash-Shaváhidu’r-Rubúbíyyah fí Manáhiji’s-Sulúkíyyah. Vol. 1. Al-Markazu’l-
Jámi‘í li’n-Nashr, 1981.
Shírází, Quṭbu’d-Dín. Sharḥu Ḥikmati’l-Ishráq-i-Suhravardí. Ṭihrán University
Press, 2001.
Suhrawardi, Shahábu’d-Dín. Mawsú‘atu Muṣannafáti’s-Suhravardí. Dáru Raváfid,
2018.
Ṭabáṭabá’í, Muḥammad-Ḥusayn. Naháyatu’l-Ḥikmah. An-Nashru’l-Islámí, 1404
A.H. [1984].
“The Will of the Creator is Effected Through the Process of (Voluntary) Composi-
tion”. Star of the West 6, no. 8 (1915): 62–64. bahai.works/Star_of_the_West/
Volume_6/Issue_8.
Ṭúsí, Khájih Naṣíru’d-Dín. Al-Fuṣúl fi’l-Uṣúl. Handwritten manuscript. Library of
the Iranian Parliament.
Universal House of Justice.

Letter dated 3 June 1982. www.bahai.org/r/609489226.

Letter dated 8 February 1998. www.bahai.org/r/201498500.

A Survey of the Cardinal Maxims of Islamic Philosophy
NOTES
I would like to thank Dr. Iraj Ayman and Dr. Moojan Momen for their
encouragement and valuable advice.
For a discussion of related themes, such as the emanation of plurality from
oneness and of origination from pre-existence, intelligible existence in the
Divine knowledge, and Fixed Entities, see Dávúdí, “Discourse” footnote 46.
For a comprehensive exploration of God’s nondelimitation and the apophathic
theology of the Bahá’í Faith, including a broad catalog of the Writings and
utterances of the Central Figures of the Faith on these themes, see Dávúdí,
“Discourse”.
For instance, an experience, in the world of dreams, of precognition, or of solv-
ing a problem by the spirit that could not be solved in the realm of wakefulness
(Some Answered Questions 61:2).

Understanding Traditional Discourses
JoAnn Borovicka
Abstract
In the Bahá’í Writings, one can find many references to ancient tradi-
tional stories and figures from biblical scripture. Read with a literal eye,
one might assume that all of these references confirm the historical
accuracy of those stories and, thereby, support a literal interpretation
of the ancient scripture cited. However, in the works of a renowned
scholar of the Bahá’í Faith, Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl-i-Gulpáygání, we find
a different mode of interpretation. Using the example of the Book
of Exodus from the Hebrew Scriptures, Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl explains
that, in Their discourses, the Prophets may indulge people’s historical
understandings and address them according to their local traditions.
One implication of his commentary is that even though a Central Fig-
ure might refer to a biblical story as if it was a historical fact, this refer-
ence would not necessarily confirm the historical accuracy of the story.
This paper compares a brief excerpt of Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s discourse
on this topic to selections of the Bahá’í sacred text and authoritative
guidance. The outcome of that comparison will be to suggest that
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s interpretive approach in this regard is sound.
⸻
A student of the Bahá’í Writings will notice how the Central Figures
of the Faith often include elements of Bible stories and the mention of
biblical figures in Their commentaries. Upon reading these references,
this question of interpretation may arise: Does the Central Figures’
mention of a biblical story as if it really occurred necessarily confirm
that story as literal historical fact? Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl-i-Gulpáygání
(1844–1914), one of the nineteen Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh and often

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
referred to as the greatest scholar of the Faith, directly addresses this
question. In the collection of his works entitled Miracles and Meta-
phors, considered the classic Bahá’í text of hermeneutics1 (the science
of interpretation), he states:
It is clear that the prophets and Manifestations of the Cause of God
were sent to guide the nations, to improve their characters, and to
bring the people nearer to their Source and ultimate Goal. They
were not sent as historians, astronomers, philosophers, or natural
scientists. Their position in the world of creation is like that of the
heart in the body: it has a universal position with a general effect.
The position of the learned in the world of earthly dominion is like
that of a specific organ. That is, they have a particular position and
a special effect. Therefore, the prophets have indulged the people
in regard to their historical notions, folk stories, and scientific prin-
ciples, and have spoken to them according to these. They conversed
as was appropriate to their audience and hid certain realities behind
the curtain of allusion.
. . . Finally, it is well known that neither the Prophet Muhammad
nor the rest of the prophets ever engaged in disputes with the people
about their historical beliefs, but addressed them according to their
local traditions.”2
This explanation connects with a basic pedagogical principle: learning
moves from the known to the unknown. A teacher has to start with
what the students know –  or think they know – and then gradually
bring in new information. An implication of Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s com-
mentary is that if a Central Figure discourses on some element of the
Bible as though it was fact, this reference would confirm those Bible
verses as worthy vehicles for spiritual teaching and, because of their
familiarity to the target audience, a worthy place to start a discourse,
but that reference would not automatically confirm the story as his-
torical fact. This is because the Central Figure might be speaking

Understanding Traditional Discourses
according to the prevailing, but not necessarily accurate, historical
understandings of the people.
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s interpretive approach is clearly stated. Nevertheless,
however profound his importance in the early days of the Faith, his
spiritual station as an Apostle of Bahá’u’lláh, and his accomplishments
as a scholar, Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl is not a Central Figure of the Faith and
his writings are not authoritative. My purpose in this study has been
to try to confirm or deny Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s interpretive approach by
researching this question: Is there authoritative evidence that any of
the Central Figures or the Guardian have ever not engaged in disputes
with people about their historical beliefs, but have addressed them
according to their local traditions? From what I understand from
passages gleaned from the Bahá’í sacred text and the guidance of the
Guardian and the House of Justice, I believe that the answer to this
question is, “Yes,” and that Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s interpretive approach
is sound. A selection of sacred text and authoritative guidance relevant
to this question is presented below.

According to the Prevailing Understanding
In a discourse of Bahá’u’lláh on the Báb’s Surih of Joseph, Bahá’u’lláh
explains that the Báb revealed that Tablet according to the prevailing
knowledge of the people of that time even though their understand-
ings were characterized by ignorance and waywardness. Bahá’u’lláh
states:
It is known to thee that the commentary on the Surih of Joseph hath been
revealed according to the prevailing understanding of the people of that
time. This hath been due to pure bounty haply the wayward and igno-
rant people may become transported to the realm of knowledge; because
much of that which hath been stated therein are the material known
to be truth with the people of Qur’án. Had it been revealed according

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
to that which God desired, no one would have accepted and remained
loyal. [Ayát-i-Iláhi, vol. 2, 68]3
This paper is not the place to examine the details of what the people
believed to be truth that was based on ignorance and waywardness,
or how the Báb spoke to and used their immediate, however faulty,
understandings to bring them to a higher revelation of truth. What I
believe is apparent here is that this commentary by Bahá’u’lláh could
well have inspired Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s statement that “it is well known
that neither the Prophet Muhammad nor the rest of the prophets ever
engaged in disputes with the people about their historical beliefs, but
addressed them according to their local traditions.”4 This teaching
should not surprise us. In the Hidden Words, Bahá’u’lláh states: “All
that I have revealed unto thee with the tongue of power, and have written
for thee with the pen of might, hath been in accordance with thy capac-
ity and understanding, not with My state and the melody of My voice.”
[AHW #67] In the above scenario, we see that revealing a commen-
tary “according to the prevailing understanding of the people of that time”
[Bahá’u’lláh, Ayát-i-Iláhi, vol. II, 68] is one way that the Manifestation
may teach in accordance with human capacity and understanding.

Discussion Conducted Conformably
Before a commentary on the biblical story of Moses’ confrontation
with Pharaoh and the Exodus of the Hebrew tribes from Egypt,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
The events that transpired at the advent of the Prophets of the past, and
Their ways and works and circumstances, are not adequately set down
in authoritative histories, and are referred to only in condensed form
in the verses of the Qur’án, the Holy Traditions and the Torah. . .  To
preclude once and for all objections on the part of any of the world’s
peoples, We shall conduct Our discussion conformably to those authori-
tative accounts which all nations are agreed upon. [SDC 75]

Understanding Traditional Discourses
In the above quote, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares that adequate histories of
past Prophets are lacking. That would include the Dispensation of
Moses. He also states that the histories of past Prophets exist “only in
condensed form” [SDC 75] indicating, perhaps, that the essence of the
Mosaic story has been preserved in largely figurative language. Alle-
gorical stories are capable of holding layers of significant meanings
that withstand the test of time, all condensed into powerful narratives.
Finally, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states a proviso of His discourse: He will speak
“conformably to those authoritative accounts which all nations are agreed
upon.” [SDC 75] He then proceeds to discourse on the story of Moses
and the Exodus precisely as it is presented in the Hebrew scripture –
which He had just stated was “not adequately set down.” [SDC 75]
We could use Bahá’u’lláh’s words to paraphrase ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ’s pro-
viso: the discourse would be  “revealed according to the prevailing under-
standing of the people of that time.” [Ayát-i-Iláhi, vol. II, 68] The point
being that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ’s discourse on the Exodus events exactly as
presented in the Book of Exodus does not automatically confirm the
historical facts of those events. This harmonizes with Mírzá Abu’l-
Faḍl’s interpretive approach which states that the Prophets did not
engage in disputes with people about their historical knowledge, “but
addressed them according to their local traditions.”5

Bring Stories Out As Though They Were Truth
Before I present the next commentary by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, some back-
ground information on the story of the People of the Cave may be
helpful. This miracle story, also called The Seven Sleepers, originated
as a Christian tradition. The story goes that during the Roman per-
secution of Christians in Ephesus in 250 AD, seven young Christian
men who were pressed to recant their Faith under threat of death
by the Roman Empire withdrew to a cave outside of Ephesus to
pray. There they fell asleep. Carrying through with the persecution,
Roman authorities ordered the mouth of the cave to be sealed as the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
young men slept. Three-hundred years later, a farmer opened the
sealed cave, and the seven sleepers awoke (thinking they had slept only
overnight) to find that Christianity was not only the accepted religion
of Ephesus but the state religion of the entire Roman Empire. For cen-
turies, this miracle has been commemorated as a holy day in certain
Christian denominations.
The tradition of the People of the Cave also appears in the Qur’án where
chapter eighteen, entitled “The Cave,” is devoted entirely to that story.
Muhammad, Who was specifically asked about the People of the Cave,
begins His commentary by stating, “It is We who relate to you their
story in truth.” [Qur’án 18:13, Sahih Int.] Then Muhammad relays a
detailed moment-by-moment rendition of that story even adding ele-
ments that were not in the original tradition (such as a cave watchdog
named al Rakim). Because of this realistic telling in the Qur’án, the
miracle of the People of the Cave is honored in Islam, as well.
When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was asked about The Cave chapter of the Qur’án,
He explained that although Muhammad’s reply was stated as though
the account was true, the story of the People of the Cave was “just a
story” and that Muhammad was indulging the people in their tradi-
tional understandings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
In the days of the Prophet, the Jews incited the Quraysh to ask about
the People of the Cave. When the question was asked, His Holiness
said: “I will inform you tomorrow.” . . . . Because the Prophet knew
that this was just a story, He did not wish to give an answer, nor did He
wish to say outright that this is something that has no truth in it, but
when He saw that the enemies would not stay their hand, his reply was
couched as though it were truth. For certain matters are in reality just
stories, but the Divine Manifestations bring them out as though it were
truth and discourse upon them. For if they were to deny well-known
and established matters, others would consider this evidence of their
ignorance. Therefore they bring them out as though they were truth.
[Amr va Khalq 2:211]

Understanding Traditional Discourses
It is notable that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that this is the practice of not just
Muhammad but of all of the Manifestations of God: “For certain mat-
ters are in reality just stories, but the Divine Manifestations bring them
out as though it were truth and discourse upon them.” [Amr va Khalq
2:211] ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s commentary could have inspired Mírzá Abu’l-
Faḍl’s statement that the Prophets may speak according to the people’s
historical notions and folk stories.

Not Necessarily Endorsing Historical Accuracy
The following is a Memorandum which responds to an individual’s
question about a discourse of Bahá’u’lláh in the Lawh-i-Hikmat in
which Bahá’u’lláh refers to communications between certain ancient
philosophers. The question revolves around the issue that western
historians would consider communication between certain philoso-
phers implausible because of chronological differences. The Memo-
randum states:
It is noteworthy that at both the beginning and end of this section of
the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh indicates that He is quoting “some accounts
of the sages”. These would have been the historical accounts famil-
iar to the person whom He is addressing in the Tablet. The fact that
Bahá’u’lláh makes such statements for the sake of illustrating the
spiritual principles that He wishes to convey, does not necessarily
mean that He is endorsing their historical accuracy. In this connec-
tion, it is interesting to note the answer given by the beloved Guard-
ian’s secretary on his behalf to a question about the “fourth heaven”
mentioned in the Kitáb-i-Íqán [pp. 89, 133]. The translation of the
passage is as follows:
“As to the ascent of Christ to the ‘ fourth heaven’ as revealed in the
glorious Book of Íqán, he [the Guardian] stated that the ‘ fourth
heaven’ is a term used and a belief held by the early astronomers.
The followers of the Shi’ah sect likewise held this belief. As the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Kitáb-i-Íqán was revealed for the guidance of that sect, this term
was used in conformity with the concepts of its followers.”
(3 November 1987, written on behalf of the Universal House of
Justice to an individual believer)6
The above guidance directly states that “The fact that Bahá’u’lláh
makes such statements for the sake of illustrating the spiritual prin-
ciples that He wishes to convey, does not necessarily mean that He is
endorsing their historical accuracy.” This guidance is reminiscent of
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s statement that the Manifestations are not sent as
historians, but as spiritual teachers.
In addition, the guidance from the Guardian quoted in the above
Memorandum explains that Bahá’u’lláh used the term “fourth heaven”
in the Kitáb-i-Íqán in conformity with the understandings of the
Shi’ahs to whom the Tablet was directed. (Islamic cosmology includes
various traditions involving seven heavens.) Thus, we have another
example from the sacred text that lends credence to Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s
interpretive approach which recognizes that the Prophets may indulge
understandings and speak according to what the people ‘know,’ but
that this does not necessarily endorse those understandings.

Irrespective of Authenticity or Reliability
The following guidance on behalf of the House of Justice responds
to an inquiry about an apparent contradiction between a discourse of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in which He dismisses the biblical story of Lot as a “con-
fused dream” and a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi which
appears to give legitimacy to the same story.
In his email letter of 14 February 2015, Mr. ___ provides a provi-
sional translation, obtained online, of an extract of a Tablet of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá concerning the story of Lot and his daughters found

Understanding Traditional Discourses
in the Old Testament.7 In this extract ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that the
“story of Lot and his daughters and the apostasy of some of the
prophets recorded in the Torah and the Psalms” are “confused
dreams” that “are the words of historians among the People of the
Book for which God has revealed no authority”. Mr. ___ then refers
to an extract of a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, found
in Lights of Guidance8, which states that, according to the text
of Genesis 19:29–38, Lot bears no responsibility for the actions
of his daughters. Mr. ___ concludes by asking how the Guardian
could give legitimacy to the story in light of the statements made
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Tablet. The Research Department offers
the following response.
To date, nothing has been found in the letters written by or on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi in the Archives at the Bahá’í World Centre
pertaining to the above-mentioned extract of a Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. However, we note that various statements of the Guardian
regarding the authenticity of the Bible are consistent with the state-
ments of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá regarding the story of Lot. For example, in a
letter dated 11 February 1944 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi
to an individual believer, we read: “When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states we
believe what is in the Bible, He means in substance. Not that we believe
every word of it to be taken literally or that every word is the authentic
saying of the Prophet.”
With this in mind, it would appear that, in the letter to which Mr.
___ refers, the Guardian is commenting on the meaning of the story
of Lot and his daughters as found in the Bible, irrespective of its
authenticity or reliability, and that he is not maintaining that the
text of Genesis 19:29–38 is to be understood literally.9
The above guidance, that Shoghi Effendi was commenting on the
meaning of the story of Lot irrespective of its authenticity or reliabil-
ity could be seen as a paraphrase of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement entered
earlier in this paper that “certain matters are in reality just stories, but

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
the Divine Manifestations bring them out as though it were truth and
discourse upon them.” [‘Amr va Khalq 2:211] To comment on the mean-
ing of a story irrespective of the story’s authenticity or reliability also
evokes Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s statement that the Prophets may address
people according to their local traditions.

Discussion
Returning to the question of this study: Is there authoritative evi-
dence that any of the Central Figures or the Guardian have ever not
engaged in disputes with people about their historical beliefs, but have
addressed them according to their local traditions? It is the opinion of
this writer that the answer is, “Yes” and that Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s inter-
pretive approach in this regard is sound. Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
the Guardian, the House of Justice, and Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl use different
but harmonizing descriptors of this phenomenon:
•
Tablets may be “revealed according to the prevailing understanding
of the people of that time.” [Bahá’u’lláh, Ayát-i-Iláhi, vol. 2, 68]
•
The Central Figures may conduct discussions “conformably to
those authoritative accounts which all nations are agreed upon.”
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá, SDC 75]
•
“[C]ertain matters are in reality just stories, but the Divine Mani-
festations bring them out as though it were truth and discourse
upon them.” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Amr va Khalq, 2:211]
•
The Central Figures may use terms of certain religious sects
“in conformity with the concepts of its followers.” [The Guardian10]

Understanding Traditional Discourses
•
“The fact that Bahá’u’lláh makes such statements for the sake
of illustrating the spiritual principles that He wishes to convey,
does not necessarily mean that He is endorsing their historical
accuracy.” [Memorandum11]
•
“Finally, it is well known that neither the Prophet Muhammad
nor the rest of the prophets ever engaged in disputes with
the people about their historical beliefs, but addressed them
according to their local traditions.” [Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl] 12
•
In a Tablet recorded in Gleanings, Bahá’u’lláh asks: “What
language should He Who is the Mouthpiece of God choose to
speak, so that they who are shut out as by a veil from Him can
recognize His glory?” [GB LIII] I propose that the examples
cited in this paper demonstrate that a language that the Cen-
tral Figures and the Guardian may choose to speak according
to Their wisdom is the language of traditional understand-
ings, and this may include discourses on meaning-filled bibli-
cal stories that may not represent literal historical facts. This
phenomenon begs the question: How might one distinguish
between statements that indulge the people’s historical beliefs
about biblical scripture and those that confirm the historicity
of those stories or figures?
In two of the examples presented in this paper, the Central Figures
state provisos that could be seen as alerts that the discourses will be
revealed according to prevailing understandings. In The Secret of
Divine Civilization, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that He is speaking “conform-
ably” to what the people believe. Similarly, in the 2 November 1987
Memorandum it is pointed out that in the Lawh-i-Hikmat Bahá’u’lláh
prefaces His commentary on the ancient philosophers with a state-
ment that He is “quoting some accounts of the sages.” Perhaps readers

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
could train themselves to be sensitive to such alerts. But we can also see
from other examples that the Central Figures do not always give such
notice. For example, when Bahá’u’lláh uses the term “fourth heaven”
in the Kitáb-i-Íqán [¶98] He does not alert the reader that He is about
to speak conformably to the prevailing understandings of a particular
religious sect. It would follow that readers cannot depend on getting
written notice that a Central Figure is about to speak according to pre-
vailing understandings.
Although the question of how one might distinguish between state-
ments that indulge the people’s historical beliefs and those that con-
firm the scriptural stories as literal events is intriguing, there is reason
to believe that it is not the most important question. Consider, for
example, Bahá’u’lláh “Responses to questions of Mánikchí Sáhib”
found in The Tabernacle of Unity. Mánikchí Sáhib had requested
distinct rulings on an array of seemingly contradictory religious tradi-
tions. Which was most acceptable in the sight of God? In His response,
Bahá’u’lláh does not engage in the disputes surrounding those tradi-
tions but confirms the unity of the divine process that is evident in all
of them. In His discourse on differing religious principles Bahá’u’lláh
states, “These differences are not worthy of mention. The eye of divine
mercy casteth its glance upon all that is past. It behoveth us to mention
them only in favourable terms, for they do not contradict that which is
essential.” [TU 2.18] Bahá’u’lláh also repeatedly states the following
imperative as the ultimate answer to all of Mánikchí Sáhib’s inquiries
about differing religious traditions: “Be anxiously concerned with the
needs of the age ye live in, and centre your deliberations on its exigencies
and requirements.”[TU 2.5, 2.7, 2.16, 2.31]
In light of this Tablet and the guidance and sacred text explored ear-
lier in this paper, one might consider that when a Central Figure of
the Faith refers to an ancient biblical story He may be engaging that
tradition in favorable terms because it does not contradict that which
is essential, is well known among the people, and is judged to be a
worthy vehicle to convey eternal spiritual verities. The question of the

Understanding Traditional Discourses
historicity of the tradition cited pales in comparison to the imperative
to “Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live in, and centre
your deliberations on its exigencies and requirements.”[TU 2.5, 2.7, 2.16,
2.31] The most pertinent questions may be: What is the essential spiri-
tual instruction in this discourse that draws on an ancient tradition?
What does it teach about the needs of this age? What do I need to do
to today to embody the spiritual principles that the Central Figure is
teaching through that tradition?
I closing, I’d like to return to this excerpt from Mirza Abu’l-Fadl’s
commentary in Miracles and Metaphors which speaks eloquently to
a phenomenon that, I believe, has been confirmed in the sacred and
authoritative text explored in this paper:
It is clear that the prophets and Manifestations of the Cause of God
were sent to guide the nations, to improve their characters, and to
bring the people nearer to their Source and ultimate Goal. They
were not sent as historians, astronomers, philosophers, or natural
scientists. Their position in the world of creation is like that of the
heart in the body: it has a universal position with a general effect.
The position of the learned in the world of earthly dominion is like
that of a specific organ. That is, they have a particular position and
a special effect. Therefore, the prophets have indulged the people
in regard to their historical notions, folk stories, and scientific prin-
ciples, and have spoken to them according to these. They conversed
as was appropriate to their audience and hid certain realities behind
the curtain of allusion.
. . . Finally, it is well known that neither the Prophet Muhammad
nor the rest of the prophets ever engaged in disputes with the
people about their historical beliefs, but addressed them according
to their local traditions.”13

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bahá’u’lláh.

Arabic Hidden Words

Ayát-i-Iláhi, vol. 2 – The quote from this source was provided by Foad Seddigh

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette,
IL: 1983.

Kitáb-i-Íqán Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL: 1994.

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa: 1992.

Laáí ael-Hiekmat, vol. 2 – The quote from this source was provided by Foad
Seddigh
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

Amr va Khalq – The quote from this source was provided by Robert
Stockman.

The Tabernacle of Unity. Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa: 2006

The Secret of Divine Civilization. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Illinois:
1990.
Cole, Juan R. I.

“I Am All The Prophets: The Poetics of Pluralism in Bahá’í Texts” in Poetics
Today, 14:3,  1993. https://bahai-library.com/cole_poetics_pluralism

“Interpretation in the Bahá’í Faith,” in Bahá’í Studies Review, 5:1. London:
Association for Bahá’í Studies English-Speaking Europe, 1995. https://bahai-
library.com/cole_interpretation_bahai_faith

“Problems of Chronology in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom” in
World Order 13:3, 1979, pp. 24-39. http://bahai-library.com/
cole_problems_chronology_hikmat
Fananapazir, Khazeh, S. Fazel, and Sen McGlinn. “Some Interpretive Principles in
the Bahá’í Writings” in Bahá’í Studies Review, 2:1. London: Association for
Bahá’í Studies English-Speaking Europe, 1992.  <https://bahai-library.com/
fananapazir_fazel_interpretive_principles>
Hall, James. Philosophy and Intellectual History. Chantilly, VA: The Teaching
Company, 2003.
May, Dann. “A Preliminary Survey of Hermeneutical Principles Found within the
Bahá’í Writings” in Journal of Bahá’í Studies, 1.3, 1989.

Understanding Traditional Discourses
McLean, Jack. “Shoghi Effendi’s Concept of History” Presented at the combined
Irfán-Association for Bahá’í Studies Conference, London, England, July 2-4,
2004. https://bahai-library.com/pdf/m/mclean_shoghieffendi_concept_his-
tory.pdf.
Mitchell, Glenford E. “The Literature of Interpretation: Notes on the English Writ-
ings of Shoghi Effendi” in World Order 7:2, Winter 1972. https://bahai-library.
com/mitchell_literature_interpretation.
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl. Miracles and Metaphors. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1981.
Sours, Michael, “Seeing with the Eye of God: Relationships Between Theology
and Interpretation” in Bahá’í Studies Review 1.1, London: Association for
Baha’i Studies English-Speaking Europe, 1991. https://bahai-library.com/
sours_seeing_eye_god.
Stockman, Robert and Jonah Winters. Resource Guide for the Scholarly Study of the
Bahá’í Faith. Wilmette, IL: Research Office of the Bahá’í National Center,
1997.  http://bahai-library.com/stockman_winters_resource_guide.
Universal House of Justice.

“Lot and His Daughters” Memorandum, 29 March 2015. http://bahai-library.
com/uhj_lot_daughters.

“Resurrection of Christ and the Bible” Memorandum, 14 September 1987.
http://bahai-library.com/uhj_resurrection_bible.

“Socrates” Memorandum, 22 October 1995. http://bahai-library.com/
compilation_socrates_bwc#15.
Wansborough, Henry. “The Four Gospels in Synopsis” in The Oxford Bible
Commentary. Edited by John Barton and John Muddiman. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2013, pp. 110-27.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
NOTES
See Stockman and Winters, chapter 30: “Hermeneutics and Interpretation”
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl, p. 9-10
Provisional translation by Foad Seddigh, also found in Laáí ael-Hiekmat, vol.
2 page 57
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl, p. 9-10
Ibid.
Memorandum 3 November 1987 cited in “Socrates” Memorandum, 22
October 1995.
http://www.kashkul.org/2010/09/09/the-true-torah/
See Hornby, #1689
Memorandum 29 March 2015   (29 March 2015, written on behalf of the Uni-
versal House of Justice to an individual believer, see “Socrates” Memorandum
to the Universal House of Justice, last entry)
“Socrates” Memorandum 22 October 1995
“Socrates” Memorandum 22 October 1995
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl, p. 9-10
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl, p. 9-10

Which World Are You In?
Ian Kluge
Introduction
This paper takes its cue from Shoghi Effendi’s statement that
Bahá’ís should consciously guard themselves against being caught
in what one might call the undertow of materialism and atheism,
sweeping the world these days. Skepticism, cynicism, disbelief, immoral-
ity and hard-heartedness are rife, and as friends are those who stand
for the antithesis of all these things they should beware lest the
atmosphere of the present world affects them without their being
conscious of it.1
It is noteworthy that the Guardian’s list of negative results of material-
ism and atheism (the two usually come together) are both intellectual
and affective, i.e. they refer to intellectual ideas but also to the feelings
and attitudes correlated with ideas. For example, cynicism is the belief
that people tend to be motivated by self-interest and are not usually
sincere.2 However, this belief also has an affective aspect, as a feeling
of distrust, suspicion, anxiety and pessimism about human nature.
In daily life such feelings easily inhibit the development of positive
relationships especially with individuals and/or groups that are ‘other.’
“Hard-heartedness” is both a way of thinking about or dealing with
others but also a feeling of indifference, callousness and lack of charity.
Here, too, the development of positive relationships is seriously eroded.
This paper explores the intellectual and affective consequences of
answering a single question, ‘Does God exist or not?’ There are three
main answers to this question. The first is theism, the belief in one

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
transcendent and personal God. The second is atheism which denies
that such a God exists or even could exist. The third is agnosticism, the
belief that there is no decisive evidence in favor of or against theism and
atheism. We shall also look at several subtypes of agnosticism, among
them apatheism, the complete intellectual and emotional indifference
to anything related to God or religion.
Following Shoghi Effendi’s guidance, we hope to make readers more
aware of the nature and consequences of committing to one of these
three viewpoints. Doing so allows readers greater freedom in choosing
their options.
This paper specifically references the Bahá’í Writings for two reasons.
They share the fundamental premise of the other theistic religions—
Judaism, Christianity and Islam—on the existence of one transcen-
dent personal God Who is omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent
and is the creator of the phenomenal world. Moreover, as a more recent
revelation, the Bahá’í Writings explicitly deal with issues that the other
scriptures do not cover directly but which have come to the forefront
of mankind’s development especially since the European Enlighten-
ment.3 In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
The superiority of the present in relation to the past consists in this,
that the present can take over and adopt as a model many things
which have been tried and tested and the great benefits of which
have been demonstrated in the past, and that it can make its own
new discoveries and by these augment its valuable inheritance.4
As a result of our exploration of both intellectual and affective aspects
of theism, atheism and agnosticism we may gain three benefits. First, it
is hoped that readers may gain additional ways of understanding and
appreciating the foundational texts of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation. This
contributes to Shoghi Effendi’s goal of helping people to “consciously
guard themselves against being caught in what one might call the
undertow of materialism and atheism.”

Which World Are You In?
Second, more complete understanding of different beliefs increases
the opportunities for positive dialogue. By ‘positive dialogue’ we
mean dialogue that encourages understanding and respect for differ-
ences. Achieving this goal requires at least some awareness of both the
intellectual and affective consequences of theism, atheism and agnosti-
cism since very few people are motivated to accept and maintain their
beliefs on purely intellectual grounds. Obviously, positive dialogue
makes Bahá’í teaching more effective.
Third, more complete understanding of other beliefs enable more
effective apologetics, i.e. defending the Bahá’í revelation against criti-
cisms of its teachings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that
The beloved of the Lord must stand fixed as the mountains, firm
as impregnable walls … Let them be a mighty fortress to defend His
Faith, an impregnable citadel for the hosts of the Ancient Beauty.
Let them faithfully guard the edifice of the Cause of God from
every side.5

1. Worldviews
If we found ourselves suddenly transported to another planet, we
would immediately be faced with a horde of questions about the nature
of this new reality in which we find ourselves. “What kind of a world
are we in?” “What are the potential physical threats we must overcome?”
“What kind of beings live here—if any?” “If so, how must be relate to
them?” “What is the nature of this new reality? Is it ordered and ruled by
certain laws or is it chaotic and unpredictable? “Are there non-physical
aspects of this new reality? “Are the things we see here real or illusory?
How much of this reality is knowable to us? Given this utterly unprec-
edented situation, asking such questions is, of course, plain common
sense since both physical and psychological survival and well-being
depend answering them with at least some degree of accuracy.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
In answering these questions, we are consciously or unconsciously
engaged in the process of developing a world-view, i.e. an individual
and collective response to the reality in which we find ourselves. A
world-view is a synthesis—to various degrees of logical consistency—
of our intellectual, affective (emotional) and conative (intentional,
purposive) responses to our external environment. It is a complex of
observed facts, intellectual understandings, expectations, emotions
and intentions expressed in our values, attitudes, expectations, goals
and, perhaps above all, a sense of meaning. Such responses are not
merely abstract and intellectual, but also affective i.e. they shape our
feelings, attitudes and intended actions. World-views need not neces-
sarily be expressed in abstract philosophical discourse but can also be
expressed in art, music, poetry, myth, religious beliefs, narratives and
rituals as well as in secular and sacred imagery.
According to Wilhelm Dilthey, one of the founders of methodical
world-view studies,6
[t]here is in mankind a persistent tendency to achieve a comprehensive
interpretation, Weltanschauung, or philosophy, in which a pic-
ture of reality is combined with a sense of its meaning and value and
with principles of action ...7
In other words, all human beings—not just cultural elites—need
a world-view in order to make sense of and give coherent order to
their lives at both the individual and societal levels. Without a world-
view—whether invented or, or as in most cases, adopted from soci-
ety—effective action is impossible because we would lack a hierarchy
of ideas, values and feelings to motivate and guide action. Such a lack
makes survival let alone the optimization of well-being highly unlikely.
Indeed, we would not even understand our own identity because hav-
ing a personal identity assumes certain things to be true about oneself
and the world.

Which World Are You In?
James Sire, author of The Universe Next Door reiterates and expands
Dilthey’s claims about the universality of world-views and explains
why they are necessary.
Everyone has a world-view. Whenever any of us thinks about any-
thing—from a casual thought (Where did I leave my watch?) to a
profound question (Who am I?) we are operating within such a
framework. In fact, it is only the assumption of a world-view—how-
ever basic or simple—that allows us to think at all.8
Thinking—as well as feeling and willing—always occurs in the context
of a world-view, a paradigm or framework either consciously known
or unconsciously assumed. If we have no intellectual criteria to tell
us what is worth thinking about and to distinguish error from truth,
right from wrong, and reasonable from unreasonable, we become
unconcerned and blasé about things and spend no more time and
energy thinking about them.9 Such pre-reflective, uncritical responses
subject to little if any questioning and/or rational discourse are simply
accepted at face value because they are assumed to be true. 10 They
remain “prephilosoophic.”11
The existence of other—sometimes competitive—world-views presents
an important challenge: what is the most effective way of understand-
ing them? Dilthey concluded that abstract intellectual knowledge of
their beliefs is insufficient; the feelings correlated with the abstract
ideas are must also be taken into consideration for an accurate under-
standing of our own and others’ world-views. To achieve this, he devel-
oped his method of “verstehen,” or ‘understanding’ as the evidence-
informed “imaginative re-experiencing of the subjective point of view
of the actor”12 in regards to other world-views. This requires empathy
or “einfühlen” (literally ‘feeling into’) not just for abstract ideas but also
for feelings and emotional states.13 “Einfühlen” uses evidence-based
imaginary exercises us to understand human existence empathetically,
i.e. subjectively from within the standpoint of an ‘other.’14 Subjectively

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
oriented fact-based imaginative understanding is necessary for deeper
intellectual and affective understanding of all world-views.
The underlying premise of Dilthey’s method is the oneness of human
nature regardless of race, gender, culture or any other accidental fac-
tors. A. H. Hodges points out that Dilthey’s method of fact-based
imaginative and “sympathetic insight”15 provides genuine knowledge
of other world-views because it is “based on the identity of nature
between ourselves and what we study [i.e. human expression].”16 In short,
human nature is one. (The “oneness of mankind” 17 is a common
teaching by all the Manifestations of God.) Dilthey’s method of “ein-
fühlen” or ‘feeling into’ shows that humans essentially share a similar
inner life, and, thereby, encourages “discovering myself in the Thou.”18
Furthermore, Dilthey’s method of verstehen and einfühlen provides a
disciplined scholarly practice built on a universal religious teaching.
The modern historian and political philosopher Isaiah Berlin agrees
with Dilthey on this issue.
Members of one culture can, by force of imaginative insight under-
stand (what Vico calls entrare) the values, the ideals, the forms of life
of another culture or society, even those remote in time and space …19
Contrary to Spengler and contemporary theorists and practitioners
of ‘identity politics,’ world-views are not isolated and impermeable
monads with insuperable barriers between them. On the basis of our
common human nature, we can gain genuine knowledge and under-
standing about different cultural and ethnic groupings. The key to
gaining such knowledge is an open-minded and open-hearted willing-
ness to do so. The Roman poet and playwright Terence (2nd century
BCE) sums up this approach to understanding humanity in a single
line: “I am a man and nothing human is alien to me.”20
The contemporary philosopher of religion, Linda Trinkaus Zogzebski
builds on Dilthey’s practice of “einfühlen,” pointing out there is a close
connection between the abstract beliefs expressed in a world-view and

Which World Are You In?
their concomitant feelings and emotions. She is particularly emphatic
about the need for affective or emotional understanding, stating that
“many emotion-dispositions … have an important role in evaluating any
kind of belief.”21 Her statement reminds us that very few people adopt
a world-view on strictly logical and intellectual grounds. Almost invari-
ably, personal and affective components are involved, e.g. feelings of
loyalty to a parental tradition, an emotionally overpowering experience
of some kind, or an unshakeable intuition that some idea is ‘right.’
Perhaps the best known work of connecting emotions with the concept
of the divine is Rudolf Otto’s The Idea of the Holy. This famous text
asserts that beliefs in the “holy,” the divine, the “numinous”22 “cannot
strictly speaking, be taught, it can only be evoked”23and such evoca-
tions elicit intellectual, affective and conative responses. Otto’s goal is
not only to provide intellectual understanding but also to enable the
reader to “feel” the experiences associated with “the holy,” i.e. to under-
stand through “einfuehling” (‘feeling into’) why the experience of the
holy is so compelling. He identifies the important emotional states the
holy evokes, for example, “the consciousness of creaturehood”24—as
seen for example in the Bahá’í Noonday Prayer—a sense of the “wholly
other”25 and a feeling of “wonderfulness and rapture which lies in the
beatific experience of deity.”26
Following the example provided by these scholars, this paper exam-
ines the connection between theistic, atheistic, agnostic and apathetic
world-views and the correlated intellectual, conative and especially the
affective responses they are most likely to arouse. Knowledge of this
connection is essential to answering the question, “What is the nature
of the world in which I find myself?” We shall pay special attention
to the way in which certain affective states encourage a sense of confi-
dence in and worthiness of human nature and the decisively important
concepts that grow out of these feelings.
Guidance from the Manifestations of God is necessary to inspire such
confidence in the spiritual aspects of human nature because, all too

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
easily, especially in the autumn and winter season of civilizations,27
human beings fall into the “Slough of Despond.”28 Judaism, Chris-
tianity and Islam provide this guidance in a general way. The Bahá’í
Writings do as well but add explanations about the declining condition
of the post-Enlightenment world. Shoghi Effendi calls for greater hero-
ics from Bahá’ís “as humanity plunges into greater depths of despair,
degradation, dissension and distress.”29 He continues,
People are so markedly lacking in spirituality these days that the
Bahá’ís should consciously guard themselves against being caught
in what one might call the undertow of materialism and atheism,
sweeping the world these days. Skepticism, cynicism, disbelief,
immorality and hard-heartedness are rife”30
In “an age of scepticism and unbelief” 31 a loss of confidence in the
spiritual nature and destiny of mankind takes hold, leading to a deep
scepticism, discouragement, pessimism, cynicism and that hinders
mankind from living up to its God-given spiritual nature and its poten-
tials. Especially the history of the 20th century CE has normalized this
inward condition with it degraded view of humans as no more than an
animal-like material being without any spiritual aspects. When such
viewpoints become wide-spread, human self-understanding becomes
fore-shortened, seeing only the material world and its temptations and
rewards as ‘real.’ It is denigrated by a pervasive philosophical and con-
sumerist materialism that reduces humankind to an electro-chemical
process without any spiritual features whatever. Such attitudes are not
only reflected in serious literature and philosophy—vide Sartre’s Nau-
sea and Being and Nothingness, George Orwell’s 1984 or Camus’ The
Stranger and William Golding’s Lord of the Flies but also in popular
literature such as Agatha Christie’s The Murder at the Vicarage. Chris-
tie’s aging spinster heroine, Miss Marple reflects that “At my time of
life, one knows that the worst is usually true.” 32
The development and strengthening of human self-confidence
and feeling of worthiness is one of the “eternal verities”33 of God’s

Which World Are You In?
Manifestations. Here, too, there is agreement among the four global
theist religions. In the Qur’an, God says, man is His “vicegerent on
earth” 34 whereas Judaism, Christianity and the Bahá’í Faith teach that
mankind is made in the spiritual image of God,35 i.e. the imago dei.
In addition, the Manifestations provide guidance to help humanity
gain courage, confidence in its own nature and a sense of worthiness
to overcome the seemingly overwhelming power of matter and our
animal aspects.
We shall find, among other things, that ideas and feelings are in a recip-
rocal relationship, each feeling often leads to certain ideas, and certain
ideas lead to particular feelings, emotions and attitudes. For example,
the deeply felt intuition that non-physical, i.e. transcendental forces,
processes and/or entities exist encourages theistic belief. In turn, theistic
belief encourage feelings about the value of mankind’s spiritual nature
and destiny. These results shapes our attitudes to and about the world.
Four general answers to this question are available in contemporary
Western societis:
1.
Theism i.e. reality cannot be adequately explained in strictly
material terms; that there is one God only who possess the
attributes of personhood;
2.	 Atheism i.e. non-material entities, processes and forces do not
exist; belief in them is delusional and harms mankind in innu-
merable ways;
3.
Agnosticism, i.e. the limitations of human understanding pre-
vent us from deciding between the previous two viewpoints.
We may, of course, ask why not simply survey ‘practicing’ theists, athe-
ists and agnostics about how they experience/feel their beliefs. Such
a study of actual adherents would, provide valuable information for
the sociology of belief. However, our focus is philosophical: on explor-
ing the logically necessary intellectual and affective consequences
of these beliefs and how they shape our theories of reality. These

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
two approaches are not mutually exclusive since they study different
aspects of these beliefs. Indeed, sociology can gain new data by using
the logical philosophical template to measure the logical coherence of
actual beliefs among practitioners of these world-views.

2: Theism Part I
Explicitly or implicitly, all belief systems whether religious or secular,
embed certain metaphysical principles about the basic, “most general
structure of reality.”36 Theism is no exception. For theism, although
matter and spirit both originate from and depend on God as their
necessary and sufficient condition for existence, they are ontologically
different insofar as they have mutually exclusive attributes.37 While
matter is perceptible by the physical senses, spirit is an “intelligible real-
ity[ ] which [has] no outward existence.” 38 In Christianity, this distinc-
tion is made in the statement “That which is born of the flesh is flesh;
and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.”39 Judaism’s view of the
difference between matter and spirit evolved in the direction of clearly
distinguishing the two.40
The matter/spirit distinction has far-reaching intellectual and affective
consequences. Recognizing the existence of non-material aspects of
reality—identified in the Bahá’í Writings as “intelligible realities”41—
determines how we orient ourselves in the world. Because reality is not
metaphysically one-dimensional42 but dual, we cannot limit our atten-
tion to sensible things but must also take account of aspects of reality
that cannot be physically perceived or measured and quantified. The
matter/spirit distinction may be described as being ‘open’ insofar as it
does not confine our intellectual and affective knowledge to the mate-
rial world. It opens new possibilities for human growth and evolution.
The presence of the unseen may arouse fear (more on this below) but it
also encourages us to be more curious about and more conscious about
our surroundings and to pay more attention to the natural world as a
carrier of ‘signs’ of its divine origin. This heightened attention to the

Which World Are You In?
nature of reality may plausibly be regarded as one of the factors in the
beginnings of science and theology, since both start with the need to
understand the real world more adequately. As we try to explain what
we observe and/or intuit, “the rational soul” develops new capacities
of thinking, such as the use of analogical reasoning, i.e. explaining the
unseen by references to the seen.43
From the human perspective, the difference between matter and non-
material spirit is exacerbated because spirit has powers denied to mate-
rial things. It can, for example, exist invisibly and, thereby, can observe
us without being observed itself. Unlike material bodies, the intuited
non-physical reality can be everywhere at the same time, i.e. omni-
present. Whereas non-physical, spiritual entities are immune from
physical harm, material bodies of all kinds are subject to accidents to
diseases and all manner of natural disasters, to starvation and attacks
by human and animal foes, and eventually death. This, too, suggests
supernatural powers not available to humans (though there will be
some who seek to acquire such powers). Such differences encourage
humans to distinguish among (1) the most powerful and the less pow-
erful or powerless44; (2) the contingent and non-contingent; and (3) the
unlimited and the limited.
These conclusions regarding our ontological situation vis-à-vis non-
physical aspects of reality awaken deep and unshakeable feelings of
human dependence and weakness vis-à-vis the invisible entities, forces
or processes. However, as will be shown below, they also lead to certain
insights about human strengths that we can build on. Indeed, doing
exactly that is the purpose of God’s Manifestations on earth.
The combined effect of the powers of the non-physical entities and
forces easily lead to an overpowering feeling of mankind’s vulner-
ability and even powerlessness, and, with it, to a sense of ontological
dependence and inferiority. For good or ill, non-material entities can
act on us in enigmatic ways, i.e. unseen, by unknown means and
for unknown purposes. These abilities can arouse not only wonder,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
respect, awe, curiosity and a desire to investigate but also suspicion
vis-à-vis nature and other people, fear and even inhibit the ability to
act. The labyrinthian tangle of contradictory feelings may also gener-
ate a strong overwhelming sense of the inherent mysteriousness of and
fascination with the non-material aspects of existence.
Fascination, be it the fascination of the wonderful or the fascination
of the horrible or a convoluted snarl of both that we find difficult if
not impossible to untangle, leads to what Rudolf Otto in The Idea of
the Holy identifies as the “mysterium tremendum.”45 His emphasis is,
rightly, on the feelings, not on the merely abstract intellectual knowl-
edge about the reality and truth of the unknowability, omnipresence
and omnipotence of the “numinous” or “the holy.” According to
Otto, the complexity of our experience and feeling of the “mysterium
tremendum”46 unleashes a wide range of emotions ranging from the
sudden transformative feeling-knowledge of “transport and ecstasy,”47
to “intoxicated frenzy”48 and even to “wild and demonic”49 emotional
episodes. The intrinsic mysteriousness of reality, encourages a welter of
seemingly contradictory feelings. Among them we find the feelings of
uncanniness and dread; bafflement, perplexity and confusion as well
as curiosity, wonder and amazement.
Rudolf Otto associates the recognition of inferiority and dependence
as “the element of absolutely mysterious power over which humans
have no control. The various beings hypothesized—gods, ghosts, ani-
mal spirits—“retain numina,”50 i.e. an aura of power, “awefulness” and
the “uncanny.”51 We feel surrounded by mysterious forces, processes
and beings, and, therefore, easily fall prey to feelings of cosmic para-
noia exile and existential homelessness, (reflected in the story of the
expulsion from the Garden of Eden), isolation, estrangement from the
world, hopelessness and meaninglessness in the face of human tran-
sience. According to Rudolph Otto, at best we can propitiate these
super-human powers by attaining “consciousness of createdness and
the consciousness of creaturehood”52 by means of humble acceptance,

Which World Are You In?
individual and communal prayer and ritual, and by practices to foster
a feeling of harmony with the unseen powers. Indeed, recognizing that
“Thou art all,”53 and becoming “weary of self”54 we may even seek “the
annihilation of self”55 by following a mystical or monastic path.
However, as noted above, there are positive intellectual and affective
gains to be derived even from these seemingly invincible negative
feelings. In fact, these positive gains are unachievable without first
directly facing the negatives because they are the necessary condi-
tions for awakening humanity’s consciousness of its own powers of
mind, of its own “rational soul”56 which distinguishes it from the rest
of creation. Without the challenges presented by the material world
mankind would have little if any opportunity to discover its own
mental and spiritual powers because there would be no pressing rea-
son to actualize these potentials. This actualization entails realizing
that “Man possesses conscious intelligence and reflection; nature does
not.”57 Consequently, mankind’s self-confidence is promoted and sus-
tained. Consciousness and reflection give humans power over physi-
cal nature.58 Even more, consciousness—an “intelligible reality”—is
experienced or felt (through intuition59) as a non-physical process
diminishes the ontological distance between humankind and the non-
physical or spiritual aspects of reality. Recognition of similarity to the
spiritual beings and forces, encourages feelings of self-confidence and
worthiness in human nature. Among other things, such consciousness
of our pre-eminence in the created world and the resulting confidence
is the basis for diminishing the propensity to “To act like the beasts
of the field.”60 Consciousness is what gives humankind a sense of its
superiority over material reality and, thereby, strengthens humanity’s
self-confidence in the struggle to survive—and thrive—in an often
hostile and dangerous world. Even more, it encourages confidence in
our ability to control—not suppress—our lower animal nature and,
thereby, continue our evolution as moral beings. Without the feeling
of confidence in our mental and spiritual powers and a sense of worthi-
ness as human beings, it is easy to ignore our potentials as moral and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
spiritual beings. The Manifestations of God inspire us to outgrow this
diminished, self-inhibiting and depressed understanding of ourselves,
often as no more than one animal among all the others.
Uncanniness need not necessarily provoke only negative reactions. It
can also stimulate a feeling of astonishment and with it, curiosity not
only about “the Holy” but about ourselves as well. Awareness of our
limitations combined with a “fascination”61 with the ultimate source
of this experience prompts—at least in some—an epistemological
quest for ‘other ways of knowing’ appropriate to this mysterious aspect
of reality. Obviously, sense perception is not well-suited to this quest.
Therefore, we seek “other forms of experience which deserve to be
called cognitive.”62 Among these ways are an openness to intuition,63
an “awaken[ing] [of] spiritual susceptibilities,”64 inspiration, i.e. the
“promptings of the Holy Spirit”65 and meditation practices.66 Even such
relatively common experiences as dreams, visions, physical disciplines
such as fasting or self-isolation, and NDE’s can provide knowledge,
especially about ourselves. Again, the feeling of confidence in our
potentials for acquiring all kinds of knowledge plays an important role
in pursuing knowledge.
Moreover, overpowering awe in the presence of “the holy” inspires
worship and praise along with a feeling of gratitude for the unearned
and unasked for gift of existence. Reminding us of existence as a
good is an essential task of theistic religions amid the sufferings of the
world. We sense that life has intrinsic value and that human existence
is ‘ontologically right,’ despite what our own personal fate may be and,
thereby, transcend these events.67 Once this good is forgotten or worse,
never recognized, despair and nihilism with their attendant cynicism
and self and socially destructive attitudes and actions, individuals and
societies have come to the ‘end of the road.’ Like Oedipus in Oedipus at
Colonus, they will feel and act out the belief that it is best not to be born
and if this catastrophe happens, it is best to return to non-existence.

Which World Are You In?
Not to be born at all
Is best, far best that can befall,
Next best, when born, with least delay
To trace the backward way. 68
This existential optimism is a necessary motivator for good will to all as
well as affective and intellectual progress. As will be shown below, this
feeling is enhanced by the theist doctrine of a personal God.
The mysterious nature of transcendent beings and/or forces may also
cause us to experience what Otto calls “creature-consciousness or crea-
ture feeling … [which] is the note of submergence into nothingness
before an overpowering absolute might of some kind.69 Such feelings
are easily understood given the unknown and, thereby unpredictable
reality seems to surround us at all times and all places; its omnipres-
ence—and knowledge of our secret deeds—can easily unnerve us.
The Bahá’í Writings—in agreement with Judaism, Christianity and
Islam—teach that compared to God’s absolute, i.e. unconditionally
independent existence, mankind does not exist, is ‘as nothing’ because
humans are totally dependent on God.70
However, an acute feeling of mankind’s intrinsic deficiencies need
not necessarily lead to a “peculiar dread” but can also lead to positive
intellectual and affective results. Dread can activate as well as paralyze
us. A sense of deficiency can prompt a desire to improve which, in
turn, requires the slow and careful cultivation of humankind’s latent
intellectual and affective capacities needed for ethical, material, cul-
tural and psycho-spiritual progress. Among these necessary skills are
self-observation, reflection, self-critique, a sense of humility, a sense of
responsibility and a deeply felt commitment to do better in the future.
These practices also require an unflagging dedication to truth, which
itself requires a willingness to distinguish between preferences and
fact and a willingness to override personal preferences for truth. We

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
may call this complex of feelings and their ensuing beliefs ‘conscience’
which depends on the independent investigation of truth. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá praises those who have
investigated the truth and have been freed from imitations and
superstitions, that ye observe with your own eyes and not with
those of others, hearken with your own ears and not with the ears
of others.71
Furthermore, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out that God “has endowed [man-
kind] with mind, or the faculty of reasoning, by the exercise of which
he is to investigate and discover the truth, and that which he finds72
real and true he must accept.”73 It is noteworthy that both religion and
science have their roots in the skills and commitments acquired from
“dread” and a consciousness of human deficiencies. In other words,
both science and religion have the same existential origins and the
same purpose.
The tendency to reflect on our own thoughts and actions encourages
greater social and moral self-consciousness which are required for
human psycho-spiritual progress both in individuals and societies. For
this reason Bahá’u’lláh admonishes us to
[b]ring thyself to account ere thou art summoned to a reckoning, on
the Day when no man shall have strength to stand for fear of God, the
Day when the hearts of the heedless ones shall be made to tremble.74
Affectively, such growing powers of self-consciousness can stimulate
feelings of self-confidence and with it, hope for oneself and even
humanity in general as seen, for example, in the Bahá’í doctrine of
progressive revelation. We shall discuss below how hope is enhanced
and becomes one of the great gifts of belief in a personal God.

Which World Are You In?
3. Theism Part II
The consequences of recognizing the existence of non-material reali-
ties become intensified and expanded with the theist principle that
the world is the creation of a single, transcendent and personal Being
Who is actively involved in the life of mankind. This development is
not merely an arbitrary anthropomorphic imposition prompted by
‘pre-philosophic’ i.e. unreflective and uncritical thought or by “vain
imaginings.”75 There is also an underlying logic that is not difficult to
discern. It is based on the previously examined distinction between
matter and spirit and its consequences as well as on empirical observa-
tion of human actions.
The unusual and seemingly ‘supernatural’ powers of the non-material
aspects of reality—especially in contrast to the contingency of material
things and life—suggest that spirit is permanent and, therefore, more
real than matter. Since material things are never observed to come into
existence from nothing by their own power, i.e. they are contingent,
analogical reasoning on the basis of this evidence suggests that the
physical world itself originated from or was created by external per-
manent i.e. non-contingent spiritual agency. In other words, there is
a distinction between (4) the Creator and the created, or, the Origin
and the originated; (5) the independent and the dependent; and the (6)
the essence and the accident. The existence of the contingent material
world depends on non-contingent external action by non-material, i.e.
spiritual agent. In addition, because the physical world is accidental,
i.e. contingent and the spiritual power is essential, i.e. it is the necessary
and sufficient conditions for the existence of the physical world.
Logic supports this view. Because the universe is existentially consti-
tuted entirely of material, i.e. contingent entities, it follows that the
universe itself is contingent. 76 If every part of a machine is destruc-
tible, the machine itself is destructible, i.e. its existence is not necessary.
Claiming otherwise implies that machines, mountains, plants—or the
universe—can exist separately from their parts. Such a claim—that a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
mountain or tricycle can exist separately from their parts—is, in effect,
an admission of non-material realities, akin to Plato’s theory of Ideas.
The readily apparent consequence is that the contingency of the uni-
verse requires a Creator Who is not subject to the limitations of physical
existence. In the same way, a pot requires a potter, i.e. an external entity
possessing consciousness, the ability to make choices and intentionally
work towards a purpose and desiring the existence of the pot. Such
an entity also possesses individuality because it is a particular kind of
being, i.e. it has an identity—whatever that identity may be.
Direct experience also teaches that effects must in some way or degree
resemble their cause. A piece of ice will not light a fire in kindling
because ice and fire do not share any relevant attributes, namely, heat; a
lit match, however, will do so because it also possesses heat and, there-
fore, can impart heat to kindling. From this, it is only a small logical
step to realize that even if other lesser spirits exist, there must be a single
supremely powerful being to create the vast complexity of the world.
The vastness of the world requires a commensurate cause,77 namely, a
single all-powerful Being beyond any conceivable limitations.78
These necessary attributes of the potter are also the qualities neces-
sary for personhood, thereby making it rational to conclude that the
superior non-material power must be a person or, at least, have the
attributes of personhood.79 For Bahá’ís as well as other theist thinkers,
Shoghi Effendi confirms these conclusions about a personal God by
stating,
What is meant by personal God is a God Who is conscious of His
creation, Who has a Mind, a Will, a Purpose, and not, as many
scientists and materialists believe, an unconscious and determined
force operating in the universe. Such conception of the Divine
Being, as the Supreme and ever present Reality in the world, is not
anthropomorphic, for it transcends all human limitations and forms,
and does by no means attempt to define the essence of Divinity which
is obviously beyond any human comprehension. To say that God is a

Which World Are You In?
personal Reality does not mean that He has a physical form, or does
in any way resemble a human being.80
Of course, God has these powers in a super-eminent way that I, they
are only analogically reflected in human nature. Shoghi Effendi’s list
of attributes—consciousness, a mind, a will and a purpose—are the
necessary and sufficient conditions for possessing personhood. With-
out these foundational attributes there can be no meaningful moral
agency; no love, care or concern; no sense of justice; no freedom of
action; no scale of values, obligations or rights; no sense of meaning
and no intentional relationships. Impersonal, unconscious forces, pro-
cesses or machines—not even computers—cannot feel love, concern
and self-motivation, demonstrate moral agency, establish a sense of
values or initiate and sustain desired relationships. Unconscious, non-
personal entities, processes and forces, like computers, can, of course,
imitate the actions and procedures we associate with these attributes 81
but it is a superficial imitation insofar as it lacks the attributes listed by
Shoghi Effendi.82
The Bahá’í Writings themselves also teach the personhood of God on
the basis of a metaphysical argument: God must have the attributes
of personhood because these attributes are evident in mankind. As
previously noted “Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the
earth is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the attributes and
names of God.” 83 Mankind—wholly dependent and created—cannot
possess spiritual capacities not super-eminently present in the Creator.
Otherwise, not only would the created be superior to the Creator but
also such capacities in mankind would have arisen from nothingness,
i.e. without a sign in God’s essence.84 Humans can only possess per-
sonhood because the foundational attributes of personhood as well
as their consequences such as moral agency and the ability to love are
present—albeit in super-eminent form—in God. This line of reason-
ing is confirmed by the Manifestations of God.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Perhaps the most far-reaching consequence of God’s possession of the
attributes of personhood is that it strengthens humanity with what we
may call ‘cosmic confidence,’ i.e. the conviction that mankind’s ‘being’
or existence is good in and of itself and this good exceeds whatever nat-
ural and moral disasters may occur to individuals and/or entire soci-
eties.85 Given the persistent physical, moral, social, political economic
and psychological obstacles that beset our lives, humans would—and
do—lose any hope for the future, fall into discouragement and despair
about the value, purpose and meaning of life. Too easily they would
fall into “the station of the ignorant ones who are as animals, follow-
ing every croaker and shaken by every wind. ‘Forsake them to play in
their shallow waters.’ ”86 If human existence is not considered a good
in itself, affectively, conatively and intellectually, then the value of love
and care, whether physical, social, moral or spiritual care or whether
for ourselves or others is, in effect, denied. Such negative emotions are
exacerbated when a society succumbs to a materialist view of humans
as electro-chemical machines and/or animals ‘just like the others’ with
everyone fighting a feverish ‘war of all against all’ to acquire satisfac-
tion in the material world.
In sharp contrast, in the four global theist religions, cosmic confidence
is `based on the personhood of God Whose love for humanity is the
ultimate reason for our existence. ‘Love’ expressed by an impersonal
force or process—like ‘love’ expressed by a machine—would be utterly
meaningless and contribute nothing to our confidence in the face of
the powerful challenges of the physical world. We exist because we
our existence is loved by a personal God. Through Bahá’u’lláh, God
reminds us of this basic principle of theism: “I loved thy creation,
hence I created thee.”87 Since God is “conscious of His creation” and
has, among other attributes “a Mind, a Will [and] a Purpose,” it fol-
lows logically that creation as a whole and especially humans are inten-
tionally “call[ed] into being”88 by a transcendental Being Who wishes
mankind’s existence. We are not simply “accidental composition[s]
and arrangement[s]”89 resulting from a long series of random physi-
cal processes and coincidences i.e. a long serendipitous sequence of

Which World Are You In?
coincidences no less miraculous then a virgin birth. This heightens
humanity’s feelings of self-esteem as divine creations.
The Quran shows God’s love for mankind when He says, “and behold,
We said to the angels: “Bow down to Adam” and they bowed down.”90
Similarly, Judaism, Christianity and the Bahá’í Writings portray
humanity as the spiritual image of God, the imago dei. Because our
individual and collective existence is an intentional creation of divine
personal love, mankind can not only trust God—even when things go
wrong as in the story of Job—but can also have full confidence in our
own objective intrinsic value.
The Bahá’í Writings enlarge the scope of mankind’s intrinsic value and
purpose by teaching that humankind has a specific place and purpose
in cosmic evolution: “If man did not exist, the universe would be without
result, for the object of existence is the appearance of the perfections of God.91
Indeed, God created humanity with a unique nature
Human nature is created with a special essence—the capacity to
reflect all the names of God—which distinguishes us from all other
things and gives humankind a special position in the scale of being.
Mankind, i.e. human nature, stands out because … for each name,
each attribute, each perfection which we affirm of God there exists
a sign in man.92
Cosmic confidence is supported not only by mankind’s special and
necessary place in the hierarchy of existence but also by the knowledge
that our unique essential nature is created by God and, therefore, “his
species and essence undergo no change.93 Even “education cannot alter the
inner essence of a man.” 94 We are, so to speak, safe from ourselves! This
is important in modern, post-Enlightenment times in which the denial
of human nature and the concept of its complete malleability have led
to catastrophic experiments to design and create a ‘new man’ accord-
ing to the desires of fallible—though fashionable—philosophers and
ideologues.95 The theist religions agree here as well. This not only

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
provides confidence in humanity’s essential nature but also gives us
relief by freeing us from the pressures exerted by the ideological delu-
sions of our time.
Knowing that we are conscious and intentional creations of God, Who
gifted us with a purpose in cosmic evolution also gives mankind the
courage not to succumb to the intimidation of a vast and overwhelm-
ingly powerful physical universe. We remember that because “Man is,
in reality, a spiritual being,”96 and that “the rational soul is the sub-
stance, and the body depends upon it. If the accident—that is to
say, the body—be destroyed, the substance, the spirit, remains.97 Leav-
ing aside the technical Aristotelian terminology, the gist of this state-
ment is that matter cannot harm the “rational soul.”98 This assures
not only the ontological superiority of the “rational soul” against
overwhelming physical force, but also its immortality. In other words,
our feelings of being intimidated and even fatally discouraged by the
physical universe and its catastrophes—bodily diseases, droughts,
floods, crop failures, earthquakes, genetic disabilities, sheer accidents—
are irrational and unjustified. Spiritually, we are not entombed in the
world of matter though, of course, our bodies are.
In addition, confidence in ourselves as God’s creations strengthens the
courage and willingness to actualize our potentialities not only as indi-
vidual self-improvement but also as societies in establishing education
systems for public well-being. The quest for individual self-improve-
ment often begins with an intuition that there is ‘something more’ we
feel compelled to do to feel fully ‘at home’ with ourselves, i.e. we are
spurred on by what choreographer Martha Graham called a “divine
dissatisfaction” with what we are compared to the inner potentialities
we feel or intuit within ourselves. Bahá’u’lláh affirms the reality of this
feeling, saying, “All men have been created to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization.”99
Not being completely entombed in matter and time generates hope,
in other words, a positive attitude or feeling about the future, and,

Which World Are You In?
consequently, a certain enthusiasm and willingness to attain this
future by appropriate conduct in the present. Such confidence encour-
ages virtues necessary for survival and growth, as, for example, perse-
verance, open-mindedness, intellectual and affective flexibility, and a
willingness to experiment. Equally important, hope for a better future
generates a willingness to engage in self-criticism for self-improvement
as well as a willingness to sacrifice for others even if only to receive
a just reward beyond the material world. Kantian deontologists may
object that acting for a reward is not a virtue but in the case of attaining
heaven (however defined), why wouldn’t it be? How can we rationally
assert it is not a virtue to choose to act in favor of one’s own spiritual
well-being and progress in the eternal afterlife? Indeed, it would seem
to be the only rational thing to do. Nor would doing so lead to out-
rightly selfish acts because these would hinder our spiritual and moral
progress throughout eternity.
However, hope for immortality also engenders a healthy and rational
fear—if for no other reason than that no one wants to encounter the
consequences of their misdeeds for eternity!100 In other words, the
hope for immortality also helps humans take their moral responsibili-
ties more seriously; they become ‘morally engaged’ and develop greater
willingness to assess their own actions more seriously. As `Abdu’l-Bahá’
points out, disbelief in personal immortality easily leads humans to
neglect the acquisition of virtues:
The conception of annihilation is a factor in human degradation, a
cause of human debasement and lowliness, a source of human fear
and abjection. It has been conducive to the dispersion and weak-
ening of human thought, whereas the realization of existence and
continuity has upraised man to sublimity of ideals, established the
foundations of human progress and stimulated the development of
heavenly virtues; therefore, it behooves man to abandon thoughts
of nonexistence and death, which are absolutely imaginary, and see
himself ever-living, everlasting in the divine purpose of his creation.
He must turn away from ideas which degrade the human soul101

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Moreover, the deep convictions allows feelings of hope for ultimate
justice, the confidence that even though economic, political and moral
criminals may escape justice on earth, their deeds will be judged in the
next life. This certainty has tremendous societal implications. In the
first place, cosmic confidence and hope make the effort to improve our-
selves and society worthwhile despite the trouble that we may have to
endure. More specifically, hope for God’s justice helps curb the desire
for personal revenge that can tear entire families, societies and even
countries apart. Such hope helps sustain good order and peace in society.
Without the vital feelings of confidence, hope and courage in the face
of overwhelming physical power, it is difficult to see how science could
have evolved. `Abdu’l-Bahá’ makes it clear, that humanity
wresteth the sword from the hands of nature, and giveth it a griev-
ous blow … Man hath the powers of will and understanding, but
nature hath them not. Nature is constrained, man is free. Nature is
bereft of understanding, man understandeth. Nature is unaware of
past events, but man is aware of them.102
In other words, mankind’s intellectual and scientific progress depends
on the feelings of confidence inspired by the theist doctrine that
humankind is made in the spiritual image of God. Humanity occu-
pies a special place in the scale of being. Indeed, human nature is the
vanguard of the spiritual aspects of the evolutionary process. There is,
for example, no common denominator between animal behavior and
such human behaviors as writing operas, establishing public schools,
engaging in religious services, creating legal systems with codified
laws and a charter of individual rights or the systematic pursuit of
scientific knowledge.103
The cosmic confidence that forms a foundational part of theism is
also strengthened by its ability to provide logical and coherent solu-
tions to four fundamental problems in ethics. By ‘logical and coherent’
we mean solutions that follow from a basic premise—the distinction

Which World Are You In?
between matter and spirit—and suggest certain conclusions by infer-
ential and/or analogical reasoning. In short, the theist solutions form a
part of a unified whole.
The first question is, ‘Who—if anyone—has the legitimate authority or
the right to lay down moral principles and precepts for the human race?’
Given God’s His knowledge of His creation, it is difficult to imagine
who else could have genuine ethical legitimacy since His knowledge
is the only reliable guide to ‘the good.’ In addition, it is virtually self-
evident that no human and no collection of human beings inherently
possess such legitimacy by virtue of their human nature. The reasons
are obvious: humans are fallible and fickle, have personal interests, lack
absolute independence from all things, i.e. are susceptible to outside
influence, interference and coercion. Thus, humans cannot guarantee
objectivity and justice. They also lack the unlimited knowledge needed
to establish viable ethical and judicial standards. God is unaffected by
the aforementioned deficiencies.
The second aspect of authority is the question of power. Without
legitimacy, power is tyranny and forceful enslavement but without
power, legitimacy remains purely theoretical, i.e. impotent. Thus, to
see how legitimacy is actually put into practice we must ask ‘Who—
if anyone—has the power necessary to enable people to follow these
rules despite their short-comings and weaknesses?’ ‘Who—if any-
one—has the power to impose His will and His ethical judgments on
humankind? Who—if anyone—can impose both obligations or laws
and consequences for committed or omitted acts? The belief in one
personal God allows a logically consistent answer to these questions—
God alone has that power. He exercises it through the “eternal verities”
taught by the Manifestations as well as in the attributes and potentials
of human nature. Humans may stray from these for a time, but in
the long run, they return to the guidance implicit in their God-given
essence. Human powers, at best, are able to violate mankind’s essential
nature, but all too

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
often mainly by violence, legalized oppression and vast amounts of
collective self-deception. God-substitutes such as governments, priest-
hoods or ideologies lack this power because they are subject to the
vicissitudes of ubiquitous change and they lack the legitimacy and the
power to make their ethical requirements effective. Inherent human
limitations prevent this.
The third aspect of authority is ‘universality.’ Here, the most funda-
mental question is, ‘Is there such a thing as a universal human nature
that underlies personal and societal ethics?’ The four theist religions
answer this question positively, i.e. that a common human nature
allows us to identify and build on our inherent nature that will—in the
Bahá’í teachings—lead to a unified federal world state. Such a future
is at least possible—if humans choose to follow the guidance of the
Manifestations and above all, the ‘law of love.’ Mankind originated
with God’s love and so this divine motive is the fundamental feature
of our existence. `Abdu’l-Bahá warns us that “No worldly power can
accomplish the universal love.”104
The fourth problem is the traditional problem of moral ‘evil,’ i.e. con-
sciously chosen and harmful acts against others. How can a beneficent
God allow such horrible events to happen? Either He cannot stop
them, in which case He is not omnipotent, or He will not stop them, in
which case He is immoral by allowing needless suffering to continue.
Though this subject has been voluminously debated, in our view, only
two points need to be understood.
First, no ‘solution’ to these concerns can and should ever satisfy us. Satis-
faction with any answer encourages a careless attitude, especially towards
human suffering. As a result, we would be less determined to mitigate or
end suffering and that, in turn, leads to the emotional, intellectual and
conatative coarsening, demoralizing and animalizing of human exis-
tence. However, because there is no satisfying explanation of suffering
does not mean that there is no framework to provide at least some degree
of understanding. Theism provides such a framework.

Which World Are You In?
The first and most obvious is that unlike God, we do not and cannot
know all of the relevant facts about human existence. Therefore, should
not rush to judgment that suffering is ultimately meaningless because
within the context of the physical world, we can see no meaning in it.

4. Atheism Part I
This paper concerns itself with one form of ‘positive atheism’ which
directly asserts that non-material beings, forces and processes do not
exist and even more, cannot exist. Positive atheism advocates meta-
physical naturalism, claiming that only material nature is real and
that any contrary beliefs are false. Consequently, it rejects as false the
concept of God found in Judaism, Christianity, Islam and the Bahá’í
Faith. More specifically, it denies the existence of any being that is sup-
posedly supernatural, omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent, personal
and morally good. The concept of such a being is logically self-contra-
dictory and cannot even be properly explained.
At this point it necessary to distinguish ‘atheism’ from ‘anti-theism.’
The so-called ‘New Artheism,’ best represented by Dawkins, Hitchens,
Harris, and Stenger, is militantly anti-theist. These authors proclaim
that God does not exist, that “faith is inherently an enemy of reason
and science and no reconciliation between them is possible,”105 and
that religion harms individuals and societies. Hitchens claims religious
instruction for children is “child abuse”106 and Harris questions the
validity of religious tolerance, stating that “the very ideal of religious
tolerance—born of the notion that every person can believe whatever
he wants about God—is one of the principle forces driving us toward
the abyss.107 They New Atheists agree that religion “must be actively
resisted and attacked whenever possible.108 Openly ridiculing theists
and theism is an important part of their strategy.109 Of course, the New
Atheism far from ‘new. Indeed, it has not added a single new argument
against God and religion. Furthermore, it was already in vogue in
the late 18th C with the popular writings of Diderot, d’Holbach and
D’Alembert who regarded religion itself as a set of vile deceptions and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
an obstacle to human progress and maturity. Although Kant himself
was not an absolute anti-theist,110 his essay “What is Enlightenment?”
established the motto of anti-theism, “Sapere Aude” i.e. dare to think
for yourself. Anti-theists strongly believe that theists are inherently,
thoughtless, brain-washed, irrational, intellectually ignorant and easily
led. (They have obviously never debated with a Jesuit!) In contradic-
tion to anti-theist biases, Bahá’u’lláh makes this concept one of the
foundational teachings of His revelation.111
Marxism and its variants are the most wide-spread forms of anti-theism.
Marx writes,
Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heart-
less world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the
people … The abolition of religion as the illusory happiness of the
people is the demand for their real happiness.112
In the Soviet Union and other Communist nations, religious life was
actively, often harshly suppressed and “scientific atheism” courses were
mandatory from school to university. The failure of this atheist edu-
cation program became apparent as soon as Communism failed as a
system of government in 1990 and the Russian Orthodox re-emerged
as a potent force in Russian society.
The one issue on which atheists and anti-theists agree is the metaphysical
denial of God’s existence. Metaphysically, they assert that reality is one-
dimensional, i.e. strictly material, and that there are no transcendental
aspects, levels or planes of reality from which the material world is origi-
nated or ruled. All apparently non-physical phenomena such as thought,
‘magical’ powers or paranormal events can be adequately explained in
strictly physical terms. The metaphysical denial of God, is, of course, a
form of faith in itself since there is no empirical, scientific proof for this
view—which invalidates it on the basis of its own principles.

Which World Are You In?
Let us look at atheism in general and then examine particular kinds
of atheism. Having stated the essential intellectual principles of athe-
ism, our discussion will examine the affective or emotional aspects of
denying God.
One of the most frequently cited affective consequence of disbelief in
God is a feeling of relief and freedom from the dictatorial demands of
God Who arbitrarily prescribes human nature, mankind’s moral obli-
gations and the meaning of our lives. Moreover, He does so without
consulting us, the recipients of His ‘largesse’ and thereby de-values us
as unworthy of consideration in matters that concern us more than
Him. Fortunately, no such Being exists. We are free, i.e. there are no
a priori commands requiring universal obedience or worship both of
which demean human nature by enslaving us to an ontologically dif-
ferent Being Who does not have our interests in mind. Without this
tyrant overshadowing us, we can at last, exercise our freedom to make
individual and collective choices as we see fit and can concentrate on
being human beings instead of puppets trying to dance on someone
else’s string. Not only that, but we are no longer subject to the humili-
ating bribery of heaven or threats of eternal torment in hell. As a result,
we are free to develop a genuinely human morality based on human
standards and choices and not subject to a pseudo-morality based on
obedience imposed from the outside.
The freedom of atheism is also used to support the concept of human
dignity. We are free to be themselves, albeit within the limits of their
society. Humans can finally attain the dignity of taking responsibil-
ity for their own actions for good and/or ill. Without that, we remain
perpetual children who expect someone else to ‘die for our sins,’ or
to offer us mandatory ‘guidance.’ Both ‘gifts’ discourage individual
and collective thought and action and, in effect, hold back whatever
moral or psychological progress we might make. Why think, when we
can ‘shift the blame’? Such seemingly well-meaning ‘offers’ not only
demean us by assuming we cannot take responsibility for ourselves but

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
also infantilizes us by teaching permanent dependence on others for
ethical integrity. No society can function with such intellectual lazi-
ness since viable societies require individual decisions and responsibil-
ity commensurate with the age we live in.
The problem with the idea of human dignity based on the non-
existence of God is that it provides no intrinsic reason to draw that
conclusion. There is no necessary logical inference leading from the
non-existence of God to the concept of human dignity. The atheist
view that humans,—like animals and plants—are no more than pack-
ages of bio-chemical processes, are “accidental composition[s] and
arrangement[s]”113 resulting from a long series of random physical
processes and coincidences.114 Feelings of discouragement and despair
about human nature and its value are a far more likely outcome than
any feelings of gratitude for existing. Recognizing the intrinsic ‘good-
ness of being’ has no rational basis in the belief that humanity is the
outcome of a long chain of cosmic accidents and mutations.
Consequently, atheist views of human dignity can only based on per-
sonal subjective feelings and beliefs—and these are notoriously unreli-
able and malleable according to the needs and preferences of the hour.
In contrast, theism provides a necessary logical inference from mankind
as God’s willful creation to human dignity.115 Because humans are
intentionally “call[ed] into being”116 by God, theism provides an objec-
tive i.e. not a purely subjective basis for the intrinsic dignity of mankind.
Pride and courage are two other liberating emotions encouraged by
atheism. When we are free to stand up for ourselves, especially against
an overwhelming but unworthy power, we tend to feel a need to be
true to ourselves and live ‘at our best’ for the obvious reason that doing
so is the only available—and rational—choice. Few people wish dif-
ficult lives on themselves, and those who for medical or anti-social rea-
sons ‘go too far’ are restrained by society. Positive atheism frees us from
needlessly demeaning human dignity by replacing divinely mandated
‘sin’ with socially legislated ‘crime.’

Which World Are You In?
Pride and courage also inspire a passion for cosmic justice. Why should
humankind be burdened with demands not imposed on the rest of
nature? We are, in fact, animals like the others, i.e. simply a part of
nature; our seemingly special brain powers have traceable roots in the
animal world and make us different in degree but not in kind. Impos-
ing ‘spiritual’ rules on us and requiring us to ‘live up to’ our spiritual
destinies is simply rank injustice. Humans neither asked for nor were
asked about these impositions and there is no reason we should accept
them. Like Lao Tzu or Henry David Thoreau, we can draw our moral
guidance from nature without the help of divine Manifestations, and
make adjustments due to human peculiarities as necessary. Finally, we
must accept that, like all species, we will eventually be superseded by
other kinds of being that—see the dinosaur-bird connection—may be
totally different from us.
However, there are also problematic intellectual affective and conative
consequences of positive atheism. While Judaism, Christianity and
Islam implicitly teach that morals ultimately originate with God and
are not from nature, the Bahá’í Writings explicitly explain why this is
so. The natural world is essentially different from humankind:
Man hath the powers of will and understanding, but nature hath
them not. Nature is constrained, man is free. Nature is bereft of
understanding, man understandeth. Nature is unaware of past
events, but man is aware of them. Nature forecasteth not the future;
man by his discerning power seeth that which is to come. Nature
hath no consciousness of itself, man knoweth about all things.117
In other words, nature’s lack of a “rational soul” and its lack of spiri-
tual capacities make it an unreliable guide for human morals. Lao Tzu,
Thoreau and other ethical naturalists select the aspects of nature care-
fully to exclude the life and death struggles for survival and nature’s
carelessness about human well-being. Interestingly enough, these
‘negative’ attributes of nature is precisely what other ethical natural-
ists—National Socialists in Germany—take as their models.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
The most basic of these is that, despite protestations to the contrary,
atheism is out of step with or contrary to human nature as encoun-
tered by historians, archeologists, sociologists and anthropologists.
None of these academic disciplines have ever found a society at any
level of development without beliefs about a spirit world distinct from
the material world, or without belief in God or gods or spiritual beings
of some kind. It is clear that societies and cultures operate on certain
religious premises. The persistent and globally pervasive presence of
religion would not be the case if cultures and societies did not find
such beliefs congruent to human needs and, thereby, successful in
ordering individual and collective life.
This conclusion is supported by the resurgence of religious belief—not
necessarily church attendance—in Russia despite seventy years of
programmatic education in “scientific atheism” throughout the Soviet
school and university system.118 Developments in Eastern Europe are
similar but not so in parts of Western Europe where explicit atheism
reaches levels as high as 15% in the Czech Republic.119 Research seems
to show that in the United States at least, the number of people who
explicitly identify as atheists, i.e. deny the metaphysical existence of
God, has moved from 2% to 4% by 2019.120 In Canada, 8% identify as
atheists.121 However, it should be noted that there is some fluidity in
the concepts of atheism, agnosticism, and ‘spirituality.’ Beliefs are not
always consist, as shown by the fact that some who claim to be atheists
also believe in ‘spirituality’ or a ‘higher power’ that is not personal.
The pervasiveness of religion in societies and cultures does not require
every individual to be a bona fide believer. However, it does mean that
societies find the prevalence of and adherence to religious belief to be
necessary for stability and well-being. For this to be viable—and soci-
eties find it so—religion must meet genuine needs of the vast major-
ity of its members and of society itself. ‘Obedience’ is a case in point.
Societies of all sizes from families to multicultural nation states require
a certain amount of ‘obedience’—otherwise known as ‘co-operation,’
‘team spirit,’ ‘unity,’ ‘self-discipline’ and ‘family loyalty.’ This need is

Which World Are You In?
undermined by the atheist emphasis on personal freedom, i.e. its essen-
tially atomistic and antinomian nature with its stress on the priority
of personal choice in matters of morals (both private and public), and
societal, cultural and legal norms. In other words, positive atheism
encourages a feeling of rightful self-confidence and independence to
the point where it can become anti-social and feels fully justified in
being so. Such behaviors can range from eccentric to revolutionary or
even criminal in nature.122 As a result of encouraging such feelings,
societies face the challenge of overcoming fragmentation by viable
ways of creating unity. In both individuals and societies, too much
diversity is as destructive as too little.
The intrinsic antinomianism of positive atheism encourages hubris, an
overwhelming and unchecked self-confidence, a seemingly limitless
feeling of empowerment, a feeling that ‘anything goes’ without any
inherent limits. ‘Limits are made to be broken’ expresses this feeling.
The theist religions, and especially the Bahá’í Writings, recognize that
limits on human behavior are necessary for the well-being of individu-
als and societies. For example, Bahá’u’lláh teaches that
To act like the beasts of the field is unworthy of man. Those vir-
tues that befit his dignity are forbearance, mercy, compassion and
loving-kindness towards all the peoples and kindreds of the earth.123
These virtues require a willingness to practice self-discipline, i.e. self-
limitation because of the human nature and the guidance given by
God through His Manifestations. Overweening pride leads us to “dis-
regard [ ] the complexity of human nature”124 and think that we can
‘tamper with’ or engineer human nature physically, mentally and spiri-
tually. This unlimited feeling of self-confidence is reinforced by athe-
ism’s denial of a life after death. This leads to human “degradation”125
because there is no need to take responsibility for our actions. In that
way, the atheist pride in taking responsibility is severely undermined.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
The intrinsic antinomianism of atheism helps us to understand one of
Bahá’u’lláh’s most enigmatic statements:
Know thou for a certainty that whoso disbelieveth in God is
neither trustworthy nor truthful. This, indeed, is the truth, the
undoubted truth. He that acteth treacherously towards God will,
also, act  treacherously towards his king. Nothing whatever can
deter such a man from evil, nothing can hinder him from betraying
his neighbor, nothing can induce him to walk uprightly.126
This statement is a general principle that applies to more than Sultan
Abdu’l-’Aziz’s potential government appointees. Offensive as it may
sound to some, Bahá’u’lláh raises a crucial point about ethics, namely
that unless they have a divine foundation, morality, human ethical
principles are merely subjective preferences. These may vary greatly
among individuals. The antinomian nature of atheism, its rejection of
socially or religiously based ethics, gives priority to individual choices,
i.e., to subjective preferences which can easily change with time,
social and political situations. In short, we cannot rely on them, or as
Bahá’u’lláh states, they are “neither trustworthy nor truthful” because
they have no fear of God’s justice. Bahá’u’lláh’s teaching is hard, but
it is grounded in reason and common sense, and, therefore, is not a
matter of irrational prejudice.

5. Atheism Part II
Atheism comes in various forms. One of the most common is eviden-
tiary atheism127 whose proponents argue that there is no evidence for
God’s existence. Usually, their arguments are based on science, i.e. the
claim that there is no genuinely scientific evidence that a non-material,
supernatural Being exists. For evidence to be considered genuinely
scientific, it must be sensible, observable, measurable and quantifiable,
verifiable by others, consistently replicable and allow testable predic-
tions. Events and claims that cannot meet these standards are not rec-
ognized as sources of evidence. Because science can only use physical

Which World Are You In?
tests for physical phenomena, the existence of a spiritual Being is not
a ‘testable hypothesis. Therefore, science can—at most—conclude that
there is no evidence for a material God-like Being—something which
all theistic religions concede as a matter of principle.
While the other theistic religions also reject evidentiary atheism– obvi-
ously, since they believe in non-material God—the Bahá’í Writings are
unique in confronting this issue directly and explicitly. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
adds a cautionary note to this debate by pointing out that sense knowl-
edge is not always reliable; “One cannot … rely implicitly upon it.”128
The senses cannot be automatically taken at face value. He uses simple
examples—double suns, desert mirages, the apparent immobility of
the earth—to make a telling point: all physical instruments whether
natural or man-made have inherent limitations and, therefore, only
provide one view of reality—which may not always be sufficient to our
purpose. This mistake is actually subject of a witty but profound joke
about a confused man looking for his lost car keys at night but limiting
his search to the area around the streetlamp because he cannot see any-
where else. In short, the intrinsic limitations of the scientific method
are not sufficient to find answers about God’s existence. Dogmatically
insisting that they are sufficient assumes that our knowledge of reality
is enough to absolutely exclude the possibility of non-physical aspects
of reality and other ways of knowing needed to recognize them. Instead
of dogmatizing we must “investigate to determine where and in what
form the truth can be found.”129
In our understanding, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes this point not to encourage
us to ignore scientific findings, but rather, to open our minds to the
possibility of ‘other ways of knowing.’ Since all forms of theism believe
that there is more to reality than matter and material phenomena, such
encouragement is logically appropriate; otherwise, we would be cutting
ourselves off from a vital source of knowledge and wisdom. Among
these are such practices as yoga which sensitizes one to non-material
realities,130 intuition, dreams, mystical experiences and visions. These
‘other ways’ may or may not always be suitable for discovering scientific

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
knowledge—as we currently understand it—but that does not mean
that ‘other ways of knowing’ cannot also deliver valuable empirical
knowledge. He says, for example, “In the world of sleep, too, one may
have a dream which exactly comes true, while on another occasion one
will have a dream which has absolutely no result.”131 Clearly, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá recognizes that ‘other ways of knowing’ can lead to empirical, i.e.
experiential proof. Of course, he recognizes that these ways are not
always reliable but he does not leap to the false logically conclusion
that because other ways of knowing are not easy to evaluate, they are
never evidence at all.
Logical atheism is based on the claim that there can be no logically
valid ‘proofs’ of God’s existence. 132 `Abdu’l-Bahá, summarises the con-
trary theist belief, stating that “The utmost one can say is that [God’s]
existence can be proved, but the conditions of [God’s] existence are
unknown.”133 Indeed, he re-affirms Aristotle’s First Mover argument
on the grounds that without God, the First Mover, the “ process of cau-
sation goes on, and to maintain that this process goes on indefinitely is
manifestly absurd.”134 He also re-affirms the cosmological arguments
for God’s existence by stating that “throughout the world of existence
the smallest created thing attests to the existence of a creator. For
instance, this piece of bread attests that it has a maker.”135 Obviously the
accounts of creation in Jewish, Christian and Islamic scriptures agree.
Kant’s fourth antinomy is probably the strongest logical argument
atheism has in denying a God as the Creator of reality. God, a “neces-
sary being, ”136 cannot be invoked by theists because doing so requires
a ‘leap’ from evidence from physical creation to the existence of a
transcendental Creator, i.e. from physical, sensible evidence to a tran-
scendent plane of reality.137 The physical evidence—according to Kant
and his atheist acolytes—cannot logically justify such a leap. In other
words, a posteriori cosmological proofs based on inferring the Creator’s
existence from physical creation are invalid. Many have regarded this
argument as the logically decisive refutation of the existence of God
and any non-physical reality.

Which World Are You In?
Theism, by implication of God as Creator and the Bahá’í Writings
explicitly reject this argument: “throughout the world of existence the
smallest created thing attests to the existence of a creator. For instance,
this piece of bread attests that it has a maker.”138 In this simple but
potent analogy, `Abdu’l-Bahá shows why Kant’s argument fails on the
basis of universal empirical experience. It assumes that things can bring
themselves into existence—something which has never been observed
or experienced. He gives no reason why we should suddenly, without
supporting evidence and contrary to all human experience assume the
opposite in regards to the creation of the universe. “Similarly the wise
and reflecting soul will know of a certainty that this infinite universe
with all its grandeur and perfect order could not have come to exist by
itself.”139 The reason is obvious: for a thing to bring itself into existence
would logically require that it exists before it came into existence.
Other logical atheists assert that the theist concept of a non-material,
omnipresent, omniscient, i.e. infallible, and omnipotent God is
logically incoherent and, therefore, cannot even be explained with-
out falling into disqualifying self-contradiction. For example, can an
omnipotent God make a rock so heavy He cannot lift it? Can He will
himself out of existence? Can He make square circles or make 1 + 1 =
3? Positive atheists reject any attempts to define ‘omnipotence’ as any-
thing but its (apparently) obvious meaning. Again, the Bahá’í Writings
state explicitly what is left implicit in other theist scriptures. Precisely
because God is omnipotent in the obvious sense, He can do anything,
but just because God could do these things, does not mean He would
choose to do them. Indeed, He “ ‘doeth as He pleaseth and ordaineth
as He willeth’ ”140 but the nature of His creation shows that He choice
is for order and rationality:
This composition and arrangement arose, through the wisdom of
God and His ancient might, from one natural order. Thus, as this
composition and combination has been produced according to a
natural order, with perfect soundness, following a consummate

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
wisdom, and subject to a universal law, it is clear that it is a divine
creation and not an accidental composition and arrangement.141
God’s emphasis on reason also supports this suggestion.142 That is also
why “Religion must stand the analysis of reason.”143
Another type of atheism is ethical atheism which asserts that the notion
of a God Who chooses to create this world would never allow His cre-
ations to suffer and/or perpetrate the horrors of natural disasters and
the sickening variations of man-made evils. 144 Since there is no sign of
such intervention—even with the extreme provocation of childhood
suffering—the morally good God we thought created us does not exist
and there is nothing to be achieved by pretending He does.
Most obviously, this argument is logically invalid. God’s nature and
God’s existence are two completely different issues, one is metaphysi-
cal, the other is ethical. It is a category mistake to infer something does
or does not exist metaphysically on the basis of ethical judgments. For
example, just because a bully is nasty to me doesn’t mean s/he does
not exist.
In our understanding, ethical atheism seems to be rooted in feelings
of discouragement and despair about human nature. Ethical atheists
expect a high standard of behavior from humans and are disappointed
that the infliction of cruelty is too easy for a significant portion of
humanity. Such expectations may encourage hope that people can do
better, but at best, it is likely to be a muted, desperate hope because
pessimism about human nature is confirmed all too often.
Consciously or unconsciously, atheism inevitably encourages a deep
disappointment about justice insofar as the metaphysical materialism
cannot provide any provision for justice either in this world or the next.
If there is to be any justice or, indeed, any morality, it must man-made
and/or based on nature. Both are disappointing. There many conflict-
ing opinions about what constitutes justice and how to enforce it. Nor

Which World Are You In?
is there agreed upon way of overcoming these concepts. Consequently,
some degree of disappointment and in human nature are likely.
Indeed, atheism also sets the condition for intellectual scepticism and
feelings of bewilderment and turmoil vis-s-vis ethical issues in general.
Without God as a basis for moral principles, only nature and human
desires remain as a foundation for ethics. What makes nature unsuit-
able as a ground of ethics is illustrated in Sam Harris’s “The Moral
Landscape: How Science can determine Human Values.”145 As Hume’s
‘Guillotine’ decisively shows, a descriptive statement about what actu-
ally happens in nature and/or what people actually do is not and, logi-
cally, cannot be a prescription of what we should do. Just because Jenny
has always cooked supper—a factual description—cannot be used as a
prescription that she should always cook dinner, i.e. that she is morally
obligated to do so. No scientific experiment can establish that giving
to the poor is morally good. Doing so (or not) is a physically describ-
able fact with physically describable results that science is equipped
to study. However, only human choice can decide this act is good. As
Hume pointed out, facts and prescriptions are not logically related.
Only human choice can relate them, give positive value to helping
them and negative value to hurting them. At this point four new prob-
lems arises: (1) what facts shall we select? (2) who selects them? (3) for
what purpose? (4) why should we accept the authority of the one (or
more) who chooses? Without God, there is no final arbitrator. These
problems are precisely why Kant, who ‘disproved’ all proofs of God’s
existence,146 re-introduces Him as a necessary “regulative principle”147
for the foundation of any coherent ethical system. For example, if we
choose to base our ethics on nature, which aspect will we choose?
Social Darwinism, focussed on the harshly competitive aspects of
nature and built a biologically based morality on the struggle for exis-
tence. Lao Tzu and his modern ecologically-minded successors focus
on the co-operative, ‘communitarian’ aspects of nature. Even if we
choose to recognize both aspects of nature, on whose authority shall
this choice be imposed? In the Bahá’í Writings our choice is based on

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
God’s authority, but atheism has no such recourse and thereby ulti-
mately fosters confusion and inner turmoil that can easily lead to an
indifferent relativism about competing moral systems.
Often correlated with this disappointment in human nature is a
resentment against a ‘God Who failed.’ Because God does not meet
our ethical expectations we feel He, does not or should not exist, or is
not worth worshipping, or should be ignored. This resentment easily
spills over onto those who—supposedly—belittle the pain of others
by offering a theodicy, i.e. “a defense of the justice or goodness of God
in the face of doubts or objections arising from the phenomenon of
evil in the world.”148 The most famous of these accusations comes
from Ivan Karamazov in Dostoevsky’s The Brothers Karamazov, who
“respectfully return[s] Him his ticket”149 because he does not want to
live in peace with unjust suffering. God’s ability to compensate fully
for the suffering of a child does not justify the occurrence of suffering
in the first place. He chooses to be disturbed, outraged and completely
defiant on this matter.
In response to Ivan’s argument, the Bahá’í Writings explicitly state the
usual theistic teaching that the
knowledge of a thing is not the cause of its occurrence; for the
essential knowledge of God encompasses the realities of all things
both before and after they come to exist, but it is not the cause of
their existence.150
In other words, because God does not exist in time, the concepts of
past, present and future do not apply to Him, and therefore, the term
‘foreknowledge’ is accurate only from a human point of view. Conse-
quently, claims that God’s ‘foreknowledge’ causes an event are logically
false since there no ‘before’ and ‘after’ with God. It is obvious that since
God is timeless, He is in a totally different frame of reference so the
‘foreknowledge is causation’ argument is logically invalid. The ‘problem’

Which World Are You In?
itself is a chimera. A human analogy for this situation is a woman on a
mountaintop observing a man walking down a forest road in the valley
below. Because she is in a different frame of reference, i.e. her altitude,
she can foresee all the possible routes the man may take and more explic-
itly, she can foresee with absolute certainty that if he continues as he has
been going so far, he will be blocked by a raging river. Nevertheless, her
ability to foresee does not cause the hiker’s choices.
Unlike the Bahá’í Faith and the other theisms, Ivan Karamazov fails to
realize that there is no necessary connection between belief in God’s
healing powers and human callousness to suffering. Intellectual under-
standing that God’s mercy will compensate unjust suffering does not
authorize a lack of compassion towards the unfortunate victims of
man-made and/or natural afflictions. Indeed, in my understanding,
extreme discomfort and compassionate sympathy with the suffering
of others is necessary to prevent us from becoming blunt and coarsened
to their pain. If we are not disturbed by human misery and distress,
individual and societal spiritual progress will be held back. The Bahá’í
Writings summarise in specific detail, the theist teachings on this issue:
Be ye a refuge to the fearful; bring ye rest and peace to the disturbed;
make ye a provision for the destitute; be a treasury of riches for the
poor; be a healing medicine for those who suffer pain; be ye doctor
and nurse to the ailing; promote ye friendship, and honour, and
conciliation, and devotion to God, in this world of non-existence.151
These words remind us of our obligation to act for the good of others just
as God acted for our good by bestowing the gift of ‘being’ on us. Since
God expects us to ease the suffering of others, He is unlikely to have sub-
verted the good of being by devising a system of creation that imposes
needless and pointless suffering. God tells us “I loved thy creation, hence
I created thee.”152 From a theist perspective, a God Who bestows the
good of ‘being’ upon us, will enable us to transcend unjust suffering as
we progress through the spiritual planes of being after we die.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
It should also be noted that irremediable anxiety and mistrust about
human nature and humanity’s future play a significant role in ethi-
cal atheism. The cause is clear: there is no intrinsic reliable basis for
hope in human nature and the alleviation of suffering. Our subjective
feelings about right and wrong are the only foundation we have—and
the history of the 20th C alone shows how extremely fluid these can be
especially when ideologies and politics are involved.
The globally influential philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre argues that even if
God exists, His existence is unworthy of recognition and/or worship. He
advocates a “postulary atheism.”153 Whether or not God actually exists is
not relevant to this view which is more epistemological than metaphysi-
cal in nature. For Sartre Even the idea of God’s existence is an offense
to human freedom, value and dignity because it surrenders human free
will, dignity, and self-confidence to a Being—or an idea—that has no
legitimate authority over us. Why should we accept the human nature
God has supposedly given us? Did He consult with us about what we
wanted? What gives Him the right to decide what is good or evil? “Pos-
tulatory atheism” insists on the primacy of individual human choice
especially in ethical matters as long as people are prepared to “live in
good faith,” i.e. accept responsibility for their own actions.
Postulatory atheism often imagines God a tyrant, as an omniscient, a
universal ‘stalker’ of our thoughts, feelings and actions. Not only does
He arbitrarily impose the human essence on us, but His very existence
makes privacy—a necessary aspect of personal integrity—impossible.
Under His watchful eye—like the ubiquitous telescreens in Orwell’s
1984—even our most intimate relationships are exposed to the view of
this cosmic ‘peeping Tom.’ The situation is no different with omnipres-
ence and omnipotence. Here too, in atheist thinking, we do not even
own ourselves. We are imprisoned in our own lives, and, in the teach-
ing of immortality, even death is not an escape. We have to answer for
our actions in what amounts to a kangaroo court—since God already
knows all our answers and knows His judgment. This too degrades us,
turning us into play things of an arbitrary super-power.

Which World Are You In?
In our understanding, the defining emotion of postulatory atheism is
defiance, a rebelliousness and emphatic rejection of any authority but
the individual will. It encourages a fierce sense of personal indepen-
dence and is, thereby, an ethical version of the contract theory of gov-
ernment: rules must be based on the agreement of free individuals and
cannot legitimately imposed without personal consent. This principle
applies to God above all. Therefore, in postulatory atheism, we with-
draw our consent and live on the basis of our personal will. Almost
inevitably correlated with this defiant attitude is a profound sense of
isolation and loneliness. Each of us is alone and totally responsible for
our own actions—if we live in “good faith” with ourselves, i.e. if we
don’t lie to ourselves about having no other choices and the nature of
what we have done. For example, a thief should be honest, recognizing
that he could have become a policeman and is now someone who is
‘happy’ while choosing to steal.
From a Bahá’í perspective, attractive in literary and philosophical
works as it might be, the intrinsically atomistic and antinomian nature
of “postulatory atheism” cannot meet the needs of individuals and
societies for unity and a unifying power. Without unity, no society of
any kind can exist.154 Indeed, the primary mission of God’s Manifes-
tations is to bring unity to mankind. A society in which individuals
develop their personal ethical standards and are only subject to restric-
tions to which they agree would not survive long. Imagine such a
principle applied to vehicle traffic or airlines! Such notions may be fine
sounding ideals but they lead to disaster if applied. More directly, such
notions are immature. As `Abdu’l-Bahá points out, “There is indeed an
abundance of lofty ideals and sentiments that cannot be put into effect.
Therefore we must confine ourselves to that which is practicable.”155
It is clear… that opinions and perceptions vary, and that this
divergence of thoughts, opinions, understandings, and senti-
ments among individuals is an essential requirement… …We stand
therefore in need of a universal power which can prevail over the
thoughts, opinions, and sentiments of all, which can annul these

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
divisions and bring all souls under the sway of the principle of the
oneness of humanity. And it is clear and evident that the greatest
power in the human world is the love of God.156
Finally, there is psychological atheism which regards religion as a symptom
of childish fears of being alone in the universe or an irrational fear of
the inevitability of death. Theism portrays God as a strong Father figure
Who can protect us from what we fear most—death. Human maturity
requires that we overcome both of these futile fears because we cannot
change our cosmic isolation or biological death. These views are most
famously promulgated by Sigmund Freud in The Future of an Illusion.
Whether belief in God is an illusion or not, anthropology along with
the resurgence of theism in former Communist states relegate Freud’s
theory to the sidelines for one reason: intellectual arguments have
little or no effect on genuine needs. Indeed, that fact that religion is
a ubiquitous feature of human existence strongly suggests that it is a
genuine need for human well-being. Outgrowing it may be an ideal
but as mentioned above, given the human need for religion, there is no
prospect of that happening.

6. Agnosticism
Agnosticism is “the view that human reason is incapable of providing suf-
ficient rational grounds to justify the belief that God exists or the belief
that God does not exist.”157 ‘Soft’ or ‘weak’ agnosticism is a suspension
of judgment on the issue of God’s existence and is open, in theory at least,
to new evidence if that should become available. In contrast, ‘hard’ or
‘strong’ agnosticism asserts that the inherent limitations of the human
mind make it absolutely impossible to prove or disprove God’s existence.
It regards the issue as permanently settled. There can be no new evidence
because humanity’s epistemological capacities cannot change and its
limits have been firmly established by the scientific method.

Which World Are You In?
We shall examine the different types of agnosticism and their intellec-
tual and affective consequences in turn.
First appearances to the contrary, soft agnosticism is aptly named
because it potentially overlaps with some kinds of theism. The rejec-
tion of logical or empirical arguments for the existence of God does not
necessarily preclude belief gained by other ways of knowing such as
intuition or experiences of the transcendent aspect of reality through
various spiritual practices. Theism and most explicitly, the Bahá’í
Writings recognize the partial truth of soft agnosticism, namely, the
possibility of gaining decisive knowledge in various ways. The fact that
such knowledge is not regarded as ‘scientific’ does not mean that it is
not true knowledge. `Abdu’l-Bahá provides rational proofs of immor-
tality and then adds,
But if the human spirit be rejoiced and attracted to the Kingdom, if
the inner eye be opened and the spiritual ear attuned, and if spiritual
feelings come to predominate, the immortality of the spirit will be
seen as clearly as the sun158
In short, soft agnosticism may be described as ‘open.’ Unlike hard agnos-
ticism, soft agnosticism is not necessarily dependent on a materialist
metaphysic which rejects all ‘other ways’ of knowing. We shall explore
this in greater detail below when dealing with fideistic agnosticism.
However, until such non-scientific evidence is recognized and admit-
ted, it seems clear that soft agnosticism, like hard agnosticism, leaves
its advocates in the position of Buridan’s Donkey.159 The poor beast
was suffering severe starvation and thirst and died because it could
not decide which it should do first—eat some fresh hay or drink some
fresh water. In other words, both soft and hard agnostics live in a
perpetual state of uncertainty about the basic ‘life issues’ that virtu-
ally all humans ask in one way or another. Are there non-material

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
realities? Am I immortal? Are there afterlife consequences? What can
we know for sure? How did this universe come into being? What do
mean by wright and wrong? 160 The answers to all such ‘life questions’
are derived from our conscious or unconscious metaphysical assump-
tions about God’s existence or non-existence. This is because the first
question in metaphysics concerns the existence or non-existence of a
transcendental reality. Until this question is answered decisively—by
whatever means—the answers to most other important ‘life questions’
tend to be confused and haphazard, i.e. self-contradictory, unclear and
vague, and not consistently held. We confuse and disappoint ourselves
because answering the ‘life questions’ that inevitably come our way
become more difficult.
Both hard and soft agnosticism bring with it still more uncertainty
and anxiety about social and cultural issues. If an individual or a soci-
ety is not sure about God’s existence, it becomes extremely difficult to
obtain public agreement on issues of morality; criminal punishment;
the nature and role of government; sexual conduct; the limits of art;
and fair business practices. This is because the existence or non-exis-
tence of God decides the horizon of our choices. Are we thinking in
terms of the physical world only or do we have to consider God’s guid-
ance and the after-life? Caught between these two possibilities leaves
us in a state of perpetual inner conflict which fragment both agnostic
individuals and societies.
One example of this is the debate about how best to treat alcohol and
drug addiction. Should religion and faith have a role in publicly funded
programs even though they can be very effective.161 Ultimately, such
conflicts encourage needless divisions in society and can even generate
a climate of scepticism and cynicism that undermines the basic cohe-
sion societies need to function effectively. Individuals conflicted in this
way may, of course, choose answers as an act of will, i.e. force them-
selves to believe certain ideas or simply side with the majority. However,
doing so makes it difficult to assert our answers with any conviction
because of the constant presence of caveats, doubts and anxieties. Only

Which World Are You In?
two choices remain—apathetic agnosticism, an emotional “I don’t
care” response or the defiant atheism of Sartre.
The first sub-type of agnosticism is apatheic agnosticism’ which finds
the issue of God’s existence or non-existence as irrelevant to human life
and pays it no further heed. Since we don’t or can’t know the answer,
why bother about it? We might describe this position as theoretical in
concept but atheistic in practice. It is not necessarily a consequence of
a failure to understand the depth and importance of the issue. Rather,
its most likely cause is intellectual and emotional frustration with the
inability to decisively resolve the issue of God’s existence. Its basic flaw
is that ignoring the issues does not make them go away nor does it pre-
vent society’s debates about them leave individuals unaffected.
From a Bahá’í (and theistic) perspective, apatheism is a dangerous
strategy. As Kant realized in The Critique of Practical Reason, without
God—even if only as a regulative principle—our ethical views will be
purely subjective and, therefore easily changeable according to our
situation and/or convenience. As a result, it becomes increasingly easy
to slacken our moral standards and behavior in favor of our lower ani-
mal nature.
To act like the beasts of the field is unworthy of man. Those virtues that
befit his dignity are forbearance, mercy, compassion and loving-
kindness towards all the peoples and kindreds of the earth.162
This is not to say this will necessarily happen to everyone—remnants of
religious influence still influence society—but the inner drift towards
lower, more convenient or socially acceptable standards is clearly evi-
dent in increasingly secular and anti-religious societies. The growing
use of drugs that weaken human consciousness and willpower; the
ever more obvious sexualization of children, especially girls; and the
exponential increase of glorified violence in popular films are all signs
of this downward trend towards animal standards.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Another subtype of agnosticism may be called ‘theistic’ or even ‘fide-
istic’ agnosticism which argues that science and reason cannot prove
God’s existence but believe in Him anyway. The epistemological basis
for doing so is the conviction that the extent of mankind’s thought is
not necessarily the extent of reality itself. Such agnostics agree with
Hamlet: “There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, / Than
are dreamt of in your philosophy.”163 They are sceptics vis-s-vis the
claims of strict empiricism because the idea of using physical evidence
to prove or disprove a spiritual God is ipso facto logically ridiculous.
They may also rely on other ways of knowing that are not irrational
but trans-rational such as intuitions, dreams, ‘mystical’ experiences or
practices like yoga which are designed to sensitize us to transcendent
realities. In some cases, fideistic agnosticism is an example of faith as
an act of will.
In our understanding, the Bahá’í Writings do not support fideism.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s teachings demonstrate that for the optimum progress in
individual and societal spiritual evolution both reason and our spiritual
faculties are necessary. God’s existence can be logically proven and he
provides various examples of such proofs. He states that “the existence of
the Divine Being hath been established by logical proofs.”164 In addition
to logical arguments, he also uses two cosmological proofs. He uses the
‘first mover’ argument to show that a non-contingent being is necessary
to explain motion since an infinite regress of movers is “absurd.”165 He
also employs cosmological argument that a contingent creation requires
a non-contingent Creator. “[T]hroughout the world of existence the
smallest created thing attests to the existence of a creator. For instance,
this piece of bread attests that it has a maker.”166 From this we may con-
clude that from `Abdu’l-Bahá’s perspective, the existence of God is not
legitimately a merely subjective matter. In Bahá’u’lláh’s new revelation,
all humans are expected to use their free will and spiritual capacities to
recognize God’s existence. This is illustrated by Bahá’u’lláh’s statement
that we cannot blame our disbelief in God on others because “the faith
of no man can be conditioned by anyone except himself.”167 Finally, as

Which World Are You In?
noted above, he recognizes that direct insight can show that God exists.
Speaking of immortality, he states,
But if the human spirit be rejoiced and attracted to the Kingdom, if
the inner eye be opened and the spiritual ear attuned, and if spiritual
feelings come to predominate, the immortality of the spirit will be
seen as clearly as the sun168
A third subtype of agnosticism is Pascalian agnosticism which admits
that neither reason nor evidence can prove God’s existence but asks us to
gamble that God exists. A bet is not knowledge. We bet that God exists
and act accordingly. If we are right, we will ‘go to heaven’ ecause we
have lived a morally good life. If we are wrong, nothing is lost because in
the grave will not be aware of the fact—and we still leave the legacy of a
good life behind us. This view is sometimes derided as hypocritical but
that criticism is weak. Pascal’s argument honestly recognizes our pre-
dicament vis-s-vis God’s existence. It then advises a prudential response
which does not contradict its underlying premise—namely that we do
not know whether or not God exists. Nor is it hypocritical to want to
attain a good afterlife. No one except, perhaps, Sartre and his followers
in ‘defiant atheism’ would want to do the opposite.
From our perspective, the Bahá’í Writings present no objection to Pas-
calian agnosticism at least as a first step to recognizing the existence of
God. Betting on God’s existence shows recognition of the existential
importance of God and our personal destiny in the transcendental
planes of being. On this basis we can see the possibilities of further
spiritual growth.

7. Conclusion
In this paper we have surveyed some of the intellectual and affective
consequences of theism, atheism and agnosticism and how these con-
sequences influence one another in the commitment to one of these

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
beliefs. Together they constitute our world-view, i.e. the paradigm
by which we interpret reality and on which we consciously or uncon-
sciously base our attitudes and actions. Of course, we do not expect that
every individual represents these viewpoints in a perfectly consistent
way and so may deviate somewhat from the logically based descriptions
we have attempted to outline. The absolute denial of God’s existence,
for example, logically requires us to abandon the idea of divine justice
or compensation in the Abhá Kingdom. This, in turn has inescapable
consequences for our feelings about the world and our actions. How-
ever, inconsistency is still possible; a person may claim to be an atheist
yet still believe (or hope) that ‘somehow’ justice will be done. Bahá’í
teachers should follow up this opportunity for further exploration.
Our exploration has also outlined what the Bahá’í Writings teach
about the intellectual and affective issues arising from a commitment
to theism, atheism and agnosticism. In regards to the question of
God’s existence or not existence the Bahá’í Writings agree with Juda-
ism, Christianity and Islam about a single personal Creator but have an
advantage over preceding revelations insofar as it is a later dispensation.
It is specifically intended for our time and deals with most of these
issues explicitly. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
The superiority of the present in relation to the past consists in this,
that the present can take over and adopt as a model many things
which have been tried and tested and the great benefits of which
have been demonstrated in the past, and that it can make its own
new discoveries and by these augment its valuable inheritance.169
The ultimate aim of this paper is to show, and help Bahá’í teachers to
show that ideas have consequences. Vis-à-vis these three main answers
to the question of God’s existence, our choice is not a matter of indif-
ference because any one of these will shape our lives.

Which World Are You In?
BIBLIOGRAPHY
`‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.

Promulgation of Universal Peace. Second Edition. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1982

The Secret of Divine Civilization. Trans. Marzeih Gail. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1957.

Selections From the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá . Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre,

Some Answered Questions. New Translation. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2014.

Tablet to August Forel, Ocean
Audi, Robert editor	The Cambrdige Dictionary of Philosophy, Cambrdige: Cam-
brdige University Press, 1999.
Bahá’u’lláh.

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh . Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1976.

Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh . n.p., Immerse. Bernal Schooley, 1997

Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh . Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978

The Hidden Words, translated by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing
Trust,Wilmette, Illinois, 2002.
Shoghi Effendi. Lights of Guidance
Eliade, Mircea, editorThe Encyclopedia of Religion, 16 volumes, London: Collier
Macmillan, 1987.
Hodges, H.A. Wilhelm Dilthey: An Introduction, London: Kegan Paul, Trench,
Treubner & Co., 1944.
Kant, Immanuel.

Critique of Pure Reason, translated by Paul Guyer and Allen W. Wood, Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998.

Critique of Practical Reason, translated by Thomas Kingswill Abbot, Project
Gutenburg, http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/5683/pg5683.txt.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Kluge, Ian.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings, in Lights of Irfan, 14 (2013).

“Review of Udo Schaefer, Bahá’í Ethics in Light of Scripture,” in Journal of
Bahá’í Studies vol. 25, no. 1-2 (2015).
Otto, Rudolf,. The Idea of the Holy, translated by John W. Harvey, New York:
Galaxy Books, 1958.
Zogzebski, Linda, Trinkaus. Philosophy of Religion, John Wiley & Sons, 2007.

Which World Are You In?
NOTES
Shoghi Effendi, From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an indi-
vidual believer, March 19, 1945 in Lights of Guidance, p. 542, # 1842; emphasis
added.
The Cambridge English Dictionary, https://dictionary.cambridge.org/
dictionary/english/cynicism
This is the case because the times and conditions of the earlier revelations did
not require guidance on these issues.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 113.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 9.
H.A. Hodges, Wilhelm Dilthey: An Introduction, p. 13.
H.P. Rickman, “Wilhelm Dilthey” in The Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Vol. 1, p.
404.
James Sire, The Universe Next Door, p 16.
Antonio Damasio, Descartes’ Error.
The Bahá’í Writings explicitly discourage this: “The first is the independent
investigation of truth; for blind imitation of the past will stunt the mind.” Selec-
tions from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 248.
Katherine Rose Hanley and Donald J. Monan SJ, A Prelude to Metaphysics, p.
23.
J. Bohman, “Verstehen” in Robert Audi, editor, The Cambridge Dictionary of
Philosophy, p. 954.
Wilhelm Dilthey, “Die Entstehung der Hermaneutik” (1900) http://www.
schmidt.hist.unibe.ch/semester/ws0102/GeschichtstheorieSozialgeschichte/
Dilthey.htm
The universality of human nature taught by the theist religions is a direct
challenge to one of the most dangerous trends in modern politics—identity
politics which tends to place insurmountable barriers between different groups
and subsumes every individual in the characteristics of his/her group. Nazism
(German vs Jew), Communism (bourgeois vs proletariat or peasant), Feminism
(women vs men) and Liberalism vs illiberalism exemplify the danger of identity
politics.
A. H. Hodges,Wilhelm Dilthey: An Introduction,p. 12.
A. H. Hodges,Wilhelm Dilthey: An Introduction,p. 12.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 248.
Wilhelm Dilthey, Gesammelte Schriften, VI, p. 191 in Hodges, Wilhelm
Dilthey: An Introduction, p. 15.
Isaiah Berlin, The Crooked Timber of Humanity, p. 10
Terence, in the play “Punishing Himself.”
Linda, Trinkaus Zogzebski, Philosophy of Religion, p. 22.
Rudolf Otto The Idea of the Holy, p. 8.
Rudolf Otto The Idea of the Holy, p. 7.
Rudolf Otto The Idea of the Holy, p. 21.
Rudolf Otto The Idea of the Holy, p. 21.
Rudolf Otto The Idea of the Holy, p. 21.
Rudolf Otto The Idea of the Holy, p. 28.
Rudolf Otto The Idea of the Holy, p. 32.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 94.
John Bunyan, Pilgrim’s Progress, Chp. 1: In the Similitude of a Dream
The Universal House of Justice in Wellsprings of Guidance, p. 79—80.
Shoghi Effendi, Letter written on His behalf, March 19, 1945 in Lights of Guid-
ance, # 1842, p. 542.
Shoghi Effendi, Letter # 55, September 5, 1931 in Extracts from the USBN, p. 6.
Agatha Christie, Murder at the Vicarage, p.
Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, p. 108.
Qur’an, Surah al-Baqarah, 2:30. Yusuf Ali translation.
Genesis, 1:27. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 279.
Edward Feser, Aristotle’s Revenge, p. 3.
In Bahá’í metaphysics of emanation, creation ‘flows out from’ God’s “Primal
Will” (SAQ, 53: 5; p. 235). Closest to God are the spiritual levels of reality and
the lower, less spiritual i.e. material levels are further away. There is sameness i.e.
both parts originate with the Primal Will but there is also difference. See Tablets
of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 140.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 74: 2 p. 303.
KJV, John 3: 6

Which World Are You In?
Rachel Elior, “Jewish Spirituality and The Soul,” in Contemporary Jewish
Religious Thought, edited by Arthur A. Cohen and Paul Mendes-Flohr. https://
www.myjewishlearning.com/article/jewish-spirituality-and-the-soul/
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 16: 3, p. 93—94. They can be known
but not by the physical senses.
One dimensional, i.e. explaining reality in terms of strict materialism or strict
idealism.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace,
The Baha’i “Noonday Prayer.”
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 12.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 12.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 12—13.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 13.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 13.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 17.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 17.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 20—21.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 21.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 76.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 21.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 55: 4; p. 241.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 50.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 11. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes intuition
as the “second sort of knowledge, which is the knowledge of being, is intuitive
it is like the cognizance and consciousness that man has of himself.” It is not
knowledge gained by inferential, discursive reasoning—although intuitions may
lead to ideas developed by reason and inference. In other words, intuition allows
immediate perception of “intelligible realities which have no outward existence”
and do not rely on physical sensation or inferential reasoning for support.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 74: 2 p. 303.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CIX, p. 214.
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 31.
A A. H. Hodges,Wilhelm Dilthey: An Introduction, p. 12.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 316.
64	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 7.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 22.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 175.
Blaise Pascal pointed out that although the universe can easily kill us, our con-
sciousness of this fact, our being a thinking reed” makes us greater than material
creation. Pensées # 347.
Sophocles, Oedipus at Colonus, translated by F.A. Storr. https://www.guten-
berg.org/files/31/31-h/31-h.htm#linkcolonus
Rudolf Otto, The Idea of the Holy, p. 10.
Shoghi Effendi, From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an indi-
vidual believer, October 26, 1932 in Lights of Guidance, p. 479.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 29
The correspondence theory of truth is embedded in this statement which also
includes the obligation to accept the truths we find. We must “discover the
truth” and “accept” it and not try to interpret it according to our individual and/
or collective wishes.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 291; emphasis added.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, CXIV, p. 236.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, III, p. 5.
This is not an example of the fallacy of composition which does not apply to
existentially constitutive parts. We cannot say that the whole plant continues to
exist even though we have destroyed all of its cells and that my house continues
to exist after the wreckers have hauled all its parts away.
77	 The principle of sufficient reason (PSR) which with the law of non-contradic-
tion is the basis of rational thought—including science—states that causes and
effects must be directly or indirectly commensurate. Both principles are essential
to the philosophical arguments presented in the Bahá’í Writings. See Ian Kluge,
“Reason and the Bahá’í Writings,” in Lights of Irfan, 14 (2013).
It should be noted that the most obvious attribute that God and His creation
share is the fact of being, i.e. existence, which God bestows on the phenomenal
world. Given the dependence of our being with God’s, it is clear that the similar-
ity is strictly analogical and not literal. ‘Being’ is not univocal. Phenomenal being
is relative whereas God’s being is absolute.

Which World Are You In?
‘Personhood’ is used here in the simple sense of possessing unique individual
traits based on consciousness, “the rational soul,” will and intention, and
purpose.
80	 Shoghi Effendi “from a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an indi-
vidual believer, April 21, 193” in Lights of Guidance, p. 477.
Machines may be programmed to imitate the actions we associate with these
attributes but an imitation of an action is not a consciously self-motivated action.
The difference between an actor and a machine is that the actor consciously
knows s/he is imitating action and the machine does not. Recognition of
this difference is the key to understanding novels and movies (2001: A Space
Odyssey) in which robots, computers or toys become self-motivated—usually
vicious—‘persons.’
It is understood, of course, that God has the attributes of personhood in a super-
eminent sense and that mankind only has these attributes analogically. Similarly
machine imitations of human behavior are, at best, analogs and not the original,
just as human consciousness is an analog of the divine super-eminent attribute
of consciousness.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, XC, p. 177; emphasis
added.
84	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 60: 5; p. 259. “For absolute nothing-
ness cannot find existence, as it has not the capacity of existence.” Hence the
need for God to provide a sufficient reason for the existence of the phenomenal
world. Russell’s view that the universe has ‘just always existed’ assumes that
which needs to be explained.
The Third Reich, the Soviet Union and institutions like slavery are societal
moral disasters that violate(d) the most fundamental teachings of all Manifesta-
tions in a programmatic, i.e. conscious and deliberate way.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, volume 1, p. 176.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Arabic Hidden Words, # 4.
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 48.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 47: 5; p. 209.
The Quran, Yusuf Ali translation, Surah 2: 34.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 196; emphasis added.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’, Some Answered Questions, p. 196. The “scale of being” refers to
the increasing inclusive hierarchy: minerals, plants, animals, humans. Each level
contains and surpasses the powers of the previous level.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’, Some Answered Questions, p. 184; emphasis added.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
`Abdu’l-Bahá’, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá’, p. 132;
emphasis added.
Communism, Facism, and Nazism had goal of creating ‘new’ men and women.
Postmodernism denies the reality of human nature and, thereby, opens the
way for ‘engineering’ souls to suit man-made philosophical and/or ideological
criteria. See Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the Baha’i Writings” in Lights of
Irfan, Volume 9, 2008.
`Abdu’l-Bahá,’ Paris Talks, p. 73.
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 66: 2; 276.
Shoghi Effendi points out that “physical ailments, no matter how severe, cannot
bring any change in the inherent condition of the soul.” # 1061 The Compila-
tion of Compilations, Volume 1, p. 477.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CIX, p. 214.
100	 Need there be any other notion of ‘hell’ than that? External, physical pain may
be relatively endurable compared to the pain the soul can inflict on itself. Maybe
that’s what those devils symbolize in the paintings of hell—the soul tormenting
itself in the fires of insight into and regret for its deeds. Moreover, the Writings
reflect basic human psychology very realistically: the need for carrots and sticks
in an effective re-enforcement program to change behavior and thinking.
101	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 88.
102	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 10.
103	 Such a fundamental difference between human and animal is a difference in
kind, i.e. a difference that cannot be reduced to a common factor in the way ice,
steam and water can all be reduced to water.
104	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 37.
105	 Dawkins, The God Delusion, p. 232.
106	 Christopher Hitchens , god Is Not Great, p. 217.
107	 Sam Harris, The End of Faith, p. 15.
108	 Austin Cline, “Theism and Anti-Theism: What’s the Difference?” in Other
Religions, Atheism and Agnosticism, https://www.learnreligions.com/
atheism-and-anti-theism-248322
109	 See Hitchen’s god Is Not Great, Dawkins’ The God Delusion and Harris’s The
End of Faith for examples of their contempt for believers.

Which World Are You In?
110	 Kant rejects all logical proofs of God in The Critique of Pure Reason but admits
the idea of God is a ‘practical necessity’ for the foundation of a coherent ethical
systems in The Critique of Practical Reason.
111	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 248.
112	 Karl Marx, “Introduction to a Contribution to a Critique of Hegel’s ‘Philosophy
of Right,’ ” https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1843/critique-hpr/
intro.htm
113	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 47: 5; p. 209.
114	 In the author’s view, the materialist concept of evolution requires a long
serendipitous sequence of coincidences no less miraculous then a virgin birth, a
Red Sea crossing or the appearance of the angel Gabriel to Mohammed.
115	 The fact that people do not always live up to their theist beliefs does not disprove
the logical inference from being a creation of God to intrinsic human dignity.
116	 Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 48.
117	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 12.
118	 “Russians Return to Religion But not To Church,” Pew Research Center,
https://www.pewforum.org/2014/02/10/russians-return-to-religion-but-not-
to-church/ New research in 2018 supports the PEW numbers: Gene Zubovich,
in Religion and Politics, “Russia’s Journey from Orthodoxy to Atheism and
Back Again,” October 16, 2018, https://religionandpolitics.org/2018/10/16/
russias-journey-from-orthodoxy-to-atheism-and-back-again/ See also Detlef
Pollack and Gergely Rosta, Religion and Modernity: An International Compari-
son, Chapter 7; https://oxford.universitypressscholarship.com/view/10.1093/
oso/9780198801665.001.0001/oso-9780198801665-chapter-11
119	 Michael Lipka, “10 Facts About Atheists,” PEW Research Center, https://www.
pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/12/06/10-facts-about-atheists/
120	 Michael Lipka, “10 Facts About Atheists,” PEW Research Center, https://www.
pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/12/06/10-facts-about-atheists/
121	 Michael Lipka, “5 Facts about religion in Canada,” PEW
Research Center, https://www.pewresearch.org/
fact-tank/2019/07/01/5-facts-about-religion-in-canada/
122	 See Sartre’s Saint Genet for an example of admiring the ‘independence’ of a
career criminal. The entire culture of presenting criminals in a heroic light is a
consequence of antinomian attitudes.
123	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, CIX, p. 214.
124	 Baha’i World, Volume 4, p. 352.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
125	 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 180.
126	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, CXIV, p. 232.
127	 Richard Dawkins, Richard Stenger, Daniel Dennett and Sam Harris are among
the best known.
128	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 83: 2; p. 343.
129	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 30.
130	 The source is my daughter Emily who is a certified yoga instructor and has heard
this from many students.
131	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 71: 8; p. 293.
132	 Among the traditional proofs of God’s existence are Aristotle’s “First Mover”
argument; the “five ways of Aquinas,” Avicenna’s kalam argument and its
modern revival by William Lane Craig; Anselm’s “ontological argument and its
modern revival by Kurt Goedel; William Hatcher’s “relational proof.”
133	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 54.
134	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 18. He seems to have accepted Aristo-
tle’s distinction between theoretical and actual infinities. We can think of an
infinite series of numbers without contradiction, but an actual line of physical
things or events leads to paradoxes that show such a real series is impossible. See
Hilbert’s Hotel.
135	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 2: 6; p. 6.
136	 Immanuel Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, translated by Paul Guyer and
Allen E. Wood, p. 490.
137	 Immanuel Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, translated by Paul Guyer and
Allen E. Wood, p. 492.
138	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 2: 6; p. 6.
139	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 19.
140	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 183.
141	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 47: 5; p. 208—209.
142	 See Ian Kluge, “Reason and the Bahá’í Writings” in Lights of Irfan, Volume 14,
2013.
143	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 175.
144	 Man-made atrocities such as the Holocaust, the Holodomor, the Gulag
archipelago or the Laogai; natural disasters such a Hurricane Katrina or the
increasing desertification of Sub-Saharan Africa.

Which World Are You In?
145	 Ian Kluge, “Review of Udo Schaefer, Bahá’í Ethics in Light of Scripture,” in
Journal of Bahá’í Studies vol. 25, no. 1-2 (2015).
146	 Immanuel Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, “The Antinomy of Pure Reason.
p. 490.
147	 Immanuel Kant, The Critique of Practical Reason, Part II, I, V, “The Existence
of God as a Postulate of Pure Practical Reason,” p. 100.
148	 Roderick M. Chisholm, “Theodicy,” in The Cambridge Dictionary of Philoso-
phy, p. 911.
149	 Fyodor Dostoevsky, The Brothers Karamazov, Bk. 5, Ch. 4, https://www.google.
com/search?q=ivan+karamazov&rlz=1C1DIMA_enCA705CA705&oq=ivan
+karamazov&aqs=chrome..69i57j0l5j46j0.5498j0j15&sourceid=chrome&ie=
UTF-8
150	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 35; 4, p. 156—157.
151	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 72.
152	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Arabic Hidden Words, # 4.
153	 James Collins, The Existentialists, p. 40.
154	 The current over-emphasis on diversity without adequate and clear consider-
ations given to unity is one of the causes of today’s fragmenting societies as seen
in the rise of ‘identity politics.’
155	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 77: 4; p. 310.
156	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 84: 4; 347.
157	 William Rowe, “Agnosticism,” in The Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of
Philosophy, p.17.
158	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 60: 7; p. 260.
159	 “Buridan’s Ass” in Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buridan%27s_ass
This illustration goes as far back as Aristotle who described the frustration of
a man who was equally hungry and thirsty; by Jean Buridan whose example
we use in this essay; and Al-Ghazali’s example of a man trapped between two
bundles of equally delicious dates.
160	 Over thirty years of high school teaching (more than 6,600 students) have
shown me that with rare exceptions, teenagers are very interested in these topics.
Harnessing their interest and energies was foundation of my teaching career. I
would describe virtually all teens as ‘natural born philosophers’ and that, as
Mortimer Adler’s says, “Philosophy is everybody’s business.” With P4K methods
(Philosophy for Kids) the philosophic nature of even primary students can be
harnessed.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
161	 See the work of Bahá’í psychiatrist and professor emeritus of psychiatry at
McGill University, Dr. Abdul Missagh Ghadirian: In Search of Nirvana; “Alco-
hol and Drug Abuse: A Psychosocial and Spiritual Approach to Prevention.”
162	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CIX, p. 214; emphasis
added.
163	 William Shakespeare, Hamlet, Act. 1, Sc. 5.
164	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 46.
165	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 82: 5; p. 336.
166	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 2: 6; p. 6.
167	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXXV, p. 143.
168	 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, 60: 7; p. 260.
169	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 113.

The Invocation “Is There Any Remover of Dif-
ficulties Save God…”
Muhammad Afnan
trans. Adib Masumian
This research note, originally written in Persian, was first published in
Safíniy-i-‘Irfán, vol. 9 (2006), pp. 263–64.
⸻
There is an ancient precedent for invocations in the divine religions.
In the Baháʼí Faith, too, numerous invocations have been revealed for
various occasions, among them “Is there any Remover of difficulties
save God? Say: Praised be God! He is God! All are His servants, and all
abide by His bidding!” Although this invocation has yet to be found
in the available manuscripts of the Báb’s Writings, there are references
to it in historical texts, and it is on the basis of the credibility of these
references that it has been translated and included in the compilation
Selections from the Writings of the Báb.
The information we have at our disposal concerning this invocation
comes from the letters of Mírzá Áqá Ján, who was among the first to
recognize the Promised One of the Bayán in Baghdád (God Passes By, p.
119). The gist of the matter, as Mírzá Áqá Ján has described it, indicates
that the aforementioned invocation was commonly known to the first
Bábís in Baghdád, including Baháʼuʼlláh, Who emphatically instructed
that it be repeatedly recited by day and by night—and in reality, this
practice should be regarded as a reminder tothe faithful, especially if
we bear in mind that Baháʼuʼlláh enjoined it before He withdrew to
the Kurdish mountains of Sulaymáníyyih, and that He had not yet
written or otherwise disclosed anything whatsoever about His blessed
Cause at the time. In those days, the authority of Mírzá Yaḥyá was

Myth or Madness: The (Lost) Joy of Religion
unquestioned, and the strengthening support which Baháʼuʼlláh lent
him was given unconditionally. Yet it was at that very time that, due
to various reasons, the Bábís were plundering the wealth and stealing
the possessions of pilgrims to the holy Shí‘ih shrines in ‘Iráqand the
residents of their cities. It can be inferred from Baháʼuʼlláh’s remarks to
Mírzá Áqá Ján that He disapproved of the behavior of the Bábís, and
reminded them that divine relief was contingent on the advent of the
Promised One of the Bayán. It is not necessary to explain that, accord-
ing to Shí‘ih belief and the promises of the holy Imáms, the relief of
the family of the Prophet Muḥammad is none other than the appear-
ance of the Qáʼim, and it is for this reason that the mention of such
relief and the supplication that it be granted are especially relevant to
entreaties for the Promised Advent to occur.
With this preliminary context in mind, we might consider that, if there
had not been any precedent for this invocation, Baháʼuʼlláh—Who in
spite of all His renown and centrality among the Bábís was not regarded
by them in those days as a possessor of authority or a Manifestation
of God—would not have placed such great emphasis on it.It is prob-
ably the casethat the revelation of a new invocation or prayer [from
Baháʼuʼlláh] would likewise not have been accepted or implemented,
and consequently Baháʼuʼlláh would have naturally refrained from so
insistently and emphatically instructing that it be adopted.
At any rate, this invocation has gained currency in the Cause of God,
and with it the Baháʼís derive assistance and spirituality in all kinds
of situations.

The Potent God and the Attracting God:
Metaphysics and its Social Consequences
Moojan Momen
Abstract
This paper examines two conceptual frameworks that have been
used in relation to God. The orthodox and normative view of God
in the religions of Islam, Christianity and Judaism is based on the
concept of God derived by theologians such as St Thomas Aquinas
from Aristotle’s notion of the Unmoved Mover as the first cause of all
subsequent chains of cause and effect. This then produces the image
of God as the Creator of the world and the unseen force that controls
and directs the events that happen in the world (the Potent God). This
image of God as the Omnipotent King was very attractive to medieval
rulers who could then point to the structure of the spiritual world
(with an Omnipotent Ruler at its head) as justifying a similar social
structure on earth with themselves as the symbol and image of the
Divine ruler. There is however an alternative view of God that may
be the view that Aristotle originally intended by his Unmoved Mover
and which creates an entirely different view of God. This conceptual
framework sees God as the cause of all that occurs but in the sense that
God is the ultimate aim or goal of all events—that God is attracting all of
Creation towards Him/It. Thus God acts on the universe not through
a rigid cascade of cause and effect but rather through the attraction
of love (the Attracting God). This view of God has a profound
consequences not just in theology but also in our structure of thought
and our social structure. It dissolves the ground from under questions
that have caused many to turn away from God (for example, why an
omnipotent God would allow the Holocaust to occur) and leads to
social interactions that are more cooperative and collaborative rather
than coercive and hierarchical. This paper examines the evidence that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
this second view of God (the Attracting God) is given priority over the
first view (the Potent God) in the Baha’i scriptures.
Religion in the West has derived its conceptual universe, its structure
of Reality, from a certain view of God. This view was constructed by
Jewish, Christian and Muslim theologians and philosophers based
on a variety of texts from the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament and
the Qur’an. However the philosophical foundations of this view go
back to the concept of the “Prime Mover” or “Unmoved Mover” of
Aristotle, which he developed in Book 12 of his Metaphysics.
There is, then, something which is always moved with an unceasing
motion, which is motion in a circle; and this is plain not in theory
only but in fact. Therefore the first heaven must be eternal. There
is therefore also something which moves it. And since that which
moves and is moved is intermediate, there is something which moves
without being moved, being eternal, substance, and actuality.1
As developed in Western philosophy (especially St Thomas Aquinas),
this concept of the Unmoved Mover or the Prime Mover became
equivalent to the concept of God as the Prime Cause of every motion,
every effect, every event that occurs in our word. The problem of how
to reconcile Aristotle’s idea that motion (causation) has existed for all
time and the idea that the Prime Mover initiated motion was resolved
by St Thomas Aquinas assertion that God’s creation of the universe
occurs outside time; it does not imply that the universe had a beginning.
It is necessary, however, to examine Aristotle’s concept of causation
further. Aristotle defined four types of causation for everything that
occurs. The material cause of a chair is the wood out of which it is made.
The formal cause is the design or structure of the chair that existed in
the mind of the carpenter before beginning to work on the creation of
the chair. The efficient cause is that which acts on the wood in order to
create the table: the carpenter, the saw and the plane. The final cause is
the purpose for which the chair was built: for sitting upon and resting.

The Potent God and the Attracting God
In Western philosophy, the concept of causation that has been applied
to the Prime Mover has tended to be that of being the efficient cause
of all that occurs in the world. In other words that God sets in
motion all the change that occurs in the world and is thus ultimately
responsible for everything that occurs through a cascade of cause and
effect. This understanding of the Prime Mover and the consequent
conceptualization of God can be named, insofar as it concern God
in Himself/Itself, as the Potent God; and insofar as it concerns God’s
relationship to human beings as the Compelling/Coercive God. It is
epitomized by calling God by names such as the Sovereign Lord and
the Lord of the World and by attributes such as the All-Powerful and
the Almighty. Perhaps the primary manifestation of this way of seeing
God is the concept of God as the Creator. With the act of Creation,
God set everything into motion. From that act of Creation, the
sequences of cause and effect led down through time to the world that
we have today and the events that occur in it. Most conceptualizations
of God consider that He continues to intervene in the world causing
new chains of cause and effect.
The Potent/Compelling/Coercive God has caused a number of
theological problems for Western religions. These became most
troublesome in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries when most
Western intellectuals turned away from religion. Events such as the
Holocaust caused people to become more aware of a long-standing
problem with such a conceptualization of God. If there is a God, who
is all-powerful and loving and is the cause of all that occurs, how does
it come about that He allows the Holocaust (injustice, the suffering of
children, famines, etc) to occur?

An alternative way of viewing Aristotle: the Attracting God
Although this conceptualization of the Compelling/Coercive God is
the one that has predominated in Western thinking, it is not the only
conceptualization that emerges from a study of Aristotle. Many who
have studied Aristotle closely have come to the conclusion that when

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Aristotle writes of the Prime Mover or Unmoved Mover as the cause of
every occurrence that subsequently occurs, he is not in fact thinking of
the Prime Mover as the efficient cause but rather as the final cause. In
other words rather than compelling or pushing everything that occurs
through cascades of cause and effect, events occur because they are
drawn by attraction towards the Unmover Mover as their goal. The
Unmoved Mover is described in Book 12 of the Metaphysics as “the
object of desire and the object of thought” thus:
And the object of desire and the object of thought move in this way;
they move without being moved. The primary objects of desire and
of thought are the same. For the apparent good is the object of appe-
tite, and the real good is the primary object of rational wish.2
And so the Prime Mover or Unmoved Mover is not an efficient cause
of all actions that occur but rather the goal towards which actions aim,
towards which they are drawn by love. Aristotle wrote:
That a final cause may exist among unchangeable entities is shown
by the distinction of its meanings. For the final cause is (a) some
being for whose good an action is done, and (b) something at which
the action aims; and of these the latter exists among unchangeable
entities though the former does not. The final cause, then, produces
motion as being loved, but all other things move by being moved.3
Indeed, it is Aristotle himself who then takes this idea of the Prime
Mover as acting through love and attraction and applies it to the
concept of God. Immediately after the above passage, he goes on to say:
If, then, God is always in that good state in which we sometimes are,
this compels our wonder; and if in a better this compels it yet more.
And God is in a better state. And life also belongs to God; for the
actuality of thought is life, and God is that actuality; and God’s self-
dependent actuality is life most good and eternal. We say therefore

The Potent God and the Attracting God
that God is a living being, eternal, most good, so that life and dura-
tion continuous and eternal belong to God; for this is God.4
Paul Humphrey summarizes this conceptualization of God thus:
The universe has no beginning in time, no temporal first cause, so
Aristotle is obviously not seeking an efficient cause in the sense of
“what set it all off?” Aristotle’s unmoved mover acts as final cause, as
the good toward which all things strive. That is, it acts an objects of
desire: “The object of desire and the object of thought move with-
out being moved”.5
Roland Faber has expressed this thus:
What Aristotle means, here, is not any efficient cause that creates
an effect by coercion, by pull and push, by external setting or influ-
encing, but what he called a final cause. This means a cause that
operates from the front, from the future, from the ideal; its power
is persuasion, seduction, creating desire for fulfillment. This is an
internal cause that awakens that which happens to its best possibil-
ities, luring it to their realization and to become the best it can be at
any moment and in any situation. God as Prime Mover is not at the
beginning, not a ground of creation, not in the past as pusher, not a
powerful tyrant who crushes, but the attractor, the aim, the goal of
fulfillment and satisfaction.6

Evidence from the Baha’i scriptures: the Potent God
It is clear that quotations can be found in the Baha’i scriptures that
support both conceptual frameworks. We will first briefly review
this evidence.
God is called by such names as “the Creator”, “the Sovereign Lord”,
“the King”, and such attributes as being All-Powerful, Almighty and
Omnipotent; they refer to God causing events that occur either in heaven

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
or on earth. See for example this quotation from the Kitab-i Aqas:
O kings of the earth! He Who is the sovereign Lord of all is come.
The Kingdom is God’s, the omnipotent Protector, the Self-Subsist-
ing. Worship none but God, and, with radiant hearts, lift up your
faces unto your Lord, the Lord of all names. Wash from your hearts
all earthly defilements, and hasten to enter the Kingdom of your
Lord, the Creator of earth and heaven, Who caused the world to
tremble and all its peoples to wail, except them that have renounced
all things and clung to that which the Hidden Tablet hath ordained.7
And:
All praise to the unity of God, and all honor to Him, the sovereign
Lord, the incomparable and all-glorious Ruler of the universe, Who,
out of utter nothingness, hath created the reality of all thing….8
Similarly in the writings of the Bab:
In the Name of Thy Lord, the Creator, the Sovereign, the All-Suf-
ficing, the Most Exalted, He Whose help is implored by all men.
SAY: O my God! O Thou Who art the Maker of the heavens and of
the earth, O Lord of the Kingdom!9
God as the Prime Mover and as the initiator of cascades of cause and
effect are also implied in a number of passages such as the following
from the Lawh-i Hikmat, the Tablet of Wisdom:
Such as communicate the generating influence and such as receive
its impact are indeed created through the irresistible Word of God
which is the Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His
Word are but the creatures and the effects thereof.10
The ethos of obedience to the Divine law can be found in passages
such as:

The Potent God and the Attracting God
Whenever My laws appear like the sun in the heaven of Mine utter-
ance, they must be faithfully obeyed by all, though My decree be
such as to cause the heaven of every religion to be cleft asunder.11

Evidence from the Baha’i Scriptures: The Attracting God
There is also much evidence in the Baha’i scripture for the view of
God as operating primarily through love and attracting human beings
towards Him/It rather than compelling them.
Love is the light that guideth in darkness, the living link that uniteth
God with man, that assureth the progress of every illumined soul.
Love is the most great law that ruleth this mighty and heavenly
cycle, the unique power that bindeth together the divers elements of
this material world, the supreme magnetic force that directeth the
movements of the spheres in the celestial realms. Love revealeth with
unfailing and limitless power the mysteries latent in the universe.
(Abdu’l-Baha, Selections from the Writings of Abdu’l-Baha, p. 27)
If love did not exist, what of reality would remain? It is the fire of
the love of God which renders man superior to the animal. (Abdu’l-
Baha, Divine Philosophy, p. 112)
In the Baha’i scriptures, the purpose of human life is stated to be draw
nearer to God (reunion with God, attainment to the Presence of God,
the Divine Seat, the Seat of Sanctity, etc.)­—nearness to God can be
said to be the Baha’i concept of salvation and can be seen to be a part
of this concept of the Attracting God.
The purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will ever be,
to enable him to know his Creator and to attain His Presence.
(Baha’u’llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, p. 70)
The Prophets and Messengers of God have been sent down for the
sole purpose of guiding mankind to the straight Path of Truth.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
The purpose underlying Their revelation hath been to educate all
men, that they may, at the hour of death, ascend, in the utmost
purity and sanctity and with absolute detachment, to the throne
of the Most High. (Baha’u’llah, Gleanings from the Writings of
Baha’u’llah, p. 156)
Draw them nearer, O my God, unto the scene of Thine effulgent
glory, and enrapture their hearts with the sweet savors of Thine
inspiration... (Baha’u’llah, Prayers and Meditations, p. 201)
Describing the [true] seeker, Baha’u’llah writes:
At every moment his love for his Lord increaseth and draweth him
nearer unto his Creato… (Baha’u’llah, Gems of Divine Mysteries, p. 75)
From a prayer:
I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy most sweet Voice and by Thy
most exalted Word, to draw me ever nearer to the threshold of Thy
door (Baha’u’llah, Prayers and Meditations, p. 288)
And:
O Son of Man! Sorrow not save that thou art far from Us. Rejoice
not save that thou art drawing near and returning unto Us.
(Baha’u’llah, The Arabic Hidden Words, no. 35)
Whensoever the light of the revelation of the King of Oneness set-
tleth upon the throne of the heart and soul, His radiance becometh
visible in every limb and member. At that time, the mystery of the
famed tradition gleameth out of the darkness: “A servant is drawn
unto Me in prayers, until I answer him. And when I have answered
him, I become the ear wherewith he heareth. ...” For thus the Master
of the house hath appeared within His home, and all the pillars of
the dwelling are ashine with His light. And as the action and effect

The Potent God and the Attracting God
of the light are from the Light-Giver, so it is that all move through
Him and arise by His Will. (Seven Valleys, new edition, pp. 31-2)
Not only is this drawing near to God the purpose of human life, it is
the purpose of the Creation itself.
And when the sanctified souls rend asunder the veils of all earthly
attachments and worldly conditions, and hasten to the stage of
gazing on the beauty of the Divine Presence and are honoured by
recognizing the Manifestation and are able to witness the splen-
dour of God’s Most Great Sign in their hearts, then will the purpose
of creation, which is the knowledge of Him Who is the Eternal Truth,
become manifest. (Baha’u’llah, Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 175, italics added)
O Son of Bounty! Out of the wastes of nothingness, with the clay
of My command I made thee to appear, and have ordained for thy
training every atom in existence and the essence of all created things.
Thus, ere thou didst issue from thy mother’s womb, I destined for
thee two founts of gleaming milk, eyes to watch over thee, and
hearts to love thee. Out of My loving-kindness, ‘neath the shade of
My mercy I nurtured thee, and guarded thee by the essence of My
grace and favor. And My purpose in all this was that thou mightest
attain My everlasting dominion and become worthy of My invisible
bestowals. And yet heedless thou didst remain, and when fully
grown, thou didst neglect all My bounties and occupied thyself
with thine idle imaginings, in such wise that thou didst become
wholly forgetful, and, turning away from the portals of the Friend
didst abide within the courts of My enemy. (Baha’u’llah, Persian
Hidden Words, no. 29)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Attribute of God
Potent God
Loving God
Interaction
with humans
Compelling God
Attracting God
Kingly authoritarian
God
Loving God
running the world
through cause and
effect, reward and
punishment, rules
and systems
compassionate, merciful,
loving
Operates through
educating and enabling
Compels obedience
through the fear of God
Invites alignment with the
Will of God out of love
Humans must obey the
laws of God
Humans are invited to
draw near to God

The Priority of the Attracting God over the Potent God
So what is the relationship of these two seemingly opposing
concepts of God: the Compelling God and the Attracting God?
There are several indications in the Baha’i scripture that the
concept of the Loving/Attracting God precedes or has priority
over the concept of the Potent God.
`Abdu’l-Baha wrote a commentary on the Islamic Tradition “I
was a Hidden Treasure and desired to be known therefore I
created the Creation in order in order that I might be known.”
In this commentary, he states that in this Tradition, the Hidden
Treasure refers to the unknown and unknowable Essence of God
which is unchanging, the stage of Absolute Unity [ahadiyya].
Then he says that the first “stirrings of Lov…. necessitated the
Perfect Burnishing [jala] and Clarification [istijla]” resulting in
the Essential Dispositions [shu’unat dhatiyya] which through the
Divine Outpouring [Fayd aqdas], “manifested themselves out
of the station of Essence into the station of Divine Knowledge
[hadrat-i `ilm]. This is the first manifestation of the Absolute from

The Potent God and the Attracting God
the Hidden Treasure in the Divine Knowledge. And from this
manifestation the Eternal Archetypes [a’yan thabita] came into
intellectual existence [Wujud-i `ilmi]. And each one according
to its inherent capacity, is distinguished from the others in the
mirrors of the Divine Knowledge.”12
The a’yan thabita are the eternal archetypes of everything in existence
and thus the sequence continues until it reaches the point that the
Creation comes into being. We need not concern ourselves here
with the intermediate stages but just note that the “stirrings of Love”
precede the Creation in this sequence. Thus the attribute of the
Attracting God precedes and thus is the cause of the attribute of the
Potent God in the sequence. Thus the prime movement was that of
love and the Creation is secondary and a product of that Love. This
would indicate the concept of the loving/attracting God is primary
and the compelling Creator God is secondary.
Baha’u’llah summarizes this idea succinctly in two of the Hidden
Words:
O Son of Man! Veiled in My immemorial being and in the ancient
eternity of My essence, I knew My love for thee; therefore I created thee,
have engraved on thee Mine image and revealed to thee My beauty.
O Son of Man! I loved thy creation, hence I created thee. (Baha’u’llah,
Arabic Hidden Words, nos. 3 and 4; italics added)
In both of these passages, it is the movement of love that precedes and
gives rise to the Creation.

A Word about Time and Language
A cautionary note is needed at this point. The use of such words as
“first stirring of Love”, “Love precedes Creation”, “stages leading to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Creation” all imply a sequence of events and thus the passing of time.
The picture that emerges is of some event that occurred in the dim
distant past whereby Creation came into being and everything else has
flowed down over the course of time from this.
But “time” only comes into being with the Creation. Time is just a
dimension of space, not an independent reality. This has been known
in science since the early twentieth century when Albert Einstein
demonstrated that Time cannot exist independent of the physical
world. Thus the events that we are describing as occurring before the
coming into being of the physical world occur outside of time. When
we are talking about events that occur outside time, we are reaching
the limits of human language and of the ability of human beings to
conceptualize. Human minds are so structured to think in terms of
events occurring in a sequence in time that it is almost impossible to
conceptualize what it means to say that events occur outside of time.
In fact everything in the spiritual world occurs outside time. `Abdu’l-
Baha refers to this in relation to the Covenant.
As for the reference in The Hidden Words regarding the Covenant
entered into on Mount Paran, this signifieth that in the sight of
God the past, the present and the future are all one and the same
– whereas, relative to man, the past is gone and forgotten, the pres-
ent is fleeting, and the future is within the realm of hope. And it
is a basic principle of the Law of God that in every Prophetic Mis-
sion, He entereth into a Covenant with all believer…Covenant that
endureth until the end of that Mission, until the promised day
when the Personage stipulated at the outset of the Mission is made
manifest. Consider Moses, He Who conversed with God. Verily,
upon Mount Sinai, Moses entered into a Covenant regarding the
Messiah, with all those souls who would live in the day of the Mes-
siah. And those souls, although they appeared many centuries after
Moses, were nevertheless – so far as the Covenant, which is outside
time, was concerned – present there with Moses. The Jews, however,
were heedless of this and remembered it not, and thus they suffered

The Potent God and the Attracting God
a great and clear loss. (`Abdu’l-Baha, Selections, p. 207)
The Romanian scholar Mircea Eliade has attempted to describe this
by writing of sacred time as being an eternal now that exists in parallel
with profane time.13 These events such as the “first stirring of Love
in the Hidden Treasure” did not happen in the distant past, they are
outside time and therefore an ever-present now. So words that imply
“priority” – such as that the movement of Love precedes the Creation
– should not be taken to mean a priority in time, but a priority in the
hierarchy of being or of becoming.

A Word about Loving God
One aspect of the Loving God is that the flow of love must be mutual.
It is the love of God that brought Creation into being but human
beings are also enjoined to love God in return:
O Son of Being!
Love Me, that I may love thee. If thou lovest Me not, My love can in
no wise reach thee. Know this, O servant. (Baha’u’llah, The Arabic
Hidden Words, no. 5)
But it is also part of the Baha’i teachings that God is unknowable and
any concepts that we form of God are our own imaginings.
All the people have formed a god in the world of thought, and that
form of their own imagination they worshi…. All the sects and peo-
ples worship their own thought; they create a god in their own minds
and acknowledge him to be the creator of all things, when that form
is a superstition. (Abdu’l-Baha, Baha’i World Faith, p. 381)
So the question arises how is it possible for a human being to love
an entity about which they know nothing. One important aspect of
this question concerns the relationship between Beauty and Love.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
According to Plato, it the recognition of Beauty that causes love to
arise within the human heart. This recognition can be of physical and
bodily beauty or it can relate to the beauty of a person’s soul or mind. It
can also relate to laws, institutions and to knowledge and science. How
is it possible for love to arise through recognition of the Beauty of God
when human beings cannot know anything about the Beauty or any
other of the attributes of God. If they are loving God, then are they not
loving a creation of their own imagination, which `Abdu’l-Baha calls
superstition.
A clue as to how this conundrum can be resolved can be found in the
following quotation from Baha’u’llah regarding the Manifestations
of God:
Thus, viewed from the standpoint of their oneness and sublime
detachment, the attributes of Godhead, Divinity, Supreme Single-
ness, and Inmost Essence, have been, and are applicable to those
Essences of Being, inasmuch as they all abide on the throne of
Divine Revelation, and are established upon the seat of Divine Con-
cealment. Through their appearance the Revelation of God is made
manifest, and by their countenance the Beauty of God is revealed.
(Baha’u’llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, p. 53)
And so since it is through these Manifestations of God that the Beauty
of God can be seen.

A Word about Love, Beauty and Attraction
Thus since it is through these Manifestations of God that the Beauty
of God can be seen, it is through the recognition of beauty in these
Manifestations (which the above quotation says is the Beauty of God)
that love arises in the individual. This love that arises in the heart of the
individual through the recognition of beauty in these Manifestations
is love for God because Baha’u’llah asserts that belief in the oneness of
God consists in regarding God and the Manifestations of God as one

The Potent God and the Attracting God
and the same.
The essence of belief in Divine unity consisteth in regarding Him
Who is the Manifestation of God and Him Who is the invisible, the
inaccessible, the unknowable Essence as one and the same…This is
the loftiest station to which a true believer in the unity of God can
ever hope to attain. Blessed is the man that reacheth this station,
and is of them that are steadfast in their belief. (Baha’u’llah, Glean-
ings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, p. 167)
As for the ultimate goal and purpose of human life which, as stated
above, is to draw near to and to attain the presence of God, the Bab
asserts that this is nothing other than drawing near to and attaining
the presence of the Manifestation of God:
There is no paradise more wondrous for any soul than to be exposed
to God’s Manifestation in His Day, to hear His verses and believe
in them, to attain His presence, which is naught but the presence of
God, (The Bab, Selections from the Writings of the Bab, p. 77)
Among the most common titles used to refer to Baha’u’llah are the
Ancient Beauty and the Blessed Beauty. Thus the love that arises in
the heart of the believer for Baha’u’llah is as a result of the recognition
of His Beauty. And of course it is this love which then attracts the
believer and draws him or her closer to Baha’u’llah.
In summary, since human beings can know nothing of the Essence of
God, they cannot see Beauty there nor can love arise for the Essence
of God. It is the Names and Attributes of God that causes this love to
arise in human hearts. Although the Names and Attributes of God
can be seen in all of God’s Creation (and the Baha’i scriptures do call
upon human beings to reflect upon the Divine as manifested in our
own human natures and in the natural world14), nevertheless these
Names and Attributes are seen most perfectly reflected in Baha’u’llah

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
and the other Manifestations of God. In other words, it is only through
these Manifestations of God that human beings can see the Beauty
of the Loving/Attracting God. The God to whom human hearts are
attracted is Baha’u’llah and the other Manifestations of God.

Consequences of the Concept of the Potent/Compelling God
Regardless of what Aristotle did or did not mean by his concept of
the Unmoved Mover, the understanding of it as leading to the Potent/
Compelling/Coercive God was developed by Jewish, Christian
and Islamic theologians and philosophers into a conceptualization
of God and of how God interacts with the world. Apart from the
theological consequences of this that has been described above, this
conceptualization of God then set up normative structures of thought
which affected social realities.
The structure of thought that was produced by the Potent/Compelling
God had consequences in many areas of thought. This became most
marked in Western science, which came to consider the material and
efficient causes as the only valid forms of causation, allowing rational
and empirical explanations of the natural world. Any other form of
causation became classed as mythological, magical or superstitious and
relegated to being invalid as a source of knowledge. During the 20th
Century, however, it became clear to scientists that this “Aristotelean”
view of the natural world where every event occurs as a result of a cause
is an insufficient view. The world of quantum physics is not governed
by cause and effect and so a more expansive view is needed – one that
is not driven by cause and effect but rather one where sequences of
events occur that would not have been considered scientific in the old
paradigm: chance and probability, emergent properties, particles that
come into existence out of nothing, entities that are both particles
and waves at the same time, Heisenberg’s Uncertainty principle, chaos
theory, etc. While physicists are now comfortable with this new view
of the natural world, and other areas of science such as chemistry and
biology are starting to accommodate it, it has yet to permeate the

The Potent God and the Attracting God
social sciences or indeed the thinking of those who advocate scientific
atheism, the New Atheists.
The Potent/Compelling God also has major social consequences since
it was thought that the earthly social structure would be most perfect
when it most closely resembled the Divine structure of having a Potent
God at the apex. This image of God as the Omnipotent King was very
attractive to medieval rulers who could then point to the structure of
the spiritual world (with an Omnipotent Ruler at its head) as justifying
a similar social structure on earth with themselves as the symbol and
image of the Divine ruler; it was a justification of their own absolute
rule. It encouraged the idea that hierarchies of power were the natural
order and became the justification for keeping the vast majority of
human beings (women, racial groups, religious minorities, the lower
classes and castes, etc.) suppressed and subjected to the norms of the
ruling hierarchy. The normative views of this ruling elite became
imposed on all. This social structure became viewed as the natural
order, common sense, reality itself. And so to try to change the social
structure or to question the authority of the rulers was, in a sense to go
against this natural order, to go against reality (madness) and indeed
to go against God (blasphemy and heresy). This social aspect of the
conceptualization of God as the Potent/Compelling God is also now
slowly breaking down. Those at the bottom of social pyramid of power
are no longer willing to remain in that position, nor increasingly to
allow their thoughts and opinions to be dictated to them by the social
and political elite. Developments such as the Internet and social media
have allowed them to bypass the controls that the elite had over access to
knowledge and communication. The intellectual and social structures
created by the conceptualization of God as primarily the Potent God)
are crumbling (albeit slowly and with setbacks along the way).
However, according to the Baha’i scriptures, there are aspects of this
worldview of the the Potent God that are correct. At the social level, the
hierarchical structure of society is confirmed and justified by passages

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
that enjoin obedience to kings and rulers and liken the position of the
king on earth to that of God in heaven:
This Wronged One pledgeth Himself, before the Divine Kaaba, that,
apart from truthfulness and trustworthiness, this people will show
forth nothing that can in any way conflict with the world-adorning
views of His Majesty. Every nation must have a high regard for the
position of its sovereign, must be submissive unto him, must carry
out his behests, and hold fast his authority. The sovereigns of the
earth have been and are the manifestations of the power, the gran-
deur and the majesty of God.15
`Abdu’l-Baha writes to the Baha’is in a similar vein:
O ye beloved of the Lord! It is incumbent upon you to be submis-
sive to all monarchs that are just and show your fidelity to every
righteous king. Serve ye the sovereigns of the world with utmost
truthfulness and loyalty. Show obedience unto them and be their
well-wishers. Without their leave and permission do not meddle
with political affairs, for disloyalty to the just sovereign is disloyalty
to God himself.16
And Shoghi Effendi also states:
…the considered judgement and authoritative decrees issued by
their responsible rulers mus…. be thoroughly respected and loy-
ally obeyed.17
Furthermore, the Baha’i administrative framework also exhibits a
hierarchy and obedience is also expected towards this. The following
was written by Shoghi Effendi’s secretary regarding the North
American National Spiritual Assembly:
…the Guardian wishes me to again affirm his view that the
authority of the National Spiritual Assembly is undivided and

The Potent God and the Attracting God
unchallengeable in all matters pertaining to the administration
of the Faith throughout the United States and Canada, and that,
therefore, the obedience of individual Bahá’ís, delegates, groups,
and Assemblies to that authority is imperative, and should be
whole-hearted and unqualified.18

Consequences of the Concept of the Loving/Attracting God
As described above, the Potent/Compelling God has had a great
influence, not just on theology and religious philosophy, but on our
very structures of thought leading to profound consequences in how
human beings see the world (science), how they interact with others
(sociology) and how they construct their communities (governance).
So if the conceptualization of how God interacts with the world
changes, this would also necessitate new ways of thinking about these
intellectual and social matters. It would alter how human beings see
reality itself – it would alter their reality.
Of course adopting the concept of the Loving/Attracting God alters
our theology in important ways. Instead of conceptualizing God as
the Divine King, a remote figure who sends down decrees that have to
be obeyed or else punishment will ensue, God become a close figure, a
Friend who assists and enables human beings to progress so that they
can become ever closer to Him/It by becoming ever more like Him/
It—by realizing the spiritual capacities within every individual, by
acquiring the Divine Names and Attributes. This is summed up in
one passage in the writings of Baha’u’llah, where the first two sentences
describe the possibilities of the way a Potent/Compelling God would
work, but this is then rejected in the next sentence in favour of the
operation of the Loving/Attracting God:
He Who is the Day Spring of Truth is, no doubt, fully capable
of rescuing from such remoteness wayward souls and of causing
them to draw nigh unto His court and attain His Presence. “If
God had pleased He had surely made all men one people.” His

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
purpose, however, is to enable the pure in spirit and the detached
in heart to ascend, by virtue of their own innate powers, unto the
shores of the Most Great Ocean, that thereby they who seek the
Beauty of the All-Glorious may be distinguished and separated
from the wayward and perverse. Thus hath it been ordained by the
all-glorious and resplendent Pen…
(Baha’u’llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, p. 70)
God is still the All-Powerful Potent/Compelling God but this power
is now expressed not as a dominating “power over” but as an enabling
“power to”. An interesting slant on this is the fact that the enactment
and enforcement of religious law, which are one of the symbols of
the Potent God, is turned by Baha’u’llah from being an expression of
domination and power into an expression of love:
Observe My commandments, for the love of My beaut…. Think not
that We have revealed unto you a mere code of laws. Nay, rather, We
have unsealed the choice Wine with the fingers of might and power.”
(Baha’u’llah, Kitab-i-Aqdas, verses 4-5, p. 20-21)
At the social level, although Baha’u’llah does, as described in the
quotations given above, enjoin obedience to kings and does appear
therefore to give support to the existing hierarchical power structure,
in fact however he then tempers this by stating that kings should exist
merely as symbols of Divine Power, not as executors of earthly power:
Although a republican form of government profiteth all the peoples
of the world, yet the majesty of kingship is one of the signs of God.
We do not wish that the countries of the world should remain
deprived thereof. If the sagacious combine the two forms into one,
great will be their reward in the presence of God.
(Baha’u’llah, Tablets of Baha’u’llah, p. 28)
The system of government which the British people have adopted
in London appeareth to be good, for it is adorned with the light of

The Potent God and the Attracting God
both kingship and of the consultation of the people.
(Baha’u’llah, Tablets of Baha’u’llah)

Attribute of God
Potent God
Loving God
Interaction with
humans
Compelling God
Attracting God
Social structure
Social hierarchy—
king/president at
the top
Egalitarian—group
decision making
Social processes:
Decision-making
decision coming from
the top—to be obeyed
consultative decision
making
Reason for following
decisions
Punishment for
disobedience
Following decision
out of love
Social interactions
Competition, conflict,
winner takes all
Cooperation,
Consultation and
collaboration; service
Basis of social
interactions
Interactions are
legalistic
Interactions based on
equality and mutual
respect

With this change of vision, in place of the remote kingly
authoritarian God running the world mechanically through
cause and effect, reward and punishment, rules and systems, one
has a much closer more intimate relationship with a loving God,
who is compassionate, merciful, and attracts us to Himself/Itself
rather than compels obedience. Our goal in life is not so much
to obey the laws of a King but to draw ever closer to a Divine
Beloved. Obedience to the law of God thus becomes secondary
and a consequence of the human being’s love of God. The social
structure that most closely parallels this change is one where the
bonds of love are emphasized, where interactions with others are
characterized by consultation, cooperation and collaboration

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
rather than creating situations where one person gives orders and
the rest obey. The governance of communities is also implemented
through consultative decision making, based on experience and
learning, rather than on obedience to the laws and directives
flowing down from the upper levels of a power hierarchy. The
ethos that is created is not one of dictatorial authority and
compelling obedience but rather that of a culture where all, those
in the institutions of authority as well as the ordinary believers,
are learning together, consulting together and working together
on a journey to build better, more loving, more prosperous
communities.

Conclusion
This paper presents yet one more way in which the present
activities of the world Baha’i community can be viewed. The
path along which the Baha’i community is journeying can be
conceptualized as the path from having one concept of God
to having another. Whereas previously the Potent God, the
Ruler, the Creator the Omnipotent was the central focus of
the conceptualization of God, this is not cast aside but has
become secondary and a consequence of the conceptualization
of the Loving and Attracting God, the Friend, the Beloved,
the celestial Beauty. God is not conceptualized as being in the
past as the initiator of chains of cause and effect that affect us
in our lives, but rather is in the future as the Good towards
which we are attracted and are moving. One obeys the laws of
God as a consequence of one’s love for God. This leads to new
ways of interacting between human beings: replacing power and
hierarchy with love and mutuality in relationships. It leads to new
models of governance not based on compulsion and fear but on
consultation, cooperation and collaboration.

The Potent God and the Attracting God
NOTES
Aristotle, Metaphysics (trans. W. D. Ross), Book 12, Part 7. (at http://classics.
mit.edu/Aristotle/metaphysics.html, accessed 31 March 2019)
Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book 12, Part 7.
Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book 12, Part 7.
Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book 12, Part 7.
Paul Humphrey, Metaphysics of Mind: Hylomorphism and Eternality in
Aristotle and Hegel. (Stony Brook: State University of New York, 2007), p. 71
Roland Faber, “The Manifestation of God in the View of Process Theology”,
Lights of `Irfán, vol. 20, 2019, pp. 7-54, esp. p. 15, I am grateful to Roland
Faber for drawing this whole area of thought to my attention.
Baha’u’llah, Kitab-i-Aqdas, vv. 78-79, p. 48.
Baha’u’llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, no. 27, p. 64.
The Bab, Selections from the Writings of the Bab, p. 212.
Baha’u’llah, Tablets of Baha’u’llah, p. 140.
Baha’u’llah, Kitab-i-Aqdas, v. 7, p. 21.
Moojan Momen, “`Abdu’l‑Baha’s Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I
Was a Hidden Treasure . . .’ A Provisional Translation),” Bulletin of Baha’i
Studies, vol. 3, no. 4 (Dec. 1985), pp. 4‑64
See for example, Mircea Eliade, Patterns in Comparitive Religion (London:
Sheen and Ward, 1958), pp. 388-98.
Baha’u’llah, Gleanings, no.1, pp. 4-5; no. 153, pp. 326-7; Baha’u’llah, Prayers
and Meditations, no. 176, p. 106
Baha’u’llah, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 89.
`Abdu’l-Baha, Baha’i World Faith, p. 446.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 162.
The Compilation of Compilations, vol. 2, p. 105.

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations)
and Its Recipient: Shams-i Jahán
Foad Seddigh
Abstract
One of the clearly visible characteristics of the Cause of God in the ear-
lier stages of its development was its acceptance by a large number of
eminent people from the ranks of the learned. Yet another character-
istic of the Faith was that several Qájár princes as well as some govern-
ment officials of higher ranks joined the Faith. However, acceptance
of the Faith by princesses was rare to the extent that we can cite at this
time only one who is recorded as having recognized the station of the
Báb and Bahá’u’lláh—Princess Sháms-i Jahán. She was a grand-daugh-
ter of Fátḥ-i-‘Alí Sháh and an aunt of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh. The Princess
became one of the believers of the Báb, met Ṭáhirih, later travelled
to Baghdád and met Bahá’u’lláh, recognized His station and became
one of His ardent adherents despite the fact that He had not disclosed
His station. Bahá’u’lláh conferred upon her the title of: Varaqatu’r
Riḍván (Leaf of Paradise). She was an accomplished poetess and her
book of poems is now available but has not been translated into Eng-
lish. She used “Fitnih” meaning test and tribulations as a pseudonym
in her poems. In this paper we will review her life story as recorded and
reflected in her poems. Bahá’u’lláh revealed a significant Tablet in her
honour, known as the “Tablet of Fitnih”. The Tablet revealed in Ara-
bic is about two to three pages in length. The salient features of this
Tablet are discussed in this paper which contains a warning concern-
ing the tribulations arising as a result of upcoming trials and pointing
clearly to the difficulties which lie ahead. The trials described in the
Tablet would be so pervasive that they would encompass everything,
disturbing people’s minds, renting asunder the heaven of knowledge
and causing the stars of knowledge in the heaven of the Cause to fall
down. A provisional English translation of the Tablet is provided by
the author of this paper and is placed at the end of the article.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Introduction
In the study of past religions and their history or their scriptures, we
come across the fact that many of the early believers during the devel-
opmental stages of these revelations were ordinary people. For example,
in the Qur’án we read:
“And when it is said unto them: believe as the people believe, they
say: Shall we believe as the foolish believe? Beware! They indeed are
the foolish? But they know not.” (Baqarih or Cow, 2:13)
Also:
“The chieftains of his folk, who disbelieved, said: We see thee but
a mortal like us, and we see not that any follow thee save the most
abject among us, without reflection. We behold in you no merit
above us—nay, we deem you liars.” (Húd, 11:27)
A cursory review of the Bible or examination of the lives of the dis-
ciples of Jesus Christ supports this statement.
On the other hand, when we study the history of the Bábi and Bahá’í
revelations we find that a large number of eminent individuals believed
in this Faith. Bahá’u’lláh, in the Kitáb-i Iqán, says:
“In this most resplendent Dispensation, however, this most mighty Sover-
eignty, a number of illumined divines, of men of consummate learning,
of doctors of mature wisdom, have attained unto His Court, drunk the
cup of His divine Presence, and been invested with the honour of His
most excellent favour. They have renounced, for the sake of the Beloved,
the world and all that is therein. We will mention the names of some
of them, that perchance it may strengthen the faint-hearted, …. Among
them was Mullá Ḥusayn, who became the recipient of the effulgent
glory of the Sun of divine Revelation. But for him, God would not have

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
been established upon the seat of His mercy, nor ascended the throne of
eternal glory. Among them also was Siyyid Yaḥyá, that unique and
peerless figure of his age, Mullá Muḥammad ‘Alíy-i-Zanjání; Mullá
Alíy-i-Bastamí…. and others, well nigh four hundred in number, whose
names are all inscribed upon the ‘Guarded Tablet’ of God …” (KI 223)
The early prominent followers of the Báb were not exclusively among
the learned; they included government officials, princes, other promi-
nent people and in particular one Qájár Princess by the name of Shams-
i Jahán. She was a unique person, a distinguished figure, a poetess and
possessed many other talents. We will present in this paper the story of
her life as gleamed through her poetry and from other sources. She was
the recipient of several Tablets from Bahá’u’lláh one of which is the
Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations), a translation of which is presented at
the end of the paper. We will also discuss this Tablet in further detail.

The Life History of Shams-i Jahán
The story of the noble life and spiritual exploits of this princess has
been pieced together from brief mention in different parts of the
historical events of the time. It is a story worthy of exploration. This
paper attempts to bring together her story from scattered sources and
present it briefly and as completely as may be possible at this time.
The author of Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq writes: “Amongst the most famous and
well respected Bábís who came to Baghdád on those days for a visit,
who discovered the station of Bahá’u’lláh and could not stop talk-
ing about it was a princess called Shams-i Jahán known as Ḥájjiyyih
Princess “Varaqatu’r Riḍván—Fitnih”, an aunt of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh
whom the Abhá Beauty commanded to return to Iran.” (Kitab-i
Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq, vol. iv, pp. 194-195) 1
At this time, we have no information regarding the life of the Prin-
cess until she became attracted to the Faith. In the life of princess
Shams-i Jahán, a few matters stand out that we will try to clarify;

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
these are: her connection and relationship to the ruling dynasty of
Qájár, her belief in the Báb, her connection to Ṭáhirih; her recogni-
tion of the station of Bahá’u’lláh, her connection with other believ-
ers, her final visit to Bahá’u’lláh in Adrianople, and her poetry.
1. Princess Shams-i Jahán and Qájár Family
Princess Shams-i Jahán was a grand-daughter of Fátḥ-i-‘Alí Sháh, the
second monarch in Qájár dynasty. Her father was Prince Muḥammad
Riḍá Mírzá, one of the sons of Fátḥ-i-‘Alí Sháh. He was the Gover-
nor of the northern province of Gílán for some time. For the detailed
Genealogy of the Princess, refer to the following site:
http://www.royalark.net
This web site contains information regarding dynasties of the rulers of
the world. Selecting Iran, and then Qájár from the link enables viewing
of her particulars in the following link:
http://www.royalark.net/Persia/qajar14.htm
It should be noted that Princess Shams-i Jahán had a cousin by the
same name. This Princess Shams-i Jahán never became a believer and
was not even close to the Faith. She was also a grand-daughter of Fátḥ-i-
‘Alí Sháh, but her father was Prince Muḥammad-‘Alí Mírzá; It is worth
mentioning that some scholars have confused the two cousin-prin-
cesses who share the name, Shams-i Jahán, with each other. They have
referred to the brothers of one and assumed they were the brothers of
the other Shams-i Jahán. The mother of the Shams-i Jahán of interest
to us is a lady from the district of Núr in the province of Mázindarán.

2. Princess Shams-i Jahán to Believe in the Báb
Princess Shams-i Jahán heard a true story about the Báb from her
tutor, Siyyid Muḥammad Gulpáyiganí. Siyyid Muḥammad was one
the followers of Ṭáhirih who was in Karbilá with her and returned to

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
Iran in her company. The year that Princess Shams-i Jahán started her
tutelage with Siyyid Muḥammad Gulpáyiganí is not reflected in her
poems; neither is the year when she joined the ranks of believers in the
Báb. So, we must reconstruct the story of her life from the information
available at present with timelines and time estimates based on the
description of various events as they appear in the history. She became
a believer around the time of the martyrdom of the Báb. By this time,
she was an accomplished person and most likely in her early twenties.

3. Princess Shams-i Jahán to Meet Ṭahirih
We know that Ṭáhirih was arrested shortly before the martyrdom of
the Báb and was put under house arrest in the house of Tihrán’s chief
of police, Maḥmúd Khán-i Kalántar. Two incidents connect Shams-i
Jahán with Ṭáhirih. The first one is described in detail in the Princess’
poems. We note that most of the Bábís were unaware of the where-
abouts of Ṭáhirih at this time. Most probably, Siyyid Muḥammad was
an exception due to his former association with Ṭáhirih. The follow-
ing story has been extracted from Shams-i Jahán’s poems:
“I was searching for the truth and Siyyid Malíh (Siyyid Muḥammad
Gulpáyiganí) guided me towards God. Mercy of God be upon him
as he showed me the way. He told me that in the house of Maḥmúd
Khán-i Kalántar someone is imprisoned who is preferable to any one’s
essence of life.” Of course, this person was no one else except Ṭáhirih.
In her poem, the Princess says she abandoned all thoughts concerning
her own safety and walked towards the house of Kalántar. In order
to meet Ṭáhirih, she resorted to different actions. She entered the gar-
den of the Kalántar with much apprehension and walked towards a
run-down building at the end of the garden and stood there drowning
herself in her own thoughts as she sought a way to contact Ṭáhirih.
Suddenly Ṭáhirih, from the upper room of the building where she
was imprisoned, opened a window and Shams-i Jahán saw her face
bright as the moon which had risen in the sky. She could not go near
her as there were no steps to the upper room where she was confined

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
and the access to the room was by a ladder which could not be located
around that place. Ṭáhirih asked her to come closer to the building.
The princess stepped forward and asked Ṭáhirih who she was; indi-
cating that she had attracted her and removed all her sanity and will
power. Shams-i Jahán asked some questions regarding the incidents in
Mázandirán referring to the upheavals of Shaykh Ṭabarsí and the Con-
ference of Badasht. Ṭáhirih informed her that what happened there
was due to the appearance of the Lord of the Age. Shams-i Jahán had
many questions, all of which were answered by Ṭáhirih to her com-
plete satisfaction. After a while some guards showed up and became
aware that the sun (Shams means the sun) and the moon were in one
place together (Sun is herself and she has referred to Ṭáhirih as the
moon). The guards asked her what she was doing there. We assume she
provided sufficiently satisfactory answers such that they decided to go
away so that she could continue her conversation with Ṭáhirih. After a
while Ṭáhirih asked her to leave Kalántar’s premises as it posed a great
danger to her life. She says that meeting Ṭáhirih as short as it was left
an unforgettable impression in her memory; something very profound
that she could never forget. She says that she had a lot to say but chose
to be brief. At this time, the Lord (The Báb) was in Chihríq. We also
note from other sources that Shams-i Jahán was also present in the
festivity on the occasion of the wedding of Kalántar’s son, a celebra-
tion which had been organized by Kalántar’s wife, in which we know
Ṭáhirih was also present. If there were other meetings with Ṭáhirih,
she has not mentioned it and she has made this part of the story short.

4. Princess Goes to Kalántar’s House after Martyrdom of Ṭáhirih
The massacre during the summer of 1852 due to the attempt on the
life of Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh as a result of which Bahá’u’lláh was impris-
oned in the Síyáh Chál (Black Pit) is well documented. One of the
victims of that incident was Ṭáhirih who was led to a garden outside
the city gates and was strangled. The following story has been nar-
rated by Nabíl Zarandí concerning Kalántar’s wife in relation to the
martyrdom of Ṭáhirih:

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
“One night, whilst Ṭáhirih was staying in my home, I was summoned
to her presence and found her fully adorned, dressed in a gown of snow-
white silk. Her room was redolent with the choicest perfume. I expressed
to her my surprise at so unusual a sight. ‘I am preparing to meet my
Beloved,’ she said, ‘and wish to free you from the cares and anxieties
of my imprisonment.’ I was much startled at first, and wept at the
thought of separation from her. ‘Weep not, she sought to reassure me.’
The time of your lamentation is not yet come. I wish to share with you
my last wishes, for the hour when I shall be arrested and condemned
to suffer martyrdom is fast approaching. I would request you to allow
your son to accompany me to the scene of my death and to ensure that
the guards and executioner into whose hands I shall be delivered will
not compel me to divest myself of this attire. It is also my wish that my
body be thrown into a pit, and that that pit be filled with earth and
stones. Three days after my death a woman will come and visit you, to
whom you will give this package which I now deliver into your hands”.
(The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 622-623)
The person who came and collected the package was no one other than
Shams-i Jahán (Muḥaḍirát, vol. I-II, p. 31-32).3 This shows that a strong
bond had been established between Ṭáhirih and Shams-i Jahán. She
stated that meeting Ṭáhirih changed her life and the meeting or meet-
ings with her had left profound and imperishable effects on her. Her
Faith was confirmed, and she decided to dedicate her entire life to the
promotion of the new Faith.
She complains about her brothers who made her life miserable due to
her acceptance of the new Faith and were most critical of her associa-
tion with the Bábís. However, one of her brothers by the name Háshim
Mírzá and known by the designation Jináb was supportive of her.
(Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq Vol. vi, p. 413) 4

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One

5. Princess Shams-i Jahán Travels to Baghdád and Back
During the immediate years following the martyrdom of Ṭáhirih, the
Princess had to be careful as the social and political climate continued
to put pressure on the Bábí community. It was a period fraught with
danger as any contacts with the Bábí community could be misrepre-
sented. However, she kept her contact with the leading figures of the
Bábí community for a few years and then decided to travel to Baghdád
to meet Mírzá Yaḥyá who was the “Nominal Head” of the Bábí com-
munity. An extract from her poems concerning this trip can be sum-
marized as follows:
“I had lost my mind and was driven by a great desire to go to Iraq in
order to meet the head of the Bábí Faith.” The Princess made arrange-
ments to travel to Baghdád. As she gradually drew nearer to the city,
her anticipation rose. Upon her arrival in Baghdád she sent a letter to
Mírzá Yaḥyá stating that she was sure that he knew the secrets of her
heart and she had come there to meet him. He wrote back stating that
he was not sure whether she was his enemy and even if she was a friend
her meeting with him would cause his enemies to become aware of his
whereabouts and they would come and harm him. Then she wrote
back to him and tried to convince him that she would take every pre-
caution to avoid compromising his safety. Then he sent a word to those
near him that they should force her to leave the city at once. When she
heard this order, she was greatly astonished, much upset and asked her-
self what kind of spiritual leader Mírzá Yaḥyá was who could not dis-
tinguish a friend from a foe. She regretted falling into what she refers
to as a trap. She had planted a seed of hope in her heart and watered it
with her eye’s stream. If it were a pure seed, it would have germinated,
and it would have grown to become a big tree by now. As she tried to
get closer to Mírzá Yaḥyá, gradually all her spiritual aspirations were
fading away.
One night she cried all night and asked God to have mercy upon her.
She believed in the new religion and through the face of Mírzá Yaḥyá

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
Azal had tried to find the Lord. Now she asked her Lord to assist her
and cure her spiritual sickness. She recalled that God had said that if
a servant would take one step towards Him, He would take ten steps
towards such a person. During that night she did not sleep and asked
God for enlightenment. Then she had a few questions and thought
while she was in Baghdád it would be useful to approach Jináb-i-Bahá.
Therefore, she put down on a piece of paper the questions for which
she sought an answer. She was up all night until it became near sunrise.
Suddenly, she heard a knock on the door. She responded and found
Áqá Ján, Khádimu’-lláh, standing by the door. He said to her that
Jináb-i Bahá sent him to tell her that He knew she had become disap-
pointed with Mírzá Yaḥyá and lost all hope; whatever communion she
had with God He heard them all. Whatever she had written down to
ask Him, He knew them all. Áqá Ján told her she should come along to
meet Him and there was no need to bring her questions. Bahá’u’lláh
would provide the answer to all her questions. She went and met
Bahá’u’lláh. She was astounded and bewildered. He provided all the
answers before she asked any questions. She thought to herself—If He
was not the Lord then how would He know the secrets of her heart?
Then she asked God for forgiveness. Jináb-i Bahá told her that she
should not discuss her experience with others. After a six month stay
in Baghdád, Bahá’u’lláh asked her to leave Baghdád for Iran. She was
so overwhelmed that she was not able to describe her feelings when she
was saying goodbye.
Concerning this period, the Guardian has written:
“At the same time an influx of Persian Bábís, whose sole object was to
attain the presence of Bahá’u’lláh, swelled the stream of visitors that
poured through His hospitable doors. Carrying back, on their return to
their native country, innumerable testimonies, both oral and written,
to His steadily rising power and glory … a grand-daughter of Fátḥ-
i-‘Alí Sháh and fervent admirer of Ṭáhirih, surnamed Varaqatu’r
Riḍván …. all these were numbered among the visitors and fellow-
disciples who crossed His threshold, …” (GPB 130)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
A brief clarification is needed here. “Varaqah” is an Arabic word mean-
ing leaf. In the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh it is typically a reference to
female believers. The title of “Varaqatu’r Riḍván” means Leaf of Para-
dise. This title was also given to the second sister of Mullá Ḥusayn of
Bushrúyih. Mullá Ḥusayn’s first sister was given the title of Varaqatu’l-
Firdus which also means Leaf of Paradise.
Through her poems, Princess Shams-i Jahán continues the rest of
her story:
On her way back to Ṭihrán from Baghdád, she met some believers in
Karand, a small border town in Iran. In Kirmánsháhán (Kirmánsháh),
she met Hájí Siyyid Muḥammad Iṣfáhání (who encouraged and mis-
led Mírzá Yaḥyá Azal in his machinations against Bahá’u’lláh) whose
character did not please her. She stated that there was no point con-
versing with someone whose talk would not illumine one’s heart. She
called him the embodiment of Satan and Dajjál. As she continued her
journey, in Hamadán, a town in the western region of Iran, she met
with the Bábís. Traveling further, she mentioned that in Naráq she met
Kamál’ud-Dín Naráqí, the recipient of the Tablet of “All Foods”. She
also says that she was impressed by the believers in Jásb before reaching
Káshán where she stayed for three months. She mentioned an indi-
vidual by the name of Ibráhím who had written poems in the praise of
Jináb-i Bahá; it seems that Ibráhím-i Káshání must have left quite an
impression on her. Then she started the last leg of her journey towards
Ṭihrán. In her poem, she expressed a feeling she had as she approached
Ṭihrán—specifically she said it was as though she was entering a prison
of her own volition. She then writes about her loneliness in Ṭihrán.
She was unable to find a single person she could share the secrets of
her heart with. Occasionally she received a Tablet from Baghdád that
would give her new life and spiritual vigour.
Six years elapsed after her return from Baghdád. Her mind was preoc-
cupied with a desire to go back to Baghdád in order to meet the best
Beloved of her heart once again. After some time, she received news

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
that Jináb-i Bahá and the company of friends were exiled to Istanbul.
Shortly after the news of the departure of the Friends from Baghdad,
Nabíl-i A‘ẓam (Mullá Muḥammad-i Zarandí) arrived in Ṭihrán with
the New Message. She has specifically referred to her brothers’ opposi-
tion and efforts to sever her connection with the Bábí community—a
situation which made her feel miserable. As a result, she secluded her-
self and talked to no one except friendship which she established with
the daughter of Siyyid Muḥammad Gulpáyiganí. After some time,
she became determined to travel to Adrianople and finally the permis-
sion to go for a visit to Adrianople arrived. She had inherited a garden
which she sold and used the proceeds to hire a believer to accompany
and assist her on this trip.
As she made plans to leave Ṭihrán, winter arrived, and she was cogni-
zant of the fact that it was not a good time to travel. However, her heart
overrode her concerns, pressing her to ignore the hardship of winter
travel. The fire of longing for the visit motivated her to disregard the
dangers and difficulties of travel in winter-time. Finally, she left Ṭihrán
and traveled northward arriving in Qazvín. She has described the
believers in that city as being polished and radiant like a mirror. She
spent a few days there and then traveled to Zanján. She lauds praises on
the believers in that city and particularly Siyyid Ashraf who became
a famous martyr a few years later. At Zanján, she heard that a group
of believers had left for pilgrimage and she tried to catch up to them,
but she was unsuccessful. She continued her journey and arrived near
the border by the river Aras (Araxes). She mentions that she could see
the castle of Chihríq which may be a mistake—the castle of Máh-Kú
is near the border river of Aras. From there she traveled to Nakhjaván
and then to Yerevan, the Capital of Armenia. She said that she found
the environment very interesting as she heard the sound of church
bells and the call to prayers from mosques.
From Yerevan she traveled to Georgia reaching Tbilisi and from there
traveled westward where she reached the shores of the Back Sea. From
there she boarded a ship and traveled by sea, with the boat sailing close

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
to shore during this journey. After visiting the port city of Batumi in
Georgia and then Trabzon (Trebizond) she reached the sea-port of Sam-
sun where she remembered the sea-travel of her Lord from that place
towards Istanbul. Eventually she arrived in Istanbul. In her poetry,
she says that she had not done anything worthwhile for the Faith in
her life and expresses a wish to give her life away as a martyr. She says
that a mirror is made of stone, which over the years, combined with
persistence would become a mirror – in other words something worth-
less becomes of value. She states that she does not see herself being less
than a stone and expresses the desire to become a mirror. Now that she
reached a city in the vicinity of her Lord, she says that she was ready to
sacrifice whatever she had, even should she be given a hundred lives in
order to attain to the presence of Bahá’u’lláh. Her poetry describing
her thoughts and feelings at this time, projects strong emotions.
Immediately after arriving in Istanbul, she went to Khán-i Muṣṭafá
Páshá hostel and there she saw a person by the name Muṣṭafá (most
probably Muṣṭafá Naráqí). As soon as she saw his face, she recognized
him. Then he came close to her and asked her name and she asked
the name of a small boy with him. She inquired regarding the where-
abouts of other pilgrims and Muṣṭafá took her to them. There were
nine in all – nine pure souls who she referred to as angels. After five
days finally permission to travel to Adrianople arrived for the pilgrims.
She refers to their departure as having taken her life along with them.
She remained back in Istanbul, awaiting the arrival of her permission
to travel to Adrianople. While she waited, she saw Sayyáḥ and then
Mishkín Qalam and then several other Friends who lived in Istanbul at
the time. She waited for sixteen days, after which a message arrived that
she had to go to Mecca for pilgrimage first, after which she was given
permission to proceed to Adrianople.
She boarded a boat once more and traveled to the sea-port of Gallipoli.
She knew that the point of adoration was the place where her Lord
was and not the place she was travelling towards. She tried to find an
answer for herself why she needed to go to a previous point of adoration

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
which was obsolete. She could not find an answer and was unable to
understand its wisdom but obeyed it without slightest hesitation as her
beloved Lord had instructed her to do. In her poetry about this travel,
she made a reference to her age at this point which was forty years. This
puts the year of her birth around the year 1825. She says she boarded
the boat and sailed via Egypt to the port of Jidda. While she passed the
vicinity of Sinai, she remembered Moses and Bahá’u’lláh as the speaker
on the Mount. To shorten the narrative, we have eliminated the details
of this section of the journey until she reached Mecca. She arrived safe
in Mecca in the year 1865 and performed the pilgrimage. Reviewing
the records, in 1865 we observe that the pilgrimage of Muslims fell
in the month of May which supports the argument that the time was
towards the end of spring. After performing her pilgrimage according
to Muslim rites, she followed her journey in reverse, attaining the pres-
ence of Bahá’u’lláh in Adrianople. After her pilgrimage, she traveled
back to Iran, retracing her initial trip to Istanbul, arriving in Tabriz.
In Tabriz, her sorrows, excitement of pilgrimage and exhilaration
caused her to fall sick and pass away at the early age of nearly forty.
Some individuals have mentioned that she was poisoned. Her grave is
in Tabriz. (Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq, Vol. xi, p. 413)
From her poems it is evident that she is well versed in the teachings of
the Bayán and the expected Promised One of the Bayán: “He Whom
God shall make manifest”. An attempt is now made to translate a few
different lines of her poems as a sample:
I have made so much stirring in the world,
By which the people of the Bayán would spill my blood.
And
Should he appear in the year Mustaghath, you and me,
Where will be except at the bottom of a grave?
And

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
O Fitnih, break thy pen and cut short the argument,
It is not befitting to disclose the mysteries.
And
The Parsi speaking beloved hath come,
He appeared with a tongue full of utterances.

6. Princess Shams-i Jahán’s Poems;
Tablets Revealed in Her Honour
The Princess was endowed with great love for Bahá’u’lláh and she was
very much devoted to the Cause of God. Despite her royal heritage,
she maintained contact with prominent Bahá’ís. She composed the
story of her life in form of a Mathnavi which not only projects histori-
cal events but also reveals her deep understanding of the tenets of her
beliefs in the Day of God. Her poems demonstrate a clear understand-
ing of the station of Bahá’u’lláh. One can examine these poems in
form of Mathnavi in:
•
“Tadhkirih-i Shu‘aráyi Qarn-i Avval-i Bahá’í, volume III
•
Some parts of her poems may be found in Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq, vol-
ume iv, pp. 195-198.
•
A selection of her poems also appears in Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq Vol.
vi, pp. 415-446.
Apart from poems in form of Mathnavi, she has written poems in
the form of ghazal. One of the believers that she was in contact with
regarding her poems was Nabíl Zarandí.
While this paper focuses on the Tablet of Fitnih (Tests and Tribula-
tions), Bahá’u’lláh revealed several other Tablets in her honour. A few
lines from the start of some of these Tablets are provisionally translated
by the author of this paper and presented below:
"He is the Life-Giving Spirit wafting over lifeless-bodies

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
No letters from thee have arrived here lately; However, a letter is being
sent to thee. Indeed thou art always remembered without requiring a
reminder …” (Asrar’ul—Athar vol. iv, pp. 437-439) 6 (Provisional
translation by F.S.)
Again
“In the Name of the Merciful God
O Shams! Hearken thou with the ear of spirit the warbling of the
Nightingale of love. Haply that thou mayest be enabled to take a step
away from the realm of self and passion …” (Asrar’ul—Athar vol. iv,
pp. 437-439) 6 (Provisional translation by F.S.)
And
“He is the Almighty, the Self-Subsisting
This is a Revelation uttering the truth which instilleth in hearts the
hidden secrets of God, the All-Encompassing, the Almighty, the Most-
Powerful. Within it the spirit calleth aloud by a Word which no ears
have ever heard …. Verily, the Concealed Book hath been manifested
in this Ancient Temple. Say, O peoples of the world! Tribulations will
come to you from every direction …” (Asrar’ul—Athar vol. iv, pp. 437-
439) 6 (Provisional translation by F.S.)


Tablet of Fitnih (Test and Tribulations)
Recipient: The Tablet of Fitnih was addressed to Princess Shams-i
Jahán who used Fitnih (Test and Tribulations) as her sobriquet in her
poetry. It is plausible to think that there is a relationship between her
pen name and the theme of the Tablet. It is also possible to consider
that the Tablet with such a theme would have been revealed in her hon-
our regardless of any connection with her pen-name.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Time and Place of Its Revelation: We have no definite information
regarding the time and place where the Tablet was revealed. From the
tone of the Tablet, its theme is consistent with the major theme of
the Revelation extending from the final years of Iraq to early years in
Adrianople. Ishráq Khávari believes that it was revealed in Baghdád
after Bahá’u’lláh’s return from Kurdistan. (Ganj-i Sháyegán, p. 36)7 Fázil
Mázandarání believes that it was revealed in Adrianople (Asrar’ul—
Athár, vol. iv, p. 438). Táherzádeh says: “The Lawh-i-Fitnih (Tablet of
the Test) is another of Bahá’u’lláh’s Arabic Tablets revealed in Bagh-
dad …. Some Bahá’í scholars have stated that this Tablet was revealed
in Adrianople; they may well be right” (The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,
vol. I., p. 128)
Language: The Tablet is revealed in its entirety in Arabic.
Length: The length of the Tablet is about three pages
Copies of the Tablet: The Tablet was published in Má’idiy-i-Asmání,
vol. p. 1429 and also in INBA vol. 81 p. 80.10
Translation into English: The author is not aware of any official
(authorized) or provisional translations of this Tablet available at pres-
ent. The author of this paper has made a provisional translation of the
Tablet which has been presented at the end of this paper.
Theme: The single and overarching theme of the Tablet is tests, tribu-
lations and difficulties. The Tablet is generally understood to refer to
tests in general when we choose one option among several choices. It
also discusses specific tests that people are faced with when Manifesta-
tions of God appear. To be more specific, Bahá’u’lláh refers to the tests
that the people of the Bayán would face at the time of His open and
universal declaration regarding His claim to be the Promised One of
the Bayán foretold by the Báb: “He Whom God shall make manifest”.

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
Summary of the Tablet: The following key points are raised in
the Tablet:
•
A specific test will surely come
•
It will separate the people from each other
•
Reference to “Mustagháth”
•
It will encompass the entire creationw
•
It will make pure souls thunderstruck
•
Heavens of knowledge and learning will be cleft asunder
•
The throne of glory will be shaken
•
The concourse of the Spirit in the eternal sanctity will be sore
perplexed
•
Resplendent suns will be darkened
•
Moons will fall down
•
Every noble man will be tested
•
Holy fire will be quenched
•
Water of truth will solidify
•
“They who recognized the Splendour of Sinai will faint away”
•
The entire earth will be disturbed
•
Separation will occur the same as in the past cycles
•
This is a mystery
•
They will not be able to scrutinize its source
•
“The inner eyes of the Unseen will be dazzled”
•
“The steps of them who have known God will slip”
•
“Soon all servants will be tested and thrown into the fire”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
•
“The Holy Spirit will be disturbed during such time”
•
“The mystery within the mystery will tremble, so will the lofty
Láhút, and then the angels around the Seat of God will be
frightened. ”
•
“By God, all will be tested–the heavens, earth, stars, moons …”
•
“The steps of them who have known God will slip”
•
“Soon all servants will be tested and thrown into the fire”
Background Information: The theme of Tests appears frequently
in several Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh during the period between the years
1860 to 1868. He talks about the appearance of the Calf (false God)
and Birds of Night (Bats who cannot withstand the Sun of Reality;
therefore, they appear when darkness surrounds us and when the sun
no longer shines). The Calf reminds us of a specific occurrence during
the time of Moses. Bahá’u’lláh was definitely aware of the mischief of
the insincere individuals and their onslaught. Maybe He was trying to
forewarn the Bábí community of the repetition of the same events; this
time through the rebellion of Mírzá Yaḥyá and those around him who
were his supporters—for further details, refer to the article by Foad
Seddigh.( Lights of Irfan, vol. 15, pp. 355-402) 11

Clarification of Specific References
General Comments: As mentioned earlier, the central theme of the
Tablet of Fitnih is tests, tribulations and difficulties which will appear
at an unspecified time in the future. The Tablet emphasizes various
aspects and characteristics of these tribulations. Below, we discuss a
few concepts and terminologies which could be of assistance for better
understanding of the Tablet. These are briefly stated below:
“Káf and nún”: These terms appear in the following passage from the
Tablet: “And it will be a trial such as to make a distinction between káf

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
and nún.” In the Writings, we come across the combination of these
two words. In fact, káf and nún are not words but rather, phonetic
scribing of two letters of alphabet in Arabic and Persian very similar to
“k” and “n” in English. When káf and nún join together, they become
the command word “Kun” meaning “to be” or “to come to existence”.
This is the command of God for the world of existence to come into
being and therefore it symbolizes Divine action in creation. Noting
that creation is also ancient and has no beginning in time, therefore,
it may refer to the appearance of the Manifestation of God and a new
creation in the spiritual realm. The above phrase which states that
between two letters separation will take place and they will be pushed
apart might mean that the authority of the manifestation of God who
is the representative of God in the realm of creation will be challenged.
The Passage: “... till such time as He will appear once more in the
wondrous days promised in the manifestation of His unseen Essence.”
In this line, it seems that Bahá’u’lláh refers to His own declaration yet
to come. Bahá’u’lláh did not universally and publicly call Himself the
Promised One of the Bayán until sometime in Adrianople, though
some believers knew very well that He was the Promised One of the
Bayán: “Him whom God shall make manifest.” For example, when
Mullá Muḥammad-Riḍá-i—Muḥammad—Ábádí read the Ode of
the Dove (Qasidih-i Izz-i Varqá’íyyih) he said the author of this Ode
is the Promised One of the Bayán (This was around the year 1858). A
similar statement was made around the same time by Mullá Aḥmad
Azghandí, one of the prominent believers of the Báb. A more subdued
declaration took place in the garden of Riḍván according to the state-
ment of the Guardian:
“Of the exact circumstances attending that epoch-making Declaration
we, alas, are but scantily informed. The words Bahá’u’lláh actually
uttered on that occasion, the manner of His Declaration, the reaction
it produced, its impact on Mírzá Yaḥyá, the identity of those who were
privileged to hear Him, are shrouded in an obscurity which future his-
torians will find it difficult to penetrate.” (GPB 152)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
The open and universal declaration of Bahá’u’lláh’s claim was made
around the second year after His arrival in Adrianople when He
revealed Surih-i Amr and asked Mírzá Áqá Ján to read it to Mírzá
Yaḥyá Azal and to request an answer from him. About one year after
the revelation of this important Tablet, the “Most Great Separation”
occurred the date of which is generally taken as 10 March 1866.12
Believers faced the dilemma of choosing between Bahá’u’lláh or Mírzá
Yaḥyá Azal. In this regard, the Guardian has written the following:
“This supreme crisis Bahá’u’lláh Himself designated as the Ayyám-i-
Shidád (Days of Stress), during which “the most grievous veil” was torn
asunder, and the “most great separation” was irrevocably effected. It
immensely gratified and emboldened its external enemies, both civil
and ecclesiastical, played into their hands, and evoked their uncon-
cealed derision. It perplexed and confused the friends and supporters of
Bahá’u’lláh, and seriously damaged the prestige of the Faith in the eyes
of its western admirers.” (GBP 163)
Since at this time we do not have a clear evidence regarding the time
of the revelation of this Tablet, this passage may indicate that the Tab-
let was in fact revealed in Baghdád when Princess Shams-i Jahán was
visiting there and the passage might refer to the Declaration at the
Garden of Riḍván.
The Nature of Trial: “Say, this is a trial through which the thrones
of glory will be shaken, the inhabitants of the exalted Tabernacle over-
turned, and the concourse of the Spirit in the eternal sanctity will be sore
perplexed.” Bahá’u’lláh delayed the universal declaration of His mission
for nearly fifteen years. One of the reasons for the delay could possibly be
the fact that the general population of the Bábí community particularly
its leaders at the time were not ready yet for such an announcement. In
particular the jealousy and monstrous behavior of Mírzá Yaḥyá was a
great concern to Bahá’u’lláh, as the Guardian has written:

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
“… the monstrous behavior of Mírzá Yaḥyá,” which “brought in its
wake a period of travail which left its mark on the fortunes of the
Faith for no less than half a century. . . . It had been brewing ever since
the early days of Bahá’u’lláh ‘s sojourn in Baghdad, was temporarily
suppressed by the creative forces which, under His as yet unproclaimed
leadership, reanimated a disintegrating community, and finally
broke out, in all its violence, in the years immediately preceding the
proclamation of His Message.” (GPB 163)
Therefore, Bahá’u’lláh chose to nurture those who showed some
capacity. As soon as He left Baghdád, He sent such teachers as Nabíl-
i A‘ẓam (Mullá Muḥammad-i Zarandí), Ismu’lláhu’l-Muníb and
Aḥmad Yazdí to Iran to inform the people of the Bayán, with utmost
wisdom, of the news of the appearance of “He Whom God shall make
manifest” with specific instructions to avoid arguments with trouble
makers and to disclose His station only to those who showed spiri-
tual capacity. The main concern of Bahá’u’lláh at this phase of the
announcement of His station was to maintain the unity and integrity
in the Bábí community until such time when a large number of believ-
ers had already accepted His message and then making a public and
universal declaration. Ultimately, a significant majority of the Bábí
community accepted His station as the Promised One of the Bayán.
However, Mírzá Yaḥyá Azal and some learned in the Bayán remained
defiant and stood up in revolt. Mírzá Yaḥyá’s machinations caused the
greatest sufferings and damage to Faith which were far greater than
the martyrdom of the Báb as has been described by the Gurdian. It
seems that the above passage refers to such challenges.
The year of Mustagháth: Mustagháth is an Arabic word; more spe-
cifically it is one of the names and attributes of God that means: “He
Whose aid is invoked by all men.” The reference to Mustagháth has
also appeared in the Bayán that became a stumbling block and test for
some Bábís in the years following the martyrdom of the Báb. At times
it has appeared as: “The year of Mustagháth” in the Bayán referring to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
the time of the appearance of the Promised One of the Bayán. Some
individuals and particularly those who followed Mírzá Yaḥyá Azal
argued that the numerical value of “Mustagháth”, on the basis of
Abjad system of numerology, was 2001 and therefore they promoted
the idea that the Promised One should appear in the year 2001 after
the appearance of the Báb. They clung to this argument while disre-
garded other references to the time of the appearance of the Promised
One which indicated that it would be imminent such as the Year Nine
or Nineteen. Even the Báb promised to one of the Letters of the Living
that he would live long enough to see the Promised One during his
life—time. Furthermore, it should be noted that the Báb did not state
that the promised one would appear in the year of Mustagháth, rather
the year of His coming would not exceed the year of Mustagháth. Even
if it would be interpreted that way, it is only an upper limit and would
not contradict His appearance in the Year Nine, Nineteen, etc. The
Báb also made it clear that the time of the appearance of the Promised
One of the Bayán was entirely in the hands of God. The following
quote from the Bayan should suffice (Váhid six, chapter 3; VI:3):
“Concerning the appearance of Him Whom God shall manifest, God
knoweth in what limit of years He will manifest Him; but His advent
is to be expected from the beginning of the Revelation until the number
of Váhid (19) for in each year the announcement of the Faith may occur
at any moment.” (Provisional Translation by FS)
The following explanation in the Dawn-Breakers sheds more light on
the subject:
“He (the Bab) bestowed on him the name Dayyán and revealed in his
honour the Lawḥ-i-Hurúfat (literally means letters) in which He made
the following statement: “Had the Point of the Bayán no other testi-
mony with which to establish His truth, this were sufficient—that He
revealed a Tablet such as this, a Tablet such as no amount of learning
could produce.”

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
The people of the Bayán, who utterly misconceived the purpose underly-
ing that Tablet, thought it to be a mere exposition of the science of Jafr.
When, at a later time, in the early years of Bahá’u’lláh’s incarceration
in the prison city of Akká, Jináb-i-Muballigh made, from Shíráz, his
request that He unravel the mysteries of that Tablet, there was revealed
from His pen an explanation which they who misconceived the words of
the Báb might do well to ponder. Bahá’u’lláh adduced from the state-
ments of the Báb irrefutable evidence proving that the appearance of
the Man-Yuzhiruhu’llah must needs occur no less than nineteen years
after the Declaration of the Báb. The mystery of the Mustagháth had
long baffled the most searching minds among the people of the Bayán
and had proved an unsurmountable obstacle to their recognition of the
promised One. The Báb had Himself in that Tablet unravelled that
mystery; no one, however, was able to understand the explanation
which He had given. It was left to Bahá’u’lláh to unveil it to the eyes of
all men.” (The Dawn-Breakers p. 304, Chap 17)
For further reading on this subject refer to the endnote number 13.
Now, that we have considered briefly the background information
regarding the “The year of Mustagháth”, we may examine the state-
ment of Bahá’u’lláh in the above passage in which He refers to such
combination of words. Firstly, by mentioning “Mustagháth” in this
Tablet, we could possibly conclude that He wanted to connect refer-
ence to Mustagháth with the coming of test and tribulations. Secondly,
we may infer that He is trying to disassociate it from the notion of
being a reference to a specific year and to emphasise another mean-
ing for it—a meaning which interprets the term as the year that God
would respond to those who asked for assistance. This could refer to
the open and universal declaration of Bahá’u’lláh in Adrianople—a
time when Bahá’u’lláh came to the assistance of the Bábí Community
who had suffered at the hands of some of its learned and those who
supported Mírzá Yaḥyá Azal.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Tear asunder mysteries: “Say, this is such a trial that would dismay
people, astound minds, tear mysteries asunder, and then would make
pure souls to be thunderstruck.” The Báb has made extensive use of the
word “mystery” in His Writings. It seems finally, after the public declara-
tion Bahá’u’lláh’s claim, the mystery spoken by the Báb would become
known to the people of the Bayán and they will be thunderstruck.
Falling the sun, moon and stars: “Say, this is a trial from which
resplendent suns will be darkened, the moons of the realm above will
fall down, and then the stars of knowledge in the heavens of the decree
of God will fall.” Darkening of the sun and falling of the moon and
stars of knowledge have particular meanings. Their physical occur-
rence cannot be entertained as such interpretation is not consonant
with physical observation and rational thought. Bahá’u’lláh has inter-
preted a variety of meanings for such references. For example, the sun,
moon and stars may be taken as the learned that lose their position of
authority when a new manifestation of God appears. In this way, for
example, such learned leaders of religion are like a sun which darkens.
Bahá’u’lláh says:
“And now, concerning His words — “The sun shall be darkened, and the
moon shall not give light, and the stars shall fall from heaven.” By the
terms “sun” and “moon,” mentioned in the writings of the Prophets of
God, is not meant solely the sun and moon of the visible universe. Nay
rather, manifold are the meanings they have intended for these terms. In
every instance they have attached to them a particular significance. …. In
another sense, by these terms is intended the divines of the former Dispen-
sation, who live in the days of the subsequent Revelations, and who hold
the reins of religion in their grasp. If these divines be illumined by the
light of the latter Revelation, they will be acceptable unto God, and will
shine with a light everlasting. Otherwise, they will be declared as dark-
ened, even though to outward seeming they be leaders of men, inasmuch
as belief and unbelief, guidance and error, felicity and misery, light
and darkness, are all dependent upon the sanction of Him Who is the
Day-star of Truth. Whosoever among the divines of every age receiveth,

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
in the Day of Reckoning, the testimony of faith from the Source of true
knowledge, he verily becometh the recipient of learning, of divine favour,
and of the light of true understanding. Otherwise, he is branded as guilty
of folly, denial, blasphemy, and oppression.” (KI 32-37)
Every noble man will be tested: “This is a trial by which every noble
man will be tested, followed by all pure servants of God, the angels
who are nigh unto God, and then the dwellers of the Supreme Con-
course.” In this passage Bahá’u’lláh declares that devoted believers are
not spared from tests. The term angels refer to pure souls and devoted
servants of God, neither of which are exempt from tests.
Láhút: “By God, the Holy Spirit will be disturbed during such time,
the light of fellowship will be dimmed, the mystery within the mystery
will tremble, so will the lofty Láhút, and then the angels around the
Seat of God will be frightened.” Láhút is one of the worlds of God.
Before we discuss its meaning and significance, we should emphasize
that the worlds of God are infinite. Bahá’u’lláh says: “As to thy ques-
tion concerning the worlds of God. Know thou of a truth that the
worlds of God are countless in their number, and infinite in their range.
None can reckon or comprehend them except God, the All-Knowing,
the All-Wise.” (GWB 151) and (TB 187)
In the Seven Valleys, Bahá’u’lláh acknowledges that the worlds of God
are infinite. However, He is explicitly reciting how some refer to them
and He names a few of them:
“Infer, then, from this the differences among the worlds. Though the
worlds of God be infinite, yet some refer to them as four: the world of
time, which hath both a beginning and an end; the world of duration,
which hath a beginning but whose end is not apparent; the world of pri-
mordial reality, whose beginning is not to be seen but which is known to
have an end; and the world of eternity, of which neither the beginning
nor the end is visible. Although there are many differing statements
as to these points, to recount them in detail would result in weariness.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Thus, some have said that the world of primordial reality hath neither
beginning nor end, and have equated the world of eternity with the
invisible, inaccessible, and unknowable Essence. Others have called
these the worlds of the Heavenly Court, of the Celestial Dominion, of
the Divine Kingdom, and of Mortal Existence.” (Call of the Divine
Beloved – Seven Valleys, pp. 34-35)14
Bahá’u’lláh specifically in the Tablet of “All Foods” has made refer-
ences to five worlds which are: Násút, Malakút, Jabarút, Láhút and
Háhút. Further details are presented in the endnotes.15
Moon and stars will be tested: “By God, all will be tested–the heav-
ens, earth, stars, moons…” It is obvious that earth, stars and moon
belong to the material realm and cannot exercise choices in their
existence. As a result, tests have no meaning for them. This is simi-
lar to the Qur’ánic verse: “The sun and the moon are made to give
account.”(Ar’rahman 55:5). Because, the sun and moon cannot give
account at the “Time of the End” like humans would, it appears that
there must be another meaning for the above statements. Should we
refer to the explanation of Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i Iqán, we would
readily understand that they refer to the special people in the firma-
ment of the Bayán. At a specific time, such individuals are tested. We
refer the reader to the explanation regarding falling of sun, moon and
stars which was given earlier.
Luqmán admonished his son: “O my son! Verily, God will bring
everything to light, though it were but the weight of a grain of mus-
tard-seed, and hidden in a rock or in the heavens or in the earth; for
God is the Subtle, informed of all.”
Luqmán is a wise man or a
sage known for his wisdom with many words of wisdom attributed to
him. In the Qur’án there is a surih by this name. The above verse from
the Qur’án quoted in the Tablet is in this surih; Luqmán: 31:16. It
simply points to the insight and power of God.

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
Friend: “… and this is the mystery of that which had been revealed to
the First Friend from the realm of the revelation of God, the Exalted,
the All-Knowing, the All-Known.” Friend or “Friend of God” in the
first instance is the title of Prophet Muḥammad. According to Islamic
sources, this title was given to Him by God on the night He ascended
to Heaven in order to reach the presence of God. On the other hand,
Bahá’u’lláh has called the Báb “My Beloved”. The words “Lover” and
“Beloved” or “Ḥabíb and Maḥbúb” have been used by Bahá’u’lláh and
the Báb to refer to each other; However, in the case of the Báb’s refer-
ence to the object of His “love” is in the form of allusions only.
Time of Severe Tests or “Ayyám-i Shidád”: This refers to a time
which started with the uprising and the open revolt of Mírzá Yaḥyá in
Adrianople and the rejection by some eminent Bábís of the claims of
Bahá’u’lláh. It continued until His passing and in the early years of the
activities of the Covenant-Breakers after the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh.
Refer to the explanation given for one of the passages given above. It
has been mentioned in the Tablet that it might not have any end.
Most Great Announcement: “Verily, should I mention this Most
Great Announcement, its strong trials and tests from this time until
eternity, by God, its mention could not be exhausted and its descrip-
tion could not be completed, even if thousands of oceans of ink were
utilised for its writing.” The “Most Great Announcement” is a proph-
ecy in the Qur’án. It appears in surih An’Naba 78:2. All Islamic schol-
ars missed its significance and interpreted it in a way other than its true
meaning. Both the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh have referred to themselves as
the “Most Great Announcement.”
His Concern: “I swear by God and by Him who hath manifested
this Ancient Beauty in His Essence for His Essence and through
His Essence! Shouldst He remove the veils which cover that which is
hidden from the eyes of all men, the supports of the Throne of God
would tremble, those who carry the Throne would become disturbed,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
and their beings would become disintegrated.” “This Ancient Beauty”
is no other person than Bahá’u’lláh Himself. This passage seems to
support what was said before that His universal and open declaration
would cause the supports of the religion of God in the Bábí community
to tremble and bring about a much feared revolt and disturbance and
would cause the Bábí community to disintegrate. Through His timely
announcement of His station, He was able to safeguard the unity of
the Bábí community and guide the ark of God to safety, protecting it
from the gale-storms engulfing it.

Conclusion and Acknowledgements
The author of this paper wishes to acknowledge the assistance of Nabil
Seddigh in preparation of the paper.

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
NOTES
Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq, vol. iv, written by Asadu’lláh Fáḍil Mázandarání, edited by
Moojan Momen, published by Baha’i Verlag, Germany-Hofheim, 168 BE,
2011.
The Dawn-Breakers, Nabil’s Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í
Revelation, Translated and Edited by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Illinois, 1970.
Muḥaḍirát, vol. I-II, written by ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd Ishraq Khavari, published
(reprinted) by Baha’i Verlag, Germany-Hofheim, 150 BE, 1994.
Ẓuhúru’l-Ḥaqq Vol. vi, written by Asadu’lláh Fáḍil Mázandarání – personal
copy and also available in digital print in the following web site: https://
www.h-net.org/~bahai/arabic/vol3/tzh6/tzh6.htm
Tadhkirih-i Shu‘arayi Qarn-i Avval-i Bahá’í, volume III, complied by Dkukayi
Bayḍay-i
Asráru’l Áthár vol. iv, written by Asadu’lláh Fáḍil Mázandarání, published by
Mu’assisih Milli Matbu’t Amri, Ṭihrán, 129 BE
Ganj-i Sháyegán, written by ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd Ishraq Khavari, published by
Mu’assisih Milli Matbu’t Amri, Ṭihrán,124 Badi
The Revelation of Baha’u’llah vol. I, Adib Taherzadeh, George Ronald
Publisher, Oxford, 1974.
Má’idiy-i-Asmání, vol. 4, written by ‘Abdu’l-Ḥamíd Ishraq Khavari, published
by Mu’assisih Milli Matbu’t Amri, Ṭihrán, 124 Badi
Iranian Bahá’í National Archives (INBA) vol. 81, p. 80.
Tablet of Patience: Declaration of Baha’u’llah and Selected Topics by Foad
Seddigh in: Lights of Irfan, vol. 15, pp. 355-402.
La’álí-i Maknúnih (Sharḥ-i-Lawḥ-i-Mubárak-i Aḥmad-i-Fársí) (Hidden Pearl-
A Commentary on the Persian Tablet of Ahmad) Written by Foad Seddigh,
published by Mir’at, New Delhi, 2017—Refer to pp. 319-321.
Refer to pages 187 to 191, in particular page 191 in:

Logos and Civilization: Spirit, History, and Order in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, written by Dr. Nader Saiedi, Bethesda: University Press of
Maryland, 2000.

Also refer to pages 601 to 605 in:

Making the Crooked Straight, written by Udo Schaefer, Nicola Towfigh, and
Ulrich Gollmer, published by George Ronald Publisher, 2000.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
The Call of the Divine Beloved, Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa, 2018.
Adib Taherzadeh writes in The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. I, pp. 58-59:

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
Likewise, the spiritual worlds of God mentioned in this Tablet (Tablet of Kullu’t-
Ta’am or Tablet of All Food) are of different degrees:
Háhút: The world of Háhút is described by Bahá’u’lláh as the Heaven of Oneness,
the realm of the Divine Being, the imperishable Essence, a realm so exalted that
even the Manifestations of God are unable to understand it. Bahá’u’lláh has written
in one of His Tablets: “From time immemorial, He, the Divine Being, hath been
veiled in the ineffable sanctity of His exalted Self, and will everlastingly continue to
be wrapt in the impenetrable mystery of His unknowable Essence... Ten thousand
Prophets, each a Moses, are thunderstruck upon the Sinai of their search at God’s
forbidding voice, ‘Thou shalt never behold Me!’; whilst a myriad Messengers, each
as great as Jesus, stand dismayed upon their heavenly thrones by the interdiction
‘Mine Essence thou shalt never apprehend”!’
Láhút: The next is the world of Láhút which is the plane of Divinity, the Heavenly
Court. In the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh it appears that the realm of Láhút is perhaps
the world of God in relation to His Manifestations and Chosen Ones. Immersed in
the ocean of His Presence, they claim no station for Themselves on this plane and
are as utter nothingness in relation to Him. In this realm no one is identified with
God and the designation ‘He alone, and no one else beside Him, is God’ becomes
manifest here.
Jabarút: Yet another spiritual world which Bahá’u’lláh describes in this Tablet is
that of Jabarút, the All-Highest Dominion. The station of those who abide therein
is closely identified with God, insofar as they manifest all the attributes of God,
speak with His voice and are united with Him. This world appears to be the realm
in which God’s Chosen Ones, in relation to created things, are invested with His
authority.
In the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh there are many statements concerning the dual sta-
tion of the Manifestations of God and His Chosen Ones. In relation to God, these
Holy Souls appear as utter nothingness, but in relation to the world of creation
They are endowed with all the attributes of God and are closely identified with
Him…..
Malakút: Another plane in the spiritual worlds of God is that of Malakút, the
Kingdom of God, often referred to by the Prophets of the past. In the Tablet of
Kullu’t-Ta’am, Bahá’u’lláh has described it as the Heaven of Justice.
Násút: Apart from these four spiritual worlds, Bahá’u’lláh also refers in this Tablet
to the realm of Násút — this mortal world — which He describes as the Heaven of
Bounty. In many of His Tablets He has confirmed that both the human world and
Divine Revelation have come into being through the bounty of God alone, and that
if His bounty were to be replaced for one moment by the operation of His justice,
the whole of creation would cease to exist.

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
Tablet of Fitnih From Bahá’u’lláh
A Provisional Translation by
Foad Seddigh
Await thou, O everlasting Fitnih, the trials of God, the Help in Peril,
the Self-Subsisting! Verily, it will surely come to you in truth, indeed
you are witnessing the start of its coming to you. And it will be a trial
such as to make a distinction between káf and nún and one that would
differentiate all peoples from now till such time as He will appear
once more in the wondrous days promised in the manifestation of His
unseen Essence and the reality of Its perpetual existence in the year of
Mustagháth. This matter is verily nothing but the truth and will surely
come to pass.
Verily, this is a kind of trial which encompasseth the entire creation
whether in the seen or unseen realms. Say, this is such a trial that would
dismay people, astound minds, tear mysteries asunder, and then would
make pure souls to be thunderstruck. Say, this is a trial in which the
heavens of knowledge and learning will become cleft asunder, the fields
of might and power will be split apart and the mountains of glory will
become crushed to dust. Say, this is a trial through which the thrones
of glory will be shaken, the inhabitants of the exalted Tabernacle over-
turned, and the concourse of the Spirit in the eternal sanctity will be
sore perplexed.
Say, this is a trial from which resplendent suns will be darkened, the
moons of the realm above will fall down, and then the stars of knowl-
edge in the heavens of the decree of God will fall. Say, this is a trial by
which God will test every atom, all the inhabitants of earth and the
heavens, and then the entire universe. This is a trial by which every
noble man will be tested, followed by all pure servants of God, the
angels who are nigh unto God, and then the dwellers of the Supreme
Concourse. Say, this is a trial by which will be tested all those who
claim to be cherishing love and belief in God, the Omniscient, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
Exalted, the Beloved, and in this the Glorious, the Exalted, the Best-
Beloved Beauty.
Say, it is a trial through which the holy fire will be quenched, the
water of truth will solidify, trees of light will be stirred and they who
recognized the Splendour of Sinai will faint away. Say, this is a trial
which will encompass every submissive man who hath known God,
every mature and wise man, every organizer and man of knowledge,
every trusted angel and every Prophet who hath been sent. Say, this is a
trial through which the entire earth will be disturbed, all peoples will
be tested and some will be differentiated from others–even to a more
severe extent than the difference between earth and heaven.
Exalted be God! Who would make such irrevocable trials to appear
by the agency of which separation will take place as it did during the
time of all the Prophets and Messengers and before them during such
ages which the knowledge of the learned encompass not. The separa-
tion will occur as it did during other times. This is a mystery which
is well preserved in the treasure houses of holiness; no one knoweth
this except those who are given sharp vision that is hidden by God
from the eyes of men; this is derived from a vision such that should the
peoples of the realms of truth and the inhabitants of exalted stations
gain its knowledge, they would cry out in their own selves, tremble in
their being and would not be able to scrutinize its source.
I swear by God that verily, through this trial the inner eyes of the
Unseen will be dazzled, the eyes of holy and spiritual beings will be
struck by lightning, and then the lights of the lordly moons in the
heaven of revelation will be dimmed. Say, by God! In this trial, the
steps of them who have known God will slip-those who have known
God by God and those who are beholding the mysteries of revelation
and creation with keen eyes at all times. Say, this is the kind of trial
from which the cover of those who are well wrapped will be torn
apart, thereby exposing all preserved mysteries. Say, by God! Soon all
servants will be tested and thrown into the fire, even those to whom

Tablet of Fitnih (Tribulations) and Its Recipient:  Shams-i Jahán
never occurred, even to the slightest extent as small as an atom–the
possibility of worshipping anyone other than God.
Say, by God, in this trial the realities of those who have never been
heedless of God and His Cause will be tested in less than the twin-
kling of an eye—these are the people who were remembering God—
noting such consideration then it would be obvious that those who
did not recognize this Cause in which all exalted manifestations are
dumbfounded to an extent that an ant knoweth the fire must be tested
more severely; such people are considered as the essence of wayward-
ness before God.
By the One True God, in this trial the steps of all those who have
known God, from the inhabitants of the Supreme Concourse, would
slip before their soul would become aware, their inner hearts could
understand or would be able to differentiate the essence of their knowl-
edge with highest gems of mindfulness. After they realize that which
they have missed, then they would cry out within their inner hearts,
shout within their essence of being, and then would weep, wail and
moan; even should the inhabitants of heavens and the earth from the
realm of spirit and eternity accompany them they would like to aban-
don them so that they would not be veiled from this Exalted Beauty.
By God, the Holy Spirit will be disturbed during such time, the light
of fellowship will be dimmed, the mystery within the mystery will
tremble, so will the lofty Láhút, and then the angels around the Seat
of God will be frightened. By God, in this trial, moving winds will
be tested while they blow, flowing waters will be tested while being
drunk, and fire will be tested while angrily blazing. By God, all will be
tested–the heavens, earth, stars, moons–and then so will the seas with
their boats, waves, splashes, and what is placed in them by the wonders
of the creation of God, the Omniscient, the All-Subsisting be tested.
I swear by God, all things will be tested with all things towards all
things through the essence of things; the atoms of the air are not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twenty-One
excluded, and this is the mystery of that which had been revealed to the
First Friend from the realm of the revelation of God, the Exalted, the
All-Knowing, the All-Known. And it is this verse according to which
Luqmán admonished his son: “O my son! Verily, God will bring every-
thing to light, though it were but the weight of a grain of mustard-seed,
and hidden in a rock or in the heavens or in the earth; for God is the
Subtle, informed of all.” as God witnesseth every single act they will
be doing. I swear by God! Should ye look upon the lamp which shed-
deth light every night before you, ye would behold that it is tested the
moment it is enkindled, then would the moth that circulateth around
it be tested, and so also would the light shed from it that encompasseth
its surroundings be tested.
I swear by God that the trials would test, touchstones would find
impurities, sieves would sift, and every single hair would be split into
a thousand parts and each piece would be tested. All such occurrences
would result from this Great Trial which would appear from the direc-
tion of the All-Encompassing, the Ancient of Days. Its winds have
already started to blow softly, it will certainly come to pass during the
Time of Severe Tests; it will encompass all cities, and everyone in such
places will cry for help.
I swear by God and by Him who hath manifested this Ancient Beauty
in His Essence for His Essence and through His Essence! Shouldst
He remove the veils which cover that which is hidden from the eyes
of all men, the supports of the Throne of God would tremble, those
who carry the Throne would become disturbed, and their beings
would become disintegrated. Verily, should I mention this Most Great
Announcement, its strong trials and tests from this time until eternity,
by God, its mention could not be exhausted and its description could
not be completed, even if thousands of oceans of ink were utilised for
its writing.

IN MEMORIAM

Manuchehr Derakhshani
1932-2025
Dr. Manuchehr Derakhshani served for many years on the
Board of Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund and was instru-
mental in coordinating and arranging the Irfan Colloquia held
at Louhelen and Bosch Baha’í Schools.
Manuchehr Derakhshani was born on the 15th of February 1932
in Tehran, Iran, to Farahangiz Iman and Habibu’lláh Derakh-
shani. From a very young age, he witnessed his parents’ devotion
to the Faith and their willingness to obey the directives of the
Beloved Guardian. In 1942, the family moved to Aligúdarz to
fulfill a goal of the Forty-Five Month Plan. Later, after some
years back in Tehran, they pioneered to Imámzadih Qásim, a
suburb of Tehran, to help form the Local Spiritual Assembly.
As a young man he studied English literature and spent some
time in Edinburgh, Scotland where he studied at the university
in 1951-52.  In 1958, responding to the Guardian’s call for
pioneers during the 10-Year Crusade, he moved with his wife,
Mahvash Ala’i, and daughter to Morocco. After the passing of
his wife Mahvash in 1966, he decided to continue his education
in the United States. He obtained a Bachelor’s degree in Second-
ary Education in 1971, a Master’s Degree in Psychology in 1973,
and a Ph.D in Educational Psychology in 1976.
In 1973 he married Rezvan Mohragi. Together, they decided to
move back to Iran, where he worked as Research and Develop-
ment Director at the National Institute of Psychology as well as
Professor at various universities.  Plans to remain in Iran were
disrupted by the revolution in 1979. They were forced to return
to the United States. Within a few months of his arrival, he was

called by the National Spiritual Assembly to start the office
of Persian American Affairs to help Iranian refugees integrate
into the American community. The office was also charged
eventually with assisting the displaced families and individuals
through all the administrative and emotional hurdles of refugee
resettlement. Manuchehr Derakhshani, lovingly called Dr. D. by
his staff and others around the National Center, served as Direc-
tor of the Office for the next 28 years. He devoted long hours in
service of the friends who had been displaced because of their
faith during a particularly difficult time of the Iranian Baha’is.
In addition to his work at the National Baha’í Center, Dr. Dera-
khshani served as liaison for the Universal House of Justice with
the Persian Literature Review Panel for 35 years, continuing this
work beyond his retirement. His erudition in the sacred writings
of the Faith as well as his excellent mastery of Arabic, Persian,
and English made him a remarkable asset to the Review Panel.
These same skills were extremely valuable in the many boards
of directors of scholarly organizations on which he served, such
as the Association of Friends of Persian Culture, the Wilmette
Institute, and the Irfan Colloquium among others.
Manuchehr Derakhshani dedicated his life to serving the Baha’i
Faith in myriad ways, as a pioneer, as a scholarly resource, as
an administrator, and as a mediator and councilor. After his
passing, many people commented on his humility, generosity,
kindness, courtesy, and humor.


Ian Kluge
1948-2023
Ian Kluge was an active and enthusiastic participant in the Irfan Col-
loquium gatherings from 2002-2016. His presence will be missed by
all who knew him. He had wide-ranging interests in philosophical
traditions and the intellectual history of religious thought. He pub-
lished some 27 papers in the Lights of Irfan volumes, two of which he
co-authored with Wolfgang Klebel. The topics these papers covered
include Neoplatonism, Nietzsche, Ontology, minimalism, relativism,
ethics, freedom, Aristotelianism, meta-history, New Atheism, and
many others. Some of the topics that he explored had previously received
very little scholarly attention. These papers were all substantial—for
example, his two-part article on neo-Platonism numbered some 142
pages. He exhaustively mined the Baha’i writings for relevant passages
to the topics he was researching, and at the same time read widely in the
scholarship of the philosophical traditions that he analyzed.
Ian Kluge was a wonderful lecturer, and his talks were always engaging
and entertaining, no doubt a result of the many years he spent as a sea-
soned and sage-like school teacher. He never read from his papers and
had a particular talent for taking complex ideas and making them acces-
sible to non-specialists. Irfan Colloquium participants will remember
and appreciate how he generously brought copies of his papers with
him and distributed them to his audience. He was most approachable,
always encouraging people to ask questions during his talks, and if peo-
ple wanted to continue their discussions with him after the colloquium,
he invited further dialog, having shared his email address and contact
information before he even started his talk.
His legacy remains enshrined in his papers available to read in the Lights
of Irfan volumes.
—Sholeh Quinn

The ‘Irfán Colloquia, started in 1993, have since
been held annually in North America and Europe
and conducted in English, Persian and German. The
aim and purpose of the ’Irfán activities are to foster
systematic studies of the scriptures and theology of
the world religions from a Bahá’i perspective and to
promote scholarly studies in the sacred writings,
verities, and fundamental principles of the belief
system of the Bahá’í Faith.
For more information on the ‘Irfan Colloquia and its publications,
visit www.irfancolloquia.org