B aháí
Marriage
and
Family Life
Selections
from the Writinss
of the
Bahà’i Faith
Bahà’i Publishing Trust
Wilmette, Illinois 60091

Originally published by the National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahd’is of Canada, 1983
Copyright © 1983
by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd’is of Canada
All rights reserved.
Reprinted by permission in 1997 by the
U.S. Baha’i Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, IL 60091-2844
Printed in the United States of America
00 99 98 97
4 3 2 1
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Baha’i marriage and family life : selections from the writings of the
Baha’i Faith.
p.
cm.
Originally published: Thornhill, Ont., Canada : National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahd’is of Canada, 1983.
Includes bibliographical references.
ISBN 0-87743-258-9
1.
Marriage— Religious aspects— Bahai Faith. 2. Bahai Faith—
Doctrines. 3. Family— Religious aspects— Bahai faith.
BP388.M37B34
297.9’344l— dc21
97-60
CIP

Table o f Contents
Introduction.... ...............................................................................................vii
I. The Institution of Marriage
A.
Law of Marriage.................................................................................. 3
B.
Commitments and Responsibilities................................................... 4
C.
The Marriage Ceremony....................................................................6
D.
Marriage as the Basis of Unity............................................................8
E.
Attitude Towards Divorce...................


E
Sex in Marriage.................... *.............................................................. 15
II. Preparation for Marriage
A.
Self-Knowledge..... ............... .............................................................. 17
B.
Choosing a Marriage Partner..............................................................  18
C.
Chastity ........................

D.
Parental Consent...................................................................................24
E.
Engagement.............

III. Family Life
A.
Love and Unity.....................................................................................31
B.
Communication....................................................................................36
C.
Tests and Difficulties.............................................................................39
D.
Equality of Men and W omen..............................................................46
E.
Education of Children......................................................................... 48
F.
Relationships within the Family...........................................................54
G.
Death.....................................................................................................63
H.
Work and Finances................................................................................65
I.
Hospitality.............................................................................................68
J.
Relationship with Bahà’i Institutions and Community......................70
K.
Family Life and Bahà’i Service..............................................................75
L.
Prayers.................................................................................................... 79

Introduction
All óf the institutions of the Bahà’i Faith were established so that love
and unity would have means of expression in the life of human society.
This is especially true of the institution of marriage, which BaháVlláh
called a “fortress for well-being,” and which is the foundation of family
life.
Nothing is more delightful than to visualize ourselves as entering
into a relationship which ‘Abdu 1-Bahá describes as “mutual attraction
of mind and heart,” “a tie that will endure forever,” enabling us to be­
come “loving companions and comrades,” and “at one with each other
for time and eternity.” The question is not: “Is this what I want?” The
question is: “Have we developed the qualities of character which will
make it possible to build such a relationship?”
This compilation is designed to help us prepare for marriage, to
assist those of us already married, and to improve our family life. It is
also intended to assist Bahà’i Spiritual Assemblies in their educational
and counseling responsibilities.
Two compilations from the Bahà’i teachings on “Discouraging
Divorce” and “Family Life,” sent to National Spiritual Assemblies by
the Universal House of Justice, have been incorporated into this collec­
tion. Additional passages have been selected for their capacity to shed
further light on the terms and concepts referred to in the guidance spe­
cifically related to Bahai marriage and family life.
What greater joy is there than to love and to be loved, and to raise
a family distinguished for its unity and harmony? What effort is too
great, what discipline too strenuous for the reward of such a joy?
Warmest Bahà’i love,
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
OF THE BAHÁ1S OF CANADA
vii

Baháí Marriage
and Family Life

I. THE INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE
A, Law o f Marriage________________________________
1. “And when He desired to manifest grace and beneficence to
men, and to set the world in order. He revealed observances and created
laws; among them He established the law of marriage, made it as a
fortress for well-being and salvation, and enjoined it upon us in that
which was sent down out of the heaven of sanctity in His Most Holy
Book. He saith, great is His glory; ‘Enter into wedlock, O people, that
ye may bring forth one who will make mention of Me and My servants.
This is My bidding unto you; hold fast to it as an assistance to yourselves.’”
(Bahà’u’ilàh,
U.S. 1982, p. 187)
2. “The pious deeds of the monks and priests among the followers
of the Spirit— upon Him be the peace of God—are remembered in His
presence. In this Day, however, let them give up the life of seclusion and
direct their steps towards the open world and busy themselves with that

BAHÁ’1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
which will profit themselves and others. We have granted them leave to
enter into wedlock that they may bring forth one who will make men­
tion of God, the Lord of the seen and the unseen, the Lord of the Ex­
alted Throne.”
(BaháVlláh, Tablets o f Bahâ’u'llâh, p. 24)
3. “Regarding the question of matrimony: Know thou that the
command of marriage is eternal. It will never be changed nor altered.
This is divine creation and there is not the slightest possibility that change
or alteration affect this divine creation (marriage).”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 474)
4. “Of course, under normal circumstances, every person should
consider it his moral duty to marry. And this is what Bahďulláh has
encouraged the believers to do. But marriage is by no means an obliga­
tion. In the last resort it is for the individual to decide whether he wishes
to lead a family life or live in a state of celibacy.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated May 3, 1936, to an individual believer)
5. “It should, moreover, be borne in mind that although to be
married is highly desirable, and BaháVlláh has strongly recommended
it, it is not the central purpose of life. If a person has to wait a consider­
able period before finding a spouse, or if ultimately, he or she must
remain single, it does not mean that he or she is thereby unable to fulfill
his or her life’s purpose.”
(Universal House of Justice, Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986, 126.9)
B, Commitments and Responsibilities______________
6.
“Bahà’i marriage is the commitment of the two parties one to
the other, and their mutual attachment of mind and heart. Each must,
however, exercise the utmost care to become thoroughly acquainted with
the character of the other, that the binding covenant between them may
be a tie that will endure forever. Their purpose must be this: to become

THE INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE
loving companions and comrades and at one with each other for time
and eternity...
“The true marriage of Bahà’is is this, that husband and wife should
be united both physically and spiritually, that they may ever improve
the spiritual life of each other, and may enjoy everlasting unity through­
out all the worlds of God. This is Bahd’i marriage.”
(‘Abdul- Bahá, Selections from the Writings o f ‘Abdul-Bahá, 86.1-2)
7. “O ye two believers in God! The Lord, peerless is He, hath
made woman and man to abide with each other in the closest compan­
ionship, and to be even as a single soul. They are two helpmates, two
intimate friends, who should be concerned about the welfare of each
other.
“If they live thus, they will pass through this world with perfect
contentment, bliss, and peace of heart, and become the object of divine
grace and favor in the Kingdom of heaven. But if they do other than
this they will live out their lives in great bitterness, longing at every
moment for death, and will be shamefaced in the heavenly realm.
“Strive, then, to abide, heart and soul with each other as two doves
in the nest, for this is to be blessed in both worlds.”
(Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdul-Bahá, 92.1-3)
8. “O ye my two beloved children! The news of your union, as
soon as it reached me, imparted infinite joy and gratitude. Praise be to
God, those two faithful birds have sought shelter in one nest. I beseech
God that He may enable them to raise an honored family, for the impor­
tance of marriage lieth in the bringing up of a richly blessed family, so
that with entire gladness they may, even as candles, illuminate the world.
For the enlightenment of the world dependeth upon the existence of
man. If man did not exist in this world, it would have been like a tree
without fruit. My hope is that you both may become even as one tree,
and may, through the outpourings of the cloud of loving-kindness, ac­
quire freshness and charm, and may blossom and yield fruit, so that
your line may eternally endure.
“Upon ye be the Glory of the Most Glorious.”
(Abdu 1-Bahá, Selections from the Writings o f ‘Abdul-Bahá, 88.1-2)

BAHAI MAH HI A(. I ANIH AMU Y III I
9.
. . it is cnjoinrd upon ili» I . h I k  i .nul mother, as a duty, to
strive with all effort to train the duughiri and the son, to nurse them
from the breast oi knowledge and i<> teat them in the bosom of sciences
and arts. Should they neglect this matter, they shall be held responsible
and worthy of reproach in the present e of the stern Lord.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahd, 98.2)
10.
“There is nothing in the Sacred Writings specifically on t
subjects of birth control, abortion or sterilization, but BaháVlláh did
state that the primary purpose of marriage was the procreation of chil­
dren, and it is to this primary purpose that the beloved Guardian alludes
in many of the letters which are quoted in the compilation. This does
not imply that a couple are obliged to have as many children as they
can; the Guardians secretary clearly stated on his behalf, in answer to an
enquiry, that it was for the husband and wife to decide how many chil­
dren they would have. A decision to have no children at all would vitiate
the primary purpose of marriage unless, of course, there were some
medical reason why such a decision would be required.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated January 28, 1977,
to an individual believer)
C. The Marriage Ceremony
11. “It is incumbent upon both parties to recite a specifically re­
vealed verse indicating their being content with the will of God.”
{Synopsis and Codification of the Laws and Ordinances o f the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 40)
12. “The specifically revealed verse is, ‘We will all, verily, abide by
the Will of God.’”
(Synopsis and Codification of the Laws and Ordinances o f the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 59)
13. “. . . Bahà’i marriages should be referred to Assemblies to
officiate.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated June 23, 1950,
written on his behalf to the National Spiritual Assembly of Canada)

THE INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE
14. “The ceremony itself must be very simple.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, quoted in Principles of Bahá7 Administration, p. 13)
15.
“Bahd’i marriage should at present not be pressed into an
kind of a uniform mold. What is absolutely essential is what BaháVlláh
stipulated in the Aqdas: the friends can add to these selected writings if
they please— but the so-called ‘Marriage Tablet* (revealed by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá) is not a necessary part of every Bahà’i marriage.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, quoted in Principles of Bahá / Administration, p. 14)
16. “In cases where there is more than one ceremony, the Bahá*í
service and the other civil or religious ceremony must be performed on
the same day.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, From a letter dated June 20, 1940,
to the National Spiritual Assembly oř Australia and New Zealand)
17. “As to the holding of the Bahá*í and civil ceremonies on the
same day, as consummation of the marriage should not take place until
both ceremonies have been held, a night should not intervene between
the two ceremonies.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated April 23, 1971,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States)
18. “. . .  The bride and groom, before two witnesses, must state:
‘We will all, verily, abide by the Will of God.* These two witnesses may
be chosen by the couple or by the Spiritual Assembly, but must in any
case be acceptable to the Assembly.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated August 8, 1969,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States)
19. “The consummation of marriage by a couple is, as you aptly
state, an intimate and private matter outside the scrutiny of others. While
consummation normally implies a sexual relationship, the Bahá*í law
requiring consummation to take place within twenty-four hours of the

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
ceremony can be considered as fulfilled if the couple has commenced
cohabitation with the intention of setting up the family relationship.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated July 28, 1978,
to an individual believer)
20.
.. persons wishing to marry after they become Bahà’is must
have a Bahd’i ceremony and are indeed not regarded as married unless
they have met the requirements of Bahd’i law.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated May 22, 1967,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States)
21. “. .. as the Guardian says, ‘Bahai marriage is something you
perform when you are going to be united for the first time, not long after
the union takes place.’ If, however, such a couple would like to have a
meeting of their friends at which Bahà’i prayers and readings are said on
behalf of their marriage now that they are Bahà’is, there is no objection
to their doing so, although it must be understood that this does not
constitute a Bahà’i marriage ceremony.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated June 23, 1969,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of Peru)
D. Marriage as the Basis o f Unity___________________
22. “The Great Being saith: O ye children of men! The funda­
mental purpose animating the Faith of God and His Religion is to safe­
guard the interests and promote the unity of the human race, and to
foster the spirit of love and fellowship amongst men.”
(Baha ulláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahâ'ullâk, p. 213)
23. “. . . Verily they are married in obedience to Thy command.
Cause them to become the signs of harmony and unity until the end of
time. Verily Thou art the Omnipotent, the Omnipresent and the Al­
mighty!”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Bahcl'l I*rayers, U.S. 1982, p. 107)

THE INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE
24. “From separation doth every kind of hurt and harm proceed,
but the union of created things doth ever yield most laudable results.
From the pairing of even the smallest particles in the world of being are
the grace and bounty of God made manifest; and the higher the degree,
the more momentous is the union. ‘Glory be to Him Who hath created
all the pairs, of such things as earth produceth, and out of men them­
selves, and of things beyond their ken.5 And above all other unions is
that between human beings, especially when it cometh to pass in the
love of God. Thus is the primal oneness made to appear; thus is laid the
foundation of love in the spirit.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 87.2)
25. “Marriage, among the mass of the people, is a physical bond,
and this union can only be temporary, since it is foredoomed to a physi­
cal separation at the close.
“Among the people of Bahá, however, marriage must be a union
of the body and of the spirit as well, for here both husband and wife are
aglow with the same wine, both are enamored of the same matchless
Face, both live and move through the same spirit, both are illumined by
the same glory. This connection between them is a spiritual one, hence
it is a bond that will abide forever. Likewise do they enjoy strong and
lasting ties in the physical world as well, for if the marriage is based both
on the spirit and the body, that union is a true one, hence it will endure.
If, however, the bond is physical and nothing more, it is sure to be only
temporary, and must inexorably end in separation.
“When, therefore, the people of Bahá undertake to marry, the
union must be a true relationship, a spiritual coming together as well as
a physical one, so that throughout every phase of life, and in all the
worlds of God, their union will endure; for this real oneness is a gleam­
ing out of the love of God.
“In the same way, when any souls grow to be true believers, they
will attain a spiritual relationship with one another, and show forth a
tenderness which is not of this world. They will, all of them, become
elated from a draught of divine love, and that union of theirs, that con­
nection, will also abide forever. Souls, that is, who will consign their
own selves to oblivion, strip from themselves the defects of humankind,

BAHÁ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
and unchain themselves from human bondage, will beyond any doubt
be illumined with the heavenly splendors of oneness, and will all attain
unto real union in the world that dieth not.”
(Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 84.2-5)
26.
“As to thy question concerning the husband and wife, the tie
between them and the children given to them by God: Know thou,
verily, the husband is one who hath sincerely turned unto God, is awak­
ened by the call of the Beauty of the All-Glorious and chanteth the
verses of Oneness in the great assemblies; the wife is a being who wisheth
to be overflowing with and seeketh after the attributes of God and His
names; and the tie between them is none other than the Word of God.
Verily, it causeth the multitudes to assemble together and the remote
ones to be united. Thus the husband and wife are brought into affinity,
are united and harmonized, even as though they were one person.
Through their mutual union, companionship and love great results are
produced in the world, both material and spiritual. The spiritual result
is the appearance of divine bounties. The material result is the children
who are born in the cradle of the love of God, who are nurtured by the
breast of the knowledge of God, who are brought up in the bosom of
the gift of God, and who are fostered in the lap of the training of God.
Such children are those of whom it was said by Christ, ‘Verily, they are
the children of the Kingdom!’”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. Ill, pp. 605-606)
E. Attitude Towards Divorce
27.
“God doth verily love union and concord, and abhorreth sepa­
ration and divorce.”
(Bahá’ulláh, quoted in a compilation dated January 18, 1980,
sent by the Universal House of Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
28.
“Now the friends in America must live and conduct them­
selves in this way. They must strictly refrain from divorce unless some­
thing ariseth which compelled! them to separate because of their aver-

THE INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE
sion for each other, in that case with the knowledge of the Spiritual
Assembly they may decide to separate. They must then be patient and
wait one complete year. If during this year harmony is not re-established
between them, then divorce may be realized. It should not happen that
upon the occurrence of a slight friction or displeasure between husband
and wife, the husband would think of union with some other woman,
or God forbid, the wife also think of another husband. This is contrary
to the standard of heavenly value and true chastity. The friends of God
must so live and conduct themselves, and evince such excellence of char­
acter and conduct, as to make others astonished. The love between hus­
band and wife should not be purely physical, nay rather it must be spiri­
tual and heavenly. These two souls should be considered as one soul.
How difficult it would be to divide a single soul! Nay, greater would be
the difficulty.
“In short, the foundation of the Kingdom of God is based upon
harmony and love, oneness, relationship and union, not upon differences,
especially between husband and wife. If one of these two become the
cause of divorce, that one will unquestionably fall into great difficulties,
will become the victim of formidable calamities and experience deep
remorse.”
CAbdu 1-Bahá, quoted in a compilation dated January 18, 1980,
sent by the Universal House of Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
29.
“The situation facing you is admittedly difficult and delica
but no less grave and indeed vital are the responsibilities which it entails
and which, as a faithful and loyal believer, you should conscientiously
and thoroughly assume. The Guardian, therefore, while fully alive to
the special circumstances of your case, and however profound his sym­
pathy may be for you in this challenging issue with which you are so
sadly faced, cannot, in view of the emphatic injunctions contained in
the Teachings, either sanction your demand to contract a second mar­
riage while your first wife is still alive and is united with you in the
sacred bonds of matrimony, or even suggest or approve that you divorce
her just in order to be permitted to marry a new one.
“For the Bahà’i Teachings do not only preclude the possibility of
bigamy, but also, while permitting divorce, consider it a reprehensible

BAHÂ’f m a r r ia g e  a n d  fa m ily life
act, which should be resorted to only in exceptional circumstances, and
when grave issues are involved, transcending such . . .  considerations as
physical attraction or sexual compatibility and harmony. The institu­
tion of marriage, as established by BaháVlláh, while giving due impor­
tance to the physical aspect of marital union considers it as subordinate
to the moral and spiritual purposes and functions with which it has
been invested by an all-wise and loving Providence. Only when these
different values are given each their due importance, and only on the
basis of the subordination of the physical to the moral, and the carnal to
the spiritual can such excesses and laxity in marital relations as our deca­
dent age is so sadly witnessing be avoided, and family life be restored to
its original purity, and fulfill the true function for which it has been
instituted by God.
“The Guardian will most fervently pray that, inspired and guided
by such divine standard, and strengthened by Bahďu lláhs unfailing as­
sistance and confirmations, you may be able to satisfactorily adjust your
relations with the persons concerned, and thus reach the one right solu­
tion for this assuredly challenging problem of your life.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated May 8, 1939, written on his behalf
to a believer who, having married his first wife out of compassion, now wished
to be permitted to marry a woman with whom he had fallen in love,
saying that his wife was agreeable to his taking this second wife.)
30. “Regarding divorce, the Guardian stated that it is discouraged,
deprecated and against the good pleasure of God. The Assembly must
circulate among the friends whatever has been revealed from the Pen of
‘Abdu 1-Bahá in this connection so that all may be fully reminded. Di­
vorce is conditional upon the approval and permission of the Spiritual
Assembly. The members of the Assembly must in such matters indepen­
dently and carefully study and investigate each case. If there should be
valid grounds for divorce and it is found that reconciliation is utterly
impossible, that antipathy is intense and its removal is not possible,
then the Assembly may approve the divorce.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated July 7, 1938,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of Iran)
31. “Shoghi EfFendi wishes me to add this note in connection with
your marriage; he does not feel that any believer, under any circum-

THE INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE
stances whatsoever, can ever use the Cause or service to it as a reason for
abandoning their marriage; divorce, as we know it, is very strongly con­
demned by BaháVlláh, and only grounds of extreme gravity justify it.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated April 7, 1947,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
32. “Wherever there is a Bahà’i family, those concerned should by
all means do all they can to preserve it, because divorce is strongly con­
demned in the Teachings, whereas harmony, unity and love are held up
as the highest ideals in human relationships. This must always apply to
the Bahà’is, whether they are serving in the pioneering field or not.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated November 9, 1956,
written on his behalf to the National Spiritual Assembly of Central America)
33. “He wishes me to tell you that he regrets extremely the sorrow
that has come into your life, and that he agrees with all you have stated
in general on the subject of divorce.
“There is no doubt about it that the believers in America, prob­
ably unconsciously influenced by the extremely lax morals prevalent and
the flippant attitude towards divorce which seems to be increasingly pre­
vailing, do not take divorce seriously enough and do not seem to grasp
the fact that although BaháVlláh has permitted it, He has only permit­
ted it as a last resort and strongly condemns it.
“The presence of children, as a factor in divorce, cannot be ig­
nored, for surely it places an even greater weight of moral responsibility
on the man and wife in considering such a step. Divorce under such
circumstances no longer just concerns them and their desires and feel­
ings but also concerns the childrens entire future and their own attitude
towards marriage.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated December 19, 1947,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
34. “Divorce should be avoided most strictly by the believers, and
only under rare and urgent circumstances be resorted to. Modern soci­
ety is criminally lax as to the sacred nature of marriage, and the believers
must combat this trend assiduously.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated January 5, 1948,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)

BAHÁ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
35.
“He was very sorry to hear that you are contemplating separa­
tion from your husband. As you no doubt know, Bahďu lláh considers
the marriage bond very sacred; and only under very exceptional and
unbearable circumstances is divorce advisable for Bahd’is.
“The Guardian does not tell you that you must not divorce your
husband; but he does urge you to consider prayerfully, not only because
you are a believer and anxious to obey the laws of God, but also for the
sake of the happiness of your children, whether it is not possible for you
to rise above the limitations you have felt in your marriage hitherto, and
make a go of it together.
“We often feel that our happiness lies in a certain direction; and
yet, if we have to pay too heavy a price for it in the end we may discover
that we have not really purchased either freedom or happiness, but just
some new situation of frustration and disillusion.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated April 5, 1951,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
36.
“He was very sorry to hear that you and your husband are still
so unhappy together. It is always a source of sorrow in life when married
people cannot get on well together, but the Guardian feels that you and
your husband, in contemplating divorce, should think of the future of
your children and how this major step on your part will influence their
lives and happiness.
“If you feel the need of advice and consultation he suggests you
consult your local Assembly; your fellow Bahd’is will surely do all they
can to counsel and help you, protect your interests and those of the
Cause.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated November 16, 1945,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
37.
“Marriage is, in the Aqdas, set forth as a most sacred and bind
ing tie, and the Bahd’is should realize that divorce is viewed as a last
resort, to be avoided at all costs if possible and not to be lightly granted.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated October 17,1944,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)

F. Sex in Marriage
THE INSTITUTION OF MARRIAGE
38.
.. Enter ye into wedlock, that after you another may arise in
your stead. We, verily, have forbidden you lechery, and not that which is
conducive to fidelity..
(BaháVlláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf p. 49)
39. “‘Enter into wedlock, O people, that ye may bring forth one
who will make mention of Me amid My servants. This is my bidding
unto you; hold fast to it as an assistance to yourselves/”
(BaháVlláh, Bahá VPrayers, U.S. 1982, p. 105)
40. “Wherefore, wed Thou in the heaven of Thy mercy these two
birds of the nest of Thy love, and make them the means of attracting
perpetual grace: that from the union of these two seas of love a wave of
tenderness may surge and cast the pearls of pure and goodly issue on the
shore of life.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Bahai Prayers, U.S. 1982, p. 188)
41. “BaháVlláh has urged marriage upon all people as the natural
and rightful way of life. He has also, however, placed strong emphasis
on its spiritual nature, which, while in no way precluding a normal physi­
cal way of life, is the most essential aspect of marriage. That two people
should live their lives in love and harmony is of far greater importance
than that they should be consumed with passion for each other. The one
is a great rock of strength on which to lean in time of need; the other is
a purely temporary thing which may at any time die out.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated January 20, 1943,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
42. “The Bahà’i Faith recognizes the value of the sex impulse, but
condemns its illegitimate and improper expressions such as free love,
companionate marriage and others, all of which it considers positively
harmful to man and to the society in which he lives. The proper use of
the sex instinct is the natural right of every individual, and it is precisely
for this very purpose that the institution of marriage has been estab-

BAHÁ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
lished. The Bahà’is do not believe in the suppression of the sex impulse
but in its regulation and control.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated September 5, 1938,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
43.
“The question you raise as to the place in ones life that a deep
bond of love with someone we meet other than our husband or wife can
have is easily defined in view of the teachings. Chastity implies both
before and after marriage an unsullied, chaste sex life. Before marriage
absolutely chaste, after marriage absolutely faithful to ones chosen com­
panion. Faithful in all sexual acts, faithful in word and in deed.
“The world today is submerged, amongst other things, in an over­
exaggeration of the importance of physical love, and a dearth of spiri­
tual values. In as far as possible the believers should try to realize this
and rise above the level of their fellow-men who are, typical of all deca­
dent periods in history, placing so much over-emphasis on the purely
physical side of mating. Outside of their normal, legitimate married life
they should seek to establish bonds of comradeship and love which are
eternal and founded on the spiritual life of man, not on his physical life.
This is one of the many fields in which it is incumbent on the Bahd’is to
set the example and lead the way to a true human standard of life, when
the soul of man is exalted and his body but the tool for his enlightened
spirit. Needless to say this does not preclude the living of a perfectly
normal sex life in its legitimate channel of marriage.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, From a letter dated September 28, 1941,
written on his behalF to an individual believer)

IL PREPARATION FOR MARRIAGE
A. Self-Knowledge_______________________________
44. “O My servants! Could ye apprehend with what wonders of
My munificence and bounty I have willed to entrust your souls, ye would,
of a truth, rid yourselves of attachment to all created things, and would
gain a true knowledge of your own selves— a knowledge which is the
same as the comprehension of Mine own Being. Ye would find your­
selves independent of all else but Me, and would perceive, with your
inner and outer eye, and as manifest as the revelation of My effulgent
Name, the seas of My loving-kindness and bounty moving within you.”
(BaháVlláh, Gleanings from the Writings of BaháVlláh, pp. 326-327)
45. “Far, far from Thy glory be what mortal man can affirm of
Thee, or attribute unto Thee, or the praise with which he can glorify
Thee! Whatever duty Thou hast prescribed unto Thy servants of extol­
ling to the utmost Thy majesty and glory is but a token of Thy grace

BAHÀ’f MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
unto them, that they may be enabled to ascend unto the station con­
ferred upon their own inmost being, the station of the knowledge of
their own selves.”
(BaháVlláh, Gleanings from the Writings of BaháVlláh, pp. 4-5)
46.
.. man should know his own self, and recognize that which
leadeth unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or abasement, wealth or pov­
erty.”
(BaháVlláh, Tablets of BaháVlláh, p. 35)
B. Choosing a Marriage Partner____________________
47. “O SON OF SPIRIT!
WI created thee rich, why dost thou bring thyself down to poverty?
Noble I made thee, wherewith dost thou abase thyself? Out of the es­
sence of knowledge I gave thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment
from anyone beside Me? Out of the clay of love I molded thee, how
dost thou busy thyself with another? Turn thy sight unto thyself, that
thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty, powerful and self-
subsisting.”
(BaháVlláh, The Hidden Words, pp. 6-7)
4 8 . “Disencumber yourselves of all attachment to this world and
the vanities thereof. Beware that ye approach them not, inasmuch as
they prompt you to walk after your own lusts and covetous desires, and
hinder you from entering the straight and glorious Path.”
(BaháVlláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahďulláh, p. 276)
49. “O SON OF BEING!
“Bring thyself to account each day ere thou art summoned to a
reckoning; for death, unheralded, shall come upon thee and thou shalt
be called to give account for thy deeds.”
(BaháVlláh,
p. 11)

PREPARATION FOR MARRIAGE
50. “O MY SON!”
“The company of the ungodly increaseth sorrow, whilst fellow­
ship with the righteous cleanseth the rust from off the heart. He that
seeketh to commune with God, let him betake himself to the compan­
ionship of His loved ones; and he that desireth to hearken to the word
of God, let him give ear to the words of His chosen ones.”
(BaháVlláh, The Hidden Words, p. 42)
51. “Consultation bestoweth greater awareness and transmuteth
conjecture into certitude. It is a shining light which, in a dark world,
leadeth the way and guideth. For everything there is and will continue
to be a station of perfection and maturity. The maturity of the gift of
understanding is made manifest through consultation.”
(BaháVlláh, quoted in Consultation: A Compilation, no. 3)
52. “Now speak forth with fairness. Do not misrepresent the mat­
ter, neither to thyself nor to the people.”
(lAbdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 43)
53. “As for the question regarding marriage under the Law of God:
first thou must choose one who is pleasing to thee, and then the matter
is subject to the consent of father and mother. Before thou makest thy
choice, they have no right to interfere.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 83.1)
54. “The love which exists between the hearts of believers is
prompted by the ideal of the unity of spirits. This love is attained through
the knowledge of God, so that men see the Divine Love reflected in the
heart. Each sees in the other the Beauty of God reflected in the soul,
and finding this point of similarity, they are attracted to one another in
love. This love will make all men the waves of one sea, this love will
make them all the stars of one heaven and the fruits of one tree. This
love will bring the realization of true accord, the foundation of real
unity.
“But the love which sometimes exists between friends is not (true)
love, because it is subject to transmutation; this is merely fascination. As

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
the breeze blows, the slender trees yield. If the wind is in the East the
tree leans to the West, and if the wind turns to the West the tree leans to
the East. This kind of love is originated by the accidental conditions of
life. This is not love, it is merely acquaintanceship; it is subject to change.
“Today you will see two souls apparently in close friendship; to­
morrow all this may be changed. Yesterday they were ready to die for
one another, today they shun one another’s society! This is not love; it is
the yielding of the hearts to the accidents of life. When that which has
caused this ‘love’ to exist passes, the love passes also; this is not in reality
love.”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, Paris Talks, 59.7-9)
55. “O thou son of the Kingdom! If one possesses the love of
God, everything that he undertakes is useful, but if the undertaking is
without the love of God, then it is hurtful and the cause of veiling one’s
self from the Lord of the Kingdom. But with the love of God every
bitterness is changed into sweetness and every gift becometh precious.
For instance, a musical and melodious voice imparteth life to an at­
tracted heart but lureth toward lust those souls who are engulfed in
passion and desire.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in Bahá V World Faith, p. 366)
56. “It is extremely difficult to teach the individual and refine his
character once puberty is passed. By then, as experience hath shown,
even if every effort be exerted to modify some tendency of his, it all
availeth nothing. He may, perhaps, improve somewhat today; but let a
few days pass and he forgetteth, and turneth backward to his habitual
condition and accustomed ways.”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of 'Abdiil-Bahâ, 111.7)
57. “But thou must submit to and rely upon God under all condi­
tions and He will bestow upon thee that which is conducive to thy well­
being. Verily He is the merciful and compassionate! For how many an
affair was involved in difficulty and then was straightened, and how
many a problem was solved by the permission of God.”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Bah a Abbas, Vol. I, p. 10)

PRÉPARATION FOR MARRIAGE
58. “If it be possible, gather together these two races, black and
white, into one Assembly, and put such love into their hearts that they
shall not only unite but even intermarry. Be sure that the result of this
will abolish differences and disputes between black and white.”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, quoted in Bahá *i World Faith, p. 359)
59.
.. we must reach a spiritual plane where God comes first and
great human passions are unable to turn us away from Him. All the time
we see people who either through the force of hate or the passionate
attachment they have to another person, sacrifice principle or bar them­
selves from the Path of God . . .
“We must love God, and in this state, a general love for all men
becomes possible. We cannot love each human being for himself, but
our feeling towards humanity should be motivated by our love for the
Father who created all men.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated October 4, 1950,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
60. “. . . your statement to the effect that the principle of the
oneness of mankind prevents any true Bahà’i from regarding race itself
as a bar to union is in complete accord with the Teachings of the Faith
on this point. For both Bahd’u lldh and Abdu 1-Bahá never disapproved
the idea of inter-racial marriage, nor discouraged it. The Bahd’i Teach­
ings, indeed, by their very nature transcend all limitations imposed by
race, and as such can and should never be identified with any particular
school of racial philosophy.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated January 27, 1935,
written on his behalf to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States
and Canada— BaháH News, no. 90, March 1935, p. 1)
61. “There is a difference between character and faith; it is often
very hard to accept this fact and put up with it, but the fact remains that
a person may believe in and love the Cause— even to being ready to die
for it— and yet not have a good personal character, or possess traits at
variance with the teachings. We should try to change, to let the Power
of God help recreate us and make us true Bahá’is in deed as well as in

BAHA’I MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
belief. But sometimes the process is slow, sometimes it never happens
because the individual does not try hard enough. But these things cause
us suffering and are a test to us . . . ”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated October 17, 1944,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
62.
“A couple should study each others character and spend t
getting to know each other before they decide to marry, and when they
do marry it should be with the intention of establishing an eternal bond.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated
November 2, 1982, to an individual believer)
C. Chastity
63. “We, verily, have decreed in Our Book a goodly and bountiful
reward to whosoever will turn away from wickedness and lead a chaste
and godly life. He, in truth, is the Great Giver, the All-Bountiful.”
(BaháVlláh, Gleanings from the Writings of BaháVlláh, p. 117)
64. “I implore Thee, O Thou Fashioner of the nations and the
King of eternity, to guard Thy handmaidens within the tabernacle of
Thy chastity, and to cancel such of their deeds as are unworthy of Thy
days.”
(BaháVlláh, Prayers and Meditations, p. 231)
65. “Purity and chastity have been, and still are, the most great
ornaments for the handmaidens of God. God is My Witness! The bright­
ness of the light of chastity sheddeth its illumination upon the worlds
of the spirit, and its fragrance is wafted even unto the Most Exalted
Paradise. God hath verily made chastity to be a crown for the heads of
His handmaidens. Great is the blessedness of that handmaiden that hath
attained unto this great station.”
(BaháVlláh, quoted in The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 27)

PREPARATION FOR MARRIAGE
66. “Say: He is not to be numbered with the people of Bahá who
followeth his mundane desires, or fixeth his heart on things of the earth
. . .  if he met the fairest and most comely of women, he would not feel
his heart seduced by the least shadow of desire for her beauty. Such an
one, indeed, is the creation of spotless chastity. Thus instructeth you
the Pen of the Ancient of Days, as bidden by your Lord, the Almighty,
the All-Bountiful.”
(BaháVlláh, Gleanings from the Writings of BaháVlláh, p. 118)
67. “As this physical frame is the throne of the inner temple, what­
ever occurs to the former is felt by the latter. In reality that which takes
delight in joy or is saddened by pain is the inner temple of the body, not
the body itself. Since this physical body is the throne whereon the inner
temple is established, God hath ordained that the body be preserved to
the extent possible, so that nothing that causeth repugnance may be
experienced.”
(The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb, p. 95)
68.
“Such a chaste and holy life, with its implications of modes
purity, temperance, decency, and clean-mindedness, involves no less
than the exercise of moderation in all that pertains to dress, language,
amusements, and all artistic and literary avocations. It demands daily
vigilance in the control of ones carnal desires and corrupt inclinations.
It calls for the abandonment of a frivolous conduct, with its excessive
attachment to trivial and often misdirected pleasures. It requires total
abstinence from all alcoholic drinks, from opium, and from similar habit­
forming drugs. It condemns the prostitution of art and literature, the
practices of nudism and of companionate marriage, infidelity in marital
relationships, and all manner of promiscuity, of easy familiarity, and of
sexual vices. It can tolerate no compromise with the theories, the stan­
dards, the habits, and the excesses of a decadent age. Nay rather it seeks
to demonstrate, through the dynamic force of its example, the perni­
cious character of such theories, the falsity of such standards, the hol­
lowness of such claims, the perversity of such habits, and the sacrile­
gious character of such excesses.”
(Shoghi Effendi, The Advent o f Divine Justice, p. 25)

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
69.
“Concerning your question whether there are any legitim
forms of expression of the sex instinct outside of marriage; according to
the Bahà’i Teachings no sexual act can be considered lawful unless per­
formed between lawfully married persons. Outside of marital life there
can be no lawful or healthy use of the sex impulse. The Bahd’i youth
should, on the one hand, be taught the lesson of self-control which,
when exercised, undoubtedly has a salutary effect on the development
of character and of personality in general, and on the other should be
advised, nay even encouraged, to contract marriage while still young
and in full possession of their physical vigor. Economic factors, no doubt,
are often a serious hindrance to early marriage but in most cases are only
an excuse, and as such should not be over stressed.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated December 13, 1940,
to an individual believer)
D. Parental Consent
70. “Verily in the Book of Bayan (the Bábs Revelation) the matter
is restricted to the consent of both (bride and bridegroom). As we de­
sired to bring about love and friendship and the unity of the people,
therefore We made it conditional upon the consent of the parents also,
that enmity and ill-feeling might be avoided.”
(Bahà’u’ilàh, quoted in Bahaulldh and the New Era, p. 182)
71. “Marriage is conditioned on the consent of both parties and
their parents, whether the woman be a maiden or not.”
(Synopsis and Codification of the Laws and Ordinances
of the Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 39)
72. “Bahďulláh has clearly stated the consent of all living parents
is required for Bahà’i marriage. This applies whether the parents are
Bahà’is or non-Bahá’ís, divorced for years or not. This great law He has
laid down to strengthen the social fabric, to knit closer the ties of the
home, to place a certain gratitude and respect in the hearts of children
for those who have given them life and sent their souls out on the eternal

PREPARATION FOR MARRIAGE
journey towards their Creator. We Baha is must realize that in present-
day society the exact opposite process is taking place: young people care
less and less for their parents’ wishes, divorce is considered a natural
right, and obtained on the flimsiest and most unwarrantable and shabby
pretexts. People separated from each other, especially if one of them has
had full custody of the children, are only too willing to belittle the im­
portance of the partner in marriage also responsible as a parent for bring­
ing those children into this world. The Bahd’is must, through rigid ad­
herence to the Bahd’i laws and teachings, combat these corrosive forces
which are so rapidly destroying home life and the beauty of family rela­
tionships, and tearing down the moral structure of society.”
(Shoglii EfFendi, from a letter dated October 25, 1947, written on his behalf
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States)
73. “The validity of a Bahd’i marriage is dependent upon the free
and full consent of all four parents. The freedom of the parents in the
exercise of this right is unrestricted and unconditioned. They may refuse
their consent on any ground, and they are responsible for their decision
to God alone.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated March 19, 1938,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
74. “It is surely a very unfortunate case when the parents and chil­
dren differ on some grave issues of life such as marriage, but the best
way is not to flout each other’s opinion nor to discuss it in a charged
atmosphere but rather try to settle it in an amicable way.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated May 29, 1929,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
75. “I notice that I have neglected to answer your question con­
cerning . . . consent to her daughter’s marriage: this must be given in
order to be a Bahd’i Marriage. Baha u’lldh requires this and makes no
provision about a parent changing his or her mind. So they are free to do
so. Once the written consent is given and the marriage takes place, the
parents have no right to interfere any more.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, Messages to Canada, p. 47)

BAHÂ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
76.
“We gain the impression from Mr. . . . s letter that he looks
upon the law requiring consent of parents before marriage as a mere
administrative regulation, and does not realize that this is a law of great
importance affecting the very foundations of human society. Moreover,
he seems not to appreciate that in the Bahà’i Faith the spiritual and ad­
ministrative aspects are complementary and that the social laws of the
Faith are as binding as the purely spiritual ones.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated December 4, 1964,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of North East Asia)
77.
“It is perfectly true that Bahà’u’ilàh’s statement that the con­
sent of all living parents is required for marriage places a grave responsi­
bility on each parent. When the parents are Bahà’is they should, of
course act objectively in withholding or granting their approval. They
cannot evade this responsibility by merely acquiescing in their child’s
wish, nor should they be swayed by prejudice; but, whether they be
Bahà’i or non-Bahá’í, the parents’ decision is binding, whatever the rea­
son that may have motivated it. Children must recognize and under­
stand that this act of consenting is the duty of a parent. They must have
respect in their hearts for those who have given them life, and whose
good pleasure they must at all times strive to win.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated February 1, 1968,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States)
78.
“. . . consent of parents must be obtained in all cases before
marriage can take place. Obedience to the laws of Bahà’u’ilàh will nec­
essarily impose hardships in individual cases. No one should expect,
upon becoming a Bahd’i, that his faith will not be tested, and to our
finite understanding of such matters these tests may occasionally seem
unbearable. But we are aware of the assurance which Bahà’u’ilàh Him­
self has given the believers that they will never be called upon to meet a
test greater than their capacity to endure.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated January 29, 1970,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Hawaiian Islands)

PREPARATION FOR MARRIAGE
79.
.. Foster parents or relatives who may act in loco parentis are
not required by Bahà’i law to give their consent to the marriage of the
children they raise although there is no objection to the children obtain­
ing such consent, should they wish to do so.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated April 9, 1970,
to the National Spiritual Assembly of Italy)
80.
“Bahà’is who cannot marry because of lack of consent of one
or more parents could consult with their Local Spiritual Assembly, to
see whether it may suggest a way to change the attitude of any of the
parents involved. The believers, when faced with such problems, should
put their trust in BaháVlláh, devote more time to the service, the teach­
ing and the promotion of His Faith, be absolutely faithful to His in­
junctions on the observance of an unsullied, chaste life, and rely upon
Him to open the way and remove the obstacle, or make known His
w ill”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated
September 9, 1969, to an individual believer)
81.
“In considering the effect of obedience to the laws on indi­
vidual lives, one must remember that the purpose of this life is to pre­
pare the soul for the next. Here one must learn to control and direct
one’s animal impulses, not to be a slave to them. Life in this world is a
succession of tests and achievements, of falling short and of making
new spiritual advances. Sometimes the course may seem very hard, but
one can witness, again and again, that the soul who steadfastly obeys the
law of Bahà’u’ilàh, however hard it may seem, grows spiritually, while
the one who compromises with the law for the sake of his own apparent
happiness is seen to have been following a chimera: he does not attain
the happiness he sought, he retards his spiritual advance and often brings
new problems upon himself.
“To give one very obvious example: The Bahà’i law requiring con­
sent of parents to marriage. All too often nowadays such consent is with­
held by non-Bahá’í parents for reasons of bigotry or racial prejudice; yet

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
we have seen again and again the profound effect on those very parents
of the firmness of the children in the Bahà’i law, to the extent that not
only is the consent ultimately given in many cases, but the character of
the parents can be affected and their relationship with their child greatly
strengthened.
“Thus, by upholding Bahà’i law in the face of all difficulties we
not only strengthen our own characters but influence those around us.”
(Universal House of Justice, Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963—1986, 126.4-6)
E. Engagement__________________________________
82. “Concerning the question of marriage and the stipulated pe­
riod between the time of the engagement and the marriage, this is the
decisive text of the Book of God and may not be interpreted. In the
past, serious difficulties and problems arose when a long period of time
elapsed between the engagement and the marriage. Now according to
the Text of the Book, when marriage between the parties is arranged,
i.e. when the parties become engaged, and it is certain that they will be
married, not more than ninety-five days should elapse before the mar­
riage takes place ..
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in a letter dated April 11, 1982, from the Universal House
of Justice to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States)
83. “The beginning of the ninety-five days before the marriage is
the day on which the consents have been obtained.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated April 3, 1943,
to an individual believer)
84. “The law requiring Baha is to be married within the ninety-
five day period following the engagement is not yet applicable in the
West. However, Iranians residing in the West obey such laws as a matter
of conscience.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated July 14, 1965,
to a National Spiritual Assembly)

PREPARATION FOR MARRIAGE
85.
“Concerning the observance of details of Bahd’i law pertain­
ing to marriage such as the duration of the engagement period . . .  by
the Iranian believers now residing in the West, these laws are binding if
the two parties are Iranians. However, if one party is Iranian and the
other is a western believer, the Iranian believer, although it is a praise­
worthy act to inform his/her spouse of these laws, should not bring
pressure to bear for their observance.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated
July 7, 1968, to an individual believer)

IIL FAMILY LIFE
A, Love and Unity________________________________
86. “At all times hath union and association been well-pleasing in
the sight of God, and separation and dissension abhorred. Hold fast
unto that which God loveth and is His command unto you. He, verily,
is the All-Knowing and the All-Seeing, and He is the All-Wise Ordainer.”
(BaháVlláh, quoted in a compilation dated January 18, 1980, sent by the
Universal House of Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
87. “After mans recognition of God, and becoming steadfast in
His Cause the station of affection, of harmony, of concord and of unity
is superior to that of most other goodly deeds. This is what He Who is
the Desire of the world hath testified at every morn and eve. God grant
that ye may follow that which hath been revealed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.”
(BaháVlláh, quoted in a compilation dated January 18, 1980, sent by the
Universal House of Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)

BAHÂ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
88. “Deal ye one with another with the utmost love and harmony,
with friendliness and fellowship. He Who is the Day Star of Truth beareth
Me witness! So powerful is the light of unity that it can illuminate the
whole earth. The one true God, He Who knoweth all things, Himself
testifieth to the truth of these words.”
(Bahďulláh, Gleanings from the Writings of BaháVlláh, p. 288)
89. “The advent of the prophets and the revelation of the Holy
Books is intended to create love between souls and friendship between
the inhabitants of the earth. Real love is impossible unless one turn his
face towards God and be attracted to His Beauty.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in Bahá / World Faith, p. 364)
90. “The great and fundamental teachings of BaháVlláh are the
oneness of God and unity of mankind. This is the bond of union among
Bahà’is all over the world. They become united themselves, then unite
others. It is impossible to unite unless united.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 156)
*
91. “When you love a member of your family or a compatriot, let
it be with a ray of the Infinite Love! Let it be in God, and for God!
Wherever you find the attributes of God love that person, whether he be
of your family or of another. Shed the light of a boundless love on every
human being whom you m eet. ..”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Paris Talks, 9.21)
92. “Compare the nations of the world to the members of a fam­
ily. A family is a nation in miniature. Simply enlarge the circle of the
household and you have the nation. Enlarge the circle of nations and
you have all humanity. The conditions surrounding the family surround
the nation. The happenings in the family are the happenings in the life
of the nation. Would it add to the progress and advancement of a fam­
ily if dissensions should arise among its members, fighting, pillaging
each other, jealous and revengeful of injury, seeking selfish advantage?
Nay, this would be the cause of the effacement of progress and advance-

FAMILY LIFE
ment. So it is in the great family of nations, for nations are but an aggre­
gate of families.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 137)
93.
“It is highly important for man to raise a family. So long as he
is young, because of youthful self-complacency, he does not realize its
significance, but this will be a source of regret when he grows old___In
this glorious Cause the life of a married couple should resemble the life
of the angels in heaven— a life full of joy and spiritual delight, a life of
unity and concord, a friendship both mental and physical. The home
should be orderly and well-organized. Their ideas and thoughts should
be like the rays of the sun of truth and the radiance of the brilliant stars
in the heavens. Even as two birds they should warble melodies upon the
branches of the tree of fellowship and harmony. They should always be
elated with joy and gladness and be a source of happiness to the hearts
of others. They should set an example to their fellow-men, manifest
true and sincere love towards each other and educate their children in
such a manner as to blazon the fame and glory of their family.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House of Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
94.
“Consider the harmful effect of discord and dissension in a
family; then reflect upon the favors and blessings which descend upon
that family when unity exists among its various members. What incal­
culable benefits and blessings would descend upon the great human
family if unity and brotherhood were established! In this century when
the beneficent results of unity and the ill effects of discord are so clearly
apparent, the means for the attainment and accomplishment of human
fellowship have appeared in the world. His Holiness BaháVlláh has pro­
claimed and provided the way by which hostility and dissension may be
removed from the human world. He has left no ground or possibility for
strife and disagreement. First he has proclaimed the oneness of man­
kind and specialized religious teachings for existing human conditions.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in Star of the West, Vol. XVII, No. 7, p. 232)

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
95. “Note ye how easily, where unity existeth in a given family, the
affairs of that family are conducted; what progress the members of that
family make, how they prosper in the world. Their concerns are in or­
der, they enjoy comfort and tranquillity, they are secure, their position
is assured, they come to be envied by all. Such a family but addeth to its
stature and its lasting honor, as day succeedeth day.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 221.9)
96. “If love and agreement are manifest in a single family, that
family will advance, become illumined and spiritual; but if enmity and
hatred exist within it, destruction and dispersion are inevitable.”
(Abdul-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 144-145)
97. “I charge you all that each one of you concentrate all the
thoughts of your heart on love and unity . . .
“Thoughts of love are constructive of brotherhood, peace, friend­
ship, and happiness.”
(Abdul-Bahá, Paris Talks, 6.7, 8)
98. “Know thou of a certainty that Love is the secret of Gods holy
Dispensation, the manifestation of the All-Merciful, the fountain of
spiritual outpourings. Love is heavens kindly light, the Holy Spirits
eternal breath that vivifies the human soul. Love is the cause of Gods
revelation unto man, the vital bond inherent, according to Divine cre­
ation, in the realities of things. Love is the one means that insures true
felicity both in this world and the next. Love is the light that guideth in
darkness, the living link that united God with man, that assureth the
progress of every illumined soul.”
(Abdul-Bahá, quoted in TheBahá'1 World, Vol. II, p. 50)
99. “. . . human evolution . . . had its earliest beginnings in the
birth of family life, its subsequent development in the achievement of
tribal solidarity, leading in turn to the constitution of the city-state, and
expanding later into the institution of independent and sovereign na­
tions.”
(Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha'ulhih, p. 43)

FAMILY LIFE
100.
. . the Cause has not come to break up family ties but to
strengthen them; it has not come to eliminate love but to strengthen it;
it has not been created to weaken social institutions but to strengthen
them.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated October 14, 1928,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
101.
“If we Bahà’is cannot attain to cordial unity among ourselves,
then we fail to realize the main purpose for which the Báb, BaháVlláh,
and the Beloved Master lived and suffered.
“In order to achieve this cordial unity, one of the first essentials
insisted on by BaháV lláh and ‘Abdul-Bahá is that we resist the natural
tendency to let our attention dwell on the faults and failings of others
rather than on our own. Each of us is responsible for one life only, and
that is our own. Each of us is immeasurably far from being perfect as
our heavenly Father is perfect’ and the task of perfecting our own life
and character is one that requires all our attention, our will-power and
energy. If we allow our attention and energy to be taken up in efforts to
keep others right and remedy their faults, we are wasting precious time.
We are like ploughmen each of whom has his team to manage and his
plough to direct, and in order to keep his furrow straight he must keep
his eye on his goal and concentrate on his own task. If he looks to this
side and that to see how Tom and Harry are getting on and to criticize
their ploughing, then his own furrow will assuredly become crooked.
“On no subject are the Bahà’i teachings more emphatic than on
the necessity to abstain from fault-finding and backbiting while being
ever eager to discover and root out our own faults and overcome our
own failings.
“If we profess loyalty to BaháVlláh, to our Beloved Master and
our dear Guardian, then we must show our love by obedience to these
explicit teachings. Deeds not words are what they demand, and no
amount of fervor in the use of expressions of loyalty and adulation will
compensate for failure to live in the spirit of the teachings.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated May 12, 1925,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)

BAHÂ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
B. Communication
102. “If ye be aware of a certain truth, if ye possess a jewel, of
which others are deprived, share it with them in a language of utmost
kindliness and good-will. If it be accepted, if it fulfill its purpose, your
object is attained. If any one should refuse it, leave him unto himself,
and beseech God to guide him. Beware lest ye deal unkindly with him.
A kindly tongue is the lodestone of the hearts of men. It is the bread of
the spirit, it clotheth the words with meaning, it is the fountain of the
light of wisdom and understanding..
(BaháVlláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahaulldh, p. 289)
103. “The Great Being saith: The heaven of divine wisdom is illu­
mined with the two luminaries of consultation and compassion. Take
ye counsel together in all matters, inasmuch as consultation is the lamp
of guidance which leadeth the way, and is the bestower of understand-
•
»
mg.
(Baha ulláh, quoted in Consultation: A Compilation, no. 1)
104. “Say: no man can attain his true station except through his
justice. No power can exist except through unity. No welfare and no
well-being can be attained except through consultation.”
(BaháVlláh, quoted in Consultation: A Compilation, no. 2)
105. “Consultation bestoweth greater awareness and transmuteth
conjecture into certitude. It is a shining light which, in a dark world,
leadeth the way and guideth. For everything there is and will continue
to be a station of perfection and maturity. The maturity of the gift of
understanding is made manifest through consultation.”
(BaháVlláh, quoted in Consultation: A Compilation, no. 3)
106. “In all things it is necessary to consult. This matter should be
forcibly stressed by thee, so that consultation may be observed by all.
The intent of what hath been revealed from the Pen of the Most High is
that consultation may be fully carried out among the friends, inasmuch

FAMILY LIFE
as it is and will always be a cause of awareness and of awakening and a
source of good and well-being.”
(Baha ulláh, quoted in Consultation: A Compilation, no. 5)
107. “Trust in God and be unmoved by either praise or false accu­
sations . . .  depend entirely on God.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 138)
108. “Settle all things, both great and small, by consultation. With­
out prior consultation, take no important step in your own personal
affairs. Concern yourselves with one another. Help along one another’s
projects and plans. Grieve over one another. Let none in the whole country
go in need. Befriend one another until ye become as a single body, one
and a l l . . . ”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in Consultation: A Compilation, no. 19)
109. “The prime requisites for them that take counsel together are
purity of motive, radiance of spirit, detachment from all else save God,
attraction to His Divine Fragrances, humility and lowliness amongst
His loved ones, patience and long-suffering in difficulties and servitude
to His exalted Threshold. Should they be graciously aided to acquire
these attributes, victory from the unseen Kingdom of Bahá shall be vouch­
safed to them.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 43.1)
110. “The members thereof must take counsel together in such
wise that no occasion for ill-feeling or discord may arise. This can be
attained when every member expresseth with absolute freedom his own
opinion and setteth forth his argument. Should anyone oppose, he must
on no account feel hurt for not until matters are fully discussed can the
right way be revealed. The shining spark of truth cometh forth only
after the clash of differing opinions . . . ”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 44.1)
111. “If they agree upon a subject, even though it be wrong, it is
better than to disagree and be in the right, for this difference will pro-

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
duce the demolition of the divine foundation. Though one of the par­
ties may be in the right and they disagree that will be the cause of a
thousand wrongs, but if they agree and both parties are in the wrong, as
it is in unity the truth will be revealed and the wrong made right.”
(‘A bdul- Bahá, quoted in Baha'i World Faith, p. 411)
112,
“According to the direct command of God we are forbidd
to utter slander. Remember above all the teaching of BaháVlláh con­
cerning gossip and unseemly talk about others. Stories repeated about
others are seldom good. A silent tongue is safest. Even good may be
harmful if spoken at the wrong time or to the wrong person.”
(‘A bdul-Bahá, Abdul-Bahá in London, p. 131)
113.
“To be silent concerning the faults of others, to pray for th
and to help them, through kindness, to correct their faults.
“To look always at the good and not at the bad. If a man has ten
good qualities and one bad one, to look at the ten and forget the one;
and if a man has ten bad qualities and one good one, to look at the one
and forget the ten.
“Never to allow ourselves to speak one unkind word about an­
other, even though that other be our enemy.”
(‘A b d u l-Bahá, quoted in Bahaulláh and the New Era, p. 94)
114.
“Man must consult on all matters, whether major or min
so that he may become cognizant of what is good. Consultation giveth
him insight into things and enableth him to delve into questions which
are unknown. The light of truth shineth from the faces of those who
engage in consultation. Such consultation causeth the living waters to
flow in the meadows of mans reality, the rays of ancient glory to shine
upon him, and the tree of his being to be adorned with wondrous fruit.
The members who are consulting, however, should behave in the ut­
most love, harmony and sincerity towards each other. The principle of
consultation is one of the most fundamental elements of the divine
edifice. Even in their ordinary affairs the individual members of society
should consult.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in Consultation: A Compilation, no. 14)

FAMILY LIFE
115.
“BaháVlláh also stressed the importance of consultation. We
should not think this worthwhile method of seeking solutions is con­
fined to the administrative institutions of the Cause. Family consulta­
tion employing full and frank discussion, and animated by awareness of
the need for moderation and balance, can be the panacea for domestic
conflict.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated
August 1, 1978, to an individual believer)
C. Tests and Difficulties
116. “O SON OF MAN!
“My calamity is My providence, outwardly it is fire and vengeance,
but inwardly it is light and mercy. Hasten thereunto that thou mayest
become an eternal light and an immortal spirit. This is My command
unto thee, do thou observe it.”
(BaháVlláh, The Hidden Words, p. 15)
117. “O BEFRIENDED STRANGER!
“The candle of thine heart is lighted by the hand of My power,
quench it not with the contrary winds of self and passion. The healer of
all thine ills is remembrance of me, forget it not. Make My love thy
treasure and cherish it even as thy very sight and life.”
(BaháVlláh, The Hidden Words, p. 33)
118. “Verily the most necessary thing is contentment under all
circumstances; by this one is preserved from morbid conditions and
from lassitude. Yield not to grief and sorrow; they cause the greatest
misery. Jealousy consumeth the body and anger doth burn the liver;
avoid these two as you would a lion.”
(BaháVlláh, quoted in BaháVlláh and the New Era, p. 117)
119. “If any differences arise amongst you, behold Me standing
before your face, and overlook the faults of one another for My names

BAHÂ’Î m a r r ia g e  a n d  fa m ily life
sake and as a token of your love for My manifest and resplendent Cause.
We love to see you at all times consorting in amity and concord within
the paradise of My good-pleasure, and to inhale from your acts the fra­
grance of friendliness and unity, of loving-kindness and fellowship.”
(Bahà’u’ilàh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahaulláh, p. 315)
120. “O thou who art firm in the Covenant! The letter thou hadst
written on 2 May 1919 was received. Praise thou God that in tests thou
art firm and steadfast and art holding fast to the Abhá Kingdom. Thou
art not shaken by any affliction or disturbed by any calamity. Not until
man is tried doth the pure gold distinctly separate from the dross. Tor­
ment is the fire of test wherein the pure gold shineth resplendently and
the impurity is burned and blackened. At present thou art, praise be to
God, firm and steadfast in tests and trials and art not shaken by them.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Baháy 89.1)
121. “Rely upon God. Trust in Him. Praise Him, and call Him
continually to mind. He verily turneth trouble into ease, and sorrow
into solace, and toil into utter peace. He verily hath dominion over all
things.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Baháy 150.3)
122. “If thy daily living become difficult, soon (God) thy Lord
will bestow upon thee that which will satisfy thee. Be patient in the time
of affliction and trial, endure every difficulty and hardship with a di­
lated heart, attracted spirit and eloquent tongue in remembrance of the
Merciful. Verily this is the life of satisfaction, the spiritual existence,
heavenly repose, divine benediction and the celestial table! Soon thy
Lord will extenuate thy straitened circumstances even in this world.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Tablets of Abdtd-Baha Abbasy Vol. I, p. 98)
123. “As to thy respected husband: it is incumbent upon thee to
treat him with great kindness, to consider his wishes and be conciliatory
with him at all times, till he seeth that because thou hast directed thyself
toward the Kingdom of God, thy tenderness for him and thy love for

FAMILY LIFE
God have but increased, as well as thy concern for his wishes under all
conditions.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of 'Abdul-Bahá, 91.2)
124. “Thy wife is not in harmony with thee, but praise be to God,
the Blessed Beauty is pleased with thee and is conferring upon thee the
utmost bounty and blessings. But still try to be patient with thy wife,
perchance she may be transformed and her heart may be illumined.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 89.2)
125. “We should not, however, forget that an essential character­
istic of this world is hardship and tribulation and that it is by overcom­
ing them that we achieve our moral and spiritual development. As the
Master says, sorrow is like furrows, the deeper they go, the more plenti­
ful is the fruit we obtain.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated November 5, 1931,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
126. “We must always look ahead and seek to accomplish in the
future what we may have failed to do in the past. Failures, tests, and
trials, if we use them correctly, can become the means of purifying our
spirits, strengthening our characters, and enable us to rise to greater
heights of service.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated December 14, 1941,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
127. “We must not only be patient with others, infinitely patient!,
but also with our own poor selves, remembering that even the Prophets
of God sometimes got tired and cried out in despair!”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated April 5, 1956,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
128. “He feels that you should by all means make every effort to
hold your marriage together, especially for the sake of your children,
who, like all children of divorced parents, cannot but suffer from i on

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
flicting loyalties, for they are deprived of the blessings of a father and
mother in one home, to look after their interests and love them jointly.
“Now that you realize that your husband is ill, you should be able
to reconcile yourself to the difficulties you have faced with him emo­
tionally, and not take an unforgiving attitude, however much you may
suffer.
“We know that Bahďulláh has very strongly frowned on divorce;
and it is really incumbent upon the Bahd’is to make almost a superhu­
man effort not to allow a marriage to be dissolved.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated March 6, 1953,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
129. “When such differences of opinion and belief occurs between
husband and wife it is very unfortunate for undoubtedly it detracts from
that spiritual bond which is the stronghold of the family bond, espe­
cially in times of difficulty. The way, however, that it could be remedied
is not by acting in such wise as to alienate the other party. One of the
objects of the Cause is actually to bring about a closer bond in the homes.
In all such cases, therefore, the Master used to advise obedience to the
wishes of the other party and prayer. Pray that your husband may gradu­
ally see the light and at the same time so act as to draw him nearer rather
than prejudice him. Once that harmony is secured then you will be able
to serve unhampered.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated July 15, 1928,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
130. “He feels that, now that you have found the thing you were
searching for inwardly, and have this added joy in your life of our glori­
ous Faith, you should be kinder to your husband and more considerate
than ever, and do everything in your power to make him feel that this
has not taken you away from him, but only made your love for him, and
your desire to be a good wife to him, greater. Whether he will ultimately
be able to become a Bahà’i or not, is something that only time can tell;
but there is no doubt where your duty lies, and that is to make him
appreciate the fact that your new affiliation has not interfered in any
way with his home life or his marriage, but, on the contrary, has strength­
ened both.

FAMILY LIFE
“It is very difficult when one has found what one knows is the
truth, to sit by and see a dear and close relative completely blind to it.
The temptation is to try and ‘stir them up and make them see the light,’
but this is often disastrous. Silence, love and forbearance will win greater
victories in such cases. However, your husband has no right to ask you
to give up being a Bahà’i. That is going too far. Nobody should trespass
on the sacred bond every human being has a right to have with their
Creator.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated April 20, 1957,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
131. “The Guardian . . . has learned with deep concern of your
family difficulties and troubles. He wishes me to assure you of his fer­
vent prayers on your behalf and your dear ones at home, that you may
be guided and assisted from on high to compose your differences and to
restore complete harmony and fellowship in your midst. While he would
urge you to make any sacrifice in order to bring about unity in your
family, he wishes you not to feel discouraged if your endeavors do not
yield any immediate fruit. You should do your part with absolute faith
that in doing so you are fulfilling your duty as a Bahà’i. The rest is
assuredly in Gods hand.
“As regards your husbands attitude towards the Cause; unfriendly
though that may be you should always hope that, through conciliatory
and friendly means, and with wise, tactful and patient effort you can
gradually succeed in winning his sympathy for the Faith. Under no cir­
cumstances should you try to dictate and impose upon him by force
your personal religious convictions. Neither should you allow his oppo­
sition to the Cause to seriously hinder your activities. . .  You should act
patiently, tactfully and with confidence that your efforts are being guided
and reinforced by BaháVlláh.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated July 23, 1937,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
132. “He was very sorry to see you are having trouble in your
home because of the Bahà’i Faith. He feels that you should do all in
your power to promote love and harmony between your husband and
yourself, for your own sakes and for the sake of your children. You should,

BAHÁ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
however, point out to him that every man is free to seek God for him­
self, and that, although you will never seek to influence him or even
discuss the Bahà’i Faith with him, if he does not want to, he should
leave you free to attend the meetings. The Guardian hopes that through
patience, tact and prayer, you will gradually overcome his prejudice.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated March 16, 1946,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
133. “The Guardian wishes me specially to urge you to remain
patient and confident, and above all to show your husband the utmost
kindness and love, in return for all the opposition and hatred you re­
ceive from him. A conciliatory and friendly attitude in such cases is not
only the duty of every Bahd’i but is also the most effective way of win­
ning for the Cause the sympathy and admiration of its former foes and
enemies. Love is, indeed, a most potent elixir that can transform the
vilest and meanest of people into heavenly souls. May your example
serve to further confirm the truth of this beautiful teaching of our Faith.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated December 6, 1935,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
134. “However, as you no doubt know, Bahà’u lláh has stated that
the purpose of marriage is to promote unity, so you should bear this in
mind when dealing with your non-Baha i relatives; they cannot be ex­
pected to feel the way we do on questions of racial amity, and we must
not force our views on them, but rather lovingly and wisely seek to edu­
cate them.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated August 30, 1957,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
135. “There is no limit to our offerings to the Temple. The more
we give, the better it is for the Cause and for ourselves. But your case is
a special one, since your husband is not a believer. If you can succeed in
convincing him of the importance of your donations to the Cause, so
much the better. But you should never oppose him on this matter and
allow anything to disturb the peace and unity of your family life.”
(Shoghi Effendi from a letter dated September 21, 1933,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)

FAMILY LIFE
136. “Regarding your other question concerning the strained rela­
tionship between you and your mother-in-law and what you can do to
alleviate the situation, we feel you should, with the help and consulta­
tion of your husband, persevere in your efforts to achieve unity in the
family. From your description of the unfriendly attitude your mother-
in-law displays toward you it is clear that you will not have an easy task.
However, the important thing is that you, as a Baha i, are aware of Abdu 1-
Bahás admonition to concentrate on an individuals good qualities and
that this approach to your mother-in-law can strengthen you in your
resolve to achieve unity. And furthermore, perseverance in prayer will
give you the strength to continue your efforts.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated
September 6, 1980, to an individual believer)
137. “The House of Justice points out that learning not to con­
cern oneself with the faults of others seems to be one of the most diffi­
cult lessons for people to master, and that failing in this is a fertile cause
of disputes among Bahà’is as it is among men and women in general. In
‘Star of the West,’ Volume 8, No. 10, on page 138, there is a record of a
reply given by Abdul-Bahá in a private interview in Paris in 1913. He
was asked ‘How shall I overcome seeing the faults of others— recogniz­
ing the wrong in others?’ and He replied: ‘I will tell you. Whenever you
recognize the fault of another, think of yourself: What are my imperfec­
tions?— and try to remove them. Do this whenever you are tried through
the words or deeds of others. Thus you will grow, become more perfect.
You will overcome self, you will not even have time to think of the faults
of others ..
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated
April 5, 1981, written on its behalf to an individual believer)
138. “In considering the problems that you and your wife are ex­
periencing, the House of Justice points out that the unity of your family
should take priority over any other consideration . . .  For example, ser­
vice to the Cause should not produce neglect of the family. It is impor­
tant for you to arrange your time so that your family life is harmonious
and your household receives the attention it requires.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated
August 1, 1978, to an individual believer)

BAHÁ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
D, Equality o f Men and Women____________________
139- “O CHILDREN OF MEN!
“Know ye not why We created you all from the same dust? That
no one should exalt himself over the other. Ponder at all times in your
hearts how ye were created. Since We have created you all from one
substance it is incumbent on you to be even as one soul, to walk with
the same feet, eat with the same mouth and dwell in the same land, that
from your inmost being, by your deeds and actions, the signs of oneness
and the essence of detachment may be made manifest. Such is My counsel
to you, O concourse of light! Heed ye this counsel that ye may obtain
the fruit of holiness from the tree of wondrous glory.”
(BaháVUáh, The Hidden Words, p. 20)
140. “Humanity is like a bird with its two wings— the one is male,
the other female. Unless both wings are strong and impelled by some
common force, the bird cannot fly heavenwards. According to the spirit
of this age, women must advance and fulfill their mission in all depart­
ments of life, becoming equal to men. They must be on the same level
as men and enjoy equal rights. This is my earnest prayer and it is one of
the fundamental principles of BaháVlláh.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in Bahaullúh and the New Era, p. 154)
141. “Divine justice demands that the rights of both sexes should
be equally respected since neither is superior to the other in the eyes of
Heaven. Dignity before God depends not on sex, but on purity and
luminosity of heart. Human virtues belong equally to all!”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Paris Talks, 50.10)
142. “Women have equal rights with men upon earth; in religion
and society they are a very important element. As long as women are
prevented from attaining their highest possibilities, so long will men be
unable to achieve the greatness which might be theirs.”
(Abdu 1-Bahá, Paris Talks, 40.33)
143. “In the world of humanity we find a great difference; the
female sex is treated as though inferior, and is not allowed equal rights

FAMILY LIFE
and privileges. This condition is due not to nature, but to education. In
the Divine Creation there is no such distinction. Neither sex is superior
to the other in the sight of God. Why then should one sex assert the
inferiority of the other, withholding just rights and privileges as though
God had given His authority for such a course of action? If women
received the same educational advantages as those of men, the result
would demonstrate the equality of capacity of both for scholarship.”
(Abdu 1-Bahá, Paris Talks, 50.5)
144. MHis Holiness Bahà’u lláh has greatly strengthened the cause
of women, and the rights and privileges of women is one of the greatest
principles of Abdu 1-Bahá. Rest ye assured! Ere long the days shall come
when the men addressing the women shall say: ‘Blessed are ye! Blessed
are ye! Verily ye are worthy of every gift. Verily ye deserve to adorn your
heads with the crown of everlasting glory, because in sciences and arts,
in virtues and perfections ye shall become equal to man, and as regards
tenderness of heart and the abundance of mercy and sympathy ye are
superior.’”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, Paris Talks, 59.8)
145. “In this Revelation of BaháVlláh, the women go neck and
neck with the men. In no movement will they be left behind. Their
rights with men are equal in degree. They will enter all the administra­
tive branches of politics. They will attain in all such a degree as will be
considered the very highest station of the world of humanity and will
take part in all affairs. Rest ye assured. Do ye not look upon the present
conditions; in the not far distant future the world of women will be-
come all-refulgent and all-glorious FOR HIS HOLINESS BAHÀ’U ’-
LLÁH HATH WILLED IT SO! At the time of elections the right to
vote is the inalienable right of women, and the entrance of women into
all human departments is an irrefutable and incontrovertible question.
No soul can retard or prevent it.”
CAbdu 1-Bahá, Paris Talks, 59.5)
146. “Woman must endeavor then to attain greater perfection, to
be mans equal in every respect, to make progress in all in which she has

BAHÁ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
been backward, so that man will be compelled to acknowledge her equal­
ity of capacity and attainment.”
(‘A bdul-Bahá, Paris Talks, 50.11)
147.
“Womans lack of progress and proficiency has been due to
her need of equal education and opportunity. Had she been allowed
this equality there is no doubt she would be the counterpart of man in
ability and capacity. The happiness of mankind will be realized when
women and men coordinate and advance equally, for each is the comple­
ment and helpmeet of the other.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 182)
E. Education o f Children
148. “It is the bounden duty of parents to rear their children to be
staunch in faith, the reason being that a child who removeth himself
from the religion of God will not act in such a way as to win the good
pleasure of his parents and his Lord. For every praiseworthy deed is born
out of the light of religion, and lacking this supreme bestowal the child
will not turn away from any evil, nor will he draw nigh unto any good.”
(Balia ulláh, quoted in BaháHEducation: A Compilation, no. 12)
149. “The fear of God hath ever been the prime factor in the edu­
cation of His creatures. Well is it with them that have attained there­
unto!”
(Baha ulláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 27)
150. “Unto every father hath been enjoined the instruction of his
son and daughter in the art of reading and writing and in all that hath
been laid down in the Holy Tablet. He that putteth away that which is
commanded unto him, the Trustees are then to take from him that which
is required for their instruction, if he be wealthy, and if not the matter
devolveth upon the House of Justice. Verily, have We made it a shelter
for the poor and needy. He that bringeth up his son or the son of an­
other, it is as though he hath brought up a son of Mine, upon him rest

FAMILY LIFE
My Glory, My loving kindness, My Mercy, that have compassed the
world.”
(BaháVIláh, quoted in Synopsis and Codification
of the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 15-16)
151. “It is incumbent upon the children to exert themselves to the
utmost in acquiring the art of reading and writing. Writing skills that
will provide for urgent needs will be enough for some; and then it is
better and more fitting that they should spend their time in studying
those branches of knowledge which are of use.
“As for what the Supreme Pen hath previously set down, the reason
is that in every art and skill, God loveth the highest perfection.”
(BaháVIláh, quoted in Bahá VEducation: A Compilation, no. 20)
152. “The mother is the first teacher of the child. For children, at
the beginning of life, are fresh and tender as a young twig, and can be
trained in any fashion you desire. If you rear the child to be straight, he
will grow straight, in perfect symmetry. It is clear that the mother is the
first teacher and that it is she who establisheth the character and con­
duct of the child.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in Bahá/ Education: A Compilation, no. 96)
153. “O ye loving mothers, know ye that in Gods sight, the best
of all ways to worship Him is to educate the children and train them in
all the perfections of humankind; and no nobler deed than this can be
imagined.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá» 114.1)
154. “The father must always endeavor to educate his son and to
acquaint him with the heavenly teachings. He must give him advice and
exhort him at all times, teach him praiseworthy conduct and character,
enable him to receive training at school and to be instructed in such arts
and sciences as are deemed useful and necessary. In brief, let him instill
into his mind the virtues and perfections of the world of humanity.
Above all he should continually call to his mind the remembrance of

BAHÁ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
God so that his throbbing veins and arteries may pulsate with the love
of God.
“The son, on the other hand, must show forth the utmost obedi­
ence towards his father, and should conduct himself as a humble and a
lowly servant. Day and night he should seek diligently to ensure the
comfort and welfare of his loving father and to secure his good-pleasure.
He must forgo his own rest and enjoyment, and constantly strive to
bring gladness to the hearts of his father and mother, that thereby he
may attain the good-pleasure of the Almighty and be graciously aided
by the hosts of the unseen.”
(Abdu 1-Bahá, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House of Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
155.
“O handmaids of the Lord! The spiritual assemblage that
established in that illumined city is most propitious. Ye have made great
strides; ye have surpassed the others, have arisen to serve the Holy Thresh­
old, and have won heavenly bestowals. Now with all spiritual zeal must
ye gather in that enlightened assemblage and recite the Holy Writings
and engage in remembering the Lord. Set ye forth His arguments and
proofs. Work ye for the guidance of the women in that land, teach the
young girls and the children, so that the mothers may educate their little
ones from their earliest days, thoroughly train them, rear them to have a
goodly character and good morals, guide them to all the virtues of hu­
mankind, prevent the development of any behavior that would be wor­
thy of blame, and foster them in the embrace of Bahd’i education. Thus
shall these tender infants be nurtured at the breast of the knowledge of
God and His love. Thus shall they grow and flourish, and be taught
righteousness and the dignity of humankind, resolution and the will to
strive and to endure. Thus shall they learn perseverance in all things, the
will to advance, high mindedness and high resolve, chastity and purity
of life. Thus shall they be enabled to carry to a successful conclusion
whatsoever they undertake.
“Let the mothers consider that whatever concerneth the education
of children is of the first importance. Let them put forth every effort in
this regard, for when the bough is green and tender it will grow in what­
ever way ye train it. Therefore is it incumbent upon the mothers to rear
their little ones even as a gardener tendeth his young plants. Let them

FAMILY LIFE
strive by day and by night to establish within their children faith and
certitude, the fear of God, the love of the Beloved of the worlds, and all
good qualities and traits. Whensoever a mother seeth that her child hath
done well, let her praise and applaud him and cheer his heart; and if the
slightest undesirable trait should manifest itself, let her counsel the child
and punish him, and use means based on reason, even a slight verbal
chastisement should this be necessary. It is not, however, permissible to
strike a child, or vilify him, for the child’s character will be totally per­
verted if he be subjected to blows or verbal abuse.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 95.1-2)
156.
“O handmaids of the beauty of Abhá! Your letter hath come,
and its perusal brought great joy. Praised be God, the women believers
have organized meetings where they will learn how to teach the Faith,
will spread the sweet savors of the Teachings and make plans for training
the children.
“This gathering must be completely spiritual. That is, the discus­
sions must be confined to marshaling clear and conclusive proofs that
the Sun of Truth hath indeed arisen. And further, those present should
concern themselves with every means of training the girl children; with
teaching the various branches of knowledge, good behavior, a proper
way of life, the cultivation of a good character, chastity and constancy,
perseverance, strength, determination, firmness of purpose; with house­
hold management, the education of children, and whatever especially
applieth to the needs of girls— to the end that these girls, reared in the
stronghold of all perfections, and with the protection of a goodly char­
acter, will, when they themselves become mothers, bring up their chil­
dren from earliest infancy to have a good character and conduct them­
selves well.
“Let them also study whatever will nurture the health of the body
and its physical soundness, and how to guard their children from dis­
ease.
“When matters are thus well arranged, every child will become a
peerless plant in the gardens of the Abhá Paradise.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdul-Bahá, 94.1-4)

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
157. “Ye should consider the question of goodly character as of
the first importance. It is incumbent upon every father and mother to
counsel their children over a long period, and guide them unto those
things which lead to everlasting honor.
“Encourage ye the school children, from their earliest years, to
deliver speeches of high quality, so that in their leisure time they will
engage in giving cogent and effective talks, expressing themselves with
clarity and eloquence.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings o f Abdul-Bahá, 108.1-2)
158. “Train your children from their earliest days to be infinitely
tender and loving to animals. If an animal be sick, let the children try to
heal it, if it be hungry, let them feed it, if thirsty, let them quench its
thirst, if weary, let them see that it rests.
“Most human beings are sinners, but the beasts are innocent. Surely
those without sin should receive the most kindness and love— all except
animals which are harmful, such as bloodthirsty wolves, such as poison­
ous snakes and similar pernicious creatures, the reason being that kind­
ness to these is an injustice to human beings and to other animals as
well.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from the Writings o f Abdul-Bahá,, 138.4-5)
159. “The art of music is divine and effective. It is the food of the
soul and spirit. Through the power and charm of music the spirit of
man is uplifted. It has wonderful sway and effect in the hearts of chil­
dren, for their hearts are pure and melodies have great influence in them.
The latent talents with which the hearts of these children are endowed
will find expression through the medium of music. Therefore you must
exert yourselves to make them proficient; teach them to sing with excel­
lence and effect. It is incumbent upon each child to know something of
music, for without knowledge of this art, the melodies of instrument
and voice cannot be rightly enjoyed.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, The Promulgation o f Universal Peace,
52)
160. “I give you my advice and it is this: Train these children with
divine exhortations. From their childhood instill in their hearts the love

FAMILY LIFE
of God so they may manifest in their lives the fear of God and have
confidence in the bestowals of God. Teach them to free themselves from
human imperfections and to acquire the divine perfections latent in the
heart of man. The life of man is useful if he attains the perfections of
man. If he becomes the center of the imperfections of the world of
humanity, death is better than life, and nonexistence better than exis­
tence. Therefore make ye an effort in order that these children may be
rightly trained and educated and that each one of them may attain per­
fection in the world of humanity. Know ye the value of these children
for they are all my children.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, The Promulgation o f Universal Peace, pp. 53-54)
161. “The child must not be oppressed or censured because it is
undeveloped; it must be patiently trained.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, The Promulgation o f Universal Peace, pp. 180-181)
162. “With regard to the statement attributed to ‘Abdul-Bahá and
which you have quoted in your letter regarding a problem child’; these
statements of the Master, however true in their substance, should never
be given a literal interpretation. ‘Abdul-Bahá could have never meant
that a child should be left to himself, entirely free. In fact Bahà’i educa­
tion, just like any other system of education is based on the assumption
that there are certain natural deficiencies in every child, no matter how
gifted, which his educators, whether his parents, schoolmasters, or his
spiritual guides and preceptors should endeavor to remedy. Discipline
of some sort, whether physical, moral or intellectual, is indeed indis­
pensable, and no training can be said to be complete and fruitful if it
disregards this element. The child when born is far from being perfect.
It is not only helpless, but actually is imperfect, and even is naturally
inclined towards evil. He should be trained, his natural inclinations har­
monized, adjusted and controlled, and if necessary suppressed or regu­
lated, so as to ensure his healthy physical and moral development. Ba-
há’í parents cannot simply adopt an attitude of nonresistance towards
their children . . . ”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated July 9, 1939,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)

BAHÁ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
163. “As regards your plans, the Guardian fully approves indeed of
your view that no matter how urgent and vital the requirements of the
teaching work may be you should under no circumstance neglect the
education of your children, as towards them you have an obligation no
less sacred than towards the Cause.
“Any plan or arrangement you may arrive at which would com­
bine your two-fold duties toward your family and the Cause, and would
permit you to resume active work in the field of pioneer teaching, and
also to take good care of your children so as to not jeopardize their
future in the Cause would meet with the whole-hearted approval of the
Guardian.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated November 16, 1939,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
164. “The question of the training and education of children in
case one of the parents is a non-Bahá’í is one which solely concerns the
parents themselves, who should decide about it the way they find best
and most conducive to the maintenance of the unity of their family,
and to the future welfare of their children. Once the child comes of age,
however, he should be given full freedom to choose his religion, irre­
spective of the wishes and desires of his parents.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated December 14, 1940, written on his behalf
to the National Spiritual Assembly of India and Burma)
165. “That the first teacher of the child is the mother should not
be startling, for the primary orientation of the infant is to its mother.
This provision of nature in no way minimizes the role of the father in
the Bahà’i family. Again, equality of status does not mean identity of
function.”
(Universal House o f Justice, from a letter dated
June 23, 1974, to an individual believer)
F. Relationships within the Family
166.
“The parents must exert every effort to rear their offspring to
be religious, for should the children not attain this greatest of adorn-

FAMILY LIFE
merits, they will not obey their parents, which in a certain sense means
that they will not obey God. Indeed, such children will show no consid­
eration to anyone, and will do exactly as they please.”
(Bahà’u’ilàh, quoted in BaháHEducation: A Compilation, no. 14)
167.
“We have caused thee to return to thy home as a token
Our mercy unto thy mother, inasmuch as We have found her over­
whelmed with sorrow. We have enjoined you in the Book ‘to worship no
one but God and to show kindness to your parents.’ Thus hath the one
true God spoken and the decree hath been fulfilled by the Almighty, the
All-wise. Therefore We have caused Thee to return unto her and unto
thy sister, that your mother s eyes may thereby be cheered, and she may
be of the thankful.
“Say, O My people! Show honor to your parents and pay homage
to them. This will cause blessings to descend upon you from the clouds
of the bounty of your Lord, the Exalted, the Great.
“When We learned of her sadness, We directed thee to return unto
her, as a token of mercy unto thee from Our presence, and as an ad­
monishment for others.
“Beware lest ye commit that which would sadden the hearts of
your fathers.and mothers. Follow ye the path of Truth which indeed is a
straight path. Should anyone give you a choice between the opportunity
to render a service to me and a service to them, choose ye to serve them,
and let such service be a path leading you to Me. This is My exhortation
and command unto thee. Observe therefore that which thy Lord, the
Mighty, the Gracious, hath prescribed unto thee.”
(Bahďulláh, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
168.
“The fruits of the tree of existence are trustworthiness, lo
alty, truthfulness and purity. After the recognition of the oneness of the
Lord, exalted be He, the most important of all duties is to have due
regard for the rights of ones parents. This matter hath been mentioned
in all the Books of God.”
(Bahďulláh, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
169. “These blessed words were uttered by the Tongue of gran­
deur in the Land of Mystery (Adrianople), exalted and glorified is His
utterance:
“One of the distinguishing characteristics of this most great Dis­
pensation is that the kin of such as have recognized and embraced the
truth of this Revelation and have, in the glory of His name, the Sover­
eign Lord, quaffed the choice, sealed wine from the chalice of the love
of the one True God, will, upon their death, if they are outwardly non­
believers, be graciously invested with divine forgiveness and partake of
the ocean of His Mercy.
“This bounty, however, will be vouchsafed only to such souls as
have inflicted no harm upon Him Who is the Sovereign Truth nor upon
His loved ones.
“Thus hath it been ordained by Him Who is the Lord of the Throne
on high and the Ruler of this world and of the world to come.”
(Bahà’u lláh, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
170. “We have enjoined upon every son to serve his father. Thus
have we decreed this command in the Book.”
(Balià’u lláh, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
171. “If thou wouldst show kindness and consideration to thy par­
ents so that they may feel generally pleased, this would also please Me,
for parents must be highly respected and it is essential that they should
feel contented, provided they deter thee not from gaining access to the
Threshold of the Almighty, nor keep thee back from walking in the way
of the Kingdom. Indeed it behooveth them to encourage and spur thee
on in this direction.”
OAbdul-Bahá, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January, 1982,
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
172. “According to the teachings of Bahà’u lláh, the family being a
human unit must be educated according to the rules of sanctity. All the
virtues must be taught the family. The integrity of the family bond must

FAMILY LIFE
be constantly considered and the rights of the individual members must
not be transgressed. The rights of the son, the father, the mother, none
of them must be transgressed, none of them must be arbitrary. Just as
the son has certain obligations to his father, the father likewise has cer­
tain obligations to his son. The mother, the sister and other members of
the household have their certain prerogatives. All these rights and pre­
rogatives must be conserved, yet the unity of the family must be sus­
tained. The injury of one shall be considered the injury of all; the com­
fort of each the comfort of all; the honor of one the honor of all.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, The Promulgation o f Universal Peace, p. 168)
173. “The youth must grow and develop and take the place of
their fathers, that this abundant grace, in the posterity of each one of
the loved ones of God who bore great agonies, may day by day increase,
until in the end, it shall yield its fruit on earth and in Heaven.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in Baha I Education: A Compilation, no. 103)
174. “There are also certain sacred duties of children toward par­
ents, which duties are written in the Book of God, as belonging to God.
The (children s) prosperity in this world and the Kingdom depends upon
the good pleasure of parents, and without this they will be in manifest
loss.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Tablets o f Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, pp. 262-263)
175. “O ye dear children!
“Your father is very compassionate, clement and merciful unto
you and desireth for you success, prosperity and eternal life in the King­
dom of God. Therefore, it is incumbent upon you, dear children, to
seek his good pleasure, to be guided by his guidance, to be drawn by the
magnet of the love of God and be brought up in the lap of the love of
God; that ye may become beautiful branches in the Garden of El-Abha,
verdant and watered by the abundance of the gift of God.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Tablets o f Abdid-Baha Abbas, Vol. Ill, p. 622)
176. “O dear one of Abdu 1-Bahá! Be the son of thy father and be
the fruit of that tree. Be a son that hath been born of his soul and heart

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
and not only of the water and clay. A real son is such an one as hath
branched from the spiritual part of a man. I ask God that thou mayest
be at all times confirmed and strengthened.”
(Abdul-Bahá, Tablets o f Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. II, p. 342)
177. “Comfort thy mother and endeavor to do what is conducive
to the happiness of her heart.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Tablets o f Abdul-Baha Abbas, Vol. I, p. 74)
178. “You have asked whether a husband would be able to prevent
his wife from embracing the divine light or a wife dissuade her husband
from gaining entry into the Kingdom of God. In truth neither of them
could prevent the other from entering into the Kingdom, unless the
husband hath an excessive attachment to the wife or the wife to the
husband. Indeed when either of the two worshippeth the other to the
exclusion of God, then each could prevent the other from seeking ad­
mittance into His Kingdom.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
179. “Regarding thy question about consultation of a father with
his son, or a son with his father, in matters of trade and commerce,
consultation is one of the fundamental elements of the foundation of
the Law of God. Such consultation is assuredly acceptable, whether be­
tween father and son, or with others. There is nothing better than this.
Man must consult in all things for this will lead him to the depths of
each problem and enable him to find the right solution.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
180. “It is one of the essential teachings of the Faith that unity
should be maintained in the home. Of course this does not mean that
any member of the family has a right to influence the faith of any other
member; and if this is realized by all the members then it seems certain
that unity would be feasible.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated July 6, 1952,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)

FAMILY LIFE
181.
“In regard to the question you asked him: he feels sure that,
although in some ways you may be a financial burden to your children,
it is to them a privilege to look after you; you are their mother and have
given them life, and through the bounty of Baha ulláh they are now
attracted to His Faith. Anything they do for you is small recompense for
all you have done for them.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated September 20, 1948,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
182.
“It made him very happy to know of the recent confirmation
of your . . . friend, and of her earnest desire to serve and promote the
Faith. He will certainly pray on her behalf that she may, notwithstand­
ing the opposition of her parents and relatives, increasingly gain in knowl­
edge and in understanding of the Teachings, and become animated with
such zeal as to arise, and bring into the Cause a large number of her
former co-religionists.
“Under no circumstances, however, should she allow her parents
to become completely alienated from her, but it is her bounden duty to
strive, through patient, continued and loving effort, to win their sympa­
thy for the Faith, and even perhaps, to bring about their confirmation
»
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated July 6, 1938,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
183.
“The House of Justice suggests that all statements in the Holy
Writings concerning specific areas of the relationship between men and
women should be considered in the light of the general principle of
equality between the sexes that has been authoritatively and repeatedly
enunciated in the Sacred Texts. In one of His Tablets ‘Abdul-Bahá as­
serts: ‘In this divine age the bounties of God have encompassed the
world of women. Equality of men and women, except in some negli­
gible instances, has been fully and categorically announced. Distinc­
tions have been utterly removed.’ That men and women differ from one
another in certain characteristics and functions is an inescapable fact of
nature; the important thing is that ‘Abdul-Bahá regards such inequali­
ties as remain between the sexes as being ‘negligible/

BAHA’I m arriage a n d  family life
“The relationship between husband and wife must be viewed in
the context of the Bahd’i ideal of family life. Bahďu lláh came to bring
unity to the world, and a fundamental unity is that of the family. There­
fore, one must believe that the Faith is intended to strengthen the fam­
ily, not weaken it, and one of the keys to the strengthening of unity is
loving consultation. The atmosphere within a Bahd’i family as within
the community as a whole should express the keynote of the Cause of
Goď which, the beloved Guardian has stated, ‘is not dictatorial author­
ity but humble fellowship, not arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank
and loving consultation.’
“A family, however, is a very special kind of community.’ The
Research Department has not come across any statements which specifi­
cally name the father as responsible for the ‘security, progress and unity
of the family’... but it can be inferred from a number of the responsi­
bilities placed upon him, that the father can be regarded as the ‘head’ of
the family. The members of a family all have duties and responsibilities
towards one another and to the family as a whole, and these duties and
responsibilities vary from member to member because of their natural
relationships. The parents have the inescapable duty to educate their
children— but not vice versa; the children have the duty to obey their
parents— the parents do not obey the children; the mother— not the
father— bears the children, nurses them in babyhood, and is thus their
first educator, hence daughters have a prior right to education over sons
and, as the Guardian’s secretary has written on his behalf, ‘The task of
bringing up a Bahà’i child, as emphasized time and again in Bahd’i Writ­
ings, is the chief responsibility of the mother, whose unique privilege is
indeed to create in her home such conditions as ‘would be most condu­
cive to both his material and spiritual welfare and advancement. The
training which the child first receives through his mother constitutes the
strongest foundation for his future development.’ A corollary of this
responsibility of the mother is her right to be supported by her hus­
band— a husband has no explicit right to be supported by his wife. This
principle of the husband’s responsibility to provide for and protect the
family can be seen applied also in the law in intestacy which provides
that the family’s dwelling place passes, on the father’s death, not to his
widow, but to his eldest son; the son at the same time has the responsi­
bility to care for his mother.

FAMILY LIFE
“It is in this context of mutual and complementary duties and
responsibilities that one should read the Tablet in which Abdu 1-Bahá
gives the following exhortation:
‘O Handmaids of the Self-Sustaining Lord! Exert your efforts so
that you may obtain the honor and privilege ordained for women.
Undoubtedly the greatest glory of women is servitude at His thresh­
old and submissiveness at His door; it is the possession of a vigi­
lant heart, and praise of the incomparable God; it is heartfelt love
towards other handmaids and spotless chastity; it is obedience to
and consideration for their husbands and the education and care
of their children; and it is tranquillity, and dignity, and persever­
ance in the remembrance of the Lord, and the utmost enkindlement
and attraction.’
“This exhortation to the utmost degree of spirituality and self-
abnegation should not be read as a legal definition giving the husband
absolute authority over his wife, for, in a letter written to an individual
believer on 22 July 1943, the beloved Guardians secretary wrote on his
behalf:
‘The Guardian, in his remarks . . . about parents and children,
wives’ and husbands’ relations in America, meant that there is a
tendency in that country for children to be too independent of the
wishes of their parents and lacking in the respect due to them.
Also wives, in some cases, have a tendency to exert an unjust de­
gree of domination over their husbands which, of course, is not
right, any more than that the husband should unjustly dominate
his wife.’
“In any group, however loving the consultation, there are never­
theless points on which, from time to time, agreement cannot be reached.
In a Spiritual Assembly this dilemma is resolved by a majority vote.
There can, however, be no majority where only two parties are involved,
as in the case of a husband and wife. There are, therefore, times when a
wife should defer to her husband, and times when a husband should
defer to his wife, but neither should ever unjustly dominate the other. In
short, the relationship between husband and wife should be as held forth
in the prayer revealed by Abdul-Bahá which is often read at Bahà’i wed­
dings: ‘Verily they are married in obedience to Thy command. Cause
them to become the signs of harmony and unity till the end of time.’

BAHAI MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
“These are all relationships within the family, but there is a much
wider sphere of relationship between men and women than in the home,
and this too we should consider in the context of Bahà’i society, not in
that of past or present social norms. For example, although the mother
is the first educator of the child, and the most formative influence in his
development, the father also has the responsibility of educating his chil­
dren, and this responsibility is so weighty that Bahà’u’ilàh has stated
that a father who fails to exercise it forfeits his rights of fatherhood.
Similarly, although the primary responsibility for supporting the family
financially is placed upon the husband, this does not by any means im­
ply that the place of women is confined to the home. On the contrary,
‘Abdu 1-Bahá has stated:
‘In this Revelation of Bahà’u’ilàh, the women go neck and neck
with men. In no movement will they be left behind. Their rights
with men are equal in degree. They will enter all the administra­
tive branches of politics. They will attain in all such a degree as
will be considered the very highest station of the world of human­
ity and will take part in all affairs.’
{Paris Talks, [59.5])
and again:
‘So it will come to pass that when women participate fully and
equally in the affairs of the world, enter confidently and capably
the great arena of laws and politics, war will cease;. . . ’
{The Promulgation o f Universal Peace, p. 135)
“In the Tablet of the World, Bahà’u’ilàh Himself has envisaged
that women as well as men would be breadwinners in stating:
‘Everyone, whether man or woman, should hand over to a trusted
person a portion of what he or she earneth through trade, agricul­
ture or other occupation, for the training and education of chil­
dren, to be spent for this purpose with the knowledge of the Trust­
ees of the House of Justice.’
{Tablets o f Bahďulláh, p. 90)

FAMILY LIFE
“A very important element in the attainment of such equality is
BaháVlláhs provision that boys and girls must follow essentially the
same curriculum in schools.”
(Universal House o f Justice, from a letter dated December 28, 1980,
to the National Spiritual Assembly o f New Zealand)
G* Death
184. “O SON OF THE SUPREME!
“I have made death a messenger of joy to thee. Wherefore dost
thou grieve? I made the light to shed on thee its splendor. Why dost
thou veil thyself therefrom?”
(Bahaulláh, The Hidden Words, p. 11)
185.
“O thou assured soul, thou maidservant of God ...  ! Be not
grieved at the death of thy respected husband. He hath, verily, attained
the meeting of His Lord at the seat of Truth in the presence of the
potent King. Do not suppose that thou hast lost him. The veil shall be
lifted and thou shalt behold his face illumined in the Supreme Con­
course. Just as God, the Exalted, hath said, ‘Him will we surely quicken
to a happy life/ Supreme importance should be attached, therefore, not
to this first creation but rather to the future life.”
CAbdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f ‘Abdul-Bahá, 165.4)
186.
“O thou beloved maid-servant of God, although the loss of a
son is indeed heart-breaking and beyond the limits of human endur­
ance, yet one who knoweth and understandeth is assured that the son
hath not been lost but, rather, hath stepped from this world into an­
other, and she will find him in the divine realm. That reunion shall be
for eternity, while in this world separation is inevitable and bringeth
with it a burning grief.
“Praise be unto God that thou hast faith, art turning thy face to­
ward the everlasting Kingdom and believest in the existence of a heav­
enly world. Therefore be thou not disconsolate, do not languish, do not
sigh, neither wail nor weep; for agitation and mourning deeply affect his
soul in the divine realm.

BAHÂ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
“That beloved child addresseth thee from the hidden world: ‘O
thou kind Mother, thank divine Providence that I have been freed from
a small and gloomy cage and, like the birds of the meadows, have soared
to the divine world— a world which is spacious, illumined, and ever gay
and jubilant. Therefore, lament not, O Mother, and be not grieved; I
am not of the lost, nor have I been obliterated and destroyed. I have
shaken off the mortal form and have raised my banner in this spiritual
world. Following this separation is everlasting companionship. Thou
shalt find me in the heaven of the Lord, immersed in an ocean of light.’”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f Abdul-Bahá, 171.1-3)
187. “Question.—What is the condition of children who die be­
fore attaining the age of discretion, or before the appointed time of birth?
“Answer.—These infants are under the shadow of the favor of
God; and as they have not committed any sin, and are not soiled with
the impurities of the world of nature, they are the centers of the mani­
festation of bounty, and the Eye of Compassion will be turned upon
them.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, pp. 278-279)
188. “The death of that beloved youth and his separation from
you have caused the utmost sorrow and grief; for he winged his flight in
the flower of his age and the bloom of his youth to the heavenly nest.
But he hath been freed from this sorrow-stricken shelter and hath turned
his face toward the everlasting nest of the Kingdom, and, being deliv­
ered from a dark and narrow world, hath hastened to the sanctified realm
of light; therein lieth the consolation of our hearts.
“The inscrutable divine wisdom underlieth such heart-rending
occurrences. It is as if a kind gardener transferreth a fresh and tender
shrub from a confined place to a wide open area. This transfer is not the
cause of the withering, the lessening or the destruction of that shrub;
nay, on the contrary, it maketh it to grow and thrive, acquire freshness
and delicacy, become green and bear fruit. This hidden secret is well
known to the gardener, but those souls who are unaware of this bounty
suppose that the gardener, in his anger and wrath, hath uprooted the
shrub. Yet to those who are aware, this concealed fact is manifest, and

FAMILY LIFE
this predestined decree is considered a bounty. Do not feel grieved or
disconsolate, therefore, at the ascension of that bird of faithfulness; nay,
under all circumstances pray for that youth, supplicating for him for­
giveness and the elevation of his station.
“I hope that you will attain the utmost patience, composure and
resignation and I entreat and implore at the Threshold of Oneness, beg­
ging for forgiveness and pardon. My hope from the infinite bounties of
God is that He may shelter this dove of the garden of faith, and cause
him to abide on the branch of the Supreme Concourse, that he may sing
in the best of melodies the praise and glorification of the Lord of Names
and Attributes.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f Abdul-Bahá, 169.1-3)
189.
“In the next world man will find himself freed from many o
the disabilities under which he now suffers. Those who have passed on
through death, have a sphere of their own. It is not removed from ours:
their work of the Kingdom, is ours; but it is sanctified from what we call
time and place. Time with us is measured by the sun. When there is no
more sunrise and no more sunset, that kind of time does not exist for
man. Those who have ascended have different attributes (conditions)
from those who are still on earth, yet there is no real separation.
“In prayer there is a mingling of stations, a mingling of condition.
Pray for them as they pray for you.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Abdul-Bahá in London, p. 97)
H. Work and Finances
190.
“Whatsoever deterreth you, in this Day, from loving God i
nothing but the world. Flee it, that ye may be numbered with the blest.
Should a man wish to adorn himself with the ornaments of the earth, to
wear its apparels, or partake of the benefits it can bestow, no harm can
befall him, if he alloweth nothing whatever to intervene between him
and God, for God hath ordained every good thing, whether created in
the heavens or in the earth, for such of His servants as truly believe in
Him. Eat ye, O people, of the good things which God hath allowed

BAHÀ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
you, and deprive not yourselves from His wondrous bounties. Render
thanks and praise unto him, and be of them that are truly thankful.”
(BaháVlláh, Gleanings from  the Writings o f BaháVlláh, p. 276)
191. “O SON OF MAN!
“Should prosperity befall thee, rejoice not, and should abasement
come upon thee, grieve not, for both shall pass away and be no more.”
(BaháVlláh, The Hidden Words, p. 16)
192. “O SON OF BEING!
“If poverty overtake thee, be not sad; for in time the Lord of wealth
shall visit thee. Fear not abasement, for glory shall one day rest on thee.”
(Bahďulláh, The Hidden Words, p. 16)
193. “O MY SERVANT!
“The best of men are they that earn a livelihood by their calling
and spend upon themselves and upon their kindred for the love of God,
the Lord of all worlds.”
(BaháVlláh, The Hidden Words,?. 51)
194.
“O thou servant of the One true God! In this universal dis­
pensation mans wondrous craftsmanship is reckoned as worship of the
Resplendent Beauty. Consider what a bounty and blessing it is that crafts­
manship is regarded as worship. In former times, it was believed that
such skills were tantamount to ignorance, if not a misfortune, hindering
man from drawing nigh unto God. Now consider how His infinite be­
stowals and abundant favors have changed hell-fire into blissful para­
dise, and a heap of dark dust into a luminous garden.
“It behooveth the craftsmen of the world at each moment to offer
a thousand tokens of gratitude at the Sacred Threshold, and to exert
their highest endeavor and diligently pursue their professions so that
their efforts may produce that which will manifest the greatest beauty
and perfection before the eyes of all men.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f Abdul-Bahá, 1271-2)

FAMILY LIFE
195.
“Thy letter was received. I hope that thou mayest be pro­
tected and assisted under the providence of the True one, be occupied
always in mentioning the Lord and display effort to complete thy profes­
sion. Thou must endeavor greatly so that thou mayest become unique in
thy profession and famous in those parts, because attaining perfection
in ones profession in this merciful period is considered to be worship of
God. And whilst thou art occupied with thy profession, thou canst re­
member the True One.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f Abdul-Bahá, 128.1)
196.
“Some mens lives are solely occupied with the things of th
world; their minds are so circumscribed by exterior manners and tradi­
tional interests that they are blind to any other realm of existence, to the
„ spiritual significance of all things! They think and dream of earthly fame,
of material progress. Sensuous delights and comfortable surroundings
bound their horizon, their highest ambitions center in success of worldly
conditions and circumstances! They curb not their lower propensities;
they eat, drink and sleep! Like the animal, they have no thought beyond
their own physical well-being. It is true that these necessities must be
dispatched. Life is a load which must be carried on while we are on
earth, but the cares of the lower things of life should not be allowed to
monopolize all the thoughts and aspirations of a human being. The
hearts ambitions should ascend to a more glorious goal, mental activity
should rise to higher levels! Men should hold in their souls the vision of
celestial perfection, and there prepare a dwelling-place for the inexhaust­
ible bounty of the Divine Spirit.
“Let your ambition be the achievement on earth of a Heavenly
civilization! I ask for you the supreme blessing, that you may be so filled
with the vitality of the Heavenly Spirit that you may be the cause of life
to the world.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Paris Talks, 31.9-10)
197.
“If a man is successful in his business, art, or profession he i
thereby enabled to increase his physical wellbeing and to give his body
the amount of ease and comfort in which it delights. All around us
today we see how man surrounds himself with every modern conve-

BAHÁ’1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
nience and luxury, and denies nothing to the physical and material side
of his nature. But, take heed, lest in thinking too earnestly of the things
of the body you forget the things of the soul: for material advantages do
not elevate the spirit of man. Perfection in worldly things is a joy to the
body of a man but in no wise does it glorify his soul.
“It may be that a man who has every material benefit, and who
lives surrounded by all the greatest comfort modern civilization can give
him, is denied the all important gift of the Holy Spirit.
“It is indeed a good and praiseworthy thing to progress materially,
but in so doing, let us not neglect the more important spiritual progress,
and close our eyes to the Divine light shining in our midst.”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, Paris Talks., 19.3-5)
198. “We must be like the fountain or spring that is continually
emptying itself of all that it has and is continually being refilled from an
invisible source. To be continually giving out for the good of our fellows
undeterred by the fear of poverty and reliant on the unfailing bounty of
the Source of all wealth and all good—this is the secret of right living.”
(Shoghi Effendi, quoted in Bahá V Funds and Contributions, p. 16)
199. “Even though Shoghi Effendi would urge every believer to
sacrifice as much as possible for the sake of contributing towards the
fund of the National Assembly, yet he would discourage the friends to
incur debts for that purpose. We are asked to give what we have, not
what we do not possess, especially if such an act causes suffering to
others. In such matters we should use judgment and wisdom and take
into our confidence other devoted Bahd’is.”
(Shoghi Effendi, quoted in B ahai Funds and Contributions, p. 10)
L Hospitality_____________________________________
200.
“Blessed is the house that hath attained unto My tender mercy,
wherein My remembrance is celebrated, and which is ennobled by the
presence of My loved ones, who have proclaimed My praise, cleaved
fast to the cord of My grace and been honored by chanting My verses.

FAMILY LIFE
Verily they are the exalted servants whom God hath extolled in the
Qayyúmu 1-Asmá* and other scriptures. Verily He is the All-Hearing,
the Answerer, He Who perceiveth all things.”
(Bahďulláh, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent from the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
201.
. . consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of
friendliness and fellowship ... They that are endued with sincerity and
faithfulness should associate with all the peoples and kindreds of the
earth with joy and radiance, inasmuch as consorting with people hath
promoted and will continue to promote unity and concord, which in
turn are conducive to the maintenance of order in the world and to the
regeneration of nations. Blessed are such as hold fast to the cord of
kindliness and tender mercy and are free from animosity and hatred.”
(BaháVlláh, Tablets o f Bahďulláh, pp. 35-36)
202. “O MY FRIENDS!
“Walk ye in the ways of the good pleasure of the Friend, and know
that His pleasure is in the pleasure of His creatures. That is: no man
should enter the house of his friend save at his friends pleasure, nor lay
hands upon his treasures nor prefer his own will to his friends, and in
no wise seek an advantage over him. Ponder this, ye that have insight!”
(Baha ulláh, The Hidden Words, p. 37)
203. “O my God! let the outpourings of Thy bounty and bless­
ings descend upon homes whose inmates have embraced Thy Faith, as a
token of Thy grace and as a mark of loving-kindness from Thy pres­
ence.”
(The Báb, Selections from  the Writings o f the Báb, p. 200)
204. “My home is the home of peace. My home is the home of joy
and delight. My home is the home of laughter and exaltation. Whoever
enters through the portals of this home, must go out with gladsome
heart. This is the home of light; whoever enters here must become illu­
mined.”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, quoted in Star o f the West, Vol. XX, No. 2, p. 52)

BAHAI m arriage a n d  family life
205. “Treat all thy friends and relatives, even strangers, with a
spirit of utmost love and kindliness.”
(‘Abdu 1-Bahá, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
206. “Wherefore must the loved ones of God associate in affec­
tionate fellowship with stranger and friend alike, showing forth to all
the utmost loving-kindness, disregarding the degree of their capacity,
never asking whether they deserve to be loved. In every instance let the
friends be considerate and infinitely kind.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f Abdul-Bahá, 8.8)
207. “I beseech God to graciously make of thy home a center for
the diffusion of the light of divine guidance, for the dissemination of
the Words of God and for enkindling at all times the fire of love in the
hearts of His faithful servants and maidservants. Know thou of a cer­
tainty that every house wherein the anthem of praise is raised to the
Realm of Glory in celebration of the Name of God is indeed a heavenly
home, and one of the gardens of delight in the Paradise of God.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, quoted in a compilation on Family Life dated January 1982
sent by the Universal House o f Justice to National Spiritual Assemblies)
208.
“This is in truth a Bahd’i house. Every time such a house or
meeting place is founded it becomes one of the greatest aids to the gen­
eral development of the town and country to which it belongs. It en­
courages the growth of learning and science and is known for its intense
spirituality and for the love it spreads among the peoples.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Paris Talks, 24.1)
J. Relationship with Bahà'i Institutions and Community
209.
“The first condition is firmness in the Covenant of God. For
the power of the Covenant will protect the Cause of BaháVlláh from
the doubts of the people of error. It is the fortified fortress of the Cause
of God and the firm pillar of the religion of God. Today no power can

FAMILY LIFE
conserve the oneness of the Bahà’i world save the Covenant of God;
otherwise differences like unto a most great tempest will encompass the
Bahd’i world. It is evident that the axis of the oneness of the world of
humanity is the power of the Covenant and nothing else... Therefore,
in the beginning one must make his steps firm in the Covenant so that
the confirmations of Bahà’u lláh may encircle from all sides, the cohorts
of the Supreme Concourse may become the supporters and the helpers,
and the exhortations and advices of ‘Abdul-Bahá, like unto the pictures
engraved on stone, may remain permanent and ineffaceable in the tab­
lets of the hearts.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Tablets o f the D ivine Plan, 8.8)
210.
“There are certain pillars which have been established as the
unshakable supports of the Faith of God. The mightiest of these is learn­
ing and the use of the mind, the expansion of consciousness, and in­
sight into the realities of the universe and the hidden mysteries of Al­
mighty God.
“To promote knowledge is thus an inescapable duty imposed on
every one of the friends of God. It is incumbent upon that Spiritual
Assembly, that assemblage of God, to exert every effort to educate the
children, so that from infancy they will be trained in Bahà’i conduct
and the ways of God, and will, even as young plants, thrive and flourish
in the soft-flowing waters that are the counsels and admonitions of the
Blessed Beauty.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f Abdul-Bahá, 97.1-2)
211.
“And now as I look into the future, I hope to see the friends at
all times, in every land, and of every shade of thought and character,
voluntarily and joyously rallying round their local and in particular their
national centers of activity, upholding and promoting their interests
with complete unanimity and contentment, with perfect understand­
ing, genuine enthusiasm, and sustained vigor. This indeed is the one joy
and yearning of my life, for it is the fountain-head from which all future
blessings will flow, the broad foundation upon which the security of the
Divine Edifice must ultimately rest.”
(Shoghi Effendi, Bahá'í Administration, p. 67)

BAHÂ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
212. “There is a time set aside at the 19 Day Feasts for the Com­
munity to express its views and make suggestions to its Assembly; the
Assembly and the believers should look forward to this happy period of
discussion, and neither fear it nor suppress it.”
(Shoghi EiFendi, from a letter dated June 20, 1949, written on his behalf
to the National Spiritual Assembly o f Germany and Austria)
213. “He was very sorry to hear that you have had so many tests in
your Bahd’i life. There is no doubt that many of them are due to your
own nature. In other words, if we are very sensitive, or if we are in some
way brought up in a different environment from the Bahà’is amongst
whom we live, we naturally see things differently and may feel them
more acutely; and the other side of it is that the imperfections of our
fellow-Bahà’is can be a great trial to us.
“He feels that, if you close your eyes to the failings of others, and
fix your love and prayers upon Bahà’u’ilàh, you will have the strength to
weather this storm, and will be much better for it in the end, spiritually.
Although you suffer, you will gain a maturity that will enable you to be
of greater help to both your fellow-Bahd’is and your children.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated April 5, 1956,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
214. “The friends must be patient with each other and must real­
ize that the Cause is still in its infancy and its institutions are not yet
functioning perfectly. The greater the patience, the loving understand­
ing and the forbearance the believers show towards each other and their
shortcomings, the greater will be the progress of the whole Baha’i com­
munity at large.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated February 27, 1943,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
215. “The greatest need it seems everywhere inside the Cause is to
impress upon the friends the need for love among them. There is a ten­
dency to mix up the functions of the Administration and try to apply it
in individual relationships, which is abortive, because the Assembly is a
nascent House of Justice and is supposed to administer, according to the

FAMILY LIFE
Teachings, the affairs of the community. But individuals toward each
other are governed by love, unity, forgiveness and a sin-covering eye.
Once the friends grasp this they will get along much better, but they
keep playing Spiritual Assembly to each other and expect the Assembly
to behave like an individual. . . ”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated October 3, 1950,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
216. “When criticism and harsh words arise within a Bahd’i com­
munity, there is no remedy except to put the past behind one, and per­
suade all concerned to turn over a new leaf, and for the sake of God and
His Faith refrain from mentioning the subjects which have led to mis­
understanding and inharmony. The more the friends argue back and
forth and maintain, each side, that their point of view is the right one
the worse the whole situation becomes.
“When we see the condition the world is in today, we must surely
forget these utterly insignificant internal disturbances, and rush, unit­
edly, to the rescue of humanity. You should urge your fellow-Bahd’is to
take this point of view, and to support you in a strong effort to suppress
every critical thought and every harsh word, in order to let the spirit of
Baha’u’llah flow into the entire community, and unite it in His love and
His service.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated February 16, 1951,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
217. “We must realize our imperfection and not permit ourselves
to get too upset over the unfortunate things which occur, sometimes in
Conventions, sometimes in Assemblies or on Committees, etc. Such
things are essentially superficial and in time will be outgrown.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated March 17, 1943,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
218. “He feels, in regard to your family problems, that you should
take these matters up with your assembly, if you desire advice; one of
the duties of these assemblies is to advise and aid the friends, and it is
your privilege to turn to your Assembly.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated April 10, 1947,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)

BAHA’I MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
219. “The divinely ordained institution of the Local Spiritual As­
sembly operates at the first levels of human society and is the basic ad­
ministrative unit of Bahà’u’Uàh’s World Order. It is concerned with indi­
viduals and families whom it must constantly encourage to unite in a
distinctive Bahà’i society, vitalized and guarded by the laws, ordinances
and principles of Bahà’u lláhs Revelation. It protects the Cause of God;
it acts as the loving shepherd of the Bahà’i flock.”
(Universal House of Justice, in its Message to the Bahd’is o f the World,
launching the Five Year Plan, Naw-Rúz, 1974)
220. “When a believer has a problem concerning which he must
make a decision, he has several courses open to him. If it is a matter that
affects the interests of the Faith he should consult with the appropriate
Assembly or committee, but individuals have many problems which are
purely personal and there is no obligation to take such problems to the
institutions of the Faith: indeed, it is better if the friends will not bur­
den their Assemblies with personal problems that they can solve by them­
selves.
“A Bahà’i who has a problem may wish to make his own decision
upon it after prayer and after weighing all the aspects of it in his own
mind; he may prefer to seek the counsel of individual friends or of pro­
fessional counselors such as his doctor or lawyer so that he can consider
such advice when making his decision; or in a case where several people
are involved, such as a family situation, he may want to gather together
those who are affected so that they may arrive at a collective decision.
There is also no objection whatever to a Bahà’i asking a group of people
to consult together on a problem facing him.
“It should be borne in mind that all consultation is aimed at arriv­
ing at a solution to a problem and is quite different from the sort of
group baring of the soul that is popular in some circles these days and
which borders on the kind of confession that is forbidden in the Faith.
On the subject of confession the Guardians secretary wrote on his be­
half to an individual believer: ‘We are forbidden to confess to any per­
son, as do the Catholics to their priests, our sins and shortcomings, or to
do so in public, as some religious sects do. However, if we spontane­
ously desire to acknowledge we have been wrong in something, or that
we have some fault of character, and ask another persons forgiveness or

FAMILY LIFE
pardon, we are quite free to do so. The Guardian wants to point out,
however, that we are not obliged to do so. It rests entirely with the indi­
vidual.’”
(Universal House o f Justice, from a letter dated March 19, 1973,
to the National Spiritual Assembly o f Canada)
221.
“The friends are called upon to give their whole-hearted sup­
port and cooperation to the Local Spiritual Assembly, first by voting for
the membership and then by energetically pursuing its plans and pro­
grams, by turning to it in time of trouble or difficulty, by praying for its
success and taking delight in its rise to influence and honor. This great
prize, this gift of God within each community must be cherished, nur­
tured, loved, assisted, obeyed and prayed for.
“Such a firmly founded, busy and happy community life as is en­
visioned when Local Spiritual Assemblies are truly effective, will pro­
vide a firm home foundation from which the friends may derive courage
and strength and loving support in bearing the Divine Message to their
fellow-men and conforming their lives to its benevolent rule.”
(Universal House o f Justice, in its Message to the Bahà’is o f the World,
launching the Five Year Plan, Naw-Rúz, 1974)
K* Family Life and Bahà’i Service
222.
“Praised be God, ye two have demonstrated the truth of your
words by your deeds, and have won the confirmation of the Lord God.
Every day at first light, ye gather the Bahai children together and teach
them the communes and prayers. This is a most praiseworthy act, and
bringeth joy to the childrens hearts: that they should, at every morn,
turn their faces toward the Kingdom and make mention of the Lord
and praise His Name, and in the sweetest of voices, chant and recite.
“These children are even as young plants, and teaching them the
prayers is as letting the rain pour down upon them, that they may wax
tender and fresh, and the soft breezes of the love of God may blow over
them, making them to tremble with joy.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f ‘Abdul-Bahá* 115.2-3)

BAHÀ1 MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
223. “A truly Bahà’i home is a true fortress upon which the Cause
can rely while planning its campaigns. If... and... love each other and
would like to marry, Shoghi Effendi does not wish them to think that by
doing so they are depriving themselves of the privilege of service; in fact
such a union will enhance their ability to serve. There is nothing more
beautiful than to have young Bahd’is marry and found truly Bahd’i homes,
the type Bahd’u’lldh wishes them to be. Please give them both the
Guardians loving greetings.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated November 6, 1932,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
224. “It is our duty and privilege to translate the love and devo­
tion we have for our beloved Cause into deeds and actions that will be
conducive to the highest good of mankind.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated November 20, 1924, to an individual believer)
225. “Bahd’is should seek to be many-sided, normal and well bal­
anced, mentally and spiritually. We must not give the impression of
being fanatics but at the same time we must live up to our principles.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated March 12, 1946,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
226. “Surely Shoghi Effendi would like to see you and the other
friends give their whole time and energy to the Cause, for we are in great
need for competent workers, but the home is an institution that Bahd’­
u’lldh has come to strengthen and not to weaken. Many unfortunate
things have happened in Baha’i homes just for neglecting this point.
Serve the Cause but also remember your duties towards your home. It is
for you to find the balance and see that neither makes you neglect the
other. We would have many more husbands in the Cause were the wives
more thoughtful and moderate in their Bahai activities.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated May 14, 1929,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
227. “The Guardian has long felt that the American Bahà’is are
not, in some cases, living up to the ideal of marriage set forth by Bahá’-

FAMILY LIFE
ulláh. They are prone to being influenced by the current light and selfish
attitude of the people towards the marriage bond. Consequently when
he sees you are successfully living up to the Bahà’i standard, putting
your best into it and preserving this sacred tie you have with your hus­
band, he is very happy indeed. He hopes you will be in a position to be
an example to others. For he disapproves of the way some Bahà’is, in the
name of serving the Cause, disencumber themselves of their husbands,
or go and get new ones!”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated April 2, 1950,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
228^ “The Guardian, in view of the fact that your husband does
not really wish to be separated from you, but on the contrary is desirous
of keeping your marriage together, feels that you, as a Bahà’i, have no
right to destroy it because of your desire to serve the Faith.
“Marriage is a very sacred institution. Bahà’u lláh said its purpose
is to promote unity. If the friends neglect, for the sake of the Cause, this
institution, they place the Faith in a poor light before the public. In
these days the people of the world are so immoral, and treat the mar­
riage institution so lightly; and we, as Bahà’is, in contrast to the people
of the world, are trying to create a high moral standard and reinstate the
sanctity of marriage.
“If your husband will allow you to do a certain amount of teach­
ing work, and occasionally travel in the interests of the Faith, all the
better; but he does not think the Faith should be made the thing which
destroys your family life.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated June 6, 1954,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
229.
“Your sons, even though they will not be able at first to serve
with you in pioneering, are certainly helping you to do so because of
their devoted spirit and their complete cooperation. Life at best is so full
of unexpected vicissitudes that leaving your boys at home does not, he
feels, present any added risks. They are devoted to the Cause and will no
doubt be inspired by your example.”
(Shoghi Effendi, from a letter dated August 10, 1953,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)

BAHÂ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
230. “Your responsibility towards your son and your husband is
very great, and the Guardian hopes your work will soon reach a point
where you can return, at least for some time, to them, and give them
that love and encouragement which is a womans great contribution to
home life.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated August 5, 1949,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
231. “He has noted with feelings of genuine admiration your long­
ing to serve in the field of pioneer teaching, but is sorry to hear that your
domestic circumstances do not permit you to carry out this dear wish of
your heart.
“While he heartily appreciates your eagerness to labor for the Faith
in distant and hitherto unopened territories, he feels that, in view of
your husbands opposition, and also in consideration of the need of
your children for your close help and guidance, you should, for the
present, endeavor instead to work in virgin localities in the vicinity of
. . .  or of the adjoining towns.”
(Shoghi EfFendi, from a letter dated November 7, 1940,
written on his behalf to an individual believer)
232. “Encourage within families, the practice of daily prayer and
reading of the Holy Writings.”
(Universal House o f Justice, from a letter dated
January, 1981, to the Bahà’is o f Canada)
233. “In considering the problems that you and your wife are ex­
periencing, the House of Justice points out that the unity of your family
should take priority over any other consideration. BaháVlláh came to
bring unity to the world, and a fundamental unity is that of the family.
Therefore, we must believe that the Faith is intended to strengthen the
family, not weaken it. For example, service to the Cause should not
produce neglect of the family. It is important for you to arrange your
time so that your family life is harmonious and your household receives
the attention it requires.”
(Universal House o f Justice, from a letter dated
August 1, 1978, to an individual believer)

FAMILY LIFE
234. “Although Bahà’i services should be undertaken with a spirit
of sacrifice, one cannot lose sight of the importance given in our Holy
Writings to the responsibilities placed on parents in relationship to their
children, as well as to the duties of children towards their parents.”
(Universal House of Justice, from a letter dated
November 19, 1978, to an individual believer)
L. Prayers________________________________________
For Expectant Mothers____________________________
235. “My Lord! My Lord! I praise Thee and I thank Thee for
whereby Thou hast favored Thine humble maidservant, Thy slave be­
seeching and supplicating Thee, because Thou hast verily guided her
unto Thine obvious Kingdom and caused her to hear Thine exalted
Call in the contingent world and to behold Thy Signs which prove the
appearance of Thy victorious reign over all things.
“O my Lord, I dedicate that which is in my womb unto Thee.
Then cause it to be a praiseworthy child in Thy Kingdom and a fortu­
nate one by Thy favor and Thy generosity; to develop and to grow up
under the charge of Thine education. Verily, Thou art the Gracious!
Verily, Thou art the Lord of Great Favor!”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Bahá ’í Prayers, U.S. 1982, pp. 66-67)
For Infants
236.
“Praised be Thou, O Lord my God! Graciously grant that
this infant be fed from the breast of Thy tender mercy and loving provi­
dence and be nourished with the fruit of Thy celestial trees. Suffer him
not to be committed to the care of anyone save Thee, inasmuch as Thou,
Thyself, through the potency of Thy sovereign will and power, didst
create and call him into being. There is none other God but Thee, the
Almighty, the All-Knowing.
“Lauded art Thou, O my Best Beloved, waft over him the sweet
savors of Thy transcendent bounty and the fragrances of Thy holy be­
stowals. Enable him then to seek shelter beneath the shadow of Thy

BAHÂ’Î MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
most exalted name, O Thou Who holdest in Thy grasp the kingdom of
names and attributes. Verily Thou art potent to do what Thou wiliest,
and Thou art indeed the Mighty, the Exalted, the Ever-Forgiving, the
Gracious, the Generous, the Merciful.”
(BaháVlláh, BaháH Prayers and Tablets for the Young, p. 3)
237.
“O Thou peerless Lord! Let this suckling babe be nursed
from the breast of Thy loving-kindness, guard it within the cradle of
Thy safety and protection and grant that it be reared in the arms of Thy
tender affection.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, B ahai Prayers and Tablets for the Young, p. 6)
For Children
238.
“O Thou pure God! I am a little child; grant that the breast
of Thy loving-kindness be the breast that I cherish; suffer me to be
nourished with the honey and the milk of Thy love; rear me in the
bosom of Thy knowledge, and bestow upon me nobility and wisdom
while I am still a child.
“O Thou the Self-Sufficing God! Make me a confidant of the King­
dom of the Unseen. Verily, Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Bahá H Prayers and Tablets for theYoung, p. 9)
239.
“O Lord! Graciously assist this child to grow and be quick­
ened in the meads of Thy tender affection. Thou art verily the Bestower,
the Merciful, the Compassionate.”
(‘Abdu l-Baha, B ahai Prayers and Tablets for theYoung, p. 23)
240.
“O God, guide me, protect me, make of me a shining lamp
and a brilliant star. Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, B ahai Prayers, U.S. 1982, p. 37)

For Youth
FAMILY LIFE
241.
“O Lord! Make this youth radiant and confer Thy bounty
upon this poor creature. Bestow upon him knowledge, grant him added
strength at the break of every morn and guard him within the shelter of
Thy protection so that he may be freed from error, may devote himself
to the service of Thy Cause, may guide the wayward, lead the hapless,
free the captives and awaken the heedless, that all may be blessed with
Thy remembrance and praise. Thou art the Mighty and the Powerful.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, B ahai Prayers and Tablets for the Young, p. 11)
For Parents
242. “It is seemly that the servant should, after each prayer, sup­
plicate God to bestow mercy and forgiveness upon his parents. There­
upon Gods call will be raised: ‘Thousand upon thousand of what thou
hast asked for thy parents shall be thy recompense!’ Blessed is he who
remembereth his parents when communing with God. There is, verily,
no God but Him, the Mighty, the Well-Beloved.”
(The Báb, Selections from  the Writings o f the Báb, p. 94)
243. “O Lord! In this Most Great Dispensation Thou dost accept
the intercession of children in behalf of their parents. This is one of the
special infinite bestowals of this Dispensation. Therefore, O Thou kind
Lord, accept the request of this Thy servant at the threshold of Thy
singleness and submerge his father in the ocean of Thy grace, because
this son hath arisen to render Thee service and is exerting effort at all
times in the pathway of Thy love. Verily, Thou art the Giver, the For-
giver and the Kind!”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, BaháH Prayers, U.S. 1982, p. 65)
For Families
244.
“Glory be unto Thee, O Lord my God! I beg Thee to forgiv
me and those who support Thy Faith. Verily, Thou art the sovereign
Lord, the Forgiver, the Most Generous. O my God! Enable such ser-

BAHAI m arriag e a n d  family life
vants of Thine as are deprived of knowledge to be admitted into Thy
Cause; for once they learn of Thee, they bear witness to the truth of the
Day of Judgment and do not dispute the revelations of Thy bounty.
Send down upon them the tokens of Thy grace, and grant them, wher­
ever they reside, a liberal share of that which Thou hast ordained for the
pious among Thy servants. Thou art in truth the Supreme Ruler, the
All-Bounteous, the Most Benevolent.
“O my God! Let the outpourings of Thy bounty and blessings
descend upon homes whose inmates have embraced Thy Faith, as a
token of Thy grace and as a mark of loving-kindness from Thy pres­
ence. Verily unsurpassed art Thou in granting forgiveness. Should Thy
bounty be withheld from anyone, how could he be reckoned among the
followers of the Faith in Thy Day?
“Bless me, O my God, and those who will believe in Thy signs on
the appointed Day, and such as cherish my love in their hearts— a love
which Thou dost instill into them. Verily, Thou art the Lord of righ­
teousness, the Most Exalted.”
(The Báb, Selections from  the Writings o f the Báb, p. 200)
245.
“I beg Thy forgiveness, O my God, and implore pardon after
the manner Thou wishest Thy servants to direct themselves to Thee. I
beg of Thee to wash away our sins as befitteth Thy Lordship, and to
forgive me, my parents, and those who in Thy estimation have entered
the abode of Thy love in a manner which is worthy of Thy transcendent
sovereignty and well beseemeth the glory of Thy celestial power.
“O my God! Thou hast inspired my soul to offer its supplication
to Thee, and but for Thee, I would not call upon Thee. Lauded and
glorified art Thou; I yield Thee praise inasmuch as Thou didst reveal
Thyself unto me, and I beg Thee to forgive me, since I have fallen short
in my duty to know Thee and have failed to walk in the path of Thy
love.”
(The Báb, Selections from  the Writings o f the Báb, p. 210)
For Marriage
246. “He is the Bestower, the Bounteous!
“Praise be to God, the Ancient, the Ever-Abiding, the Changeless,

FAMILY LIFE
the Eternal! He Who hath testified in His Own Being that verily He is
the One, the Single, the Untrammeled, the Exalted. We bear witness
that verily there is no God but Him, acknowledging His oneness, con­
fessing His singleness. He hath ever dwelt in unapproachable heights, in
the summits of His loftiness, sanctified from the mention of aught save
Himself, free from the description of aught but Him.
“And when He desired to manifest grace and beneficence to men,
and to set the world in order, He revealed observances and created laws;
among them He established the law of marriage, made it as a fortress for
well-being and salvation, and enjoined it upon us in that which was sent
down out of the heaven of sanctity in His Most Holy Book. He saith,
great fc His glory: ‘Enter into wedlock, O people, that ye may bring
forth one who will make mention of Me amid My servants. This is My
bidding unto you; hold fast to it as an assistance to yourselves.’”
(BaháVlláh, Bahâ’i Prayers, U.S. 1982, pp. 104-105)
247. “Glory be unto Thee, O my God! Verily, this Thy servant
and this Thy maidservant have gathered under the shadow of Thy mercy
and they are united through Thy favor and generosity. O Lord! Assist
them in this Thy world and Thy kingdom and destine for them every
good through Thy bounty and grace. O Lord! Confirm them in Thy
servitude and assist them in Thy service. Suffer them to become the
signs of Thy Name in Thy world and protect them through Thy be­
stowals which are inexhaustible in this world and the world to come. O
Lord! They are supplicating the kingdom of Thy mercifulness and in­
voking the realm of Thy singleness. Verily, they are married in obedi­
ence to Thy command. Cause them to become the signs of harmony
and unity until the end of time. Verily, Thou art the Omnipotent, the
Omnipresent and the Almighty!”
CAbdu 1-Bahá, B ahai Prayers, U.S. 1982, p. 107)
248. “O my Lord, O my Lord! These two bright moons are wed­
ded in Thy love, conjoined in servitude to Thy Holy Threshold, united
in ministering to Thy Cause. Make Thou this marriage to be as thread­
ing lights of Thine abounding grace, O my Lord, the All-Merciful, and
luminous rays of Thy bestowals, O Thou the Beneficent, the Ever-Giv­
ing, that there may branch out from this great tree boughs that will grow

BAHA’I MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
green and flourishing through the gifts that rain down from Thy clouds
of grace.
“Verily, Thou art the Generous. Verily, Thou art the Almighty.
Verily, Thou art the Compassionate, the All-Merciful.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Bahá / Prayers, U.S. 1982, pp. 107-108)
249. “He is God!
“O peerless Lord! In Thine almighty wisdom Thou hast enjoined
marriage upon the peoples, that the generations of men may succeed
one another in this contingent world, and that ever, so long as the world
shall last, they may busy themselves at the Threshold of Thy oneness
with servitude and worship, with salutation, adoration and praise. ‘I
have not created spirits and men, but that they should worship me.’
Wherefore, wed Thou in the heaven of Thy mercy these two birds of
the nest of Thy love, and make them the means of attracting perpetual
grace; that from the union of these two seas of love a wave of tenderness
may surge and cast the pearls of pure and goodly issue on the shore of
life. ‘He hath let loose the two seas, that they meet each other: Between
them is a barrier which they overpass not. Which then of the bounties
of your Lord will ye deny? From each He bringeth up greater and lesser
pearls.’
“O Thou kind Lord! Make Thou this marriage to bring forth coral
and pearls. Thou art verily the All-Powerful, the Most Great, the Ever-
Forgiving.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Bah â'i Prayers, U.S. 1982, pp. 105-106)
250. “O God, my God! This Thy handmaid is calling upon Thee,
trusting in Thee, turning her face unto Thee, imploring Thee to shed
Thy heavenly bounties upon her, and to disclose unto her Thy spiritual
mysteries, and to cast upon her the lights of Thy Godhead.
“O my Lord! Make the eyes of my husband to see. Rejoice Thou
his heart with the light of the knowledge of Thee, draw Thou his mind
unto Thy luminous beauty, cheer Thou his spirit by revealing unto him
Thy manifest splendors.
“O my Lord! Lift Thou the veil from before his sight. Rain down
Thy plenteous bounties upon him, intoxicate him with the wine of love

FAMILY LIFE
for Thee, make him one of Thy angels whose feet walk upon this earth
even as their souls are soaring through the high heavens. Cause him to
become a brilliant lamp, shining out with the light of Thy wisdom in
the midst of Thy people.
“Verily Thou art the Precious, the Ever-Bestowing, the Open of
Hand.”
(‘Abdul-Bahá, Selections from  the Writings o f 'Abdul-Bahá, 90.1-4)