AMERICA'S
SPIRITUAL
MISSION

AM_ERICA' S
SPIRITUAL MISSION
Teaching Tablets Revealed
by
1A bdu' l-Bahd to the American Bahd'is
During I9I6 and I9I7
REPRINTED FOR THE
AMERICAN BAHA'I COMMUNITY BY THE
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
BAHA'I PUBLISHING COMMITTEE
NEW YORK

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF .A.MERICA
BY J. J .
LITTLE AND IVES COMP.ANY, NEW YORK
;

"Convey (to) American believers abiding gr;;ititude efforts
unitedly exerted (in) teaching field. Inaugurated campaign should
be vigorously pursued, systematically extended. Appeal (to) as-
sembled delegates ponder historic appeal voiced by 'Abdu'l-Baha
(in) Tablets (of the) Divine Plan. Urge earnest deliberation with
incoming National Assembly (to) insure its complete fulfilment.
First century (of) Baha'i era drawing to a close. Humanity enter-
ing outer fringes most perilous stage its existence. Opportunities
(of) .Present hour unimaginably precious. Would to God every State
within American Republic and every Republic in American continent
might ere termination (of) this glorious century embrace (the)
light (of the) Faith of Baha'u'llah and establish structural basis
of His World Order."
(Signed) SHOGHI.
Cablegram received May 1, 1936.
"Convention plea addressed to American believers cannot achieve
its purpose unless dauntless pioneers promptly arise and, forsaking
(their) homeland, permanently reside (in) countries where light
of Faith (has) not yet penetrated. Cabling three hundred pounds
as nucleus (of) Special Fund to be established (for the) further-
ance (of) this exalted, highly meritorious purpose."
(Signed) SHOGHI.
Cablegram received May 19, 1936.

CONTENTS
PAGE
WORDS OF THE BAB
WoRDS OF BAH.A'u'LLAH
WoRDS OF 'ABDu'L-BAHA
TABLETS TO BELIEVERS IN UNITED STATES AND CANADA
TABLETS TO NORTHEASTERN STATES
TABLETS TO SOUTHERN STATES
TABLETS TO CENTRAL STATES
T AB+,ETS TO WESTERN STATES
TABLETS TO CANADA

TEACHING-
"THE GREATEST GIFT OF GOD"
{
WORDS OF THE BAB
0 my beloved friends ! You are the bearers of the name of God
in this Day. You have been chosen as the repositories of His mys-
tery. It behooves each one of you to manifest the attributes of God,
and to exemplify by your deeds and words the signs of His righte-
ousness, His power and glory. The very members of your body
must bear witness to the loftiness of your purpose, the integrity of
your life, the reality of your faith, and the exalted character of your
devotion .. .
The days when idle worship was deemed sufficient are ended.
The time is come when naught but the purest motive, supported
by deeds of stainless purity, can ascend to the throne of the Most
High and be acceptable unto Him . . .
. . . Heed not your weaknesses and frailty; fix your gaze
upon the invincible power of your Lord, your God, the Almighty.
Has He not, in past days, caused Abraham, in spite of His seeming
helplessness, to triumph over the forces of Nimrod? Has He not
enabled Moses, whose staff was His only companion, to vanquish
Pharaoh and his hosts? Has He not established the ascendancy of
Jesus, poor and lowly as He was in the eyes of men, over the com-
bined forces of the Jewish people? Has He not subjected the bar-
barous and militant tribes of Arabia to the holy and transforming
discipline of Mul:iammad, His Prophet? Arise in His name, put
your trust wholly in Him, and be assured of ultimate victory.
,
,
WORDS OF BAHA'ULLAH
Every eye, in this Day, should seek what will best promote the
Cause of God . . .
Beseech ye the one true God to grant that ye may taste the savor
of such deeds as are performed in His path, and partake of the
sweetness of such humility and submissiveness as are shown for His

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
sake. Forget your own selves, and turn your eyes towards your
neighbor. Bend your energies to whatever may foster the education
of men ...
It is incumbent, in this Day, upon every man to place his whole
trust in the manifold bounties of God, and arise to disseminate,
with the utmost wisdom, the verities of His Cause . . .
Arise, 0 wayfarer in the path of the Love of God, and aid thou
His Cause. Say: Barter not away this Youth, 0 people, for the
vanities of this world or the delights of heaven . . . Let thy soul
glow with the flame of this undying Fire that burneth in the mid-
most heart of the world, in such wise that the waters of the universe
shall be powerless to cool down its ardor. Make, then, mention of
thy Lord, that haply the heedless among Our servants may be ad-
monished through thy words, and the hearts of the righteous be
gladdened . ..
The Book of God is wide open, and His Word is summoning
mankind unto Him. No more than a mere handful, however, hath
been found to cleave to His Cause, or to become the instruments
for its promotion. These few have been endued with the Divine
Elixir that can, alone, transform into purest gold the dross of the
world, and have been empowered to administer the infallible remedy
for all the ills that afflict the children of men ... With the utmost
friendliness and in a spirit of perfect fellowship take ye counsel
together, and dedicate the precious clays of your lives to the promo-
tion of Him Who is the Ancient and Sovereign Lord of all . . .
They whose hearts are turned towards Him Who is the Object
of the adoration of the entire creation must needs, in this Day, pass
beyond and be sanctified from all created things, visible and invisi-
ble. If they arise to teach My Cause, they must let the breath of Him
Who is the Unconstrained stir them and must spread it abroad on
the earth with high resolve, with minds that are wholly centered in
Him, and with hearts that are completely detached from and inde-
pendent of all things, and with souls that are sanctified from the
world and its vanities. It behooveth them to choose as the best pro-
vision for their journey reliance upon God, and to clothe themselves
with the love of their Lord, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious.
If they do so, their words shall influence their hearers . . .
By the righteousness of God! Should a man, all alone, arise in
the name of Baha and put on the armor of His love, him will the
Almighty cause to be victorious, though the forces of heaven and
earth be arrayed against him ...

'ABDU'L-BAHA
Whoso ariseth among you to teach the Cause of His Lord, let
him, above all else, teach his own self, that his speech may attract
the hearts of them that hear him. Unless he teacheth his own self,
the words of his mouth will not influence the heart of the seeker.
Take heed, 0 people, lest ye be of them that give good counsel to
others but forget to follow it themselves. The words of such as
these, and beyond the words the realities of all things, and beyond
these realities the angels that are nigh unto God, bring against them
the accusation of falsehood . . .
Say: Teach ye the Cause of God, 0 people of Baha, for God
hath prescribed unto every one the duty of proclaiming His Mes-
sage, and regardeth it as the most meritorious of all deeds. Such a
deed is acceptable only when he that teacheth the Cause is already a
firm believer in God, the Supreme Protector, the Gracious, the Al-
mighty. He hath, moreover, ordained that His Cause be taught
through the power of men's utterance, and not through resort to
violence ... Beware lest ye contend with any one, nay, strive to
make him aware of the truth with kindly manner and most con-
vincing exhortation. If your hearer respond, he will have responded
to his own behoof, and if not, turn ye away from him, and set your
faces towards God's sacred Court, the seat of resplendent holi-
ness . . .
By the righteousness of God! Whoso openeth his lips in this
Day and maketh mention of the name of his Lord, the hosts of
Divine inspiration shall descend upon him from the heaven of My
name, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. On him shall also descend
the Concourse on high, each bearing aloft a chalice of pure light ...
The Pen of the Most High hath decreed and imposed upon
every one the obligation to teach this Cause . . .
They that have forsaken their country for the purpose of teach-
ing Our Cause-these shall the Faithful Spirit strengthen through
its power. A company of Our chosen angels shall go forth with
them, as bidden by Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Wise. How
great the blessedness that awaiteth him that hath attained the honor
of serving the Almighty! By My Ji fe ! No act, however great, can
compare with it, except such deeds as have been ordained by God,
the All-Powerful, the Most Mighty.
Whoso ariseth to teach Our Cause must needs detach himself
from all earthly things, and regard, at all times, the triumph of
Our Faith as his supreme objective. This hath, verily, been decreed
in the Guarded Tablet. And when he determineth to leave his home,

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
for the sake of the Cause of His Lord, let him put his whole trust
in God, as the best provision for his journey, and array himself
with the robe of virtue. Thus hath it been decreed by God, the
Almighty, the All-Praised.
If he be kindled with the fire of His love, if he foregoeth all
created things, the words he uttereth shall set on fire them that hear
him. Verily, thy Lord is the Omniscient, the All-Informed. Happy
is the man that hath heard Our voice, and answered Our call. He,
in truth, is of them that shall be brought nigh unto Us ...
Unlock, 0 people, the gates of the hearts of men with the keys
of the remembrance of Him Who is the Remembrance of God and
the Source of \Visdom amongst you. He hath chosen out of the
whole world the hearts of His servants, and made them each a seat
for the revelation of His glory, Wherefore, sanctify them from
every defilement, that the things for which they were created may be
engraven upon them. This indeed is a token of God's bountiful
favor ...
Be not grieved if thou performest it thyself alone. Let God be
all-sufficient for thee. Commune intimately with His Spirit, and
be thou of the thankful. Proclaim the Cause of thy Lord unto all
who are in the heavens and on the earth. Should any man respond
to thy call, lay bare before him the pearls of the wisdom of the
Lord, thy God, which His Spirit hath sent down unto thee, and
be thou of them that truly believe. And should any one reject thy
offer, turn thou away from him, and put thy trust and confidence
in the Lord, thy God, the Lord of all worlds . . .
Should any man, in this Day, arise and, with absolute detach-
ment from all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth,
set his affections on Him Who is the Day Spring of God's holy
Revelation, he will, verily, be empowered to subdue all created
things, through the potency of one of the Names of the Lord, his
God, the All-KDDwing, the All-Wise. Know thou of a certainty
that the Day Star of Truth hath, in this Day, shed upon the world
a radiance, the light of which bygone ages have never witnessed.
Let the light of His glory, 0 people, shine upon you, and be not of
the negligent . . .
God hath prescribed unto every one the duty of teaching His
Cause. Whoever ariseth to discharge this duty, must needs, ere he
proclaimeth His Message, adorn himself with the ornament of an
upright and praiseworthy character, so that his words may attract

'ABDU'L-BAHA
the hearts of such as are receptive to his call. Without it, he can
never hope to influence his hearers . . .
Beseech ye the one true God to grant that all men may be
graciously assisted to fulfil that which is acceptable in Our sight.
Soon will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new one spread
out in its stead. Verily, thy Lord speaketh the truth, and is the
Knower of things unseen.
,
WORDS OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA
In these days, the most important of all things is the guidance
of the nations and peoples of the world. Teaching the Cause is of
the utmost importance for it is the head cornerstone of the founda-
tion itself. This wronged servant has spent his days and nights in
promoting the Cause and urging the peoples to service. He rested
not a moment, until the fame of the Cause of God was noised
abroad in the world and the celestial strains from the Abha King-
dom roused the East and the West. The beloved of God must also
follow the same example. This is the secret of faithfulness, this is
the requirement of servitude to the Threshold of Baba!
The disciples of Christ forgot themselves and all earthly things,
forsook all their cares and belongings, purged themselves of self
and passion and with absolute detachment scattered far and wide
and engaged in calling the peoples of the world to the Divine Guid-
ance, until at last they made the world another world, illumined
the surface of the earth and even to the last hour proved self-sacri-
ficing in the pathway of that Beloved One of God. Finally in various
lands they suffered glorious martyrdom. Let them that are men of
action follow in their footsteps! . . .
0 ye beloved of the Lord! In this sacred Dispensation, conflict
and contention are in no wise permitted. Every aggressor deprives
himself of God's grace. It is incumbent upon every one to show the
utmost love, rectitude of conduct, straightforwardness and sincere
kindliness unto all the peoples and kindreds of the world, be they
friends or strangers. So intense must be the spirit of love and loving
kindness that the stranger may find himself a friend, the enemy a
true brother, no difference whatsoever existing between them. For
universality is of God and all limitations earthly. Thus man must
strive that his reality may manifest virtues and perfections, the light
whereof may shine upon every one. The light of the sun shineth
upon all the world and the merciful showers of Divine Providence

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
fall upon all peoples. The vivifying breeze reviveth every living crea-
ture and all beings endued with life obtain their share and portion
at His heavenly board. In like manner, the affections and loving
kindness of the servants of the One True God must be bountifully
and universally extended to all mankind. Regarding this, restrictions
and limitations are in no wise permitted.
Wherefore, 0 my loving friends! Consort with all the peoples,
kindreds and religions of the world with the utmost truthfulness,
uprightness, faithfulness, kindliness, good will and friendliness, that
all the world of being may be filled with the holy ecstasy of the
grace of Baha, that ignorance, enmity, hate and rancor may vanish
from the world and the darkness of estrangement amidst the peo-
ples and kindreds of the world may give way to the Light of Unity.
Should other peoples and nations be unfaithful to you, show your
fidelity unto them; should they be unjust toward you, show justice
towards them; should they keep aloof from you, attract them to
yourself; should they show their enmity, be friendly towards them;
should they poison your lives, sweeten their souls; should they in-
flict a wound upon you, be a salve to their sores. Such are the at-
tributes of the sincere! Such are the attributes of the truthful. . . .
Whosoever and whatsoever meeting becometh a hindrance to
the diffusion of the Light of Faith, let the loved ones give them
counsel and say: "Of all the gifts of God the greatest is the gift
of teaching. It draweth unto us the Grace of God and is our first
obligation. Of such a gift how can we deprive ourselves? Nay,
our lives, our goods, our comforts, our rest, we offer them all as a
sacrifice for the Abha Beauty and teach the Cause of God." The
Glory of Glories rest upon you.

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
Teaching Tablets Revealed by •Abdu'l-Baha
To the Assemblies and Meetings of the believers of God a.nd the
maid-servants of the Merciful in the United States and· Canada.
Upon them be Baha'u'llah El-Abha !
He is God!
0 ye blessed souls :
I desire for you eternal success and prosperity and beg perfect
confirmation for each one in the divine world. My hope for you is
that each one may shine forth like unto the morning star from the
horizon of the world and in this Garden of God become a blessed
tree, producing everlasting fruits and results.
Therefore I direct you to that which is conducive to your
heavenly confirmation and illumination in the Kingdom of God!
It is this: Alaska is a vast country; although one of the maid-
servants of the Merciful has hastened to those parts, serving as a
librarian in the Public Library, and according to her ability is not
failing in teaching the Cause, yet the call of the Kingdom of God
is not yet raised through that spacious territory.
His Holiness Christ says: Travel ye to the East and to the
West of the world and summon the people to the Kingdom of God.
Hence the mercy of God must encompass all humanity. Therefore
do ye not think it permissible to leave that region deprived of the
breezes of the Morn of Guidance. Consequently, striYe as far as
ye are able to send to those parts fluent speakers, who are detached
from aught else save God, attracted with the fragrances of God,
and sanctified and purified from all desires and temptations. Their
sustenance and food must consist of the teachings of God. First
they must themselves live in accordance with those principles, then
guide the people. Perchance, God willing. the lights of the most
great guidance may illumine that country and the breezes of the rose
garden of the love of God may perfume the nostrils of the inhabi-

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
tants of Alaska. Should ye become confirmed in thus rendering such
a service, rest ye assured that ye shall crown your heads with the
diadem of everlasting sovereignty, and at the threshold of oneness
you will become the favored and accepted servants.
Likewise the Republic of Mexico is very important. The ma-
jority of the inhabitants of that country are devoted Catholics. They
are totally unaware of the reality of the Bible, the Gospel and the
new divine teachings. They do not know that the basis of the re-
ligions of God is one and that the Holy Manifestations are like
unto the Sun of Truth, rising from the different dawning-places.
Those souls are submerged in the sea of dogmas. If one breath of
life be blown over them, great results will issue therefrom. But it
is better for those who intend to go to Mexico to teach, to be
familiar with the Spanish language.
Similarly, the six Central American Republics, situated south
of Mexico-Guatemala, Honduras, Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa
Rica, Panama and the seventh country Belize or British Honduras.
The teachers going to those parts must also be familiar with the
Spanish language.
You must give great importance to teaching the Indians, that is,
the aborigines of America. For these souls are like the ancient in-
habitants of Peninsular Arabia, who previous to the Manifestation
of His Holiness Mul)ammad were treated as savages. But when
the Mul;ammadic. light shone forth in their midst, they became so
illumined that they brightened the world. Likewise, should these
Indians and aborigines be educated and obtain guidance, there is no
doubt that through the divine teachings, they will become so en-
lightened as in turn to shed light to all regions.
All the above countries have importance, but especially the Re-
public of Panama, wherein the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans come
together through the Panama Canal. It is a center for travel and
passage from America to other continents of the world, and in
the future it will gain most great importance.
Likewise the islands "of the West Indies, such as Cuba, Haiti,
Puerto Rico, Jamaica, the islands of the Lesser Antilles, Bahama
Islands, even the small Watling Island, have great importance;
especially the two black republics, Haiti and Santo Domingo, sit-
uated in the cluster of the Greater Antilles. Likewise the cluster
of the islands of Bermuda in the Atlantic Ocean have importance.
In a similar way, the republics of the continent of South Amer-
ica-Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, British Guiana, Dutch Gui-

,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
II
ana, French Guiana, Bolivia, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Para-
guay, Venezuela; also the islands to the north, east and west of
South America, such as Falkland Islands, the Galapagos, Juan Fer-
nandez, Tobago and Trinidad. Likewise the city of Bahia, situated
on the eastern shore of Brazil. Because it is some time that it has
become known by this name, its efficacy will be most potent.
In short, 0 ye believers of God! Exalt your effort and magnify
your aims. His Holiness Christ says: Blessed are the poor, for theirs
shall be the Kingdom of Heaven. In other words: Blessed are the
nameless and traceless poor, for they are the leaders of mankind.
Likewise it is said in the Qur'an: "We desire to bestow our gifts
upon those who have become weak on the face of the earth, and
make them a nation and the heirs (of spiritual truth)." Or, we wish
to grant a favor to the impotent souls and suffer them to become
the inheritors of the Messengers and Prophets.
Therefore, now is the time that you may divest yourselves from
the garment of attachment to this phenomenal realm, be wholly
severed from the physical world, become angels of heaven and
travel and teach through all these regions.
I declare by Him, beside whom there is no one, that each one
of you shall become the Israfil of Life, blowing the breath of
life into the souls of others.
Upon you be greeting and praise!
Supplication
0 Thou Incomparable God! 0 Thou Lord of the Kingdom!
These souls are Thy heavenly army. Assist them and with the co-
horts of the Supreme Concourse, make them victorious; so that
each one of them may become like unto a regiment and conquer
these countries through the love of God and the illumination of
divine teachings.
0 God! Be Thou their supporter and their helper, and in the
wilderness, the mountain, the valley, the forests, the prairies and
the seas, be Thou their confidant-so that they may cry out through
the power of the Kingdom and the breath of the Holy Spirit!
Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty and the Omnipotent,
and Thou art the Wise, the Hearing and the Seeing.
Haifa, Palestine,
April 8, I9I6.

To the believers and the ma.id-servants of the Merciful of the Baha'i
Assemblies and meetings in the United States and Canada.
He is God!
0 ye real Baha'is of America:
Praise be to His Highness the Desired One that ye have become
confirmed in the promotion of divine teachings in that vast Con-
tinent, raised the call of the Kingdom of God in that region and
announced the Glad Tidings of the manifestation of the Lord of
Hosts and His Highness the Promised One. Thanks be unto the
Lord that ye have become assisted and confirmed in this aim. This
is purely through the confirmations of the Lord of Hosts and the
breaths of the Holy Spirit. At present your confirmation is not
known and understood. Ere long ye shall observe that each one of
you like unto a brilliant and shining star will diffuse the light of
guidance from that horizon and that ye have become the cause of
eternal life to the inhabitants of America.
Consider! The station and the confirmation of the apostles in
the time of Christ was not known, and no one looked on them with
the feeling of importance-nay, rather, they persecuted and ridi-
culed them. Later on it became evident what crowns studded with
the brilliant jewels of guidance were placed on the heads of the
apostles, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of John.
Likewise your confirmation is not known at the present time. I
hope that ere long it may throw a mighty reverberation through
the pillars of the earth. Therefore it is the hope of •Abdu'l-Baha
that just as ye are confirmed and assisted on the continent of Amer-
ica, ye may also be confirmed and assisted in other continents of
the globe-that is, ye may carry the fame of the Cause of God to
the East and to the West and spread the Glad Tidings of the appear-
ance of the Kingdom of the Lord of Hosts throughout the five
continents of the world.
When this divine call travels from the continent of America to
Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia and the Islands of the Pacific, the
American believers shall be established on the throne of everlasting
~ I
l

,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
Glory, the fame of their illumination and guidance shall reach to
all regions and the renown of their greatness become world-wide.
Therefore, a party, speaking the languages, severed, holy, sanctified
and filled with the love of God, must turn their faces to and travel
through the three great island groups of the Pacific Ocean,-Poly-
nesia, Micronesia and Mylanesia, aqd the islands attached to these
groups, such as New Guinea, Borneo, Java, Sumatra, Philippine
Islands, Solomon Islands, Fiji Islands, New Hebrides, Loyalty
Islands, New Caledonia, Bismarck Archipelago, Ceram, Celebes,
Friendly Islands, Samoa Islands, Society Islands, Caroline Islands,
Low Archipelago, Marquesas, Hawaiian Islands, Gilbert Islands,
Moluccas, Marshall Islands, Timar and the other islands. \Vith
hearts overflowing with the love of God, with tongues commemo-
rating the mention of God, with eyes turned to the Kingdom of
God, they must deliver the Glad Tidings of the manifestation of
the Lord of Hosts to all the people. Know ye of a certainty that in
whatever meeting ye may enter, in the apex of that meeting the
Holy Spirit shall be waving and the heavenly confirmations of the
Blessed Perfection shall encompass all.
Consider ye, that Miss Agnes Alexander, the daughter of the
Kingdom, the beloved maid-servant of the Blessed Perfection,
traveled alone to Hawaii and the Island ·of Honolulu, and now she
is gaining spiritual victories in Japan! Reflect ye how this daughter
was confirmed in the Hawaiian Islands. She became the cause of
the guidance of a gathering of people.
Likewise Miss Knobloch traveled alone to Germany. To what
a great extent she became confirmed! Therefore, know ye of a cer-
tainty that whosoever arises in this day to diffuse the divine fra-
grances, the cohorts of the Kingdom of God shall confirm him and
the bestowals and the favors of the Blessed Perfection shall encircle
him.
Oh, how I long that it could be made possible for me to travel
through these parts, even if necessary on foot and with the utmost
poverty, and while passing through the cities, villages, mountains,
deserts and oceans, cry at the top of my voice "Ya-Baha'u'l-Abha !"
and promote the divine teachings. But now this is not feasible for
me; therefore I live in great regret; perchance, God willing, ye may
-
become assisted therein.
At this time, in the island of Hawaii, through the efforts of
Miss Alexander, a number of souls have reached the shore of the
sea of faith! Consider ye, what happiness, what joy is this! I de-

r4
AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
clare by the Lord of Hosts that had this respected daughter founded
an empire, that empire would not have been so great! For this sov-.
ereignty is eternal sovereignty and this glory is everlasting glory.
Likewise, if some teachers go to other islands and other parts,
such as the continent of Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania, also
to Japan, Asiatic Russia, Korea, French Indo-China, Siam, Straits
Settlements, India, Ceylon and A fghanistan, most great results will
be forthcoming. How good would it be were there any possibility
of a commission composed of men and women, to travel together
through China and J apan,-so that this bond of love may become
strengthened, and through this going and coming they may estab-
lish the oneness of the world of humanity, summon the people to
the Kingdom of God and spread the teachings.
Similarly, if possible, they should travel to the continent of
Africa, Canary Islands, Cape Verde Islands, Madeira Islands,
Reunion Islands, St. Helena, Zanzibar, Mauritius, etc., and in those
countries summon the people to the Kingdom of God and raise the
cry of "Ya-Baha'u'l-Abha !" They must also upraise the flag of the
oneness of the world of humanity in the island of Madagascar.
Books and pamphlets must be either translated or composed in
the languages of these countries and islands, to be circulated in
every part and in all directions.
It is said that in South Africa, a diamond mine is discovered.
Although this mine is most valuable, yet after all it is stone. Per-
chance, Goel willing, the mine of humanity may be discovered and
the brilliant pearls of the Kingdom be found.
In brief, this world-consuming war has set such a conflagration
to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of
the world the longing for Universal Peace is taking possession of
the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn
for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is
being realized. This is through the consummate wisdom of God,
so that capacity may be created, the standard of the oneness of the
world of humanity be upraised, and the fundamentals of Universal
Peace and the divine principles be promoted in the East and the
West.
Therefore, 0 ye believers of Goel! Show ye an effort and after
this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British
Isles, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain,
Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portu-
gal, Roumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andora,
;

,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
Liechtenstein, Luxemburg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles,
Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shet-
land Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.
In all these countries, like unto the morning stars shine ye forth
from the horizon of guidance. Up to this time you have displayed
great magnanimity, but after this, ye must add a thousand times
to your effort and throughout the above countries, capitals, islands,
meetings and churches, invite mankind to the Kingdom of Abha !
The circle of your exertion must become widened. The more it is
broadened and extended, the greater will be your confirmation.
You have observed that while 'Abdu'l-Baha was in the utmost
bodily weakness and feebleness, while He was indisposed, and had
not the power to move-notwithstanding this physical state He
traveled through many countries, in Europe and America, and in
churches, meetings and conventions was occupied with the promo-
tion of the divine principles and summoned the people to the mani-
festation of the Kingdom of Abha. You have also observed how
the confirmations of the Blessed Perfection encompassed all. What
result is forthcoming from material rest, tranquillity, luxury and
attachment to this corporeal world! It is evident that the man who
pursues these things will in the end become afflicted with regret and
loss.
Consequently, one must close his eyes wholly to these thoughts,
long for eternal life, the sublimity of the world of humanity, the
celestial developments, the Holy Spirit, the promotion of the Vv ord
of God, the guidance of the inhabitants of the globe, the promul-
gation of Universal Peace and the proclamation of the oneness
of the world of humanity! This is the worh! Otherwise like unto
other animals and birds one must occupy himself with the require-
ments of this physical life, the satisfaction of which is the highest
aspiration of the animal kingdom, and one must stalk across the
earth like unto the quadrupeds.
Consider ye! No matter how much man gains wealth, riches
and opulence in this world, he will not become as independent as a
cow. For these fattened cows roam freely over the vast tableland.
All the prairies and meadows are theirs for grazing, and all the
springs and rivers are theirs for drinking! No matter how much
they graze, the fields will not be exhausted! It is evident that they
have earned these material bounties with the utmost facility.
Still more ideal than this life is the life of the bird. A bird, on
the summit of a mountain, on the high, waving branches, has built

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
for itself a nest more beautiful than the palaces of the kings! The
air is in the utmost purity, the water cool and clear as crystal, the
panorama charming and enchanting. In such glorious surroundings,
he expends his numbered days. All the harvests of the plain are his
possessions, having earned all this wealth without the least labor.
Hence, no matter how much man may advance in this world, he
shall not attain to the station of this bird! Thus it becomes evident
that in the matters of this world, however much man may strive
and work to the point of death, he will be unable to earn the abun-
dance, the freedom and the independent life of a small bird. This
proves and establishes the fact that man is not created for the life
of this ephemeral world :-nay, rather, is he created for the acquire-
ment of infinite perfections, for the attainment to the sublimity of
the world of humanity, to be drawn nigh unto the divine threshold,
and to sit on the throne of everlasting sovereignty!
Upon you be Baba El-Abha !
Any soul starting on a trip of teaching to various parts, and
while sojourning in strange countries, may peruse the following
supplication-day and night.
0 God! 0 God! Thou seest me enamored and attracted toward
Thy Kingdom, the El-Abha, enkindled with the fire of Thy love
amongst mankind, a herald of Thy Kingdom in these vast and
spacious countries, severed from aught else save Thee, relying on
Thee, abandoning rest and comfort, remote from my native home,
a wanderer in these regions, a stranger fallen on the ground, humble
before Thy exalted threshold, submissive toward Thy most high
realm, supplicating Thee in the middle of nights and in the heart of
evenings, entreating and invoking Thee in the morn and eve ;- so
that Thou mayest assist me in the service of Thy Cause, the promo-
tion of Thy Teachings and the exaltation of Thy Word in the Easts
of the earth and the Wests thereof.
0 Lord! Strengthen my back and confirm me in Thy servitude
with all my powers, and do not leave me alone and by myself in
these countries.
0 Lord! Associate with me in my loneliness and accompany
me in my journeys through these foreign lands.
Verily, Thou art the confirmer of whomsoever Thou wiliest in
that which Thou desirest, and verily Thou art the Powerful, the
Omnipotent.
Haifa, Palestine,
April l l, 1916.

To the Assemblies and meetings of the believers of God and the
maid-servants of the Merciful in the United States and Canada.
Upon them be Baha'u'llah El-Abha !
He is God!
0 ye heavenly souls, sons and daughters of the Kingdom :
God says in the Qur'an, "Take ye hold of the Cord of God, all
of you, and become ye not disunited."
In the contingent world there are many collective centers which
are conducive to association and unity between the children of men.
For example, patriotism is a collective center; nationalism is a
collective center; identity of interests is a collective center; political
alliance is a collective center; the union of ideals is a collective
center, and the prosperity of the world of humanity is dependent
upon the organization and promotion of the collective centers. Never-
theless, all the above institutions are, in reality, the matter and not
the substance, accidental and not eternal-temporary and not ever-
lasting. With the appearance of great revolutions and upheavals, all
these collective centers are swept away. But the Collective Center
of the Kingdom, embodying the Institutes and Divine Teachings,
is the eternal Collective Center. It establishes relationship between
the East and the West, organizes the oneness of the world of hu-
manity, and destroys the foundation of differences. It overcomes
and includes all the other collective centers. Like unto the ray of the
sun, it dispels entirely the darkness encompassing all the regions,
bestows ideal life, and causes the effulgence of divine illumination.
Through the breaths of the Holy Spirit it performs miracles; the
Orient and the Occident embrace each other, the North and South
become intimates and associates, conflicting and contending opin-
ions disappear, antagonistic aims are brushed aside, the law of the
struggle for existence is abrogated, and the canopy of the oneness
of the world of humanity is raised on the apex of the globe, casting
its shade over all the races of men. Consequently, the real Collective
Center is the body of the divine teachings, which include all the

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
degrees and embrace all the universal relations and necessary laws
of humanity.
Consider ! The people of the East and the West were in the
utmost strangeness. Now to what a high degree they are acquainted
with each other and united together! How far are the inhabitants
of Persia from the remotest countries of America! And now ob-
/
serve how great has been the influence of the heavenly power, for
the distance of thousands of miles has become identical with one
step! How various nations that have had no relations or similarity
with each other are now united and agreed through this divine
potency! Indeed to God belongs power in the past and in the future!
And verily God is powerful over all things!
Consider! \Vhen the rain, the heat, the sun and the gentle
zephyrs cooperate with each other, what beautiful gardens are pro-
duced! How the various kinds of hyacinths, flowers, trees and plants
associate with each other and are conducive to the adornment and
charm of one another! Hence the oneness of the bounty of the sun,
the oneness of rain and the oneness of the breeze have so overcome
all other considerations that the variety of hues, fragrances and
tastes have increased the adornment, the attraction and sweetness
of the whole. In a similar manner, when the divine Collective Center
and the outpouring of the Sun of Reality and the breaths of the
Holy Spirit are brought together, the variety of races and the dif-
ferences existing between countries will become the cause of the em-
bellishment, decoration and elegance of the world of humanity.
Therefore, the believers of God throughout all the republics of
America, through the divine power, must become the cause of the
promotion of heavenly teachings and the establishment of the one-
ness of hurnaHity. Every one of the important souls must arise,
blowing over all parts of America the breath of life, conferring
upon the people a new spirit, baptizing them with the fire of the
love of God, the water of life, and the breaths of the Holy Spirit
so that the second birth may become realized. For it is written
in the Gospel, "That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that
which is born of the spirit is spirit."
Therefore, 0 ye believers of God in the United States and
Canada! Select ye important personages, or else they by themselves,
becoming severed from rest and composure of the world, may arise
and travel throughout Alaska, the Republic of Mexico, and south
of Mexico in the Central American Republics, such as Guatemala,
Honduras, Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and Belize;

•
'ABDU'L-BAHA
and through the great South American Republics, such as Argen-
tina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Brazil, French Guiana, Dutch Guiana,
British Guiana, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia and Chile; also
in the group of the West Indies Islands, such as Cuba, Haiti, Puerto
Rico, Jamaica and Santo Domingo, an'd the group of Islands of the
Lesser Antilles, the Islands of Bahama and the Islands of Ber-
muda; likewise to the islands to the east, west and south of South
America, such as Trinidad, Falkland Islands, Galapagos Islands,
Juan Fernandez and Tobago. Visit ye especially the city of Bahia,
on the eastern shore of Brazil. Because in the past years this city
was christened with the name, BAHIA, there is no doubt that it has
been through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.
Consequently, the believers of God must display the utmost
effort, upraise the divine melody throughout those regions, promul-
gate the heavenly teachings and waft over all, the spirit of eternal
life; so that those Republics may become so illumined with the
splendors and the effulgences of the Sun of Reality that they may
become the objects of the praise and commendation of all other
countries. Likewise, you must give great attention to the Republic
of Panama, for in that point the Occident and the Orient find each
other united through the Panama Canal, and it is also situated be-
tween the two great oceans. That place will become very important
in the future. The T eachings once established there will unite the
East and the West, the North and the South.
Hence the intention must be purified, the effort ennobled and
exalted, so that you may establish affinity between the hearts of the
world of humanity. This glorious aim will not become realized save
through the promotion of divine teachings which are the founda-
tions of the holy religions.
Consider how the religions of God served the world of hu-
manity! How the religion of Torah became conducive to the glory
and honor and progress of the Israelitish nation! How the breaths
of the Holy Spirit of His Holiness Christ created affinity and unity
between divergent communities and quarreling families! How the
sacred power of His Holiness Mul:iammad became the means of
uniting and harmonizing the contentious tribes and the different
clans of Peninsular Arabia-to such an extent that one thousand
tribes were welded into one tribe; strife and discord were done away
with; all of them unitedly and with one accord strove in advancing
the cause of culture and civilization, and thus were freed from the
lowest degree of degradation, soaring toward the height of ever-

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
lasting glory! Is it possible to find a greater Collective Center in
the phenomenal world than this? In comparison to this Divine Col-
lective Center, the national collective center, the patriotic collective
center, the political collective center and the cultural and intellectual
collective center are like child's play!
Now strive ye that the Collective Center of the sacred religions
-for the inculcation of which all the Prophets were manifested and
which is no other than the spirit of the Divine Teachings- be
spread in all parts of America, so that each one of you may shine
forth from the horizon of Reality like unto the morning star, divine
illumination may overcome the darkness of nature, and the world
of humanity may become enlightened. This is the most great work!
Should you become confirmed therein, this world will become an-
other world, the surface of the earth will become the delectable
Paradise, and eternal Institutions be founded.
Let whosoever travels to different parts to teach, peruse over
mountain, desert, land and sea this supplication!
0 God! 0 God! Thou seest my weakness, lowliness and lm-
mility amongst Thy creatures; nevertheless I have trusted in Thee
and have arisen in the promotion of Thy Teachings amongst Thy
strong servants, relying on Thy power and might!
0 Lord! I am a broken-winged bird and desire to soar in this
Thy space to which there is no limit. How is it possible for me to
do this save through Thy providence and grace, Thy confirmation
and assistance!
0 Lord! Have pity on my weakness and strengthen me with
Thy power!
0 Lord! Have pity on my impotency and assist me with Thy
might and majesty!
0 Lord! Should the breaths of the Holy Spirit confirm the
weakest of creatures, he shall attain to the highest station of great-
ness and shall possess anything he desireth. Indeed Thou hast as-
sisted Thy servants in the past, and they were the weakest of Thy
creatures, the lowliest of Thy servants and the most insignificant
of those who lived upon the earth; but through Thy sanction and
potency they took precedence over the most glorious of Thy people
and the most noble of Thy mankind. Whereas formerly they were
as moths, they became royal falcons and whereas before they were
as bubbles, they became seas. Through Thy bestowal, Thy mercy
and Thy most great favor they became stars shining in the horizon
of guidance, birds singing in the rose-gardens of immortality, lions
f

,
,
•ABDU'L-BAHA
\
roaring in the forests of knowledge and wisdom and whales swim-
ming in the oceans of Ii fe.
Verily, Thou art the Clement, the Powerful, the Mighty,
the Most merciful of the Merciful!
Haifa, Palestine,
March 8, 1917.

To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful of
the Baha'i Assemblies in the United States of America and
Canada.
Upon them be Baha'u'llah El-Abba!
He is God!
0 ye apostles of Baha'u'llah-May my life be a ransom to you!
The blessed Person of the Promised One is interpreted in the
Holy Book as the Lord of Hosts-the heavenly armies. By
heavenly armies those souls are intended who are entirely freed
from the human world, transformed into celestial spirits and have
become divine angels. Such souls are the rays of the Sun of Reality
who will illumine all the continents. Each one is holding in his
hand a trumpet, blowing the breath of life over all the regions.
They are delivered from human qualities and the defects of the
world of nature, are characterized with the characteristics of God,
and are attracted with the fragrances of the Merciful. Like unto
the apostles of Christ, who were filled with Him, these souls also
have become filled with His Holiness Baha'u'llah; that is, the love
of Baha'u'llah has so mastered every organ, part and limb of their
bodies, as to leave no effect from the promptings of the human
world.
These souls are the armies of God and the conquerors of the
East and the West. Should one of them turn his face toward some
direction and summon the people to the Kingdom of God, all the
ideal forces and lordly confirmations will rush to his support and
reinforcement. He will behold all the doors open and all the strong
fortifications and impregnable castles razed to the ground. Singly
and alone he will attack the armies of the world, defeat the right
and left wings of the hosts of all the countries, break through the
lines of the legions of all the nations and carry his attack to the
very center of the powers of the earth. This is the meaning of the
Hosts of God.
Any soul from among the believers of Baha'u'llah who attains
to this station, will become known as the Apostle of Baha'u'llah.

,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
Therefore strive ye with heart and soul so that ye may reach this
lofty and exalted position, be established on the throne of ever-
lasting glory, and crown your heads with the shining diadem of
the Kingdom, whose brilliant jewels may irradiate upon centuries
and cycles.
0 ye kind friends! Uplift your magnanimity and soar high
toward the apex of heaven so that your blessed hearts may become
illumined more and more, day by day, through the Rays of the Sun
of Reality, that is, His Holiness Baha'u'llah; at every moment the
spirits may obtain a new life, and the darkness of the world of
nature may be entirely dispelled ; thus you may become incarnate
light and personified spirit, become entirely unaware of the sordid
matters of this world and in touch with the affairs of the divine
world.
Consider you what doors His Holiness Baha'u'llah has opened
before you, and what a high and exalted station He has destined
for you, and what bounties He has prepared for you! Should we
become intoxicated with this cup, the sovereignty of this globe of
earth will become lower in our estimation than the children's plays.
Should they place in the arena the crown of the government of
the whole world, and invite each one of us to accept it, undoubtedly
we shall not condescend, and shall refuse to accept it.
To attain to this supreme station is, however, dependent on the
realization of certain conditions :
The first condition is firmness in the Covenant of God. For the
power of the Covenant will protect the Cause of Baha'u'llah from
the doubts of the people of error. It is the fortified fortress of the
Cause of God aEd the firm pillar of the religion of God. Today
no power can conserve the .oneness of the Baha'i world save the
Covenant of God; otherwise differences like unto a most great
tempest will encompass the Baha'i world. It is evident that the axis
of the oneness of the world of humanity is the power of the Cove-
nant and nothing else. Had the Covenant not come to pass,
had it not been revealed from the Supreme Pen and had not the
Book of the Covenant, like unto the ray of the Sun of Reality,
illuminated the world, the forces of the Cause of God would have
been utterly scattered and certain souls who were the prisoners of
their own passions and lusts would have taken into their hands an
axe, cutting the root of this Blessed Tree. Every person would have
pushed forward his own desire and every individual aired his own

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
opinion! Nothwithstanding this great Covenant, a few negligent
souls galloped with their chargers into the battlefield, thinking per-
chance they might be able to weaken the foundation of the Cause of
God: but praise be to God all of them were afflicted with regret and
loss, and ere long they shall see themselves in poignant despair.
Therefore, in the beginning one must make his steps firm in the
Covenant so that the confirmations of Baha'u'llah may encircle
from all sides, the cohorts of the Supreme Concourse may become
the supporters and the helpers, and the exhortations and advices of
'Abdu'l-Baha, like unto the pictures engraved on stone, may remain
permanent and ineffaceable in the tablets of the hearts.
The second condition: Fellowship and love amongst the be-
lievers. The divine friends must be attracted to and enamored of
each other and ever be ready and willing to sacrifice their own lives
for each other. Should one soul from amongst the believers meet
another, it must be as though a thirsty one with parched lips has
reached to the fountain of the water of life, or a lover has met his
true beloved. For one of the greatest divine wisdoms regarding the
appearance of the Holy Manifestations is this: The souls may come
to know each other and become intimate with each other; the power
of the love of God may make all of them the waves of one sea, the
flowers of one rose garden, and the stars of one heaven. This is the
wisdom for the appearance of the Holy Manifestations! 'When the
most great bestowal reveals itself in the hearts of the believers, the
world of nature will be transformed, the darkness of the contingent
being will vanish, and heavenly illumination will be obtained. Then
the whole world will become the Paradise of Abha, every one of the
believers of God will become a blessed tree, producing wonderful
fruits.
0 ye friends! Fellowship, fellowship! Love, love! Unity, unity!
-So that the power of the Baha'i Cause may appear and become
manifest in the world of existence. Just at this moment I am en-
gaged in your commemoration and this heart is in the utmost glow
and excitement! Were you to realize how this consciousness is
attracted with the love of the friends, unquestionably you would
obtain such a degree of joy and fragrance that you would all become
enamored with each other !
The third condition: Teachers must continually travel to all
parts of the continent, nay, rather, to all parts of the world, but
they must travel like 'Abdu'l-Baha, who journeyed throughout the
,

•
'ABDU'L-BAHA
c1t1es of America. He was sanctified and free from every attach-
ment and in the utmost severance. Just as His Holiness Christ says,
"Shake off the very dust from your feet."
You have observed that while in America many souls in the ut-
most of supplication and entreaty desired to offer some gifts, but
this servant, in accord with the exhortations and behests of the
Blessed Perfection, never accepted a thing, although on certain
occasions we were in most straitened circumstances. But on the
other hand, if a soul for the sake of God, voluntarily and out of
his pure desire, wishes to offer a contribution (toward the expenses
of a teacher) in order to make the contributor happy, the teacher
may accept a small sum, but must live with the utmost contentment.
The aim is this: The intention of the teacher must be pure, his
heart independent, his spirit attracted, his thought at peace, his
resolution firm, his magnanimity exalted and in the love of God
a shining torch. Should he become as such, his sanctified breath
will even affect the rock; otherwise there will be no result what-
soever. As long as a soul is not perfected, how can he efface the
defects of others. Unless he is detached from aught else save God,
how can he teach severance to others !
In short, 0 ye believers of God! Endeavor ye, so that you may
take hold of every means in the promulgation of the religion of
God and the diffusion of the fragrances of God.
Amongst other things is the holding of the meetings for teach-
ing so that blessed souls and the old ones from amongst the be-
lievers may gather together the youths of the love of God in schools
of instruction and teach them all the divine proofs and irrefragible
arguments, explain and elucidate the history of the Cause, and in-
terpret also the prophecies and proofs which are recorded and are
extant in the divine Books and Epistles regarding the Manifesta-
tion of the Promised One, so that the young ones may go in per-
fect knowledge in all these degrees.
Likewise, whenever it is possible a committee must be organized
for the translation of the Tablets. Wise souls who have mastered
and studied perfectly the Persian, Arabic, and other foreign lan-
guages, or know one of the foreign languages, must commence
translating Tablets and books containing the proofs of this Revela-
tion, and publishing those books, circulate them throughout the five
continents of the globe.
Similarly, the Magazine, the Star of the West, must be edited

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
with the utmost regularity, but its contents must be the promulgation
of the Cause of God that both East and West may become informed
of the most important events.
In short, in all the meetings, whether public or private, nothing
should be discussed save that which is under consideration, and all
the articles be centered around the Cause of God. Promiscuous talk
must not be dragged in and contention is absolutely forbidden.
The teachers traveling in different directions must know the
language of the country in which they will enter. For example, a
person being proficient in the Japanese language may travel to
Japan, or a person knowing the Chinese language may hasten to
China, and so forth.
In short, after this universal war, the people have obtained ex-
traordinary capacity to hearken to the divine teachings, for the
wisdom of this war is this: That it may become proven to all that
the fire of war is world-consuming, whereas the rays of peace are
world-enlightening. One is death, the other is life ; this is extinction,
that is immortality; one is the most great calamity, the other is
the most great bounty; this is darkness, that is light; this is eternal
humiliation and that is everlasting glory; one is the destroyer of
the foundation of man, the other is the founder of the prosperity
of the human race.
Consequently, a number of souls may arise and act in accord-
ance with the aforesaid conditions, and hasten to all parts of the
world, especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia and Aus-
tralia, and travel through Japan and China. Likewise, from Ger-
many teachers and believers may travel to the continents of Amer-
ica, Africa, Japan and China; in brief, they may travel through all
the continents and islands of the globe. Thus in a short space of
time, most wonderful results will be produced, the banner of Uni-
versal Peace will be waving on the apex of the world and the lights
of the oneness of the world of humanity may illumine the universe.
In brief, 0 ye believers of God! The text of the Divine Book
is this : If two souls quarrel and contend about a question of the
Divine questions, differing and disputing, both are wrong. The
wisdom of this incontrovertible law of God is this: That between
two souls from amongst the believers of God, no contention and
dispute may arise; that they may speak with each other with
infinite amity and love. Should there appear the least trace of con-
troversy, they must remain silent, and both parties must continue

,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
their discussions no longer, but ask the reality of the question from
the Interpreter. This is the irrefutable command!
Upon you be Baha El-Abha !
Supplication
t -
0 God! 0 God! Thou seest that black darkness hath encom-
passed all the regions, all the countries are burning with the con-
flagration of dissension and the fire of war and carnage is ignited
in the Easts of the earth and the Wests thereof. The blood is being
shed, the corpses are outstretched and the heads are decapitated and
thrown on the ground in the battlefield.
Lord! Lord! Have pity on these ignorant ones, look upon them
with the eye of forgiveness and pardon. Extinguish this fire so that
these gloomy clouds covering the horizon may be scattered; the
Sun of Reality may shine forth with the rays of conciliation; this
darkness be rent asunder and all the countries be illumined with
the lights of peace.
Lord! Awaken them from the depths of the sea of animosity,
deliver them from these impenetrable darknesses, establish affinity
between their hearts and enlighten their eyes with the light of peace
and reconciliation.
Lord ! Rescue them from the fathomless depths of war and
bloodshed! Arouse them out of the gloom of error, rend asunder
the veil from their eyes, brighten their hearts with the light of guid-
ance, deal with them through Thy favor and mercy and do not treat
them according to Thy justice and wrath through which the backs
of the mighty ones are shaken!
Lord! Verily the wars have prolonged, the calamities have in-
creased, and every building hath turned into ruin.
Lord! Verily the breasts are agitated and the souls are con-
vulsed. Have mercy on these poor ones and do not leave them to
do with themselves that which they desire!
Lord! Send forth throughout Thy countries humble and sub-
missive souls, their faces illumined with the rays of guidance,
severed from the world, sp~ak ing Thy remembrance and praise and
diffusing Thy holy fragrances amongst mankind!
Lord! Strengthen their backs, reinforce their loins and dilate
their breasts with the signs of Thy most great love.
Lord! Verily they are weak and Thou art the Powerful and

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
the Mighty; and they are impotent and Thou art the Helper and
the Merciful !
Lord! Verily the sea of transgression is waving high and these
hurricanes will not be calmed down save through Thy boundless
grace which hath embraced all the regions!
Lord! Verily the souls are in the deep valleys of lust and noth-
ing will awaken them save Thy most wonderful bounties.
Lord! Dispel these darknesses of temptations and illumine tl-
hearts with the lamp of Thy love, through which all the countries
will be enlightened. Confirm those believers who, leaving their coun-
tries, their families and their children, travel throughout the re-
gions for the sake of the love of Thy beauty, the diffusion of Thy
fragrances and the promulgation of Thy teachings. Be thou their
companion in their loneliness, their helper in a strange land, the
remover of their sorrow, the comforter in their calamity, their de-
liverer in their hardship, the satisfier of their thirst, the healer of
their malady and the allayer of the fire of their longing.
Verily, Thou art the Clement, the Possessor of Mercy, and
Verily Thou art the Compassionate and the Merciful.
Haifa, Palestine,
April 19, 20 and 22, 1917.

To the friends and maid-servants of God in the Northeastern States.
Upon them be greeting and praise!
0 ye heavenly heralds :
These are the days of N awrt'.tz. I am always thinking of those
kind friends! I beg for each and all of you confirmations and
assistance from the threshold of Oneness, so that those gatherings
may become ignited like unto candles, in the republics of America,
enkindling the light of the love of God in the hearts; thus the rays
of the heavenly teachings may begem and brighten the states of
America like the infinitude of immensity with the stars of the most
great guidance.
The Northeastern states on the shores of the Atlantic-Maine,
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Ver-
mont, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York-in some of these
states believers are found, but in some of the cities of these states
up to this date people are not yet illumined with the lights of the
Kingdom and are not aware of the heavenly teachings; therefore,
whenever it is possible for each one of you, hasten ye to those
cities and shine forth like unto the stars with the light of the most
great guidance. God says in the glorious Qur'~m, "The soil was
black and dried. Then we caused the rain to descend upon it and
immediately it became green, verdant, and every kind of plant
sprouted up luxuriantly." In other words, he says the earth is
black, but when the spring showers descend upon it that black
soil is quickened, and variegated flowers are pushed forth. This
means the souls of humanity belonging to the world of nature
are black like unto the soil. But when the heavenly outpourings
descend and the radiant effulgences appear, the hearts are resusci-
tated, are liberated from the darkness of nature and the flowers of
divine mysteries grow and become luxuriant. Consequently man
must become the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity
and propagate the holy teachings revealed in the sacred books
through divine inspiration. It is stated in the blessed Gospel: Travel
ye toward the East and toward the West and enlighten the people
with the light of the most great guidance, so that they may take a

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
portion and share of the eternal life. Praise be to God, that the
Northeastern states are in the utmost capacity. Because the ground
is rich, the rain of the divine outpouring is descending. Now you
must become heavenly farmers and scatter pure seeds in the pre-
pared soil. The harvest of every other seed is limited, but the bounty
and the blessing of the seed of the Divine Teachings is unlimited.
Throughout the corning centuries and cycles 'many harvests will be
gathered. Consider the work of former generations. During the
lifetime of His Holiness Christ the believing, firm souls were few
and numbered, but the heavenly benedictions descended so plenti-
fully that in a number of years countless souls entered under the
shade of the Gospel. God has said in the Qur'an, "One grain will
bring forth seven sheaves, and every sheaf shall contain one hun-
dred grains." In other words, one grain will become seven hun-
dred; and if God so wills he will double these also. It has often
happened that one blessed soul has become the cause of the guidance
of a nation. Now we must not look at our own ability and capacity;
nay, rather, we must behold the favors and bounties of God in
these days, who has made the drop to find the expression of the sea
and the atom the importance of the sun.
Upon you be greeting and praise!
Haifa, Palestine,
March 26, 1916.

To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful of
the Northeastern States of the United States of America-
M aine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Con-
necticut, Vermont, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York.
He is God!
0 ye real friends :
All the regions in the estimation of the True One are one region
and all the cities and villages are ideally equal and similar to each
other. Neither holds distinction over another. All of them are the
fields of God and the habitation of the souls of men. But through
faith and assurance and the precedence of one part over another the
dweller imparts holiness and sanctification to the dwelling and some
of the countries becoming exceptional, attain to the most great dis-
tinction.
For example, notwithstanding that some of the countries of
Europe and America are distinguished for the purity of the air,
the wholesomeness of the water, and the charm of the mountains,
plains and prairies and are preferred above all the rest, yet Pales-
tine became an honor to all other regions of the world because
all the holy divine Manifestations from the time of His Holiness
Abraham to the time of the appearance of the Seal of the Prophets,
have either lived in this region or emigrated to or traveled
through here.
Likewise Yathroh and Bat-]:1a attained to the most great bounty
and the light of the Prophets has shone from that horizon. For
this reason Palestine and Hedjaz are distinguished above all other
regions.
Likewise as the continent of America in the estimation of the
True One is the field of the effulgence of light, the Kingdom of
the manifestation of mysteries, the home of the righteous ones and
the gathering place of the free, therefore, every section thereof is
blessed; but because these nine states have been favored in faith
and assurance, hence through this precedence they have obtained
spiritual privilege. They must realize the value of this bounty;
because they have obtained such a favor and in order to render

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
thanksgiving for this most great b~stowal, they must arise in the
diffusion of divine fragrances so that the blessed verse of the
Q ,,
ur an:
"God is the light of heaven and earth: the similitude of His light
is a niche in a wall, wherein a lamp is placed, and the lamp enclosed
in a case of glass; the glass appears as if it were a shining star.
It is lighted with the oil of a blessed tree, an olive neither cH the
East, nor of the West; it wanteth little,,but that the oil thereof would
give light, although no fire touched it. This is the light added unto
light. God will direct unto His light whom He pleaseth."
- may be realized.
He says, "The world of nature is the world of darkness, because
it is the origin of a thousand depravities; nay rather, it is darkness
upon darkness." The illumination of the world of nature is depend-
ent upon the splendor of the Sun of Reality. The grace of guidance
is like unto the candle which is enkindled in the glass of knowledge
and wisdom and that glass of knowledge and wisdom is the mirror
of the heart of humanity. The oil of that luminous lamp is from the
fruits of the Blessed Tree and that oil is so refined that it will burn
without light. When the intensity of the light and the translucency
of the glass and the purity of the mirror are brought together, it
will become light upon light.
In brief, in these nine blessed states 'Abdu'l-Baha journeyed and
traveled from place to place, explained the wisdom of the heavenly
books and diffused the fragrances. In most of these states he
founded the Divine Edifice and opened the door of teaching. In
those states he sowed pure seeds and planted blessed trees.
Now the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful
must irrigate these fields and with the utmost power engage them-
selves in the cultivation of these heavenly plantations so that the
seeds may grow and develop, prosperity and blessing be realized and
many rich and great harvests be gathered in.
The Kingdom of God is like unto a farmer who comes into
possession of a piece of pure and virgin soil. Heavenly seeds are
scattered therein, the clouds of divine providence pour down and
the rays of the Sun of Reality shine forth.
Now all these bounties exist and appear in full in these nine
states. The divine Gardener passed by that holy ground and scat-
tered pure seeds from the lordly teachings in that field; the rain of
the bounties of God poured down and the heat of the Sun of Reality
-that is, the merciful confirmations-shone with the utmost

""
I
,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
splendor. It is my hope that each one of those blessed souls may
become a peerless and unique irrigator and the East and the West
.of America may become like unto a delectable paradise so that ~11
of you may hear from the Supr~me Concourse the cry of "Blessed
are you, and again blessed are you!"
.
Upon you be greeting and praise!
The following supplication is to be read by the teachers and
friends daily:
\
· 0 Thou Kind Lord ! Praise be unto Thee that Thou hast shown
unto us the highway of guidance, opened the doors of the Kingdom
and manifested Thyself through the Sun of Reality. To the blind
Thou hast given sight; to the deaf Thou hast granted hearing; Thou
base resuscitated the dead; Thou hast shown the way to those who
have ·gone astray; Thou hast led those with parched lips to the foun-
tain of guidance; Th.ou hast suffered the thirsty fish to reach the
ocean of reality and Thou hast invited the wandering birds to the
rose garden of grace.
.
. 0 Thou Almighty ! We people are Thy servants and Thy poor
ones ! We are remote, we yearn for Thy presence ; we are thirsty for
the water of Thy fountain; we are ill, longing for Thy medicine.
We are walking in Thy path and have no aim or hope save the
· diffusion of Thy fragrances so that the souls may raise the cry of
"O God ! Guide us to the straight path !" May they open their eyes
by beholding the lights and become freed from the darkness of
ignorance! May they walk around the lamp of guidance! May the
portionless receive a share! and may the deprived ones become the
confidants of the mysteries !
0 Almighty! Look upon us with the glance of mercifulness!
Grant us heavenly confirmation! Bestow upon us the breaths of the
. Holy Spirit! So that we may become assisted in service and like
unto brilliant stars we may shine in these regions with the light of
guidance! Verily! Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, and Thou art
the Wise and the Seeing!
Haifa, Palestine,
February 2, 1917.

/
To the friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the Southern
States.
Upon them be greeting and praise!
0 ye heralds of the Kingdom of God:
A few days ago an epistle was written to those divine believers,
but because these days are the days of Nawruz, you have come to
my mind and I am sending you this greeting for this glorious feast.
All the days are blessed, but this feast is the national fete of
Persia. The Persians have been holding it for several thousand
years past. In reality every day which man passes in the mention of
God, the diffusion of the fragrances of God and calling the people
to the Kingdom of God, that day is his feast. Praise be to God that
you are occupied in the service of the Kingdom of God and are
engaged in the promulgation of the religion of God by day·and by
night. Therefore all your days are feast days. There is no doubt
that the assistance and the bestowal of God shall descend upon you.
In the Southern States of the United States, the friends are
few, that is, in Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mis-
sissippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Louisiana, Arkansas, Oklahoma and
Texas.
Consequently you must either go yourselves or send a
number of blessed souls to those states, so that they may guide
the people to the Kingdom of Heaven. One of the Holy Man-
ifestations, addressing a believing soul, says, "If a person become
the cause of the illumination of one soul, it is better than a bound-
less treasury." Again He says, "O Ali! If God guide, through
thee, one soul, it is better for thee than all the riches!" Again
He says, "Direct us to the straight path!" that is, Show us the
right road. It is also mentioned in the Gospel, "Travel ye to all
parts of the world and give ye the glad tidings of the appearance
of the Kingdom of God."
In brief, I hope you will display in this respect the greatest
effort and magnanimity. It is assured that you will become assisted
and confirmed. A person declaring the glad tidings of the appearance
of the realities and significances of the Kingdom is like unto a

'ABDU'L-BAHA
farmer who scatters pure seeds in the rich soil. The spring cloud
will pour upon them the rain of bounty, and unquestionably the
station of the farmer will be raised in the estimation of the lord
of the village, and many harvests will be gathered.
Therefore, ye friends of God I· Appreciate ye the value of this
time and be ye engaged in the sowing of the seeds, so that you may
find the heavenly blessing and the lordly bestowal. Upon you be
Bab.a El-Abba!
Haifa, Palestine,
March 27, 1916.

To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the
Southern States.
Upon them be Baha'u'llah El-Abha !
0 ye blessed, respected souls :
The philosophers of the ancients, the thinkers of the Middle
Ages and the scientists of this and the former centuries have all
agreed upon the fact that the best and the most ideal region for
the habitation of man is the temperate zone, for in this belt the
intellects and thoughts rise to the highest stage of maturity, and
the capability and ability of civilization manifest themselves in
full efflorescence. When you read history critically and with a
penetrating eye, it becomes evident that the majority of the famous
men have been born, reared and have done their work in the tem-
perate zone, while very very few have appeared from the torrid and
frigid zones.
Now these sixteen Southern States of the United States are situ-
ated in the temperate zone, and in these regions the perfections of
the world of nature have been fully revealed. For the moderation
of the weather, the beauty of the scenery and the geographical
configuration of the country display a great effect in the world of
minds and thoughts. This fact is well demonstrated through observa-
tion and experience.
Even the holy, divine Manifestations have had a nature in the
utmost equilibrium, the health and wholesomeness of their bodies
most perfect, their constitutions endowed with physical vigor, their
powers functioning in perfect order, and the outward sensations
linked with the inward perceptions, working together with extraor-
dinary momentum and co-ordination.
Therefore in these sixteen states, because they are contiguous
to other states and their climate being in the utmost of modera-
tion, unquestionably the divine teachings must reveal themselves
with a brighter effulgence, the breaths of the Holy Spirit must
display a penetrating intensity, the ocean of the love of God must
be stirred with higher waves, the breezes of the rose garden of

,
tABDU'L-BAHA
the divine love be wafted with higher velocity, and the fragrances
of holiness be diffused with sw-iftness and rapidity.
Praise be to God that the divine outpourings are infinite, the
melody of the lordly principles is in the utmost efficacy, the most
great Orb shining with perfect splendor, the cohorts of the Supreme
Concourse are attacking with invincible power, the tongues are
sharper than the swords, the hearts are more brilliant than the
light of electricity, the magnanimity of the friends precedes all the
magnanimities of the former and subsequent generations, the souls
. are divinely attracted, and the fire of the love of God is enkindled.
At this time and at this period we must avail ourselves of this
most great opportunity. We must not sit inactive for one moment;
we must sever ourselves from composure, rest, tranquillity, goods,
property, Ii fe and attachment to material things. We must sacrifice
everything to His Highness, the Possessor of existence, so that the
powers of the Kingdom may show greater penetration and the
brilliant effulgence in this New Cycle may illumine the worlds of
minds and ideals.
It is about twenty-three years that the fragrances of God have
been diffused in America, but no adequate and befitting motion has
been realized, and no great acclamation and acceleration has been
witnessed. Now it is my hope that through the heavenly power, the
fragrances of the Merciful, the attraction of consciousness, the
celestial outpourings, the heavenly cohorts and the gushing forth
of the fountain of divine love, the believers of God may arise
and in a short time the greatest good may unveil her countenance,
the Sun of Reality may shine forth with such intensity that the
darkness of the world of nature may become entirely dispelled and
driven away; from every corner a most wonderful melody may be
raised, the morning birds may break into such a song that the world
of humanity may be quickened and moved, the solid bodies may
become liquified, and the souls who are like unto adamantine rocks
may open their wings and through the heat of the love of God fly
heavenward.
Nearly two thousand years ago, Armenia was enveloped with
impenetrable darkness. One blessed soul from among the disciples of
Christ hastened to that part, and through his effort, ere long that
province became illumined. Thus it has become evident how the
power of the Kingdom works!
·
Therefore, rest ye assured in the confirmations of the Merciful
and the assistances of the Most High; become ye sanctified above

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
and purified from this world and the inhabitants thereof ; suffer
your intention tp become for the good of alt ; cut your attachment
to the earth and like unto the essence of the spirit become ye tight
and delicate. Then with a firm resolution, a pure heart, a rejoiced
spirit, and an eloquent tongue, engage your time i.n the promulgation
of the divine principles so that the oneness of the world of humanity
may pitch her canopy in the apex of America and all the nations of
the world may follow the divine policy. This is certain, that the
divine policy is justice and kindness toward all mankind. For all the
nations of the world are the sheep of God, and God is the kind
shepherd. He has created these sheep. He has protected them, sus-
tained and trained them. What greater kindness than this? And
every moment we must render a hundred thousand thanksgivings
that, praise be to God, we are freed from all the ignorant prejudices,
are kind to all the sheep of God, and our utmost hope is to· serve
each and all, and like unto a benevolent father educate every one.
Upon you be greeting and praise!
Every soul who travels through these cities, villages and hamlets
of these states and is engaged in the diffusion of the fragrances of
God, must peruse this commune every morning :
0 God! 0 God! Behold me! Notwithstanding my lowliness and
my lack of capacity and ability, I am bent upon the accomplishment
of the greatest works, aiming to promote Thy Word amongst the
republics and resolved to spread Thy teachings amongst all mankind.
Far be it from me to become confirmed in. this work save Thou
mayst assist me with the breaths of the Holy Spirit! Make me
victorious through the armies of Thy Supreme Kingdom and encircle
me with Thy confirmat~ons, which shall make the moth the eagle,
the drop the river and the seas, and the scintillas the suns and the
moons!
0 Lord ! Confirm me with Thy insuperable power and Thy
penetrating potency, so that my tongue may speak out Thy praises
·and glorifications amongst Thy creatures, and my heart become
overflowed with the wine of Thy love and knowledge. Verily, Thou
art the powerful to do that which Thou willest, and Thou art mighty
over all things !
Haifa, Palestine,
February 3, 1917.

To the friends of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the
Central States.
0 ye heavenly souls, 0 ye spiritual assemblies, 0 ye lordly meetings:
For some time past correspondence has been delayed, and this
has been on account of the difficulty of mailing and receiving letters.
But because at present a number of facilities are obtainable, there-
fore, I am engaged in writing you this brief epistle so that my heart
and soul may obtain joy and fragrance through the remembrance
of the friends. Continually this wanderer supplicates and entreats
at the threshold of His Holiness the One and begs assistance, bounty
and heavenly confirmations in behalf of the believers. You are always
in my thought. You are not nor shall you ever be forgotten. I hope
by the favor of His Holiness the Almighty that day by day you
may add to your faith, assurance, firmness and steadfastness, and
become instruments for the promotion of the holy fragrances. In the.
great book, the divine Qur'an, God, addressing his Messenger, His
Holiness M uJ:iammad, (upon him be greeting and praise ! ) says,
"Verily thou dost guide the people to the straight path." In other
words, Thou dost show mankind the direct road. Consider how
guidance is a matter of infinite importance, for it points to the lofti-
ness of the station of His Holiness the Messenger.
Although in the states of Illinois, Wisconsin, Ohio, Michigan
and Minnesota-praise be to God-believers are found who are
associating with each other in the utmost firmness and steadfast-
ness-day and night they have no other intention save the diffusion
of the fragrances of God, they have no other hope except the pro-
motion of the heavenly teachings, like the candles they are burning
with the light of the love of God, and like thankful birds are singing
songs, spirit-imparting, joy-creating, in the rose garden of the
knowledge of God,-yet in the states of Indiana, Iowa, Missouri,
North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska and Kansas few of the
believers exist. So . far the summons of the Kingdom of God and
the proclamation of the oneness of the world of humanity has not
been made in these states systematically and enthusiastically. Blessed
souls and detached teachers have not traveled through these parts

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
repeatedly; therefore these states are still in a state of heedlessness.
Through the efforts of the friends of God souls must be likewise
enkindled in these states, with the fire of the love of God and
attracted to the Kingdom of God, so that section may also become
illumined and the soul imparting breeze of the rose garden of the
Kingdom may perfume the nostrils of the inhabitants. Therefore,
if it is possible, send to those parts teachers who are severed from
all else save God, sanctified and pure. If these teachers be in the
utmost state of attraction, in a short time great results will be forth-
coming. The sons and daughters of the kingdom are like unto the
real farmers. Through whichever state or country they pass they
display self-sacrifice and sow divine seeds. From that seed harvests
are produced. On this subject it is revealed in the glorious Gospel:
When the pure seeds are scattered in the good ground heavenly
blessing and benediction is obtained. I hope that you may become
assisted and confirmed, and never lose courage in the promotion of
the divine teachings. Day by day may you add to your effort,
exertion, and magnanimity.
Upon you be greeting and praise!
Haifa, Palestine,
March 29, 1916.

To the believers and the maid-servants of God in the Central States.
Upon them be Baha'u'llah El-Abba!
He is God!
God says in the great Qur'an, "He specializes for His Mercy whom-
soever He willeth."
0 ye old believers and intimate friends :
These twelve central states of the United States are like unto
the heart of America, and the heart is connected with all the organs
and parts of man. If the heart is strengthened, all the organs of the
body are reinforced, and if the heart is weak all the physical elements
are subjected to feebleness.
Now praise be to God that Chicago and its environs from the
beginning of the diffusion of the fragrances of God have been a
strong heart. Therefore, through divine bounty and providence it
has become confirmed in certain great matters.
First: The Call of the Kingdom was in the very beginning
raised from Chicago. This is indeed a great privilege, for in future
centuries and cycles, it will be as an axis around which the honor of
Chicago will revolve.
Second: A number of souls with the utmost firmness and stead-
fastness arose in that blessed spot in the promotion of the Word of
God and even to the present moment, having purified and sanctified
the heart from every thought, they are occupied with the promulga-
tion of the teachings of God. Hence the call of praise is raised
uninterruptedly from the Supreme Concourse.
Thirdly: During the. American journey 'Abdu'l-Baha several
times passed through Chicago and associated with the friends of
God. For some time he sojourned in that city. Day and night he
was occupied with the mention of the True One and summoned the
people to the Kingdom of God.
Fourthly: Up to the present time, every movement initiated
in Chicago, its effect was spread to all parts and to all directions,
just as everything that appears in and manifests from the heart
influences all the organs and limbs of the body.

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
Fifthly: The first Mawriqu'l-Ac;Uikar in America was insti-
tuted in Chicago, and this honor and distinction is infinite in value.
Undoubtedly out of this Mawriqu'l-Ac;Uikar thousands of other
Mawriqu'l-Ac;Uikars will be born.
Likewise (were instituted in Chicago) the general Annual Con-
ventions, the foundation of the Star of the West, the Publishing
Society for the publication of books and Tablets and their circula-
tion in all parts of America, and the preparations now· under way
for the celebration of the Golden Centenary Anniversay of the
Kingdom of God. I hope that this Jubilee and this. Exhibition may
be celebrated in the utmost perfection so that the call to the world
of unity, "There is no God but One God, and all the Messengers,
from the beginning to the Seal of the Prophets (Mul]ammad) were
sent on the part of the True One!" may be raised; the flag of the
oneness of the world of humanity be unfurled, the melody of Uni-
versal Peace may reach the ears of the East and the West, all the
paths 'may be cleared and straightened, all the hearts may be attracted
to the Kingdom of God, the tabernacle of unity be pitched on the
apex of America, the song of the love of God may exhilarate and
rejoice all the nations and peoples, the surface of the earth may
become the eternal paradise, the dark clouds may be dispelled and
the Sun of Truth may shine forth with the utmost intensity.
0 ye friends of God! Exert ye with heart and soul, so that
association, love, unity and agreement be obtained between the
hearts, all the aims may be merged into one aim, all the songs
become one song and the power of the Boly Spirit may become
so overwhelmingly victorious as to overcome all the forces of the
world of nature. 'Vork ! This is the great Work, should ye become
assisted therein. Thus America may become the fulcrum of merciful
susceptibilities, and the throne of the Kingdom of God be estab-
lished upon earth with the greatest joy and majesty.
This phenomenal world will not remain in an unchanging con-
dition even for a short while. Second after second it undergoes
change and transformation. Every foundation will finally become
collapsed; every glory and splendor will at last vanish and disappear,
but the Kingdom of God is eternal and the heavenly sovereignty
and· majesty will stand firm, everlasting. Hence in the estimation
of a wise man the mat in the Kingdom of God is preferable to the
throne of the government of the world.
Continually my ear and eye are turned toward the Central States;
perchance a· melody from some blessed souls may reach my ears-

,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
souls who are the dawning-places of the love of God, the stars of
the horizon of sanctification and holiness-'souls who will illumine
this dark universe and quicken to life this dead world. The joy of
'Abdu'l-Bahi depends upon this! I hope that you may become
confirmed therein.
Consequently, those souls who are in a condition of the utmost
severance, purified from the defects of the world of nature, sancti-
fied from attachment to this earth, vivified with the breaths of
eternal life-with luminous hearts, with heav~nly spirit, with attrac-
tion of consciousness, with celestial magnanimity, with eloquent
tongues and with clear explanations-such souls must hasten and
travel through all parts of the Central States. In every city and
village they must occupy themselves with the diffusion of the divine
exhortations and advices, guide the souls and promote the oneness
of the world of humanity. They must play the melody of inter-
national conciliation with such power that every deaf one may attain
hearing, every extinct person may be set aglow, every dead one
may obtain new life and every indifferent soul may find ecstasy. It
is certain that such will be the consummation.
The spreaders of the fragrances of God may peruse this com-
mune every morning:
0 Lord! 0 Lord! Praise and thanksgiving be unto Thee for
Thou hast guided me to the highway of the Kingdom, suffered me
to walk in this straight and far-stretching path, illumined my eye
by beholding the lights, made me listen to the melodies of the birds
of holiness from the Kingdom of Mysteries and attracted my heart
with Thy love among the righteous ones.
0 Lord! Confirm me with the Holy Spirit, so that I may call in
Thy Name amongst the nations and give the glad tidings of the
manifestation of Thy Kingdom amongst mankind.
0 Lord ! I am weak, strengthen me with Thy power and potency.
My tongue falters, suffer me to utter Thy commemoration and
praise. I am lonely, console me through my entrance into Thy King-
dom. I am remote, cause me to approach to the threshold of Thy
Mercifulness. 0 Lord! Make me a brilliant lamp, a shining star and
a blessed tree, adorned with fruits, its branches overshadowing all
these regions! Verily Thou art the Mighty, the Powerful and Un-
constrained !
Haifa, Palestine,
February 8, 1917.
/
/

To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the
Western States.
He is God!
0 ye sons and daughters of the Kingdom :
Day and night I have no other occupation than the remembrance
of the friends, praying from the depth of my heart in their behalf,
begging for them confirmation from the Kingdom of God and sup-
plicating the direct effect of the breaths of the Holy Spirit. I am
hopeful from the favors of His Highness the Lord of Bestowals,
that the friends of God during such a time may become the secret
cause of the illumination of the hearts of humanity, breathing the
breath of life upon the spirits-whose praiseworthy results may
become conducive to the glory and exaltation of humankind through-
out all eternity. Although in some of the Western States, like Cali-
fornia, Oregon, Washington and Colorado, the fragrances of holi-
ness are diffused, numerous souls have taken a share and a portion
from the fountain of everlasting life, they have obtained heavenly
benediction, have drunk an overflowing cup from the wine of the
love of God and have hearkened to the melody of the Supreme
Concourse-yet in the states of New Mexico, 'Wyoming, Montana,
Idaho, Utah, Arizona, and Nevada, the lamp of the love of God is
not ignited in a befitting and behoovinlJ manner, and the call of the
Kingdom of God has not been raised. Now, if it is possible, show
ye an effort in this direction. Either travel yourselves, personally,
throughout those states or choose others and send them, so that
they may teach the souls. For the present those states are like unto
dead bodies: they must breathe into them the breath of life and
bestow upon them a heavenly spirit. Like unto the stars they must
shine in that horizon and thus the rays of the Sun of Reality may
also illumine those states.
God says in the great Qur'an, "Verily God is the helper of those
who have believed. He will lead them from darkness into light."
This means: God loves the believers, consequently He will deliver
them from darkness and bring them into the world of tight.

.
,
•ABDU'L-BAHA
It is also recorded in the blessed Gospel : Travel ye throughout
the world and call ye the people to the Kingdom of God. Now this
is the time that you may aris~ and perform this most great service
and become the cause of the guidance of innumerable souls. Thus
through this superhuman service the rays of peace and conciliation
may illumine and enlighten all the regions and the world of humanity
may find peace and composure.
·
During my stay in America I cried out in every meeting and
summoned the people to the propagation of the ideals of universal
peace. I said plainly that the continent of Europe had become like
unto an arsenal and its conflagration was dependent upon one spark,
and that in the coming years, or within two years, all that which
is recorded in the Revelation of John and the Book of Daniel
would become fulfilled and come to pass. This matter, in all prob-
ability, was published in the San Francisco Bulletin, October 12,
1912. You may refer to it, so that the truth may become clear
and manifest; thus ye may fully realize that this is the time for
the diffusion of the fragrances.
The magnanimity of man must be heavenly or, in other words,
it must be assisted by the divine confirmation, so that he may become
the cause of the illumination of the world of humanity.
Upon you be greeting and praise.
Haifa, Palestine,
April l, 1916.

To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the
Western States of the United States: New Mexico, Colorado,
Arizond, Nevada, California, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho,
Oregon, Washington, Utah.
Upon them be Baha'u'llah El-Abba.
He is God!
0 ye friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful, the chosen
ones of the Kingdom :
The blessed state of California bears the utmost similarity t.o
the Holy Land, that is, the country of Palestine. The air is of the
utmost temperance, the plain very spacious, and the fruits of Pales-
tine are seen in that state in the utmost of freshness and delicacy.
When 'Abdu'l-Baha was traveling and journeying through those
states, he found himself in Palestine, for from every standpoint
there was a perfect likeness between this region and that state.
Even the shores of the Pacific Ocean, in some instances, show
perfect resemblance to the shores of the Holy Land-even the flora
of the Holy Land have grown on those shores-the study of which
has led to much speculation and wonder.
Likewise in the state of California and other Western States,
wonderful scenes of the world of nature, which bewilder the minds
of men, are manifest. Lofty mountains, deep canyons, great and
majestic waterfalls, and giant trees are witnessed on all sides,
while its soil is in the utmost fertility and richness. That blessed
state is similar to the Holy Land and that region and that country
like unto a delectable paradise, is in ma:ny ways identical with Pales-
tine. Now just as there are natural resemblances, heavenly resem-
blances must also be acquired.
The lights of the divine traces are manifest in Palestine. The
majority of the Israelitish Prophets raised the call of the Kingdom
of God in this holy ground. Having spread the spiritual teachings,
the nostrils of the spiritually-minded ones became fragrant, the eyes
of the iJlumined souls became brightened, the ears were thrilled
through this song, the hearts obtained eternal life from the soul-

,
'ABDU'L-BAHA
refreshing breeze of the Kingdom of God and gained supreme
illumination from the splendor of the Sun of Reality. Then from
this region the light was spread to Europe, America, Asia, Africa
and Australia.
Now California and the other Western States must earn an ideal
similarity with the Holy Land, and from that state and that region
the breaths of the Holy Spirit be diffused to all parts of America
and Europe, that the call of the Kingdom of God may exhilarate
and rejoice all the ears, the divine principles bestow a new life, the
different parties may become one party, the divergent ideas ·may
disappear and revolve around one unique center, the East and the
West of America may embrace each other, the anthem of the
oneness of the world of humanity may confer a new life upon all
the children of men, and the tabernacle· of Universal Peace be
pitched on the apex of America ;-thus Europe and Africa may
become vivified with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, this world
may become another world, the body politic may attain to a new
exhilaration, and just as in the state of California and other Western
States the marvelous scenes of the world of nature are evident and
manifest, the great signs of the Kingdom of God may also be un-
veiled so that the body may correspond with the spirit, the out-
ward world may become a symbol of the inward world, and the
mirror of the earth may become the mirror of the Kingdom, reflect-
ing the ideal virtues of heaven.
During My journey and traveling in those parts, I beheld won-
derful scenes and beautiful panoramas of nature, orchards and
rivers; national parks and general conclaves; deserts, plains,
meadows and prairies ; and the grains and fruits of that region
greatly attracted My attention; even to the present moment they
are in My mind.
·
Particularly was I greatly pleased with the meetings in San
Francisco and Oakland, the gatherings in Los Angeles, and the
believers who came from the cities of other states. Whenever their
faces cross My memory, immediately infinite happiness is realized.
Therefore I hope that the divine teachings like unto the rays of
the sun may be diffused in all the Western States, and the blessed
Verse of the Qur'an, "It is a good City and the Lord is the For-
giver !" may become realized. Likewise, the significance of another
Qur'anic Verse, "Do ye not travel through the land and behold
the traces of the Mercy of God?" become revealed in the utmost
effulgence.

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
Praise be to God that through ·the divine bounty and provi-
dence, in that region the field of service is vast, the minds are in
the utmost degree of intelligence and progress, sciences and arts
are being promoted, the hearts like unto mirrors are in the utmost
state of purity and translucency, and the friends of God are in
perfect attraction. Therefore it is hoped that meetings for teach-
ing will be organized and instituted, and for the diffusion of the
fragrances of God wise teachers may be sent to cities, even to
villages.
The teachers of the Cause must be heavenly, lordly and radiant.
They must be embodied spirit, personified intellect, and arise in
service with the utmost firmness, steadfastness and self-sacrifice.
In their journeys they must not be attached to food and clothing.
They must concentrate their thoughts on the outpourings of the
Kingdom of God and beg for the confirmations of the Holy Spirit.
With a divine power, with an attraction of consciousness, with
heavenly glad tidings and celestial holiness they must perfume the
nostrils with the fragrances of the Paradise of Abba.
The following commune is to be read by them every day :
0 God ! 0 God ! This is a broken-winged bird and his flight
is very slow-assist him so that he may fly toward the apex of
prosperity and salvation, wing his way with the utmost joy and
happiness throughout the illimitable space, raise his melody in Thy
Supreme Name in all the regions, exhilarate the ears with this call,
and brighten the eyes by beholding the signs of guidance!
0 Lord! I am single, alone and lowly. For me there is no sup-
port save Thee, no helper except Thee and no sustainer beside Thee.
Confirm me in Thy service, assist me with the ·cohorts of Thy
angels, make me victorious in the promotion of Thy Word and
suffer me to speak out Thy wisdom amongst Thy creatures. Verily,
Thou art the custodian of the poor and the defender of the little
ones, and verily Thou art the I:'owerful, the Mighty and the Uncon-
strained!
Hai fa, Palestine,
February 15, 1917.

He is God!
To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the
Provinces of the Dominion of Canada.
0 ye daughters and sons of the Kirtgdom :
Although in most of the states and cities of the United States-
praise be to God-the fragrances of God are diffused,and innumer-
able souls are turning their faces and advancing toward the King-
dom of God, yet in some of the states the flag of oneness is not
upraised as it ought to be and must be, and the mysteries of the
Holy Books, like the Bible, the Gospel and the Qur'an, are not pro-
mulgated. Through the unanimous effort of the friends, the banner
of oneness must be unfurled in those states, and the divine teach-
ings be promoted, so that they may also receive a portion and a
share of the heavenly bestowals and the most great guidance. Like-
wise in the provinces of Canada, such as Newfoundland, Prince
Edward Island, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec, Ontario,
Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta:, British Columbia, Ungava, Kee-
watin, Mackenzie, Yukon, and the Franklin Islands in the Arctic
Circle-the believers of God must become self-sacrificing and like
unto the candles of guidance become ignited in the provinces of
Canada. Should they show forth such a magnanimity, it is assured
that they will obtain universal divine confirmations, the heavenly
cohorts will reinforce them uninterruptedly, and a most great
victory will be obtained. Perchance, Goo willing, the call of the
Kingdom may reach the ears of the Eskimos, the inhabitants of the
Islands of Franklin in the north of Canada, as well as Greenfand.
Should in Greenland the fire of the love of God be ignited, all the
ices of that continent will be melted and its frigid climate will be
changed into a temperate climate-that is, if the hearts will obtain
the heat of the love of God, that country and continent will become
a divine garden and a lordly orchard, and the souls, like unto the
fruitful trees, will obtain the utmost freshness and delicacy. Mag-
nanimity is necessary, heavenly exertion is called for. Should you
display an effort, so that the fragrances of God be diffused amongst
the Eskimos, its effect will be very great and far-reaching. God

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
says in the great Qur'an, "A day will come wherein the lights of
unity will enlighten all the world. The earth will be irradiated with
the light of its Lord." In other words, "The earth will become
illumined with the light of God. That light is the light of unity."
"There is no God but God." The continent and the islands of
Eskimos are also parts of this earth. They must similarly receive
a portion of the bestowals of the most great guidance.
Upon y.ou be greeting and praise.
Haifa, Palestine,
April 5, 1916.

To the believers of God and the maid-servants of the Merciful in the
Dominion of Canada, Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island,
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec, Ontario, Manitoba,
Saskatchewan, Alberta, British Columbia, Yukon, Mackenzie,
Keewatin, Ungava, Franklin Islands, and Greenland.
Upon them be Baha'u'llah El-Abha !
He is God!
0 ye kind friends and the maid-servants of the Merciful:
In the great Qur'an, God says, "Thou shalt see no difference
in the creatures of God." In other words, He says: From the
ideal standpoint, there is no variation between the creatures of
God, because they are all created by Him. From the above premise,
a conclusion is. drawn, that there is even no difference between
the various countries; nevertheless, the future of the Dominion of
Canada is very great, and its historical events infinitely glorious.
Thus it shall become the object of the glance of providence and
the manifestation of the favors of the Supreme Lord.
'Abdu'l-Baha during His journey and sojourn through that
Dominion obtained the utmost joy. Before My departure, many
souls warned Me not to travel to Montreal, saying, the majority
of the inhabitants are Catholics, and are in the utmost fanaticism,
that they are submerged in the sea of imitations, that they have
not the capability to hearken to the call of the Kingdom of God,
that the veil of bigotry has so covered the eyes that _they have
deprived themselves from beholding the signs of the most great
guidance, and that the dogmas have taken possession of the hearts
entirely, leaving no trace of reality. They asserted that should the
Sun of Reality shine with perfect splendor throughout that
Dominion, the dark, impenetrable clouds of superstitions have so
enveloped the horizon that it would be utterly impossible for any
one to behold its rays.
But these stories did not have any effect on the resolution of
'Abdu'l-Baha. He, trusting in God, turned His face toward Mon-
treal. When He entered that city He observed all the doors open,
SI

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
He found the hearts in the utmost receptivity and the ideal power
of the Kingdom of God removing every obstacle and obstruction.
In the churches and meetings of that Dominion He called men to
the Kingdom of God with the utmost joy, and scattered such seeds
which will be irrigated with the hand of Divine Power. Undoubt-
edly those seeds will grow, becoming green and verdant, and many
rich harvests will be gathered. In the promotion of the divine prin-
ciples He found no antagonist and no adversary. The believers He
met in that city were in the utmost spirituality, and attracted with
the fragrances of God. He found that through the effort of the
maid-servant of God, Mrs. Maxwell, a number of the sons and
daughters of the Kingdom in that Dominion were gathered together
and associated with each other, increasing this joyous exhilaration
day by day. The time of sojourn was limited to a number of days,
but the results in the future are inexhaustible. When a farmer
comes into the possession of a virgin soil, in a short time he will
bring under cultivation a large field. Therefore I hope that in the
future Montreal may become so stirred, that the melody of the
Kingdom may travel to all parts of the world from that Dominion
and the breaths of the Holy Spirit may spread from that center
to the East and the West of America.
0 ye believers of God! Do ye not look ttpon the smallness of
your number and the multitudes of the nations. Five grains of
wheat will be endued with heavenly blessing, whereas a thousand
tons of tares will yield no results or effect. One fruitful tree will
be conducive to the life of society, whereas a thousand forests of
wild trees offer no fruits. The plain is covered with pebbles, but
precious stones are rare. One pearl is better than a thousand wilder-
nesses of sand, especially this pearl of great price, which is endowed
with divine blessing. Ere long thousands of other pearls will be
born from it. When that pearl associates and becomes the intimate
of the pebbles, they also all change into pearls.
Therefore, again I repeat, that the future of· Canada, whether
from the standpoint of civilization or from the viewpoint of the
virtues of the Kingdom, is very great. Day by day civilization and
freedom shall increase. Likewise the cloud of the Kingdom will
water the seeds of guidance sown in that Dominion. Consequently,
rest ye not, seek ye no composure, attach not yourselves to the
luxuries of this ephemeral world, free yourselves from every attach-
ment, and strive with heart and soul to become fully established
in the Kingdom of God. Gain ye the heavenly treasures. Day by

,
•ABDU'L-BAHA
day become ye more illumined. Draw ye nearer and nearer unto
the threshold of oneness. Become ye the manifestors of spiritual
favors and the dawning-places of infinite lights ! If it is possible,
send ye teachers to other portions of Canada, likewise dispatch ye
teachers to Greenland and the home of the Eskimos.
·
As regards the teachers, they must completely divest themselves
from the old garments and be invested with a new garment. Accord-
ing to the statement of Christ, they must attain to the station of
rebirth :-that is, whereas in the first instance they were born from
the womb of the mother, this time they must be born from the
womb of the world of nature. Just as they are now totally unaware
of the experiences of the fretal world, they must also forget en-
tirely the defects of the world of nature. They must be baptized
with the water of life, the fire of the love of God and the breaths
of the Holy Spirit; be satisfied with little food, but take a large
portion from the heavenly table. They must disengage themselves
from temptation and covetousness, and be filled with the spirit.
Through the effect of their pure breath, they must change the stone
into the brilliant ruby and the shell into pearl. Like unto the cloud
of vernal shower, they must transform the black soil into the rose
garden and orchard. They must make the blind seeing, the deaf
hearing, the extinguished one enkindled and set aglow, and the
dead quickened.
Upon you be Baha'u'llah El-Abba!
The spreaders of the fragrances of God should peruse every
morning the following supplication :
Praise be to Thee, 0 God ! Verily these are Thy servants, who
are attracted by the fragrances of Thy Mercifulness, enkindled
by the ignited fire in the tree of Thy Singleness, and their eyes
are brightened by beholding the effulgences of the. light in the Sinai
of Thy Oneness !
0 Lord! Loosen their tongues in Thy commemoration amongst
Thy people; suffer them to speak Thy praise through Thy favor
and grace, assist them with the cohorts of Thine angels, strengthen
their loins in Thy service and make them the signs of Thy guid-
ance amongst Thy creatures !
Verily Thou art the Powerful, the Exalted, the Pardoner and
the Merciful!
0 God! 0 God ! Thou beholdest this weak one begging the

AMERICA'S SPIRITUAL MISSION
strength of Thy Kingdom ! This poor one supplicating the treasures
of Thy heaven! This thirsty one longing for Thy Fountain of the
water of eternal life! This sick one invoking Thy perfect recovery
through Thy boundless Mercy, which Thou hast specialized for
Thy chosen servants in Thy Supreme Kingdom !
_ 0 Lord! I have no other helper save Thee, no other comforter
beside Thee, and no other sustainer except Thee ! Assist me with
Thine angels in the diffusion of· Thy holy fragrances and the dis-
semination of Thy teachings amongst Thine elected people!
0 Lord! Suffer me to sever myself from aught else save Thee,
holding fast to the hem of Thy garment; make me sincere in Thy
religion, firm in Thy love and living in accordance with that which
Thou hast commanded me in Thy Book.
Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty and the Omnipotent!
Hai fa, Palestine,
February 21, 1917.
i
L