llillliillfiliiOlilHlll~llill~III
3 1844 00011 4326
Instructions '-toncerning ~enesis
an~ the m~ster~ of 1Sapttsm
'5t\?en bl?
mir3a Rssab''lllllab.
Uranslatetl ti\?
fflir3a .Z:llla lkbult lkban.

11nstructton (toncerning '5enesis
abapters t, 2 an~ 3, Gt\?en bl2 mtr3a .Rssa~''UlUab, an~ \translate~ bl2
mtr3a .Rlt ~bult ~ban.
'lbe ts Ube ~ne 'Ulllbo inspires to tbe bearts of bis ser\?ants tbat
whtcb 'lbe 'Ullltuetb.
'.JLesson containing tbe interpretation of abapters t, 2 an~ -~ of tbe
:rsoolt of Genesis.
Before beginning to treat of our subject, we should preface it with an
introduction, as follows:
First it should be known that God hath created
man to be the most noble among His creatures and hath deposited in him
the brilliant faculty of judgment, so that man may thereby comprehend the
realities of all things, accepting that which he finds to agree with intellectual
proof, and rejecting that which is against reason by showing it to be op-
posed to the common sense, or to leave it as it is in the contingent world so
that the condition thereof be unfolded and its truth or falsity become man-
ifest.
Now, it is known to the readers of the Holy Scriptures to be a fact
that the statements in Chapters 1, 2 and 3 of the Book of Genesis, and also
the story of the Deluge , is something utterly contradictory to sound judg-
ment if it is to be judged according to the literal sense of the record without
·undergoing any further interpretation or elucidation.
For instance, the question of the creation of heavens and earth, sun,
moon, stars, night and day, tn the. manner as .stated, can never be approved
by anyone's judgment if it is to be taken according to the literal statement;
because the Most Holy Essence of God is pre-existent on account of Its
Identity and Attributes.
One of His Attributes is that of Creation, and
after it is realized that this Attribute of God is most Ancient, how can it be
said that God was forever and creation was not? The likene-si of God and
the creation is similar to the sun and the rays of the sun. T he rays of the
sun had existence since the earliest existence of the sun, and have ever been
inseparable from the sun; the difference is that the sun of truth is Ancient
in Its Identity as it had no maker or originator, while the rays of the sun
owe their existence to the Sun; and this pre-eminence of the Sun over the

fays is an essential and original pre-eminence and not one of time, for the
rays are coexistent but from causality and identity.
Therefore, concerning what is mentioned, that in the beginning God
created the heaven and earth, in the second day-the waters, the third day-
the plants, in the fourth day-the sun, moon and stars, in the fifth day-the
animals, and in the sixth day-man, and on the seventh day God ended His
work which He had made and He rested from all His work which God
created and made, etc., the ht~man mind can see that other meanings than
the literal ones have been intended by such statements.
Likewise, examine the story· of Adam and the Garden of Eden, the tree
of the knowltdge of good and evil and the tree of life. God forbade their
eating of the fruit of the tree, but Eve was deceived by the serpent and they
did eat and were sent out from the Garden of Eden, and the Cherubim were
placed at the east of the Garden to keep the way of the Tree of Life from
the approach of Adam and Eve.
According to common sense and sound
judgment, another interpretation and. explanation must be intended for these
texts, and not the literal meaning of the words.
For example, where have this tree of life and this tree of the knowledge
of good and evil been, of which naught is mentioped in history, and at what
time was this tree withered so that no seeds thereof remained that new trees
might grow, ... therefrom?
All the earth is surveyed and all the trees are
classified and their names and forms and fruits are shown in books, while
nothing is mentioned of these two trees, which fact clearly proves that
such have never existed on the earth.
Ponder ye over this question with the brilliant Power of sound J udg-
ment !
Moreover all the men who exist on the earth are believed, in the
opinion of people, to have descended from Adam and Eve, and the latter
were their parents.
Was there a certain peculiarity in the left rib of Adam
only, from which Eve was made, or should a similar effect be had from the
bones of all the generation of Adam? If we say that this specialty was as-
signed to Adam alone, what is our proof thereof? And if we say that all .
the children of Adam are endowed with the same potency, then why has
none of them ever shown forth such a thing? Is it possible that mankind
could ever be created from a piece of bone? If we say that this is utterly
impossible, then what is meant l;>y the statement that God created Eve from
the rib of Adam?
'
·
Ponder ye therefore with the brilliant Power of sound Judgment! As
to the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, the literal · meaning of this
is no other than the tree of goodness and badness.
Is it possible to believe
that God, Who created Adam and Eve, could have forbidden their under-
standing the good and evil of things? Then, what is meant by this point?
Even the animals can discriminate between good and evil or harm and kind-
ness; how then should man, who is the most noble_among_ all existing beings,
be forbidden frQm having that much of understanding?
Moreover, what does it mean that a serperit ~ntay have greater knowledge
than man, and know that eating of the fruit of the tree of good and evil'
openeth the eyes of man? (As is said in- Ch. j, v. 4-5) while man, of whom

God hath said: "vVe have created man after Our Own Image," may not
comprehend that much?
Beside's, God Himself hath said the same thing concerning the Tree of
Good and Evil as was said by .the serpent: (Ch. 3, v. 22). "And the Lord
God said-Behold, the man is become as one of Us, to know good and evil."
So, from this statement it may be known that as it is said by God, eating
of the Tree of Good and Evil would make Adam understand the good and
evil and that when he should become conscious thereof, his eyes would be
opened.
The same thing was said by the serpent ( to Eve).
Now, if we
judge this verse according to its literal expression, it will become known to
us that the serpent hath been more knowing than Adam, and that it directed
them to do good. If this was the case, why then were they · forbidden (by
God) from eating of the tree, and why was the seroent cursed therefor?
(as
it is said in Ch. 3, v. 14-"And the LorJ God said unto the serpent-because
thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, etc.")
Ponder ye thereupon with the brilliant Power of sound Judgment. More-
over, who are the Cherubim who are placed at the east of the Garden of Eden
to prevent· Adam from access to the Tree of Life and thus to live the
Eternal Life? What is the meaning of these words? Has not God created
Adam in order that he may enter the Kingdom of Eternity? If this be not
the case, then, what is meant by the words which the Divine Manifestations
have said regarding this matter?
Jesus Christ said to His disciples: "And if I go and prepare a place
for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am,
there ye may be also. And whither I go, ye know, and the way ye know.''
(John 14: 19-20.)
Likewise He has said: "Yet a little while and the world
!"eeth Me no more, but ye see Me; because I live, ye shall live also. At that
day ye shall know that I am in My Father, and ye in Me, and I in ye."
The Blessed Perfection ( Glorified is His Honor!) hath said in thi:
Arabic Hidden Words: "O son of blindness!
I beckon thee to life and
thou desirest death, for thou hast deserted what We wish for thee and
followed that which thou desirest." In another place He hath said:
"O
<;on of man! Thou art My possession and My possession will never be
destroyed; how is it that thou art afraid of thy destruction? Thou art My
Light and My Light will never be extinguished; why dreadest thou ex-
tinction? Thou art My Splendor, and My Splendor will never be darkened;
Thou art My Garment, and My Garment will never be worn out; there-
fore dwell in thy love to Me that thou mayst find Me in the Highest Hori-
zon." In another place He hath said: "I was in My Ancient Identity and
in My Everlasting Being. I know My Love in thee; therefore I .created thee
and laid upon thee the Garment of My Likeness, and manife,sted· to thee
My Beauty."
1n another place He hath said:
"O son of man!
Because
I loved thy creation, thus I created thee ; therefore love Me;:;that I may
mention thee and in the Spirit of Life confirm thee." Likewise: "O son of
Existence!
My Bowl thou art and My Light is in thee; therefore be en-
lightene.d by it and seek not any beside Me, for I have created thee rich
and bestowed abundantly grace upon thee."
Likewise:
"O son of the
s

Highest Appearance! I deposited in thee a spirit from Me that thou mightst
be My Lover; why hast thou left Me and sought another lover ( the world)?"
In another place He hath said: "O son of Spirit! The Gospel of Light I
herald to thee; gladden thyself with it: and to the state of Holiness I call
thee; shelter thyself in it that thou mayst be in rest forever and ever."
There are many similar statements which indicate the fact that Adam
should eat from the Tree of Life in order to attain Eternal Life, and the
principal object of the mission of the prophets and the appearance of the
Divine Manifestations in the world, has been for this same purpose. There-
fore it is evidently proved that by the Cherubim being placed at the eastern
Gate of the Garden of Eden to prevent the access of Adam to the Tree 0f
Life another meaning is intended.
Ponder ye upon this through the brilliant Faculty of sound Judgment!
As previously stated and demonstrated that, for the texts of the Holy
Scriptures ideal meanings other than the literal sense is intended. and the
chief purpose of the heavenly books and their revelation has been based
on those real meanings, so, herewith we begin to interpret the texts accord-
ing to their ideal sense, and say that in the second and third chapter of
Genesis, two important and high subjects are explained in a symbolical way-.
First, the account of the states and positions of perfect man is briefly
stated, so that every one of mankind may presume that God has deposited
these lo{ty states in the being of man, and has hidden and concealed these
precious , gems therein, so that every man may endeavor himself to attain
to perfection.
But He has explained this high subject in the story of
Adam, the Garden of Eden, and the four rivers, so that the children of
Adam (mankind) may understand that the mentioned states which have ex-
isted in their father (Adam) ought to be obtained by them as a heritage;
otherwise they would not be accounted of the real children of Adam.
Consequently we; bring the follownig verses of Genesis chapter 2 to the
notice of our readers, and then we will give the interpretation thereof: (7th
verse) "And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, anJ
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul."
(8th verse) "And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden,
and there He put the man whom He had formed."
(9th verse) "And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every
tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food; the Tree of Life also in
the midst of the Garden, and the Tree of Knowledge of good and evil."
(rnth verse) "And a river went out of Eden to water the garden, and
from thence it was parted and became into four heads."
(nth verse)
"The name of the first is Pison: that is it which com-
passeth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold;"
(12th verse) "And the gold of that land is good; there is bdellium an<l
the onyx stone."
(13th verse) "And the name of the second river is Gihon; the same is
that which compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia."
(14th verse) 1'And the name of the third river is Hiddekel; that is it
which ~oeth toward the east of Assyria, and the fourth river is Euphrates."
The above verses ten'd to explain that God created Adam and endowed

him with six states: rst-The mineral state; 2nd-The vegetable state; 3rd-
The animal state; 4th and 5th-The human state; 6th-The state of the
Kingdom and Faith. He gives these five states in symbols.
For instance, in the 2nd chapter, 7th verse, He says-"And the Lorri
God formed man of the dust of the earth, etc." This refers to · the fact
that the first state of man is dust, that is-the mineral. Then it is said-"And
the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden," and also "And out 0f
the garden made the Lord God to grow every tree." This refers to the fact
that the vegetable state in man, which is the virtue augmentative and nutri-
tive, (nourishing)-comes after the mineral.
Furthermore this shows that,
when the virtue vegetative became manifest in him, then the capacity of
the animal state ensued, because the vegetable and animal states are very
near to each other,
( on account of the virtue augmentative which each
of them share; besides, worms and small insects are naturally formed with-
in apples, other plants, etc.)-which is proved by the fact that, after the
statement "And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow eve-ry tree''
( which refers to the vegetable state)' the words "that is pleasant to the sight
and good for food" are explained.
Moreover, this statement indicates that
the animal state which is endowed with the virtue perceptive, and . with that
of eating food, because· manifest in main after the vegetable state or· virtue
augmentative. That is, the five senses, such as sight, taste, etc., were shown
forth in him after the vegetative state. This subject was alluded to be the
words "pleasant to the sight," for the sense of sight is perceptive, and the
facultv of discernment in animals comprehends things by sight; and also
the words '"'And good for food" refers to the animal desire for food.
Then it is said "The tree of Life-·-, and the tree of knowledge of
good and evil." This statement alludes to the fact that, after the animal
state, comes the human state (the fourth and fifth state); that is the ra-
tional (logical or reasonable) faculty (knowledge of good and evil) which
apprehends general ideas and things.
Then the sixth state (in man) is
that of the Spirit of Faith, which is of the Kingdom of God (the tree nf
Life).
As to the "four rivers", this subject is explained as follows: The four
rivers are mentioned in a symbolical way in the Holy Scriptures.
This
subject was veiled and hidden until the time of the appearance of Moham-
med, when the Koran was revealed. There it is recorded that God hath a
paradise of Eden, in which four rivers are flowing, and the people of the
Paradise drink therefrom. He has explained the said rivers according to
the following names:
rst-"The river of milk (the taste whereof changeth not)".
2nd-"The river of wine (pleasant unto those who drink)".
3rd-"The river of clarified honey."
4th-"The river of incorruptible and limpid water."
Aiso, it is mentioned in the Koran that, in the Paradise, there are to be
found Houris, Palaces, and all kinds of fruits and foods "wh.i.ch souls shall
desire and eyes shall delight in"; but the meanings of these words .and
statements are not clearly explained therein, and no one can be informe<l·

of their real meanings, except whosoever is well informed in the mysteries of
God.
·
When the cycle of Mohammed (the period of Islam) was ended in the
rdvent of the First Point (may the souls of all else redeem him!) the Day
pf Whose :appearance was the early dawn of the Sun of Realities and Mys-
teries, and the tim~ of the Manifestation of the explanation of all things,
then His Highness (the Bab) interpreted the four rivers.
He said that, by the "River of Milk" is meant the Spirit of prayer an<l
supplications, which river is everlastingly running and flowing in the Para-
dise of the beings of the Divine Manifestations, and that they are perma-
nently in prayer and supplication with God, with their spiritual and mental,
as well as with · their physical tongue.
·
.
By the "River of Wine" is meant the river of the interpretations-
commentaries (given) by them on the Holy Scriptures, which is flowing in
them, whereby they explain the real meanings thereof for their believers ..
By the " River of clarified Honey" is meant the river of the answers
which they give to scientific questions f9rwarded to the.m by the doctors
of every age.
By the " River of · incorruptible and limpid Water" is meant the re~
vealed Verses, doctrines and precepts which descended from the Retreat
of Oneness upon the hearts of the Manifestations of God and which flowed
from their Tongues and gave new life unto the hearts and minds of the
people of the world; as it is said-" And we made every living thing of wa-
ter." Likewise it is said by Christ-"Except ye be born of water and spirit.
ye cannot enter the Kingdom of God."
The mystery of the fact that these four rivers which flow in the temple of
;:i, perfect man are explained in Genesis by the names Pison, Gihon, Hiddekel
and Euphrates, is this-that whenever the prophets of God and the Divine
philosophers intended to explain mysteries belonging to spiritual facts, they
expresse<l
them in figures and parables on account of the lack of ca-
pacity in the people' who attended their teachings.
For example-when
Jesus coulj find capable and sagacious souls in His presence, He would ex-
plain to them spiritual subjects in a clear way, wjiile in contrary cases He
would give His points in forms and parables and symbols. As a proof of
this fact, take the numerous parables which J esus pronounced in explaining
the Kingdom, which, were they to be interpreted according to their literal
sense, would not have any connection, with spiritual subjects.
Therefore, in the day of Adam, these four rivers which flow in the being
of a perfect man are symbolized by four physical rivers, and as these men--
tioned rivers have been accounted to be the largest on the then discovered
earth, so these four spiritual virtues in man have been likened unto them.
Moreover, this is one of the usages of God to symbolize different subjects by
the wellknown things, which have been familiar to every age.
To sum up, the four rivers were mentioned in all the former Books
which preceded the appearance of the First Point (May the soul of all else
redeem Him!). When His Highness appeared, another river besides the four
rivers was made to flow in His Blessed Being which was called the Supreme
·Paradise.
It was the · River of Homilies. · A Book was revealed from His

Blessed 1 ongue in which He wrote commentaries on all the Names of God,
and interpreted every one of the Names in five differef!t styles or grades of
writing. That Book He entitled- "The Book of Five Styles (or Grades)."
For instance, one of the Names of God is Unit. He has here explained
this Name in five various styles; thus-the style of prayers, the style of sci-
t:ntific treatises, the style of commentaries, the style of homilies and the
style of verses. Likewise with the other Names of God, such as-Merciful-
Clement~ Beneficient-F or giving, etc.
When the Age of the Blessed Perfection arrived, and the Sun of Truth
dawned forth from behind the clouds of the Unseen, and the Beloved of ali
the creatures unveiled His Face, then the Paradise of EL ABHA became
manifest and seven rivers began to flow therein, and the mysteries of the
knowledge of all that was and is were unfolded. Then the sealed Wine, which
was prophesied by all the prophets in their books, became unsealed, and the
Dawning-places of Sanctity and the people of the Supreme Concourse and
Cherubim drank of that ideal Wine and found Eternal Life.
In the following we bring to the notice of the readers some of the Verses
which were revealed by the Blessed Perfection concerning the Seven Rivers-
" In every garden seven rivers were made to flow. Perchance ye may drink
therefrom."
(1st)
"The River of the Wine of Eternity, whic;h flows from the right
hand of the Garden like a liquid ruby of Holiness.
(2nd) A River of bright Milk: The color thereof changeth not with the
duration of the world of Dominion ; were ye of those who are assured.
(3rd)
A River of Clarified H oney, the taste whereof changeth not, aud
only those taste therefrom who have relied upon God, the Protector, the
Self-subsistent!
(4th) A River of incorruptible, Limpid Water, wherein man finds every
luxury and delight, and this is that which. is ordained thereto through the
Providence of God, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Glorious.
(5th) A River which is made to flow in the Name of the Beloved (i e.,
Mohammed.) This, · the people of the Paradise do implore of God at all
times, to drink a draught therefrom. This is that for which they are asking
God every morn and eve.
(6th)
A River which is made to flow in the Figure Three and in the
Word Four (i. e.; Figure Three refers to "Ali" and the Word Four refers to
"Mohammed" which is composed of only four letters in the Arabic-MHMD.
T his was the name of the Bab), which commemorates God in its course;
were ye of those who understand: Around which, the people of Paradise as-
semble that they may hear the mentioning of God. _the Conqueror, the Pow-•
erful ! Whosoever may drink a drop thereof will attain to that which he
desireth. and will reach to such a position as can only be attained by him
whom God desired and willed. Thus have we revealed unto ye the Wonders
of the Creation of God: Perchance ye may hasten unto Him!
(7th) A River whk h God hath sanctified from every color and purified
from every taste, inasmuch as it is created of the essential Nature of God;
were ve of the knowing: In which God hath ordained that which cannot be
stated by explanation, and the purport of which cannot be accomplished by

Pen; were ye of the assured ones. Whosoever may drink a draught there-
from, to him will become manifest the Mystery of that which was and will be.
and he will know everything in its place and will be informed of the Treasur-
ies of Wisdom, and will soar up with wings of Ruby in the worlds of the
Nearness to· the Beloved!
Consequently the garden of Eden finally became the Paradise of EL-
ABHA and the four rivers became the seven rivers, and heavenly Tables.
Houris1 and Palaces were created therein. This incomparable Paradise was
a Favor shown to the people of Baha on the part of God, the Bahi-ul-
ABHA ! During the Manifestation of the Beauty of El-AB HA, the Door of
the Paradise was opened before the righteous and the drinkers of the Cup
of Meeting. Just before He repaired to the Exalted Destination. and the
Sea of Meeting began to sink, and the sun of the Beauty of the True One
set on the Horizon of the contingent world and rose on the Horizon of the
Placeless, He delivered the Key of that Paradise to the Branch who is ex-
tended fro!}1 the Ancient Root, "the Greatest Mystery of God", His High-
ness "The One who is desired by God"-Abdul Baha (May the souls of :iii
the creatures redeem Him!).
As it is said by the Blessed Perfection-"When the Nightingale flew
from the Grove of Praise and .,repaired to the Farthest Destination, then re-
turn ye that which ye do not understand in the Book to the Branch who is
extended from this Firm Root."
·
Thus HE appointed the Commentator of the Book with such clear rec-
ord in order to stop the way of any misunderstanding, so tha.t people may
recognize the Person who is the bearer of the Mysteries of the Divine Book
after the Departure of the Blessed Perfection.
Now hearken ye to the melodies of the Nightingale of Unity in the Par-
adise of El-ABHA, Who is warbling in the Tones of Servitude.
Revealed by Abdul-Baha.
If any one chant the following Commune with entire humility and sub-
missiveness, it will cause joy and fragrance within the heart of this Servant,
and he will be considered as having met or visited (Me). (I. e. This Com-
mune has the remuneration of My Visitation · or meeting.)
HE IS EL-AB HA!
0 my God!
0 my God! I extend toward Thee .the hands of invoca-
tion, supplication and St!bmissiveness,, and rolling my face in the dust of the
Threshold which is holy above the comprehension of the people of realities,
and above commendations among the intellectual ones, I beg of Thee to
gaze unto • Thy. servant who is submissive and humble before the Door of
Thy Oneness, with the glances of the eye of Thy Mercy, and to immerse
him into the Oceans of the Mercy of Thy Eternity.
O my Lord! Verily, he is Thy miserable, poor servant, and Thy be-
seeching and captive slave, humbling himself before Thee, relying upon
Thee, supplicating within Thy Hands, calling upon Thee· and invoking Thee,
saying-'Oh my Lord! Strengthen me to serve Thy beloved and enable m~
to be of service to the Threshold of Thy Oneness, and illuminate my brow
with the Light of adoration in the Court of Thy Holiness and ·with supplica-
tion to the Kingdom of Thy Grandeur, and confirm me to become evanes-

cent at the Threshold of Thy Divinity, and aid me to continue to be as noth-
ing ( entirely humble) in the Court of Thy Lordship.
0 my Lord! Cause me to drink the cup of evanescence and clothe me
with its mantle and immerse me in its sea; make me as dust in the path of
the beloved (believers); make me as a ransom (sacrifice) to the ground
printed by the feet of the chosen ones in Thy Way.
0 Thou, Lord of Might and Exaltation! Verily, Thou art The Gener-
ous! The Merciful! The Most High! This is that which this servant im-
plores Thee every morn and eve.
0 my Lord! Grant his desire!
Illumine
his inmost heart, dilate his breast, kindie his lamp in the service of Thy
Cause and to Thy servants.
Verily, Thou art The Mighty! The Loving! The Clement!
As to the second subject, it treats of the journey of man from the ma-
terial world to the
Divine World. The purpose of the mission of ail
Prophets and Divine Manifestations in this world has been to explain this
journey and to instruct concerning it. Every one of them has made certain
statements and revealed certain Books regarding this matter.
According to the language of the mystic Sufis, this travelin~ is said to be
the "Journey from the creatures to the True One." The Blessed Perfection
hath revealed a Treatise according to the Sufi terminology, in which He hath
classified into seven the stages whereby the traveler ascends from the ma-
terial abode to the Divine Home. Therein He hath stated that-"except a
traveler emigrates from self and journeys through the seven stages, he will
never arrive at the Sea of Union nor taste of the Peerless Wine." This
Treatise on traveling is revealed in both Persian and Arabic.
Likewise, in
the Book of Ikan, He hath treated ,of the life of the travelers toward God,
and, if it please God, some of the blessed Verses thereof will be quoted in
the course of this lecture.
Now, I bring to the notice of the readers the interpretation of the stages
of Adam's journey. This statement as recorded in the Books of the Bible
is similar to the language of the philosophers of that age, for that was the
age of the promulgation of ideas and questions which proceded from the
natural philosophers, and as the Tree of the Divine Wisdom and Spiritual
Knowledge was then in its early state of growth, and the fruit of enlighten-
ment and spirituality was still concealed and hidden within the branches and
twigs of the tree; so they used to explain spiritual subjects by clothing them
in the forms of words and parables. Therefore, Adam and Eve, Paradise
and Serpent, the Tree of Life and the Tree of Knowledge of good and evil
have there been mentioned.
Know thou that the philosophers hold that there is a faculty in man
called the Human Soul and this is endowed with two states:
1. The superior state which is that of the incorporeality of his identity.
individual and separated from matter:
This, they cair:·
1'Mind", to which
!acuity they refer all the discoveries made through mental intelligence, and
they believe all the modern inventions and arts to result therefrom.
2. That state which controls the body and conduces to its protectio•1
and stability: This state they call the "soul," and say that the soul of man

is as a defender and a ruler in his body, while the "mind" they hold to 1)e
like unto the King in the Kingdom of the body.
Furthermore, they say that all the other faculties which exist in the
body of man are under the domination of the soul, and that there is a facul:y
in the human brain, which is intermediary between the soul and the other
powers. To this they give different names, such as the power of thought and
reflection, the penetrative ability, the faculty of contemplation, etc. When-
ever this intermediary faculty is dominated by the soul, and the soul by the
mind, all the affairs of the dominion of the body, both material and spiritual
continue to revolve about the axis of equilibrium and steadfastness, but as
long as this faculty is influenced by animal and natural traits, it withliolds the
mu] from bearing allegiance to the Mind, and thus inclines it to the base
actions of nature. Then the Mind also will certainly b1:: detained fr9m in-
clining toward either mental or spiritual worlds and will decline to the world
of nature.
In this case the spiritual affairs of man will also be led to adversity and
destruction, and thus the mental (rational) man will be cast" out from th~
Garden of comprehension of intellectual facts and from inclination toward
the Spiritual Worlds, and will descend to the earth of nature. The Spirit of
Life will become the body of death, and then the meaning of verse_ 17.-
''but of the Tr,ee of the Knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it;
for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die", will be brought
to light.
V'
(When man reaches maturity and the station of responsibility and takes
cognizance of good and evil, if he chooses to obey the Commandments of
G-Dd and partakes only of the good, his natural self will die; but if he prefers
to disobey God's Commands, and yields to worldly appetites,partaking of the
evil, his spiritual self must be dead. Therefore, in the day that he eats of the
Tree of Knowledge of good and evil, he will surely die.)
The mentioned faculty which exists in the brain is interpreted as the
"Serpent", according to the terminology of Adam, and as the "Devil", when
expressed by other Prophets.
C:msequently, according to the idiom of the philosophers, numerous
states exist in the being of man, such as the material state, vegetable state,
animal state, power of thought or reflection, the penetrative ability and the
power of mental comprehension.
Most of the ancient philosophers never spoke of the Spirit of Faith anci
that of the Kingdom. They believed that the Mind (power of judgment)
was the same immortal essence, and held that there were four states in the
mind, the highest of which they admitted to be the Spirit of the Kingdo!'tl
as was said by the Prophets.
Moreover, the term "Adam" is used in numerous places. Sometimes by
the word Adam is meant the whole body of man including his soul and mind.
Sometimes by Adam is intended the Divine Gift which is createci in him by
the Word of Command, and sometimes is meant the essence of Mind or judg-
ment.
Consequently, the term "Adam" is to be interpreted according tu
the requirement of the place where it is used, so that it may not lead to the
confusion of understanding.

For example-Adam is spc,ken of with Eve, and then by Adam is meant
the faculty of Mind, and by Eve-the Soul; by "Serpent" is meant the power
of thought. Therefore, in the following, we briefly state the meanings of the
terms as used in these chapters, and then begin to interpret the statements in
question.
I.
The Garden of Eden means the material body of man.
2.
Adam means the mental faculty-judgment.
3.
Eve means the soul.
4. The serpent means the faculty of thought.
5.
The Tree of Knowledge of good and evil means the Command-
ments and the Prohibitions maq_e in the Laws of God.
6.
The Tree of Life means the Eternal Life of the Kingdom.
7. Bruising the bead 9.f the serpent means abstaining from and aban-
doning lustful desires.
8.
The serpent bruising the heel of Adam means the tempting by the
"Devil" to attract man to the material conditions of nature.
9.
The east of the Garden of Eden means the Door of entrance to the
Kingdom.
IO.
The fig leaves mean adhering to such excuses as soothe one,.s heart
when censured by people.
I I.
Coats of skin mean the clothing of repentance, which gains the Ac-
ceptance of God.
12.
Cherubim are the holy and pure souls who are the Guardians of the
House of the Testament. In another case, by Cherubim is intended thr-~e
Spirits-I. The Spirit of Sanctity. 2. The Spirit of Virtue. 3. The Spirit
of Separation from aught else save God.
By the saying-"God said to Adam, etc."-is meant the creative and es-
sential speech, and not the literal, vocal speech.
-
This indicates that God created the being of Adam according to the
mentioned stages in order to show that such will be the development of
Adam, and such is his traveling and journey from the material world to
the Divine Home. Therefore, whoever , walked in the right Path of God,
attained and is saved, and whoever deviated therefrom, he erred and is de-
prived of the Paradise of the Visit of God.
Now, in the following, we give the interpretation of the remaining verses
of Genesis, Ch. 2 and 3.
It is said in Ch. 2 v. 15.-"And the Lord God took the man and put him
into the Garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it". This means that God
deposited the hidden and Divine essence or individuality of man in an earth-
iy body, so that man might unfold that treasury concealed within himself,
through the Divine Teachings, through obeying the Laws of God, and by
becoming ingrafted with the qualities and characteristics of God.
This position can only be attained by man through his ow:n deeds an,1
by his keeping to it. Therefore it is said-"to dress it and to keep it". This
means that the son of man in this world, by means of exertion and by ac-
cepting the Teachings and complying with the Commands ·and Prohobitions
of God.· should manifest in his own being those states which were mentione1l
in the exposition of the being of a perfect man, represented by the name-

"Adam'', the Father of Mankind, so that the title-"son of Adam" may be-
come true of him.
Therefore it is said by God, Bahi-ul-ABHA, in His
''Hidden Words".
0 Son of Existence!
By the Hands of Power I made thee, and by the Fingers of Strength I
created thee and deposited in thee the essence of My Light. Therefore, de-
pend upon it and not upon anything else, for My Action is perfect, and My
Command must take its effect. Do not disbelieve this, and have no doubt
in it".
As to the verse-"And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of
every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But of the Tree of Knowl-
edge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: For in the day that thou eat-
est thereof thou shalt surely die"; the explanation of this saying is that as
long as man hath not reached the state of intellectual judgment, and does not
distinguish between good and evil, nothing is imposed upon him, and he en-
joys the garden of the animal state and is not subject to any reward or pun-
ishment. But as soon as he is endowed with judgment, and eats from the
Tree of the Knowledge of good and evil, that is-hears the Commandments
and the Prohibitions of the Books of God; then if he commit acts against
the Law, he will be considered as dead.
·
By eatiDg from the Tree of the Knowledge of good and evil is meant-
hearkening :to the Words of God and comprehending them, as it is said in
the Book of Ezekiel, Ch. 3. v. 1-5. "Moreover he said unto me, Son of man,
eat that thou findest; eat this roll, etc ... And he said unto me, Son of man,
--fill thy bowels with this roll that I gave thee, etc." This statement
proves ;he fact that by eating the roll (the Book) is meant absorbing the
Teachings of God.
As to the -statement-"for in the day thou shalt eat thereof, thou shalt
surely die."-this death is the spiritual death and the death of Names and
Attributes. This we will treat of in another place (if it please God), because
the question of Death is a very important one. The First Point (May all
else be a ransom to Him!) hath explained this subject in detail.
He hath
said-"Death is an endless Sea, and for this there are infinite meanings and
states".
To sum up-when every one of the good qualities of man is degraded
into a blameworthy quality, this will be certain death to him in that state:
The grades of this death are innumerable. Among them the first is the death
of Faith: So it is with a disbeliever, who is declared to be dead. If it please
God, I will explain to you the meaning of death, after the conclusion of the
story of Adam.
As to the nrses-"And the Lord God said: It is not good that the man
should be alone: I will make him an help meet for him. And the Lord God
caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: And He took one of
his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof: And the rib which the Lord
God had taken from man, made He a woman (Eve) ," etc.; by this state-
ment that although the Mind (Adam) and the Soul (Eve) are
literally
. named b,' twp names, yet they are in reality one, as is before mentioned.

(Ch. 2. 19-24.) "And out of the ground the Lord God formed every
beast of the field, and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam
to see what he would call them; and whatsoever Adam called every liv-
ing creature, that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all
cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but for
Adam there was not found an help meet for him. And the Lord God
caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept; and he took one of
his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof; and the rib which the
Lord God had taken from the man, made he a woman. And Adam said,
This is now bone of m'y bones, and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called
Woman, because she was tal{en out of Man."
In one sense the meaning of the mentioned verses is that as the Mind
was from the world of Spirit, and could not be connected with material
states, tllerefore God made the Soul, which was disjoined from the Mind
and is in reality of the same substance with the Mind, to be its mate, so
that the soul may be intermediary between the Mind and the body of
man. Thus tlle Soul became a consort for the Mind and as an aid to
man. It is for this reason that.man cannot be independent except when
be is free from all concerns, and the Mind and Soul in him are united in
commune with each other. This-state is alluded to in the verse-"Tllere-:-
fore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto
his wife; and tltey shall be one flesh." (Ch. 2. 24.) This means that when
man becomes mindful of him'self, and fr~e from all other matters, theu
he will be at rest, and then the Mind and Soul will be as one.
As to the verse-"And they were both naked, the man and llis wife,
and were not ashamed." (Ch. 2. 25.) This means that the Mind and Soul
were in their own identity, devoid of the cares and concerns of the ma-
terial states, because they were according to their Divine original Nature,
and they were honored with that position of incorporeality, for they were
the essence of Sanctity, and no sin had emanted from them to conduce to
their shame. This nakedness was, therefore, to them a Divine Robe and
a Supreme Garment.
But as soon as temptations, made by the faculty of thought (which is
interpreted as tlle serpent), sprung forth, lustful cravings became excited,
the lightning of carnal desires glowed, and the Soul declined to the states
of nature and withheld the Mind from aspiring unto the Divine States;
then Eve-was deceived by the Serpent, Adam followed Eve, the Heavenly
Bounties ceased, and the death of the Spiritual States-ensued, . and the

meaning became manifest of the words-"For in the day that thou eatest
thereof, thou shalt surely die."
Then the Mind was dism:rntlecl of the Robe of its Origin and the Soul
was stripped of the Garment of its Creation.
The brilliant Spiritual
States became pitfalls of darkness. 'l'he holy Soul of the Kingdom turned
into the appetite of brutish lust. Therefore, Adam and Eve, having be-
come stripped from the Gifts of the Kingdom, were astonished and be-
w·ildered, experienced remorse and
found
themselves
ashamed and
abashed.
!\ow consider how great an honor for them was the former nakedness
which indicated their purity and sanctity, while the latter destitution
caused their shame and abasement which was a proof of their attach-
ment to natural and worldy states. Therefore, it is said-"And the eyes
of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked" (des-
titute).
In the following, we quote some of the passages of the "Hidden
Words" regarding our above statement: It is said by God, the Bahl-
ul-ABHA-Exalted is His Utterance!-"O Son of Man! Deprive not thy-
self from the Beauty of My Garment, and lose not thy portion of drink-
ing from My Beautiful Fountains, that thou mayst not suffer intense
thirst throughout My Everlasting Being."
"O Son of Existence! Keep My Commands because of Thy love for
Me, and cut thyself from that which thou desirest if thou seekest My
Pleasure."
"O Son of Man! Neglect not My Laws if thou lovest My Beauty, and
forget not My Commandments if thou wishest My Pleasure."
"0 Son of Man! My Eternity is My Creation and I have created it
for thee; therefore make it as a garment to thy temple. My Oneness is
.M:y Invention and I have invented it for thee; therefore clothe thy soul
with it that thou mayst be a dawning-star of My Unity forever."
As to the words-"And they sewed fig leaves together and made them-
selves aprons"- these fig leaves signify the excuses whereby a sinful
man seeks to comfort and console his heart. For instance-when man
commits an error and thus falls into remorse and becomes ashamed and .
abashed before God and His Creatures, his soul which is prone to evil,
and in such aspect is the Serpent, finds suitable and agreeable reasons
for those evil actions, thus soothing his heart.
This self-consoling is
lilrnnrd to fig leaves which mean useless and inconstant protection.

As to the verse-"And they heard the Voice of the Lord God, ,valking
in the Garden in the cool of the day, etc."-this means that when Adam
realized consciousness and wakefulness witllin himself, he heard the
Voice of God from the tree of his own being, calling unto him-"0 Adam!
Did I not tell you not to eat from the prohibited tree, not to commit that ·
which is forbidden, and to prevent thy soul from following its own de-
sire? Now that thou llast not obeyed Me but hast followed thine own
self (soul), thou art bereaved of the Paradise of Nearness and Meeting."
'Phen He turned to the Serpent and said_:._"O Serpent, as thou didst
deceive the Eve of Soul, therefore thou art the Tempter of tlle being of
man, and art cursed forever." Then addressing the Soul, He says-"The
only ,vay for thy deliverance, and for thee to obtain forgiveness is to
always abandon thine own desires, and bruise the head of thine own
wishes and inclinations." Thus the verse-"It shall bruise thy head and
thou shalt bruise his heel"-means that as long as man is in his material
state, the demands of the flesh allure him to the enticements of nature,
while the requirements of Mind and Soul invite him to tlle Divine State.
Therefore, the Soul should turn its ·face to the state of Mind (Judgment)
and keep the state of nature behind its back.
As to the verse-"And unto Adam He said, 'Because thou llast heark-
ened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I
commanded thee, saying-Thou shalt not eat of it; cursed be the ground
for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; 'l'horus
also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt· eat the herb
of the field. In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou re-
turn unto the ground" (Ch. 3. 18-19).
These statements mean that God said-"O Adam! I created thee from
the essence of Knowledge, Wisdom, Abundance and Honor, and I com-
manded thee not to pollute thyself with the stains and allurements of the
world. But when thou earnest into the world, thou wast deceived by the
enticements of the (brutish) states of nature and thus became bewildered,
perplexed and afflicted. Thou wast dispossessed of thine essential en-
lightenment. Thy affluence changed to indigence and thy knowledge into
ignorance.
Therefore, only with great pain canst thou acquire human
perfections, and . witli difficulty obtain the Heavenly Table."
For a further proof to this fact, it is said by the Blessed Perfection
in the "Hidden Words"-"0 Son of Spirit! I have created thee Rich.
How is it that thou art poor? And made thee Mighty. How is it that

thou art abased? And from the essence of Knowledge I manifested thee.
How is is that thou seekest some one beside Me? And from the clay of
Love I kneaded tllee. How is it that thou occupiest thyself with some
one else? Turn thy sight to thyself that thou mayst find Me standing
in thee, Powerful! Mighty! and Supreme!"
As to the verse-"Unto Adam, also unto his wife, did the Lord God
make coats of skins, and clothed them." (Ch. 3. v. 21.): by this coat of
skins is meant the penitence of Adam being accepted by God, for God
treats him after His Mercy and Favor, and not after His Justice; and
this refers to the adherence of man to the literal form of the Laws of
God.
That is-whoever has outwardly held to the Commandments of
the Law, he is in appearance accounted of the people of Faitll and Re-
ligion.
Therefore an outward Faith is interpreted
by the sldns, aud
therefore those who are related to a Religion are accounted as the fol-
lowers of that religion, and consider themselves as being tlle fol-
lowers of the True One. But when the tests come, then these distin-
guish between the true believer and the false one. Before the Advent of
Christ, all the Jews knew themselves as the saved nation of Truth, but
-w-hen His Highness, ;Jesus, .appeared, whose Blessed Person was a test
and trial unto them, then a discrimination occurred between the true and
false believers. Likewise the same test has been during the Appearance
of all the Divine Manifestations.
As to the verses: ''And the Lord God said: Behold, the man is be-
come as one of us, to know good and evil: And now, lest he put forth
his hand, and take also of the Tree of Life, and eat, and live forever:
Therefore, the Lord God sent him forth from the Garden of Eden, to till
the ground from whence he was taken. So he drove out the man; and he
placed at the east of the Garden of Eden a cherubim, and a flaming sword
·which turned every way, to keep tlle way of the Tree of Life."
The above ·verses contain some points referring to the tests in the
days of the Divine Manifestations, and explanations concerning the mys-
tery of the Journey of Man.
Know thou that numerous meanings are intended by the Tree of Life.
A.ccording to its primary sense, it means the position of tlle greatest Di-
vinity and the Highest Infallibility.
This position is assigned to the
Dawning-place of the Command of God.
Therefore the Blessed Perfec-
tion (Exalted is His Grandeur) has said: "No one shares the Dawning ....
place of the Cornman<! with the Highest Infallibility." The greatest risk

or danger for man in the course of his "Journey from the creatures to
the True One" is that he may reach sucll higll states that he supposes
within himself that he has attained the position of the Highest Divinity;
and as soon as he forms such an imagination, he will immediately descend
from a high position to the lowest of the low. Therefore it is said-Ch.
III, v. 23-24 "Therefore the Lord God sent him forth . . . . So He
drove out the man."
Another meaning of the Tree of Life is the knowledge of the Divine
Book, which is compiled in the hand of the Successor of the Cause and
the Center of the Covenant. This second meaning of the Tree of Life
we explain in the course of the following statement: As to the Cherubim
whom God has placed as guardians to the Tree of Life: By Cherubim is
iutended the holy souls among those who are firm in the Covenant and
the Testament of God, whom God hath appointed as guardians to the
House of the Covenant, so that they may keep the Kakazeen and the
people of evil desires, from claiming the position of the firm ones who
are travelers towards God.
In another sense, by the Cherubim are meant the virtues of holiness
and devotion, which qualities are the necessities for the entrance into the
Kingdom. That is, wh-0ever is not indeed ingrafted wHh th~se charac-
teristics is prevented from entering the Kingdom.
The Blessed Perfection hath said in the Hidden Words: "O Sons of
Adam: Good words, and pure and holy deeds ascend to the glorious heav-
en of the Unity. Strive, and thy deeds will be purged from the dust of
hypocrisy, and from the turbidness of passion and desire; then enter the
glorious Court of Acceptance. For, in a short while, the Assayers of the
Existence, in the Portico of the Presence of the ·worshipped One, shall
accept naught but pure virtue and shall admit naught besides pure deeds.
'l'his is the Sun of Wisdom and Significance which hath arisen from the
Horizon of the Mouth of the Divine ,vill. Blessed are those who ap-
proach!"
By the Assayers of tlle Existence is meant the Cherubim, wllo are,
in this day, interpreted as the firm ones in the Covenant.
As to the words "the flaming sword which turned every way:" By
sword is meant the sword of explanation. Tllis refers to the fact that,
as the Divine Manifestations open the doors of the Kingdom before the
faces of people in tllis material world, and bestow upon them freely the
mysteries and knowledges, so the people of desires and those of right-

cousness each present themsel,es at the Table of their gifts. The people
of righteousness take those teachings, and this conduces to save them
and cut them from the world. These gifts serve them as food in the
course of their Journey to the vVorld of the Kingdom, and aid them to
guide pure souls unto God. But the people of lustful desire, when gaining
these teachings, use them as means for satisfying their selfish desires, and
they rend the helpless people like wolves in sheep's clothing, and with
the claim that they are the people of the Kingdom they seduce the crea-
tures. Therefore, the Manifestatic,ns of God, just before their departure
from the world of -'the flesh, appoint some one who is worthy to guard
tlle door of the Kingdom, :rnd make him their own Successor, and teach
him the mysteries of the Book. place the key of the Kingdom in his
charge, and give him that sword which divides between the oppressor
and the oppressed, truth and falsehood, and firm believers from Naka-
zeen, so that he may guard the rrree of Life after the disappearance of
the Sun of '.rruth, and keep the impure hands of the people of lustful
desires from stretching towards the sacred and pure rrree of the Book
of God. As a proof of this statement, it is said by God: "~one shall
touch the Book, except those who are clean." That sword is His Speech,
,vhereby he clearly explains the interpretation of the Book, so that no
one may audaciously and obstinately interfere with the Texts of God,
and interpret and explain meanings for them according to his own self-
ishness. Tllerefore it is said by the First Point (May the soul of all else
l.Je a ransom to Him!) "No one is permitted to interpret the Beyan .
except "He Whom God shall manifest."
Now, in this glorious century, which is as a King over all ages, the
firm ones among the Behais have realized these mentioned states with
the utmost clearness, and have seen the flaming sword, and have recog-
nized the Cherubim. This Divine Sword was no other than the following
l.Jlessed Verse, which was revealed by the Blessed Perfection in the
Book of Akdas twenty-four years before His Departure: "When the Sea
of My· Presence hath disappeared, and the Book of Origin is achi.eved to
the end, turn your' faces unto Him whom God hath desire-d, who is
extended from this Ancient Root." Although this sword (verse) was
thorougllly keen and acute, yet He made it sharper 'to turn every way'
hy the following words, revealed in His Kitab-el-Ahd: "By the mentioned
verse as revealed in the Kitab-el-Akdas, is meant the Greatest Branch.
Thus We have caused the subject to appear as a Favor on our Part, and

I am The Gracious, The Ancient." 'l'llen follows His explanation in
Persian, thus : "The Branches, Twigs and the relatives (believers) should
all gaze towards the Greatest Branch."
To sum up, He gave this sharp sword into the Hand of the Greatest
Branch of God, Abdul Beha, His Successor, so that He (Abdul Bella)
may cut off the tree of violation and extirpate the root of infringement,
and prevent the people of ignorance and lustful desires from entering
the Kingdom of El-ABHA, and keep the hands of the Nakazeen from
stretching to the Tree of Life. In this sense, by the 'Tree of Life' is
meant the Book of God. Other meanings are also explained for the Book
of God. In the Book of Ikan, it is interpreted to be the· Holy City, while
in tlle Scriptures it is Jerusalem. Zion, the Sea of Life, etc.
He hath placed the Cherubim as guardians by the words of the follow-
ing verse:
depal'ts to
understand
firm Root."
""When the Nightingale flies from the Grove of Praise, and
the farthermost destination, return that which ye do not
from the Book,. to the Branch which is extended from this
In anotl1er sense, by Cherubim is meant the 'hands of tlle Cause of
God'; that is, those souls who are firm and steadfast in the Covenant and
the Testament. Their sword is the blessed verse: "When the Nightin-
gale flies," etc., by which verse and through the teachings given by the
Expounder of the Book, they prevent the Naka,,;een from claiming the
knowledge of the Book, and from interpreting it. 'l'his is proved by the
fact that in this day, no one of the Nakazeen has any power to interpret
any of the Utterances of the Blessed Perfection in the presence of even
one of the children of the firm believers; because, according to the clear
Texts of the Bab and the Blessed Perfection, no one hath the right to
do this except the Center of the Covenant, Abdul Beha (May the soul of
all the creatures be a ransom to Him!). 'I'hus the doors of the Kingdom
were closed to one man and opened to another. Verily, He doeth what-
soever He desireth, and ordereth that which He willetll!
The wisdom of the fact that he laid such a solid foundation to this
edifice was that, as the Day of the Blessed Perfection is the Day of the
appearance of realities, and is the Day wherein all the secrets are un-
veiled, and is the Day of Greatest Resurrection, and in it all the hidden
realities were to become manifest, so He has made His Covenant and
Testament with such solidity that the Xakazeen and infringers shall
reveal themselves in this Great Resurrection by their own acknowledg-

----- --~-~~~~=-=-=--=____:::;;-=-:::::;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;.="'=--- - -
----- -
ment. For instance, when one questions one of the Kakazeen- "Is the·
blessed verse 'When the Sea of My Presence,' etc., revealed in the Book
of Akdas," he will say "yes."
Is the Book of Ahd revealed by the
Blessed Perfection," he says "yes." "Is this verse 'Turn your faces ·to
tbe Greatest Branch commanded by the Blessed Perfection?' " he says
"yes." "Did the Blessed Perfection appoint Abdul Beha to be the Ex-
pounder of the Book?" he says "yes."
,vhen you ask him "Why then
do you deny him?" finding himself confused, he answers: "I do not deny
His Highness, Abdul Beha; He is in this day the Successor of the lessed
Perfection, and to obey Him is incumbent upon all." vVhile saying these
words with his tongue, he still publishes pamphlets with his hands
against Abdul Beha, and spreads them all over the country.
Where-
unto hath testified God, 'l'he Most High, The Most Great: "In this day
·we will seal up their mouths, and their hands shall speak unto us, and
their feet shall. bear witness of that which they have committed." Like-
wise it is said by the First Point: "On that day the word of denial will
boast in glory because of his having denied· (the Truth), and imagined
himself to be of the people of approval.' Consider how His (the Bab's)
blessed words are literally fulfilled by the fact that these Nakazeen are
with their entire boldness falsely denying the Blessed Perfection, while
they boast in glory thereof. Sometimes they say "As Abdul Beha lays
claim to the position of Divinity, we have turned away from Him"; while
Abdul Beha has called out in a thousand Tablets that "I am a servant to
the servants of the Blessed Perfection!" When they thus find them-
selves disappointed and their plans frustrated, they say "Abdul Beha says
Reincarnation is not true, while the Blessed Perfection has confirmed it."
Praise be unto God! No one hath till the present day ever heard or seen
such downright falsehood attributed to God!
'l'he Blessed Perfection
Himself will punish them for this great calumny.
To sum up, "God hath sealed up their hearts ancJ their hearing; and
dimness covereth their !'light, and they shall suffer a grievous punish-
ment."
0 ye who are firm in the Covenant antl the Testament of the Blessed
Perfection (Exalted is His Glory!) say unto those vi·ho are asleep in the
tombs of nature and brutality; 0 Thou who art sleeping in water and
dust, awake! awake! 0 thou soulless and heartless dead, awake! awake!
The horizons are illuminated, and the mysteries are unfolded, and the
trees are covered with fruits: Be mindful! be mindful!
0 thou who art

drunken with the wine of denial and contradiction! Open thy mental
ears, and hearken to the Melodies of the Nightingale of Servitude Who is
warbling on the Branch of the Tree of Life which is planted in the center
of the Paradise of El-ABRA!
In a Tablet revealed by Him to A. K. Khan, He says: Say: '0 people,
the Lights of God have risen; the signs of God have appeared, the Sen
of Bounty is waving, and the Sun of Truth hath poured forth the Rays
of Providence and Favor. The Horizon of the Existence is illuminated;
the surface of the earth hath become a brilliant page; and the Divine
Springtime hath set up its Tent and Pavilion with an infinite grandeur.
'l'he cloud of Mercy is showering in profusion, and the Orb of Favor is
shining with effulgence. The Breeze of the Eternal Life is blowing, and
the DOOi'S of the Divine Ki1;1-gdom are being opened. How long are ye
faded and withered? A wake! A wake! Be ye mindful! Be ye mindful!
To sum up, the above mentioned was a brief explanation concerning
the journey of Adam. There is also another for Ch. III v. 22 to 24, which
is to be heard by other ears, and explained another time.
As we have formerly promised the readers to bring to their notice
some of the blessed verses revealed in the Excellent Book of Ikan in con-
nection with the stages and conditions of the Journey, so we mention
those _passages as follows: It is said by Him (Exalted is His Utterance!)
"But, O my brother, when a seeker of truth intends to direct his
steps of research and journey in the Path of theKnowledge of the King
of Pre-existence, he should first cleanse and purify his heart-which is
the place where the splendors of the Invisible and Divine Mysteries are
made to become manifest-and sanctify it from all the gloomy dust of the
acquired sciences, and from the suggestions made by Satanic appearances;
and he should purge and refine his breast, which is the Throne whereon
the Love of the Eternal Beloved is established. He should likewise,
sanctify his heart from all kinds -Of material attachments; that is, from
all illusionary traces and spectral images- to such an extent that the
least trace of love or enmity may not remain therein, lest the love of
a thing may incline him to a direction despite reason, and that enmity
(for a thing) may prevent him from other tendencies, as is the case in
this day when most of the people are bereft of the Immortal Face and of
the Summit . of Meanings because of these contrasting tendencies, anrl
nre grazing without shepherds in the deserts of error and obliYion. But
they should trust in God at all times.and turn -away.from,:the ·creatures
( of God); to be severed and detached from the world of dust, and be
united with the Lord of Lords; not to seek superiority, but to cleanse the
tablet of their hearts from self-exaltation and vain-glory; to attach their
hearts to patience and endurance; to practice silence and avoid useless

speecb,-because the tongue is a smouldering fire, and loquacity is a
deadly poison. The material fire only inflames bodies, but the fire of
tongues consumes soul and mind. The effect made by the former van-
ishes in an hour, while the latter continues for a century. Backbiting
is to be considered as an error, and one should never step into that
court, because backbiting extinguishes the brilliant light of the heart, and
numbs the life of the mind. To be contented with little and free from
avarice; to make the most of the companionship of godly souls. and regard
avoidance of the haughty and worldly people as beneficial: To spend
the morning in communes and prayers, and to seek for the Beloved One
with entire earnestness and constancy: To consume heedlessness with
the fire of Love and Commemoration: To pass with the swiftness of •
lightning, over all else save God: To share with those who are in need,
and not to refuse kindness and favor to the unfortunate: To show kind-
ness even to the animals, and how much more to mankind, (especially)
to the people of El-Beyan (the true believers): Not to refuse to give ev C>n
life for the Beloved, and not to deviate from God if reproached by His
creatures: Not to wish for others that which one does not wish for
himself, nor to promise that which he cannot fulfill: To overlook the
evil doers with all power, and ask the forgiveness (of God) il1 their
behalf; To pardon -the sin of the sinners and despise them not, because
no one knows what will be proved of them at the end: Many a sinner
who is favored with Faith previous to bis death. tastes the "\Vine of Im-
mortality and hastens to the Supreme Concourse, and many an obedient
and believing soul who is estranged during his last hour, is thus cast
into the lowest depth of fire (remorse).
"To sum up, by all these definite explanations and ,vell-founded refer-
f'nces is meant that a traveler and truth-seeker should realize that every-
thing save God is mortal and consider aught else save the Adored One as
nothing. The above conditions are of the attributes and qualities of the
_g·odly and spiritual souls, which we have mentioned concerning the con-
ditions of those who strive after truth and travel in the Paths of Indubi-
table Knowledge. "'hen a sincere traveler realizes these qualities in
himself, then the term, 'endeavorer for truth' will become trne of him.
After one has attained to the position- ',Vhosoever makes his utmost
endeavor to promote our true religion he will certainly rejoice at the
Glad Tidings: W e will direct them into our ways.' ,Vhen the lamp of
research, endeavor, longing, fervor, love, affection and attraction is lighted
in the heart, and the Breeze of Love hath blown forth from th"" Poii1t of
Oneness, then the darlmess of error, doubt and superstition ,dll be dis-
pelled, and the Lights of Knowledge and Assurance will encompass all
the pillars of the existence.
Then the Ideal H erald will ·dawn as the
truthful morn, from the Divine Cit,r (heart) with spiritual Glad Tidings,
and w ill awaken the heart, soul and spirit from the sleep of heedless-
ness " 'ith the Trumpet of Knowledge. Then the Favors and Confirma-
tions of the Holy Spirit of Eternit~, will grant a new life to such an
extent that one will find himself endowed with new eyes, new ears, new

heart and new soul, and will perceiYe the manifest physical signs and 'the
hidden psychical mysteries. He will see with · the Eye of · God, a door
opened in every atom whereby he may attain to the position of indis-
putable 'Iruth, indubitable Knowledge and evident Light, and realize
the mysteries of the Splendors of Oneness, and the Signs of the• Mlanifes--
tations of Eternity in all things.
"I swear by God that, should the traYeler in the Path of Guidance
and the seeker of the Apex of Righteousness attain to this supreme and
holy state, he would be able to inhale the fragrance of the True One
from remote distances, and comprehend the brilliant ~1orn of Guidance
from the Dawning-places of all things: and then every atom and particle
will guide him to the Beloved and to the Desired One. He will become
so discerning that he will distinguish between truth and error as easily
as he knows the sun from shadow. For example: if the Breeze of Truth
may blow forth from the east of the world of Creation, he will surely
inhale it even though he be in the west of the world of Emanation (from
God.)
Likewise he will distinguish between all the Signs and Qualities
of God-such as wonderful words and brilliant actions-and the deeds.
acts and traces of others than God, just as the jeweler does between the
pearl and the stone, and man does between spring and autumn, and heat
and cold.
·
'.'When the cold (sickness) of the contingent and existent world is
removed from the head of the soul, it will inhale the fragrance of the
Beloved from a distance, and the soul will be attracted and will enter
the City of Assurance of the Generous God through the effect of this
Fragrance, and will behold the wonders of the Wisdom of the Glorious
One in that Spiritual City, and will hear the praising and glorifying of
the Lord of Lords, out of the very ground of that City, with his mental
as well as material ears, and will consider the mysteries of the 'Return'
and the mission, with the eye of mind.
"How can I ever mention the signs, marks, appearances and splen-
dors which are ordained for that city through the Command of the King
of Names and Attributes? It quenches the thirst without water, and in-
creases the heat of the Love of God without fire. In that city, the real
and perfect wisdom is hidden in every plant, and thousands of the Night-
ingales of Speech warble and cheer on every flowery tree. The mystery
of the Fire of Moses is revealed in its wonderful tulips, and the Breath
of the Holy Spirit of Christ emanates from its Fragrances of Holiness. It
bestows wealth without gold, and grants immortality without death. A
paradise is concealed in every one of its leaves, and hundreds of thousands
of wisdoms are treasured in every one of its chambers. Those who
earnestly endeavor in the Path of God, after being severed from all else,
will so become attached to that City that they will never desire to be
separated from it, not even for one instant. They will breathe the irre-
futable proofs from the hyacinth of that assemblage, and will receive
evident arguments from the Beauty of the Flowers and the Melody of
the Nightingale. This City is renewed and adorned every one thousand

years or more. Therefore, 0 my friends, we sllould make an effort to
attain to that City, nnd to rend asunder the veils of Glory through the
Divine Favors and Supreme Compassion, so that we may sacrifice the
withered soul in the Path of that new Beloved, and in order to attain
to tllat prosperity we should show forth a hundred thousand ways of
submissiveness and meekness. This City is no other than the Books of
God in every age. For instance: in the cycle of Moses, it was the Bible;
in the time of Jesus, it was the Q.ospels; in the Day of Mohammed, it
,Yas the Koran; and in this age, it is the Beyan, and in tlle Day of 'Him
,vhom God shall manifest (Beha'ullah) it will be His Own Book which
\\"ill be superior to all, and tu which all the books will have recourse.
In these Cities. sustenance is provided, and Eternal Blessings are furnished.
They bestow spiritual Food, and grant ancient Benediction. They con-
fer the Gift of Oneness to the people of Unity. They generously give a
portion to those unprovided, and favor the wanderers in the desert of
Ignorance with the Cup of Knowledge. In these Cities are treasured
and deposited Guidance, Providence, Knowledge, Understanding, Faith
and the Assurance of all in the heavens and on the earths. For exam-
ple: the Koran was a solid stronghold for the people of the Apostle
(~lohammed), and whosoever entered therein during that Day, was pro-
tected against the thrust of the devil, the spear of contradictors, and
against the vain superstitions and ungodly desires, and also partook of
the pure fruits of Oneness, and of the products of the Knowledge of the
Divine Tree, and tasted from the Wines of the Mysteries of Oneness aud
Singleness.
"To sum up, all the needs of that people, as to p1:ecepts of the Religion
and the laws of Mohammed, existed and were established in tllat mani-
fest Rizwan (the Koran). It was a permanent proof to him who held
thereto after the departure of the Point of the Koran (.Mohammed). Its
hnvs were confirmed, and its commands were irrefutable. All were com-
manded to obey it until the Day uf the new :\1anifestation in the year
of 'sixty.' It was the Kora11 which conducted the seekers to the Rizwan
of Union, and directed the endeavorers to the Tent of Nearness. It is a
well-founded proof, and a most great argument."
Consequently it is proved by the above blessed Utterances that the
Book of God (~evelation) is the primary proof and the Greatest Argument
eoncerning a Manifestation.
The second proof thereof is the steadfastness ith which they (the
Prophets) act in the Cause of God, and the calamities and tribulations
which they endure.
The tllird proof is the prophecies given in former Books concerning
the succeeding Manifestations. All these proofs, as well as others, be-
came perfectly manifest .and fulfilled in the Appearance of His High~n·ess
Beha'ullah. For more information regarding this fact, refer to the

Blessed Book of Ikan and to the works of argument written by the people
of Bella.
By this servant's quoting the passages of the Blessed Book of Ikan,
is mainly meant to bring to the attention of the readers the record of
the states of Journey, as briefly revealed from His Blessed Pen, as well
as the fact that He hath interpreted the Book of God to be the Divine
Uity. But facts concerning the stages of the Journey are revealed in
detail in the Book of "The Seven Valleys." For acquiring knowledge
thereof, let the readers refer to that Blessed Book, which contains such
regulations for the Journey, the like of which hath neither been thought
of by any mind, nor heard of by any ear, nor has such a book been ever
visited by any one. The Book of Assurance (Ikan), being a book of argu-
ment concerning this Great~st Manifestation, such scientific foundation
is laid therein that, were one to read it with perfect attention and with
a purified heart, he would realize such a power of knowledge unfolded
in him as would enable him to produce proofs in argument with all the
various religions which exist upon the earth, and to prove to them the
truth concerning the Divine Manifestations from all the former Books.
Were one of the Christians to be informed that the Texts of this Book,
and_ of the way of demonstration recorded therein; such power will be-
come manifest in him that he will be able to demonstrate the truth of
Jesus through solid and irrefutable proofs and arguments to the followers
of Moses, to the Zoroastrians and to other living nations including the
idolaters, etc.
Therefore, in this day, God hath endowed the people of Beha with
such power of knowledge among the people of the world that one single
soul of them overcomes and defeats the learned men of all sects and
creeds, and proves the Religion of the Prince of the world-Beha'ullah-
to every religion and nation. They prove it to the Islam through the
Verses of the Koran; to the Christians through the New And Old Testa-
ments; to the .Jews from the Bible, and to the Zoroastrians from the
Zend Avesta; to the Buddhists from their writings, and to the idol-wor-
shipping nations from their own records. The Behais believe that, accord-
ing to the clear records and obvious prophecies given in the Scriptures,
His Highness-Beha'ullah-is the same Great Manifestation who has been
foreshadowed and announced by all the Heavenly Books.
Xow the above facts stand as an accomplished and ultimate proof to
every one who believes in the Oneness of God, and in the fact that, in

accordance with · the records mentioned in the Scriptures, a Greatest
Manifestation should appear in the last days, whose religion and laws
shall encompass all the world: The Tent of Peace shall be set.up through
His, ,wonderful Laws: The foundation of strife and conflict shall be led
to destruction; The darkness of tyranny and bloodshed shall disappear
from the universe, and the feast of Union, Love and Agreement shall be
celebrated. All the earth will become the Paradise of El-ABHA; one
language should be adopted, and one style of "''riting should be taught ..
The mysteries of sciences should be unfolded, and the old world should
be clothed in a new robe. The Supreme Kfngdom will become manifest
on the earth of dust. The secret of the fifth verse of the Fourth Chapter
of Isaiah will be brought to light. The Day of God shall appear, and the
New Jerusalem will descend. A new heaven and new earth will be seen
Death will cease to be named, and the Sun of Eternal Life will rise. The
first Alpha will become the last Omega, and the point 'Zero' shall be
removed, and 'He is The First and He is 'rhe Last' shall become unvelled.
Peace be unto him who may follow the Path of God, the Bahi-ul-
ABHA.
THE MYSTERY OF BAPTISM.
Knowest thou that Baptism, in the terminology of the Prophets, means
sanctification and purification.
This has been an instituted law during
the ages of all the Divine Manifestations, but was given in different forms
according to the extent of the understanding of the people of their time.
For instance-in the time of Abraham baptism was instituted under
the form of circumstances, in the day of Moses it appeared in the form
of sacrifices, in the ages of the Israelitish Prophets it was annointing,
and in the day of J'Ohn the Baptist it consisted of bathing in water, in
the day of Jesus Christ baptism was by the Spirit, during the age of
Mohammed it was through reciting the Formula of Unity-"There is no
God but God, and Mohammed is His Prophet!"-and in the day of the
First Point (the Bab) it was in sanctifying one's hearing, seeing and the
whole· body, heart and soul. But in the day of the Appearance of the
Beauty of El-Baha, the Greatest Manifestation, baptism was instituted
under the form of sacrificing one's life in the Path of the Beloved of all
the creatures.

When· we consider the real meaning and the aim of these differeut
forms of baptism, it will be understood that the intention of all of them
has .been to cleanse and sanctify the souls of men, but this purification
rnan . can only attain through being taught the Truth.· · By teaclling the
Truth is meant the delivery of the Spiritual Teachings which tend to cut
tlle soul from lustful and brutish tenden~and to conduct them to
worlds of spirituality, sanctity and purity, that they may become enabled
to enter the Kingdom of God.
Therefore every soul who is delivered from the concerns of the world
of nature, and who is ready to know God, is said to be baptized with the
Water of the Knowledge of God, and he, who is baptized with this water,
has sacrificed his own will to the Will of God, and he, who has sacrificed
his will to the· Will of God, will attain Eternal Life.
As in the Day of the Blessed Perfection, the first one who sacrificed
his will to the Will of Baba' Ullah was His Highness, the Greatest Mys-
tery of God, Abdul-Baba, therefore the Manifestations entitled him: 'The
One -wllo is desired by God" and appointed him to be the Successor and
the Expounder of His Books, as He hath said in the Book of Akdas:
"'Vhen the Sea of My Presence hath disappeared and the Book of Origin
is achieved to the encl, turn your faces unto him wllom God hath de-
sired, who is extended from this Ancient Root." This means that after
the Departure of the Blessed Perfection to His Supreme Horizon, all the
people of Baha are commanded unanimously to turn unto "Him whom
God llath desired," that is His Highness, the Greatest Branch, accord-
ing to the clea1; statement made in the Kitab-el-Ahd. This is because He
is the One who hath sacrificed His Desire to the Will of the Blessed Per-
fection and thus hatll attained the Eternal Life.
Consequently it is said that when His Highness, Abraham, was ap-
pointed by the Will of God for the Guidance of the people, and invited
them to the Knowledge of Goel, to entire separation from the world and
to turn unto the exalted Kingdom of Goel, those souls among them who
were capable of receiving His Teachings, apprehended them and were
guided to the Truth and thus received Spiritual Baptism.
But since
others were not able to comprehend the Knowledge of God, they were
commanded to perform the material forms of baptism.
Therefore H e
said that whosoever should desire to be enrolled among the children of
.Abraham should be circumcised. By circumcision Abraham meant tllat
whoever intended to enter the Kingdom of God should turn away from

lustful desires.
Then, first, Abraham Himself and his family were cir-
cumcised, and after them tlle same was carried out by all His people.
This was a Covenant that God entered into with Abraham and His Gen-
eration and since that time this law has been performed by His followers
to the present day.
When the Day of Moses arrived, He baptized people with the Divine
Knowledges, Unity and Spiritual Characters.
Capable souls were di-
rected thereby and turned unto God, but as the other people were not
able to understand the Divine Mysteries, He commanded them to offer
sacrifices and He instituted certain sacrifices to be offered for certain sins,
and thus this became a Jewish custom.
Offering sacrifices llad reference to the fact that whosoever intendecl
to enter the Divine Kingdom should abandon the lusts and desires of
the flesh and clear himself from ,_n;Y:1.t~ial quf:1.lities and become endowed
with Divine Characteristics.
When John the Baptist came, he baptized with water. The real mean-
ing t_bereof was that all the body, both material and spiritual, should be
cleansed and sanctified with the water of Spiritual Knowledges.
He
said:
"Be prepared, for the Kingdom of _God is at lland."
Those of
the people who received knowledge, purified and sanctified their hearts
for the Advent of Christ, while others, who were not spiritual, followed
tlle literal form of baptism by water, and it is so done until this day.
After the Advent of Jesus, as His Mission was in the purest form of
Spirituality, so He instituted Baptism in the form of Spiritual, Divine
and acquired Spiritual Characteristics, He was accounted of the people
of the Kingdom and found a dwelling place in the Presence of the Heav-
enly Father.
When tlle Day of Mohammed, the Seal of the Prophets, came, as His
Day was that of the last of the prophetic dispensations, and the early
dawn of the Appearance of the Day of God, so He baptized people by
their confession of the Unity of God.
As to the first Point (the Bab), His Highness, the Supreme, the Great-
est Door of God, He baptized people by announcing to them the Advent of
. the Day of God, and taught them of the Manifestation of the Blessed
Perfection. He opened the Door of Knowledge before the face of the
people and baptized them with knowledges, mysteries and understand-
ings, so that they should be naturalized with such ceremonies whereby

they could gain the honor of attaining to the Presence and tile meeting
of His Highness, The Promised One, Baba' Ullah.
When the morning of llopes dawned and the Ideal Sun of the Beauty
of IDl-ABHA shone forth from behind the veils, and the Real Beloved
lifted up the covering from His Face, then the lovers wllo had suffered
long through separation from Him, held their heads and their lives in
their llands and hastened to His Presence. He said:
"Do not come
hither if thou thinkst of thy head or life, but if thou llast the intention
to sacrifice these in this Path, come forth and bring tllem with ye." There
"·ere thousands who sacrificed their heads, lives and properties in this
Path.
"'Vert thou to count the riches of God, they are innumerable!" Now,
consider llow the time hath evolved and advanced. In the Day of Jesus
people would sacrifice sheep and calves, while in the Age of Baha' Ullah,
thousands of Apostles, Saints, Appearances of Names and Attributes,
Chosen ones and Cherubim glory in sacrificing their lives. ,¥hat a differ-
ence between this and bygone ages!
Therefore, it is now understood that except man sacrifice his life for
the sake of the Beloved of all the creatures, he is not really baptized and
taught the Truth.
O dear Brothers! Do ye know by what form the Successor of the
Blessed Perfection, His Highness, Abdul-Baba, baptizes the people? Ab-
dul-Baha's form of baptism is the Servitude to the dust of the Threshold
of the Blessed Tomb! Abdul-Baha's baptism is love and unity among the
people of the world! Abdul-Baha's baptism is tM uprooting of the tree
of discord and disharmony!
Abdul-Baha's baptism is humbleness and
meekness before the servants of God! Abdul-Baha's baptism is extir-
pating the tree of pride and deceit! Abdul-Baha's baptism is agreement
and universal peace! His Highness, Abdul-Baha, calls Himself a servant
of the servants of Baha' Ullah, so that the firm servants of the Blessed
Perfection may receive these instructions of Servitude from Him and
consort with people in the same way as He.
:Kow, we will chant one of the Tablets given by His Higllness, Abdul-
Baha, so that we may hear His beautiful Teachings and put them into
practice.
RE·VEALED BY ABDUL-BA.HA.
(If anyone read or repeat the following Commune with sincere (per-
fect) craving and submissiveness, it will cause joy and fragrance to be

within tlle heart of tllis Servant (Abdul-Baha), and he will be considereJ
as having met or visited (Me).
(i. e.
This Commune has the remunera-
tion of My visitation or meeting).
0 my God! 0 my God! I extend toward Thee the hands of invoca-
tion, supplication and submissiveness, and rolling my face in the dust of
the Threshold which is holy above the comprehension of the people of
realities and beyond the commendations of the intellectual ones, I beg of
Thee to gaze unto Thy servant who is submissive and humble before
the Door of Th;y Oneness, with the glances of the E31e of Thy Mercy, and
to immerse him into the> Oceans of the Mercy of Thy Eternity.
O my Lord! Verily, he is Thy miserable1 poor servant and Thy in-
vol~ing, beseeching and captivt• slave, humbling himself before Thee, re-
lying· upon Thee, supplicating within Thy Hands, calling upon Thee and
invoking. ';rhee, saying: "O my Lord! Strengthen me to serve Thy be-
loved and enable me · to be of service to the Threshold of Thy One-
uess, and illuminate my brow with the Light of adoration in the Court
of '.rhy Holiness, and with supplication to the Kingdom of Thy Grandeur,
and confirm me to become evanescent at the Threshold of Thy Divinity,
and aid me to continue to be as nothing (entire humility) in the Court of
Thy Lordship.
0 my Lord! Cause me to drink the cup of evanescence and clothe me
with its mantle and immerse me in its sea. Make me as dust in the path
of the beloved (believers) and make me as a ransom (sacrifice) to the
ground printed by the feet of the chosen ones in Thy vVay.
0 Thou, Lord of Might and Exaltation! Verily, Thou art the Gener-
ous! The Merciful! The Most High! This is that which this servant
implores Thee every morn and eve.
0 my Lord! Grant his desire! Il-
lumine his inmost heart, dilate his breast, kindle his lamp in the service
of Thy Cause and to Thy servants!
Verily, Thou art Tile ~Iighty! The Loving! The Clement!
The servant of Abdul Beha,
M. ASSAD'ULLAH.