To my father

Umberto Savi

with love and gratitude

I am especially grateful to Continental Counselor

Dr. Leo Niederreiter

without whose loving encouragement

this book would have not been written

Contents

Notes and Acknowledgements

Introduction

1. THE WAYS OF THE SEARCH: TOWARDS A PHILOSOPHY OF REALITY

The criteria of knowledge

Sense perception

Intellect

Insight

The Holy Writings

The research method

Which truth?

Thought and action

Natural philosophy and divine philosophy

The unity of religion and science

Towards a philosophy of reality

A conclusion and a preamble

2. THE BEGINNING OF ALL THINGS

God is unknowable

Differentiation of stages

God's all-inclusiveness

Human limitations

Human incapacity to know the essence of things

Limitations of human understanding

Rational proofs of Divinity

Cosmological proofs

On the grounds of movement and principle of efficient cause

On the grounds of the different degrees of perfection

Teleological proofs

The perception of the indwelling Spirit

3. THROUGHOUT THE UNIVERSE IN SEARCH OF GOD

Creation

The world of God

The world of the Kingdom

God's transcendence and pre-existence

God and His creatures

Different degrees in the world of existence

The world of the Kingdom

Pre-existence of the world of the Kingdom

The world of the Kingdom and spirit

Degrees of the spirit

The world of creation

Relation between the world of the Kingdom and the world of creation

Nature and the Will of God

Distinctive features of the world of creation

The atom

Evolution

The creative plan of God

General features of the creative plan of God

Evolution in the world of creation

Evolution in the four kingdoms of the world of creation

Evolution according to Plotinus, in the Bahá'í texts

Evolution as an educative process

Evolution in the different planes of the world of existence

Limitations of some modern concepts of evolution

4. THE WONDERS OF EVOLUTION

The origin of the universe

Evolution in the mineral kingdom

Living systems

Animals

Qualities of the animals

Sense perception

Memory

Learning

Voluntary movements

Natural emotions

Animal's limitations

5. MAN: THE FRUIT OF PHYSICAL EVOLUTION

His animal nature

His human nature

His divine nature

Human greatness and limitations

His evolution and his divine nature

6. THE PERFECT MAN: THE MANIFESTATION OF GOD

The Manifestations of God in the history of mankind

Their threefold reality

Material

Human

Divine

The Essence of God and the Manifestations of God

Their names

Relations between the Manifestations of God

The station of unity

The station of distinction

Their purposes

Their proofs

Denial

7. STRIVING TOWARDS PERFECTION: DYNAMICS OF HUMAN TRANSFORMATION

The method

Prerequisites of human transformation

Voluntary submission to the will of God

Purity

Endeavour

Directions of human endeavour

The special meaning of the Revealed Word

Serving mankind

Means of entrance into the Kingdom

Qualifications of the enlightened souls

Obstacles to human transformation

Self or self-centredness

Estrangement

Malice

Envy

Backbiting

Exceeding in words

Meanings of sorrow and sacrifice

Meanings of sorrow

An instrument of human perfection

An instrument of self-knowledge

An instrument of detachment from the world of creation

Meanings of sacrifice

Conquering the natal self

Self-sacrifice for a universal cause

Attaining the qualities of the world of the Kingdom

Human transformation as spiritual progress

Spirituality as love in action

The second birth

8. THE SOUL: THE REALITY OF MAN

Rational proofs of its existence and immortality

Proofs of its existence

Human rational faculty

Inner perception

Human inner reality

Metaphysical proofs of its immortality

On the grounds of movement

On the grounds of the soul defined as substance

On the grounds of the soul being simple as substance

On the grounds of the presence of truth within the soul

On the grounds of its natural aspiration for immortality

On the grounds of the idea of mortality

Moral proofs of its immortality

As a requirement of human moral life

On the grounds of consensus gentium

What is the soul?

Its individuality

Its dual nature

The oneness of the spirit

Soul and body

Its bounties or powers

The soul as coordinator and motor of the body

Knowledge

Sense perception

` Reasonable perception' or `intellection '

` Inner perception or insight' or `intuitive knowledge

Self-consciousness

Love

The capacity of feeling joy and pain

The power of love

Love and knowledge

Love and courage

The growth of love

Will

Action

The dynamics of the choice

The soul as the mirror of human choices

Spiritual knowledge

Spiritual feelings

Spiritual deeds

Spiritual words

The journey of the soul

9. HUMAN EVOLUTION

Individual evolution

Material evolution

Intellectual evolution

Spiritual evolution

Human education

Material education

Intellectual education

Spiritual education

Evolution of mankind

Material evolution

Intellectual evolution

Spiritual evolution

Contemporaneousness of material, intellectual and spiritual evolutionary processes

Discontinuity of evolutionary processes

Social evolution

10. THE WORLD OF THE KINGDOM

The world of the Kingdom within the creatures

The world of the Kingdom within man

The world of the Kingdom within society

The world of the Kingdom as the world beyond

It transcends time and space

Metaphors of the world of the Kingdom in the Bahá'í texts

Qualities of the world of the Kingdom

Human souls in the world of the Kingdom

Relations between this world and the other

Relations between human souls in the world of the Kingdom

Relationship between human souls in this world and in the other

11. GOD: THE BEGINNING AND THE END OF ALL THINGS

The knowledge of God

God within human hearts

God within the universe

God in His Manifestations

A CONCLUSION

BIBLIOGRAPHY

INDEX

Notes and Acknowledgements

Italics are used for all quotations from the Bahá'í Sacred Scriptures, namely `any part of the writings of the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh and the Master'. (Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Seeking the Light of the Kingdom (comp.), p.17.) Italics are not used for recorded utterances by `Abdu'l-Bahá. Although very important for the concepts and the explanations they convey, when they have `in one form or the other obtained His sanction' (Shoghi Effendi, quoted in Principles of Bahá'í Administration , p.34) - as is the case, for example, with Some Answered Questions or The Promulgation of Universal Peace - they cannot `be considered Scripture'. (Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny , p.208.)

Quotations from Italian publications are translated by the author, unless otherwise indicated.

This book was, in a way, written twice: first in Italian, and then again in English. For the English version I am particularly grateful to Ghitty Payman Galeotti, who encouraged me to accomplish this task, which I thought out of my reach. I wish to express my gratitude also to May Hofman Ballerio for her precious help in revising and editing the manuscript. Last but not least, I gratefully remember the patience of my wife Paola, who accepted my absence during the long hours I dedicated to this work.

Introduction

The Bahá'í Faith presents itself to modern man as a solution to the manifold problems which afflict him on the social and individual level. It does not claim to be a sort of magic wand, which could suddenly transform our imperfect world into an improbable utopia, but it presents itself as a cause entitled to indicate goals and methods and to furnish ideas and energies necessary for a transformation to take place. This transformation will certainly be difficult and slow and will proceed according to the unchangeable laws of social development, until it brings man to a higher stage of civilization. 1

The Bahá'í Faith offers a particular vision of man and the universe; on the one hand, it suggests a specific code of ethics whose application raises man to a higher level of maturity than hitherto; on the other, it suggests principles, structures and methods in the social and political sphere which would enable man -- as, by increasingly applying this ethic, he grows in his feelings and behaviours -- to build a world of peace and cooperation between the peoples of the earth. This kind of world is the only cradle in which an infant human intellect (infant in relation to the millions of years of man's existence on the planet) can develop and prosper, and gradually manifest the infinite potentialities with which man has been endowed.

Modern readers have been undoubtedly disappointed and wearied by the different ideas for the improvement of man and society, expounded down the centuries by philosophers, politicians, sociologists, and others. Their trust in religion has been seriously shaken by many unfortunate events. It is hoped, however, that despite these obstacles they may be induced to a preliminary investigation of the Bahá'í teachings and their proposed reforms.

To appreciate, let alone accept, an idea at its inception, is undoubtedly more difficult than appreciating an idea that is already producing concrete and visible results. 2 It could be, in fact, considered the undertaking of a pioneer. But it is the pioneers who move the world and mark the paths of history: Columbus with his trust in the world being round; Galileo with his determination to follow the as yet unexplored paths of the scientific method in the study of nature and its phenomena; Pasteur and Koch with their diligent studies of the world of microorganisms, then unknown and almost inaccessible; the Bahá'ís of today, with their faith in a human nature moving towards perfection, in the attainability of peace and justice -- not utopia, but concrete goals to live and struggle for.

***

In 1912 during His historic travels in North America, `Abdu'l-Bahá said: `We must also render service to the world of intellectuality in order that the minds of men may increase in power and become keener in perception, assisting the intellect of man to attain its supremacy so that the ideal virtues may appear. Before a step is taken in this direction [1] we must be able to prove Divinity from the standpoint of reason so that no doubt or objection may remain for the rationalist. Afterward, [2] we must be able to prove the existence of the bounty of God -- that the divine bounty encompasses humanity and that it is transcendental. Furthermore, [3] we must demonstrate that the spirit of man is immortal, that it is not subject to disintegration and that it comprises the virtues of humanity.' 3

This book is an attempt to respond to `Abdu'l-Bahá's exhortations. To this end, Bahá'í texts available in English have been perused in order to find passages which provide:

rational proofs of the existence of God;

explanations of the concept of `the bounty of God';

guidance for tracing the spirit in the phenomenal world;

rational proofs of the existence and immortality of human soul;

explanations of the nature of man and the meaning of his individual and collective existence.

In collecting these passages it became evident that the Bahá'í texts describe criteria and methods we should conform to, if we want to obtain useful results in our intellectual endeavours. An introductory chapter was therefore written, dealing with research criteria and methods.

Though the concepts presented in these introductory pages may seem abstract and even difficult to understand, it is hoped that they will be useful for a fuller comprehension of subjects which are dealt with further on, subjects which -- since they concern man, his nature, his soul and his faculties -- are, perhaps, not only easier to understand but also of more immediate interest to the reader. Through the entire research and writing runs a common thread -- the consciousness that, in the words of the Universal House of Justice, `no Bahá'í at this early stage in Bahá'í history can rightly claim to have more than a partial and imperfect understanding', of 'a Revelation of such staggering magnitude'. 4

It is hoped that these concepts, which have been expounded by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, will assist the reader to understand, appreciate, and put into practice the practical and concrete suggestions which the Bahá'í Faith offers to individuals and societies for achieving a world of justice and peace.

Julio Savi

Bologna, 23 May 1987

to 12 August 1988

single page

chapter 1