THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1995-12-26

To the conference of the continental boards of cou

with great happiness we welcome you to this momentous conference,

which is graced by the presence of three hands of the cause of god. it

marks the opening of a period of intense activity as the twentieth century, hailed by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá as “a century of life and renewal,”

210-1 draws to a

close, and a new century of enormous challenge for all mankind opens be-

fore us. To guide the activities of the bahá’í world during this period, we

have decided to launch a four year plan at ri¤ván 1996. The provisions of

that p lan are to be the focus of your consultations in the coming six days.

The continental boards of counselors have been an integral part of the

Administrative order for over twenty-five years. your institution has made

an essential contribution to the strengthening and evolution of the bahá’í

210-1. pup , p. 194.209.4

209.5

210.1

210.2

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

59community, and your role in the protection and growth of the cause will

be of even greater consequence in the years ahead.

if there is any question of the speed with which history is unfolding,

we need but recall the events, both within and without the bahá’í commu-

nity, which have transpired since the counselors assembled in conference

in 1985. The transformations of this remarkable first decade of the fourth

epoch of the formative Age of the faith, seen in the light of the promises

in our Sacred Scriptures, throw into sharp perspective the great range of the

tasks before us. can we have any doubt that events will henceforth move at

a still more rapid pace and will change the world even more radically than

have those of the past decade?

At this crucial point in the fortunes of humankind, your role and that

of your Auxiliaries in calling forth the wholehearted endeavors of the fol-lowers of bahá’u’lláh, in raising the level of their spiritual awareness, and

in promoting the evolution of national and local bahá’í institutions is of

fundamental importance. in that realization we eagerly anticipate the fruits

of your deliberations during the coming days. we shall offer fervent prayers

at the Sacred Threshold that the confirmations of the Almighty will guide

and reinforce your services both now and through the years to come.

211

Publication of a Persian Edition of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]