THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-08-12

To an individual believer

dear b ahá’í f riend,

. . . elaborating your previously expressed views concerning your feeling of a

need for bahá’í sacred literature in simplified english, and we are to convey

the following.

The house of justice fully appreciates that the real purpose of your letters

is to find a way to help the largest number of people, whatever their ability

in english, to experience the word of god as brought by bahá’u’lláh; and it

sympathizes with your desire to make the Teachings accessible to those who are not adept at reading english. undoubtedly, a great deal can be done to

fulfill your desire; however, it is important for you to understand basically

that the standard of presentation of the divine word cannot be lowered,

and that it must be made available to all, including those who cannot read

it in its elevated style. No simplification of language can take its place.

even an unlettered person is capable of responding to the exalted lan-

guage of the holy Scriptures, as it is the inner spirit of the divine Texts

that touches the heart. bahá’u’lláh states in a well-known Tablet that, “The

word of god is the king of words and its pervasive influence is incalculable.

. . . The word is the master key for the whole world, inasmuch as through

its potency the doors of the hearts of men, which in reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked.”

281-1 hearts become attracted and souls confirmed

through the mysterious effects of exposure to the living word—that word

which has demonstrated the power to stimulate intellectual development. you yourself have mentioned that a mystical experience enabled you to per-

severe in learning to understand the divine Texts.

you write that the people who you are trying to reach are not well educat-

ed and thus not able to comprehend the language of the writings. it is not

the prerogative of anyone to judge what another individual is capable of un-derstanding from the word of god. consider, for instance, that throughout

281-1. Tb, p. 173.281.1

281.2

281.3

281.4

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

61the world millions of christians, from all walks of life, have for generations

derived spiritual sustenance from the king james bible. The publication

of the bible in simplified english is a relatively recent development and

coincides with a period in which christian organizations have lost much of

their historical vitality; it also coincides with the lamentable decline in the

standard of english usage in the united States and other english-speaking

countries. An even more potent example relates to islám, many generations

of the adherents of which, literate or illiterate, have memorized all or large portions of their holy book, the qur’án; it would be unthinkable to such

believers to be presented with the proposition of simplifying the language

of m u¥ammad’s r evelation.

The house of justice does not want to see a dilution of the standard of

english translation of the writings established by Shoghi effendi. regard-

ing such translations, it is suggested that you may find it illuminating to

read the two paragraphs in the introduction to the kitáb-i-Aqdas  . . . con-

cerning “the style of language in which the kitáb-i-Aqdas has been rendered

into e nglish.”

281-2

The matter of englishing certain Arabic or persian terminologies has

been and will continue to be given attention by the house of justice. for

instance, it has already decided that terms and place names, like Teheran and Shiraz, which have recognized spellings in languages using the roman

alphabet, need not appear in their transliterated forms as øihrán and Shíráz

in materials intended for general distribution among non-b ahá’ís.

it is of course understood that some people do not have the vocabulary to

read literature of a certain level. it is possible, therefore, to accompany the

Texts with explanatory material. if, in this context, you wish to pursue your

question further, you will have to take it up with your National Spiritual

Assembly and abide by its advice.

As you strive to deepen your knowledge of the faith and to serve its vital

interests, be assured of the ardent prayers of the house of justice in the

holy Shrines that you may be divinely assisted and confirmed.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

281-2. kA, p. 10.281.5

281.6

281.7

281.8

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

62282

Release of a Compilation on the Arts

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]