THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2001-02-08

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

on 9 may 1993,352-1 each National Spiritual Assembly was sent a copy

of a letter written to the National Spiritual Assembly of iceland on 9 june

1974,352-2 which listed those laws not at that time binding upon the western

world. The covering letter noted that the law of þuqúqu’lláh had been made

universally binding at ri¤ván 1992. on 28 december 1999, the universal

house of justice wrote to the bahá’ís throughout the world informing them

of the universal application of the remaining aspects of the laws of prayer and fasting.

352-3

Therefore, to bring the information up to date, we have been asked to

send you the enclosed list of laws not yet universally applied, to replace the

one sent to you in m ay 1993.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

352-1. See no. 153, pp. 333–34.

352-2. muhj, no. 147 .352-3. See no. 315, pp. 697–99.352.1

352.2

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

775LAWS OF THE KITÁB-I-AQDAS NOT YET UNIVERSALLY APPLIED

28 D ecember  1999

following the universal application of the laws on prayer, fasting and

provided the following list of laws noted in the Synopsis and codification

of the kitáb-i-Aqdas which are not at present universally binding upon the

friends. The numbers of the sections are given for ease of reference.

iv.c.1.i  The laws governing betrothal.

iv.c.1.j The law concerning the payment of a dowry by the

groom to the bride on marriage.

iv.c.1.l & m  The laws concerning the traveling of a husband away

from his wife.

iv.c.1.n & o The laws relating to the virginity of the wife.

iv.c.2.b That part of the divorce law relating to fines payable to the h ouse of j ustice.

iv.c.3 The law of inheritance. This is normally covered by civil

laws of intestacy at the present time.

iv.d.1.a The law of pilgrimage.

iv.d.1.d  The law of the mashriqu’l-A dhkár is gradually being put

into effect.

iv.d.1.f  The bahá’í festivals are being celebrated by the western

friends on their anniversaries in the gregorian calendar

it desirable to pass supplementary legislation necessary for the full implementation of the b adí‘ calendar.

iv.d.1.j The age of maturity applies only to bahá’í religious

duties as yet. on other matters it is subject to the civil

law of each country. The age of administrative maturity in the bahá’í community has, for the time being, been

fixed at 21.

iv.d.1.k f or the burial of the dead the only requirements now

binding in the west are to bury the body (not to cremate

it), not to carry it more than a distance of one hour’s

journey from the place of death, and to say the prayer

for the dead of the deceased is a believer over the age of

15.

iv.d.1.p The law of tithes.352.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

776iv.d.1.r The law concerning the hunting of animals.

iv.d.1.t, The law relating to the finding of lost property, the

disposition of treasure trove, the disposal of objects

held in trust and compensation for manslaughter are all designed for a future state of society. These matters are usually covered by the civil law of each country.

iv.d.1.y,  Arson, adultery, murder and theft are all forbidden to bahá’ís, but the punishments prescribed for them

in the kitab-i-Aqdas are designed for a future state of

society. Such matters are usually covered by the civil

laws of each country.

iv.d.1.y,  The laws prohibiting the use of the type of pools

which used to be found in persian baths, the plung-

ing of one’s hand in food, the shaving of one’s head and growth of men’s hair below the lobe of the ear.

All the exhortations listed in section iv.d.3 are applicable universally at

the present time insofar as it is possible for the friends to implement them;

for example, the exhortation to teach one’s children to chant the holy verses

in the mashriqu’l-A dhkár can be literally carried out only on a limited scale

at the present time, but the friends should, nevertheless, teach their children

the h oly w ritings as far as possible.

353

Approval and Testing of Persian Radio Broadcasts

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]