GOD LOVES LAUGHTER

BY THE SAME AUTHOR:

Books

Thief in the Night

Release the Sun

The Wine of Astonishment

Plays

Farewell Pussyfooters!

The Black Harvest

The Zero Hour

Grillis Is Dead

Dad Cashes In

The Undoing of Albert O’Donnell

The Turning of the Worm

Man Overboard!  (With Robert Quigley)

Film Scenarios

Dilemma in Donegal (With Robert Quigley)

The In stand Peace Pill (With Robert Quigley)

Television Comedy

In The Park (With Paul Ritts)

GOD

LOVES LAUGHTER

By

WILLIAM SEARS

GEORGE RONALD

Oxford

© William Sears 1960

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

First Edition 1960

Fourteenth reprint 1991

ISBN 0 85398 019 5 (paper)

Printed and bound in Great Britain by

Biddles Ltd, Guildford and King’s Lynn

FOREWORD

All the events in this story are true.  They are about actual

people.  If you should notice a similarity between any charac-

ter and a friend of yours it is probably your friend.

The locale throughout is authentic, although I have

blended the unities of time and place from various radio and

television stations where I have worked.  Only the names

have been changed to protect the guilty, and only those

names which might reflect adversely upon some fellow

labourer in the commercial vineyard.

The reasons I have made these minor changes are as

follows:

FIRST:  I wish to stay in television and radio.

SECOND:  I wish to protect my bodily person.

THIRD:  I do not wish to share the profits with an

attorney.

I have travelled the equivalent of twelve times around the

world, and have found people quite wonderful in every part

of our planet.  Therefore, it has been a great joy to write this

book.  In doing so, I hoped for neither reward nor gratitude,

although both would be welcomed.  I had no choice.  I had

to write it.  You will understand why before you put it down.

WILLIAM SEARS

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The quotation on p. 106 from Margie is by per-

mission of B. Feldman & Co. Ltd.

The quotation on p. 124 from Oh, Johnnie! is by

permission of Francis, Day and Hunter, Ltd.

CONTENTS

Chapter	Page

FOREWORD	v

1.  A Seventh Son-of-a-Gun of a Seventh Son-of-a-

Gun	9

2.  The Birds and the Bees, or The Stork Club	15

3.  A Pair of Early Sinners	18

4.  There’ll be Pie in the Sky When We Die	29

5.  The Good Book and the Bad Boy	35

6.  Come all ye Bandits!	43

7.  Ice-skating in the Kitchen	50

8.  Uncle Duffy and His Wonderful Whiskers	55

9.  The Famous Fire and the Infamous Father	64

10.  Skyrocket to Fame, or A Best-seller at Twelve	70

11.  Ordeal by Father	77

12.  Sam, You Made the Pants Too Short	84

13.  Three Prize-winning Plays, But Not a Cent for

Cigarettes	87

14.  Radio Writer, or Do you want the script good or

do you want it on Thursday?	93

15.  Love Flies in and out of the Window	101

16.  Virtuous Misers, Generous Back-Biters, and

Friendly Thieves!	113

17.  A Dozen Red Rose-buds versus All Vested

Interest	121

18.  “Ooooooooh! Shopping”, or How to become

a Millionaire	129

19.  The Animal Lady Strikes Again!	136

20.  The Mysterious “Guessed-room” and the Haunt-

ing Strains of a Violin	143

21.  The Abominable Snowman and his Blue-eyed

Mistress	149

22.  The Strange Case of the Missing Millenium	158

23.  Television, or Coast-to-coast with a Crow	165

24.  Ho!  Hum!  Same Old Routine:  London, Paris,

Rome, Athens, Istanbul, Rangoon, Bangkok,

Shanghai, Honolulu, Santiago, Buenos Aires,

and Rio, or Somewhere Over The Rainbow	174

CHAPTER 1

A SEVENTH SON-OF-A-GUN OF A SEVENTH

SON-OF-A-GUN

I was born in a caul.  Wrapped “in a veil” my Irish father

bragged.  My Uncle Duffy was more picturesque.

“Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, and all the saints in purgatory!

The laddie’s come in a cocoon!”

The midwife was the first to rush the news to my father.

“It’s a genius that’s born to you,” she cried, “all wrapped

up like the seventh son of a seventh son.”

“Never mind that,” Father told her.  “Is it a boy genius

or a girl genius?”

“A big boy-child, and the finger of God is on him.”

I was born on March 28, 1911, in Duluth, Minnesota, in

Pumpkin Row.  My father never quite forgave me for miss-

ing St. Patrick’s Day by less than two weeks.  As a news

event, I was a poor second to the storm that blew in off

Lake Superior with hailstones as big as golf balls.

My father’s family originally came from Court MacSherry

Bay at the foot of County Cork.  On a Saturday night Father

would stand for hours around the piano at Hennessy’s house

with the only other two Irishmen in town and they would

sing one short song over and over:

Ooooh ... McGinty was dead and McCarthy didn’t know it; McCarthy was dead and McGinty didn’t know it;

They both lay there dead in the very same bed

And neither didn’t know that the other was dead.

Then off they’d go into gales of laughter, then back to the

song, then off they’d go again.  Only this time it was to

McMurtry’s pub.

Mother, who was French, Spanish, German, Welsh,

English, and Scotch, would often tell Father, especially

when he had displeased her, which was almost daily, that

St. Patrick had made one great mistake.

“He should have left the snakes,” she said, “and driven

out the Irish.”

Within a week after I was born, Father was spreading it

all over town that he’d come into a great piece of fortune.

“It’s my son,” he said.  “He came in a caul, like a pea in a

pod.  It’s a sign from heaven.  He’s bringing us great good

luck, and in no time at all now, we’ll be coming into a nice

piece of money.”

Mother was annoyed.  “I know your whole family,”

she told Father, “both here and in Ireland, and you could

keep all the money they own together in the toe of one

boot.”

“You’ve got no faith, woman.  Just wait ‘till the young

lad begins to speak.  He’ll tell you.”

I began to walk when I was ten months old, but I began

to speak when I was only six months.  It made my father

very nervous.  Especially since the first word I said was not

“Daddy” but “God”.

“The boy’s creepy,” he told Mother.  “Where did he pick

that up?”

“He didn’t get anything as mild as that from you cer-

tainly,” Mother told him.

“I don’t like it.  It’s spooky.  I don’t know if he’s swearing

or prophesying.”

By the time I was a year-and-a-half old, my father was

quite frightened of me.  I knew several words that he didn’t.

It was at this time that I first had the dream.  When I told

Mother about my dream she told Father.  He wanted to

take me to a doctor, but Mother said, “He’s just pre-

cocious.”

“He’s weird,” Father told her, “and I’m not at all sure it

was wise to have him.  But there’s no sending him back

now.”

Mother told me about these things in detail years later.

All I could recall myself about the dream the first time I had

it was that the room had been full of a wonderful bright

light, that I was very happy, and that I wanted to remain

there.

Mother said she remembered the day of my dream very

clearly.  It was the morning that Father came downstairs

after being desperately ill.  He’d eaten some string beans

from a bad jar and had been poisoned.  For three days he

thought he was going to die.  At the height of his fever he

confessed to Mother that ten years ago when they had first

been married he’d taken Alma Jensen to a barn dance, and

he didn’t want to die with that on his conscience.  Un-

fortunately for him, he recovered.  When he came down-

stairs he was openly cheerful.  He hugged Mother and gave

her a playful poke in the ribs.

“I hope you didn’t pay any attention to my little ravings

while I was hysterical with fever.”

Mother dug him a good one in the ribs in return.  She

laughed coldly.  “Of course not, Frank.  I imagine I’ll forget

all about it in a few years.”

That’s how Mother came to remember so clearly the day

of my dream.  Women are funny that way.  The date I had

the first dream was September 20, 1912.

By the time I was five I was making my poor father’s life a

misery.  I seemed to have an inordinate interest in God, and

he didn’t care to discuss it with me.  One day at the circus,

while the bare-back riders were galloping through the big

rings of fire, I turned to Father and said suddenly, “Is that

what hell is like?”

Father nearly swallowed his cigar, it upset him so.

“Don’t ask me,” he said angrily, “I’ve lived all my life in

Minnesota.”

Since Father had opened the subject, I said, “Where does

God live, Father?  How big is He?  Does He have brown

eyes?”

We left the tent immediately.  Father stopped at a side-

show and bought me a rubber ball.  “Here,” he said

patiently, “play ball.  Be like the other little boys.  Bounce

the ball on the ground.”

I did, obediently.  ‘Then I looked up at him proudly.

“God made the ground,” I informed him.

Father threw up his hands and took me home.

About a month later, according to Mother, I had the

dream a second time.  I didn’t say anything about it until

my father came home from work.  I was a cock-horse and

Father was riding me to Banbury Cross astraddle his toe

when I told him.

“The man came again,” I said.

“Who came?” Father laughed.

“The man.”

“What man?”

“The man in light.”

“Where?”

“In my dream again.”

I got off before Banbury Cross.  “Ethel!” Father called,

“He’s at it again.”

Mother came hurrying in.  “What’s wrong?”

Father was already putting on his coat.  “He’s seen that

man in a light in his dream again.”

Mother picked me up tenderly and kissed me.  “Of

course, he has.” She hugged me to her.  “We all have nasty

bad dreams.”

“It was a good dream,” I told her.

“What did the man look like?”

“I don’t know.”

“What did he say?”

“Don’t follow in their footsteps.”

Mother nearly dropped me.  Father turned in the door-

way.

“Thank God I work in an underground mine and don’t

have to come up until it’s dark.”

The very next morning Father was shaving when I came

into the bathroom.

“What’s my name?” I asked him.

Father had often played this game with me.  “Your name

is William.”

“Then why did he call me Peter?”

“Who?”

“The man in my dream last night.”

Father cut his chin.  “Ethel!”

Mother appeared from nowhere.  She was very patient

about it.

“Are you sure he called you Peter, dear?”

I nodded.  “He said:  ‘Fish like Peter.’”

Father went to work that morning with his face half

shaved.  He told Mother to take me to a doctor before he

came home.

“It’s not normal.  He talks like an old man, and it’s not

comfortable living in the same house with him.  He’ll be

dead before he’s six.”

“Frank!”

Father was not at all happy.  Whenever he became upset

he talked with a brogue and waxed poetic.  “If I’d known

what was coming that dark March night, I’d have stuffed

him back into the ‘caul’ and returned him.”

When Father got home that night he and Mother decided

that the best thing to do was to send me to Sunday school.

So the next week I went with my sister Ella.

“Let the boy worry Father Hogan for a while,” Father

told Mother.  “I pay my pew-rent regularly and hardly ever

use it.  Let him earn the money.”

Sunday school opened up a whole new world of material

for me.  It gave me an abundance of new questions to ask

my father.  I think I must have known instinctively how

terribly skittish it made him, especially after the morning he

drove the family car into the oak tree in the yard.  As he

was coming out of the garage I called out to him:

“I thought I saw God on the front seat with you.”

Father sent me to bed early that night, then he took refuge

with Mother.  “We’ve got to do something about this mor-

bid interest.  It’s upsetting.”

Ella chimed in.  “If you think he’s upsetting now, wait

until next week when Father Hogan tells us about God the

Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost.  Then he’ll

really be creepy!”

This was too much for Father.  He withdrew me from

Sunday school as of that night.  It was just as well, for the

church and I were soon to clash.  It happened shortly after

I entered the third grade.  It was the week I promised Margie

Kelly that I would bring the stork to the church picnic.

CHAPTER 2

THE BIRDS AND THE BEES, OR THE

STORK CLUB

The entire village called it justice from the mills of God

the morning I broke my ankle.  My father said that in my

case it was a pity that they didn’t grind “exceeding fast”.  I

fell from the roof of Saphead Phillips’s house.  I had been

setting a bear-trap by their back chimney when I slipped and

lost my balance.

Father was quite nasty about my being up on Phillips’s

roof.  I explained that Mrs. Phillips was going to have a

baby, and that I was setting the trap to catch the stork when

he came.  That night, through the warm-air ventilator in

my bedroom floor, I heard Father tell Mother that in some

ways it was a pity I hadn’t broken my neck.  I could put

my face to the ventilator and look right down into the

kitchen.  I could see that Mother was not pleased with

Father.

“He’s your son, Frank,” she said.  “It’s your responsi-

bility to talk with him.”

Father was practical.  “As far as I’m concerned, he can

get to be fifty before he finds out there’s no stork.”

No stork!  It couldn’t be true.  If there was no stork, I’d

be a failure at the church picnic.  All the kids were expecting

it.  We planned to surprise Miss Poppenburg.  If the stork

didn’t bring the baby, who did?  Naturally, I asked Father.

He gave me a fast mumble.  All I understood of it was that

he had to go down town right away.  He told me to ask Mr.

Phillips.  It was his stork, Father said.

I began to worry.  How was I, with a broken ankle, going

to get that bear-trap off the roof?  If Mr. Phillips was in-

volved in bringing the baby, that trap might surprise him

when he went down the chimney.  He might break his ankle

too.

That night when Mr. Phillips came home from work I

was waiting for him at the gate.  I said to him, “If it’s at

night, Mr. Phillips, watch your step up there.”

“What?”

“I just mean that you’re no bird, and with a trap on your

leg you might lose your bundle.”

Mr. Phillips was pretty thick.  “What are you talking

about?”

I decided to be frank with him.  “Man to man,” I said,

“we know there’s no stork, don’t we?”

Mr. Phillips’s face was suddenly a banana pudding, then a

glass of tomato juice.  I realized at once that I’d made a

serious mistake.  Poor devil.  He didn’t know there wasn’t a

stork either.  He looked at me queerly.

“Are you sure you didn’t fall on your head?” he said.

When he left, Mother came out.  She said, “Mr. Phillips

looked a little upset.  What did you say to him?”

“I gave him a nasty shock,” I told her.  “Now he doesn’t

know whether he’s going to get a baby or not.”

Mother laughed.  “I think he’s pretty sure.”

I shook my head.  “He was depending on the stork, and

I knocked that right out from under him.”

Mother eyed me narrowly.  She made believe she was

very interested in the cast on my ankle.  “Well,” she said,

“if the stork isn’t going to bring the baby, who is?”

I didn’t answer right away.  Everyone thought the trap

had fallen down when I did, but I knew that it was still up

there beside the chimney and all set to snap.  I looked up at

the shadows near the red bricks where my trap lay hidden.

“I don’t know just yet,” I told Mother.  “But I’ll be able

to tell you any day now.”

When Mr. Phillips got the baby in without disturbing the

trap it set me to thinking.  It also set me to reading.  I lost

all interest in Phillips’s baby.  I was on the trail of bigger

game.  I was determined to find the answer to my questions.

Why was the sky blue?  Where did a laugh go after you

heard it?  If the earth was round and people were walking

on all sides of it, which side was up?  Why was Sammy

Agnew black and why was I white—most of the time?  Did

God have a wife?  Where was His house?  Could He speak

Chippewa Indian like Uncle Walter?  Did He really love

everybody?  Even old lady Yellow-jacket who chased us

kids with her umbrella?  Why did He make mosquitoes?

And flies that could walk upside down on the ceiling?

I decided that the only person who could answer my

questions would be my grandfather.  I tried Miss Poppen-

burg at school, but she told me that the only answers I

needed to know were the ones to her questions, not mine.

When I asked Father Hogan he told me to go to confession

regularly, say a good act-of-contrition, and not to miss

Mass on Sunday, and to leave the rest to God.  My father

told me to shut up.  I even asked Mayor Fletcher some

questions one day on the street.  He patted me on the back

and with a jovial laugh said he’d take my questions up with

the town council, but I never heard from him again.  I was

sure that my grandfather would tell me to go right ahead

and ask him any old questions I could think up.  He might

not know the answers, but he’d certainly have a shot at it.

My grandfather didn’t think very highly of school,

church, or politics.  He said that most of those people had

heads so empty he could drive his horse and buggy through

them for two weeks without finding an original idea.  He

was the man to ask, all right.

CHAPTER 3

A PAIR OF EARLY SINNERS

I made dinosaur tracks in the soft, warm dust of the Old

Swimming-hole road, hopping along with my two bare feet

held together.  I was on my way to Grandfather’s.  I avoided

the open gate, which was too small for a dinosaur to enter,

and crawled along the top of the board fence and over the

empty hay-rack.  Grandfather was inside the barn singing

at the top of his lungs:

“There’ll be pie in the sky when we die,

When we die there’ll be pie in the sky;

So live every day ‘till you die,

And you’ll all have your pie in the sky.”

Grandfather was currying down fat old Prince.  He

grabbed me, gave me a whisker-rub, and put me up on top

of the chestnut’s back.

“Did you ever see God?” I asked him.

Grandfather thought a while.  “You mean in person?”

I nodded.  “Face to face.”

Grandfather swatted old Prince on the withers, brushing off

the fine hay-dust that had floated down from the mow above.

“Well, sir,” he said, “that’s a funny thing.  I’ve had many a

talk with Him, of course, but it’s been mostly one-sided.”

“Didn’t He answer?”

Grandfather nudged the chestnut with his elbow.  “Over,

boy.”  Prince did a little dance-step with his hind-legs to

make room.  “No,” Grandfather said, “not out loud He

didn’t answer.  Usually I never got what I was asking Him

for, and saw the wisdom of it later.  The Lord is mostly like

a banker, son.  The biggest part of His job is turning down

fellows like me who are not good for a loan.”

My grandfather was a Protestant, we were Catholics.

Grandfather said he wasn’t anything but a poor little old

seeker.  I asked him why.

“Everybody else just seems to be panning for gold and

getting mostly gravel,” he said.  “I’m still looking for the

real mother-lode.”

“What does that mean?”

“You’ll know some day.”

My mother became a Catholic when she married father.

I heard her say that Grandmother was terribly upset about

it.  Grandfather hadn’t minded at all.

“If you’ve got a clean heart underneath your hide,” he

told Mother, “I’m sure you won’t put the Lord’s nose out

of joint by shopping around.”

When I asked my grandfather why he was still a seeker,

he told me that if the church was good enough for his father

to stay away from, it was good enough for him.  He told

me this in front of Mrs. Casey.  She said angrily that Grand-

father would never see the inside of the pearly gates.

This worried me greatly:  I wasn’t interested in going to

heaven at all if Grandfather wasn’t there.  I knew that if you

missed church on Sunday it was a mortal sin and you were

damned into hell fire forever.  Grandfather was over seventy,

so he’d missed over three thousand times.  I told him so.

He chuckled.  “I’m about as damned as you can get.  Unless

I confess my terrible sins.”

I followed him out into the barn-yard.

“You are getting pretty old, Grandfather.  Don’t you

think it’s about time you went to confession?”

He stopped sharpening the scythe on the emery wheel,

poured some more water on the stone, and then began to

pump and grind again.

“Son,” he said, “I’m afraid I’m a little too old to go up-

setting any nice young fellow like Father Hogan.”

I protested.  “Mrs. Casey says that no one is too old to

have their sins washed away.”

Grandfather nodded.  “Mrs. Casey would like to have

them all washed right through her kitchen so she could

look them over on the way.” Grandfather stood up, tried

the edge of the scythe on his thumb, then began cutting

away the quack-grass by the patch of sun-flowers.  “No,”

he told me, between strokes, “you’d better just let your old

grandfather go to his grave the black-hearted wretch that he

is.” Then he chuckled.  “But just between us two men, I’ll

bet that the Lord will look pretty close behind Mrs. Casey’s

ears.”

Mrs. Casey lived in the next block.  She was always

worrying about the sinful.  She kept lighting candles in

church in the hope that they would all reform.  Grandfather

said that if she lighted a candle for every soul she felt was

sinful, our town would be visible at night all the way to

Minneapolis.

Mrs. Casey was death on sinners, but especially on Pro-

testants and Jews.  She said they were all going to hell for

being heathen.  That’s why Ella and I were so upset the

summer Miss Schuster was going back to Superior.  She

was our second-grade teacher, and we loved her very much.

When we found that she was a Jewish Protestant we knew

she didn’t have a chance.

The night she left town on the bus Ella and I brought her

three oranges and an old magazine.  We wept over her so

copiously that Mother finally had to come and lead us home.

Miss Schuster was deeply touched by our sorrow at her

departure.

“Thank you for the gifts, children,” she said, smiling at

us lovingly.  “I’ll read the magazine on the way to Superior.”

Ella burst into tears.  “Oh,” she sobbed, “they’re not for

the bus.  They’re for when you’re in hell for being a

heathen!”

My keen interest in God was vastly increased when I

began to realize what a great amount of time He spent

bothering over one small boy, me.  “God won’t like you if

you do that, William,” Mother would say.  “Don’t eat the

apple in bed, William, God is watching.”  I could never

understand how God got the rest of His work done.  I asked

Father, but he told me to ask Father Hogan.  “That’s what

I pay my pew-rent for,” he said.  “Let him earn the money.”

Father Hogan told me to ask my father because he was an

upright, God-fearing man.  What Father Hogan didn’t know

was that my father was also a question-about-God-fearing

man.

One night I had exactly the same dream again.  Only this

time I was old enough to remember it clearly.  Father said

it was the four pickle sandwiches and the pint of straw-

berries I’d eaten, and refused to discuss it.  Mother said,

“Write it all down carefully, dear, then come and read it

to me.”

Before discussing a difficult or touchy subject, Mother

would frequently tell us children to go to our rooms and

write it all down very thoroughly so that we would have the

ideas clearly in our head.  This gave Mother another few

hours to get her work done.  Sometimes she would say,

“Try to put it all into poetry with a nice rhyme so that it

will be more beautiful before you read it to Mother.”

Mother understood children better than Father.  You

could take advantage of Father and get what you wanted if

you didn’t mind the volcano when his patience finally gave

out and he shouted, “Oh, all right!”  Mother would out-

guess you every time, and say “No” so lovingly that you

never gave her the kick on the shins you were tempted to.

However, I had lost a lot of confidence in Mother ever

since she had told me the lie about two years before.  She

warned me to behave, saying, “I have eyes in the back of my

head.”  I believed her, because no matter how quietly you

tiptoed into the pantry, Mother, without even turning

around from the sink, would say, “Keep out of the cookies,

William.”  She could be sewing furiously in a corner with

her back to the front door, making all kinds of noise, but if

you tried to sneak downstairs and outside she’d call to you,

“Don’t go out until you finish your homework, dear.”  I

decided that she must have eyes in the back of her head.  I

also decided to find out.  One afternoon when she was

taking a nap I crept quietly up to her with the scissors.

Gently I cut away some of the hair at the back of her head.

She didn’t have any eyes in the back of her head at all, but

she had some pretty amazing ones in the front of her head

when she woke up and saw me standing there holding her

hair in my hand.

She told Father about it.  “The child’s not normal,” she

said.

“Thanks for the scoop,” Father grunted.

Finally I finished writing everything down about my

dream and went downstairs and read it to her.  Before I

started, Father got up and left the room.  To this day, I

still have that long-ago record, in my child’s scrawl, of the

beautiful shiny white figure that came to me in the dream and

brought a peace and rapture such as words can never

describe.

“Who was he?” I asked.

“A friend maybe,” she said.  “Did you really see him, or

did you just think you did?”

“I saw him.”

“Were you asleep or awake?”

“Asleep.  Otherwise I would have asked him who he was.”

“What did he look like?”

“He was all pretty white and shiny and nice, and he

beckoned to me with his finger.”

“What else did he say,” she asked.

“He said, ‘I’m waiting for you.  Search for me.  Be like

Peter.  Fish.’”

I could tell that Mother was alarmed because she tried so

hard to be calm.  That very night, through the warm-air

ventilator in the floor, I watched Father and Mother at the

kitchen-table.  They thought I was asleep.

Mother said, “I’m really worried, Frank.  Perhaps you

were right.  Perhaps the dream does mean that he’s going to

be taken from us.”

This was news to me.  Then suddenly I realized to my

horror that Mother meant “taken” in the “really taken”

sense, like the time Great-Uncle Robert was “taken” in the

prime of his life.  That night I didn’t sleep at all.  If someone

was coming for me I wanted to be awake.

I felt sick to my stomach for several days.  I hardly spoke

to anyone and never went out to play.  I just sat in my room,

afraid.  I felt I should be at home when the visitor came.  I

did go out long enough to say goodbye to all my friends.

I took my first-baseman’s mitt over to Margie Kelly, whom

I liked a lot.  I gave it to her as a gift.

“It’s a going-away present,” I told her.

“Where are you going?” she asked, surprised.

I swallowed.  “I’m going into the great beyond.”  That

was what the cowboys always said in the movies at the

People’s Theatre, and I didn’t know anywhere else to go.

“Beyond where?” she asked.

“Just beyond.”

“Beyond Duluth even?”

I nodded.  “Way beyond.  And I won’t ever be coming

back.”

Margie seemed pleased.  “Then can I have your roller-

skates instead?”

I gave them to her.  I waited for two weeks and no one

came for me.  Finally, I took the roller-skates back.  I took

them right off Margie’s feet on the sidewalk one night.

“You’ve got a nerve,” I told her, “skating around while

my body’s still warm.”

I decided that I’d better go and tell my grandfather about

my dream and about being “taken”.  Maybe he could ex-

plain it.  I didn’t think it was God I’d seen.  He wasn’t big

enough, although he was nearly beautiful enough.

Grandfather was shovelling snow away from the barn

door when I arrived.  I didn’t waste any time.  I told him

about my dream.

“Did you ever see anything like that?” I asked him.

“No.  Wish I had.”

Grandfather started around the side of the barn through

the deep snow.  I followed in his tracks, taking big giant

steps.

“What are you doing?” he said.

“Following in your footsteps.”

Grandfather looked frightened.  “Well, get out of them.

They’re not fit to be followed in.  Make your own footsteps,

and make them fit to follow.”

“Do you think God could make footprints?” I asked.

Grandfather chuckled.  He said I reminded him of the

schoolboy who took his pencil and began to draw furiously.

The teacher asked him what he was drawing.  God, he

replied.  The teacher smiled and said, but no one knows

what God looks like.  The boy answered, “When I get

through with this they will.”  Grandfather went off into a

roar of laughter.  He liked his own jokes a lot more than

others did, and frequently laughed at them more than they

warranted.  When I was turning the corner of the barn to go

home he hit me in the back of the neck with a soft snow-

ball.

The only other person I told about my dream was Ella.

This was a mistake.  I think she was jealous, and from then

on she had all sorts of dreams and visions.

“Your man came to me in my sleep last night,” she boasted

proudly.

I was sceptical.  “What did he look like?”

“He was tall as a pine tree and had eyes like two big meat-

platters.”

I knew she was fibbing.  At breakfast she told everyone.

“William’s shiny man appeared to me last night.”

Father missed the piece of toast and buttered the palm of

his hand.

“That’s nice, dear,” Mother said.  “Write it all down care-

fully for us and read it at dinner.”

Ella was enthusiastic.  “He was tall and skinny and had a

long black coat, a tall black hat, a black beard, and very sad

eyes.”

My sister Frances nodded.  “And he kept saying over and

over, ‘Four score seven years ago our forefathers ...’”

Everyone knew that Ella wasn’t telling the truth.  I heard

Father tell Mother that he wished he knew whether I was

or not.

“This is one time,” he said, “when a big fat lie would be

greatly welcome and go unpunished.”

One Sunday I skipped church and took a chance on mortal

sin.  I went with Grandfather in his buggy down by the

Mississippi River.  There’d been a bad storm, and all the

people who lived along the flats had been flooded out.

Grandfather was helping to rescue their things.  We worked

until very late in the afternoon.  When we came back Grand-

father got a tongue-lashing from Grandma, and I was sent

upstairs to bed until Father came home to deal with me.

I knew right away that this wouldn’t be a “man-to-man”

talk, or a light willow switch, this was a razor-strapper.

Father swung his razor-strap as though he were chopping

wood, and sometimes he got lost in his work and didn’t

seem to know when a boy had already had more than he

needed to straighten him out.  What was even worse, was the

way he walked up the stairs.  His feet could play on those

stairs with more feeling than Mr. Tilley on the church organ

on Sunday.  Father’s footsteps on the stairs were always

much worse than the actual whipping.  In the mornings

after he had called us at least twice and we still hadn’t got

up he would run up a few stairs in a frightening manner.

“I’m coming up there after you,” he’d say.  “And if I do,

you’ll be sorry.”  Then he’d run up and down on one stair

and make it sound for all the world as though he had zoomed

right to the top.  I would zip out of bed like a shooting-star

and land right into my trousers.  One morning Father was

in particularly good form.  “If you’re not up in five minutes,”

he said, “I’ll come up and get you by the back of the neck!”

Ten minutes later he said, “Here I come!”  The sound on

the stairs was so awesome that I was proud of

I laughed and called to Ella, “That was a good one.  It

sounded just like Father came right up into the room.”  I

looked up.  “Good morning, Father.”

Now, after missing church, I was waiting in my room

again for “father’s feet of doom”.  They came.

“Let’s get it over with,” he said.

“Yes, sir.”

“This hurts me a lot worse than it does you.”

“But not in the same place.”

That got me a few extra strokes, but as soon as Father had

finished “beating on the kettle-drums”, as Ella always called

it, I went down to join Grandfather at the barn.  He was

sitting on the oats-box.

“Have a seat, son,” he said.

I shook my head.  “Not just yet.”

Grandfather nodded sympathetically.  “You’re thinking

that if you’d lied about where we’d been this afternoon

you’d have a more comfortable seat on your breeches right

now, right?”  I nodded.  Grandfather laughed.  “Better to

be miserable on the bottom end and proud of yourself on

the top end,” he told me.  “That’s character.  Forget your

rump.  You did a good thing helping those people at the

river.”

Grandfather looked quickly at the barn door as though

he’d seen Grandma’s shadow there, then he said, “Course

praying’s good, too.  But you can pray just as well by

working.  I don’t want you to think your old grandfather

doesn’t believe in praying, because I do.  But there’re

different ways.  Now, if I got down on my knees to do it the

Lord would say, ‘Mel Wagner, you old hypocrite.  Get up

off your knees and get those hogs butchered.  Let them knee-

pray that know how.  You get out and help those people

down by the river, you hear?’”

“Did God really tell you that?” I asked him.

“He could have.”

Grandfather got me a soft cushion out of the buggy.  I

settled into it very carefully.  I liked being with Grand-

father.  I liked the smell of his clothes, his wrinkled cheeks

with those short, sharp whiskers that scratched when he

hugged me.  Inside the barn was a world that belonged only

to me and Grandfather.  I loved every minute of it, the

aroma of dry clover and alfalfa when Grandfather forked

the hay down into the mangers; the dust that tickled the

throat; the sweet-sour smell of the harness; the way the

horses pricked up their ears, whinnied, and became restless

whenever we rattled the oats-bin cover; the friendly shove

that fat old Prince gave me when I rubbed his satin-soft

nose with my cheek; the times I would pat his neck and

then watch the shafts of sunlight coming through the cracks

in the barn wall making miniature spotlights whose rays

were alive with bits of dancing dust.

Before I went home that night Grandfather gave me a

grizzly-bear hug and whisker-rub.  “Never stop:  asking

questions,” he told me.  Then he made me promise, cross

my heart and hope to die, that I wouldn’t stop.  “That’s

how you learn,” he said.  “After you get older, you quit

asking and you just accept; and what you accept usually

isn’t so very good, after all.  That’s what’s the matter with

the world, son.  Keep asking.  There must be something

better somewhere than what we’ve got so far.  Some day

you’ll find out what your dream means.  I hope I’m around

when you do.  I’ve been looking for something myself, for

over seventy years.”

Father’s finger came in the barn-door at this moment,

beckoning to me, thus ending our consultation.

CHAPTER 4

THERE’LL BE PIE IN THE SKY WHEN

WE DIE

The next morning when I got up from the breakfast-

table Father called me back.

“Where do you think you’re going?”

“Down to Grandfather’s.”

Father’s voice was very stern.  “Take your cap off.

You’re staying home.”

“But Grandfather is bringing some sheep home, and he

said I could hold the lambs.”

“You stay home, and that’s final.”

“Why?”

“Because I said so, that’s why.”

I didn’t see Grandfather for a whole week.  It was all my

own fault, too.  I shouldn’t have told Mother and Father

about my conversation with Grandfather on the Sunday

afternoon we drove back from the flooded river.  I had

counted seven churches on the way, and asked Grandfather

how God was able to visit all of them every Sunday morning

at the same time.

“Easy,” he said.  “God is like the air.  It’s everywhere at

the same time.  You breathe it up here in the buggy, and the

team of sorrels breathe it out there at the end of the buggy-

tongue.”

“Does God stay longer in some of the churches, Grand-

father, or like them better?”

Grandfather thought about it a while.  “I guess not,” he

said.  “I don’t expect God sees any reason to play favourites.

To you and me, son, that daisy there is yellow and white and

those cornflowers are blue, so they’re different.  But to God

they’re all just flowers, and as long as they’re growing right

and staying beautiful, He’s not going to stick His nose in

and complain or take sides.  God’s big.  It’s only His

creatures that make Him small.”

When I told Father at the dinner-table that Grandfather

said some of the churches were dandelions and some were

hollyhocks he thought it was very amusing.  Then I told

him that Grandfather said that God was very good and

generous and that He didn’t care a hang about what church

a man went to as long as he loved God and his fellow men.

Father’s eyes became chilly.  “Just what kind of a God is

it that your Grandfather tells you about?”

“He’s not far off and scary like in church,” I said.  “I hear

Grandfather talking to Him sometimes.  When he comes

down to the barn in the morning Grandfather says to Him,

‘Good morning!  I see you looked after the horses during

the night.  Much obliged, sir.  Now, if you’d like to get a

little nap yourself, I’ll look after them for the rest of the

day’”

I was sent upstairs to bed without my dinner.  Father

insisted that Grandfather was a bad influence on me, so we

weren’t permitted to see each other for a whole week.

When it was chore-time at sundown I would slip out of my

bedroom window, crawl along the wood-shed roof, and

shinny down the maple tree.  Mother made me promise that

I wouldn’t go to see Grandfather and that I wouldn’t speak

to him, but she didn’t say that I couldn’t walk by the barn

and look at him.  I stood by the fence and looked through

the boards of the hay-rack while Grandfather was leading

the horses up to water.  When fat old Prince walked by he

was so close I could almost touch him.  Prince whinnied and

stuck his nose out towards me.  Grandfather’s eyes were

looking right into mine, but he jerked Prince up by the

halter.

“Get along,” he ordered.  “Get on up to the water-trough.

There’s nothing there under the hay-rack.”

Then I knew that Grandfather must have had instructions

not to talk to me either.  When the horses were all watered

and led back to the barn I walked down by the Mississippi

bridge.  I sat looking at the water until the sun went down.

I watched logs from Swanson’s lumber-mill float down the

river.  I made believe they were great ships and that Grand-

father was the captain of the biggest one, with me as his first

mate, and we were on our way to New Orleans to search for

secret treasure.  The sun had turned into a big glowing

pumpkin and was staining the river into orange-juice.

I heard a horse and buggy coming across the bridge.  It

was Grandfather and Prince.  I kept my promise to Mother

by sliding over the edge of the bridge and hiding under-

neath.  Grandfather stopped the buggy right above me.

“Anybody there?” he called.  I didn’t answer.  Pretty

soon I heard him say, “Clllkkk! Clllkkk! Giddap, Prince!”

and the buggy rattled away.

The next morning I heard Grandfather’s buggy going by

the house and I ran to the window.  I saw him wave to me,

and I waved back.  He was driving a new team of dapple

greys, and I knew he just wanted me to see how fine they

were.  That night I borrowed a piece of paper and a pencil

from Mother and began to write Grandfather a letter.  It

was hard to think of what to say.  I started out:  “Dear

Grandfather, I sure wish I could come down to your house

to play ...”

That’s when I fell asleep.  Mother came to tuck me in.

I awoke and saw her reading my letter.  There were tears in

her eyes.  I made believe I was asleep.  Mother tucked me in

twice and hugged me very hard.  She kissed me goodnight

and took my letter downstairs.  I scrambled out of bed and

put my eyeballs down to the warm-air ventilator.  Mother

showed Father the letter.  Father went to the telephone and

rang two longs and two shorts.  That was Grandfather’s

ring.  I slipped back into bed.  I couldn’t keep my ears open

any longer to listen.  They were tired, too, and closed with

my eyes.

The next morning I was told by Mother that it was all

right to go over to Grandfather’s house again.  Somebody

must have told Grandfather that it was all right for him to

come to my house, too, because as soon as I ran out of the

front door I saw Grandfather’s buggy coming up the road

with fat old Prince and Beauty hitched together.  They were

kicking up happy little puffs of dust.

“Whoa!” Grandfather called, louder than he had to.  He

held out his hand to me.  “I’ve got to look at a sick mare out

by Tamarack Swamp.  Can you spare the time?”

“Guess I can make her,” I told him.

I got up beside him.  Grandfather handed me the reins.

“Get up, Prince!  Beauty!” I cried.

Grandfather slapped me on the knee, rubbed my cheek

with his whiskers and laughed out loud.

“Here’s the way she lies, son,” he told me.  “I can talk to

you about God as much as you want, but we’ve got to

leave the churches out of it.”

We drove on past the old, abandoned Soo Line railway

station before Grandfather spoke again.  Finally, he said,

“I guess the only thing for you to do, son, is to read the

Good Book yourself.  See what you make of it.”  He

squeezed me against him.  “But don’t you quit asking ques-

tions and searching for what’s in your heart, you hear?  Or

your dream will never come true.”

Grandfather made me stop the buggy.  He crawled down

and, hopping along on his canes, he scooted across the road

and up over the split-rail fence.  He disappeared from sight.

I was about to go after him when he came popping up into

view again and hurried back to the buggy.  He had his hat

in his hand and it was full of nice, big, red strawberries.  We

ate them with great relish as we rode along the old river-

road.  Grandfather spat the stems out on to Beauty’s back-

side, and she made funny quick wrinkles that twitched, as

she did when flies landed on her.  Her tail came back and

nearly caught Grandfather in the face.  He laughed very

loud.  He passed me the hat of berries again.

“Sam Krieger’s sons have been stealing water-melons

from my patch for years, it’s only right that I should even

it up with a few strawberries.”

Then Grandfather told me a story.  Once upon a time, he

said, there was a little boy.  With all his family and friends

he was lost in the valley of darkness.  Then, quite by acci-

dent, he found a flashlight.  When he switched on the light

of the torch everybody in the dark valley saw it and came

hurrying towards it.  With his light, the little boy began to

lead the people out of the valley of darkness and up the

path of the mountainside.  First a hundred followed him,

then a thousand, then tens of thousands.  Every time he

looked back there were more people behind him.  The more

people he saw, the more pleased he became with himself and

with the fine work he was doing.  He kept looking back

more frequently to see how many he was leading out of the

darkness.  How proud he was that so many people were

following him.  He stumbled and dropped the torch, which

was scooped up by someone behind him.  The crowd

trampled over him and left him behind in the dust as they

swept on up the hill.  They had not been following him at

all.  It was the light they were following, and without it he

was left in the darkness.

“The world is like that, son,” Grandfather said.  ‘It’s a

valley of darkness.  If you find the light, never stumble or

let it go, and always remember that you’re not very much

by yourself without the light.  We’re all like balloons, and

the spirit that shines in each of us is like the air in the

balloon.  Unless the balloon is filled with the spirit, it’s a

shrivelled and useless thing.”

As we crossed the Ripple River and turned on to Tama-

rack Road two dogs came running out of Jim Peterson’s

farmyard and barked at the horses.  Grandfather leaned

down and barked back at them.  The dogs were so surprised

that they stopped in the middle of the road, turned, and

trotted home.

A flock of sparrows fluttered up from the centre of the

road as Prince and Beauty approached, and fled for shelter

in the big oaks by the saw-mill.  A herd of Holstein cattle

was drinking lazily along the river bank.  The big yellow

sun kept following us right down the middle of the road.

The horses’ hoofs padded along in the soft road, and the

harness jingled in rhythm with Grandfather’s voice as he

entertained the countryside:

“There’ll be pie in the sky when we die,

When we die there’ll be pie in the sky ...”

CHAPTER 5

THE GOOD BOOK AND THE BAD BOY

I took grandfather’s advice and started to read the

Bible.  I found it very difficult for a young man, and was

just about to give up in favour of Nick Carter, Master

Detective, when I was told that no one was encouraged to

read the Bible for himself.  From that moment on, it became

a “must”.  I kept skipping through the chapters looking for

the shiny white man in my dream.  When Father heard that

I was reading both the Old and the New Testaments he

became quite alarmed.

“I don’t want the boy to be a religious fanatic,” he told

Mother.  “At least not until he gets older.  I’ve had enough

dreams.”

Whenever Father saw me reading the Bible he’d take it

away from me.  He hid our two copies, so I borrowed one

from Saphead Phillips.  He had a hard time finding it up in

his attic; no one had looked at it since his grandfather’s first

communion.

I began reading at night in bed.  Father didn’t approve.  He

said that night-time was the time for young men to sleep.  I’d

say, “Yes, Father.”  With my lips I said that.  With my inner

self I said, “Unless you can catch me, Father, I’m finishing

Pharaoh and his chariots swallowed up in the Red Sea to-

night ... in bed.”  That was the beginning of the great re-

ligious feud between me and Father.  I think that if everyone

hadn’t made such a mystery about God I’d have given up at

Genesis, but Father tried so hard to keep me from reading

that I felt there must be something good in there.

He would open my bedroom door, say, “Time to sleep,

son,” reach in and click off my light, leaving me trapped

with Aaron and the golden calf.  Naturally I didn’t like

this state of affairs, so I would tiptoe out of bed, saying to

myself, “Time to read, Father,” and click on the light

again.

Later, Father would stick his head out of his bedroom and

see the light through my keyhole.  In the still of the night,

he would unleash his son-frightening foghorn:  “William!”

I would crawl nearly right up the wall.  I’d whip out of bed,

switch off the light, and whisk back under the covers:

Whooosh!  Click!  Whssst!  “Did you call me, Father?”

Father did.  He called me a lot of interesting things.

That’s when I began to hang the blanket over the door so

that the light wouldn’t shine through the keyhole or cracks.

This gave me four wonderful nights of “no father”.  It

carried me right up to Noah and the Ark.  The Ark was just

settling down on Mount Ararat with creaking wooden

noises when I realized that the noise was out in the hall.

Father!  He was coming down the passageway on tiptoe in

his stockinged feet.

I knew because he stepped on the board I’d loosened in

the hall, and it creaked.  It creaked my hair right up on end

and had the weird effect of shooting me out of bed like a

bullet to whip the blanket off the door, click off the light,

and zip back into bed:  Whoooosh!  Wheeeep!  Click!

Whsssst!

Father opened the door quietly.  He called softly,

“William?”  No one answered.  Father closed the door and

went off to his room making “Father noises”.

The next day I took the inside out of my mathematics

book and fitted it over the copy of the Bible.  It fitted per-

fectly with a little squeezing.  Father was quite surprised

and pleased that night when he walked into my bedroom and

saw me studying mathematics.  He let me keep the light on

for half-an-hour extra.  He thought I’d turned over a new

leaf.  I had:  to the chapter about Nebuchadnezzar in the

land of Babylon.  After several nights Father became

suspicious.  I had never studied school work this earnestly

before.

“Don’t you ever write any of the arithmetic problems

down, son?”

“No,” I told him.  “I work them out in my head.”

I realized then that I should have used the cover from my

history book.  Father knew I hadn’t the head for mathe-

matics.  He came towards the bed.

“Let me help you with some of the sums,” he offered.

I felt as though someone had unscrewed my foot and

emptied me out.  I shoved the book frantically under my

pillow and cried out, “No, Father, I must do this work all

by myself.”

Father’s eyes chased mine all round the room before he

caught them.  I was sure that his looked right through my

head, through the pillow, through my mathematics book

cover to “Daniel in the lion’s den”.  Father didn’t say any-

thing, but he looked something.  It was his:  You’ll-pay-for-

this-later-look.  He gave me the old icy-eyes again and went

back to bed.

When I came out of the bathroom the next morning I

found that my mathematics-Bible was gone from its hiding-

place under my pillow.  I said to myself, “Now who could

have taken that:  don’t you wish you didn’t know.”  When I

sat down to breakfast I saw that Father was reading it.  He

lowered the book, looked into my eyes, and spoiled my

bacon and eggs.

“Mathematics,” he observed coldly, “has changed since

I was a boy.”

“Is that so?” I said, very interested, and hoping that it

really had and that I was foolishly mistaken in thinking that

the roof was going to fall on me at any minute.  It fell.

“Take this interesting problem in long division,” he said,

pointing to the book.  “Right here in Ezekiel, chapter

thirty-eight, verses twenty-one and twenty-two.”  Father

read out loud:  “Every man’s sword shall be raised against

his brother ... with pestilence and blood ... I will rain

upon him, and upon his bands ... great hailstones, fire, and

brimstone.”  Father looked up.  “Isn’t that just a little

bloodthirsty?”

“That’s nothing,” I told him enthusiastically.  “Boy, wait

until you get to the next chapter.  It takes them seven

months to bury the dead—corpses everywhere!”

I looked into my father’s face and lost interest in life.

Father said this wasn’t a razor-strapper, but that it did

require some punishment.  He asked me what I suggested.

I suggested that we forget the whole thing and start afresh.

He said all right, but just so that I would remember he’d

give me a few chores to do:  chop firewood for a week, clean

the cellar, clean the garage, wash all the windows, and clean

the attic.

“If I know your rate of speed,” he said, “that should keep

you busy for a month.”

However, I had to play in a baseball game the next day,

so I did them all that one afternoon.  Father was astounded.

He told Mother that he thought perhaps at last I had learned

something.  I had.  I’d learned it while I was cleaning the

attic.  I’d learned that I could run a long extension cord with

a socket on it right down into my bedroom from the attic.

This meant I could read in bed with a second spare or

emergency light when Father blew “taps” on mine.

I wasn’t taking any chance on this light being discovered,

so I ran the cord along the pipes, down the wall, and took it

right into bed with me.  Mother thought I’d reformed also,

I heard her tell Father, “Something wonderful has happened.

William is making his own bed each day.”

At night I would make a nice little tent out of the bed-

covers, then take the electric light right under the sheets

and blankets.  Inside my tepee I could read to my heart’s

content.  Father couldn’t see the light even if he came right

into the room, which he did nightly.  I read all through

Nahum and the prophecies about the “last days” when the

vehicles would run as fast as automobiles and would have

headlights and traffic would be so heavy the cars would

jostle each other in the streets, just like Main Street when

they had a band-concert.  It was exciting and scary.

One night I dipped into the New Testament, and the first

words that hit my eye were:  “... and his face did shine as

the sun, and his raiment was white as the light”.

It was my shiny man!  I let out a yell, straightened up in

bed, and jerked the extension cord so hard it caused a short-

circuit and burned out every light in the house.  I hid the

cord and went out into the hall to help Father, who was

trying to find out what on earth could have happened.

I could hardly wait until the next night to get back to

my reading.  I pored over the words.  The more I read, the

more certain I was that what I’d seen in my dream was

the Messiah.  It was Christ.  He’d returned and was wait-

ing for me somewhere.  I was positive when I read the

words:

“I go away but return again.”

“You shall see the Son of Man coming in the glory of the

Father.”

“When He, the Spirit of Truth, is come, He will lead you

to all Truth.”

Boy, this was the stuff!

I knew if I could get in touch with the Spirit of Truth he’d

lead me to the answer to my dream.  The very next morning

at breakfast I said to Father, “Where can I find the Spirit of

Truth?”

Father put down his morning paper.  “Well,” he said,

“I thought for a while that Theodore Roosevelt might have

it, or even Taft, but I’m convinced now that all politicians

are as crooked as the banks of the Mississippi.  If there’s

truth in any of them it might be in this Woodrow Wilson.”

“I mean the Spirit of Truth in the Bible,” I explained.

“Did you call me, Ethel?” Father cried, leaving two per-

fectly good eggs on his plate, which I ate.

I read inside my tent in great peace and security for a

whole week.  I kept searching through the Bible for more

about the shiny white figure.  Then came the night of the

big explosion.  It was a Monday.  I remember because my

teacher, Miss Poppenburg, kept me after school and made

me write on the blackboard two hundred times:  “I will not

come to school with live frogs in my pocket.”

I had just turned back to David and Goliath.  It was a

great fight, and I was so interested in the under-dog that I

didn’t hear Father slip quietly into the room and come

alongside my bed.  Normally, every time Father stepped on

the loose board in the hallway I just switched the light off.

But Father had done a very unfair thing.  He had nailed

down the loose board, so I wouldn’t hear a thing as he

sneaked to my room.

I was so worried about David missing Goliath with the

sling-shot that I didn’t hear Father approach the edge of the

bed.  Father had looked into my room and wondered what

was the funny glow coming from beneath the blankets.  I’d

been careless.  So Father slowly lifted one end of the blankets

and peered in at me.  David was just getting ready to let fly

at the giant Goliath.  Naturally, I didn’t know it was

Father’s face.  I didn’t expect to see him there.  I wasn’t

even looking at him when he said, “Well?”  His eyes looked

so fierce I thought it was Goliath.  I threw the book in the

air, screamed at the same time, and like David I fired my

sling-shot.  I swung the extension cord and hit Father right

between the eyes with a sixty-watt bulb.

It made a very loud explosion.  Father shouted, grabbed

for me, held on to the bedclothes, and pulled them on top of

himself as he fell to the floor.

Ella was first on the scene.  She heard the explosion and

rushed in.  She began dancing round in the doorway

hysterically.

“He’s shot him!  He’s shot him!  Father’s shot William

dead!”

Mother came racing down the hall.  She turned the bed-

room light on and saw me cringing against the wall on the

far side of the bed.  Father was still trying to fight his way

out of the blankets.  The next few minutes were quite

painful.  Especially when Mother uncovered Father and he

began to crawl across the floor towards me.  Father accused

me of deliberately trying to blind him.

“I thought you were Goliath,” I said.

His eyes looked like the yclops’.  Mother cooled him

down, and she and Ella helped him to pick the glass frag-

ments out of his hair and eyebrows.

“I just wanted to learn what was in the Bible,” I told

Mother, trying to line her up on my side.

“Then go and ask Father Hogan,” Father shouted.

“That’s what I pay my pew-rent for.  Let him earn the

money.”

“Someday I’m going to go all over the world and tell

people about God.  How can I do that if I don’t study?”

“Study during the daytime, dear,” Mother suggested.

“It’ll build up your health and it’ll keep the light bill down.”

Father told Mother that he was prepared right then to pay

for my going around the world if I’d start in the morning.

Then he made me promise solemnly on my word of honour,

cross my heart, and hope to lose my new football if I didn’t,

that I would never, as long as I wished to remain a son of

his, eat his food, and live beneath his roof, turn on the

electric light to read in bed again, ever, ever:  I accepted his

terms.

Ella was disappointed.  “I thought he’d shot him,” she

said.

Father made me promise twice more before he left.  Then

to show his faith in me he dismantled the extension cord to

the attic and went downstairs and took the fuse out of the

fuse-box.  He also put a padlock on it.

The light in my room was on the same fuse as the one in

the kitchen, so when company came over the next night to

play cards and eat sandwiches, Father had to go down and

take the padlock off.  Only he’d lost the key.  So he borrowed

a hack-saw from Saphead Phillips’s father and went down

and sawed the padlock off.

The noise was quite grating and unpleasant.  That’s what

everybody said.  I didn’t know.  I was busy keeping my

promise to Father not to turn on the electric light to read

in bed again, ever.  I couldn’t hear the sawing, because I’d

gone to bed to read about my “shiny man”.  I was under

the covers reading by the light of Father’s flash-light.

CHAPTER 6

COME ALL YE BANDITS!

We moved to Crosby, Minnesota, a few years later.  Grand-

father didn’t want us to go.  He said Crosby was so small

you had to stand the celery on end to keep it inside the city

limits.

By Christmas-time we were all pretty lonesome.  Father

said it was altogether too expensive to think of taking a

family of six all the way back to Grandfather’s.  Mother

agreed with everything he said, but kept right on packing

our suit-cases.  Father finally put his foot down, but he put

it down on the platform of the Northern Pacific Railway on

the way to Grandfather’s.

Grandfather took me shopping the very day we arrived.

It had been snowing for two days, and I knew it was going

to be a wonderful white Christmas.  We went down town

in the one-horse sleigh, with Beauty breathing steam out of

her nostrils like two geysers.  Grandfather was as plump as a

Macintosh apple, and his cheeks were almost as red.  His

face was full of happy wrinkles that bent every which way

when he laughed.  Uncle Cliff said that Grandfather was an

airplane motor built into a bicycle.  I always had the feeling

that Grandfather got up while it was still dark and prodded

the sun up with a pitchfork.  He loved to sing at the top of

his voice as he drove the horse and buggy or sleigh over the

sidewalk alongside the kitchen door so that I could unload

the groceries through the window without getting out.  If

the Ladies’ Aid was meeting he sang particularly loudly.

He liked to shock them.

Grandfather was just one side of seventy, but if you

asked him which side, he’d tell you it was none of your

business.  “Besides,” he told me confidentially, “by get-

ting up before the sun, enjoying every moment of the

day, working hard until night, and then going to bed

when everybody else runs out of oats I’ve really lived not

seventy years, but a hundred and forty.  So that’s how old

I am.”

Grandfather’s heart had been bad ever since he was

twenty.  Whenever he ladled on an extra thick helping of

rich gravy Grandma would say, “Remember what the

doctor told you about your heart, Mel.”

Grandfather would scoff and defiantly take another spoon-

ful.  “Doctors!  I’ve buried three already, and I’ll get this

new young squirt, too.”

If anyone frowned at him while he was helping himself to

another pork chop he’d chuckle and say, “No use scowling.

I eat what I like.  If I’m going, I’m going, but I’m not going

hungry.”

Grandfather turned to me and said, “Son, don’t have

anything to do with doctors unless you’re unconscious.  All

they ever think of is cut, cut, cut.”

“Yes, Grandfather.”

“I’ve still got everything the good Lord gave me, but

there hasn’t been one of them that didn’t try to get it away

from me with a knife.”

“Eat your dinner, Mel,” Grandma urged.  She had been

operated on four times, and gloried in it.

“Don’t change the subject, Bess,” Grandfather said.

“You’ve already had more knives in you than a silverware

drawer, and every blasted thing they took out was as good

as new.”

“That’s enough!”

“Doctors!” Grandfather muttered quietly under his

breath.  “You’re not born more than a week when they’ve

got out their knives to cut off the end of your____”

“Mel!”

“It’s a fact.  And if I’d been able to talk they’d never have

gotten it.”

Sometimes Grandfather would play cribbage with me.

He cheated.  He said it was because I was such a good

player he had to even it up.  Sometimes he would take out

his picture album and show me the race-horses in it.  This

was the part I liked best about going to Grandfather’s.  He

had just purchased two new racers, a sleek, black pacer

named Tropical and a big sorrel trotter, Dakar.

“That Dakar could have made Dan Patch travel,” he

told me.

Grandfather raced his own horses in the Minnesota Fairs

each year.  I used to go with him.  The most exciting year of

all was when he won the gold medal with Dakar.  “Not to

mention the money,” he told me.  The track officials told

Grandfather every year that he was too old to drive a sulky

in the races.  They suggested that he let his son Clifford race

the colt.  Uncle Cliff was thirty-five.  Grandfather said,

“No young punk of a kid is going to race my horses.  They

need an experienced hand.”

The stewards gave in reluctantly, but warned Grand-

father that it was the last year he could race, for his own

good; he was too old.  When Grandfather drove Dakar past

the stands towards the starting-gate the crowd let out a

wonderful roar.  Some of them laughed.  “How do you like

that?” they said.  “Rip Van Winkle is back again this year!”

Grandfather looked wonderful in his green-and-white

silks.  You’d never know he had had to leave his crutches

against the fence and be helped into the sulky.  He had

Dakar in wonderful condition, but a few days before the

races he stopped currying and preening Dakar and never

took care of his appearance at all.  Dakar looked very

seedy.  The worse he looked, the louder Grandfather

laughed.

“Poor old Sam Clark,” he said.  “This miserable-looking

sorrel is going to wave his tail in Sam’s face all afternoon.”

Someone in the crowd yelled at Grandfather as he went

past the stands.  “Where did you get that oats-burner, Mel?

He looks like he’s already run the race!”  Grandfather waved

back cheerfully.

Dakar won the first heat by a nose from Sam Clark’s

Whirlwind.

“I held him in,” Grandfather told me.  “Sam was feeling

me out.  He knows he could have won if he’d tried, but

what he doesn’t know is that I wasn’t trying.  When he

takes the next heat he’ll be counting the money already.”

Grandfather went off into one of his asthmatic gales of

laughter, and kissed Dakar on the nose.

Grandfather told me that if I wanted to watch a seventy-

year-old possum at work to keep my eye on him during the

second heat.  I did.  Grandfather started out in front of the

field.  Joe Casey’s Meteor came up alongside.  Mayor

Fletcher’s horse Little Lady was third, with Sam Clark’s

Whirlwind beginning to make a move on the outside.

Whirlwind came up alongside of Dakar at the half-way post,

and it looked for all the world as though Grandfather was

coaxing every last ounce out of the sorrel, but Sam Clark

went by the post to win by a neck.

He gave Grandfather a big, patronizing grin as he came

by him after turning around at the bend.  “I let you have

the first one, Wagner, out of the kindness of my heart for

your white hair, but from now on you’d better crawl back

into the woodwork at that barn of yours and get what you

can for that nag at Elmer’s butcher shop.”

Grandfather looked just angry enough to make him have

poor judgement.  “Sam,” he said, “you wouldn’t just like

to bet your little team of blacks on the next heat, would

you?”

“Done,” said Sam, “and anything else you can name.”

“How about that new buggy with the gold trim?”

“Fine.”

“And those fifty stacks of hay out in the Cedar Lake

pasture.”

“Suits me.  Against whatever someone we both trust says

they’re worth in cash.”

Grandfather shook his head.  “We couldn’t find someone

we’d both trust, Sam.  I’ll take your word for it.”

One of the officials overheard the conversation.  “You

are getting old, Mel,” he said.

Grandfather gave me a big wink as he went by me on the

way up to the gate for the third and final heat.  There were

only two horses now:  Dakar and Whirlwind.  Whirlwind

got away first and increased his lead.  I began to worry.  I

hoped Grandfather wouldn’t try to show off too much and

misjudge the distance.  As Sam Clark increased his lead, he

turned and waved at Grandfather with an insulting grin.

They were coming into the head of the stretch when

Grandfather let out that wonderful yell of his:  “Go!”

Dakar went.  His ears flattened back and something

wonderful happened, he came up and passed Whirlwind as if

Whirlwind were the rifle-barrel and Dakar the bullet going

out of it.  Dakar won easily.  He was three lengths out in

front as he passed the judges’ stand.  Grandfather turned in

the sulky and shook his fist up at the stewards.

“How do you like that, you middle-aged experts?”

Dakar got a beautiful wreath of flowers.  Grandfather

got a gold medal, first prize-money, and a talking to from

the officials.  They said he couldn’t race again.

Grandfather showed me the medal.  “May be the last one

I ever get,” he said.  “But it’s the one I’m most proud of,

and I’ll never let go of it.”

When Grandfather drove off the track the crowd gave him

a thundering ovation.  We unhitched and went over to the

ice-cream stand and had two big strawberry sundaes on Sam

Clark.

My whole life with Grandfather was full of exciting

memories.  Some good and a lot bad.  If you spent more

than a week with him you usually had a wonderful time,

broke a bone or two, suffered constant stomach aches, and

wondered if he really was as old as everybody said.  The day

we went Christmas shopping he made me feel as though

going up town with me was the most exciting thing he’d

done in years.

“Look at those snowflakes, boy,” he told me.  “Smell

that winter air.  Get all of it you can.”

Then Grandfather inhaled with such vigour that the tips

of his white moustache would bend up against his nose.

When he’d had enough air he’d whack me on the back

boisterously, thus relieving me of all I had stored up.

“Your old grandfather’s sure glad you’re here with him

for Christmas.  Let’s make the most of it!”

Then he tickled Beauty under the tail with the buggy whip

and she took off like a jumping frog, throwing me into the

back of the buggy.  We sang two-part harmony to “pie in

the sky” until Grandfather became upset.  It was the signs

in the shop windows.  He didn’t like the signs that said:

Xmas.

“X marks the spot where they’ve taken Christ out of

Christmas,” he grumbled.  He didn’t like the prices either.

He claimed that the more mellow and tender the public

became, the higher the prices went.  He didn’t like the

Christmas carols blaring out from the phonographs.  “They

should change the words of the carol to ‘Come all ye

bandits’,” he said.  “I’m as religious-minded as the next

fellow, but I don’t like to be clubbed over the head on the

street with the little town of Bethlehem at twice the price

I paid last month.”

What the world needed, Grandfather said, was fifty weeks

of real Christmas spirit and two weeks of the other.  “Look

at the sickly smile on Mayor Fletcher’s face,” he said.

“On the second of January his heart will be as cold as the

District Attorney’s eyes.”

“Why is that?” I asked him.  “Why are people good for

only such a short time.  Couldn’t they be nice all year?”

The Christmas carols faded into the distance as Beauty

turned into the soft, unmarked snow of Maple Street.

Grandfather gave me a hug.

“That’s the way people are, son,” he explained.  “When

their hearts are turned to the material things of this world

they’re dark.  There’s no light in their faces.  But when they

turn towards God and forget the things of the earth they

become bright and shiny inside.  At Christmas-time they’ve

turned more towards God and His Messenger Christ than

at any other time during the year, so there’s a new spirit in

the world, and it’s a nice place to live in for a while.”

I looked up at Grandfather admiringly.  “You should have

been a priest or a minister.”

Grandfather pat a finger over my lips.  He chuckled.

“Careful,” he warned.  “We only talk about God.  Keep

the churches out of it.”

CHAPTER 7

ICE-SKATING IN THE KITCHEN

We stayed at Grandfather’s for five extra days because of

the snowstorm.  It didn’t stop for a week.  Grandfather

said it was worse than the blizzard of ‘88.  In the middle of

the snowstorm Mother suddenly informed us that she’d

forgotten to shut off the water before we left home.  Father

laughed strangely.  There was something in the tone of his

voice that made me and my three sisters stop our discussion

about how funny Santa Claus had looked coming into the

living-room on crutches just like Grandfather’s.

“I asked you at the railway station if you’d turned the

water off,” Father said softly.  “You said you thought you

had.”

“I did think so then,” Mother answered nonchalantly.

“Now I don’t think so.”

We arrived home after dark.  The wind was still blowing

snow along the street.  We had to walk nine blocks from the

railway station, and Father was feeling rather cross.

I hid my hand inside my coat collar and walked off the

sidewalk into a snowbank.  “Frank,” Mother called.

“William’s fallen into a snowdrift.”

Father never turned back.  He called over his shoulder,

“I hope they find the body in the spring.”

‘We were all pretty tired and on edge when we opened the

front door.  Our kitchen floor was one step down from the

living-room.  At least it always had been.  Now, however,

it was up level with the living-room.  Mother’s second

think had been right:  she hadn’t shut off the water.  The

pipes had burst and had flooded the kitchen, and the water

had frozen solid up to the level of the door.

None of us knew that our kitchen was a municipal skating-

rink as we entered.  It was too dark to see.  Mother up-

ended first.  She skidded under the kitchen-table.  Father had

just snapped the light on when he began to slip.  He ran

several steps in one place before going head first into the

stove; he smacked his head on the iron leg.  My three sisters

were all screaming in different keys.  Marie and Frances

floated off in the same direction as Mother and joined her

under the table, where they looked like three Eskimos

peeking out of an igloo.  Ella grabbed the kitchen curtains

and pulled them down with her as she began to spin to the

middle of the floor.  I was the last one in.  I was carrying a

box with the glass jars of peach preserves that Grandmother

had given us.

“Where is everybody?” I asked as I stepped down into

the kitchen.  Only there was no “down”.  I found out

immediately where everybody was.  The box of jars went

into the air first, but we came down together.  When we

landed we had plenty of peach preserves but no glass jars.

I went sailing by Mother, my sisters, and Father, until I

bumped into the far wall.

No one was injured seriously, but everyone was indignant.

Mother burst into tears.  She had scrubbed the floor on her

hands and knees the day we left.  “My floor!” she wept, “my

beautiful floor!”

“For heaven’s sake,” Father called from under the stove,

“turn off the water-works or you’ll flood the place all over

again.”

We gathered up the broken glass and began to sweep the

floor, making a lovely sandwich-spread of peaches all over

the ice.  Father went out to the woodshed to get the axe to

chop the ice away.  He left the back door open.  Poor

Mother, who came back from the living-room too quickly,

started to skid along the ice, heading right for the open

door.  She cried out for help, but no one could move

rapidly enough to aid her.  She had a brave little smile on her

face and her fingers seemed to be twitching a nervous good-

bye as she glided over the ice firmly and inevitably out of

the house and into the night.

“We should at least have said goodbye,” I told Ella.

Ella reached the door first.  We heard Mother sob as she

landed.  Ella exclaimed happily, “Mother’s made a beautiful

angel in the snow!”

I was the first one to put on skates and practise a few

whirls on our kitchen rink.  Marie joined me and, with our

dog Sport as a bloodhound, we played Uncle Tom’s Cabin

with Liza crossing the ice.

Father put a stop to it by threatening us with the blade of

the axe.  Mother wanted him to chop out around the stove

first so that she could start supper.  He wanted to chop out

his best shoes, which he’d left by the kitchen-table.  As I

went upstairs to bed I noticed that the new linoleum had

not been put down.  It was still rolled up against the wall in

the living-room.  I had the big hollow cardboard tube in

which it had come; I kept it in my room and used it for my

experiments in summoning spirits.  I’d been using it to

frighten Ella.  One day I took off the warm-air ventilator

which connected our two rooms.  I placed the long tube

under my bed and pushed it through the opening until it

was under Ella’s bed.  Then when she would say her prayers

I would talk to her in an eerie, far-off voice.  She never

knew where the voices were coming from.

That very night I crawled under the bed and waited for

Ella to go into her room.  When she kneeled down to say

her prayers I called softly through the long tube in a high

sing-song voice:

“Ella Sears!  Ella Sears!  Can you hear me?”

She could.  She stopped dead in the middle of her prayers.

There was a long silence.  Ella started to pray again, un-

certainly, weaker.

“Ella Sears!”

She stopped.

“Can you hear me?”

Her voice was a timid squeak.  “Yeess.”

“I’m watching you!  My eyeballs are looking through the

ceiling.  From heaven.  Are you a good girl?”

She sounded as though she were starting to cry.  “I—I

don’t know.”

“Otherwise I’m coming down to get you.”

That was too much for Ella.  If anyone was coming she

didn’t want to be there.  She straightened up, shot out of the

room and rushed down the stairs.  Father and Mother were

still arguing about where to chop the ice when Ella zoomed

out on to the kitchen floor, shrieking:

“God hollered down the wall! God hollered down the

wall!”

She ran into Mother, and both of them started sliding

towards the wall.  “Do something!” Mother cried to Father.

They bumped into him and carried him along.  They slid

into the wall, and Father put out the palms of his hands to

stop them.  Mother was hanging on to Father, and Ella was

hanging on to Mother, and all three of them were running as

fast as they could without moving.  It sounded as though

they were churning butter.  Marie, Frances, and I all raced to

the warm-air ventilator and peered down into the kitchen.

We saw the crash coming, and began to giggle out loud.

Father rammed into one of the legs of the kitchen-table,

Mother into the other.  The table legs snapped off, and the

table-top came down and hit them both on the head.  The

giggling stopped.  In the quiet, Father said, “The first one

that laughs doesn’t sit down for a week.”  Guess who it

was.

A few days later, having nothing to do, I tried another

experiment with my spirit-summoning tube.  I was confined

to quarters for something I couldn’t even remember, and

Ella was reading in her room.  I’d counted all the cracks in

the ceiling, made believe I was a bird and chased a fly all

over the room, and now I stared through the window at a

chicken-hawk.  He floated smoother than the top of a dry

dandelion when you blow on it, and I remember thinking to

myself, “Boy, if I could float like that I wouldn’t fool

around with any old chickens.  I’d just hawk me right out

of town and down to Grandfather’s barn.”

I heard Ella giggling at her book in the next room.  Why

should she be so happy, I asked myself, and set about

remedying this injustice right away.  I crawled under the

bed, put my head up the long tube, and called to her.

“Ella Sears!” I intoned mournfully.  Her giggling stopped.

“The end has come,” I warned her.  “This is St. Paul coming

for you.”  Ella didn’t answer, so I added a nice touch:

“Ella Gertrude Helen Sears!  Your time is up!  Prepare for

the journey!”

Then Ella Sears answered me with a deep man’s voice.

“Ella Sears is not here.  This is her father, St. Peter.”

Father!  Now I really wished I were that chicken-hawk.

Quickly I hollered up the tube, “I’ll never appear to you

again, Ella Sears.  I’m going back to heaven—farewell!”

“Oh, no, you don’t!” Father called out.  “You appear in

here at the double before I come in there and get you by the

wings.”

I sighed, crawled out of the tube, and slowly went in to

appear at the judgement seat before St. Peter.

CHAPTER 8

UNCLE DUFFY AND HIS WONDERFUL

WHISKERS

I learned a lot about God and people the summer Uncle

Duffy came home from the War.  Uncle Duffy had served

overseas with a Canadian regiment, and Father warned us

all about him before his arrival.

“You must be very patient with my younger brother,” he

told Mother.  “He was gassed and shell-shocked in France.”

I think we would have been patient with Uncle Duffy if

we had ever got to know him, but he spent most of his time

in McMurtry’s pub.  He would take his hat, bow gallantly

to Mother, and say, “I’m going down town for some shell-

shock medicine.”

Father tried his best to help Uncle Duffy.  Many a time he

went into McMurtry’s after him and stayed right with him

until Duffy was able to come home or neither of them was.

Uncle Duffy was very nervous.  He jumped into Father’s

arms the night I first fired off my cap-pistol.  Once when

Marie accidentally blew up a paper bag and broke it Uncle

Duffy abandoned the house in his stockinged feet shouting,

“Here they come!”  He took shelter in the cornfield by the

house.

It was Uncle Duffy’s friend Whiskers who frightened

Mother most of all.  Whiskers would take a sudden dislike

to Uncle Duffy and pursue him through the entire house.

Uncle Duffy would burst through the front door, his eyes

like two sliced melon-halves.  He would hide behind

Mother, Father, then the coal stove.  He would point his

finger at the door and whisper in a panic-stricken voice,

“Whiskers is after me.  I’ve got to hide from Whiskers!

He’s got the bayonet!”  In one bound Uncle Duffy would

leap into the clothes closet, slamming the door and shaking

Grandmother Wagner’s picture down off the wall.

Whiskers wasn’t a real person.  No one ever saw him

except Uncle Duffy, although Ella claimed she did one

night.  She said Whiskers was sitting in the apple tree out-

side her bedroom window making faces at her.  But Ella was

always seeing things, ever since I had told her about my

dream of the shining man.  Once Ella said she saw the ghost

of Arthur Conan Doyle walking along the roof of the

Northern Pacific railway station.  That was the night she had

her mouth washed out with soap by Father.

Father said that Uncle Duffy went to McMurtry’s to get

away from Whiskers.  Mother said that Whiskers usually got

after Duffy when he came back from McMurtry’s.

I liked Whiskers.  He made things exciting.  All of us took

him for granted.  We talked about him as though he were a

member of the family.  Once when one of the ladies at an

Altar Society meeting asked Mother who this Whiskers was

that we all talked about, Mother told her, “Oh, he’s a friend

of Duffy’s.”

I first met Uncle Duffy in the summer of the big forest-fire.

It was on the day that Father Hogan and the members of the

Altar Society were meeting at our house to discuss the

opening of the new school.  Ella and I and a lot of our

friends were changing over from the Benjamin Franklin

School, and we weren’t at all sure we were going to like it.

Mother was serving tea and cookies in the parlour, when

Ella ran wildly through the house screaming.

“I’ve had a vision!  I’ve had a vision!”

Mrs. McCallister became so nervous she stirred her tea

with her eye-glasses.

“A vision!” Ella shrieked.  “I talked with an angel.

Drive them out, the angel told me.  All of them.  Into the

sea!”

Ella cackled joyfully and shot out of the front door.

Father Hogan choked on his piece of cake and his face was

the colour of Grandfather’s the night, he swallowed the

chicken-bone.  Everyone was upset but Mother.  She knew

that Ella was given to having visions and talking with

angels.  Nothing ever came of it.

“She gets it from William,” Mother told the guests.  “He’s

very interested in God and things, isn’t he, Father Hogan?”

Father Hogan rolled his eyes out of sight at the memory of

our encounters.

“William says that some day he’s going to go all around

the world telling people about God.  Right now, he’s only

telling Ella.  She dramatizes it.  More cake, Mrs. Wilcox?”

All Mrs. Wilcox wanted was to go home.  However, for

once, Ella was perfectly innocent.  She was merely playing

the role of Joan of Arc.  Ella had interrupted a perfectly

good game of “cowboys and Indians” prattling of the book

she was reading about the Maid of Orleans.  None of us

fellows cared for the story until she came to the part where

Joan of Arc was burned at the stake.

“Now you’re talking,” Sam Lewis said.

Mike Raffodil agreed, “Hot diggety!”

Ella said she’d play the lovely and courageous heroine

Joan of Arc if we wanted to make a play of it.  We agreed,

and with a yell we lit out after her.  I pounded through the

Altar Society meeting in hot pursuit, ignoring the ladies and

Father Hogan.

“After the old witch!” I cried, as I galloped through the

parlour.  Mother halted me.

“What were you calling your sister?” she asked.

“She’s a witch.  We’re going to set fire to her,” I told

Mother cheerfully.  “Burn her alive.  See you later.  Hi,

Father.”

I galloped around the sewing-machine mountains and sent

my great chestnut colt thundering through the valley of the

woodshed.  I caught Joan of Arc hiding in the cornfield eat-

ing a jam sandwich.  We tied her to the old pump in the back-

yard and set crumpled paper and kindling wood around her.

Saphead Phillips, who was in charge of the British forces,

went home and stole matches while his mother was out

hanging clothes.  Since Joan of Arc was my very own sister,

I was given the privilege of lighting the fire.  Which I did.

We agreed to turn Joan loose as soon as the flames got too

warm for her, but just at that moment Mike Raffodil’s big

brother came riding through the alley on his new red motor

cycle.  We all ran after him to beg rides, abandoning Joan to

her fate.

Father Hogan was the first one to the pump when Joan of

Arc began screaming for her mother.  Father Hogan pumped

several dipperfuls of water and put out the fire.  My two

other sisters, Marie and Frances, were sent out immediately

on an expedition to bring me back dead or alive.

Ella hadn’t been touched by the flames, but when Mother

told Father about the terrible mental anguish which Ella

must have suffered, and how she might have been burned to

death, Father sent me out to cut a switch.  I couldn’t find one

the right size, so Father came out and helped me.  He dis-

carded my selection and broke off a young tree.

“I’ve learned my lesson,” I told him on the way in to the

house.

Father grunted.  “Good!  Now let me drive it home.”

That’s the very exact moment that Uncle Duffy arrived

home from France, where he’d been stationed after the War.

Naturally, I always had a soft spot in my heart for him.

Mother was getting resigned to living with Whiskers and

Uncle Duffy when the great Minnesota forest-fire came.  It

was the worst in history.  Many people were burned to

death.  Several towns to the north and east of us were com-

pletely gutted.  Day and night you could feel a tickling,

smarting sensation in your throat when you breathed.

There was a blue-grey haze everywhere, and at night the sky

to the north-east was a dull, moving red.  There was an

excitement about every conversation.  Neighbours who

hadn’t spoken to each other for years were now chummy,

brought together by the fire.  They would cast appraising

eyes towards Duluth.

“Looks bad.”

“Very.”

Day after day we watched trucks go by laden with fire-

fighting equipment and crowded with men.  Other truck-

loads came back carrying the exhausted, dirty, serious-faced

fighters.

I was confined to my bedroom the evening the town

marshal caught me leaving the village and heading for the

front, pulling my coaster wagon.  It was loaded with a

shovel, two of Mother’s best pillow-cases for beating out

the flames, and a sack of apples.  I lay on the floor of my

room with my eyes glued to the warm-air ventilator, watch-

ing Mother and Father and Mr. and Mrs. McCallister playing

cards.  Mother lighted a holy candle.  When Mr. McCallister

leaned over and lit his cigarette from it, Mrs. McCallister

cuffed him a good one on the neck.  Mother said he was very

callous.

“If that means am I scared to death, you’re right,” Mr.

McCallister said.  “The way it looks now, we might just as

well bet the houses on the card-game.  We won’t have them

long if this wind doesn’t change.”

A little while later, Mother bid “three no wind”.  Mr.

McCallister said it was time to go home.

Things were better by morning.  The wind had shifted.

I felt the cool fresh air blowing through the other bedroom

window about three o’clock.  Conditions were so much

better that Father and some of the other men decided to go

to Fergus Falls to play their Sunday baseball game.

That evening the wind shifted back to the north-east

again, stronger than ever.  The sky towards Duluth was

pulsating like the Northern Lights, only instead of being

ice-cold blue, it was orange-hot and greedy-looking.  Most

of the available men were off fighting the fire.  The women

were gathered on each other’s porches, in intimate groups,

exchanging confidences that only a mutual misfortune could

have extracted.  All the kids in the neighbourhood were

crawling over porch railings, darting in and out of hedges,

and disregarding their mothers’ frequent instructions to stay

nearby “where Mother can keep an eye on you”.

Saphead Phillips and I were trying to figure out how the

fire could sneak into town, burn down all the schools, then

slip away without doing any other damage.  We gave up

and began to choose sides for “duck on a rock”.

Mrs. Phillips called out to Saphead.  “James, please don’t

yell so loud.  Mother can’t hear herself think.  And stop

pushing your sister.”

“Well, tell her to quit pushing me, then, or when we all

have to go out into the middle of Serpent Lake to save our

skins, she can stand and die like a dog on the shore.”

His sister began to cry.  His mother shouted, “Saphead

Phillips!”

Saphead said, “One, two, three, four, five, six, seven,

eight, nine, ten—here I come, ready or not, you shall be

caught.”

It was at this moment that Uncle Duffy made his historic

appearance at the head of Maple Street.  He was walking

down the middle of it, but you would have thought that

he was on top of a hay-rack with the horses in full gallop.

The neighbours nudged each other expectantly.  Uncle

Duffy was singing a war song in what Mother called his

“nothing” baritone.  I think it was the choice of song that

soured everybody on him right then and there.  At the top

of his voice, he was bawling:

“Keep the home fires burning,

While your hearts are yearning,

Turn the dark clouds inside out

‘Till the boys come home.”

Uncle Duffy clutched the railing by the steps and came up

hand-over-hand.  Mother fled in shame.  Mrs. Raffodil

leaned over to Mrs. McCallister and whispered, “If that fire

comes any closer, his breath will explode in his face.”

“Evenin’, Ladies,” Uncle Duffy said graciously, sweeping

his hat off his head with such an elegant flourish that it sailed

right out of his hand and off the porch.

Mrs. Raffodil gave Mrs. McCallister a “don’t-miss-this”

elbow in the ribs.  To Duffy she said, “And how is our dear

friend Whiskers to-night?”

Uncle Duffy summoned all his dignity.  He stuck his face

right up under Mrs. Raffodil’s big straw hat.  “Mrs. Raffo-

dil,” he said, “I’ll thank you to keep your long prying nose

out of my friends.”

At half-past one that morning we were all awakened by a

loud pounding on the back door.  I sat bolt upright in bed.

“Mrs. Sears!  Mrs. Sears!”

It was Mr. McCallister’s voice.  I heard Mother’s un-

certain reply, “Yes?”

“Get up.  They can’t hold the fire.  It’ll sweep through the

town before dawn.  Everybody has to get out.  Right away!”

I was into my shoes and trousers before Mr. McCallister

was off the porch.  Mother panicked.  She began running

round and round in a circle.  I called my sisters and went to

pound upon Uncle Duffy’s door.  He wasn’t there.  Mother

was out in the hall now, but still in her nightgown.  She kept

going round in a circle crying, “Hurry!  Hurry!”

One look out of the bedroom window was enough to

convince us that the fire was closing in on the town.  The

sky was no longer a red glow.  It was pimento and you could

see the movement of the distant flames.  The air was stifling,

and smoke was even in the rooms.  Eyes smarted and every-

one rubbed them.

“What did we ever do to deserve this?” Mother cried.

“Maybe we’re wicked,” Ella said happily, “and we’re

being punished.”  As she ran downstairs to the pantry to

lay in a supply of foodstuff for travelling, she called up to

Mother, “And don’t look back at the town, or you’ll be

turned into a pillar of salt.”

The plans for evacuating the town had been made some

time before.  Everyone had been instructed to put their most

valuable possessions on the sidewalk in front of the house.

Trucks and wagons would try to save as much as possible.

I realized that night that in an emergency I could get along

without everything except my skin.  Mother had been trying

for days to decide which pieces of furniture she would save

if it became necessary.  She had settled on only one thing,

the new couch and chair she’d had from Montgomery Ward.

She ordered us all into action.  She and Marie took one end

of the couch, Frances and I took the other.  When we lifted

it off the floor we saw Uncle Duffy lying on his back behind

it, his eyes two eggs fried in fear.

“You fools!” he shouted.  “Put it down.  Can’t you see

that I’m hiding from Whiskers?”

Mother broke down.  She sat on the couch and wept.  I

was going to scold Uncle Duffy, but I could see that he had

pulled the end of the rug over himself.  Mother became

hysterical.

“I can’t stand any more,” she moaned.  “Not another

thing.”  A loud knock on the door finished her completely.

“It’s the fire,” she sobbed, “come to kill us all!”

It was Mr. McCallister.  His face looked like the grate in

our coal stove in the morning, dirty grey and with little fire

left in it.  His eyes were two red agates half-sunk in the

ashes.

“You can stop worrying, Ethel,” he said.  “The wind has

shifted again, and it’s beginning to rain.”

“Thank God!”

Mother repeated it over and over.

CHAPTER 9

THE FAMOUS FIRE AND THE INFAMOUS

FATHER

Father’s bus arrived from Fergus Falls about five minutes

later, and all the baseball players piled out in front of our

house.  Father ran quickly up the steps.  He was very

worried.

“Hi, Jim,” he said to Mr. McCallister.  “Everything all

right?”

Mr. McCallister didn’t answer.  He didn’t think much of

ball playing to begin with, and playing during forest fires

well!  He gave my father a cold look, like Queen Victoria to

a mouse.  Mother just sat on the couch and sobbed.  Ella

was crying with her, though in a higher key, and the two of

them were wrapped in each other’s arms rocking to and fro.

“Stop worrying,” Father said cheerfully.  “It’s all right.

I’m back.  Nothing happened to me.”

Mother’s sob became a wail.  She walked over to Father,

hauled off and gave him a terrific slap on the cheek.  Then

she burst into tears again.  She called Father an unfeeling

beast, a dirty old baseball, a shanty Irish beer-face, and

wound up by hugging him half to death.

Father was very upset when he heard what a close call

we’d had.  He helped Uncle Duffy escape from Whiskers by

taking him upstairs to bed.  That very night Whiskers was

given an ultimatum by Mother.  Either Whiskers had to get

out of the house forever, or she would.

Grandfather came to town the next day to see if we were

all right.  I told him all about the fire as we drove out

towards Iron Hub to see how close it had come.  I told

him all about Uncle Duffy and Whiskers.  He didn’t laugh

once.

“You mustn’t laugh at your Uncle Duffy,” he told me.

“You must love him.  He can’t find a place to fit himself into

any more.  He’s not the same uncle who went away to war,

and this isn’t the same town he left.  Everyone here is going

on with business as usual.  Your Uncle Duffy can’t under-

stand that.  He thought he went away to do something

wonderful in fighting the War, but He’s found out that

nobody really cares very much one way or the other.  They

just want to forget it as quickly as they can.  He’s trying to

find some way not to think, and he’s suffering.”

“Why does God make people suffer?  And kill each other?

If He knows everything, Grandfather, why doesn’t He

stop it?”

“It’s not God, son.  It’s the people.  The shepherds of the

world are more interested in the wool than in the lambs.

God knows what’s going to happen, but He doesn’t make it

happen.  Carelessness, neglect, indifference—ignorance of

His laws, that’s what brings the disaster and the suffering.”

“Why doesn’t God make all people good, and then we

wouldn’t have any old war at all.”

Grandfather sighed.  “I guess God doesn’t really make us

do anything, son.  Every man is born with a soul and free-

will to choose what’s right and wrong.  ‘Course it isn’t all

cut and dried.  Free-will is something like your grandmother

knitting a sweater.  God gives you the needles and the yarn,

you don’t have any choice there.  But you choose the

pattern, the design, and the colour.  You have the choice to

make it as good or as poor as you wish.”

I was still puzzled.  “But golly, Grandfather, why do good

people have to be hurt or burned or killed by a fire or a war?

I don’t like that.”

Grandfather sat in the buggy looking at the burned-out

woods and the ruins.  He didn’t say anything for a long time.

Then he started the horses on their way back to town.

“This old world burns out faster than a match, son.  A

fellow named Shakespeare once said that life was like count-

ing to ‘one’.  Another fellow named Addison said that folks

prepare for this world as though it were never going to end,

and for the next one as though it were never going to begin.

If we were all a little busier trying to know what God wants

instead of what we want, there wouldn’t be so much trouble

down here.  And if they spent a little more time thinking

about the inside part of them that lasts forever, and a little

less about the outside part that rots, they’d be better off when

they get born into the next world.”

“You mean when they die?”

Grandfather chuckled.  “Some folks say die.  Not me.

And remember that when the time comes for me to go.

Just put me in a plain pine-box and put what’s left of me in

the ground.  No fancy trimmings.  The important part’s

gone.  It escapes like perfume when you break the bottle.

And nail the lid down right at the start.  I don’t want any-

body staring at me when I can’t stare back at them.  I’m

certainly not going to hang around any longer than I have

to once I unload this old carcass.”

Grandfather pulled me over and gave me a nice whisker-

rub.  “Do you understand what your old grandfather is

talking about?”

“No,” I told him, “but you’re sure a pretty talker.  When

I grow up I’m going to find out all about everything, then

I’m going all over the world and tell people so they won’t

hurt each other any more.”

“I believe you will at that.”

“Why is it, Grandfather, that it’s so much fun to talk to

you about God?  Here I am a young boy and there you are

an old man.  We both like it, but nobody else seems to

want to.”

“Maybe it’s because I am old and you’re young.  You’re

close to God on one end, and I’m close to Him on the other.

In between they don’t care so much.”  As we drove the

buggy into the yard he patted my hand.  “Be good to your

Uncle Duffy,” he said.

I tried to, so did Mother, but Uncle Duffy became more

unpredictable as the winter weather set in.  He developed a

new wrinkle.  He started having nightmares.  He thought

he was back in France commanding his men.  He’d sit up in

bed and issue orders at the top of his voice.  The first night

he began shouting, Father and Mother thought he was

calling to them instead of to his men.

“All right, you slobs!” he yelled.  “Out of there!  On the

double!”

Both Father and Mother got up and began to dress before

they realized what was happening.  We all went in and saw

Uncle Duffy standing up in bed commanding the battlefield.

He looked very frightened and sick.

“What’s wrong, Duffy?” father asked.

“Wrong?” he barked.  “See for yourself, Lieutenant.

They’re putting down a box-barrage, and they’re pouring

lead from that machine-gun nest.  Somebody’s got to go up

there and wipe it out.”

I can’t tell you how many machine-gun nests and snipers

my father had to wipe out that winter.  One night Uncle

Duffy nearly lost his life taking a long-range gun-emplace-

ment.  That was the night that Mr. McCallister, whose bed-

room was opposite Uncle Duffy’s, threw up the window and

hollered at him to shut up.  Uncle Duffy moved into position

by the window and peeked out at Mr. McCallister.

“You dirty spy,” he whispered.

Then he fired at Mr. McCallister broadside with his left

shoe.  Uncle Duffy was off his range.  Mr. McCallister

escaped unscathed, but Uncle Duffy wiped out the glass in

the top window-pane.  He also wiped out a six-year friend-

ship between the Sears and the McCallisters.

Father caught Uncle Duffy before he fell through the

window and carried him back to bed.  He bumped Duffy’s

head against the bed-post as he laid him down, and Uncle

Duffy woke up with a start.  He was quite annoyed with

Father.

“What in the name of heaven are you doing?” he

grumbled.  “Can’t you let a man get a good night’s rest?”

One night we heard Uncle Duffy get up and begin to

dress.  He paraded up and down across his bedroom for

quite some time, forming his regiment.  Apparently he was

having some trouble with a few of the men, because he

began to give them a tongue-lashing.  Finally he cried out

loudly, “All right, you filthy swine.  March!”

Uncle Duffy led his men personally, out of his bedroom,

along the upstairs hall, and past my bedroom door.  I almost

imagined I could see the men as he shouted his orders at

them.  I saw him as he went past.  He seemed to be in a great

hurry, but didn’t know where to go.  I wanted to be kind to

him.  I said, “Hello, Uncle Duffy.”

His eyes were funny.  He hollered at me, “Look out for

the snipers.  You’re in enemy territory.”

Uncle Duffy kept chanting all the while as he led the men

down the stairs.  “One, two!  One, two!  One, two!  One,

two!”

He marched his company off our front porch and out of

our lives forever.  I never saw him again.

After what my grandfather had told me about him, I

learned to like Uncle Duffy quite a lot, in small doses.  He

drove a team of dapple-grey percherons for Mr. Middleton’s

freight line, when he hadn’t been taking too much medicine.

Sometimes he would let me sit up on the seat with him and

hold the reins.  He always had the big grey’s tail tied up in a

fancy knot.  The horses liked him, maybe that’s why Grand-

father understood him.  I was the only one that Uncle Duffy

talked to very much.  He bought me my first pair of high,

red-top boots the day after he led the attack on Mr. McCal-

lister’s window.  I didn’t care very much about high, red-

top boots, but Uncle Duffy had always wanted a pair when

he was small.  Now that he was too old for them, he said,

he hoped they’d make me very happy.  Now and then Uncle

Duffy’s eyes would look far away and sad.  Once I heard him

say, “Louise.”  And a big tear rolled down his cheek.  Often-

times he would say, “God damn you world.”  He’d say it to

himself sort of, as if I weren’t even there.

The night that the telegram came, I knew before Father

opened it that it was about Uncle Duffy.

“Where’s Uncle Duffy now?” I asked.

“I haven’t the least idea,” Father answered.

“Is Whiskers still with him?” Ella wanted to know.

Mother looked up from her plate as though she were

going to say something, but Father frowned at her.  He

closed the subject by patting me on the head.

“Eat your dinner,” he said.

I don’t know why I felt sad that night.

CHAPTER 10

SKYROCKET TO FAME, OR A BEST-SELLER

AT TWELVE

Shortly after this we moved from Minnesota to Mil-

waukee, Wisconsin.  Father got a job painting steel for a big

iron-works company.

It was nearly five hundred miles away from Grandfather.

We stayed with him for a week before saying goodbye.  We

both made believe that no one was going away.  Grand-

father let me clean out the stalls, grain the horses, drive the

buggy, and even ride fat old Prince bare-back.  When the

time came for us to go to the railway station, Grandfather

sent a message up that he was far too busy to come along

with us, so I went down to the barn to say goodbye.  We just

sat there on the oats-box, saying nothing.  Prince whinnied

and kicked his stall.  I heard Father honk the horn for me on

Uncle Walter’s model T Ford.  Suddenly I gave Grandfather

the biggest grizzly-bear hug there ever was.  As he rubbed

my cheek with his whiskers, he said, “That’s a big city

you’re going to, son.  Watch your step.  It’s not like the

country.  Don’t forget the things I’ve been telling you.

Don’t be a porch-sitter when you get there.  Get out and do

things.  Somewhere in this world there is something wonder-

ful waiting for you.  Keep looking.  Don’t forget your

prayers and don’t forget your grandfather.”

Grandfather squeezed me again, and then he put some-

thing in my hand and dosed my fingers over it.  I looked.

It was his first-place medal for winning both heats of the

county Fair with Dakar, the big sorrel.

“I can’t stand around here wasting my time,” he said, and

he went up into the stall by Beauty’s head and began to

curry her down.  I patted all the horses once before going,

but Grandfather never looked my way again.  He kept talk-

ing to Beauty.  “Whoa, girl.  Whoa.”  I put a handful of oats

in my pocket, and as I passed the watering-trough I gave

the pump-handle a couple of jerks and drew up a few sloshes

of water.  I could hear Grandfather singing at the top of his

voice.

“There’ll be pie in the sky when we die,

When we die there’ll be pie in the sky.”

*    *    *    *    *

Milwaukee had lights downtown that went off and on.

The kids in the school band all had the same colour uni-

forms, and it took you all day to walk from one end of the

city to the other.  Grandfather was right.  It was different

in the city.  It was new and exciting and full of so many

things that in a year I forgot nearly everything he’d told me.

I hardly ever thought about my dream.

I started my writing career one summer before I graduated

from grade-school.  It all began in the barber’s chair one

Saturday morning.  I was reading a poem in a magazine

while Mr. Pinky cut my hair.  Mr. Pinky was talking to the

man who was getting a shave in the next chair.  They were

discussing the “good old days”.  As I listened to their words,

I realized that I could write a much better poem than the

one I’d read.  I said to myself, “William Sears, the note

you wrote to Miss Nelson last June to get out of school

for the double-header with St. Paul was much finer—

true, you were persecuted a bit for writing it, but it had

feeling.”

I began to visualize myself as a successful writer.  Perhaps

I could write a book that would influence the lives of

millions.  It would save me making that trip all around the

world telling people about God.  God would probably like

it better, too.  And it would give me more time to go to the

movies.  Besides, if I became successful and had lots of

money, more people would listen to me and believe what I

said.  It was the thing to do, all right.

I began to expand in the barber’s chair.  I said to Mr.

Pinky with the same nonchalance I’d heard the man next

to me use, “Mr. Pinky, let me have an egg-shampoo,

too.”

“You got nothin’ left to shampoo,” Mr. Pinky told me,

rubbing my fresh crew-cut.  “Besides, if you’ve got more

than half a buck, time’s have changed.”

“All right,” I snapped.  “I won’t argue.  Gimme a shine.”

“On your bare feet?”

“Forget it,” I said, flipped him the fifty cents, and strolled

down Wisconsin Avenue towards the public library.  I could

see the top of the Schroeder Hotel.  Maybe a penthouse

would do me.

That night I tiptoed into the kitchen, made myself six

peanut-butter sandwiches and returned to my room with

three sharpened pencils and my mother’s good stationery.

It was nearly three o’clock before I finished my masterpiece.

I wrote it in longhand and signed my name, Billy Sears.

The name had no dignity.  So I signed it Bill Sears.  Better,

but not right.  William Sears.  Still weak.  I gave it the full

treatment:  William Bernard Patrick Michael Terence Sears

VII.  It was nearly as long as the poem.

I called the poem Reminiscences in a Barber’s Shop.  It took

me thirty minutes to find the word in the dictionary.  Then

I sneaked out to post the poem to Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang

Magazine at Robbinsdale, Minnesota.

I repeated the poem softly to myself as I walked to and

from the mailbox.

Reminiscences in a Barber’s Shop, by William Bernard Patrick

Michael Terence Sears the seventh:

Gone are the days we all held dear,

The bar, the sawdust, and five-cent beer.

Dimly remembered, how quickly he passes,

That white-aproned bar-keep, his bottles and glasses.

Gone are the doors that swung both ways,

Gone are the memories of free-lunch days.

How different the times of now from then—

A toast to the days when men were men!

It was great to be a writer!  I remember wondering if beer

tasted anything like strawberry soda and not caring par-

ticularly whether it did or not.

I started watching for the mail-man the very next day.  It

was a month later that a long envelope came marked Whiz

Bang.  There was something inside!  It took me some time

to find out what it was.  I shook it first.  Then I held it up

to the sun against the window-pane.  Carefully I tore open

one small corner and tried to peek inside.

“Maybe there’s something in there,” I told Mother.

“There might be,” she agreed patiently, never stopping

her dusting.  “And if we all live long enough, we may find

out what.”

Ella was practical.  “Open it up,” she advised, “and take

out your old rejection-slip.”  She gave me a withering look

of supreme disgust.  “A toast to the days when men were

men!  Hummph!”

Mother chuckled.  Marie and Frances stuck their heads

together and sang in barber-shop harmony:  “You’re the

flower of my heart, sweet Adeline.”

Marie, the oldest, pointed at me dramatically and said,

“Of course, he’s seen those good old days.  This isn’t a

young boy at all.  He’s a midget born at the same time as

John L. Sullivan.”

It was more than I could take.  I went into my bedroom

and put the envelope under my pillow.  “I’ll look at it later,”

I said.  I threw myself on the bed and in one sweeping

motion reached under the pillow and snatched it out again.

“It’s later.”  As I tore open the envelope, I breathed a short

prayer.

“Don’t let this be a rejection-slip.  It’s not that I want all

the money for myself, but if I’m going all over the world to

preach, I’m going to need clothes and a suit-case ... and my

sisters need things ... not to mention the rent coming due.”

I stopped because I had the letter open and I could see a

cheque inside.  It was the happiest-looking piece of paper

you ever set your eyes on.  I took one look at the figures and

went flying out into the other room, waving the fruits of my

genius triumphantly before my sister’s eyes.

“How do you like these apples?” I shouted.  “Seven

hundred and fifty dollars!”

“What?” Mother cried.  She snatched the cheque and

took a look.  The air went out of her.  Patiently she ex-

plained.  “When they put a period after the seven, it’s seven

dollars and fifty cents.”

It was quite a come-down, but I hadn’t really wanted the

motor-boat, anyway.  Now that I was a success, my sisters

were really sticky.  Ella said the cheque was skimpy, but

strangely enough it was just the right amount to buy her

that cute little navy-blue sweater at Gimbels ; it was like

sheer guidance, she said.

I said, “Horsefeathers!”

Mother said I should be completely free to do what I

wanted with the money and not to worry about the rent

coming due, they’d scrape it up somewhere, though heaven

only knew where.

I stuck the cheque in my pocket.  “No one gets any of it,”

I said firmly.  “I’m going to use it on my career.  I’ve

decided to give up school and write.  Now, please, could I

have a little quiet?  I feel another poem coming on.”

“Another seven-fifty one?,” Ella asked me.  Before she

could insult me again, the phone rang.  Ella grabbed it.  It

was Lois Murray, her friend.  “I can’t talk now, Lois,” Ella

told her.  “We’re all discussing my brother’s future.  It’s

hard for a family to know what to do about a genius.  A

genius,” she repeated.  “Certainly I’m talking about

William.  He’s the only brother I’ve got.  He’s had a great

magazine success.  Fabulous.  A cheque just came in the

mail for him, and when he opened the letter he hollered

right out loud:  ‘Seven hundred and fifty dollars!’”

Mother shook her head warningly at Ella.  Ella stuck her

tongue out at the telephone, where Lois was listening.

“What, Lois?  Just a minute, I’ll ask him.”  Ella held her

hand over the mouthpiece.  To me she said, “Lois wants to

know if you’re coming to her party to-morrow?”

“I wasn’t ever asked.”

Mother diagnosed it.  “I think your seven hundred and

fifty dollars were just invited.”

Ella said, “Lois?  He’s dreadfully sorry, but with writing

and all, he’s tied up every minute.  The phone’s been ringing

like crazy since he had his big success.”

Mother objected.  “Ella!  You stop that.”

Ella soared to the heights.  “Yes,” she said, “they’re after

him to do a movie of his ... his ... thing he wrote.  That’s

right.  Hollywood.  What?  He’ll have to have tutors, I sup-

pose.  We can’t let school interfere.”  Ella added signi-

ficantly, “By the way, Lois, what’s your brother Wallace

doing these days?  Still stuck behind the counter jerking

sodas at Green’s Drug Store?  Hmmm?  What magazine will

William’s success be in?  Well ... we’ll send you an auto-

graphed copy.  I’ve got to go, Lois.  I think I hear the

photographers coming.  ‘Bye.”  Ella hung up.

“You ought to be ashamed,” Mother told her.

“I don’t care,” Ella scoffed.  “She makes me sick.  All I

ever hear is my brother Wallace this, my brother Wallace

that.  If he thinks I’m going to wait until the last minute for

him to invite me to the party to-morrow, he’s mistaken.  It

served her right.”  Then Ella turned on me, savagely.

“William’s the one who should be ashamed, not me.  I don’t

see why he couldn’t have sent his poem to the Saturday

Evening Post and got seven hundred and fifty dollars.

Captain Billy’s Whiz Bang!  I was never so degraded in all

my life!”  She flounced out of the room.  I hollered after her,

“Well, pardon me for living!”  Mother consoled me.  She

said she was very proud.

“Even if it is in Captain Billy’s Zip Bang.”

“Whiz Bang!”

I asked her if she wanted me to autograph several copies

for her to send out to her friends.  She said she thought not.

She’d wait until next time.

CHAPTER 11

ORDEAL BY FATHER

By six-thirty that night I’d made up my mind.  My future

was set.  I’d withdraw from society and devote my life to the

pen—well, to the pencil now, and maybe later I could earn

enough to buy a pen.  I knew there was something wonder-

ful in the world somewhere just waiting for me to find it.

When I did, I’d write about it with a flaming pen.

Father read my poem at the supper-table.

“Not bad,” he said.  “Not bad at all.”  Then he winked at

me.  “I don’t suppose you’ve got a spare quarter on you so

your old father could buy two sacks of Bull Durham

tobacco.”

“As a matter of fact,” I said, “I haven’t.  My seven-fifty is

all gone.”

Everyone was horrified.  Mother didn’t believe it.

“But you’ve only had it for three hours, William,” she

said, “and you haven’t left the house.”

“Yes I did,” I told her.  “I went next door to Myers

and rented their attic for a year for six dollars.  Then I

went down to Green’s Drug Store and bought fifty cents

worth of paper and pencils.  I’m going to withdraw from

society.”

Father pushed his soup-plate away.  He put his head in his

hands.  “Just withdraw from the table,” he said.

Mother with her eye for figures said, “But that’s only six-

fifty.  What about the other dollar?”

So I told her.  “I bought bread and cheese for the

attic.”

“He wants to suffer,” Ella explained.  “So he can write

better.”

Father said, “William, I am going to finish this suddenly

unpalatable soup, and if you are still at the table when I

finish, you will then begin your suffering.  Do I make myself

clear?”

I spent every afternoon writing, even after school started.

By the time graduation from grade-school came I’d written

three notebooks full of poems.  I was determined to write

something deathless.  In just two weeks I’d be graduating,

and as an experienced author I felt I should have a new suit

for the ceremony.  I was as good as a freshman in High

School already.  Most of the fellows had their graduation

suits and were bragging about them.  So far, all I had was a

pair of tan corduroy trousers and a brown sweater, and I had

them on.  This was a very lean financial period for the Sears

family.

By this time Father had quit the iron-works and was

working for himself as a painting contractor.  Business was

always good in summer and dreadful in winter.  If you

asked Father what he did for a living he’d tell you, “I’m a

painter and paper-hanger.”  But if you asked Ella, she’d say,

“My father is an interior decorator, if he likes the plans they

submit to him.”  Business was so bad that Father liked any-

body’s plans, even if they were written on the back of an

envelope.  When he estimated the cost of an out-of-door

paint job he’d look at it and say, “The front gable will pay

for William’s shoes, the back for Marie’s dress, the north

side for the coal bill and the butcher,” and so on.  Father

could take a look at a house and tell you right off whether it

was a gas-and-light job or a grocery bill for a month.

When Father was young he was going to be a great actor.

He was going to sacrifice everything for it.  Everybody had

discouraged him, but he said he felt deep down inside that

it was the only thing in the world he really wanted to do.

That’s why he never tried to discourage me when I told him

that some day, when I found out what my dream meant,

I’d go all over the world telling people about it.  It made

Father nervous and he didn’t like to talk about it, but he

never said I was being foolish.  He remembered his own

burning desire.  But he did once get very impatient with

me.

“There are smart people everywhere,” he said, “who do

nothing but study and think about God.  Why can’t you be

satisfied with what they tell you?”

“They didn’t have my dream.”

“You’re not even old enough to pay full price at the

movies yet,” he said, “but you know better than wise

men.”

“There’s something somewhere,” I said stubbornly.

“Grandfather knows there is, too.”

“Then when you’re old enough, we’ll let you study to

become a priest, and you can find it.”

“I don’t want to become a priest.  I just want to be a per-

son and find it.”

Father gave up.  “Let him go up and talk to Father Cline

about it.  I pay my pew-rent regularly.  Let him earn the

money.”

Of course Father never got to be a famous actor.  He met

Mother instead.  They both were going on the stage

together at first, but then Marie came.  Father still felt that

the stage was calling him until Frances put in her appear-

ance.  By then Father said his nose was so close to the grind-

stone that he wouldn’t have been able to read his “lines”, if

he’d had any.  Ella’s arrival made him throw in the sponge

for good.

“All I can do now,” he told Mother, “is learn to keep my

head above water.”

When I came, he learned to swim underwater.

In my opinion Father was still a great actor, even if most

of his character roles were played around the house.  I never

saw anything finer at the old Davidson Theatre on Third

Street than Father when I brought home my final report-

card.  I hadn’t graduated with honours; I’d done it with

luck, and a bit of mercy from Miss Nelson.  I think it was

because of my poems that she let me skin through.  She said

that some of them showed great promise.  She asked me to

represent the bottom-half of the class by reading two of my

poems at the graduation exercises.  I was really represent-

ing the very bottom, but I didn’t tell Father that, though I

think he knew when he looked at the report-card.  I tried to

soften him by showing him the two poems I’d written,

but he refused to look at them.  He was busy analysing the

card.

I thought of making a play out of it with Father as the

villain.  The scene was our parlour.  The characters, a cruel

father and a tender son.  At curtain-rise the son is just

surrendering his report-card to the enemy.

Father took it from me with a look similar to Lincoln’s

when they brought him the news of the fall of Fredericks-

burg.  Father trained one eye on the card and the other on

me.  It nailed me to the wall and kept me from edging

towards the door and freedom.  Father’s patience was limit-

less as he examined the dismal tidings.  As he picked his

unhappy way from History, to English, to Science, to Mathe-

matics, to Conduct, his face grew more and more sad.  It fell

like bread-dough running down the side of the pan.  He

looked at the card, then at me, then back at the card as

though to say, “Surely this is all a hideous mistake and I’ve

been brought some idiot’s report in error.”  Then Father

carefully replaced the card in its holder, hesitated as though

he were calling upon the power of the Great Ether to sustain

him, then let out a long sigh which sounded just like the air

going out of one of Uncle Cliff’s tyres.

Starting at my feet, Father’s eyes slowly began creeping up

my body.  I crossed my fingers and prayed that the phone

would ring or that the gas-stove would explode before they

met my own eyes head on.  At last he looked me squarely

in the eye.  I asked myself, “How can I do this to my

father?”

Father said, “How can you do this to me?”

I said to myself, “What has my father done to suffer like

this?”

Father said, “What have I done to be made to suffer this

way?”

I lowered my eyes, came back and left again because his

eyes were still there.  I mentally played leap-frog over

Myers’s back fence, over ours, ran through the second

stanza of The Star Spangled Banner, and then took another

look—still there.

Father said just one word.  “Well?”

I knew I was a goner.  If Father would only say, “Mathe-

matics is a little low, isn’t it, son?”  I could say, “Yes, sir, but

I’m getting better.”  “Good,” he’d say, “then maybe next

semester you can pull yourself up to D-minus.”  But when

Father just said, “Well?” there was no possible answer.

What can you answer to “Well?”  This had been my un-

doing ever since I’d been old enough to cut the toes out

of his bedroom slippers.  Give me the good old-fashioned

kind of father who says, “Is this miserable mark in

geography yours?”  “Yes, sir.”  Whack!  Then it’s over with.

When they say, “Well?” you just stand there and suffer in

misery.

Another of Father’s very best scenes was when Mother

forgot to pay the gas bill for three months, and the ten

dollars that Father had planned to spend buying new paint-

brushes had to go to the gas company.  Father took the ten-

dollar bill out of his wallet and looked at the empty wallet

as though it were a mortal wound from which he would

bleed to death before our eyes.

“By all means pay the gas-bill,” he told Mother.  “I may

need the oven for my head any day now.”

My sisters used the gas-oven all the time to dry their hair.

That’s why the bills were so high.

When Father would stumble over them as they kneeled on

the kitchen floor with their heads in the oven doorway he

would call to Mother, “Why don’t you wash your hair,

too, Ethel?  There’s still room for one more log on the

heap.”

Then Father would go off muttering to himself, “Why did

they ever pull me out of the river?”  I found out that Father

had never been in the river, it was just an expression he

used.  He used it, he said, when human flesh had been

pushed to where it snapped like a dry-rot rubber band.

Another favourite expression of Father’s was, “Why did I

raise you?”  There was no answer to this.  The one he used

most of all, for all emergencies great or small, was:  “Oh,

God! where will it all end?”  No one ever knew.

Now that I had persuaded Father to accept my report-card

without violence, my next problem was where to get a suit

for graduation.  I certainly couldn’t read my two poems

standing in front of everybody in my old corduroy pants and

sweater.  I knew that I would have to earn it quickly with

my pen.  I sent fifty of my poems off to Captain Billy’s Whiz

Bang.  They were the same ones Saturday Evening Post had

returned, not to mention Colliers, Ladies’ Home Journal,

Country Gentleman, and one or two other dozen.  A letter

came back.  There was something inside.  My poems!  The

letter said I hadn’t quite hit the bull’s-eye.  Father said I

hadn’t even loaded my gun.  The letter was nice, though in a

discouraging way.  It said I needed more seasoning.  That’s

what the letter said.  My sister Ella said that what the letter

really said was, “Are you kidding?”

My desperation led to a very dreadful and painful

event.

CHAPTER 12

SAM, YOU MADE THE PANTS TOO SHORT

Just five days before graduation I sold another poem, but

I only got a dollar for it.  I sold it to my sister Marie.  I

called it, Pay the Boy the Money, and I read it to her one

morning just before Father came down to breakfast.

Who stayed out and had such fun

That they didn’t get home till half-past one?

Who saw them sneaking into the house

And recognized their bright blue blouse?

And who’ll spill the story right to Father

Unless they’re paid cash for all their bother?

Marie said it was blackmail, but I got the dollar; ten cents

every week for ten weeks.  To make things worse, Mr. Myers

threw me out of my attic two months early.  He said I’d

rented it to write in, but hadn’t said anything about indoor

baseball.  He refunded me a quarter and broke my lease.  I

went down to Green’s Drug Store and had two chocolate

sodas to get over the blow.  Lois Murray’s brother Wallace

made them for me.

“When’re you going out to Hollywood to shoot ‘the bar,

the sawdust, and five cent beer’?” he asked.  “Ha!”

I decided to spend my last nickel somewhere else.

Three days before graduation I decided that things were

bad enough for me to start praying for a suit.  I didn’t like

just to ask God to give me a new suit because Grandfather

had always said, “That’s not praying, that’s begging.  You

can’t go around with a tin-cup asking the Lord to load it up

for you.  You’ve got to do something for it.”  I decided to

pray about it and to work around the house being useful.

Maybe the Lord would be willing to work a little deal

with me.

Everything had reached a new low when Father called me

in for a personal talk.  I didn’t like these sessions because I

never knew whether Father was going to give me a “straight

from the shoulder”, a “father to son”, a “one equal to

another”, or a “man-to-man”.  But Father surprised me;

this was good news.

“You’ve worked hard around the house this week,” he

said.  “What’s more, you’ve tried earnestly to be a writer.

You’ve studied it, read about it, and you’ve written.  Your

school-work hasn’t been brilliant, but you’ve tried.”  Then

he handed me his good tan suit.  “You’re not quite as big as

I am yet,” he said, “but you’re big enough to wear my good

suit for graduation.”

I was nearly as tall as Father, and if the trousers were

pulled up high by suspenders, it wouldn’t be too bad.  I’d

rattle around inside the coat a bit, but at least it was a suit.

“Gee, Father,” I said.  “Thanks.”

“Take it over to the tailor’s right away and have it cleaned

and pressed.  It’s my best suit, so try not to get any spots on

it.  And keep off the fences.”

I was at the tailor’s in five minutes, and I asked him to

clean it and press it.  I don’t know how I happened to say

the next thing.  Something came over me.  An echo seemed

to come out of nowhere, and in my own voice it said, “And

while I’m here, take it in a little.  Tighten the waist, take in

the coat, and shorten the cuffs and sleeves.”

It wasn’t until I was nearly home that I snapped out of it

and realized what I’d done.  My head told me to hurry back

and cancel the instructions.  My heart said, “Betty Miller

will think you’re slicker if your pants aren’t dragging on the

floor.”

I told Ella about the “evil spirit” that had seized me.  We

both agreed that it would be better to be seized by “evil

spirits” than by Father, although it looked as though my

chances of being seized by both were pretty good.

Needless to say, I graduated in Father’s suit.  I didn’t even

mind Wallace Murray wise-cracking about it in front of

Betty Miller.

“Hey, Sears!  Isn’t that your old man’s suit?”

“Used to be,” I told him, “but I grew into it.  No use

wearing those kids clothes if you’re a man.”  Betty Miller

gave me real big eyes, so I tightened up the shoulders with

my muscles.  It didn’t show, but I felt it inside, and said,

“Pity I’m growing out of it so soon.”

The day of judgement arrived the next Sunday morning

at nine o’clock when I was playing “one old cat” with four

guys in the empty lot across from Hickey’s and I heard

another voice that seemed to come out of nowhere.  It was

so loud that if I’d been way down by Juneau Park I’d have

heard it.  It said:

“William!”

He was standing on our front porch in his tan suit.  Well,

not in it exactly.  Ella said later that Father looked like Friar

Tuck in Rumpelstiltskin’s pyjamas.

“You called me, Father?” I asked, clomping up the porch

steps and hoping it was the hot weather that made his face

so red and the veins stick out.

“Do you notice anything?” he whispered softly.

“Gee whiz Did you leave your suit out in the rain or

where it was damp or anything?”

Father gave me his finger.  He pointed to my bedroom.

“Up!” he said.

CHAPTER 13

THREE PRIZE-WINNING PLAYS, BUT NOT

A CENT FOR CIGARETTES

I graduated from high school a few years later, in my own

suit.  I went to the University of Wisconsin long enough to

become a freshman cheer-leader and earn a white-and-

cardinal sweater which helped me hitch-hike home at week-

ends to Milwaukee.  I had won a gold basketball as a forward

in high school, and I expected to be a sensational college

star, but the coach, Doc Meanwell, and eight guys over six

feet seven cooled off my ardour.  I waited on table and

washed dishes for my meals and stoked a furnace for my

room.  I ushered at the Capitol Theatre for spending money.

It was a hard life of self-sacrifice, but I think I can honestly

say that I never enjoyed anything less.  In no time at all I was

back in Milwaukee.

The “great depression” had begun.  Everyone in the

family was out of work; we had no income, no cash reserve,

and no food.  So I hurried home from university to help the

family starve.

I wore out a pair of my father’s shoes looking for work

before I landed a job with an oil company, using the typing

and shorthand I’d learned in high school.  The company

went bankrupt three weeks after I joined it (through no

fault of mine).  Things went from bad to worse, but in 1933,

that was a short trip.

One night in bed, I totalled up my personal balance sheet

to see if I could discover the reason for all this suffering

which was being visited upon me.  I drew a line down the

middle of the sheet of paper and listed the ugly facts, as

follows:

I began to read the Bible again.  But for a very different

reason.  I couldn’t afford a Frank Merriwell story, or a

Sherlock Holmes novel.  In fact, I would have preferred the

green-sheet of the Milwaukee Journal, but we couldn’t afford

even the pennies.  But we did have a Bible.

I took quite a fancy to Jonah.  He began to feel like a

brother.  I wasn’t even sure that I wanted to find out what

my dream meant any longer.  Jonah kept hearing the voice

of God telling him to “Go to Nineveh!”  I kept thinking of

the dream that urged me to keep on searching for something

wonderful and beautiful.  I began to offer the same excuses

that Jonah gave.  I guess every man has his own Nineveh

and his own reasons for not going where he should go.

“This is my busiest season.”

“I will later, just you wait.  I’m making my plans now.”

“Why not send Jonathan?  He’s very saintly looking and

much holier than I am and has long hair, and people will

listen to him.”

“As soon as I make a lot of money and am rich I’ll go and

take the town by storm.  You’ll see.”

We were now at the bottom of the Depression.  I knew,

because Washington had been telling us so for three years.

We were always hearing on the radio about some financier or

business-man who had thrown himself to death from the

fifteenth floor of some building.  Father said he’d do it him-

self, only he was so weak from hunger that he couldn’t

climb up high enough to do himself any damage.

For more than two years I never had more than twenty-

five cents in cash in my pocket.  I never saw a movie, never

rode in a street-car or bus, never ate an ice-cream cone or

drank a soda.

For Thanksgiving-Day dinner, 1932, we had three

wienies, two slices of dried rye bread, and a gingerbread

cake that Mother had made.  Father, Ella, and I had made

the rounds of all our neighbours borrowing ingredients.

The cake fell in the middle because none of us could really

believe it was in the oven and we kept looking to see if it

was still there, and nudging each other in glee.  Father said

philosophically that if the whole country could sink into a

Depression, there was no reason why the cake shouldn’t.

“Besides,” he said, “it makes such a wonderful place for

the whipped cream.”

Mother began to laugh.  The whipped cream did it.

Father had just milked the last two drops out of a tin of

condensed milk, and I had to water the tin for my tea.

Father sharpened the big carving-knife, and with great

ceremony made breast, wings, and drumstick out of the first

wienie.  Father held the drumstick aloft.

“We must caution Francois, the chef, that if he doesn’t

baste the turkey more carefully we’ll throw him into the

moat.  What do you say, Queen Ethel?”

Mother said, “Pass the piece of wienie.”

Father was hurt.  “You have no soul, woman.  That is the

breast of a ring-necked pheasant, shot this very twilight just

as the sun went down behind the preserve outside our castle.”

In the preserve outside the Sears’s one-roomed castle there

were two garbage cans, empty; a coaster wagon with the

right rear wheel off; an old Chevvy body with no tyres and

no motor; one roller-skate; and a broken-down easy-chair

with all the springs showing.

When the meal was over Father smacked his lips cheerfully

and said, “Now let’s all commit suicide.”

I wrote to Grandfather and said I hoped things were all

right with him in the country.  My letter must have sounded

sad, for in a few days I received an answer which made it

plain that he didn’t like the tone of my letter.  I could picture

him clearly, sitting on the oats-box, working on Beauty’s

harness while I stuffed the hay down into the mangers.  I

could hear his voice coming up from the letter in front of me.

“It doesn’t matter what’s on the table, son, but who’s at

the table.  Nobody loves the William Sears that has a job

and money and fine clothes.  Nobody.  Neither your mother

nor father nor friends—not even your old grandfather.

They love the qualities you possess.  The kindness, the

gentleness, the justice, the courage, the generosity—this is

what they love.  And as these things grow in you, their love

for you becomes greater.  And if you lose these qualities

their love begins to wither and die.  Anybody can be happy

when everything is going fine, but it takes nobility to be

happy when things are difficult.

“Quit worrying about the Depression.  Write about it.

It’ll make a lot better poem than ‘the bar, the sawdust, and

five cent beer’.”  By the way, Wallace Murray is still in

Green’s Drug Store.  He’s in charge of the fountain now.

“If you still don’t get what I’m driving at, take two half-

dollars and put them one over each eye.  What can you see?

Nothing.  That’s what silver does to the inner sight, too, if

you become too fond of it.

“That was a joke about taking half-dollars, son.  Try

nickels.  Things are pretty pinched here, too.  However,

your grandmother is now raising her own vegetables.  She’s

turned out to have a green thumb.  Sometimes it tastes like

she’s cooked the thumb in the vegetables.  But we have all

we need.

“I’ve sold Tropical and Dakar and the team of greys.

There’s just three of us left here at the barn now ... Beauty,

Prince, and your old Grandfather.”

I was able to sum up Grandfather’s letter in two words:

“Shut up.”

I took his advice, I wrote about the Depression.  Instead

of a poem, I wrote my first play.  I finished it in one night,

and before dawn I had used up our last fifteen sheets of

writing-paper, seven broken-open brown-paper bags, and

the inside of twelve envelopes.  It was one-act.  I called it,

Dad Cashes In.  It was about our own one-room house.

The next night after dinner (sic), I read it to the family.

They all liked it, but each one felt that I hadn’t handled his

or her particular part quite rightly, each member of the

family thinking that his or her part needed softening and

lengthening.  That night I re-wrote the entire play and

hardened and shortened; then I sent it away to a professor

at the university.

A few days later I received a letter and a package.  The

letter said that the professor had entered my play in a play-

writing contest and that I had won the first prize, which was

in the package:  it was a plaque with a gold scroll.

Father hung the plaque on the wall.  “It’s a fine thing,

son,” he said.  “What a pity you can’t eat it.”

Six weeks later I received another letter asking if it would

be possible for me to enter the play in a production contest

at the University of Wisconsin in Madison.  My friend Eddie

Mandick owned an automobile, so we offered him the part

of the detective if he’d drive us to Madison the night of the

contest.  Father played the father, Mother the mother, my

sister the sister, her boy-friend the boy-friend, our landlord

the landlord, and I played the son.

The play won the contest, and Father won the outstanding

acting award for his characterization of the Irish father.  He

said later that it wasn’t hard, as he had been playing an

Irish father for over forty-five years.

A Mr. George from the Dramatic Publishing Company in

Chicago had seen the play.  He offered me one hundred

dollars for it.

So it was no longer necessary for me to look for work.

I was a writer.  Eddie Mandick brought me a few reams of

newsprint from the circulation department of the Journal,

and I was in business.  I never entered the family arguments

any more.  I would merely raise my arm in an Olympian

gesture for silence, point significantly at my writing-pad,

and shake my head.  “Please ...”  This was to be the first

of three prize-winning plays.

Father was quite upset when he heard that my new play

was about Grandfather.

“The first thing you know,” he told Mother, “he’ll want

Grandpa Wagner to play Grandpa Wagner, and Grandma

Wagner to play Grandma Wagner, and they’re too old for

the trip.  Where’s my hat?”

Father kissed Mother on the cheek and turned to me in

the doorway:  “If anybody asks for me, tell them they’ll find

me behind the cigar store scrounging around the dirty alleys

like the common beachcomber I am.  I found four empty

soda-water bottles there last Friday, and if I can do it again

we may have cup cakes for dessert.  Dear God! where will

it all end?”

CHAPTER 14

RADIO WRITER, OR DO YOU WANT THE

SCRIPT GOOD OR DO YOU WANT IT ON

THURSDAY?

In the next few years I wrote and published nine one-act

plays.  I was married and had two sons, William Bernard

Patrick Michael Terence the eighth and Michael Thomas.

My wife, Kathleen, was a very lovely, gentle, and courageous

girl.  She became seriously ill following Michael’s birth, and

both she and the boy were in hospital for many long

months.

That was the beginning of a bleak period during which

I wrote a play called The Black Harvest.  It reflected my mood,

as well as that of many of my fellow countrymen in those

days, when it was a grim task to keep from feeling sorry for

oneself.

A talented musician friend who never had the oppor-

tunity to fulfil his promise said, “The dice rolled craps for

this generation.”  Born on the eve of the First World War,

primary-schooled during the War and the depression that

followed, high-schooled during the roaring ‘twenties,

launched into careers with the market crash and the great

Depression, and established just in time to give up every-

thing for a part in the Second World War, they did not feel

themselves the envy of history.  They felt rather like the

horse in a race which I broadcast one summer.  A chestnut

colt named Left Bank, running over ten furlongs, was left

at the post, hit on the head by a shoe cast by another

runner, pocketed on the bend, stumbled in the stretch, his

jockey lost his whip, and the saddle slipped.  It took a good

horse to finish at all in the circumstances.

When I finally landed the job which I thought would

make it financially possible for me to bring the family

together again, Kathleen died and Michael was placed in a

sanatorium.  According to the doctors, he would have to

stay there for several years.

I wrote each day for twelve to eighteen hours, but still I

couldn’t keep from thinking.  One of my plays, Gillis Is

Dead, won a big award but very little cash.  Another was

selected to be placed in The Yearbook of Best Play.  I sent a

copy of it to Grandfather.  A telegram came back im-

mediately.  I thought, “How proud the old man must be

of me.”  In fact, at that moment, I was pretty proud of

me.

The telegram read:  “Look out!  You may drop the

torch.”

Grandfather was right.  Only his tense was wrong; I had

dropped the torch.  I was lost in the valley of darkness along

with everyone else.  I was being pushed farther and farther

away from my dream each day, and more and more into a

world that cared very little about the things of the spirit.

When I was not writing I would sit on the sands at Bradford

Beach and watch the whitecaps race in and prostrate them-

selves.

If only they would deposit a little wisdom at my feet.

Frequently I would close my eyes and try to recall the

wonder of my dream.  I hungered for the sound of that

melodious voice which had spoken to me so long ago.

I was playing pinochle one night at a friend’s house, when

the telephone rang.  A young man named Godfrey at Radio

Station WOMT in Manitowoc was offering me a job.  He

was a radio announcer.  Now I, too, thanks to his kindness,

was going to be the same.  How are the mighty fallen!

The night before I left for Manitowoc I took a warm bath,

scrubbed myself immaculate, put on clean pyjamas, and

crawled in between white sheets hoping that I might dream

my dream once more.  I awakened from a dreamless slumber

just in time to catch my train.  I sat in the North-Western

passenger coach as it roared along the shores of Lake

Michigan, burrowed under Prospect Avenue, and wriggled

its way through Whitefish Bay, thinking, my dream is gone

forever.  The clicking of the wheels seemed to say:  “Kiss it

goodbye!  Kiss it goodbye!  Kiss it goodbye!”

I began my radio career at WOMT the very next day.  My

first greeting from the Chief Announcer was a bit of advice:

“Radio announcers are a dime a dozen.  You may last a

week.  Keep your vowels open and you’ll be all right.”

WOMT is now a fine, modern, successful station, but in

those early days it was a struggling child.  The studios were

over a butcher’s shop, and the transmitter was upstairs

behind the Mikado Theatre a few doors away.

On the days when they smoked sausage in the butcher’s

shop downstairs the smoke would seep up through the

floor and cling to your shoes.  Gradually it sneaked its way

up your leg.  If you worked until noon you were flavoured

to your knees.  If you worked until night you were aromatic

to the waist.  I broadcast the news every hour on the hour

from early morning until midnight, so I smelled like a butt

of braunschweiger from head to toe.  When I walked home,

dogs would come out of doorways to sniff hopefully at my

shoes.

The announcers always identified their clothes by the

fragrance of the particular sausage which had been smoked

during the last time they had worn them.  Before a big

function, such as the Aluminium Workers Picnic, you would

be asked, “What are you going to wear, Bill?  Your big

baloney, or your summer sausage gabardine?”

One night when I was interviewing the mayor he looked

across the microphone disapprovingly, sniffed the air, and

said, “You belong between two slabs of pumpernickel.”

In a period of a few years, I worked at WOMT in

Manitowoc, WHBL in Sheboygan, WKBB in Dubuque,

KUTA, KSL and KDYL in Salt Lake City, KFBK in

Sacramento, KPO in San Francisco, WPEN and WCAU

in Philadelphia, and finally WCAU-Television and CBS-

Television.

In one of my daily assignments To-day at the Legislature, I

learned at first hand what Socrates had meant when he said,

“Oh, men of Athens!  If I had followed politics, I would

have died long before this, and been of no value to you or to

myself.”  I could still hear my Civics Teacher at West High

clicking his teeth.  “Politics is the degenerate son of an

illustrious father, Statesmanship.”

One year there was a savage political campaign for the

election of a new Water Commissioner, the incumbent being

accused of putting oil in the supply.  No one would drink

from the studio bubbler for a week.  If one of the an-

nouncers accidentally took a sip he would stagger drama-

tically across the floor, sink to his knees, stiffen out on the

carpet, and moan loudly, “Send for the Water Commis-

sioner!”

One morning the sports commentator came to me and

said, “You want to be a sports announcer?”

“Sure.”

“You start to-night.  I’m going to open up a saloon.  I can

make more in one month selling ‘schnaps’ than I can make

here in a year.”  He was right, too, except that it only took

him a week.

Thus, on sheer talent, I found myself that night broad-

casting my first baseball game.  It was the championship

bout in the American Legion tournament, our home team

against a club from a Polish town in Northern Wisconsin.

Their lead-off batter was named Borczyzikowski, but the

rest of the names were difficult.  I asked their manager to

send someone up to help me pronounce the names correctly.

However, my “spotter” was hit by a foul ball just as he sat

down beside me, and they carried him away and left me with

Borczyzikowski.

In the entertainment business I have always been told that

“the show must go on”, although no one has ever told me

why.  The game was already starting, so having to use some

names for their line-up, I put in all my relatives.  I started

my brother-in-law Johnnie Kriofske at third.  He fitted.

My uncle Cliff Wagner played centre-field, my cousin Art

Sears was at second, my uncle Duffy in right, and so on.

Unfortunately, my eighty-five-year-old grandfather pitched

a two-hit shut-out!

The manager of the radio station was nice about it though.

He didn’t put me through the mill at all.  Simply, with a

good-natured laugh, he said, “You’re fired!”

A month later I was in hospital with yellow jaundice, my

eyes like two egg-yokes.  Grandfather kept my spirits up by

writing me an amusing letter.  He was quite pleased to learn

that he had pitched a winning game.  “No wonder I’ve been

feeling tired,” he said.

Grandfather knew a lot about being sick.  He’d broken

his left hip twice and his right hip once.  He’d been kicked

by horses in the stomach, the shoulder, the shins, the knee,

and the head.  He’d had lumbar, pleural, and bronchial

pneumonia.  Grandma said that she looked forward to

Grandfather’s pneumonia as she did to spring and the first

robin.

The old man was always using up left-over medicine, no

matter to whom it belonged.  He said it had cost good

money, and it was a shame to waste it.  It never harmed him,

except once when he slept for thirty-seven hours.  He said

he needed the rest, anyway.  I thought he had finally learned

his lesson when he took the cat’s worm-pills by mistake, and

vomited for three days.

“For heaven’s sake, Grandfather,” I said, “didn’t that

cure you?”

He said, “I didn’t have worms.”

Father always said that if Grandfather hadn’t been sick all

his life no one would have been able to put up with him; his

illnesses were a protection for society.

His letter helped me to get over jaundice in a hurry.  I was

a little disappointed that he hadn’t mentioned my dream.

No one in the family ever talked about it any more.  Even

Mother dismissed it.  She said perhaps she’d been wrong,

and I hadn’t been as young as they’d thought when I’d first

had the dream.  Father was no longer nervous when I talked

with him, because I never mentioned God any more.  Mostly

I asked for two dollars until pay-day.  I think it pleased him

that the things he had always thought unnatural in me had

vanished.

“Thank the Lord, he’s outgrown it,” I heard him tell

Mother one day.

Somehow, to me, it seemed a pity.  I had lost an inward

glow that had warmed my most difficult and wintry years,

and I no longer felt like one of the Knights of the Round

Table in search of the Holy Grail.  I was an average, un-

happy, unfulfilled human being like everyone else; get up, go

to work, go to bed, die.

One morning as I watched the sun make a merry red can-

vas of the sky over Lake Michigan I said to myself, “Either

there is a God or there isn’t.  If there isn’t, then all of this

doesn’t matter; we’re just worms who come up and live a

few hours in the sun and perish.  But if there is a God and

we have souls, all our accent is wrong.”

I explained it all patiently one day to Larry Jannis over a

game of billiards.  He thought about it a moment and then

said, “Are you feeling all right?”

I elaborated.

“Look, Larry.  It’s like this.  There’s mineral, vegetable,

and animal kingdoms, but they’re all unconscious.  They

don’t know or worry about the purpose of life.  We men

know and think and are conscious.  We can’t be happy just

living for the body day to day, we have to use our minds.

Also we live by different laws and have a different set of

values than the unconscious creatures.  Things like humility,

forbearance, sacrifice for others, forgiveness, and gentleness

are supposed to be higher than animal qualities, but life

doesn’t let you develop them.  You get nowhere with them

in the twentieth century.  But what have we got left that

endures if we haven’t got these things?  See what I

mean?”

“It’s your shot,” he said.  “See if you can get the eight-

ball in the side pocket.”

I missed, and wondered if my thinking had missed, too.

But if I was right, then as human beings we had the wrong

slant on life.  Having now reached the stage in evolution in

which we could apprehend spiritual values, we should now

be developing the spiritual side of our nature.  Instead, we

were still clinging to physical values, more animal than

human.

I didn’t object to all the wonders of inventive man, only

to the emphasis.  We were spending millions for liquor while

thousands were hungry for milk.  Endless cars sped off

assembly lines while thousands didn’t have a home to live in.

We were a profit-making society instead of a welfare-

producing society.  Why?  When we should be both.

It wasn’t enough to get up, go to work, go to bed, die.

And I was tired of chasing the horizon, for the faster I

hurried towards it, the quicker it fled from me.  I was certain

that somehow, somewhere, I was passing up something

which was a lot more important than anything I was racing

so hard to catch.

That’s when I met Marguerite.

CHAPTER 15

LOVE FLIES IN AND OUT OF THE

WINDOW

Joe Mulligan first called my attention to her.  Joe was

our Broadcasting House expert in these matters.  Some men

have a green thumb; Joe had a green complexion.  He spent

every night singing in the Silver Slipper night-club.  His

voice was better than Uncle Duffy’s, but not much.  He got

no pay for his singing, but he could have all the drinks he

wanted.  Of course, there wasn’t time enough in one night

for what Joe wanted, but he tried.

His landlady had locked him out of his room, so he was

sleeping on the studio floor with his clothes hung carelessly

over the various standing microphones.  This embroiled

him in a feud with the cleaning lady, who objected to

working around him with her vacuum cleaner.  One morn-

ing during my Dawn Patrol programme they had a vicious

battle.  Mulligan accused her evil machine of sucking up his

only pair of good black socks, the ones without a single hole

in them.  She complained to the Manager, and Mulligan was

ordered not to sleep on the studio floor again.  I felt sorry

for him after that, as I could see how uncomfortable he was

on the piano.

Mulligan was a strange mixture of courage and fear.  He

had great courage with the fair sex, and great fear that

poverty would remove that pleasure from him.  I was

always astounded that Joe had enough strength left to

admire the girls.  He was a good announcer, but he would

have been a better pharmacist.

Hypo Joe, we called him.  He was a hypochondriac’s

hypochondriac.  His fountain-pen set included a thermo-

meter.  He took his pulse every hour on the hour, and had

more spells than the wicked witch of the West.  Mulligan

had pills, mouth-washes, astringents, bandages, salves, oils,

and elixirs for every emergency.  He had a special remedy for

every imaginary ailment.  The Chief Engineer saw to it that

Mulligan had plenty of ailments.  He would read to Joe from

the medical journal, calling his attention to obscure items

and rare diseases.  By nightfall, Joe would come down with

all the symptoms.

During the day, he kept the studio so clean that you could

eat off the floor.  However, once the sun went down and he

reached the Silver Slipper, Mulligan became as relaxed and

sloppy as wet seaweed.  He was a daytime Jekyll and a night-

time Hyde.

As soon as he sobered up in the morning he would air

out the seat-cushion, open all the windows, rinse out the

mouthpiece of the telephone with an antiseptic, and wash

his hands every time he finished opening the mail.  The

Chief Engineer said that if Lady Macbth had known

Mulligan, she would never have spoken the lines, “Will these

hands ne’er be clean?”

The only thing that could make Mulligan forget his health

and his miseries during the day was a beautiful girl.  If she

was only attractive he would prefer to spray his throat;

but if she was really gorgeous he seemed to undergo a

miraculous cure.  He would quote Shelley and Keats and

the odds on himself for taking her out to lunch that very

day.

Therefore I was not without interest on the morning he

suddenly overcame an acute attack of Chief-Engineer-in-

duced yellow fever, and said to me, “Did you see that vision

of loveliness that just walked into Studio A?”

I looked.  I saw a young lady who was exactly the kind of

girl you’d like to take somewhere to make your girl jealous.

Ripe-wheat hair, robin’s-egg blue eyes, perfect teeth, a head-

turning figure, and a smile that completely took away all

your noble ideas about not becoming interested.  You felt as

though someone had just turned on all the lights on a

Christmas tree.

There were five of us watching her through the big studio

window during the interview.  When she finished we all

turned expectantly to Mulligan.  We looked to him as our

expert in these matters, and we awaited his description and

classification.

He took out his white-gold cigarette-case (which the

Collection Agency had inquired about the day before), saw

it was empty, borrowed one from me and filled his case

while he was about it, then made it clear to us just how much

sheer poetry this explanation would require.

“There are some girls,” he said dreamily “with whom you

become infatuated.  There are some with whom you become

great pals.”  He encircled himself in a cloud of my smoke.

“There are still others whom you cherish, adore, and marry.

This one,” he said, “is all three.”

Mulligan then knocked his ashes off on my shoes and

asked for my opinion.  It was meant to be sarcasm.  Mulligan

claimed that my approach to women was about as fresh and

modern as “z3-skidoo!”

Drawing upon long-unused and hidden resources, I said,

“Her eyes are stolen from the skies above; her lips are

cherries that the bluebirds love.”

Mulligan was a good loser.  He walked over and raised

my hand above my head.  “The champ!” he declared.  Then

he added, “However, she’s wearing a big diamond engage-

ment ring on her left hand, so the odds I can give you

fellows on taking her to lunch to-day are three to one

instead of the usual even-money.  Not to mention the five

dollars I’ll need to borrow from Bill for the check.”

“Five dollars!” I cried, wounded.  “Where are you taking

her, Chicago?”

“We mustn’t forget the wine must we?” he explained

patiently.  “And I think a cherry brandy liqueur to finish.”

I looked in my wallet.  “All I’ve got is five dollars.”

He extracted it neatly.

“No price is too high to pay to see a craftsman at

work.”

Just then she came out of the studio, and somehow the

room was brighter.  Mulligan moved right in like a convoy

destroyer picking up its charge.

“Baby,” he said, taking her arm, “you and I are now

going to drift into a world of new wonders.”

Suddenly the two robin’s-eggs turned eagle-eye cold.

“We are drifting to the elevator,” she said, “but only one

of us is going down.”

I whispered to the Chief Engineer, “I’ll give you seven to

one against.”

Mulligan, however, didn’t even feel the arctic blast.  He

waved his hand to me and said, airily, “Bill, take my next

two broadcasts.  This divinity and I are going to lunch

within the gates of paradise.”  He manoeuvred her skilfully

to the elevator.  “Before we descend to the lobby,” he

assured her, “I shall have given you countless reasons why

your life has just begun this day.”

I gave Mulligan credit for one thing, he was a gutsy little

beggar.  He seemed to have won his point, for she smiled

up at him sweetly.

“Would you mind if I suggested something which I think

would be much more fun?”

He bowed, and gave us his mission-accomplished wink.

“You name it, Lovelilocks, and it’s yours.”

“You take his programmes,” she said, pointing at me,

“and we’ll send you a nice cable from Honolulu.”

As the elevator doors closed, I could see the wounded

look in Mulligan’s eyes, a look which plainly said, “She’s

taking beer when she could have sherry.”  I knew that she

had only used me to unload Mulligan, but if I’d had time to

get my five dollars back, I might have asked her to lunch at

that.  I apologized for Joe.

“His carburettor has a rich mixture,” I said, “but he has a

good streak in him.  If you care to sink a shaft.”

She laughed.  “Are you very hungry?”

“To tell you the truth,” I admitted, “I am, but I couldn’t

buy you the toothpick on a pickled herring hors-d’œuvre.”

“We can make it dutch-treat.”

There was a little Mulligan in me, too, so I grinned, “Hi,

Dutch.”

It was the most wonderful lunch I ever ate.  I have no

recollection of the food, but her voice was Pablo Casal’s

cello.

Her name was Marguerite.  She liked Louis Armstrong’s

trumpet, the Green Bay Packets, and the medium meat sauce

at Chili John’s.

Fortunately, Louis Armstrong was playing a one-night

stand the following Saturday, and I was handling the broad-

cast.  She agreed to go with me.  I explained that I hadn’t

danced for years, and that perhaps we had better prepare for

Saturday by dining and dancing for the next three nights.

I watched her eyes make up her mind:  North Atlantic,

Bay of Naples, robin’s-egg!  With a sigh of relief, I finished

my coffee.

The boys were waiting for me when I returned to the

studio.  Mulligan had prepared them for a tale of disaster.

“Well?” he asked.

I smiled.

“Wipe that sappy grin off your face,” Joe said, “and tell

us what happened.”

I began with the voice I always used when I introduced

the old sugar-stick, Guy Lombardo:  “There are some girls

with whom you become infatuated.  There are some—–”

“Never mind that,” Mulligan interrupted.  “How did you

pay for the lunch?”

“She paid for it,” I told them, knocking my cigarette ash

off on Mulligan’s shoes.  I reclaimed my five dollars and

went off to do my sportscast humming, Just a Gigolo.

I called for Marguerite on Saturday night and I noticed at

once that she had taken off her diamond engagement ring.

While we were dancing after the broadcast I thought how

appropriate were these enchanting words which Satchmo’s

trumpet was singing:

Margie!  I’m always thinking of you, Margie.

For three days and three nights it had been true.

I’ll tell the world I love you.

Don’t forget your promise to me.

I have bought a home, a ring, and everything

Whoa!  Lothario, I warned myself.  You are the father of a

three-year-old son and a five-year-old son.  It’s all right to

build castles in the air, but don’t start living in them.

During the last waltz she said, “There’s something I want

to tell you.  It may surprise you.”

Surprise me!  Wait until I broke the news about my family

circle.  I knew that nothing she could tell me could top that.

She smiled up at me.  “Are you interested in religion?”

I nearly dropped her.  She had surprised me.

“Not at the moment,” I told her honestly.

“You will be when you hear about it,” she said cheerfully.

I doubted it.

“I knew the moment you looked through the studio

window at me that there was something important between

us.  I’ve wanted to tell you ever since.  Let’s go for a drive

and talk about it.”

We drove down to the beach.  Someone had arranged a

perfect stage-setting:  full moon, soft sands, and gentle

breakers.  We left the car-radio playing.  It was Hal Kemp

at the Drake Hotel, and Skinny Innis was tremolo-ing his

way through Night and Day.  I picked up Marguerite’s hand

and said casually, “What happened to your diamond ring?”

“Oh, that!” she said with a light laugh.  And that’s all she

ever said about it—even to this day.

I often wondered who the poor devil was, and if he were

sticking pins in a cloth doll that looked like me.  I decided

that I wasn’t being fair, and that she might want to put the

ring back when she knew, so I said bluntly, “I’ve got two

sons.”

I waited for the lava to come down from Vesuvius.

There was no eruption, but it was noticeably cooler.

“But no wife,” I added quickly.

“Boys are nice,” she said.  “I’ve always wanted five.”

I wondered if her five included my two.  It was a pleasant

thought.  Gradually I relaxed and told her all about Grand-

father, Minnesota, and my dream.  She became quite excited.

“How strange!” she said.  “That’s just about the time he

was in Minneapolis.”

“Who?”

“‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”

“Who?”

“The son of Bahá’u’lláh.”

“Oh!” I said, completely mystified, “that explains it,

there’s nothing like a frank answer to make everything

crystal clear.”

“Sorry,” she said, laughing.  “Bahá’u’lláh was the founder

of the Bahá’í Faith.”

“Name sounds oriental.”

She smiled.  “Of course.  How do you think the name

Jesus Christ sounded to the Romans?  Like John Smith?”

Just five minutes ago I had been gracefully leading up to

the subject of love and matrimony; now, suddenly, I found

myself in the middle of the New Testament.  I said to myself,

“Go slowly.  This Delilah may give you a haircut.”

I cut off the discussion by pulling her up from the sand.

“I’d better get home,” I said abruptly.  “I’ve got an early

broadcast.”

“Of course.”  Her eyes were still friendly, but hurt.

Neither of us spoke as the car skimmed along Lakeshore

Drive.  How could I explain, without hurting her feelings

that the one subject I never cared to discuss these days was

religion.  I had discussed it eagerly and enthusiastically with

everyone for years, only to get an increasingly chilly recep-

tion, and I had finally decided it would be wise to accept the

truce under which Grandfather and I were permitted to be

reunited so long ago:  “You can discuss God, but keep the

churches out of it.”

I had patiently investigated every religion, sect, and cult

and belief I could find in both the East and the West.

Originally, I had hoped to discover something somewhere

which would lead me to that wonderful figure in my dream,

or at least explain the meaning of it.  I searched in vain, and

with diminishing interest, until at last I was “up to here”

with religion.  I gave up.

For three years I had not mentioned my dream to anyone.

To-night was the first time, and I had spoken of it to

Marguerite only because I wanted her to know all about me

before I asked her to marry me.

The night was reflecting my mood.  The moon withdrew

and took cover behind dark clouds.  Soon it began to rain.

I turned on the wipers.  They swished monotonously back

and forth, and each time they did, I was mentally saying,

“Damn!”

I lit a cigarette.  Without reason there flashed into my

mind Grandfather’s words the day he had brought a doctor

to see me for the first time.  I had insisted on playing with

Jimmy Middleton even if he did have mumps.  Grandfather

said, “No.”  I sneaked in the Middleton’s back door and was

ordered out of the house.  I put a ladder against the house

and crawled up into Jimmy’s bedroom.  We played three

games of checkers.  He lost, but he got even with me later.

My cheeks soon blew out like the mainsail on a galleon.

When Grandfather brought the doctor into my room, he

said, “I’d like you to meet my pig-headed grandson.”

Was I being pig-headed now?  I couldn’t help it.  I pulled

the car up in front of Marguerite’s driveway.

“I’m sorry,” I said.

“It doesn’t matter.  You keep the car until morning.”

“No, thanks,” I said stiffly.  “I like to walk in the rain.”

“I’ll get you a raincoat.”

“Don’t bother.”

“Wait here,” she insisted.  “Please.” She ran quickly up

the steps.  She came back without a raincoat, but she put a

book in my hands.  “Read this,” she told me.  “I think

you’ll find something in it which will surprise you very

much.”

In spite of my coolness, she was behaving as though

nothing had happened.  Her eyes were warm and bright

with some inner happiness.  She looked so tempting that I

forgot my mood and leaned forward to kiss her.

“Not to-night,” she said.  “I’m too excited about your

reading the book.”  Then she leaned over and kissed me

anyway and ran back up the stairs.

That undeserved kiss warmed me all the way home, but

it didn’t keep me dry.  My state of detachment can best be

judged by my words when I realized that I was soaking wet.

I stopped suddenly in the doorway and said, “Great Scott!

What have I done with the raincoat she gave me?”

I tossed the book on the bed and got into my pyjamas.  I

made a dill-pickle-and-rench-bread sandwich and a cup of

strong black coffee.  As I crawled into bed the book fell on

to the floor.  I had forgotten about it.  I picked it up and

began to thumb through it.

It was a record of the public talks given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

during his visit to America from the Holy Land before the

First World War.

Inside the fly-leaf there was a tribute to Bahá’u’lláh by

Leo Tolstoy, who had written:  “The whole world is seeking

the solution to its problems.  There is a prisoner in ‘Akká,

Bahá’u’lláh, who has the key.”

“All right,” I said to myself sceptically, “let’s see.”

I began to read.  It was about two o’clock when I found

out why Marguerite had become so excited when I men-

tioned my boyhood dream.  I felt a stab-like thrill myself as

I turned one of the pages and saw the date:  September 20,

1912.

It was the very day and year of my first dream!

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, had spoken in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on

that day.  He had been speaking only a short distance away

from the little town in which I had lived and dreamed.  I

read the words of his talk very carefully.  There was some-

thing vaguely familiar about them.  He warned mankind to

investigate the truth for themselves, and not to follow in the

footsteps of those who accepted all things blindly.

I closed my eyes, and I could see our old living-room with

the green velvet drapes, the faded wallpaper, and the thread-

bare sofa.  Father put down his morning paper, picked me

up, and put me astraddle his toe.  I was a cock-horse and he

was going to ride me to Banbury Cross.

“The man came last night,” I told him.

Father laughed.  “Who came?”

“The man.”

“What man?”

“In my dream.”

I got off before Banbury Cross.  Father was upset.

“Ethel!” he called.  “He’s at it again.”

Mother hurried in.  “What’s wrong?”

Father was already putting on his coat.  “He’s seen that

man in a light in his dream again.”

Mother picked me up tenderly and kissed me.  “Of course,

he has.”  She hugged me to her.  “We all have nasty bad

dreams.”

“It was a good dream,” I told her.

“What did the man look like?”

“I don’t know.”

“What did he say?”

“He said, ‘Don’t follow in their footsteps’.”

Mother put me down.  Father turned in the doorway.

“Thank God I work in an underground mine and don’t

have to come back up until it’s dark.”

The next morning Father was shaving when I came into

the bathroom.

“What’s my name?” I asked him.

We had often played this game before.  “Your name,” he

said, “is William Bernard Patrick Michael Terence Sears.”

“Then why did he call me Peter?”

“Who?”

“The man.”

“What man?”

“The man who came in my dream.”

Father cut his chin with the razor.  “Ethel!”

Mother appeared from nowhere.  She was very patient

with me.

“Are you sure he called you Peter, dear?”

I nodded.  “He said, ‘Fish, like Peter.’”

Father went to work that morning with his face half-

shaved.  He told Mother to take me to a doctor before he

came home.

I put Marguerite’s book down, got up, and made another

cup of coffee.  Then I began to read once more.  Later that

same day, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had spoken in St. Paul, just across

the river.  He called upon mankind to be like the “fisherman

Peter” in their unwavering faith, and to fish energetically

for the souls of men.

Be like Peter!

I put the book down.  Suddenly, I was very wide awake.

CHAPTER 16

VIRTUOUS MISERS, GENEROUS BACK-

BITERS, AND FRIENDLY THIEVES!

I tried calling Marguerite first thing in the morning,

but there was no answer.  I knew she listened each day to my

early morning record session, so I tried to pass along a

message to her through the music.

I played:

1.  Margie.

2.  Everybody Loves My Marguerite.

3.  Marguerita, My Marguerita.

4.  Forgive Me.

5.  I’m Sorry I Made You Cry.

I hadn’t made her cry, I’d made her laugh, but I knew she’d

recognize the apology if she were listening.  About ten

o’clock I received a telegram:

ALL IS FORGIVEN.  HOPE YOU ENJOY THE BOOK.  LOVE.  M.

I called her at once.  No answer.  I drove over at noon.  I

wanted to get another book and to apologize in person.

Her room-mate answered the door when I knocked at the

apartment.

“Marguerite’s not here,” she said.

“Where is she?”

“She drove to the Bahá’í school.”

“Where is the school?”

“Which one?”

“For heaven’s sake, how many are there?”

“There’s one in Maine, one in Michigan, one in Colorado,

and one in California.”

“Which one did she go to?”

“I don’t know.”

I could tell that she did know, but had specific instructions

to let me dangle.  I deserved it, so I didn’t press the point.

She invited me in for a cup of tea, and told me that Mar-

guerite would be back in a month.  Our half-hour together

was an eye-opener.  A month ago I had been the Master of

Ceremonies at a University banquet for a group of scientists

following the first underwater explosion of the atomic bomb

in the Bikini Atoll.  Someone had answered my query about

relativity.

“See that very bald-headed doctor at the end of the

table?”

“Yes.”

“You’d say he had very few hairs, wouldn’t you?”

“Very few indeed.”

“But if you found five of those hairs in this soup you’d

say, ‘There’s a helluva lot of hair in this soup.’  Right?

That’s relativity.”

Twenty-four hours ago I had not heard of the Bahá’í

Faith.  Now I discovered that there were Bahá’ís in every

country and every island of the sea and schools all over the

place.

Marguerite’s room-mate handed me a book.  There was a

very amused expression on her face.  “Marguerite left this

for you.  She said you’d be calling for it.”

The little devil!

“How do you know I’m the right one?” I asked.

Her room-mate smiled.  “Well, you’re not quite as tall,

nor quite as dark, nor quite as handsome—but you’re the

one all right.”

When she opened the door to let me out she said, “Is it

the book or the robin’s-egg blue eyes you’re really interested

in?”

I blushed.  She laughed.  “The ‘eyes’ have it.”

I told her honestly.  “It was one hundred per cent robin’s-

egg to begin, but now it’s about fifty-fifty.”

I finished the book that night.  I discussed it with Mulligan

the next day at lunch.  He said:

“Please!  Not while I’m eating.”

I didn’t receive much encouragement from any of my

friends.

“I thought you said you were ‘up to here’ with religion?”

“Not with religion,” I explained, “but with what’s been

done to religion.”

“Write me a nice report, but don’t hurry.  I came out for

the golf, not the gospel.  Hand me my nine iron.”

I handed him a seven, and he overshot.  Served him right.

One of my closest personal friends (“for your own good,

Bill”) told me confidentially, “Forget it.  You’ve got a good

job and a couple of nice kids.  What more do you want?

Why get mixed up in this?  What’s there in it for you, Bill?

It just doesn’t make sense.”

I decided to go to the horse’s mouth.  I invited a well-

known figure in the church to dinner.  Over cigars, I asked

him to tell me frankly what he knew about the Bahá’í Faith.

It was pretty clear to me that what he knew about it you

could put in an envelope and mail to Singapore for two

cents, but the atmosphere became as chilled as the wine.  He

not only belittled it, but looked upon me with supreme pity,

as though he wondered who had moved all the things out of

my attic.

Suddenly I was a little boy again, hopping along bare-

footed in the dirty road, making “dinosaur” tracks to

Grandfather’s barn.  I decided to fly up on pay-day and talk

it over with the old man.

I walked into the barn and sat down on the oats-box.

Grandfather was just feeding fat old Prince.  He saw me all

right, but didn’t say anything.  It was as though I’d never

left home.  Finally, he looked around.

“Don’t sit there like a cigar-store Indian,” he said,

“there’s horses to be fed.”

I scooped up a measure of grain and took it into Beauty’s

stall.  She knew me, and let me rub her nose.  After we had

fed, watered, and bedded-down the horses we went back to

sit on the oats-box.  We sat silently for some time while

Grandfather bored a new hole in Beauty’s halter.

“Get it off your chest,” he said.

I told him the whole story.  When I finished with the part

about the cold reception I’d had from my friend in the

church he began to chuckle.

“Never ask Nimrod about Abraham,” he said, “nor

Pharaoh about Moses, nor the Pharisees about Christ, nor

the Cubs about the White Sox.”

Grandfather was quite interested in Bahá’u’lláh.  He

wanted to know more about him.  I told him what little I

knew:  that the Bahá’í Faith began in Persia in 1844 and that

Bahá’u’lláh apparently was an Oriental.

Grandfather lowered his glasses and looked up at me

strangely.

“Do I detect a slightly superior angle to that western nose

of yours?” he asked.  “What do you think Christ was, an

American Indian?”

Grandfather and Marguerite had a lot in common.

“Persia is a Muslim country,” I said.  “I think that’s why

everybody shied off when I talked with them.  They thought

it must be a sect of Islám.”

“I’m trembling all over with fear,” Grandfather replied,

trying the buckle in the new hole in the halter.  While he

was fitting the halter on Beauty, he let me have it straight.

“Buddha was an Indian prince, but for centuries his faith

was said to be a sect of Hinduism because he grew up in

a Hindu country.  Christ was a Jew, and for centuries

people still thought of his faith as a sect of Judaism.” He

came back to the oats-box.  “Did you know that the first

fifteen bishops of the Christian Church were circumcised

Jews?”

“You read too much,” I told him.

“It keeps me from thinking a name is strange just because

it’s new to me,” he said.

He was quite an infuriating old gentleman at times, but

he had a salutary effect.  He loved to go about pricking open

what he called other people’s “balloons of smugness”.

“There was a fellow named Tacitus,” Grandfather said;

“quite a historian, they tell me.  He highly approved of the

Emperor Nero for stamping out that sect of the Jews called

the cult of the Nazarene.  No doubt Rome would have

welcomed a religious leader named Marcus, or Lucius or

Caius—but Jesus of Nazareth?  Oriental nonsense!”

“Do you mean that you think Bahá’u’lláh might be the

truth?”

“How would I know?” Grandfather snorted.  “I’d want

to know a lot more about it.  But I’ll tell you one thing, I

wouldn’t give up on it just because my friends said it wasn’t

the truth.”  He began to chuckle again, and I knew a story

was coming.  “Had a friend once,” he began, “down in

Iowa.  He wanted to start a newspaper.  Trouble was,

everybody read The Tribune.  Had for years.  He decided to

go ahead anyway.  He called his paper The Truth.  On the

day his paper came out he instructed all his newsboys very

carefully.  When anyone asked for the evening paper, the

newsboys were to say:  ‘What do you want?  The Truth or

The Tribune?’  Only way a fellow could find out which was

the truth was to read.  I suggest you do the same.”

“No matter how unpopular?”

“What do you want?  The Truth or The Tribune?”

“I’m in show business.”

Grandfather grunted.  “The light that we see to-night

from the Northern Star left there twenty-six million light

years ago.  How long have you been in show business?”

“Okay,” I told him.  “Get off my back.”

He was really steamed up.  “The world was built by the

unpopular.  Schubert received about six hundred dollars for

his life’s work because they said he wrote ‘tinkling little

tunes’.  Harvey was driven from medicine by those who

objected to his saying there was a pump in the body that

drove the blood through pipes.  Pasteur was nearly run out

of France for daring to claim there were little ‘beasties’ under

his microscope that made people ill.  Edison was called

addle-pated for claiming he could imprison light in a bottle.

Lincoln was shot in Ford’s theatre for saying no nation

could exist half slave and half free.  Giordano Bruno was

burned——”

“All right!” I shouted.  “I get your point.”

The horses became restless.  Beauty pawed at the floor

and neighed loudly.  Grandfather got up and started for the

house.

“I’ll leave you to talk it over with Beauty,” he said.

“Maybe she can teach you a little horse-sense.”

After he’d gone, I got up and patted Beauty on the rump.

“A self-educated grandfather is a frightening thing,

Beauty,” I told her.  She pawed the floor again.  “When his

glasses aren’t staring down into the oats-box, they’re

buried several centuries deep in Plutarch.”

Beauty agreed.  Or maybe it was the mention of the oats-

box.  Anyway, she neighed again, so I broke the rules and

slipped her an extra measure of grain.

After dinner Grandfather brought out the cards and the

cribbage board.  I could see he had something on his mind

that he wanted to say before we started playing.

“Get it off your chest,” I told him.

“Didn’t mean to sound so pompous in the barn,” he said.

“But the truth is, son, I’ve sort of been hanging on to that

dream of yours myself.  Seems like it’s partly mine.  Getting

old, I guess, and want something to keep me young.  My

circulation is slower than political justice.”  He opened and

closed his right hand.  “I haven’t had any real blood in that

arm since the Taft Administration.”

He leaned over and gave me a whisker-rub.

“Trouble with your old grandfather,” he said, “is that

he’s watching all the other birds fly South and he wants to

go along, but he can’t.  Hasn’t got the wings for it.  I’m

like an old rooster sitting on a fence watching the others

flying overhead.  I try to join them, but no matter how hard

I flap my wings, I just fall to the ground.  So I try to make

up in sound for what I lack in flight.  Cut the cards.”

Three hours later he said, “Fifteen two, fifteen four, fifteen

six, a run of eight is fourteen, and his nibs is fifteen, and that

puts me out.”

I sighed.  “For a man who has such high-sounding ideals,

you certainly can cheat a sweet game of cribbage.”

He laughed.  “No use being a fanatic,” he said.  “We’re

all strange mixtures of good and bad, son.  Generous back-

biters, virtuous misers, friendly thieves.”

“And slippery philosophers,” I added.

He changed the subject.  “Remember that pretty little girl

next door that you had the crush on?  Margie Kelly?”

I nodded.

“She was asking about you last week.”

“What’s she like now?”

“Got a heart of gold, but it’s hidden in a mountain of

flesh.  She’s bigger than Beauty’s back-end and as ugly

as a new-born calf, but I understand she’s a wonderful

cook.”

“I’ve got other interests now.”

“So I gather,” he said, and went limping off to bed.  He

was humming quietly to himself:  “Margie!  I’m always

thinking of you, Margie.”

News gets around fast.

CHAPTER 17

A DOZEN RED ROSE-BUDS VERSUS ALL

VESTED INTEREST

A month passed, and Marguerite still hadn’t called me.

My heart told me she was back even before my spies did.

Each of us knew the other was waiting for a call.  This is

what is known in romantic circles as “the cold war”.  It

is a sinful waste of moonlight and dance music, but it must

be waged according to the rules.  Both sit by the telephone

waiting for the first sign of surrender.  Each will go as far

as picking up the telephone and starting to dial, but will then

suddenly hang up before the connection is made.  It is an

effective technique if deployed wisely, but if carried to

extremes it leads to reading in the Sunday papers about the

engagement of your girl to someone else.

I honestly wanted to hear more about the Bahá’í Faith as

well as to be with Marguerite.  I felt perhaps she wanted to

be with me, but didn’t want me to think she was forcing her

interest in the Bahá’í Faith upon me.  I was thinking it over

one day at lunch, when she walked into Luigi’s with a young

man who was as tall, and as dark, and as handsome as ever

her room-mate could wish.

I hated to see her pining away like this among strangers,

and I was about to get up and join them when I noticed that

Marguerite had on the diamond engagement ring again.  So

this was the joker.  Even across the floor that grey suit he

had on looked like two hundred and fifty dollars, and the

diamond ring looked like the headlight on the Santa Fe

Chief.  I could see it wasn’t going to be easy, but I also

could hear the call to battle.  My Irish ancestors who had

turned back the invaders (or had they surrendered to them?)

called to me from the ancient peat-bogs.

Marguerite looked across the room, and her eyes met

mine.  They stayed there for a moment and then moved on,

as though my face was a port-hole and she was looking

through it towards Biscayne Bay.  I could almost hear

Mulligan’s voice whispering, “Twenty to one against.”

Now you can either wage a romantic war with money or

with imagination.  It is preferable to have both, but as I was

only a “bunch-of-daffodils” man at that time, I had to use

strategy.  I sent Marguerite a beautiful red rose-bud each

morning for eleven days.  The total cost was less than a

dozen roses, but the total effect was an orchid-field.  With

each rose I sent a one-word message.  At the end of the

eleven days, the message made sense:  “i—will—meet—

you—for—lunch—next—friday—afternoon—at—

luigi’s.”

I borrowed Mulligan’s slacks, Bertram’s sports-jacket,

Len Lewis’s silk tie from Carson-Pirie-Scott, but wore my

own shoes and incidentals.

Mulligan suggested that I should walk in half-an-hour late

and make an entrance, but I was afraid she might not come

at all, so I waited in the kitchen.  Luigi kept an eye on the

table-for-two in the corner.  He came into the kitchen,

picked up a tray of shrimp cocktails, and gave me a smile

which looked as though someone had put the rocker from a

rocking-chair in his mouth sideways.

“She’s here!” he whispered.

I slipped into the chair across from Marguerite, and

handed her a red rose.

“That makes a dozen,” I said.

She laid it beside her plate.  “I’ve missed you.”

“I saw you suffering here two weeks ago at lunch.”

She gave me the Christmas-tree smile.  “I saw you,

too.”

I noticed that she wasn’t wearing the diamond.

“Aren’t you going to wear out that ring from the friction

of putting it on and taking it off?”

“I returned it that day at lunch.  That’s why he was in

town.”

While we ate, she told me she hadn’t called because she

wanted to be free of all other obligations before we met

again and took up where we left off.  She reached across the

table and held my hand.

“I deliberately ignored you that day because I didn’t think

it was fair to put you on display in front of him.”

What meaning the angels can give to words.  “Display”

had always been quite ordinary to me—as in show-window.

Now it was suddenly invested with all the tender loveliness

of the rench-horn solo in Tchaikosky’s Fifth.  I lit my

cigarette after dropping it twice and said nonchalantly to

Luigi, “Bring me the veal scallopini.”

“You just ate it,” he said.

That afternoon I engaged a Western Union special

messenger, and paid him a dollar extra to deliver a personal

message.  He was to sing:  Margie!  I’m always thinking of you,

Margie:  signed:  Bill.

When I got home from work there was a package in my

mail-box.  It was a book called Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era.

I started reading after dinner, and didn’t finish it until I

heard the milkman bringing my coffee cream in the top of

the bottle.

I was just going to work when the Western Union mes-

senger I’d sent over to Marguerite came up the walk.  He

stopped in front of me.

“Sears?”

“Yes.”

He began to sing in what history will have to call a “fourth

tenor”, way up high and rotten..

“Oh, Johnnie!  Oh, Johnnie!

How you can love.

Oh, Johnnie!  Oh, Johnnie!

Heavens above ...”

And so on to the awesome end.  My landlady threw open

her window and looked out.  She didn’t say anything, but I

could tell that she was just about to ask the messenger, “Is

he hurting you?”

“What’s the idea?” I asked.

“Signed:  Marguerite,” he said.  “Sign here.”

I phoned her from work.  “What’s the idea of the singing

telegram?” I asked.

“I just wanted to reply in kind.”

She hung up on me.

I found out later that my messenger didn’t know the tune

or the words to Margie, so he had sung:  Every Little Breeze

Seems to Whisper Louise.  I muttered to myself as I went back

to the sports-desk, “It is not in our underlings, but in our-

selves that we are stars.”

I had Friday off, so I called Marguerite.  Her room-mate

answered.

“Can I talk to Marguerite?”

“Sure,” she said, “but it’ll cost you five dollars.”

“Why?”

“She’s in Maine giving a course at the summer school.”

“That’ll only cost me two dollars,” I told her.

“Not if I know you two.”

“When is she coming back?”

“In a month.”

“She didn’t say she was leaving when we talked yesterday

morning.”

“She was packing then, right after the musical serenade

with her orange juice.  You shouldn’t get your telegrams

mixed up, not-quite-tall-enough, not-quite-dark-enough,

not-quite-handsome-enough.”

“It was a mistake.”

“You’re telling me!  ‘Bye, Louise!”

The course of true love never did run smooth, unless it

was on ice.  I waited the month out and, on the first night

Marguerite came back to town, invited her to dinner at

Luigi’s.  She floated in wearing an aquamarine-and-gold

Chinese silk dress and matching coat.  She looked like

everything priceless from the Ming Dynasty.  I introduced

her to the freckle-faced kid at our table.

“This is Red Phillips,” I told her.

Red stood up and sang:  Margie.

“He’s tone-deaf,” I told her, “and it’s taken me three

days to teach him.”

Red apologized.  “I’m sorry, ma’am, but I didn’t know

Margie, so I sang Louise.  If somebody’d only tell a guy

something——”

“That’s all right,” she said.

“Beat it,” I told Red.  “I’d give you a buck if you hadn’t

squeezed so much out of me already.”

Marguerite gave him three.  One for each of us, and one

for promising to give up singing as a career.

I pinned a corsage on her shoulder.  It cost me more than

the dinner.  Afterwards we drove up to Observation Peak.

There is one spot looking out over the lake which the

young lovers call “The Point of No Return”.  It is generally

understood that if you take your girl to that particular spot

you are playing for keeps.  We both knew it.

It was one of those nights when you look at the sky, the

stars, and the moon, and say, “It’s a lie!”  The moon was

low, round, orange, fat, and happy.  Even so, it took me

two hours to come to the point.  Mostly we talked in quiet

sighs.  I was like the moon.  The longer I waited, the smaller

and paler I became.  I know now that she knew exactly what

was coming.  Every woman has a built-in radar that can

detect the slightest shadow of interest, and screen out the

undesirables.  She looked tantalizingly lovely, but seemed

as remote as Mars, which shone its red face through the

windshield.  Every time I was about ready to launch the

ship she’d begin talking lightly of shoes, skirts, sweaters,

gloves, gowns, hats, and handbags.  Suddenly I threw my

prepared speech out the window and snapped off the

radio.

“I’m going to say something that may shock you,” I

said.

Marguerite looked up at me with a tender smile.  “Yes,

dear,” she said.  The years have taught me that this smile

means:  “You-poor-thing-I-thought-you’d-never-catch-up-

with-me.”

“I’ve been offered a job in Salt Lake City.  I don’t want to

go away and leave you here in this wilderness of wolves, so

as soon as I can save up enough money to pay for a wedding-

ring, I’m going to ask you to marry me.  Of course, I’ll buy

you an engagement ring, too.  Later on.  Maybe not as big

as tall-dark-and-handsome’s lighthouse, but something nice,

just the same.”  I sat back and filled my pipe and lighted it.

“By the way,” I added, as I struck the match, “I happen to

love you very much.”

There was a long silence.  It was very humbling.  Towards

the end, it was appalling.  Then Marguerite took something

out of her purse and slipped it on to her finger.  It was a

simple but lovely ring.

“I bought one myself,” she said, “last week in Boston.”

She lit a cigarette, then added casually, “By the way, I

happen to love you very much, too.”

We wound up laughing and loving all at the same time,

which has been pretty much the pattern of our lives.  It

makes an intoxicating mixture.

*      *      *      *      *

The very night we returned home from our honeymoon

I had a vivid dream.  I awakened with a start to see Mar-

guerite standing over me.

“What’s wrong?” she asked.

“Nothing.”

“Who were you talking to in your sleep?”

I told her.  “It was that same wonderful figure that came

to me when I was a little boy in Minnesota.  I’ll never forget

him.”

Marguerite sat down on the bed beside me.

“I was seated on a rock,” I said.  “Winter seemed sud-

denly to come upon all the countryside.  I looked up

the hill to my left, and this beautiful luminous figure was

rushing down the hill towards me.  He was on skis.  His

white beard was blowing in the breeze.  He swept up to

me, showered me with a cloud of snow as he did a stem-

christie, and whirled to a stop.  Then he beckoned me with

his finger.

“‘Come with me,’ he said.

“Then I was on skis, too, and we were racing down the

mountainside together.  We shot across a ravine, out on to a

wide ledge and stood looking down into the valley below.

In an instant winter was gone and the air was warm and

filled with the perfume of roses.  In the valley below a city

twinkled in the twilight.  It was a city of magic flickering

lights.  Far off to the right, I could see the moon reflected

in a big silver lake.

“My wonderful companion pointed down towards the

city.  He smiled at me and said, ‘This is the city.’  Then he

vanished and I woke up and saw you staring at me.”

“Where was the city?” Marguerite asked.  “Did you

recognize it?”

“No.  I’d never seen it before.  But I will recognize it if I

ever see it again.”

One thing I did know:  wherever the city was, I would

search until I found it.  I felt certain that in that city I would

discover the meaning to my dream, and something wonder-

ful would happen to me.  I felt a warm glow inside.

“Your face is shining like a two-hundred-watt lamp,”

Marguerite said to me.

“A.C. or D.C.?” I asked.

“I can’t tell,” she said, “until I make contact.”

She kissed a very happy man.

CHAPTER 18

“OOOOOOOOH!  SHOPPING”, OR HOW” TO

BECOME A MILLIONAIRE

“The thing i miss most of all since marrying you,” Mar-

guerite told me one morning at breakfast, “is shopping.”

“I thought you were going to say eating,” I said, passing

the last of the cinnamon buns.

When we were married Marguerite said she knew that I

was the old-fashioned type of husband who didn’t like to

use his wife’s money.  She added that she did hope, how-

ever, that I wouldn’t be archaic about it.  I told her stiffly

that I would try not to be.

“I don’t have too much,” she said, “but it might prevent a

sheriff’s sale.”

I thanked her for trying so gallantly to be happy on my

salary.

“I’m not trying to be happy,” she told me.  “I’m trying

not to be miserable.”

I laughed.  That’s when she introduced me to “O0000h!

shopping”.  A good “O0000h!” shopper goes downtown

after the stores are closed.  The lights are still on in all the

windows, and you can look at all the lovely things and

shout, “O0000h!”, but fortunately you can’t get inside to

buy them.  Marguerite would see a “darling” blouse and

cry out, “O000000h!”, but it cost me nothing.  She never

complained as long as we went “Ooooooh! shopping”

regularly.

One day we shopped during business hours.  “I want to

buy some presents to take to the boys,” I told her.  “I’d

like to leave them a few gifts before we say goodbye and go

west.”

“Goodbye?”

“Yes, I’d like to visit Michael at the hospital, and also

make sure that Billy’s all right.”

“They’re coming with us,” Marguerite said.

“For good?”

She nodded.

“Look,” I explained, “the doctors won’t release Michael

from hospital, and Billy’s a big handful.”

Marguerite was determined.  “We’re going as a family.

I’ve just become the mother of two sons, and no one is going

to get them away that easily.  You’ve been separated too

long already.”

I hugged her.  “You’re very nice,” I said.

She looked at me strangely.  “What did you expect?  The

wicked stepmother?”

“No,” I answered honestly, “but I didn’t expect Cinderella

either.  After all, this is a romantic journey.”

“They’re very little,” she said.  “Please?  They will hardly

take any room at all.”

When we arrived in Milwaukee I could tell that Mar-

guerite was nervous.  She was worried for fear the boys

might not like her.  Billy at five-and-a-half had ripe-olive

eyes and a head of hair that was dark brown and as short as

the nap on the rug.

I hadn’t been able to visit him very often when he was

little.  When his mother died he went to live with my

parents.  When my mother died he went with his grand-

father to live at my sister Ella’s.  Father and Billy were great

pals.  I was a stranger to him.  The first time I came home

after an absence of nearly a year he shook hands with me

very properly.

“This is your father,” he was told.

“How do you do, sir,” he said.

I wept that night.  I promised myself I’d come home often,

even if I had to borrow the money to do it.  We were much

better friends by now.  As we went up the steps of the

apartment, Marguerite squeezed my hand.

“Pray for me,” she said.

Billy hugged me happily, looked over all the presents we

had brought, then he whispered to me.

“Who’s the pretty lady?”

I told him.  “This is your new mother.”

He looked at Marguerite very carefully, with new interest.

Then he smiled and said, “All right.”

All three of us drove out to the hospital in Wauwatosa to

visit Michael.  He was nearly four.  He had long, wavy,

blond hair and Wedgewood-blue eyes.  After much consulta-

tion the doctors still refused to permit him to leave the

hospital.

“He can’t get the care he needs at home,” they said firmly.

Marguerite was equally determined he would not stay.

“He can’t get the love he needs here in hospital,” she in-

sisted.  It was quite a battle.  I tried to discourage her, but

she was adamant.  Finally, she picked up her purse, got up,

and started out.

“Where are you going?” I asked.

“To rent an apartment,” she told me grimly.  “Billy and I

are going to stay here with Michael, and you’re going to

Salt Lake City alone.”

“Don’t be ridiculous.”

“I’m not going to leave him here by himself while his

parents are two thousand miles away.  He doesn’t need

medicine as much as he needs a home and a feeling of

security.”  She hesitated in the doorway.  “They’re only the

doctors,” she said.  “You’re the father.  If you say he leaves

the hospital, they can’t stop you.”

I looked at the doctors, then at Marguerite, then at Billy,

who was holding on to her hand for dear life.  I sighed.

“He goes,” I said.

I signed the necessary legal papers absolving the doctors

from any responsibility, while the head doctor clucked dis-

approvingly through his teeth, convinced that I had con-

signed my son to certain death.

Michael became acquainted with Marguerite in the car.  I

told him who she was.

“I never had a mother,” he said cheerfully, blowing the

auto horn.  He looked Marguerite over very carefully before

blowing it a second time.

Marguerite hugged him tightly.  “Yes, you did,” she said.

“You had a wonderful mother.  You were just too little to

remember.  I’ll try to be half as nice.”

Michael seemed partly satisfied.  He said, “Some of the

children in the hospital had fat ones.  Mothers.”

Marguerite laughed.  “Disappointed?”

“No,” he said uncertainly.  He pointed.  “Your hair is

just like mine.”  Marguerite nodded.  “Your eyes are blue,

too.  Like mine.”  He seemed pleased.  Suddenly he stuck

his tongue out at her.  Marguerite stuck hers out at him.

Michael turned to me and whispered confidentially in my

ear, “I think she’ll be pretty good.”

Then a much more important subject claimed his atten-

tion.  He shouted excitedly, “Look!  A cow!  A cow that’s

not in a book!  It’s a really cow!”

I don’t believe I have ever in my life so thoroughly ad-

mired a Holstein cow as much as that lazy creature grazing

along the County Loop Road in Wauwatosa.

The four of us drove to Minnesota in Marguerite’s V-8

Ford.  She decided that all of us should see Grandfather on

our way to Salt Lake City.

“We’ll go through Minnesota, South Dakota, Montana,

and Wyoming,” she told the boys.  “And you can see Old

Faithful geyser in Yellowstone Park.”

“I’d rather see Grandfather,” Billy said.

Michael disagreed.  “I’d rather see the geyser.”

We had to pull them apart.

Billy and Michael ran wild for two weeks in Minnesota.

Grandfather took them everywhere.  Marguerite and the

old gentleman hit it off like two old cronies.

“What do you see in this grandson of mine?” he asked

Marguerite, ignoring me.

“Quite a bit of you,” she said.

They went everywhere together in the horse-and-buggy.

He let her handle the reins, and he even promised her that

she could saddle and ride Beauty, his pride and joy.

Before we left Minnesota I had a long talk with Grand-

father.  We sat on the same old oats-box.  He gave me a

whisker-rub, too, only this time I had to bend down for it.

“Your letters have been getting farther apart and shorter,”

he told me.

I apologized.

“No complaints,” he said.  “Only I notice you’ve begun

to write in a big scrawl so it will cover the page quicker.

Don’t write unless you’ve got something to say, son.

There’s no duty between you and me, just love.  And you

can’t manufacture that artificially.”

“You know how it is,” I told him.  “I’ve been wrapped up

in my work.”

“It can do that,” he said.  “I haven’t heard very much

mention about God in your letters lately.  You and He used

to be pretty good friends.”

“They don’t talk much about Him in radio,” I explained.

“Suppose not.”

“But I’m still searching for the answer to my dream.”

“Our dream,” he reminded me.  “I’ve got squatter’s rights

there, I was the first God-talker who gave you a sympathetic

ear.”  He was, too.  He gave me a playful dig in the ribs.

“Don’t quit.”

“Sometimes the whole thing seems impossible, then just

when I’m about ready to give up, something happens and

the dream comes closer.”

Grandfather became quite upset.  “Impossible!” he

snorted.

Grandfather’s hair seemed much whiter than the last time

I’d seen him.  Sometimes he seemed very remote, as though

he wasn’t really living inside his house at all.  He seemed to

sense what I was thinking.

“Yeah,” he said, looking around, “the old barn’s pretty

well shot.  Roof leaks and the wind blows snow and rain

right through the windows.  May have to get out any day

now.  Can’t expect anything to last forever, I guess.”

“You will,” I told him confidently.

“Hope not,” he said.  “Been waiting for them to come and

get me for a long time.  Must be a hell of a mix-up up there

somewhere in the records.  Everybody I knew went long

ago, and most of their sons.  Why, I’m older than the Town

Hall.”

“You make me feel young, Grandfather,” I said.

“Sure, but you always were a worrier.  Alongside of

you I feel like a nursing child.”  His hand reached out and

took mine.  It felt so small and wrinkled.  “We haven’t

talked much about it, son, but both of us know that this

is the last time we’re going to be sitting on this oats-box

together.”

He was holding my hand very tightly.  Marguerite came

in slapping her riding-whip against her boots.  She smiled at

the two of us.

“I’ve heard a lot about that famous oats-box,” she said.

Grandfather helped her put the saddle on Beauty.  As she

led the sleek mare out of the barn, he said, “You won’t need

that whip on Beauty.”

She tossed it to him.  “You may need it on Bill.”

She swung lightly up into the saddle.  The boys stood

watching her with big eyes.  To them, their mother had just

become the first lady sheriff of the great West.  She promised

to come back and take each of them for a ride.  She waved to

us, and rode off.

Grandfather watched her with laughing eyes.  When he

looked over at me again, he said, “I used to worry a little

about you, but I don’t think I do any more.  I think we’ve

taken on a new partner.”

“Want to see something?” I asked.

He nodded.  I opened my wallet and took out the first-

place medal which he’d won driving Dakar in the harness

races at the Fair.  I had polished it until it was shiny and

bright.  He was very pleased.  A flood of memories en-

circled us both as we looked at it.  Then he handed it back

to me.

“Stay out in front, son,” he told me.  “Don’t let the world

get you into a pocket.”

CHAPTER 19

THE ANIMAL LADY STRIKES AGAIN!

It was spring of the year as we drove through Emigrant

Gap into the Great Salt Valley.  We had a half-tank of low-

grade gasoline, two unwashed sons, two dachshunds, a

cocker spaniel, three dollars and seventeen cents in cash, and

no spare tyre.

The roses were coming in everywhere:  Paul’s Scarlet,

Etoile de Holland, Lady Baltimore, Sutter’s Gold, and a pro-

fusion of the wild variety.  The jagged teeth-like hoods of

the Wasatch Mountains still hung heavy with winter’s snow,

and in the blue-haze of late afternoon it looked as though

a white hand had seized the peaks from above and was

about to uproot them.

Marguerite smiled at me happily.

“There’s a nice little house waiting for us right at the foot

of those wonderful mountains,” she said.

I would have answered her, but Michael was pointing

excitedly at the scenery, and I was trying to keep his sand-

wich out of my eye.

Three days later Marguerite went apartment hunting.  She

was looking, she said, for a small, modest, cozy, comfy little

furnished apartment for three men, three dogs, and herself.

She was back in an hour.

“Any luck?”

She shook her head.  “I only looked at one place.  It

breathed on me as I went past.”

“As bad as that, huh?”

“It was heavenly,” she sighed.  “But it wasn’t for rent, it

was for sale.”

“So?”

“So I stopped looking.  When I saw that little place I

knew we’d found our dream house.”

“Good,” I replied.  “Now all we have to do is find Merlin

the Magician, and pull the price of the down-payment out

of his long black cloak.”

Marguerite called the real-estate man and told him to hold

the house, and that we’d be in for it in five days.  Like

ordering a hat.  From that moment on, the house belonged

to her.  No other possibility ever crossed her mind.  She

began drawing diagrams of where we’d put the new furni-

ture.  Finally, we had twelve hours to go to the deadline and

exactly ninety cents to put down on the house.

“Don’t worry,” she laughed.  “I’ve got one of those

feelings.  Something is going to happen.”

It did.  At eleven o’clock the next morning, just one hour

before “too late”, Marguerite received a letter from her

mother saying that an insurance policy had matured and

that she might as well have the money.  Marguerite was

already dressed and waiting for whatever was going to

happen, although she certainly didn’t know the letter was

coming.

She still gets those feelings off and on.  The boys and I

have learned to hide in the cellar and not to answer the

phone or the door-bell when she’s “on target” with a hunch.

“It isn’t exactly a hunch,” she explained, “it’s a fact, but

it just hasn’t happened yet.”

She had so much faith and assurance that when you

were with her you felt like a two-hundred-watt lamp being

lighted from a nearby power-plant.  Before the money

came, she showed me her diagrams for the different rooms of

furniture.

“I visualized four army cots, a camp stove, and fifty tins

of beans,” I told her.

“That’s silly.  If we can get the money for the down-pay-

ment on the house, we can certainly find enough for the

furniture.”

How can you dispute such logic?

“Don’t you think a record-player would go nicely here

by the studio couch?” she asked.

I had exactly enough cash to purchase the label for one

Bing Crosby record, but I was getting into the spirit of the

thing.  I looked at the diagram carefully.  “Is it an auto-

matic?”  Naturally, I didn’t want to get stuck with a manual.

A week later the money came.  I can’t remember where it

came from, I was still stunned from the house, but it paid

for the down-payment, the furniture, with enough left over

for Marguerite to buy the boys each a new outfit.  That was

in addition to their insurance policies, of course.

“Their what?” I asked.

Marguerite explained it this way:  “I was little and Mother

insured me, now I’m grown up and the money bought us

the house.  So I’m insuring the two boys so that when they

don’t expect it, we can send them the money, too.”

“Would you replay that last ten seconds,” I asked.

“Never mind,” she said.  “I’ll take care of it.”

Within a year, Michael was completely cured.  Marguerite

always made certain that there was enough milk and fruit for

Michael even when the rest of us were down to eating

baked-beans in seven ingenious and varied forms.

One day I came home and Michael rushed out to meet me.

“Your wife bit me,” he said.  When he liked us, we were

Mother and Dad, but when he was upset with us, we were

“your wife” and “your husband”.

“Why did she bite you?” I asked.

“Because I bit her first.”

“That seems a fair exchange of bites.”

Michael thought it over.  “Guess it is,” he admitted.

He never bit anyone again.  Except the time he took a nip

at the dachshund’s tail.  When the dog bit him back he

accepted the process as a law of nature and gave up.

That year we had the most wonderful Christmas of our

lives.  I said to Marguerite, “I thought perhaps you wouldn’t

have any interest in Christmas, being a Bahá’í.”

She protested gently.  She picked up a book from her

work-desk, opened it, and began to read.  The boys, the

dogs, the cats, and I all gathered around.

“When He (Christ) came into the world,” she began,

“He shed the splendour of His glory upon all created

things.  He ( Jesus) it was Who purified the World.  Blessed

is the man who, with a face beaming with light, hath turned

towards Him.”

She set the book down.  “Those are the words of Bahá’u’l-

láh about Christ.  That’s the love I hope to teach your sons

to have for Him.”

I held her so tightly.  “They’re your sons, now, too,” I

said, “and in some ways, a lot more than they are mine.”

Grandfather remembered all of us that first Christmas in

Salt Lake City.  He sent a big package and a fat letter, and

he gave us all the news.

“Old Prince finally went to sleep one night in his stall and

never woke up,” he wrote.  “Mrs. Casey is pretty sick, too.

I may light a candle.”

Grandfather sent me Old Prince’s Scotch-plaid blanket,

and he gave Marguerite Prince’s bridle, which he had hand-

tooled himself.

“Much better to have a bridle and no horse,” he wrote her,

“than to have a horse and no bridle.  You may want to use

it on my grandson if he gives you trouble.”

He sent the boys each a five-dollar bill.

It was a very gay Christmas.  Marguerite bought me a fat

little red dachshund.

“You shouldn’t have,” I told her.

I meant it, but she said that it made it less lonesome

around the house for the other two dachshunds, the cocker

spaniel, and the three cats.  The names of the menagerie in

order of age were:  Spook, Lady Windermere, Someone,

Cuckoo Berry, Nocturne, and Hey You.  The new dachs-

hund puppy was named Chloe, as we were always looking

for her through the black of night.  I rechristened her

Screwdriver because of the uncanny way in which she could

use her long, narrow nose to open all doors.

We called Marguerite the “Animal Lady”.  Whenever she

went for a walk round the yard all the animals would be

strung out behind her like a long line of freight cars.  They

followed her everywhere.

The Saturday before Christmas we were listening to the

Metropolitan Opera’s broadcast of Faust, when through the

open back door came a stray black cat.  It was scrawny,

dirty, and impudent.  Marguerite welcomed it like an inn-

keeper who hasn’t had a guest for months.  She picked it up,

stroked it, fed it, and said, “We’ll call it Mephistopheles

because it made such a dramatic entrance in the middle of

Faust!”

I spoke from greater experience.  “Let’s make believe that

it came during last week’s opera and call it Lucia di Lammer-

moor.  I think it would be more appropriate.”

I was outvoted three to one for Mephistopheles.  My

suggestion turned out to be prophetic, however.  In two

months Mephistopheles was a sextette, and as I said to

Marguerite, “You can’t tell me that’s not from Lucia.”

We gave three of the kittens away.  The others were called

Hart, Schaeffner, and Marx because they were born in my

grey suit-coat about which Marguerite had always said,

“Someday I just won’t pick that coat up after you.”

On Christmas Eve we all went for a drive through the

magnificent mountain canyons.  Salt Lake City is one of the

most charming cities in America.  It is nestled in a valley

between the Wasatch and Okirrih mountains, along the

Jordan River.  The Wasatch are high, jagged, pine-clad, and

snow-capped.  The Okirrihs are fat, round, and gentle.  The

Great Salt Lake lies like a giant mirror off to the north-west.

Seven mountain streams flow into the city.  Throughout

the summer both State and Main Street have fresh canyon

water running along the gutters.

During Christmas week Salt Lake City is even more

beautiful; it is often called the “Christmas City”.  Almost

every shop, apartment building, and personal residence has a

fabulous outdoor electrical display in the yard or atop the

roof depicting some Christmas story, legend, or fairy-tale.

We inspected them all and, on our last tour, we drove

high up into City Creek Canyon.  On the way back we made

a sweeping turn among the dark-green trees and came

suddenly upon Lookout Point.  I stopped the car and we all

got out for a view of the city.

Something urged me on ahead of the others.  It was as

though a hand was pushing me on the shoulders.  A pre-

monition of what I was to see began to grow on me.  I

stepped to the ledge, and there lying below me was the magic

city I had seen so clearly in my dream.  This was the very

ledge I had stood upon with that wondrous and venerable

figure.  Below me the carbon-arc lights of the city twinkled

merrily, and off to the right I could see the same moon

reflected in the great lake.  I was lost in the wonder of that

sweet dream.

“Daddy looks funny,” I heard Michael say.

I turned to Marguerite.  She knew something important

had happened.  I smiled at her.  I pointed to the city below

and quoted the words of the figure in my dream.

“This is the city.”

Marguerite asked me many questions about my dream

that night.  I described once again the feeling of inner joy

it had brought.  I pictured also the one who had stood on

the ledge with me in the dream and made me the promise

that some day I would see this city.  Marguerite went down-

stairs.  Soon she came back with a framed photograph.  She

handed it to me.

I looked into those same haunting, tender eyes.  I saw the

white beard, soft as silk, the flowing white robes, the smile

of eternal kindness.  I was deeply moved.

“This,” I said to her, “is the man.”

She said, “That is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”

CHAPTER 20

THE MYSTERIOUS “GUESSED-ROOM” AND

THE HAUNTING STRAINS OF A VIOLIN

I lay awake for several hours, disturbed.  I knew I could

no longer ignore what was happening to me.  I closed my

eyes, and I could see my father’s face peering at me under

the bedclothes on that night when he had caught me reading

the Bible by flashlight.

“Some day,” I had told him, “I’m going to find out all

about God—something nobody knows.  Then I’m going

all over the world and tell people about my discovery.”

Had the day come? I had to know.

The very next Sunday I gathered up an armful of Bahá’í

books, arranged the pillows on the sofa in the den, and

settled down for a full, peaceful day of research.  I hung a

hand-printed sign on the door:  “military zone—anyone

who knocks will be prosecuted!”

It was the first Sunday in months that we didn’t have

company.  Our guest-room always seemed to be full of

transients.  We called it the “guessed” room; each day when

I came home from work I guessed who was in it.  We

bought a large loose-leaf binder for a visitors book, and I

would open it each evening and say to Marguerite, “Whom

do we have registered to-day?”

Marguerite loved to have people around, and she had

more friends than Santa Claus.  I remember coming down

to breakfast one day and greeting our guest cheerfully.

“Good morning, Mrs. Cleighton.”

She smiled.  “I’m not Mrs. Cleighton.  She left an hour

ago.  I’m Mrs. Lewis.  I just arrived.”

However, on this particular Sunday I had the house

all to myself.  I selected a book at random and began to

read:

“A Bahá’í must be hospitable.  His home must be open to the

faces of friends and strangers alike.  He must welcome each guest

with cheerfulness and kindness so that each visitor will feel that

this home is his home.  It should be a haven of rest and peace.”

I chuckled approvingly.  No wonder Marguerite kept the

hinges on the doors warm with the coming and going of her

friends.

I leaned back on the pillows and closed my eyes so that I

could meditate on those pleasant words on this lazy Sunday.

Crash!

The window behind me fell over my shoulders in a cascade

of glass, and there landed in my lap a round, hard, horsehide

covering known as a baseball.  Soon a small, startled face

appeared in the window opening.  It had two fried eggs for

eyes (dark brown yokes) and a Salt Lake Bees baseball cap

sitting, at a rakish angle on its head.

Billy said, “Anything come in here?”

I pointed to the glass in my lap.

“Besides that I mean,” he said.

I showed him the baseball, got up, opened a desk drawer,

put the baseball inside, and locked the drawer.  Billy sighed.

He turned in the window and called out:

“I think the game is over, fellers.  My father’s resting.”

I brushed the glass splinters from my trousers, cutting

two fingers and a thumb.  After first-aid I went for a long

walk in the cool air, and came back a gentler man.  The

house was deathly silent.  Marguerite apparently had issued

an ultimatum to the boys that I was not to be disturbed.  I

went up to the bedroom to lie down.  On the bed-table there

was a glass of milk, a stack of Graham crackers, and a bag

of freshly roasted peanuts.  There was also the new murder

mystery by Agatha Christie.  It was sitting on top of a book

which was bound with a special leather cover.  I opened that

one first.  It was called:  The Bahá’í Proofs.

I glanced at the first page and read the words:  “Let him

who hath an eye to see, see; and him who hath an ear to hear,

hear.”

I closed it quickly.

I picked up the murder mystery.  Inside the title page of

the mystery there was a note from Marguerite.  It said:

“Coward!”  With a chuckle I put the mystery down and

picked up the Book of Proofs again.  Michael stuck his blond

head inside the door.

“Your wife wants to see you,” he said.

Oh, oh!  Trouble!  On the way downstairs I looked

closely at Michael.  “What’s that on your nose?” I asked.

“Blood.”

“Orange blood?”

Marguerite was waiting for me in the den.  As I walked

into the room, Billy’s expression said, “You’re looking at an

innocent boy.”

Someone had smeared great orange smudges on the

landscape I had been painting.  Michael didn’t say any-

thing, but his orange nose was quite eloquent.  In a sudden

torrent of words he broke his silence.  He explained that

he’d heard me say it was a picture of California, and Mother

always said that California was filled with orange trees—

so!

I took him into the living-room for a man-to-man talk.

He looked so sad and tiny seated in the big easy-chair.  He

sat with his head in his hands filled with obvious remorse.

I could hear him softly berating himself for what he had

done.  How could I punish him further?  I couldn’t hear the

words of his self-denouncement, but the sound was both

pitiful and mournful.  I leaned closer to catch the words.

Very softly and very rhythmically, he was whispering,

“Smoke cools!  Smoke cools!  Smoke cools!”

I went back to my bedroom to study.  I tried another book

at random and began to read.

“The most vital duty of every loyal follower of Bahá’u’lláh

is to purify his personal character, correct his manners, improve

his conduct, and to work for the betterment of the world and

its people.”

“I can’t fight that,” I thought.

Marguerite came in with some coffee and some egg sand-

wiches on a tray.

“Don’t study too long,” she said, “it’s your day off.”

“So far,” I told her, “I’ve had a lucky string of seventeen

whole minutes without an earthquake.”  I poured a cup of

coffee and gave her a kiss.  “That’s in place of two lumps of

sugar.”

I tapped one of the books.  “This is quite beautiful, really.

I’m even getting used to the idea that the Bahá’í Faith is

oriental.”

Marguerite laughed.  “I suppose you could call it oriental,

if the Faith of Christ and that of Moses were oriental.”

“Bahá’u’lláh came from Persia, didn’t he?”

She nodded.  Then added, “But where do you think

Christ came from?  Chicago?”

“You’re getting more like Grandfather every day.”

Marguerite knew she had aroused my curiosity.  A strange

feeling of excitement began to stir within me.  I began to

read with eager anticipation and was immersed in my book

in earnest, when the piercing wail of a death-cry penetrated

my consciousness.

It is very difficult for fathers to live in this world.  I sighed

patiently, and went out into the hall.  Billy was standing

inside the door of his bedroom with his violin tucked under

his chin, earnestly beginning to practise his third lesson.

I knew that Francis Bacon had had music played in his

study while he worked, and that John Milton listened to the

organ for inspiration, but have you ever sought out a deep

significant truth while a small child bounced between the

A and the E strings on a fiddle—after only three lessons?

I gave Billy the cold glassy-eye I had learned from my own

father.

“I’m not disturbing you in here, am I, with my noisy

thinking?”

“No, Daddy.  You go right ahead.  Mother says if I can’t

learn to be a baseball player like Joe DiMaggio, I should

learn to play the violin like Jascha Heifetz.”

“To-day?”

“It may take a couple of years,” he admitted, quite

honestly.

I could see Heifetz scurrying all through gangland looking

for a trigger-man, and waving his cadenza finger towards

Salt Lake City:  “Rub out that kid!  And split the bill

between me, Menuhin, and Alfred Campoli.”

Billy would scrape uncertainly, usually on the wrong

string, and sing out the name of each note in a high screech

that sounded like a First World War plane coming down in

distress.

“A-Open!  E-Open! A-Open!  E-Open!”

Scrape, sing ; bow, chant.  The dogs became terrified

whenever the battle began.  The cats, perhaps with a natural

instinctive knowledge concerning the material upon which

Billy was bowing, lit out for the cellar.  Spook crawled on his

belly under the table and rolled over on his back with his

paws up in the air.  Chloe leaped on to the bed or sofa and

burrowed under a pillow.  Lady Windermere, the cocker,

hurried to Billy’s side and stood her ground.  She leaned

against his leg and howled in unison with him, a piteous and

mournful lament.  A dog’s equivalent of “A-Open!  E-

Open!”

Strangely enough, the instructor could smile cheerfully

through an entire hour of this.  Perhaps he was callused by

years of hearing little men make A-Open sound like chalk

squeaking on a school blackboard; or he may have witnessed

the miracle of having one of his pupils graduate with

honours into a flawless rendition of Wieniawski’s Romanza

Concerto #2 in D-Minor.  Or, as Marguerite suggested, he

may have been deaf.

I sighed.  “All right,” I told Billy.  “You stay here.  I’ll go

downstairs.”

“Thank you, Daddy.”

I went down and had it out with Marguerite.

“Bahá’u’lláh says to make your home a haven of rest and

peace,” I told her bluntly.

“Does he, dear?”

“He does.  So how about it?  Starting to-day?”

I took my pile of books and went out to the car.  I got

inside and locked all the doors, then drove into the garage.

CHAPTER 21

THE ABOMINABLE SNOWMAN AND HIS

BLUE-EYED MISTRESS

You can smell trouble coming.  Although I must say that

Tuesday started out like any other normal day.  I overslept,

grabbed a cup of coffee going through the front door,

dented a fender on the way to the Studios, got a parking

ticket, and was given two special interviews to record for

the late-afternoon sports show because the sports announcer

had lost his voice.

Both interviews were with wrestlers, who had flown in

from Los Angeles for the big match the following night.

This was before the advent of Gorgeous George.

The secret of a good interview is to get the subject to

talk and to keep your own mouth shut.  I was prepared for

the worst.  So many wrestlers have a way of looking at you

across the microphone as though at any moment they might

snap you into an “Indian-death-lock”.

The first wrestler was an Oxford man, and I don’t mean

the shoes.  He had more degrees than a thermometer and

was married to a princess of one of the South Pacific Islands.

He had an accent that made Ray Noble sound like William

Bendix.  He could talk for two hours on the specific gravity

of a black-eyed pea.  In fact, all I said was, “Well, Bob,

glad you dropped in.  How’s ...”

“Grand!” he replied.  “Never better.”

“Do you think that ...”

“Certainly!” he assured me.  “I’ll tie him in knots like the

Laocoon.”

“But,” I went on, “do you think that ...”

“Are you serious?  I’ll have him wailing like King Lear in

five minutes.”  He chuckled.  “The last time we met, I

threw him right out of the ring.  He caught his tights on the

ring-post and landed among the gentlemen of the Press with

less on than one of Botticelli’s paintings of ...”

“I know what you mean,” I cut in.  “But it seems to

me ...”

“You’re absolutely right.  On some occasions this chap

is as difficult to pin down as the meaning of Tertium

Organum, but I always wrestle him with my head.”

“You’re sure you don’t talk him to death?”

Those were the last words I spoke until sign-off.  I had

to do everything but put a burlap sack over his head to cut

off his comparison between his own muscles and the Ural

Mountains.  He also warned me about my second interview.

“This rascal is as strong as Rustum but as silent as Harpo

Marx,” he explained.  “Sure you don’t want me to stand by

and handle the interview for you?”

I was sure.  But I was wrong ; he should have stayed.  It

took me three minutes even to draw out a greeting from the

second wrestler.  His speciality was to enter the ring with a

black cape, a black sombrero, and a guitar, and sing El

Rancho Grande.  George was from Latvia, but he loved

Mexico.  He had a trained wildcat that sat on the ring-post

in his corner and hissed at the referee.  George could sing,

but he couldn’t talk.  I asked him what he thought of his

opponent, and after another three minutes, just when I was

at the point of sending out to the water-cooler for a glass of

water to prime him, he came through beautifully.

“Planty tough boy,” he confided.

I nodded.  “In fact, this match to-morrow night looks like

a veritable battle of Armageddon (you can see where my

mind was) wouldn’t you say?”

Summoning all his resources, he said, “Huh?”

“I say, this chap you’re wrestling.  He’s established quite

an enviable record for himself both here and abroad.”

“Where?”

“What’s your opinion of him?” I repeated.  This question

seemed safe.

I cleaned my nails, wrote a note to the control-room to put

two lumps of sugar in my coffee, and was picking the horse

in the third race at Santa Anita, when he looked up at me,

smiled, and ad-libbed at length.

“He’s tough boy.”

With that outburst, he began to size up the mike, looking

for an opening for a “body-scissors”.

“Will you make him knuckle under to-morrow, George?”

“He’s planty tough.”

I could see he was beginning to tire.  “Who would you

say was your most difficult opponent to date?”

That was easy for him.  He said, “Texas.”

I nodded.  “Very good boy.  Big, too.  Got it all over

North Carolina.”

“Planty tough.”

I said goodbye to George from behind the studio piano.

I’d shaken hands with him when he came in, and my fingers

still felt like fresh modelling clay.

On the way home, I thought to myself, “Radio’s pretty

wonderful at that.  No wires, and the man’s talking all the

way from London.”

Everyone was asleep when I got home, so I undressed

quietly, turned out the light, and went to sleep.  I was

awakened some time later by a loud cracking noise.  It

sounded as though someone were ripping up the deck on a

barge inside my semicircular canals.  I reached up and

turned on the bed-light.

Sitting on my bed-table, holding an unshelled peanut in

his hand, was a large white mouse.  I mean large.  His eyes

were as red as a Utah University football jersey.  We both

leaped at the same time.  He landed on the middle of the

bed which I vacated, and I landed in the middle of Mar-

guerite’s.

She opened her eyes long enough to tell me that my two

interviews had been very amusing.  I didn’t answer, I just

pointed an accusing finger at the wine-eyed monster on my

bed.

“Oh, him,” she said with a happy smile.  “That’s Whitey,

the darling white mouse I bought for Michael.  He lives

downstairs.”

“Tell him to go home.”

How the mouse found out that I always kept a bag of

freshly roasted peanuts on my bed-table, I’ll never know.

Unless someone tipped him off.  Marguerite was sweet

about it.  She definitely took my side and scolded Whitey

severely, telling him to go right downstairs this minute and

not to disturb Daddy.

I pointed out coldly, “I am not the rat’s father.”

From that moment on, I christened him “The Abominable

Snowman”.  Billy stuck his head in through the door.  He

was holding a glass of milk in one hand, and rubbing his

sleepy eyes with the other.

“How’s Daddy doing?” he asked Marguerite.

She sighed.  “He’s planty tough boy.”

In the short eternity during which I had known Mar-

guerite she had already mothered the following pets:  a ring-

tailed monkey, two Russian wolfhounds (who were always

swallowing fish-bones that I had to pull out with my bare

fingers from six miles down their gullet), a small bear cub,

two Siamese cats, a crow with a split tongue who could say

only one word over and over, “Lovely!  Lovely!”, two

parakeets, a racoon, a chinchilla rabbit (mateless, naturally,

otherwise it would have been profitable), a baby skunk

(that lasted just seven seconds trying to get through

immigration at the front door), a stray Saint Bernard

(whom she fed and permitted to sleep on my bed for three

weeks while we searched for the owner, who turned out to

be living across the street, where the dog went for lunch

and dinner before checking in at our place for bed and

breakfast), and eleven other assorted dogs and cats (most of

whom were still with us), and now T.A.S., The Abominable

Snowman.  I felt just like the man in the story who had a

houseful of smelly goats and when he was asked why he

didn’t open the windows, he said, “What?  And lose all my

pigeons?”

Marguerite was now wide awake.  The white mouse took

refuge on her shoulder and they both stared at me two

blue headlights and two red tail-lights.

Marguerite wanted to talk.  I wanted to sleep.  She kept

nudging me with her elbow to keep me awake.  Finally, she

gave up.  A moment later she was sound asleep, leaving me

with wide-open melon eyes.  I put out the light, and tried

counting sheep.  I sang all of the stanzas of the Star Spangled

Banner to myself.  Recited the Gettysburg Address back-

wards.  No sleep.  I finally gave up, put the light on, and

started to read.

That was the beginning of the night from which I never

recovered.  Lying on the table beside me was the latest issue

of my favourite magazine.

That struck me as very strange, as we had just agreed that

we couldn’t afford to subscribe to the magazine, but there it

was beside me.  As I turned the pages, I began to suspect a

cunning hand behind this tender sacrifice.

The feature article was made up of newspaper headlines

sent in from all over the United States.  The editors of the

magazine had asked the American newspaper editors to send

them what their paper would consider to be the most ex-

citing and dramatic headline they could conceive.  They

were asked to turn their imaginations loose, and to send in a

front page from their paper with a bold-type headline telling

the story which they felt would be the most arresting to their

readers if it were possible to print it.

There were some real thrillers which tickled me im-

mensely.  Such as:

“lost continent of atlantis discovered at last!” “people land from mars!”

“shakespeare really bacon!”

“original noah’s ark sighted!”

“king solomon’s mines reopened!”

I spent quite a delightful twenty minutes until I read the

headline which the majority of the newspaper editors chose

as the most dramatic of all.  This headline, they agreed,

would cause the most electrifying shock of all among their

readers if printed.  It was told in two simple words:

“CHRIST RETURNS!”

Now I knew why Marguerite had bought the magazine.

I quickly shut my mind to the thought and read some of the

other headlines.

“hitler alive in buenos aires!”

“conan doyle makes contact with earth from spirit world!”

“earthquake in iraq reveals original garden of adam and eve!”

Inevitably I came back to the story which according to

the nation-wide poll of editors would be the most thrilling

and important news event which they could possibly offer

to their readers:  “christ returns!”  If they could honestly

print this headline, they said, the world would stand on its

ear.

I tried to picture what would happen in New York,

Chicago, San Francisco, or Salt Lake City if Christ suddenly

did appear on the streets.

What a commotion that headline would stir up.  I

chuckled to myself.  Imagine America going out to pick up

its morning milk and newspaper, and seeing the headline:

“Jesus Here!”

But would any paper really print the headline?  Or arrange

press, radio, and television interviews?  I doubted it.  They

ignored Him for over three hundred years the first time.

His story would probably be buried in a few lines lost

among the advertisements, if it was considered worthy of

any space at all:  “Madman claims contact with God.  The

authorities acting for the protection of the village have

committed an unknown agitator to the local asylum.”  That

was much more likely.

I picked up the magazine again and read the article to the

end.  It pointed out that, ironically enough, some of the

newspapers in the United States had already printed head-

lines about the return of Christ.  That had been during the

1840s.  At that time, in both the eastern United States, in

Europe, and in the Middle East, there had been a strong

feeling of expectation among certain groups that Christ

would soon appear.

The article quoted a few of the news stories of that day.

Some were written with tongue-in-cheek, some with pro-

found sincerity, some in outright anger, some in jest:

“jesus—expected any moment!”

“christ:  coming or not?”

“people sell possessions expecting advent!”

In the Congress of the United States in the 1870s debates

arose concerning the possibility of this event being im-

minent.

Even the Shoshone Indians in Wyoming reported the

soon-to-come-great-white Redeemer.

Now I was wide awake, and Marguerite was asleep.

“Marguerite?” I called softly.  She didn’t answer.  When

I had come home I was sleepy and she wanted to talk.  Now

she was asleep and I wanted to talk.  I felt just like the poor

husband whose wife said to him, just as he reached up to

pull out the light, “Bill, dear, remind me to tell you in the

morning what I did to-day with our life-savings.”

Now it was impossible to sleep.  I turned to the sports

section of the magazine.  Stuck between the pages I found a

note from Marguerite, clipped to two theatre tickets.

“Don’t read too late.  You have a date with a pretty

blonde to-morrow night to see Our Town at Kingsbury

Hall.  By the way, the Bahá’í Faith began in the year 1844.

Did you know that?  And the Book of Proofs tells the story

of what happened in 1844 and proves that Bahá’u’lláh is

the return of Christ, no matter what you’re thinking right

now.

“Don’t get upset.  No one asked you to believe it

only to investigate it.  It’s the greatest news story in the

world.  I didn’t say that.  All those hard-boiled news-

paper editors said it.

P.S.  Have you finished the Proofs? Don’t wake me,

I’m sleeping.”

I grinned to myself.  What a lucky man I was.  A beautiful

wife, two fine trouble-making sons, three kittens on the

foot of my bed, two cats meowing to get in from the roof, a

cocker spaniel barking downstairs, one dachshund snoring

under the bed and beating the floor and whimpering in a

nightmare, another dachshund chewing on a bone over the

hollow spot on the hall floor, and The Abominable Snowman

cracking peanuts by my ear, and on my bed-table a book of

Bahá’í Proofs that might upset my whole life.

Was there any luckier guy in all the world, I asked myself?

But I didn’t answer.

CHAPTER 22

THE STRANGE CASE OF THE MISSING

MILLENNIUM

The next morning at breakfast I said to Marguerite, “I

read your magazine article last night.”

“It wasn’t my article,” she said.  “I just bought the

magazine.”

“I know why you bought it,” I told her.

She was wearing a sea-green and white Mexican flared

skirt with a white blouse, and sea-green matching shoes.

She looked so sweet and innocent with those robin’s-egg

blue eyes that I hardly noticed The Abominable Snowman

sitting on her shoulder.

I gave them both my father’s “glassy eye”.  I said

pointedly, “Two’s company, three’s a crowd.”

Marguerite put the mouse in his house and said, “Go and

play with your nice cheese; Daddy wants to talk about the

magazine article.”

I didn’t want to talk about it.  I wanted to think about it.

So I said, “Ham and eggs and hold the conversation.”

While I was eating, Michael brought in the morning mail.

There was a postcard from Grandfather.  All it said was:

“Did everybody die?”

I wrote to him before going to work and told him what

had been happening to me during the past few months.  I

promised to give him all the details as soon as I could.

Three days later a telegram arrived.

sooner

grandfather

Marguerite and I didn’t discuss the magazine article for

several days.  I could tell she was wondering about it,

because she was so extra thoughtful and considerate.  I had

my favourite dishes for three dinners in a row.

“I wish you wouldn’t be so exceedingly kind and

tolerant,” I told her.

“All right,” she said.  “I’ll get tickets to-night for

Rigoletto.”

“No need to go to the other extreme.”

Marguerite drove me to work that morning—she and The

Abominable Snowman, who suddenly appeared from under

her coat collar.  He stared at me accusingly.  I said, “Don’t

be impatient.  Give me until next month.”

“It has nothing to do with me,” Marguerite explained

casually.  “It’s between you and God.”

“I have to be honest.”

“Of course you do,” she agreed cheerfully.  “After all,

you had the dream, I didn’t.”

She kissed me lightly and said, “Have a nice day.”

I got out.  She rolled down the window for another kiss.

It made up for the other one.  I said patiently, “I have to be

sure that Bahá’u’lláh is the one I’m looking for.”

She nodded.  “That’s why you have a head and a heart.

If, after reading the Book of Proofs, you’re still not convinced

that Bahá’u’lláh is the Promised One for this day, then you

must refuse to believe in Him.”

“I haven’t read the Book of Proofs yet, and you know it,”

I told her, peevishly.

I heard her merry laugh as she rolled up the window

and drove away.  I had a hunch it was going to be one of

those days.  It was.

I was sick of words by the time I drove away from the

station that night.  Even so, I stopped at the library to pick

up some books on astronomy.  I was trying to track down a

hunch I had about a strange star and comet that had ap-

peared at the time of the coming of Bahá’u’lláh just like the

star that appeared at the time of the coming of Christ.

I was feeling very dispirited.  I ate little for dinner, and as

soon as we were finished I carried my armload of books into

the living-room and dumped them on the sofa.  Half-

heartedly I began to thumb my way through them.

Marguerite brought me a second cup of coffee.

“Don’t stay up too late,” she said.  Then she kissed me on

top of the head.  “Good luck.”

Billy came in with the cream.  “How’s Daddy doing,

Mother?” he asked Marguerite.

She smiled.  “He’s tough boy,” she told him.

Billy agreed.  “Planty tough.”

Late that night I experienced one of those wonderful

moments such as comes to a painter when his canvas

suddenly begins to take shape under his brush, or to an

archaeologist when a hill collapses, disclosing a hitherto

undiscovered cave.  It was the culmination of a long period

of both study and prayer, and the result was satisfying to

both my mind and my heart.

I have written the detailed story of this discovery and the

steps that led up to it in another book which I have called

Thief in the Night!  The title is taken from Christ’s quotation

about the hour of His return when, catching mankind un-

prepared and uninterested, “He shall come like a thief in the

night”.

Originally I called the book The Case of the Missing

Millennium, for it turned out to be one of the most absorbing

and exciting mysteries imaginable—a real thriller.  No one

had been able to solve it for over a hundred years, when

suddenly, in a few months, the answer had fallen right into

my lap.

I wrote Thief so that those close friends with whom I had

worked so long and intimately in radio and television would

understand why, at what they considered to be the height of

a successful career in show-business, I turned my back on a

television future and began to wander the world over.

“Whatever happened to Bill Sears?” is a question they

still ask in Philadelphia, a friend wrote to me recently.  The

usual answer is, “Don’t you know?  Poor devil.  He flipped

his lid.  Became a religious fanatic.  Last I heard, he was

somewhere in Tibet.”

I have never been closer to Tibet than Karachi.  The

chances are that when the question was asked I was in

Mycenae on holiday, taking pictures of the spot from

where, legend has it, Agamemnon departed to help rescue

Helen of Troy on behalf of his brother.

However, it is perfectly true that I did follow the footsteps

of Bahá’u’lláh through many lands, making a personal

investigation to support my theory that I had found the

solution to one of the most intriguing unsolved mysteries of

our age.

So that my friends would look upon me with a more sin-

covering eye I set down the full record of the tantalizing

story which captured first my attention, and finally my heart

and allegiance.

I soon discovered that I was not alone in my search for

the answer to this riddle of a century.  Professor Edward

Granville Browne of Pembroke College, Cambridge Uni-

versity, had broken the ground long before me.  He wrote

enthusiastically of the rise of this Faith.

“I feel it my duty, as well as pleasure, to bring the matter

to the notice of my countrymen.”  He spoke of his eagerness

to obtain as accurate an account as possible.  “In my eyes,”

he said, “the whole (story) seems one of the most interesting

and important events that have occurred since the rise of

Christianity.”

His contemporary, Professor Benjamin Jowett of Balliol

College, Oxford, was even more emphatic.  He said, “It is

the greatest thing to come to the earth since the days of

Jesus, the Christ.  It is too great for the present to under-

stand it, but the future will understand it.”

It was exactly two forty-five a.m. when I found the story

I had been searching for about the stars.  It was like a key-

which opened the door to everything.  I let out a spontaneous

yell that would have shamed Geronimo.

Everyone in the family knew how much it meant to me

to find that startling account.  I’d talked about it at table

for a long time.  When they heard my shout they all rose

from their beds like magic.  When I looked up from the

books I was surrounded by a ring of startled faces:  Mar-

guerite, Billy, Michael, Spook, Lady Windermere, Chloe,

Cuckoo Berry, Lucia, and Hart-Schaeffner-and-Marx.

“Listen to this!” I cried joyfully.  And then I told them

the amazing story of the stars and comets that had heralded

the Mission of Bahá’u’lláh.  Even Marguerite was enthralled.

I, myself, felt just like a man who had brought in the

world’s biggest gusher.  Was this the end of my long search?

Had I found the meaning of my dream at last?  I had to

know.

I threw the books into the air, swept Marguerite into my

arms, and began to waltz around the room with her.  She

was half laughing and half crying.  Billy, who felt that he

had to fiddle on every gay occasion, ran and brought his

violin.  The boys didn’t know quite what was happening,

but they, too, were caught up in the excitement.  To the

tune of “A-Open, E-Open” and my humming of Casey Will

Waltz With a Strawberry Blonde, and Lady Windermere’s

plaintiff howling, joy was unrestrained.  Michael even

brought The Abominable Snowman downstairs so that the

entire family might enjoy this moment of complete abandon.

“You win,” I told Marguerite.  “I’m going into the den,

and I’m going to read the Book of Proofs.”

“Don’t hurry,” she said.  “It’s such a happy moment.”

“I want to hurry,” I said.  “I’ve been waiting all my life

for this moment.”

She hugged me very tightly.

“No matter what happens when you come out of that

room,” she told me, “it will make no difference between us.

I love you very much.”

I went into the den and closed the door.  I read steadily

for over three hours.  Then I put the book down.  I got

down on my knees and prayed until dawn.  What went on

during those hours is between God and myself.

When I came out, the family was still in the living-room:

Michael asleep on the sofa with Spook draped across his

chest like a blanket:  Billy in the big chair clutching his violin

and surrounded by three dogs and two cats.  Marguerite

was wide awake.  She was sitting on the big leather hassock

from Khartoum.  I could tell that she had been praying too.

When she heard the door open she looked up quickly.

She must have seen something in my face.  She smiled, and

came towards me.  I took her in my arms.

I said, “I am a Bahá’í.”

“I know,” she told me.  “I’ve always known.”

I sent the Book of Proofs, along with all the other material

I had collected, to Grandfather.  I didn’t hear from him for

several weeks.  Finally, I telegraphed.

how about it?

bill

I got the following reply:

thinking

grandfather

I waited another three weeks, then sent another wire.

well?

bill

At last he replied.

acts twelve twenty-two

grandfather

I looked up the reference as soon as I came home from

work.  It was very brief:

And the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a God

and not a man.

CHAPTER 23

TELEVISION, OR COAST-TO-COAST WITH

A CROW

Marguerite was a little upset because I was taking only

one small trunk of clothes but six trunks full of books.

“I like to read,” I told her.

“You won’t have time to read in Africa,” she said.

“I noticed you packed your cerulean-blue formal.”

“I may have to dress for dinner some night.”

“Dress for it!” I laughed.  “You may have to climb a

tree for it!”

In just a few short days Michael, Billy, Marguerite, and

myself would be sailing for Cape Town aboard the African

Sun.  For me it was to be the first leg of a journey that

would carry me over 250,000 miles through Africa, Europe,

North and South America, Asia, Australia, and the islands

of the Pacific, the equivalent of ten times around the

world.

I had just kissed goodbye to a television job which

offered me as a starter $50,000 a year.  Still my heart was as

light as the top of a dry dandelion.  I spun Marguerite

around and kissed her soundly.

“Tell me, Princess,” I asked her, “is this really happening

to that small boy from Minnesota, or am I mad?”

Billy said, “I know the answer to that.”

“You keep out of this.”

Judged by the standards of the world, I had not done too

badly in my profession.  I had come to Philadelphia, the city

of brotherly love, to work for WPEN, the Evening Bulletin

Station.  I handled the University of Pennsylvania basket-

ball games and the Villanova University football games.  I

was the American Master-of-Ceremonies for the BBC

programme Inter-National Quiz, and we had just been

given an Award.  No cash, but a lovely Award.  Now I

know how my father had felt when I’d won the plaque for

my first play.  It was a sweet thing, but you can’t eat an

Award.

When the Philadelphia Bulletin purchased WCAU Radio

and Television, I moved from Walnut to Chestnut Street

and became a Sportscaster on TV.

I floated around the country broadcasting the pro-

fessional football games for the Philadelphia Eagles, and

put in a season doing the Penn games on TV.

Suddenly I was making more money than my creditors

could ask for.  So we moved to Downingtown near West-

chester.  We bought a farm.  Rather, we bought a house on a

lot of land.  I thought it was Cape Cod style.  Marguerite

insisted that it was Colonial.  But I think Billy was right.

He called it “early American Indian”.  It had more holes in

it than a clarinet, and on a windy day you could hear the

house play Where!  Oh, where has my little dog gone?  But that

was all right.  Marguerite still had a houseful of dogs, and

no one ever knew where they were:  Fafnir, Socrates, Tristam

and Isolde, Lazy Moon, and Krause.  All dachshunds ex-

cept Fafnir.  He was a boxer.  He looked more like a

wrestler.

A few months later I was given the job of Master-of-

Ceremonies for the Miss America pageant semi-finals.  We

had to pick a Miss Greater-Philadelphia.  Ed Sullivan came

down from New York to be one of the judges.  The assign-

ment brought me a rise in pay, so we decided to move

to a new apartment.  Billy was quite thrilled.  He said he

wasn’t superstitious, but he didn’t like to sleep thirteen

in a bed.  With the dogs and cats, his count was just about

right.

The first year I was in television for WCAU, the magazine

TV-Guide gave me an “Oscar” for the most outstanding

sports show.

It was a sports show with laughs.  The dyed-in-the-wool

sports fans would have shot me dead on the street at sight,

but those who liked a laugh with their dinner tuned in each

night to watch.  It was at that time that I dreamed up the

idea of using a unicorn (a hand puppet) to help me keep my

baseball records straight.  Before I got started with the idea,

Paul Ritts suggested a chipmunk, and said he thought he

could make one.  He did, and it was superb.  Paul could

speak in more voices than the Vienna Boys choir, so he

became Albert, the chipmunk.  He suggested half a dozen

other fine ideas for the show too.  Paul was not a Bahá’í, but

I think Albert the chipmunk was.  I’ll tell you why.

Albert became the central character in a half-hour comedy

drama which Paul and I wrote for CBS.  It was called In The

Park.  I played a kindly old man who sat on the Central

Park bench and who, because of his purity of heart, could

talk to the animals.

Paul carved and fashioned a crow named Calvin, a giraffe

named Sir Geoffrey, and an ostrich named Magnolia

Blossom.  Mary Holliday, Paul’s wife, became the voice of

Magnolia.  She sang like a nightingale and looked like a

bird of paradise.

Paul had a remarkable gift both for writing and for acting,

and it’s not easy to be a chipmunk, a giraffe, a crow, and a

first-class director.  We soon won the hearts of America

each Sunday at twelve noon.  During the summer months,

our programme would open by showing the walking feet

of a worker sweeping the sidewalk in Central Park with a

big broom.  As the leaves were swept aside, the titles of

the programme were uncovered, written in chalk upon the

sidewalk:

in the park

with bill sears

and the animal friends of

paul ritts and mary holliday

In the winter the same feet in galoshes shovelled the snow

off, revealing the credits.

I mention this programme in some detail as it was

directly responsible for resetting my compass to the true

north.  It was a “three laughs and a tear” programme.

I put on my own make-up each Sunday, except for the

first programme.  That day we had a theatre expert in to

make me look about seventy-five.  I sat patiently in the

chair while he whitened my hair and moustache and

wrinkled up an otherwise perfectly good but average face.

When he was finished I stood up and looked in the mirror.

It was a most unnerving experience.  I was looking into an

exact replica of the face of my grandfather!  All I needed

was the oats-box and a little boy to talk to, and I’d be in the

grandfathering business.  I found the little boy in Albert the

chipmunk.

On the second year of our programme we wrote a special

Christmas Day script.  It was about a star on Albert’s

Christmas tree which wouldn’t light up.  Gus, the grey

squirrel, who lived in a tree down in the Park, had “measles”,

so none of the animals would go to visit him for Christmas.

In fact, they decided to keep all his presents for themselves.

Calvin, the crow, said he would like to give Gus something

for Christmas—the “measles”—but Gus had already had

them.  Sir Geoffrey, the giraffe, humbly admitted that Gus

had a good streak in him—“if you cared to blast”.  Magnolia

was going to give Gus a pen, but she’d just learned to her

disgust, she said, that he was illiterate.  Albert had bought a

pair of boxing-gloves for Gus, but said he’d found someone

more worthy of the gift that very morning when he’d been

washing up and had looked in the mirror.

Albert came up and sat on my shoulder.  “You’re not

mad at me, are you?” he asked.

“No, just disappointed.?”

He put his nose against mine and looked at me intently.

“You’ve got real brown eyes.”

“Thanks for the scoop,” I said, echoing the words of my

own father so many years ago in Minnesota.

Albert, the chipmunk, darted down into his hole in the

big tree and came up with a mug of shaving-soap, a brush,

and a razor to shave me for Christmas.  He talked as he

worked.

“Why is it that you human beings are so nice here in the

park at Christmas time, for about two weeks, and so

miserable the rest of the year?  Most of the people who

come in here during the year have a face like wet seaweed, but

at Christmas—honeysuckles!  How do you account for that?”

“People are like the moon,” I told him.  “The moon has

no light of its own.  Gets it all from the sun.  When the

moon is turned towards the earth it’s the dark of the moon.

It gives no light.  But when the moon turns away from the

earth and faces the sun, it gradually becomes beautiful.

First it’s a silver sliver; then it’s a quarter moon, a half,

three-quarters; until finally when it turns its back entirely

on the earth and faces directly to the sun, it becomes a big

round shining full moon.  And that’s the time it sheds the

most light on this dark world.”

“You’re sure a pretty talker,” Albert said, and I could

hear myself speaking to Grandfather as he forked hay down

into Beauty’s manger.

“That’s the way it is with people too, Albert,” I explained.

“When their hearts are turned toward the material things of

this world, they’re dark.  There’s no light in their faces or

in their hearts.  But when they turn away from the earthly

things towards God they become bright and shiny inside.

At Christmas time for a fleeting few days they’ve forgotten

the things of the world and have turned to His Holiness

Christ, so there’s a new spirit in the world and it’s a very

nice place to live in for a while.”

The animals all got the idea.  Calvin dropped marsh-

mallows through Gus’s chimney pretending he was trying

to bomb him instead of doing something nice, but I under-

stood.  Sir Geoffrey brought Gus a load of wood for his fire-

place.  “I still dislike him,” he said, “but I can dislike him

when he’s warm as well as when he’s cold.”  Magnolia

asked me to turn my head, and with a little cry of pain she

pulled a feather out of her tail.  With lowered eyes she said,

“It’s a quill pen.”  I told her, “It’s the nicest gift of all—a

bit of yourself.”  Albert came up wearing the boxing-gloves.

“You’re a nice old geezer, Bill, and I know what you meant

by the story, and who you meant, too; so I’m going to give

the boxing-gloves to Gus, after all.  But I’m going to keep

them on my hands until I get there in case I want to give

him a good swat on the chin first.”

As Albert walked off, the Christmas music increased in

intensity and the cameras slowly moved in on the Christmas

tree with its unlighted star.  Gradually it began to glow

inside and eventually became a shining brilliant star.

Ed Sullivan was watching the programme in his hospital

room in New York.  He called us after the broadcast and

said it had been a very heart-warming Christmas story.  He

asked us if we could appear on his Toast of the Town Variety

Show the following Sunday.  We were delighted, since his

full hour was recognized in the business as the “top”

variety show on television.

People in television and sometimes in the show-business

columns call Ed Sullivan the “Great Stone Face”, among

other things, but we found by working with him that he

had a heart as tender as an Irish lullaby, and was one of the

genuinely nice people in the business.

The programme made a big hit, and we received phone

calls and telegrams from all over the country.  Ed was kind

enough to invite us to come back for a second appearance

on St. Patrick’s Day.

However, it was during that Christmas-week broadcast

on Toast of the Town that Albert set my feet back on the

path.

Albert looked at me with that intensely human cock of

his head which Paul had perfected, and echoed words which

Grandfather and I had spoken on the day of the great fire.

“It’s a funny thing.  Here we are:  you an old man, me a

young boy.  And we’re talking about God.  And enjoying

it.  How do you account for that?”

I chuckled.  “Maybe it’s because you are a young boy and

I am an old man.  You’re close to God on one end, and I’m

close to Him on the other.  In between, people seem to have

forgotten.”

I was back in the barn in the sleepy old-fashioned village

of Aitkin, Minnesota.  I was on the oats-box again, asking,

asking, with Grandfather always answering.  I nearly leaned

over and gave Albert a whisker-rub.

When our guest-appearance ended with the lighting up of

the star to the beautiful music of Ray Bloch and his orchestra,

there was a brief interview with Ed Sullivan in front of the

curtain.

He told the story of just seeing the programme from his

hospital bed, and he assured everyone I was not as old as I

looked.  I mentioned on behalf of the family who might be

watching in Milwaukee and in Minnesota that this was not

Grandfather Wagner they were looking at, nor had I

suddenly turned this aged from the television industry.  I

hoped Grandfather was watching the programme and that

the echo of his own voice had pleased him.

Marguerite and Billy and Michael drove me back along

the New Jersey Turnpike to Philadelphia.  I was very quiet.

Albert’s words had made me think.  Had I turned my face

fully to the sun?  I received a telegram the next day from

Grandfather.  It was as though he had read my thoughts.

It said simply:  “Don’t drop the torch!”

A few Sundays later we did a programme showing exactly

how the old man had happened to come into the park in the

first place, and why he started talking with the animals.

I felt strange inside as we wrote the script.  It was a startling

but unintended parallel of my own life:

Old “Bill” according to the script had once been a young,

energetic, junior advertising executive with a crew hair-cut

and a brief-case and a regular seat on the commuting train

from Stamford, Connecticut.  He was, oh, so busy with such

important things.  Rush, rush, rush!  Until one day he

realized that he was missing far more than he was getting,

so he threw his brief-case into the trash-basket, walked into

the park, and sat down on the bench by Albert’s tree.

Over and over in his mind he kept repeating a nursery

rhyme he had chanted as a child:

“Where are you running so fast, old man?

What must you catch just as fast as you can?”

“I must catch the horizon!  Can you help me, Oh, please!

For the faster I run, the faster it flees!”

“Bill” decided to step off the treadmill and to go back and

do the things which as a young boy, deep in his heart, he

had always wanted to do.  He wanted to be a writer and to

talk about the beautiful things of life.  So he bought a ten-

cent notebook, sat down on the bench, and wrote:  Bill Sears,

My Life.  He looked up and saw Albert the chipmunk staring

at him.

“Good morning,” Albert said cheerily.  “We’ve been

expecting you.”

You know sometimes how someone hums or sings a tune

and for hours or days you repeat it yourself and can’t get it

out of your consciousness?  I was having that trouble with

the nursery rhyme.  I went out to St. David’s and began a

round of golf with Bill Hart, Alan Scott, and Gene Crane.

I didn’t even hear the creative insults during the round,

some of which, I was told later, were based upon pure

classical myths.  All I could hear was:

“Where are you running so fast, little man?”

Bill Sears, My Life.

“What must you catch just as fast as you can?”

Bill Sears, My Life.

CHAPTER 24

HO!  HUM!  SAME OLD ROUTINE:  LONDON,

PARIS, ROME, ATHENS, ISTANBUL, RAN-

GOON, BANGKOK, SHANGHAI, HONOLULU,

SANTIAGO, BUENOS AIRES, AND RIO, OR

SOME WHERE OVER THE RAINBOW

When I had been no higher than Mickey Mantle’s bat I

had promised God and myself that if I ever found out the

truth about my dream I’d go all over the world and share

the news of my discovery.  I had never kept that promise.

I had written several radio and television scripts for the

Bahá’í Faith; I’d been a member of its National Radio

Committee; I’d even published an essay on my belief in

Edward R. Murrow’s compilation This I Believe; but of late

I had been gradually sinking back into that formula of

success:  Get up, go to work, go to the bank, go to bed, die.

Marguerite knew I was very troubled.  She suggested

that we all go to the Intercontinental Conference of the

Bahá’ís at Chicago.

It was also my first visit to the Bahá’í Temple in Wilmette,

Illinois.  I could see at once why it had been called the “first

new idea in architecture since the thirteenth century”.  It

was a beautiful dream made into reality with stone.  A

committee on historical research had traced the ownership

of the land on which the Temple stood back to an American

Indian tribe whose chieftain was named Archangel.

I sat under the lofty dome and heard words of inspiration

read from the holy Books of all Faiths.  I recalled how

‘Abdu’l-Bahá had stood on this barren plain during those

days when I was first having my dream and had dedicated

the land and the Universal House of Worship which was to

be built upon it, to the welfare of men of all religions,

nations, and races.  He had prophesied that when this

Temple was dedicated, from that centre the Faith of

Bahá’u’lláh would be carried to every corner of the planet.

Now we were present at the dedication, listening to the

magnificent music of the choir glorifying the oneness of

God, His Messengers, and all His creatures.

The next day in Chicago there began a great spiritual

World Crusade, reminiscent of the crusade which sent Paul,

Peter, Barnabas, Timothy, and the Apostles of Christ into

the countries and villages of Europe.

There was a message to the Conference from the great-

grandson of Bahá’u’lláh, the World Head of the Bahá’í

Faith.  It was an inspiring call for pioneers to go to far-

distant lands.  Now I understood the full meaning of my

dream.  The time had come to “fish” like Peter, through the

seven seas for the souls of men.

I had always known in my heart that it is not enough

merely to believe, but perhaps I had hoped, as Jonah had,

that someone else would go to Nineveh.

I had quoted the words of the Greek philosopher to

Marguerite too many times to try to evade their meaning

now:  “Seek the truth.  Decide in your own heart if it be

true or false.  If it be false, oppose it with all your might;

but, if it be true, arise and serve it steadfastly to the end.”

At lunch-time the Sears all began talking at once.

Apparently everybody had the same idea, although their

destinations were a bit far apart.

Michael said, “How about China?”

“Hawaii, I think,” Billy suggested.

Almost in one breath, Marguerite and I said, “Africa.”

Saying goodbye to Grandfather was not going to be easy.

I seemed to be connected to the old man by a giant rubber-

band.  The farther I drew away, the tighter the bond

became.  I felt that if I were to lift my feet off the ground I

would snap right back to the oats-box.

Marguerite helped me to arrange a special broadcast with

Grandfather before we left Philadelphia.  I talked with him

on my broadcast by long-distance telephone to Minnesota.

I had been telling stories about him to my listeners for years,

so they all felt that they knew him.  It was his birthday; it

was also a farewell.  We both knew we would never talk to

each other again, but we never let on.

I expected Grandfather to sound feeble and remote.  He

was now in his ‘nineties.  He came on the air as fresh and

vigorous as Mel Allen during a Yankee rally.

“Do you think you’ll ever amount to anything?” was the

first thing he asked me.

“I’ll make a try,” I answered.

I sounded much older than he did.  I had a lump in my

throat the size of an orange.

“Happy birthday, Grandfather.”

“I’ve had so many,” he said, “I feel like I’m cheating.

They still haven’t moved me out of the leaky barn.  It’s not

much fun living in it any more.”

Out of the blue, he suddenly asked:

“Still got Dakar’s first-place medal?”

“Right here,” I told him, tapping my wallet.

“Don’t settle for second.  Stay out in front and don’t let

them pocket you over there in the jungles.  And, son——”

Yes?”

“Don’t call me this late at night again.  I’m an old

man.”

I could hear him laugh as he hung up.  I could almost see

him digging Uncle Cliff in the ribs and crowing, “I may out-

live the country.”

Slowly I replaced the telephone receiver.

“Goodbye, Grandfather,” I said.

The old man received hundreds of birthday cards the next

week from people from all over the country who felt they

knew him.  I’m sure it pleased him very much.

Grandfather made a journey, too.  He went with Uncle

Cliff all the way out to the West Coast.  He missed the barn

and the horses, so he got a little garden plot of land outside

of town, and each day he would go hobbling along through

town to his garden.  When he couldn’t move about he

knitted socks and sweaters as gifts for the grandchildren.

Everybody knew him, and when he, like old Prince, just

went to sleep one night and didn’t wake up, one of the

newspaper columnists wrote a tribute to him, a stranger

who had come to their city and in a few short months had

conquered their hearts with the philosophy that:  “There are

no strangers.  They’re just friends I haven’t met yet.”

We sold our farm and all our possessions.  Even up to the

end, many of our friends thought it was only a publicity

stunt.

“You’re really going?” they’d say, surprised.

“You’re giving up everything?”

Marguerite said it best.  “We’re giving up nothing.

Everything is in the going.”

“I never took you kids for religious bugs.  It’s taken you

all your life, Bill, to get where you are now.  Most guys

would give their right arm for your job, and you’re tossing

it away like a used banana peel.”

“You hardly have time to carry your money to the bank

these days, Bill.  You’ve got it made!  Stick around.”

“He feels that he’s got to go to Nineveh,” Marguerite

explained.

“Where?”

“Nineveh.”

“I thought you were going to Africa?”

“We are.”

“You kids better buy yourselves an atlas.  You may never

even get to New York.”

Our African journey brought us all days of unforgettable

happiness, excitement, and laughter.  I have told the story

in another book called Black Sunlight.  This story of a boy

and his dream had ended at the foot of the rainbow.

*      *      *      *      *

Michael is now studying to be an architect; Billy wants to

be a writer; Marguerite wants another dachshund.  Oh, yes,

she’s still the Animal Lady.  When she walks round the

property in the mornings they still string out behind her.

She still looks like the engine on a long New York Central

freight train.  We have chickens, chinchilla giganticus

rabbits, and two peacocks.  One peacock climbs to the top of

every fence we put up, so he is called Sir Edmund.  One won’t

even try.  He is called Lord Listless.  There are the two dachs-

hunds Cyrano and Roxane, the two Ridgeback watchdogs Big

Finnegan and Scotland Yard (I’ve always wanted a dog with

that name so I could look up dramatically to Marguerite

and say, “Call the Yard!”), a puppy which is part ridgeback

and part bull-mastiff.  It grows with alarming rapidity, as

though someone were blowing it up like a balloon.  When

it was sent to us from a nearby farm Billy took one look and

said:

“They’ve made a mistake and sent us the farm.”

It’s name is Sugar-bush.  We also have cats named

Figaro, Mr.  Murphy, Kubla Khan, as well as a litter in my

brown suit that are not named as yet.  I suggest the sextette

from Lucia, but Marguerite said, “Don’t start that again.”

We have no right to be so happy.  It is a wonderful place

to come home to.  It is almost always filled with people.

The Bahá’í teachings say, “If you want a palace in paradise,

make your home the gathering place for friends.”

I am still trying to fulfil that hunger in my heart to share

the news of this wonderful day with people everywhere in

the world.  I have travelled over a quarter of a million miles.

I come home just long enough to earn enough money for

another journey.

I write a little, broadcast a little, and travel a lot.

I went to Israel so that I could make a personal and

detailed investigation of all the places visited there by

Bahá’u’lláh.

Marguerite, Bill, Michael, and Cyrano drove me out to the

airport to see me off.  How many times we have said good-

bye in the past five years, and in how many different parts

of the world.  Marguerite’s life is given to spreading the

Bahá’í Faith also, and frequently we drive, sail, or fly in

opposite directions.

“I don’t like goodbyes,” she said wistfully as we parted

one day at the London Airport.

“If there were no goodbyes,” I told her, quoting an African

proverb, “there would be no hellos.”

She went on a journey through India, Burma, Thailand,

and Malaya.  She sent a cable home from Singapore.

“Miss you.”

Bill answered her:  “You certainly did.  Dad’s in Haifa,

remember?”

I cabled one day from Stuttgart, Germany, to Tucson,

Arizona.  Marguerite’s mother answered:  “Marguerite is in

Mexico.”  Marguerite cabled to Stuttgart upon her return,

only to hear:  “Bill is in Greece.”

One afternoon I was sitting in the restaurant at Ciampino

Airport in Rome waiting for flight SA 121 to Nairobi.  I was

enjoying a glass of Perrier water and Art Buchwald’s column

in the French edition of the Herald Tribune, when a shadow

crossed the table.  I looked up.  It was Marguerite as fresh

and full of life as the day I had first seen her through that

studio window.

“Going my way?” I asked.

She showed me her ticket.  Flight SA 121 Nairobi.

“What’s new?”

She said, “Nothing.  Same old thing:  Mexico, Los

Angeles, Chicago, New York, London, Paris, Geneva,

Milan, Rome, Istanbul, New Delhi.”

Our laughter attracted considerable attention and dis-

approval.  The loudspeaker called out our plane, and as we

walked hand-in-hand across the runway towards the big

DC7 I thought of many things:  the time we had gone for

days without food in Salt Lake City, until finally we scraped

together enough for a big bowl of soup.  We lighted candles

on the table, and for a centre-piece I had carried in the

dachshund, Spook, lying flat on his back on a serving tray.

The boys broke into tears thinking we were going to eat

him, jumped up in fear, and upset all our soup on to the

floor.

The time I raced our Jeep station-wagon down the

Schuylkill River Drive rushing to Hahnemann Hospital,

holding Marguerite up with one arm, as she was gradually

dying beside me.  It was the night we lost our child.

The time we were down to our last three dollars with no

resources in sight.  Marguerite said, “We’re going about this

the wrong way.  It’s negative.  I’m going out and spend the

three dollars on a good dinner.”

“It’s not three dollars,” I told her.  “It’s one pound, one

and six.”

“I’m getting a strange feeling,” she said, “something is

breathing over me.”

“That’s me,” I said ungrammatically, “taking a last look

at the three dollars.”

She came back with the ingredients for a wonderful

dinner, “so that we can celebrate,” she said.

“Celebrate what?” I asked.

“The fact that we’re going to have such a splendid

dinner.”  She smiled.  “And who knows, maybe something

else.”

She was right, of course.  I came home the next day with

a job.

Now, as the plane took off from Rome, bent away from

Castel Gandolfo, and started climbing towards Naples, I

said to Marguerite:  “We’ve certainly followed Bahá’u’lláh’s

instructions in one thing.”

“What, dear?”

“We’ve lived a full, rich life.  We’ve extracted all the

throbbing joy, wonder, awe, excitement, and beauty out of

each minute.  I’ve made more come-backs than a yoyo, and

it’s all been pretty special.”

The plane came down from the Great Rift Valley and

circled to land at Nairobi’s new airport.  I squeezed Mar-

guerite’s hand.

“Africa,” I said.

“Happy

“To be back home?” I asked.  “Of course.  You can get

weary of travelling.  How about you?”

I looked in her lap.  She had a Pan American flight

schedule and two maps of South America and a strange

light in those robin’s-egg blue eyes.

We both began to laugh.

To myself I said, “I think God loves laughter.  I know

I do.”