Substance Abuse
A Bahá’í Perspective
B  a  h  á    í   C  a  n  a  d  a   P  u  b  l  i  c  a  t  i  o  n  s
A-M. Ghadirian, M.D.

Copyright © 2000 Abdu'l-Missagh Ghadirian.
All rights reserved.
The image used in the cover design is adopted from Master PhotoTM
clipart gallery produced by  International Microcomputer Software Inc.
(IMSI) which is protected by the copyright laws of the U.S. and else-
where. Used under license.
Publisher: Bahá’í Canada Publications, 7200 Leslie St.,
Thornhill, Ontario L3T 6L8
ISBN 0-88867-136-9
Printed in the United States of America
in cooperation with Palabra Publications

Preface
Who is this book for?
It is both for the general public and for professionals. While its
style is clear and easy to understand for those who are directly affected
by substance abuse, it will also be useful to communities and
institutions dealing with substance abuse issues and policies on the
local, national, and global levels.
What is the scope and what are the effects of substance abuse?
This book provides accurate, up-to-date information about
diverse addictive substances that are widely abused worldwide,
including alcohol, tobacco, cocaine, marijuana, and heroin.
In North America, alcohol abuse affects one in three families
directly.  Although its indirect effects are difficult to measure, yet
alcohol abuse is known to be a major contributor to violence in the
home and in the community.  Alcohol and depression are inter-
twined.  Almost half of motor vehicle accidents, including fatal ones,
involve alcohol.  Furthermore, alcohol is a known risk factor for
several of the most common forms of cancer.
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that one bil-
lion men and 200 million women abuse tobacco.  Millions of chil-
dren are exposed to harmful environmental tobacco smoke due to
their parents.  The WHO estimates 11,000 deaths per day, or four
million deaths per year are due to tobacco.
Why read this book?
Dr. Ghadirian is a practicing physician and professor who has
extensive experience in the prevention and treatment of substance
abuse.  In this concise work, he explains substance abuse and outlines
the scope of the problem.  He considers the spiritual and emotional
toll as well as the social costs of substance abuse.  Most importantly,
he points the way to substance abuse-free families and communities.
Elizabeth L. Bowen, MD, EdD
International Liaison, Health for Humanity
Preventive Medicine and Community Health Faculty
Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia, USA

Contents
Illicit Drugs and Society          3
Why do people use drugs?          3
What are drugs a substitute for?          4
Who is most vulnerable to substance abuse?          5
How extensive is the substance abuse problem?          7
What is the solution?          7
The Epidemic of Drug Abuse          8
Children and Substance Abuse          10
What Do the Children of Alcoholics Say?       11
The Gift of the Mind          12
Inner Peace and Tranquility          12
Drugs and Human Attitude          13
Interactions of Psycho-Bio-Social Factors          13
Drugs and Physical and Mental Reality          14
Bahá’í Attitude Toward Substance Abuse          15
Primary Prevention          18
Individual          19
Family          21
Society          22
International Efforts Toward Drug Prevention          24
References          26


Illicit Drugs and Society
The breakdown of the old world order and the disintegration of
material civilization and traditional ways of life have generated
serious chaos and confusion in human affairs and have caused
significant anxiety and stress.
Although science and technology have changed people’s lifestyle
and work pattern and have brought unprecedented comfort and
material prosperity, they have not brought a lasting hope and  hap-
piness.  Science has lost its contact with human feeling and feeling
has been manipulated or denied in a variety of ways, one of which
is through the use of alcohol and non-medical use of drugs.   No one
is certain of his/her future and no one knows the true path to peace
of mind.
There is a crisis not only in the outside world, but also within
the person.1  The material and social decline of the world is a reflec-
tion of the spiritual poverty of humankind. Alcohol and other mind-
or mood-altering drugs have become avenues through which hu-
manity finds an escape from the reality of a changing world.  Today,
millions of people, young and old, men and women, poor and rich,
educated and illiterate willingly submit their mind to the influence
of alcohol, narcotics, and various mind-altering drugs in their search
for hope and happiness.  Like wild fire, the use of illegal drugs has
spread to every part of the world and no nation has been immune
from this devastating epidemic of our time.
Why do people use drugs?
The purpose of writing this booklet is to offer perspectives on
preventive education which would also reflect briefly the state of
the drug abuse problem in society and highlight the Bahá’í viewpoint
on this pervasive and devastating problem.  In this booklet the words
drugs, psychoactive drugs, illicit drugs, substance abuse and
addiction are used interchangeably.  These all indicate non-medical
use of drugs and by drugs we also include alcohol.  In 1994 the

Bangkok Declaration on substance abuse recommended that alcohol
and tobacco be considered as a “drug” and the Declaration was later
approved by the United Nations.  However, tobacco differs from
the above mentioned drugs in the sense that although it causes
medical diseases it does not have a strong mind altering addictive
effect like other drugs.
Not all people who use drugs do so to obtain the same objec-
tive.  Some use it for pleasure, others out of  curiosity and yet others
copy their friends.  Many young people give in to peer pressure and
think taking drugs is “cool”.  People may use drugs to battle their
inner crises, to block out the harsh reality of life or to search for their
identity.
There are as many reasons to use drugs as there are individuals
in society.  However, the most common reasons given for the use of
illicit drugs and alcohol are as follows:  peer pressure, curiosity, plea-
sure, boredom, ignorance, emotional isolation and alienation, chang-
ing social structure, urbanization and unemployment, poor coping
skills for life stress, search for one’s true self, lack of affection and
the breakdown of family life.  Whatever the reason for drug use,
society bears an important responsibility in providing positive al-
ternatives for substance abuse.  If we fail to provide positive alter-
natives and to rethink our purpose of life and spiritual destiny, drugs
are here to stay and will continue to take a high toll on human mind
and body.
What are drugs a substitute for?
Psychoactive drugs including alcohol can be a substitute for
different things in different people.  For some it is an antidote for
insecurity and fear.  They take it to borrow a sense of security and
courage.  To others it gives an illusion of self-esteem and  confidence.
To the hopeless it gives a perceived sense of hope and on one who is
desolate and depressed it confers a false sense of power and elation.
Some use it to escape boredom, to feel “high” and euphoric.  Yet
others use it to alleviate pain and despair.  Whatever the reason for

drug abuse it does not achieve the goal, but provides an illusory
excursion into a world of unreality and pleasure.  It is a psychological
“hijacking of the brain” for a few hours or days with a heavy cost to
pay later.
A parallel can be drawn between the spiritual responses to hu-
man needs as compared to the struggle to obtain satisfaction through
chemical means from the following words of Bahá’u’lláh:
O my Lord!  Make Thy beauty to be my food, and Thy pres-
ence my drink, and Thy pleasure my hope, and praise of
Thee my action, and remembrance of Thee my companion,
and the power of Thy sovereignty my succorer, and Thy
habitation my home, and my dwelling-place the seat Thou
hast sanctified from the limitations imposed upon them who
are shut out as by a veil from Thee.2
Who is most vulnerable to substance abuse?
Research has shown that in some cases there is a genetic
vulnerability to drugs such as alcohol.  Children of alcoholics are
obviously more at risk to become alcoholic themselves.  But
environment also plays an important role in drug dependency.  Social
and environmental stressors can enhance the unfoldment of the
underlying genetic predisposition.  Peer pressure has a powerful
influence in the spread of drug abuse among young people.  If youth
come in contact with such influence and are already genetically
vulnerable, obviously they are more at risk for drug dependency.
But we also see young people who are involved in drug abuse who
have no history of addiction in their family.  However they may
come from broken homes and, having lost contact with their cultural
roots, have no faith in the future.
Today drug abuse is a global problem and has crossed all bor-
ders of socioeconomic and geographic variations.  Nevertheless, there
are certain segments of society which are more vulnerable to alco-
hol and drug abuse for many reasons.3  These are:

• Youth, particularly those who are lonesome or come from
broken homes or a deprived social environment.
• Elderly people, especially those who suffer from isolation
and loneliness or have chronic pain requiring analgesic medi-
cations.  Abuse of prescription drugs is quite common among
this group of population.
• Children and first degree relatives of alcoholics.  Certain ad-
dictive drugs may lead to biological vulnerability for addic-
tion in children but more research needs to be done.
• Patients who suffer from depression or other forms of
emotional disturbances may be at risk for drug abuse by self-
medicating and using drugs to fight depression.
• Minorities, especially those who suffer from isolation, socio-
economic instability and discrimination may risk drug use
as a way of coping.  Native people who have lost their tradi-
tional sense of community, cultural values and identity are
at risk for alcohol and drug abuse.
• Social isolation, particularly in women who are lonely,
separated or divorced without family bonds or support, are
vulnerable.  The use of cigarette-smoking and alcohol has
been on the rise among women since World War II and this
trend continues, especially in the industrial world.
• Entertainers, health professionals, police and law enforcers,
and many others
Today, virtually anyone in society can be exposed to alcohol and
drug dependency.  Generally speaking, in a society where people
are materially self-centered and are obsessed with instant satisfac-
tion and value material means as the prime source of security and
happiness, there is a greater danger for addiction as compared to a
society where people are altruistic and look beyond instant gratifi-
cation for personal fulfillment. In such a society, the true nature of a
person is not seen as his flesh and bone, but rather as his mind and

soul.  The body is a temple of the soul and not a machine to recycle
alcohol and illicit drugs.
How extensive is the substance abuse problem?
The substance abuse problem is no longer confined to the rich
and upper class of industrial countries of the world.  It has become
a global menace to humanity and the "plague of our time".  It has
afflicted nations and has claimed the lives of thousands of people.  It
has invaded all walks of life in almost all corners of the planet.  From
Moscow to Los Angeles, from Sweden to Nigeria, drugs are
everywhere.  The drug industry is a global market for satisfaction
and  a technology for pleasure and quick fix.  Millions of people,
young and old, willingly submit their mind to the nefarious effects
of psychoactive drugs each year.  Although alcohol and narcotic
drugs have existed for ages, they have never been so freely accessible
and diversified as they presently are, and added to them are the
new synthetic drugs which are described below.
What is the solution?
Most of the approaches to drug and alcohol abuse either focus
on stiffening the punishment of offenders or legalizing drugs:  What
other approaches are there?
Neither severe punitive measures nor the legalization of illicit
drugs will solve the problem.  The crux of the matter is prevention.
Today, most experts in the field of alcoholism and drug abuse agree
that prevention is the most effective approach in dealing with the
epidemic of substance abuse.
Primary prevention is intended to prevent or at least delay the
initiation of substance abuse.  It is also aimed at raising people’s
awareness of the adverse effects of drugs before contact with the
drug takes place.  It requires the education of the population as to
the nature of life and its purpose.  This education begins at home
where parents set a model for their young children by educating

and abstaining from alcohol and drugs. But preventive education
will not fully succeed so long as parents, teachers, health
professionals, leaders of governments and society at large continue
to drink or use drugs.
As part of a comprehensive program for prevention, the con-
cept of happiness and freedom needs to be re-examined.  True hap-
piness is a very profound personal experience.  It is not a commod-
ity to be obtained from a powder, injected liquid or bottle of alcohol.
We also need to reflect on the purpose of life and human reality
which is essentially noble and spiritual.
The Epidemic of Drug Abuse
Alcohol and illicit drug production have become a major indus-
try which provides a world market for consumption.  Production of
opium and cocaine among other drugs has become a major source
of revenue in certain countries of the world.  Some of the South
American countries have been major producers of cocaine and in
recent years, opium as well.  In Asia, the Golden Triangle which
includes Thailand, Burma (Myanmar) and Laos, are well-known for
their production of opium.  Three other countries have emerged on
the opium production scene since the 1970s, constituting the Golden
Crescent which includes part of Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan.4
The production of illicit opium has exploded in recent years and in
a span of seven years (from 1985 to 1992) this production rose 152
per cent.  It is estimated that the volume of the annual global illicit
production of opium is between 3,000 to 4,000 tonnes.5  All of these
facts depict a grim picture of humanity which is smitten by a major
threat which, in many respects, is as serious as other issues such as
environmental pollution and AIDS.  The United States has the high-
est rate of adolescent drug use among all industrialized nations. One
half of 40,000 deaths due to car accidents and half of homicides in
the USA are alcohol- or drug abuse-related.6   Moreover, 50% of AIDS
mortality is related to intravenous drug use which is one of the larg-
est sources of new HIV infection.7

The problem of drug abuse and addiction has become so
widespread and serious that the former Secretary General of the
UN Javier Perez de Cuellar stated that “Drug abuse presents a threat
to this and coming generations as the plagues which swept many
parts of the world in earlier centuries”.8   Mr. George Bush, former
President of the United States, reflected the public view by
considering drug abuse as the number one problem in the U.S.A.9
Fewer than 10% of addicted people receive help either through self-
help groups or through professional treatment.10
According to the United Nations Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP) it is estimated that annually 3.3% to 4.1% of the world popu-
lation is likely to consume illicit drugs.  The most serious drug of abuse
is heroin, involving 8 million people.  Cocaine is more widespread; con-
servative estimates tell us that 13 million people depend on this drug.
Cannabis is the most widely abused drug involving 140 million people
around the world, almost 2.5% of the global population.11
Increase in the use of injectable drugs and needle exchange
or sharing among drug users have significantly contributed to
the spread of HIV (Human Immune Virus) and AIDS (Acquired
Immunodeficiency Syndrome).  Estimating conservatively, about
22% of the world’s HIV/AIDS population inject drugs.  A
significant number of these people transmit HIV/AIDS through
the sharing of needles or related behavior.12
Not all illicit drugs are derived from plants or plant products.
The use of synthetic drugs or designer drugs is on the rise and
these are more easily available.  Amphetamine Type Stimulants
(ATS) have already attracted 30 million people of the world’s
population and the number is increasing for these “fashionable”
drugs.  Ecstasy (MDMA) is a brand of synthetic drug which rap-
idly causes euphoric mood and sensations and can be easily manu-
factured all over the world.  When law enforcement agencies be-
gan to tighten the control of drug trafficking from one country to
the other, scientists defied that pressure and now an inexpensive
synthetic drug can be produced at home or in a laboratory any-
where in the world.  Science does not teach morality and values

are weakened when the pleasure instinct takes over the mind.
This is a reflection of crisis in human conscience and personal
virtues.
Children and Substance Abuse
It is estimated that there are 80-100 million children in the
world under the age of 17 who are homeless and without fami-
lies.  These are children who have lost their parents to war or to
AIDS or are “social orphans” of extreme poverty.  At least 30 mil-
lion of these children live or spend most of their time in the streets.
Many of these children are involved in robbery, drug trafficking,
prostitution and petty crimes.13  One third of seven million street
children of Brazil are considered to be involved in various forms
of drug abuse.  On the other hand, there are millions of children
worldwide who are born into families where one of the parents
is alcoholic or abuses drugs.  In the United States alone 200,000
babies are born from mothers who use drugs and these children
are at high risk for physical and psychological complications and
social adaptation problems as compared to children of parents
who do not use drugs.14  In some countries in Asia and other
parts of the world where women work in opium cultivation
fields, thousands of children are born addicted to opium or will
soon be addicted by mothers who use opium to calm their ba-
bies as they work in the field.
Children  raised in dysfunctional alcoholic and drug addicted
families tend to have problems similar to those of their parents.
For example, sons of alcoholics are four times more at risk for
developing alcoholism than those in the general population.
Female children of alcoholics show more anxiety or sometimes
depressive disorder as compared to women who come from non-
alcoholic parents.  Approximately 10-15 percent of Americans
are believed to suffer from alcoholism and 28-34 million people
are children of alcoholics.15  Violence and conflicts, separation
and divorce are common among the families of alcoholics.  As a

result of these and many other conflicts, the family is no longer
a haven and a fortress for well-being for children.
What do the Children of Alcoholics Say?16
"Dad gets drunk every day, he hits me and mum . . . he broke
my arm once.  If I have bruises he . . . stops me going to school.
He says if we ever tell anyone he will kill us . . . I'm scared . . . it's
getting worse."
A Girl
"Please don't stop my mother smoking . . . I would rather she smoked
than drank."
A boy with fetal alcohol syndrome
"Dad drinks and hits mum.  I took an overdose last week.  I
want to die.  I don't talk to mum it would only add to her problems
. . . It's all my fault."
A Girl
"Mum says Dad is drinking again.  Dad says he isn't . . . I'm
confused .  I'll just try to work it out."
Tasha, 7
"The caller said he saw the two-year-old wandering down the
road wearing a T-shirt, underpants and socks.  The caller asked him
where he lived and the child took him to a house 200-300 yards away.
The front door was opened and a man and a woman were asleep on
a sofa in a cigarette smoke filled room which also smelled alcohol.
The child went to the woman, calling her "mummy" and shook her.
She told him to "bugger off".
Neighbor

The Gift of the Mind
According to the Bahá’í teachings, human thought constitutes
an individual's reality.   Moreover, the power of the intellect and of
understanding is lauded as “God’s greatest gift” to humankind.17
According to these teachings, the use of intoxicants is an impedi-
ment to the progress of mind and soul and is in conflict with the
true purpose of life.  The goal of the human journey in this world is
to fulfill one's potential and to recognize the nobility of nature and
the loftiness of purpose of each person.  To complete this journey
one needs to make a realistic and systematic use of one’s full capac-
ity as a noble being and to draw upon one’s physical, emotional,
intellectual and spiritual powers in order to fulfill that potential.
The mind, so much targeted by illicit drugs, is an irreplaceable gift
in the journey of life.
Inner Peace and Tranquility
Human’s search for inner peace and tranquility has been an age-
long quest.  In the course of history an array of herbs and chemicals
were found for nutritional and cultural uses and these also possessed
addictive effects.  Although these substances had remedial effects,
they were also used for pleasure-seeking or pain-relieving behavior.
However,  true peace and tranquility is essentially an inner experi-
ence.  Choosing an external object such as alcohol or other habit-
forming drugs to alleviate inner tension and insecurity is an exer-
cise in futility.  It calls to mind the following statement of Bahá’u’lláh:
“O Son of Spirit!  There is no peace for thee save by renouncing
thyself and turning unto Me; for it behooveth thee to glory in My
name”18  In another place Bahá’u’lláh compares the spiritual effect
of the “Mystic Wine” with the effect of the material wine (alcohol).
The “Mystic Wine”, He asserts, “. . . hath a different intoxication and
imparteth another exhilaration.  The one diminisheth the intelligence
of man, the other increaseth it.  The one leadeth to perdition, the
other bestoweth life.”19  The “Mystic Wine” is the creative words of

the divine revelation which ignites in the hearts the love of God and
humanity.
Drug abuse and addiction are types of relationships which one
forms with an inanimate and enticing object.  The result of this rela-
tionship is dependence on the drug.  Ultimately the person becomes
a victim of the addicting power of this substance.  Thus a human
being, who is the crown of creation, is overpowered by a dust which
is an element of the mineral kingdom!
Drugs and Human Attitude
No doubt that society and social organizations play an impor-
tant role in individual behavior.  But the individual’s behavior also
influences the attitude of society. The individual, family and early
education play a very important role in the shaping of society.  There-
fore proper use or abuse of the human mind and mood depends
largely on early education and acquired attitude toward oneself.  It
is quite conceivable that behavioral attitudes more than knowledge
will influence the shaping of certain behavior. Attitudes are acquired
during early education and adapted later as a way of life.  The learned
behavioral attitudes become values, and the values guide decisions
about behaviour, such as the decision to drink or to abstain from
drinking.20
Interactions of Psycho-Bio-Social Factors
Addictive behavior is influenced by psychological, environ-
mental and physical (biological) factors which are in constant in-
teraction in day to day life.  Psychological factors may include
emotional distress, depression, boredom or other states of mood
or mind.  Among the environmental factors, the influence of peer
pressure, availability of alcohol and drugs, social and cultural atti-
tude toward drinking and substance abuse and the role of media,
public figures and friends in addictive behavior are but some of

the contributing factors.  Among the physical factors, although the
role of genetic vulnerability in alcoholic families is being explored,
elderly people with physical aches and pain and patients with
chronic disease requiring pain relieving medications may be at risk
for the non-medical use of narcotics, tranquilizers or alcohol.
Drugs and the Physical and Mental Reality
The physical reality or the human body is lauded by the Báb as
the throne of an individual’s spiritual reality.
As this physical frame is the throne of the inner temple, what-
ever occurs to the former is felt by the latter.  In reality that
which takes delight in joy or is saddened by pain is the inner
temple of the body, not the body itself.  Since this physical
body is the throne whereon the inner temple is established,
God hath ordained that the body be preserved to the extent
possible, so that nothing that causes repugnance may be ex-
perienced.  The inner temple beholdeth its physical frame,
which is its throne.  Thus if the latter is accorded respect, it is
as if the former is the recipient.  The converse is likewise true.21
Consequently one can perceive a person as the guardian of the temple
of the soul in this earthly life.  As much as the body needs to grow and
develop, so does the soul which has a destiny of its own.  To achieve
its destiny, the soul needs the physical frame as its instrument.
PSYCHOLOGICAL
ENVIRONMENTAL
PHYSICAL

We are endowed with five senses through which we perceive
the material world:  sight, hearing, taste, smell and touch (outward
powers).  Besides these sensory powers, there are other powers such
as imagination, comprehension and memory (inward powers).22
There is an interrelationship between these two groups of powers
which makes it possible for us to perceive the reality of things around
us.  The sensory network transmits the stimulation and activities of
the outer world of matter to the inner world of reality through the
messengers of the brain called neurotransmitters.  The brain func-
tions as a superb central computer which receives these messages
and responds in an appropriate manner through the instrumental-
ity of human will and wisdom (pro-grammer).
Non-medical use of drugs interferes with the quality and quan-
tity of the work of the neurotransmitters and consequently affects
perception and processing of information related to our feeling and
thought.  The sensory and perceptual messages may excite or in-
hibit emotion, resulting in the alteration of mood and thinking.  They
may kindle intellectual activity and bring about a new thought or
idea or they may excite a very strong emotion. Under certain condi-
tions the perception of the sensory system and the interpretation of
the perceived images or messages may become distorted, thus giv-
ing rise to a false impression of reality or excessive emotional reac-
tion to an ordinary external event.23  As an example, in a state of
drug-induced psychosis a rose may be perceived not as a rose, but
rather as a frightening object  which arouses tremendous fear and
anxiety.  The consumption of an intoxicant causes a misperception
of reality which in this case is defined as an illusion.24
Bahá’í Attitude towards Substance Abuse
The Bahá’í attitude toward drugs is very explicit.  The Bahá’í
Faith recognizes the value of drugs prescribed by physicians for
medical or psychological treatment.  Indeed, the science of medi-
cine is discovering the therapeutic effect of some of these substances
which are also abused.  But its teachings are quite emphatic about

the prohibition of the non-medical use of narcotics and other forms
of psychotropic and psychedelic drugs.
Consumption of alcohol is prohibited in the Bahá’í Faith.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that it “is the cause of chronic diseases,
weakeneth the nerves and consumeth the mind.”25   Furthermore,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá indicates that “Regarding the use of liquor:  Accord-
ing to the text of the Book of Aqdas, both light and strong drinks are
prohibited.  The reason for this prohibition is that alcohol leadeth
the mind astray and causeth the weakening of the body.”26
The idea of “moderate” drinking, which is popular in society at
large, has been a subject of considerable debate in many centres con-
cerned with the problem of alcoholism.  Not only is the term “mod-
erate” vague, but what is moderate for one person may not be so for
another.  Moreover, it may become very difficult to draw a line be-
tween “moderate” and “heavy” drinking at a time when emotional
tension runs high and the individual is encircled by stress and life
crises.  It is also known that many alcoholics were initially “moder-
ate” drinkers.  In view of all of this, there is a growing notion that
complete abstinence from drinking presents the most realistic op-
tion for prevention of alcoholism.27
Concerning opium, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that it “fasteneth on the
soul, so that the user’s conscience dieth, his mind is blotted away, his
perceptions are eroded.  It turneth the living into the dead.  It quencheth
the natural heat.”28  The Bahá’í writings further state that the use of
opium “layeth to ruins the very foundation of what it is to be human.”29
The greatest danger of opium and its derivatives lies in the user’s
rapid development of chemical tolerance, resulting in strong psy-
chological and physiological dependency.  As a result of brain cells’
dependency on these drugs, when they are abruptly withdrawn,
the resulting withdrawal symptoms can be very serious.30
Drugs like cocaine, depending on the quantity consumed, may
cause excessive emotional excitement and paranoid ideas.  It stimu-
lates the brain centres for pleasure and causes an overpowering de-
sire for the use of this substance.  With certain illicit drugs (Phencyc-
lidine-PCP), perception of reality may become so disturbed that the

individual may attempt self-mutilation or develop violent and unpre-
dictable destructive behavior.
Psychedelic substances such as LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide)
and mescaline may alter the perception and interpretation of messages
received by the brain from the outer powers or external stimuli.  As a
result, visual and auditory experiences may be perceived in a highly
exaggerated manner or may be interpreted irrationally.  These sub-
stances can also affect the inner powers, particularly the power of imagi-
nation and the grasp of reality, with resulting impairment of judge-
ment and false perceptual experiences.31
The attitude the Bahá’ís should have toward the non-medical use
of hallucinogens and psychedelic drugs such as mescaline, LSD and
cannabis is explicit, as shown in the following statements of the Uni-
versal House of Justice.
Concerning the so-called ‘spiritual’ virtues of the hallucino-
gens . . . spiritual stimulation should come from turning one’s
heart to Bahá’u’lláh, and not through physical means such as
drugs and agents ... hallucinogenic agents are a form of in-
toxicant.  As the friends, including the youth, are required
strictly to abstain from all forms of intoxicants, and are further
expected conscientiously to obey the civil law of their coun-
try, it is obvious that they should refrain from using these
drugs.32
The Universal House of Justice further states that,
Bahá’í should not use hallucinogenic agents, including LSD,
peyote, and similar substances, except when prescribed for
medical treatment.  Neither should they become involved in
experiments with such substances.33
Hashish is another substance of abuse which is a highly potent form of
cannabis (marijuana).  It diminishes human motivation and goal-

oriented activities and distorts perception of time.  Moreover, among
other adverse effects, including genetic ones, it impairs concentration
and can precipitate hallucination.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá addresses the non-
medical use of hashish with these strong words:
Alcohol consumeth the mind and causeth man to commit acts
of absurdity, but . . . this wicked hashish extinguisheth the mind,
freezeth the spirit, petrifieth the soul, wasteth the body and
leaveth man frustrated and lost.34
In the Bahá’í teachings, not only is total abstinence from all alco-
holic beverages enjoined, but never before in history has the utterance
of a Divine Manifestation been so explicit in outlining the effects of ad-
dictive substances such as alcohol and narcotics on the human mind
and soul.  Consumption of tobacco, although not forbidden, is discour-
aged.
Primary Prevention
Improving the quality of human life and people’s attitude toward
themselves and others are some of the basic principles of divine education.
According to the Bahá’í writings, “unless the moral character of a nation
is educated, as well as its brain and its talents, civilization has no sure
basis”.35
Closely related to the subject of prevention is the fact that drug ad-
diction is basically a human crisis.  Hence, to heal the drug problem, one
must search for a solution to personal, family and societal needs and con-
flicts as well.  Drug use which is started can also be stopped, but there is
no gain without pain.
There are two essential elements in the development of drug abuse
and addiction which require special attention:  a) availability of drugs
and b) behavioral attitude toward these substance.  While law enforcing
and government agencies are responsible for control of the availability
and accessibility of non-prescribed drugs, individuals, families and com-
munity play a central role in the shaping of attitudes toward the use

of these substances.  Prevention through education is based on the
notion that through the development of a healthy and intelligent atti-
tude toward self and intoxicants available in the environment, indi-
viduals are given the tools to avoid the problem of substance abuse
and addiction which has become a global scourge to humanity.  In-
deed, our behavioral attitude toward alcohol and other drugs will
have an important bearing on the availability, distribution, sale and
trafficking of these substances.  If behavioral attitude on all three lev-
els of the individual, family and society is not changed, governments
and law enforcement agencies will be unable to successfully eradi-
cate the spread of substance abuse and addictions, even if they are
able to restrict the production of the plants from which they come.
Primary prevention of substance abuse involves close
collaboration between the three levels of human society: individual,
family and society at large.  The latter also encompasses the role of
government.36
Individual
The individual is the unit of human society like the cell in the
human body.  Its role has a fundamental effect on the life of the family
and society.  On the individual level there are a number of factors
which relate prevention of substance abuse to the Bahá’í Writings as
follows:
1.  Sense of purpose in life:  The Bahá’í Faith teaches that “the generat-
ing impulse and the primary purpose” of life is to know and to love
God37 and to “to carry forward an every-advancing civilization”.38  By
living in this manner, the energy which might have been spent in
excessive preoccupation with self and self-gratification is instead in-
vested in the interest and well-being of others.  When one recognizes
the primary purpose and spiritual mission in one’s life, it gives a new
meaning to one’s existence and destiny.  This new perspective will
guide the person away from substance abuse which is, basically, a
search for the true self and meaning in life.

2.  Human worth and nobility:  Realization of human nobility in
creation is an important step in prevention.  Many substance abus-
ers and alcoholics suffer from a loss of self-esteem and often
hopelessness.  Recognizing the nobility within oneself plays a valu-
able role in enhancement of self esteem and acceptance of one’s self.
On the other hand, alcohol and illicit drug use is effectively a form
of distortion of one’s perception of the true self as a result of one’s
inability to come to terms with oneself. Expounding on the essence
of the individual’s nobility in creation, Bahá’u’lláh exhorts human-
ity with these mystic words, “O Son of Spirit!  I created thee rich,
why dost thou bring thyself to poverty?  Noble I made thee, where-
with dost thou abase thyself?”39
3.  A new vision of happiness:  Changing our attitude toward psy-
choactive and habit forming drugs requires a re-examination of our
concept of joy and happiness.  True happiness, so much sought af-
ter, is essentially a spiritual experience.  Yet to many it is perceived
and searched after as a commodity to acquire materially.40  This ma-
terialistic perception of happiness is a stumbling block on the road
to prevention of substance abuse  or recovery from it.
4.  Obedience and freedom:  The true meaning of freedom is often
misunderstood.  According to the Bahá’í teachings, true freedom
comes from emancipation of self from the captivity of the world of
nature.41  Moreover, liberty and freedom are believed to be achieved
through obedience to the laws and ordinances of God, revealed for
the well-being of humankind in each dispensation.  Such obedience,
free from superstition, is considered to protect one’s freedom to be
one’s true self.  By becoming addicted to alcohol or illicit drugs, one
loses this freedom and becomes a captive of the realm of nature.
5.  Striving for purity:  Cleanliness and purity are essential virtues for
personal and spiritual progress in the journey of life.  For instance,
the problem of drug abuse or addiction includes not only the inges-

tion of harmful substances, but also involves behavioral and spiritual
destiny.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
O Lord! Give to the people of Bahá cleanliness and holiness
in all conditions, purify and free them from all defilement,
deliver them from the use of all that is execrated, liberate
them from the chains of habits, so that they may be pure and
free, clean and spotless, that they may be worthy servants of
the Sacred Threshold and may deserve to enter into relation
with God.  Deliver them from alcohol and tobacco, and save
them from opium, the purveyor of madness!  Make them
companions of the holy breezes, in order that they may know
the pleasures of the wine of the love of God, and that they
may attain to the joy and happiness of attraction to the King-
dom of Abha!42
Family
Preventive education begins in childhood and at home. The role of
parents is to educate their children about the sanctity of life and human
values and how to grow spiritually in a material world.  Parents should
familiarize their children with the harsh reality of life and with the fact
that one cannot always gratify one’s needs immediately.  They should
be open to discuss the question of alcohol, drugs and addiction and
allow the children to talk about it whenever necessary.
The Bahá’í teachings emphasize that a human being is created noble
and is the “Supreme Talisman”, is like “a mine rich in gems of inesti-
mable value.  Education alone can cause it to reveal its treasures and
enable mankind to benefit therefrom”.43  Family is the foundation and
wellspring of human society.  It is a miniature of the nation.  Changes
in the family are reflected in society.44  The family as a system is influ-
enced by external and internal forces including drugs and alcohol.
As much as family breakdown can render its members vulnerable to
the influences of alcohol and drugs, these substances of abuse can
also influence and ruin family bonds and relationships.  Therefore,
family education on prevention can have far-reaching effects.

Moreover, love and unity within the family can have a protective
effect in a drug abuse environment.  Often our children are not pre-
pared to face, with confidence and faith, the challenge of the drug world
out there.
Society
On the societal level, there are a number of issues to be considered
to prevent drug abuse.  Detailing these issues is not possible in this
booklet, however some of the ingredients can be summarized as fol-
lows.45
1.  Relational skills and stress management: Education is needed, es-
pecially for the youth, about skills required for problem solving and
coping with stress and stress management as well as coping with isola-
tion and boredom. Large scale public education should be encouraged
on the true nature of the person and safeguarding human mind and
character through creative words of Divine reality.
2.  The role of the media: Media plays a very important role in shaping
public views and attitude toward drinking and drugs.  Unfortunately
due to commercial interest in promotional advertising of tobacco and
alcoholic beverages, the media have contributed to the impediment  of
preventive education to discourage tobacco and alcohol consumption.
Society bears a heavy responsibility in its widespread use of alcohol at
anniversaries, festivities and many other occasions which further encour-
ages the media for publicity.
3.  Positive alternatives: Society, aided by government, should provide
positive alternatives to addictive substances which would facilitate and
promote a drug-free society.  These alternatives should take into consid-
eration the emotional, physical, intellectual, social and spiritual needs of
individuals. They may include activities such as art and creativity, sports,
social and cultural exchange and interactions, prayer and meditation,
dance workshops for youth and helping the poor and deprived, etc.46

4.  Challenge to serve humanity: Human relationship with environment
is dynamic and constantly changes.  Individuals should be challenged to
strive for nobility and excellence in all human endeavors, particularly
service.  Society should encourage the spirit of service to others espe-
cially young people.
5.  Friendship and intimacy: Strengthening bonds of friendship and in-
terpersonal intimacy in human society is important.  Love and harmony
can be a healing medicine against isolation and loneliness, so much re-
lated to substance abuse problems.
6.  Public figures as examples: Parents and public educators, entertainers,
health professionals, celebrities, and government leaders should set the
example by abstaining from alcohol and drugs.  Drug use is rampant,
especially in the entertainment industry.  There is a need to re-examine
this life style and re-evaluate the concept of joy and excitement in society.
7. Therapeutic community: There is a need to expand the concept of thera-
peutic community into a Bahá’í culture of healing and spirituality. The
Bahá’í community should become a healing community to understand
and emotionally as well as spiritually assist  those who are affected by the
problem of addiction.
8.  Dare to be different: Educating children to dare to be different and take
a drug-free stance in the face of peer pressure.  The school system should
provide systematic and realistic education about the effects and dangers
of substances of abuse.
9. Pollution-free internal environment: We need to redefine environment
beyond the traditional concept of external environment.  Our internal
environment which includes the climate of mind and soul needs as much
attention and protection as the external environment so much talked about.
Let’s clean up and protect this internal environment from the pollution of
substance abuse.

10.  Instant satisfaction: We are living in a society which has an
obsessive fascination with instant gratification and seeks out the
quick fix for everything.   In such an environment, tolerance to pain
and contentment to postpone immediate satisfaction are unpopular
virtues.  We can grow not only through joy, but also through day to
day life stress and suffering.
11. Governments:  Government leaders and politicians should exer-
cise their moral responsibilities and political will in curbing this hu-
man tragedy.  They must make a united and concerted effort to halt
production, trafficking and consumption of illicit drugs and alco-
hol.  A few points about international collaboration for prevention
of substance abuse among the nations, which has increased consid-
erably, follows below.
12.  Spiritual perspective:  Spiritual orientation and consciousness
of our true destiny in this world and the world beyond will assist us
to re-evaluate our attitude toward the world around us as well as
toward the world within ourselves.
International Efforts toward Drug Abuse Prevention
Systematic international efforts to control the drug problem began
after the turn of the 20th century.  The involvement of the UN in drug
control activities began as of 1946 when it took over responsibility from
the League of Nations.  In 1990, the United Nations created a special
organization to act against illicit drug production, trafficking and con-
sumption.  This organization, which  is called the United Nations Inter-
national Drug Control Program (UNDCP) was established in Vienna.
The main objective of this organization is to control production, traffick-
ing and consumption of drugs under the UN.  In the same year (1990),
the General Assembly of the United Nations proclaimed the period of
1991-2000 as the United Nations’ Decade Against Drug Abuse.  This de-
cision was to intensify international cooperation and to encourage greater
efforts on the part of member States to eradicate drug abuse.46  Non-

Governmental Organizations (NGOs) have played an increasingly im-
portant role in curbing and prevention of alcohol and drug abuse.  The
Bahá’í International Community (B.I.C.), as an NGO, has collaborated
closely with the UN over the past twenty years in the fields of prevention
of drug abuse and the education of communities on this problem.
The Bahá’í International Community has participated in sev-
eral international conferences on the subject of alcohol and drug
abuse and its prevention such as the International Conference on
Drug Abuse and Trafficking held in Vienna in 1987 and the NGO
World Forum on Drug Demand Reduction in Thailand in 1994 as
well as the NGOs conference held during the special session of the
General Assembly of the United Nations in 1990 and again in 1998
in New York which discussed global problems of substance abuse.
In the 1987 International Conference of Vienna, it was recom-
mended and then approved by the United Nations that all nations of
the world observe June 26 each year as  the International Day against
Drug Abuse (Drug Prevention Awareness Day).  This designation has
been observed since 1988 and its designation is to increase public
awareness and strengthen cooperation for the eradication of drug
abuse.  The Bahá’í communities are encouraged to participate in ob-
serving this day and to contribute to the healing process of this world
wide epidemic.  Armed with the teachings of the Bahá’í Faith and
believing in the principle of harmony between science and religion,
Bahá’ís can contribute significantly to preventive education of sub-
stance abuse and share the healing remedy of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh with millions of suffering humanity worldwide.

References
1.
A-M. Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, 2nd edition, George Ronald,
Publisher, Oxford, 1989.
2.
Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í Prayers (Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985), pp. 144-45.
3.
Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, op. cit., p. 95
4.
B. Reberg, A. Nikifarov and G. Bouchbauer, “Fifty years of devel-
opment of opium characterization methods”.  Bulletin on Nar-
cotics (UN), vol XLVI, No. 2, 1994, pp. 79-80.
5.
Ibid.
6.
R.J. Frances and S.I. Miller (Eds), Clinical Textbook of Addictive Dis-
orders (New York: The Guilford Press, 1991, p.4.
7.
Ibid.
8.
Cited in In Search of Nirvana: A New Perspective on Alcohol and Drug
Dependency (A-M. Ghadirian), 2nd edition, George Ronald, Pub-
lisher, Oxford, 1989.
9.
Frances and Miller, op. cit.,  p.3.
10. Ibid.
11. World Drug Report, United Nations International Drug Control
Programme, Oxford University Press, 1997
12. Ibid.
13. 7th International Day Against Drug Abuse, 26 June 1997
14. Frances and Miller, op. cit., p.4
15. R.J. Matthew, W.H. Wilson, D.G. Blazer and L.K. George: Psychi-
atric disorders in adult children of alcoholics: Data from the epi-
demiologic catchment area project. American Journal of Psychia-
try, 150: 793-800, 1993.
16. Alcohol Problems in the Family.  A report to the European Union.
European Commission.  Eurocare 1998.

17. Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Reality of Man (Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1962), p. 10.
18. Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1963), Arabic #8, p. 5.
19. From a Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh
20. Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, op. cit., p. 66.
21. The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb (Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1976), p. 95.
22. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, rev. ed., (Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1981), pp. 210-11.
23. Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, op. cit., p. 50
24. Ibid.
25. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice (Wilmette, Ill: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1963), p. 27.
26. Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to an individual believer—translated from
Persian.
27. Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, op. cit., p. 6.
28. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 1978), p. 149.
29. Ibid.
30. A-M. Ghadirian, ‘A Tissue Culture Study of Morphine Dependence
on the Mammalian CNS’, Canadian Psychiatric Association Journal, vol.
14 (1969), pp. 607-15.
31. Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, op. cit., pp. 51-52.
32. The Universal House of Justice, letter dated 15 April 1965.
33. The Universal House of Justice, letter dated 19 May 1965.
34. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in a letter dated 6 October 1967 from the Uni-
versal House of Justice to the National Spiritual Assembly of the
United States.

35. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, Addresses given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Paris 1911-
1912 (London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1961), p. 31.
36. Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, op. cit., pp. 76-95.
37. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1966), p. 65.
38. Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Bahá’í World Faith (Wilmette, Ill.:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976), p. 114.
39. Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words, op. cit., Arabic #13.
40. Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, op. cit., pp. 43-48.
41. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Abdu’l Bahá, op. cit., p. 302.
42. Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, op. cit., pp. 335-336.
43. Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, op. cit., pp. 259-260.
44. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1982), p. 157
45. Ghadirian, In Search of Nirvana, op. cit., pp. 93-95.
46. Ibid., pp. 99-103.
47. The United Nations and Drug Abuse Control. UN International Drug
Control Programme, Vienna, 1992, p. 7.