THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1 April 2022

To an individual Bahá’í

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

The Universal House of Justice has received your email letter dated 3 March 2022, in which you express your deep sadness at the events in Ukraine and ask about the response that the House of Justice and the friends can make in this situation. We have been asked to convey the following.

Your concern for the well-being of the Russian and Ukrainian peoples at this time that has prompted you to write is warmly acknowledged. The heart of a Bahá’í cannot help but be affected by the torrent of news and images depicting the plight and suffering of the hundreds of thousands of souls who are caught up in such a devastating ordeal. As you can appreciate, the challenge now confronting Europe is yet another manifestation of the disintegration of a lamentably defective world order described in such vivid terms by the beloved Guardian.

You may be interested to know that, within the limits of their capacity and the uncertain circumstances, Bahá’ís inside and outside Ukraine are responding directly to the crisis. The believers in the country are supporting their compatriots to the extent possible, and the friends in the neighboring countries have arisen to support Bahá’í and other refugees. Reports have been received of efforts initiated by Bahá’ís who are medical professionals to travel to the region to volunteer medical care to the victims, and the Bahá’í International Development Organization has reached out to all of the relevant National Spiritual Assemblies to encourage and assist with their efforts. Moreover, funds have been provided to the National Spiritual Assembly of Ukraine from the Humanitarian Relief Fund, established some years ago by the House of Justice, to which Bahá’ís worldwide have contributed.

Sadly, the war in Ukraine is but the latest of the unfolding tragedies and hardships humanity has inflicted upon itself as a result of its refusal, or inability, to establish a just order. Many of these dire incidents do not receive the widespread attention of the world, but are no less severe in their impact upon divers populations. The ultimate resolution is the embrace of the healing remedy brought by the Divine Physician, first in the form of the Lesser Peace, as you have observed, and then through attainment of the Most Great Peace. Prayer and acts of service may seem like a feeble and slow response when weapons of destruction are fired; they are, however, the means by which, ultimately, those weapons will be silenced forever.

You are assured of the supplications of the House of Justice at the Sacred Threshold that your efforts in the path of service to the Cause of God and to humanity may attract heavenly confirmations, and that every affected soul may be surrounded with the unerring protection and unceasing grace of the Ancient Beauty.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]