THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1996-09-16

dear b ahá’í f riends,

30 july 1996 enclosing the announcement to all the friends in Austria of the

goals you have adopted for the four year plan. The clarity with which you

have set them forth and your emphasis on the respective responsibilities of

the institutions, the communities and the individual believers should greatly

assist the friends in acquiring a vision of what is to be achieved, and their own part in the work.

you may still find that some believers have difficulty in accurately com-

prehending the concept of entry by troops. it may help you, when you

encounter such problems, to stress the point made by the universal house

of justice in its various messages, namely that arriving at the point of entry

by troops, and then fostering it, is a process. it is the advancement of this

process that is the goal of the four year plan, and the exact steps to be taken

in each area will depend upon how far the process has already developed by now. An essential element of the process is the preparation of the bahá’í

communities and individual believers and their training in the knowledge, not only of how to prayerfully attract receptive souls and to bring entry by troops about but, equally important, how to consolidate the gains so that it becomes an enduring development. No doubt you have this aspect of the 235.3

236.1

236.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

55plan clearly in mind in the goal of establishing training institutes, which

you have assigned to your own Assembly, and in which the counselor and

Auxiliary board members will closely collaborate with you.

certainly, characteristics of bahá’í life such as a loving and understand-

ing relationship between the individual believers and their Assemblies; a

warm, welcoming and harmonious atmosphere in bahá’í communities;

and individuals who uphold bahá’í standards in their everyday lives, are in

themselves vital strengths in the advancement of the process. Such charac-teristics can help the friends, not only to attract others to the cause, but

also to manifest understanding, patience and encouragement in relation to

the new believers.

The house of justice was also very pleased to see that you have the aim

of raising up National Spiritual Assemblies in the federal republic of yu-

goslavia, macedonia and bosnia. This is a major task, and the universal

house of justice will pray for divine assistance to surround all who devote

themselves to its achievement in such very difficult circumstances.

indeed, the house of justice will pray in the holy Shrines that the

friends throughout Austria will unitedly arise for the achievement of all the

goals you have set before them in the four year plan, and thus attract the

confirmations of b ahá’u’lláh on their strenuous labors.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

237

Acquisition of Apartment in Paris, France

Where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Stayed

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]