THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1992-09-30

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

The holy year is approaching its midway point and the time is ripe for all

National Spiritual Assemblies to consult with the counselors to formulate

national goals for the Three y ear p lan which will be launched next ri¤ván.

The experience you gained in formulating and then carrying out the goals

of the Six year plan can now enable you to refine the process in relation to 137 .2i

137 .2j

137 .2k

137 .31

138.1

138.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

290the Three year plan. The main theme for the bahá’í community during the

Three year plan will be to pursue three closely related developments which

can be summarized as enhancing the vitality of the faith of individual be-

lievers, greatly developing the human resources of the cause, and fostering

the proper functioning of its local and national institutions.

we are asking the counselors to make a special point of consulting with

each National Spiritual Assembly on how this challenge can best be met through the instrumentality of goals based on the seven major objectives set forth in 1986, which still provide a valid framework for your planning, and to ensure that no essential element of your community’s development

is overlooked.

each National Spiritual Assembly is to formulate specific goals towards

the attainment of the objectives in light of the present conditions and op-portunities in each country—goals that match the urgent needs and that

can be achieved in the short space of three years. No doubt each country will require its specific emphasis among these objectives, and your consulta-tions with the counselors will be invaluable in assisting you to focus the

endeavors of the friends in each of your communities.

for ease of reference, we repeat the objectives as originally stated:

1. carrying the healing message of bahá’u’lláh to the generality of

mankind

2. g reater involvement of the f aith in the life of human society

3. A worldwide increase in the translation, production, distribution

and use of b ahá’í literature

4. f urther acceleration in the process of the maturation of local and

national b ahá’í communities

5. g reater attention to universal participation and the spiritual enrich-

ment of individual believers

6. A wider extension of bahá’í education to children and youth, and

the strengthening of b ahá’í family life

7 . The pursuit of projects of social and economic development in well-established b ahá’í communities.

As a further element in the responsibility conferred upon National Spiri-

tual Assemblies for the formulation of goals, each National Assembly able

to do so is encouraged, in addition to setting goals for its homefront, to 138.3

138.4

138.5

138.6

1992–1993  •  T h e  h o l Y Ye a r

291propose to the world center those goals and activities which it judges its

community can undertake in assisting other national bahá’í communities.

These proposals for international collaboration goals will then be considered

at the w orld center before they are finally approved.

during the course of the Six year plan we have seen a notable evolution

of the capacity of National Spiritual Assemblies as well as a marked increase

in their number. The believers throughout the world have paid special at-

tention to deepening their understanding of and loyalty to the covenant,

and they have now been blessed by the worldwide application of the law of þuqúqu’lláh.

The holy year has already raised high the call of bahá’u’lláh to mankind

and has been a source of infinite bounty to those who are enlisted under his banner. by its close, the world congress will have been held and the

english translation of the most holy book will have been published to the

community of the m ost g reat Name and to all the world.

it is yet too soon to evaluate the effect of these momentous events, but

under the driving power of god’s great plan the world is passing through

a period of rapid change. The bahá’í community alone knows clearly the

direction that this is taking and it must now, as never before, demonstrate in its community life and the lives of its individual members the reality of the transformation that bahá’u’lláh intends for all humankind. To achieve

this we must know well his Teachings and put them into practice with

ardor and conviction in every aspect of our behavior. it is our fervent prayer

that the Three year plan will effect a transformation in the character of the

worldwide bahá’í community that will inspire admiration and emulation on

every side and greatly increase the number of those who acclaim the coming and follow the Teachings of b ahá’u’lláh.

we eagerly look forward to receiving a report of your goals as soon as you

have set them down following consultation with the counselors.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

138.8

138.9

138.10

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

292139

Confiscation of Bahá’í Properties in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]