Principles
Of
Spiritual Economics






Compiled by: Hooshmand Badee

ii





Principles
Of
Spiritual Economics


A Compilation from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, The Báb, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Shoghi Effendi,
and the Universal House of Justice.

With
An overview of Bahá’í perspective on economics

iii

















Principles of Spiritual Economics
Compiled by Hooshmand Badee
Published in Great Britain: 2019
Revised in e-book format: 2025
Printed in Great Britain
ISBN: 9781513641478

h.badee@gmail.com

iv






Acknowledgement is lovingly given to the Literature
Review Panel of the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United Kingdom for reviewing this work.



Dedicated to:
The memory of the Hand of the Cause of God, Dr.
Rahmatu’lláh Muhájir,
who inspired me to compile the Writings of the
Bahá’í Faith on Economics

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Table of Contents
Foreword .............................................................................. 4
1. Social and economic challenges of our time ............... 41
2. Unity of humankind .................................................... 55
3. The new World Order ................................................. 68
4. Bahá’í World Commonwealth of the future ............... 79
5. World Citizenship ....................................................... 91
6. Sound Governance ...................................................... 94
7. Application of Bahá'í teachings on economics ......... 100
8. Humans are spiritual in nature .................................. 105
9. Bahá’í approach to economic questions is divine in
nature ........................................................................ 110
10. True happiness and prosperity .................................. 113
11. Uplifting the betterment of the world ....................... 125
12. Material and spiritual coherence ............................... 129
13. The spirit of cooperation ........................................... 142
14. The aspect of competition ......................................... 150
15. The interdependence of peoples and nations ............ 156
16. Universal and compulsory education ........................ 159
17. Harmony of science and religion .............................. 174
18. Human Resource Development ................................ 176
19. The role of family in economics ............................... 183
20. Equality between man and woman ........................... 193
21. Process of growth and development ......................... 200
22. Pattern of social and economic development ............ 208
23. Bahá’í work ethics .................................................... 224
24. Material and spiritual aspects of the Bahá’í House
of Worship ................................................................ 229
25. Importance of agriculture .......................................... 236
26. Public finance ............................................................ 239
27. The Bahá’í writings on food ..................................... 244
28. Social security ........................................................... 247
29. Elimination of extremes of wealth and poverty ........ 261
30. Importance of wealth and wealth redistribution ....... 266

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


A.
Voluntary Giving .............................................. 274
B.
Industrial Profit sharing .................................... 276
C.
Progressive Income Tax .................................... 282
D.
Division of Inheritance ..................................... 283
E.
Huqúqu’lláh (Right of God) .............................. 284
F.
Zakát (Tithes) .................................................... 287
G.
The Law on Treasure Trove .............................. 288
H.
Charity and philanthropic activities .................. 289
31. Socialism and capitalism ........................................... 291
32. Stewards of the environment and nature ................... 295
A.
Our relationship with Nature ............................ 295
B.
Preservation of the Earth’s resources ................ 300
C.
Kindness to animals .......................................... 306
D.
Health and healing ............................................ 309
E.
Physical and spiritual aspect of cleanliness ...... 311
F.
Alcoholic drinks and drugs ............................... 315
33. Bahá'í consultation .................................................... 321
34. Economics is based on spiritual constitution ............ 326
A.
Moderation and contentment ............................ 326
B.
Justice and equity .............................................. 329
C.
Trustworthiness and truthfulness ...................... 344
D.
Sincerity ............................................................ 346
E.
Detachment ....................................................... 348
F.
Gratitude and thankfulness ............................... 353
G.
The path of service ............................................ 354
35. The application of spiritual virtues to solve
economic problems ................................................... 359
36. The role of religion in social and economic
development .............................................................. 373
37. Economic Life: The Universal House of Justice ...... 381
38.
A brief history of the Bahá’í Faith .................... 389
Bibliography .................................................................... 393

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Foreword
An Overview of the Characteristics of
Bahá’í Economics



Shoghi Effendi states: ‘…History, Economics or
Sociology…cover subjects which our teachings cast
an entirely new light upon.’1 The exploration of the
Bahá’í teachings on economics has occupied an
important place in the Bahá’í scriptures, which in
return has a vital effect on the Bahá’í community
and society as a whole. Statements such as ‘The
fundamentals of the whole economic condition are
divine in nature and associated with the world of
the heart and spirit’2, and ‘readjustment and
equalization
of
the
economic
standards
of
mankind’3 are mentioned in the Bahá’í writings.
The phrase ‘spiritual solution to economic
problems’ is repeatedly stated in the Bahá’í
introductory books and pamphlets.  However,
these phrases may be unclear for some readers and
require
further
explanation.
Hopefully,
this
compilation from the Bahá’í Writings makes the

1 Shoghi Effendi. quoted in Scholarship, Comp. Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, p. 12.
2 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.
238.
3 Ibid. p. 107.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


concept more pleasing and clearer.  It is vital to
know that any Bahá’í principle, including that on
Bahá’í economics, should not be looked at in
isolation. Hence, in this compilation, the readers
will become familiar with those Bahá’í teachings
that directly or indirectly contribute to the
economic
development
of
individuals,
communities and the wider society.

Economic ideas are continuously and closely a
product of time and place. Thus, economics is an
important feature of the Bahá’í Faith because
Bahá’u’lláh, the Prophet-Founder of this Faith,
appeared in a time of global economic integration.
Hence, there are more materials in Bahá’í writings
on this subject than in other major faiths. At the
same time, it is important to note that the Bahá’í
Faith is not an economic system, and the central
figures of this faith never claimed to be technical
economists. The main focus of the Bahá’í
scriptures is the application of spiritual teachings
to solve economic problems. The Bahá’í writings
provide a framework that is considered a guideline
for the design of the economic system of the
future.

Understanding the concept of spirituality is central
to discussing issues related to Bahá’í economics.
The term ‘spiritual’ has been associated with many
meanings, religious and non-religious. There is no
agreement
between
theologians
and
social
scientists such as economists about the precise

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


meaning of these terms. Some economists keep
their distance from phrases such as ‘spiritual
capital’, and ‘divine economy’4. However, in any
discussion about Bahá’í economics, the word
'spirituality’ plays a central role. Although the
terms ‘spirituality’ and ‘religion’ are commonly
used interchangeably, it is important to note that
the term ‘spirituality’ refers to the higher nature of
man, which Bahá’ís believe is innate in a person
and needs to be developed. The term ‘divine
economy’ is stated in the writings of Shoghi
Effendi, and he associates it with the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh. According to the view of the
Universal House of Justice, the concept of divine
economy does not refer to a particular economic
system but rather a general system of organisation.
Bahá’í scholar William Hatcher defines spirituality
as: ‘…the process of the full, adequate, proper, and
harmonious
development
of
one’s
spiritual
capacities.’5
A
relationship
exists
between
spirituality, morality and human action. Hatcher’s
view is: ‘…that which fosters and advances the
process of spiritual development is good, and that
which tends to inhibit it is bad. Every law, counsel
or behavioural norm contained in the writings of
the Bahá’í Faith can be understood in large

4 The term ‘Divine Economy’ is used in the writings of Shoghi
Effendi, World Order, pp. 19-20, p. 22, p. 24, and p. 61.
5 Hatcher, W. ‘The Concept of Spirituality’, Bahá’í World,
vol. 18, 1979-1983, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre Publications,
p. 935.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


measure from this perspective.’6 Whilst pinning
spirituality down to an agreed definition seemed
impossible to some social scientists, they can
recognise it as a unifying factor when they come
face to face with it. In a Tablet to August Forel,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to this ‘higher nature of human
being’7 as an ‘all-unifying agency.’8 For a Bahá’í,
the ‘all-unifying agency’ is knowing that the
purpose of life is not just satisfaction of one’s own
needs and enjoyment of material pleasures, but
also other objectives such as service to their
community and the wider society.

A working definition of spirituality has been
developed
to
reconcile
the
viewpoints
of
theologians, social scientists and secular thinkers,
having been inspired by the Bahá’í writings. The
definition includes not only the material side of life
but also the higher nature of human beings. It acts
as a unifying factor in resolving conflicts and
divisions and is concerned with the ultimate
purpose of life. Therefore, spirituality is the art of
unifying, developing and interconnecting our life
with the material world, other people, other
places, and the future beyond ourselves.

Any
discussion
on
spirituality
should
also
emphasise how to attain it; otherwise, its worth
and application will be challenged. Bahá’ís try to

6 Ibid.
7 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to August Forel, p. 13.
8 Ibid.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


progress spiritually in several ways, such as
observing obligatory prayers, fasting, meditation,
and reading the Holy Scriptures every morning
and evening, as inculcated by the Founder of the
Faith. Another way is through community-
orientated development, which occurs through
activities such as service and skill learning and
economically being a productive member of
society. Hence, the Bahá’í view is that we are not
created in a spiritual perfection; we must identify
ways and means to grow spiritually. Hatcher
exposes the process of achieving spirituality: ‘An
important component of spiritual philosophy is
the notion that spirituality is not the naturally
given condition of the human being, but must be
achieved as a result of a developmental process. In
other words, we are not created in a state of
spiritual perfection, but rather with the potential
for achieving spirituality. Without this potential,
spirituality would be an impossible ideal rather
than a realistically achievable goal. The process of
achieving
spirituality
is
called
spiritual
development or spiritual growth.’9

Also, a distinction is made between ‘spirituality’
and
‘morality’,
although
they
remain
interconnected. Spiritual qualities such as purity,
devotion, contentment and cleanliness govern our
behaviour about God and are private or personal,
thus independent of others. Other qualities, like

9 Hatcher, W. Bahá’í World, vol. 18, p. 935.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


compassion, justice and kindness, are moral
qualities and values that form our behaviour
toward others and, therefore, depend on reciprocal
action. Thus, if we define the market as a place
where buyers and sellers come into contact and
exchange commodities profitably, then human
relationships become a requirement in the market.
Or, if globalisation is about integrating people,
communities and nations, then creating an
effective human relationship is crucial for its
success. Similarly, the two concepts of spirituality
and morality prepare individuals to have a good
relationship with all the planet's creatures and
ecology. For an effective relationship between all
participants in the market, morality becomes a key
principle for the operation of a prosperous
economy.

To Bahá’ís, the principle of unity of humankind is
the distinguishing characteristic of an approach to
human well-being and globalisation. Bahá’u’lláh
states that ‘Th earth is but one country, and
mankind its citizens’, or ‘The tabernacle of unity
hath been raised; regard ye not one another as
strangers. Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the
leaves of one branch’10, are clearly in line with the
recognition of the entire world as one community.
This goal is possible because, at this time, the
means to attain the unity of humankind are at

10 Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p.
218.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


hand. For example, revolutionary and world-
embracing means of global interrelatedness, such
as communication, transportation, information
technology,
and
international
financial
interdependency, are available to unify nations.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that ‘In cycles gone by,
though harmony was established, yet, owing to the
absence of means, the unity of mankind could not
have been achieved.’11 This is because means of
coming into contact, which are currently available,
were
not
within
reach
during
the
past
dispensation. Thus, ‘… association and interchange
of thought were wellnigh impossible.’12 Concerning
the above two statements, it is possible to list three
features of meaningful globalisation - oneness,
association, and interchange of thoughts - which
could be realised through advanced information
and technology such as the internet. (Chapter 1)

‘World citizenship’13 is a practical strategy for
achieving the economic goals of globalisation.
Thus, world citizenship should be promoted at all
levels of society and considered a prerequisite for a
sustainable society; it should be taught in every
school and promoted at local, national and
international levels. The universality of Bahá’í
economics requires that economic problems, like

11 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selected from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
p. 31.
12 Ibid.
13 For ‘world citizenship’, see: Shoghi Effendi, World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 37, p. 39, p. 41, and p. 163.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


all major difficulties facing humanity, be resolved
on a world-encompassing scale. Global issues such
as environmental degradation, financial crisis and
poverty require global solutions. The Bahá’í view is
that this is an organic process: we have been
through the evolutionary stages of infancy and
childhood, culminating in a period of adolescence
and a long-awaited coming of age. The process of
global integration, already in the realms of
business,
finance
and
communications,
is
beginning to materialise in the political arena.
Thus, Bahá’í economics is rooted in the notion that
we are all part of one human family. The belief is
that the earth is our home, that we all belong to
one world family and that we all should work to
promote the well-being of the entire human race.
As a result, every individual feels responsible for
matters that affect the well-being of all citizens,
protecting the environment, and respecting future
generations. (Chapters 1 and 3)

The Bahá’í writings indicate that the remedy to
social and economic crisis consists of removing the
Old Order and reconstructing the new World
Order. ‘Soon,’ Bahá’u’lláh’s own words proclaim,
‘will the present day Order be rolled up, and a new
one be spread out in its stead.’14 The new spirit
infused into the whole creation makes the new
World Order possible. (Chapter 2)


14 Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 163.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


An important issue to be borne in mind is that it is
as yet too soon for us to envisage the nature and
the character of a Bahá’í new World Order and the
‘Bahá’í World Commonwealth’15, of which the
Bahá’í economic system of the future is a part.
Shoghi Effendi has stated that the structure,
implications, benefits, and possibilities of the new
World Order cannot be understood at present and
that it will only be possible over time for us to
discern them. He has stated that only the new
World Order's underlying principles can be
described. He also noted that the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh cannot be compared with any of the
defective and fatally flawed systems we see today.
Suppose at times Bahá’ís compare the Bahá’í Faith
with existing systems. In that case, this is only on
account of our proximity to, and familiarity with,
these systems, and because, in demonstrating the
superiority of the Divine teachings over systems
made by humans and ideologies, we are obliged to
draw comparisons between them, and to contrast
their different aspects. (Chapters 2 and 3)


15 The term ‘Bahá’í World Commonwealth’ has been
mentioned in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, 8 times (p. 40,
98, 146,152, 168, 193, 203, 204); in God Passes By, twice (p.
26, 316); in The Advent of Divine Justice of Divine (p. 12);
Bahá’í Administration (p. 135); Promised Day is Come (p.
122); Bahá’í World (vol. XI, p. 138, p. 26); and messages to
America (p. 81) where Shoghi Effendi talks about welding
the society into ‘...a single, organically-united, unshatterable
world commonwealth ...’. Also, the term is used 5 times in a
letter from the Universal House of Justice dated 27 April
1995.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Shoghi Effendi discusses the need for a ‘world
super state’16 to be developed in the future, which
would be given the authority by all the nations to
impose taxation and maintain armaments for
international protection. However, each country
would continue to maintain and support its
internal order. These nations would willingly yield
every claim of war in favour of this ‘world super-
state’, which would have an international executive
with the capacity to ‘enforce supreme and
unchallengeable authority on every recalcitrant
member of the commonwealth; and world
parliament’.
Shoghi
Effendi
describes
the
formation of this ‘world parliament’ through
election by people in each country, with the
respective governments’ confirmation and a
supreme
tribunal.
He
envisages
a
world
community with no economic barriers, and the
interdependence of capital and labour is well
appreciated and understood.’  (Chapters 1 and 2)

The state's role in promoting the general welfare of
a global society is expressed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He
emphasises that appropriate legislation is required
to protect the poor. He considers the role of
governments
as
a
crucial
factor:
‘The
governments… establishing just legislation and
economics so that all humanity may enjoy a full
measure of welfare and privilege; but this will

16 For ‘world super state’ see Shoghi Effendi, World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh, p. 39, p. 40, and p. 164.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


always be according to legal protection and
procedure.’17 There is a need for governments to
intervene in economic activities and to provide a
series of plans for just social welfare. Thus,
government performance needs to be judged not
only by economic growth rates but also by the
effect of policies on social welfare such as the
environment, employment, health, education and
transport. Governments should not be limited to
collecting taxes and providing subsidies but extend
to improving the quality of life of all citizens in a
country.  (Chapter 5)

A feature of Bahá’í economics is its flexibility and
adaptability to market fluctuations. In the Bahá’í
writings, the details of economics are not given,
and it is left to future institutions, under the
guidance of the Universal House of Justice, to
design a flexible, universal, fair system according
to time and place. Other Bahá’í institutions at local
and national levels will carry out activities in their
own jurisdiction. These institutions are charged
with stimulating, unifying and coordinating the
activities
of
the
Faith
in
their
particular
jurisdiction. The operation of socio-economic
development projects in the Bahá’í communities
worldwide is an example of adaptability and
dealing with fluctuations.  (Chapter 6)


17 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


In the Bahá’í view, the economic teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh claim to have a divine origin since the
human being is also divine in origin and purpose.
Bahá’u’lláh has very clearly made provisions to
safeguard His divine teachings from revisionism
and the like, for there is no fallibility in His teach-
ings and precepts. Consequently, when people
understand the perfection and beauty of the
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, they will not only give full
support for their complete implementation but
also unity will be preserved in the Bahá’í
community. (Chapters 7 and 8)

A current economic assumption is that human
happiness can be achieved merely by increasing
the wealth of the individual members of society.
The underlying assumption is that all human
beings are motivated by selfishness and greed and
that the more any particular economic policy
caters for these base motivations, the more
successful it will be.  The self is primarily seen as
someone who seeks to maximise utility, often
through maximising consumption opportunity.
The root idea flowing from self-interest is
consumer sovereignty and utility maximisation.
The rationale is that consumers know their
interests best and can act to advance them through
exchange. For many, prosperity lies in increasing
consumption, and each consumer will pursue their
opportunities until the marginal cost of a
transaction exceeds its benefits. Each person
maximises utility or happiness subject to several

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


constraints, including income. Thus, economic
theory mainly considers the monetary aspects of
life and ignores other factors, such as values
essential for creating relationships among people
and protecting the environment. (Chapter 9)

Bahá’í economics considers the dual nature of the
human being, both spiritual and material. A
balance is required. We are not simply ‘economic
man’ or ‘machine’. We have a higher purpose in
life, and that is the acquisition of spiritual
attributes. We have a soul, and our soul has a
capacity to love.  Our soul is interested in
attracting God’s attributes. These attributes are
necessary for carrying out a virtuous life in this
world. At the same time, we are social beings.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said ‘...no matter how much material
civilization advances, it cannot attain to perfection
except through the uplift of spiritual civilization.’18
Thus, we are both material and spiritual beings –
we need proper education to create a balance
between the two.  The principle of material and
spiritual coherence advocates that there must be a
balance between the material and spiritual aspects
of life. The material part is necessary for
development but not sufficient on its own. Real
growth and development take place when there is
coherence between the two.  (Chapters 7 and 11)


18 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 109.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Further, the writings of the Faith refer to
materialism as the root cause of many social
illnesses, including the creation of a culture of
consumerism. The Universal House of Justice
refers to the destructive forces of materialism
rooted in the West and now spread to every corner
of the planet. It is vital to realise the difference
between genuine needs and unessential wants.
There is much more involved in self-realisation
than
the
satisfaction
of
material
hunger.
Bahá'u'lláh has warned that if material civilization
is ‘…carried to excess, civilization will prove as
prolific a source of evil.’19 Many characteristics of
present society would seem to fit this prediction.
Shoghi Effendi refers to such a world as ‘A world
spiritually destitute, morally bankrupt, politically
disrupted,
socially
convulsed,
economically
paralyzed.’20 (Chapter 11)

One of the economic teachings discussed in Bahá’í
literature is the importance of cooperation rather
than
competition.
The
principles
of
interconnectedness and reciprocity underlie the
Bahá'í understanding of both the operations of the
universe and the responsibilities of humankind in
a global society. In the following passages, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá asserts the importance of such reciprocity
and considers it an ‘essential characteristic in the

19 Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p.
216.
20 Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, p. 16.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


unified body of the world of being.’21 The argument
favouring cooperation in the Bahá’í writings goes
behind the scope of the market and the economy.
The Bahá’í writings emphasise that cooperation
and not competition is the cause of life in society,
just as the life of an organism is maintained by the
cooperation of the various elements of which it is
composed. Another aspect of cooperation in Bahá’í
literature is increasing resource utilisation and
value through coordination and organisation of
economic activities. In many areas, competition is
encouraged in the Bahá’í writings, for example, in
areas such as education, service to humanity,
philanthropic
and
humanitarian
services,
charitable activities, pioneering, and service to the
cause of God. (Chapters 12 and 13)

A feature of new globalisation is that our world is
interdependent and interrelated in every aspect:
socially,
politically,
economically,
environmentally, and morally. In Bahá’í literature,
the analogy of the human body is used to express
the interdependency of nations and peoples of the
world. Pain in one part of the human body is the
cause of discomfort in the rest of the body. The
recent global economic crises indicate that people
and nations are interdependent. The existing
conflicts and other crises signal that we must see
the world as one unit, one body and one globe.

21 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, p.
22.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Therefore,
the
global
crises
require
global
solutions. Thus, any future economic system
should
consider
the
interdependence
and
interrelationship of different countries. Shoghi
Effendi states: ‘The interdependence of the
peoples and nations of the earth … already an
accomplished fact.’22 (Chapter 14)

Knowledge and information have a significant
place in the Bahá’í writings. The Bahá’í belief is
that a human being is the crown of creation
because he possesses intellectual capability over
other creatures. Thus, the human soul and
intellectual capability persuade humans to be
skilful at working and willing to learn. His mind
can guide him to choose the right skill and line of
work and make the right decisions. (Chapter 15)

Appropriate education and training have proved to
be the most effective way of increasing the
production level and productivity scale. Firms
recognise the lack of it as a significant obstacle in
the labour market. The principle of universal and
compulsory education is an effective way to deal
with the economic challenges of our time. On the
one hand, education and training are vital to
increasing the level of production, and on the
other hand, they are conducive to personal growth
and the transformation of society. Children are the
future workforce, and Bahá’í parents are given a

22 Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, p. 122.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


great responsibility towards the education of their
children. Similarly, the selection of inappropriate
technology, or the absence of technology or
innovation, may reduce the quantity of output or
result in poor-quality commodities. These aspects
can adversely affect the performance of the
economy or cause wastage. Using appropriate
knowledge,
information
technology,
and
innovation helps firms organize, develop and
control their resources more efficiently and engage
in ecologically sound production processes. The
Bahá’í writings encourage the exploitation and
constructive use of modern technology.  (Chapters
15 and 16)

The Bahá’í writings recognise the equality of
women and men in the social and economic
equation.
In
numerous
places,
women's
participation is emphasised in all aspects of
community life. It is stated that women in the past
did not have the opportunity to participate in the
affairs of society. The writings also confirm that a
woman’s lack of progress and proficiency has been
due to her need for equal education and
opportunity. Had she been allowed this equality,
there is no doubt she would have been the
counterpart of man in ability and capacity. At the
heart of all activities, the role and development of
Local
Spiritual
Assemblies
are
crucial
in
coordinating activities, including the spiritual,
intellectual and community life of the Bahá’ís. The
Universal House of Justice describes these

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


responsibilities
as
developing
a
deeper
understanding of Bahá’í family life and children's
education. They emphasise the need to hold
regular children’s classes and go as far as
suggesting the establishment of tutorial schools
and even primary schools where necessary. The
Local Spiritual Assemblies are also responsible for
encouraging women to exercise their privileges
and responsibilities in the community's life.
(Chapter 18)

The Bahá'í view is that development is an organic
process in which, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, …the
spiritual is expressed and carried out in the
material.’23 In our increasingly interdependent
world, development efforts must be animated by
universal values and guided by a vision of world
community. Creating a peaceful global society
fostering individual and collective well-being is at
the heart of the Bahá'í vision of the future. An
important feature of Bahá’í economic development
is that it must respond to both material and
spiritual needs in a balanced way. The Bahá’í
literature considers human beings essentially as
spiritual, and happiness and well-being will be
satisfied if the spiritual aspects of their nature are
fulfilled and developed alongside the material. A
tangible expression of Bahá'í efforts to promote
constructive change in the life of society is found
in the various social and economic activities of

23 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 8.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Bahá'í communities around the world. These
activities are primarily elementary initiatives at
the grassroots level. The activities are used to
unlock the moral and creative capabilities of
individuals and communities. The grassroots
initiatives carried out by small groups of
individuals in towns and villages have an
important effect in the long run. As these
initiatives evolve, some become more substantial
programs
with
permanent
administrative
structures. Yet very few can be compared with the
complex development projects promoted and
funded
by
government
agencies
and
large
multilateral organisations. (Chapters 5, 18, 19 and
20)

Developmental activities are organized by Bahá'í
administrative
institutions
or
initiated
by
individuals and groups. All the barriers are broken
down by working together through the Bahá'í
method of decision-making, consultation, and
other aspects of community building through the
act of service, participation and self-expression.
These activities contribute to a global learning
process about a Bahá'í approach to social and
economic development. Following are some
examples of Bahá’í activities in various socio-
economic
development
projects:
education;
learning skills; agriculture; health care projects;
improvement
in
the
status
of
women;
environment; Bahá'í family life; service to the
community; and rural development programs such

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


as sanitation, educational radio stations, and
teacher training programs. There are six main
development processes identified by the Bahá’í
International Community that form the basis of a
pattern of action by Bahá'í communities around
the world: organic growth, capacity building,
learning,
development
of
human
resources,
contributing to the advancement of society, and
integration. Increased prosperity in rural areas is
only possible through educating rural children. To
contribute to their societies, children require
knowledge, experience, skills, and the inculcation
of universal ethical values to develop various
capacities. The main focus of Bahá’í development
projects is to provide the necessary knowledge and
education
to
increase
their
income-earning
capacity and build their personality. (Chapters 19
and 20)

The concept of ‘work’ has a special place in the
Bahá’í writings. In numerous places, the central
figures of the Bahá’í Faith have addressed the
concept   and meaning of work as worship; it is
stated, ‘Work done in the spirit of service is the
highest form of worship.’24. Work for a Bahá’í is a
means to serve others and is conducive to human
upliftment and exaltation. But ‘work is worship’
does not mean any kind of work: examples from
the original Bahá’í writings include the pursuit of
professions such as agriculture, arts and science,

24 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in Compilation on Education, p. 47.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


technology, education and health, and social
services. There is a close correlation between the
concept of ‘work is worship’ and ‘spirit of service’.
The impression from studying the Bahá’í writings
is that we unfold spiritually through the process of
living life. It is through fulfilling our natural duties
in life, honestly and to the best of our ability that
we make spiritual progress because work puts us
in situations where we interact with other people
and,
as
a
result,
gradually
deepen
our
understanding,
improve
our
behaviour
and
become a more spiritual person. In a spiritual
sense, work becomes meaningful when it provides
service to others. Henceforth, service and worship
become aspects of the same thing. (Chapter 21)

The Bahá’í writings advocate using advanced
technology,
innovation,
and
training
and
education for improving working conditions and
achieving high performance in producing goods
and services. However, the Bahá’í perspective of
economics also includes the belief that the
progress of advanced technology should neither
reduce work nor stop people from acquiring
knowledge and skills. Shoghi Effendi states that
work is a natural part of our lives, and it should
not be ceased, even with the advancement of
technology. Progress is attained through struggle;
therefore, for Bahá’ís, work is necessary for
progress. Recognizing the essential nobility of
human beings is a motivating factor to increase the
talent
and
capacity
of
individuals.
Such

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


recognition would empower the workforce and
become a source of social good. This signifies that
there must be a positive correlation between the
advancement
of
technology,
the
kind
of
innovation, and what has been produced, which
should be befitting human dignity. (Chapters 15
and 21)

According to the Bahá’í writings, Bahá’ís are
forbidden to beg under any circumstances. All
have been enjoined to earn a living, and as for
those who are incapable of doing so, it is
incumbent on the Deputies of God (Bahá’í
institutions) and on the wealthy to make adequate
provision for them. Begging is considered a social
ill and, therefore, not only should it be discouraged
but also entirely wiped out from the face of society.
However, there must be a separation between the
ill, disabled, disadvantaged and other deserving
poor from the able individuals who, according to
the Bahá’í writings, resorted to begging out of
idleness and had to be forced to work. A
distinction must be made between giving to those
who beg professionally and those who are poor
because they are incapable of working or their
earning are not sufficient for an adequate living.
The Bahá’í writings support charity for assisting
those considered deserving poor. Giving to charity
is highly praised and encouraged. Bahá’ís are
encouraged to become the cause of well-being and
advantage to others and to be a source of social
goods.  (Chapter 21)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



There are several references in the writings about
providing those items associated with human
livelihood. For example, special places should be
established to offer services to those in need. One
such place is the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár or the Bahá’í
House of Worship or the Bahá’í temple. The
practical demonstration of religious unity in the
Bahá’í Faith is presented in the institution of ‘the
Bahá’í Houses of Worship’. In addition to the
temple itself, dedicated to worship, several
dependencies
would
be
devoted
to
social,
humanitarian, educational, and scientific pursuits.
Anticipating the future development of this
institution, Shoghi Effendi envisages that the
House of Worship and its dependencies ‘…shall
afford relief to the suffering, sustenance to the
poor, shelter to the wayfarer, solace to the
bereaved, and education to the ignorant.’25 These
temples are unique places that welcome members
of all faiths to ‘re-unite’ with them. There will be
Bahá’í Houses of Worship in every town and city in
the future. (Chapter 22)

In Bahá’í economics, agriculture is a vital matter.
The commitment of the Central Figure of the
Bahá’í Faith to agriculture is evidenced by their
agricultural endeavours and extensive discourse
on the topic.  In His writings, Bahá’u’lláh has paid

25 Shoghi Effendi. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Notes, pp. 190-191.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


‘special regard’26 to agriculture because, as He
acknowledged ‘unquestionably, it precedes the
other principles in importance.’ Why this ‘special
regard’ for agriculture? Why should it precede
other principles, such as promoting international
peace, human fellowship or universal education?
An obvious comment is that food is the
prerequisite of human development. An adequate
diet is perhaps the most fundamental factor in
attaining human dignity. It would not be easy to
accomplish peace and security or even fellowship
among human beings while masses of people
starve.  Education is hardly possible when children
are malnourished. In all these situations, food is
an essential factor and a human right, and the
primary source of food is agriculture.  A strong
Bahá'í emphasis on the importance of agriculture
suggests that renewable resources will be the
primary basis of future civilization. Agriculture is
recognised as the foundation of society, and it fits
well with the importance of renewable resources
for any sustainable civilization. Also, agricultural
occupations will have a high status. (Chapters 23
and 24)

The Bahá’í teachings on economics consider the
social security and welfare of the entire society.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that ‘Every human being has
the right to live; they have a right to rest and to a

26 Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 90.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


certain amount of well-being.’27 Other teachings
include the creation of a number of insurance such
as providing the basic needs of all, providing work
for all, establishing special places for needy people,
and
establishing
moral
and
educational
institutions with special regard to health and
safety. (Chapter 25)

An outstanding feature of Bahá’í economics is that
the entire society should be prosperous, and
individual
members
live
moderately.
The
emphasis is on the importance of the social
function of wealth.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes the
benefits that material wealth can bring to society
through the efforts of individuals: ‘Wealth is most
commendable, provided the entire population is
wealthy.’28 The Bahá’í writings do not consider
acquiring wealth as immoral. Wealth to a Bahá’í is
praised if acquired legitimately and through
honest work and used sensibly. Bahá’ís are
encouraged to be productive community members
and to spend the income earned on philanthropic
activities. Knowing that human beings are spiritual
in nature, material well-being alone cannot
guarantee human happiness. People will be
happier if the spiritual aspects of their lives are
fulfilled and developed alongside the material.
Bahá’u’lláh metaphorically describes the human
station about wealth in the following words: ‘I

27 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp. 134.
28 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 25.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


created thee rich, why dost thou bring thyself
down to poverty?’29 Although the main facet in this
passage is the moral aspect of human beings, it can
also be applied to the material side. Also, there is a
direct relationship between unity and wealth
redistribution. It is prescribed that acquiring
wealth is acceptable to the extent that it serves as a
means for achieving higher ends and knowing that
the ultimate goal for a Bahá’í is the achievement of
unity of humankind. For example, how can one
enjoy wealth while more than a billion people live
in absolute poverty? In the following statement by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he envisions that in the future ‘…the
rich shall most willingly extend assistance to the
poor …’30 (Chapters 1 and 27)

Like any other organisation, the Bahá’í community
has expenditures that are paid by the general
participation and support of Bahá’ís only. One of
the distinguishing features of the Bahá’í Faith is its
principle
of
non-acceptance
of
financial
contributions for its activities from non-Bahá’ís. In
this way, as Shoghi Effendi states, the Bahá’í
institutions can best function and be maintained
‘…by the support of those who are fully conscious
of, and are unreservedly submissive to, the claims
inherent in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.’ The
Bahá’í view is that the act of contribution is a
spiritual obligation with the implication that every

29 Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 13.
30 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.
239.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Bahá’í is bound by conscience to give voluntarily
from their earnings towards the Bahá’í Fund.
Thus,
the
amount
contributed
is
private,
confidential and voluntary, and no compulsion
should be attached. The Bahá’í principle of
voluntary sharing of one’s wealth effectively
reduces or eliminates extremes of wealth and
poverty. Voluntary sharing of one’s wealth is
considered more effective because it is a matter of
free choice rather than giving by force.  (Chapter
27)

A distinctive principle on economics stated in the
Bahá’í scriptures, for the redistribution of income
and wealth, is the law of ‘Huqúqu’lláh’ or ‘Right of
God’. The law states that if an individual's net
income is equal to or over one hundred mithqals31
of gold, 19% should be given to the head of the
Faith, the Universal House of Justice. The unique
role of this principle is transforming a society
centred on self to one focused on the well-being of
humanity. Although observing and paying the
‘Right of God’ is limited to Bahá’ís, it can be
expended for the benefit of all by sponsoring
worldwide socio-economic development projects.
(Chapter 28 E)


31 Mithqal is a unit of weight. The weight of the traditional
Mithqal used in the Middle East is equivalent to 24 nakhuds.
However, the Mithqal used by the Bahá’ís consists of 19
nakhuds, ‘in accordrance with the specification of the Bayan’.
The weight of 9 of these Mithqals equals 32.775 grammes or
1.05374 troy ounces. (The Kitab-Aqdas, notes 78)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


The
Bahá’í
economic
system
advocates
a
progressive income tax to reduce the gap between
the rich and the poor. It offers one of the most
straightforward means of achieving equitable
distribution of income and wealth by marginally
redistributing income from top to bottom. The
rationale for these methods is that a guaranteed
minimum income should be sufficient to lift
everyone above a realistic poverty line. This type of
tax is now universally accepted as a fair and
justified method of taxation and is practised by
most governments to raise revenue for their
expenditures. (Chapter 28 C)

Another
feature
of
wealth
redistribution
recommended
in
the
Bahá’í
writings
and
considered a method for reducing the gap between
the rich and the poor is the technique of profit
sharing. It is a share of the profit given to workers
from the organisation's net profit. This share is
separate from the regular wage employees receive
and directly relates to the company’s profit.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá suggests allocating a share in the
fourth or fifth part of the profits. In most
organisations
practising
this
technique,
the
amount shared is determined either by an
established formula or entirely at the discretion of
the management or owners, based on a set of
objectives. The percentage of profit shared among
the workers should be sufficient to achieve these
objectives. (Chapter 28 B)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


The increasing size and scale of the operation of a
business organisation may become a barrier to
using and benefitting from resources more
efficiently and ethically and in terms of social
mobility. In modern times, many firms have
expanded in size and dominated the market. The
main objectives of these organisations are related
to profit maximisation. Profit is important in
satisfying and attracting more shareholders to the
business. Thus, these firms need to win the
competition and control the market. For some
firms, this condition may lead to higher prices,
lower quality, inefficiency, waste of resources, and
offering fewer choices to consumers. This state of
affairs is a serious obstacle for smaller firms to
survive or for new businesses entering the market.
The recent experience of the free-market economy
provides clear evidence and a warning that the
entire market has suffered as several large
organisations failed. Thus, there is a need to limit
the growth. The Bahá’í writings endorse that the
Bahá’í economic system of the future will maintain
the right balance between the two systems of free
market economy and planned economy. In 1936,
Shoghi Effendi wrote that the free market
economy must be controlled, regulated, and
restricted. (Chapter 29)

Sustainability and sustainable development are
characteristics of any viable economic system. It is
defined as a kind of development that does not
destroy or undermine the ecological, economic or

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


social basis on which continued development
depends. It is about using resources, keeping them
safe for future generations, and preserving the
ecology. Thus, sustainable development is an
ethical concept that maintains fairness for this
generation and future generations. Human beings
are at the centre of concern for sustainable
development. The future generation is entitled to a
healthy and prosperous living in harmony with
nature. One factor that significantly contributes to
the loss of human life and the wastage and
demolition of rare earth resources is war and all
kinds of internal conflicts and violence within each
country. Destruction of resources causes a setback
to increased production of essential commodities.
Waste of resources is the most concerning issue,
and the Bahá’í writings denounce all actions that
cause the wastage of human and physical
resources. (Chapter 31)

The three social principles of universal and
compulsory education, harmonisation of science
and religion, and independent investigation of
truth inspire Bahá’ís to do their utmost to make
the
right
decision
about
their
choice
of
commodities and about how much should be
consumed. Consumer education can provide
people with the knowledge to differentiate the
advantages and disadvantages of commodities
from each other or to distinguish between truthful
and
false
advertisements.
Knowledge
and
information, and the extent of their accuracy, are

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


important in helping people make the right
judgment when purchasing products and to
consider alternative choices that may be available.
At the same time, they are critical determinants of
market efficiency. Therefore, the quality of
information one uses to make decisions directly
affects producers and the ability of the market to
meet society's collective material needs. Successful
organisations are those that respond positively to
acceptable demands. The principle of harmony
between science and religion helps consumers to
appreciate and become conscious of the benefits
commodities provide not only to individuals and
families but also their effects on the environment;
the consciousness and realisation of the oneness of
humankind make it possible for Bahá’ís to work
individually and collectively ‘to carry forward an
ever-advancing
civilization.’
The
independent
investigation of truth persuades Bahá’ís to use the
right product and not to be influenced by false
media impressions and false advertisement and
promotional activities. (Chapters 15 and 31)

Inadequate decision-making methods in the
market, particularly in the labour market, are a
barrier that adversely affects the production level.
In
modern
working
practices,
organisations
encouraging workers' participation in decision-
making are positioned with a better image in the
marketplace. Similarly, managers have learned
that to affect production levels positively, the
workforce must be included in the decision-

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


making process. Workers are entitled to be
involved in activities that affect their lives, within
and outside the workplace. Through a consultative
decision-making method, workers find a sense of
belonging to the organisation, which improves
productivity and, consequently, the production
level. The principle of consultation constitutes a
significant part of Bahá’í literature. It is practised
with great success in the Bahá’í administrative
system. It states that the consultation principle
should be applied to all parts of life. (Chapter 32)

Any Bahá’í-inspired model must consider the
relationship of human behaviour and economic
variables as vital components. The central issue in
Bahá’í economics is that religion and economics
are
partners,
not
enemies,
necessitating
reconciliation. Thus, any definition of economics
must include the essentials of justice and fairness.
Economic justice issues are among the key factors
discussed in the Bahá’í writings concerning
contemporary economic principles. If economics is
defined as ‘the best use of resources’ and justice as
‘giving to each one what he or she is due’, then the
two principles of economics and justice are both
functionally and morally partners. (Chapters 33)

Moderation is another core spiritual principle
associated with Bahá’í economics. A Bahá’í view of
moderation can be expressed as eliminating
extremes of wealth and poverty. It is such an
important principle that we can call the Bahá’í

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Faith a religion of moderation. Bahá’u’lláh states:
‘In all matters moderation is desirable.’32 Thus,
moderation should be incorporated in all aspects
of life to create a balanced economy. This principle
maintains a balance in individuals' material and
spiritual lifestyles. On the other hand, it can
remedy unsustainable societal problems. The
practice of moderation in the broader community
requires it to become a norm and a part of the
culture, which must be built on trust.  We should
distinguish between a moderated way of life,
simple living, and asceticism. Voluntary simplicity
is, at one level, an entire philosophy for life. Of
course, simple living is distinct from forced
poverty, as it is a voluntary lifestyle choice. In the
Bahá’í view, simple living is not living in seclusion
or practicing asceticism. It is stated by Bahá’u’lláh
that ‘Living in seclusion or practising asceticism is
not
acceptable
in
the
presence
of
God.’33
Asceticism is not encouraged in Bahá’í literature,
and contentment in basic human needs requires
careful decision-making.  (Chapter 33 A)

A feature of Bahá’í economics is that equity is
preferred to equality. Absolute equality would be
an obstacle to life, welfare, order, and the peace of
humanity. This view's underlying principle and
rationale is that human talents, capabilities and
natural abilities are different, and full equality in

32 Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 69.
33 Ibid. p. 70.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


income and wealth distribution will not be fair.
The Bahá’í writings emphasise that individuals'
skills, abilities and talents are different and,
therefore, remuneration must be different. Also,
education and other motivational factors lead to
wage differentials. Therefore, income and wealth
among individuals will be different; however,
excessive income and wealth will be controlled and
regulated. It is stated that people are different in
ability and should, therefore, be different in their
social and economic standing. Thus, equity is
preferred to equality. Perfect equality is not fair,
not possible and not practical. The government
and financial institutions must prioritise social
justice and equitable growth. In particular, the
banking system must be assigned a significant role
in achieving the objective of equitable distribution
of wealth among citizens through financial
inclusion. Banks must act as prime movers in the
planned development process with the objectives
of economic growth and social justice. The banking
system, as mobilisers of savings and suppliers of
credit, should act as a catalyst to bring about
increased output through capital formation. Banks
should be engaged in acts of service to the
community and participate in various poverty
alleviation programmes by offering a moderate
rate of interest. (Chapter 33 B)

It is religion, the generator of the light of altruistic
emanations and the heart of spiritual perfections
that makes it possible for any form of collective

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


economic activity to flourish. Withdraw the
elements of morality and spirituality from any
form of collective economic activity, system, or
organization, and the desired symmetry and
reciprocity are lost, leaving the parties at opposite
poles, as witnessed by the prevailing economic
conditions of the present world. Bahá’u’lláh states:
‘In truth, religion is a radiant light and an impreg-
nable stronghold for the protection and welfare of
the peoples of the world…’34 (Chapter 35)

In Bahá’í view, all that goes in the name of
problems and difficulties are. Still, the signs and
symptoms of the spiritual disease called disunity
afflicting the body of mankind, resulting from the
absence of moral and spiritual aspects of our
society. Bahá’u’lláh states, ‘How long,’ He, in the
same Tablet, exclaims, ‘will humanity persist in its
waywardness? How long will injustice continue?
How long is chaos and confusion to reign amongst
men? How long will discord agitate the face of
society? The winds of despair are blowing from
every direction, and the strife that divides and
afflicteth the human race is increasing daily.’35
These illuminating words of Bahá’u’lláh point to
the ‘strife that divideth and afflicteth the human
race’ as the root cause of all our problems and
difficulties.
These
intermittent
crises
that
‘convulse present-day society’ are primarily due to

34 Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 125.
35 Ibid. p. 171.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


the divisive forces acting on humanity. The remedy
for the ills of our times is, in essence, moral and
spiritual. In a Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh states ‘Take ye
counsel together in all matters, inasmuch as
consultation is the lamp of guidance which leadeth
the way, and is the bestower of understanding.’36
(Chapter 32, 33)

One of the central concepts in the Bahá’í Faith is
the view that social structures are constantly
changing so no single economic theory will always
be suitable for the whole world. Farzam Arbab’s
view is that humanity has reached a level of
maturity and can face these challenges. He argues
that economies with different logics are entirely
possible, and the only choices open to humanity
are not the capitalist and socialist modes of
production, both of which are products of two or
three hundred years in the history of the European
people. He believes that mature humanity can
develop an economy with a new logic not based on
greed or false precepts of absolute equality, that
allows reasonable freedom yet promotes and
safeguards justice.37 Thus, Shoghi Effendi feels
there is a need to regulate and control the present
free market economy to shape the future global
economy. The missing part is a network of human

36 Bahá’u’lláh. quoted in Compilation on Consultation, p. 3.
37 See: Farzam Arbab, ‘Development - A Challenge to Bahá’í
Scholars’, Bahá’í Studies Review, Association for Bahá’í
Studies of North America, pp. 1-18, 1984.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


values centred mainly on economic justice to
eliminate imbalances in the global market.

Hooshmand Badee
United Kingdom
Revised - 2025

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


1. Social and economic challenges of our time

The winds of despair are, alas, blowing from every
direction, and the strife that divideth and afflicteth
the human race is daily increasing.
Bahá’u’lláh

1.
Behold the disturbances which, for many a long year,
have afflicted the earth, and the perturbation that hath seized
its peoples.  It hath either been ravaged by war, or tormented
by sudden and unforeseen calamities. Though the world is
encompassed with misery and distress, yet no man hath
paused to reflect what the cause or source of that may be. . .
No two men can be found who may be said to be outwardly
and inwardly united. The evidences of discord and malice are
apparent everywhere, though all were made for harmony and
union.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp.163-164)

2.
The world is in great turmoil, and the minds of its
people are in a state of utter confusion. We entreat the
Almighty that He may graciously illuminate them with the
glory of His Justice, and enable them to discover that which
will be profitable unto them at all times and under all
conditions. He, verily is the All-Possessing, the Most High.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 97-98)

3.
The world is in travail, and its agitation waxeth day by
day.  Its face is turned towards waywardness and unbelief.
Such shall be its plight, that to disclose it now would not be
meet and seemly.  Its perversity will long continue.  And

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


when the appointed hour is come, there shall suddenly
appear that which shall cause the limbs of mankind to quake.
Then, and only then, will the Divine Standard be unfurled,
and the Nightingale of Paradise warble its melody.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 118-119)

4.
The vitality of men’s belief in God is dying out in every
land; nothing short of His whole some medicine can ever
restore it. The corrosion of ungodliness is eating into the
vitals of human society; what else but the Elixir of His potent
Revelation can cleanse and revive it?

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 200)

5.     The All-Knowing Physician hath His finger on the pulse
of mankind. He perceiveth the disease, and prescribeth, in
His unerring wisdom, the remedy. Every age hath its own
problem, and every soul its particular aspiration. The remedy
the world needeth in its present-day affliction can never be
the same as that which a subsequent age may require. Be
anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live in, and
center your deliberations on its exigencies and requirements.

We can well perceive how the whole human race is
encompassed with great, with incalculable afflictions. We see
it languishing on its bed of sickness, sore-tried and
disillusioned. They that are intoxicated by self-conceit have
interposed themselves between it and the Divine and
infallible Physician. Witness how they have entangled all
men, themselves included, in the mesh of their devices. They
can neither discover the cause of the disease, nor have they
any knowledge of the remedy. They have conceived the
straight to be crooked, and have imagined their friend an
enemy.

Incline your ears to the sweet melody of this Prisoner.
Arise, and lift up your voices, that haply they that are fast
asleep may be awakened. Say: O ye who are as dead! The

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Hand of Divine bounty profereth unto you the Water of Life.
Hasten and drink your fill. Whoso hath been reborn in this
Day, shall never die; whoso remaineth dead, shall never live.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 213)

6.
How long will humanity persist in its waywardness?
How long will injustice continue? How long is chaos and
confusion to reign amongst men? How long will discord
agitate the face of society? … The winds of despair are, alas,
blowing from every direction, and the strife that divideth and
afflicteth the human race is daily increasing. The signs of
impending convulsions and chaos can now be discerned,
inasmuch as the prevailing order appeareth to be lamentably
defective.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 216)

7.      Regard the world as the human body, which, though at
its creation whole and perfect, hath been afflicted, through
various causes, with grave disorders and maladies.  Not for
one day did it gain ease, nay its sicknesses waxed more
severe, as it fell under the treatment of ignorant physicians,
who gave full rein to their personal desires, and have erred
grievously.  And if, at one time, through the care of an able
physician, a member of that body was healed, the rest
remained afflicted as before.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 254-255)

8.
Today no state in the world is in a condition of peace or
tranquillity, for security and trust have vanished from among
the people.  Both the governed and the governors are alike in
danger.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selection from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 293)






9.
The world is wrapped in the thick darkness of open
revolt and swept by a whirlwind of hate.  It is the fires of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


malevolence that have cast up their flames to the clouds of
heaven, it is a blood-drenched flood that rolleth across the
plains and down the hills, and no one on the face of the earth
can find any peace.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selection from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 318)


10.
Know this that hardships and misfortunes shall
increase day by day, and the people shall be distressed... The
doors of joy and happiness shall be closed on all sides.
Terrible wars shall happen. Disappointment and the
frustration of hopes shall surround the people from every
direction until they are obliged to turn to God. Then the
lights of great happiness shall enlighten the horizons…
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 248)







11.      For the world is dark with discord and selfishness,
hearts are negligent, souls are bereft of God and His heavenly
bestowals. Man is submerged in the affairs of this world. His
aims, objects and attainments are mortal, whereas God
desires for him immortal accomplishments. In his heart there
is no thought of God. He has sacrificed his portion and
birthright of divine spirituality. Desire and passion, like two
unmanageable horses, have wrested the reins of control from
him and are galloping madly in the wilderness. This is the
cause of the degradation of the world of humanity. This is the
cause of its retrogression into the appeties and passions of
the animal kingdom. Instead of divine advancement we find
sensual capacity and debasement of heavenly virtues of the
soul.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 184)






12.
Mankind is submerged in the sea of materialism and
occupied with the affairs of this world.  They have no thought
beyond earthly possessions and manifest no desire save the
passions of this fleeting, mortal existence.  Their utmost

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


purpose is the attainment of material livelihood, physical
comforts and worldly enjoyments such as constitute the
happiness of the animal world rather than the world of man.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 335)






13.
We see amongst us men who are overburdened with
riches on the one hand, and on the other those unfortunate
ones, who starve with nothing ...This condition of affairs is
wrong and must be remedied.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 156)








14.
The passionate and violent happenings that have, in
recent years, strained to almost the point of complete
breakdown the political and economic structure of society are
too numerous and complex to attempt, within the limitations
of this general survey, to arrive at an adequate estimate of
their character.  Nor have these tribulations, grievous as they
have been, seemed to have reached their climax, and exerted
the full force of their destructive power.  The whole world,
wherever and however we survey it, offers us the sad and
pitiful spectacle of a vast, an enfeebled, and moribund
organism, which is being torn politically and strangulated
economically by forces it has ceased to either control or
comprehend.  The Great Depression, the aftermath of the
severest ordeals humanity had ever experienced, the
disintegration of the Versailles system, the recrudescence of
militarism in its most menacing aspects, the failure of vast
experiments and new-born institutions to safeguard the
peace and tranquillity of peoples, classes and nations, have
bitterly disillusioned humanity and prostrated its spirits.  Its
hopes are, for the most part, shattered, its vitality is ebbing,
its
life
strangely
disordered,
its
unity
severely
compromised.... Every system, short of the unification of the
human race, has been tried, repeatedly tried, and been found
wanting.  Wars again and again have been fought, and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


conferences without number have met and deliberated.
Treaties, pacts and covenants have been painstakingly
negotiated, concluded and revised.  Systems of government
have been patiently tested, have been continually recast and
superseded.  Economic plans of reconstruction have been
carefully devised, and meticulously executed.  And yet crisis
has succeeded crisis, and the rapidity with which a perilously
unstable world is declining has been correspondingly
accelerated.  A yawning gulf threatens to involve in one
common disaster both the satisfied and dissatisfied nations,
democracies and dictatorships, capitalists and wage-earners,
Europeans and Asiatics, Jew and Gentile, white and colored.
An angry Providence, the cynic might well observe, has
abandoned a hapless planet to its fate, and fixed irrevocably
its doom.  Sore-tried and disillusioned, humanity has no
doubt lost its orientation, and would seem to have lost as well
its faith and hope.  It is hovering, unshepherded and
visionless, on the brink of disaster.  A sense of fatality seems
to pervade it.  An ever-deepening gloom is settling on its
fortunes as she recedes further and further from the outer
fringes of the darkest zone of its agitated life and penetrates
its very heart.

(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 188-190)

15.
A world spiritually destitute, morally bankrupt,
politically
disrupted,
socially
convulsed,
economically
paralyzed, writhing, bleeding and breaking up beneath the
avenging rod of God ... A world that has lost its bearings, in
which the bright flame of religion is fast dying out, in which
the forces of a blatant nationalism and racialism have
usurped the rights and prerogatives of God Himself, in which
a flagrant secularism - the direct offspring of irreligion - has
raised its triumphant head and is protruding its ugly features
... and in which the virus of prejudice and corruption is eating

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


into the vitals of an already gravely disordered society.
(Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, pp. 16-17)




16.
In a world the structure of whose political and social
institutions is impaired, whose vision is befogged, whose
conscience is bewildered, whose religious systems have
become anemic and lost their virtue, this healing Agency, this
leavening Power, this cementing Force, intensely alive and
all-pervasive, has been taking shape, is crystallizing into
institutions, is mobilizing its forces, and is preparing for the
spiritual conquest and the complete redemption of mankind.
Though the society which incarnates its ideals be small, and
its direct and tangible benefits as yet inconsiderable, yet the
potentialities with which it has been endowed, and through
which it is destined to regenerate the individual and rebuild a
broken world, are incalculable.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 195)






17.
The condition that the world is in is bringing many
issues to a head.  It would be perhaps impossible to find a
nation or people not in a state of crisis today.  The
materialism, the lack of true religion and the consequent
baser forces in human nature which are being released, have
brought the whole world to the brink of probably the greatest
crisis it has ever faced or will have to face.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of United States, dated 19 July 1956)

18.
When such a crisis sweeps over the world no person
should hope to remain intact. We belong to an organic unit
and when one part of the organism suffers all the rest of the
body will feel its consequence. This is in fact the reason why
Bahá’u’lláh calls our attention to the unity of mankind.  But
as Bahá’ís we should not let such hardships weaken our hope
in the future.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 14 April 1932)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



19.
That the unrest and suffering afflicting the mass of
mankind are in no small measure the direct consequences of
the World War and are attributable to the unwisdom and
shortsightedness of the framers of the Peace Treaties only a
biased mind can refuse to admit. That the financial
obligations contracted in the course of the war, as well as the
imposition of a staggering burden of reparations upon the
vanquished, have, to a very great extent, been responsible for
the maldistribution and consequent shortage of the world’s
monetary gold supply, which in turn has, to a very great
measure, accentuated the phenomenal fall in prices and
thereby relentlessly increased the burdens of impoverished
countries, no impartial mind would question.  That
intergovernmental debts have imposed a severe strain on the
masses of the people in Europe, have upset the equilibrium of
national budgets, have crippled national industries, and led
to an increase in the number of the unemployed, is no less
apparent to an unprejudiced observer.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 35)

20.
The gross materialism that engulfs the entire nation at
the present hour; the attachment to worldly things that
enshrouds the souls of men; the fear and anxieties that
distract their minds; the pleasure and dissipations that fill
their time, the prejudices and animosities that darken their
outlook, the apathy and lethargy that paralyze their spiritual
faculties — these are among the formidable obstacles that
stand in the path of every would-be warrior in the service of
Bahá’u‘lláh, obstacles which he must battle against the
surmount in his crusade for the redemption of his own
countrymen.
(Shoghi Effendi. Citadel of Faith, p. 149)

21.
Indeed, the chief reason for the evils now rampant in
society is the lack of spirituality. The materialistic civilization

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


of our age has so much absorbed the energy and interest of
mankind that people in general do no longer feel the
necessity of raising themselves above the forces and
conditions of their daily material existence.  There is not
sufficient demand for things that we should call spiritual to
differentiate them from the needs and requirements of our
physical existence.

The universal crisis affecting mankind is, therefore,
essentially spiritual in its causes.  The spirit of the age, taken
on the whole, is irreligious.  Man’s outlook on life is too crude
and materialistic to enable him to elevate himself into the
higher realms of the spirit.

It is this condition, so sadly morbid, into which society
has fallen, that religion seeks to improve and transform.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 8 December 1943)


22.
The recrudescence of religious intolerance, of racial
animosity, and of patriotic arrogance; the increasing
evidences of selfishness, of suspicion, of fear and of fraud;
the spread of terrorism, of lawlessness, of drunkenness and
of crime; the unquenchable thirst for, and the feverish
pursuit after, earthly vanities, riches and pleasures; the
weakening of family solidarity; the laxity in parental control;
the lapse into luxurious indulgence; the irresponsible
attitude towards marriage and the consequent rising tide of
divorce; the degeneracy of art and music, the infection of
literature, and the corruption of the  press; the extension of
the influence and activities of those “prophets of decadence”
who advocate companionate marriage, who preach the
philosophy of nudism, who call modesty an intellectual
fiction, who refuse to regard the procreation of children as
the sacred and primary purpose of marriage, who denounce
religion as an opiate of the people, who would, if given free
rein, lead back the human race to barbarism, chaos, and
ultimate extinction—these appear as the outstanding

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


characteristics of a decadent society, a society that must
either be reborn or perish.

(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 187-188)

23.    A world spiritually destitute, morally bankrupt,
politically
disrupted,
socially
convulsed,
economically
paralyzed, writhing, bleeding and breaking up beneath the
avenging rod of God.
(Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, p. 16)

24.      It exposed, as it moved toward its climax, and in
hardly less striking a manner, the cowardice, the want of
discipline and the degradation of a spiritually bankrupt foe.
(Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 43)





25.
There is so much suffering, such a great and desperate
need for a true remedy and the Bahá’ís should realize their
sacred obligation is to deliver the Message to their fellowmen
at once, and on as large a scale as possible.  If they fail to do
so, they are really partly responsible for prolonging the agony
of humanity.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 18 December 1943)

26.  For reasons, which are only too obvious, the Bahá’í
philosophy of social and political organization cannot be fully
reconciled with the political doctrines and conception that
are current and much in vague to-day. The wave of
nationalism, so aggressive and so contagious in its effects,
which has swept not only over Europe but over a large part of
mankind is, indeed, the very negation of the gospel of peace
and of brotherhood proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh. The actual
trend in the political world is, indeed, far from being in the
direction of the Bahá’í Teachings.   The world is drawing
nearer and nearer to a universal catastrophe, which will mark
the end of a bankrupt and of a fundamentally defective
civilization.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



From such considerations we can well conclude that we
as Bahá’ís can in no wise identify the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh
with man-made creeds and conceptions, which by their very
nature are important to save the world from the dangers with
which it is being so fiercely and so increasingly assailed.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated February 11, 1934)

27.
Chaos and confusion are daily increasing in the world.
They will attain such intensity as to render the frame of
mankind unable to bear them.  Then will men be awakened
and become aware that religion is the impregnable
stronghold and the manifest light of the world, and its laws,
exhortations and teachings the source of life on earth.
Every discerning eye clearly sees that the early stages of
this chaos have daily manifestations affecting the structure of
human society; its destructive forces are uprooting time-
honored institutions which were a heaven and refuge for the
inhabitants of the earth in bygone days and centuries and
around which revolved all human affairs.  The same
destructive forces are also deranging the political, economic,
scientific, literary, and, moral equilibrium of the world and
are destroying the fairest fruits of the present civilization.
Political machinations of those in authority have placed the
seal of obsolescence upon the root-principles of the world’s
order.  Greed and passion, deceit, hypocrisy, tyranny, and
pride are dominating features afflicting human relations.
Discoveries and inventions, which are the fruit of scientific
and technological advancements, have become the means
and tools of mass extermination and destruction and are in
the hands of the ungodly.  Even music, art, and literature,
which are to represent and inspire the noblest sentiments
and highest aspirations and should be a source of comfort
and tranquility for troubled souls, have strayed from the
straight path and are now the mirrors of the soiled hearts of
this confused unprincipled and disordered age.  Perversions

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


such as these shall result in the ordeals which have been
prophesied by the Blessed Beauty in the following words:
‘Every day a new calamity will seize the earth and a fresh
tormenting trial will appear’. The day is approaching when its
(civilization’s) flame will devour the cities.

In such an afflicted time when mankind is bewildered
and the wisest of men are perplexed as to the remedy, the
people of Bahá who have confidence in His unfailing Grace
and Divine Guidance are assured that each of these
tormenting trials has a cause, a purpose, and a definite result
and all are essential instrument for the establishment of the
immutable Will of God on earth.  In other words on the one
hand humanity is struck by the scourge of His chastisement
which will inevitably bring together the scattered and
vanquished tribes of the earth; and on the other, the weak
few whom He has nurtured under the protection of His
loving guidance are, in this formative age and period of
transition, continuing to build amidst these tumultuous
waves an impregnable stronghold which will be the sole
remaining refuge for those lost multitudes.  Therefore, the
dear friends of God who have such a broad and clear vision
before them are not perturbed by such events, nor are they
panic-stricken by such thundering sounds, nor will they face
such convulsions with fear and trepidation, nor will they be
deterred, even for a moment, from fulfilling their sacred
responsibilities.

One of their sacred responsibilities is to exemplify in
their lives those attributes which are acceptable at His Sacred
Threshold.

(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 10 February 1980)







28.
Whether peace is to be reached only after unimaginable
horrors precipitated by humanity’s stubborn clinging to old
patterns of behavior or is to be embraced now by an act of
consultative will, is the choice before all who inhabit the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


earth. At this critical juncture when the intractable problems
confronting nations have been fused into one common
concern for the whole world, failure to stem the tide of
conflict and disorder would be unconscionably irresponsible.
(Universal House of Justice. The Promise of World Peace, p. 1)



29.
The inordinate disparity between rich and poor, a
source of acute suffering, keeps the world in a state of
instability, virtually on the brink of war.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 10)



30.
The pitiful plight of masses of humanity, suffering and
in turmoil, hungering after righteousness, but ‘bereft of
discernment to see God with their own eyes, or hear His
Melody with their own ears’.  They must be fed.  Vision must
be restored where hope is lost, confidence built where doubt
and confusion are rife...
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated June 1988)

31.
The economic crises so widely reported seem destined
to grow even worse, but neither the economic nor other
pressing problems confronting humanity will ultimately be
resolved unless the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is given due regard
by nations and peoples...
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1993)



32.  In the current state of society, children face a cruel fate.
Millions and millions in country after country are dislocated
socially.  Children find themselves alienated by parents and
other adults whether they live in conditions of wealth or
poverty.  This alienation has its roots in a selfishness that is
born of materialism that is at the core of the godlessness
seizing the hearts of people everywhere.  The social
dislocation of children in our time is a sure mark of a society
in decline; this condition is not, however, confined to any
race, class, nation or economic condition—it cuts across them

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


all.  It grieves our hearts to realize that in so many parts of
the world children are employed as soldiers, exploited as
labourers, sold into virtual slavery, forced into prostitution,
made the objects of pornography, abandoned by parents
centred on their own desires, and subjected to other forms of
victimization too numerous to mention. Many such horrors
are inflicted by the parents themselves upon their own
children.  The spiritual and psychological damage defies
estimation. Our worldwide community cannot escape the
consequences of these conditions. This realization should
spur us all to urgent and sustained effort in the interests of
children and the future.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2000)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


2. Unity of humankind

The tabernacle of unity hath been raised; regard ye not one
another as strangers. Ye are the fruits of one tree,
and the leaves of one branch.
Bahá’u’lláh

1.
God grant that the light of unity may envelop the whole
earth, and that the seal, “the Kingdom is God’s”, may be
stamped upon the brow of all its peoples.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 11)

2.
The incomparable Creator hath created all men from one
same substance, and hath exalted their reality above the rest
of His creatures. Success or failure, gain or loss, must,
therefore, depend upon man's own exertions. The more he
striveth, the greater will be his progress.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 81-82)

3.
Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of
friendliness and fellowship.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 95)

4.
He Who is your Lord, the All-Merciful, cherisheth in His
heart the desire of beholding the entire human race as one
soul and one body.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 214)




5.
The fundamental purpose animating the Faith of God
and His Religion is to safeguard the interests and promote
the unity of the human race, and to foster the spirit of love

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and fellowship amongst men.  Suffer it not to become a
source of dissension and discord, of hate and enmity.  This is
the straight Path, the fixed and immovable foundation.
Whatsoever is raised on this foundation, the changes and
chances of the world can never impair its strength, nor will
the revolution of countless centuries undermine its structure.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 215)

6.
O contending peoples and kindreds of the earth!  Set
your faces towards unity, and let the radiance of its light
shine upon you.  Gather ye together, and for the sake of God
resolve to root out whatever is the source of contention
amongst you.  Then will the effulgence of the world’s great
Luminary envelop the whole earth, and its inhabitants
become the citizens of one city, and the occupants of one and
the same throne.   This Wronged One hath, ever since the
early days of His life, cherished none other desire but this,
and will continue to entertain no wish except this wish.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 217)

7.
O well-beloved ones!  The tabernacle of unity hath been
raised; regard ye not one another as strangers.  Ye are the
fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 218)

8.
O rulers of the earth! Be reconciled among yourselves,
that ye may need no more armaments save in a measure to
safeguard your territories and dominions. Beware lest ye
disregard the counsel of the All-Knowing, the Faithful.

Be united, O kings of the earth, for thereby will the
tempest of discord be stilled amongst you, and your peoples
find rest, if ye be of them that comprehend. Should any one
among you take up arms against another, rise ye all against
him, for this is naught but manifest justice.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 254)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


9.
The well-being of mankind, its peace and security, are
unattainable unless and until its unity is firmly established.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 286)

10.    In these days it is incumbent upon everyone to adhere
tenaciously unto unity and concord and to labour diligently
in promoting the Cause of God, that perchance the wayward
souls may attain that which will lead unto abiding prosperity.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 59)

11.
O Children of Men!  Know ye not why We created you
all from the same dust?  That no one should exalt himself
over the other.  Ponder at all times in your hearts how ye
were created.  Since We have created you all from one same
substance it is incumbent on you to be even as one soul, to
walk with the same feet, eat with the same mouth and dwell
in the same land, that from your inmost being, by your deeds
and actions, the signs of oneness and the essence of
detachment may be made manifest.  Such is My counsel to
you, O concourse of light!  Heed ye this counsel that ye may
obtain the fruit of holiness from the tree of wondrous glory.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 68)

12.
We desire but the good of the world and the happiness
of the nations; yet they deem Us a stirrer up of strife and
sedition worthy of bondage and banishment.... That all
nations should become one in faith and all men as brothers;
that the bonds of affection and unity between the sons of
men should be strengthened; that diversity of religion should
cease, and differences of race be annulled -- what harm is
there in this?... Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these
ruinous wars shall pass away, and the 'Most Great Peace'
shall come.... Yet do We see your kings and rulers lavishing
their treasures more freely on means for the destruction of
the human race than on that which would conduce to the
happiness of mankind.... These strifes and this bloodshed

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and discord must cease, and all men be as one kindred and
one family.... Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his
country; let him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind....
(Bahá’u’lláh. Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh)

13.
So powerful is the light of unity that it can illuminate
the whole earth...
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 203)

14.
No power can exist except through unity.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Cited Compilation on Consultation, p. 1)






15.
Now is the time for the lovers of God to raise high the
banners of unity, to intone, in the assemblages of the world,
the verses of friendship and love and to demonstrate to all
that the grace of God is one.  Thus will the tabernacles of
holiness be upraised on the summits of the earth, gathering
all peoples into the protective shadow of the World of
Oneness.  This great bounty will dawn over the world at the
time when the lovers of God shall arise to carry out His
Teachings, and to scatter far and wide the fresh, sweet scents
of universal love.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 20)


16.
Whatsoever thing is arranged in harmony and with love
and purity of motive, its result is light, and should the least
trace of estrangement prevail the result shall be darkness
upon darkness…
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 88)


17.
O ye beloved of God!  Know ye, verily, that the
happiness of mankind lieth in the unity and the harmony of
the
human
race,
and
that
spiritual
and
material
developments are conditioned upon love and amity among
all men.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 286)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



18.
Today the world of humanity is in need of international
unity and conciliation. To establish these great fundamental
principles a propelling power is needed. It is self-evident that
the unity of the human world and the Most Great Peace
cannot be accomplished through material means. They
cannot be established through political power, for the
political interests of nations are various and the policies of
peoples are divergent and conflicting. They cannot be
founded through racial or patriotic power, for these are
human powers, selfish and weak. The very nature of racial
differences and patriotic prejudices prevents the realization
of this unity and agreement. Therefore, it is evidenced that
the promotion of the oneness of the kingdom of humanity,
which is the essence of the teachings of all the Manifestations
of God, is impossible except through the divine power and
breaths of the Holy Spirit. Other powers are too weak and are
incapable of accomplishing this.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 11-12)



19.
There is perfect brotherhood underlying humanity, for
all are servants of one God and belong to one family under
the protection of divine providence.  The bond of fraternity
exists in humanity because all are intelligent beings. ...There
is brotherhood potential in humanity because all inhabit this
earthly globe under the one canopy of heaven... There is
brotherhood intended in humanity because all are waves of
one sea, leaves and fruit of one tree.  This is physical
fellowship which ensures material happiness in the human
world.  The stronger it becomes, the more will mankind
advance and the circle of materiality be enlarged.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 129)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


20.    Consort with all the people, kindreds, and religions of
the world with utmost truthfulness, uprightness, faithfulness,
kindness, good-will and friendliness.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 455)

21.
Your efforts must be lofty.  Exert yourselves with heart
and soul so that, perchance, through your efforts the light of
universal peace may shine and this darkness of estrangement
and enmity may be dispelled from amongst men, that all men
may become as one family and consort together in love and
kindness, that the East may assist the West and the West give
help to the East, for all are the inhabitants of one planet, the
people of one original native land and the flocks of one
Shepherd.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 469)


22.
It is certain that the greatest of instrumentalities for
achieving the advancement and the glory of man, the
supreme agency for the enlightenment and the redemption of
the world, is love and fellowship and unity among all the
members of the human race.  Nothing can be effected in the
world, not even conceivably, without unity and agreement,
and the perfect means for engendering fellowship and union
is true religion.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 73)

23.    All the divine Manifestations have proclaimed the
oneness of God and the unity of mankind. They have taught
that men should love and mutually help each other in order
that they might progress. Now if this conception of religion
be true, its essential principle is the oneness of humanity.
The fundamental truth of the Manifestations is peace. This
underlies all religion, all justice. The divine purpose is that
men should live in unity, concord and agreement and should
love one another.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 245)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



24.     …a unity ... will be securely established, causing all the
peoples of the world regard themselves as citizens of one
common fatherland.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 39)


25.
The principle of the Oneness of Mankind—the pivot
round which all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh revolve —is no
mere outburst of ignorant emotionalism or an expression of
vague and pious hope.  Its appeal is not to be merely
identified with a reawakening of the spirit of brotherhood
and goodwill among men, nor does it aim solely at the
fostering of harmonious cooperation among individual
peoples and nations.  Its implications are deeper, its claim
greater than any which the Prophets of old were allowed to
advance. Its message is applicable not only to the individual,
but concerns itself primarily with the nature of those
essential relationships that must bind all the states and
nations as members of one human family.  It does not
constitute merely the enunciation of an ideal, but stands
inseparably associated with an institution adequate to
embody its truth, demonstrate its validity, and perpetuate its
influence.  It implies an organic change in the structure of
present — day society, a change such as the world has not yet
experienced. It constitutes a challenge, at once bold and
universal, to outworn shibboleths of national creeds — creeds
that have had their day and which must, in the ordinary
course of events as shaped and controlled by Providence, give
way to a new gospel, fundamentally different from, and
infinitely superior to, what the world has already conceived.
It calls for no less than the reconstruction and the
demilitarization of the whole civilized world—a world
organically unified in all the essential aspects of its life, its
political machinery, its spiritual aspiration, its trade and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


finance, its script and language, and yet infinite in the
diversity of the national characteristics of its federated units.

It represents the consummation of human evolution —
an evolution that has had its earliest beginnings in the birth
of family life, its subsequent development in the achievement
of tribal solidarity, leading in turn to the constitution of the
city-state, and expanding later into the institution of
independent and sovereign nations.

The principle of the Oneness of Mankind, as
proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh. carries with it no more and no less
than a solemn assertion that attainment to this final stage in
this stupendous evolution is not only necessary but
inevitable, that its realization is fast approaching, and that
nothing short of a power that is born of God can succeed in
establishing it.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 42-43)

26.
World unity is the goal towards which a harassed
humanity is striving. Nation-building has come to an end.
The anarchy inherent in state sovereignty is moving towards
a climax. A world, growing to maturity, must abondon this
fetish, recognize the oneness and wholeness of human
relationships, and establish once for all the machinery that
can best incarnate this fundamental principle of its life.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 163-164)


27.
The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. whose supreme mission
is none other but the achievement of this organic and
spiritual unity of the whole body of nations, should, if we be
faithful to its implications, be regarded as signalizing through
its advent the coming of age of the entire human race. It
should be viewed not merely as yet another spiritual revival
in the ever-changing fortunes of mankind, not only as a
further stage in a chain of progressive Revelation, nor even as
the culmination of one of a series of recurrent prophetic

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


cycles, but rather as marking the last and highest stage in the
stupendous evolution of man’s collective life on this planet.
…That mystic, all-pervasive, yet indefinable change, which
we associate with the stage of maturity inevitable in the life of
the individual and the development of the fruit must, if we
would correctly apprehend the utterances of Bahá’u’lláh.
have its counterpart in the evolution of the organization of
human society. A similar stage must sooner or later be
attained in the collective life of mankind, producing an even
more striking phenomenon in world relations, and endowing
the whole human race with such potentialities of well-being
as shall provide, throughout the succeeding ages, the chief
incentive required for the eventual fulfillment of its high
destiny. Such a stage of maturity in the process of human
government must, for all time, if we would faithfully
recognize the tremendous claim advanced by Bahá’u’lláh.
remain identified with the Revelation of which He was the
Bearer.

(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 202)

(Note: The Bahá’í view of progressive revelation is that the major religions
have been founded by Manifestations of God and that the Manifestations
succeed one another, each bringing a greater measure of divine truth to
humanity. (Cited in <https://bahai-library.com/winters_bahai_glossary>)







28.
It is to unity that the Guardian has been continually
calling the friends.  For where a united will exists, nothing
can effectively oppose and hamper the forces of constructive
development.
(Shoghi Effendi. A Compilation on Local Spiritual Assembly, p. 73)


29.
For the first time in history it is possible for everyone
to view the entire planet, with all its myriad diversified
peoples, in one perspective.

(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 1)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


30.
Unbridled nationalism, as distinguished from a sane
and legitimate patriotism, must give way to a wider loyalty, to
the love of humanity as a whole.  Bahá’u’lláh’s statement
is:  ‘The earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens.’
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 11)

31.
Acceptance of the oneness of mankind is the first
fundamental
prerequisite
for
reorganization
and
administration of the world as one country, the home of
humankind.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, pp. 13-14)

32.
Unity is not, that is, merely a condition resulting from a
sense of mutual goodwill and common purpose, however
profound and sincerely held such sentiments may be, any
more than an organism is a product of some fortuitous and
amorphous association of various elements. Unity is a
phenomenon of creative power, whose existence becomes
apparent through the effects that collective action produces
and whose absence is betrayed by the impotence of such
efforts. However, handicapped it often has been by ignorance
and perversity, this force has been the primary influence
driving the advancement of civilization, generating legal
codes, social and political institutions, artistic works,
technological
achievements
without
end,
moral
breakthroughs, material prosperity, and long periods of
public peace whose afterglow lived in the memories of
subsequent generations as imagined ‘golden ages’.
(Universal House of Justice. Century of Light, p. 41)

33.
We rejoice at the spirit of unity which is evident in its
steady
consolidation
through
the
workings
of
the
Administrative Order to which the Covenant has given the
birth. Our cumulated experience has clearly demonstrated
the efficacy of the Covenant. The genuine unity it induces

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


greatly encourages our expectation that all of humanity can
and will be united.

(Universal House of Justice. Worldwide Satellite Broadcast, 26 November
1992)

34.
Disunity is the crux of the problems which so severely
afflict the planet. It permeates attitudes in all departments of
life. It is at the heart of all major conflicts between nations
and peoples. More serious still, disunity is common in the
relations between religions and within religions, vitiating the
very spiritual and moral influence which it is their primary
purpose to exert.
(Universal House of Justice. Worldwide Satellite Broadcast, 26 November 1992)

35.
The world of humanity is moving inexorably towards
its as-yet elusive destiny of unity and peace. Indeed, during
the Holy Year, we were transported on the wings of the spirit
to a summit from which we have seen the fast-approaching
glory of the Lord’s immemorial promise that all humankind
will one day be united.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1993)

36.   You [the youth], however, are aware of your part in a
mighty, transforming process that will yield, in time, a global
civilization reflecting the oneness of humankind.
(Universal House of Justice. 1 July 2013, to the participants of 114 youth
conferences)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics





37. O my God! O my God! Unite the
hearts of Thy servants, and reveal to them
Thy great purpose. May they follow Thy
commandments and abide in Thy law.
Help them, O God, in their endeavor, and
grant them strength to serve Thee. O God!
Leave them not to themselves, but guide
their steps by the light of Thy knowledge,
and cheer their hearts by Thy love. Verily,
Thou are their Helper and their Lord.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Prayers, Bahá’u’lláh Publishing Trust, Wilmette
IL,2002, p. 238)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



38.
O Thou kind Lord!  Thou hast created all humanity
from the same stock.  Thou hast decreed that all shall
belong to the same household.  In Thy Holy Presence
they are all Thy servants, and all mankind are sheltered
beneath Thy Tabernacle; all have gathered together at
Thy Table of Bounty; all are illumined through the light
of Thy Providence.
O God!  Thou art kind to all, Thou hast provided for all,
dost shelter all, conferrest life upon all.  Thou hast
endowed each and all with talents and faculties, and all
are submerged in the Ocean of Thy Mercy.
O Thou kind Lord!  Unite all.  Let the religions agree
and make the nations one, so that they may see each
other as one family and the whole earth as one
home.  May they all live together in perfect harmony.
O God!  Raise aloft the banner of the oneness of
mankind.
O God!  Establish the Most Great Peace.
Cement Thou, O God, the hearts together.
O Thou kind Father, God!  Gladden our hearts through
the fragrance of Thy love.  Brighten our eyes through
the Light of Thy Guidance.  Delight our ears with the
melody of Thy Word, and shelter us all in the
Stronghold of Thy Providence.
Thou art the Mighty and Powerful, Thou art the
Forgiving and Thou art the One Who overlooketh the
shortcomings of all mankind.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í Prayers, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL, pp.
113-115)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


3. The new World Order

It is towards this goal—the goal of a new World Order—
that a harassed humanity must strive...
Shoghi Effendi



1.
Soon will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new
one spread out in its stead.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 7)





2.
The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the
vibrating influence of this most great, this new World Order.
Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through the
agency of this unique, this wondrous System—the like of
which mortal eyes have never witnessed.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 136)

3.
The Great Being, wishing to reveal the prerequisites of
the peace and tranquillity of the world and the advancement
of its peoples, hath written: The time must come when the
imperative necessity for the holding of a vast, an all-
embracing assemblage of men will be universally realized.
The rulers and kings of the earth must needs attend it, and,
participating in its deliberations, must consider such ways
and means as will lay the foundations of the world's Great
Peace amongst men. Such a peace demandeth that the Great
Powers should resolve, for the sake of the tranquillity of the
peoples of the earth, to be fully reconciled among themselves.
Should any king take up arms against another, all should
unitedly arise and prevent him. If this be done, the nations of
the world will no longer require any armaments, except for

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


the purpose of preserving the security of their realms and of
maintaining internal order within their territories. This will
ensure the peace and composure of every people, government
and nation. We fain would hope that the kings and rulers of
the earth, the mirrors of the gracious and almighty name of
God, may attain unto this station, and shield mankind from
the onslaught of tyranny. ...The day is approaching when all
the peoples of the world will have adopted one universal
language and one common script. When this is achieved, to
whatsoever city a man may journey, it shall be as if he were
entering his own home. These things are obligatory and
absolutely essential. It is incumbent upon every man of
insight and understanding to strive to translate that which
hath been written into reality and action.... That one indeed
is a man who, today, dedicateth himself to the service of the
entire human race. The Great Being saith: Blessed and happy
is he that ariseth to promote the best interests of the peoples
and kindreds of the earth. In another passage He hath
proclaimed: It is not for him to pride himself who loveth his
own country, but rather for him who loveth the whole world.
The earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 248)



4.  Well is it with him who fixeth his gaze upon the Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. and rendereth thanks unto his Lord. For He will
assuredly be made manifest. God hath indeed irrevocably
ordained it in the Bayán.

(The Báb. Quoted in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, note 189)
(Note: The Bayán ("Exposition, explanation, lucidity, eloquence, utterance") is
the title given by The Bab to two of His major works, one in Persian, the other in
Arabic, His Books of Laws. It is also used sometimes to denote the entire body of
His Writings. The Persian Bayán is the major doctrinal work and principal
repository of the laws ordained by the Báb. The Arabic Bayán is parallel in
content but smaller and less weighty. References in the annotations to subjects
found in both the Persian Bayán and the Arabic Bayán are identified by use of
the term "Bayán" without further qualification.
Reference: Jonah Winters (2010). Glossary of Bahá’í terms. Cited in
<https://bahai-library.com/winters_bahai_glossary>)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


5.
True civilization will unfurl its banner in the midmost
heart of the world whenever a certain number of its
distinguished and high-minded sovereigns - the shining
exemplars of devotion and determination - shall, for the good
and happiness of all mankind, arise, with firm resolve and
clear vision, to establish the Cause of Universal Peace. They
must make the Cause of Peace the object of general
consultation and seek by every means in their power to
establish a Union of the nations of the world. They must
conclude a binding treaty and establish a covenant, the
provisions of which shall be sound, inviolable and definite.
They must proclaim it to all the world and obtain for it the
sanction of all the human race. This supreme and noble
undertaking - the real source of the peace and well-being of
all the world - should be regarded as sacred by all that dwell
on earth. All the forces of humanity must be mobilized to
ensure the stability and permanence of this Most Great
Covenant. In this all-embracing Pact the limits and frontiers
of each and every nation should be clearly fixed, the
principles underlying the relations of governments towards
one another definitely laid down, and all international
agreements and obligations ascertained. In like manner, the
size of the armaments of every government should be strictly
limited, for if the preparations for war and the military forces
of any nation should be allowed to increase, they will arouse
the
suspicion
of
others.
The
fundamental
principle
underlying this solemn Pact should be so fixed that if any
government later violate any one of its provisions, all the
governments on earth should arise to reduce it to utter
submission, nay the human race as a whole should resolve,
with every power at its disposal, to destroy that government.
Should this greatest of all remedies be applied to the sick
body of the world, it will assuredly recover from its ills and
will remain eternally safe and secure.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 64)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



6.
The world of humanity shall become the manifestation
of the lights of Divinity, and the bestowals of God shall
surround all. From the standpoints of both material and
spiritual civilization extraordinary progress and development
will be witnessed. In this present cycle there will be an
evolution in civilization unparalleled in the history of the
world. The world of humanity has, heretofore, been in the
stage of infancy; now it is approaching maturity. Just as the
individual human organism, having attained the period of
maturity, reaches its fullest degree of physical strength and
ripened intellectual faculties so that in one year of this
ripened period there is witnessed an unprecedented measure
of development, likewise the world of humanity in this cycle
of its completeness and consummation will realize an
immeasurable
upward
progress,
and
that
power
of
accomplishment whereof each individual human reality is the
depository of God -- that outworking Universal Spirit -- like
the intellectual faculty, will reveal itself in infinite degrees of
perfection.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 37)

7.
Few will fail to recognize that the Spirit breathed by
Bahá’u’lláh upon the world, and which is manifesting itself
with varying degrees of intensity through the efforts
consciously displayed by His avowed supporters and
indirectly through certain humanitarian organizations, can
never permeate and exercise an abiding influence upon
mankind unless and until it incarnates itself in a visible
Order, which would bear His name, wholly identify itself with
His principles, and function in conformity with His laws.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 19)

8.
That the Cause associated with the name of Bahá’u’lláh
feeds itself upon those hidden springs of celestial strength

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


which no force of human personality, whatever its glamour,
can replace…
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 51)

8.
The onrushing forces so miraculously released through
the agency of two independent and swiftly successive
Manifestations are now under our very eyes and through the
care of the chosen stewards of a far-flung Faith being
gradually mustered and disciplined. They are slowly
crystallizing into institutions that will come to be regarded as
the hall-mark and glory of the age we are called upon to
establish and by our deeds immortalize.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 98)

10. To what else if not to the power and majesty which this
Administrative Order—the rudiments of the future all-
enfolding Bahá’í Commonwealth—is destined to manifest,
can these utterances of Bahá’u’lláh allude: “The world’s
equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence
of this most great, this new World Order. Mankind’s ordered
life hath been revolutionized through the agency of this
unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes
have never witnessed.”
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 146)

11. This new World Order, whose promise is enshrined in the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. whose fundamental principles have
been enunciated in the writings of the Centre of His
Covenant, involves no less than the complete unification of
the entire human race.  This unification should conform to
such principles as would directly harmonize with the spirit
that animates, and the laws that govern the operation of, the
institutions that already constitute the structural basis of the
Administrative Order of His Faith.

(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 162)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


12.
The Most Great Peace, on the other hand, as conceived
by Bahá’u’lláh — a peace that must inevitably follow as the
practical consequence of the spiritualization of the world and
the fusion of all its races, creeds, classes and nations — can
rest on no other basis, and can be preserved through no other
agency, except the divinely appointed ordinances that are
implicit in the World Order that stands associated with His
Holy Name.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 162)

13.  As we view the world around us, we are compelled to
observe
the
manifold
evidences
of
that
universal
fermentation which, in every continent of the globe and in
every department of human life, be it religious, social,
economic or political, is purging and reshaping humanity in
anticipation of the Day when the wholeness of the human
race will have been recognized and its unity established. A
twofold process, however, can be distinguished, each
tending, in its own way and with an accelerated momentum,
to bring to a climax the forces that are transforming the face
of our planet.  The first is essentially an integrating process,
while the second is fundamentally disruptive.  The former, as
it steadily evolves, unfolds a System which may well serve as
a pattern for that world polity towards which a strangely —
disordered world is continually advancing; while the latter, as
its disintegrating influence deepens, tends to tear down, with
increasing violence, the antiquated barriers that seek to block
humanity’s progress towards its destined goal.  The
constructive process stands associated with the nascent Faith
of Bahá’u’lláh and is the harbinger of the new World
Order that Faith must erelong establish.  The destructive
forces that characterize the other should be identified with a
civilization that has refused to answer to the expectation of a
new age, and is consequently falling into chaos and decline.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



A titanic, a spiritual struggle, unparalleled in its
magnitude
yet
unspeakably
glorious
in
its
ultimate
consequences, is being waged as a result of these opposing
tendencies, in this age of transition through which the
organized community of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh and
mankind as a whole are passing.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 170)



14.
A mechanism of world intercommunication will be
devised, embracing the whole planet, freed from national
hindrances and restrictions, and functioning with marvellous
swiftness and perfect regularity.  A world metropolis will act
as the nerve center of a world civilization... A world
language... A world script, a world literature, a uniform and
universal system of currency, of weights and measures, will
simplify and facilitate intercourse and understanding among
the nations and races of mankind.

(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 203)

15.
… the century that has seen this Spirit burst forth upon
the world, as well as the initial stages of its subsequent
incarnation in a System that must evolve into an Order
designed to embrace the whole of mankind, and capable of
fulfilling the high destiny that awaits man on this planet.
(Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. xii)

16.
… a Revelation which, flowing out, in that extremely
perilous hour, from His travailing soul, pierced the gloom
that had settled upon that pestilential pit, and, bursting
through its walls, and propagating itself as far as the ends of
the earth, infused into the entire body of mankind its
boundless potentialities, and is now under our very eyes,
shaping the course of human society?
(Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 93)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


17.
The Golden Age of the Faith itself that must witness the
unification of all the peoples and nations of the world, the
establishment of the Most Great Peace, the inauguration of
the Kingdom of the Father upon earth, the coming of age of
the entire human race and the birth of a world civilization,
412 inspired and directed by the creative energies released by
Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order, shining in its meridian splendor,
is still unborn and its glories unsuspected.
(Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 411)





18.
We Bahá’ís are one the world over; we are seeking to
build up a new World Order, divine in origin... The best way
for a Bahá’í to serve his country and the world is to work for
the establishment of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order, which will
gradually unite all men and do away with divisive political
systems and religious creeds.

(Shoghi Effendi. Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 31)

19.
As the administrative processes expand, as their
operation steadily improves, as their necessity is more fully
and strikingly demonstrated, and their beneficent influence
correspondingly grows more apparent and evident, so will
the blessings, the strength and guidance bestowed by Him
Who animates and directs these processes be more
abundantly vouchsafed to those who have been called upon
to utilize them, in this age, for the execution of God’s Purpose
and for the ultimate redemption of a sore-stricken travailing
humanity. Many will be the setbacks, the shocks and the
disturbances, which the commotions of a convulsive age
must produce; yet no force, however violent and world-wide
in its range and catastrophic in its immediate consequences,
can either halt these processes or deflect their appointed
course.
(Shoghi Effendi. Messages to America, pp. 41-42)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


20.
The Bahá’ís are a part of the world.  They too feel the
great pressures which are brought to bear upon all people
today, whoever and wherever they may be.  On the other
hand, the Divine Plan, which is the direct method of working
toward the establishment of peace and World Order, has
perforce reached an important and challenging point in its
unfoldment; because of the desperate needs of the world, the
Bahá’ís find themselves, even though so limited in numbers,
in financial strength and in prestige, called upon to fulfil a
great responsibility.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 19 July 1956)

21.
It is towards this goal—the goal of a new World Order,
Divine in origin, all-embracing in scope, equitable in
principle, challenging in its features — that a harassed
humanity must strive...
(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 274)

22.
The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh encompasses all units
of human society; integrates the spiritual, administrative and
social processes of life; and canalizes human expression in its
varied forms towards the construction of a new civilization.
(Universal House of Justice. Message dated 27 August 1989)


23.
Among the favorable signs are the steadily growing
strength of the steps towards world order taken initially near
the beginning of this century in the creation of the League of
Nations, succeeded by the more broadly based United
Nations Organization; the achievement since the Second
World War of independence by the majority of all the nations
on earth, indicating the completion of the process of nation
building, and the involvement of these fledgling nations with
older ones in matters of mutual concern; the consequent vast
increase in cooperation among hitherto isolated and
antagonistic
peoples
and
groups
in
international

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


undertakings in the scientific, educational, legal, economic
and cultural fields; the rise in recent decades of an
unprecedented
number
of
international
humanitarian
organizations; the spread of women’s and youth movements
calling for an end to war; and the spontaneous spawning of
widening networks of ordinary people seeking understanding
through personal communication.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, pp. 1-2)


24.
That materialistic ideals have, in the light of
experience, failed to satisfy the needs of mankind calls for an
honest acknowledgment that a fresh effort must now be
made to find the solutions to the agonizing problems of the
planet.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 8)

25.
The tentative steps towards world order, especially
since World War II, give hopeful signs.  The increasing
tendency of groups of nations to formalize relationships
which enable them to cooperate in matters of mutual interest
suggests that eventually all nations could overcome this
paralysis.  The Association of South East Asian Nations, the
Caribbean Community and Common Market, the Central
American Common Market, the Council for Mutual
Economic Assistance, the European Communities, the
League of Arab States, the Organization of African Unity, the
Organization of American States, the South Pacific Forum—
all the joint endeavors represented by such organizations
prepare the path to world order.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 9)

26.
World order can be founded only on an unshakable
consciousness of the oneness of mankind, a spiritual truth
which all the human sciences confirm...

Acceptance of the oneness of mankind is the first
fundamental
prerequisite
for
reorganization
and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


administration of the world as one country, the home of
humankind.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, pp. 13-14)

27.
Still today, can anyone claim to have glimpsed anything
but an intimation, distant and indistinct, of the future society
to which the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is destined to give
rise? For let none suppose that the civilization towards which
the divine teachings impel humankind will follow merely
from adjustments to the present order. Far from it. In a talk
delivered some days after He laid the cornerstone of the
Mother Temple of the West, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated that ‘among
the results of the manifestation of spiritual forces will be that
the human world will adapt itself to a new social form,’ that
‘the justice of God will become manifest throughout human
affairs’. These, and countless other utterances of the Master
to which the Bahá’í community is turning time and again in
this centennial period, raise awareness of the distance that
separates society as it is now arranged from the stupendous
vision His Father gifted to the world.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4. Bahá’í World Commonwealth of the future

The Bahá’í Commonwealth of the future … is, both in theory
and practice, not only unique in the entire history of
political institutions, but can find no parallel in the annals of
any of the world’s recognized religious systems.
Shoghi Effendi

1.
What else could these weighty words signify if they did
not point to the inevitable curtailment of unfettered national
sovereignty as an indispensable preliminary to the formation
of the future Commonwealth of all the nations of the world?
Some form of a world super-state must needs be evolved, in
whose favor all the nations of the world will have willingly
ceded every claim to make war, certain rights to impose
taxation and all rights to maintain armaments, except for
purposes of maintaining internal order within their
respective dominions. Such a state will have to include within
its orbit an international executive adequate to enforce
supreme and unchallengeable authority on every recalcitrant
member of the commonwealth; a world parliament whose
members shall be elected by the people in their respective
countries and whose election shall be confirmed by their
respective governments; and a supreme tribunal whose
judgment will have a binding effect even in such cases where
the parties concerned did not voluntarily agree to submit
their case to its consideration. A world community in which
all economic barriers will have been permanently demolished
and the interdependence of Capital and Labor definitely
recognized; in which the clamor of religious fanaticism and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


strife will have been forever stilled; in which the flame of
racial animosity will have been finally extinguished; in which
a single code of international law — the product of the
considered judgment of the world’s federated representatives
— shall have as its sanction the instant and coercive
intervention of the combined forces of the federated units; …
shall come to be regarded as the fairest fruit of a slowly
maturing age.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 40-41)

2.
For upon our present-day efforts, and above all upon
the extent to which we strive to remodel our lives after the
pattern of sublime heroism associated with those gone before
us, must depend the efficacy of the instruments we now
fashion—instruments that must erect the structure of that
blissful Commonwealth which must signalize the Golden Age
of our Faith.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 98)

3.
A word should now be said regarding the theory on
which this Administrative Order is based and the principle
that must govern the operation of its chief institutions. It
would be utterly misleading to attempt a comparison
between this unique, this divinely-conceived Order and any
of the diverse systems which the minds of men, at various
periods of their history, have contrived for the government of
human institutions. Such an attempt would in itself betray a
lack of complete appreciation of the excellence of the
handiwork of its great Author. How could it be otherwise
when we remember that this Order constitutes the very
pattern of that divine civilization which the almighty Law of
Bahá’u’lláh is designed to establish upon earth? The divers
and ever-shifting systems of human polity, whether past or
present, whether originating in the East or in the West, offer
no adequate criterion wherewith to estimate the potency of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


its hidden virtues or to appraise the solidity of its
foundations.
The Bahá’í Commonwealth of the future, of which this
vast Administrative Order is the sole framework, is, both in
theory and practice, not only unique in the entire history of
political institutions, but can find no parallel in the annals of
any of the world’s recognized religious systems. No form of
democratic government; no system of autocracy or of
dictatorship,
whether
monarchical
or
republican;
no
intermediary scheme of a purely aristocratic order; nor even
any of the recognized types of theocracy, whether it be the
Hebrew
Commonwealth,
or
the
various
Christian
ecclesiastical organizations, or the Imamate or the Caliphate
in Islám—none of these can be identified or be said to
conform with the Administrative Order which the master-
hand of its perfect Architect has fashioned.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 152)

4.
Into such a period we are now steadily and irresistibly
moving. Amidst the shadows which are increasingly
gathering about us we can faintly discern the glimmerings of
Bahá’u’lláh’s unearthly sovereignty appearing fitfully on the
horizon of history. To us, the “generation of the half-light,”
living at a time which may be designated as the period of the
incubation of the World Commonwealth envisaged by
Bahá’u’lláh. has been assigned a task whose high privilege we
can never sufficiently appreciate, and the arduousness of
which we can as yet but dimly recognize. We may well
believe, we who are called upon to experience the operation
of the dark forces destined to unloose a flood of agonizing
afflictions, that the darkest hour that must precede the dawn
of the Golden Age of our Faith has not yet struck. Deep as is
the gloom that already encircles the world, the afflictive
ordeals which that world is to suffer are still in preparation,
nor can their blackness be as yet imagined. We stand on the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


threshold of an age whose convulsions proclaim alike the
death-pangs of the old order and the birth-pangs of the new.
Through the generating influence of the Faith announced by
Bahá’u’lláh this New World Order may be said to have been
conceived. We can, at the present moment, experience its
stirrings in the womb of a travailing age—an age waiting for
the appointed hour at which it can cast its burden and yield
its fairest fruit.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 168)

5.
This historic step, however, is but a faint glimmer in
the darkness that envelops an agitated humanity. It may well
prove to be no more than a mere flash, a fugitive gleam, in
the midst of an ever-deepening confusion. The process of
disintegration must inexorably continue, and its corrosive
influence must penetrate deeper and deeper into the very
core of a crumbling age. Much suffering will still be required
ere the contending nations, creeds, classes and races of
mankind are fused in the crucible of universal affliction, and
are forged by the fires of a fierce ordeal into one organic
commonwealth, one vast, unified, and harmoniously
functioning system. Adversities unimaginably appalling,
undreamed of crises and upheavals, war, famine, and
pestilence, might well combine to engrave in the soul of an
unheeding generation those truths and principles which it
has disdained to recognize and follow. A paralysis more
painful than any it has yet experienced must creep over and
further afflict the fabric of a broken society ere it can be
rebuilt and regenerated.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 193)

6.
The unity of the human race, as envisaged by
Bahá'u'lláh,
implies
the
establishment
of
a
world
commonwealth in which all nations, races, creeds and classes
are closely and permanently united, and in which the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom and
initiative of the individuals that compose them are definitely
and completely safeguarded. This commonwealth must, as
far as we can visualize it, consist of a world legislature, whose
members will, as the trustees of the whole of mankind,
ultimately control the entire resources of all the component
nations, and will enact such laws as shall be required to
regulate the life, satisfy the needs and adjust the
relationships of all races and peoples. A world executive,
backed by an international Force, will carry out the decisions
arrived at, and apply the laws enacted by, this world
legislature, and will safeguard the organic unity of the whole
commonwealth. A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver
its compulsory and final verdict in all and any disputes that
may arise between the various elements constituting this
universal
system.
A
mechanism
of
world
inter-
communication will be devised, embracing the whole planet,
freed from national hindrances and restrictions, and
functioning with marvellous swiftness and perfect regularity.
A world metropolis will act as the nerve center of a world
civilization, the focus towards which the unifying forces of
life will converge and from which its energizing influences
will radiate. A world language will either be invented or
chosen from among the existing languages and will be taught
in the schools of all the federated nations as an auxiliary to
their mother tongue. A world script, a world literature, a
uniform and universal system of currency, of weights and
measures, will simplify and facilitate intercourse and
understanding among the nations and races of mankind. In
such a world society, science and religion, the two most
potent forces in human life, will be reconciled, will cooperate,
and will harmoniously develop. The press will, under such a
system, while giving full scope to the expression of the
diversified views and convictions of mankind, cease to be
mischievously manipulated by vested interests, whether

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


private or public, and will be liberated from the influence of
contending governments and peoples. The economic
resources of the world will be organized, its sources of raw
materials will be tapped and fully utilized, its markets will be
coordinated and developed, and the distribution of its
products will be equitably regulated.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 203)

7.
It is with the Golden Age of His Dispensation that the
consummation of this process will be forever associated. It is
the structure of His New World Order, now stirring in the
womb of the administrative institutions He Himself has
created, that will serve both as a pattern and a nucleus of that
world commonwealth which is the sure, the inevitable
destiny of the peoples and nations of the earth.
Just as the organic evolution of mankind has been
slow and gradual, and involved successively the unification of
the family, the tribe, the city-state, and the nation, so has the
light vouchsafed by the Revelation of God, at various stages
in the evolution of religion, and reflected in the successive
Dispensations of the past, been slow and progressive. Indeed,
the measure of Divine Revelation, in every age, has been
adapted to, and commensurate with, the degree of social
progress achieved in that age by a constantly evolving
humanity.
(Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, p. 118)

8.
To the general character, the implications and features
of this world commonwealth, destined to emerge, sooner or
later, out of the carnage, agony, and havoc of this great world
convulsion, I have already referred in my previous
communications. Suffice it to say that this consummation
will, by its very nature, be a gradual process, and must, as
Bahá’u’lláh has Himself anticipated, lead at first to the
establishment of that Lesser Peace which the nations of the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


earth, as yet unconscious of His Revelation and yet
unwittingly enforcing the general principles which He has
enunciated, will themselves establish. This momentous and
historic step, involving the reconstruction of mankind, as the
result of the universal recognition of its oneness and
wholeness, will bring in its wake the spiritualization of the
masses, consequent to the recognition of the character, and
the acknowledgment of the claims, of the Faith of
Bahá’u’lláh—the essential condition to that ultimate fusion of
all races, creeds, classes, and nations which must signalize
the emergence of His New World Order.
Then will the coming of age of the entire human race
be proclaimed and celebrated by all the peoples and nations
of the earth. Then will the banner of the Most Great Peace be
hoisted. Then will the worldwide sovereignty of Bahá’u’lláh—
the Establisher of the Kingdom of the Father foretold by the
Son, and anticipated by the Prophets of God before Him and
after Him—be recognized, acclaimed, and firmly established.
Then will a world civilization be born, flourish, and
perpetuate itself, a civilization with a fullness of life such as
the world has never seen nor can as yet conceive. Then will
the Everlasting Covenant be fulfilled in its completeness.
Then will the promise enshrined in all the Books of God be
redeemed, and all the prophecies uttered by the Prophets of
old come to pass, and the vision of seers and poets be
realized. Then will the planet, galvanized through the
universal belief of its dwellers in one God, and their
allegiance to one common Revelation, mirror, within the
limitations imposed upon it, the effulgent glories of the
sovereignty of Bahá’u’lláh. shining in the plenitude of its
splendor in the Abhá Paradise, and be made the footstool of
His Throne on high, and acclaimed as the earthly heaven,
capable of fulfilling that ineffable destiny fixed for it, from
time immemorial, by the love and wisdom of its Creator.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Not ours, puny mortals that we are, to attempt, at so
critical a stage in the long and checkered history of mankind,
to arrive at a precise and satisfactory understanding of the
steps which must successively lead a bleeding humanity,
wretchedly oblivious of its God, and careless of Bahá’u’lláh.
from its calvary to its ultimate resurrection. Not ours, the
living witnesses of the all-subduing potency of His Faith, to
question, for a moment, and however dark the misery that
enshrouds the world, the ability of Bahá’u’lláh to forge, with
the hammer of His Will, and through the fire of tribulation,
upon the anvil of this travailing age, and in the particular
shape His mind has envisioned, these scattered and mutually
destructive fragments into which a perverse world has fallen,
into one single unit, solid and indivisible, able to execute His
design for the children of men.
Ours rather the duty, however confused the scene,
however dismal the present outlook, however circumscribed
the resources we dispose of, to labor serenely, confidently,
and unremittingly to lend our share of assistance, in
whichever way circumstances may enable us, to the operation
of the forces which, as marshaled and directed by
Bahá’u’lláh. are leading humanity out of the valley of misery
and shame to the loftiest summits of power and glory.
(Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, pp. 123-124)

9.
This present Crusade, on the threshold of which we
now stand, will, moreover, by virtue of the dynamic forces it
will release and its wide repercussions over the entire surface
of the globe, contribute effectually to the acceleration of yet
another process of tremendous significance which will carry
the steadily evolving Faith of Bahá’u’lláh through its present
stages of obscurity, of repression, of emancipation and of
recognition - stages one or another of which Bahá'í national
communities in various parts of the world now find
themselves in - to the stage of establishment, the stage at

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


which the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh will be recognized by the civil
authorities as the state religion, similar to that which
Christianity entered in the years following the death of the
Emperor Constantine, a stage which must later be followed
by the emergence of the Bahá’í  state itself, functioning, in all
religious and civil matters, in strict accordance with the laws
and ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy, the
Mother-Book of the Bahá’í Revelation, a stage which, in the
fullness of time, will culminate in the establishment of the
World Bahá’í Commonwealth, functioning in the plenitude of
its powers, and which will signalize the long-awaited advent
of the Christ-promised Kingdom of God on earth - the
Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh - mirroring however faintly upon this
humble handful of dust the glories of the Abha Kingdom.
This final and crowning stage in the evolution of the
plan wrought by God Himself for humanity will, in turn,
prove to be the signal for the birth of a world civilization,
incomparable in its range, its character and potency, in the
history of mankind - a civilization which posterity will, with
one voice, acclaim as the fairest fruit of the Golden Age of the
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh. and whose rich harvest will be
garnered during future dispensations destined to succeed one
another in the course of the five thousand century Bahá’í
Cycle. [May 4, 1953]
(Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Baha'i World - 1950-1957, p. 155)

10.  The Declaration of Trust, the provisions of which you
have so splendidly conceived, and formulated with such
assiduous care, marks yet another milestone on the road of
progress along which you are patiently and determinedly
advancing. Clear and concise in its wording, sound in
principle,
and
complete
in
its
affirmations
of
the
fundamentals of Bahá’í administration, it stands in its final
form as a worthy and faithful exposition of the constitutional
basis of Bahá’í communities in every land, foreshadowing the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


final emergence of the world Bahá’í Commonwealth of the
future.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 135)

11.
It should be noted, in this connection, that in the third
Vahíd of this Book there occurs a passage which, alike in its
explicit reference to the name of the Promised One, and in its
anticipation of the Order which, in a later age, was to be
identified with His Revelation, deserves to rank as one of the
most significant statements recorded in any of the Báb’s
writings.
“Well
is
it
with
him,”
is
His
prophetic
announcement, “who fixeth his gaze upon the Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. and rendereth thanks unto his Lord. For He will
assuredly be made manifest. God hath indeed irrevocably
ordained it in the Bayán.” It is with that self-same Order that
the Founder of the promised Revelation, twenty years later—
incorporating that same term in His Kitáb-i-Aqdas —
identified the System envisaged in that Book, affirming that
“this most great Order” had deranged the world’s
equilibrium, and revolutionized mankind’s ordered life. It is
the features of that self-same Order which, at a later stage in
the evolution of the Faith, the Center of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Covenant and the appointed Interpreter of His teachings,
delineated through the provisions of His Will and Testament.
It is the structural basis of that self-same Order which, in the
Formative Age of that same Faith, the stewards of that same
Covenant, the elected representatives of the world-wide
Bahá’í community, are now laboriously and unitedly
establishing. It is the superstructure of that self-same Order,
attaining its full stature through the emergence of the Bahá’í
World Commonwealth — the Kingdom of God on earth—
which the Golden Age of that same Dispensation must, in the
fullness of time, ultimately witness.
(Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, pp. 25-26)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


12.
… a civilization destined as it unfolds to derive its
initial impulse from the spirit animating the very institutions
which, in their embryonic state, are now stirring in the womb
of the present Formative Age of the Faith.
(Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World – 1950-1957, p. 75)

13.
A world executive, backed by an international force,
will carry out the decisions arrived at, and apply the laws
enacted by, this world legislature, and will safeguard the
organic unity of the whole commonwealth.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 27 April 1995)

14.
And as the Bahá’í Faith permeates the masses of the
peoples of East and West, and its truth is embraced by the
majority of the peoples of a number of the Sovereign States of
the world, will the Universal House of Justice attain the
plenitude of its power, and exercise, as the supreme organ of
the Bahá’í Commonwealth, all the rights, the duties, and
responsibilities incumbent upon the world’s future super
state.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 27 April 1995)

15.
This present Crusade, on the threshold of which we
now stand, will, moreover, by virtue of the dynamic forces it
will release and its wide repercussions over the entire surface
of the globe, contribute effectually to the acceleration of yet
another process of tremendous significance which will carry
the steadily evolving Faith of Bahá’u’lláh through its present
stages of obscurity, of repression, of emancipation and of
recognition stages one or another of which Bahá’í national
communities in various parts of the world now find
themselves [in] to the stage of establishment, the stage at
which the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh  will be recognized by the civil
authorities as the State Religion, similar to that which
Christianity entered in the years following the death of the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Emperor Constantine, a stage which must later be followed
by the emergence of the Baha'i state itself, functioning, in all
religious and civil matters, in strict accordance with the Laws
and Ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy, the
Mother Book of the Bahá’í Revelation, a stage which, in the
fullness of time, will culminate in the establishment of the
World Bahá’í  Commonwealth, functioning in the plenitude
of its powers, and which will signalize the long awaited
advent of the Christ promised Kingdom of God on earth the
Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh mirroring however faintly upon this
humble handful of dust the glories of the Abhá Kingdom.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 30 April 1953 to the All-America
Intercontinental Teaching Conference – Quoted by the Universal House of
Justice, letter dated 27 April 1995)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


5. World Citizenship

… the consciousness of world citizenship … must synchronize
with the initial stages in the unfoldment of
the Golden Age of the Bahá’í Era.

Shoghi Effendi

1.
Let your vision be world-embracing, rather than
confined to your own selves.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 250)

2.   The earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 250)

3.
… a world community in which the fury of a capricious
and militant nationalism will have been transmuted into an
abiding consciousness of world citizenship—such indeed,
appears, in its broadest outline, the Order anticipated by
Bahá’u’lláh. an Order that shall come to be regarded as the
fairest fruit of a slowly maturing age.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 40-41)

4.
The
emergence
of
a
world
community,
the
consciousness of world citizenship, the founding of a world
civilization and culture - all of which must synchronize with
the initial stages in the unfoldment of the Golden Age of the
Bahá'í Era - should, by their very nature, be regarded, as far
as this planetary life is concerned, as the furthermost limits
in the organization of human society, though man, as an
individual, will, nay must indeed as a result of such a

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


consummation, continue indefinitely to progress and
develop.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 163)
(Note: Bahá'í Era denotes the nineteen-month Badi' calendar, which is
reckoned from 21 March 1844, the year of the Báb's declaration of His
mission. Cited in <https://bahai-brary.com/winters_bahai_glossary>)

5.   The emergence of a world community, the consciousness
of world citizenship, the founding of a world civilization and
culture — all of which must synchronize with the initial
stages in the unfoldment of the Golden Age of the Bahá’í Era
— should, by their very nature, be regarded, as far as this
planetary life is concerned, as the furthermost limits in the
organization of human society, though man, as an individual,
will, nay must indeed as a result of such a consummation,
continue indefinitely to progress and develop.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 202)

6.  The love of one’s country, instilled and stressed by the
teaching of Islam, as ‘an element of the Faith of God,’ has
not, through this declaration, this clarion-call of Bahá’u’lláh.
been either condemned or disparaged.  It should not, indeed
it cannot, be construed as a repudiation, or regarded in the
light of a censure, pronounced against a sane and intelligent
patriotism, nor does it seek to undermine the allegiance and
loyalty of any individual to his country, nor does it conflict
with the legitimate aspirations, rights, and duties of any
individual state or nation.  All it does imply and proclaim is
the insufficiency of patriotism, in view of the fundamental
changes effected in the economic life of society and the
interdependence of the nations, and as the consequence of
the contraction of the world, through the revolution in the
means of transportation and communication — conditions
that did not and could not exist either in the days of Jesus
Christ or of Muhammad.  It calls for a wider loyalty, which
should not, and indeed does not, conflict with lesser loyalty.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


It instills a love which, in view of its scope, must include and
not exclude the love of one’s own country.  It lays, through
this loyalty which it inspires, and this love which it infuses,
the only foundation on which the concept of world
citizenship can thrive, and the structure of world unification
can rest. It does insist, however, on the subordination of
national considerations and particularistic interests to the
imperative and paramount claims of humanity as a whole,
inasmuch as in a world of interdependent nations and
peoples the advantage of the part is best to be reached by the
advantage of the whole.
(Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, p. 122)

7.
In keeping with the requirements of the times,
consideration should also be given to teaching the concept of
world citizenship as part of the standard education of every
child.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 12)

8.
The concept of world citizenship is a direct result of the
contraction of the world into a single neighbourhood through
scientific advances and of the indisputable interdependence
of nations. Current international activities in various fields
which nurture mutual affection and a sense of solidarity
among peoples need greatly to be increased.


(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 11)

9.
Peace will emerge in stages, through which the unifying
effects of a growing consciousness of world citizenship will
become manifest.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván message 1996 to the Bahá’ís of the
World)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


6. Sound Governance

The governments … establishing just legislation and
economics in order that all humanity may enjoy a full
measure of welfare and privilege.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
…a republican form of government profiteth all the
peoples of the world …
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 28)

2.
Blessed is the ruler who succoureth the captive, and the
rich one who careth for the poor, and the just one who
secureth from the wrong doer the rights of the downtrodden,
and happy the trustee who observeth that which the
Ordainer, the Ancient of Days hath prescribed unto him.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 70)

3.
Hoping that his reign will rival the glorious past, he has
sought to establish equity and righteousness and to foster
education and the processes of civilization throughout this
noble land, and to translate from potentiality into actuality
whatever will insure its progress. Not until now had we seen
a monarch, holding in his capable hands the reins of affairs,
and on whose high resolve the welfare of all his subjects
depends, exerting as it would befit him, like a benevolent
father, his efforts toward the training and cultivation of his
people, seeking to insure their well-being and peace of mind,
and exhibiting due concern for their interests; this Servant
and those like Him have therefore remained silent. Now,
however, it is clear to the discerning that the Shah has of his

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


own accord determined to establish a just government and to
secure the progress of all his subjects.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilisation, p. 11)

4.
Would the setting up of just legislation, in accord with
the Divine laws which guarantee the happiness of society and
protect the rights of all mankind and are an impregnable
proof against assault - would such laws, insuring the integrity
of the members of society and their equality before the law,
inhibit their prosperity and success?
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 14)

5.
…no government would need continually to pile up the
weapons of war, nor feel itself obliged to produce ever new
military weapons with which to conquer the human race. A
small force for the purposes of internal security, the
correction of criminal and disorderly elements and the
prevention of local disturbances, would be required - no
more. In this way the entire population would, first of all, be
relieved of the crushing burden of expenditure currently
imposed for military purposes, and secondly, great numbers
of people would cease to devote their time to the continual
devising of new weapons of destruction - those testimonials
of greed and bloodthirstiness, so inconsistent with the gift of
life - and would instead bend their efforts to the production
of whatever will foster human existence and peace and well-
being, and would become the cause of universal development
and prosperity. Then every nation on earth will reign in
honor, and every people will be cradled in tranquillity and
content.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 65)

6.  There must be special laws made, dealing with these
extremes of riches and of want.  The members of the
Government should consider the laws of God when they are

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


framing plans for the ruling of the people.  The general rights
of mankind must be guarded and preserved.

The government of the countries should conform to the
Divine Law which gives equal justice to all.  This is the only
way in which the deplorable superfluity of great wealth and
miserable, demoralizing, degrading poverty can be abolished.
Not until this is done will the Law of God be obeyed.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 159)

7.
Today the human world is in need of a great power by
which these glorious principles and purposes may be
executed. The cause of peace is a very great cause; it is the
Cause of God, and all the forces of the world are opposed to
it. Governments, for instance, consider militarism as the step
to human progress, that division among men and nations is
the cause of patriotism and honor, that if one nation attack
and conquer another, gaining wealth, territory and glory
thereby, this warfare and conquest, this bloodshed and
cruelty are the cause of that victorious nation's advancement
and prosperity. This is an utter mistake.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 156)

8.
The Bahá’í Cause covers all economic and social
questions under the heading and ruling of its laws ...The
governments will enact these laws, establishing just
legislation and economics in order that all humanity may
enjoy a full measure of welfare and privilege; but this will
always be according to legal protection and procedure.
Without legislative administration, rights and demands fail,
and the welfare of the commonwealth cannot be realized.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238)

9.
… all the members of the human family, whether
peoples or governments, cities or villages, have become
increasingly interdependent.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 31-32.)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



10.
Two calls to success and prosperity are being raised
from the heights of the happiness of mankind, awakening the
slumbering, granting sight to the blind, causing the heedless
to become mindful, bestowing hearing upon the deaf,
unloosing the tongue of the mute and resuscitating the dead.

The one is the call of civilization, of the progress of the
material world. This pertaineth to the world of phenomena,
promoteth the principles of material achievement, and is the
trainer for the physical accomplishments of mankind. It
compriseth the laws, regulations, arts and sciences through
which the world of humanity hath developed; laws and
regulations which are the outcome of lofty ideals and the
result of sound minds, and which have stepped forth into the
arena of existence through the efforts of the wise and
cultured in past and subsequent ages. The promulgator and
executive power of this call is just government.

The other is the soul-stirring call of God, Whose
spiritual teachings are safeguards of the everlasting glory, the
eternal happiness and illumination of the world of humanity,
and cause attributes of mercy to be revealed in the human
world and the life beyond.

This second call is founded upon the instructions and
exhortations of the Lord and the admonitions and altruistic
emotions belonging to the realm of morality which, like unto
a brilliant light, brighten and illumine the lamp of the
realities of mankind. Its penetrative power is the Word of
God.    (‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 283)

11.
Laws and regulations should be enacted which would
grant that the workers both a daily wage and share in a forth
or fifth of the profits of the factory in accordance with its
means, or which would have the workers equitably share in
some other way in the profits with the owners.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 317)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



12.
Ye who are the sincere well-wishers of the state, who
are the dutiful and compliant subjects of the government,
should occupy yourselves in constant service. Anyone who
entereth the employ of the government should show forth in
all his deeds and actions the highest degree of rectitude and
honesty, of temperance and self-discipline, of purity and
sanctity, of justice and equity. If, God forbid, he should be
guilty of the least breach of trust, or approach his duties in a
slack or desultory fashion, or extort so much as a farthing
from the populace, or seek to further his own selfish interests
and personal gain--then it is certain that he shall be deprived
of the outpourings of God's grace.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation on Trustworthiness, number 53, p. 15)

13.
Those persons who are selected to serve the public, or
are appointed to administrative positions, should perform
their duties in a spirit of true servitude and ready
compliance. That is to say, they should be distinguished by
their goodly disposition and virtuous character, content
themselves with their allotted remuneration, and act with
trustworthiness in all their doings. They should keep
themselves aloof from unworthy motives, and be far removed
above
covetous
designs;
for
rectitude,
probity
and
righteousness are among the most potent means for
attracting the grace of God and securing both the prosperity
of the country and the welfare of the people. Glory and
honour for man are not to be found in fortunes and riches,
least of all in those which have been unlawfully amassed
through extortion, embezzlement and corruption practised at
the expense of an exploited populace. Supreme honour,
nobility and greatness in the human world, and true felicity
in this life and the life to come--all consist in equity and
uprightness, sanctity and detachment. If a man would seek
distinction, he should suffice himself with a frugal provision,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


seek to better the lot of the poor of the realm, choose the way
of justice and fair-mindedness, and tread the path of high-
spirited service. Such a one, needy though he be, shall win
imperishable riches and attain unto everlasting honour.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation on Trustworthiness, number 56, pp. 15-16)

14.
Those souls who are employed in government
departments should approach their duties with entire
detachment, integrity and independence of spirit, and with
complete consecration and sanctity of purpose. Content with
the wages they are receiving, they should see that they do not
stain their fair character through acts of bribery and fraud.
Were one of the friends in this day to misappropriate so
much as a single penny, the sacred mantle of God's Cause
would become sullied by his action and the shame of it would
attach to the whole community. Heaven forbid! Nay, rather,
the government and people should come to repose such trust
in the Bahá'ís as to wish to commit all affairs of state
throughout the provinces into the chaste, pure hands of
God's well-beloved.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation on Trustworthiness, number 59, p. 17)

15.
All government employees, whether of high or low
rank, should, with perfect integrity, probity and rectitude,
content themselves with the modest stipends and allowances
that are theirs. They should keep their hands unsullied and
preserve their fair name from blemish.... If a man deal
faithlessly with a just government he shall have dealt
faithlessly with God; and if he render it faithful service he
shall have rendered that service to God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation on Trustworthiness, number 60, p. 17)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


7. Application of Bahá'í teachings on economics

The contribution of the Faith to this subject is essentially
indirect, as it consists of the application of spiritual
principles to our present-day economic system.
(Shoghi Effendi)

1.
O Son of Being! Bring thyself to account each day ere
thou art summoned to a reckoning; for death, unheralded,
shall come upon thee and thou shalt be called to give account
for thy deeds.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 31)

2.
At the outset of every endeavour, it is incumbent to
look to the end of it. Of all the arts and sciences, set the
children to studying those which will result in advantage to
man, will ensure his progress and elevate his rank. Thus, the
noisome odours of lawlessness will be dispelled, and thus
through the high endeavours of the nation's leaders, all will
live cradled, secure and in peace.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 168-169)

3.
O peoples of the world! Forsake all evil, hold fast that
which is good. Strive to be shining examples unto all
mankind, and true reminders of the virtues of God amidst
men. He that riseth to serve My Cause should manifest My
wisdom, and bend every effort to banish ignorance from the
earth. Be united in counsel, be one in thought. Let each morn
be better than its eve and each morrow richer than its
yesterday. Man's merit lieth in service and virtue and not in
the pageantry of wealth and riches. Take heed that your

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


words be purged from idle fancies and worldly desires and
your deeds be cleansed from craftiness and suspicion.
Dissipate not the wealth of your precious lives in the pursuit
of evil and corrupt affection, nor let your endeavours be
spent in promoting your personal interest. Be generous in
your days of plenty, and be patient in the hour of loss.
Adversity is followed by success and rejoicings follow woe.
Guard against idleness and sloth, and cling unto that which
profiteth mankind, whether young or old, whether high or
low. Beware lest ye sow tares of dissension among men or
plant thorns of doubt in pure and radiant hearts.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 137-138)

4.
It is incumbent upon every man of insight and
understanding to strive to translate that which hath been
written into reality and action....
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 166)

5.
Love manifests its reality in deeds, not only in words--
these alone are without effect. In order that love may
manifest its power there must be an object, an instrument, a
motive.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 35)

6.
For everything, however, God has created a sign and
symbol, and established standards and tests by which it may
be known. The spiritually learned must be characterized by
both inward and outward perfections; they must possess a
good character, an enlightened nature, a pure intent, as well
as intellectual power, brilliance and discernment, intuition,
discretion and foresight, temperance, reverence, and a
heartfelt fear of God. For an unlit candle, however great in
diameter and tall, is no better than a barren palm tree or a
pile of dead wood.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 33-34)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



7.
Regarding your questions concerning the Bahá’í
attitude on various economic problems, such as the problem
of ownership, control and distribution of capital, and of other
means of production, the problems of trusts and monopolies,
and such economic experiments as social cooperatives; the
Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá do not provide
specific and detailed solutions to all such economic questions
which mostly pertain to the domain of technical economics,
and as such do not concern directly the Cause.  True, there
are certain guiding principles in Bahá’í Sacred Writings on
the subject of economics, but these do by no means cover the
whole field of theoretical and applied economics, and are
mostly intended to guide future Bahá’í economic writers and
technicians to evolve an economic system which would
function in full conformity with the spirit, and the exact
provisions of the Cause on this and similar subjects.  The
International House of Justice will have, in consultation with
economic experts, to assist in the formulation and evolution
of the Bahá’í economic system of the future.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 10 June 1930)

8.
…the time has not yet come for any believer to bring
about such a fundamental change in the economic structure
of our society, however restricted may be the field for such an
experiment. The economic teachings of the Cause, though
well known in their main outline, have not as yet been
sufficiently elaborated and systematized to allow anyone to
make an exact and thorough application of them even on a
restricted scale.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 22 May 1935)

9.  As to your fourth question, Shoghi Effendi believes
that it is preferable not to confuse the methods explained
by the Master with present systems. They may have many

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


resemblances but also many points of difference.
Moreover, these general statements we have in the
teachings have to be explained and applied by the House
of Justice before we can really appreciate their
significance.
(Shoghi Effendi. From a letter written on his behalf to an individual
believer dated 21 October 1932 )

10. The primary consideration is the spirit that has to
permeate our economic life and this will gradually crystallize
itself into definite institutions and principles that will help to
bring about the ideal condition foretold by Bahá’u’lláh.
(Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian, p. 19)




11.
There are practically no technical teachings on
economics in the Cause, such as banking, the price system,
and others.  The Cause is not an economic system, nor its
Founders be considered as having been technical economists.
...The contribution of the Faith to this subject is essentially
indirect, as it consists of the application of spiritual
principles to our present-day economic system.  Bahá’u’lláh
has given us a few basic principles which should guide future
Bahá’í economists in establishing such institutions which will
adjust the economic relationships of the world...

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 25 January 1936)






12.
Bahá’u’lláh did not bring a complete system of
economics to the world.
(Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian, p. 19)


13.
As regards the activities of the economic committee of
the National Spiritual Assembly; Shoghi Effendi fully
sympathizes with the desire of some of the members to see
the committee find ways and means to put into practice the
economic teachings of the Cause, as explained in some of the
recorded writings and sayings of Bahá'u'lláh and the Master.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


But he believes that the time is not yet ripe for such activities.
First, we have to study the economic teachings in the light of
modern problems more thoroughly so that we may advocate
what the Founders of the Faith say and not what we
conjecture from their writings. There is a great difference
between sounding a great general principle and finding its
application to actual prevailing conditions.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 11 January 1933)

14.
…History, Economics or Sociology…cover subjects
which our teachings cast an entirely new light upon.
(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in Scholarship, p. 12)

15.
The solution, then, to prevailing economic difficulties is
to be sought as much in the application of spiritual principles
as in the implementation of scientific methods and
approaches.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 April 2010 to the Bahá’ís of
Iran)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


8. Humans are spiritual in nature

…Illumined by the spirit through the instrumentality of the
soul, man’s radiant intelligence makes him
the crowning-point of Creation.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
He it is who perceived a unique, a tempered, and a
pervasive nature in things, bearing the closest likeness to the
human spirit, and he discovered this nature to be distinct
from the substance of things in their refined form.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 146)

2.
This
"mysterious
and
ethereal
Being",
the
Manifestation of God, has a human nature which pertains to
"the world of matter" and a spiritual nature "born of the
substance of God Himself". He is also endowed with a
"double station": The first station, which is related to His
innermost reality, representeth Him as One Whose voice is
the voice of God Himself... The second station is the human
station, exemplified by the following verses: "I am but a man
like you." "Say, praise be to my Lord! Am I more than a man,
an apostle?"
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 66.)

3.
Unto this subtle, this mysterious and ethereal Being He
hath assigned a twofold nature; the physical, pertaining to
the world of matter, and the spiritual, which is born of the
substance of God Himself.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 66)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4.  O Son of Spirit! I created thee rich, why dost thou bring
thyself down to poverty?  Noble I made thee, wherewith dost
thou abase thyself?  Out of the essence of knowledge I gave
thee being, why seekest thou enlightenment from anyone
beside Me?  Out of the clay of love I moulded thee, how dost
thou busy thyself with another?  Turn thy sight unto thyself,
that thou mayest find Me standing within thee, mighty,
powerful and self-subsisting.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 13)

5.
By nature, is meant those inherent properties and
necessary relations derived from the realities of things. And
these realities of things, though in the utmost diversity, are
yet intimately connected one with the other. For these
diverse realities, an all-unifying agency is needed that shall
link them all one to the other. For instance, the various
organs and members, the parts and elements, that constitute
the body of man, though at variance, are yet all connected
one with the other by that all-unifying agency known as the
human soul, that causeth them to function in perfect
harmony and with absolute regularity, thus making the
continuation of life possible. The human body, however, is
utterly unconscious of that all-unifying agency, and yet acteth
with regularity and dischargeth its functions according to its
will
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to August Forel, p. 13)

6.
When man allows the spirit, through his soul, to
enlighten his understanding, then does he contain all
Creation; because man, being the culmination of all that went
before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains
all the lower world within himself. Illumined by the spirit
through the instrumentality of the soul, man’s radiant
intelligence makes him the crowning-point of Creation.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 97)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


7.
Know that there are two natures in man: the material
and the spiritual. The material nature is inherited from
Adam, while the spiritual nature is inherited from the Reality
of the Word of God, which is the spirituality of Christ. The
material nature is born of Adam, but the spiritual nature is
born of the grace of the Holy Spirit. The material nature is
the source of every imperfection, and the spiritual nature is
the source of all perfection.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 132)

8.
Man is intelligent, instinctively and consciously
intelligent; nature is not. Man is fortified with memory;
nature does not possess it. Man is the discoverer of the
mysteries of nature; nature is not conscious of those
mysteries herself. It is evident, therefore, that man is dual in
aspect: as an animal he is subject to nature, but in his
spiritual or conscious being he transcends the world of
material existence.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 81)

9.
Just as the animal is more noble than the vegetable and
mineral, so man is superior to the animal. The animal is
bereft of ideality -- that is to say, it is a captive of the world of
nature and not in touch with that which lies within and
beyond nature; it is without spiritual susceptibilities,
deprived of the attractions of consciousness, unconscious of
the world of God and incapable of deviating from the law of
nature.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 240)

10.  In man, there are two expressions: One is the expression
of nature; the other, the expression of the spiritual realm.
The world of nature is defective. Look at it clearly, casting
aside all superstition and imagination. If you should leave a
man uneducated and barbarous in the wilds of Africa, would
there be any doubt about his remaining ignorant? God has

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


never created an evil spirit; all such ideas and nomenclature
are symbols expressing the mere human or earthly nature of
man. It is an essential condition of the soil of earth that
thorns, weeds and fruitless trees may grow from it. Relatively
speaking, this is evil; it is simply the lower state and baser
product of nature.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 294)

11.  For everything, however, God has created a sign and
symbol, and established standards and tests by which it may
be known. The spiritually learned must be characterized by
both inward and outward perfections; they must possess a
good character, an enlightened nature, a pure intent, as well
as intellectual power, brilliance and discernment, intuition,
discretion and foresight, temperance, reverence, and a
heartfelt fear of God. For an unlit candle, however great in
diameter and tall, is no better than a barren palm tree or a
pile of dead wood.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 33)

12. Know, O thou possessors of insight, that true spirituality
is like unto a lake of clear water which reflects the divine.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 107)

13. I will specially request them to proclaim in their written
representations to the authorities concerned their absolute
repudiation of whatever ulterior motive or political design
may be imputed to them by their malignant adversaries, and
to reaffirm in unmistakable terms the purely humanitarian
and spiritual nature of the work in which Bahá'ís in every
land and of every race are unitedly engaged.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 163)

14. No wonder, therefore, that when, as a result of human
perversity, the light of religion is quenched in men's hearts,
and the divinely appointed Robe, designed to adorn the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


human temple, is deliberately discarded, a deplorable decline
in the fortunes of humanity immediately sets in, bringing in
its wake all the evils which a wayward soul is capable of
revealing. The perversion of human nature, the degradation
of human conduct, the corruption and dissolution of human
institutions, reveal themselves, under such circumstances, in
their worst and most revolting aspects. Human character is
debased, confidence is shaken, the nerves of discipline are
relaxed, the voice of human conscience is stilled, the sense of
decency and shame is obscured, conceptions of duty, of
solidarity, of reciprocity and loyalty are distorted, and the
very feeling of peacefulness, of joy and of hope is gradually
extinguished.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 186)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


9. Bahá’í approach to economic questions is divine
in nature

When the love of God is established, everything else will be
realized. This is the true foundation of all economics.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
The fundamentals of the whole economic condition are
divine in nature and are associated with the world of the
heart and spirit.  This is fully explained in the Bahá’í
teachings, and without knowledge of its principles no
improvement in the economic state can be realized ... When
the love of God is established, everything else will be realized.
This is the true foundation of all economics.  Reflect upon it.
Endeavor to become the cause of the attraction of souls
rather than to enforce minds. Manifest true economics to the
people. Show what love is, what kindness is, what true
severance is and generosity ... Economic questions will not
attract hearts. The love of God alone will attract them.
Economic questions are most interesting; but the power
which moves, controls and attracts the hearts of men is the
love of God.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 238-239)

2.
Every business company should be established on
divine principles.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in Compilation on Trustworthiness No. 51)

3.     ‘All economic problems may be solved by the application
of the Science of the Love of God’. That is to say: If the Rule

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


called golden and treated as if it were leaden    (Worse: For
lead has its uses but so far as one may determine, the Golden
Rule has been laid on a shelf whose dust is seldom
disturbed)—if that Rule were actually applied to the world’s
economic problems, which if not solved bid fair to destroy us,
and the love of God, the sort of love which makes a home life
happy, were used as a scientific measurement to regulate our
international and national affairs; to settle all relations
between labor and capital, between rich and poor, to regulate
all coinage and commerce, can there be any doubt that the
results would be far more conducive to human welfare than
our present policies have produced?

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in Portals of Freedom, p. 156)

4.
He (Bahá’u’lláh) as well as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá after Him, has,
unlike the Dispensations of the past, clearly and specifically
laid down a set of Laws, established definite institutions, and
provided for the essentials of a Divine Economy.

(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 19)






5.
Only those who have already recognized the supreme
station of Bahá’u’lláh. only those whose hearts have been
touched by His love, and have become familiar with the
potency of His spirit, can adequately appreciate the value of
this Divine Economy — His inestimable gift to mankind.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 23-24)


6.
Who, contemplating the helplessness, the fears and
miseries of humanity in this day, can any longer question the
necessity for a fresh revelation of the quickening power of
God’s redemptive love and guidance?  Who, witnessing on
one hand the stupendous advance achieved in the realm of
human knowledge, of power, of skill and inventiveness, and
viewing on the other the unprecedented character of the
sufferings that afflict, and the dangers that beset, present-day
society, can be so blind as to doubt that the hour has at last

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


struck for the advent of a new Revelation, for a restatement
of the Divine Purpose, and for the consequent revival of those
spiritual forces that have, at fixed intervals, rehabilitated the
fortunes of human society?  Does not the very operation of
the world-unifying forces that are at work in this age
necessitate that He Who is the Bearer of the Message of God
in this day should not only reaffirm that self-same exalted
standard of individual conduct inculcated by the Prophets
gone before Him, but embody in His appeal, to all
governments and peoples, the essentials of that social code,
that Divine Economy, which must guide humanity’s
concerted
efforts
in
establishing
that
all-embracing
federation which is to signalize the advent of the Kingdom of
God on this earth?


(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 60-61)







7.  By the statement ‘the economic solution is divine in
nature’ is meant that religion alone can, in the last resort,
bring in man’s nature such a fundamental change as to
enable him to adjust the economic relationships of society.  It
is only in this way that man can control the economic forces
that threaten to disrupt the foundations of his existence, and
thus assert his mastery over the forces of nature.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 26 December 1935)

8.
… it appears that the Guardian uses the term divine
economy not as a reference to a specific system of economics,
but to something broader and more general.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 4 June 2013)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


10.
True happiness and prosperity

Until all nations and peoples become united … true
progress, prosperity and lasting happiness will not be
attained by man.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
GOD, the True One, testifieth and the Revealers of His
names and attributes bear witness that Our sole purpose in
raising the Call and in proclaiming His sublime Word is that
the ear of the entire creation may, through the living waters
of divine utterance, be purged from lying tales and become
attuned to the holy, the glorious and exalted Word which
hath issued forth from the repository of the knowledge of the
Maker of the Heavens and the Creator of Names. Happy are
they that judge with fairness.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 21)

2.
Every man of discernment, while walking upon the
earth, feeleth indeed abashed, inasmuch as he is fully aware
that the thing which is the source of his prosperity, his
wealth, his might, his exaltation, his advancement and power
is, as ordained by God, the very earth which is trodden
beneath the feet of all men.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 44)

3.
The American continent gives signs and evidences of
very great advancement; its future is even more promising,
for its influence and illumination are far-reaching, and it will
lead all nations spiritually. The flag of freedom and banner of
liberty have been unfurled here, but the prosperity and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


advancement of a city, the happiness and greatness of a
country depend upon its hearing and obeying the call of God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 104)

4.
Until all nations and peoples become united by the
bonds of the Holy Spirit in this real fraternity, until national
and international prejudices are effaced in the reality of this
spiritual brotherhood, true progress, prosperity and lasting
happiness will not be attained by man.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 142)

5.
America has arisen to spread the teachings of peace, to
increase the illumination of humankind and bestow
happiness and prosperity upon the children of men. These
are the principles and evidences of divine civilization.
America is a noble nation, the standard-bearer of peace
throughout the world, shedding light to all regions. Foreign
nations are not untrammelled and free from intrigues and
complications like the United States; therefore, they are not
able to bring about universal harmony. But America - praise
be to God! - is at peace with all the world and is worthy of
raising the flag of brotherhood and international agreement.
When this is done, the rest of the world will accept. All
nations will join in adopting the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh
revealed more than fifty years ago. In His Epistles He asked
the parliaments of the world to send their wisest and best
men to an international world conference which should
decide all questions between the peoples and establish
universal peace. This would be the highest court of appeal,
and the parliament of man so long dreamed of by poets and
idealists would be realized. Its accomplishment would be
more far-reaching than The Hague tribunal.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 388)

6.
Bahá'u'lláh declares that all forms of prejudice among
mankind must be abandoned and that until existing

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


prejudices are entirely removed, the world of humanity will
not and cannot attain peace, prosperity and composure.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 434)









7.
The happiness and greatness, the rank and station, the
pleasure and peace, of an individual have never consisted in
his personal wealth, but rather in his excellent character, his
high resolve, the breadth of his learning, and his ability to
solve difficult problems.
We must now highly resolve to arise and lay hold of all
those instrumentalities that promote the peace and well-
being and happiness, the knowledge, culture and industry,
the dignity, value and station, of the entire human race.
Thus, through the restoring waters of pure intention and
unselfish effort, the earth of human potentialities will
blossom with its own latent excellence and flower into
praiseworthy qualities, and bear and flourish until it comes
to rival that rose garden of knowledge which belonged to our
forefathers.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 4)

8.
All the peoples of Europe, notwithstanding their
vaunted civilization, sink and drown in this terrifying sea of
passion and desire, and this is why all the phenomena of
their culture come to nothing.  Let no one wonder at this
statement or deplore it. The primary purpose, the basic
objective, in laying down powerful laws and setting up great
principles and institutions dealing with every aspect of
civilization, is human happiness; and human happiness
consists only in drawing closer to Threshold of Almighty God,
and in securing the peace and well-being of every individual
member, high and low alike, of the human race; and the
supreme agencies for accomplishing these two objectives are
the excellent qualities with which humanity has been
endowed.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



A superficial culture, unsupported by a cultivated
morality, is as “a confused medley of dreams,” and external
lustre without inner perfection is “like a vapor in the desert
which the thirsty dreameth to be water.”  For results which
would win the good pleasure of God and secure the peace and
well-being of man, could never be fully achieved in a merely
external civilization.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 60-61)

9.
...man’s supreme honor and real happiness lie in self-
respect, in high resolves and noble purposes, in integrity and
moral quality, in immaculacy of mind.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 19)

10.
The primary, the most urgent requirement is the
promotion of education. It is inconceivable that any nation
should achieve prosperity and success unless this paramount,
this fundamental concern is carried forward. The principal
reason for the decline and fall of peoples is ignorance. Today
the mass of the people are uninformed even as to ordinary
affairs, how much less do they grasp the core of the
important problems and complex needs of the time.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 109)

11.
O Thou, my Lord! Kindle the light of Thy love in every
heart, breathe into men's souls the spirit of Thy knowledge,
gladden their breasts with the verses of Thy oneness. Call
Thou to life those who dwell in their tombs, warn Thou the
prideful, make happiness world-wide, send down Thy crystal
waters, and in the assemblage of manifest splendours, pass
round that cup which is 'tempered at the camphor fountain.
[Qur’an 76:5]
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 254)

12.
Two calls to success and prosperity are being raised
from the heights of the happiness of mankind, awakening the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


slumbering, granting sight to the blind, causing the heedless
to become mindful, bestowing hearing upon the deaf,
unloosing the tongue of the mute and resuscitating the dead.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 282)

13.
In this world we are influenced by two sentiments, Joy
and Pain.

Joy gives wings! In times of joy our strength is more
vital, our intellect keener, and our understanding less
clouded. We seem better able to cope with the world and to
find our sphere of usefulness. But when sadness visits us we
become weak, our strength leaves us, our comprehension is
dim and our intelligence veiled. The actualities of life seem to
elude our grasp, the eyes of our spirits fail to discover the
sacred mysteries, and we become even as dead beings.

There is no human being untouched by these two
influences; but all the sorrow and the grief that exist come
from the world of matter — the spiritual world bestows only
the joy!

If we suffer it is the outcome of material things, and all
the trials and troubles come from this world of illusion.

For instance, a merchant may lose his trade and
depression ensures. A workman is dismissed and starvation
stares him in the face. A farmer has a bad harvest, anxiety
fills his mind. A man builds a house which is burnt to the
ground and he is straightway homeless, ruined, and in
despair.

All these examples are to show you that the trials which
beset our every step, all our sorrow, pain, shame and grief,
are born in the world of matter; whereas the spiritual
Kingdom never causes sadness. A man living with his
thoughts in this Kingdom knows perpetual joy. The ills all
flesh is heir to do not pass him by, but they only touch the
surface of his life, the depths are calm and serene.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



Today, humanity is bowed down with trouble, sorrow
and grief, no one escapes; the world is wet with tears; but,
thank God, the remedy is at our doors. Let us turn our hearts
away from the world of matter and live in the spiritual world!
It alone can give us freedom! If we are hemmed in by
difficulties we have only to call upon God, and by His Great
Mercy we shall be helped.

If sorrow and adversity visit us, let us turn our faces to
the Kingdom and heavenly consolation will be outpoured.

If we are sick and in distress let us implore God’s
healing, and He will answer our prayer.

When our thoughts are filled with bitterness of this
world, let us turn our eyes to the sweetness of God’s
compassion and He will send us heavenly calm! If we are
imprisoned in the material world, our spirit can soar into the
Heavens and we shall be free indeed!

When our days are drawing to a close let us think of the
eternal worlds, and we shall be full of joy!

You see all round you proofs of the inadequacy of
material things — how joy, comfort, peace and consolation
are not to be found in the transitory things of the world. Is it
not then foolishness to refuse to seek these treasures where
they may be found? The doors of the spiritual Kingdom are
open to all, and without is absolute darkness.

Thank God that you in this assembly have this
knowledge, for in all the sorrows of life you can obtain
supreme consolation. If your days on earth are numbered,
you know that everlasting life awaits you. If material anxiety
envelops you in a dark cloud, spiritual radiance lightens your
path. Verily, those whose minds are illumined by the Spirit of
the Most High have supreme consolation.

I myself was in prison forty years — one year alone
would have been impossible to bear — nobody survived that
imprisonment more than a year! But, thank God, during all
those forty years I was supremely happy! Every day, on

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


waking, it was like hearing good tidings, and every night
infinite joy was mine. Spirituality was my comfort, and
turning to God was my greatest joy. If this had not been so,
do you think it possible that I could have lived through those
forty years in prison?

Thus, spirituality is the greatest of God’s gifts, and ‘Life
Everlasting’ means ‘Turning to God.’ May you, one and all,
increase daily in spirituality, may you be strengthened in all
goodness, may you be helped more and more by the Divine
consolation, be made free by the Holy Spirit of God, and may
the power of the heavenly Kingdom live and work among
you.

This is my earnest desire, and I pray to God to grant
you this favour.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp. 110-113)

14.
Until all nations and peoples become united by the
bonds of the Holy Spirit in this real fraternity, until national
and international prejudices are effaced in the reality of this
spiritual brotherhood, true progress, prosperity and lasting
happiness will not be attained by man.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith – ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Section, p. 227)

15.
…readjustment of the social economic is of the greatest
importance inasmuch as it insures the stability of the world
of humanity; and until it is effected, happiness and
prosperity are impossible.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 240)

16.
Not until the world of women becomes equal to the
world of men in the acquisition of virtues and perfections,
can success and prosperity be attained as they ought to be.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 288)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


17.
In the contingent world there are many collective
centers which are conducive to association and unity between
the children of men. For example, patriotism is a collective
center; nationalism is a collective center; identity of interests
is a collective center; political alliance is a collective center;
the union of ideals is a collective center, and the prosperity of
the world of humanity is dependent upon the organization
and promotion of the collective centers.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 419)

18.
In the contingent world there are many collective
centers which are conducive to association and unity between
the children of men. For example, patriotism is a collective
center; nationalism is a collective center; identity of interests
is a collective center; political alliance is a collective center;
the union of ideals is a collective center, and the prosperity of
the world of humanity is dependent upon the organization
and promotion of the collective centers.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 419)

19.
Happiness consisteth of two kinds: physical and
spiritual.  The physical happiness is limited; its utmost
duration is one day, one month, one year.  It hath no result.
Spiritual happiness is eternal and unfathomable. This kind of
happiness appeareth in one’s soul with the love of God and
suffereth one to attain to the virtues and perfections of the
world of humanity.  Therefore, endeavor as much as thou art
able in order to illumine the lamp of thy heart by the light of
love.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 673-674)

20.
Know thou that there are two kinds of happiness,
spiritual and material.  As to material happiness, it never
exists; nay, it is but imagination, an image reflected in
mirrors, a specter and shadow. Consider the nature of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


material happiness. It is something which but slightly
removes one’s afflictions; yet the people imagine it to be joy,
delight, exultation and blessing. All the material blessings,
including food, drink, etc., tend only to allay thirst, hunger
and fatigue. They bestow no delight on the mind nor pleasure
on the soul; nay they furnish only the bodily wants. So, this
kind of happiness has no real existence.

As to spiritual happiness, this is the true basis of the
life of man, for life is created for happiness, not for sorrow;
for pleasure, not for grief. Happiness is life; sorrow is death.
Spiritual happiness is life eternal. This is a light which is not
followed by darkness.  This is an honor which is not followed
by shame. This is a life that is not followed by death. This is
an existence that is not followed by annihilation. This great
blessing and precious gift is obtained by man only through
the guidance of God...

This happiness is the fundamental basis from which
man is created, worlds are originated, the contingent beings
have existence and the world of God appears like unto the
appearance of the sun at mid-day.

This happiness is but the love of God.

Were it not for this happiness the world of existence
would not have been created.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Divine Art of Living, pp. 17-18)




21.
The honor and exaltation of every existing being
depends upon causes and circumstances. The excellency, the
adornment and the perfection of the earth is to be verdant
and fertile through the bounty of the clouds of springtime.
Plants grow; flowers and fragrant herbs spring up; fruit-
bearing trees become full of blossoms and bring forth fresh
and new fruit. Gardens become beautiful, and meadows
adorned; mountains and plains are clad in a green robe, and
gardens, fields, villages and cities are decorated. This is the
prosperity of the mineral world.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


The height of exaltation and the perfection of the
vegetable world is that a tree should grow on the bank of a
stream of fresh water, that a gentle breeze should blow on it,
that the warmth of the sun should shine on it, that a gardener
should attend to its cultivation, and that day by day it should
develop and yield fruit. But its real prosperity is to progress
into the animal and human world, and replace that which has
been exhausted in the bodies of animals and men.
The exaltation of the animal world is to possess perfect
members, organs and powers, and to have all its needs
supplied. This is its chief glory, its honor and exaltation. So
the supreme happiness of an animal is to have possession of
a green and fertile meadow, perfectly pure flowing water, and
a lovely, verdant forest. If these things are provided for it, no
greater prosperity can be imagined. For example, if a bird
builds its nest in a green and fruitful forest, in a beautiful
high place, upon a strong tree, and at the top of a lofty
branch, and if it finds all it needs of seeds and water, this is
its perfect prosperity.
But real prosperity for the animal consists in passing
from the animal world to the human world, like the
microscopic beings that, through the water and air, enter into
man and are assimilated, and replace that which has been
consumed in his body. This is the great honor and prosperity
for the animal world; no greater honor can be conceived for
it.
Therefore, it is evident and clear that this wealth, this
comfort and this material abundance form the complete
prosperity of minerals, vegetables and animals. No riches,
wealth, comfort or ease of the material world is equal to the
wealth of a bird; all the areas of these plains and mountains
are its dwelling, and all the seeds and harvests are its food
and wealth, and all the lands, villages, meadows, pastures,
forests and wildernesses are its possessions. Now, which is
the richer, this bird, or the most wealthy man? for no matter

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


how many seeds it may take or bestow, its wealth does not
decrease.
Then it is clear that the honor and exaltation of man
must be something more than material riches. Material
comforts are only a branch, but the root of the exaltation of
man is the good attributes and virtues which are the
adornments of his reality. These are the divine appearances,
the heavenly bounties, the sublime emotions, the love and
knowledge of God; universal wisdom, intellectual perception,
scientific
discoveries,
justice,
equity,
truthfulness,
benevolence, natural courage and innate fortitude; the
respect for rights and the keeping of agreements and
covenants; rectitude in all circumstances; serving the truth
under all conditions; the sacrifice of one's life for the good of
all people; kindness and esteem for all nations; obedience to
the teachings of God; service in the Divine Kingdom; the
guidance of the people, and the education of the nations and
races. This is the prosperity of the human world! This is the
exaltation of man in the world! This is eternal life and
heavenly honor!
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, pp. 88-90)

22.
In Iran, spiritual and moral advancement, teaching
activities, the creation of schools and clinics, the building of
administrative institutions, and the encouragement of
initiatives aimed at economic self-sufficiency and prosperity -
- all had been from an early stage inseparable features of one
organically unified process of development. Now - in Africa,
in Latin America, and parts of Asia -- the same challenges
and opportunities had re-emerged.
(Universal House of Justice. Century of Light, p. 103)

23.
The relative prosperity enjoyed by the Bahá’ís of Iran in
the past can be attributed to a culture that lays great
emphasis on education and learning and which recognizes as

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


an act of worship the assiduous and honest pursuit of a
useful trade or profession, undertaken in the spirit of service.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 April 2010, to the Bahá’ís of
Iran)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


11. Uplifting the betterment of the world

We must all be in the greatest happiness and comfort.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
Blessed and happy is he that ariseth to promote the
best interests of the peoples and kindreds of the earth... It is
not for him to pride himself who loveth his own country, but
rather for him who loveth the whole world.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 250)


2.
O people of God! Be not occupied with yourselves. Be
intent on the betterment of the world and the training of
nations.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 133)


3.
O son of man!  If thine eyes be turned towards mercy,
forsake the things that profit thee and cleave unto that which
will profit mankind. And if thine eyes be turned towards
justice, choose thou for thy neighbour that which thou
choosest for thyself.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 64)

4.
Do not busy yourselves in your own concerns; let your
thoughts be fixed upon that which will rehabilitate the
fortunes of mankind and sanctify the hearts and souls of
men.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 93-94)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


5.
Great is the station of men.  Great must also be his
endeavours for the rehabilitation of the world and the well-
being of nations.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 174)


6.
This Wronged One testifieth that the purpose for
which mortal man have, from utter nothingness, stepped into
the realm of being, is that they may work for the betterment
of the world and live together in concord and harmony.
(Bahá’u’lláh. A Compilation on Trustworthiness, p. 5)

7.
We desire but the good of the world and the
happiness of the nations.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in Advent of Divine Justice, p. 31)

8.
No welfare and no well-being can be attained except
through consultation.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Cited Compilation on Consultation, p. 1)


9.
God is kind to all. The good pleasure of God consists
in the welfare of all the individual members of mankind.

The purport is this that we are all inhabiting one globe
of earth.  In reality we are one family and each one of us is a
member of this family.  We must all be in the greatest
happiness and comfort...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 41-42)


10.
We ask God to endow human souls with justice so
that they may be fair, and may strive to provide for the
comfort of all, that each member of humanity may pass his
life in the utmost comfort and welfare. Then this material
world will become the very paradise of the Kingdom, this
elemental earth will be in a heavenly state and all the
servants of God will live in the utmost joy, happiness and
gladness. We must all strive and concentrate all our thoughts

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


in order that such happiness may accrue to the world of
humanity.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, p. 43)

11.
In
every
dispensation,
there
hath
been
the
commandment of fellowship and love, but it was a
commandment limited to the community of those in mutual
agreement, not to the dissident foe. In this wondrous age,
however, praised be God, the commandments of God are not
delimited, not restricted to any one group of people, rather
have all the friends been commanded to show forth
fellowship and love, consideration and generosity and loving
kindness to every community on earth. Now must the lovers
of God arise to carry out these instructions of His: Let them
be kindly fathers to the children of the human race, and
compassionate brothers to the youth, and self-denying
offspring to those bent with years.  The meaning of this is
that ye must show forth tenderness and love to every human
being, even to your enemies, and welcome them all with
unalloyed friendship, good cheer, and loving-kindness.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 20-21)


12.
Regarding the economic prejudice, it is apparent that
whenever the ties between nations become strengthened and
the exchange of commodities accelerated, and any economic
principle is established in one country, it will ultimately
affect the other countries and universal benefits will result.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp.299-300)

13.   If
long-cherished
ideals
and
time-honoured
institutions, if certain social assumptions and religious
formulae have ceased to promote the welfare of the
generality of mankind, if they no longer minister to the needs
of a continually evolving humanity, let them be swept away
and relegated to the limbo of obsolescent and forgotten

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


doctrines.  Why should these, in a world subject to the
immutable law of change and decay, be exempt from the
deterioration that must needs overtake every human
institution? For legal standards, political and economic
theories are solely designed to safeguard the interests of
humanity as a whole, and not humanity to be crucified for
the preservation of the integrity of any particular law or
doctrine.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 42)

14.    As we survey the Bahá'í world, we see a greatly
strengthened community, internally sound and notably
reinforced.  Its achievements in reaching the general public,
governments and organizations of civil society and in
winning trust in all these circles are striking.  Agencies
specialized in external affairs, following a well-defined
strategy, have broadened the range of the Faith’s influence
nationally and internationally, and projects of social and
economic development, which seek the spiritual and material
upliftment of entire communities, are penetrating society at
the grassroots.

(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 26 November 1999)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


12.  Material and spiritual coherence

Only when material and spiritual civilization are linked and
coordinated will happiness be assured.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.      Say: Rejoice not in the things ye possess; tonight they
are yours, tomorrow others will possess them. Thus, warneth
you He Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Say: Can
ye claim that what ye own is lasting or secure? Nay! By
Myself, the All-Merciful, ye cannot, if ye be of them who
judge fairly. The days of your life flee away as a breath of
wind, and all your pomp and glory shall be folded up as were
the pomp and glory of those gone before you. Reflect, O
people! What hath become of your bygone days, your lost
centuries? Happy the days that have been consecrated to the
remembrance of God, and blessed the hours which have been
spent in praise of Him Who is the All-Wise. By My life!
Neither the pomp of the mighty, nor the wealth of the rich,
nor even the ascendancy of the ungodly will endure. All will
perish, at a word from Him. He, verily, is the All-Powerful,
the All-Compelling, the Almighty. What advantage is there in
the earthly things which men possess? That which shall profit
them, they have utterly neglected. Erelong, they will awake
from their slumber, and find themselves unable to obtain
that which hath escaped them in the days of their Lord, the
Almighty, the All-Praised. Did they but know it, they would
renounce their all, that their names may be mentioned before
His throne. They, verily, are accounted among the dead.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 40)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



2.
O Son of My Handmaid! Be not troubled in poverty nor
confident in riches, for poverty is followed by riches, and
riches are followed by poverty.  Yet to be poor in all save God
is a wondrous gift, belittle not the value thereof, for in the
end it will make thee rich in God, and thus thou shalt know
the meaning of the utterance, “In truth ye are the poor,” and
the holy words, “God is the all-possessing,” shall even as the
true morn break forth gloriously resplendent upon the
horizon of the lover’s heart, and abide secure on the throne of
wealth.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 51)



3.
How sad if any man were, in this Day, to rest his heart
on the transitory things of this world.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 316)






4.
The world is but a show, vain and empty, a mere
nothing, bearing the semblance of reality. Set not your
affections upon it … Verily I say, the world is like the vapor in
a desert, which the thirsty dreameth to be water and striveth
after it with all his might, until when he cometh unto it, he
findeth it to be mere illusion.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 328)




5.
The honor of man is through the attainment of the
knowledge of God; his happiness is from the love of God; his
joy is in the glad tidings of God; his greatness is dependent
upon his servitude to God, The highest development of man
is his entrance into the divine Kingdom, and the outcome of
this human existence is the nucleus and essence of eternal
life. If man is bereft of the divine bestowals and if his
enjoyments and happiness are restricted to his material
inclinations, what distinction or difference is there between
the animal and himself? In fact, the animal's happiness is

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


greater, for its wants are fewer and its means of livelihood
easier to acquire. Although it is necessary for man to strive
for material needs and comforts, his real need is the
acquisition of the bounties of God. If he is bereft of divine
bounties, spiritual susceptibilities and heavenly glad tidings,
the life of man in this world has not yielded any worthy fruit.
While possessing physical life, he should lay hold of the life
spiritual, and together with bodily comforts and happiness,
he should enjoy divine pleasures and content. Then is man
worthy of the title man; then will he be after the image and
likeness of God, for the image of the Merciful consists of the
attributes of the heavenly Kingdom. If no fruits of the
Kingdom appear in the garden of his soul, man is not in the
image and likeness of God, but if those fruits are
forthcoming, he becomes the recipient of ideal bestowals and
is enkindled with the fire of the love of God. If his morals
become spiritual in character, his aspirations heavenly and
his actions conformable to the will of God, man has attained
the image and likeness of his Creator; otherwise, he is the
image and likeness of Satan. Therefore, Christ hath said, " Ye
shall know them by their fruits."
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Divine Art of Living, pp. 16-17)


6.
Until material achievements, physical accomplishments
and human virtues are reinforced by spiritual perfection,
luminous qualities and characteristics of mercy, no fruit or
result shall issue therefrom, nor will the happiness of the
world of humanity, which is the ultimate aim, be attained.
For although, on the one hand, material achievements and
the development of the physical world produce prosperity,
which exquisitely manifests its intended aims, on the other
hand dangers, severe calamities and violent afflictions are
imminent.

Consequently, when you lookest at the orderly pattern
of kingdoms, cities and villages … thou wouldst conclude that

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


civilization conduceth to the happiness and the progress of
the human world. Yet shouldst thou turn thine eye to the
discovery of destructive and infernal machines, to the
development of forces of demolition and the invention of
fiery implements, which uproot the tree of life, it would
become evident and manifest unto thee that civilization is
conjoined with barbarism.  Progress and barbarism go hand
in hand, unless material civilization be confirmed by Divine
Guidance, by the revelations of the All-Merciful and by godly
virtues, and be reinforced by spiritual conduct, by the ideals
of the Kingdom and by the outpourings of the Realm of
Might.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 283-284)


7.
For man two wings are necessary. One wing is physical
power and material civilization; the other is spiritual power
and divine civilization. With one wing only, flight is
impossible. Two wings are essential. Therefore, no matter
how much material civilization advances, it cannot attain to
perfection except through the uplift of spiritual civilization.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 12)

8.
Man has two powers; and his development, two
aspects. One power is connected with the material world, and
by it he is capable of material advancement. The other power
is spiritual, and through its development his inner, potential
nature is awakened. These powers are like two wings. Both
must be developed, for flight is impossible with one wing.
Praise be to God! Material advancement has been evident in
the world, but there is need of spiritual advancement in like
proportion. We must strive unceasingly and without rest to
accomplish the development of the spiritual nature in man,
and endeavor with tireless energy to advance humanity
toward the nobility of its true and intended station. For the
body of man is accidental; it is of no importance. The time of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


its disintegration will inevitably come. But the spirit of man
is essential and, therefore, eternal. It is a divine bounty. It is
the effulgence of the Sun of Reality and, therefore, of greater
importance than the physical body.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 60)

9.
Material civilization is likened to the body, whereas
divine civilization is the spirit in that body. A body not
manifesting the spirit is dead; a fruitless tree is worthless.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 104)

10.
No matter how far the material world advances, it
cannot establish the happiness of mankind. Only when
material and spiritual civilization are linked and coordinated
will happiness be assured. Then material civilization will not
contribute its energies to the forces of evil in destroying the
oneness of humanity, for in material civilization good and
evil advance together and maintain the same pace. For
example, consider the material progress of man in the last
decade. Schools and colleges, hospitals, philanthropic
institutions, scientific academies and temples of philosophy
have been founded, but hand in hand with these evidences of
development, the invention and production of means and
weapons for human destruction have correspondingly
increased...

All this is the outcome of material civilization;
therefore, although material advancement furthers good
purposes in life, at the same time it serves evil ends ... If the
moral precepts and foundations of divine civilization become
united with the material advancement of man, there is no
doubt that the happiness of the human world will be attained
and that from every direction the glad tidings of peace upon
earth will be announced. Then humankind will achieve
extraordinary progress, the sphere of human intelligence will
be immeasurably enlarged, wonderful inventions will appear,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and the spirit of God will reveal itself; all men will consort in
joy and fragrance, and eternal life will be conferred upon the
children of the Kingdom.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 109-110)






11.
In the western world material civilization has attained
the highest point of development, but divine civilization was
founded in the land of the East. The East must acquire
material civilization from the West, and the West must
receive spiritual civilization from the East. This will establish
a mutual bond. When these two come together, the world of
humanity will present a glorious aspect, and extra ordinary
progress will be achieved. This is clear and evident; no proof
is needed. The degree of material civilization in the Occident
cannot be denied; nor can anyone fail to confirm the spiritual
civilization of the Orient, for all the divine foundations of
human uplift have appeared in the East. This, likewise, is
clear and evident. Therefore, you must assist the East in
order that it may attain material progress. The East must,
likewise, promulgate the principles of spiritual civilization in
the western world. By this commingling and union the
human race will attain the highest degree of prosperity and
development. Material civilization alone is not sufficient and
will not prove productive. The physical happiness of material
conditions was allotted to the animal. Consider how the
animal has attained the fullest degree of physical felicity. A
bird perches upon the loftiest branch and builds there its nest
with consummate beauty and skill. All the grains and seeds of
the meadows are its wealth and food; all the fresh water of
mountain springs and rivers of the plain are for its
enjoyment. Truly, this is the acme of material happiness, to
which even a human creature cannot attain. This is the honor
of the animal kingdom. But the honor of the human kingdom
is the attainment of spiritual happiness in the human world,
the acquisition of the knowledge and love of God. The honor

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


allotted to man is the acquisition of the supreme virtues of
the human world. This is his real happiness and felicity. But
if material happiness and spiritual felicity be conjoined, it
will be “delight upon delight” as the Arabs say.  ... We pray
that God will unite the East and the West in order that these
two civilizations may be exchanged and mutually enjoyed. I
am sure it will come to pass, for this is the radiant century.
This is an age for the outpouring of divine mercy upon the
exigency of this new century — the unity of the East and the
West. It will surely be accomplished.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 165-166)






12.
The world of humanity cannot advance through mere
physical powers and intellectual attainments; nay, rather, the
Holy Spirit is essential. The divine Father must assist the
human world to attain maturity.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 182)






13.
No matter how much the world of humanity advances
in material civilization, it is nevertheless in need of the
spiritual development mentioned in the Gospel ...

The material must be correlated with the spiritual. The
material may be likened to the body, but divine virtues are
the breathings of the Holy Spirit itself. The body without
spirit is not capable of real accomplishment. Although it may
be in the utmost condition of beauty and excellence, it is,
nevertheless, in need of the spirit. The chimney of the lamp ...
is in need of the light. Without the light, the lamp or candle is
not illuminating. Without the spirit, the body is not
productive.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 205)


14.
Material development may be likened to the glass of a
lamp, whereas divine virtues and spiritual susceptibilities are
the light within the glass. The lamp chimney is worthless

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


without the light; likewise, man in his material condition
requires the radiance and vivification of the divine graces and
merciful attributes.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 288)

15.
From the time of the creation of Adam to this day
there have been two pathways in the world of humanity; one
the natural or materialistic, the other the religious or
spiritual. The pathway of nature is the pathway of the animal
realm. The animal acts in accordance with the requirements
of nature, follows its own instincts and desires. Whatever its
impulses and proclivities may be it has the liberty to gratify
them; yet it is a captive of nature. It cannot deviate in the
least degree from the road nature has established. It is utterly
minus spiritual susceptibilities, ignorant of divine religion
and without knowledge of the Kingdom of God. The animal
possesses no power of ideation or conscious intelligence; it is
a captive of the senses and deprived of that which lies beyond
them. It is subject to what the eye sees, the ear hears, the
nostrils sense, the taste detects and touch reveals. These
sensations are acceptable and sufficient for the animal. But
that which is beyond the range of the senses, that realm of
phenomena through which the conscious pathway to the
Kingdom of God leads, the world of spiritual susceptibilities
and divine religion, of these the animal is completely
unaware, for in its highest station it is a captive of nature.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity, p. 68)

16.
Although material civilization is one of the means for
the progress of the world of mankind, yet until it becomes
combined with Divine civilization, the desired result, which is
the felicity of mankind, will not be attained.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Bahá’í World Faith, p. 289)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


17.
In these days the East is in need of material progress
and the West is in want of a spiritual idea. It would be well
for the West to turn to the East for illumination, and
to give in exchange its scientific knowledge. There must be
this interchange of gifts.  The East and the West must unite
to give to each other what is lacking. This union will bring
about a true civilization, where the spiritual is expressed and
carried out in the material.

Receiving thus the one from the other the greatest
harmony will prevail, all people will be united, a state of great
perfection will be attained, there will be a firm cementing,
and this world will become a shining mirror for the reflection
of the attributes of God.

We all, the Eastern with the Western nations, must
strive day and night with heart and soul to achieve this high
ideal, to cement the unity between all the nations of the
earth. Every heart will then be refreshed, all eyes will be
opened, the most wonderful power will be given, the
happiness of humanity will be assured.

... This will be the paradise which is to come on earth,
when all mankind will be gathered together under the tent of
unity in the Kingdom of Glory.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp. 8-9)






18.    In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher
nature and his material or lower nature. In one he
approaches God, in the other he lives for the world alone.
Signs of both these natures are to be found in men. In his
material aspect he expresses untruth, cruelty and injustice;
all these are the outcome of his lower nature. The attributes
of his Divine nature are shown forth in love, mercy, kindness,
truth and justice, one and all being expressions of his higher
nature. Every good habit, every noble quality belongs to
man's spiritual nature, whereas all his imperfections and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


sinful actions are born of his material nature. If a man's
Divine nature dominates his human nature, we have a saint.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 60)

19.
There are in the world of humanity three degrees;
those of the body, the soul, and spirit.
The body is the physical or animal degree of man. From
the bodily point of view man is a sharer of the animal
kingdom. The bodies alike of men and animals are composed
of elements held together by the law of attraction.
Like the animal, man possesses the faculties of the
senses, is subject to heat, cold, hunger, thirst, etc.; unlike the
animal, man has a rational soul, the human intelligence.
This intelligence of man is the intermediary between his
body and his spirit.
When man allows the spirit, through his soul, to
enlighten his understanding, then does he contain all
Creation; because man, being the culmination of all that went
before and thus superior to all previous evolutions, contains
all the lower world within himself. Illumined by the spirit
through the instrumentality of the soul, man's radiant
intelligence makes him the crowning-point of Creation.
But on the other hand, when man does not open his
mind and heart to the blessing of the spirit, but turns his soul
towards the material side, towards the bodily part of his
nature, then is he fallen from his high place and he becomes
inferior to the inhabitants of the lower animal kingdom. In
this case the man is in a sorry plight! For if the spiritual
qualities of the soul, open to the breath of the Divine Spirit,
are never used, they become atrophied, enfeebled, and at last
incapable; whilst the soul's material qualities alone being
exercised, they become terribly powerful -- and the unhappy,
misguided man, becomes more savage, more unjust, more
vile, more cruel, more malevolent than the lower animals
themselves.
All
his
aspirations
and
desires
being

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


strengthened by the lower side of the soul's nature, he
becomes more and more brutal, until his whole being is in no
way superior to that of the beasts that perish. Men such as
this, plan to work evil, to hurt and to destroy; they are
entirely without the spirit of Divine compassion, for the
celestial quality of the soul has been dominated by that of the
material. If, on the contrary, the spiritual nature of the soul
has been so strengthened that it holds the material side in
subjection, then does the man approach the Divine; his
humanity becomes so glorified that the virtues of the
Celestial Assembly are manifested in him; he radiates the
Mercy of God, he stimulates the spiritual progress of
mankind, for he becomes a lamp to show light on their path.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 97)

20.
Material progress alone does not tend to uplift man.
On the contrary, the more he becomes immersed in material
progress, the more does his spirituality become obscured.

... Material progress and spiritual progress are two
very different things, and that only if material progress goes
hand in hand with spirituality can any real progress come
about.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 107)









22.
Reflect on the divine forces. What has assembled us
together? It is not a material but a spiritual force which has
created this bond between our hearts, this attraction and
affection for one another, - a power stronger than reason, a
power which founds nations, creates human unity and makes
us renounce the world to discover sciences and organize laws
which work through all creatures. Man, the victim of a
mosquito, by his spiritual intelligence is conqueror, for by
spirit he is completed; he stands upright and gives well-being
to humanity. We must care for man’s two natures; for as the
material man makes certain demands for food and raiment

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and if not looked after suffers, even so his spiritual reality
suffers without care. This is why the divine messengers come
to the rescue -- to care for the reality, that man’s thoughts
may unfold and his aims become realized, that he many
inherit a new field of progress, for the spiritual side should be
cared for as much as the corporeal; the help that comes is
through the resuscitating breath of the Holy Spirit.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Divine Philosophy, p. 95)

22.
When the material world and the divine world are
well correlated, when the hearts become heavenly and the
aspirations pure, perfect connection shall take place. Then
shall this power produce a perfect manifestation. Physical
and spiritual diseases will then receive absolute healing.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. vol. II, p. 309)

23.
It is indeed a good and praiseworthy thing to progress
materially, but in so doing, let us not neglect the more
important spiritual progress, and close our eyes to the Divine
light shining in our midst.
Only by improving spiritually as well as materially
can we make any real progress and become perfect beings. It
was in order to bring this spiritual life and light into the
world that all the great Teachers have appeared. They came
so that the Sun of Truth might be manifested, and shine in
the hearts of men, and that through its wondrous power men
might attain unto Everlasting Light.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 63)






24.
A good Bahá’í, therefore, is the one who so arranges
his life as to devote time both to his material needs and also
to the service of the Cause.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 21 February 1933)


25.   And as the progress and execution of spiritual activities
is dependent and conditioned upon material means, it is of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


absolute necessity that immediately after the establishment
of Local as well as National Spiritual Assemblies, a Bahá’í
Fund be established.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 12 March 1933)


26.     Every Bahá’í, no matter how poor, must realize what a
grave responsibility he has to shoulder in this connection,
and should have confidence that his spiritual progress as a
believer in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh will largely depend
upon the measure in which he proves, in deeds, his readiness
to support materially the Divine Institutions of His Faith.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 17 July 1937)






27.
The oneness of mankind, which is at once the operating
principle and the ultimate goal of His Revelation, implies the
achievement of a dynamic coherence between the spiritual
and practical requirements of life on earth.

(Universal House of Justice. Message dated 20 October 1983)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


13. The spirit of cooperation

Be ye as the fingers of one hand, the members of one body.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
As preordained by the Fountainhead of Creation, the
temple of the world hath been fashioned after the image and
likeness of the human body.  In fact each mirroreth forth the
image of the other, wert thou but to observe with discerning
eyes. By this is meant that even as the human body in this
world which is outwardly composed of different limbs and
organs, is in reality a closely integrated, coherent entity,
similarly the structure of the physical world is like unto a
single being whose limbs and members are inseparably
linked together.

Were one to observe with an eye that discovereth the
realities of all things, it would become clear that the greatest
relationship that bindeth the world of being together lieth in
the range of created things themselves, and that cooperation,
mutual aid and reciprocity are essential characteristics in the
unified body of the world of being, inasmuch as all created
things are closely related together and each is influenced by
the other or deriveth benefit therefrom, either directly or
indirectly.

Consider for instance how one group of created things
constituteth the vegetable kingdom, and another the animal
kingdom.  Each of these two maketh use of certain elements
in the air on which its own life dependeth, while each
increaseth the quantity of such elements as are essential for
the life of the other.  In other words, the growth and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


development of the vegetable world is impossible without the
existence of the animal kingdom, and the maintenance of
animal life is inconceivable without the cooperation of the
vegetable kingdom.  Of like kind are the relationships that
exist among all created things. Hence it was stated that
cooperation and reciprocity are essential properties which
are inherent in the unified system of the world of existence,
and without which the entire creation would be reduced to
nothingness.

In surveying the vast range of creation thou shalt
perceive that the higher a kingdom of created things is on the
arc of ascent, the more conspicuous are the signs and
evidences of the truth that cooperation and reciprocity at the
level of a higher order are greater than those that exist at the
level of a lower order. For example, the evident signs of this
fundamental reality are more discernible in the vegetable
kingdom than in the mineral, and still more manifest in the
animal world than in the vegetable.

And thus when contemplating the human world thou
beholdest this wondrous phenomenon shining resplendent
from all sides with the utmost perfection, inasmuch as in this
station acts of cooperation, mutual assistance and reciprocity
are not confined to the body and to things that pertain to the
material world, but for all conditions, whether physical or
spiritual, such as those related to minds, thoughts, opinions,
manners, customs, attitudes, understandings, feelings or
other human susceptibilities.  In all these thou shouldst find
these binding relationships securely established. The more
this interrelationship is strengthened and expanded, the
more will human society advance in progress and prosperity.
Indeed without these vital ties it would be wholly impossible
for the world of humanity to attain true felicity and success.

Now consider, if among the people who are merely
the manifestations of the world of being this significant
matter is of such importance, how much greater must be the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


spirit of cooperation and mutual assistance among those who
are the essences of the world of creation, who have sought
the sheltering shadow of the heavenly Tree, and are favoured
by the manifestations of divine grace; and how the evidences
of this spirit should, through their earnest endeavour, their
fellowship and concord, become manifest in every sphere of
their inner and outer lives, in the realm of the spirit and
divine mysteries and in all things related to this world and
the next.  Thus, there can be no doubt that they must be
willing even to offer up their lives for each other.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, pp. 22-23)


2.
O ye Friends of the East and the West!

One of the greatest foundations of the religion of God,
the significance of the Word of God and the duty of the
believers of God is mutual assistance and cooperation.  For
the world of humanity, nay, rather, all the infinite beings
exist by this law of mutual action and helpfulness. Should
this law of joint interchange of forces be removed from the
arena of life, the existence would be entirely destroyed.

When we ponder deeply upon the connection and
interdependence of beings, we clearly realize that the life of
every being draws benefit and sustenance from all the other
innumerable existences.  This mutual helpfulness is realized
either directly or through mediation, and if, for the twinkling
of an eye, this confirmation and assistance does not descend
upon the living being, that one will become non-existent, for
all the existing things are linked together and draw help from
each other. Therefore, the greatest foundation of the world of
existence is this cooperation and mutuality.

Liken the world of existence to the temple of man. All
the limbs and organs of the human body assist each other;
therefore, life continues. When, in this wonderful organism,
there is a disconnection, life is changed into death and the
parts of the body disintegrate. Likewise, among the parts of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


existence, there is a wonderful connection and interchange of
forces, which is the cause of the life of the world and the
continuation of these countless phenomena....

From this illustration, one can see the base of life is
this mutual aid and helpfulness; and the cause of destruction
and non-existence would be the interruption of this mutual
assistance.

The more the world aspires to civilization, the more
this most important matter of cooperation and assistance
becomes manifest.  Therefore, in the world of humanity, one
sees this matter of helpfulness attain to a high degree of
efficiency; so much so, that the continuance of humanity
entirely depends upon this interrelation.  The believers of
God must especially fortify the foundation of this reality
among themselves, so that all may help each other under all
circumstances, whether in the degree of truth and
significances or in the stations of this world of matter and,
especially, in founding public institutions which shall benefit
all the people, and, still more, the founding of the Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár, which is the greatest of the divine foundations.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Star of the West, vol. 6, number 17, pp. 138-
139)

3.
Human brotherhood and dependence exist because
mutual helpfulness and cooperation are the two necessary
principles underlying human welfare.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, p. 14)

4.    It seems as though all creatures can exist singly and
alone.  For example, a tree can exist solitary and alone on a
given prairie or in a valley or on the mountainside.  An
animal upon a mountain or a bird soaring in the air might
live a solitary life.   They are not in need of cooperation or
solidarity.  Such animated beings enjoy the greatest comfort
and happiness in their respective solitary lives.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



On the contrary, man cannot live singly and alone.  He
is in need of continuous cooperation and mutual help.  For
example, a man living alone in the wilderness will eventually
starve.  He can never, singly and alone, provide himself with
all the necessities of existence. Therefore, he is in need of
cooperation and reciprocity.
… Regarding reciprocity and cooperation: each member
of the body politic should live in the utmost comfort and
welfare because each individual member of humanity is a
member of the body politic and if one member of the
members be in distress or be afflicted with some disease all
the other members must necessarily suffer.  For example, a
member of the human organism is the eye.  If the eye should
be affected that affliction would affect the whole nervous
system.  Hence, if a member of the body politic becomes
afflicted, in reality, from the standpoint of sympathetic
connection, all will share that affliction since this (one
afflicted) is a member of the group of members, a part of the
whole.  Is it possible for one member or part to be in distress
and the other members to be at ease?  It is impossible!
Hence God has desired that in the body politic of humanity
each one shall enjoy perfect welfare and comfort.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 38-39)





5.
There is brotherhood natal in mankind because all are
elements of one human society subject to the necessity of
agreement and cooperation.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 129)






6.
Note ye how easily, where unity existeth in a given
family, the affairs of that family are conducted; what progress
the members of that family make, how they prosper in the
world.  Their concerns are in order, they enjoy comfort and
tranquility, they are secure, their position is assured, they
come to be envied by all. Such a family but addeth to its

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


stature and its lasting honour, as day succeedeth day.  And if
we widen out the sphere of unity a little to include the
inhabitants of a village who seek to be loving and united, who
associate with and are kind to one another, what great
advances they will be seen to make, how secure and protected
they will be.  Then let us widen out the sphere a little more,
let us take the inhabitants of a city, all of them together:  if
they establish the strongest bonds of unity among
themselves, how far they will progress, even in a brief period
and what power they will exert. And if the sphere of unity be
still further widened out, that is, if the inhabitants of a whole
country develop peaceable hearts, and if with all their hearts
and souls they yearn to cooperate with one another and to
live in unity, and if they become kind and loving to one
another, that country will achieve undying joy and lasting
glory.  Peace will it have, and plenty, and vast wealth.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 279)

7.
All development and progress are fruits of the lights
of virtue, cooperation and concord.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 288)

8.
You should not attach much importance to your
numerical strength but should always try to foster among you
the spirit of unity, of cooperation and of selfless service.  For
these alone constitute the true standard according to which
your activities should be judged and estimated.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 10 August 1933)






9.
‘Regard the world as the human body,’ wrote
Bahá’u’lláh to Queen Victoria.  We can surely regard the
Bahá’í world, the army of God, in the same way. In the
human body, every cell, every organ, every nerve has its part
to play. When all do so the body is healthy, vigorous, radiant,
ready for every call made upon it.  No cell, however humble,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


lives apart from the body, whether in serving it or receiving
from it.  This is true of the body of mankind in which God
‘has endowed each humble being with ability and talent,’ and
is supremely true of the body of the Bahá’í world community,
for this body is already an organism, united in its aspirations,
unified in its methods, seeking assistance and confirmation
from the same Source, and illumined with the conscious
knowledge of its unity.  Therefore, in this organic, divinely
guided, blessed, and illumined body the participation of
every believer is of the utmost importance, and is a source of
power and vitality as yet unknown to us. For extensive and
deep as has been the sharing in the glorious work of the
Cause, who would claim that every single believer has
succeeded in finding his or her fullest satisfaction in the life
of the Cause? The Bahá’í world community, growing like a
healthy new body, develops new cells, new organs, new
functions and powers as it presses on to its maturity, when
every soul, living for the cause of God, will receive from that
Cause, health, assurance, and the overflowing bounties of
Bahá’u’lláh which are diffused through His divinely ordained
Order.

...The real secret of universal participation lies in the
Master's oft-expressed wish that the friends should love each
other, constantly encourage each other, work together, be as
one soul in one body, and in so doing become a true, organic,
healthy body animated and illumined by the spirit. In such a
body all will receive spiritual health and vitality from the
organism itself, and the most perfect flowers and fruits will
be brought forth.
(Universal House of Justice. Wellspring of Guidance, pp. 37-39)

10.
The primary question to be resolved is how the
present world, with its entrenched pattern of conflict, can
change to a world in which harmony and cooperation will
prevail.   (Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 13)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



11.
The source of the optimism we feel is a vision
transcending the cessation of war and the creation of
agencies of international cooperation.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 18)

12.
We anticipate a time when competition among the
nations may be a phenomenon chiefly witnessed in the
sporting arena, whereas interactions on the global stage will
be dominated by cooperation, reciprocity, and mutual
support. We pray that this present occasion will redound to
the honour of the great nation of Brazil as hosts and that the
event will inspire not only passing fellowship but lasting
solidarity among all who participate and the countless
millions who spectate.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 6 June 2014 to Her Excellency
Ms. Dilma Rousseff, President of the Federative Republic of Brazil)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


14.  The aspect of competition

Vie ye with each other in the service of God
and of His Cause.
Bahá’u’lláh

1.
Consider that which the All-Merciful hath revealed in
the Qur’an exalted is His Word: “Some of them injure
themselves through evil deeds, others follow a middle course,
and others vie with each other in charitable works”’ Indeed
any benefits arising from praiseworthy deeds shall fall to the
individuals that compete with each other in benevolent
works…
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, p. 13)

2.     Vie ye with each other in the service of God and of His
Cause. This is indeed what profiteth you in this world, and in
that which is to come…

(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in the Advent of Devine Justice, p. 83)






3.
Help them through Thy strengthening grace, I beseech
Thee, O my God, to suffer patiently in their love for thee, and
unveil to their eyes what Thou hast decreed for them behind
the Tabernacle of Thine unfailing protection, so that they
may rush forward to meet what is preordained for them in
Thy path, and may vie in hasting after tribulation in their
love towards Thee…
(Bahá’u’lláh. Prayers and Meditations of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 158-159)

4.
It is incumbent upon Bahá’í children to surpass other
children in the acquisition of sciences and arts, for they have

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


been cradled in the   grace of God. Whatever other children
learn in a year, let Bahá’í children learn in a month. The
heart of’ ‘Abdu’l-Bahá longeth, in its love, to find that Bahá’í
young people, each and all, are known throughout the world
for their intellectual attainments. There is no question but
that they will exert all their efforts, their energies, their sense
of pride, to acquire the sciences and arts.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 141)

5.
Make ye then a mighty effort, that the purity and
sanctity which, above all else, are cherished by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
shall distinguish the people of Bahá ; that in every kind of
excellence the people of God shall surpass all other human
beings; that both outwardly and inwardly they shall prove
superior to the rest; that for purity, immaculacy, refinement,
and the preservation of health, they shall be leaders in the
vanguard of those who know. And that by their freedom from
enslavement, their knowledge, their self-control, they shall
be first among the pure, the free and the wise.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 150)

6.
I hope that while you are studying in this college you
may so excel all other students in the various branches of
knowledge taught therein that all of them may testify that the
Bahá’í students have another power, are inspired with
another effort, are imbued with a nobler ambition, are
stimulated by higher motives and make wider and deeper
exertions than others. If you do not surpass the others, then
what distinction will there remain for you? Therefore, you
must strive to be superior to them, so that everyone may bear
testimony to this fact. You are now like the tender plants that
are trained according to the knowledge and wisdom of the
gardener. From now on, you must strive to beautify the
moral aspect of your lives. Advise one another with utmost
consideration, characterize yourselves with divine ideals.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Star of the West, vol. IX, number 9, pp. 98-
99)

7.
Spiritual Competition galvanizing organized followers
Bahá’u’lláh East West waxes keener as first Bahá’í century
speeds to close.   (Shoghi Effendi. Messages to America, p. 53)
8.   There is no time to lose. The newly launched Plan
demands a vigilance, an expenditure of effort and resources
on a scale unprecedented in Indian Bahá’í history. Bahá’í
communities in East and West, embarked on a similar
Crusade, are vying with one another and with your Assembly
in the world-wide field of Bahá’í   pioneering. The glory of the
prizes to be won, the benefits that will accrue to all
participants are unimaginable…
(Shoghi Effendi. Dawn of a New Day, p. 159)
(Note: Bahá'ís who leave their hometown or country to reside elsewhere for
the purpose of serving humanity and teaching the Bahá'í Faith.)



9.    I earnestly appeal to all Bahá’í communities, and in
particular to their national elected representatives in Latin
America, Europe, Asia and Australia to brace themselves and
vie with one another in emulating the example of their
African sister communities ranking among the youngest in
the Bahá’í world...
(Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957, p. 73)






10.
In the pacific area, where Bahá’í exploits bid fair to
outshine the feats achieved in any other ocean, and indeed in
every continent of the globe, now competing for the palm of
victory with the African continent itself, preliminary
measures have been undertaken for the formation of no less
than three of the thirteen national and regional spiritual
assemblies which are to be established in the course of this
year’s Ridván festivities...
(Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957, p. 111)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


(Note: Ridván. In Bahá'í terminology the word denotes both "garden", and
"paradise"; however, it has also been used to denote God's good-pleasure
and His divine acceptance. The Ridván Festival, the holiest and most
significant of all Bahá'í festivals, commemorates Bahá'u'lláh's declaration
of His mission to His companions in the Garden of Ridván in Baghdad in
1863. It is a twelve-day period celebrated annually, 21 April - 2 May. It is
also called the Most Great Festival. During each Ridván Festival Local and
National Spiritual Assemblies are elected, and, once every five years, the
Universal House of Justice is elected.)
(Reference: Jonal Winters (2010). Glossary of Bahá’í terms. Cited in
<https://bahai-library.com/winters_bahai_glossary>)

11.     The remaining sister National Assemblies are now vying
in a spiritual race to complete assignments in their respective
continents.

(Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World 1950-1957, p. 163)

12.     Both at home and in distant outposts of the Empire, the
opposition which those responsible for its development and
consolidation will encounter from those in authority,
whether civil or ecclesiastic, will progressively hamper their
efforts. The competition from its own sister communities, in
various regions of the globe and in the course of the
systematic prosecution of the same world-embracing task
will, in the meantime, grow keener.
(Shoghi Effendi. Unfolding Destiny, pp. 339-340)






13.    It is with deep concern indeed that he has learned of the
difficulties you have encountered in your business, and he
was particularly grieved to hear of the bitter competition you
are meeting from... who seem determined to ruin and force
you out of business, despite the fact that you have shown
them kindness, and refused to deal with them harshly.
Though the Guardian would advise that you continue
keeping such a true Bahá’í attitude of forbearance, he wishes
you at the same time not to give way, and not to allow any
threat on their part to discourage or demoralize you.
However unethical the methods they may employ, it should
be your firm conviction that such malicious devices cannot in

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


the long run succeed, and that the most effective way of
counteracting them is for you to maintain unreservedly the
one true standard of business conduct inculcated in the
Teachings.

(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in a Compilation on Trustworthiness, p. 16)






14.
The Indian believers have a great opportunity to
compete with both the American and British Bahá’ís in
pioneer services; they already have a record to be proud of,
and are first among the countries of the East in the record
they hold of achievements in this field. He hopes they will go
on from victory to victory, and vindicate the high hopes he
cherishes for their future.

(Shoghi Effendi. Dawn of a New Day, p. 119)






15.
When competition is a striving for excellence, it
becomes a challenge. For example, in study, sport, the
promotion of courage, endurance and so on, the individual’s
endeavour can lead to personal development and is
praiseworthy. If, however, the advantage is won by causing
direct loss to others, such competition produces negative
results and is undesirable. To assist you in your study of this
subject and as you consider the excepts included in the
compilation on Vying in Service the House of Justice draws
your attention to the following passage in The Priceless Pearl:
The example set through the achievements of the first
Seven Year Plan inspired other communities to dare greatly.
The increasing awareness of the glorious possibilities of
service opening before the Bahá’í world in the second century
of its own era was constantly fanned into flame by the
Guardian’s messages to various National Assemblies. He
frequently Quoted Bahá’u’lláh's admonition “Vie ye with each
other in the service of God and of His Cause” and openly
encouraged a competitive spirit in its noblest form. His use of
statistics was one example of the way he did this, his own

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


words another: ‘Spiritual competition’, he cabled America in
1941, ‘galvanizing organized followers Bahá’u’lláh Fast West
waxes keener as first Bahá’í Century speeds to its close. ‘Still
more illuminating was what followed for he acclaimed this as
a sign of Bahá’í solidarity in the five continents of the globe –
like the horses of a Roman chariot, each trying to get its neck
forward by all pulling together. It would be lacking in respect
to say he called for bids — but he never hesitated to tell his
warriors there was a golden fleece to be won; who would get
to it first? No doubt it was all divinely inspired, but it was
also warm and human, vibrant and stimulating!

(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 3 June 1987)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


15. The interdependence of peoples and nations

The world is, in truth, moving on towards its destiny.
The interdependence of the peoples and nations of the
earth…is already an accomplished fact.
Shoghi Effendi

1.
Reflect upon the inner realities of the universe, the
secret wisdoms involved, the enigmas, the interrelationships,
the rules that govern all.  For every part of the universe is
connected with every other part by ties that are very powerful
and admit of no imbalance, nor any slackening whatever...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 157)


2.
All the members of the human family, whether peoples
or governments, cities or villages, have become increasingly
interdependent. For none is self-sufficiency any longer
possible, inasmuch as political ties unite all peoples and
nations, and the bonds of trade and industry, of agriculture
and education, are being strengthened every day. Hence the
unity of all mankind can in this day be achieved.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 39)






3.
It would be well for the West to turn to the East for
illumination, and to give in exchange its scientific knowledge
... The East and the West must unite to give to each other
what is lacking.  This union will bring about a true
civilization.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp. 8-9)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4.
The races of mankind are not isolated as in former
days.  Now, in order to be in close relationship with all
countries it is necessary to be able to speak their tongues. A
universal language would make intercourse possible with
every nation.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 161)

5.
The world is, in truth, moving on towards its destiny.
The interdependence of the peoples and nations of the earth,
whatever the leaders of the divisive forces of the world may
say or do, is already an accomplished fact. Its unity in the
economic sphere is now understood and recognized. The
welfare of the part means the welfare of the whole, and the
distress of the part brings distress to the whole.
(Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, p. 122)

6.
Its message is applicable not only to the individual, but
concerns itself primarily with the nature of those essential
relationships that must bind all the states and nations as
members of one human family.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 43)

7.
It represents the consummation of human evolution—
an evolution that has had its earliest beginnings in the birth
of family life, its subsequent development in the achievement
of tribal solidarity, leading in turn to the constitution of the
city-state, and expanding later into the institution of
independent and sovereign nations.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 43)






8.
A mechanism of world intercommunication will be
devised, embracing the whole planet, freed from national
hindrances and restrictions, and functioning with marvellous
swiftness and perfect regularity.  A world metropolis will act
as the nerve center of a world civilization... A world language
... A world script, a world literature, a uniform and universal

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


system of currency, of weights and measures, will simplify
and facilitate intercourse and understanding among the
nations and races of mankind.  In such a world society,
science and religion, the two most potent forces in human
life, will be reconciled, will cooperage, and will harmoniously
develop.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 203)



9.
With
the
simultaneous
development
of
communications at the speed of light and transportation at
the speed of sound, the world has contracted into a mere
neighbourhood in which people are instantly aware of each
other's affairs and have immediate access to each other.
(Universal House of Justice. Worldwide Satellite Broadcast, 26 November
1992)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


16. Universal and compulsory education

Regard man as a mine rich in gems of inestimable value.
Education can, alone, cause it to reveal its treasures, and
enable mankind to benefit therefrom.
Bahá’u’lláh

1.     Unto every father hath been enjoined the instruction of
his son and daughter in the art of reading and writing and in
all that hath been laid down in the Holy Tablet. He that
putteth away that which is commanded unto him, the
Trustees are then to take from him that which is required for
their instruction if he be wealthy and, if not, the matter
devolveth upon the House of Justice. Verily have We made it
a shelter for the poor and needy. He that bringeth up his son
or the son of another, it is as though he hath brought up a son
of Mine; upon him rest My glory, My loving-kindness, My
mercy, that have compassed the world.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 48)

2.
It is permissible to study sciences and arts, but such
sciences as are useful and would redound to the progress and
advancement of the people.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 26)



3.
Knowledge is as wings to man’s life, and a ladder for
his ascent. Its acquisition is incumbent upon everyone.  The
knowledge of such sciences, however, should be acquired as
can profit the peoples of the earth, and not those which begin
with words and end with words. Great indeed is the claim of
scientists and craftsmen on the peoples of the world.  Unto

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


this beareth witness the Mother Book on the day of His
return.  Happy are those possessed of a hearing ear. In truth,
knowledge is a veritable treasure for man, and a source of
glory, of bounty, of joy, of exaltation, of cheer and gladness
unto him.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 51-52)





4.
That which hath streamed forth from the Most Exalted
Pen is conducive to the glory, the advancement and
education of all the peoples and kindreds of the earth.
Indeed it is the sovereign remedy for every disease, could
they but comprehend and perceive it.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 73)





5.     The learned of the day must direct the people to acquire
those branches of knowledge which are of use, that both the
learned themselves and the generality of mankind may derive
benefits therefrom.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 169)





6.
Man is the supreme Talisman. Lack of a proper
education hath, however, deprived him of that which he doth
inherently possess. Through a word proceeding out of the
mouth of God he was called into being; by one word more he
was guided to recognize the Source of his education; by yet
another word his station and destiny were safeguarded. The
Great Being saith: Regard man as a mine rich in gems of
inestimable value. Education can, alone, cause it to reveal its
treasures, and enable mankind to benefit therefrom.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 259-260)

7.
Strain every nerve to acquire both inner and outer
perfections, for the fruit of the human tree had ever been and
will ever be perfections both within and without.  It is not
desirable that a man be left without knowledge or skills, for

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


he is then but a barren tree.  Then, so much as capacity and
capability allow, ye needs must deck the tree of being with
fruits such as knowledge, wisdom, spiritual perception and
eloquent speech.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 3)


8.
The purpose of learning should be the promotion of
the welfare of the people, and this can be achieved through
crafts.  It hath been revealed and is now repeated that the
true worth of artists and craftsmen should be appreciated, for
they advance the affairs of mankind. Just as the foundations
of religion are made firm through the Law of God, the means
of livelihood depend upon those who are engaged in arts and
crafts.  True learning is that which is conducive to the well-
being of the world, not to pride and self-conceit, or to
tyranny, violence and pillage.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 4)


9.
It is incumbent upon the children to exert themselves
to the utmost in acquiring the art of reading and writing.
Writing skills that will provide for urgent needs will be
enough for some; and then it is better and more fitting that
they should spend their time in studying those branches of
knowledge which are of use.

As for what the Supreme Pen hath previously set down,
the reason is that in every art and skill, God loveth the
highest perfection.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 5)

10. We prescribe unto all men that which will lead to the
exaltation of the Word of God amongst His servants, and
likewise, to the advancement of the world of being and the
uplift of souls. To this end, the greatest means is education of
the child. To this must each and all hold fast.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Compilation of Compilations, Vol I, p.246)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


11.
There are many things which will, if neglected, be
wasted, and come to nothing. How often in this world do we
see a child who has lost his parents and who, unless attention
be devoted to his education and training, can produce no
fruit. And better off dead than alive is he who produceth no
fruit.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Compilation of Compilations, Vol I, pp. 247-248)

12. The question of training the children and looking after
the orphans is extremely important, but most important of
all is the education of girl children, for these girls will one day
be mothers, and the mother is the first teacher of the child. In
whatever way she reareth the child, so will the child become,
and the results of that first training will remain with the
individual throughout his entire life, and it would be most
difficult to alter them. And how can a mother, herself
ignorant and untrained, educate her child? It is therefore
clear that the education of girls is of far greater consequence
than that of boys. This fact is extremely important, and the
matter must be seen to with the greatest energy and
dedication.
God sayeth in the Qur’án that they shall not be equals, those
who have knowledge and those who have it not. Ignorance is
thus utterly to be blamed, whether in male or female; indeed,
in the female its harm is greater. I hope, therefore, that the
friends will make strenuous efforts to educate their children,
sons and daughters alike. This is verily the truth, and outside
the truth there is manifestly naught save perdition.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation of Compilations, Vol I, p. 286)






13.
In this new cycle, education and training are recorded
in the Book of God as obligatory and not voluntary.  That is,
it is enjoined upon the father and mother, as a duty, to strive
with all effort to train the daughter and the son, to nurse
them from the breast of knowledge and to rear them in the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


bosom of sciences and arts. Should they neglect this matter,
they shall be held responsible and worthy of reproach in the
presence of the stern Lord.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 126-127)





14.
It is incumbent upon the father and mother to train
their children both in good conduct and the study of books;
study, that is, to the degree required, so that no child,
whether girl or boy, will remain illiterate.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 127)


15.
The education and training of children is among the
most meritorious acts of humankind and draweth down the
grace and favour of the All-Merciful, for education is the
indispensable foundation of all human excellence and
alloweth man to work his way to the heights of abiding glory.
If a child be trained from his infancy, he will, through the
loving care of the Holy Gardener, drink in the crystal waters
of the spirit and of knowledge, like a young tree amid the
rilling brooks. And certainly he will gather to himself the
bright rays of the Sun of Truth, and through its lights and
heat will grow ever fresh and fair in the garden of life.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 129-130)


16.
According to explicit Holy Texts, every child must be
taught crafts and arts, to the degree that is needful.
Wherefore, in every city and village, schools must be
established and every child in that city or village is to engage
in study to the necessary degree.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 134-135)


17.
The best of all ways to worship Him is to educate the
children and train them in all the perfections of humankind;
and no nobler deed than this can be imagined.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 139)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


18.
And among the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is the
promotion of education. Every child must be instructed in
sciences as much as is necessary.  If the parents are able to
provide the expenses of this education, it is well, otherwise
the community must provide the means for the teaching of
that child.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 30)

19.
It has now been clearly and irrefutably shown that the
importation from foreign countries of the principles and
procedures of civilization, and the acquisition from them of
sciences and techniques—in brief, of whatsoever will
contribute to the general good - is entirely permissible.  This
has been done to focus public attention on a matter of such
universal advantage, so that the people may arise with all
their energies to further it...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 31-32)

20.   The primary, the most urgent requirement is the
promotion of education.  It is inconceivable that any nation
should achieve prosperity and success unless this paramount,
this fundamental concern is carried forward.  The principal
reason for the decline and fall of peoples is ignorance. Today
the mass of the people are uninformed even as to ordinary
affairs, how much less do they grasp the core of the
important problems and complex needs of the time.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 109)


21.
Observe carefully how education and the arts of
civilization bring honour, prosperity, independence and
freedom to a government and its people.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 111)

22.
But education is of three kinds: material, human, and
spiritual. Material education aims at the growth and
development of the body, and consists in securing its

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


sustenance and obtaining the means of its ease and comfort.
This education is common to both man and animal.
Human education, however, consists in civilization
and progress, that is, sound governance, social order, human
welfare, commerce and industry, arts and sciences,
momentous discoveries, and great undertakings, which are
the central features distinguishing man from the animal.
As to divine education, it is the education of the
Kingdom and consists in acquiring divine perfections. This is
indeed true education, for by its virtue man becomes the
focal centre of divine blessings and the embodiment of the
verse “Let Us make man in Our image, after Our likeness.”1
This is the ultimate goal of the world of humanity.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 9)

23.
Science is the first emanation from God toward man.
All created beings embody the potentiality of material
perfection, but the power of intellectual investigation and
scientific acquisition is a higher virtue specialized to man
alone. Other beings and organisms are deprived of this
potentiality and attainment. God has created or deposited
this love of reality in man. The development and progress of
a nation is according to the measure and degree of that
nation's scientific attainments. Through this means its
greatness is continually increased, and day by day the welfare
and prosperity of its people are assured.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 49)

24.
The fact which is to be considered, however, is that
woman, having formerly been deprived, must now be allowed
equal opportunities with man for education and training.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 76)

25.
Among other teachings and principles Bahá’u’lláh
counsels the education of all members of society.  No

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


individual should be denied or deprived of intellectual
training, although each should receive according to capacity.
None must be left in the grades of ignorance, for ignorance is
a defect in the human world. All mankind must be given a
knowledge of science and philosophy — that is, as much as
may be deemed necessary.  All cannot be scientists and
philosophers, but each should be educated according to his
needs and deserts.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 108)

26.
Bahá’u’lláh has announced that inasmuch as ignorance
and lack of education are barriers of separation among
mankind, all must receive training and instruction.  Through
this provision the lack of mutual understanding will be
remedied and the unity of mankind furthered and advanced.
Universal education is a universal law.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 300)

27. That is to say, man is rescued from the exigencies of
nature by training and culture; consequently, education is
necessary, obligatory. But education is of various kinds.
There is a training and development of the physical body
which ensures strength and growth. There is intellectual
education or mental training for which schools and colleges
are founded. The third kind of education is that of the spirit.
Through the breaths of the Holy Spirit man is uplifted into
the world of moralities and illumined by the lights of divine
bestowals. The moral world is only attained through the
effulgence of the Sun of Reality and the quickening life of the
divine spirit.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 330)

28.
… according to the Divine commandments, every child
must learn reading and writing, and acquire such branches of
knowledge as are useful and necessary, as well as learning an
art or skill.  The utmost care must be devoted to these

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


matters; any neglect of them, any failure to act on them, is
not permissible.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 16)

29.  O loving friends!  Exert every effort to acquire the
various branches of knowledge and true understanding.
Strain every nerve to achieve both material and spiritual
accomplishments.

Encourage the children from their earliest years to
master every kind of learning, and make them eager to
become skilled in every art — the aim being that through the
favouring grace of God, the heart of each one may become
even as a mirror disclosing the secrets of the universe,
penetrating the innermost reality of all things; and that each
may earn worldwide fame in all branches of knowledge,
science and the arts.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 20)

30.
...Once
they
have
become
skilled
in
these
fundamentals, let them go on to learning the elements of
other branches of knowledge, and once they have completed
this study, let each one who is able and has a keen desire for
it, enroll in higher institutions of learning and study
advanced courses in the sciences and arts.

Not all, however, will be able to engage in these
advanced studies. Therefore, such children must be sent to
industrial schools where they can also acquire technical
skills, and once the child becometh proficient in such a skill,
then let consideration be given to the child’s own preferences
and inclinations.  If the child hath a liking for commerce,
then let him choose commerce; if for industry, then industry;
if for higher education, then the advancement of knowledge;
if for some other of the responsibilities of humankind, then
that. Let him be placed in that field for which he hath an
inclination, a desire and a talent.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



But the indispensable basis of all is that he should
develop spiritual characteristics and the praiseworthy virtues
of humankind. This is the primary consideration.  If a person
be unlettered, and yet clothed with Divine excellence, and
alive in the breaths of the Spirit, that individual will
contribute to the welfare of society, and his inability to read
and write will do him no harm.  And if a person be versed in
the arts and every branch of knowledge, and not live a
religious life, and not take on the characteristics of God, and
not be directed by a pure intent, and be engrossed in the life
of the flesh—then he is harm personified and nothing will
come of all his learning and intellectual accomplishments but
scandal and torment.

If,
however,
an
individual
hath
spiritual
characteristics, and virtues that shine out, and his purpose in
life be spiritual and his inclinations be directed toward God,
and he also study other branches of knowledge—then we
have light upon light:  his outer being luminous, his private
character radiant, his heart sound, his thought elevated, his
understanding swift, his rank noble.
Blessed is he who attaineth this exalted station.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 32)

31.
The education of each child is compulsory ...In
addition to this widespread education each child must be
taught a profession, art, or trade, so that every member of the
community will be enabled to earn his own livelihood.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 47)

32.
Religion and science are the two wings upon which
man’s intelligence can soar into the heights, with which the
human soul can progress. It is not possible to fly with one
wing alone! Should a man try to fly with the wing of religion
alone he would quickly fall into the quagmire of superstition,
whilst on the other hand, with the wing of science alone he

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


would also make no progress, but fall into the despairing
slough of materialism.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 143)

33.
Among the sacred obligations devolving upon the
Spiritual Assemblies is the promotion of learning, the
establishing of schools and creation of the necessary
academic equipment and facilities for every boy and girl.
Every child without exception must from his earliest
years make a thorough study of the art of reading and
writings, and according to his own tastes and inclinations
and the degree of his capacity and powers, devote extreme
diligence to the acquisition of learning, beneficial arts and
skills,
various
languages,
speech,
and
contemporary
technology.

To assist the children of the poor in the attainment of
these accomplishments, and particularly in learning the basic
subjects, is incumbent upon the members of the Spiritual
Assemblies, and is accounted as one of the obligations laid
upon the conscience of the trustees of God in every land.

‘He that bringeth up his son or the son of another, it is
as though he hath brought up a son of Mine; upon him rest
My Glory, My loving-kindness, My Mercy, that have
compassed the world.’
(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, pp. 49-50)






34.
The training which a child first receives through his
mother constitutes the strongest foundation for his future
development
(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 57)

35.
There can be no improvement unless the girls are
brought up in schools and centres of learning, unless they are
taught the sciences and other branches of knowledge, and
unless they acquire the manifold arts, as necessary, and are

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


divinely trained. For the day will come when these girls will
become mothers. Mothers are the first educators of children,
who establish virtues in the child's inner nature. They
encourage the child to acquire perfections and goodly
manners, warn him against unbecoming qualities, and
encourage him to show forth resolve, firmness, and
endurance under hardship, and to advance on the high road
to progress. Due regard for the education of girls is,
therefore, necessary. This is a very important subject, and it
should be administered and organized under the aegis of the
Spiritual Assembly.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 20)

36.    Bahá'u'lláh considered education as one of the most
fundamental factors of a true civilization. This education,
however, in order to be adequate and fruitful should be
comprehensive in nature and should take into consideration
not only the physical and the intellectual side of man but also
his spiritual and ethical aspects. This should be the program
of the Bahá'í youth all over the world.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 9 July 1931)






37.      It is the duty of those who are in charge of the
organization of society to give every individual the
opportunity of acquiring the necessary talent in some kind of
profession, and also the means of utilizing such a talent, both
for its own sake and for the sake of earning the means of his
livelihood.
(Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian, p. 74)






38.
The Bahá’í community will need men and women of
many skills and qualifications; for, as it grows in size the
sphere of its activities in the life of society will increase and
diversify.
(Universal House of Justice. Wellspring of Guidance, p. 95)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


39.
The cause of universal education, which has already
enlisted in its service an army of dedicated people from every
Faith and nation, deserves the utmost support that the
governments of the world can lend it.  For ignorance is
indisputably the principle reason for the decline and fall of
peoples and the perpetuation of prejudice.  No nation can
achieve success unless education is accorded all its citizens.
Lack of resources limits the ability to many nations to fulfil
this necessity, imposing a certain ordering of priorities.
(Universal House of Justice. The Promise of World Peace, p. 12)

40.  Our children need to be nurtured spiritually and to be
integrated into the life of the Cause.  They should not be left
to drift in a world so laden with moral dangers.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 2000)

41.   Spiritual education of children and junior youth are of
paramount importance to the further progress of the
community.  It is therefore imperative that this deficiency be
remedied.  Institutes must be certain to include in their
programmes the training of teachers of children’s classes,
who can make their services available to local communities.
But although providing spiritual and academic education for
children is essential, this represents only a part of what must
go into developing their characters and shaping their
personalities.  The necessity exists, too, for individuals and
the institutions at all levels, which is to say the community as
a whole, to show a proper attitude towards children and to
take a general interest in their welfare.  Such an attitude
should be far removed from that of a rapidly declining order.

Children are the most precious treasure a community
can possess, for in them are the promise and guarantee of the
future. They bear the seeds of the character of future society
which is largely shaped by what the adults constituting the
community do or fail to do with respect to children.  They are

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


a trust no community can neglect with impunity.  An all-
embracing love of children, the manner of treating them, the
quality of the attention shown them, the spirit of adult
behaviour toward them—these are all among the vital aspects
of the requisite attitude.  Love demands discipline, the
courage to accustom children to hardship, not to indulge
their whims or leave them entirely to their own devices.  An
atmosphere needs to be maintained in which children feel
that they belong to the community and share in its purpose.
They must lovingly but insistently be guided to live up to
Bahá’í   standards, to study and teach the Cause in ways that
are suited to their circumstances.

Among the young ones in the community are those
known as junior youth, who fall between the ages of, say, 12
and 15.  They represent a special group with special needs as
they are somewhat in between childhood and youth when
many changes are occurring within them. Creative attention
must be devoted to involving them in programmes of activity
that will engage their interests, mold their capacities for
teaching and service, and involve them in social interaction
with older youth.  The employment of the arts in various
forms can be of great value in such activity.

And now we wish to address a few words to parents
who bear the primary responsibility for the upbringing of
their children.  We appeal to them to give constant attention
to the spiritual education of their children.  Some parents
appear to think that this is the exclusive responsibility of the
community; others believe that in order to preserve the
independence of children to investigate truth, the Faith
should not be taught to them.  Still others feel inadequate to
take on such a task.  None of this is correct.  The beloved
Master has said that “it is enjoined upon the father and
mother, as a duty, to strive with all effort to train the
daughter and the son,” adding that, “should they neglect this
matter, they shall be held responsible and worthy of reproach

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


in the presence of the stern Lord.”  Independent of the level
of their education, parents are in a critical position to shape
the spiritual development of their children.  They should not
ever underestimate their capacity to mold their children’s
moral character.  For they exercise indispensable influence
through the home environment they consciously create by
their love of God, their striving to adhere to His laws, their
spirit of service to His Cause, their lack of fanaticism, and
their freedom from the corrosive effects of backbiting.  Every
parent who is a believer in the Blessed Beauty has the
responsibility to conduct herself or himself in such a way as
to elicit the spontaneous obedience to parents to which the
Teachings attach so high a value.  Of course, in addition to
the efforts made at home, the parents should support Baha’i
children’s classes provided by the community.  It must be
borne in mind, too, that children live in a world that informs
them of harsh realities through direct experience with the
horrors already described or through the unavoidable
outpourings of the mass media.  Many of them are thereby
forced to mature prematurely, and among these are those
who look for standards and discipline by which to guide their
lives.  Against this gloomy backdrop of a decadent society,
Bahá’í children should shine as the emblems of a better
future.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 2000)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


17.   Harmony of science and religion

There is no contradiction between true religion and science.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
Religion and Science are inter-twined with each other
and cannot be separated. These are the two wings with which
humanity must fly. One wing is not enough. Every religion
which does not concern itself with Science is mere tradition,
and that is not the essential. Therefore science, education
and civilization are most important necessities for the full
religious life.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, pp. 28-29)

2.
There is no contradiction between true religion and
science. When a religion is opposed to science it becomes
mere superstition: that which is contrary to knowledge is
ignorance.
How can a man believe to be a fact that which science has
proved to be impossible? If he believes in spite of his reason,
it is rather ignorant superstition than faith. The true
principles of all religions are in conformity with the teachings
of science.
The Unity of God is logical, and this idea is not
antagonistic to the conclusions arrived at by scientific
study.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 141)

3.
Consider what it is that singles man out from among
created beings, and makes of him a creature apart. Is it not
his reasoning power, his intelligence? Shall he not make use

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


of these in his study of religion? I say unto you: weigh
carefully in the balance of reason and science everything that
is presented to you as religion. If it passes this test, then
accept it, for it is truth! If, however, it does not so conform,
then reject it, for it is ignorance!
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 144)

4.
God made religion and science to be the measure, as it
were, of our understanding. Take heed that you neglect not
such a wonderful power. Weigh all things in this balance.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 145)

5.
We may think of science as one wing and religion as the
other; a bird needs two wings for flight, one alone would be
useless. Any religion that contradicts science or that is
opposed to it, is only ignorance - for ignorance is the opposite
of knowledge.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp.130-131)

6.
Science is the first emanation from God toward man.
All created beings embody the potentiality of material
perfection, but the power of intellectual investigation and
scientific acquisition is a higher virtue specialized to man
alone. Other beings and organisms are deprived of this
potentiality and attainment. God has created or deposited
this love of reality in man. The development and progress of
a nation is according to the measure and degree of that
nation's scientific attainments. Through this means its
greatness is continually increased, and day by day the welfare
and prosperity of its people are assured.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 49)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


18.      Human Resource Development

A function of Bahá’í Institutions is to arise and maintain a
process of developing human resources, ...training institutes
is critical to such effort.
Universal House of Justice

1.    Towards ensuring an orderly evolution of the community,
a function of Bahá’í institutions is to arise and maintain a
process of developing human resources whereby Bahá’ís, new
and veteran alike, can acquire the knowledge and capacity to
sustain a continuous expansion and consolidation of the
community. The establishment of training institutes is
critical to such effort, since they are centres through which
large numbers of individuals can acquire and improve their
ability to teach and administer the Faith. Their existence
underscores the importance of knowledge of the Faith as a
source of power for invigorating the life of the Bahá’í
community and of the individuals who compose it.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1998)

2.
As your community grows, you will find that its needs
in terms of human resources will increase and diversify
commensurately. Your permanent institute will have to
design courses of various durations to train believers to carry
out a wide range of activities... The development of such
courses, whether based on materials already available or
newly elaborated ones, is an indispensable component in an
ongoing consolidation process. The content and duration of
each course can best be determined in actual practice and
should be the result of constant reflection on the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


effectiveness of your institute programs in developing the
capabilities of the friends to serve the Cause.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 25 September 1994)

3.
With the growth in the number of enrollments, it has
become apparent that such occasional courses of instruction
and the informal activities of community life, though
important, are not sufficient as a means of human resource
development, for they have resulted in only a relatively small
band of active supporters of the Cause. These believers, no
matter how dedicated, no matter how willing to make
sacrifices, cannot attend to the needs of hundreds, much less
thousands, of fledgling local communities. Systematic
attention has to be given by Bahá’í institutions to training a
significant number of believers and assisting them in serving
the Cause according to their God-given talents and
capacities.
The development of human resources on a large scale
requires that the establishment of institutes be viewed in a
new light.
(Universal House of Justice. Four Year Plan, sections 1.13, 1.14)

4.
Your past exploits were largely the result of the
incessant labors of a comparatively few consecrated believers
who devoted their time and resources to the spread of the
Cause in locality after locality. If you are to sustain rapid
expansion and consolidation in the coming years, it is
imperative that far greater numbers of dedicated and
committed souls arise to promote these twin processes.
Training courses — widespread, regular and well-organized
— constitute the most effective means to mobilize believers
on the scale required.
(Universal House of Justice. Four Year Plan, section 10.9)

5.
As the term "institute" has assumed various uses in the
Bahá’í community, a word of clarification is needed. The next

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


four years will represent an extraordinary period in the
history of our Faith, a turning point of epochal magnitude.
What the friends throughout the world are now being
asked to do is to commit themselves, their material
resources, their abilities and their time to the development of
a network of training institutes on a scale never before
attempted. These centers of Bahá’í learning will have as their
goal one very practical outcome, namely, the raising up of
large numbers of believers who are trained to foster and
facilitate the process of entry by troops with efficiency and
love.
(Universal House of Justice. Four Year Plan, section 3.8)

5.   Training programs, with which many of your
communities have considerable experience, constitute a most
potent instrument for the accomplishment of such a vast
mobilization. We call upon you, then, to support the work of
the training institutes in your countries, the more
experienced among you giving generously of their time as
teachers so that courses can be offered widely and
consistently. As you acquire new knowledge and skills
through these programs, you will be able to put into practice
with enthusiasm and zeal what you have learned, and arise to
shoulder the manifold responsibilities that accelerated
expansion and consolidation demand.
(Universal House of Justice. Four Year Plan, section 6.4)

7.
The will and determination needed to sustain large-
scale expansion and consolidation can be created through a
consistent and widespread institute program aimed at
exposing growing contingents of believers to the Creative
Word, thus enhancing their spiritual capacities to diffuse the
light of the Faith and to further the development of its
institutions.
(Universal House of Justice. Four Year Plan, section 11.7)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


8.
As an agency of the National Spiritual Assembly, the
training institute should be charged with the task of
developing human resources in all or part of a country. The
requirements of expansion and consolidation in the country
or region will dictate the complexity of its organization. In
some instances, the institute may consist of a group of
dedicated believers with a well-defined program and some
administrative arrangement that enables it to offer regular
training courses. In many cases, in addition to a group of
teachers associated with it, the institute will require part -
and full-time staff, for whom assistance from the funds of the
Faith may be necessary. The institute needs access to some
physical facilities in which it can conduct courses and, at
some stage of its development, may require a building of its
own.... The complexity and number of courses offered by an
institute, as well as the size of its staff and the pool of
teachers from which it draws, may call for the appointment
of a board to direct its affairs. When the region under the
influence of an institute is large, it may have branches
serving specific areas, each with its own administration...
(Universal House of Justice. Four Year Plan, sections 1.16, 1.19)

9.
In many regions, it has become imperative to create
institutes
as
organizational
structures
dedicated
to
systematic training. The purpose of such training is to endow
ever-growing contingents of believers with the spiritual
insights, the knowledge, and the skills needed to carry out
the many tasks of accelerated expansion and consolidation,
including the teaching and deepening of a large number of
people-adults, youth and children. This purpose can best be
achieved through well-organized, formal programs consisting
of courses that follow appropriately designed curricula...
(Universal House of Justice. Four Year Plan, sections 1.15, 1.19)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


10.  What the friends throughout the world are now being
asked to do is to commit themselves, their material
resources, their abilities and their time to the development of
a network of training institutes on a scale never before
attempted.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1996)

11.
Three developments brighten our expectations.  One is
in the solid results being produced wherever training
institutes are in operation.  Tens of thousands of individuals
have over the last two years completed at least one institute
course.  The immediate effects upon them have been a greatly
strengthened faith, a more conscious spiritual identity, and a
deepened commitment to Bahá’í service.  The second
pertains to the notable improvement in the conditions
affecting the establishment and renewal of Local Spiritual
Assemblies. …The third is that a new confidence in teaching
is stirring the friends, yielding impressive results in various
regions.  The potential for a steady and ever-expanding influx
of new believers has always been great, and we are able to say
with assurance that the capacity to actualize it is
methodically being developed more than ever before with the
prosecution of the current Plan.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1998)

12.
The Cause of Bahá’u’lláh marches on resistlessly,
quickened by the increasing application of an approach to the
development
and
use
of
human
resources
that
is
systematic.  The further creation of national and regional
training institutes, now numbering 344, has pressed this
development forward, with the result that, apart from North
America and Iran where numerous courses have been given,
some 70,000 individuals have already completed at least one
institute course.  All of this is contributing to a growing body
of
confirmed,
active
supporters
of
the
Cause. …

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Understanding of the necessity for systematization in the
development of human resources is everywhere taking hold.

The ever-expanding work in social and economic
development is also benefiting from the operation of those
training institutes that give attention to such subjects as
literacy, primary health care and the advancement of women.
The more widespread efforts of the Office of Social and
Economic Development to promote a global process of
learning about relevant Bahá’í principles are enhanced by the
work of these institutes, as well as by the rise of Bahá’í -
inspired
organizations
scattered
throughout
the
planet.  Clearly, then, the institutional capacity to administer
development programmes is gaining in strength.  This is
apparent in projects sponsored by Bahá’í institutions or
initiated by individuals through the inspiration of the Faith.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1999)

13.    Reports indicate that the number of believers benefiting
directly from training courses has climbed to nearly
100,000.  Without question, the capacity of the worldwide
community to develop its human resources has been
distinctly enhanced. The effects of this systematic approach
to human resource development are making themselves felt
in the lives of all three protagonists of the Plan — the
individual
believer,
the
institutions,
and
the
local
community.  There has been an upsurge in teaching activities
undertaken at the initiative of the individual.  Spiritual
Assemblies, Councils, and committees have grown in their
ability to guide the believers in their individual and collective
endeavours. And community life has flourished, even in
localities long dormant, as new patterns of thought and
behaviour have emerged.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 26 November 1999)

14.
During the second half of the Five Year Plan, the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


society-building power of the Faith must be released within
thousands of clusters where programs of growth need to be
initiated, reinforced, or extended.  The challenge for Bahá’í
institutions and their agencies will be to furnish the means to
accompany all those who cherish a pure and earnest desire
for a better world, whatever their degree of involvement in
the process of spiritual education so far, and help them
translate that desire into the practical steps that day by day
and week by week accrete to build vibrant, flourishing
communities.
(Universal House of Justice. 5 December 2013 to Bahá’ís of the World)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


19.  The role of family in economics

Family … as an economic unit it can play a significant part
in alleviating a variety of problems born of the economic
inequalities so prevalent in the world today.
Universal House of Justice

1.
The fruits that best befit the tree of human life are
trustworthiness and godliness, truthfulness and sincerity; but
greater than all, after recognition of the unity of God, praised
and glorified be He, is regard for the rights that are due to
one’s parents.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 106)

2.
My home is the home of peace. My home is the home of
joy and delight. My home is the home of laughter and
exultation. Whosoever enters through the portals of this
home, must go out with gladsome heart. This is the home of
light; whosoever enters here must become illumined....
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation of Compilations, Vol I, p. 397)

3.
Note ye how easily, where unity existeth in a given
family, the affairs of that family are conducted; what progress
the members of that family make, how they prosper in the
world. Their concerns are in order, they enjoy comfort and
tranquillity, they are secure, their position is assured, they
come to be envied by all. Such a family but addeth to its
stature and its lasting honour, as day succeedeth day. And if
we widen out the sphere of unity a little to include the
inhabitants of a village who seek to be loving and united, who
associate with and are kind to one another, what great

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


advances they will be seen to make, how secure and protected
they will be. Then let us widen out the sphere a little more, let
us take the inhabitants of a city, all of them together: if they
establish the strongest bonds of unity among themselves,
how far they will progress, even in a brief period and what
power they will exert. And if the sphere of unity be still
further widened out, that is, if the inhabitants of a whole
country develop peaceable hearts, and if with all their hearts
and souls they yearn to cooperate with one another and to
live in unity, and if they become kind and loving to one
another, that country will achieve undying joy and lasting
glory. Peace will it have, and plenty, and vast wealth.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 279)

4.
If love and agreement are manifest in a single family,
that family will advance, become illumined and spiritual; but
if enmity and hatred exist within it, destruction and
dispersion are inevitable. This is, likewise, true of a city. If
those who dwell within it manifest a spirit of accord and
fellowship, it will progress steadily and human conditions
become brighter, whereas through enmity and strife it will be
degraded and its inhabitants scattered. In the same way, the
people of a nation develop and advance toward civilization
and enlightenment through love and accord and are
disintegrated by war and strife. Finally, this is true of
humanity itself in the aggregate. When love is realized and
the ideal spiritual bonds unite the hearts of men, the whole
human race will be uplifted, the world will continually grow
more spiritual and radiant and the happiness and tranquillity
of mankind be immeasurably increased. Warfare and strife
will be uprooted, disagreement and dissension pass away and
universal peace unite the nations and peoples of the world.
All mankind will dwell together as one family, blend as the
waves of one sea, shine as stars of one firmament and appear
as fruits of the same tree. This is the happiness and felicity of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


humankind. This is the illumination of man, the eternal glory
and everlasting life; this is the divine bestowal. I desire this
station for you, and I pray God that the people of America
may achieve this great end in order that the virtue of this
democracy may be ensured and their names be glorified
eternally. May the confirmations of God uphold them in all
things and their memories become revered throughout the
East and the West. May they become the servants of the Most
High God, near and dear to Him in the oneness of the
heavenly Kingdom.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 144-145)

5.
Compare the nations of the world to the members of a
family. A family is a nation in miniature. Simply enlarge the
circle of the household, and you have the nation. Enlarge the
circle of nations, and you have all humanity. The conditions
surrounding the family surround the nation. The happenings
in the family are the happenings in the life of the nation.
Would it add to the progress and advancement of a family if
dissensions should arise among its members, all fighting,
pillaging each other, jealous and revengeful of injury, seeking
selfish advantage? Nay, this would be the cause of the
effacement of progress and advancement. So it is in the great
family of nations, for nations are but an aggregate of families.
Therefore, as strife and dissension destroy a family and
prevent its progress, so nations are destroyed and
advancement hindered.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 157)

6.
Today the world of humanity is walking in darkness
because it is out of touch with the world of God.  That is why
we do not see the signs of God in the hearts of men. The
power of the Holy Spirit has no influence. When a divine
spiritual illumination becomes manifest in the world of
humanity, when divine instruction and guidance appear,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


...Then will the justice of God become manifest, all humanity
will appear as the members of one family, and every member
of that family will be consecrated to cooperation and mutual
assistance.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 305)

7.
When you love a member of your family or a
compatriot, let it be with a ray of the Infinite Love! Let it be
in God, and for God! Wherever you find the attributes of God
love that person, whether he be of your family or of another.
Shed the light of a boundless love on every human being
whom you meet, whether of your country, your race, your
political party, or of any other nation, colour or shade of
political opinion. Heaven will support you while you work in
this in-gathering of the scattered peoples of the world
beneath the shadow of the almighty tent of unity.
(Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 38)

8.
The mystery of this phenomenon, the cause thereof is
this, that mankind has been created from one single origin,
has branched off from one family. Thus in reality all mankind
represents one family. God has not created any difference.
He has created all as one that thus this family might live in
perfect happiness and well-being.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity, p. 38)

9.
Is it possible for one member of a family to be
subjected to the utmost misery and to abject poverty and for
the rest of the family to be comfortable? It is impossible
unless those members of the family be senseless, atrophied,
inhospitable, unkind. Then they would say, “Though these
members do belong to our family — let them alone. Let us
look after ourselves.  Let them die. So long as I am
comfortable, I am honored, I am happy — this my brother —
let him die. If he be in misery let him remain in misery, so
long as I am comfortable. If he is hungry let him remain so; I

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


am satisfied.  If he is without clothes, so long as I am clothed,
let him remain as he is.  If he is shelterless, homeless, so long
as I have a home, let him remain in the wilderness.”
Such utter indifference in the human family is due to
lack of control, to lack of a working law, to lack of kindness in
its midst.  If kindness had been shown to the members of this
family surely all the members thereof would have enjoyed
comfort and happiness.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 38-39)

10.
The purport is this that we are all inhabiting one globe
of earth.  In reality, we are one family and each one of us is a
member of this family.  We must all be in the greatest
happiness and comfort, under a just rule and regulation
which is according to the good pleasure of God, thus causing
us to be happy, for this life is fleeting.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 38-39)

11.
Consider the harmful effects of discord and dissension
in a family; then reflect upon the favours and blessings which
descend upon that family when unity exists among its various
members. What incalculable benefits and blessings would
descend upon the great human family if unity and
brotherhood were established! In this century when the
beneficient results of unity and the ill effects of discord are so
clearly apparent, the means for the attainment and
accomplishment of human fellowship have appeared in the
world. His Holiness Baha'u'llah has proclaimed and provided
the way by which hostility and dissension may be removed
from the human world. He has left no ground or possibility
for strife and disagreement. First, He has proclaimed the
oneness of mankind and specialized religious teachings for
existing human conditions.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 230)

12. It is highly important for man to raise a family. So long

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


as he is young, because of youthful self-complacency, he does
not realize its significance, but this will be a source of regret
when he grows old.... In this glorious Cause, the life of a
married couple should resemble the life of the angels in
heaven - a life full of joy and spiritual delight, a life of unity
and concord, a friendship both mental and physical. The
home should be orderly and well-organized. Their ideas and
thoughts should be like the rays of the sun of truth and the
radiance of the brilliant stars in the heavens. Even as two
birds they should warble melodies upon the branches of the
tree of fellowship and harmony. They should always be elated
with joy and gladness and be a source of happiness to the
hearts of others. They should set an example to their fellow-
men, manifest a true and sincere love towards each other and
educate their children in such a manner as to blazon the fame
and glory of their family.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation of Compilations, Vol I, p. 397)

13. According to the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh the family,
being a human unit, must be educated according to the rules
of sanctity. All the virtues must be taught the family. The
integrity of the family bond must be constantly considered,
and the rights of the individual members must not be
transgressed. The rights of the son, the father, the mother--
none of them must be transgressed, none of them must be
arbitrary. Just as the son has certain obligations to his father,
the father, likewise, has certain obligations to his son. The
mother, the sister and other members of the household have
their certain prerogatives. All these rights and prerogatives
must be conserved, yet the unity of the family must be
sustained. The injury of one shall be considered the injury of
all; the comfort of each, the comfort of all; the honor of one,
the honor of all.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 168)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


14.
It represents the consummation of human evolution—
an evolution that has had its earliest beginnings in the birth
of family life, its subsequent development in the achievement
of tribal solidarity, leading in turn to the constitution of the
city-state, and expanding later into the institution of
independent and sovereign nations.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 43)
15.
The ages of its infancy and childhood are past, never
again to return, while the Great Age, the consummation of all
ages, which must signalize the coming of age of the entire
human race, is yet to come. The convulsions of this
transitional and most turbulent period in the annals of
humanity are the essential prerequisites, and herald the
inevitable approach, of that Age of Ages, "the time of the
end," in which the folly and tumult of strife that has, since
the dawn of history, blackened the annals of mankind, will
have been finally transmuted into the wisdom and the
tranquility of an undisturbed, a universal, and lasting peace,
in which the discord and separation of the children of men
will have given way to the worldwide reconciliation, and the
complete unification of the divers elements that constitute
human society. This will indeed be the fitting climax of that
process of integration which, starting with the family, the
smallest unit in the scale of human organization, must, after
having called successively into being the tribe, the city-state,
and the nation, continue to operate until it culminates in the
unification of the whole world, the final object and the
crowning glory of human evolution on this planet. It is this
stage which humanity, willingly or unwillingly, is resistlessly
approaching.... Just as the organic evolution of mankind has
been slow and gradual, and involved successively the
unification of the family, the tribe, the city-state, and the
nation, so has the light vouchsafed by the Revelation of God,
at various stages in the evolution of religion, and reflected in
the successive Dispensations of the past, been slow and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


progressive. Indeed, the measure of Divine Revelation, in
every age, has been adapted to, and commensurate with, the
degree of social progress achieved in that age by a constantly
evolving humanity.
(Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, p. 117)

16. With regard to your question whether mothers should
work outside the home, it is helpful to consider the matter
from the perspective of the concept of a Bahá’í family. This
concept is based on the principle that the man has primary
responsibility for the financial support of the family, and the
woman is the chief and primary educator of the children.
This by no means implies that these functions are inflexibly
fixed and cannot be changed and adjusted to suit particular
family situations, nor does it mean that the place of the
woman is confined to the home. Rather, while primary
responsibility is assigned, it is anticipated that fathers would
play a significant role in the education of the children and
women could also be breadwinners. As you rightly indicated,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá encouraged women to 'participate fully and
equally in the affairs of the world'.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated August 9, 1984 to an individual
believer)

17.
The organic growth of the Cause of God, indicated by
recent significant development in its life, becomes markedly
apparent in the light of the main objectives and expectations
of the Six Year Plan; a vast expansion of the numerical and
financial resources of the Cause; enlargement of its status in
the world; a worldwide increase in the production,
distribution and use of Bahá’í literature; a firmer and
worldwide demonstration of the Bahá’í way of life requiring
special consideration of the Bahá’í education of children and
youth, the strengthening of Bahá’í family life and attention to
universal participation and the spiritual enrichment of
individual life; further acceleration in the process of the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


maturation of local and national Bahá’í communities and a
dynamic consolidation of the unity of the two arms of the
Administrative Order; an extension of the involvement of the
Bahá’í world community in the needs of the world around it;
and the pursuit of social and economic development in well-
established Bahá’í communities.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 6 January 1986)

18.
A community is of course more than the sum of its
membership; it is a comprehensive unit of civilization
composed of individuals, families and institutions that are
originators and encouragers of systems, agencies and
organizations working together with a common purpose for
the welfare of people both within and beyond its own
borders; it is a composition of diverse, interacting
participants that are achieving unity in an unremitting quest
for spiritual and social progress. Since Bahá'ís everywhere
are at the very beginning of the process of community
building, enormous effort must be devoted to the tasks at
hand.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 1996 to the Bahá’ís of the World, p. 6)

19.
In our Letter to you of 24 November 2009, we
addressed the subject of the family and its role in the
advancement of civilization, drawing attention to the need to
rear children that see their own welfare as inseparable from
the welfare of others. While stressing the importance of
family solidarity, particularly as it pertains to social progress,
we called for caution in this respect, lest devotion to family
interests diminish one’s commitment to justice and
compassion for all or provide an excuse for perpetuating a
harmful mentality of “us and them”. Many, indeed, are the
ways in which the family can contribute to the life of society—
for example, as an economic unit it can play a significant part
in alleviating a variety of problems born of the economic

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


inequalities so prevalent in the world today.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 April 2010 to the Bahá’ís of
Iran)

20.
The family unit offers an ideal setting within which can
be shaped those moral attributes that contribute to an
appropriate view of material wealth and its utilization.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 April 2010 to the Bahá’ís of
Iran)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


20.
Equality between man and woman

Until the reality of equality between man and woman is
fully established and attained, the highest social
development of mankind is not possible.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.   ... force is losing its weight and mental alertness,
intuition, and the spiritual qualities of love and service, in
which woman is strong, are gaining ascendency. Hence the
new age will be an age less masculine, and more permeated
with the feminine ideals— or, to speak more exactly, will be
an age in which the masculine and feminine elements of
civilization will be more evenly balanced.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 13)

2.   The world of humanity is possessed of two wings: the
male and the female. So lone as these two wings are not
equivalent in strength, the bird will not fly. Until womankind
reaches the same degree as man, until she enjoys the same
arena of activity, extraordinary attainment for humanity will
not be realized, humanity cannot wing its way to heights of
real attainment.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 20)

3.    ... there must be no difference in the education of male
and female in order that womankind may develop equal
capacity and importance with man in the social and
economic equation.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 37)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4.    ... it is well established in history that where woman has
not participated in human affairs the outcomes have never
attained a state of completion and perfection. On the other
hand, every influential undertaking of the human world
wherein woman has been a participant has attained
importance.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 37)

5.    ...as woman advances toward the degree of man in power
and privilege, with the right of vote and control in human
government, most assuredly war will cease.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 39)

6.    ... recognition of equality in the social and economic
equation.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 39)

7.    ... it is incumbent upon the girls of this glorious era to be
fully versed in the various branches of knowledge, in sciences
and the arts and all the wonders of this pre-eminent time,
that they may then educate their children and train them
from their earliest days in the ways of perfection.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 49)


8.
In this wondrous Dispensation the favours of the
Glorious Lord are vouchsafed unto the handmaidens of the
Merciful. Therefore, they should, like unto men, seize the
prize and excel in the field, so that it will be proven and made
manifest that the penetrative influence of the Word of God in
this new Dispensation hath caused women to be equal with
men, and that in the arena of tests they will outdo others...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 49)

9.
From the beginning of existence until the present day,
in any of the past cycles and dispensations, no assemblies for
women have ever been established and classes for the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


purpose of spreading the teachings were never held by them.
This is one of the characteristics of this glorious Dispensation
and this great century. Ye should, most certainly, strive to
perfect this assemblage and increase your knowledge of the
realities of heavenly mysteries, so that, God willing, in a short
time, women will become the same as men; they will take a
leading position amongst the learned, will each have a fluent
tongue and eloquent speech, and shine like unto lamps of
guidance throughout the world. In some respects, women
have astonishing capacities; they hasten in their attraction to
God, and are intense in their fiery ardour for Him.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, pp. 49-50)

10.
Until the reality of equality between man and woman
is fully established and attained, the highest social
development of mankind is not possible. Even granted that
woman is inferior to man in some degree of capacity or
accomplishment, this or any other distinction would
continue to be productive of discord and trouble. The only
remedy is education, opportunity; for equality means equal
qualification....

And let it be known once more that until woman and
man recognize and realize equality, social and political
progress here or anywhere will not be possible.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 76-77)


11.
... the principle of religion has been revealed by
Bahá’u’lláh that woman must be given the privilege of equal
education with man and full right to his Prerogatives.  That is
to say, there must be no difference in the education of male
and female in order that womankind may develop equal
capacity and importance with man in the social and
economic equation. Then the world will attain unity and
harmony. In past ages humanity has been defective and
inefficient because it has been incomplete. War and its

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


ravages have blighted the world; the education of woman will
be a mighty step toward its abolition and ending, for she will
use her whole influence against war. Woman rears the child
and educates the youth to maturity.  She will refuse to give
her sons for sacrifice upon the field of battle.  In truth, she
will be the greatest factor in establishing universal peace and
international arbitration. Assuredly, woman will abolish
warfare among mankind. Inasmuch as human society
consists of two parts, the male and female, each the
complement of the other, the happiness and stability of
humanity cannot be assured unless both are perfected.
Therefore, the standard and status of man and woman must
become equalized.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 108)

12.
The conditions in past centuries were due to woman’s
lack of opportunity.  She was denied the right and privilege of
education and left in her undeveloped state.  Naturally, she
could not and did not advance.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 133)

13.
So it will come to pass that when women participate
fully and equally in the affairs of the world, when they enter
confidently and capably the great arena of laws and politics,
war will cease...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 135)

14. In proclaiming the oneness of mankind, He taught that
men and women are equal in the sight of God and that there
is no distinction to be made between them. The only
difference between them now is due to lack of education and
training. If woman is given equal opportunity of education,
distinction and estimate of inferiority will disappear. The
world of humanity has two wings, as it were: One is the
female; the other is the male. If one wing be defective, the
strong perfect wing will not be capable of flight. The world of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


humanity has two hands. If one be imperfect, the capable
hand is restricted and unable to perform its duties. God is the
Creator of mankind. He has endowed both sexes with
perfections and intelligence, given them physical members
and organs of sense, without differentiation or distinction as
to superiority; therefore, why should woman be considered
inferior? This is not according to the plan and justice of God.
He has created them equal; in His estimate there is no
question of sex. The one whose heart is purest, whose deeds
are most perfect, is acceptable to God, male or female...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 174)

15.
When all mankind shall receive the same opportunity of
education and the equality of men and women be realized,
the foundations of war will be utterly destroyed. Without
equality this will be impossible because all differences and
distinction are conducive to discord and strife. Equality
between men and women is conducive to the abolition of
warfare for the reason that women will never be willing to
sanction it. Mothers will not give their sons as sacrifices upon
the battlefield after twenty years of anxiety and loving
devotion in rearing them from infancy, no matter what cause
they are called upon to defend. There is no doubt that when
women obtain equality of rights, war will entirely cease
among mankind.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.175)

16.
Woman’s lack of progress and proficiency has been
due to her need of equal education and opportunity. Had she
been allowed this equality, there is no doubt she would be the
counterpart of man in ability and capacity. The happiness of
mankind will be realized when women and men coordinate
and advance equally, for each is the complement and
helpmeet of the other.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 182)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics





17.
Woman must especially devote her energies and
abilities toward the industrial and agricultural sciences,
seeking to assist mankind in that which is most needful.  By
this means she will demonstrate capability and ensure
recognition of equality in the social and economic equation.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 283)

18.
Woman must receive the same education as man and
all inequality be adjusted. Thus, imbued with the same
virtues as man, rising through all the degrees of human
attainment, women will become the peers of men, and until
this equality is established, true progress and attainment for
the human race will not be facilitated.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 375)

19.
There can be no improvement unless the girls are
brought up in schools and centres of learning, unless they are
taught the sciences and other branches of knowledge, and
unless they acquire the manifold arts, as necessary, and are
divinely trained.  For the day will come when these girls will
become mothers.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 375)

20.
Women have equal rights with men upon earth; in
religion and society they are a very important element. As
long as women are prevented from attaining their highest
possibilities, so long will men be unable to achieve the
greatness which might be theirs.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 133)

21. God's Bounty is for all and gives power for all progress.
When men own the equality of women there will be no need
for them to struggle for their rights! One of the principles
then of Bahá’u’lláh is the equality of sex.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p.163)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



22.
The emancipation of women, the achievement of full
equality between the sexes, is one of the most important,
though less acknowledged prerequisites of peace.  The denial
of such equality perpetrates an injustice against one half of
the world’s population and promotes in men harmful
attitudes and habits that are carried from the family to the
workplace, to political life, and ultimately to international
relations.  There are no grounds, moral, practical, or
biological, upon which such denial can be justified. Only as
women are welcomed into full partnership in all fields of
human endeavour will the moral and psychological climate
be created in which international peace can emerge.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, pp. 11-12)

23.
We take much pleasure in announcing the decision to
establish an office for the Advancement of Women, which, as
an agency of the Bahá'í International Community, will
promote the principles of the Faith through its interaction
with international entities concerned with matters affecting
the rights, status and well-being of women. It will also advise
National Spiritual Assemblies regarding programs and
projects in which the involvement of the community can
encourage efforts towards the realization of the equality of
men and women.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 10 December 1992 to all National
Spiritual assemblies)

24.
The decision-making agencies involved would do well
to consider giving first priority to the education of women
and girls, since it is through educated mothers that the
benefits of knowledge can be most effectively and rapidly
diffused throughout society.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 12)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


21.  Process of growth and development

The Cause of God is organic, growing and developing
like a living being.
Universal House of Justice

1.
Promote ye the development of the cities of God and
His countries, and glorify Him therein in the joyous accents
of His well-favoured ones. In truth, the hearts of men are
edified through the power of the tongue, even as houses and
cities are built up by the hand and other means. We have
assigned to every end a means for its accomplishment; avail
yourselves thereof, and place your trust and confidence in
God, the Omniscient, the All-Wise.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 160)

2.
... that which hath streamed forth from the Most
Exalted Pen is conducive to the glory, the advancement and
education of all the peoples and kindreds of the earth. Indeed
it is the sovereign remedy for every disease, could they but
comprehend and perceive it.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 73)

3.
O people of God! Give ear unto that which, if heeded,
will ensure the freedom, well-being, tranquillity, exaltation
and advancement of all men.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 92)

4.
The progress of the world, the development of nations,
the tranquility of peoples, and the peace of all who dwell on
earth are among the principles and ordinances of God.
Religion bestoweth upon man the most precious of all gifts,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


offereth the cup of prosperity, imparteth eternal life, and
showereth imperishable benefits upon mankind.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 129-130)


5.
Through the Teachings of this Day Star of Truth every
man will advance and develop until he attaineth the station
at which he can manifest all the potential forces with which
his inmost true self hath been endowed.  It is for this very
purpose that in every age and dispensation the Prophets of
God and His chosen Ones have appeared amongst men, and
have evinced such power as is born of God and such might as
only the Eternal can reveal.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 68)

6.
All men have been created to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 215)

7.
...no matter how much the physical body of man is
trained and developed, there will be no real progression in
human station unless the mind correspondingly advances.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 302)

8.
We must also render service to the world of
intellectuality in order that the minds of men may increase in
power and become keener in perception, assisting the
intellect of man to attain its supremacy so that the ideal
virtues may appear.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 325-326)

9.
The greatest bestowal of God in the world of humanity
is religion, for assuredly the divine teachings of religion are
above all other sources of instruction and development to
man.  Religion confers upon man eternal life and guides his
footsteps in the world of morality.  It opens the doors of
unending happiness and bestows everlasting honor upon the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


human kingdom.  It has been the basis of all civilization and
progress in the history of mankind.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 361)

10.
The world of existence is progressive. It is subject to
development and growth. Consider how great has been the
progress in this radiant century. Civilization has unfolded.
Nations have developed. Industrialism and jurisprudence
have expanded. Sciences, inventions and discoveries have
increased. All of these show that the world of existence is
continuously progressing and developing; and therefore,
assuredly, the virtues characterizing the maturity of man
must, likewise, expand and grow.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 378)

11.
...divine
manifestations
of
God
confer
general
education upon humanity. They arise to bestow universal
moral training. For example, Moses was a universal Teacher.
He trained and disciplined the people of Israel, enabled them
to rescue themselves from the lowest abyss of despair and
ignorance and caused them to attain an advanced degree of
knowledge and development.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 400-401)

12.
Praise be to God, throughout succeeding centuries and
ages the call of civilization hath been raised, the world of
humanity hath been advancing and progressing day by day,
various countries have been developing by leaps and bounds,
and material improvements have increased, until the world
of existence obtained universal capacity to receive the
spiritual teachings and to hearken to the Divine Call.  The
suckling babe passeth through various physical stages,
growing and developing at every stage, until its body
reacheth the age of maturity.  Having arrived at this stage it
acquireth the capacity to manifest spiritual and intellectual
perfections. The lights of comprehension, intelligence and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


knowledge become perceptible in it and the powers of its soul
unfold.  Similarly, in the contingent world, the human
species hath undergone progressive physical changes and, by
a slow process, hath scaled the ladder of civilization, realizing
in itself the wonders, excellencies and gifts of humanity in
their most glorious form, until it gained the capacity to
express the splendours of spiritual perfections and divine
ideals and became capable of hearkening to the call of God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 285)

13.
…From the beginning of existence in the womb of the
terrestrial globe, man gradually grew and developed like the
embryo in the womb of its mother, and passed from one
shape and form to another until he appeared with this beauty
and perfection, this power and constitution. It is certain that
initially he did not possess such loveliness, grace, and
refinement, and that he has only gradually attained such
form, disposition, comeliness, and grace. There is no doubt
that, like the embryo in the womb of the mother, the embryo
of humankind did not appear all at once in this form and
become the embodiment of the words “Hallowed be the Lord,
the most excellent of all creators!” Rather, it gradually
attained various conditions and assumed divers forms until it
attained this appearance and beauty, this perfection,
refinement, and grace. It is therefore clear and evident that
the growth and development of man on this planet unto his
present completeness, even as the growth and development
of the embryo in the womb of the mother, has been by
degrees and through passing from state to state, and from
one shape and form to another, for this is according to the
requirements of the universal order and the divine law.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, pp. 210-211)


14.
All created things have their degree or stage of
maturity.  The period of maturity in the life of a tree is the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


time of its fruit bearing ... the animal attains a stage of full
growth and completeness, and in the human kingdom man
reaches his maturity when the light of his intelligence attains
its greatest power and development ... Similarly, there are
periods and stages in the collective life of humanity. At one
time it was passing through its stage of childhood, at another
its period of youth, but now it has entered its long predicted
phase of maturity, the evidences of which are everywhere
apparent ...That which was applicable to human needs
during the early history of the race can neither meet nor
satisfy the demands of this day, this period of newness and
consummation.  Humanity has emerged from its former state
of limitation and preliminary training. Man must now
become imbued with new virtues and powers, new moral
standards, new capacities.  New bounties, perfect bestowals,
are awaiting and already descending upon him.  The gifts and
blessings of the period of youth, although timely and
sufficient during the adolescence of mankind, are now
incapable of meeting the requirements of its maturity.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 164-165)

15.    The development and progress of a nation is according
to the measure and degree of that nation’s scientific
attainments. Through this means, its greatness is continually
increased and day by day the welfare and prosperity of its
people are assured ...science may be likened to a mirror
wherein the infinite forms and images of existing things are
revealed and reflected. It is the very foundation of all
individual and national development.  Without this basis of
investigation, development is impossible.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 60-61)

16.
It is to unity that the Guardian has been continually
calling the friends.  For where a united will exists, nothing

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


can effectively oppose and hamper the forces of constructive
development.
(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in a Compilation on Local Spiritual Assembly, p.
10)


17.
They (Local Spiritual Assemblies) must promote by
every means in their power the material as well as the
spiritual enlightenment of youth, the means for the education
of children, institute, whenever possible, Bahá’í educational
institutions, organize and supervise their work and provide
the best means for their progress and development.

(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 38)

18.
Both the spirit and the form are essential to the safe
and speedy development of the Administration.  To maintain
full balance between them is the main and unique
responsibility of the administrators of the Cause.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 10 December 1933)

19.
Let there be no mistake. The Principle of the Oneness
of Mankind — the pivot round which all the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh revolve—is no mere outburst of ignorant
emotionalism or an expression of vague and pious hope.... It
implies an organic change in the structure of present-day
society, a change such as the world has not yet experienced.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 42)

20.
The human race, as a distinct, organic unit, has passed
through evolutionary stages analogous to the stages of
infancy and childhood in the lives of its individual members,
and is now in the culminating period of its turbulent
adolescence approaching its long-awaited coming of age.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 3)

21.
As the Bahá’í community grows it will acquire experts
in numerous fields ...As these experts bring their knowledge

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and skill to the service of the community and, even more, as
they transform their various disciplines by bringing to bear
upon them the light of the Divine Teachings, problem after
problem now disrupting society will be answered.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 21 August 1977)


22.
The role of youth in development must receive the
careful attention of the National Spiritual Assemblies, so that
this valuable source of idealism and energy may be directed
to the service of mankind.


(Universal House of Justice. Office of Social and Economic Development,
dated 12 November 1983)

23.
Bahá’í institutions began to be identified as important
contributors to international development, while the Bahá’í
administrative network was seen as a potent force for
coordinating
development
activities
within
a
global
framework.
(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p.
72)

24.
Many communities, especially those with permanent
programs, began taking steps to ensure that effective
development activities would continue even if external
sources of support were to be withdrawn.


(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, pp.
72-73)

25.
A community is of course more than the sum of its
membership; it is a comprehensive unit of civilization
composed of individuals, families and institutions that are
originators and encouragers of systems, agencies and
organizations working together with a common purpose for
the welfare of people both within and beyond its own
borders; it is a composition of diverse, interacting

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


participants that are achieving unity in an unremitting quest
for spiritual and social progress.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1996)

26.  The Cause of God is organic, growing and developing
like a living being.

(Universal House of Justice. Wellspring of Guidance, p. 89)

27.  Armed with the strength of action and the cooperation
of the individual believers composing it, the community as a
whole should endeavor to establish greater stability in the
patterns of its development, locally and nationally, through
sound, systematic planning and execution of its work.
(Universal House of Justice. Seminar on Bahá’í social and economic
development, Office of social and economic development, p. 14)

28.  In clusters where the demands created by the scale and
intensity of activity are most acutely felt, more complex
schemes of coordination are emerging through a gradual and
patient process of learning.  In certain regions of the world
where the institutions are overseeing special initiatives, an
influx of eager pioneers is helping to strengthen the
foundations of sustained growth and broaden the scope of
what can be achieved by a community.  The work of
expansion and consolidation is advancing through the
unflagging labours of countless devoted souls who have, in
numerous ways, followed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in treading the plane
of sacrifice.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 5 December 2013 to the Bahá’ís
of the World)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


22.
Pattern of social and economic
development

To be a Bahá'í simply means to love all the world;
to love humanity and try to serve it.
‘Abdu'l-Bahá

1.
One indeed is a man who, today, dedicated himself to
the service of the entire human race.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 250)

2.
Be ye loving fathers to the orphan, and a refuge to the
helpless, and a treasury for the poor, and a cure for the ailing.
Be ye the helpers of every victim of oppression, the patrons of
the disadvantaged. Think ye at all times of rendering some
service to every member of the human race.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 3)

3.
Those souls who are of the kingdom eagerly wish to be
of service to the poor, to sympathize with them, to show
kindness to the miserable and to make their lives fruitful.
Happy art thou that hast such a wish.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 115-116)

4.
...the honor and distinction of the individual consist in
this, that he among all the world’s multitudes should become
a source of social good.  Is any larger bounty conceivable
than this, that an individual, looking within himself, should
find that by the confirming grace of God he has become the
cause of peace and well-being, of happiness and advantage to

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


his fellow men?  No, by the one true God, there is no greater
bliss, no more complete delight.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 2-3)

5.
How excellent, how honourable is man if he arises to
fulfil his responsibilities; how wretched and contemptible, if
he shuts his eyes to the welfare of society and wastes his
precious life in pursuing his own selfish interests and
personal advantages.  Supreme happiness is man’s, and he
beholds the signs of God in the world and in the human soul,
if he urges on the steed of high endeavor in the arena of
civilization and justice.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 4)

6.
You must consider all His servants as your own family
and relations.  Direct your whole effort toward the happiness
of those who are despondent, bestow food upon the hungry,
clothe the needy, and glorify the humble.  Be a helper to
every helpless one, and manifest kindness to your fellow
creatures in order that ye may attain the good pleasure of
God. This is conducive to the illumination of the world of
humanity and eternal felicity for yourselves.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 469)

7.
If thou seekest eternal glory, let thyself be humble and
meek in the presence of the beloved of God; make thyself the
servant of all, and serve all alike.  The service of the friends
belongeth to God, not to them.  Strive to become a source of
harmony, spirituality and joyfulness to the hearts of the
friends ...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 61-62)

8.
There are, at the present time, many villages in India,
the Philippines, Africa, Latin America, etc., where the Bahá’ís
form a majority or even the entire population of the village.
One of the goals of the Five-Year Plan, as you will recall, is to

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


develop the characteristics of Bahá’í community life, and it is,
above all, to such villages that the goal is directed. The Local
Spiritual Assemblies of such villages must gradually widen
the scope of their activities, not only to develop every aspect
of the spiritual life of the believers within their jurisdiction,
but also, through Bahá’í consultation, and through such
Bahá’í principles as harmony between science and religion,
the importance of education, and work as a form of worship,
to promote the standards of agriculture and other skills in
the life of the people.  For this they will need the assistance of
Bahá’í experts from other lands.  This is a major undertaking,
and is being started gradually wherever and whenever
possible.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 27 July 1976)


9.
At the heart of all activities, the spiritual, intellectual
and community life of the believers must be developed and
fostered, requiring:  the prosecution with increased vigour of
the development of Local Spiritual Assemblies so that they
may exercise their beneficial influence and guidance on the
life of Bahá’í communities; the nurturing of a deeper
understanding of Bahá’í family life; the Bahá’í education of
children, including the holding of regular Bahá’í classes and,
where necessary, the establishment of tutorial schools for the
provision of elementary education; the encouragement of
Bahá’í youth in study and service; and the encouragement of
Bahá’í women to exercise to the full their privileges and
responsibilities in the work of the community....
(Universal House of Justice. Naw-Ruz 1979)

10.
The soul-stirring events in Bahá’u’lláh’s native land
and the concomitant advance into the theatre of world affairs
of the agencies of His Administrative Order have combined
to bring into focus new possibilities in the evolution of the
Bahá’í world community.  Our Ridván message this year

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


captured these implications in its reference to the opening
before us of a wider horizon in whose light can dimly be
discerned new pursuits and undertakings upon which we
must soon embark.  These portend our greater involvement
in the development of the social and economic life of peoples.

From the beginning of His stupendous mission,
Bahá’u’lláh urged upon the attention of nations the necessity
of ordering human affairs in such a way as to bring into being
a world unified in all the essential aspects of its life. In
unnumbered verses and tablets, He repeatedly and variously
declared the “progress of the world” and the “development of
nations” as being among the ordinances of God for this day.
The oneness of mankind, which is at once the operating
principle and ultimate goal of His Revelation, implies the
achievement of a dynamic coherence between the spiritual
and
practical
requirements
of
life
on
earth.
The
indispensability of this coherence is unmistakably illustrated
in His ordination of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the spiritual
centre of every Bahá’í community round which must flourish
dependencies
dedicated
to
the
social,
humanitarian,
educational and scientific advancement of mankind.  Thus,
we can readily appreciate that although it has hitherto been
impracticable for Bahá’í institutions generally to emphasize
development activities, the concept of social and economic
development is enshrined in the sacred Teachings of our
Faith. The beloved Master, through His illuminating words
and deeds, set the example for the application of this concept
to the reconstruction of society. Witness, for instance, what
social and economic progress the Iranian believers attained
under His loving guidance and, subsequently, with the
unfailing encouragement of the Guardian of the Cause.

Now, after all the years of constant teaching activity,
the Community of the Greatest Name has grown to the stage
at which the processes of this development must be
incorporated into its regular pursuits; particularly is action

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


compelled by the expansion of the Faith in Third World
countries where the vast majority of its adherents reside.
The steps to be taken must necessarily begin in the Bahá’í
Community itself, with the friends endeavouring, through
their application of spiritual principles, their rectitude of
conduct and the practice of the art of consultation, to uplift
themselves and thus become self-sufficient and self-reliant.
Moreover, these exertions will conduce to the preservation of
human honour, so desired by Bahá’u’lláh.  In the process and
as a consequence, the friends will undoubtedly extend the
benefits of their efforts to society as a whole, until all
mankind achieves the progress intended by the Lord of the
Age.

It is indeed propitious that systematic attention be
given to this vital sphere of Bahá’í endeavour. We are happy,
therefore, to announce the establishment at the World Centre
of the Office of Social and Economic Development, which is
to assist the Universal House of Justice to promote and
coordinate the activities of the friends throughout the world
in this new field.

The International Teaching Centre and, through it, the
Continental Boards of Counsellors are poised for the special
responsibilities which devolve upon them to be alert to
possibilities for extending the development of social and
economic life both within and outside the Bahá’í Community,
and to advise and encourage the Assemblies and friends in
their strivings.

We call now upon National Spiritual Assemblies to
consider the implications of this emerging trend for their
respective communities, and to take well-conceived measures
to involve the thought and actions of Local Spiritual
Assemblies and individuals in the devising and implementing
of plans, within the constraints of existing circumstances and
available resources. Progress in the development field will
largely depend on natural stirrings at the grass roots, and it

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


should receive its driving force from those sources rather
than from an imposition of plans and programs from the top.
The major task of National Assemblies, therefore, is to
increase the local communities’ awareness of needs and
possibilities, and to guide and coordinate the efforts resulting
from such awareness. Already in many areas the friends are
witnessing the confirmations of their initiatives in such
pursuits as the founding of tutorial schools, the promotion of
literacy, the launching of rural development programs, the
inception of educational radio stations, and the operation of
agricultural and medical projects.  As they enlarge the scope
of their endeavours other modes of development will
undoubtedly emerge.

This challenge evokes the resourcefulness, flexibility
and cohesiveness of the many communities composing the
Bahá’í world.  Different communities will, of course, perceive
different approaches and different solutions to similar needs.
Some can offer assistance abroad, while, at the outset, others
must of necessity receive assistance; but all, irrespective of
circumstances or resources, are endowed with the capacity to
respond in some measure; all can share; all can participate in
the joint enterprise of applying more systematically the
principles of the Faith to upraising the quality of human life.
The key to success is unity in spirit and in action.

We go forward confident that the wholehearted
involvement of the friends in these activities will ensure a
deeper consolidation of the community at all levels.  Our
engagement in the technical aspects of development should,
however, not be allowed to supplant the essentials of
teaching, which remains the primary duty of every follower of
Bahá’u’lláh.  Rather should our increased activities in the
development field be viewed as a reinforcement of the
teaching work, as a greater manifestation of faith in action.
For, if expansion of the teaching work does not continue,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


there can be no hope of success for this enlarged dimension
of the consolidation process.

Ultimately, the call to action is addressed to the
individual friends, whether they be adult or youth, veteran or
newly-enrolled. Let them step forth to take their places in the
arena of service where their talents and skills, their
specialized training, their material resources, their offers of
time and energy and, above all, their dedication to Bahá’í
principles, can be put to work in improving the lot of man.

May all derive enduring inspiration from the following
statement written in 1933 by the hand of our beloved
Guardian:
The problems which confront the believers at the present
time, whether social, spiritual, economic or administrative
will be gradually solved as the number and the resources of
the friends multiply and their capacity for service and for the
application of Bahá’í principles develops.  They should be
patient, confident and active in utilizing every possible
opportunity that presents itself within the limits now
necessarily imposed upon them.  May the Almighty aid them
to fulfil their highest hopes.
(Universal House of Justice. Statement dated 20 October 1983)

11.
The relationship between teaching and social and
economic development needs to be considered both in terms
of certain fundamental principles and in the context of the
processes which characterize the growth of the Bahá’í
community. You are well aware of the relevant principles,
which include the following: Bahá’ís should give liberally and
unconditionally the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh to humanity so
that people may apply them to pressing social issues and
uplift themselves materially and spiritually; in their dealings
with society at large, the friends should be upright and avoid
any trace of deception; social and economic development
projects should not be used as an inducement to conversion;

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and funds from non-Bahá’í should not be utilized for strictly
Bahá’í purposes. None of these diminishes the importance of
the sacred obligation to teach the Cause. Teaching should
remain the dominating passion of the life of every individual
believer, and growth a major concern of the Bahá’í
community.

As the Bahá’í community has moved from one stage to
the next, the range of activities that it has been able to
undertake has increased. Its growth has been organic in
nature and has implied gradual differentiation in functions.
When the Bahá’í community was small in size, all of its
interactions with society at large easily fitted together under
the designation of direct and indirect teaching. But, over
time, new dimensions of work appeared - involvement in civil
society, highly organized diplomatic work, social action, and
so on - each with its own aims, methods and resources. In a
certain sense, it is possible to refer to all of these activities as
teaching, since their ultimate purpose is the diffusion of the
divine fragrances, the offering of Bahá’u’lláh's Revelation to
humankind, and service to society. But, in practice, it seems
more fruitful to treat them as distinct but complementary
lines of action. For example, simply designating certain social
and economic development endeavors indirect teaching may
cause confusion in at least two ways: On the one hand, it may
give the impression that development activities should have
as their primary and immediate objective the recruitment of
new believers, which is, of course, not the case. On the other,
it may suggest to some friends that they are fulfilling their
obligation to teach merely by participating in social action.

Social and economic development is an important area
of activity in and of itself. Its justification should not be
sought in its ability to produce enrollments; it complements
teaching and also contributes to it. Naturally, when
endeavors in the development field are successful, they
increase the public’s interest in the Faith and create new

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


teaching
opportunities
for
the
Bahá’í
community,
opportunities which the friends should seize upon through
their expansion and consolidation activities.
(Universal House of Justice. Seminar on Bahá’í social and economic
development, Office of Social and Economic Development, p. 7)

12.    The worldwide Bahá’í community, as an organic whole,
transcends divisions prevalent in society today, such as
“North” and “South”, “developed” and “underdeveloped”.
Social and economic development efforts are undertaken by
Bahá’ís, irrespective of the degree of material prosperity
achieved by their nations, as they strive to apply the
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh to the gradual process of building a
new civilization. Every follower of Bahá’u’lláh is a member of
this worldwide community and can rightfully offer to
contribute to a specific endeavor in any country. As the
friends gain experience in social and economic development,
and as they advance in their studies of various branches of
learning or in their professional fields, individuals arise in
every continent who have expertise in some aspect of
development work and who wish to offer their services to
projects at home or abroad. If their energies are not
channeled effectively, and they are not given a realistic
picture of Bahá’í development efforts, these friends will later
become frustrated when they realize that the capacity of
projects overseas to utilize their talents and services is
limited.

For this reason, it is important that conferences,
seminars and promotional materials not reinforce an image
of “development projects” as understood by society at large.
Bahá’í efforts in this field generally take the form of
grassroots initiatives carried out by small groups of believers
in the towns and villages where they reside. As these
initiatives are nurtured, some grow into more substantial
programs with permanent administrative structures. Yet very

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


few can be compared with the kind of complex projects
promoted and funded by government agencies and large
nongovernmental organizations.
(Universal House of Justice. Seminar on Bahá’í social and economic
development, Office of Social and Economic Development, p. 11)

13.    Suggestions for projects for development are welcome
from whatever source they spring but ideally they should
emanate from the local communities and receive support of
the Local and National Assemblies; it should not be
necessary to send people to countries to solicit projects.
However, if a community has the desire to plan a special
project, it is free to call upon people with experience in the
planning, design and implementation of the scheme.

(Universal House of Justice. Letter to the International Teaching Centre,
dated 1 November 1983)


14.
The success of our projects will depend upon the
degree to which we bring the spiritual teachings of our Faith
to reflect upon all aspects of the selected project, its
objectives,
design,
implementation,
personnel,
and
evaluation. While we must take notice of what is current in
development, we should be careful to avoid the danger of
indiscriminate imitation.
(Universal House of Justice. Office of Social and Economic Development
Memorandum, dated 12 November 1983)

15.
The vast majority of Bahá’í projects will be primarily
generated at the grass roots, and, initially as required, will
receive help from Bahá’í sources, in terms of finances and
manpower.  The projects will, as you have surmised, be non-
profit making, concerned mainly with activities closely
related to education, health and hygiene, agriculture and
simple community development activities.  It is hoped that
all these types of projects will reflect the strength of the
spiritual principles enshrined in the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



It is important that our undertakings be modest in
their scope at the present time.  Then, as we gain in
confidence and experience and as our resources increase, our
work will encompass expanded objectives, and the friends
will explore new areas of social and economic activity.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 22 December 1983)


16.
The suggestions (concerning possible development
projects) are now referred to you so that you may initiate
consultation at the grass roots level of the local Bahá’í
communities, involving Local Spiritual Assemblies of that
area.  In addition to projecting Counsellor’s broad ideas, you
should seek the suggestions of the believers regarding local
needs and initiatives.  Your Assembly is also asked to
consider the practicability of such projects and conduct a
survey of the localities, indicating which of these would be
able to host the projects.  Among the criteria of capacity
would be the following:

I.
Strength of the community and its ability to benefit
from projects spiritually as well as materially, including the
beneficial effects of collective action upon the community
and its participants.

II. Willingness of the local believers to participate,
collaborate and support the projects.

III. Degree and dimension of the local contributions to
the projects in terms of manpower (labour), materials and
resources.

IV. Presence of able people to manage the human
resources and direct the energies of the friends, including
strong liaison between volunteers (international and
national) and local believers.


(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 9 November 1983)


17.
There are two principles which the House of Justice
feels are fundamental to the generality of such projects of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


social and economic development, although, of course, there
will be exceptions.  The first is that they must be built on a
substructure of existing, sufficiently strong local Bahá’í
communities.  The second is that the long-term conduct of
the project should aim at self-sufficiency and not be
dependent upon continuing financial support from outside.

The first principle implies that the projects of social
and economic development now to be undertaken are a
natural stage of the growth of the Bahá’í community and are
needed by the community itself although they will, of course,
benefit a much wider segment of society...

The second principle must take into account that any
project started by the Cause should be designed to grow
soundly and steadily, and not to collapse from attrition.  In
other words, external assistance and funds, Bahá’í and non-
Bahá’í, may be used for capital acquisitions, to make surveys,
to initiate activities, to bring in expertise, but the aim should
be for each project to be able to continue and to develop on
the strength of local Bahá’í labour, funds and enthusiasm
even if all external aid should be cut off.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 8 May 1984)

18.
The powers released by Bahá’u’lláh match the needs of
the times.  We may therefore be utterly confident that the
new throb of energy now vibrating throughout the Cause will
empower it to meet the oncoming challenges of assisting, as
maturity and resources allow the development of the social
and economic life of peoples, of collaborating with the forces
leading towards the establishment of order in the world, of
influencing the exploitation and constructive uses of modern
technology, and in all these ways enhancing the prestige and
progress of the Faith and uplifting the conditions of the
generality of mankind.

(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1983)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


19.
Bahá’í projects of social and economic development
have greatly multiplied and brought much credit to the
community in the examples of the power of group initiative
and voluntary consultative action that have been set in
numerous places. Activities in this respect involved more
than one thousand projects in the areas of education,
agriculture,
health,
literacy,
the
environment
and
improvement of the status of women. In a number of
instances the projects benefited from collaboration with or
assistance from governments and international non-
governmental organizations, as, for example, the projects for
the improvement of the status of women undertaken by five
National Spiritual Assemblies with the financial assistance of
the United Nations Development Fund for Women
(UNIFEM), and those projects in other fields receiving
assistance from the Canadian, Indian, German and
Norwegian governments. Some projects have been so
distinguished in their achievements as to be given public
notice through the citations and awards of governments and
international non-governmental agencies.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message 1992)

20.
The dramatic worldwide expansion of Bahá’í social
and economic development activities since the October 1983
message by the Universal House of Justice contributed in no
small measure to the emergence of the Bahá’í community
from obscurity and of the distinguishing characteristics of the
development of the Cause of God in the past decade. The
virtually exponential expansion achieved in the number of
development activities during the Seven Year Plan (1979-
1986) became more gradual during the Six Year Plan as
Bahá'í communities strengthened existing programs to
ensure that new ventures proceeded from a strong
foundation. Bahá'ís worldwide now generally possess a much
clearer understanding of the unique Bahá'í approach to

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


development and have gained invaluable experience in
developing the art of applying spiritual concepts to the
practical challenges of daily life.
(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p. 72)

21.
Many communities developed their consultative skill
in order to more effectively identify feasible projects,
formulate the necessary plans, and guide the resulting
undertakings.
(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p.72)

22.
The importance of both preventive and curative health
care is clearly stated in the Writings. When the Universal
House of Justice released its message on social and economic
development in 1983, there was only one modest Bahá'í
health care project in operation; by the end of the Six Year
Plan, there were fifty-six, and health had become an
important aspect of the worldwide Bahá'í program for social
and economic development. This is especially true in the field
of health education and community health worker training.
Bahá'í communities in a growing number of developing
countries used this niche in the existing public health
delivery system in order to provide valuable services which in
turn
strengthened
the
infrastructure
of
the
Bahá'í
community.
(Universal House of Justice. Six-Year Plan, summary of achievements, pp. 76-77)

23.
A few Bahá’í communities and individuals constructed
small rural hospitals or clinics to serve areas with limited
access to medical care. In such areas the provision of curative
care as well as preventive health measures contributed
significantly to the level of health of the communities which
they served.

(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p. 78)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


24.
Youth around the world provided much of the energy,
enthusiasm and spirit of service animating Bahá'í
development programs by participating in a broad range
of community service activities, and especially as tutorial
school or children's class teachers.

(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p. 81)

25.
The accomplishments of the Bahá'í community in the
area of social and economic development during the Six Year
Plan reflect great audacity and commitment to service. The
believers worked to apply spiritual principles to practical
needs. The good will towards the Cause generated by their
services has created countless opportunities for the future.
The friends have seen that their endeavors in the path of
service, no matter how modest, have set in motion processes
which will long continue to produce beneficial effects.
(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p. 84)

26.
...the projects of social and economic development
now to be undertaken are a natural stage of growth of the
Bahá'í community and are needed by the community itself
although they will, of course, benefit a much wider segment
of society. The Bahá'í world is in no position financially or
from the point of view of manpower, to launch undertakings
for the economic and social development of populations in
areas where there are but few believers. The greatest need of
all peoples is for the Faith itself, so that they may know the
destiny towards which they as individuals and as members of
society must strive, and will learn from the teachings those
virtues and methods which will enable them to work together
in harmony, forbearance and trustworthiness ... First comes
the illumination of hearts and minds by the Revelation of
Bahá'u'lláh, and then the grassroots stirring of the believers
wishing to apply these teachings to the daily life of their
community.    (Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 8 May 1984)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



27.
The
Bahá’í
world
community
will
expand
its
endeavours in both social and economic development and
external affairs, and thus continue to collaborate directly
with the forces leading towards the establishment of order in
the world. By improving its coordinating capacity, the Office
of Social and Economic Development will assist in building,
as resources and opportunity permit, on the progress already
made with hundreds of development projects around the
world.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 1996)

28.
Present social and economic conditions in Iran,
combined with the restrictions so unjustly imposed on you in
recent years by some authorities, have made it difficult for
you to gain access to higher education, to secure steady
employment, and to serve the wider community. We take
pleasure in knowing that, despite such obstacles, you are
striving to pass on to your children the culture which has so
distinguished your community. Without doubt, the social and
economic development of your nation will require, especially
among its younger generations, a fundamental shift in
perspective, one that changes the way in which certain
essential concepts are viewed—the true purpose of life, the
nature of progress, the meaning of true happiness and well-
being, and the place that material pursuits should assume in
one’s individual and family life.

It is our hope that … you will find yourselves
increasingly able to contribute to the social and economic
development of your country and to the welfare and
prosperity of all. We will offer prayers in the Holy Shrines for
the progress of the noble people of Iran and for the continued
success of your endeavours.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 April 2010 to the Bahá’ís of
Iran)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


23.
Bahá’í work ethics

Work done in the spirit of service is the highest
form of worship.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
O people of Bahá! It is incumbent upon each one of
you to engage in some occupation - such as a craft, a trade or
the like. We have exalted your engagement in such work to
the rank of worship of the one true God. Reflect, O people, on
the grace and blessings of your Lord, and yield Him thanks at
eventide and dawn. Waste not your hours in idleness and
sloth, but occupy yourselves with what will profit you and
others. Thus hath it been decreed in this Tablet from whose
horizon hath shone the day-star of wisdom and utterance.
The most despised of men in the sight of God are they who sit
and beg. Hold ye fast unto the cord of means and place your
trust in God, the Provider of all means.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 33)

2.     It is unlawful to beg, and it is forbidden to give to him
who beggeth. All have been enjoined to earn a living, and as
for those who are incapable of doing so, it is incumbent on
the Deputies of God and on the wealthy to make adequate
provision for them. Keep ye the statutes and commandments
of God; nay, guard them as ye would your very eyes, and be
not of those who suffer grievous loss.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 147)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4.       Man must bring forth fruit.  One who yieldeth no fruit
is, in the words of the Spirit (Jesus Christ) like unto a
fruitless tree, and a fruitless tree is fit but for the fire.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 60)


5.
To engage in some profession is highly commendable,
for when occupied with work one is less likely to dwell on the
unpleasant aspects of life. (Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 175)





6.    O My servants! Ye are the trees of My garden; ye must
give forth goodly and wondrous fruits, that ye yourselves and
others may profit therefrom.  Thus, it is incumbent on every
one to engage in crafts and professions, for therein lies the
secret of wealth, O men of understanding!  For results
depend upon means, and the grace of God shall be all
sufficient unto you. Trees that yield no fruit have been and
will ever be for the fire.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 80)





7.
O My Servant! The basest of men are they that yield no
fruit on earth. Such men are verily counted as among the
dead, nay better are the dead in the sight of God than those
idle and worthless souls.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 81)

8.
O My Servant! The best of men are they that earn a
livelihood by their calling and spend upon themselves and
upon their kindred for the love of God, the Lord of all worlds.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 82)


9.
Please God, the poor may exert themselves and strive
to earn the means of livelihood. This is a duty which, in this
most great Revelation, hath been prescribed unto every one,
and is accounted in the sight of God as a goodly deed.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleaning from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 202)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


10.
Mendicancy is forbidden and that giving charity to
people who take up begging as their profession is also
prohibited ... The object is to uproot mendicancy altogether.
However, if a person is incapable of earning a living, is
stricken by dire poverty or becometh helpless, then it is
incumbent on the wealthy or the Deputies to provide him
with a monthly allowance for his subsistence... By ‘Deputies’
is meant the representatives of the people, that is to say the
members of the House of Justice.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in Kitáb-i-Aqdas, note 162)

11.
Work done in the spirit of service is the highest form
of worship.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 47)

12.
In this universal dispensation man’s wondrous
craftsmanship is reckoned as worship of the Resplendent
Beauty. Consider what a bounty and blessing it is that
craftsmanship is regarded as worship.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 145)






13.
Be occupied always in mentioning the Lord and
display effort to complete thy profession. Thou must
endeavour greatly so that thou mayest become unique in thy
profession and famous in those parts, because attaining
perfection in one’s profession in this merciful period is
considered to be worship of God.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 145-146)






14.
We must never live on others like a parasitic plant.
Every person must have a profession, whether it be literary
or manual, and must live a clean, manly, honest life, an
example of purity to be imitated by others.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Star of the West, vol. VIII, number 2, p. 18)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


15.
In the Bahá’í Cause arts, sciences and all crafts are
(counted as) worship. The man who makes a piece of
notepaper to the best of his ability, conscientiously,
concentrating all his forces on perfecting it, is giving praise to
God.  Briefly, all effort and exertion put forth by man from
the fullness of his heart is worship, if it is prompted by the
highest motives and the will to do service to humanity.  This
is worship:  to serve mankind and to minister to the needs of
the people. Service is prayer.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 189)

16.
If the believers could properly evaluate the work they
are doing they would be astonished at its importance, but
they are in the position of not being able to see the forest for
the trees; they are too close to it to realize its true import.
(Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian, p. 47)


17.
With reference to Bahá’u’lláh’s command concerning
the engagement of the believers in some sort of profession;
the teachings are most emphatic on this matter, particularly
the statement in the Aqdas to this effect which makes it quite
clear that idle people who lack the desire to work can have no
place in the new World Order.  As a corollary of this
principle, Bahá’u’lláh further states that mendicity should
not only be discouraged but entirely wiped out from the face
of society.  It is the duty of those who are in charge of the
organization of society to give every individual the
opportunity of acquiring the necessary talent in some kind of
profession, and also the means of utilizing such a talent, both
for its own sake and for the sake of earning the means of his
livelihood.  Every individual, no matter how handicapped
and limited he may be, is under the obligation of engaging in
some work or profession, for work, especially when
performed in the spirit of service, is, according to Bahá’u’lláh.
a form of worship.  It has not only a utilitarian purpose, but

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


has a value in itself, because it draws us nearer of God, and
enables us to better grasp His purpose for us in this world.  It
is obvious, therefore, that the inheritance of wealth cannot
make anyone immune from daily work. (Shoghi Effendi.
Directives from the Guardian, p. 47)

18.   Whatever the progress of the machinery may be, man
will have always to toil in order to earn his living.  Effort is an
inseparable part of man’s life.  It may take different forms
with the changing conditions of the world, but it will be
always present as a necessary element in our earthly
existence.  Life is after all a struggle. Progress is attained
through struggle, and without such a struggle life ceases to
have a meaning; it becomes even extinct.  The progress of
machinery has not made effort unnecessary.  It has given it a
new form, a new outlet.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 26 December 1935)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


24.
Material and spiritual aspects of the Bahá’í
House of Worship

… the spiritual and practical requirements of life on earth …
is … illustrated in …the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the spiritual
center of every Bahá’í community ...’
Shoghi Effendi

1.
O people of the world! Build ye houses of worship
throughout the lands in the name of Him Who is the Lord of
all religions. Make them as perfect as is possible in the world
of being, and adorn them with that which befitteth them, not
with images and effigies. Then, with radiance and joy,
celebrate therein the praise of your Lord, the Most
Compassionate. Verily, by His remembrance the eye is
cheered and the heart is filled with light.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 31)

2.
Let the friends recall and ever bear in mind the
repeated exhortations and glowing promises of our beloved
Master with reference to the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the
crowning institution in every Bahá'í community.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 108)

3.
The seat round which its spiritual, its humanitarian
and administrative activities will cluster are the Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár and its Dependencies.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 156-157)

4.
The oneness of mankind …implies the achievement of a
dynamic coherence between the spiritual and practical

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


requirements of life on earth. The indispensability of this
coherence is unmistakably illustrated in His ordination of the
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the spiritual center of every Bahá’í
community...
(Shoghi Effendi. Messages to America, pp. 23-24)

5.
The Temple (the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár) is the most great
foundation of the world of humanity and it hath many
branches. Although the Temple is the place of worship, with
it is connected a hospital, pharmacy, pilgrims' house, school
for the orphans, and a university for the study of high
sciences. ...The Temple is not only a place for worship; nay, it
is perfect in every way. ...I hope that all the beloved of God,
collectively, in the continent of America, men and women,
will strive night and day until the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár be
erected in the utmost solidity and beauty.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, pp. 414-419)

6.
Although to outward seeming the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár is
a material structure, yet it hath a spiritual effect. It forgeth
bonds of unity from heart to heart; it is a collective centre for
men's souls. Every city in which, during the days of the
Manifestation, a temple was raised up, hath created security
and constancy and peace, for such buildings were given over
to the perpetual glorification of God, and only in the
remembrance of God can the heart find rest. Gracious God!
The edifice of the House of Worship hath a powerful
influence on every phase of life. Experience hath, in the east,
clearly shown this to be a fact. Even if, in some small village,
a house was designated as the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, it
produced a marked effect; how much greater would be the
impact of one especially raised up.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 95-6)

7.
The Mashriqu’l-Adhkár is one of the most vital
institutions in the world, and it hath many subsidiary

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


branches. Although it is a House of Worship, it is also
connected with a hospital, a drug dispensary, a traveller's
hospice, a school for orphans, and a university for advanced
studies. Every Mashriqu’l-Adhkár is connected with these
five things. My hope is that the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár will now
be established in America, and that gradually the hospital,
the school, the university, the dispensary and the hospice, all
functioning according to the most efficient and orderly
procedures, will follow. Make these matters known to the
beloved of the Lord, so that they will understand how very
great is the importance of this ‘Dawning-Point of the
Remembrance of God.’ The Temple is not only a place for
worship; rather, in every respect is it complete and whole.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 99-100)

8.
The auxiliary buildings of the House of Worship should
likewise be erected there: the hospital, the schools and
university, the elementary school, the refuge for the poor and
indigent; also, the haven for orphans and the helpless, and
the travelers' hospice.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Memorials of the Faithful, p. 20)

9.
The House of Worship forms the central edifice of the
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár (the Dawning-place of the Praise of God),
a complex which, as it unfolds in the future, will comprise in
addition to the House of Worship a number of dependencies
dedicated to social, humanitarian, educational, and scientific
pursuits.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 184)

10.
[The House of Worship] shall afford relief to the
suffering, sustenance to the poor, shelter to the wayfarer,
solace to the bereaved, and education to the ignorant.
[emphasis added] (Shoghi Effendi. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Notes, pp. 190-191)

11.
Nor will the exertions, no matter how disinterested and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


strenuous, of those who within the precincts of the
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár will be engaged in administering the
affairs of the future Bahá’í Commonwealth, fructify and
prosper unless they are brought into close and daily
communion with those spiritual agencies centering in and
radiating from the central Shrine of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár.
Nothing short of direct and constant interaction between the
spiritual forces emanating from this House of Worship
centering in the heart of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, and the
energies consciously displayed by those who administer its
affairs in their service to humanity can possibly provide the
necessary agency capable of removing the ills that have so
long and so grievously afflicted humanity. ... And of all the
institutions that stand associated with His Holy Name, surely
none save the institution of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár can most
adequately provide the essentials of Bahá’í worship and
service, both so vital to the regeneration of the world.
Therein lies the secret of the loftiness, of the potency, of the
unique position of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár as one of the
outstanding institutions conceived by Bahá’u’lláh.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 186)

12.
It cannot afford lasting satisfaction and benefit to the
worshiper himself, much less to humanity in general, unless
and until translated and transfused into that dynamic and
disinterested service to the cause of humanity which it is the
supreme privilege of the Dependencies of the Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár to facilitate and promote.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 185)

13.
With regard to your first query concerning the
institution of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, as you know, it is
envisioned that a House of Worship and its dependencies will
eventually be established in every locality. The upraising of
the Temple, the central edifice and spiritual heart of the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


community, is to be followed by the erection and functioning
of the various dependencies dedicated to the social and
economic upliftment of the community. However, long
before a Bahá'í community reaches the stage of building its
own Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, this process begins in an embryonic
way. Even the first local centre that a Bahá'í community
acquires can begin to serve not only as the spiritual and
administrative centre and gathering place of the community,
but also as the site for other aspects of community life.
Clearly, then, social and economic development projects
need not await the building of a Mashriqu’l-Adhkár and are,
themselves, worthy pursuits, provided that the community
has the capacity to initiate and sustain such activity. Some of
the entities created in this process may even later become
dependencies of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár once it is built. What
is important to remember is that, as is the case with the
institution of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, central to the
development process are the spiritual illumination of hearts
and the enlightenment of minds.
(Universal House of Justice. Department of the Secretariat at the Bahá’í
World Centre, dated 15 February 1994)

14.
As we have said in an earlier message, the flourishing
of the community, especially at the local level, demands a
significant enhancement in patterns of behaviour: those
patterns by which the collective expression of the virtues of
the individual members and the functioning of the Spiritual
Assembly are manifest in the unity and fellowship of the
community and the dynamism of its activity and growth. This
calls for the integration of the component elements — adults,
youth and children — in spiritual, social, educational and
administrative activities; and their engagement in local plans
of teaching and development. It implies a collective will and
sense of purpose to perpetuate the Spiritual Assembly
through annual elections. It involves the practice of collective

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


worship of God. Hence, it is essential to the spiritual life of
the community that the friends hold regular devotional
meetings in local Bahá'í centres, where available, or
elsewhere, including the homes of believers.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message, 1996.)

15.
It was as if the House of Worship, yet unbuilt, was
fulfilling the wishes of the Master, expressed on the eve of the
ceremony, for every such edifice: "that humanity might find a
place of meeting" and "that the proclamation of the oneness
of mankind shall go forth from its open courts of holiness".
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

16.
With exceeding joy we now announce that national
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár are to be raised up in two countries: the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Papua New Guinea.
In these, the criteria we set are demonstrably met, and the
response of their peoples to the possibilities created by the
current series of Plans has been nothing short of remarkable.
With the construction of the last of the continental temples in
Santiago under way, the initiation of projects for building
national Houses of Worship offers yet another gratifying
evidence of the penetration of the Faith of God into the soil of
society. One more step is possible. The Mashriqu’l-Adhkár,
described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as "one of the most vital
institutions of the world", weds two essential, inseparable
aspects of Bahá’í life: worship and service. The union of these
two is also reflected in the coherence that exists among the
community-building features of the Plan, particularly the
burgeoning of a devotional spirit that finds expression in
gatherings for prayer and an educational process that builds
capacity for service to humanity. The correlation of worship
and service is especially pronounced in those clusters around
the world where Baha'i communities have significantly grown
in size and vitality, and where engagement in social action is

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


apparent. Some of these have been designated as sites for the
dissemination of learning so as to nurture the friends' ability
to advance the junior youth programme in associated
regions. The capacity to sustain this programme, as we have
recently indicated, also fuels the development of study circles
and children's classes. Thus, beyond its primary purpose, the
learning site fortifies the entire scheme of expansion and
consolidation. It is within these clusters that, in the coming
years, the emergence of a local Mashriqu’l-Adhkár can be
contemplated.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

17.
The Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the spiritual centre of every
Bahá’í community round which must flourish dependencies
dedicated to the social, humanitarian, educational and
scientific advancement of mankind.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

18.
These undertakings [the construction in Santiago,
Chile, of the last of the continental Mashriqu’l-Adhkár],
inextricably linked to the development of community life now
being fostered everywhere through acts of devotion and
service, are further steps in the sublime task entrusted to
humanity by Bahá’u’lláh to build Houses of Worship
"throughout the lands in the name of Him Who is the Lord of
all
religions"-
centres
in
which
souls
may
gather
"harmoniously attuned one to another" to hear the divine
verses and to offer supplications, and from which "the voices
of praise may rise to the Kingdom" and the "fragrance of
God" be diffused.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 August 2014, to the Bahá’ís of
the world)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


25.
Importance of agriculture

Special regard must be paid to agriculture.
Bahá’u’lláh

1.
Special regard must be paid to agriculture. Although it
hath been mentioned in the fifth place, unquestionably it
precedeth the others.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 90)


2.
The fundamental basis of the community is agriculture,
tillage of the soil.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 217)


3.
First and foremost is the principle that to all the
members of the body politics shall be given the greatest
achievements of the world of humanity.  Each one shall have
the utmost welfare and well-being.  To solve this problem we
must begin with the farmer; there will we lay a foundation for
system and order because the peasant class and the
agricultural class exceed other classes in the importance of
their service.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, p. 39)

4.
The question of economics must commence with the
farmer and then be extended to the other classes in as much
as the number of farmers is greater than all other classes,
many many times greater.  Therefore, it is fitting that the
economic problem be first solved with the farmer, for the
farmer is the first active agent in the body politic.  In brief,
from among the wise men in every village a board should be

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


organized and the affairs of that village should be under the
control of that board.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to an individual believer, dated 4 October 1912)


5.
Thy Letter was received. Praise be to God it imparted
the good news of thy health and safety and indicated that
thou art ready to enter to an agricultural school.  This is
highly suitable.  Strive as much as possible to become
proficient in the science of agriculture, for in accordance with
the divine teachings, the acquisition of sciences and the
perfection of arts are considered acts of worship.  If a man
engages with all his power in the acquisition of a science or in
the perfection of an art, it is as if he has been worshipping
God in the churches and temples. Thus, as thou enterest a
school of agriculture and strivest in the acquisition of that
science thou art day and night engaged in acts of worship—
acts that are accepted at the threshold of the Almighty.  What
bounty greater than this that science should be considered as
an act of worship and art as service to the Kingdom of God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 144-145)


6.
The solution begins with the village, and when the
village is reconstructed, then the cities will be also.  The idea
is this that in each village will be erected a storehouse.  In the
language of Religion, it is called the House of Finance. That is
a universal storehouse, which is commenced in the village.
Its administration is through a Committee of the wise ones of
the community, and with the approval of that committee all
the affairs are directed.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World, vol. IV, p. 450)


7.
The farmer is the primary factor in the body politics.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. by H. M. Balyuzi, p. 239)

8.
The Local Spiritual Assemblies of such villages must
gradually widen the scope of their activities, not only to

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


develop every aspect of the spiritual life of the believers... but
also, ...to promote the standards of agriculture and other
skills in the life of the people.

(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 27 July 1976)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


26.
Public finance

...if there were no prospect for gaining interest,
the affairs of men would suffer collapse or dislocation.
Bahá’u’lláh


1.
As to thy question concerning interest and profit on
gold and silver:  Some years ago the following passage was
revealed from the heaven of the All-Merciful in honour of the
one who beareth the name of God, entitled Zaynu’l-
Muqarrabeín — upon him be the glory of the Most Glorious.
He — exalted be His Word — saith:  Many people stand in
need of this.  Because if there were no prospect for gaining
interest, the affairs of men would suffer collapse or
dislocation.  One can seldom find a person who would
manifest such consideration towards his fellowman, his
countryman or towards his own brother and would show
such tender solicitude for him as to be well-disposed to grant
him a loan on benevolent terms.  Therefore, as a token of
favour towards men We have prescribed that interest on
money should be treated like other business transactions that
are current amongst men. Thus, now that this lucid
commandment hath descended from the heaven of the Will
of God, it is lawful and proper to charge interest on money,
that the people of the world may, in a spirit of amity and
fellowship and with joy and gladness, devotedly engage
themselves in magnifying the Name of Him Who is the Well-
Beloved of all mankind.  Verily He ordaineth according to His
Own choosing.  He hath now made interest on money lawful,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


even as He had made it unlawful in the past.  Within His
grasp He holdeth the kingdom of authority.  He doeth and
ordaineth.  He is in truth the Ordainer, the All-knowing.

... However, this is a matter that should be practised
with moderation and fairness.  Our Pen of Glory hath, as a
token of wisdom and for the convenience of the people,
desisted from laying down its limit.  Nevertheless We exhort
the loved ones of God to observe justice and fairness, and to
do that which would prompt the friends of God to evince
tender mercy and compassion towards each other.  He is in
truth the Counsellor, the Compassionate, the All-Bountiful.
God grant that all men may be graciously aided to observe
that which the Tongue of the One true God hath uttered.

... Nevertheless the conduct of these affairs hath been
entrusted to the men of the House of Justice that they may
enforce them according to the exigencies of the time and the
dictates of wisdom.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 132-134)

2.   ... Likewise a general storehouse should be founded with
the appointment of a secretary.  At time of the harvest, with
the approval of the members of that board, a determined
percentage of the entire harvest should be appropriated for
the storehouse.

The storehouse is to have seven revenues:  Tithes, taxes
on animals, wealth without inheritors, all things found whose
owners cannot be discovered, a third of all treasures (money)
found in the earth, a third of the mines, and voluntary
contributions.

On the other hand, there are seven expenditures:
1. General running expenses of the institution-salaries, etc.,
and the administration of public safety, including the
department of hygiene.
2.  Tithes to the general government (State).
3.  Taxes on animals for the State.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4.  Support of an orphanage.
5.  Support of cripples and the incurable.
6.  Support of educational institutions.
7.  Supplying any deficiency for the expenses of the poor.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Extract from a Tablet dated 4 October 1912)

3.    First, whatever contributions are necessary, they obtain
from the bank at interest.  For instance, they borrow from the
bank at three percent and loan to the public at four percent.
Any farmer who is in need of implements, they supply and
give him all his necessities.  When the crop is harvested, it
will be the first income of the storehouse.  The first revenue is
this.  But this revenue is not equally distributed. For
instance, a person may have a crop of one thousand kilos and
this is only sufficient for his wants and living.  From him
nothing will be taken because he needs it all.  If something is
taken from him, he will remain hungry.  But again, there may
be one whose needs require one thousand kilos and his
income is two thousand kilos.  From him one-tenth is taken.
Again, one needs two thousand kilos, but his income is ten
thousand kilos.  From him two-tenths will be taken.  He
needs two thousand kilos.  If two thousand are taken from
him he still has six thousand remaining.

One has fifty thousand kilos, from him one-third is
taken.  One may have ten thousand kilos expenses, but has
one hundred thousand kilos income.  One half is taken.  The
greater the income, the greater is the ratio of taxation.

Second:  It is also the same with the cattle. They take
proportionately the revenue from the cattle.  For example, if
a man has two cows necessary for his wants, nothing is taken
from him.  The more he has, the more is taken from him.  This is the
second revenue.

The third revenue of the storehouse comes from one
who dies without heirs.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



The fourth revenue comes from mines.  If a mine is
found upon the land of a person, one-third of it belongs to
him and the remainder to the storehouse.

The fifth revenue is hidden treasure.  If a person finds
a hidden treasure in the earth, he takes half of it, and the
other half goes to the storehouse.

The sixth revenue. If it (treasure) is found on the way,
also half of it belongs to the storehouse.

The seventh revenue is voluntary contributions to the
storehouse.  Of their own free will and with utmost
willingness, the people will give.



These are the seven revenues, but there are seven fixed
expenditures.

The first expenditure:  The storehouse ought to give
one-tenth to the Government, to the public treasury for the
public expenses.

The second expenditure is for the poor.  The poor who
are in need, those who are exempt, not those who are idle.
For instance, if a person’s crop is burned or he has a loss in
his business, and for this reason has become poor, these poor
people are to be taken care of.

Third, the infirm, who come to want and cannot work.

Fourth, the orphans.  To them also help must be given.

Fifth, the schools.  The schools must be organized for
the education of the children.

Sixth, for the deaf and blind.

Seventh, public health.  Whatever is necessary for the
public health must be arranged.  Swamps should be filled in,
water should be brought in; whatever is necessary for the
public health.

If
there
is
something
left
over
(after
these
expenditures) it should be given to the Great House of
Justice.  And thus there will be no want in the village.  The

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


people will not remain hungry, they will not remain naked.
All will be in the utmost welfare and comfort.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World, vol. IV, pp. 450-451)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


27.
The Bahá’í writings on food

Eat ye, O people, of the good things which
God hath allowed you…
Bahá’u’lláh

1.
Say: O concourse of priests and monks! Eat ye of that
which God hath made lawful unto you and do not shun meat.
God hath, as a token of His grace, granted you leave to
partake thereof save during a brief period.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts: Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 80)

2.
Eat ye, O people, of the good things which God hath
allowed you, and deprive not yourselves from His wondrous
bounties.  Render thanks and praise unto Him, and be of
them that are truly thankful.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 276)

3.
Looking after one’s health is done with two intentions.
Man may take good care of his body for the purpose of
satisfying his personal wishes. Or, he may look after his
health with the good intention of serving humanity and of
living long enough to perform his duty toward mankind. The
latter is most commendable.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Star of the West, Vol. VIII, No. 18, p. 230)

4.
The food of the future will be fruit and grains. The time
will come when meat is no longer eaten. Medical science is
yet only in its infancy, but it has shown that our natural diet
is that which grows out of the ground. The people will
gradually develop up to the condition of taking only this

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


natural food.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Lights of Guidance, p. 296)

5.
As humanity progresses, meat will be used less and
less, for the teeth of man are not carnivorous. For example,
the lion is endowed with carnivorous teeth, which are
intended for meat, and if meat be not found, the lion starves.
The lion cannot graze; its teeth are of different shape. The
digestive system of the lion is such that it cannot receive
nourishment save through meat. The eagle has a crooked
beak, the lower part shorter than the upper. It cannot pick up
grain; it cannot graze; therefore, it is compelled to partake of
meat. The domestic animals have herbivorous teeth formed
to cut grass, which is their fodder. The human teeth, the
molars, are formed to grind grain. The front teeth, the
incisors, are for fruits, etc. It is, therefore, quite apparent
according to the implements for eating that man's food is
intended to be grain and not meat. When mankind is more
fully developed, the eating of meat will gradually cease.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 170)

6.
Regarding the eating of animal flesh and abstinence
therefrom, ...he [man] is not in need of meat, nor is he
obliged to eat it. Even without eating meat he would live with
the utmost vigour and energy ...Truly, the killing of animals
and the eating of their meat is somewhat contrary to pity and
compassion, and if one can content oneself with cereals, fruit,
oil and nuts, such as pistachios, almonds and so on, it would
undoubtedly be better and more pleasing.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation on Conservation of the Earth’s Resources,
p.11)

7.
The Supper of the Lord which His Highness the Spirit
ate with the apostles was a heavenly supper and not one of
material bread and water, for material objects have no
connection with spiritual objects. As at that time material

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


food was also present, therefore the leaders of the religion of
Christ thought that it was material food which was changed
into spiritual food.
The proof that it was not material food is this: The
apostles upon many occasions partook of material food with
His Highness Christ, yet the supper of that night became
designated as the "Lord's Supper." From this designation it is
plain and evident that they ate heavenly food at that supper.
That heavenly food consisted of the love of God, the
knowledge of God, the mysteries of God and the bestowal of
God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá'í World Faith, p. 390)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


28.
Social security

The inordinate disparity between rich and poor, a source of
acute suffering, keeps the world in a state of instability,
virtually on the brink of war.
Universal House of Justice


1.
They whom God hath endued with insight will readily
recognize that the precepts laid down by God constitute the
highest means for the maintenance of order in the world and
the security of its peoples.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 2)


3.
O ye rich ones on earth!  The poor in your midst are
My trust, guard ye My trust, and be not intent only on your
own ease.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 54)

4.
They who are possessed of riches, however, must have
the utmost regard for the poor, for great is the honor
destined by God for those poor who are steadfast in patience.
By My life! There is no honor, except what God may please to
bestow, that can compare to this honor.  Great is the
blessedness awaiting the poor that endure patiently and
conceal their sufferings, and well is it with the rich who
bestow their riches on the needy and prefer them before
themselves.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 202)





5.
Allow not the abject to rule over and dominate them
who are noble and worthy of honor, and suffer not the high-

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


minded to be at the mercy of the contemptible and worthless,
for this is what We observed upon Our arrival in the City
(Constantinople), and to it We bear witness.  We found
among its inhabitants some who were possessed of an
affluent fortune and lived in the midst of excessive riches,
while others were in dire want and abject poverty. This ill
beseemeth thy sovereignty, and is unworthy of thy rank.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 235)

6.
Compose
your
differences,
and
reduce
your
armaments, that the burden of your expenditures may be
lightened, and that your minds and hearts may be
tranquilized.  Heal the dissensions that divide you, and ye
will no longer be in need of any armaments except what the
protection of your cities and territories demandeth.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 250-251)


7.
We see you increasing every year your expenditures,
and laying the burden thereof on your subjects. This, verily,
is wholly and grossly unjust.  Fear the sighs and tears of this
Wronged One, and lay not excessive burdens on your peoples
... Be reconciled among yourselves, that ye may need no more
armaments save in a measure to safeguard your territories
and dominions.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 253-254)

8.     O ye rich ones of the earth!  Flee not from the face of
the poor that lieth in the dust, nay rather befriend him and
suffer him to recount the tale of the woes with which God’s
inscrutable Decree hath caused him to be afflicted.  By the
righteousness of God!  Whilst ye consort with him, the
Concourse on high will be looking upon you, will be
interceding for you, will be extolling your names and
glorifying your action.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 314-315)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


9.
The fifth Taráz concerneth the protection and
preservation of the stations of God's servants. One should not
ignore the truth of any matter, rather should one give
expression to that which is right and true. The people of Bahá
should not deny any soul the reward due to him, should treat
craftsmen with deference, and, unlike the people a foretime,
should not defile their tongues with abuse.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 38)




10.
Religion is verily the chief instrument for the
establishment of order in the world and of tranquillity
amongst its peoples... the greater the decline of religion, the
more grievous the waywardness of the ungodly.  This cannot
but lead in the end to chaos and confusion.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 63-64)

11.
O ye men of wisdom among nations! Shut your eyes
to estrangement, then fix your gaze upon unity. Cleave
tenaciously unto that which will lead to the well-being and
tranquillity of all mankind.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 67)

12.
We exhort the men of the House of Justice and
command them to ensure the protection and safeguarding of
men, women and children.  It is incumbent upon them to
have the utmost regard for the interests of the people at all
times and under all conditions. Blessed is the ruler who
succoureth the captive, and the rich one who careth for the
poor, and the just one who secureth from the wrong doer the
rights of the downtrodden, and happy the trustee who
observeth that which the Ordainer, the Ancient of Days hath
prescribed unto him.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 69-70)






13.
It is incumbent upon the ministers of the House of
Justice to promote the Lesser Peace so that the people of the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


earth may be relieved from the burden of exorbitant
expenditures. This matter is imperative and absolutely
essential, inasmuch as hostilities and conflict lie at the root of
affliction and calamity.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 89)






14.
The friends of God must be adorned with the
ornament of justice, equity, kindness and love.  As they do
not allow themselves to be the object of cruelty and
transgression, in like manner they should not allow such
tyranny to visit the handmaidens of God.  He, verily,
speaketh the truth and commandeth that which benefitteth
His servants and handmaidens.  He is the Protector of all in
this world and the next.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 27)

15.
The benefits accruing from benevolent works shall fall
to the individuals concerned. In such matters only a word
would suffice. Should anyone offer Huqúq with utmost joy
and radiance, manifesting a spirit of resignation and content,
his offering shall be acceptable before God, otherwise He can
dispense with all the peoples of the earth... Well is it with
them that have fulfilled that which is prescribed in the Book
of God. It is incumbent upon everyone to observe that which
God hath purposed, for whatsoever hath been set forth in the
Book by the Pen of Glory is an effective means for the
purging, the purification and sanctification of the souls of
men and a source of prosperity and blessing.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Compilation of Compilations, Vol II, p. 502)







16.
The fourth principle or teaching of Bahá’u’lláh is the
readjustment and equalization of the economic standards of
mankind.  This deals with the question of human livelihood.
It is evident that under present systems and conditions of
government the poor are subject to the greatest need and
distress while others more fortunate live in luxury and plenty

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


far beyond their actual necessities ... That there is need of an
equalization and apportionment by which all may possess the
comforts and privileges of life is evident.  The remedy must
be legislative readjustment of conditions.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 107)

17.
The readjustment of the economic laws for the
livelihood of man must be effected in order that all humanity
may live in the greatest happiness according to their
respective degrees.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 170)

18.
Bahá’u’lláh set forth principles of guidance and
teaching for economic readjustment. Regulations were
revealed by Him which ensure the welfare of the
commonwealth. As the rich man enjoys his life surrounded
by ease and luxuries, so the poor man must, likewise, have a
home and be provided with sustenance and comforts
commensurate with his needs.  This readjustment of the
social economy is of the greatest importance inasmuch as it
ensures the stability of the world of humanity; and until it is
effected, happiness and prosperity are impossible.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 181-182)

19.
What could be better before God than thinking of the
poor?  For the poor are beloved by our heavenly Father.
When Christ came upon the earth, those who believed in Him
and followed Him were the poor and lowly, showing that the
poor were near to God.  When a rich man believes and
follows the Manifestation of God, it is a proof that his wealth
is not an obstacle and does not prevent him from attaining
the pathway of salvation.  After he has been tested and tried,
it will be seen whether his possessions are a hindrance in his
religious life.  But the poor are especially beloved of God.
Their lives are full of difficulties, their trials continual, their
hopes are in God alone. Therefore, you must assist the poor

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


as much as possible, even by sacrifice of yourself.  No deed of
man is greater before God than helping the poor. Spiritual
conditions are not dependent upon the possession of worldly
treasures or the absence of them. When one is physically
destitute, spiritual thoughts are more likely.  Poverty is a
stimulus toward God. Each one of you must have great
consideration for the poor and render them assistance.
Organize in an effort to help them and prevent increase of
poverty. The greatest means for prevention is that whereby
the laws of the community will be so framed and enacted that
it will not be possible for a few to be millionaires and many
destitute. One of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings is the adjustment of
means of livelihood in human society.  Under this adjustment
there can be no extremes in human conditions as regards
wealth and sustenance. For the community needs financier,
farmer, merchant and laborer just as an army must be
composed of commander, officers and privates.  All cannot
be commanders; all cannot be officers or privates. Each in his
station in the social fabric must be competent — each in his
function according to ability but with justness of opportunity
for all.

Lycurgus, King of Sparta, who lived long before the
day of Christ, conceived the idea of absolute equality in
government.  He proclaimed laws by which all the people of
Sparta were classified into certain divisions.  Each division
had its separate rights and function.  First, farmers and tillers
of the soil.  Second, artisans and merchants.  Third, leaders
or grandees.  Under the laws of Lycurgus, the latter were not
required to engage in any labour or vocation, but it was
incumbent upon them to defend the country in case of war
and invasion.  Then he divided Sparta into nine thousand
equal parts or provinces, appointing nine thousand leaders or
grandees to protect them.  In this way the farmers of each
province were assured of protection, but each farmer was
compelled to pay a tax to support the grandee of that

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


province. The farmers and merchants were not obliged to
defend the country. In lieu of labor the grandees received the
taxes. Lycurgus, in order to establish this forever as a law,
brought nine thousand grandees together, told them he was
going upon a long journey and wished this form of
government to remain effective until his return.  They swore
an oath to protect and preserve his law. He then left his
kingdom, went into voluntary exile and never came back.  No
man ever made such a sacrifice to ensure equality among his
fellowmen.  A few years passed, and the whole system of
government he had founded collapsed, although established
upon such a just and wise basis.

Difference of capacity in human individuals is
fundamental.  It is impossible for all to be alike, all to be
equal, all to be wise.  Bahá’u’lláh has revealed principles and
laws which will accomplish the adjustment of varying human
capacities. He has said that whatsoever is possible of
accomplishment in human government will be effected
through these principles.  When the laws He has instituted
are carried out, there will be no millionaires possible in the
community and likewise no extremely poor.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 216-217)

20.
The Bahá’í Cause covers all economic and social
questions under the heading and ruling of its laws.  The
essence of the Bahá’í spirit is that, in order to establish a
better social order and economic condition, there must be
allegiance to the laws and principles of government ...The
governments will enact these laws, establishing just
legislation and economics in order that all humanity may
enjoy a full measure of welfare and privilege; but this will
always be according to legal protection and procedure.
Without legislative administration, rights and demands fail,
and the welfare of the commonwealth cannot be realized.
Today the method of demand is the strike and resort to force,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


which is manifestly wrong and destructive of human
foundation.  Rightful privilege and demand must be set forth
in laws and regulations.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238)

21.    Is there a greater blessing than this?  Freedom!  Liberty!
Security!  These are the great bestowals of God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, p. 20)


22.
Although the body politic is one family yet because of
lack of harmonious relations some members are comfortable
and some in direct misery, some members are satisfied and
some are hungry, some members are clothed in most costly
garments and some families are in need of food and shelter.
Why?  Because this family lacks the necessary reciprocity and
symmetry. This household is not well arranged. This
household is not living under a perfect law.  All the laws
which are legislated do not ensure happiness. They do not
provide comfort.  Therefore, a law must be given to this
family by means of which all the members of this family will
enjoy equal well-being and happiness.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 38-39)

23.    His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh has given instructions
regarding every one of the questions confronting humanity.
He has given teachings and instructions with regard to every
one of the problems with which man struggles. Among them
are (the teachings) concerning the question of economics
that all the members of the body politic may enjoy through
the working out of this solution the greatest happiness,
welfare and comfort without any harm or injury attacking the
general order of things.  Thereby no difference or dissension
will occur.  No sedition or contention will take place.

God is not partial and is no respecter of persons.  He
has made provision for all.  The harvest comes forth for
everyone. The rain showers upon everybody and the heat of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


the sun is destined to warm everyone. The verdure of the
earth is for everyone.  Therefore, there should be for all
humanity the utmost happiness, the utmost comfort, the
utmost well-being.

But if conditions are such that some are happy and
comfortable and some in misery; some are accumulating
exorbitant wealth and others are in dire want — under such a
system it is impossible for man to be happy and impossible
for him to win the good pleasure of God.

A Persian king was one night in his palace, living in
the greatest luxury and comfort.  Through excessive joy and
gladness, he addressed a certain man, saying: “Of all my life
this is the happiest moment.  Praise be to God, from every
point prosperity appears and fortune smiles!  My treasury is
full and the army is well taken care of.  My palaces are many;
my land unlimited; my family is well off; my honour and
sovereignty are great.  What more could I want!”

The poor man at the gate of his palace spoke out,
saying: “O kind king!  Assuming that you are from every
point of view so happy, free from every worry and sadness —
do you not worry for us?  You say that on your own account
you have no worries — but do you never worry about the poor
in your land?  Is it becoming or meet that you should be so
well off and we in such dire want and need?  In view of our
needs and troubles how can you rest in your palace, how can
you even say that you are free from worries and sorrows?  As
a ruler you must not be so egoistic as to think of yourself
alone but you must think of those who are your subjects.
When we are comfortable then you will be comfortable; when
we are in misery how can you, as a king, be in happiness?”

The purport is this that we are all inhabiting one globe
of earth.  In reality we are one family and each one of us is a
member of this family.  We must all be in the greatest
happiness and comfort, under a just rule and regulation

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


which is according to the good pleasure of God, thus causing
us to be happy, for this life is fleeting.

If man were to care for himself only he would be
nothing but an animal for only the animals are thus egoistic.
If you bring a thousand sheep to a well to kill nine hundred
and ninety-nine the one remaining sheep would go on
grazing, not thinking of the others and worrying not at all
about the lost, never bothering that its own kind had passed
away, or had perished or been killed.  To look after one’s self
only is therefore an animal propensity.  It is the animal
propensity to live solitary and alone.  It is the animal
proclivity to look after one’s own comfort. But man was
created to be a man — to be fair, to be just, to be merciful, to
be kind to all his species, never to be willing that he himself
be well off while others are in misery and distress — this is an
attribute of the animal and not of man.  Nay, rather, man
should be willing to accept hardships for himself in order
that others may enjoy wealth; he should enjoy trouble for
himself that others may enjoy happiness and well-being.
This is the attribute of man.  This is becoming of man.
Otherwise man is not man — he is less than the animal.

The man who thinks only of himself and is thoughtless
of others is undoubtedly inferior to the animal because the
animal is not possessed of the reasoning faculty.  The animal
is excused; but in man there is reason, the faculty of justice,
the faculty of mercifulness.  Possessing all these faculties he
must not leave them unused.  He who is so hard-hearted as
to think only of his own comfort, such an one will not be
called man.

Man is he who forgets his own interests for the sake of
others.  His own comfort he forfeits for the well-being of all.
Nay, rather, his own life must he be willing to forfeit for the
life of mankind. Such a man is the honour of the world of
humanity.  Such a man is the glory of the world of mankind.
Such a man is the one who wins eternal bliss. Such a man is

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


near to the threshold of God. Such a man is the very
manifestation of eternal happiness. Otherwise, men are like
animals, exhibiting the same proclivities and propensities as
the world of animals. What distinction is there?  What
prerogatives, what perfections?  None whatever!  Animals are
better even — thinking only of themselves and negligent of
the needs of others.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 39-43)

24.
Every human being has the right to live; they have a
right to rest, and to a certain amount of well-being. As a rich
man is able to live in his palace surrounded by luxury and the
greatest comfort, so should a poor man be able to have the
necessaries of life.  Nobody should die of hunger; everybody
should have sufficient clothing; one man should not live in
excess while another has no possible means of existence.

Let us try with all the strength we have to bring about
happier conditions, so that no single soul may be destitute.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp. 134-135)

25.  The arrangements of the circumstances of the people
must be such that poverty shall disappear, that everyone, as
far as possible, according to his rank and position, shall share
in comfort and well-being.

We see amongst us men who are overburdened with
riches on the one hand, and on the other those unfortunate
ones who starve with nothing; those who possess several
stately palaces, and those who have not where to lay their
head. Some we find with numerous courses of costly and
dainty food; whilst others can scarce find sufficient crusts to
keep them alive. Whilst some are clothed in velvets, furs and
fine linen, others have insufficient, poor and thin garments
with which to protect them from the cold.

This condition of affairs is wrong, and must be
remedied.  Now the remedy must be carefully undertaken.  It

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


cannot be done by bringing to pass absolute equality between
men.

Equality is a chimera!  It is entirely impracticable!
Even if equality could be achieved it could not continue —
and if its existence were possible, the whole order of the
world would be destroyed.  The law of order must always
obtain in the world of humanity. Heaven has so decreed in
the creation of man.

Some are full of intelligence, others have an ordinary
amount of it, and others again are devoid of intellect.  In
these three classes of men there is order but not equality.
How could it be possible that wisdom and stupidity should be
equal?  Humanity, like a great army, requires a general,
captains, under-officers in their degree, and soldiers, each
with their own appointed duties. Degrees are absolutely
necessary to ensure an orderly organization. An army could
not be composed of generals alone, or of captains only, or of
nothing but soldiers without one in authority. The certain
result of such a plan would be that disorder and
demoralization would overtake the whole army.

King Lycurgus, the philosopher, made a great plan to
equalize the subjects of Sparta; with self-sacrifice and
wisdom was the experiment begun.  Then the king called the
people of his kingdom, and made them swear a great oath to
maintain the same order of government if he should leave the
country, also that nothing should make them alter it until his
return.  Having secured this oath, he left his kingdom of
Sparta and never returned. Lycurgus abandoned the
situation, renouncing his high position, thinking to achieve
the permanent good of his country by the equalization of the
property and of the conditions of life in his kingdom.  All the
self-sacrifice of the king was in vain.  The great experiment
failed. After a time, all was destroyed; his carefully thought-
out constitution came to an end.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



The futility of attempting such a scheme was shown
and the impossibility of attaining equal conditions of
existence was proclaimed in the ancient kingdom of Sparta.
In our day any such attempt would be equally doomed to
failure.

Certainly, some being enormously rich and others
lamentably poor, an organization is necessary to control and
improve this state of affairs.  It is important to limit riches, as
it is also of importance to limit poverty.  Either extreme is not
good.  To be seated in the mean is most desirable.  If it be
right for a capitalist to possess a large fortune, it is equally
just that his workman should have a sufficient means of
existence.

A financier with colossal wealth should not exist
whilest near him is a poor man in dire necessity. When we
see poverty allowed to reach a condition of starvation it is a
sure sign that somewhere we shall find tyranny.  Men must
bestir themselves in this matter, and no longer delay in
altering conditions which bring the misery of grinding
poverty to a very large number of the people.  The rich must
give of their abundance, they must soften their hearts and
cultivate a compassionate intelligence, taking thought for
those sad ones who are suffering from lack of the very
necessities of life.

There must be special laws made, dealing with these
extremes of riches and of want.  The members of the
Government should consider the laws of God when they are
framing plans for the ruling of the people.  The general rights
of mankind must be guarded and preserved.

The government of the countries should conform to
the Divine Law which gives equal justice to all.  This is the
only way in which the deplorable superfluity of great wealth
and miserable, demoralizing, degrading poverty can be
abolished.  Not until this is done will the Law of God be
obeyed.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp. 156-159)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



26. Gracious God! How can one see one’s fellow men hungry,
destitute, and deprived, and yet live in peace and comfort in
one’s splendid mansion? How can one see others in the
greatest need and yet take delight in one’s fortune? That is
why it has been decreed in the divine religions that the
wealthy should offer up each year a portion of their wealth
for the sustenance of the poor and the assistance of the
needy.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 319)


27.
Regarding your question concerning helping the poor:
The Bahá'ís should not go so far as to refrain from extending
charity to the needy, if they are able and willing to do so.
However, in this, as in many other things, they should exert
moderation. The greatest gift that we can give to the poor and
the down-trodden is to aid to build up the divine institutions
inaugurated in this day by Bahá'u'lláh as these institutions,
and this World Order when established, will eliminate the
causes of poverty and the injustices which afflict the poor.
We should, therefore, do both, support our Bahá'í Fund, and
also be kind and generous to the needy.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 11 March 1942)

28.
Throughout the world Bahá’í communities operated
programs offering compassionate assistance to people in
need: suffers from substance abuse, orphans and homeless
people, the elderly and handicapped, persons with material
difficulties, refugees and victims of disasters.
(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p.
76)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


29.
Elimination of extremes of wealth and
poverty

There must be special laws made,
dealing with these extremes of riches and of want.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
The arrangements of the circumstances of the people
must be such that poverty shall disappear, and that everyone
as far as possible, according to his position and rank, shall be
comfortable. Whilst the nobles and others in high rank are in
easy circumstances, the poor also should be able to get their
daily food and not be brought to the extremities of hunger.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 29)

2.
All the peoples of the world will enjoy like interests,
and the poor shall possess a portion of the comforts of life.
…the poor will have at least their comfortable and pleasant
places of abode; …the needy shall have their necessities and
no longer live in poverty. In short, a readjustment of the
economic order will come about…
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 102)

3.
Bahá’u’lláh set forth principles of guidance and
teaching for economic readjustment. Regulations were
revealed by Him which ensure the welfare of the
commonwealth. As the rich man enjoys his life surrounded
by ease and luxuries, so the poor man must, likewise, have a
home and be provided with sustenance and comforts
commensurate with his needs. This readjustment of the
social economy is of the greatest importance inasmuch as it

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


ensures the stability of the world of humanity; and until it is
effected, happiness and prosperity are impossible.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 181)

4.
One of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings is the adjustment of
means of livelihood in human society.  Under this adjustment
there can be no extremes in human conditions as regards
wealth and sustenance.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 216)

5.
We see amongst us men who are overburdened with
riches on the one hand, and on the other those unfortunate
ones who starve with nothing; those who possess several
stately palaces, and those who have not where to lay their
head. Some we find with numerous courses of costly and
dainty food; whilst others can scarce find sufficient crusts to
keep them alive. Whilst some are clothed in velvets, furs and
fine linen, others have insufficient, poor and thin garments
with which to protect them from the cold. This condition of
affairs is wrong, and must be remedied.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 151)

6.
There must be special laws made, dealing with these
extremes of riches and of want.  …The government of the
countries should conform to the Divine Law which gives
equal justice to all.  This is the only way in which the
deplorable superfluity of great wealth and miserable,
demoralizing, degrading poverty can be abolished.  Not until
this is done will the Law of God be obeyed.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 159)

7.
Now, the root cause of these difficulties lies in the law
of nature that governs present-day civilization, for it results
in a handful of people accumulating vast fortunes that far
exceed their needs, while the greater number remain naked,
destitute, and helpless. This is at once contrary to justice, to

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


humanity, and to fairness; it is the very height of inequity
and runs counter to the good-pleasure of the All-Merciful…
… It is preferable, then, that some measure of moderation be
achieved, and by moderation is meant the enactment of such
laws and regulations as would prevent the unwarranted
concentration of wealth in the hands of the few and satisfy
the essential needs of the many.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, pp. 315-316)

8.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has developed in various of His talks,
which you will find in different compilations, the principles
upon which the Bahá’í economic system would be based.  A
system that prevents among others the gradual control of
wealth in the hands of a few and the resulting state of both
extremes, wealth and poverty.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter dated 28 October 1927)


9.
...economic barriers and restrictions will be completely
abolished, and the inordinate distinction between classes will
be obliterated. Destitution on the one hand, and gross
accumulation of ownership on the other, will disappear.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 204)

10.       It is evident that the subject of the suffering poor and
the pampered rich has been, and will continue to be,
discussed by the world's scholars and philosophers, but so far
they have not found a solution to this difficult problem.
Whatever you witness in this world, such as evidences of
mighty upheavals and omens of future events, all revolve
around this pivot, that is, the groaning and the agitation of
the poor on the one hand, and the excessive wealth and
affluence of the rich on the other. This conflict and clash of
interests will remain unchanged until such time as the laws
and commandments revealed by the Pen of the Most High in
this regard are executed and enforced, and the solution of the
economic problems based on spiritual principles becomes

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


possible. Then will there be peace between the rich and the
poor, or between the forces of capital and labour. Then will
the poor gain their legitimate right of having their necessary
and essential needs satisfied, and the rich will be able to
spend their wealth as they please, free of fear for their lives
and property.

The intent is not, however, to say that all the poor will
become rich and they will become equal. Such a concept is
like saying that all the ignorant and the illiterate will become
the sages of the age and the learned of the learned. Rather,
when
education
becomes
compulsory
and
universal,
ignorance and illiteracy will decrease and there will remain
no one deprived of education. But, as the basis for distinction
is in the person's capacity and ability, and differences are
related to the degree of his intelligence and mental powers,
therefore, all the people will not be equal in their knowledge,
learning and understanding. The intent is to say that the
world of creation calls for distinctions in people's stations,
and degrees in the differences existing among them, so that
the affairs of the world may become organized and ordered.
Diversity in all created things, whether in kind, in physical
appearance, or in station, is the means for their protection,
their
permanence,
unity
and
harmony.
Each
part
complements the other.

Concerning the point that the poor are always in hardship
and trouble and in need of everything, this we can
acknowledge. However, it is doubtful whether the rich have
peace of mind and true comfort, they should be quietly asked
about this, and their response is dependent upon their
conscience.
This should not be understood to mean that poverty is
cherished and riches and wealth are blameworthy. All are

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


called upon, nay, rather, commanded and required by the
Pen of the Most High, to engage in a trade or profession.
(Shoghi Effendi: 22 May 1928 -- translated from the Persian. Quoted in
economics, agriculture and related subjects. Prepared by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice)

11.
The inordinate disparity between rich and poor, a
source of acute suffering, keeps the world in a state of
instability, virtually on the brink of war. Few societies have
dealt effectively with this situation. The solution calls for the
combined application of spiritual, moral and practical
approaches. A fresh look at the problem is required, entailing
consultation with experts from a wide spectrum of
disciplines, devoid of economic and ideological polemics, and
involving the people directly affected in the decisions that
must urgently be made. It is an issue that is bound up not
only with the necessity for eliminating extremes of wealth
and poverty but also with those spiritual verities the
understanding of which can produce a new universal
attitude. Fostering such an attitude is itself a major part of
the solution.

(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, pp. 10-11)

12. As the twentieth century draws to a close, it is no longer
possible to maintain the belief that the approach to social and
economic development to which the materialistic conception
of life has given rise is capable of meeting humanity’s needs.
Optimistic forecasts about the changes it would generate
have vanished into the ever-widening abyss that separates
the living standards of a small and relatively diminishing
minority of the world’s inhabitants from the poverty
experienced by the vast majority of the globe’s population.
(Universal House of Justice. Prosperity of Humankind, p. 2)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


30.
Importance of wealth and wealth
redistribution

Wealth is most commendable, provided the entire
population is wealthy.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
O children of Dust! Tell the rich of the midnight sighing
of the poor, lest heedlessness lead them into the path of
destruction, and deprive them of the Tree of Wealth. To give
and to be generous are attributes of Mine; well is it with him
that adorneth himself with My virtues.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 49)

2.
O ye that pride yourselves on mortal riches! Know ye
in truth that wealth is a mighty barrier between the seeker
and his desire, the lover and his beloved.  The rich, but for a
few, shall in no wise attain the court of His presence nor
enter the city of content and resignation. Well is it then with
him, who, being rich, is not hindered by his riches from the
eternal kingdom, nor deprived by them of imperishable
dominion.  By the Most Great Name! The splendour of such a
wealthy man shall illuminate the dwellers of heaven even as
the sun enlightens the people of the earth!


(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 53)

3.
O SON OF MAN! Should prosperity befall thee, rejoice
not, and should abasement come upon thee, grieve not, for
both shall pass away and be no more.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 52)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4.
The first Taráz and the first effulgence which hath
dawned from the horizon of the Mother Book is that man
should know his own self and recognize that which leadeth
unto loftiness or lowliness, glory or abasement, wealth or
poverty.  Having attained the stage of fulfillment and reached
his maturity, man standeth in need of wealth, and such
wealth as he acquireth through crafts or professions is
commendable and praiseworthy in the estimation of men of
wisdom, and especially in the eyes of servants who dedicate
themselves to the education of the world and to the
edification of its peoples.  They are, in truth, cup-bearers of
the life-giving water of knowledge and guides unto the ideal
way.  They direct the peoples of the world to the straight path
and acquaint them with that which is conducive to human
upliftment and exaltation.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 34-35)

5.
Man’s merit lieth in service and virtue and not in the
pageantry of wealth and riches. Take heed that your words be
purged from idle fancies and worldly desires and your deeds
be cleansed from craftiness and suspicion. Dissipate not the
wealth of your precious lives in the pursuit of evil and corrupt
affection, nor let your endeavors be spent in promoting your
personal interest. Be generous in your days of plenty, and be
patient in the hour of loss. Adversity is followed by success
and rejoicings follow woe. Guard against idleness and sloth,
and cling unto that which profiteth mankind, whether young
or old, whether high or low. Beware lest ye sow tares of
dissension among men or plant thorns of doubt in pure and
radiant hearts.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 138)


6.
The beginning of magnanimity is when man
expendeth his wealth on himself, on his family and on the
poor among his brethren in his Faith.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



The essence of wealth is love for Me; whoso loveth Me
is the possessor of all things, and he that loveth Me not is
indeed of the poor and needy.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 156)







7.
What is it of which ye can rightly boast?  Is it on your
food and your drink that ye pride yourselves, on the riches ye
lay up in your treasuries, on the diversity and the cost of the
ornaments with which ye deck yourselves?  If true glory were
to consist in the possession of such perishable things, then
the earth on which ye walk must needs vaunt itself over you,
because it supplieth you, and bestoweth upon you, these very
things, by the decree of the Almighty.  In its bowels are
contained, according to what God hath ordained, all that ye
possess.  From it, as a sign of His mercy, ye derive your
riches.  Behold then your state, the thing in which ye glory!
Would that ye could perceive it!
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 252-253)

8.
Should a man wish to adorn himself with the
ornaments of the earth, to wear its apparels, or partake of the
benefits it can bestow, no harm can befall him, if he alloweth
nothing whatever to intervene between him and God, for God
hath ordained every good thing, whether created in the
heavens or in the earth, for such of His servants as truly
believe in Him.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 276)


9.      Whosoever comes with one good act, God will give him
tenfold. There is no doubt that the living Lord shall assist and
confirm the generous soul.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in the Star of the West, vol. 6, number 17, p. 139)

10.
Wealth is praiseworthy in the highest degree, if it is
acquired by an individual’s own efforts and the grace of God,
in commerce, agriculture, art and industry, and if it be

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


expended for philanthropic purposes.  Above all, if a
judicious and resourceful individual should initiate measures
which would universally enrich the masses of the people,
there could be no undertaking greater than this, and it would
rank in the sight of God as the supreme achievement, for
such a benefactor would supply the needs and insure the
comfort and well-being of a great multitude.  Wealth is most
commendable, provided the entire population is wealthy.  If,
however, a few have inordinate riches while the rest are
impoverished, and no fruit or benefit accrues from that
wealth, then it is only a liability to its possessor.  If, on the
other hand, it is expended for the promotion of knowledge,
the founding of elementary and other schools, the
encouragement of art and industry, the training of orphans
and the poor — in brief, if it is dedicated to the welfare of
society — its possessor will stand out before God and man as
the most excellent of all who live on earth and will be
accounted as one of the people of paradise.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 24-25)

11.
Can we maintain that it is contrary to the
fundamentals of the Faith to encourage the acquisition of
useful arts and of general knowledge, to inform oneself as to
the truths of such physical sciences as are beneficial to man,
and to widen the scope of industry and increase the products
of commerce and multiply the nation’s avenues of wealth?
Would it conflict with the worship of God to establish law
and order in the cities and organize the rural districts, to
repair the roads and build railroads and facilitate
transportation and travel and thus increase the people’s well-
being?  Would it be inconsistent with the Divine commands
and prohibitions if we were to work the abandoned mines
which are the greatest source of the nation’s wealth, and to
build factories, from which come the entire people’s comfort,
security and affluence?  Or to stimulate the creation of new

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


industries and to promote improvement in our domestic
products?

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 101-102)

12.
Consider how the greatest men in the world — whether
among prophets or philosophers—all have forfeited their own
comfort, have sacrificed their own pleasure for the well-being
of humanity. They have sacrificed their own lives for the body
politic. They have sacrificed their own wealth for that of the
general welfare.  They have forfeited their own honor for the
honor of mankind.  Therefore, it becomes evident that this is
the highest attainment for the world of humanity.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 39-43)

13.
If wealth and prosperity become the means of service at
God’s Threshold, it is highly meritorious; otherwise it would
be better to avoid them.
(Universal House of Justice. Messages 1963 - 1986, p. 437)

14.
Referring to the exigencies of the material world,
Bahá’u’lláh has affirmed that to every end has been assigned
a means for its accomplishment. A natural conclusion to be
drawn from reflection on this fundamental principle
[acquisition of wealth] is that vigilance must be exercised in
distinguishing “means” from “ends”; otherwise, what is
intended as a mere instrument could easily become the very
goal of an individual’s life.
The acquisition of wealth is a case in point; it is
acceptable and praiseworthy to the extent that it serves as a
means for achieving higher ends — for meeting one’s basic
necessities, for fostering the progress of one’s family, for
promoting the welfare of society, and for contributing to the
establishment of a world civilization. But to make the
accumulation of wealth the central purpose of one’s life is
unworthy of any human being.
An idea closely related to the above, and well in

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


accord with the spirit of the Bahá’í teachings, is that the end
does not serve to justify the means. However constructive
and noble the goal, however significant to one’s life or to the
welfare of one’s family, it must not be attained through
improper means. Regrettably, a number of today’s leaders —
political, social, and religious — as well as some of the
directors of financial markets, executives of multinational
corporations, chiefs of commerce and industry, and ordinary
people who succumb to social pressure and ignore the call of
their conscience, act against this principle; they justify any
means in order to achieve their goals.
The legitimacy of wealth depends, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has
indicated, on how it is acquired and on how it is expended. In
this connection, He has stated that “wealth is praiseworthy in
the highest degree, if it is acquired by an individual’s own
efforts and the grace of God, in commerce, agriculture, crafts
and industry”, if the measures adopted by the individual in
generating wealth serve to “enrich the generality of the
people”, and if the wealth thus obtained is expended for
“philanthropic purposes” and “the promotion of knowledge”,
for the establishment of schools and industry and the
advancement of education, and in general for the welfare of
society.
Reflect on the significance of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words, at
once complex and subtle. Quite apart from the already
formidable obstacles to employment and service that certain
fanatical elements have placed in your path, a host of
negative forces, generated by the materialism and corruption
so widespread in the world, present yet a further challenge in
upholding the Bahá’í standard of conduct with respect to
financial affairs. Nevertheless, following in the footsteps of
your spiritual forebears, you remain undaunted, striving
sincerely to reinforce within your families, particularly in
your children, attitudes towards material wealth founded on
Divine guidance.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


The members of the younger generation would do
well to ponder the above statement of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in which
He conditions the acquisition of wealth on diligent work and
the grace of God. Let them weigh carefully in their hearts and
minds the difference between gaining wealth through earnest
effort in fields such as agriculture, commerce, the arts, and
industry, on the one hand, and, on the other, obtaining it
without exertion or through dishonourable means. Let them
consider the consequences of each for the spiritual
development of the individual, as well as the progress of
society, and ask themselves what possibilities exist for
generating income and acquiring wealth that will draw down
confirmations from on high. It will surely become evident, as
they do so, that what will attract God’s blessings and ensure
true happiness both in this world and in the next is the
development of spiritual qualities, such as honesty,
trustworthiness, generosity, justice, and consideration for
others, and the recognition that material means are to be
expended for the betterment of the world.
Many would readily acknowledge that the acquisition
of wealth should be governed by the requirements of justice,
which, as a principle, can be expressed to varying degrees, on
different levels. An employer and employee, for example, are
bound by the laws and conventions that regulate their work,
and each is expected to carry out his or her responsibilities
with honesty and integrity. At another level, however, if the
deeper implications of justice are to be realized, the other two
preconditions to the legitimate acquisition of wealth
mentioned above must be taken into account, and prevailing
norms reassessed in their light. Here, the relationship
between minimum wage and the cost of living merits careful
evaluation—this, especially in light of the contribution
workers make to a company’s success and their entitlement,
as noted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. to a fair share of the profits. The
wide margin, often unjustifiable, between the production

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


costs of certain commodities and the price at which they are
sold likewise requires attention, as does the question of the
generation of wealth through measures that “enrich the
generality of the people”. What such reflection and inquiry
will no doubt make abundantly clear is that certain
approaches to obtaining wealth — so many of which involve
the
exploitation
of
others,
the
monopolization
and
manipulation of markets, and the production of commodities
that promote violence and immorality — are unworthy and
unacceptable.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 April 2010 to the Bahá’ís of
Iran)

15.
The key to resolving these social ills [materialism and
the culture of consumerism] rests in the hands of a youthful
generation convinced of the nobility of human beings;
eagerly seeking a deeper understanding of the true purpose
of existence; able to distinguish between divine religion and
mere superstition; clear in the view of science and religion as
two independent yet complementary systems of knowledge
that propel human progress; conscious of and drawn to the
beauty and power of unity in diversity; secure in the
knowledge that real glory is to be found in service to one’s
country and to the peoples of the world; and mindful that the
acquisition of wealth is praiseworthy only insofar as it is
attained through just means and expended for benevolent
purposes, for the promotion of knowledge and toward the
common good. Thus must our precious youth prepare
themselves to shoulder the tremendous responsibilities that
await them. And thus will they prove immune to the
atmosphere of greed that surrounds them and press forward
unwavering in the pursuit of their exalted goals.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 2 April 2010 to the Bahá’ís of
Iran)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



A. Voluntary Giving
16.
To state the matter briefly, the Teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh advocate voluntary sharing, and this is a greater
thing than the equalization of wealth. For equalization must
be imposed from without, while sharing is a matter of free
choice.

Man
reacheth
perfection
through
good
deeds,
voluntarily performed, not through good deeds the doing of
which was forced upon him.  And sharing is a personally
chosen righteous act:  that is, the rich should extend
assistance to the poor, they should expend their substance for
the poor, but of their own free will, and not because the poor
have gained this end by force. For the harvest of force is
turmoil and the ruin of the social order.  On the other hand,
voluntary sharing, the freely-chosen expending of one’s
substance, leadeth to society’s comfort and peace.  It lighteth
up the world; it bestoweth honour upon humankind.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 115)

17.
And among the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh is voluntary
sharing of one’s property with others among mankind. This
voluntary sharing is greater than (legally imposed) equality,
and consists in this, that man should not prefer oneself to
others, but rather should sacrifice his life and property for
others. But this should not be introduced by coercion so that
it becomes a law and man is compelled to follow it.  Nay,
rather, man should voluntarily and of his own choice sacrifice
his property and life for others, and spend willingly for the
poor, just as is done in Persia among the Bahá’ís.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 302)

18.
The spending of money for the help of another brings
a great blessing...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in the Star of the West, vol. VIII, number 1, p. 6)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



19.     The rich too must be merciful to the poor, contributing
from willing hearts to their needs without being forced or
compelled to do so.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 117)

20.
Hearts must be so cemented together, love must
become so dominant that the rich shall most willingly extend
assistance to the poor and take steps to establish these
economic adjustments permanently.  If it is accomplished in
this way, it will be most praiseworthy because then it will be
for the sake of God and in the pathway of His service.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 239)

21.
…man must sacrifice the qualities and attributes of the
world of nature for the qualities and attributes of the world of
God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 451-452)

22.
Should a wealthy man choose to bequeath, upon his
death, a portion of his wealth to the poor and needy,
perchance this action will bring about divine pardon and
forgiveness and result in his progress in the Kingdom of the
All-Merciful.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 267)

23.
The time will come in the near future when humanity will
become so much more sensitive than at present that the man of
great wealth will not enjoy his luxury, in comparison with the
deplorable poverty about him.  He will be forced, for his own
happiness, to expend his wealth to procure better conditions for the
community in which he lives.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in the Star of the West, vol. VIII, number 1, pp. 4-5)


24.
But in the Divine Teachings equality is brought about
through a ready willingness to share.  It is commanded as
regards wealth that the rich among the people, and the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


aristocrats should by their own free will and for the sake of
their own happiness, concern themselves with and care for
the poor.  This equality is the result of the lofty
characteristics and noble attributes of mankind.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in the Star of the West, vol. VIII, number 1, p. 231)

25.
We must be like the fountain or Spring that is
continually emptying itself of all that it has and is continually
being refilled from an invisible source. To be continually
giving out for the good of our fellows undeterred by the fear
of poverty and reliant on the unfailing bounty of the Source
of all wealth and all good—this is the secret of right living.
(Shoghi Effendi. Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 95)


26.
It is the sacred obligation of every conscientious and
faithful servant of Bahá’u’lláh who desires to see His Cause
advance, to contribute freely and generously for the increase
of that Fund.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, pp. 41-42)

27.
I feel urged to remind you of the necessity of ever
bearing in mind the cardinal principle that all contributions
to the Fund are to be purely and strictly voluntary in
character. It should be made clear and evident to everyone
that any form of compulsion, however slight and indirect,
strikes at the very root of the principle underlying the
formation of the Fund ever since its inception.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 101)


B. Industrial Profit sharing
28.
You have asked about strikes. Great difficulties have
arisen and will continue to arise from this issue. The origin of
these difficulties is twofold: One is the excessive greed and
rapacity of the factory owners, and the other is the gratuitous
demands, the greed, and the intransigence of the workers.
One must therefore seek to address both.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Now, the root cause of these difficulties lies in the law
of nature that governs present-day civilization, for it results
in a handful of people accumulating vast fortunes that far
exceed their needs, while the greater number remain naked,
destitute, and helpless. This is at once contrary to justice, to
humanity, and to fairness; it is the very height of inequity
and runs counter to the good-pleasure of the All-Merciful.
This disparity is confined to the human race: Among
other creatures, that is, among the animals, a certain kind of
justice and equality prevails. Thus, there is equality within a
shepherd’s flock, or within a herd of deer in the wilderness,
or among the songbirds that dwell in the mountains, plains,
and orchards. The animals of every species enjoy a measure
of equality and do not differ greatly from one another in their
means of existence, and thus they live in perfect peace and
joy.
It is quite otherwise with the human race, where the
greatest oppression and injustice are to be found. Thus you
can observe, on the one hand, a single person who has
amassed a fortune, made an entire country his personal
dominion, acquired immense wealth, and secured an
unceasing flow of gains and profits, and, on the other, a
hundred thousand helpless souls—weak, powerless, and
wanting even a mouthful of bread. There is neither equality
here nor benevolence. Observe how, as a result, general peace
and happiness have become so wanting, and the welfare of
humanity so undermined, that the lives of a vast multitude
have been rendered fruitless! For all the wealth, power,
commerce, and industry are concentrated in the hands of a
few individuals, while all others toil under the burden of
endless hardships and difficulties, are bereft of advantages
and benefits, and remain deprived of comfort and peace. One
must therefore enact such laws and regulations as will
moderate the excessive fortunes of the few and meet the
basic needs of the myriad millions of the poor, that a degree

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


of moderation may be achieved.
However, absolute equality is just as untenable, for
complete equality in wealth, power, commerce, agriculture,
and industry would result in chaos and disorder, disrupt
livelihoods, provoke universal discontent, and undermine the
orderly conduct of the affairs of the community. For
unjustified equality is also fraught with peril. It is preferable,
then, that some measure of moderation be achieved, and by
moderation is meant the enactment of such laws and
regulations as would prevent the unwarranted concentration
of wealth in the hands of the few and satisfy the essential
needs of the many. For instance, the factory owners reap a
fortune every day, but the wage the poor workers are paid
cannot even meet their daily needs: This is most unfair, and
assuredly no just man can accept it. Therefore, laws and
regulations should be enacted which would grant the workers
both a daily wage and a share in a fourth or fifth of the profits
of the factory in accordance with its means, or which would
have the workers equitably share in some other way in the
profits with the owners. For the capital and the management
come from the latter and the toil and labour from the former.
The workers could either be granted a wage that adequately
meets their daily needs, as well as a right to a share in the
revenues of the factory when they are injured, incapacitated,
or unable to work, or else a wage could be set that allows the
workers to both satisfy their daily needs and save a little for
times of weakness and incapacity.
If matters were so arranged, neither would the factory
owners amass each day a fortune which is absolutely of no
use to them—for should one’s fortune increase beyond
measure, one would come under a most heavy burden,
become subject to exceeding hardships and troubles, and
find the administration of such an excessive fortune to be
most difficult and to exhaust one’s natural powers—nor
would the workers endure such toil and hardship as to

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


become incapacitated and to fall victim, at the end of their
lives, to the direst need.
It
is
therefore
clearly
established
that
the
appropriation of excessive wealth by a few individuals,
notwithstanding the needs of the masses, is unfair and
unjust, and that, conversely, absolute equality would also
disrupt the existence, welfare, comfort, peace, and orderly
life of the human race. Such being the case, the best course is
therefore to seek moderation, which is for the wealthy to
recognize the advantages of moderation in the acquisition of
profits and to show regard for the welfare of the poor and the
needy, that is, to fix a daily wage for the workers and also to
allot them a share of the total profits of the factory.
In brief, insofar as the mutual rights of the factory
owners and the workers are concerned, laws must be enacted
that would enable the former to make reasonable profits and
the latter to be provided with their present necessities and
their future needs, so that if they become incapacitated, grow
old, or die and leave behind small children, they or their
children will not be overcome by dire poverty but will receive
a modest pension from the revenues of the factory itself.
For their part, the workers should not make excessive
demands, be recalcitrant, ask for more than they deserve, or
go on strike. They should obey and comply and make no
demands for exorbitant wages. Rather, the mutual and
equitable rights of both parties should be officially fixed and
established according to the laws of justice and compassion,
and any party that violates them should be condemned after
a fair hearing and be subject to a definitive verdict enforced
by the executive branch, so that all affairs may be
appropriately ordered and all problems adequately resolved.
The intervention of the government and the courts in
the problems arising between owners and workers is fully
warranted, since these are not such particular matters as are
ordinary transactions between two individuals, which do not

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


concern the public and in which the government should have
no right to interfere. For problems between owners and
workers, though they may appear to be a private matter, are
detrimental to the common good, since the commercial,
industrial, and agricultural affairs, and even the general
business of the nation, are all intimately linked together: An
impairment to one is a loss to all. And since the problems
between owners and workers are detrimental to the common
good, the government and the courts have therefore the right
to intervene.
Even in the case of differences that arise between two
individuals with regard to particular rights, a third party,
namely the government, is needed to resolve the dispute.
How, then, can the problem of strikes, which entirely disrupt
the country—whether they arise from the inordinate
demands of the workers or the excessive greed of the factory
owners—remain neglected?
Gracious God! How can one see one’s fellow men
hungry, destitute, and deprived, and yet live in peace and
comfort in one’s splendid mansion? How can one see others
in the greatest need and yet take delight in one’s fortune?
That is why it has been decreed in the divine religions that
the wealthy should offer up each year a portion of their
wealth for the sustenance of the poor and the assistance of
the needy. This is one of the foundations of the religion of
God and is an injunction binding upon all. And since in this
regard one is not outwardly compelled or obliged by the
government, but rather aids the poor at the prompting of
one’s own heart and in a spirit of joy and radiance, such a
deed is most commendable, approved, and pleasing.
This is the meaning of the righteous deeds mentioned
in the heavenly Books and Scriptures.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, pp. 315-320)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


29.
If it be right for a capitalist to possess a large fortune,
it is equally just that his workman should have a sufficient
means of existence.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp. 158-159)

30.
Today the method of demand is the strike and resort
to force, which is manifestly wrong and destructive of human
foundations.  Rightful privilege and demand must be set
forth in laws and regulations.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238)

31.
Difference of capacity in human individuals is
fundamental.  It is impossible for all to be alike, all to be
equal, all to be wise.  Bahá’u’lláh has revealed principles and
laws which will accomplish the adjustment of varying human
capacities.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, p. 37)

32.
...the owners of properties, mines and factories should
share their incomes with their employees and give a fairly
certain percentage of their products to their workingmen in
order that the employees may receive, beside their wages,
some of the general income of the factory so that the
employee may strive with his soul in the work.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, p. 43)


33.
You did a wonderful thing in this country in 1865
when you abolished chattel slavery, but you must do a much
more wonderful thing now, you must abolish industrial
slavery.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. cited in the Star of the West, vol. VIII, number 1, p. 6)

34.
According to the divine law, no wages should be given
to the employee.  Nay, rather indeed they are partners in
every work.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in the Star of the West, vol. VIII, number 1, p. 7)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics




35.
The solution of economic questions will not be
brought about by array of capital against labor, and labor
against capital, in strife and conflict, but by the voluntary
attitude of goodwill on both sides.  Then a real and lasting
justness of conditions will be secured....

It will not be possible in the future for men to amass
great fortunes by the labors of others.  The rich will willingly
divide. They will come to this gradually, naturally, by their
own volition.  It will never be accomplished by war and
bloodshed.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in the Star of the West, vol. VII, number 15, p. 147)
36.
Profit sharing is recommended as a solution to one
form of economic problems. (‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in Directives
from the Guardian, p. 19)


37.
The Master has definitely stated that wages should be
unequal, simply because that men are unequal in their ability
and hence should receive wages that would correspond to
their varying capacities and resources.
(Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian, p. 20)


C. Progressive Income Tax
38.
Now, if his income be equal to his expenditures, from
such a farmer nothing whatever will be taken.  That is, he will
not be subjected to taxation of any sort, needing as he does
all his income. Another farmer may have expenses running
up to one thousand dollars. We will say, and his income is
two thousand dollars.  From such an one a tenth will be
required, because he has a surplus. But if his income be ten
thousand dollars and his expenses one thousand dollars or
his income twenty thousand dollars, he will have to pay as
taxes, one-fourth.  If his income be one hundred thousand
dollars and his expenses five thousand, one-third will he have

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


to pay because he has still a surplus, since his expenses are
five thousand and his income one hundred thousand.  If he
pays, say, thirty-five thousand dollars, in addition to the
expenditure of five thousand he still has sixty thousand left.
But if his expenses be ten thousand and his income two
hundred thousand, then he must give an even half because
ninety thousand will be in that case the sum remaining. Such
a scale as this will determine allotment of taxes....

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in the Star of the West, vol. XIII, number 9, pp. 228-
229)

39.
All must be producers.  Each person in the community
whose need is equal to his individual producing capacity shall
be exempt from taxation.  But if his income is greater than
his needs, he must pay a tax until an adjustment is effected.
That is to say, a man’s capacity for production and his needs
will be equalized and reconciled through taxation.  If his
production exceeds he will pay a tax; if his necessities exceed
his production, he shall receive an amount sufficient to
equalize or adjust. Therefore, taxation will be proportionate
to capacity and production, and there will be no poor in the
community.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 217)

D. Division of Inheritance
40.
We have divided inheritance into seven categories: to
the children, We have allotted nine parts comprising five
hundred and forty shares; to the wife, eight parts comprising
four hundred and eighty shares; to the father, seven parts
comprising four hundred and twenty shares; to the mother,
six parts comprising three hundred and sixty shares; to the
brothers, five parts or three hundred shares; to the sisters,
four parts or two hundred and forty shares; and to the
teachers, three parts or one hundred and eighty shares.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 20)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


41.
Should the deceased leave no offspring, their share
shall revert to the House of Justice, to be expended by the
Trustees of the All-Merciful on the orphaned and widowed,
and on whatsoever will bring benefit to the generality of the
people, that all may give thanks unto their Lord, the All-
Gracious, the Pardoner.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 21)

42.
To divide the inheritance as it is prescribed by
Bahá’u’lláh we have to divide it into 2520 shares. But we can
also divide it into 42 shares. Then every one of the
beneficiaries will take so many of these shares.  These
numbers form like a highest denominator for the different
fractions which represent the shares of the different
individuals that will benefit in case of intestacy.  In case of
the non-existence of one class of inheritors the Aqdas
mentions how it should be divided.  As general rule a part
goes to the House of Justice, a part to the children.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 21 October 1932)

43.
...even though a Bahá’í is permitted in his will to
dispose of his wealth in the way he wishes, yet he is morally
and conscientiously bound to always bear in mind, while
writing his will, the necessity of his upholding the principle of
Bahá’u’lláh regarding the social function of wealth, and the
consequent necessity of avoiding its over-accumulation and
concentration in a few individuals or groups of individuals.
(Shoghi Effendi. Cited in The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, note 38)

E. Huqúqu’lláh (Right of God)
44.
Should anyone acquire one hundred mithqáls of gold,
nineteen mithqáls thereof are God’s and to be rendered unto
Him, The Fashioner of earth and heaven. Take heed, O
people, lest ye deprive yourselves of so great a bounty. This
We have commanded you, though We are well able to

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


dispense with you and with all who are in the heavens and on
earth; in it there are benefits and wisdoms beyond the ken of
any one but God, the Omniscient, the All-Informed. Say: By
this means He hath desired to purify what ye possess and to
enable you to draw nigh unto such stations as none can
comprehend save those whom God hath willed.  He, in truth,
is the Beneficent, the Gracious, the Bountiful.

O people! Deal not faithlessly with the Right of God,
nor, without His leave, make free with its disposal. Thus hath
His commandment been established in the holy Tablets, and
in this exalted Book. He who dealeth faithlessly with God
shall in justice meet with faithlessness himself; he, however,
who acteth in accordance with God’s bidding shall receive a
blessing from the heaven of the bounty of his Lord, the
Gracious, the Bestower, the Generous, the Ancient of Days.
He, verily, hath willed for you that which is yet beyond your
knowledge, but which shall be known to you when, after this
fleeting life, your souls soar heavenwards and the trappings
of your earthly joys are folded up. Thus admonisheth you He
in Whose possession is the Guarded Tablet.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 97)
(Note: Mithqál is a unit of weight, equivalent to a little over 3 1/2
grammes, used in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas with reference to quantities of gold or
silver for various purposes, usually in amounts of 9, 19 or 95 mithqáls. The
equivalents of these in the metric system and in troy ounces (which are
used in the measurement of precious metals), are as follows:
9 mithqáls = 32.775 grammes = 1.05374 troy ounces
19 mithqáls = 69.192 grammes = 2.22456 troy ounces
95 mithqáls = 345.958 grammes = 11.12282 troy ounces
This computation is based on the guidance of Shoghi Effendi, conveyed
in a letter written on his behalf, which states "one mithqál consists of
nineteen nakhuds. The weight of twenty-four nakhuds equals four and
three-fifths grammes. Calculations may be made on this basis." The
mithqál traditionally used in the Middle East had consisted of 24
nakhuds but in the Bayán this was changed to 19 nakhuds
and Bahá'u'lláh confirmed this as the size of the mithqál referred to in
the Bahá'í laws (Q&A #23).
Reference: Jonah Winters (2010). Glossary of Bahá’í terms. Cited in
<https://bahai-library.com/winters_bahai_glossary>)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics







45.  ...the first duty is to recognize the one true God -
magnified be his Glory—the second is to show forth
constancy in His Cause, and, after these, one's duty is to
purify one's riches and earthly possessions...

(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 31)

46.
The question of Huqúq is highly significant. It hath
been and will always be conducive to divine increase,
prosperity, dignity and honour...
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 45)

47.
The Right of God is an obligation upon everyone. This
commandment hath been revealed and set down in the Book
by the Pen of Glory. However, it is not permissible to solicit
or demand it. If one is privileged to pay Huqúq, and doeth so
in a spirit of joy and radiance, such an act is acceptable, and
not otherwise.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 38)

48.
...the payment of the Right of God is conducive to
prosperity, to blessing, and to honour and divine protection.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 6)

49.  O Zayn! ...Beseech ye God that He may enable everyone
to discharge the obligation of  Huqúq, inasmuch as the
progress and promotion of the Cause of God depend on
material means. If His faithful servants could realize how
meritorious are benevolent deeds in these days, they would
all arise to do that which is meet and seemly.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 1)

50.
…inasmuch as God hath made the achievement of
everything conditional upon material means, therefore the
injunction prescribing payment of the Huqúq hath been

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


revealed from the heaven of His Will, and the blessings
flowing from this deed shall fall to the donors themselves.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 33)

51.
However, the wisdom of this command is that the act
of giving is well-pleasing in the sight of God. Consider how
well-pleasing must this mighty act be in His estimation that
He hath ascribed it unto His Own self. Rejoice ye then, O
people of generosity!
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 61)

52.
In brief, after having deducted the yearly expenses, if
there is still any surplus left, then Huqúq will be applicable to
this surplus at the rate of 19% and no further payment of
Huqúq will fall due on it.  In the following year however, after
the annual expenses, if there is still an excess of income over
the expenditure of that second year, then Huqúq will be
applicable to the amount of the excess only.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 66)

53.     With humility before our sovereign Lord, we now
announce that as of Ridván 1992, the beginning of the Holy
Year, the Law of Huqúqu’lláh, the Right of God, will become
universally applicable.  All are lovingly called to observe it.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván Messages 1991)

F. Zakát (Tithes)
54.
It hath been enjoined upon you to purify your means
of sustenance and other such things through payment of
Zakát. Thus hath it been prescribed in this exalted Tablet by
Him Who is the Revealer of verses. We shall, if it be God’s
will and purpose, set forth erelong the measure of its
assessment. He, verily, expoundeth whatsoever He desireth
by virtue of His own knowledge, and He, of a truth, is
Omniscient and All-Wise.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 146)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



55.
And in the matter of Zakát, We have likewise decreed
that you should follow what hath been revealed in the Qur’án.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Questions and Answers, number 107)

56.
Zakát is referred to in the Qur’án as a regular charity
binding upon Muslims. In due course the concept evolved
into a form of alms-tax which imposed the obligation to give
a fixed portion of certain categories of income, beyond
specified limits, for the relief of the poor, for various
charitable purposes, and to aid the Faith of God. The limit of
exemption varied for different commodities, as did the
percentage payable on the portion assessable.
Bahá’u’lláh states that the Bahá’í law of Zakát follows
“what hath been revealed in the Qur’án”. Since such issues as
the limits for exemption, the categories of income concerned,
the frequency of payments, and the scale of rates for the
various categories of Zakát are not mentioned in the Qur’án,
these matters will have to be set forth in the future by the
Universal House of Justice. Shoghi Effendi has indicated that
pending such legislation the believers should, according to
their means and possibilities, make regular contributions to
the Bahá’í Fund.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in Kitáb-i-Aqdas, note 161

G. The Law on Treasure Trove
57.
Should a treasure be found, one third thereof is the
right of the discoverer, and the other two thirds should be
expended by the men of the House of Justice for the welfare
of all people. This shall be done after the establishment of the
House of Justice, and until that time it shall be committed to
the keeping of trustworthy persons in each locality and
territory. He, in truth, is the Ruler, the Ordainer, the
Omniscient, the All-Informed.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 217)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



H. Charity and philanthropic activities
58.
Charity is pleasing and praiseworthy in the sight of
God and is regarded as a prince among goodly deeds...
Blessed is he who preferreth his brother before himself.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 71)

59.
The essence of charity is for the servant to recant the
blessings of His Lord, and to render thanks unto Him at all
times and under all conditions.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 156)

60.
The Pen of Admonition exhorteth the friends and
enjoineth on them charity, pity, wisdom, and gentleness.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 45)

61.
In all the cycles of the prophets the philanthropic
affairs were confined to their respective peoples only—with
the exception of small matters, such as charity, which was
permissible to extend to others. But in this wonderful
dispensation, philanthropic affairs are for all humanity,
without any exception, because it is the manifestation of the
mercifulness of God.  Therefore, every universal matter—that
is, one that belongs to all the world of humanity—is divine;
and every matter that is sectarian and special is not universal
in character—that is, it is limited. Therefore, my hope is that
the friends of God, every one of them, may become as the
mercy of God to all mankind.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Star of the West, vol. 9, number 1, p. 9)
62.
Therefore, strive to show in the human world that
women are most capable and efficient, that their hearts are
more tender and susceptible than the hearts of men, that they are
more philanthropic and responsive toward the needy and
suffering, that they are inflexibly opposed to war and are
lovers of peace.  Strive that the ideal of international peace
may become realized through the efforts of womankind, for

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


man is more inclined to war than woman, and a real evidence
of woman’s superiority will be her service and efficiency in
the establishment of universal peace.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 284)

63.
Wealth is praiseworthy in the highest degree, if it is
acquired by an individual’s own efforts and the grace of God,
in commerce, agriculture, art and industry, and if it be
expended for philanthropic purposes.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 24)

64.
In philanthropic enterprises and acts of charity, in
promotion of the general welfare and furtherance of the
public good including that of every group without any
exception whatever, let the beloved of God attract the
favourable attention of all, and lead all the rest.
(Shoghi Effendi. Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 50)

65.
The Bahá'ís should not go so far as to refrain from
extending charity to the needy, if they are able and willing to
do so.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 11 March 1942)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


31.   Socialism and capitalism

In the divine teachings equality is brought about through a
ready willingness to share.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

1.
The question of socialization is very important. It will
not be solved by strikes for wages. All the governments of the
world must be united and organize an assembly the members
of which should be elected from the parliaments and the
nobles of the nations. These must plan with utmost wisdom
and power so that neither the capitalist suffer from enormous
losses nor the laborers become needy. In the utmost
moderation they should make the law; then announce to the
public that the rights of working people are to be strongly
preserved. Also the rights of capitalists are to be protected.
When such a general plan is adopted by the will of both sides,
should a strike occur, all the governments of the world
collectively should resist it.  Otherwise, the labor problem
will lead to much destruction, especially in Europe.  Terrible
things will take place.

For instance, the owners of properties, mines and
factories should share their incomes with their employees
and give fairly certain percentage of their products to their
workingmen in order that the employees may receive, beside
their wages, some of the general income of the factory so that
the employee may strive with his soul in the work.

No more trusts will remain in the future.  The question
of the trusts will be wiped away entirely. Also, every factory
that has ten thousand shares will give two thousand shares of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


these ten thousand to its employees and will write the shares
in their names, so that they may have them, and the rest will
belong to the capitalists. Then at the end of the month or year
whatever they may earn after the expenses and wages are
paid, according to the number of shares, should be divided
among both.  In reality, so far great injustice has befallen the
common people.  Laws must be made because it is impossible
for the laborers to be satisfied with the present system. They
will strike every month and every year.  Finally, the
capitalists will lose.  In ancient times a strike occurred among
the Turkish soldiers. They said to the government: “Our
wages are very small and they should be increased.”  The
government was forced to give them their demands. Shortly
afterwards they struck again.  Finally, all the incomes went to
the pockets of the soldiers to the extent that they killed the
king, saying: “Why didst thou not increase the income so that
we might have received more?”

It is impossible for a country to live properly without
laws.  To solve this problem rigorous laws must be made, so
that all the governments of the world will be the protectors
thereof.

In the Bolshevistic principles equality is effected
through force.  The masses who are opposed to the people of
rank and to the wealthy class desire to partake of their
advantages.

But in the divine teachings equality is brought about
through a ready willingness to share.  It is commanded as
regards wealth that the rich among the people, and the
aristocrats should, by their own free will and for the sake of
their own happiness, concern themselves with and care for
the poor.  This equality is the result of the lofty
characteristics and noble attributes of mankind.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity, pp. 43-44)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


2.
Under the laws which are to govern the world, the
socialists may justly demand human rights but without resort
to force and violence.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 238)

3.
One thing, however, is certain that the Cause neither
accepts the theories of the Capitalistic economies in full, nor
can it agree with the Marxists and Communists in their
repudiation of the principle of private ownership and of the
vital sacred rights of the individual.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 10 June 1930)

4.
The question of individual versus state ownership or
control of the means of production, as interpreted in the light
of the general principles laid down by Bahá’u’lláh and the
Master, cannot be satisfactorily answered by the believers in
the light of either the socialist or fascist schools of economics.
In the Bahá’í economic system of the future, private
ownership will be retained, but will be controlled, regulated
and even restricted. Complete socialization is not only
impossible but most unjust, and in this the Cause is in
fundamental disagreement with the extreme socialists or
communists. It can also not agree with the other extreme
tendency represented by the “laissez-faire” or individualistic
school of economics which became very popular in the 18th
century and which is still supported, in certain of its essential
features, by the so-called democratic countries. For absolute
freedom, even in the economic sphere, leads to confusion and
corruption, and acts not only to the detriment of the state, or
the collectivity, but inevitably results in the end in
jeopardizing the very interests of the individual himself.
Individualism and socialism, therefore, do not offer the right
solution to the economic problem. In both the democratic
and fascist countries today, there is a growing tendency
towards over-control, and even increasing ownership of the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


means of production, and such a tendency cannot be fully
sanctioned by the believers. The Cause can and indeed will in
the future maintain the right balance between the two
extreme tendencies of individualism and collectivism, not
only in the field of economics, but in all other social domains.
The exact limits defining the rights and powers of the
individual as against the state and vice versa will have to be
assigned in the future.
(From a Letter dated 25 August 1939 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi as
transcribed by the recipient of this letter in a manuscript he prepared, a
copy of which is held at the Bahá’í World Centre.)

5.
There is nothing in the teachings against some kind of
capitalism, its present form, though, would require
adjustments to be made.
(Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian, p. 19)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


32.
Stewards of the environment and nature

Blessed is the Spot, and the house, and the place, and the
city, and the heart, and the mountain, and the refuge, and
the cave, and the valley, and the land, and the sea, and the
island, and the meadow where mention of God hath been
made, and His praise glorified.
Bahá’u’lláh

A. Our relationship with Nature
1.
Nature is that condition or reality which outwardly is
the source of the life and death, or, in other words, of the
composition and decomposition, of all things.
This nature is subject to a sound organization, to
inviolable laws, to a perfect order, and to a consummate
design, from which it never departs. To such an extent is this
true that were you to gaze with the eye of insight and
discernment, you would observe that all things—from the
smallest invisible atom to the largest globes in the world of
existence, such as the sun or the other great stars and
luminous bodies—are most perfectly organized, be it with
regard to their order, their composition, their outward form,
or their motion, and that all are subject to one universal law
from which they never depart.
When you consider nature itself, however, you see
that it has neither awareness nor will. For instance, the
nature of fire is to burn; it burns without consciousness or
will. The nature of water is to flow; it flows without
consciousness or will. The nature of the sun is to shed light; it
shines without consciousness or will. The nature of vapour is

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


to rise; it rises without consciousness or will. It is therefore
evident that the natural movements of all created things are
compelled, and that nothing moves of its own will save
animals and, in particular, man.
Man is able to resist and oppose nature inasmuch as
he discovers the natures of things and, by virtue of this
discovery, has mastery over nature itself. Indeed, all the
crafts that man has devised proceed from this discovery. For
example, he has invented the telegraph, which connects the
East and the West. It is therefore evident that man rules over
nature.
Now, can such organization, order, and laws as you
observe in existence be attributed merely to the effect of
nature, notwithstanding that nature itself has neither
consciousness nor understanding? It is therefore evident that
this
nature,
which
has
neither
consciousness
nor
understanding, is in the grasp of the omnipotent Lord, Who
is the Ruler of the world of nature and Who causes it to
manifest whatsoever He desires.
Some say that human existence is among those things
that have appeared in the world of being and that are due to
the exigencies of nature. Were this true, man would be the
branch and nature the root. But is it possible that there could
exist a will, a consciousness, and certain perfections in the
branch which are absent in the root?
Hence it is clear that nature, in its very essence, is in
the grasp of God’s might, and that it is that Eternal and
Almighty One Who subjects nature to ideal laws and
organizing principles, and Who rules over it.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, pp.3-4)

2.
Nature has no consciousness; man is endowed with it.
Nature is without volition and acts perforce, whereas man
possesses a mighty will. Nature is incapable of discovering
mysteries or realities, whereas man is especially fitted to do

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


so. Nature is not in touch with the realm of God; man is
attuned to its evidences. Nature is uninformed of God; man
is conscious of Him. Man acquires divine virtues; nature is
denied them. Man can voluntarily discontinue vices; nature
has no power to modify the influence of its instincts.
Altogether it is evident that man is more noble and superior,
that in him there is an ideal power surpassing nature. He has
consciousness, volition, memory, intelligent power, divine
attributes and virtues of which nature is completely deprived
and bereft; therefore, man is higher and nobler by reason of
the ideal and heavenly force latent and manifest in him.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 178)

3.
The materialists hold to the opinion that the world of
nature is complete. The divine philosophers declare that the
world of nature is incomplete. There is a wide difference
between the two. The materialists call attention to the
perfection of nature, the sun, moon and stars, the trees in
their adornment, the whole earth and the sea — even
unimportant
phenomena
revealing
the
most
perfect
symmetry. The divine philosophers deny this seeming
perfection and completeness in nature’s kingdom, even
though admitting the beauty of its scenes and aspects and
acknowledging the irresistible cosmic forces which control
the colossal suns and planets. They hold that while nature
seems perfect, it is, nevertheless, imperfect because it has
need of intelligence and education. In proof of this they say
that man, though he be a very god in the realm of material
creation, is himself in need of an educator. Man undeveloped
by education is savage, animalistic, brutal. Laws and
regulations, schools, colleges and universities have for their
purpose the training of man and his uplift from the dark
borderland of the animal kingdom.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 329)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4.
This Nature is subjected to an absolute organization,
to determined laws, to a complete order and a finished
design, from which it will never depart — to such a degree,
indeed, that if you look carefully and with keen sight, from
the smallest invisible atom up to such large bodies of the
world of existence as the globe of the sun or the other great
stars and luminous spheres, whether you regard their
arrangement, their composition, their form or their
movement, you will find that all are in the highest degree of
organization and are under one law from which they will
never depart.

But when you look at Nature itself, you see that it has
no intelligence, no will.  For instance, the nature of fire is to
burn; it burns without will or intelligence.  The nature of
water is fluidity; it flows without will or intelligence. The
nature of the sun is radiance; it shines without will or
intelligence.  The nature of vapour is to ascend; it ascends
without will or intelligence.  Thus it is clear that the natural
movements of all things are compelled; there are no
voluntary movements except those of animals and, above all,
those of man.  Man is able to resist and to oppose Nature
because he discovers the constitution of things, and through
this he commands the forces of Nature; all the inventions he
has made are due to his discovery of the constitution of
things. For example, he invented the telegraph, which is the
means of communication between the East and the West.  It
is evident, then, that man rules over Nature.

Now,
when
you
behold
in
existence
such
organizations, arrangements and laws, can you say that all
these are the effects of Nature, though Nature has neither
intelligence nor perception?  If not, it becomes evident that
this Nature, which has neither perception nor intelligence, is
in the grasp of Almighty God, Who is the Ruler of the world
of Nature; whatever He wishes, He causes Nature to
manifest.   (‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, pp. 3-4)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



5.
Now concerning nature, it is but the essential
properties and the necessary relations inherent in the
realities of things. And though these infinite realities are
diverse in their character yet they are in the utmost harmony
and closely connected together. As one's vision is broadened
and the matter observed carefully, it will be made certain that
every reality is but an essential requisite of other realities.
Thus to connect and harmonize these diverse and infinite
realities an all-unifying Power is necessary, that every part of
existent being may in perfect order discharge its own
function. Consider the body of man, and let the part be an
indication of the whole. Consider how these diverse parts and
members of the human body are closely connected and
harmoniously united one with the other. Every part is the
essential requisite of all other parts and has a function by
itself. It is the mind that is the all-unifying agency that so
uniteth all the component parts one with the other that each
dischargeth its specific function in perfect order, and thereby
co-operation and reaction are made possible. All parts
function under certain laws that are essential to existence.
Should that all-unifying agency that directeth all these parts
be harmed in any way there is no doubt that the constituent
parts and members will cease functioning properly; and
though that all-unifying agency in the temple of man be not
sensed or seen and the reality thereof be unknown, yet by its
effects it manifesteth itself with the greatest power. Thus it
hath been proven and made evident that these infinite beings
in this wondrous universe will discharge their functions
properly only when directed and controlled by that Universal
Reality, so that order may be established in the world. For
example,
interaction
and
co-operation
between
the
constituent parts of the human body are evident and
indisputable, yet this does not suffice; an all-unifying agency
is necessary that shall direct and control the component

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


parts, so that these through interaction and co-operation may
discharge in perfect order their necessary and respective
functions.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to August Forel, pp. 20-22)


B. Preservation of the Earth’s resources




6.
Strange and astonishing things exist in the earth but
they are hidden from the minds and the understanding of
men. These things are capable of changing the whole
atmosphere of the earth and their contamination would
prove lethal.

O people of Bahá!  Each one of the ordinances We have
revealed is a mighty stronghold for the preservation of the
world of being.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 69)





7.
Nature in its essence is the embodiment of My Name,
the Maker, the Creator.  Its manifestations are diversified by
varying causes, and in this diversity there are signs for men
of discernment.  Nature is God’s Will and is its expression in
and through the contingent world.  It is a dispensation of
Providence ordained by the Ordainer, the All-Wise.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 142)





8.    Know thou that every created thing is a sign of the
revelation of God. Each, according to its capacity, is, and will
ever remain, a token of the Almighty. Inasmuch as He, the
sovereign Lord of all, hath willed to reveal His sovereignty in
the Kingdom of names and attributes, each and every created
thing hath, through the act of the Divine Will, been made a
sign of His glory.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 184)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


9.
It is their duty (the Sovereigns) to convene an all-
inclusive assembly, which either they themselves or their
ministers will attend, and to enforce whatever measures are
required to establish unity and concord amongst men. They
must put away the weapons of war, and turn to the
instruments of universal reconstruction.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 30-31)


10.
Every man of discernment, while walking upon the
earth, feeleth indeed abashed, inasmuch as he is fully aware
that the thing which is the source of his prosperity, his
wealth, his might, his exaltation, his advancement and power
is, as ordained by God, the very earth which is trodden
beneath the feet of all men.  There can be no doubt that
whoever is cognizant of this truth, is cleansed and sanctified
from all pride, arrogance, and vainglory.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 44)

11.
…ye walk on My earth complacent and self-satisfied,
heedless that My earth is weary of you and everything within
it shunneth you.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Hidden Words, Persian, number 20)

12.
The Lord of all mankind hath fashioned this human
realm to be a Garden of Eden, an earthly paradise.  If, as it
must, it findeth the way to harmony and peace, to love and
mutual trust, it will become a true abode of bliss, a place of
manifold blessings and unending delights.  Therein shall be
revealed the excellence of humankind, therein shall the rays
of the Sun of Truth shine forth on every hand.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 275)

13.

The excellence, adornment, and perfection of the
earth consist in this, that through the outpourings of the
vernal showers it should become green and verdant; that
plants should spring forth; that flowers and herbs should

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


grow; that blossom-filled trees should produce an abundant
yield and bring forth fresh and succulent fruit; that gardens
should be arrayed; that meadows should be adorned; that
plains and mountains should don an emerald robe; and that
fields and bowers, villages and cities should be decked forth.
This is the felicity of the mineral world.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 88)

14.
Earth can be made a paradise.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in the Star of the West, vol. XIII, number 9, p. 227)

15.
…any agency whatever, though it be the instrument of
mankind’s greatest good, is capable of misuse.  Its proper use
or abuse depends on the varying degrees of enlightenment,
capacity, faith, honesty, devotion and highmindedness of the
leaders of public opinion.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilizations, p. 16)

16.
There is the well-known case of the ruler who is
fostering peace and tranquility and at the same time devoting
more energy than the warmongers to the accumulation of
weapons and the building up of a larger army, on the grounds
that peace and harmony can only be brought about by force.
Peace is the pretext, and night and day they are all straining
every nerve to pile up more weapons of war, and to pay for
this their wretched people must sacrifice most of whatever
they are able to earn by their sweat and toil.  How many
thousands have given up their work in useful industries and
are laboring day and night to produce new and deadlier
weapons which would spill out the blood of the race more
copiously than before.

Each day they invent a new bomb or explosive and then
the governments must abandon their obsolete arms and
begin producing the new, since the old weapons cannot hold
their own against the new ... The staggering cost of it all must
be borne by the hapless masses.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



...In like manner, the size of the armaments of every
government should be strictly limited, for if the preparations
for war and the military forces of any nation should be
allowed to increase, they will arouse the suspicion of others.
The fundamental principle underlying this solemn Pact
should be so fixed that if any government later violate any
one of its provisions, all the governments on earth should
arise to reduce it to utter submission, nay the human race as
a whole should resolve, with every power at its disposal, to
destroy that government.  Should this greatest of all remedies
be applied to the sick body of the world, it will assuredly
recover from its ills and will remain eternally safe and secure.

Observe that if such a happy situation be forthcoming,
no government would need continually to pile up the
weapons of war, nor feel itself obliged to produce ever new
military weapons with which to conquer the human race.  A
small force for the purposes of internal security, the
correction of criminal and disorderly elements and the
prevention of local disturbances would be required — no
more.  In this way the entire population would, first of all, be
relieved of the crushing burden of expenditure currently
imposed for military purposes, and secondly, great numbers
of people would cease to devote their time to the continual
devising of new weapons of destruction — those testimonials
of greed and bloodthirstiness, so inconsistent with the gift of
life — and would instead bend their efforts to the production
of whatever will foster human existence and peace and well-
being, and would become the cause of universal development
and prosperity.  Then every nation on earth will reign in
honor, and every people will be cradled in tranquillity and
content.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilizations, pp. 61-62)

17.
Yet do we see your kings and rulers lavishing their
treasures more freely on means for the destruction of the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


human race than on that which would conduce to the
happiness of mankind...
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 40)

18.
In such a world society … The economic resources of
the world will be organized, its sources of raw materials will
be tapped and fully utilized, its markets will be coordinated
and developed, and the distribution of its products will be
equitably regulated. National rivalries, hatreds, and intrigues
will cease, and racial animosity and prejudice will be replaced
by racial amity, understanding and cooperation. The causes
of religious strife will be permanently removed, economic
barriers and restrictions will be completely abolished, and
the inordinate distinction between classes will be obliterated.
Destitution on the one hand, and gross accumulation of
ownership on the other, will disappear. The enormous energy
dissipated and wasted on war, whether economic or political,
will be consecrated to such ends as will extend the range of
human inventions and technical development, to the increase
of the productivity of mankind, to the extermination of
disease, to the extension of scientific research, to the raising
of the standard of physical health, to the sharpening and
refinement of the human brain, to the exploitation of the
unused and unsuspected resources of the planet, to the
prolongation of human life, and to the furtherance of any
other agency that can stimulate the intellectual, the moral,
and spiritual life of the entire human race.
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 204)

19.
We cannot segregate the human heart from the
environment outside us and say that once one of these is
reformed everything will be improved.  Man is organic with
the world.  His inner life moulds the environment and is
itself also deeply affected by it.  The one acts upon the other

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and every abiding change in the life of man is the result of
these mutual reactions.

No movement in the world directs its attention upon
both these aspects of human life and has full measures for
their improvement save the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh.  And
this is its distinctive feature.  If we desire therefore the good
of the world we should strive to spread those teachings and
also practice them in our own life. Through them will the
human heart be changed and also our social environment
provides the atmosphere in which we can grow spiritually
and reflect in full the light of God shining through the
revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf, dated 17 February 1933)

20.   A world federal system, ruling the whole earth and
exercising unchallengeable authority over its unimaginably
vast resources, blending and embodying the ideals of both
the East and the West, liberated from the curse of war and its
miseries, and bent on the exploitation of all the available
sources of energy on the surface of the planet, a system in
which Force is made the servant of Justice, whose life is
sustained by its universal recognition of one God and by its
allegiance to one common Revelation — such is the goal
towards which humanity, impelled by the unifying forces of
life, is moving.

(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 204)

21.
Creation reflects the names and attributes of God, and
mankind has a profound responsibility to protect the natural
environment and preserve its ecological balance.
(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p.
75)

22.
Until such time as the nations of the world understand
and follow the admonitions of Bahá’u’lláh to whole-heartedly
work together in looking after the best interests of all

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


humankind, and unite in the search for ways and means to
meet the many environmental problems besetting our planet,
the House of Justice feels that little progress will be made
towards their solution....
(Universal House of Justice. Conservation of the Earth’s Resources, p. 16)

C. Kindness to animals
23.    Burden not an animal with more than it can bear. We,
truly, have prohibited such treatment through a most binding
interdiction in the Book. Be ye the embodiments of justice
and fairness amidst all creation. (Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 187)
24.
Briefly, it is not only their fellow human beings that
the beloved of God must treat with mercy and compassion,
rather must they show forth the utmost loving-kindness to
every living creature.  For in all physical respects, and where
the animal spirit is concerned, the self-same feelings are
shared by animal and man.  Man hath not grasped this truth,
however, and he believeth that physical sensations are
confined to human beings, wherefore is he unjust to the
animals, and cruel.

And yet in truth, what difference is there when it
cometh to physical sensations?  The feelings are one and the
same, whether ye inflict pain on man or on beast. There is no
difference here whatever.  And indeed ye do worse to harm
an animal, for man hath a language, he can lodge a
complaint, he can cry out and moan; if injured he can have
recourse to the authorities and these will protect him from
his aggressor. But the hapless beast is mute, able neither to
express its hurt nor take its case to the authorities.  If a man
inflict a thousand ills upon a beast, it can neither ward him
off with speech nor hale him into court.  Therefore, is it
essential that ye show forth the utmost consideration to the
animal, and that ye be even kinder to him than to your
fellowmen.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



Train your children from their earliest days to be
infinitely tender and loving to animals.  If an animal be sick,
let the children try to heal it, if it be hungry, let them feed it,
if thirsty, let them quench its thirst, if weary, let them see
that it rests.

Most human beings are sinners, but the beasts are
innocent.  Surely those without sin should receive the most
kindness and love — all except animals which are harmful
...But to blessed animals the utmost kindness must be shown,
the more the better.  Tenderness and loving-kindness are
basic principles of God’s heavenly kingdom. Ye should most
carefully bear this matter in mind.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, pp. 158-160)

25.
The Almighty hath not created in man the claws and
teeth of ferocious animals, nay rather hath the human form
been fashioned and set with the most comely attributes and
adorned with the most perfect virtues. The honour of this
creation and the worthiness of this garment therefore require
man to have love and affinity for his own kind, nay rather, to
act towards all living creatures with justice and equity.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 287)

26.
Regarding the eating of animal flesh and abstinence
therefrom, ...he [man] is not in need of meat, nor is he
obliged to eat it. Even without eating meat he would live with
the utmost vigour and energy ...Truly, the killing of animals
and the eating of their meat is somewhat contrary to pity and
compassion, and if one can content oneself with cereals, fruit,
oil and nuts, such as pistachios, almonds and so on, it would
undoubtedly be better and more pleasing.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation on Conservation of the Earth’s Resources,
p.11)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


27.    The Guardian fully sympathizes with your repulsion
against any torture to animals...


...Once we change human hearts, there will be no more
cruelty to animals, and medical research will be carried out in
a way which will eliminate as much suffering in experiments
as possible.

(Shoghi Effendi. Compilation on Conservation of the Earth’s Resources,
p.10)

28.
In regard to the question as to whether people ought to
kill animals for food of not, there is no explicit statement in
the Bahá’í Sacred Scriptures (as far as I know) in favor or
against it. It is certain, however, that if man can live on a
purely vegetarian diet and thus avoid killing animals, it
would be much preferable. This is, however, a very
controversial question and the Bahá'ís are free to express
their views on it.
(Shoghi Effendi. Lights of Guidance, p. 296)

29.
Your concern for the prevention of cruelty to animals
and for restraint in exploiting them unduly for food and
other purposes is indeed praiseworthy; however, the House
of Justice is not aware of any absolute prohibition in any
Holy Book against the use of animals for food and clothing.
As the laws brought by Bahá’u’lláh become known and
operative throughout the world, we believe that humanity
will find the proper balance in adjusting itself to nature and
to the world of animals.
As in so many other areas, the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh in
this regard follow the golden mean: kindness toward animals
is definitely upheld, vegetarianism is encouraged, hunting is
regulated, but certain latitude is left to individual conscience
and in practical regard to the diversity of circumstances
under which human beings live.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated December 16, 1998, Traditional
practices in Africa)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



D. Health and healing
30.   Resort ye, in times of sickness, to competent physicians;
We have not set aside the use of material means, rather have
We confirmed it through this Pen, which God hath made to
be the Dawning-Place of His shining and glorious Cause.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 113)

31.
Although ill health is one of the unavoidable
conditions of man, truly it is hard to bear.  The bounty of
good health is the greatest of all gifts.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 151)

32.
There are two ways of healing sickness, material
means and spiritual means.  The first is by the treatment of
physicians; the second consisteth in prayers offered by the
spiritual ones to God and in turning to Him.  Both means
should be used and practised.  Illnesses which occur by
reason of physical causes should be treated by doctors with
medical remedies; those which are due to spiritual causes
disappear through spiritual means.  Thus an illness caused by
affliction, fear, nervous impressions, will be helped more
effectively by spiritual rather than by physical treatment.
Hence, both kinds of treatment should be followed; they are
not contradictory. Therefore thou shouldst also accept
physical remedies inasmuch as these too have come from the
mercy and favour of God, Who hath revealed and made
manifest medical science so that His servants may profit
from this kind of treatment also.  Thou shouldst give equal
attention to spiritual treatments, for they produce marvellous
effects. Now, if thou wishest to know the true remedy which
will heal man from all sickness and will give him the health of
the divine kingdom, know that it is the precepts and
teachings of God.  Focus thine attention upon them.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 151-152)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



33.
According to the explicit decree of Bahá’u’lláh
one must not turn aside from the advice of a competent
doctor.  It is imperative to consult one even if the
patient himself be a well-known and eminent physician.
In short, the point is that you should maintain your
health by consulting a highly skilled physician.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 156)

34.
I hope thou wilt become as a rising light and obtain
spiritual health; and spiritual health is conducive to physical
health.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Divine Art of Living, p. 58)

35.
Between material things and spiritual things there is a
connection. The more healthful his body the greater will be
the power of the spirit of man, the power of the intellect, the
power of the memory, the power of reflections will then be
greater.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Star of the West, Vol. VIII, No. 18, p. 231)


36.
In the Book of Aqdas Bahá’u’lláh urges us, that when
we obtain any physical ailment we should refer to the doctor
and abide by his decision.  Physical and Spiritual forces have
both to be used to secure the speedy recovery of the patients;
no partial treatment is sufficient.


(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf, dated 1 June 1933)



37.
As you know Bahá’u’lláh has ordained that in case of
illness we should always consult the most competent
physicians.  And this is exactly what the Guardian strongly
advises you to do.  For the prayer alone is not sufficient.  To
render it more effective we have to make use of all the
physical and material advantages which God has given us.
Healing through purely spiritual forces is undoubtedly as

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


inadequate as that which materialist physicians and thinkers
vainly seek to obtain by resorting entirely to mechanical
devices and methods.  The best result can be obtained by
combining the two processes, spiritual and physical.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf, dated 12 March 1934)

E. Physical and spiritual aspect of cleanliness
38.
Whoso wisheth to make use of vessels of silver and
gold is at liberty to do so. Take heed lest, when partaking of
food, ye plunge your hands into the contents of bowls and
platters. Adopt ye such usages as are most in keeping with
refinement. He, verily, desireth to see in you the manners of
the inmates of Paradise in His mighty and most sublime
Kingdom. Hold ye fast unto refinement under all conditions,
that your eyes may be preserved from beholding what is
repugnant both to your own selves and to the dwellers of
Paradise. Should anyone depart therefrom, his deed shall at
that moment be rendered vain; yet should he have good
reason, God will excuse him. He, in truth, is the Gracious, the
Most Bountiful.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 46)

39.  Cleave ye unto the cord of refinement with such
tenacity as to allow no trace of dirt to be seen upon your
garments. Such is the injunction of One Who is sanctified
above all refinement. Whoso falleth short of this standard
with good reason shall incur no blame. God, verily, is the
Forgiving, the Merciful. Wash ye every soiled thing with
water that hath undergone no alteration in any one of the
three respects; take heed not to use water that hath been
altered through exposure to the air or to some other agent.
Be ye the very essence of cleanliness amongst mankind. This,
truly, is what your Lord, the Incomparable, the All-Wise,
desireth for you.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 74)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


40.  Immerse yourselves in clean water; it is not permissible
to bathe yourselves in water that hath already been used. See
that ye approach not the public pools of Persian baths; whoso
maketh his way toward such baths will smell their fetid adour
ere he entereth therein...
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 106)

41.
Ye have been enjoined to renew the furnishings of
your homes after the passing of each nineteen years; thus
hath it been ordained by One Who is Omniscient and All-
Perceiving. He, verily, is desirous of refinement, both for you
yourselves and for all that ye possess; lay not aside the fear of
God and be not of the negligent. Whoso findeth that his
means are insufficient to this purpose hath been excused by
God, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bounteous.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 151)


42.
O Friends of the Pure and Omnipotent God!  To be
pure and holy in all things is an attribute of the consecrated
soul and a necessary characteristic of the unenslaved mind.
The best of perfections is immaculacy and the freeing of
oneself from every defect. Once the individual is, in every
respect, cleansed and purified, then will he become a focal
centre reflecting the Manifest Light.

First in a human being’s way of life must be purity,
then freshness, cleanliness, and independence of spirit.  First
must the stream bed be cleansed, then may the sweet river
waters be led into it.  Chaste eyes enjoy the beatific vision of
the Lord and know what this encounter meaneth; a pure
sense inhaleth the fragrances that blow from the rose gardens
of His grace; a burnished heart will mirror forth the comely
face of truth.

This is why, in Holy Scriptures, the counsels of heaven
are likened to water, even as the Qur’án saith:  ‘And pure
water send We down from Heaven,’ (Qur’án 25:50) and the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Gospel:  ‘Except a man be baptized of water and of the spirit,
he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God.’(2cf.John 3:5)
Thus is it clear that the Teachings which come from God are
heavenly outpourings of grace; they are rain-showers of
divine mercy, and they cleanse the human heart.

My meaning is this, that in every aspect of life, purity
and holiness, cleanliness and refinement, exalt the human
condition and further the development of man’s inner reality.
Even in the physical realm, cleanliness will conduce to
spirituality, as the Holy Writings clearly state.  And although
bodily cleanliness is a physical thing, it hath, nevertheless, a
powerful influence on the life of the spirit.  It is even as a
voice wondrously sweet, or a melody played:  although
sounds are but vibrations in the air which affect the ear’s
auditory nerve, and these vibrations are but chance
phenomena carried along through the air, even so, see how
they move the heart. A wondrous melody is wings for the
spirit, and maketh the soul to tremble for joy.  The purport is
that physical cleanliness doth also exert its effect upon the
human soul.

Observe how pleasing is cleanliness in the sight of
God, and how specifically it is emphasized in the Holy Books
of the Prophets; for the Scriptures forbid the eating or the use
of any unclean thing.  Some of these prohibitions were
absolute, and binding upon all, and whoso transgressed the
given law was abhorred of God and anathematized by the
believers.  Such, for example, were things categorically
forbidden, the perpetration of which was accounted a most
grievous sin, among them actions so loathsome that it is
shameful even to speak their name.

But there are other forbidden things which do not
cause immediate harm, and the injurious effects of which are
only gradually produced:  such acts are also repugnant to the
Lord, and blameworthy in His sight, and repellent.  The
absolute unlawfulness of these, however, hath not been

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


expressly set forth in the Text, but their avoidance is
necessary to purity, cleanliness, the preservation of health,
and freedom from addiction.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 146-147)

43.
Although bodily cleanliness is a physical thing, it hath,
nevertheless a powerful influence on the life of the spirit. It is
even as a voice wondrously sweet, or a melody played:
Although sounds are but vibrations in the air which affect the
ear’s auditory nerve, and these vibrations are but chance
phenomena carried along through the air, even so, see how
they move the heart. A wondrous melody is wings for the
spirit, and maketh the soul tremble for joy. The purport is
that physical cleanliness hath exert its effect upon the human
soul.
Observe how pleasing is cleanliness in sight of God,
and how specifically it is emphasised in the Holy Books of the
Prophets; for the Scriptures forbid the eating or the use of
any unclean thing. Some of these prohibitions were absolute,
and binding upon all, and whoso transgressed the given law
was abhorred of God and anathematized… by the believers.
But there are other forbidden things which do not
cause immediate harm, and injurious effects of which are
only gradually produced: such acts are also repugnant to the
Lord, and blameworthy in His sight, and repellent…
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Divine Art of Living, pp. 108-109)

44.
It is certain that in this wonderful new age the
development of medical science will lead to the doctors'
healing their patients with foods. …At whatever time highly-
skilled physicians shall have developed the healing of
illnesses by means of foods, and shall make provision for
simple foods, and shall prohibit humankind from living as
slaves to their lustful appetites, it is certain that the incidence
of chronic and diversified illnesses will abate, and the general

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


health of all mankind will be much improved. This is
destined to come about. In the same way, in the character,
the conduct and the manners of men, universal modifications
will be made.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 153)

45.
The science of medicine is still in a condition of
infancy; it has not reached maturity. But when it has reached
this point, cures will be performed by things which are not
repulsive to the smell and taste of man - that is to say, by
aliments, fruits and vegetables which are agreeable to the
taste and have an agreeable smell. For the provoking cause of
disease - that is to say, the cause of the entrance of disease
into the human body - is either a physical one or is the effect
of excitement of the nerves.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 257)

46.
It is therefore evident that it is possible to cure illnesses
by means of fruits and other foods. But as the science of
medicine has not yet been perfected, this fact has not been
fully understood. When this science reaches perfection,
treatments will be administered with fragrant fruits and
plants as well as with other foods, and with hot and cold
waters of various temperatures.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 299)

F. Alcoholic drinks and drugs
47.
It is inadmissible that man, who hath been endowed
with reason, should consume that which stealeth it away.
Nay, rather it behoveth him to comport himself in a manner
worthy of the human station, and not in accordance with the
misdeeds of every heedless and wavering soul.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 119)

48.
Gambling and the use of opium have been forbidden
unto you. Eschew them both, O people, and be not of those

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


who transgress. Beware of using any substance that induceth
sluggishness and torpor in the human temple and inflicteth
harm upon the body. We, verily, desire for you naught save
what shall profit you, and to this bear witness all created
things, had ye but ears to hear.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 155)

49.
It hath been forbidden you to smoke opium. We, truly,
have prohibited this practice through a most binding
interdiction in the Book. Should anyone partake thereof,
assuredly he is not of Me. Fear God, O ye endued with
understanding!
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 190)

50.   Beware lest ye exchange the Wine of God for your own
wine, for it will stupefy your minds, and turn your faces away
from the Countenance of God, the All-Glorious, the Peerless,
the Inaccessible. Approach it not, for it hath been forbidden
unto you by the behest of God, the Exalted, the Almighty.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, note 144)

51.     Drink ye, O handmaidens of God, the mystic Wine from
the cup of My words. Cast away, then, from you that which
your minds abhor, for it hath been forbidden, unto you in His
Tablets and His Scriptures. Beware lest ye barter away the
River that is life indeed for that which the souls of the pure-
hearted detest. Become ye intoxicated with the wine of the
love of God, and not with that which deadeneth your minds,
O ye that abhor Him! Verily, it hath been forbidden unto
every believer, whether man  or woman. Thus hath the sun of
My commandment shone forth above the horizon of My
utterance, that the handmaidens who believe in Me may be
illumined.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in the Advent of Divine Justice, p. 27)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


52.
The drinking of wine is, according to the text of the
Most Holy Book, forbidden; for it is the cause of chronic
diseases, weakeneth the nerves, and consumeth the mind.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Advent of Divine Justice, p. 27)

53.
Among these latter is smoking tobacco, which is dirty,
smelly, offensive — an evil habit, and one the harmfulness of
which gradually becometh apparent to all.  Every qualified
physician hath ruled — and this hath also been proven by
tests — that one of the components of tobacco is a deadly
poison, and that the smoker is vulnerable to many and
various diseases.  This is why smoking hath been plainly set
forth as repugnant from the standpoint of hygiene.

The Báb, at the outset of His mission, explicitly
prohibited tobacco, and the friends one and all abandoned its
use.  But since those were times when dissimulation was
permitted, and every individual who abstained from smoking
was exposed to harassment, abuse and even death — the
friends, in order not to advertise their beliefs, would smoke.
Later on, the Book of Aqdas was revealed, and since smoking
tobacco was not specifically forbidden there, the believers did
not give it up.  The Blessed Beauty, however, always
expressed repugnance for it, and although, in the early days,
there were reasons why He would smoke a little tobacco, in
time He completely renounced it, and those sanctified souls
who followed Him in all things also abandoned its use.

My meaning is that in the sight of God, smoking
tobacco is deprecated, abhorrent, filthy in the extreme; and,
albeit by degrees, highly injurious to health.  It is also a waste
of money and time, and maketh the user a prey to a noxious
addiction.  To those who stand firm in the Covenant, this
habit is therefore censured both by reason and experience,
and renouncing it will bring relief and peace of mind to all
men. Furthermore, this will make it possible to have a fresh
mouth and unstained fingers, and hair that is free of a foul

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and repellent smell. On receipt of this missive, the friends
will surely, by whatever means and even over a period of
time, forsake this pernicious habit.  Such is my hope.

As to opium, it is foul and accursed. God protect us
from the punishment He inflicteth on the user.  According to
the explicit Test of the Most Holy Book, it is forbidden, and
its use is utterly condemned.  Reason showeth that smoking
opium is a kind of insanity, and experience attesteth that the
user is completely cut off from the human kingdom.  May
God protect all against the perpetration of an act so hideous
as this, an act which layeth in ruins the very foundation of
what it is to be human, and which causeth the user to be
dispossessed for ever and ever.  For opium fasteneth on the
soul, so that the user’s conscience dieth, his mind is blotted
away, his perceptions are eroded.  It turneth the living into
the dead.  It quencheth the natural heat.  No greater harm
can be conceived than that which opium inflicteth.  Fortunate
are they who never even speak the name of it; then think how
wretched is the user.

O ye lovers of God!  In this, the cycle of Almighty God,
violence and force, constraint and oppression, are one and all
condemned.  It is, however, mandatory that the use of opium
be prevented by any means whatsoever, that perchance the
human race may be delivered from this most powerful of
plagues.  And otherwise, woe and misery to whoso falleth
short of his duty to his Lord.

O Divine Providence! Bestow Thou in all things purity
and cleanliness upon the people of Bahá. Grant that they be
freed from all defilement, and released from all addictions.
Save them from committing any repugnant act, unbind them
from the chains of every evil habit, that they may live pure
and free, wholesome and cleanly, worthy to serve at Thy
Sacred Threshold and fit to be related to their Lord.  Deliver
them from intoxicating drinks and tobacco, save them, rescue
them, from this opium that bringeth on madness, suffer them

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


to enjoy the sweet savours of holiness, that they may drink
deep of the mystic cup of heavenly love and know the rapture
of being drawn ever closer unto the Realm of the All-
Glorious. For it is even as Thou hast said:  ‘All that thou hast
in thy cellar will not appease the thirst of my love – bring me,
O cup-bearer, of the wine of the spirit a cup full as the sea!’

O ye, God’s loved ones!  Experience hath shown how
greatly the renouncing of smoking, of intoxicating drink, and
of opium, conduceth to health and vigour, to the expansion
and keenness of the mind and to bodily strength.  There is
today a people who strictly avoid tobacco, intoxicating liquor
and opium.  This people is far and away superior to the
others, for strength and physical courage, for health, beauty
and comeliness.  A single one of their men can stand up to
ten men of another tribe.  This hath proved true of the entire
people:  that is, member for member, each individual of this
community is in every respect superior to the individuals of
other communities.

Make ye then a mighty effort, that the purity and
sanctity which, above all else, are cherished by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
shall distinguish the people of Bahá; that in every kind of
excellence the people of God shall surpass all other human
beings; that both outwardly and inwardly they shall prove
superior to the rest; that for purity, immaculacy, refinement,
and the preservation of health, they shall be leaders in the
vanguard of those who know. And that by their freedom from
enslavement, their knowledge, their self-control, they shall
be first among the pure, the free and the wise.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 147-150)

54.
Experience hath shown how greatly the renouncing of
smoking of intoxicating drink, and of opium, conduceth to
health and vigor, to the expansion and keenness of the mind
and bodily strength.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Divine Art of Living, p. 109)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



55.
Concerning the use of alcoholic drinks and drugs the
Guardian wishes you to know that they have been explicitly
forbidden in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  Opium is, undoubtedly,
prohibited.   But smoking, though allowed, is discouraged.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf, dated 27 December 1933)

56.
With regard to your first question on alcohol and
drinking, Bahá’u’lláh. fully aware of the great misery that it
brings about, prohibits it as He expressly states that
everything that takes away the mind, or in other words
makes one drunk, is forbidden.
(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf, dated 15 February 1926)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


33.
Bahá'í consultation

The maturity of the gift of understanding is made
manifest through consultation.
Bahá’u’lláh

1.
It is incumbent upon them (Members of Local
Spiritual Assemblies) to take counsel together and to have
regard for the interests of the servants of God, for His sake,
even as they regard their own interests, and to choose that
which is meet and seemly. Thus, hath the Lord your God
commanded you. Beware lest ye put away that which is
clearly revealed in His Tablet. Fear God, O ye that perceive.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 29)

2.
The Great Being saith:  The heaven of divine wisdom is
illumined with the two luminaries of consultation and
compassion. Take ye counsel together in all matters,
inasmuch as consultation is the lamp of guidance which
leadeth the way, and is the bestower of understanding.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Consultation, p. 3)


3.
Consultation
bestoweth
greater
awareness
and
transmuteth conjecture into certitude.  It is a shining light
which, in a dark world, leadeth the way and guideth.  For
everything there is and will continue to be a station of
perfection and maturity.  The maturity of the gift of
understanding is made manifest through consultation.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Consultation, p. 3)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


4.
In all things it is necessary to consult. This matter
should be forcibly stressed by thee, so that consultation may
be observed by all.  The intent of what hath been revealed
from the Pen of the Most High is that consultation may be
fully carried out among the friends, inasmuch as it is and will
always be a cause of awareness and of awakening and a
source of good and well-being.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Consultation, p. 3)

5.
The question of consultation is of the utmost
importance, and is one of the most potent instruments
conducive to the tranquillity and felicity of the people.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Consultation, p. 3)

6.
Regarding thy question about consultation of a father
with his son, or a son with his father, in matters of trade and
commerce, consultation is one of the fundamental elements
of the foundation of the Law of God. Such consultation is
assuredly acceptable, whether between father and son, or
with others. There is nothing better than this. Man must
consult in all things for this will lead him to the depths of
each problem and enable him to find the right solution.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá: Compilation of Compilations, Vol I, p. 393)

7.
Man must consult on all matters, whether major or
minor, so that he may become cognizant of what is good.
Consultation giveth him insight into things and enableth him
to delve into questions which are unknown.  The light of
truth shineth from the faces of those who engage in
consultation.  Such consultation causeth the living waters to
flow in the meadows of man’s reality, the rays of ancient
glory to shine upon him, and the tree of his being to be
adorned with wondrous fruit.  The members who are
consulting, however, should behave in the utmost love,
harmony and sincerity towards each other.  The principle of
consultation is one of the most fundamental elements of the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


divine edifice.  Even in their ordinary affairs the individual
members of society should consult.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Consultation, p. 8)

8.
…consultation must have for its object the investigation
of truth. He who expresses an opinion should not voice it as
correct and right but set it forth as a contribution to the
consensus of opinion, for the light of reality becomes
apparent when two opinions coincide. A spark is produced
when flint and steel come together. Man should weigh his
opinions with the utmost serenity, calmness and composure.
Before expressing his own views he should carefully consider
the views already advanced by others. If he finds that a
previously expressed opinion is more true and worthy, he
should accept it immediately and not willfully to arrive at
unity and truth. Opposition and division are deplorable. It is
better then to have the opinion of a wise, sagacious man;
otherwise, contradiction and altercation, in which varied and
divergent views are presented, will make it necessary for a
judicial body to render decision upon the question. Even a
majority of opinion or consensus may be incorrect. A
thousand people may hold to one view and be mistaken,
whereas one sagacious person may be right. Therefore, true
consultation is spiritual conference in the attitude and
atmosphere of love. Members must love each other in the
spirit of fellowship in order that good results may be
forthcoming. Love and fellowship are the foundation.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 72-73)

9.
The prime requisites for them that take counsel
together are purity of motive, radiance of spirit, detachment
from all else save God, attraction to His Divine Fragrances,
humility and lowliness amongst His loved ones, patience and
long-suffering in difficulties and servitude to His exalted
Threshold.  Should they be graciously aided to acquire these

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


attributes, victory from the unseen Kingdom of Bahá shall be
vouchsafed to them.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in Bahá’í Administration, p. 21)

10.  ...the shining spark of truth cometh forth only after the
clash of different opinions.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í Administration, p. 21)

11.
As to the education of children, exert every effort to
further this; it is of the utmost importance. So too, the
education of girls in all the rules of righteous conduct, that
they may grow up with a good character and high standards
of behaviour. For mothers are the first educators of the child,
and every child at the beginning of life is like a fresh and
tender branch in his parents' hands. His father and mother
can train him in any way they choose.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Compilation of Compilations, Vol I, p. 284)

12.    Let us also bear in mind that the keynote of the Cause of
God is not dictatorial authority but humble fellowship, not
arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank and loving
consultation.  Nothing short of the spirit of a true Bahá’í can
hope to reconcile the principles of mercy and justice, of
freedom and submission, of the sanctity of the right of the
individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance, discretion and
prudence on the one hand, and fellowship, candor, and
courage on the other.

(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in Bahá’í Administration, pp. 63-64)


13.
The principle of consultation, which constitutes one of
the basic laws of the Administration, should be applied to all
Bahá’í activities which affect the collective interests of the
Faith, for it is through cooperation and continued exchange
of thoughts and views that the Cause can best safeguard and
foster its interests. Individual initiative, personal ability and
resourcefulness, though indispensable, are, unless supported

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and enriched by the collective experiences and wisdom of the
group, utterly incapable of achieving such a tremendous task.
(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in a Compilation on Consultation, p. 15)

14.
Consultation is no easy skill to learn, requiring as it
does the subjugation of all egotism and unruly passions, the
cultivation of frankness and freedom of thought as well as
courtesy, openness of mind, and wholehearted acquiescence
in a majority decision.
(Universal House of Justice. Wellspring of Guidance, p. 96)

15.
A sign of growing maturity in Bahá’í communities was
the importance given to better practicing the art of
consultation. The believers developed materials, organized
classes and seminars, and began Assembly meetings with
deepenings on this fine art.
(Universal House of Justice. Six Year Plan, summary of achievements, p.
57)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


34.
Economics is based on spiritual
constitution

When the love of God is established everything else will be
realised, this is the true foundation of all economics.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

A. Moderation and contentment
1.
It is incumbent upon them who are in authority to
exercise moderation in all things. Whatsoever passeth
beyond the limits of moderation will cease to exert a
beneficial influence. Consider for instance such things as
liberty, civilization and the like.  However much men of
understanding may favorably regard them, they will, if
carried to excess, exercise a pernicious influence upon men.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 216)

2.    Abandon not the incorruptible benefits, and be not
content with that which perisheth.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 320)





3.
Overstep not the bounds of moderation, and deal
justly with them that serve thee.  Bestow upon them
according to their needs, and not to the extent that will
enable them to lay up riches for themselves, to deck their
persons, to embellish their homes, to acquire the things that
are of no benefit unto them, and to be numbered with the
extravagant. Deal with them with undeviating justice, so that
none among them may either suffer want, or be pampered
with luxuries.  This is but manifest justice.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 235)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



4.
Fear ye God, and take heed not to outstrip the bounds
of moderation, and be numbered among the extravagant.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 251)

5.
Whoso
cleaveth
to
justice,
can,
under
no
circumstances, transgress the limits of moderation.  He
discerneth the truth in all things, through the guidance of
Him Who is the All-Seeing.  The civilization, so often vaunted
by the learned exponents of arts and sciences, will, if allowed
to overleap the bounds of moderation, bring great evil upon
men. Thus warneth you He Who is the All-Knowing.  If
carried to excess, civilization will prove as prolific a source of
evil as it had been of goodness when kept within the
restraints of moderation.  Meditate on this, O people, and be
not of them that wander distraught in the wilderness of error.
The day is approaching when its flame will devour the cities,
when the Tongue of Grandeur will proclaim: “The Kingdom
is God’s, the Almighty, the All-Praised!”
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 342-343)





6.
In all matters moderation is desirable. If a thing is
carried to excess it will prove a source of evil.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 69)





7.
The source of all glory is acceptance of whatsoever the
Lord hath bestowed, and contentment with that which God
hath ordained.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 155)





8.
The source of all good is trust in God, submission unto
His command, and contentment with His holy will and
pleasure.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 155)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


9.
If thou wouldst content thyself with whatever might
come to pass it would be praiseworthy.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 175)

10.
O Son of Spirit!  Ask not of Me that which We desire
not for thee, then be content with what We have ordained for
thy sake, for this is that which profiteth thee, if therewith
thou dost content thyself.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 18)

11.
O Son of Being! Busy not thyself with this world, for
with fire We test the gold, and with gold We test Our
servants.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 55)

12.   O Son of Man! Thou dost wish for gold and I desire thy
freedom from it. Thou thinkest thyself rich in its possession,
and I recognize thy wealth in thy sanctity therefrom. By My
life! This is My knowledge, and that is thy fancy; how can My
way accord with thine?
(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 56)

13.
O Quintessence of Passion! Put away all covetousness
and seek contentment; for the covetous hath ever been
deprived, and the contented hath ever been loved and
praised.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 50)

14.
Verily the most necessary thing is contentment under
all circumstances; by this one is preserved from morbid
conditions and from lassitude.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in the Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 108)







15.
A good character is in the sight of God and His chosen
ones and possessors of insight, the most excellent and
praiseworthy of all things, but always on condition that its

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


center of emanation should be reason and knowledge and its
base should be true moderation.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 60)

16.
Economy is the foundation of human prosperity. The
spendthrift is always in trouble.  Prodigality on the part of
any person is an unpardonable sin ... It is more kingly to be
satisfied with a crust of stale bread than to enjoy a
sumptuous dinner of many courses, the money for which
comes out of the pockets of others. ...A Bahá’í must be
satisfied. ...The mind of a contented person is always peaceful
and his heart at rest.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Star of the West, vol. VIII, number 2, p. 18)

17.
Moderation is necessary in all affairs.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Star of the West, vol. VIII, number 2, p. 26)



B. Justice and equity

18.
Tread ye the path of justice and equity in all things.
Thus biddeth you He Who is the Dawning-place of
Revelation, would that ye might comprehend.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas, paragraph 60)

19.
Say: ‘O God, my God! Attire mine head with the crown
of justice, and my temple with the ornament of equity. Thou,
verily, art the Possessor of all gifts and bounties.’
Justice and equity are twin Guardians that watch over
men. From them are revealed such blessed and perspicuous
words as are the cause of the well-being of the world and the
protection of the nations.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 12)

20.
We entreat God to deliver the light of equity and the
sun of justice from the thick clouds of waywardness, and
cause them to shine forth upon men. No light can compare

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


with the light of justice. The establishment of order in the
world and the tranquillity of the nations depend upon it.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 28)

21.
We hope that thou wilt cause the light of justice to
shine more brightly. By the righteousness of God! Justice is a
powerful force. It is, above all else, the conqueror of the
citadels of the hearts and souls of men, and the revealer of
the secrets of the world of being, and the standard-bearer of
love and bounty.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 31)

22.
We cherish the hope that the light of justice may shine
upon the world and sanctify it from tyranny. If the rulers and
kings of the earth, the symbols of the power of God, exalted
be His glory, arise and resolve to dedicate themselves to
whatever will promote the highest interests of the whole of
humanity, the reign of justice will assuredly be established
amongst the children of men, and the effulgence of its light
will envelop the whole earth. The Great Being saith: The
structure of world stability and order hath been reared upon,
and will continue to be sustained by, the twin pillars of
reward and punishment... In another passage, He hath
written: Take heed, O concourse of the rulers of the world!
There is no force on earth that can equal in its conquering
power the force of justice and wisdom.... Blessed is the king
who marcheth with the ensign of wisdom unfurled before
him, and the battalions of justice massed in his rear. He
verily is the ornament that adorneth the brow of peace and
the countenance of security. There can be no doubt whatever
that if the day star of justice, which the clouds of tyranny
have obscured, were to shed its light upon men, the face of
the earth would be completely transformed
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 218)

23. … equity is the most fundamental among human

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


virtues. The evaluation of all things must needs depend upon
it.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 203)

24.
Beware lest thou be led to connive at injustice. Set thy
heart firmly upon justice, and alter not the Cause of God, and
be of them whose eyes are directed towards the things that
have been revealed in His Book.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 230)

25.
Cleave ye to justice and fairness, and turn away from
the whisperings of the foolish, them that are estranged from
God, that have decked their heads with the ornament of the
learned, and have condemned to death Him Who is the
Fountain of wisdom.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 342)

26.
O Son of Spirit! The best beloved of all things in My
sight is Justice; turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me,
and neglect it not that I may confide in thee. By its aid thou
shalt see with thine own eyes and not through the eyes of
others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge and not
through the knowledge of thy neighbour. Ponder this in thy
heart; how it behoveth thee to be. Verily justice is My gift to
thee and the sign of My loving-kindness. Set it then before
thine eyes.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 2)

27.
In these days truthfulness and sincerity are sorely
afflicted in the clutches of falsehood, and justice is tormented
by the scourge of injustice. The smoke of corruption hath
enveloped the whole world in such wise that naught can be
seen in any direction save regiments of soldiers and nothing
is heard from any land but the clashing of swords. We
beseech God, the True One, to strengthen the wielders of His
power in that which will rehabilitate the world and bring

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


tranquillity to the nations.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 39)

28.
Judge thou fairly and be not of the unjust. Take fast
hold of justice and adhere unto equity that perchance thou
mayest not, for selfish motives, use religion as a snare, nor
disregard the truth for the sake of gold.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 42)

29.
O son of man! If thine eyes be turned towards mercy,
forsake the things that profit thee and cleave unto that which
will profit mankind. And if thine eyes be turned towards
justice, choose thou for thy neighbour that which thou
choosest for thyself. Humility exalteth man to the heaven of
glory and power, whilst pride abaseth him to the depths of
wretchedness and degradation.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 64)

30.   The light of men is Justice. Quench it not with the
contrary winds of oppression and tyranny. The purpose of
justice is the appearance of unity among men. The ocean of
divine wisdom surgeth within this exalted word while the
books of the world cannot contain its inner significant.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 67)

31.
Moreover We counsel them to observe justice, equity,
honesty, piety and that whereby both the Word of God and
their own station will be exalted amongst men. Verily I am
the One Who exhorteth with justice. Unto this beareth
witness He from Whose Pen rivers of mercy have flowed and
from Whose utterance fountains of living waters have
streamed forth unto all created things. Immeasurably exalted
is this boundless grace; immensely blessed is this
resplendent favour.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 77)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


32.
Justice is, in this day, bewailing its plight, and Equity
groaneth beneath the yoke of oppression.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 92)

33.
Once again We exhort all believers to observe justice
and fairness and to show forth love and contentment. They
are indeed the people of Bahá, the companions of the
Crimson Ark. Upon them be the peace of God, the Lord of all
Names, the Creator of the heavens
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 134)

34.
The Great Being saith: The heaven of statesmanship is
made luminous and resplendent by the brightness of the light
of these blessed words which hath dawned from the
dayspring of the Will of God: It behoveth every ruler to weigh
his own being every day in the balance of equity and justice
and then to judge between men and counsel them to do that
which would direct their steps unto the path of wisdom and
understanding.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 166)

35.
He hath come for your salvation, and hath borne
tribulations that ye may ascend, by the ladder of utterance,
unto the summit of understanding.... Peruse, with fairness
and justice, that which hath been sent down. It will, verily,
exalt you through the truth, and will cause you to behold the
things from which ye have been withheld, and will enable you
to quaff His sparkling Wine.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 78)

36.
O King! I adjure thee by thy Lord, the All-Merciful, to
look upon thy servants with the glances of the eye of thy
favour, and to treat them with justice, that God may treat
thee with mercy. Potent is thy Lord to do as He pleaseth. The
world, with all its abasement and glory, shall pass away, and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


the kingdom will remain unto God, the Most Exalted, the All-
Knowing.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p.97)

37.
No man can attain his true station, except through his
justice.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Cited Compilation on Consultation, p. 1)

38.
This disparity is confined to the human race: Among
other creatures, that is, among the animals, a certain kind of
justice and equality prevails. Thus there is equality within a
shepherd’s flock, or within a herd of deer in the wilderness,
or among the songbirds that dwell in the mountains, plains,
and orchards. The animals of every species enjoy a measure
of equality and do not differ greatly from one another in their
means of existence, and thus they live in perfect peace and
joy.
It is quite otherwise with the human race, where the
greatest oppression and injustice are to be found. Thus you
can observe, on the one hand, a single person who has
amassed a fortune, made an entire country his personal
dominion, acquired immense wealth, and secured an
unceasing flow of gains and profits, and, on the other, a
hundred thousand helpless souls—weak, powerless, and
wanting even a mouthful of bread. There is neither equality
here nor benevolence. Observe how, as a result, general peace
and happiness have become so wanting, and the welfare of
humanity so undermined, that the lives of a vast multitude
have been rendered fruitless! For all the wealth, power,
commerce, and industry are concentrated in the hands of a
few individuals, while all others toil under the burden of
endless hardships and difficulties, are bereft of advantages
and benefits, and remain deprived of comfort and peace…
However, absolute equality is just as untenable, for
complete equality in wealth, power, commerce, agriculture,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and industry would result in chaos and disorder, disrupt
livelihoods, provoke universal discontent, and undermine the
orderly conduct of the affairs of the community. For
unjustified equality is also fraught with peril…
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, pp. 315-316)

39.
O Son of Spirit! The best beloved of all things in My
sight is justice; turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me,
and neglect it not that I may confide in thee.  By its aid thou
shalt see with thine own eyes and not through the eyes of
others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge and not
through the knowledge of thy neighbour.  Ponder this in thy
heart; how it behooveth thee to be.  Verily justice is My gift to
thee and the sign of My loving- kindness.  Set it then before
thine eyes.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 2)

40.  Justice and equity are twin Guardian that watch over
men.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 76)

41.
... although at the present time the rich enjoy the
greatest luxury and comfort, they are nevertheless deprived
of eternal happiness; for eternal happiness is contingent
upon giving, and the poor are everywhere in the state of
abject need. Through the manifestation of God’s great equity
the poor of the world will be rewarded and assisted fully, and
there will be a readjustment in the economic conditions of
mankind so that in the future there will not be the
abnormally rich nor the abject poor.  The rich will enjoy the
privilege of this new economic condition as well as the poor,
for owing to certain provisions and restrictions they will not
be able to accumulate so much as to be burdened by its
management, while the poor will be relieved from the stress
of want and misery.  The rich will enjoy his palace, and the
poor will have his comfortable cottage.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



The essence of the matter is that divine justice will
become manifest in human conditions and affairs, and all
mankind will find comfort and enjoyment in life.  It is not
meant that all will be equal, for inequality in degree and
capacity is a property of nature.  Necessarily there will be rich
people and also those who will be in want of their livelihood,
but in the aggregate community there will be equalization
and readjustment of values and interests.  In the future there
will be no very rich nor extremely poor.  There will be an
equilibrium of interests, and a condition will be established
which will make both rich and poor comfortable and content.
This will be an eternal and blessed outcome of the glorious
twentieth century which will be realized universally.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 132)

42.
Difference of capacity in human individuals is
fundamental.  It is impossible for all to be alike, all to be
equal, all to be wise.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 217)

43.
Well is it with that learned man whose head is adorned
with the crown of justice, and whose body glorieth in the
ornament of honesty.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 45)

44.
Equality and Brotherhood must be established among
all members of mankind. This is according to Justice. The
general rights of mankind must be guarded and preserved.
All men must be treated equally. This is inherent in the very
nature of humanity.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 29)

45.
Until all nations and peoples become united by the
bonds of the Holy Spirit in this real fraternity, until national
and international prejudices are effaced in the reality of this
spiritual brotherhood, true progress, prosperity and lasting

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


happiness will not be attained by man. This is the century of
new and universal nationhood. Sciences have advanced,
industries have progressed, politics have been reformed,
liberty has been proclaimed, justice is awakening. This is the
century of motion, divine stimulus and accomplishment; the
century of human solidarity and altruistic service; the
century of Universal Peace and the reality of the divine
kingdom.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 227)

46.
The foundation of the Kingdom of God is laid upon
justice, fairness, mercy, sympathy and kindness to every soul.
Then strive ye with heart and soul to practice love and
kindness to the world of humanity at large, except to those
souls who are selfish and insincere. It is not advisable to
show kindness to a person who is a tyrant, a traitor or a thief
because kindness encourages him to become worse and does
not awaken him. The more kindness you show to a liar the
more he is apt to lie, for he thinks that you know not, while
you do know, but extreme kindness keeps you from revealing
your knowledge.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 412)

47.
If the soul identifies itself with the material world it
remains dark, for in the natural world there is corruption,
aggression,
struggles
for
existence,
greed,
darkness,
transgression and vice. If the soul remains in this station and
moves along these paths it will be the recipient of this
darkness; but if it becomes the recipient of the graces of the
world of mind, its darkness will be transformed into light, its
tyranny into justice, its ignorance into wisdom, its aggression
into loving kindness; until it reach the apex. Then there will
not remain any struggle for existence. Man will become free
from egotism; he will be released from the material world; he
will become the personification of justice and virtue, for a

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


sanctified soul illumines humanity and is an honor to
mankind, conferring life upon the children of men and
suffering all nations to attain to the station of
perfect unity. Therefore, we can apply the name “holy soul”
to such a one.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Divine Philosophy, p. 120)

48.
It is evident and clear to the wise men of nations - those
wise men who are the wooers of absolute reality - that the
purpose of the divine messengers and the revelation of the
heavenly books and the establishment of the religion of God
has been none other than to create amity and justice between
the children of the races. True religion is the foundation of
spiritual union, the union of thought, the union of
susceptibilities, the unity of customs and the ideal chain
binding together all the children of men. Through its
practical realization, the minds and souls will receive
development by divine instruction; they will become assisted
to investigate reality, attain to a lofty station of wisdom and
establish the basis of a divine civilization.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Divine Philosophy, p. 160)

49.
And among the teachings of His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh
are justice and right. Until these are realized on the plane of
existence, all things will be in disorder and remain imperfect.
The world of mankind is a world of oppression and cruelty,
and a realm of aggression and error.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity, p. 31)

50.
We ask God to endow human souls with justice so that
they may be fair, and may strive to provide for the comfort of
all, that each member of humanity may pass his life in the
utmost comfort and welfare. Then this material world will
become the very paradise of the Kingdom, this elemental
earth will be in a heavenly state and all the servants of God

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


will live in the utmost joy, happiness and gladness. We must
all strive and concentrate all our thoughts in order that such
happiness may accrue to the world of humanity.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity, p. 43)

51.
When a ruler knows that his judgments will be weighed
in a balance by the Divine Judge, and that if he be not found
wanting he will come into the Celestial Kingdom and that the
light of the Heavenly Bounty will shine upon him, then will
he surely act with justice and equity. Behold how important it
is that Ministers of State should be enlightened by religion!
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 158)

52.
Oh, friends of God, be living examples of justice! So
that by the Mercy of God, the world may see in your actions
that you manifest the attributes of justice and mercy.
Justice is not limited, it is a universal quality. Its
operation must be carried out in all classes, from the highest
to the lowest. Justice must be sacred, and the rights of all the
people must be considered. Desire for others only that which
you desire for yourselves. Then shall we rejoice in the Sun of
Justice, which shines from the Horizon of God.
Each man has been placed in a post of honour, which he
must not desert. A humble workman who commits an
injustice is as much to blame as a renowned tyrant. Thus we
all have our choice between justice and injustice.
I hope that each one of you will become just, and direct
your thoughts towards the unity of mankind; that you will
never harm your neighbours nor speak ill of any one; that
you will respect the rights of all men, and be more concerned
for the interests of others than for your own. Thus will you
become torches of Divine justice, acting in accordance with
the Teaching of Bahá’u’lláh. who, during His life, bore
innumerable trials and persecutions in order to show forth to
the world of mankind the virtues of the World of Divinity,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


making it possible for you to realize the supremacy of the
spirit, and to rejoice in the Justice of God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 158)

53.
We should continually be establishing new bases for
human happiness and creating and promoting new
instrumentalities toward this end. How excellent, how
honorable is man if he arises to fulfil his responsibilities; how
wretched and contemptible, if he shuts his eyes to the welfare
of society and wastes his precious life in pursuing his own
selfish
interests
and
personal
advantages.
Supreme
happiness is man’s, and he beholds the signs of God in the
world and in the human soul, if he urges on the steed of high
endeavor in the arena of civilization and justice.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 3)

54.
… to establish equity and righteousness… establish a
just government and to secure the progress of all his subjects.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 11)

55.
It is unquestionable that the object in establishing
parliaments is to bring about justice and righteousness, but
everything
hinges
on
the
efforts
of
the
elected
representatives. If their intention is sincere, desirable results
and unforeseen improvements will be forthcoming; if not, it
is certain that the whole thing will be meaningless, the
country will come to a standstill and public affairs will
continuously deteriorate. “I see a thousand builders unequal
to one subverter; what then of the one builder who is
followed by a thousand subverters?”
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 23)

56.
The second attribute of perfection is justice and
impartiality. This means to have no regard for one’s own
personal benefits and selfish advantages, and to carry out the
laws of God without the slightest concern for anything else. It

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


means to see one’s self as only one of the servants of God, the
All-Possessing,
and
except
for
aspiring
to
spiritual
distinction, never attempting to be singled out from the
others. It means to consider the welfare of the community as
one’s own. It means, in brief, to regard humanity as a single
individual, and one’s own self as a member of that corporeal
form, and to know of a certainty that if pain or injury afflicts
any member of that body, it must inevitably result in
suffering for all the rest.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 38)

57.
Should other peoples and nations be unfaithful to you
show your fidelity unto them, should they be unjust toward
you show justice towards them, should they keep aloof from
you attract them to yourselves, should they show their
enmity be friendly towards them, should they poison your
lives, sweeten their souls, should they inflict a wound upon
you, be a salve to their sores. Such are the attributes of the
sincere! Such are the attributes of the truthful.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 14)

58.
If anyone looketh with the eyes of justice he shall be
struck with wonder and amazement and will testify that all
the peoples, sects and races of the world should be glad,
content and grateful for the teachings and admonitions of
Bahá’u’lláh. For these divine injunctions tame every ferocious
beast, transform the creeping insect into a soaring bird, cause
human souls to become angels of the Kingdom, and make the
human world a focus for the qualities of mercy.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 292-293)

59.
… among the results of the manifestation of spiritual
forces will be that the human world will adapt itself to a new
social form … the justice of God will become manifest
throughout human affairs.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Ridván Message, 2012)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



60.
Justice He extols as "the light of men" and their
"guardian," as "the revealer of the secrets of the world of
being, and the standard-bearer of love and bounty"; declares
its radiance to be incomparable; affirms that upon it must
depend "the organization of the world and the tranquillity of
mankind." He characterizes its "two pillars" - "reward and
punishment" - as "the sources of life" to the human race;
warns the peoples of the world to bestir themselves in
anticipation of its advent; and prophesies that, after an
interval of great turmoil and grievous injustice, its day-star
will shine in its full splendor and glory.
(Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 217)

61.
Should any one among you take up arms against
another, rise ye all against him, for this is naught but
manifest justice." "The time must come," He, foreshadowing
the tentative efforts that are now being made, has written,
"when the imperative necessity for the holding of a vast, an
all-embracing assemblage of men will be universally realized.
The rulers and kings of the earth must needs attend it, and,
participating in its deliberations, must consider such ways
and means as will lay the foundations of the world's Great
Peace among men... Should any king take up arms against
another, all should unitedly arise and prevent him."
(Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 192)

62.
Tread ye the path of justice, for this, verily, is the
straight path. Compose your differences, and reduce your
armaments, that the burden of your expenditures may be
lightened, and that your minds and hearts may be
tranquilized. Heal the dissensions that divide you, and ye will
no longer be in need of any armaments except what the
protection of your cities and territories demandeth. Fear ye
God, and take heed not to outstrip the bounds of moderation,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


and be numbered among the extravagant. We have learned
that you are increasing your outlay every year, and are laying
the burden thereof on your subjects. This, verily, is more
than they can bear, and is a grievous injustice. Decide justly
between men, and be ye the emblems of justice amongst
them. This, if ye judge fairly, is the thing that behooveth you,
and beseemeth your station.
(Shoghi Effendi. Promised Day is Come, p. 22)

63.
Social inequality is the inevitable outcome of the
natural inequality of man.  Human beings are different in
ability and should, therefore, be different in their social and
economic standing. Extremes of wealth and poverty should,
however, be abolished...
(Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian, p. 20)

64.
Apart from principles of social justice, which doubtless
motivated a significant number of those committed to this
task, the economic dislocations produced by the events of the
previous three decades had made it clear that existing
arrangements were outdated and ineffective.
(Universal House of Justice. Century of Light, p. 74)

65.
Social justice will be attained only when every member
of society enjoys a relative degree of material prosperity and
gives due regard to the acquisition of spiritual qualities.
(Universal House of Justice. 2 April 2010 to the Bahá’ís of Iran)

66.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated that "among the results of the
manifestation of spiritual forces will be that the human world
will adapt itself to a new social form," that "the justice of God
will become manifest throughout human affairs".
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

67.
By applying in one’s life those principles of the Faith
that relate to fairness and equity, a single soul can uphold a

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


standard far above the low threshold by which the world
measures itself. Humanity is weary for want of a pattern of
life to which to aspire; we look to you to foster communities
whose ways will give hope to the world.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

C. Trustworthiness and truthfulness
68.
We have enjoined upon all to become engaged in some
trade or profession, and have accounted such occupation to
be an act of worship. Before all else, however, thou shouldst
receive, as a sign of God’s acceptance, the mantle of
trustworthiness from the hands of divine favour; for
trustworthiness is the chief means of attracting confirmation
and prosperity. We entreat God to make of it a radiant and
mercifully showering rain-cloud that shall bring success and
blessings to thy affairs. He of a truth is the All-Bountiful, the
Gracious.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Trustworthiness, pp. 8-9)

69.
Commerce
is
as
a
heaven,
whose
sun
is
trustworthiness and whose moon is truthfulness. The most
precious of all things in the estimation of Him Who is the
Sovereign Truth is trustworthiness: thus, hath it been
recorded in the sacred Scroll of God. Entreat ye the One God
to enable all mankind to attain to this most noble and lofty
station.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Trustworthiness, p. 9)

70.     Beautify your tongues, O people, with truthfulness, and
adorn your souls with the ornament of honesty.  Beware, O
people, that ye deal not treacherously with anyone.  Be ye the
trustees of God amongst His creatures, and the emblems of
His generosity amidst His people.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 297)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


71.     Trustworthiness... is the door of security for all that
dwell on earth and a token of glory on the part of the All-
Merciful.  He who partaketh thereof hath indeed partaken of
the treasures of wealth and prosperity.  Trustworthiness is
the greatest portal leading unto the tranquillity and security
of the people.  In truth the stability of every affair hath
depended and doth depend upon it.  All the domains of
power, of grandeur and of wealth are illumined by its light.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 37)

72.
The companions of God are, in this day, the lump that
must leaven the peoples of the world. They must show forth
such trustworthiness, such truthfulness and perseverance,
such deeds and character that all mankind may profit by
their example.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in the Advent of Divine Justice, p. 19)

73.
We beseech the True One to adorn His handmaidens
with the ornament of chastity, of trustworthiness, of
righteousness and of purity.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Women, p. 46)

74.  ...In the sight of God, trustworthiness is the bedrock of
His Faith and the foundation of all virtues and perfections. A
man deprived of this quality is destitute of everything. What
shall faith and piety avail if trustworthiness be lacking? Of
what consequence can they be? What benefit or advantage
can they confer?
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Trustworthiness, number 47)

75. Every business company should be established on divine
principles. Its foundations should be trustworthiness, piety
and truthfulness in order to protect the rights of the people.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Trustworthiness, number 51)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


D. Sincerity
76.
It behoveth, likewise, the loved ones of God to be
forbearing towards their fellow-men, and to be so sanctified
and detached from all things, and to evince such sincerity
and fairness, that all the peoples of the earth may recognize
them as the trustees of God amongst men.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 242)

77.
Sincerity is the foundation-stone of Faith.  That is, a
religious individual must disregard his personal desires and
seek in whatever way he can wholeheartedly to serve the
public interests; and it is impossible for a human being to
turn aside from his own selfish advantages and sacrifice his
own good for the good of the community except through true
religious faith.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 96)

78.
We should at all times manifest our truthfulness and
sincerity, nay rather, we must be constant in our faithfulness
and trustworthiness, and occupy ourselves in offering
prayers for the good of all.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 294)

79.
Likewise, they must treat with and behave toward all
the governments, nations, communities, kings and subjects
with
the
utmost
sincerity,
trustworthiness,
straightforwardness, love and kindness.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. vol. 2, p. 436)

80.
The essential principles of His [Bahá’u’lláh] healing
remedies are the knowledge and love of God, severance from
all else save God, turning our faces in sincerity toward the
Kingdom of God, implicit faith, firmness and fidelity, loving-
kindness toward all creatures and the acquisition of the
divine virtues indicated for the human world. These are the
fundamental principles of progress, civilization, international

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


peace and the unity of mankind. These are the essentials of
Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, the secret of everlasting health, the
remedy and healing for man.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 205)

81.
If he is a Bahá'í in reality, his deeds and actions will be
decisive proofs of it. What are the requirements? Love for
mankind, sincerity toward all, reflecting the oneness of the
world of humanity, philanthropy, becoming enkindled with
the fire of the love of God, attainment to the knowledge of
God and that which is conducive to human welfare.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 336)

82.
It is essential that scholars and the spiritually learned
should undertake in all sincerity and purity of intent and for
the sake of God alone, to counsel and exhort the masses and
clarify their vision with that collyrium which is knowledge.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 39)

83.
Universal benefits derive from the grace of the Divine
religions, for they lead their true followers to sincerity of
intent, to high purpose, to purity and spotless honor, to
surpassing kindness and compassion, to the keeping of their
covenants when they have covenanted, to concern for the
rights of others, to liberality, to justice in every aspect of life,
to humanity and philanthropy, to valor and to unflagging
efforts in the service of mankind. It is religion, to sum up,
which produces all human virtues, and it is these virtues
which are the bright candles of civilization. If a man is not
characterized by these excellent qualities, it is certain that he
has never attained to so much as a drop out of the fathomless
river of the waters of life that flows through the teachings of
the Holy Books, nor caught the faintest breath of the fragrant
breezes that blow from the gardens of God; for nothing on
earth can be demonstrated by words alone, and every level of
existence is known by its signs and symbols, and every degree

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


in man's development has its identifying mark.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 98)

E. Detachment
84.
Now is the moment in which to cleanse thyself with the
waters of detachment that have flowed out from the Supreme
Pen, and to ponder, wholly for the sake of God, those things
which, time and again, have been sent down or manifested,
and then to strive, as much as lieth in thee, to quench,
through the power of wisdom and the force of thy utterance,
the fire of enmity and hatred which smouldereth in the
hearts of the peoples of the world.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 12)

85.
Blessed are they that have soared on the wings of
detachment and attained the station which, as ordained by
God, overshadoweth the entire creation, whom neither the
vain imaginations of the learned, nor the multitude of the
hosts of the earth have succeeded in deflecting from His
Cause. Who is there among you, O people, who will renounce
the world, and draw nigh unto God, the Lord of all names?
Where is he to be found who, through the power of My name
that transcendeth all created things, will cast away the things
that men possess, and cling, with all his might, to the things
which God, the Knower of the unseen and of the seen, hath
bidden him observe? Thus hath His bounty been sent down
unto men, His testimony fulfilled, and His proof shone forth
above the Horizon of mercy. Rich is the prize that shall be
won by him who hath believed and exclaimed: "Lauded art
Thou, O Beloved of all worlds! Magnified be Thy name, O
Thou the Desire of every understanding heart!"
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 34)

86.
Once again doth the Tongue of the Ancient of Days
reveal, while in this Most Great Prison, these words which
are recorded in this snow-white Scroll: O ye the beloved of

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


the one true God! Pass beyond the narrow retreats of your
evil and corrupt desires, and advance into the vast immensity
of the realm of God, and abide ye in the meads of sanctity
and of detachment, that the fragrance of your deeds may lead
the whole of mankind to the ocean of God's unfading glory.
Forbear ye from concerning yourselves with the affairs of this
world and all that pertaineth unto it, or from meddling with
the activities of those who are its outward leaders.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 241)

87.
Should any man, in this Day, arise and, with absolute
detachment from all that is in the heavens and all that is on
the earth, set his affections on Him Who is the Day Spring of
God's holy Revelation, he will, verily, be empowered to
subdue all created things, through the potency of one of the
Names of the Lord, his God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 318)

88.
O peoples of the earth! God, the Eternal Truth, is My
witness that streams of fresh and soft-flowing waters have
gushed from the rocks, through the sweetness of the words
uttered by your Lord, the Unconstrained; and still ye
slumber. Cast away that which ye possess, and, on the wings
of detachment, soar beyond all created things. Thus biddeth
you the Lord of creation, the movement of Whose Pen hath
revolutionized the soul of mankind.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Synopsis and Codification of The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 16)

89.
Most of the people in Persia are steeped in deception
and idle fancy. How great the difference between the
condition of these people and the station of such valiant souls
as have passed beyond the sea of names and pitched their
tents upon the shores of the ocean of detachment.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 57)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


90.
ALAS! ALAS! O LOVERS OF WORLDLY DESIRE!
Even as the swiftness of lightning ye have passed by the
Beloved One, and have set your hearts on satanic fancies. Ye
bow the knee before your vain imagining, and call it truth. Ye
turn your eyes towards the thorn, and name it a flower. Not a
pure breath have ye breathed, nor hath the breeze of
detachment been wafted from the meadows of your hearts.
Ye have cast to the winds the loving counsels of the Beloved
and have effaced them utterly from the tablet of your hearts,
and even as the beasts of the field, ye move and have your
being within the pastures of desire and passion.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 45)

91.
O SON OF PASSION!
Cleanse thyself from the defilement of riches and in perfect
peace advance into the realm of poverty; that from the well-
spring of detachment thou mayest quaff the wine of immortal
life.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 55)

92.
Know that thy true adornment consisteth in the love of
God and in thy detachment from all save Him, and not in the
luxuries thou dost possess. Abandon them unto those who
seek after them and turn unto God, He Who causeth the
rivers to flow.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 60)

93.
…we must be happy and pass our time in praises,
appreciating all things. But there is something else:
detachment. We can appreciate without attaching ourselves
to the things of this world. It sometimes happens that if a
man loses his fortune he is so disheartened that he dies or
becomes insane. While enjoying the things of this world we
must remember that one day we shall have to do without
them.
Attach not thyself to anything unless in it thou seest

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


the reality of God - this is the first step into the court of
eternity. The earth life lasts but a short time, even its benefits
are transitory; that which is temporary does not deserve our
heart's attachment.
Material favors sometimes deprive us of spiritual
favors and material rest of spiritual rest. A rich man said to
Christ, "I would fain be thy disciple." "Go and put into
practice the ten commandments," replied the Christ. "But I
know them by heart and have always practiced them." "Then
sell what thou hast and take up thy cross and follow me." The
man returned to his home. But the rich who are attracted
through their hearts have the spark and are like unto brilliant
torches. Bahá’u’lláh has spoken of the importance of their
station. Certain rich ones have sacrificed their possessions
and even their lives for this cause. Riches did not prove an
obstacle for them and they are like unto stars in the heaven of
both worlds - flames of reality.
Detachment does not consist in setting fire to one's
house, or becoming bankrupt or throwing one's fortune out
of the window, or even giving away all of one's possessions.
Detachment
consists
in
refraining
from
letting
our
possessions possess us. A prosperous merchant who is not
absorbed in his business knows severance. A banker whose
occupation does not prevent him from serving humanity is
severed. A poor man can be attached to a small thing.
A rich man and a poor man lived in the same town.
One day the poor man said to the rich man, "I want to go to
the Holy Land." The rich man replied, "Very good, I will go
also," and they started from the town and began their
pilgrimage. But night fell and the poor man said, "Let us
return to our houses to pass the night." The rich man replied,
"We have started for the Holy Land and must not now
return." The poor man said, "The Holy Land is a long
distance to travel on foot. I have a donkey, I will go and fetch
it." "What?" replied the rich man, "are you not ashamed? I

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


leave all my possessions to go on this pilgrimage and you
wish to return to get your donkey! I have abandoned with joy
my whole fortune. Your whole wealth consists of a donkey
and you cannot leave it!" You see that fortune is not
necessarily an impediment. The rich man who is thus
detached is near to reality. There are many rich people who
are severed and many poor who are not.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Divine Philosophy, p. 135)

94.  Content thyself with but little of this world's goods!
Verily, economy is a great treasure.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 374)

95.
"Now is the time," He no less significantly remarks in
another of these Tablets, "for you to divest yourselves of the
garment of attachment to this world that perisheth, to be
wholly severed from the physical world, become heavenly
angels, and travel to these countries. I swear by Him besides
Whom there is none other God that each one of you will
become an Israfil of Life, and will blow the Breath of Life into
the souls of others." And lastly this glorious promise in
another of those immortal Tablets: "Should success crown
your enterprise, America will assuredly evolve into a center
from which waves of spiritual power will emanate, and the
throne of the Kingdom of God, will, in the plenitude of its
majesty and glory, be firmly established."
(Shoghi Effendi. Citadel of Faith, p. 29)

96.
Let them "disencumber themselves of all attachment to
this world and the vanities thereof," and, with that spirit of
detachment which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá exemplified and wished
them to emulate, bring these diversified peoples and
countries to the remembrance of God and His supreme
Manifestation. Let His love be a "storehouse of treasure for
their souls," on the day when "every pillar shall tremble,
when the very skins of men shall creep, when all eyes shall

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


stare up with terror." Let their "souls be aglow with the flame
of the undying Fire that burneth in the midmost heart of the
world, in such wise that the waters of the universe shall be
powerless to cool down its ardor." Let them be "unrestrained
as the wind" which "neither the sight of desolation nor the
evidences of prosperity can either pain or please." Let them
"unloose their tongues and proclaim unceasingly His Cause."
Let them "proclaim that which the Most Great Spirit will
inspire them to utter in the service of the Cause of their
Lord." Let them "beware lest they contend with anyone, nay
strive to make him aware of the truth with kindly manner
and most convincing exhortation." Let them "wholly for the
sake of God proclaim His Message, and with that same spirit
accept whatever response their words may evoke in their
hearers." Let them not, for one moment, forget that the
"Faithful Spirit shall strengthen them through its power,"
and that "a company of His chosen angels shall go forth with
them, as bidden by Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Wise."
Let them ever bear in mind "how great is the blessedness that
awaiteth them that have attained the honor of serving the
Almighty," and remember that "such a service is indeed the
prince of all goodly deeds, and the ornament of every goodly
act."
(Shoghi Effendi. Advent of Divine Justice, p. 60)

F. Gratitude and thankfulness
97.
Eat ye, O people, of the good things which God hath
allowed you, and deprive not yourselves from His wondrous
bounties.  Render thanks and praise unto Him, and be of
them that are truly thankful.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 276)

98.
All that has been created is for man, who is at the apex
of creation, and he must be thankful for the divine bestowals.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


All material things are for us, so that through our gratitude
we may learn to understand life as a divine benefit.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in the Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, p. 102)

99.
God has conferred upon man the gift of guidance, and
in thankfulness for this great gift certain deeds must emanate
from him. To express his gratitude for the favors of God man
must show forth praiseworthy actions. In response to these
bestowals he must render good deeds, be self-sacrificing,
loving the servants of God, forfeiting even life for them,
showing kindness to all the creatures.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 236)

100. We yield thanks to God that, through the potency of
His Word, you--the community of His Greatest Name -- are
cultivating environments wherein true understanding can
blossom.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

G. The path of service
101. Thy day of service is now come.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 92)

102. … one indeed is a man who, today, dedicateth himself
to the service of the entire human race.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 248)

103.  Is there any deed in the world that would be nobler
than service to the common good? Is there any greater
blessing conceivable for a man, than that he should become
the cause of the education, the development, the prosperity
and honor of the fellow-creatures? No, by the Lord God! The
highest righteousness of all is for blessed souls to take hold of
the hands of the helpless and deliver them out of their
ignorance and abasement and poverty, and with pure
motives, and only for the sake of God, to arise and

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


energetically devote themselves to the service of the masses,
forgetting their own worldly advantage and working only to
serve the general good.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Devine Civilization, p. 103)

104. Participation of youth in external affairs opened new
possibilities for the Faith in this field; commitment to a year
of service was more widely demonstrated; at the same time
there was a notable increase in the number of youth
acquiring
formal
training
and
achieving
academic,
professional and vocational excellence - altogether an
indication that the youth are doing more in direct service to
the Faith while at the same time contributing to the general
development of society.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 1996 to the Bahá’ís of the World, p. 6)

105. Stressing the effect of negative social forces on junior
youth does not imply that young people are basically fragile.
They can, with help, face these forces. They can develop the
powers of the soul and mind that not only enable them to
transcend such challenges but also make them contributors
to building a new society. In this light, the Universal House
of Justice has called for approaches “that will engage their
interests, mould their capacities for teaching and service, and
involve them in social interaction with older youth”
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2000, p. 9)

106. Bahá’í youth and their friends in many communities
are committing themselves to serving as animators of the
junior youth spiritual empowerment programme. The
programme gives young people “tools needed to combat the
forces that would rob them of their true identity as noble
beings and to work for the common good”.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2010)

107. They also strive to create an atmosphere among

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


themselves and in their communities where the greatest joy
is derived from aiding “one another scale the heights of
service”.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2010)

108. [service] can be experienced and known, not only by
one or two but by scores upon scores’
(Universal House of Justice. Message dated 12 December 2011)

109. In the life of the individual believer who desires, above
all, to invite others into communion with the Creator and to
render service to humanity can be found signs of the spiritual
transformation intended for every soul by the Lord of the
Age.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

110. Within communities of every size and strength, we are
glad to see the processes of the Five Year Plan kindling the
spirit of service and stimulating purposeful action.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 8 February 2013 to the Bahá’ís of
the World)

111. We are struck, too, by the number of youth who, after
only a brief association with the Baha'i community, commit
themselves to meaningful acts of service and quickly discover
their affinity with the Faith's community-building endeavour.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 8 February 2013 to the Bahá’ís of
the World)

112. To every generation of young believers comes an
opportunity to make a contribution to the fortunes of
humanity, unique to their time of life. For the present
generation, the moment has come to reflect, to commit, to
steel themselves for a life of service from which blessing will
flow in abundance.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 8 February 2013 to Bahá’ís of the
World)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



113. With this in mind, we are delighted that so many of you
are already engaged in service by conducting community-
building activities, as well as by organizing, coordinating, or
otherwise administering the efforts of others; in all of these
endeavours
you
are
taking
an
increasing
level
of
responsibility upon your shoulders. Not surprisingly, it is
your age group that is gaining the most experience at aiding
junior youth, and children too, with their moral and spiritual
development, fostering in them capacity for collective service
and true friendship. After all, aware of the world which these
young souls will need to navigate, with its pitfalls and also its
opportunities, you readily appreciate the importance of
spiritual strengthening and preparation.
(Universal House of Justice. Dated 1 July 2013, to the participants of 114
youth conferences)

114. To follow a path of service, whatever form one’s activity
assumes, requires faith and tenacity. In this connection, the
benefit of walking that path in the company of others is
immense. Loving fellowship, mutual encouragement, and
willingness to learn together are natural properties of any
group of youth sincerely striving for the same ends, and
should also characterize those essential relationships that
bind together the components of society.
(Universal House of Justice. Dated 1 July 2013, to the participants of 114
youth conferences)

115. For every gathering we will entreat the Almighty to
bestow upon its participants a measure of His boundless
grace, knowing, as you do, that divine assistance is promised
to all those who arise to serve humankind in response to the
galvanizing call of Bahá’u’lláh.
(Universal House of Justice. Dated 1 July 2013, to the participants of 114
youth conferences)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


116. The Bahá’í community’s increasing engagement with
the life of society, which is enabling it to offer a fresh
perspective to formal and informal conversations of all kinds,
carries distinct echoes of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s deep concern for the
needs of the age.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 5 December 2013 to the Bahá’ís
of the World)

117. As the valiant youth in the Cradle of the Faith, you are
well aware of your mission to be a source of hope to those
around you, to be channels of love and affection, to be
symbols of forgiveness and patience, of serenity and strength
to your compatriots, and above all, to be in the front ranks of
that process by which the worldwide community has learned
to build capacity for service, heighten unity, deepen
understanding, and hone abilities so that purposeful action
for the benefit of mankind may ensue. Through the spiritual
and social transformation thus promoted, the Bahá’í world
has come to realize that what is being cultivated is a process
that enhances orientation to service and commitment to the
application of the divine precepts— a process that holds far-
reaching implications for the life of the individual and for the
betterment of the world.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 29 January 2014 to the Bahá’í
youth in Iran)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


35.
The application of spiritual virtues to solve
economic problems

Our troubles are not purely economic. There are also basic
spiritual reforms that have to set in. There is the human
heart that has to be changed.
Shoghi Effendi

1.
O peoples of the world! Forsake all evil, hold fast that
which is good. Strive to be shining examples unto all
mankind, and true reminders of the virtues of God amidst
men. He that riseth to serve My Cause should manifest My
wisdom, and bend every effort to banish ignorance from the
earth. Be united in counsel, be one in thought. Let each morn
be better than its eve and each morrow richer than its
yesterday. Man's merit lieth in service and virtue and not in
the pageantry of wealth and riches. Take heed that your
words be purged from idle fancies and worldly desires and
your deeds be cleansed from craftiness and suspicion.
Dissipate not the wealth of your precious lives in the pursuit
of evil and corrupt affection, nor let your endeavours be
spent in promoting your personal interest. Be generous in
your days of plenty, and be patient in the hour of loss.
Adversity is followed by success and rejoicings follow woe.
Guard against idleness and sloth, and cling unto that which
profiteth mankind, whether young or old, whether high or
low. Beware lest ye sow tares of dissension among men or
plant thorns of doubt in pure and radiant hearts.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 137-138)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


2.
It is incumbent upon every man of insight and
understanding to strive to translate that which hath been
written into reality and action...
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 166)

3.
... is not the object of every Revelation to effect a
transformation in the whole character of mankind, a
transformation that shall manifest itself both outwardly and
inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external
conditions?  For if the character of mankind be not changed,
the futility of God’s universal Manifestations would be
apparent.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Iqán - The Book of Certitude, pp. 240-241)

4.
To act like the beasts of the field is unworthy of man.
Those virtues that befit his dignity are forbearance, mercy,
compassion and loving-kindness towards all the peoples and
kindreds of the earth.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 215)

6.     Be generous in prosperity, and thankful in adversity.
Be worthy of the trust of thy neighbor, and look upon him
with a bright and friendly face.  Be a treasure to the poor, an
admonisher to the rich, an answerer of the cry of the needy, a
preserver of the sanctity of thy pledge.  Be fair in thy
judgment, and guarded in thy speech.  Be unjust to no man,
and show all meekness to all men.  Be as a lamp unto them
that walk in darkness, a joy to the sorrowful, a sea for the
thirsty, a haven for the distressed, an upholder and defender
of the victim of oppression n.  Let integrity and uprightness
distinguish all thine acts. Be a home for the stranger, a balm
to the suffering, a tower of strength for the fugitive.  Be eyes
to the blind, and a guiding light unto the feet of the erring.
Be an ornament to the countenance of truth, a crown to the
brow of fidelity, a pillar of the temple of righteousness, a
breath of life to the body of mankind, an ensign of the hosts

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


of justice, a luminary above the horizon of virtue, a dew to
the soil of the human heart, an ark on the ocean of
knowledge, a sun in the heaven of bounty, a gem on the
diadem of wisdom, a shining light in the firmament of thy
generation, a fruit upon the tree of humility.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 285)

7.
Beware, O people of Bahá, lest ye walk in the ways of
them whose words differ from their deeds.  Strive that ye may
be enabled to manifest to the peoples of the earth the signs of
God, and to mirror forth His commandments.  Let your acts
be a guide unto all mankind, for the professions of most men,
be they high or low, differ from their conduct.  It is through
your deeds that ye can distinguish yourselves from others.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 305)


8.
The Word of God hath set the heart of the world afire;
how regrettable if ye fail to be enkindled with its flame! … Let
your principal concern be to rescue the fallen from the slough
of impending extinction, and to help him embrace the
ancient Faith of God.  Your behavior towards your neighbor
should be such as to manifest clearly the signs of the one true
God, for ye are the first among men to be re-created by His
Spirit, the first to adore and bow the knee before Him, the
first to circle round His throne of glory.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 316-317)


9.
The betterment of the world can be accomplished
through pure and goodly deeds, through commendable and
seemly conduct.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in the Advent of Divine Justice, p. 20)

10.
Let deeds, not words, be your adorning.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 5)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


11.
O Son of My Handmaid! Guidance hath ever been
given by words, and now it is given by deeds.  Every one must
show forth deeds that are pure and holy, for words are the
property of all alike, whereas such deeds as these belong only
to Our loved ones.  Strive then with heart and soul to
distinguish yourselves by your deeds.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Persian Hidden Words, number 76)

12.
O Son of Spirit! Noble have I created thee, yet thou
hast abased thyself. Rise then unto that for which thou wast
created.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 22)






13.
O Son of Being! Bring thyself to account each day ere
thou art summoned to a reckoning; for death, unheralded,
shall come upon thee and thou shalt be called to give account
for thy deeds.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Arabic Hidden Words, number 31)






14.
This Wronged One enjoineth on you honesty and
piety. Blessed the city that shineth by their light. Through
them man is exalted, and the door of security is unlocked
before the face of all creation.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 23)






15.
The fruits of the tree of man have ever been and are
goodly deeds and a praiseworthy character.  Withhold not
these fruits from the heedless.  If they be accepted, your end
is attained, and the purpose of life achieved.  If not, leave
them in their pastime of vain disputes.  Strive, O people of
God, that haply the hearts of the divers kindreds of the earth
may, through the waters of your forbearance and loving-
kindness, be cleansed and sanctified from animosity and
hatred, and be made worthy and befitting recipients of the
splendors of the Sun of Truth.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 26)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



16.
Blessed is he who prefers his brother before himself:
such a one is of the people of Bahá.


(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in Bahá’í World Faith, p. 185)
17.
No goodly deed was or will ever be lost, for benevolent
acts are treasures preserved with God for the benefit of those
who act.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Quoted in a Compilation on Huqúqu’lláh, number 40)

18. The companions of God are, in this day, the lump that
must leaven the peoples of the world. They must show forth
such trustworthiness, such truthfulness and perseverance,
such deeds and character, that all mankind may profit by
their example.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Advent of Divine Justice, p. 19)

19.
... the honour and distinction of the individual consist
in this, that he among all the world’s multitudes should
become a source of social good.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 2)






20.
If a soul is endowed with the attributes of true faith
and characterized with spiritual qualities he will become to
all mankind an emblem of the outstretched mercies of God.
For the attributes of the people of faith are justice and fair-
mindedness; forbearance and compassion and generosity;
consideration for others; candor, trustworthiness, and
loyalty;
love
and
loving-kindness;
devotion
and
determination and humanity.  If therefore an individual is
truly righteous, he will avail himself of all those means which
will attract the hearts of men, and through the attributes of
God he will draw them to the straight path of faith and cause
them to drink from the river of everlasting life.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 55-56)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


21.
A superficial culture, unsupported by a cultivated
morality, is as “a confused medley of dreams,” and external
lustre without inner perfection is “like a vapor in the desert
which the thirsty dreameth to be water.”  For results which
would win the good pleasure of God and secure the peace and
well-being of man, could never be fully achieved in a merely
external civilization.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 60-61)










22.
Should any one of you enter a city, he should become a
centre of attraction by reason of his sincerity, his faithfulness
and love, his honesty and fidelity, his truthfulness and loving
kindness towards all the peoples of the world, so that the
people of that city may cry out and say: This man is
unquestionably a Bahá’í, for his manners, his behavior, his
conduct, his morals, his nature, and disposition reflect the
attributes of the Bahá’ís.  Not until ye attain this station can
ye be said to have been faithful to the Covenant and
Testament of God.


(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 70-71)

23.
O ye beloved of the Lord! The Kingdom of God is
founded upon equity and justice, and also upon mercy,
compassion, and kindness to every living soul. Strive ye then
with all your heart to treat compassionately all humankind—
except for those who have some selfish, private motive, or
some disease of the soul. Kindness cannot be shown the
tyrant, the deceiver, or the thief, because, far from awakening
them to the error of their ways, it maketh them to continue in
their perversity as before. No matter how much kindliness ye
may expend upon the liar, he will but lie the more, for he
believeth you to be deceived, while ye understand him but
too well, and only remain silent out of your extreme
compassion.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 158)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics








24.   When praiseworthy qualities and high morals emanate
from man, he becometh a heavenly being, an angel of the
Kingdom, a divine reality and a celestial effulgence.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 287-288)

25.
Good behaviour and high moral character must come
first... The foundation-principle of a school is first and
foremost moral training, character building, and the
rectification of conduct.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Quoted in a Compilation on Bahá’í Education, p. 29)




26.
Turn towards God, and seek always to do that which is
right and noble. Enrich the poor, raise the fallen, comfort the
sorrowful, bring healing to the sick, reassure the fearful,
rescue the oppressed, bring hope to the hopeless, shelter the
destitute! This is the work of a true Bahá’í, and this is what is
expected of him.  If we strive to do all this, then we are true
Bahá’ís, but if we neglect it, we are not followers of the Light,
and we have no right to the name.

God, who sees all hearts, knows how far our lives are
the fulfilment of our words.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, pp. 79-80)

27.
Should anyone, God forbid, manifest one iota of
dishonesty, or show laxity and negligence in carrying out his
duties, or unlawfully exact money from the people, be it even
a single penny, or secure private gains for himself, or seek
personal benefits, such a person will surely be deprived of the
blessings of the Almighty.  Beware, beware, lest ye fall short
of what hath been set forth in this Letter.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 403-404)

28.
…you must become distinguished in all the virtues of
the human world -- for faithfulness and sincerity, for justice
and fidelity, for firmness and steadfastness, for philanthropic

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


deeds and service to the human world, for love toward every
human being, for unity and accord with all people, for
removing prejudices and promoting international peace.
Finally, you must become distinguished for heavenly
illumination and for acquiring the bestowals of God. I desire
this distinction for you. This must be the point of distinction
among you.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 190)


29.
Let each one of you be as a lamp shining forth with the
light of the virtues of the world of humanity.  Be trustworthy,
sincere, affectionate and replete with chastity.  Be illumined,
be spiritual, be divine, be glorious, be quickened of God, be a
Bahá’í.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 453)

30.  O army of God! Through the protection and help
vouchsafed by the Blessed Beauty — may my life be a
sacrifice to His loved ones — ye must conduct yourselves in
such a manner that ye may stand out distinguished and
brilliant as the sun among other souls. Should any one of you
enter a city, he should become a centre of attraction by
reason of his sincerity, his faithfulness and love, his honesty
and fidelity, his truthfulness and loving-kindness towards all
the peoples of the world, so that the people of that city may
cry out and say: ‘This man is unquestionably a Bahá’í, for his
manners, his behaviour, his conduct, his morals, his nature,
and disposition reflect the attributes of the Bahá’ís. Until you
attain to this station, you have not fulfilled the Covenant and
the Testament of God.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 401)

31.
Should other peoples and nations be unfaithful to you
show your fidelity unto them, should they be unjust toward
you show justice towards them, should they keep aloof from
you attract them to yourself, should they show their enmity

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


be friendly towards them, should they poison your lives
sweeten their souls, should they inflict a wound upon you be
a salve to their sores. Such are the attributes of the sincere!
Such are the attributes of the truthful.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 445)

32.
The immortality of the spirit is mentioned in the Holy
Books; it is the fundamental basis of the divine religions.
Now punishments and rewards are said to be of two kinds.
Firstly, the rewards and punishments of this life; secondly,
those of the other world. But the paradise and hell of
existence are found in all the worlds of God, whether in this
world or in the spiritual heavenly worlds. Gaining these
rewards is the gaining of eternal life. That is why Christ said,
"Act in such a way that you may find eternal life, and that you
may be born of water and the spirit, so that you may enter
into the Kingdom."
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith, p. 323)

33.
If any one of you enters a city he must become the
center of attraction because of the sincerity, faithfulness,
love, honesty, fidelity, truthfulness and loving-kindness of his
disposition and nature toward all the inhabitants of the
world, that the people of the city may all cry out: "This
person is unquestionably a Bahá’í; for his manners, his
behavior, his conduct, his morals, his nature and his
disposition are of the attributes of the Bahá’ís." Until you do
attain to this station, you have not fulfilled the Covenant and
the Testament of God. For according to the irrefutable texts,
He has taken from us a firm covenant that we may live and
act in accord with the divine exhortations, If they attain unto
this all-surpassing blessing, the people of each nation will
pursue, with tranquillity and contentment, their own
occupations, and the groanings and lamentations of most
men would be silenced.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 31)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



34.
He feels you should both consider the competent
running of your business not only a moral obligation to any
creditors outstanding, but also the wise and proper things to
do.
(Shoghi Effendi. Cited in Compilation on Trustworthiness, number 80)

35.    Technocracy, as well as the other movements now
existing in the world, every one of them, has some wonderful
point that connects it very closely to the teachings of the
Faith. But all these see the light partially.  The spirit of the
Cause pulsates in their veins but they have to become
conscious of the center of inspiration and light if they desire
to reform fully our corrupted and despairing society.  Our
troubles are not purely economic. There are also basic
spiritual reforms that have to set in. There is the human
heart that has to be changed.

Nothing but the abundance of our actions, nothing but
the purity of our lives and the integrity of our characters, can
in the last resort establish our claim that the Bahá’í spirit is
in this day the sole agency that can translate a long-cherished
ideal into an enduring achievement.
(Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration, p. 68)

36.
We need a change of heart, a reframing of all our
conceptions and a new orientation of our activities.  The
inward life of man as well as his outward environment have
to be reshaped if human salvation is to be secured.

(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in Conservation of the Earth’s Resources, p. 15)

37.
Its [the Bahá’í Faith] chief goal is the development of
the individual and society, through the acquisition of
spiritual virtues and powers.  It is the soul of man which has
first to be fed.

(Shoghi Effendi. Quoted in Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation and
the Devotional Attitude. P. 14)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics



38.
Our task is to build the Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
Undeflected by the desperate expedients of those who seek to
subdue the storm convulsing human life by political,
economic, social or educational programs, let us, with single-
minded devotion and concentrating all our efforts on our
objective, raise His Divine System and sheltered within its
impregnable stronghold, safe from the darts of doubtfulness,
demonstrate the Bahá’í way of life. Wherever a Bahá’í
community exists, whether large or small, let it be
distinguished for its abiding sense of security and faith, its
high standard of rectitude, its complete freedom from all
forms of prejudice, the spirit of love among its members and
for the closely knit fabric of its social life.  The acute
distinction between this and present-day society will
inevitably arouse the interest of the more enlightened, and as
the world’s gloom deepens the light of Bahá’í life will shine
brighter and brighter until its brilliance must eventually
attract the disillusioned masses and cause them to enter the
haven of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Who alone can bring
them peace and justice and an ordered life.


(Universal House of Justice. Messages of the Universal House of Justice. p.
12)

39.
The Bahá’í community must demonstrate in ever-
increasing measure its ability to redeem the disorderliness,
the lack of cohesion, the permissiveness, the godlessness of
modern society; the laws, the religious obligations, the
observances of Bahá’í life, Bahá’í moral principles and
standards of dignity, decency and reverence, must become
deeply implanted in Bahá’í consciousness and increasingly
inform and characterize this community....


(Universal House of Justice. Messages of the Universal House of Justice. p.
90)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


40.
But in our concern for such immediate obvious calls
upon our succour we must not allow ourselves to forget the
continuing, appalling burden of suffering under which
millions of human beings are always groaning — a burden
which they have borne for century upon century and which it
is the mission of Bahá’u’lláh to lift at last.  The principal
cause of this suffering, which one can witness wherever one
turns, is the corruption of human morals and the prevalence
of
prejudice,
suspicion,
hatred,
untrustworthiness,
selfishness and tyranny among men. It is not merely material
well-being that people need.   What they desperately need is
to know how to live their lives — they need to know who they
are, to what purpose they exist, and how they should act
towards one another; and, once they know the answers to
these questions, they need to be helped to gradually apply
these answers to everyday behaviour.  It is to the solution of
this basic problem of mankind that the greater part of all our
energy and resources should be directed.  There are mighty
agencies
in
this
world,
governments,
foundations,
institutions of many kinds with tremendous financial
resources which are working to improve the material lot of
human beings.  Anything we Bahá’ís could add to such
resources in the way of special funds or contributions would
be a negligible drop in the ocean.  However, alone among
men we have the Divinely-given remedy for the real ills of
mankind; no one else is doing or can do this most important
work, and if we divert our energy and our funds into fields in
which others are already doing more than we can hope to do,
we shall be delaying the diffusion of the Divine Message
which is the most important task of all.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 19 November 1974)

41.
The greatest need of all peoples is for the Faith itself,
so that they may know the destiny towards which they as
individuals and as members of society must strive, and will

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


learn from the teachings those virtues and methods which
will enable them to work together in harmony, forbearance
and trustworthiness ...  The principle remains, however, that
the spiritual precedes the material.  First comes the
illumination of hearts and minds by the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh. and then the grassroots stirring of the believers
wishing to apply these teachings to the daily life of their
community. Such stirrings can be fostered, encouraged and
assisted by the national and continental institutions of the
Faith, but without them any activities introduced from above
might well prove abortive.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 8 May 1984)

42.
Souls must be transformed, communities thereby
consolidated, new models of life thus attained.
(The Universal House of Justice. Ridván Message, 1989)

43.
There are spiritual principles, or what some call
human values, by which solutions can be found for every
social problem.  Any well-intentioned group can in a general
sense devise practical solutions to its problems, but good
intentions and practical knowledge are usually not enough.
The essential merit of spiritual principle is that it not only
presents a perspective which harmonizes with that which is
immanent in human nature, it also induces an attitude, a
dynamic, a will, an aspiration, which facilitates the discovery
and implementation of practical measures.  Leaders of
governments and all in authority would be well served in
their efforts to solve problems if they would first seek to
identify the principles involved and then be guided by them.
(Universal House of Justice. Promise of World Peace, p. 13)

44.
The light of the Revelation is destined to illumine every
sphere of endeavour; in each, the relationships that sustain
society are to be recast; in each, the world seeks examples of
how human beings should be to one another. We offer for

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


your consideration, given its conspicuous part in generating
the ferment in which so many people have recently been
embroiled, the economic life of humanity, where injustice is
tolerated with indifference and disproportionate gain is
regarded as the emblem of success. So deeply entrenched are
such pernicious attitudes that it is hard to imagine how any
one individual can alone alter the prevailing standards by
which the relationships in this domain are governed.
Nevertheless, there are certainly practices a Bahá’í would
eschew, such as dishonesty in one's transactions or the
economic exploitation of others. Faithful adherence to the
divine admonitions demands there be no contradiction
between one's economic conduct and one's beliefs as a
Bahá’í.
(Universal House of Justice. Ridván 2012)

45.
Conscious, as you [the youths] are, that Bahá’u’lláh
came to transform both the inner life and external conditions
of humanity, you are assisting those younger than yourselves
to
refine
their
characters
and
prepare
to
assume
responsibility for the well-being of their communities. As
they enter adolescence, you are helping them to enhance
their power of expression, as well as enabling a strong moral
sensibility to take root within them. In so doing, your own
sense of purpose is becoming more clearly defined as you
heed Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction: "Let deeds, not words, be your
adorning."
(Universal House of Justice. Dated 1 July 2013, to the participants of 114
youth conferences)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


36.
The role of religion in social and economic
development

By the statement ‘the economic solution is divine in nature’
is meant that religion alone can, in the last resort, bring in
man’s nature such a fundamental change as to enable him
to adjust the economic relationships of society.
Shoghi Effendi

1.
Religion is verily the chief instrument for the estab-
lishment of order in the world and of tranquility amongst its
peoples. The weakening of the pillars of religion hath
strengthened the foolish and emboldened them and made
them more arrogant. Verily   I say: The greater the decline of
religion, the more grievous the waywardness of the ungodly.
This cannot but lead in the end to chaos and confusion. Hear
Me, O men of insight, and be warned, ye who are endued
with discernment!

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 63-64)

2.
In truth, religion is a radiant light and an impregnable
stronghold for the protection and  welfare of the peoples of
the world, for the fear of God impelleth man to hold fast to
that which is good, and shun all evil. Should the lamp of
religion be obscured, chaos and confusion will ensue, and the
lights of fairness, of justice, of tranquility and peace cease to
shine.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 125)

3.      Men at all times and under all conditions stand in need
of one to exhort them, guide them, and to instruct and teach

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


them. Therefore, He hath sent forth His Messengers, His
Prophets and chosen ones that they might acquaint the
people with the divine purpose underlying the revelation of
Books and the raising up of Messengers, and that everyone
may become aware of the trust of God which is latent in the
reality of every soul.

(Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 161)


4.
Through the Teachings of this Daystar of Truth every
man will advance and develop until he attaineth the station
at which he can manifest all the potential forces with which
his inmost true self hath been endowed. It is for this very
purpose that in every age and dispensation the Prophets of
God and His chosen Ones have appeared amongst men, and
have evinced such power as is born of God and such might as
only the Eternal can reveal.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 68)

5.
God’s purpose in sending His Prophets unto men is
two-fold. The first is to liberate the children of men from the
darkness of ignorance, and guide them to the light of true
understanding. The second is to ensure the peace and
tranquility of mankind, and provide all the means by which
they can be established.
The prophets of God should be regarded as physicians
whose task is to foster the well-being of the world and its
peoples, that, through the spirit of oneness, they may heal the
sickness of a divided humanity...every time the prophets of
God have illumined the world with the resplendent radiance
of the Daystar of Divine knowledge, they have invariably
summoned its peoples to embrace the light of God through
such means as best befitted the exigencies of the age in which
they appeared. They were thus able to scatter the darkness of
ignorance, and to shed upon the world the glory of their own
knowledge. It is towards the inmost essence of these

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


prophets, therefore, that the eye of every man of discernment
must be directed, inasmuch as their one and only purpose
hath always been to guide the erring, and give peace to the
afflicted...These are not days of prosperity and triumph. The
whole of mankind is in the grip of manifold ills. Strive,
therefore, to save its life through the wholesome medicine
which the almighty hand of the unerring physician hath
prepared.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 79)

6.    The ordinances of God have been sent down from the
heaven of His most august Revelation. All must diligently
observe
them.
Man’s
supreme
distinction,
his
real
advancement, his final victory, have always depended, and
will continue to depend, upon them. Whoso keepeth the
commandment of God shall attain everlasting felicity.
(Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 289)

7.
It is certain that man’s highest distinction is to be lowly
before and obedient to his God; that his greatest glory, his
most exalted rank and honor, depend on his close observance
of the Divine commands and prohibitions. Religion is the
light of the world, and the progress, achievement, and
happiness of man result from obedience to the laws set down
in the holy Books. Briefly, it is demonstrable that in this life,
both out wardly and inwardly the mightiest of structures, the
most solidly established, the most enduring, standing guard
over the world, assuring both the spiritual and the material
perfections of mankind, and protecting the happiness and the
civilization of society-is religion. …It is certain that the
greatest of instrumentalities for achieving the advancement
and the glory of man, the supreme agency for the
enlightenment and the redemption of the world, is love and
fellowship and unity among all the members of the human
race. Nothing can be effected in the world, not even

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


conceivably, without unity and agreement, and the perfect
means for engendering fellowship and union is true religion.
“Hadst Thou spent all the riches of the earth, Thou couldst
not have united their hearts; but God hath united them.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 71-72)

8.
...for they lead their true followers to sincerity of
intent, to high purpose, to purity and spotless honor, to
surpassing kindness and compassion, to the keeping of their
covenants when they have covenanted, to concern for the
rights of others, to liberality, to justice in every aspect of life,
to humanity and philanthropy, to valor and to unflagging
efforts in the service of mankind. It is religion, to sum up,
which produces all human virtues, and it is these virtues
which are the bright candles of civilization...

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 98)

9.
Praise be to God, today the splendor of the Word of
God hath illumined every horizon, and from all sects, races,
tribes, nations, and communities souls have come together in
the light of the Word, assembled, united and agreed in
perfect harmony... Anyone attending these will be struck with
amazement, and might suppose that these souls are all of one
land, one nationality, one community, one thought, one
belief and one opinion; whereas, in fact, one is an American,
the other an African, one cometh from Asia and another from
Europe, one is a native of India, another is from Turkestan,
one is an Arab, another a Tajik, another a Persian and yet
another a Greek. Notwithstanding such diversity they
associate in perfect harmony and unity, love and freedom;
they have one voice, one thought and one purpose. Verily,
this is from the penetrative power of the Word of God! If all
the forces of the universe were to combine they would not be
able thus to gather a single assemblage so imbued with the
sentiments of love, affection, attraction and enkindlement as

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


to unite the members of different races and to raise up from
the heart of the world a voice that shall dispel war and strife,
uproot dissension and disputation, usher in the era of
universal peace and establish unity and concord amongst
men.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 292-293)

10.
Religion is the outer expression of the divine reality.
Therefore, it must be living, vitalized, moving and progres-
sive. If it be without motion and non-progressive, it is
without the divine life; it is dead. The divine institutes are
continuously active and evolutionary; therefore, the reve-
lation of them must be progressive and continuous. All things
are subject to reformation.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 140)

11.    When the holy, divine Manifestations or Prophets
appear in the world, a cycle of radiance, an age of mercy
dawns. Everything is renewed. Minds, hearts and all human
forces are reformed, perfections are quickened, sciences,
discoveries and investigations are stimulated afresh, and
everything appertaining to the virtues of the human world is
revitalized.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 287)

12.
The greatest bestowal of God in the world of humanity
is religion, for assuredly the divine teachings of religion are
above all other sources of instruction and development to
man. Religion confers upon man eternal life and guides his
footsteps in the world of morality. It opens the doors of
unending happiness and bestows everlasting honor upon the
human kingdom. It has been the basis of all civilization and
progress in the history of mankind.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 361)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


13.
All religions teach that we must do good, that we must
be generous, sincere, truthfulness, law-abiding, and faithful;
all this is reasonable, and logically the only way in which
humanity can progress.

All religious laws conform to reason, and are suited to
the people for whom they are framed, and for the age in
which they are to be obeyed.

(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p.141
)
14.   Religion is the light of the world, and the progress,
achievement, and happiness of man result from obedience to
the laws set down in the holy Books. Briefly, it is
demonstrable that in the life, both outwardly and inwardly
the mightiest of structures, the most solidly established, the
most enduring, standing guard over the world, assuring, both
the spiritual and the material perfections of mankind, and
protecting the happiness and the civilization of society—is
religion.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, pp. 71-72)

15.
Our purpose is to show how true religion promotes the
civilization and honor, the prosperity and prestige, the
learning and advancement of a people once abject, enslaved
and ignorant, and how, when it falls into the hands of
religious leaders who are foolish and fanatical, it is diverted
to the wrong ends, until this greatest of splendors turns into
blackest night.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Secret of Divine Civilization, p. 80)

16.
As the compassionate Lord has crowned the head of
man with such a refulgent diadem, we must strive that its
luminous gems may cast their light upon the whole world.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions, p. 90)

17.
The Call of God, when raised, breathed a new life into
the body of mankind, and infused a new spirit into the whole

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


creation. It is for this reason that the world hath been moved
to its depths, and the hearts and consciences of men been
quickened. Erelong the evidences of this regeneration will be
revealed, and the fast asleep will be awakened.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Cited in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 169)

18.
By the statement ‘the economic solution is divine in
nature’ is meant that religion alone can, in the last resort,
bring in man’s nature such a fundamental change as to
enable him to adjust the economic relationships of society. It
is only in this way that man can control the economic forces
that threaten to disrupt the foundations of his existence, and
thus assert his mastery over the forces of nature.

(Shoghi Effendi. Letter written on his behalf dated 26 December 1935)

19.
Chaos and confusion are daily increasing in the world.
They will attain such intensity as to render the frame of
mankind unable to bear them. Then will men be awakened
and become aware that religion is the impregnable
stronghold and the manifest light of the world, and its laws,
exhortations and teachings the source of life on earth.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter dated 10 February 1980)

20.
You are living proofs that religion promotes upright
character, instills forbearance, compassion, forgiveness,
magnanimity, high-mindedness. It prohibits harm to others
and invites souls to the plane of sacrifice, that they may give
of themselves for the good of others. It imparts a world-
embracing vision and cleanses the heart from self-
centredness and prejudice. It inspires souls to build unity, to
endeavour for material and spiritual betterment for all, to see
their own happiness in that of others, to advance learning
and science, to be an instrument of true joy, and to revive the
body of humankind. It burnishes the mirror of the soul until
it reflects the qualities of the spirit with which it has been
endowed. And then the power of the divine attributes is

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


manifested in the individual and collective lives of humanity
and aids the emergence of a new social order. Such is the true
conception of religion set forth in the Teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh. Praised be God that you are ever striving to
model your lives after the sublime pattern enshrined in His
Teachings.
(Universal House of Justice. Letter 29 January 2014 to the Bahá’í youth of
Iran.)

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


37.
Economic Life: The Universal House of
Justice

1 March 2017
To the Bahá’ís of the World

Dearly loved Friends,
In an increasingly interconnected world, more light is
being cast on the social conditions of every people, giving
greater visibility to their circumstances. While there are
developments that give hope, there is much that should
weigh heavy on the conscience of the human race. Inequity,
discrimination, and exploitation blight the life of humanity,
seemingly immune to the treatments applied by political
schemes of every hue. The economic impact of these
afflictions has resulted in the prolonged suffering of so many,
as well as in deep-seated, structural defects in society. No one
whose heart has been attracted to the teachings of the
Blessed Beauty can remain unmoved by these consequences.
“The world is in great turmoil,” Bahá’u’lláh observes in the
Lawḥ-i-Dunyá, “and the minds of its people are in a state of
utter confusion. We entreat the Almighty that He may
graciously illuminate them with the glory of His Justice, and
enable them to discover that which will be profitable unto
them at all times and under all conditions.” As the Bahá’í
community strives to contribute at the level of thought and
action to the betterment of the world, the adverse conditions

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


experienced by many populations will more and more
demand its attention.
The welfare of any segment of humanity is inextricably
bound up with the welfare of the whole. Humanity’s
collective life suffers when any one group thinks of its own
well-being in isolation from that of its neighbours or pursues
economic gain without regard for how the natural
environment, which provides sustenance for all, is affected. A
stubborn obstruction, then, stands in the way of meaningful
social progress: time and again, avarice and self-interest
prevail at the expense of the common good. Unconscionable
quantities of wealth are being amassed, and the instability
this creates is made worse by how income and opportunity
are spread so unevenly both between nations and within
nations. But it need not be so. However much such
conditions are the outcome of history, they do not have to
define the future, and even if current approaches to economic
life satisfied humanity’s stage of adolescence, they are
certainly inadequate for its dawning age of maturity. There is
no justification for continuing to perpetuate structures, rules,
and systems that manifestly fail to serve the interests of all
peoples. The teachings of the Faith leave no room for doubt:
there is an inherent moral dimension to the generation,
distribution, and utilization of wealth and resources.
The stresses emerging out of the long-term process of
transition from a divided world to a united one are being felt
within international relations as much as in the deepening
fractures that affect societies large and small. With prevailing
modes of thought found to be badly wanting, the world is in
desperate need of a shared ethic, a sure framework for
addressing the crises that gather like storm clouds. The
vision of Bahá’u’lláh challenges many of the assumptions that
are allowed to shape contemporary discourse—for instance,

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


that self-interest, far from needing to be restrained, drives
prosperity, and that progress depends upon its expression
through relentless competition. To view the worth of an
individual chiefly in terms of how much one can accumulate
and how many goods one can consume relative to others is
wholly alien to Bahá’í thought. But neither are the teachings
in sympathy with sweeping dismissals of wealth as inherently
distasteful or immoral, and asceticism is prohibited. Wealth
must serve humanity. Its use must accord with spiritual
principles; systems must be created in their light. And, in
Bahá’u’lláh’s memorable words, “No light can compare with
the light of justice. The establishment of order in the world
and the tranquillity of the nations depend upon it.”
Although Bahá’u’lláh does not set out in His Revelation
a detailed economic system, a constant theme throughout the
entire corpus of His teachings is the reorganization of human
society. Consideration of this theme inevitably gives rise to
questions of economics. Of course, the future order conceived
by Bahá’u’lláh is far beyond anything that can be imagined by
the present generation. Nevertheless, its eventual emergence
will depend on strenuous effort by His followers to put His
teachings into effect today. With this in mind, we hope that
the comments below will stimulate thoughtful, ongoing
reflection by the friends. The aim is to learn about how to
participate in the material affairs of society in a way that is
consistent with the divine precepts and how, in practical
terms, collective prosperity can be advanced through justice
and generosity, collaboration and mutual assistance.
Our call to examine the implications of the Revelation
of Bahá’u’lláh for economic life is intended to reach Bahá’í
institutions and communities but is directed more especially
to the individual believer. If a new model of community life,
patterned on the teachings, is to emerge, must not the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


company of the faithful demonstrate in their own lives the
rectitude of conduct that is one of its most distinguishing
features? Every choice a Bahá’í makes — as employee or
employer, producer or consumer, borrower or lender,
benefactor or beneficiary — leaves a trace, and the moral
duty to lead a coherent life demands that one’s economic
decisions be in accordance with lofty ideals, that the purity of
one’s aims be matched by the purity of one’s actions to fulfil
those aims. Naturally, the friends habitually look to the
teachings to set the standard to which to aspire. But the
community’s deepening engagement with society means that
the economic dimension of social existence must receive ever
more concentrated attention. Particularly in clusters where
the community-building process is beginning to embrace
large numbers, the exhortations contained in the Bahá’í
Writings should increasingly inform economic relationships
within families, neighbourhoods, and peoples. Not content
with whatever values prevail in the existing order that
surrounds them, the friends everywhere should consider the
application of the teachings to their lives and, using the
opportunities their circumstances offer them, make their own
individual and collective contributions to economic justice
and social progress wherever they reside. Such efforts will
add to a growing storehouse of knowledge in this regard.
A foundational concept to explore in this context is the
spiritual reality of man. In the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. the
nobility inherent to every human being is unequivocally
asserted; it is a fundamental tenet of Bahá’í belief, upon
which hope for the future of humankind is built. The soul’s
capacity to manifest all the names and attributes of God —
He Who is the Compassionate, the Bestower, the Bountiful —
is repeatedly affirmed in the Writings. Economic life is an
arena
for
the
expression
of
honesty,
integrity,
trustworthiness, generosity, and other qualities of the spirit.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


The individual is not merely a self-interested economic unit,
striving to claim an ever-greater share of the world’s material
resources. “Man’s merit lieth in service and virtue”,
Bahá’u’lláh avers, “and not in the pageantry of wealth and
riches.” And further: “Dissipate not the wealth of your
precious lives in the pursuit of evil and corrupt affection, nor
let your endeavours be spent in promoting your personal
interest.” By consecrating oneself to the service of others, one
finds meaning and purpose in life and contributes to the
upliftment of society itself. At the outset of His celebrated
treatise The Secret of Divine Civilization, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states:
And the honour and distinction of the individual consist
in this, that he among all the world’s multitudes should
become a source of social good. Is any larger bounty
conceivable than this, that an individual, looking within
himself, should find that by the confirming grace of God he
has become the cause of peace and well-being, of happiness
and advantage to his fellow men? No, by the one true God,
there is no greater bliss, no more complete delight.
Viewed in this light, many seemingly ordinary economic
activities gain new significance because of their potential to
add to human welfare and prosperity. “Every person must
have an occupation, a trade or a craft,” explains the Master,
“so that he may carry other people’s burdens, and not himself
be a burden to others.” The poor are urged by Bahá’u’lláh to
“exert themselves and strive to earn the means of livelihood”,
while they who are possessed of riches “must have the utmost
regard for the poor”. “Wealth”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has affirmed, “is
praiseworthy in the highest degree, if it is acquired by an
individual’s own efforts and the grace of God, in commerce,
agriculture, art and industry, and if it be expended for
philanthropic purposes.” At the same time, the Hidden
Words is replete with warnings of its perilous allure, that

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


wealth is a “mighty barrier” between the believer and the
proper Object of his adoration. No wonder, then, that
Bahá’u’lláh extols the station of the wealthy one who is not
hindered by riches from attaining the eternal kingdom; the
splendour of such a soul “shall illuminate the dwellers of
heaven even as the sun enlightens the people of the earth!”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares that “if a judicious and resourceful
individual should initiate measures which would universally
enrich the masses of the people, there could be no
undertaking greater than this, and it would rank in the sight
of God as the supreme achievement”. For wealth is most
commendable “provided the entire population is wealthy.”
Examining one’s life to determine what is a necessity and
then discharging with joy one’s obligation in relation to the
law of Huqúqu’lláh is an indispensable discipline to bring
one’s priorities into balance, purify whatever wealth one
possesses, and ensure that the share which is the Right of
God provides for the greater good. At all times, contentment
and moderation, benevolence and fellow feeling, sacrifice and
reliance on the Almighty are qualities that befit the God-
fearing soul.
The forces of materialism promote a quite contrary line
of thinking: that happiness comes from constant acquisition,
that the more one has the better, that worry for the
environment is for another day. These seductive messages
fuel
an
increasingly
entrenched
sense
of
personal
entitlement, which uses the language of justice and rights to
disguise
self-interest.
Indifference
to
the
hardship
experienced
by
others
becomes
commonplace
while
entertainment and distracting amusements are voraciously
consumed. The enervating influence of materialism seeps
into every culture, and all Bahá’ís recognize that, unless they
strive to remain conscious of its effects, they may to one
degree or another unwittingly adopt its ways of seeing the

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


world. Parents must be acutely aware that, even when very
young, children absorb the norms of their surroundings. The
junior youth spiritual empowerment programme encourages
thoughtful discernment at an age when the call of
materialism grows more insistent. With the approach of
adulthood comes a responsibility, shared by one’s generation,
not to allow worldly pursuits to blind one’s eyes to injustice
and privation. Over time, the qualities and attitudes nurtured
by the courses of the training institute, through exposure to
the Word of God, help individuals to see past the illusions
that, at every stage of life, the world uses to pull attention
away from service and towards the self. And ultimately, the
systematic study of the Word of God and the exploration of
its implications raises consciousness of the need to manage
one’s material affairs in keeping with the divine teachings.
Beloved Friends: The extremes of wealth and poverty in
the world are becoming ever more untenable. As inequity
persists, so the established order is seen to be unsure of itself,
and its values are being questioned. Whatever the
tribulations that a conflicted world must confront in the
future, we pray that the Almighty will help His loved ones to
overcome every obstacle in their path and assist them to
serve humanity. The larger the presence of a Bahá’í
community in a population, the greater its responsibility to
find ways of addressing the root causes of the poverty in its
surroundings. Although the friends are at the early stages of
learning about such work and of contributing to the related
discourses, the community-building process of the Five Year
Plan is creating everywhere the ideal environment in which
to
accrue
knowledge
and
experience,
gradually
but
consistently, about the higher purpose of economic activity.
Against the background of the age-long work of erecting a
divine civilization, may this exploration become a more

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


pronounced feature of community life, institutional thought,
and individual action in the years ahead.
[The Universal House of Justic

Principles Of Spiritual Economics




38.
A brief history of the Bahá’í Faith
The Bahá’í Faith is the youngest of the world’s independent
religions. The Bahá’í Faith revolves around three central
figures, the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The first of
whom was a youth, a native of Shíráz, named Mírzá 'Alí-
Muhammad, known as the Báb or the Gate. He, in May 1844,
at the age of 25, advanced the claim of being the herald who
according to the sacred Scriptures of previous dispensations,
must needs announce and prepare the way for the advent of
One greater than Himself, Whose the mission would be,
according to those same Scriptures, to inaugurate an era of
righteousness and peace, an era that would be hailed as the
consummation of all previous Dispensations, and initiate a
new cycle in the religious History of mankind. Swift and
severe persecution, launched by the organised forces of
ecclesiastical and state in His native land led to His
execution, in July 1850, by a firing squad in the public square
of Tabríz in Persia.
The founder of the Bahá’í Faith, Mirza Husayn-‘Alí-i-
Núrí is known as Bahá’u’lláh, means the ‘Glory of God’ is
regarded by Bahá’ís as the most recent in the line of
messengers of God. The word Bahá'í is derived from Arabic,
it is the name of religion and refers to followers of
Bahá’u’lláh.  Bahá’u’lláh was born in Persia (Iran) on 12
November 1817. He was the son of a government minister in
the court of the Shah. He grew up in an affluent and
comfortable household and was expected to take on the
responsibilities of His father as a minister after he passed
away. This position he declined. Since the inception of the
Faith in 1844, following the declaration by His forerunner,
the Báb, and have accepted him as the promised one of
Islam, Bahá’u’lláh took it upon himself to support the Báb’s

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


followers. This led to him being caught in a whirlpool of
persecutions, which were being inflicted on the Báb’s
followers by clerics and government officials. He was put in
the Tehran dungeon in 1853 in chains. After a few months, he
was released from the dungeon in a very poor state of
physical health, having been banished to Baghdad under the
Ottoman Empire at the time. Along with His family and
many of His followers he was repeatedly banished within the
Ottoman Empire, until finally he was sent to the prison city
of Acre where He remained until His passing on 29 May
1892. The shrine of Bahá’u’lláh is in Akka – Israel which is
considered the most sacred place for Bahá’ís around the
world.
Bahá’u’lláh in His Book of the Covenant appointed His
oldest son, ‘Abbás Effendi known as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, meaning
‘servant of Bahá’ as head of the Bahá’í Faith after His own
passing and the only authorised interpreter of His writings.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was born in Persia on 23 May 1844 and passed
away 28 November 1921 in Haifa, Israel.
In 1911-1913, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá travelled to Europe and
North America. During these travels, he proclaimed
Bahá’u’lláh’s message of social justice and unity and world
peace to church congregations, the members of trade unions,
peace
organisations,
university
faculties,
journalists,
government officials, and many public audiences. The talks
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in North America is selected and published
in Promulgation of Universal Peace and certain talks in
Europe have published in Paris talks.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and Testament appointed His
grandson, Shoghi Effendi as the Guardian of the Bahá’í
community and the interpreter of the central figures of the
Faith. Shoghi Effendi was then only 25 years old and still a
student at Oxford University. His ministry from 1921 to 1957
was filled with carrying on His weighty responsibilities as the
leader of the Bahá’í community and an interpreter. Shoghi

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Effendi was born in Akka on 1 March 1897 and passed away
in London - England on 4 November 1957.

In His Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá outlined the
nature
of
two
principal
institutions
namely
the
‘Guardianship’ which is referred to Shoghi Effendi, and the
‘Universal House of Justice’ envisioned by Bahá’u’lláh for the
conduct of the affairs of the Bahá’í community. The two most
important
functions
of
the
Guardianship
were
the
interpretation of Bahá’í teachings and the guidance of the
Bahá’í community.
The Bahá’í Faith is a religion without priests; hence,
after the passing of Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Faith,
the affairs of the Bahá’í community have been managed
through an administrative order. The system of Bahá’í
administration has its origins in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh
and is regarded by Bahá’ís as having been divinely ordained.
It is distinguished from other religious or secular forms of
government, as Shoghi Effendis describes, ‘Bahá’u’lláh has
Himself revealed its principles, established its institutions,
appointed the person to interpret His Word who is ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, and conferred the necessary authority on the body
designed to supplement and apply His legislative ordinances,
the Universal House of Justice (World Order: p. 145) With
electoral
and
consultative
principles,
the
Bahá’í
administrative order operates democratically at the local,
national, and international levels. The election of Bahá’í
institutions take place each year on 21st April. The Bahá’í
election is theoretically and practically different from the
electoral processes currently practised, in that there is an
emphasis on spiritual qualities and service orientation,
rather than material gain or power.  Bahá’ís are free to vote
for any adult Bahá’í who they consider as ‘pure, faithful and
active’. Therefore, nomination or canvassing is deprecated.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


The Universal House of Justice is a nine-member body
elected at five-year intervals by the entire membership of
over 180 National Spiritual Assemblies throughout the Bahá’í
world.  The Universal House of Justice consults on issues
pertaining to the welfare of the whole of humanity as well as
the affairs of the Bahá’í communities and guides the Bahá’í
world within the framework of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. It
was first instituted in 1963, and its seat is in Haifa - Israel.
The Universal House of Justice appointed ‘the Bahá’í
International Community’ as a representative of the Bahá’í
community with international agencies.
The
Bahá’í
International
Community
is
an
international non-governmental organisation with affiliates
in over 180 countries and territories, representing the
members of the Bahá’í Faith worldwide. One of the aims of
the Bahá’í International Community is to seek to promote
and apply principles derived from the teachings of the Bahá’í
Faith that contribute to the resolution of the current day
challenges facing humanity. To achieve its purpose the Bahá’í
International Community interacts with the work of the
United Nations and its specialised agencies, governments
and other non-governmental organisations, and have been
presented at world conferences and meetings of United
Nation’s agencies for a number of years. These include
contributions on such diverse subjects as food, population,
narcotics
and
alcohol,
the
ageing,
women,
youth,
international
trade,
education,
health,
and
peaceful
utilization
of
outer
space. In
May
1970, the
Bahá’í
International Community gained consultative status with the
United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) and
in 1976 with the United Nations Children’s Funds (UNICEF).
Then,
in
1989,
the Bahá’í
International
Community developed a working relationship with the World
Health Organization (WHO).

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


Bibliography

§
Bahá’u’lláh. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa,
1992.
§
Bahá’u’lláh. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust. 1971.
§
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.
pocket-size edition. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
§
Bahá’u’lláh. The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990.
§
Bahá’u’lláh. The Kitab-i-Iqan, The Book of Certitude, pocket-
size edition. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
§
Bahá’u’lláh. Prayers and Meditations of Bahá’u’lláh.
London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1978.
§
Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas. Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
§
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundation of World Unity. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1979.
§
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1979.
§
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Promulgation of Universal Peace.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
§
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1975.
§
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
§
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Some Answered Questions. Bahá’í World
Centre Publication, 2014.
§
Shoghi Effendi. The Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


§
Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1974.
§
Shoghi Effendi. Principles of Bahá’í Administration. India:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
§
Shoghi Effendi. The promised Day is Come. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1980.
§
Shoghi Effendi. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
§
Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian. India: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust.
§
Universal House of Justice. Bahá’í Fund and Contributions.
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1974.
§
Universal House of Justice. Messages from the Universal
House of Justice 1968-1973. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1976.
§
Universal House of Justice. Wellspring of Guidance.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
§
Universal House of Justice. The Promise of World Peace.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1985.
§
Universal House of Justice. The Six-Year Plan, 1986-1992.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1993.
§
Universal House of Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre,
2010.
§
Universal House of Justice. Economic Life, Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 2017.
§
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. A
Compilation on Bahá’í Education. London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1987.
§
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. A
Compilation on Conservation of the Earth’s Resources.
London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990.
§
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. A
Compilation on Consultation. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1980.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics


§
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. A
Compilation on) Huqúqu’lláh. Canada: National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1986.
§
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. A
Compilation on Individual and Teaching; Raising the Divine
Call. Canada: National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Canada, 1977.
§
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. A
Compilation on Local Spiritual Assembly. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1970.
§
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. A
Compilation on Spiritual Foundations: Prayer, Meditation
and
Devotional
Attitude.
Canada:
National
Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1977.
§
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. A
Compilation
on
Women.
Canada:
National
Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1986.
§
Bahá’í Prayers. A selection of the Prayers Revealed by
Bahá’u’lláh. The Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1975.
§
Star of the West. Oxford: George Ronald Publishers, 1978.
§
Esslemont, John E. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990.
§
Paine Mabel H. The Divine Art Of Living, A Compilation
from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986.
§
Balyuzi, Hasan M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Oxford: George Ronald
Publishers, 1972.
§
Hornby, Helen. Lights of Guidance, New Delhi: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983.
§
Bahá’í Prayers, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette IL, 2002.
§
Badee, Hooshmand. Economics and the Bahá’í Faith, 2018.

Principles Of Spiritual Economics

