[Photocopied by Sen McGlinn, in 1999, from the edition of River of Life in
Leiden, the Netherlands. That was scanned and initially formatted by Richard
Stamats. Then it was further proofread by Thellie Lovejoy, 2001. Formatting
was completed by Jonah Winters for posting to bahai-library.com, 2012.]


[page 1, script written in Arabic or Persian]

[page 2, blank]

[Title page, page 3]




THE
RIVER OF LIFE

A SELECTION FROM THE TEACHINGS
OF BAHA’U’LLAH AND ‘ABDUL BAHA



Giving the Message of the Bahai Revelation. With
Facsimiles of the original Arabic and Persian
Documents, translated in English, with
Explanatory Notes and a Preface

by
YUHANNA DAWUD.


[In handwriting:]

"Twelve Copies
of this edition
were printed.
(signed) Y. Dawud.
30th May 1914."




LONDON
COPE & FENWICK
8 BUCKINGHAM STREET, STRAND, W.C.

[page 4, script written in Arabic or Persian, signed 1911]


page 5



PREFACE


IT is through ‘Abdul Baha’s permission that I have been permitted to
translate the following “Tablets” of Baha'u'llah and ‘Abdul Baha from
Arabic and Persian into English, and to reproduce in facsimile the
original documents, so that all the Bahais in the East and West may be
equally benefited thereby.

The originals are in the handwriting of Baha’u’llah, and ‘Abdul Baha;
and the greater part was written by Mushkin Qalam, the famous Bahai
Calligrapher.

I have made an earnest endeavour to ascertain the exact meaning of
every sentence; and to convey to the reader, not only the deep spiritual
significances of these Divine teachings, but to retain, as nearly as the
difference of idiom allows, the wealth of Oriental imagery and metaphor
which forms so striking a feature of the original. The headings and the
notes as already intimated are in explanation of the rendering given.

This book is called “The River of Life,” because therefrom flows the
Life-giving water: even God’s Love, which only can satisfy our spiritual
thirst; and create within us a living stream flowing out to all men, and
springing up for the Life of the Ages.

YUHANNA DAWUD.

LONDON,
May, 1914.



[page 6, blank]

CONTENTS








PAGE

BAHA'I REVELATION AND ITS OBJECT ......................................... 11
MORAL AND SPIRITUAL EXHORTATIONS ................................... 15
THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SPIRIT ............................................... 16
THE PROPHETS AND KINGS IN PRE-ADAMIC AGES .................. 18
THE COMPLAINTS OF BAHAU’LLAH, WHEREIN HE CENSURES
THE PEOPLE OF BAYAN FOR THEIR OPPOSITION ............. 21
THE WORD OF GOD ............................................................................ 26
THE DOCTRINE OF THE UNITY OF GOD ........................................ 30
BAHA'U'LLAH’S EPISTLE TO A CHRISTIAN BISHOP RESIDING
AT CONSTANTINOPLE .............................................................. 33
THE BLESSED PEOPLE ....................................................................... 38
THE PRIVILEGES AND DUTIES OF THE BAHAIS ......................... 41
BAHA’U’LLAH’S EPISTLE TO THE CHIEF OF THE PERSIAN
MYSTICS ...................................................................................... 45
BAHA’U’LLAH’S EPISTLE TO AN EARLY BAHAI ........................ 48
BAHA'U'LLAH'S COMFORTETH HIS DISCIPLES ........................... 57
MANIFESTATION OF GOD ................................................................ 51
BAHA'U'LLAH'S TEACHING AND INFLUENCE  ............................ 55
THE UNIVERSAL ENLIGHTENMENT .............................................. 57
THE DUTY OF THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL .................................... 58
`ABDUL BAHA'S EPISTLE TO A BAHA'I TEACHER ...................... 60

page 9


IN THE NAME OF GOD, THE
MOST GLORIOUS

THE object of the Heavenly Books and Divine Verses is this, that the
people may be educated in truth and wisdom, and become the means of
their own peace, and that of others.

Every cause that giveth peace to the heart and increaseth the
dignity of mankind, and satisfieth its (higher) longings, shall be
acceptable.

Lofty is the station of Man, if he be adorned with true humanity,
otherwise he is considered lower than all creatures. Say, O Friends, take
advantage of to-day and do not deprive yourselves of the Grace of the
Supreme Ocean.

I ask God, to adorn ye all in this day with the ornament of pure
and sincere deeds.

Verily, He is the Almighty!
BAHA’U’LLAH.


[page 10, blank]


page 11



THE RIVER OF LIFE

BAHAI REVELATION AND ITS OBJECT

O FRIENDS! To-day the Door of Heaven is opened with the key of
God’s Name ! and now the Ocean of God’s Bounty is overflowing and
manifest to all men. The Sun of Grace has risen and shineth forth. Do not
deprive yourselves thereof and waste not your precious lives in following
the sayings of this or that person (i.e. don’t imitate others, but think for
yourselves).

Gird up the loins of resolution and turn to the education of the
inhabitants of the world.

Do not make the religion of God the cause of differences, hatred
and rancour.

The tongue of greatness saith.—The object of whatever
(teaching) hath been revealed in this most Holy Manifestation from the
heaven of Primal Will, is for the concord, charity, and affection of the
people.

The people of Baha—that is, those who have quaffed the
spiritual wine—must consort with all the people of the world with perfect
joy and fragrance, and remind them of that whereby benefit accrues to all
mankind.

This is the counsel of “this Oppressed One” to His Saints and
Holy Ones. The world was created by Love, and all mankind is
commanded to deal with one another in kindly affection and harmony.


page 12
THE RIVER OF LIFE

Meditate upon this blessed Word which hath shone forth from
the horizon of the King of (Divine) Unity, and remember it :—“In my
ancient Entity and in my Eternal Being was I hidden, I knew my Love in
thee, therefore I created thee; upon thee have I laid my image, and to thee
revealed my Beauty.”

O people of Baha, ye are in your native lands and this
“Oppressed One” is in the greatest Prison. At a time wherein He is
overwhelmed by the sea of sorrows, He remembereth ye all with such
words and utterances, that if one of those words shone on the mirrors of
existing Being, upon all of them the word, “Verily Thou art the
Beloved,” will be beheld to such a degree that they would come and read
it.

Do not let this infinite Grace escape from your hand, and do not
be neglectful of whatsoever hath befallen this “Oppressed One” and you
in the Path of God.

Know your own worth and protect your station in the name of
God. For the unbeliever, the deniers of the truth and the betrayers have
appeared disguised as believers in Divine Unity, Faith and
trustworthiness, and they are engaged in misleading the people.

Verily, your Lord, the merciful One, speaketh the truth, and
informeth you in wisdom, and guideth you to the Right Path! Abandon
the ways of the people, and count as naught the paths of the neglectful
ones: and say to them, verily, we do not walk in your ways, and do not

act as ye. Verily the Right Path hath appeared and we all know that His
way is the straightest one. Happy is the soul that hasteneth toward the
ocean of the mercy of his Lord. Happy is the ear which heareth the sound
of His Supreme Pen. Glad is the eye


BAHAI REVELATION AND ITS OBJECT
page 13

which seeth His great verses, and joyous the tongue which celebrateth
His beautiful praises.

Say unto them “Have mercy upon your souls, and do not follow
those who blaspheme God, and His revelations, and deny His evidences
and testimonies, and arise in opposition with open oppression.

Verily, He is in the “greatest’ Prison,” and calleth both the Kings
and the people unto the “Greatest Name,” which was hidden in the
knowledge of God, and recorded in the Holy Books of all His prophets.

O Friends, ye have all been and will be remembered in the Holy
Books, and if some of the Saints of God have not been favoured with a
separate Epistle, they may know it for certainty that, their names,
turnings to God, and their beliefs, according to their grades are written
and recorded by the Supreme Pen. Ask God to assist you to be favoured
with that which is the cause and reason of everlasting remembrance.
Verily, He seeth, He heareth, He is the all-wise and the all-knowing! The
world had and hath not any glory; soon all the inhabitants of the earth
will return to their graves.

By Him to the praise of whose Self all things cry forth: to the
possessors of sight, this world and whatsoever is seen therein, cannot be
equal to one of the Divine Words. For this (world) hath been and ever
will be inconsistent and transitory; while the Word (of God) is
everlasting and endureth to the Eternity of the Names and Attributes (of
God). For the sake of the world’s one day, no wise man would ever let
the “Two Days” of God’s everlasting Bliss escape from his hand.

I speak in truth that the “Soul of the Eternal Being” hath had, and
hath still the desire to


page 14
THE RIVER OF LIFE

Chant in the Rose-garden of Revelation and Union, but the imaginations
and lusts (of men) have prevented it from singing in the Kingdom of
Nearness. Ye must burn these veils with the fire of certainty and the light
of faith (in God), and illumine the hearts and spirits.

Strive to drink from “the River of Assurance” which floweth
from the Right Hand of the Throne of God. Whosoever is favoured
therewith, he will be recorded in “The Red Tablet” as one of the people
of immortality.

Thanks be to God, who by His Grace and Mercy hath guided the
Faithful to the Straight Path, and hath favoured them with the Greatest
Gift, and highest benevolence! Know ye, the worth of your station (of
Saintship) and be ye watchful under all circumstances.

For those who have gone astray have been and will be lurking
for the Faithful! Verily, your Lord, the Merciful One, is the All-Wise and
All-Knowing.

Hath ever a true seeker been seen on earth who was “deprived of
the Grace of the Gracious One? or hath it been seen that any messenger
who sincerely desired to attain to the Right Goal, hath been prevented
therefrom? No, by God Himself.”

If some of the believers in the Unity of God, or the Near Ones, or
the Faithful have desired a matter and apparently have not been favoured
therewith, this has been in accordance with the perfect wisdom of God.
They must not repine: for there is appointed and ordained a stated time
for everything. When the time is ripe then that thing will appear in truth
from God, the Lord of all the worlds.

Rejoice, O ye Saints of God, and His Holy ones, in which
remembereth ye my Supreme Pen in this Night wherein the tongue of
greatness


MORAL & SPIRITUAL EXHORTATIONS
page 15

speaketh. Verily, there is no God, but He, the Helper, the Adviser, the
Unique, the Mighty, the Praised One! Blessed is he who is favoured with
steadfastness. Verily he is mentioned among the denizens of the Highest
Paradise in the Book of God, the Possessor of Names, and the maker of
Heaven, who hath appeared in truth, with Manifest Power. Beware lest
the veils of names withhold ye from the King thereof, and its revealer
and Creator. Grasp the rope of the favour of your Lord, the Merciful
One, and lay hold on the luminous Hem of His Garment.

Whosoever doeth as he hath been commanded, the people of the
highest Heaven and the dwellers in the Supreme Paradise will call him
blessed. This is a command from God, the Mighty, the Glorified!

Thus remembereth ye “the Oppressed One” when He was in the
Prison of the Negligent, and teacheth ye that which brings ye under all

circumstances, near to God, the Potent, the Protector, the Mighty, the
One!

MORAL AND SPIRITUAL EXHORTATIONS

VERILY we advise all (to walk and act) in wisdom and utterance in the
religion of their Lord, the Merciful One; even as we have exhorted them
before: Verily He is the Faithful Counsellor! The teaching which we
have revealed in various Epistles is incumbent upon all believers in God,
in this manifestation: that they should take hold thereof and be of those
who are steadfast. We have forbidden all (the believers) from committing
that which God loveth not, and have commanded them to do that which
rejoiceth the hearts of (the people)


page 16
THE RIVER OF LIFE

of all nations. Verily He is the Compassionate, the Gracious!

Consort, my Friends, with (people of all) religions, with joy and
fragrance.

Beware lest ye make the Word of God* a reason for your
discords or a cause of manifesting hatred between yourselves. Say, fear
God, O people of the earth, and do not be of those who are neglectful.
Verily, we command you to do that wherefrom ye may perceive the scent
of joy, if ye (will) be of those who know.

Glory be upon ye and upon those who are with ye, and love and
serve ye, and hear from ye that which hath been written by “the Supreme
Pen,” in this manifest, most evident and irresistible Religion.

THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SPIRIT

CONCERNING the question : —
“Do the same consciousness, personality, understanding and perception
of the human being (except in the Prophets and Saints) exist in him after
natural death, even as they were before, or will these be destroyed with
his body? Granted that it will exist, how is it that during life through
some little hurt that befalls his external sense, such as fainting or severe
illness, his knowledge and understanding fail him, and how can it be
imagined that after decomposition of his compound elements his
personality and understanding should be believed to survive or exist,
while all his members have become disjointed?”

May it be known to thee, that the spirit is the

* i.e. God’s One and the same message, which hath been revealed through all
prophets for the peace and Unity of the world of Humanity.


THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SPIRIT
page 17

same in its original state and stands and remaineth firm; and that when
one seeth weakness in a sick person, it is through some hindering causes.
For, the spirit in the original state findeth no weakness.


For example, consider the lamp, it is bright, but if it be hidden by
a screen, in that case its light will be hindered; notwithstanding in its
original state it is bright, but through some hindering obstacles its light is
darkened, likewise is the sick one in his ailment.


The appearance of the power and strength of the spirit will be
hindered through screened causes, but after abandoning the body, it will
manifest itself with such power, strength and victory that the like thereof
cannot be possible.


The pure, good, and Holy Spirits have been and ever will be in
perfection, power and bliss.


For example, if the lamp be put under an iron globe, its light will
never appear to those without; notwithstanding in its place it is bright.


Reflect on the sun when it is behind the clouds, in reality it is
bright and shining, but because of the screening cloud, its light appeareth
dim. Consider this sun to be the spirit of man, and all things as its body:
for the whole body is lighted by that light—this is when no hindering
cause is hiding its light, like unto a veil. Likewise when the clouds are
concealing the sun, although the earth is (already) lighted by its light, yet
that light is weakened and after the cloud hath passed away the light of
the sun will appear with great perfection. In either of these two states the
sun in its grade is of one power, even thus is the sun of souls, which is
known as the Spirit. “The human spirit is in one and the same condition;
it neither becomes sick with diseases of the body, nor healed by its
health.”


Likewise consider the invisibility of the existence


page 18
THE RIVER OF LIFE

of the fruit in the tree before it buddeth therefrom. Although it is in the
tree, yet it is so invisible that it cannot be seen. And if anyone were to cut
that tree into pieces he could find neither a particle of its fruit nor the
shape thereof, but after coming out of the tree it will appear as a new

ornament (i.e. beauty) and in great strength as it is seen in the fruits.
There art some fruits which will ripen after they are plucked from the
tree.

Many examples have been mentioned here that thou mayest
attain to an object through each of them, and compare the same with that
which thou hast asked of God, thy Lord and the Lord of the world. God,
glorious is his mention, is able to manifest and prove all the infinite
sciences in any one of the aforesaid examples amongst the people.
Howbeit on every example the hand of power doth spread itself, and over
every word thereof the hand of protection is laid. No one knoweth it save
him who desireth, and when the seal of the perfume vase is broken by the
hand of power, then its fragrance will be perceived. The Command is in
God’s hand. He giveth, He withholdeth, He blindeth, He openeth the
eye—“He doeth what He wishes, and Commandeth what He wills.”

THE PROPHETS AND KINGS IN PRE-ADAMIC AGES
[Note following Tablet found in "Gleanings" LXXXVII ]

CONCERNING thy question as to how it be that the mention of the
Prophets, previous to Adam the father of Man, and the Kings of those
ages, are not recorded in history. The non-existence of the mention hath
not been, and is not, a proof of the non-existence of the thing.


Through the long lapse of time and revolutions on the earth, they
have not survived. And besides


PRE-ADAMIC PROPHETS AND KINGS
page 19

this, before Adam, the father of Man, styles of writing and such
characters which are now in use amongst men did not exist. There was a
time when no figures of writing ever existed. They used another form,
and if its detail were explained in full it would be too lengthy.

Reflect upon those changes which have come to pass since
Adam, for in the beginning these known languages did not exist on earth,
and likewise the rules which are now in use were expressed differently to
these known languages.


The diversity of tongues came later in the land, which was
known as Babel, and for this reason that country is called Babel.

And after this the Syriac language was universally known
amongst men, and God’s Books were revealed in those periods in that
language until the time wherein the “Friend of the Merciful” was
manifested from the Horizon of the world with Divine Light. In crossing
the river of Jordan His Holiness spake in a tongue, and called it Hebrew.

As in crossing the “Friend of the Merciful,” spake in that tongue,
therefore it was called Hebrew, and afterwards the Divine Books and
Epistles were revealed in that tongue. Some time elapsed and the Arabic
language came in use. The first man who spoke in that tongue was called
Ya’rab Ben Kahtan, and the first man who wrote in Arabic was called
Miramir Al-Taiy, and the first man who composed Arabic verse was
called Hamir Ben Saba and afterward the rules of writing were changed
from one style to another until it has reached its present character. Now,
reflect how many times since Adam the languages, expressions, and rules
of writing have been changed.

How much more those which were before Adam!

The object of these utterances in [sic] this: that from


page 20
THE RIVER OF LIFE

eternity God is the same in His height and sublime exaltation and hath
been and ever will be holy from the commemoration of all others beside
Him. And there has been creation and the manifestations of the mighty
Primal Unity and the Holy dawning—places of eternity have been
chosen from centuries without beginning, and have called the peoples to
God. But because of differences and changes in the conditions of the
world, some of the names and mentions have not survived. In the sacred
books the event of the Flood is recorded and in that catastrophe,
whatever was upon the earth was swept away, both the historical books,
and other things. Likewise many other revolutions have occurred which
have caused the loss of these things.


Besides these, in the chronicles which now exist on earth
differences are seen; and every nation of the various existing nations has
another account of the age of the world, and other events are recorded
therein. Some date from eight thousand years and some from twelve
thousand years, and some more. If any hath seen the book of Juk he well
knows how many differences are among the books. God willing, ye must
gaze towards “the great outlook” and disregard all these differences and
mentions. To-day the realities of “manifestations of the commands” are
adorned with the most glorious ornament and are evident, and all the
names are revealed in a “new name,” and all realities are hidden in his
reality. Whosoever believeth in him verily he believeth in God and in the
“manifestations of His command” through all ages, and whosoever
opposeth Him verily he blasphemeth God, the powerful, the mighty, the
Sovereign! If any reflecteth upon whatsoever hath been mentioned
herein, he will attain to the object. Although it is briefly revealed, yet a
hundred thousand details are

THE COMPLAINTS OF BAHA’U’LLAH
page 21

hidden therein, and with thy Lord is the knowledge of all things in the
written tablet! We ask God that he may supply thee with the same, as He
hath ordained for all His Saints: and that He may open unto thy heart the
doors of Significances that thou mayest know from His words what is
His Will. Verily He is powerful in all things, and praise be to God, Lord
of all the worlds!

THE COMPLAINTS OF BAHA’U’LLAH,
WHEREIN HE CENSURES THE PEOPLE
OF BAYAN FOR THEIR OPPOSITION

IN THE NAME OF THE ONE BELOVED!

THE fragrance of sorrows hath surrounded the beauty of the Merciful
One; and the doors of joy and gladness are closed through the oppression
of the rebellious amongst the people of Bayan.* Alas for them!

This is most certain, clear, and evident, that each previous
Manifestation (of God) hath given the glad tidings of the coming
Manifestations to the people (of that age) according to the degree of their
stations (of knowledge) and capacities. Some (of the manifestations)
have expressed this (glad tiding) by signs and some, by hidden
interpretations. But my previous Manifestation (i.e. Bab) hath
endeavoured to admonish and train the people of Bayan; more than that
which could be comprehended

* Bayan, collection of teachings of the Bab, meaning “Explanation"—that is to
say, the setting forth and expounding of all which it was important to know,
concerning “Man, Yazhar’ullah”—He whom God shall manifest. An important
copy of which exists in the British Museum marked “Or. 2819.”


page
THE RIVER OF LIFE

and understood (i.e. more than was possible).*


Notwithstanding this (prophecy) what was ordained hath come to
pass.


We say one word, and demand justice from the people of Bayan.
Is it mentioned in any portion of the Holy Books (i.e. Bab’s work) that in
the time of the subsequent Manifestation, ye should cease to obey His
Command? Say “show it?” Nay (ye cannot), by my Lord, the All-
Knowing, the Informed! † Besides this truth—Is there mentioned in any
part of the parts of the Bayan that if anyone should come with verses,
should ye deny Him? ‡ Or should ye arise to slay Him?

If anyone should doubt these verses, this is like unto the doubts
which were in “the dawning-places of the seventh Hell” (i.e. the
Antichrists) at the time of the appearing of the Manifestations of (God’s)
Command.


I swear by the Sun of the Significance, that if these verses which
are now revealed (by Baha’u’llah) be denied, no one were able to prove
the (identity of the) previous verses (as revealed by the Bab).


As the Nuqta-i-Bayan (i.e. the Bab) (May the life of all beside
him be his sacrifice) could foresee these days, and that which his servants
are doing; therefore naught hath been revealed by His Supreme Pen,
except strong precepts and approved

* In the Bayan great stress is laid on the doctrine that this revelation is not final,
but that believers therein must continually expect the coming of “Him whom
God shall manifest.”
† Any who read the Bayan will find “Him whom God shall manifest” mentioned
on every page. The Bab thus prepared and warned his followers, in order that
they might have no excuse for failing to recognise and accept “Him whom God
shall manifest” when he appears.
‡ Should anyone at any time come and claim to be “He,” and produce the
necessary proofs of his identity—viz. verses (ayat) —no one is to dare to deny
him.—Bayan.


THE COMPLAINTS OF BAHA’U’LLAH
page 23

counsels, and goodly sermons regarding this Manifestation (i.e. of
Baha’u’llah). He (i.e. the Bab) revealed the “Book of Asma” (i.e.
Names). Therefore reflect on that which was the object of its revelation,
and the reason wherefore He called it the “Book of Asma.” *


He hath mentioned all the names (therein) one by one, and
explained them, and then he hath ascribed the manifestations of those
names to the Creator of Names.


O heart of the world! hast thou ear to hear what the Nightingale
of Sorrows is singing, in this time wherein Satan hath raised his voice
behind that of the Merciful One?


Verily, we have found the people of Bayan in negligence and
great loss.


By the Beloved Himself! No one hath yet understand [sic] why
especially the “Book of Asma” hath been revealed when every kind of
Holy Epistle was already revealed (by the Bab).

Thus proclaims to you, the Wise, the All Knowing. But where
are the pure ears to hear the voice which in all times is upraised in the
region of the Primal Unity? And where are the clear eyes to perceive the
Lights of Divine Wisdom from the revealed Words? The Promised One
hath appeared in manifest Beauty. He is the Beauty of Nine,† which all
(prophets) have prophesied concerning Him. ‡


Nevertheless the vile odours of jealousy and hatred have seized
the people to such a degree that

* i.e. “the Book of Names” is another work of the Bab, in which he prophesies
concerning the manifestations of Baha’u’llah.

† The Beauty of Nine is a title of Baha’u’llah, because the sum of the letters in
the word “Baha” is Nine.

‡ The Promised One, whom all creatures await. “The Jews await the Messiah,
the Christians the return of Christ, the Muslims the Mahdi, the Buddhists the
fifth Buddha, the Zoroastrians Shah Bahram, the Hindus the reincarnation of
Krishna, and the Atheists a better social organisation! Baha’u’llah represents all
these, and thus destroys the rivalries and the enmities of these different religions;
reconciles them in their primitive purity and frees them from the corruption of
dogmas and rites.”


page 24
THE RIVER OF LIFE

they utterly flee from The Divine Breaths and Heavenly fragrances.


Say; O people, do not follow these on whom the word of
punishment is pronounced, and from whose faces shineth forth the wrath
of God, the King, the Potent, the Wise, the All-Knowing. It is not evident
what these people would have done, if the “Supreme Pen”* had not
written these precepts and sermons, No, by Him Who hath made me
independent of all the worlds, with the Grace He hath given to me of His
Presence—higher than that which they have done and desire to do, hath
never been and will not be possible to do.


It is amazing that they read the Divine verses. By God! the
revelation thereof curseth them—and they do not understand.
Notwithstanding all those strong and convincing Commandments, yet,
the Beloved of the Contingent Being (i.e. the Bab) hath announced (in
his writings) that which they will do, as it appeared and will appear
hereafter.


To any whom we did not regard, to the honour of God’s
Religion; these (rebellious) men, in dishonouring the Religion of God,
have shown sincerity and obedience and in all parts they call the people
unto themselves.

That secret act and this manifest deed require some justice.


For this “Servant” hath held no enmity for anyone. This is most
evident: that whomsoever we did not regard, it was for the sake (of the

* A title of both the Bab and Baha’u'llah, as the instrument whereby God’s
pleasure is made known to men.


THE COMPLAINTS OF BAHA'U’LLAH
page 25

exaltation) of God’s Command and it will be as a showing forth of His
Majesty and glorifying of His Word.

Whosoever hath been offended in this respect, these rebellious
people have given him pre-eminence, as an injury to God’s religion, and
in revolting against Him. And no one of the Friends of God for the sake
of the Face (of God) hath withheld these unbelievers from committing
such wicked deeds.

Hath no sign of the Divine Fire remained in the hearts of the
people? Hath not the Light of the Lamp of the Primal Unity shined forth
in their souls?


What hath befallen, that “the temples of souls” are not enkindled
by this Fire and are not illumined by these Lights?


Say, O Caravans from the cities of the Knowledge of the Beauty
of the Merciful One! The True Dawn hath appeared from the horizon of
the heaven of God’s Will. Hasten that perhaps ye may join the host of
those near ones (to God). Assuredly, the lighter ye journey (i.e. having
fewer burdens) the better it be. Cast away from yourselves the hindering
burden of signs, and turn ye to the region of the Primal Unity. The Pre-
existing Pen saith— “Do ye not hear my groaning and affectionate cry? ”


Or ye hear and do not comprehend it. If ye are unable to soar in
the pleasant atmosphere of the significances, then soar ye in the sphere of
the Words.


If ye do not understand the wonderful Arabic verses of this
Manifestation, then reflect on the Persian Bayan, which I have revealed
before (i.e. through the Bab), and on the Persian Words (i.e. writings and
discourses written in Persian) which


page 26
THE RIVER OF LIFE

have been revealed in this Manifestation, so that ye may find a way to the
Truth!


By Him, who hath enkindled the Fire of His Love in my heart so
greatly, that the waters of opposition of all the Worlds cannot chill it, the
“Appearance of Bayan” hath had no other aim (in view) except (to
proclaim) this Manifestation.*


May my life be a sacrifice to Him, he hath not neglected in
delivering my Message (to the World), but the people are faulty and gone
astray.


Whosoever freeth himself, even for an hour from the veils and
signs † ; and for the sake of God would reflect upon whatever hath been
revealed in Arabic and Persian, from the Divine Kingdom: By God! he
will sever himself from this World and the next, and will lament for this
Oppressed One, the Prisoner, the Stranger.

THE WORD OF GOD

THE hard stones are (affected) by the Divine Word, ‡ and groan and
lament thereof, but the people are in great negligence!


This is that which hath been revealed in former

* Anyone who reads the Bayan will find that stress is laid on the doctrine that
this revelation is not final. On the contrary, it is merely intended to prepare the
world for the fuller measure of truth which will be uttered by “Him whom God
shall manifest." Almost every ordinance in the Bayan is similarly designed to be
a perpetual reminder of "Him whom God shall manifest.”

† i.e. Veil of selfishness, with which the eyes and hearts of men are veiled; as it
is said :—“The veil between God and His servants, is neither earth nor heaven,
nor the Throne nor the Footstool; thy selfhood and illusions are the veils and
signs, and when thou removest these thou hast attained unto God.”

‡ Uncreated Word of God, The Logos—i.e. the Divine Thought and Word
regarded as two aspects of one entity.


THE WORD OF GOD  page 27

times (and recorded) in the Divine Books— “From the stones flow
rivers, but no sign (of betterment) will appear from the hearts of the
wicked.”


It is a true (saying), by God, the Most High, the Great! Know, O
questioner, that the Divine Word is the summing up of all
Significances—that is to say, all the meanings, and Divine Mysteries are

hidden (or summed up) in the Word. Blessed is he who attains unto it,
and bringeth the pearls hidden therein.


Consider the splendour of the Divine Word, to be as the shining
forth of the Sun; even as the sun after rising shineth on all things,
likewise, the sun of the Word, when it dawneth from the horizon of the
Divine Will; shineth on all (existing Beings).


May God forgive, for this comparison, because the phenomenal
Sun is aided by the collective Word.


Reflect to understand it! *


But the splendour of the phenomenal Sun can be beheld by the
outward eye; while the effulgence of the Sun of the Word will only be
perceived by the inner sight.


By Him in whose hand is my life: if even for a moment the inner
aid and power of the Divine Word, should cease from the world and its
inhabitants, all will be lost and return to nothingness.


But if any observe it with the spiritual eye, he will see its
splendour and light manifested in all things.


Likewise, if he turn to it, with a pure ear, he will hear the first
Divine Voice at all times.


The Divine Voice is ever lifted up, but the ears are deaf unto it.


The splendour of the lights of the “Luminary of

* The phenomenal Sun is entirely dependent on the Word of God, while the
Word is absolutely independent of it.


page 28
THE RIVER OF LIFE

the Universe” * are manifest, but the eyes are veiled.


O Wise! the Physician † is needed so that He may by the elixir
(i.e. virtue) of the “Greatest Name,” cure the blindness of the eyes, and
change the base metal of being unto gold.‡ O Would! that the arena of
knowledge of the Beloved, become enlarged by the existence of perfect
believers. So that, He could manifest infinite sciences and explain them
by the outward letters of the (Divine) Word.

The people are smitten by such a disease that its cure is very hard
except for him who seeketh healing from the Greatest Antidote (i.e.
Knowledge of God).


That disease is this: whosoever thinketh that he hath perceived a
slight fragrance of knowledge (i.e. dogmatic religion), taketh for granted
that God is also like unto himself. To-day there are many who are
afflicted with this disease; and it hath caused them to remain deprived
from God ('s true knowledge) and that which is with Him (i.e. His
infinite Blessings). Ask God to purify the hearts and strengthen the eyes
(of men) so that perhaps they might know themselves and distinguish
God from all else beside Him; and be able to comprehend God’s Will
from His revealed Words.


Had the nations been favoured with the Divine Plan, they would
never have become veiled at the time of His Manifestations. Albeit they
read for years in the Divine Book, yet, they did not comprehend

* i.e. Baha’u’llah.

† The Prophets of God, the universal Manifestations are as skilled Physicians,
while the contingent world is like the body of man: and the Divine laws are the
remedy and treatment thereof.

‡ Love in Bahai revelation is “the Sovereign Alchemy” through which the
Manifestation of God transmutes the base metal of humanity into Divine Gold.


THE WORD OF GOD page 29

one letter of its significances (i.e. spiritual meanings).


Even so they have been utterly veiled and neglectful from the
Great Object. Notwithstanding all (which was important to know) is
mentioned and written in the Divine Book, yet all (the professors thereof)
became deprived to such a degree that, those who accounted themselves
of the favoured ones, were even neglectful of some of the traditions
which were established amongst the common people, such as the
existence of the Qaim, in the well-known city. They are so confident in
this traditional saying, that whosoever believeth that this Holy One (i.e.
the Qaim, whom the Muslims await) hath yet to be born, they have
decreed for Him the sentence of death.


Consider, how far away have been these so-called people, from
the Truth and how greatly deprived thereof.


Until, in the year sixty * the veil was rent asunder, and all which
was hidden became disclosed.

Likewise the resurrection † and whatever appertaineth to it, for
none know of the utterances which have been recorded in the sacred
Books.


Thus all of them (the so-called favoured people) imagined the
mirage of the desert to be water; even as it was seen (that they were
mistaken).


Apart from these grades, they have also been veiled from the real
knowledge of “the Beloved of

* i.e. In the year one thousand two hundred and sixty, A. H. (A.H. 1260 = 23rd
May A.D. 1844) the Bab, when he was in his twenty-fifth year, began to speak
and disclose to be the Forerunner of Him whom God shall manifest.

† The Day of Resurrection is the day of the appearance of the “Tree of Truth" :
for example, from the (first) day of the mission of Jesus Christ till the day of His
ascension was the resurrection of Moses, etc.


page 30
THE RIVER OF LIFE

all the inhabitants of the world,” and the vapour of their imaginations and
dust of their doubts have withheld all these people from gazing on the
“Outlook of the Primal Unity." Until “the Great Purifier." (i.e. the Bab)
came and baptized all men in “the purest River,” and invited them to “the
Most Luminous Outlook,” and gave them the glad tidings thereof.


Now, consider, that whatever appeared (in these latter days) were
the very approved things which all (the people) neglected. If it be said
that all these (teachings) were mysteries and hidden in the Sacred Book;
and their valid meanings, which were enclosed in the Chambers of the
Holy Words, rent asunder the veils, and came forth, through the
appearance of the Nuqta-i-Bayan (i.e. the Bab, the Point of Revelation)
(may the life of all in the world be His sacrifice); this is a true saying.
And if also it may be said that these teachings were briefly mentioned
before (in the Book), and now the Explainer and Expounder thereof hath
come— this is also true and there is no question about it. And if again it
be said, that these teachings which are manifested in this new Revelation,
were not before, and these are all new, this saying is also true and just.
For, if God—glorious, is His mention—speaketh to-day in a word that all
men have used before and will use hereafter, that word will be new if ye
will be of those who think!

THE DOCTRINE OF THE UNITY OF GOD

REFLECT on the word of Tauhid (i.e. the Unity of God) which have
been proclaimed by every one of the Divine Manifestations, and all
people of different nations have acknowledged and uttered this


THE UNITY OF GOD page 31

blessed Word. Nevertheless, in every manifestation, it hath presenteth
itself anew, and the value of newness hath never been taken away from
it.


The Word wherewith God speaketh; in that word a new spirit
will be breathed; and the breath of life emanates and passeth from it on
everything both outwardly and inwardly. Then when, and in what age,
are the signs of the Divine Word to be made manifest, both in the
material (world) and human (nature)—(i.e. the illumination of Word both
of hearts and horizons).


Regarding that which some men speak of certain imaginary
things, and boast and show their pride in these matters: they are rejected
in God’s sight, and are not remembered in His Presence. For, pride
should be in knowledge of God, and in being true and steadfast of faith,
and firmness in the Religion of God; and not in external utterances. My
previous Manifestation (i.e. the Bab) hath explained these grades. Look
and understand! For example, those who have ascended to the summit of
knowledge, and those who have remained in the lowest stage thereof,
they stand before God on one basis: For the honour which science and
knowledge have, is not due to science and knowledge themselves. If they
have God as their Goal, and (lead men to) the belief of Him, then, they
are beloved, otherwise they are rejected.


All (mere) words are mentioned in one and the same grade on
that (i.e. God’s) Threshold. For example, if He had said “I was born” is
even like unto that which He saith “He begetteth not, and He is not
begotten.” Although apparently, the highest station to which human
knowledge can attain is to comprehend (this truth) that “God hath no
counterpart, that none is like unto Him, and that He hath no peer”; and
even so this is the highest


page 32
THE RIVER OF LIFE

and most exalted Grade amongst men. Yet, this pre-eminence is also
through the favour of God, and hath been permitted by His Will. As in
the cycles of the Quran and the Bayan, the Divine Will is related to all
that is pure and holy. Therefore the effulgence of their utterances is
reprinted and made manifest in the hearts of the servants (of God).

Had there been no such revelations, that Ocean of pre-existence
and the most holy Threshold (of God) would have no need of any of
these narrated Words and explanations.*


The eyes must be fixed on the essence of the Religion of God,
and not on the height and depth of degrees of wordy knowledge (or the
knowledge which ends in words and not in reality), which is established
amongst men.


Would to God! that I could unfold (to the world) that which is
hidden, but the people are veiled (and do not see the Truth).


Nevertheless, He (God) is the Rich, the Praised One! At one
time, He saith— “Thou canst see me!" Another time, He saith— “Look
and behold me!" †

To-day, whosoever believeth in that which hath been sent down from
“the Heaven of the Will of God”: he is favoured and hath attained to the
highest summit of knowledge.

And whosoever hath not this (belief), he is deprived of these
high favours, and lost (in comparison to him who is thus favoured). We
ask God to grant us and you, the favour of being established in this
religion whereby the Kingdom

* God is holy above any description and definition.

† Alluding to this Koranic verse :—Moses said, O Lord, Show me thy glory that
I may behold thee. God said thou shalt in no wise behold me, but look toward
the mountain, and if it stand firm in its place, then shalt thou see Me.”


EPISTLE TO A CHRISTIAN BISHOP page 33

of Names is changed, while it taketh away the intoxication of the
dwellers in the cities of creation: except, those who have been guided by
God, the Protecting, the Self-Subsisting.


O Believer, reflect well on that which hath been revealed by the
“Supreme Pen,” so that the doors of infinite knowledge may be opened to
thy heart, and thou mayest behold thyself, rich and independent of all
else beside God (i.e. satisfied with God and not craving for the riches and
allurements of this world). Do not imagine that the Manifestation of God
appeareth particularly for the advancement of outward education, or to
alter such laws as are already in force amongst the people (of the world).

On the contrary, in the time of Manifestation, all things have
been and will be laden with blessings and unnumbered merits, which will
appear in their time, and according to material causes.

BAHA’U’LLAH’S EPISTLE TO A CHRISTIAN
BISHOP RESIDING AT CONSTANTINOPLE

IN this regard a brief answer hath been sent down from the “Heaven of
the Will of the Merciful One,” to the question asked by one of the
Christian Bishops who dwelleth in the great city (i.e. Constantinople); a
portion whereof will be quoted here, so that perhaps some of the servants
(of God) may become acquainted with certain of the perfect Divine
Mysteries which are hid from the eyes (of the people who are veiled with
their own lusts). Where God saith—(i.e. It is written in that letter
replying to the question of the said Bishop)—“Verily, thy letter hath
reached to the Kingdom of thy Lord,


page 34
THE RIVER OF LIFE

the Merciful One. We have received it with joy and fragrance, and we
answer thee before thou questionest; ponder, so that thou mayest
understand!”


This is a favour from thy Lord, the Mighty, the Helper! Happy
art thou, for being favoured therewith, for although it may be hid from
thee, yet it will be revealed unto thee, when God willeth, so that thou
mayest desire and see what no eye hath ever seen. O thou! who are
immersed in the ocean of knowledge, and art gazing towards the region
of thy Lord, the Merciful One! Know that verily, this Great Religion is a
Mighty Cause.


Reflect and remember that he who was called Peter in the
Kingdom of God; though he had been exalted and greatly honoured and
raised to a high station (amongst the disciples yet) his feet wished to slip
from the Path. Then the Hand of Grace laid hold on him, and kept him
from falling, and made him one of the Faithful.* Verily, if thou knowest
the melody which this Nightingale is warbling in the branch of the “Tree
of Sadratu’l-Muntaha,” † thou wilt be assured that what hath been
prophesied aforetime is verily fulfilled in truth, and now He eateth in the
Kingdom of God, of eternal and everlasting benefits; and drinketh from
the River (a) of Realities, and the River (b) of Spiritual Thoughts ‡ : But
the people are greatly veiled.


Verily, those who hear this voice and neglect (to

* Vide Luke xxii. 31-33.

† Name of a tree in Paradise; but here it means the Manifestation, who guides
men to God.

‡ The fulfillment of Luke xxii. 29-30. (a) Kowthar, (b) Salsabil, names of two
rivers in Paradise. In another tablet Baha’u’llah saith; "Blessed are those who
have known the Light, and have hastened towards it; behold, they are in the
Kingdom, they eat and drink with the elect.”


EPISTLE TO A CHRISTIAN BISHOP page 35

obey it), if they were not born, it were better for them, than (to have been
born and) hesitate (to believe) in this Religion. But that which was to
happen hath occurred! and the matter was ordained by God, the
Powerful, the Mighty, the Sovereign!


Say, O people, the Spirit hath come another time, and that is
fulfilled which was prophesied unto you. Thus we promised the same to
you in the Epistles; if ye will be of those who understand! Verily, He
speaketh as He spake aforetime, and giveth His Life, as He gave it the
first time for the love He bore for those who are in the Heavens and the
earth (i.e. the whole world).


Know, then that when the Son * surrendered up His spirit, verily,
all creation wept for Him, but in giving up His life: He bestowed power
and assistance on all things, as thou seest and witnessest in all men. By
the aid of His Spirit which is the Most High, the Ruler (of all things), and
the Light (of the world); the wise have displayed their wisdom, the
learned have derived their scientific knowledge, the artist hath been
(enabled to) manifest his artistic powers and Kings have shown their
puissance.


We testify that verily, when He (Jesus Christ) came into this
world, He shone (as a light) on all creation, and thereby He cleansed all
who were diseased with the leprosy of ignorance, and blindness. And He
healed the sick of all their ailments (which were caused by) negligence
and selfish desires; and on behalf of the Powerful, the Almighty, He
opened the eyes of the Blind and purified all souls.


And the word “leprosy,” may be applied to all things, by which
the servant (of God) is veiled from

* i.e. Jesus Christ, the Son of God.


page 36
THE RIVER OF LIFE

the knowledge of his Lord, for whosoever is veiled, he is (in truth) a
leper, and will not be remembered in the Kingdom of God, the Almighty,
the Praised One!


Verily, We testify, that by the Word of God, all leprosy can be
cleansed, and the sick can be made whole. Verily, this (i.e. the uncreated
Word of God) is for the purification of the world.


Happy is he who approacheth unto it, with a radiant face. Know
then, that He who ascended up to Heaven, hath in truth descended
(again) from it. The fragrance of His Grace is wafted over all the world,
and thy Lord is witness to what I say.


He is perfuming the world by His advent and Manifestation, and
those who are occupied with this world and its gold, do not perceive the
fragrance of His garment.


And we found them busied with great illusions. Say, verily the
Bell rings out His Name and the trumpet proclaimeth Him, and He
Himself witnesseth for Himself. Happy are they who (are of those who)
know.


But to-day the leper is healed before saying to him “Be thou
cleansed!" By His Manifestation He hath healed the whole world, and the
inhabitants thereof, of all their diseases and ailments. Sublime is this
favour, which is not excelled by any other favour, and great is this Mercy
which is unsurpassed by aught in either worlds.


O thou who art remembered in the Kingdom of God; pray for
power from thy Lord! Arise, and say, “O people of the earth! verily, the
Life Giver of the world, and He who kindleth the fire (of God’s love) in
the heart of men, hath come!


Verily, the Forerunner named ‘Ali Muhammad hath cried in the
wilderness (of the Bayan) and given the people the glad tidings of their
meeting


EPISTLE TO A CHRISTIAN BISHOP  page 37

with God in the Paradise of Abha.* And in His Grace He hath opened the
gate unto all men. Verily He fulfilled that which was written (concerning
Him) by the “Supreme Pen,” in the Kingdom of God, the Lord of the first
and the last! Whosoever desireth to partake of this (grace) verily, it is a
wonderful sustenance.


Say, The greatest Bell proclaimeth His glad tidings, and the
Hand of the Will (of God) strikes it in the Paradise of Primal Unity.

Hearken, O people ! and do not be of (the company of) those who are
neglectful. Please God! there will appear a new creation of beings who
will comprehend the object of God, the Most Glorious, the Almighty,
from these utterances. And they will endeavour to observe the
commandments of God with the utmost reverence and humility. And
protect them from those who are unbelieving and rejected.


Verily, He is Almighty (to perform) that which He Willeth!
Whosoever hath been given to drink even one drop of the River of the
Bayan will comprehend that in the Manifestation of the Nuqta-i Bayan
(i.e. the Bab) there appeared whatsoever was (hitherto) concealed from
the beginning. And this Manifestation (i.e. of Baha’u’llah) and the
previous Manifestation (i.e. of the Bab) are exactly like unto that of the
Son of Zechariah (i.e. John the Baptist) and of the spirit (i.e. Jesus
Christ).


This (subject) hath been set forth in some of the revealed
Epistles, which see [sic].


This Manifestation (of God) is that which hath come for the
assistance of the nations of the world, at the time when the annihilation
of the world, and of all therein, is at hand.


The existing One, hath come to give eternal Life,

* i.e. The day of vision and meeting hath come nigh. Prepare ye to enter into the
Kingdom of God.


page 38
THE RIVER OF LIFE

and to keep them eternally, and to grant them the essence of Life (i.e.
True Spiritual Life).


Whatever was revealed in the Bayan is fulfilled— This is that
Promised One, which he (i.e. the Bab) said “Cometh after Me, and is
before Me." He was the Voice which was lifted up (and cried) betwixt
heaven and earth: “Make straight the Divine paths and prepare them”—
that is to say, “Your hearts!”


And it was the same voice which the Son of Zechariah (lifted up)
before the coming of the Spirit (i.e. Jesus Christ), saying: “I am the
Voice of that One, who crieth in the wilderness Make straight the way of
the Lord." It were better that a woman should bring forth a scorpion, than
a man, who standeth in opposition to the Kingdom of God. Happy are the
Barren Women, and woe to the mothers who suckle (such) infants! Say,
the Supreme Pen saith : —O ye who have gone astray, in the wilderness
of selfish desires! Ye say that ye do not believe in me, but ye profess to

believe in Him, who came to proclaim my Name! Ye lie! Ye are the
people of darkness, and ye flee from the Bright Morning.


If ye draw nigh, undoubtedly your rejected and carnal deeds, will
be seen in the Light.


Woe to those souls, who are neglectful of these days and of their
fruits: they will soon break forth into lamentations on their conditions,
and will find none to comfort them.

THE BLESSED PEOPLE

BLESSED are the lovers of Truth, for unto them the Manifest
Truth will be revealed.


Blessed are the wise who have known the right


THE BLESSED PEOPLE

page 39

Path of God, and have set their faces toward His Kingdom.


Blessed are the joyful and sincere ones, for the lamps of their
hearts are lit up and glowing with the oil of the knowledge of the
Merciful One Himself; And they are protected against the blows of the
gale of sorrow and temptations, by the globes of detachment from the
world.


Blessed are the strong-hearted, for their hearts have not been
weakened by the attack of the oppressors.


Blessed are the seeing, who have known both immortality and
mortality, and have set their faces toward immortality: They are
mentioned in the Kingdom of Heaven as the people of immortality.


Surely their heart shall not become weakened for they are of the
people of insight.


Say, O servants (of God) in any case, ye will be slain either with
the sword of ailments or with the swords of the people, of opposition. In
this case, it is meet and right for you to be slain with the swords of the
unbelievers, in the Path of the Beloved of men (of God): for the
compensation of the soul is more beloved. Be not unmindful of this
desirable fruit, and let it not escape from your grasp.


Blessed are the righteous, for from their deeds diffuseth the
fragrance of acceptance by the Merciful One.

Unhappy are the detractors, the malefactors, and the oppressors,
albeit they may appear in honour and wealth amongst men. Yet very
soon sudden abasement and infinite wrath will overtake them.


The word which in all times appeared in a new spirit, this time
hath arisen from the Horizon of the Will of God, and this is the word
which I addressed to the Son—that is to say, the Spirit—to


page 40
THE RIVER OF LIFE

say: “Moses came to establish religion and law, and the Son of
Zechariah, came to baptize. But I have come to give eternal life, and to
bring them into the everlasting Kingdom.”


Say: O Friends, thieves and traitors are lurking in hidden places.
O bearers of the trust of the Merciful One, be ye not heedless but protect
the pearls of God’s love from the thieves.


I swear by the “Luminary of the Horizon of the Heaven of
Significances,” that if any will not rend asunder the veil of imagination
to-day, he shall never hear the Divine Voice.


Blessed are those, who have broken the idols of imagination by
the power of God, and have heard the Voice of the Merciful One, and
have arisen from among the dead. Upon them be the breaths of God, the
possessor of Names and Attributes.


O people of the earth, the Voice of the Merciful One, hath been
lifted up between Heaven and earth, and hearing the Word of God, the
heart of the world hath been kindled by the fire of Love.


But the cold-hearted have tarried in the tombs of negligence, and
oblivion.


They have not absorbed its heat, how much less the glow thereof.


They abide in the everlasting tombs.


Arise, O people in assisting God! verily the promised One hath
come unto you, and the glad tidings of whose coming were given by the
Bab, and the great tremor, and the uttermost lamentation (i.e. last
judgment) have appeared through Him. The lovers of truth are filled with
delight at His Manifestation, while the unbelievers are consumed by the
fire of hatred.

Say; I adjure ye by God, O people of Bayan, to judge righteously
in this one word: Hath not your Lord the Merciful One, made this matter
(i.e.


PRIVILEGES AND DUTIES
page 41

religion) independent from whatsoever was created in the world, as was
revealed in the Bayan?

You have acted towards His Beloved, as ye would have done even if this
Manifestation were not dependent on aught else beside Itself. Yet ye
have treated Him most unjustly; O ye unjust people! Are there any with
resolute ear to hear, or of strong sight to perceive (these things)?


Say, verily the eye of God weepeth on your condition, while ye
are heedless thereof. O ye ! in you and your deeds the people of the
Highest are amazed.

THE PRIVILEGES AND DUTIES OF THE
BAHAIS

O MY Friends! ye are the sources of my utterance; and in every source, a
drop from the “River of Significances” hath fallen. Cleanse these sources
from the dross of doubts and illusions, with the arm of assurance, so that
ye yourselves may be enabled to give most strong and convincing
answers to such questions which have been asked.


In this greatest Manifestation, all (believers) must be adorned
with sciences and knowledge. For all men, nay all things, each one
according to its own capacity, receiveth Divine favour from the breezes
of the Holy Breaths. In the depths of the revealed Words, are hid the
answer to the mentioned questions. Please God, in reflecting with the
Divine eye on His words, ye will comprehend what ye desired.


This question hath been exactly put to the Spirit, saying: “The
Son of Zechariah came, called the people to God and baptized them.
What was the object of His Manifestation? and what is the aim


page 42
THE RIVER OF LIFE

of Thy Manifestation?" He answered and said unto them: “He (John the
Baptist) came to witness for me, and fulfilled that which he came to do;
But I have come to quicken the people of the world.”


O thou! who art gazing unto the “Great Outlook”! Sorrow hath
reached its zenith, that the tongue of the Merciful One is withheld from

utterance; and by God, my eye weepeth, while my tongue speaketh, and
he who standeth before my face, writes what proceedeth from it.


For the people of Bayan are veiled to such a degree, that to-day,
if any should act contrary to that which God, Glorious is His Dignity,
hath commanded from all eternity; they see it with their own eyes, and
yet they approve thereof.


For example, the chief of the liars, hath written that in the
beginning of the Manifestation, verses were the necessary proof of
identity and now it is not so.


Say, O people of Bayan, judge righteously as in the sight of God,
your Lord, the Merciful One!


Let alone this Divine Servant (i.e. Baha’u’llah) and the
appearances of the Mighty Eternity, which have been revealed in this
Manifestation, but see the whole Bayan, and judge it yourselves! Ye did
not agree to the Command of God, and to that which hath been sent
down from His Presence; but God will be satisfied with your judgment, if
it be just. So that, perhaps an eye may be opened with justice and look
toward God!


This is most evident, that the whole book of the Bayan, clearly
and without any interpretation, is against the saying of him who is
opposing God.


Nevertheless, they boldly and openly have and are disobeying
the whole (teachings) of the Bayan; and yet they consider themselves to
be defenders of the Bayan.


PRIVILEGES AND DUTIES
page 43


By God! The Bayan laments for them, and curseth them (for
their acts).


Now, for God’s sake! reflect for a little while, and think what is
the cause that they with such boldness have endeavoured to dishonour
the Holy Book?


This is plain and evident: the cause is that some of the people of
Bayan agree to it (i.e. dishonouring the Book).


By Him who made me utter the truth, and Manifested me to
confirm His Religion—they would never do these things, if they were
not assured (in their ignorance).

This is one of God’s Mysteries revealed in the Book of Bayan:
for not a line is written therein, unless it conveyeth either by hidden
interpretation or openly: “Fail ye not to believe in Him who cometh after
me, and desire naught else from Him, but verses” (i.e. Ayat, as the
necessary proof of His identity).


Nevertheless, they have rejected (Him) and have committed all
these great misdeeds, as ye all know, and no one hath opposed them.


But to this Seat (i.e. Baha’u’llah) by whose will all the Books
have been written to proclaim belief in Him—Him they have accused of
abolishing the Commandments of the Bayan. May God curse the
Tyrants!


Notwithstanding that, according to (the teaching of) the Bayan,
this Manifestation hath been and ever will be empowered (to confirm) or
alter whatsoever He pleaseth in the Bayan.


All the Bayan speaketh of Him, celebrateth His is praise, and
proclaimeth His Manifestation. Whatsoever emanateth from His
presence, is that which hath appeared from His previous Manifestation;
and whosoever putteth a distinction between these,


page 44
THE RIVER OF LIFE

he is a lying infidel, and a chief among those who deny (the truth)!


Besides verses, a great many of the people of (other) religions,
have seen supernatural acts performed by the “Holy Seat." This is not
mentioned for glory! Ask those who (dwell) in the city (where I was) and
in its vicinity, so that they may tell you the truth.


It is not evident what that opposing soul calleth himself. No, by
the life of Baha, this is nothing, but a great lie! Ask God to grant ye
favour so that ye may be established in the Path of His religion.


For verily, This Great Religion is a mighty cause! It will not be
long ere its greatness shall be manifested and proved (to all men).


None can see it, excepting those who look toward the “Great
Outlook”! and those who for the love of God, the Powerful, the Mighty,
the Wise, are wholly detached from aught beside Him, in either the
Heavens or the earth.


To-day, is the day of assisting the religion of God. It is
incumbent on every soul that he with perfect firmness should call the
people toward the region of God.

God willing! ye will exert yourselves, so that perhaps those who
have gone astray in the wilderness of self and carnal desire, may turn to
the Holy Horizon of Abha. The good deeds of men have been and ever
will be beloved, for the fruit of every man is his action!


The man who lacketh good works is considered, in “the Great
Outlook,” like unto a tree without fruit.


Speak ye as in the sight of God, and deliver this message for
God’s sake.


Look ye not to the opposition or acceptance (of


THE PERSIAN MYSTICS
page 45

men); on the contrary, be active in the service whereto ye are ordained by
God.


This is the greatest favour, and everlasting salvation! This is the
eternal fruit, and God’s Grace for all times: and the shower of His mercy
hath come and ever will come down upon ye.


He who is for God, verily He is with him ! and He will assist him
in truth; verily He is powerful in all things! Al-Baha be upon ye, O my
friends, to the perpetuation of my Kingdom and the eternity of my
omnipotence!

BAHA’U’LLAH’S EPISTLE TO THE CHIEF
OF THE PERSIAN MYSTICS

HE IS THE BELOVED!

O MUHAMMAD, congratulate thy soul for that which He (i.e. the
Beloved) hath revealed to thee in this Holy and generous Epistle.


For it contains that which doth sever thee from the dominion of
the Heaven and the earth, and beareth thee away to the Threshold of the
Manifest Beloved.


Say: I praise Thee, O my Lord, my God. Look Thou on my
infirmity and weakness. Behold my distress and poverty, and waft the
breath of Thy Holiness to me, whereof, if but the tiniest atom (Lit. small
as the antennae of an ant) should breathe upon the first and the last (i.e.
whole creation) it would turn them towards the power of Thy Luminous
Beauty and glorify them with the Light of Thy Manifest Face.

O my God, I am he who doth grasp the strong support of Thy
Great Word; and I have laid hold of the hem of Thy Favour in Thy
Name, which is


page 46
THE RIVER OF LIFE

the Most High, the Lofty One, and the All-Knowing.


Then, O my God, as Thou hast exalted me in beholding Thee,
and made me to know the Manifestation of Thyself: Deprive me not (of
the joy of drinking) from this River, which floweth from the right hand
of the throne of the Generous One!


And do not, O my God, withhold Thy endless Bounty from me;
and grudge me not Thy Grace which of old hath descended (like
showers) from the clouds of Thine Infinite Mercy!


Say: O people!


The Fire of Primal Unity hath appeared in this “Lofty Tree,”
which encompasseth all the worlds.


Say: verily the Holy Spirit hath Manifested Himself in a new
guise.


Say: verily those who comprehend Him, are praising God, in this
luminous Place of Refuge.


Say: verily, the veil which concealed the glory of God hath been
rent asunder and “The Servant,” hath appeared from the East of His
Merciful and compassionate Name! This is He whom none can
comprehend, Who is beyond the comprehension of any mortal
knowledge or the wisdom of the wise.


He speaketh now within this atmosphere, and calleth all those
who are in the heavens and the earth.


He proclaimeth the glad tidings of the Paradise of God to all, and
inviteth them (to come) to that Most Holy and praised Place.


Say: whosoever doth not cleanse his heart and (casteth not away)
the veils of imitation, can never approach “this Sublime and Resplendent
Face.”


Then O Muhammad, soar thou in this Atmosphere on the wings
of detachment (from all earthly ties) and be not afraid of (any man).

Trust thou in God, the Lord, the Omnipotent, the


THE PERSIAN MYSTICS
page 47

Powerful, the Mighty, and pay no heed to any even though he wish thee
the calamities of the whole world.


Call thou all men to God and to that, which hath been revealed,
in the Bayan * and do not be of those who fear.


Say: O people, fear ye God, and keep His Commandments in
your souls and in your bodies, and do not be (of the company) of the
neglectful, lest negligence lake hold on ye in all directions.


Say: I praise Thee, O my Lord, my God! I ask Thee by Thy
Name, which washeth away all sins with forgiveness, and changeth
Punishment unto Mercy, and causeth sinners to enter into the Beautiful
Pavilion of Thy Grace: to leave me not to myself, even for the fraction of
a second, and sever not from me the rope of Thy Favour.


Forbid me not to realise Thy Beauty in the Day of Resurrection;
and make me not stand afar off on that day of Meeting (with Thee): when
all eyes shall be blinded and the wise shall abandon their wisdom, and
the feet of the learned shall slip.


O my God, Thou art He who is the King of all beings, and their
Creator; the ruler of all created things and their maker.


Verily, Thou art He whose Mercy hath encompassed all things,
and His Favour is extended to all that exists in the Heavens and on the
earth.


Verily, Thou art the Powerful, the Mighty, the Beloved and the
wise King!


O my God, I cling to Thy Power and Might, and I take refuge in
Thy Grace and Favour.


Deprive me not of Thy Mercy and Generosity, and drive me not
afar from the Paradise of Thy

* “All the splendour (Baha) of the Bayan is ‘He whom God shall manifest!’ All
mercy be upon him who believeth, and all chastisement on him who believeth
not in Him. —Bayan.


page 48
THE RIVER OF LIFE

Love and Thy remembrance: for verily, Thou art the Mighty, the
Beloved, and Thou art most compassionate and Merciful to all Thy
Servants.
(Signed)
"152."*

BAHA'U'LLAH'S EPISTLE TO AN EARLY
BAHAI

HE SPAKE AND HIS SPEECH IS OF SURPASSING
BEAUTY!


O SERVANT (of God) who art present with the “Oppressed
One”! Know that verily I love the “Ha” and “Seen,”† who hath been
imprisoned in the Path of God, and endured great affliction through love
to Him, and in accordance with His Will.


I salute and greet Him and those who are with Him, both male
and female, the young and the old.


And we remind them of that which hath taken place in their
hearts; even the Lights of God’s Love. We exhort them to that by which
the station of mankind will be exalted in the contingent world; and give
them the glad tidings of my remembrance. My felicity be upon them all!


O Friends! Be not grieved because of the inconstancy

* "152." These numerals stand for the equivalent letters of "B.H.A."—i.e. Baha.

Note.—On the 24th of December 1913, I showed a photograph of the original of
this Tablet, which is reproduced on page . . . , to our Master ‘Abdul Baha in
London. He said: "This is one of the Tablets which many years ago Baha'u'llah
dictated, and I wrote it down." Bearing Baha’u’llah’s seal and numeral
signature.—The Translator.

† i.e. Husayn, one of the early Bahais.


EPISTLE TO AN EARLY BAHAI
page 49

of this world: for that which is not enduring is not worthy of attention.


I swear by “the Sun of the Horizon of Bayan,” that whatsoever is
visible to your sight will soon return unto nothingness.*


And whatsoever hath been and is the cause of life and eternal
commemoration, is in the good pleasure of God, glorious is His Glory!

Blessed is the soul which is illumined by this Light, and which
hath attained to this station.


By night and day, “this Oppressed One” asketh God to protect
the Friends from all that is evil in his sight.


O Husayn, Upon thee be My glory and My Peace!


Strive to educate those souls which are with thee; greet thy
household and children from “this Oppressed One,” and say to them: be
not grieved and sad. God will soon open the doors of His favour and
mercy unto ye.


Verily, He is Powerful in all things!


The greatest cause of obtaining Grace in “This Day,” are
firmness in the Love of God, and in observance of whatsoever hath been
revealed by “the Supreme Pen” in the Book.†


If all the inhabitants of the earth were favoured with that which
God wished for them, then would they attain true happiness.


He is the Gracious One! the Bountiful!


There is no God, but He, the Forgiver; the Generous!

* i.e. Will soon cease to exist.

† i.e. Bayan concerning “He whom God shall manifest.”

Note.—Baha’u’llah’s Epistle to one of the early believers named Husayn. The
original is in the handwriting of Aqa Mirza Aqajan, of Kashan (Jenab-i-
Khadimu'llah), Baha’u’llah’s amanuensis.


page 50
THE RIVER OF LIFE

BAHA’U’LLAH COMFORTETH HIS
DISCIPLES


“SAY: Grieve not because of that which hath befallen ye, for
greater than that befell the Pre-existent Beauty* and now He dwelleth in
the greatest prison.


The matter is so severe that the enemies have closed the door of
outcoming and ingoing against us. But, we are engaged in the
commemoration of the Merciful One, with perfect joy and fragrance.

Let not your hearts be troubled; for that which hath been taken
from you.


Soon all the world will speak well of you. No man’s reward hath
ever been or ever will be lost.


Whatsoever of this world’s good hath been violently taken from
you, because ye have walked in God’s Path: Verily, He will restore it to
you in this world, and in the world to come, such exalted stations will be
prepared for ye: that if one of those should be revealed to the people of
this world and should be beheld by them, they would freely sacrifice
their lives in the way of the Friend: hoping that they may also be
favoured with (a share in) those Heavenly Mansions.


Hear the exhortation of the “Pre-existing Beauty”; who calleth ye
from this greatest prison.


Cease from revolt and rebellion, and lay hold on piety. Purify
your souls from satanic deeds, and adorn them with Divine ornaments.


Sedition and strife never have been and never will be worthy of
God’s people.

* Lit. Jamal-i-Qidan, a title of Baha'u'llah.


MANIFESTATION OF GOD
page 51


Keep ye far from wicked deeds, and walk in the paths of
holiness, submission and resignation.


Endeavour so to live that from you Divine virtues and qualities
may shine forth.


Walk ye among (your fellow) men in utter contentment and
peace, and deal with one another with perfect justice and equity.


Change ye disloyalty to faithfulness, slandering to purification of
soul, oppression to justice and neglect to commemoration (of God).


These are the Divine exhortations which have been revealed and
uttered by the Will of God.


Strive so that by God’s help whatsoever hath been decreed in the
Kingdom of His Will may not be disfigured by evil deeds.


Pray and earnestly beseech God in all times that He may deprive
ye not from His Wisdom and Grace; But he may cause ye to dwell under

the shadow of the “Tree of Firmness” and the “Tree of Names and
Attributes." May the Peace of God, your Lord, the “Ancient of Days” be
upon you.


Praise be to God, the Most High, the Almighty!

MANIFESTATION OF GOD


O PEOPLE of the world! The dawn of the Sun of Reality” is to
illumine the World, and manifest Divine virtues amongst mankind.


It is for praised ends and fruits, and the Holy appearances of
every perfect grace! It is all Mercy: it is sheer Bounty!


The brightness of the world and its inhabitants is concord and
harmony. It is Love and Union, nay, it is Divine virtue and unity.


page 52
THE RIVER OF LIFE


It shineth to remove estrangements, and to unite all peoples of
the earth in perfect liberty and wisdom.


Baha’u’llah saith: “Ye are all the fruits of one tree and leaves of
one Branch." He likeneth the existing world unto a tree, and the people to
the leaves, flowers, and fruits thereof.


Therefore all Its branches, leaves, blossoms, and fruits should be
of perfect freshness. The attainment of this beauty and sweetness,
depends on union and fellowship.


Therefore all must protect each other with their utmost power
and thus seek eternal life for one another.


In the world of being, the Friends of God must be (the
manifestors of) the mercy of the loving Lord, and the Favour of the King
of all the seen and unseen.


They must see neither sin nor rebellion and must overlook both
enmity and tyranny.


They must purify their own eyes and behold mankind as the
leaves, blossoms and fruits of the “Tree of Being.”


They must ever reflect how they may benefit and show
lovingkindness [sic], friendship and help unto others.

They must consider none as an enemy, and account no one of
evil thought.


They must regard all the inhabitants of the earth as their friends.


They must know the stranger as an intimate friend, and cherish
him like unto a brother. They must not be bound by any attachment, on
the contrary, they must be free from every bond.


To-day, the nearest one to the Threshold of the Almighty is he
who offereth his enemy the cup of faithfulness, and bestoweth upon him
the pearl


MANIFESTATION OF GOD
page 53

of generosity; even he, who helpeth the poor oppressor and becometh a
loving friend unto his cruel enemy.


These are the precepts of Baha’u’llah!


These are the counsels of the greatest Name!


O Friends! the world is engaged in waging war and slaughter,
and mankind is in utter enmity and hostile one to another.


The darkness of oppression surroundeth them and the brightness
of fidelity is hidden.


All the nations and tribes of the world have sharpened their
talons and are warring one with the other.


The foundation of humanity is overturned, and thousands of
households have lost their guardians and their peace.


Every year thousands upon thousands of men are mixed in blood
and dust in the arena of battle and slaughter: and the Pavilion of Life and
happiness is overthrown and crushed.


The leaders rule and glory in the shedding of blood, and have
pride in sedition. One saith, that “I have thrust my sword into the neck of
a nation." Another saith: “I have levelled a kingdom unto the dust,” and
one saith: “I have destroyed an Empire!" This is the centre of pride and
arrogance amongst mankind.


In all conditions friendliness, and truthfulness are despised and
godliness reproached.

The Herald of Peace and Arbitration, Love, and Safety, is the
Law of Baha’u’llah, which hath pitched its tabernacle on the Pole of the
contingent world, and calleth in all peoples.


Then, O Friends of God! Appreciate this Beloved Law. Act ye
according to its ordinances, walk ye in this right Path, and tread this
Straight way, and show it forth unto the people.


page 54
THE RIVER OF LIFE


Uplift ye the Melody of the Kingdom, and propagate these
teachings and precepts of the Loving Lord.


So that this world may become another world, and its darkness
be illumined.


The dead body of the people may find a new life, and seek
immortality from the Divine Breath.


The life of this transitory world will last in a little while: this
earthly glory, wealth, repose and pleasure will soon pass away, and
return unto nothingness.


Call ye the people to God, and invite them to live the life of the
people of the “Highest concourse.”


Be ye as kind fathers to the orphans, and a place of refuge for the
needy.


Be ye as a treasury of wealth to the poor, and as both medicine
and remedy unto the sick.


Be helpers to every oppressed and protect the deprived. Bear for
ever the thought of doing service to any of mankind.


Neither attach importance to, nor regard ye the oppositions,
denials, arrogance, oppression, and hostility of the people, but treat them
differently.


Be kind unto them in reality and not with mere outward show.


Every one of the Friends of God must reflect how he can become
the (manifestor of the) Mercy of the All-Provider, and the Bounty of the
Forgiving One to mankind, and how he may be enabled to benefit any
with whom he cometh in contact.

And he must be appraised for his morals and the justice of his
mind: so that the Light of Guidance may shine forth and the favour of the
Merciful One surround all.


Where Love dwelleth there is Light! where animosity is there
will be darkness!


O Friends of God! strive to dissipate this darkness,


BAHA’U’LLAH’S TEACHING
page 55

so that the hidden mystery may be manifested and the reality of all things
become clear and visible unto all men.

(Signed) ‘ABDUL BAHA ‘ABBAS.


BAHA’U’LLAH’S TEACHING AND INFLUENCE

“HE IS GOD!”


“O HEAVENLY Friends! Your letter arrived and its subject
afforded me joy and gladness. Thanks be to God! that such an assembly
is organised which renders service to the Unity of the world of humanity,
and seeks equality among all men.


“Although in Western Countries through justice: hatred and
animosity among religions and nations have been abated; yet, in Eastern
countries: quarrels and disputes, hatred and enmity among religions and
peoples, had reached to such a degree, that they used to drink each
other’s blood, like refreshing water. If they could they would set on fire
one another’s houses, and burn their sacred books. While walking in the
street, if it happened that the garment of one would touch that of the
other, they would either wash or burn it.


The East was in such a troubled condition, and diseased with
such darkness of superstition; when Baha’u’llah hoisted the banner of the
unity of the world of humanity, and promulgated equality among all men.
He extirpated the root of hostility, and founded unity in its place. By the
power of the Word of God, the brightness of the teachings, he expelled
the gross darkness of hatred, and


page 56
THE RIVER OF LIFE

brought the light of Love. The East was illumined and the star of eternal
life did shine.

Many of those contending people were gathered together in
unity; meeting round the Manna of love, in perfect harmony and
Friendship. One would say that they are kindred or sons and fathers, or
brothers and sisters, even more close than these. For the taper of love was
lighted, and the sweet melody of the unity of the world, of humanity
reached to the regions of the Kingdom. The social gathering was
adorned, and the festival of unity established. The light of union and
concord shone, and the establishment of unity of humanity was settled in
the hearts. The power of the spirit of Baha’u’llah so influenced the hearts
that the very enemy became friend, and the strangers as acquaintances.
The hated became beloved, and the rejected received honour.


“Now Bahais do not look to men, but have their attention
directed toward the Lord of men. Therefore they do not consider anyone
as an enemy; on the contrary they count their enemy as a friend. They
know no one as a stranger, they love even the outsider as an intimate
friend. If they be oppressed, they count it fleeting, but when they see
justice they deem it everlasting. If they meet with enmity, they think it
like a shadow; but if they should see a kindness, they count it as the
radiance of the sun.


“Because the darkness of oppression cannot withstand the light
of justice; yea, the sweetness of love will dispel the bitterness of
animosity. Thus, they love and show kindness even to the oppressors, the
cruel and bloodthirsty ones. We hope that the brightness of these
teachings may illumine all the world, and the spirituality of these
precepts make the East and the West to clasp their hands round


THE UNIVERSAL ENLIGHTENMENT
page 57

each other’s necks, like unto two longing and most dear lovers. So that
this pavilion of the unity of the world of humanity may shelter the four
corners of the earth, and make the five continents of the world as one
continent, and its different nations as one nation and the rival religions as
one religion, remote native lands as one home, and the different
languages into one tongue.


“Upon you be the glory of the most Glorious,
(Signed) “‘ABDUL BAHA ‘ABBAS."

THE UNIVERSAL ENLIGHTENMENT

“O BELOVED Friend—Your letter arrived and from its contents I
received the great joy. There is no time for a detailed answer now.


“Convey my warmest sentiments to . . . His opinions are worthy
of respect and full attention, for his purpose is to render service to the

world of humanity and to propagate the Divine teachings of His
Highness, Baha’u’llah.


“With regard to . . . I hope that by reading the Epistles and
becoming acquainted with the precepts of Baha’u’llah he may quaff the
cup of great Guidance. Indeed he has well understood the truth. The old
teachings are insufficient for to-day; they cannot cure every disease and
are not an ointment for every wound.


“Those heavenly admonitions of old are greatly beloved and
profoundly acceptable, but the intellectual aspirations of to-day have
advanced and demand fuller explanations of the Divine plan. There was a
great need for the Universal Enlightenment. This need is supplied in
Baha’u’llah’s teachings, which are the sum of all teachings.


page 58
THE RIVER OF LIFE

To-day, he who acquaints himself with the precepts and exhortations of
Baha’u’llah and reads the Tablets of Kalimat, Tajaliyat, Ishraqat, Tarazat
and Bisharat will know for certainty, that they are the essential food for
humanity in this latter day, as well as the means of conjoining this
transitory life to the eternal. . ..


“Upon thee be the glory of the most Glorious,”
(Signed) “ ‘ABDUL BAHA ‘ABBAS.”


THE DUTY OF THE CHILDREN OF
ISRAEL

HE IS GOD!


“O STRANGER of the Country of God! * Thy letter arrived and
the book edited in Persian with Hebrew characters was considered.
Verily it is true what thou hast written (in this book):


“The Teachers who have gone to Persia have not become the
means of (spiritual) progress and civilisation, of the Israelites: On the
contrary they have caused their youths to be deprived of the ornament of
faith (in God) and have taught them the teachings of Voltaire and
Darwin: While the true education of humanity is accomplished through
the ‘spiritual rain of spring cloud.’ If a man becomes deprived from the
knowledge of God and assurance (in His love), he is considered as a
savage animal, nay, he is counted as one of the underground worms. The
teacher must be the cause of progress of men and not of their abasement,
he should be a means of exaltation and not of

* Vide Heb. xi. 16.


THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL page 59

their fall, he must enlighten them, and not darken their minds.


“Therefore, you must strive with your soul and heart to convert
the children of Israel, into the sons of God: and ennoble the descendents
of Abraham with science and knowledge (which will lead them to God),
and set yourself in writing books (for their spiritual education).


“If there were no light of God’s religion, then, this world would
have been a dark home; and had not the spirit been the life of guidance,
then mankind would have been the captive of the grave! To-day, is not a
day wherein the children of Israel should be occupied with the doubts of
Voltaire, or suspicions and dubiousness of Darwin. On the contrary in
this enlightened age and Divine cycle, they must apply themselves to the
study of realities and significances, and to understand the Divine
Mysteries. They should uplift the melody of sanctification and praise:
and worship the Holy One! They must proclaim the Unity of the world of
humanity, and propagate the universality of mankind! They should ignite
a Candle: the light of which would be eternal, and plant a tree whose fruit
would remain for ever! They should take up the harp and the song, and
with David’s melody praise and sanctify the loving Lord; and thus pray
unto Him ‘O Lord of Hosts! shew the people of Israel, Thy evident proof,
and help them to worship and adore Thee! so that they receive the
Manifest Light from the Praised Place. Thou art the Powerful, the Potent!
and Thou art He who guideth those who have gone astray!’ ”

(Signed) “‘ABDUL BAHA ‘ABBAS.”


page 60
THE RIVER OF LIFE

‘ABDUL BAHA’S EPISTLE TO A BAHAI
TEACHER


“O FRIEND of the Kingdom (of God)! since we separated from
each other, and you departed for Europe and America, I keep you in
continual remembrance, and I pray and make supplication at the
Threshold of God, seeking assistance and grace for you. I hope that
wherever you go, you will uplift the voice of the Kingdom of God; hoist
the heavenly banner and shew forth divine splendour. May you open
your mouth by the assistance of the Holy Spirit, and summon the thirsty
ones to (drink of ’ the Water of Eternal life, and baptize them with fire
and the Spirit. You should blow such a trumpet blast that the dead (of
soul) may become quickened, the blind (of heart) see, the deaf hear, and
those who are silent may find the tongue of utterance.

“O Friend! the Kingdom of God is infinite in its power, but the
‘army of life’ must be couragous in order that (the Kingdom of God) may
give them continual assistance. I hope that through whatever land or
country you may pass you will, like the Spring-cloud, shower down
(Spiritual) benefits, and cause that land to become verdant and pleasant:
or like the soul-nourishing breeze, you will bring new life to the sick, and
diffuse the odours of the fragrance of the love of God, and may you hoist
the banner of ‘Unity of the world of mankind,’ and extirpate the root of
prejudices, whether of religion, country, kind or politics; and may you
become the means of bringing about friendships and unity amongst the
various communities (which you will meet).


“Praise be to God, that the doors of the Kingdom


EPISTLE TO A BAHAI TEACHER
page 61

are open, and that souls from the East and the West are entering, one
after another with ardent longing. The arena is wide and the time for the
race is at hand. Now is the opportunity for displaying power and strength
of both heart and soul! The tribes, communities and nations of the world
are struggling and striving like unto reptiles and earthworms, in the lower
strata of the earth; and by means of Mathematics they are making
wonderful and strange plans, and are seeking to build homes and nests
for themselves (on this earth). Do thou make an effort to transform these
little worms into birds of the Highest: which shall find wings and soar in
this infinite space (i.e. in the limitless Kingdom of God).


“O Friend! the light of truth is spreading; strive so that the eyes
may become clear and behold the Light, and the tokens thereof. It is a
pity that in this blessed age, and enlightened century, people should be
deprived of the abundant Grace of the Kingdom. Therefore, sacrifice
thyself for the souls of men in order that thou mayest become the means
by which many who are now poor may discover the Heavenly Treasure;
those who are sick may know the Divine Physician, those who are feeble
may obtain Heavenly Strength; and orphans may recognise their
Heavenly Father: the weary may become refreshed, and the hopeless
learn to trust in the Grace of the most Merciful One, and those who are
athirst may find the Spring of Life, and those who are afraid may take
refuge beneath the protection (of Him who giveth) safety and peace.


“O Friend, the good things and favours of this material world are
finite and inconstant. When you really look deep into them you will
perceive that the good things of this transitory world exist merely to avert
pain. For instance, thirst is discomfort and is

page 62
THE RIVER OF LIFE

troublesome; water is used to relieve the heat (caused by thirst); it is not
that water in itself hath any pleasantness or deliciousness. Likewise
hunger does harm and food is employed to avert the harm (caused by
hunger); it is not that food in itself has any intrinsic merit beyond
satisfying hunger.


“Again, weariness is an inconvenience: sleep relieves that
inconvenience; it is not that sleep in itself has any particular merit. Such,
then, are the (so-called) enjoyments of this transitory world. That which
hath true enjoyment (indwelling in its nature), is the Grace and bounties
of the Kingdom of God. It is the perfection of humanity! It is science and
knowledge (which lead men to the knowledge of God). It is Attributes of
the Merciful One, and the Eternal Life. Upon thee be the glory of the
Most Glorious One!

(Signed) ‘ABDUL BAHA ‘ABBAS.



[Following the above English translations are 32 facsimile pages of Tablets
written in Persian and some in Arabic, as described by the translator on the title
page and in the preface of this book. -Thellie Lovejoy]