THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-12-01

documents prepared by the lawyer who courageously agreed to conduct an

appeal against the conviction of the three bahá’ís imprisoned in mashhad,

despite various threats and intense pressure to dissuade him. The lawyer, mr. mahmud kiani bahjestani, a muslim, submitted an appeal to the

Supreme court on behalf of mr. Sirus zabihi-m oghaddam, mr. hedayat

kashefi-Najafabadi and mr. Ataollah hamid-Nasirizadeh, the first two of

whom have been sentenced to death, and the third to ten years’ impris-onment. mr. b ahjestani was not able to interview his clients, nor was he

permitted to have copies of the material in the defendants’ files held by the court. he was, however, allowed to view those files and to make such notes

as he wished. he did not appear before the Supreme court but submitted

his appeal in writing.

The first of the documents enclosed is a provisional translation of the

notes taken by mr. b ahjestani from his clients’ files held by the judiciary in

mashhad. The second is a provisional translation of the appeal submission

itself.

As you are aware, bahá’í prisoners have rarely been allowed a lawyer dur-

ing their so-called trials. reference to page 3 of the enclosed extracts from

the defendants’ files (pages 38–40) and to section 4 on page 3 of the appeal 288.1

288.2

288.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

652submission makes it clear that, before the initial trial, branch 8 of the mash-

had court summarily imposed a lawyer of its own choosing, mr. ehtesham

Shahabi, on the accused, failing to observe the legal requirement to allow

them ten days to arrange for their own lawyer. The last sentence of the extract from pages 118–120 of the accused’s files shows that when branch 3

of the mashhad court came to retry the case, it having been referred back

by the Supreme court, the defendants were once more deprived of their

right to select their own advocate, as mr. Shahabi had again been appointed

to represent them. in light of the foregoing, the international uproar at the

evident injustices in their case may well have been a significant factor in the

prisoners’ having for the first time been allowed to engage a lawyer, to make

their appeal.

The two enclosed documents confirm beyond any shadow of a doubt the

total baselessness of the claim by the iranian government that mr. ruhol-

lah rohani was executed for crimes threatening the security of iran, and

that the three prisoners arrested in mashhad with him at about the same

time, who have now appealed against their sentences, are guilty of any such

crimes. in the absence of any merit in the government’s claims, its attri-

bution of crimes against the state to these prisoners appears to be merely

another attempt to silence the protests of civilized countries and to justify its inhuman treatment of its b ahá’í citizens.

The first item in the lawyer’s extracts from his clients’ files is a copy of

the text of a document that the authorities asked the prisoners to sign, com-mitting themselves to desist from participation in bahá’í activities. had the

prisoners complied with the authorities’ wishes by making this commit-ment, they would surely have been freed. you will note that there is nothing

in this commitment regarding activities by the accused against the security of the country.

The spuriousness of the charge that the three defendants acted against

national security becomes even clearer when one studies the text of the lawyer’s appeal submission to the Supreme court. unfortunately, however,

jurisdiction over the bahá’í community has been given to the ministry of

information, which deals with security and intelligence matters and comes

under the direction of the religious leader of the islamic republic of iran

(Ayatollah khamenei). further, the appeal of the three accused is dealt with

by the judiciary, which also falls under a fundamentalist ally of mr. khame-

nei, and this department has normally paid no attention to the appeals of bahá’ís in the past. consequently, it is not known whether the submission 288.4

288.5

288.6

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

65of the lawyer in the present case will be treated any differently. it is hoped

that intensive pressure brought to bear on the iranian government from

outside the country and the resolutions passed by such bodies as the euro-

pean u nion and the u nited Nations will make a difference. . . .

Department  of tHe secretariat

289

Update on the Situation of the Bahá’ís

Imprisoned in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]