AUSTRALIAN
BAHÁ’Í STUDIES
AUSTRALIAN BAHÁ’Í STUDIES
Volume 3, 2001
ISSN 1442-2875
Australian Bahá’í Studies promotes analysis
of issues relevant to the Australian Bahá’í
community. It encourages exploration of
the history, teachings, and philosophy of
the Bahá’í Faith in systematic, reflective, or
artistic ways. It thus offers itself as a medium
of communication for anyone who is
interested in the development of the
Australian Bahá’í community.
In view of the Bahá’í vision of scholarship
as an activity accessible to all, rather than
one limited to a small academic community,
Australian Bahá’í Studies seeks input from
people
of
diverse
backgrounds
and
viewpoints, in a way that assists in
redefining what is meant by scholarly
practice. The readers of the journal have an
interest in teaching the Bahá’í Faith, serving
its administrative organs, and participating
in its community life. It is also of interest to
those studying the model that the Bahá’í
community offers for the resolution of
contemporary problems.
Dedication of the Bahá’í House of Worship in Sydney
Peter J. Khan
Competing for the Oneness Of Mankind:
The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic Games
Kiser Barnes
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and
the Bahá’í Faiths
Mark T. Wood
Meditation and Health
Paul Friedman
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration
Felicity Rawlings-Sanaei
Unhealthy Science, Religion, and Humanities: The Deep
Connection and what Bahá’u’lláh had to say about it
Ron House
Aboriginal Health, Healing, Spirituality,
Truth and Forgiveness
Diana rose Yoka
Volume 3, 2001

AUSTRALIAN
BAHÁ’Í STUDIES
Editors:
Vahid Payman and Felicity Rawlings-Sanaei
Association for Bahá’í Studies Australia - Board:
2001-2002:
Ahmad Aniss, Borhan Borhani, Sima Hashemi, Sandra
Langshaw, Vahid Payman, Felicity Rawlings-Sanaei, Ashley
Reynolds
2002-2003:
Ahmad Aniss, Borhan Borhani, Sima Hashemi, Bidar
Homsey, Christopher Jones, Wimali Lakmini Weerakoon
Australian Bahá’í Studies is a publication of the Association
for Bahá’í Studies Australia.  The views expressed in this
Journal are those of the authors and do not necessarily
reflect the opinions of the Editors or the Board of the
Association.
Editorial policy
Australian Bahá’í Studies promotes analysis of issues relevant to
the Australian Bahá’í community. It encourages exploration of
the history, teachings, and philosophy of the Bahá’í Faith in
systematic, reflective, or artistic ways. It thus offers itself as a
medium of communication for anyone who is interested in the
development of the Australian Bahá’í community. In view of the
Bahá’í vision of scholarship as an activity accessible to all, rather
than one limited to a small academic community, Australian
Bahá’í Studies seeks input from people of diverse backgrounds
and viewpoints, in a way that assists in redefining what is meant
by scholarly practice. The readers of the journal have an interest
in teaching the Bahá’í Faith, serving its administrative organs, and
participating in its community life. It is also of interest to those
studying the model that the Bahá’í community offers for the
resolution of contemporary problems.
Note to Contributors
Australian Bahá’í Studies is open to submissions on all
subjects. But it particularly seeks articles of practical
relevance to the Australian Bahá’í community, and which
might not be readily published elsewhere. These may
include analyses of specific teaching methods, projects,
and outcomes; reports on issues of management,
leadership, and administration; application of the Bahá’í
Teachings to issues of concern in Australian society;
community histories; biographies; literary essays; and
essays on Bahá’í theology and religious studies.
Contributions may be in the form of essays, review articles,
case studies, and reports on research in progress.
The editors are seeking papers that have the following qualities:
• The paper has clearly defined and properly focussed aims
• The paper makes a contribution to thinking on the subject
• The paper is presented in a coherent manner
• The paper provides an appropriate review of existing literature
on the subject
• The paper provides appropriate and accurate citations for all
material referred to
All submissions are subject to editorial review and should
be submitted in IBM-compatible electronic form or on
paper, in duplicate, to:
The Editors
Australian Bahá’í Studies
173 Mona Vale Rd,
Ingleside NSW 2101
email: abs@bahai.org.au
Layout & cover design: Stephen Beale
ISSN 1442-2875

Contents
Dedication of the Bahá’í House of Worship in
Sydney....................................................................... 3
Peter J. Khan
Competing for the Oneness Of Mankind:
The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic
Games ..................................................................... 14
Kiser Barnes
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the
Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths...................................... 28
Mark T. Wood
Meditation and Health ........................................... 54
Paul Friedman
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration ............ 78
Felicity Rawlings-Sanaei
Unhealthy Science, Religion, and Humanities: The
Deep Connection and what Bahá’u’lláh had to say
about it ................................................................... 99
Ron House
Aboriginal Health, Healing, Spirituality, Truth and
Forgiveness ........................................................... 113
Diana rose Yoka
Notes on Contributors ......................................... 124

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001

Dedication of the Bahá’í
House of Worship in
Sydney
Peter J. Khan
With the approach of the fortieth anniversary of the Dedication of the
Bahá’í House of Worship in Mona Vale, on the outskirts of Sydney, on 16-17
September 1961, the time seems appropriate for me to convey my personal
impressions of an event which may properly be described as marking a mile-
stone in the emergence of the Australian Bahá’í community.
Comprehensive reports of the events associated with the Dedication were
published in the “Australian Bahá’í Bulletin” in October 1961 and in the
United States “Bahá’í News” in December 1961.  My comments, which should
be regarded as supplementary to those reports, are offered in the hope that
they will convey an additional perspective from one who was involved in the
process, as a member of the National Spiritual Assembly and as the Secretary
of the Temple Dedication Committee.
The National Convention:
The story of the Dedication opens at the National Convention held in
Sydney at Ridván 1961.  It was clear to all attending this event that a serious,
and indeed critical, situation existed.  The Dedication date had been announced
well ahead of time, and overseas visitors were making plans to attend, in
addition to the commitment made by Amatu’l-Bahá Rúhíyyih Khánum to
play a leading role in the Dedication, following the pattern instituted when
she dedicated the Temple in Wilmette in 1953 as the representative of the
Guardian.
However, the construction had proceeded slowly, and convention delegates
were deeply dismayed to see how much remained to be carried out to com-
plete the edifice.  Despite generous contributions by the Guardian and the
Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land, acting as Custodians of the Faith, the
bulk of the construction cost was falling on the small Australian Bahá’í com-
munity, which was composed of people of modest resources.  As a result, the
funds contributed fell well below the amount required; the builders, Welch
Dedication of the Bahá’í House of Worship in Sydney

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Brothers, had become aware of this, and were apprehensive about the pros-
pects for securing the necessary funds from an organization as obscure as the
Bahá’í National Assembly.
In addition, the builders found themselves encountering constructional
problems far beyond their experience and expertise.  No dome of such di-
mensions had been built in the region.  The marble cladding process to be
used for the exterior surface of the building was not well developed.  No
crane was available of sufficient size to place in position the flèche at the
apex of the dome.  Building work in Sydney was almost entirely on conven-
tional, rectangular structures; innovative architecture such as the Sydney Opera
House lay in the future.
Anxious and apprehensive, the delegates consulted at length about whether
or not to recommend that the National Spiritual Assembly defer the Dedica-
tion until the construction was complete.  As a Convention officer I was in a
good position to observe the dynamics of this consultation. On the one hand
were those whose orientation was spiritual – but carried to the extreme of
impracticality – urging the group to disregard entirely the apparently bleak
prospects for completion, and to rely solely on the movement of spiritual
forces which would miraculously solve all problems if the step of faith was
taken; they were aided by the small band who confidently anticipated physi-
cal calamities to envelop the planet before 1963 and who urged completion
on schedule to avoid the prospect of the envisaged major social disruption
further deferring completion of the Temple.
On the other hand were found sound practical realists, some with busi-
ness experience, who argued passionately that it was folly to proceed to an
irrevocable commitment to the September Dedication while so much uncer-
tainty existed about the pace of construction, and the level of contributions.
They also pointed out that too little time remained for arranging the Dedica-
tion ceremonies.
Eventually the following Convention recommendation was adopted for
consideration by the National Spiritual Assembly:
“That every effort be made to hold the Temple Dedication next Sep-
tember, but, if necessary, the Dedication be postponed.”
The wording was a marvel of compromise, offering solace to all points of
view.
Actions of the National Spiritual Assembly:
Eight members of the Assembly gathered at the Hazíratu’l-Quds some
two weeks after the National Convention, with Hand of the Cause Collis
Featherstone – who was at that time a member – absent in Central America to
attend the inaugural National Conventions of Honduras and Nicaragua.  The

meeting was dominated by the imperative need to resolve the Dedication
question, over which the Assembly members were almost evenly divided.
I recall clearly the earnestness of the consultation, and the several occa-
sions during which we turned in prayer for guidance as we wrestled with this
seemingly insoluble issue.  We felt the weight of responsibility most keenly
during this process.  There were extended periods of silence, with each mem-
ber analysing the diverse views, and yearning for illumination.  When we felt
ready to vote, the mood of the meeting was such that several members did so
with tears in their eyes, well aware of the consequence of their actions.
Having decided to proceed with the September date, the National Spir-
itual Assembly set in motion a number of practical measures to resolve its
problems.  It arranged a meeting with the Architect, Mr. John Brogan, and
the principals of Welch Bros., where the Assembly decision was announced.
It was clear that we could not provide the funds by the time of the Dedica-
tion.  However, we committed ourselves to fully meeting our financial obli-
gations in due course, so that a satisfactory arrangement was reached by which
payment was carried out progressively over an extended period, not being
completed fully until 1965.  The total cost of the building was £214,000,
considerably in excess of the architect’s initial estimate of £150,000 because
of the extraordinary measures necessary to solve the iyrious constructional
problems.
The Assembly decided not to reappoint the Temple Construction Com-
mittee, and assumed responsibility itself for the acceleration of the pace of
building.  The Assembly met with the builders on the site every month when
it gathered in Sydney for its regular meeting.  Between meetings I was as-
signed the task of going to the site every Saturday afternoon to meet with
representatives of the construction team, and to prepare an itemized report,
which was mailed to all members on Monday morning.  Their comments and
questions, conveyed to me by telephone if necessary, were presented at the
following Saturday afternoon meeting at the Temple site.
In these days of email and fax communications, it strains credulity to
recall that in 1961 the Xerox machine was unknown in Sydney, and multiple
copies could be made only by the use of carbon paper or by resort to duplica-
tors with inked cylinders and wax stencils.  For the weekly reports I chose to
make 9 copies using carbon paper inserted between sheets of the thinnest
paper I could buy, called onion-skin.  One of the consequences of this indo-
lent approach was that the ninth copy was only semi-legible at best, and had
to be sent to the Assembly member I judged to be most tolerant or having the
greatest visual acuity.  The original was crystal-clear but suffered from a
proliferation of small holes where my pounding of the manual typewriter
keys with enough force to impress the ninth copy had surgically dissected the
looped paper in letters such as o, e, g, and a; the result was a document hav-
ing the beauty and appeal of fine Irish lace!
Dedication of the Bahá’í House of Worship in Sydney

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
A Temple Dedication Initial Planning Committee was constituted on 14
May, with a mandate to consider the Dedication needs and report back at the
next Assembly meeting on 9 June.  At that time it was reconstituted, with the
same four members, as the Temple Dedication Committee and assigned its
duties with 14 weeks to accomplish them, and a total budget of £1,000 for
such purposes as rental of halls, hiring buses and temporary seating at the
Temple, food catering, printing of programmes, and the conduct of a major
public meeting.
Temple Dedication Committee:
This Committee functioned in a simple but effective manner, aware that it
was desperately short of time and grievously lacking in resources or experi-
ence.  Even now, some four decades later, I thrill at the memory of the man-
ner in which the great majority of the Sydney metropolitan area believers
rallied to the needs, working sacrificially to the point of exhaustion, display-
ing decision-making qualities they were unaware they possessed, and delib-
erately refraining from seeking reimbursement for many of their expenses.
We formed nine sub-committees, the names of which indicate the scope
of the work: hall arrangements; transport and accommodation; catering; tape-
recording and public address; printing; publicity; devotional programme for
Dedication; choir for Dedication service; post-Dedication one-day tour.  Time
did not permit circulation of comprehensive minutes and reports.  Each mem-
ber of the Dedication Committee supervised the work of two or three sub-
committees and acted as a member of those bodies.  The Committee met
weekly, where the individual members reported on their sub-committees; from
those meetings a consolidated report went to the monthly National Spiritual
Assembly meetings, together with its recommendations and requests for guid-
ance.  On two occasions, in June and in September, just before the Dedica-
tion, a meeting was held for all Committee and sub-Committee members, to
ensure that all those involved were well informed and that the proper co-
ordination occurred.
Despite our best efforts, there were some gaps and deficiencies in the
organization; fortunately they were overcome through the good judgement
and initiative of individual sub-committees members who discreetly extended
their endeavours to meet the needs.  In some instances, sub-committees proved
incapable of carrying out their functions; the responsibility of preparing a
draft of the Dedication devotional programme had to be reassigned to Ad-
elaide believers at the last minute, as did the task of printing the programmes
for the Dedication ceremonies.
Unfortunately, there were some exceptions to this description of the com-
munity response to the challenge of the approaching Dedication.  A small
group of believers, including a few sub-committee members, were incurably
pessimistic, and lost no opportunity to criticize or  denigrate the efforts of

others.  Ultimately their role inadvertently became beneficial, in that the rest
of the community resented their negativity, and was motivated to prove them
wrong through achieving a highly successful Dedication.
Dedication Publicity:
Four decades later it is difficult to comprehend the magnitude of the ob-
scurity in which the Bahá’í Faith in Australia was enshrouded in 1961.  Aus-
tralia was very much a racially homogeneous country sheltering within the
confines of the White Australia Policy, solidly Christian with appalling mis-
conceptions about the other religions of the world.  In such a setting we sought
to take advantage of the Dedication to secure publicity for the Faith.  Among
our many limitations was the fact that neither of the two Publicity Sub-Com-
mittee members, of which I was one, had any experience of this field, to
which was added the fact that funds did not permit our securing professional
advice.
The situation was resolved by the occurrence of what appears in retro-
spect to have been something of a miracle.  We prepared an advance-notice
press release, delivering it by hand to the principal newspapers and other
media outlets.  Late one afternoon I visited the “Daily Telegraph” newspaper,
located then in Castlereagh Street, Sydney, clutching the press release.  The
front desk referred me to an experienced reporter, Mr. Pat Burgess, who was
free at the time and was prepared to see me, probably because he had no idea
of the meaning of the word “Bahá’í” and was curious.  In the ensuing discus-
sion with me, it soon became clear to Pat that I was totally inexperienced in
the field of public relations and had no real idea about what I was doing.  He
insisted that I sit down, gave me a pad of paper to take notes and dictated over
the next one hour and a half, a comprehensive set of measures which should
be carried out to take full advantage of the opportunities.
Central to the strategy he set out was that efforts be made to secure a
feature story at an early stage in one of the afternoon newspapers, since these
papers were always searching for material.  This article could then be used as
a springboard for publicity in other media.  This was achieved, with a two-
page spread in “The Sydney Sun” newspaper on 30 August, and accomplished
its purpose.  The other measure he advocated was an endeavour to persuade
the Lord Mayor of Sydney to hold a Mayoral Reception for Rúhíyyih Khánum
and other Bahá’ís; if this could be arranged, it would give a much-needed
sense of legitimacy to the Dedication proceedings, and would open many
doors at media outlets.  It was achieved also, and is described in some detail
later.
Building on the “The Sydney Sun” interview and the commitment of the
Lord Mayor, we could confidently approach the major newspapers to consider
special supplements, supported by paid advertisements from the builders and
other contractors, and to interest radio and television stations, popular
Dedication of the Bahá’í House of Worship in Sydney

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
magazines such as “Australian Women’s Weekly” and “Woman’s Day” as
well as cinema newsreel producers such as Movietone News.  The “Reader’s
Digest” resisted our efforts to have a colour picture of the House of Worship
on its cover, but did mention the word “Bahá’í” on the cover, a seemingly-
minor accomplishment which had a far more beneficial effect in the Pacific
Islands than we had envisaged.  A three-page list of the publicity items appears
in the October 1961 Bulletin but does not include magazine articles which
appeared during that month.
The Lord Mayor’s Reception:
The National Spiritual Assembly made a formal approach in writing to
the Lord Mayor, Alderman Harry Jensen, followed up by several meetings I
held with his Executive Aide, who carefully studied brochures and booklets
on the Bahá’í teachings.  Following several days of anxious waiting, we were
exhilarated to receive the news that the Lord Mayor would host a reception
for Rúhíyyih Khánum and a number of other guests up to a specified limit on
Wednesday 13 September 1961.
It fell to the National Assembly to decide who was to be invited to the
Mayoral Reception.  It assigned the task to me, in view of the need for the
selection of overseas guests to be made almost at the last minute when it was
clear who would be available.  The Assembly specified that about half the
number should be from other countries, and the Australian component should
include interstate representation if possible.
In my ignorance I thought this to be a reasonably straightforward task
when compared to the various crises which were arising on almost a daily
basis.  Little did I realize the intense feelings which were aroused among a
few Bahá’ís from the Sydney metropolitan area who felt, for various reasons
including their own perception of their social standing, that they should have
been invited.  I was subjected to a barrage of telephone calls, at home and at
my laboratory, as this small number of indignant people tried to pressure me
to add them to the list; clearly they felt that a university student from a rural
background was incapable of appreciating either the subtleties of the issue or
the teaching opportunities which would result when they told their neigh-
bours later of their participation in a Mayoral Reception in the Sydney Town
Hall.  Since I was much more concerned about obeying the National Spiritual
Assembly than about the offence I was causing, I was able to resist their
pressures without undue distress.
Bahá’ís of the present day, four decades later, cannot possibly appreciate
the sense of exaltation which all the believers invited to the Mayoral Recep-
tion felt, when we were received by the Lord Mayor in the Town Hall, and
witnessed the dignity and respect he accorded to Rúhíyyih Khánum.  From a
position of unmitigated obscurity, the Faith had now progressed to a point
where television cameras and newspaper reporters were clamouring to record

the honour being shown by the Lord Mayor of Sydney to our representatives.
Harry Jensen proved to be a genuine and gracious host, taking a sincere
interest in the diversity of peoples from 19 countries who formed our party.
A minor aspect was his shock of recognition when I arrived, designated by
the National Assembly as the escort of Rúhíyyih Khánum.  I had some months
previously organized a complex University Commemoration Day event in
which Mr. Jensen and I, together with another student, had played a central
role, much to his enjoyment.  As a consequence we greeted each other with
unusual warmth, to the puzzlement or consternation of some others.
The Dedication Events:
The official reports well describe the various events held with the partici-
pation of 320 believers from 19 countries.  This was the largest gathering of
Bahá’ís ever held in Australia; contrast this to the present day where one
local Bahá’í community, that of Brisbane, has itself a greater number of be-
lievers.
Three events stand out in my memory, each with its own distinguishing
characteristic.  One was the Dedication itself on Saturday 16 September, with
300 Bahá’ís gathered, in a spirit of joy and thanksgiving that this vast enter-
prise had been successfully accomplished.  There was a sense of victory at
this achievement, and a surge of confidence in the power of the Faith to ac-
complish the seemingly impossible.
Second was the Public Inaugural Service on Sunday 17 September.  No
words of mine can convey the excitement of Rúhíyyih Khánum as we drove
along Mona Vale Road from the city, and saw the roadside lined with parked
cars for hundreds of yards in each direction from the entrance to the Temple
grounds.  Police were directing traffic, television cameramen jostled for the
best positions, and the eagerness of the public to be part of the occasion, all
contributed to the air of celebration.  One very busy policeman received fleeting
fame, when interviewed by a newspaper reporter to give his impressions,
through his description of the white Temple edifice as “the angel of Sydney”.
Over 2000 people were accommodated in two devotional services in a packed
Temple auditorium.  We were dimly aware that life for the Bahá’í Faith in
Australia would never be the same; although we were sufficiently realistic to
know that this level of public interest would not endure, we were aware also
that, on this pleasant Sunday afternoon in September, we were crossing a
bridge into a new and enduring degree of public awareness, with our days of
obscurity left behind.
The third highlight was on Friday evening 15 September, when 250 be-
lievers gathered at the Macquarie Auditorium in Sydney to hear Rúhíyyih
Khánum speak to us for two hours about the progress of the Faith, its plans
and activities, and especially about Shoghi Effendi.  All present left the meet-
ing with a heightened sense of family – that the Bahá’í community was not a
Dedication of the Bahá’í House of Worship in Sydney

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
congregation in the traditional religious sense, was far more than an assem-
blage of adherents to a religious belief, but was, in a very real sense, united
by bonds as strong, or even more so, as those within a happy family.  This
sense of close relationship was intensified by our common experience of the
grief at the recent passing of Shoghi Effendi, and our deep awareness of the
need for sacrificial action in service to the Faith, so that the Universal House
of Justice could be brought into being at Ridván 1963.
Personally significant to me, some years later, was my attendance at the
inaugural Hyde-Dunn Memorial Lecture in the Marriott Hotel in Sydney on
15 September 1995, knowing that this was the exact spot on which had stood
Anzac House where a Public Meeting had been held on 16 September 1961,
with Rúhíyyih Khánum as the featured speaker to an audience of 400 people.
Amatu’l-Bahá Rúhíyyih Khánum:
This account would be incomplete without further reference to Rúhíyyih
Khánum, who was the first and only member of the Holy Family to bless the
Australian continent with her presence.  She came to Australia accompanied
by Miss Jessie Revell, Treasurer of the International Bahá’í Council, with
whom I developed immediately a warm friendship.  Both were ill:  Rúhíyyih
Khánum had contracted a very bad cold, which had weakened her and re-
sulted in prolonged and uncontrollable coughing spasms from time to time,
much to our distress; Jessie Revell had fallen while en-route to Sydney, and
had badly bruised an ankle and an elbow, which caused her much pain.  Both
were determined to discharge their responsibilities to the extent possible.
However the “Daily Telegraph” newspaper, which gave almost daily cover-
age to the events of the Dedication, carried a brief article on 15 September
headed “Sickness of Bahá’í Leader” which was greeted with mixed feelings
by Rúhíyyih Khánum.
The National Assembly asked me to act as their escort and to drive them
to the various meetings; my cynical Bahá’í youth friends were astonished at
the sudden improvement in my driving skills, and my newly-found scrupu-
lous adherence to all traffic laws.  One ostentatious Bahá’í visitor from abroad
looked with disdain at my Holden vehicle with which I carried out these
duties, and tried to pressure me to allow him to rent a Cadillac for this pur-
pose.  Fresh from surviving the Lord Mayoral Reception, I had no trouble
resisting his pressures, so that I had no need to resort to informing him that
1961 Sydney was devoid of any Cadillacs, much less such vehicles for rental.
The only transportation incident worth noting was my success in locking the
car with the key still in the ignition when I took Rúhíyyih Khánum for a
media interview before the Dedication events began.  Rúhíyyih Khánum solved
the problem by stepping out into the traffic to wave down a passing NRMA
service operator, who was able to open the Holden with alarming ease, using
a bent piece of wire.

There were few hotels of international standard in Sydney in those days.
The National Assembly, rejecting both the Hotel Australia adjoining Martin
Place and the newly-built Chevron Hotel in King’s Cross as being too osten-
tatious, selected the Carlton-Rex Hotel, then located on Pitt Street, to accom-
modate Rúhíyyih Khánum and Jessie Revell.  This created a new problem for
me, as the National Assembly in session gave me firm instructions that I was
to arrange payment of their hotel accommodation, using funds it placed at
my disposal.  Innocently I made the appropriate arrangements with the front
desk at the hotel, after the guests had checked in.  The first sign that this
simple process was too good to last occurred next morning when I came to
pick them up.  Jessie Revell was the first to arrive in the hotel lobby to meet
me.  After the customary greetings, she informed me in a pleasant conversa-
tional tone that “Do you know that Rúhíyyih Khánum has decided to chop
your head off?”  I confessed myself unaware of this prospect, disclosed a
great personal interest in the subject, and was enlightened by Jessie that
Rúhíyyih Khánum insists on paying her expenses when travelling.  Caught
between the firm insistence of the National Assembly and the unyielding
position adopted by Rúhíyyih Khánum, I sought unsuccessfully to persuade
Rúhíyyih Khánum through appeals to reason and the administrative author-
ity of the National Assembly.  I made a pathetic and unconvincing effort to
arouse her feelings of pity at the unenviable position I was in.  Attempts at
compromise failed also, and I chose abject surrender as an optimal survival
skill, confident that the National Assembly would show mercy to me.
I will forever remain grateful to the opportunity of informal association
with Rúhíyyih Khánum during the days around the Dedication.  I was struck
by her endless curiosity, her genuine interest in people in all walks of life,
and her keen intelligence.  I was at that time engaged in electronics research
which impinged on the newly emerging scientific field of radio-astronomy.
She was not aware of this subject but her ability to ask incisive questions and
to both absorb and integrate new information enabled her to very quickly
acquire an impressive grasp of the key issues and the potential of this field.
Uppermost in my memory is that Macquarie Auditorium meeting, to which
I have referred.  Rúhíyyih Khánum was still grieving over the passing of
Shoghi Effendi but forced herself to recount her experiences of World Centre
life with him, being aware how eager were the friends to hear about them.
Exploring these memories took an emotional toll on her, greatly exacerbated
by a question from an unthinking member of the audience to the effect of
“What did you think when you found that the Guardian had passed away?”
Rúhíyyih Khánum gave a kindly answer, but it was clear to Jessie Revell that
the question had distressed her greatly and she alerted me to this fact.
When the meeting was over, Jessie and I joined Rúhíyyih Khánum who
told us she felt very unsettled and not ready to return to her hotel.   We found
a small coffee shop and took some refreshments.  Rúhíyyih Khánum was
Dedication of the Bahá’í House of Worship in Sydney

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
plunged in gloom, and our efforts to divert her had no effect.  On other occa-
sions I had teased her, as gently and respectfully as I could, but when I tried
this time her only response  was to issue the instruction “Jessie, you have one
good leg, you kick him!” which my friend Jessie chose wisely to ignore.
As the evening continued, Jessie was clearly very tired and we delivered
her to her hotel.  Rúhíyyih Khánum remained unsettled and we drove along
the darkened streets of Sydney, which was in those days devoid of any late-
night life.  Eventually Rúhíyyih Khánum announced that she was hungry,
and felt she could sleep if she ate something.
Where was I to take her?  I was sufficiently familiar with King’s Cross to
know that it was out of the question.  I was vaguely aware that there were a
few elegant supper clubs in the centre of the city, none of which I had ever
entered; desperation forced me to suggest them, only to find them rejected.
Eventually Rúhíyyih Khánum clarified her thinking to the point where
she decided she wanted a good hamburger.  This was most alarming to me,
even though it cast me on familiar territory as a consequence of my late-night
excursions in the city in search of hamburgers when carrying out my research
experimentation at Sydney University.  I was well aware of the small number
of places where hamburgers where available late at night.  Most provided a
product of appalling standard, but one was excellent – that in George Street
at Central Square adjoining a petrol service station catering to all-night taxis.
My alarm was that I knew from experience that the clientele of this place was
drawn from the seamiest segments of Sydney life, including those of highly
dubious professions.  The thought of Rúhíyyih Khánum meeting with such
uncouth and profane customers was beyond me.
I told her that we would go to Central Square but that I would leave her in
the car while I obtained the hamburgers and we could eat them in the vehicle.
I was silently congratulating myself on having resolved the problem when
we arrived in the precincts of the place and Rúhíyyih Khánum decided she
was also thirsty and needed coffee with her hamburger.  There was no option
but to accept the dictates of fate, and so we entered this setting, while I si-
lently uttered a fervent prayer that no Bahá’í would discover that I had taken
so eminent and so honoured a guest of the Australian Bahá’í community to
such a place.
The memory remains with me today.  The hamburger shop had no seating,
with all clients standing at the counter, jostling for space if necessary.  Coffee
was provided in thick mugs so sturdy that they would damage the concrete
floor if dropped on it.  Rúhíyyih Khánum stood in the midst of this scene,
surrounded by taxi-drivers and women of the night, captivating all by her
bearing and her genuine interest in them.  The entire atmosphere was changed
from its usual rowdiness and abuse to one of calmness and quiet, as she brought
more and more people into the conversation through her sincere interest in
them and her friendliness.  The others present were totally unaware of who

she was, but reacted spontaneously to her presence by refining their manners,
speech, and relationships.  Rúhíyyih Khánum had a wonderful time, and left
the shop animated and glowing, lifted out of her sadness.
As I reflected on this experience in later weeks, I drew many important
lessons from it:  the virtues of sensitivity and a non-judgemental attitude in
individual conduct; the implications of our avowed commitment to the one-
ness of humankind; the means of attracting others to the Faith through our
involuntary and unstudied expression of Bahá’í teachings in daily life.
These are but a few of the experiences associated with the memorable
visit of Rúhíyyih Khánum to Sydney, a bounty which gave us a new aware-
ness of the monumental achievements of the Guardian and which brought us
closer to the World Centre of the Faith.
Conclusion:
Despite the passing of forty years, it is still too soon to assess accurately
the significance of the Temple Dedication.  I have referred already to the
increase in confidence of the Bahá’ís, the strengthening of the bonds of fam-
ily, and the welcome enhancement of public awareness of the Faith and its
Temple.  The believers realized, almost with a degree of surprise, that they
belonged to a religion which was admired by the public for its inclusiveness
and reasonableness, which further strengthened their self-confidence.
The Temple Dedication triggered a surge of teaching activity all over
Australia in pursuit of the Ten Year Crusade goals.  As reported at the Dedi-
cation Conference there were 14 Local Spiritual Assemblies in Australia in
1961, identical with the number existing at the commencement of the Cru-
sade at Ridván 1953.  This number had to be doubled in the 19 months re-
maining till Ridván 1963.  That this formidable goal was achieved, and in-
deed surpassed, was a measure of both the spiritual energy released in the
Bahá’í community as well as the degree of sacrifice made by the friends in
all parts of the country.
The practical needs in the aftermath of the Temple Dedication forced us
to rise to a higher level of efficient functioning.  Provisions had to be made
for caretaking, cleaning and the maintenance of the building and its surround-
ing areas.  Guides were required for the steady stream of visitors, and weekly
devotional services had to be planned, conducted and supported by regular
attendance.  All was accomplished, often through heroic efforts of believers
who sought no recognition or expressions of gratitude, but found their satis-
faction and fulfilment in the act of service.  In so doing they established a
pattern which continues in Australia to the present day.
Dedication of the Bahá’í House of Worship in Sydney

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Competing for the
Oneness Of Mankind:
The Influence of the Bahá’í
Faith on the Olympic Games*
Kiser Barnes
From 15 September to 1 October 2000, the world will celebrate the Sum-
mer Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia.  The Bahá’ís of Sydney have placed
the Cause in a winning position by ensuring that the 350,000 visitors hear
about the Faith.  Four billion people worldwide will tune in to at least part of
the largest peacetime event in history.  It is the first time the Olympic Games
will be held in a city with a Bahá’í House of Worship.  A beautiful full-colour
pamphlet about the Faith has been distributed to hotels, tourist centres, do-
mestic and international airports, and at the Olympic Village.  The Temple
was painted inside and out. A website about the Faith is prepared.  As to how
the Olympics have aroused the believers to action was presented in the Aus-
tralian Bahá’í Bulletin, September 2000 under the article, “Sydney Bahá’ís
go for Olympic gold”.
At the start of the Games, the spirit of competition, the ardour for win-
ning, the tension and excitement that builds in every Olympic year stir in the
heart a combination of feelings and questions about spiritual victories versus
material achievements.  This presentation attempts to demonstrate that the
Bahá’í Teachings and the experiences of the Faith provide a new way of look-
ing at the Olympics.  Are the Games caught up with the spirit of the age - the
oneness of humankind?  What do the Bahá’í Teachings say about competi-
tion?  How has the Revelation enhanced certain values which are cultivated
by the l0,300 athletes from 200 countries who will compete in the Games?
Are the Olympics connected with something far greater for humanity than
the glory of sport and the love of country, namely, the oneness of peoples and
nations - as the title of this presentation suggests?
*  A Presentation delivered at the Bahá’í World Centre September 8, 2000

The fierce contest afoot in the world between religion and the forces of
ungodliness also comes to mind.  At stake is the triumph in human history of
the fundamental spiritual principle of our age - the oneness of mankind -
described by Shoghi Effendi as, “the pivot around which all the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh revolve.”1  On this theme the Guardian wrote, “A titanic, a spir-
itual struggle, unparalleled in its magnitude yet unspeakably glorious in its
ultimate consequence, is being waged” for the unification of humankind.2  It
is this planetary contest between the spiritual and the material that provides
an excellent perspective for considering whether the Olympics’ spectacular
tapestry of races, peoples, colours, and nations advances the principle of the
oneness of mankind.
The spirit of competition the Olympics excites invites a comparison be-
tween some of the hard fought victories won by the Faith to Olympic suc-
cesses.  For this purpose, some features of the heroic struggle out in the
Mázindarán province of Persia at Tabarsí in l848 have been selected.  The run
away triumph of Mullá Husayn, Quddús and their companions demonstrates
that the establishment of the Bahá’í Faith is a compelling factor in the Olym-
pics’ universal attraction.  The heroic contests reveal as well that spiritual
values foster victories, even Olympic achievements, and establish excellent
criteria for evaluating triumphs.  For, in the days to come, the world will
rejoice that a small band of untrained, frail body believers, at the cry, “Mount
your steeds, O heroes of God”3, competed with their lives against desperate
forces of spiritual oppression, so that their Faith could win a place in the
world.
The Influence of the Revelation
The impact of the Faith on the fortunes of the Olympics is directly con-
nected to the penetrative influence of the Word of God.  The Revelation’s
creative power operates upon society through Bahá’í institutions and believ-
ers and through progressive movements, like the Olympics.  Although, it is
clear that only the Word of God as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh can achieve the
revolutionary regeneration of society, the Olympic movement, promoting
international cooperation, is a remarkable development towards world unifi-
cation.
The revival of the Olympic Games in l8964 is an aspect of that “unity of
thought in world undertakings” which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said the nations would
Competing for the Oneness of Mankind:   The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic Games
1.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, (2nd rev. ed., Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1974), p.42. The Guardian also describes the principle as “ the chief and distinguishing feature of the
Faith He (Bahá’u’lláh) proclaimed”, “the cornerstone of Bahá’u’lláh’s world-embracing dominion”,
and  “the foundation of the Faith of God and the distinguishing feature of His Law” p.36.
2.
Ibid., p. 170.
3.
Nabíl-i-A’zam (Muhammad-i-Zarandí), The Dawn-Breakers, Nabil’s Narrative of the Early Days of
the Bahá’í Revelation. (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932), p. 341.
4.
David C. Young, The Modern Olympics, A Struggle for Revival (Baltimore: John Hopkins University
Press, l996), pp. 8l-95.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
achieve as one of the “Seven Candles of Unity”5.  The great variety of inter-
national gatherings of world leaders called by the United Nations, the grow-
ing number of transnational projects, congresses, conferences, summits, and
global events of every sort, including such great sports events as the African
Cup of Nations, the Commonwealth Games, and the Olympics, champion
the spirit of internationalism, global identity and the oneness of mankind.
The Games illustrate that “universal fermentation” which Shoghi Effendi said,
“…in every continent of the globe and in every department of human life, be
it religious, social, economic or political, is purging and reshaping humanity
in anticipation of the Day when the wholeness of the human race will have
been recognized and its unity established.”6  Thus, through the compelling
power of the Revelation the Olympics are connected with the social and spir-
itual evolution of mankind.
Religion and the Ancient Olympic Games
The influence of the Faith on the Olympics is also consistent with the
impact of religion on the evolution of sports contests.  Scholars in the history
of sports have discovered that many athletic activities began as religious events.
Primitive people competed through games against invisible and visible forces
that threatened their survival.  Games were played to promote fertility among
crops and animals.  Tribes played a cup-and–ball game to symbolically “catch
the sun” for the growing season.7
The ancient Olympic Games began as a religious festival held every four
years successively for a thousand years.  They were held in 776 BC through
393 AD. Everything connected to the competitions was linked to religion.
Only Greeks could participate and the events symbolised the unity of the
Hellenic population.  The contests took place in a sacred valley called Olym-
pia, named in antiquity after Mount Olympos, the highest mountain in Main-
land Greece and in mythology the home of the greatest Greek gods and god-
desses.  The Games were held in honour of Zeus, the king of the Greek dei-
ties.8 The Games struggled on until 393 AD, when the Roman emperor
Theodosius abolished them9.  It took 1503 years for the Olympics to return in
its full international flavour in l896, when the modern Olympics began in
Athens.  It was the Frenchman Baron Pierre de Coubertine who revived the
Olympic idea.10 He envisioned that the modern Olympics would eventually
become both symbol and centrepiece of a new global era of togetherness
5.
Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, l978), p. 32.
6.
The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, op. cit. p. 170.
7.
Charles S. Prebish, ed. Religion and Sport, (Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press, l993), p. 83.
8.
M.I. Finley and H.W. Pleket, The Olympic Games: The First Thousand Years (London: Chatto & Windus
Ltd, l976), pp. 6-10, 14-24.
9.
William Oscar  Johnson, The Olympics, A History of the Games, (Times, Inc., New York, l996), p.9;
Finley and Pleket, ibid. P.13.
10. Young, op. cit. p. 8l.

among nations.11  The Games are indeed a symbol of a new era of global
unification, but the concept of the oneness of mankind, as revealed by the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, is the true centrepiece of the new age of global
unification.
Principle of the Oneness of Mankind
For example, Shoghi Effendi explained that the unity of nations implies
that “national rivalries, hatreds and intrigues will cease and racial animos-
ity and prejudice will be replaced by racial amity, understanding and coop-
eration.”12  The Games, however, have served as a surrogate battlefield for
the cold war, a stage for terrorists and protests of every sort.  In some ways,
the Olympics are still about the need for the symbolic satisfaction of nations
who have used them in a political way to prove the superiority of their cul-
tures, traditions, or political social systems.  As we look back some of the
incidents have been quite amusing.  Some host nations have refused to fly the
flags of nations they had disagreements with along with the other flags in the
Olympic stadium.  Olympic officials have carried runners they favoured across
the finish line to keep others from winning.13
Hitler saw the Summer Games in Berlin in 1936 as an opportunity to
spread the blatant Nazi anti-Semitism, the false religion of Aryan superiority
and racial hatred.  The Soviet Union made its Olympic debut in l952, which
heightened the cold war confrontations.  China competed for the first time in
l984.  In ancient times all wars were suspended during the period of the Ol-
ympics.  In modern times, however, three Olympic games were cancelled
due to war.  The summer games have been plagued by boycotts.  There are
still nations that can send only a few athletes.  The industrial nations, with
better coaching, better training facilities, larger, healthier, better-educated
population, and a sports culture, win most of the medals.
These setbacks, the current exposure of corruption in the International
Olympic Committee, the use of banned drugs by athletes to enhance per-
formances, indicate that a hard race is on for the spirit of the Games and for
what the Olympics could symbolise for mankind.  As Shoghi Effendi said:
“There are so many movements in the world . . .akin to various Bahá’í
principles; indeed we can almost say that the principles of Bahá’u’lláh
have been adapted by thinking people all over this planet.  But what they
do not realize and what the Bahá’ís must therefore teach them, is that
these principles, however perfect, will never be able to create a new soci-
ety unless and until they are animated by the spirit which alone changes
the hearts and characters of men and that spirit is recognition of their
Competing for the Oneness of Mankind:   The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic Games
11. Young, op. cit. p. 8l.
12. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, op. cit. p. 204.
13. Johnson, op. cit., p. 14.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
divine origin in a teacher sent from God, in other words, Bahá’u’lláh.
When they recognize this, their hearts will change and a change of heart
is what people need, not merely a change of intellectual outlook.”14
The process of achieving the oneness of mankind includes the growing
realization that our basic loyalty is to mankind as a whole rather than to any
nation or smaller group.  This is the spirit in which those involved in the
Olympics must move towards.  The Olympics beyond Sydney will be en-
tirely different when the financial, coaching and other resources of the world
are equitably shared under Bahá’u’lláh’s system of world order. The impact
of the Revelation will lead eventually to Games which fully reflect the spir-
itual principles of unity.  Bahá’ís know, from the ringing clarifications of
Shoghi Effendi, that the road leading to the oneness of the whole body of
nations, which will be the ruling principle of international life, is long and
arduous.15 Still, the Olympic Movement is an important step in the right di-
rection.  This does not mean that Bahá’ís are blind to its weaknesses and
failures.  Thank goodness that most people who are caught up in cheering for
their country or for certain groups no longer feel that winners from this group
are superior to those who lose.16
There has emerged the most incredible claim that the Olympics is a reli-
gion; that sports is a religion.17  I was astonished to read in a well researched
scholarly book on religion and sport the declaration that there is a god of
running! A god of swimming! And other athletic gods!18  That sports is a
more accurate expression of personal religiosity than Christianity, Judaism,
or any of the traditional religions.19  This complex issue seems to be con-
nected to Bahá’u’lláh’s words: “The weakening of the pillars of religion hath
strengthened the foolish and emboldened them and made them more arro-
gant … the greater the decline of religion, the more grievous the wayward-
ness of the ungodly.  This cannot but lead in the end to chaos and confu-
sion.”20
The Writings explain that “the purpose of religion … is to establish unity
14. Helen Hornby, Lights of Guidance, (New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1983), p. 425,( from letter
written on behalf of  Shoghi Effendi to Bahá’í Youth of Lima, Peru, l7 November l945.
15. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, op. cit. p. l93.
16. Torbjorn Tannsjo,  “Is Our Admiration for Sports Heroes Fascistoid?” Journal of the Philosophy of
Sport, XXV, l998, pp. 23-34. The author argues that nationalism within sports is declining because of
commercialisation and internationalism. He points out, however, that nationalistic values are rein-
forced by publicly broadcast sports events such as the Olympic Games, and nationalism’s orientation
towards abstract symbols: the flag, the team, as a representative of the nation (see especially p.24).  Mr.
Tannsjo’s basic premise is that the Olympic winners are admired based on a value judgement that those
who win, if the competition is fair, are excellent, and their excellence makes them valuable. This excel-
lence is based on the strength they exhibited in the competition. He argues that the losers are consid-
ered less valuable, because in losing they demonstrate weakness, which leads to contempt for the loser.
17. Presbish, op. cit. pp. 54-62, 74, l53, 180.
18. Ibid., p. 7l.
19. Ibid., p. 7l.
20. Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1953) p. 28.

and concord amongst the peoples of the world.”21  Can anyone seriously be-
lieve that basketball or soccer can eliminate the fierce hatred and prejudices
in the hearts of people? The Writings reveal that “Religion is verily the chief
instrument for the establishment of order in the world…”22. Can there be a
world order founded on the rules of football?  Religion, unlike sports, forms
a unique foundation for a general system of meaning related to ultimate is-
sues and questions. It affects the way people think about the world, about
social relations and processes and even about sports.  It defines the meaning
and purpose of life.
Values
Another element in which the influence of the Faith may be seen is that
the Writings and the experience of believers reveal for mankind important
features about the character of victories, and how to evaluate achievements.
The Revelation has renewed and strengthened the very qualities that render
Olympians victorious.  These values, which foster victories of every kind, as
well as the order of their importance to human endeavours, are set out in the
Writings.
The animating influences of these qualities were demonstrated in the star-
tling victories for the unification of humankind won at Fort Tabarsí.  And by
this I mean the powerful spiritual values — vision, courage, heart, discipline,
focus, passion, trying, perseverance, and many more — manifested by the
champions of Tabarsí are the strengths that make Olympic winners.  The
value orientation underlying competitive sports, excellence, fairness, etc., may
seem unconnected with religion.  But, those values that are central to sports,
whether in relation to successful individual or team achievements, are more
or less secularized versions of the core values of religion.23
Perhaps, only Bahá’ís fully appreciate, at this time, that the great quali-
ties that the champions out in Tabarsí showed - clarity of vision, commitment
to excellence, striving with heart, and many more - are spiritual values.  The
Bahá’í view on these values, whether seen in sports or other systems of en-
deavours, is that: “it is religion … which produces all human virtues, and it is
these virtues which are the bright candles of civilization.”24  And that: “these
virtues do not appear from the reality of man except through the power of
God and the divine teachings, for they need supernatural power for their
manifestation…”25
It is from this perspective that humankind will come to realize that sports,
including the Olympic Games, is merely a carrier of religious qualities.  Thus,
Competing for the Oneness of Mankind:   The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic Games
21. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh: Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978), p. 129.
22. Ibid., p. 63.
23. Presbish, op. cit. p. 97.
24. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, (3rd ed., Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, l975),
p.98.
25. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981), p. 80.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
the Olympic contenders merely exhibit some of the eternal values which, in
the champions of the world, heroes even for today, out in Mázindarán, and
elsewhere in the Land of the Martyrs, marked the depth of their belief.  We
can only comment on a few here.
VISION AND FOCUS: Mullá Husayn and that little band of compan-
ions at Tabarsí caught the vision and purpose of the contests in this way:
“You have been chosen of God,” Bahá’u’lláh addressed those champions,
who went on to bequeath the world matchless examples of transformation,
courage and other spiritual strength, “to be the vanguard of His hosts and the
establishers of His Faith.  His hosts verily will conquer.  Whatever may be-
fall, victory is yours, a victory which is complete and certain.”26  “This is the
Day,” Bahá’u’lláh has stated, “when the loved ones of God should keep their
eyes directed towards His Manifestation, and fasten them upon whatsoever
that Manifestation may be pleased to reveal.”27 “Regard not the children of
the world and all their doings but fix thy gaze upon God and His never-
ending dominion.”28  Great athletes also come to learn that they must keep
their eyes fixed on the ball, or on the target, or on the main goal; that they
must concentrate fully at critical moments.
COURAGE:  No sickness of the soul is worse than discouragement.
Perhaps, this is why the Manifestations of God renew and strengthen the
principles of courage and encouragement.  The courage of the dawn-breakers
was superhuman.  Leaping on horseback, time and time again, Mullá Husayn
and his companions decimated in every fair encounter the treacherous forces
arrayed against them.  These examples show that the words of God inspire
courage.  Bahá’u’lláh in a Word of Wisdom reveals the secret of their might:
“The source of courage and power,” He tells us, “is the promotion of the
Word of God and steadfastness in His love.”29
HEART: In the Olympic competitions, you won’t find the matchless
manifestations of spiritual strength, or physical strength, that Mullá Husayn
and his companions exhibited out in Mázindarán.  The manner in which they
sallied out to defend the Cause arouses new insight into what it means to
compete with, or to show, heart when facing challenges.  Among athletes
heart is regarded as one of the most essential values.  It is a mysterious qual-
ity.  The dawn-breakers possessed it on a grand scale.
All the world loves the heart of a competitor who refuses to give in.  The
person who seizes opportunities.  The contender who exerts herself far beyond
26. The Dawn-Breakers, op. cit. p. 349.
27. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, l976), p. l7l.
28. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, op. cit. p. 139.
29. Ibid., p. l56.

capacity.  People love to witness souls involved in wholesome contests who
will not accept defeat when it would be reasonable to do so.  This is what
heart does.  This is what the martyrs showed the world.  Heart is grounded in
exuberance, a kind of irrational commitment to an endeavour.  Heart involves
an enthusiastic, spontaneous, uncalculating, innocent and sometimes even a
naïve response.  It involves becoming involved with the world.  It is the
behaviour of those who are young and young at heart.  It enables one to
answer the call, for better or for worse, in situations where others fear to
tread, or are indifferent.30
Heartful service to God is like this, where believers come to understand
that the true victory must first occur in the heart.  Bahá’u’lláh has revealed:
“Say, the power of God is in the hearts of those who believe in the unity of
God and bear witness that no God is there but Him, while the hearts of them
that associate partners with God are impotent, devoid of life on this earth,
for assuredly they are dead.”31  Those who serve or play with heart often
become hardened to reason.  Often there is a lack of self concern.  We see
something of heart in the Olympics, as a result, I think, of the impact of the
Revelation.  Youth competing for gold for themselves and for their nation,
with extravagant flings of energy, with grace and poise, with courage and
heart, will also be competing symbolically for the oneness of mankind.
Speaking of gold, when the believers out at Tabarsí struck out for the
headquarters of the imperial army, undaunted by the overwhelming forces
arrayed against them, they penetrated the apartments of several princes.  They
discovered coffers filled with gold and silver, all of which they disdained to
touch.32  The gold of God’s good pleasure was sufficient for His hosts.
Perhaps, those believers turning away from those treasures reminds you
of Atalanta’s race.  You know the tale — how the princess, Atalanta, tall and
wild and beautiful, one of the swiftest runners in Greek mythology promised
the king she would marry him who outraced her.  Those who failed must die.
With her eyes fixed on the ideals of chastity, freedom and service, she raced
across the mountains.  Many challengers were slain.  The cunning Hippomenes
laid three golden apples over the course.  The beautiful Atalanta fled like a
shadow.  The first apple startled her.  She paused.  But even as Hippomenes
stretched his hand, she sprinted away.  The innocent maiden hovered over the
second golden apple.  But slipping again from Hippomenes’ hot grasp, she
flew over river, vale and hill.  Then, she lingered over the third apple.  The
weight of the three apples slowed her down, and Hippomenes easily passed
her by.  The greed of gold defeated the youth in the race of her life.  In the
Competing for the Oneness of Mankind:   The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic Games
30. See John Corlett, “Virtue Lost: Courage in Sport”, Journal of the Philosophy of Sport, XXIII, l996, pp.
45-57.
31. Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in the compilation, The Power of Divine Assistance, (National Spiritual Assembly
of Canada, 1982), p. l5.
32. The Dawn-Breakers, op. cit. p. 367.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
flush of victory, Hippomenes forgot to thank the goddess, Aphrodite, for her
help.  In her wrath, the snubbed goddess transformed Hippomenes and Atalanta
into giant cats.  And so, according to Greek legend, they stay to this day, the
beautiful but lazy lion and the swift lioness.
TRYING: I have the impression that the world senses that deep inside
the Olympics there is something dear to be found.  All the competitors will
be trying their best to win.  How well does the value of trying speaks of the
influence of the Faith. In the martyrs it was shown in their humility, vision,
nobility, and confidence.  It is the spirit of trying which quickens and sustains
true champions.  The notion of trying also involves an irrepressible intention
and willingness to serve with heart.  It is not the full accomplishment of the
service but simply the willing of it.  Trying is a kind of learning.  It is a focus
on the transformation of the self and not on others.
Much could be said about the values of striving for excellence, learning
the fundamentals of the endeavour, the importance of training, initiative, seiz-
ing opportunities, the sense of urgency, each person playing his part, the ex-
ecution of plans, anticipating responses, absorbing setbacks, obedience to
those with higher responsibilities, the passion for winning, the importance of
teaching oneself, etc.  All of these will be exhibited in the Sydney Games.
From our perspective, all of these, and more, have been demonstrated in the
experiences of the Faith and are promoted in the Bahá’í Scriptures.
The experience at Fort Tabarsí shows that humanity lives and moves
through faith.  The source of the martyrs’ heroism was the ardour of their
faith; unquestioning belief in the Manifestation; the vision of God’s mercy,
generosity, and the triumph of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh; a passionate love for
Him, Who is “the Victorious,”33 “the Giver of victory”34, “He Who knows the
reality of victory”35.  The believers at Tabarsí were champions of vision and
commitment.  Their story is that of hard work, commitment, guts, confidence,
loyalty, and noble behaviour, benchmarks for building the world.
Competition
There are some who feel that athletic games, even the Olympics, are trivial
pursuits.  How does the Faith regard competition?  Do the Prophets manifest
physical valour?  The Olympics is fundamentally competitive.  In contrast, it
is often thought that religion is fundamentally noncompetitive.  The Bahá’í
Writings permit competitiveness, in which a spirit of service to God and
mankind, and love of others, is encouraged.  However, the spirit of self-pro-
motion and defeating others in order to exalt oneself is discouraged.
Bahá’u’lláh’s words on the subject are clear: “Vie ye with each other in
33. Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, l975), p. 120.
34. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, op cit. p. 125.
35. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, op cit. p. 196.

the service of God and of His Cause.  This is indeed what profiteth you in this
world, and in that which is to come.”36  Shoghi Effendi announced with a
great deal of satisfaction that “(the) Knights (of Bahá’u’lláh) …are vying
with each other for the spiritual conquest of the unsurrendered territories
and islands on the surface of the globe.”37  He urgently appealed to all Bahá’í
communities in l95l to “vie with one another in emulating the example of
their African sister communities ranking among the youngest in the Bahá’í
world . . .”38  A little later, he alerted believers, “. . . the Pacific area, . . . (was)
now competing for the palm of victory with the African continent itself.”39
‘Abdu’l-Bahá advised that students should practice gymnastics as part of their
education.40  Shoghi Effendi allowed that, “Playing games is not in the least
forbidden. It should be encouraged if they are of an athletic nature.”41  Thus,
participation in athletics is a matter of individual discretion.
In their human station, the Prophets exhibited physical valour and fitness,
excellence of bodily form and grace.  Indeed, a sign for which the first disci-
ples of the Báb had been told would mark His identity was that he would be
free from “bodily deficiency.”42  On the glorious day, following the declara-
tion of His station in Baghdád, as he departed the city for the banishment to
Constantinople, Bahá’u’lláh displayed “masterly horsemanship”, as a sym-
bol of His divine authority.  During the ten year exile in Baghdád, He had
always chosen to ride a mule.  Thus, mounted on a stallion of the finest breed,
for the first time the startled population marvelled at His “splendid horse-
manship”.43
As to His response to those who dared to compete with Him, the words of
Bahá’u’lláh are quite explicit: “O concourse of divines! Can any one of you
race with the Divine Youth in the arena of wisdom and utterance, or soar with
Him into the heaven of inner meaning and explanation? Nay, by My Lord, the
God of mercy . . .Can the one possessed of wooden legs resist him whose feet
God hath made of steel?  Nay, by Him Who illumineth the whole of crea-
tion”44.  And: “O ye leaders of religion! Who is the man amongst you that
can rival Me in vision or insight? Where is he to be found that dareth to claim
to be My equal in utterance or wisdom?”45
Competing for the Oneness of Mankind:   The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic Games
36. Quoted in, The Advent of Divine Justice, (3rd ed., Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, l975), p. 83.
37. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, l965), p. ll7.
38. Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World l950-l957, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1958),
p.73.
39. Ibid., p. 111.
40. Star of the West, The Bahá’í Magazine. Published from 1910 to 1933 (Oxford: George Ronald, 1978)
vol. 9, p. 9l.
41. From a letter dated 27 December l932 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to a National Spiritual
Assembly.
42. The Dawn-Breakers, op. cit. p. 57.
43. H. M. Balyuzi, The King of Glory, (Oxford: George Ronald, 1980), p.165.
44. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh to the kings and leaders of the world (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre,
1967), p. 76.
45. Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992), p. 23.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
The exclamation of Quddús, upon seeing the Báb for the first time, rings
with wonder: “Why seek you to hide Him from Me?  I can recognize Him by
His gait.”46 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was said to have been “a strong and excellent swim-
mer” and “a fearless horseman”47.   Shoghi Effendi loved sports.  During his
days at Oxford, he played tennis, “a game he loved and in which he ex-
celled.”  Laughing most of the time while he played, he was marvellously
active in the sport, ambidextrous and possessed lightning speed.48
Perhaps, the physical valour of the Central figures and of the beloved
Guardian may contribute to the promotion of wholesome athletic competi-
tions.  But will anyone dare to race in the days to come without recalling
Bahá’u’lláh’s forced, barefoot run through a hostile, jeering mob from
Shimírán to the Siyáh Chál of Tihrán?  Will weight lifters lift their burdens
without recalling that Bahá’u’lláh was fastened down with chains in the dun-
geon prison?
The Symbolic Character Of The Games
An element of the influence of the Faith on the Olympics may lie in the
manner in which the Faith seems to have strengthened the symbolic charac-
ter of the Games.  The world’s acceptance of its symbols may be the Olym-
pics’ most outstanding breakthrough.  The Olympic flame stands for the con-
cept of the sacred fire of ancient times.  It expresses the struggles necessary
to maintain unity.  It recalls the myth of Prometheus, the Greek demi-god,
who stole the fire so that mortals could prepare food, vanquish cold and dark-
ness and become almost equal of the gods.49  It was at the Games in Berlin in
l936 that the Olympic flame was lit for the first time.50
The flame is said to represent youth, their thoughts and actions. It is borne
to the Games by a system of relay torches.  This symbolizes that he who held
the torch was the weary runner passing the fire to a fresh runner, who is
stronger.  Like the old generation passing on the torch of service to the young.
The Olympic flame stands up straight.  Sometimes the winds bend it briefly,
but it bravely stands up again.  It represents an upright life.  Lit during the
spectacular opening ceremony, it burns day and night in the Olympic sta-
dium through the duration of the Games.51  How much more nobly could this
flame glow if it would remind the world of words of Bahá’u’lláh that: “The
Word of God hath set the heart of the world afire.”52
In the days to come the Olympic flame may cause mankind to wonder
46. The Dawn-Breakers, op. cit. pp. 69-70.
47. Blomfield, Lady (Sitárih Khánum), The Chosen Highway, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1967),
p.87, p. 191.
48. Riaz Khadem, Shoghi Effendi in Oxford, (Oxford: George Ronald, l999), pp. l02, l03.
49. Much of this section is taken from the excellent article by Luc Silance, “Symbolism in Olympism-
Symbolism in Art” International Olympic Academy, 26 Session l986, pp. ll6 to 129.
50. Ibid., p.120.
51. Ibid., p.120.
52. Gleanings, op. cit. p. 316.

how the people far away up in the mountains of Mákú denied the Báb even a
candle to light his prison cell.  Or perhaps, it may recall the candles Mullá
Husayn placed in the hands of each of his companions at Fort Tabarsí, as they
rushed out to meet Quddús.53  I want to share with you the words of the
Master, which I feel summarize beautifully the symbolism of light. “The
time has come when all mankind shall be united, when all races shall be
loyal to one fatherland, . . . and racial and religious bias pass away.  It is a
day in which the oneness of humankind shall uplift its standard and interna-
tional peace, like the true morning, flood the world with its light.”54
The marvellous Olympic symbol, the five intertwined rings of blue, yel-
low, black, green and red represents five parts of the world: Europe, Asia,
Africa, Australia and America respectively.  It stands for the unification of
the nations, which, as stated earlier, Coubertin wanted to unite through sport.55
It was in l920 that the Olympic flag bearing for the first time the symbol was
presented.56
Speaking of flags, it may be recalled that Mullá Husayn at the instruction
of the Báb unfolded the “Black Standard” that symbolised a new religion
was on the march.  Under this banner, Mullá Husayn, and his fellow-disci-
ples, fearlessly proclaimed the message of the New Day.57  Like all flags
generally, it was a symbol of identification, evoking feelings of devotion and
pride.  It was “that earthly emblem of an unearthly sovereignty (which) waved
continually over the heads of that small and valiant band, summoning the
multitude who gazed upon it to renounce the world and to espouse the Cause
of God.”58
Conclusion
During the Olympics millions will be aroused by the flags and the national
anthems.  Nationalism, individualism, and secularism are parts of the evolution
of the Games and will have to run their course.  But many will cherish the
appeal of honest, wholesome, noble endeavour, athlete against athlete.
Competitors honouring themselves, their country, and their opponents with
their very best performances.  Perhaps, there are Olympic enthusiasts who
can imagine with us that the athletes will compete for the oneness of mankind.
That all those who support the Games are advancing the principle of world
unity.  Perhaps, the Games will help the world see that mankind can have no
true life until it is one.  And should the Games last until the end of the Bahá’í
Dispensation, there will always be athletic heroes to cheer, and, perhaps, a
Competing for the Oneness of Mankind:   The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic Games
53. The Dawn-Breakers, op. cit. p.352.
54. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982), p.
153.
55. Silance, op. cit. p. 119.
56. Ibid. p. 122.
57. Dawn-Breakers, op. cit. p. 325.
58. Dawn-Breakers, op. cit. p. 351.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
little girl who will tumble the length of a balance beam, and in one perfect
instant achieve the kind of transcendent greatness that will live forever in the
hearts.
But the Olympic medals are trifling in comparison with winning the gold
of striving for God’s good pleasure, won by the heroes of the Faith. The
world will come to learn that the great competitive zeal, focus and dedica-
tion, which have ever animated Olympic winners, are no match for the ar-
dour of faith which transformed and quickened the dawn-breakers.  This is
easily the most striking feature of the comparisons we have drawn: that the
spectacular Olympic victories are far less important than the victories won
for God.  The Faith enables us to treasure the true character of spiritual victo-
ries in relation to other successes, even in relation to the winning of Olympic
gold.  All the world will eventually rejoice, I think, in this component of the
greatness of the Revelation.
So we have gathered up in the days before the Olympics considering the
influence of the Cause.  We are resolved upon our present course of vying
with the world for its unification.  For we know that “He Who leadeth to true
victory is come.”59  Take care to have the influence of the Faith keep us alert
to the cunning of Hippomenes.  Take care to recall the influence of the Faith
that lies in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words that our joy can be perfected by arising for
the triumph of the Cause.60  Take care to remember that mankind eventually
comes to love its religious heroes.  Take care, then, to be influenced by the
lamentation in the Fire Tablet: “Dost Thou wail, or shall I wail? Rather shall
I weep at the fewness of Thy champions.”61
From the youth who were out in the Mázindarán province, we learn that
competition in the path of God and victory is one.  Bahá’ís everywhere are
still racing with the world to achieve that ultimate victory which Bahá’u’lláh
promised.  From the influence of the Faith on the Olympic Games and on all
progressive movements, and in the spirit of the symbolic character of the
Games, we take the torch of fire from the dawn-breakers.  We, too, are stirred
by the passion of the Games.  But whether the ardour runs to basketball,
football, swimming, gymnastics, or track or field events, it does not match
our zeal for the principle of the oneness of mankind.  It doesn’t matter that at
this time only a few million cherish the victories for the unification of man-
kind gained by the “lion-hearted” believers out in the Mázindarán province,
who, at the cry, “Mount your steeds, O heroes of God”, made the Word of the
Lord of Hosts triumphant.
Let us take heart and consider that the Olympics are among those forces
which, as Shoghi Effendi says, “whether or not cognizant of the regenerat-
ing Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in this age are operating, each in its respective sphere
59. Gleanings, op. cit. p. 259.
60. Bahá’í Prayers, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982), p. 203.
61. Ibid., p. 214.

Competing for the Oneness of Mankind:   The Influence of the Bahá’í Faith on the Olympic Games
and under His all-encompassing guidance, for the uplift and salvation of
humanity.”62  Let the fire of the Olympic contests symbolise that the struggle
begun at Tabarsí is still unwon.  May the Olympic Games remind us that we
are competing in the service of God.  May they inspire us to say to Mullá
Husayn, Quddús, Táhirih, and all the martyred champions, heroes for the
unification of peoples and nations: ‘Rejoice!  For your spirit of victory is
alive in us. And we are worthy of you.  For we, too, have mounted our steeds,
O Heroes of God, for the glory of the oneness of mankind.’
62. Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982) pp. 145-147.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Genealogical Background
of the Founders of the
Bábí and the Bahá’í
Faiths
Mark T. Wood
Foreword
Genealogy and the chronology of a person are almost always important
for creating a skeleton structure upon which to place or fill in other important
historical data.  See, for example, any entry in biographies/autobiographies
or books like Who’s Who in the World.
Arabic and Persian names are particularly difficult for the western reader
to differentiate, pronounce and/or remember. Many names seem to be the
same yet belong to different people and can only be differentiated by the
context in which they appear.
For example, Robert Balyuzi writes in Khadijih Bagum the Wife of the
Báb: “Finally, it may prove useful if I refer the reader to … The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh, The King of Glory.  For in these are to be found many of the
persons and incidents mentioned in this   essay, but in their wider context.
The reader’s path may also be eased if, whilst reading the essay, reference is
made to the Genealogy of the Báb ….”  (Khadijih Bagum the Wife of the Báb,
p. xii)
It is interesting to note that four men, with rather varied backgrounds, had
two or more direct descendants that married the Báb,  Bahá’u’lláh or
Bahá’u’lláh’s siblings and/or direct descendants.
1. Mirza Isma’il-i-Vazir of Yalrud, was a Persian of great wealth. His son
married Bahá’u’lláh’s sister Sarih Khanum & his daughter became
Bahá’u’lláh’s first wife.
2. Haji Mirza Ali, was a Persian and the paternal uncle of the Báb’s mother.
He had one daughter that married the Báb, one grandson that married
Bahá’u’lláh’s daughter, Furughiyyih, and two grandsons that married

Bahá’u’lláh’s granddaughters Diya’iyyih Khanum and Tuba  Khanum.
3. Mirza Siyyid Mihdi-i-Nahri was a man of great wealth. His granddaugh-
ter married Bahá’u’lláh’s son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and his great-grandson mar-
ried his great-granddaughter who was also Bahá’u’lláh’s granddaughter
Ruha Khanum.
4. Shaykh Sultan, was an Arabian. His daughter married Bahá’u’lláh’s brother
Mirza Musa. His granddaughter married Bahá’u’lláh’s son, Mirza
Muhammad-Ali and his grandson married Bahá’u’lláh’s daughter,
Samadiyyih Khanum.
Most dates of the dates given in this compilation, and not footnoted, will
be found in the reference,  A Basic Bahá’í Chronology by Glenn Cameron
with Wendy Momen (1996).
A number of dates required some degree of extrapolation from the litera-
ture. For example: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s wife Fatimih [Munirih] Khanum, was
mentioned as being born about the time the Conference at Badasht was tak-
ing place (i.e. circa 1848) with no clear date being noted for her birth, in the
references used.  (Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p. 44, 341)
Some dates were easy to find and footnote, e.g. as, for Bahá’u’lláh and
Mahd-i-’Ulya’s son: Mirza Diya’u’llah born 15 Aug. 1864, later, lived near
Haifa, fell ill, died on 30 Oct. 1898. (Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p.
222, 277,   ‘Abdu’l-Bahá : The Centre of the Covenant p. 527)
And, some dates seemed to conflict. The parents of Shoghi Effendi:
Diya’iyyih  Khanum  married Aqa Mirza Hadiy-i-Afnan (in 1894, 1895, or
1896 according to the reference used). Again, the birth date of Shoghi Ef-
fendi, as known by his wife and, noted on the column of his sepulchre was
(Monday) 3 March 1896. After his death, Shoghi Effendi’s notebooks, writ-
ten in his own hand revealed, in fact, that he had been born on Sunday, 1
March 1897. (Shoghi Effendi, p. 186, The Priceless Pearl, p. 4)
Further clarifying information, as it comes to light, would be most wel-
come.
General Introduction
“It is sometimes remarked that very few women appear in the histo-
ries of the Middle East of the last century. The reason for this is that there
is often no information written down in contemporary records about them.
Most chroniclers of the time considered women so insignificant that very
little was recorded, or even orally transmitted, about their lives. Thus the
researcher into this period can rarely find more than a cursory mention of
the women who were obviously involved in the events of their day.
“The Bahá’í Faith recognizes the equality of women and men and sets
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
out the requirements for its establishment as a reality in society. We must
now progress quickly towards the day when all people everywhere accept
this truth and women are accepted into full partnership with men in all
aspects of life. Only then will the true contribution of women to the progress
of human civilization be wholly recognized and properly recorded.”
(Day of Glory: The Life of Bahá’u’lláh, by Mary Perkins 1992, p. 182-183)
“Even when speaking as a man, however, Bahá’u’lláh speaks as God’s
messenger, as a living example of entire devotion to God’s will. His whole
life is actuated by the Holy Spirit. Hence no hard and fast line can be
drawn between the human and divine elements in His life or teachings.”
(Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era by J. E. Esselemont 1980, p. 46)
“The overwhelming and all-pervasive power of God is infused into
every atom of His being that in every action He portrays the signs and
tokens of divine power. Those endowed with spiritual insight can see in
every move of the Manifestation of God, the attributes of God unmistak-
ably  apparent. His thoughts, His words, His actions are all motivated not
by human soul but by the Divine spirit.”
(The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh by Adib Taherzadeh 2000,  vol. 4 p. 135)
“Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and advance into the
ocean of acceptance, so that we may perceive with an eye purged from all
conflicting elements, the worlds of unity and diversity, of variation and
oneness, of limitation and detachment, and wing our flight unto the high-
est land and the innermost sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of
God.”
(The Kitáb-i-Iqan, translated by Shoghi Effendi, 1994 ed., p. 160)
I am greatly indebted to my half-brother John F. Wood (a Bahá’í living in
Canada) for introducing me to the Bahá’í beliefs, which led to my member-
ship in the Faith. In the preparation of this work, I would also like to ac-
knowledge the help extended to me by Daryush Arjomand of the Local Spir-
itual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the Gold Coast and other members of the
Bahá’í Faith.
Mark T. Wood
November  2000
Gold Coast
Queensland, Australia

Immediate Genealogy of the Báb (Siyyid ‘Ali-Muhammad)
Born  20 Oct. 1819 – Martyred  9 July 1850
Declaration of Mission – the night of 22 May 1844
“He [the Báb] would be young - neither tall nor short – large, kind,
dark eyes, finely  pencilled brows. He would not smoke, nor drink alco-
hol. He would be uninstructed in the learning of the world, His knowl-
edge would be immanent. He would be of the ‘Pure lineage,’ that is a
Siyyid, a descendant of the prophet Muhammad.”
(The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys 1991 ed., p. vii, The Chosen
Highway 1970, p. 12)
The parents of the Báb were descendants of the Prophet Muhammad.
Both parents of the Báb came of a family that took but one wife.
His father, Siyyid (Mirza) Muhammad – Rida (died 1820), a mercer of
Shiraz, Iran, married Fatimih – Bagum (died 1882) the daughter of Mirza
Muhammad-Husayn, a merchant of Shiraz.
Fatimih – Bagum, had three brothers. The Báb, their only child, after His
father’s death, was raised by His maternal uncle Haji Mirza Siyyid ‘Ali (sur-
named Khal-i-A’zam) one of the Seven Martyrs of Tihran.
(The Dawn-breakers 1975, p. 51,  The Báb 1975, p. 32, The Chosen
Highway 1970, p. 14, 76, 77)
The Báb had two wives: Khadijih – Bagum and Fatimih.
1. The Báb married in Aug. 1842, Khadijih-Sultan-Bagum (b. 1820 – died
15 Sept. 1882). Khadijih – Bagum was beautiful with lovely dark hair
and eyes, and soft creamy skin.
She was the daughter of Haji Mirza Ali, paternal uncle of the Báb’s mother.
Haji Mirza Abu’l-Qasim and Haji Mirza Siyyid Hasan (the ‘Great Afnan’),
were her brothers. She had two sisters, Zahra Bagum and one married to
Haji Mirza Siyyid Ali. Their father was not wealthy. [Khadijih-Bagum,
later, made a request to Bahá’u’lláh for His daughter, Furughiyyih’s hand
in marriage for her nephew Haji Siyyid ‘Ally-I-Afnan, a son of the ‘Great
Afnan’].  (The Báb 1973, p. 46)
A beautiful account of the Báb’s first marriage in 1842 was given by
Khadijih – Bagum.
When Ahmad Their son died at birth in 1843, the Báb stated:
“…that He was not destined to leave any progeny, …”
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
The Báb commented to Khadijih regarding one of her dreams “… You
awoke too soon.  Your dream portends that our life together will not last more
than two-and-a-half Years.”  (Khadijih Bagum by H. M. Balyuzi 1981, p. IX,
1, 2, 5-7, 33, 35)
In 1846 the Báb bequeathed all His property jointly to His mother and to
His wife who was to inherit subsequently the whole estate.  (The Báb by H.
M. Balyuzi 1973, p. 103)
2. The Báb married in 1847, 15 year old Fatimih (born 1832 – died Dec.
1916). She was a sister of Mulla Rajab-‘Aliy-i-Qahir, a Bábí from Isfahan.
This was after much insistence by Manuchihir Khan, the Governor of
Isfahan. This marriage occurred during the Báb’s six-month’s sojourn in
Isfahan.  (Revelations of Bahá’u’lláh vol. 2, p. 262)
When the Báb was taken away from Isfahan by the orders of Haji Mirza
Aqasi, the Báb had forbidden marriage after Him with either of His two
wives.
See statement attributed to Fatimih, preserved in University Library of
Cambridge.
(Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith by H. M. Balyuzi, 1970,
p. 34-35)
Circa 1855, Mirza Yahya (some years after the Báb’s martyrdom in 1850)
“…. inflicted dishonour upon the Báb, by marrying His second wife (Fatimih)
and giving her a month later in marriage to Siyyid Muhammad.”
(The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh by Adib Taherzadeh 1980,  vol. 1 p. 249)
“Bahá’u’lláh spoke to them on that day about Mirza Yahya and his
crew, during the Baghdad period; how Mirza Yahya took as his wife the
sister of Mulla Rajab-‘Ali, the second wife of the Báb, and then gave her
to Siyyid Muhammad-i-Isfahani, despite the injunction of the Báb. This
shameful deed, Bahá’u’lláh said, had prevented the mother of the Báb
from giving her allegiance to the faith.”
(Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, by H. M. Balyuzi, 1980, p. 418)

Immediate Genealogy of Bahá’u’lláh  (Mirza Husayn-‘Ali Nuri)
Born at dawn, 12 Nov. 1817 -  Passed away at dawn,  29 May 1892.
Declared Himself Manifestation of God – 22 April 1863
“The face of him [Bahá’u’lláh] on whom I gazed I can never forget,
though I cannot describe it. Those piercing eyes seemed to read one’s
very soul; power and authority sat on that ample brow; while the deep
lines on the forehead and face implied an age which the jet-black hair
and beard flowing down in indistinguishable luxuriance almost to the
waist seemed to belie. No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as I
bowed myself before one who is the object of a devotion and love which
kings might envy and emperors sigh for in vain!”
(Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith p. 56)
Bahá’u’lláh’s father: Mirza Buzurg, Vazir-i-Nuri (Mirza Abbas-i-Nuri),
noted calligrapher, was the son of Mirza Rida-Quli Big of the village of Takur,
in the district of Nur, of the province of Mazindaran. Descended from Yazdigird
III, the last king of the Sasaniyan dynasty (A.D. 226-651).
Bahá’u’lláh’s father: Mirza Buzurg (died 1839) had seven wives, three
of whom were concubines. He was survived by seven sons and five daugh-
ters.
Bahá’u’lláh’s mother: Khadijih Khanum had been married once before
and was widowed. She had one son and two daughters by her first marriage.
Mirza Buzurg, Vazir-i-Nuri with his second wife Khadijih Khanum had
five children, Bahá’u’lláh was their third child. (Bahá’u’lláh – The King of
Glory, p. 13, 17, 277)
1.   Sarih Khanum married in 1832 Mirza Mahmud, the son of Mirza Isma’il-
i-Vazir of Yalrud.Sarih Khanum (‘Ukht’) died in Tihran c. 1879.
2.   Mirza Mihdi died young before 1839.
3. Mirza Husayn-‘Ali (Bahá’u’lláh).
4. Mirza Musa Aqay-i-Kalim had two wives and seven children. He died in
‘Akka 1887.
5.   Nisa Khanum  married Mirza Majid Khan-i-Ahi, a secretary of the Rus-
sian Legation.
Bahá’u’lláh’s three wives: Asiyih Khanum, Fatimih Khanum Mahd-i-
‘Ulya, Gawhar Khanum.  (Servant of the Glory 1999, p. 301-305)
“Bahá’u’lláh’s marriages were typical of a man of His class – His
father had had children by four wives and three concubines – and were
considered perfectly proper, being in accord with both Muslim and Bábí
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
law. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá however refused to take a second wife despite the law
of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas [K ¶63] permitting it and the urgings of various
Bahá’ís eager for Him to marry their daughters. Later He essentially
prohibited polygyny and the practice quickly died out among the Bahá’ís.”
(Bahá’í Studies Volume I: Sacred Acts, Sacred Space, Sacred Time 1996, p.
261-262)
Bahá’u’lláh married Asiyih (Navvab) Khanum (b. Oct. 1820 – d. 1886)
in Oct. 1835.
The sister of His brother-in-law, a child of Mirza Isma’il-i-Vazir of Yalrud.
“…adding wealth to wealth”. Navvabih came to be known as, “the Most
Exalted Leaf”, winsome, vivacious, and exceedingly beautiful. She was tall,
slender, and graceful, with eyes of dark blue - a pearl, a flower amongst women.
He was 17 years old and as soon as she came of age, He married her, when
she was very young. (The Chosen Highway p. 39, The Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh  vol. 1 p. 19, 49, 259, Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p. 23,
311)
They had seven children; the first that survived childhood was born nine
years later.
1.   ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Abbas Effendi born 22 May 1844 – died 28 Nov. 1921)
“the Exemplar of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh” “the Greatest Branch” mar-
ried in 1873, a young widow, Fatimih (Munirih) Khanum (born 1848 –
died 30 April 1938).
They had four daughters (and five children  who did not survive child-
hood).
2.   Baha’iyyih Khanum (born 1846 – died 15 July 1932) “the Greatest Holy
Leaf” did not marry. Neither she nor her brother, Mirza Mihdi, had chil-
dren.
3.  Mirza Mihdi (1848 – 23 June 1870) Named for an uncle. “the Purest
Branch” did not see his parents from 1853 until 1860. He was finally
brought to Baghdad, in the company of Mahd-i-‘Ulya (Bahá’u’lláh’s sec-
ond wife). Previously, he had been left in the care of his maternal grand-
mother.  Mirza Mihdi, later, was one of Bahá’u’lláh’s amanuenses.
(A Basic Bahá’í Chronology p. 63-64)
Bahá’u’lláh’s sister Nisa Khanum was married to a secretary of the Rus-
sian Legation.  And, one of His aunts, (one of Mirza Buzurg’s sisters) was
married to Mirza Yusif, a Russian subject, and a friend of the Russian Consul
in Tihran.
In August 1852 Bahá’u’lláh was unjustly thrown into horrendous impris-
onment in the Siyah-Chal of Tihran.  It was here, Bahá’u’lláh received the

intimation of His Revelation.
After months of suffering, the Russian Consul came to His aid, stating:
“I have determined to extend the protection of Russia to this innocent
nobleman; therefore beware! For if one hair of his head be hurt from this
moment, rivers of blood shall flow in your town as punishment. You will do
well to heed me in this warning, my country is behind me in this matter.”
[The Russian Government had also offered a refuge.]
The Governor, consequently gave orders that Bahá’u’lláh should be per-
mitted to come forth from prison with his life. It was also decreed that he and
his family were banished.
Bahá’u’lláh was released (after four months imprisonment, Dec. 1852)
from the Siyah-Chal. They left Tihran for Baghdad, on the twelfth day of
January 1853. Navvab was pregnant with Their son (born April/May 1853
six weeks after arrival in Baghdad), ‘Ali-Muhammad. This child died (1854),
while Bahá’u’lláh was two years in Sulmaniyyih wilderness. It was Shaykh
Sultan who helped convince Bahá’u’lláh to return, which He did 19 March
1856.   (The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh vol. 1 p. 14, 19, vol. 2 p. 202 – 209,
vol. 3  204, 205, 279, 400)
Bahiyyih Khanum  in The Spoken Chronicle says:
“Asiyih Khanum, my dear mother, was in delicate health, her strength
was diminished by the hardships she had undergone, but she always worked
beyond her force.
Sometimes my father himself helped in the cooking, as that hard work
was too much for the dainty, refined gentle lady. The hardships she had
endured saddened the heart of her divine husband, who was also her
beloved Lord. He gave this help both before his sojourn in the wilderness
of Sulmaniyyih, and after his return.”
(Bahá’í Holy Places at the World Centre, 1968, p. 78, The Chosen Highway
p. 39, 44, 45, 46, 47, 51)
Bahá’u’lláh married His second wife, Fatimih Khanum Mahd-i-‘Ulya,
in 1849.
Fatimih Khanum Mahd-i-‘Ulya (born in 1828 - died in 1904) was
Bahá’u’lláh’s first cousin, the daughter of Malik-Nisa Khanum (Mirza
Buzurg’s sister) and Mirza Karim-i-Namadsab. According to one source,
Fatimih Khanum Mahd-i-‘Ulya was married to the famous cleric Mirza
Muhammad Taqi ‘Allami-yi-Nuri and widowed before Bahá’u’lláh married
her.   (A Basic Bahá’í Chronology, p. 43)
The potential importance of a second marriage is illustrated by Bahá’u’lláh
being a result of both of His parents’ second marriage.
Bahá’u’lláh was released (after four months imprisonment, Dec. 1852)
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
from the Siyah-Chal. Mahd-i-‘Ulya was pregnant with Their first son,
Muhammad-Ali. He was born shortly after Their arrival in Baghdad (8 April
1853) from Tihran. Ten years later on 22 April 1863 Bahá’u’lláh would de-
clare His Mission to His companions at the Garden of Ridván.  (The  Revela-
tion of Bahá’u’lláh  vol. 1,  p. 259 - 261,  Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p.
102, 277)
In December 1852, Bahá’u’lláh’s back bent by the weight of the fetters in
prison, His neck swollen and injured and His health impaired  went to stay
with Mahd-i-‘Ulya’s sister Maryam and her husband. Maryam was, also,
Bahá’u’lláh’s cousin and the wife of His half-brother Mirza Rida-Quli, the
physician. Bahá’u’lláh favoured Maryam throughout her life, honoured her
with the appellation ‘Crimson Leaf’ and, after her death, revealed a special
Tablet of visitation in her memory, (see also His Tablets known as the Alwah-
i-Maryam).  (The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 1 p. 13)
When Bahá’u’lláh and Mahd-i-‘Ulya (along with many others) entered
the Most Great Prison (31 August 1868), she was probably nursing Their
youngest son Mirza Badi’u’llah who was born in 1867 and caring for four
year old Mirza Diya’u’llah at the same time.
“The ration for each person was three loaves of black bread, salty and
inedible.”…. “Before long, autumn set in with its attendant ailments and
maladies, because of the   insalubrious conditions of ’Akka’. Within the prison
walls, the exiles suffered greatly.” Three exiles died that autumn, including
two brothers who died in each other’s arms.
Initially, Bahá’u’lláh was forbidden to associate with anyone except his
wives and children. The imprisonment lasted for two years, two months and
five days.  (Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p. 102, 192, 203, 222, 247, 277,
283, 286, 319, 337, 408)
Bahá’u’lláh shared over forty years of married life with Mahd-i-‘Ulya,
from before the Siyah-Chal imprisonment in 1852, until His death in 1892.
(God Passes By p. 247)
Four of Their children were entered in the Most Great Prison (31 August
1868). [Two of them already married to children of Bahá’u’lláh’s brother,
Mirza Musa]
1.   Mirza Muhammad-Ali (Ghusn-i-Akbar) born in Baghdad, April 1853. He
died 20 Dec. 1937.
He was designated by Bahá’u’lláh as “the Greater Branch”, “the Second
Highest Rank”. He was considered, truly a master of calligraphy. He was
married by fifteen years of age to his first cousin, Liqa’iyyih Khanum, in
1868. Mirza Muhammad-Ali and Liqa Khanum’s son Shu’a’u’llah (born
c. 1877?) lived in U.S.A. from 1899. Shu’a’u’llah was called back by his
father to Palestine (1922). Their other children were: Musa, Amin and
Asiyih.

2. Samadiyyih Khanum (b.1856/7) was married by twelve years of age, to
her first cousin, Mirza Majdi’d-Din. Later, they lived near Tiberias. Their
children were Zarangiz and Maryam.
3.   ‘Ali-Muhammad (born c. 1858? – died in infancy or early childhood?)
4.    Sadhijiyyih, a daughter, born c. March 1862 and died c. Sept. 1863.
5.    Mirza Diya’u’llah born 15 Aug. 1864, later, lived near Haifa, fell ill, died
on 30 Oct. 1898.
6.    Mirza Badi’u’llah born in 1867, by 1892, he owned 1/3 of the Mansion of
Bahji.  His children were ‘Ismat, ‘Iffat, Qamar, Salah, and Sadhijiyyih.
They lived near Haifa.
(God Passes By p. 240, 247, 249, 319 & 320, Servant of Glory p. 18, 27,
142, 144, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá p. 310, 461, 527, The Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith p.
17, 18, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh   vol. 1 p. 13, 261)
Four marriages at least, including two marriages of Bahá’u’lláh and Mahd-
i-‘Ulya’s children, one marriage to Bahá’u’lláh’s brother and another to one
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s children were indirectly affected by the actions and teach-
ings of Tahirih. Consequently the decision, here, was made to include Tahirih’s
genealogical background in this compilation on the Founders of the Faith.
Qurratu’l-Ayn (Tahirih – the ‘Pure One’)
(born 1817 - martyred August 1852)
Tahirih’s father, Haji Mulla Salih-i-Qazvini, and her uncle were mujtahids
of great renown. Tahirih married her first cousin Mulla Muhammad in 1830,
when she was 13 years old. Her parents arranged the marriage, as that was
the custom. She bore him three children.
The Báb declared Qurratu’l-Ayn (Tahirih – the ‘Pure One’) the seven-
teenth Letter of the Living. The only one who never came into the presence
of the Báb. She was chosen to announce the new Age to the followers of the
Báb at Badasht in 1848.
Among the Arabians taught by Tahirih was Shaykh Sultan, whose daugh-
ter [Fatimih-Sultan Khanum] was one of the wives of Mirza Musa, brother of
Bahá’u’lláh.
Mirza Musa and Fatimih-Sultan Khanum’s daughter [Liqa Khanum] mar-
ried Muhammad-Ali, half-brother of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.” And their son Mirza
Majdi’d-Din married Samadiyyih Khanum, half-sister of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Tahirih escaped arrest when government officials, who were searching
for her, arrested Shams-i-Duha by mistake. (Shams-i-Duha later became the
grandmother of Mirza Jalal who married ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s daughter, Ruha
Khanum.) When Tahirih learned of this, she wrote to the Governor and told
him that they had arrested the wrong woman. They must come and take her
instead.
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Professor Edward G Browne had this to say about Tahirih:
‘The appearance of such a woman as Qurratu’l-Ayn is, in any country
and in any age, a rare phenomenon, but in such a country as Persia it is a
prodigy-nay, almost a miracle. Alike in virtue of her marvellous beauty,
her rare intellectual gifts, her fervid eloquence, her fearless devotion,
and her glorious martyrdom, she stands incomparable and immortal
amidst her countrywomen. Had the religion of the Báb no other claim to
greatness, this was sufficient – that it produced a heroine like Qurratu’l-
Ayn.’
“Bahá’ís remember her in the same way as other religions revere
Sarah, Asiyih, Fatimih, and the Virgin Mary. The call she put forth at the
conference of Badasht and in Tihran marked the end of the 1200-year-old
law of Islam, and the beginning of the new era.”
(The Chosen Highway p. 46, Tahirih p. 6, 10, 27, 36, 37)
Bahá’u’lláh married His third wife, Gawhar Khanum, in 1863.
Gawhar Khanum [b.?-d.?] was a Bábí girl, who had fled persecution in
Kashin (Kashan?). (Servant of the Glory p. 27, 302,  Bahá’í Studies: Sacred
Acts, Sacred Space, Sacred Time p. 261)
After her marriage to Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad,  “ …Gawhar Khanum re-
mained with her brother in that city when Bahá’u’lláh left Iraq. Later on she
was made captive together with other believers, among them Zaynu’l-
Muqarrabin, on their way from Baghdad to Mosul and received instruction
from Bahá’u’lláh to proceed to ‘Akka’. Bahá’u’lláh refers to this captivity in
the Tablet to the Shah. She passed away during the Ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”
(Memorandum from Research Department to The Universal House of Justice
19 March 2001)
Bahá’u’lláh was married to Gawhar Khanum nearly 30 years, until His
ascension in 1892.
The potential importance of a third marriage is illustrated by the follow-
ing: “Bahá’u’lláh was also descended from Abraham through His third wife
Katurah, thus uniting in His own person two branches of the Aryan and Se-
mitic religions.”     (Revelations of Bahá’u’lláh  vol. 1 p. 7)
Furughiyyih (b.1873), a daughter, was Bahá’u’lláh’s only child with
Gawhar Khanum.
1873 was also the year Bahá’u’lláh revealed The Kitáb-i-Aqdas - The Most
Holy Book.
Khadijih Bagum, the first wife of the Báb, c. 1882, specifically requested
from Bahá’u’lláh the hand of Furughiyyih Khanum, (His and Gawhar
Khanum’s only daughter), on behalf of her nephew, Haji Siyyid ‘Ally-i-Afnan,
[a son of her brother, the ‘Great Afnan’, Haji Mirza Siyyid Hasan]. Khadijih
Bagum asked this so that one of the exalted Leaves of the blessed Family

may be permitted to join in wedlock with a member of the family of the Báb
consequently, the two holy trees may be outwardly knit together. Bahá’u’lláh
granted her request. (Khadijih Bagum p. 33,)
“It was during the governorship of Zivar Pasha that Furughiyyih
Khanum [born 1873], a daughter of Bahá’u’lláh, was given in marriage
to Siyyid ‘Ali-i-Afnan. Aqa Rida has recorded that the Mutasarrif and all
the high officials and notables of ‘Akka attended the wedding feast. This
was in the year 1885.”
(Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p. 366, 388)
The Afnans, relatives of the Báb, had extensive commercial interests. The
‘Great Afnan’, Haji Mirza Siyyid Hasan and his son Haji Siyyid ‘Aliy-i-Afnan,
with his wife Furughiyyih Khanum, and their four children (Husayn, Nayyir,
Faydi and Hasan) also, lived in Beirut.   A granddaughter, through  son Husayn,
was also named Furughiyyih.  (Memorials of the Faithful p. 21- 23, 32)
Furughiyyih headed one of two groups, arguing during Bahá’u’lláh’s ill-
ness in 1892, prior to His ascension, the other headed by Nabil-i-A’zam, (both
were censured by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá).
In Haifa, August 13, 1909, Juliet Thompson met with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
His daughter Ruha who were drinking tea with His sister Bahiyyih Khanum,
and His half-sister Furughiyyih Khanum.  All were enjoying a play of humor,
which included spiritual advancement. (The Diary of Juliet Thompson p. 117)
Furughiyyih Khanum (‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Mirza Muhammad-Ali’s half-
sister), later [?] died of cancer. (God Passes By p. 247, 319, The Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh  vol. 1 p. 41, vol. 2 p. 387)
Bahá’u’lláh, from 1877 until His ascension, lived with His family at
Mazra’ih for two years and then at Bahji for 13 years. The younger children
would have been in 1877: four year old Furughiyyih,  (Gawhar Khanum’s
daughter),  and  Mirza Badi’u’llah, and Mirza Diya’u’llah (Mahd-i-‘Ulya’s
sons), who were about ten and thirteen years of age, respectively.  Bahji was
closer to ‘Akka. (The Servant of Glory, p. 89,  Bahá’u’lláh – The King of
Glory, p. 368, 369)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s mother - the saintly Navvab (for the last nine years of her
life) lived with her daughter “the Greatest Holy Leaf” and her son ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá with His wife and children, at the house of ‘Abbud in ‘Akka. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá always walked to Bahji on His weekly visits to His father.  [The Cov-
enant-breakers finally abandoned Bahji, in June 1957.]
Bahá’u’lláh’s years in marriage, summarized from the above sources, are
given below:
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
one wife
(Oct.) 1835 – 1849
14  years
two wives
1849 – 1863
14 years
three wives
1863 – 1886
22 years
two wives
1886 – 1892 (May)
6 years
Bahá’u’lláh had two or more wives for 42 Years (or 75% of His 56 years
of married life).
He had one daughter that survived to adulthood, by each of His three
wives. His daughters were:
1. Baha’iyyih b.1846 (never married),
2. Samadiyyih b.1856 (m. 1868),
3. Furughiyyih b.1873 (m. 1885).
According to the Qu’ran: “Unless a man is confident that he can be scru-
pulously fair to all his wives, he must remain monogamous. [Sura 4:3.] Mus-
lim law has built on this: a man must spend absolutely the same amount of
time with each one of his wives; besides treating each wife equally finan-
cially and legally, a man must not have the slightest preference for one but
must esteem and love them all equally.” (Muhammad – A biography of the
Prophet by Karen Armstrong 1995, p. 191)
The residential arrangements noted below for Bahá’u’lláh suggest that,
during the period 1877 – 1886, He was following the above admonition, by
spending 2/3 of the year with Mahd-i-‘Ulya and Gawhar Khanum. The other
1/3 He spent in ‘Akka with Nav vab.
According to Nuru’d-Din-i-Zayn:
“Normally, during the spring, summer and part of the autumn season
[c. 2/3 of the year], the Blessed Perfection resided in the Mansion of Bahji
and the remainder [c. 1/3] of the year in the city of ‘Akka. He used to ride
a white donkey. It was called Barq [lightning] because of its ability to
move fast. Any time He went from the Mansion to the Garden of Ridván,
to Mazra’ih, to the Garden of Junaynih, or to ‘Akka, He rode that donkey,
and returned in the same way to the Mansion. On these trips a servant
always accompanied Him. Later when Barq died they brought another
donkey from Persia….it was called Ra’d   [thunder].”
(The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 4 p. 105)
Footnotes: Regarding other animals ridden by Bahá’u’lláh
Adib Taherzadeh says: “It is interesting to note that Bahá’u’lláh rode a
red roan Arab stallion …” on the way from Baghdad to Constantinople. (They
arrived in Constantinople on 16 August 1863). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá “…often used
to ride Bahá’u’lláh’s horse in order to keep in contact with various members
of the party. About an hour before entering town, He would usually bring the

horse to Bahá’u’lláh who would then ride it into the town, while ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá took His place in the howdah; and the same arrangements were made
when the caravan was leaving the town.” (The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,
vol. 2 p. 6,)
“In Firayjat horses were made to run a course to test them, and once
again Bahá’u’lláh’s masterly horsemanship was witnessed. He had two other
horses besides the stallion, Sau’di, one called Farangi and the other Sa’id.
There were also two donkeys for the younger sons of Bahá’u’lláh to ride
occasionally.”  (Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p.176)
Mahd-i-’Ulya, the mother of Mirza Muhammad-Ali expressed pleasure,
at the appointment of Abdu’l-Bahá as the Centre of the Covenant, on 7 June
1892, nine days after the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh. According to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s daughter, Tuba Khanum.  (Servant of the Glory, p. 105)
Genealogy of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá – “The Perfect Exemplar”
“the Exemplar of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh” “the Greatest Branch”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá born before midnight 22 May 1844– passed away 28 Nov. 1921
(He was born in Tihran at the very time of the Báb’s Declaration in Shiraz)
“He [‘Abdu’l-Bahá] is a man of medium height, though at first sight he
seemed to be much taller. He is strongly and solidly built, and weighs prob-
ably one hundred and sixty-five pounds [75kg] .” His eyes were large, blue-
grey with long black lashes and well marked eyebrows; His face was a beau-
tiful oval with warm ivory-coloured skin, a straight, finely-modelled nose
and a firm, kind mouth. Long black locks reaching almost to the shoulder.
(The Flame p. 74, Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith p. 57, The
Chosen Highway p. 149)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Abbas Effendi) married, 8 March 1873, Fatimih [Munirih]
Khanum.
Munirih Khanum had a most beautiful voice, and her eyes were large,
dark and serene.
(Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p. 339-350, The Chosen Highway p.
73)
Fatimih [Munirih] Khanum’s father, Mirza Muhammad-‘Aliy-i-Nahri stud-
ied arts and sciences at the seminary of Madrisiy-i-Kasihgaran. He had been
childless. However, with his wife (the sister of Haji Aqa Muhammad-i-
Naqshinih-Furush, another Bábí of Isfahan), received a portion of food from
the Báb, which aided in their ability to conceive. Eight months and nine days
later, a daughter, Fatimih [Munirih] Khanum, was born during the summer of
1848,  (she died 30 April 1938). Later they had a son Siyyid Yahya, and
daughters Radiyyih & Guhar.
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Bahá’u’lláh, while in Baghdad in the early 1860’s, intended to give His
niece Shahr-Banu Khanum, (daughter of His half-brother Mirza Muhammad-
Hasan), in marriage to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  In 1868, both Bahá’u’lláh’s half-sister
(Shah-Sultan Khanum) and His half-brother (Haji Mirza Rida-Quli – the
husband of Maryam, Bahá’u’lláh’s cousin), refused to allow this marriage to
take place,  because of the fear that Nasiri’d-Din Shah and his ministers would
frown on this marriage and take Haji Mirza Rida-Quli  to task.  (Bahá’u’lláh
– The King of Glory, p. 342-344)
In the meantime, in Isfahan, Fatimih [Munirih] Khanum, was wedded to
her first cousin, Mirza Kazim. The youngest brother of both the King of
Martyrs and the Beloved of the Martyrs [both were martyred 17 March 1879].
Fatimih Khanum remained in her husband’s house, until his death six months
later.
(The Master in ‘Akka,  p. 112)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Munirih Khanum only had daughters (four) that sur-
vived to adulthood.
1. Diya’iyyih  Khanum (b? – d.1951) married in 1895 Aqa Mirza Hadiy-i-
Afnan (Mirza Hadi Shirazi), a member of the family of the Báb.
They were the parents of Shoghi Effendi, also daughters
Ruhangiz & Mihrangiz, and sons Husayn &  Riyad.
(The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh vol. 2 p. 202 - 209, 387)
2. Tuba  Khanum (born c.1880 – d.1959) married Aqa Mirza Muhsin, who
was also, a member of the family of the Báb. Their children were Ruhi,
Thurayya, Suhayl, and Fuad.
Aqa Mirza Muhsin’s parents were Bibi-Jan-Jan-Bagum and The ‘Great
Afnan’, Haji Mirza Siyyid Hasan (Khadijih – Bagum’s younger brother).
(The Chosen Highway p. 79)
3. Ruha  Khanum married, second cousin, Mirza Jalal Isfahani. Their chil-
dren were Maryam, Munib, Zahra, and Hasan. (The Chosen Highway p.
202)
Mirza Jalal Isfahani’s parents were first cousins, Mirza Hasan (‘King of
the Martyrs’) and Fatimih Begum (the Consort of the King of Martyrs).
They  were married when Fatimih reached adolescence.  Her mother was
Khurshid Begum (Shams-i-Duha – the Morning Sun) and her father was
Mirza Hadiy-i-Nahri.  (Memorials of the Faithful p. 173-203)
Mirza Hasan’s (‘King of the Martyrs’) father Mirza Ibrahim, was the
brother of Munirih Khanum’s father (Mirza Muhammad-‘Aliy-i-Nahri)

and brother of Fatimih Begum’s father (Mirza Hadiy-i-Nahri). Mirza
Hasan’s paternal grandfather was Mirza Siyyid Mihdi-i-Nahri.
Consequently, one of Mirza Jalal Isfahani and Ruha Khanum’s great-grand-
fathers was Mirza Siyyid Mihdi-i-Nahri, a man of great wealth, whose
father Siyyid Muhammad-i-Hindi had acquired his vast riches in India by
marriage to a daughter of an Indian royal house.
4. Munavvar  Khanum (b? – d. 1971) married Mirza Ahmad. They had no
children.
Both Ruha and Munavvar served as English translators from Persian.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá p. 461, The Master in ‘Akka p. xxii, The Bahá’í World
1932-34 [Bahá’u’lláh’s Genealogy], Memorandum from Research Depart-
ment to The Universal House of Justice 19 March 2001)
The other children of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Munirih Khanum were:
One son Mihdi, and two daughters who died in infancy. A daughter
Ruhangiz born c. 1877, died at fifteen in 1892. In 1888, another son, Husayn,
died when only four years old. This small boy, an eager and active child, was
greatly loved by Bahá’u’lláh. He spent long intervals at Bahji, where
Bahá’u’lláh delighted in taking him for short walks. (Servant of the Glory p.
XIII, 85)
“Five of my [Munirih Khanum’s] children died in the poisonous cli-
mate of ‘Akka. The bad air was, in truth, only the outside material reason.
The inner spiritual reason was that no son of the Master should grow into
manhood. When my little darling Husayn passed away, Bahá’u’lláh wrote
the following: ‘The knowledge of the reason why your sweet baby has
been called back is in the mind of God, and will be manifested in His own
good time. To the prophets of God the present and the future are as one.’”
(The Chosen Highway p. 90)
Bahiyyih Khanum states that …. “Many influences, and those of the very
strongest character, have been brought to induce my brother [‘Abdu’l-Bahá]
to take a second wife – a practice which the Blessed Perfection did not in
terms forbid, but advised against.  The believers have urged it strongly for
several reasons.  Very many of them wish to take a second wife themselves,
but feel constrained from doing so by the Master’s example.  In Persia, ex-
cept among believers, polygamy is a universal custom, and the restriction to
one wife, which all believers feel and respect, seems very severe.  Then there
is a general wish that the Master might have a son to succeed him.  Other
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
arguments have been advanced; and the pressure brought to bear upon him
has been, and still is, very great — greater than you can easily imagine.”
“The general advice of the Blessed Perfection against a second mar-
riage would in itself have had the effect with my brother of a command
and have settled the question; but as regards him it was withdrawn by our
Lord before his death.  He said to ‘Abbas Effendi that he rather wished to
lead the believers gradually to monogamy than to force them to adopt it,
which they felt bound to do by reason of the Master’s example; that there-
fore, and since it was much desired by all that the Master should have a
son, he withdrew even the advice in his case, and desired him to consider
himself free to follow his own desires and inclination.”
“To this the Master replied that his own wishes and feelings were
against a second marriage, though, if the Blessed Perfection should com-
mand it, he would obey. This, however, the Blessed Perfection never did.”
(The Master in ‘Akka,  p. 120-121)
“Polygamy is a very ancient practice among the majority of humanity.”
….. “Bahá’u’lláh, who was revealing His Teachings in the milieu of a Mus-
lim society, introduced the question of monogamy gradually in accordance
with the principles of wisdom and the progressive unfoldment of His pur-
pose.”
(The Kitáb-i-Aqdas 1999 note 89, p. 206)
Bahiyyih Khanum “the Greatest Holy Leaf”
(born: 1846 in Tihran – died: 15 July 1932 in Haifa)
Daughter of Bahá’u’lláh “the Manifestation of God” and Navvab “the
Most Exalted Leaf”. Her brother was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the “Centre of the Cov-
enant”.  “… a gentle, slender maiden with large, grey-blue eyes, golden-
brown hair, and warm ivory-coloured skin. Her sense of humour was keen
and her intelligence remarkable.
As she grew up, she implored her father to allow her to remain unmarried,
that she might better devote herself to her three dearly loved ones [her par-
ents and older brother].”  Bahá’u’lláh is quoted as saying in reference to
Bahiyyih Khanum: “I know of no man worthy to marry such purity as my
daughter.” (The Chosen Highway p. 69)
“What the Greatest Holy Leaf had done for Shoghi Effendi at the time of
the Master’s passing and in the years that followed is beyond calculation.
She had played, as he said, a unique part throughout the tumultuous stages
of Bahá’í history, not the least of which had been the establishment of Shoghi
Effendi’s own ministry after the death of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”
The Greatest Holy Leaf was left with the headship, to deal with the affairs

of the Cause, from 7 April 1922 – 15 Dec. 1922 by Shoghi Effendi while he
was in Europe, mostly in Switzerland. He stayed again, in Switzerland, from
June to Nov. 1923.
During the early years of his Guardianship, Shoghi Effendi included
Bahiyyih Khanum with himself in such phrases  as ‘assure us’, ‘the Greatest
Holy Leaf and I’, ‘we’ and so on.” In a cable sent in 1931 he even signs it
“Bahiyyih Shogi”.
(The Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith p. 19, 22, 66, 67)
Genealogy of Shoghi Effendi – “The Guardian”
(born in ‘Akka, Sunday, 1 March 1897 – died in London 4 Nov. 1957)
Shoghi Effendi was fine-boned, shorter than his grandfather had been, he
was more akin physically to his great-grandfather, Bahá’u’lláh. Bahiyyih
Khanum stated that Shoghi Effendi’s hands were small, like those of her
father Bahá’u’lláh, more square than tapering. Shoghi Effendi’s feet were
high arched, and also, small. His eyes were of a clear hazel colour which
sometimes changed to a warm and luminous grey.  (The Priceless Pearl, p. 6)
Diya’iyyih Khanum and Mirza Hadiy-i-Afnan (b. 1864) were the parents
of Shoghi Effendi.
Shoghi Effendi Rabbini was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s eldest grandson and eldest
grandchild.
Mirza Hadiy-i-Afnan’s mother was Zivar-Sultan Khanum. His father was
Siyyid Muhammad-Husayn, and grandfather Haji Mirza Abu’l-Qasim. [Haji
Mirza Abu’l-Qasim was Khadijih – Bagum’s brother, and also the cousin of
the mother of the Báb.]  (The Bahá’í World 1932-34 [the Báb’s Genealogy],
Bahá’u’lláh – The King of Glory, p. 339, 406)
Shoghi Effendi Rabbani married Miss Mary Maxwell (Ruhiyyih Rabbani)
of Montreal, Canada on 25 March 1937, in Haifa, in the room of the Greatest
Holy Leaf.
Mary’s father Sutherland Maxwell was born in 1874 and died 26 March
1952. He was President of Architects Association of Canada – designed Shrine
of the Báb, among many other buildings. He was also, appointed Hand of the
Cause in 1951.
Mary’s mother was an American, May Ellis Bolles. May Ellis Bolles was
born 14 Jan. 1870, in Engelwood New Jersey. May laid the foundations for
the Bahá’í Faith in Canada. She died  on a pioneer teaching trip in Buenos
Aires, Argentina, 1 March 1940.
May’s father was John Bolles, an engineer. May’s mother was Mary Mar-
tin. Mary Martin’s father owned the Ocean City Bank in New York, N.Y.,
U.S.A.  May’s brother, Randolph Bolles, studied at l’Ecole des Beaux Arts in
Paris, France. Sutherland Maxwell was a fellow student of May’s brother,
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Randolph. (A Love Which Does Not Wait, p. 43, 49)
May married Sutherland Maxwell in Paris 1902 and moved to Canada.
May Maxwell, still childless in early 1909, while on pilgrimage with her
husband in Acca, personally received ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s repeated prayers for
her. May reported that she and her husband were consequently blessed, a
year and a half later in New York, U. S. A., with their only child – Mary
Sutherland Maxwell. (God Passes By p. 257, 260, Bahá’í Canada, March 2000
p. 7, 8)
Mary Sutherland Maxwell was born 8 Aug. 1910. Amatu’l Bahá Ruhiyyih
Rabbani Khanum was appointed Hand of the Cause on her father’s death, in
1952. She died on 19 Jan. 2000.
Shoghi Effendi was born Sunday 1 March 1897 in ‘Akká. In 1918 he
received his B.A. degree from the American University, at Beirut. He was
studying at Oxford in England, when he became the Guardian of the Cause,
on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ascension on 28 Nov. 1921. He wrote and worked tire-
lessly for the Faith until his death, from coronary thrombosis, in London, 4
Nov. 1957.  Shoghi Effendi, like the Báb, was not destined to leave any prog-
eny.  (The Priceless Pearl, p. 4, 446, The Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, p.
103, 106, 111, 446)
From the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
“O my loving friends! After the passing away of this wronged one, it is
incumbent upon the Aghsan (Branches), the Afnan (Twigs) of the Sacred
Lote-Tree, the Hands (pillars) of the Cause of God and the loved ones of
the Abha Beauty to turn unto Shoghi Effendi-the youthful branch branched
from two hallowed and sacred Lote-Trees and the fruit grown from the
union of two offshoots of the Tree of Holiness,-as he is the sign of God,
the chosen branch, the guardian of the Cause of God, he unto whom all
the Aghsan, the Afnan, the Hands of the Cause of God and His loved ones
must turn. He is the expounder of the words of God and after him will
succeed the first-born of his lineal descendents.”
“O ye beloved of the Lord! It is incumbent upon the Guardian of the
Cause of God to appoint in his own life-time him that shall become his
successor, that differences may not arise after his passing. He that is
appointed must manifest in himself detachment from all worldly things,
must be the essence of purity, must show in himself the fear of God,
knowledge, wisdom and learning.  Thus, should not the first-born of the
guardian of the Cause of God not manifest in himself the truth of the
words:-“The child is the secret essence of its sire,” that is, should he not
inherit of the spiritual within him (the guardian of the Cause of God) and
his glorious lineage not be matched with a goodly character, then must

he, (the guardian of the Cause of God) choose another branch to succeed
him.”
(Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 1990,  p.11, 12)
When Ruhiyyih Khanum went to live with Shoghi Effendi in Haifa;
“It was especially hard at the beginning when she did not know the
Persian language, for although the members of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s family all
spoke English, they all communicated with each other in Persian.”….”
Ruhiyyih Khanum had a free and unsuspicious nature. She had entered
this household with a sense of deep love, indeed almost veneration, for all
who were related to Shoghi Effendi. What a blow it must have been so
soon after her marriage to the Guardian, to first feel the winds of ill will
blowing from the members of the household towards him, to recognize the
signs of dissension harbouring within the bosom of his family towards the
Centre of the Cause.”….“For one by one, in those early years of her mar-
riage, the family fell away from faithfulness; the branches of Afnan and
Agh[s]an broke off from the mighty tree of the Covenant. They all left, one
by one, until she was alone in that house at the side of her beloved.”
“She became his shield and his sole support in those dark days of
spiritual convulsion in the family of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. There was a time when
Shoghi Effendi could not trust any member of his family to be alone with
the Persian pilgrims, for fear of the negative impact of their poisonous
innuendoes and inferences.  He would ask Ruhiyyih Khanum to go down
and sit with them.”
(A Tribute to… Ruhiyyih Khanum by Violette Nakhjavani in Bahá’í Canada
‘Azamat, B. E. 157 p. 7, 8.)
Apparently, none of the members of Shoghi Effendi’s family including
numerous Aghsan (Branches), numerous Afnan (Twigs), or any of the many
Leaves, fulfilled the criteria for spiritual succession, based on genealogy,
outlined above in the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Consequently, in
his wisdom, by not choosing a successor, the Guardian of the Cause, pro-
vided the effective pre-conditions for the establishment of the Universal House
of Justice, after his death in 1957.
References:
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Memorials of the Faithful. Translated and annotated by Marzieh
Gail.  Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1990.
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Armstrong, Karen.  Muhammad – A biography of the Prophet. London: Vic-
tor Gollancz, 1995.
Bahá’í Holy Places at the World Centre.  Universal House of Justice, Welwyn
Garden City, Hertfordshire, England: Broadwater Press, 1968.
Bahá’í World. 89 and 90 of the Bahá’í Era – 1932 - 1934 A.D. Wilmette,
Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.
Bahá’u’lláh.  Writings of Bahá’u’lláh: A Compilation. New Delhi: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1998.
Bahá’u’lláh.  The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. Translated by Marzieh
Gail in consultation with Ali-Kuli Khan. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 1991.
Balyuzi, H.M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh.
Oxford: George Ronald, l973.
Balyuzi, H.M. Bahá’u’lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George Ronald, l991.
Balyuzi, H.M. Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith. Oxford:
George Ronald, l970.
Balyuzi, H.M. The Báb. The Herald of the Day of Days.
Oxford: George Ronald, l974.
Balyuzi, H.M. Khadijih Bagum: The Wife of the Báb. Oxford: George Ronald,
l982.
Blomfield, Lady (Sitarih Khanum). The Chosen Highway. Wilmette, Illinois:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970.
Cameron, Glenn with Momen, Wendy. A Basic Bahá’í Chronology. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1996.
Esslemont, J.E. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 5th rev.edn 1980.
Giachery, Ugo.  Shoghi Effendi. Oxford: George Ronald, 1974.
Johnson, Lowell. Tahirih. Johannesburg: The National Spiritual Assembly of
the Bahá’ís of South and West Africa, 1982.
Munirih Khanum – Memoirs and Letters. Novato California: Kalimat Press,
1986.
Nabil-i-A’zam (Muhammad-i-Zarandi). The Dawn-Breakers. Nabil’s
Narrarive of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Wilmette, Illinois:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932.
Nakhjavani, Violette. A Tribute to… Ruhiyyih Khanum. Bahá’í Canada March
2000 and May 2000 ‘Azamat, B. E. 157.
Perkins, Mary. Servant of the Glory: The Life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Oxford:
George Ronald, 1999.
Perkins, Mary. Day of Glory: The Life of Bahá’u’lláh.  Oxford: George Ronald,
1992.
Phelps, Myron. The Master in ‘Akka. Novato California: Kalimat Press, 1985.
Rabbani, Ruhiyyih. The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969.

Rabbani, Ruhiyyih. The Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith.  London: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 1988.
Ruhe-Schoen, Janet. A Love Which Does Not Wait. Riviera Beach, Florida:
Palabra Publications, 1998.
Sears, William and Quigley, Robert. The Flame. Oxford: George Ronald,
1973.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By.  Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1995.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 1. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1996.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 2. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1997.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 3. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1996.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 4. Oxford: George
Ronald, 2000.
Thompson, Juliet.  The Diary of Juliet Thompson.  Novato California: Kalimat
Press, 1983.
Walbridge, John. Bahá’í Studies Volume 1: Sacred Acts, Sacred Space, Sa-
cred Time.  Oxford: George Ronald, 1996.
Most dates, not footnoted, will be found in A Basic Bahá’í Chronology
by Glenn Cameron with Wendy Momen (1996)
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Immediate Genealogy of the Founder of the Bábí Faith
Parents:
Siyyid (Mirza) Muhammad-Rida (d.1820) —— Fatimih Bagum (d. 1882)
Siyyid ‘Ali-Muhammad  was their only child.
The Báb  (Siyyid ‘Ali-Muhammad)
(born 20 Oct. 1819 - martyred 9 July 1850)
His two wives were:
Khadijih-Sultan-Bagum (b.1820-d.1882)
Fatimih (b.1832-d.1916)
married in 1842
married in 1847
The Báb stated “…He was not destined to leave any progeny, …”

Immediate Genealogy of the Founders of the Baha’i Faith
Parents:
Mirza ‘Abbas  - Mirza Buzurg (d.1839) —— Khadijih Khanum
(Mirza Husayn – Ali was the third of their five children)
Baha’u’llah  (Mirza Husayn – Ali Nuri)
( born 12 Nov. 1817- passed away 29 May 1892 )
His three wives were:
Asiyih Khanum (1820-1886)
Fatimih Khanum (1828-1904)
Gawhar Khanum (b?-d?)
Navvab married 1835 in Tihran
Majd-i-‘Ulya married 1849 in Tihran
married c.1863 in Baghdad
Her children were:
Her children were:
Her daughter was:
1. Kazim
1. Muhammad-Ali
1. Furughiyyih (1873-d?)
(died in infancy)
(1853-1937) 4 children
married 1885 a member of the family
2. ?
2. Samadiyyih
of the Báb. They had 4 children.
(died in infancy
(1856-?) 2 children
3. Abbas Effendi
3. ‘Ali-Muhammad
(1844-1921)
(b. circa 1858
survived by 4 children
died in infancy)
4. ‘Ali-Muhammad
4. Sadhijiyyih
(died in infancy)
(1862-1863)
5. Bahiyyih
5. Diya’u’llah
(1846-1932)
(1864-1898)
6. Mirza Mihdi
6. Badi’u’llah
(1848-1870)
(1867-?) 5 children
7. ‘Ali-Muhammad
(1853-1854)
Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths
‘Abdu’l-Baha (Abbas Effendi) married in 1873, Fatimih
(Munirih) Khanum (b.1848-d.1938). Their children (all
daughters) who survived childhood were: Diya’iyyih,
Tuba, Ruha and Munav var.
Diya’iyyih Khanum married c. 1895, Aqa Mirza Hadiy-
i-Afnan, a member of the family of the Báb. They were
the parents of Shoghi Effendi (1897-1957), who was
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s eldest grandchild.
Shoghi Effendi married in 1937, Mary Maxwell (1910-
2000), and like the Báb was not destined to leave any
progeny.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
MEMORANDUM
To: The Universal House ofJustice
Date: 19 March 2001
From: Research Department
Questions about the Genealogy of the Families of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
The Research Department has studied the questions raised by Dr. Mark T.
Wood in his letter of 10 November 2000 to the Universal House of Justice.
Dr. Wood explains that he is preparing, for possible publication, a compila-
tion of materials entitled “Genealogical Background of the Founders of the
Bábí and Bahá’í Faith”. He attaches a copy of this  compilation and requests
assistance in correcting any inaccurate dates it might contain and in adding
missing information, particularly in relation to Bahá’u’lláh’s wife Gawhar
Khánum and her daughter, Furúghíyyih, and the five daughters of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. We provide the following response.
The collation of genealogical information about the Family of Bahá’u’lláh
is part of an ongoing research project at the Bahá’í World Centre. As Dr.
Wood rightly observes, this is a challenging task since the available historical
information is scattered in a wide variety of published and unpublished books
and manuscripts in both Persian and English, and there may well be discrep-
ancies between the information that is gleaned from different sources.
While it is not possible for the Research Department to review the accu-
racy of the overall contents of Dr.Wood’s compilation, we provide the fol-
lowing information concerning the particular members of the families of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá about whom he enquires. The information rep-
resents a working synthesis of the material from the sources that have been
studied to date.
Gawhar Khánum
As yet, the date of the birth of Gawhar Khanum has not been determined.
The marriage took place in Baghdád, around 1863. Gawhar Khánum remained
with her brother in that city when Bahá’u’lláh left ‘Iráq. Later on she was
made captive together with other believers, among them Zaynu’l- Muqarrabín,
on their way from Baghdád to Mosul and received instruction from Bahá’u’lláh
to proceed to ‘Akká. Bahá’u’lláh refers to this captivity in the
Tablet to the Sháh. She passed away during the Ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

Genealogical Background of the Founders of the Bábí and the Bahá’í Faiths
Furúghíyyih, Gawhar Khánum’s Daughter
Furúghíyyih Khánum was born in 1873. Her marriage took place in 1885/
1886. While the exact date of her death is not known, in God Passes By
(Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995), p. 319, Shoghi Effendi states that
she passed away during the Ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Diyá’íyyih Khánum
We have found no record of the date of birth of Diyá’íyyih Khánum. Ac-
cording to “The Spoken Chronicle of Túbá Khánum”, reported in Lady
Blomfield’s The Chosen Highway (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1967),
p. 112, it would appear that Diyá’íyyih Khánum’smarriage took place in 1895.
According to the inscription on her gravestone, she passed away in the year
1951. The exact date of her passing has not been determined.
Túbá Khánum
According to her “Spoken Chronicle” in The Chosen Highway, it would
appear that Túbá Khánum was born in 1879/1880 (see pages 93 and 95). She
died in 1959, this being the date inscribed on her gravestone. No information
has come to light concerning the date of her marriage.
Rúhá Khánum
The dates of the birth, marriage and death of Rúhá Khánum have not, as
yet, been determined.
Munavvar Khánum
The dates of the birth and marriage of Munnavar Khánum have not so far
been found. However, as recorded on her gravestone, she passed away in
1971.
The Fifth Daughter of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
It is thought that the daughter of the Master who passed away later in her
childhood is Rúhangiz. The date of her birth is unknown. According to “The
Spoken Chronicle of Túbá Khánum” in The Chosen Highway, pp. 103-104,
her death occurred after the passing of Bahá’u’lláh. The year inscribed on her
gravestone is 1309 A.H. (i.e. 1892).

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Meditation and Health
Paul Friedman
Outline
1. Prayer and Meditation: Synergistic Forces of Spiritual Transformation
2. What is Meditation According to the Bahá’í Writings?
3. Meditation as Pondering, Reflecting and Thinking Deeply
4. Meditation as Silent Wordless Reflection, Seeking Divine Wisdom
5. Meditation Using Repetition of Words or Phrases
6. Forms of Bahá’í Meditation
7. Forms of Meditation With Proven Health Effects
8. Transcendental Meditation and the Bahá’í Teachings
9. Transcendental Meditation and Health
10. Conclusions
The aims of this article are:
1. To develop a deeper understanding of the practice of meditation accord-
ing to the Bahá’í Writings
2. To explore the effects of meditation on health.
Meditation has been practiced in diverse forms throughout the world for
thousands of years. In an attempt to understand meditation, scientists have
studied it in highly controlled settings.  According to Professor Deane Shapiro,
such controlled scientific experiments often remove meditation from its spir-
itual and religious contexts [1].  These studies can address certain aspects of
meditation such as stress reduction and relaxation but are ill-equipped to deal
with broader elements.
Shapiro asserts that most published studies of meditation have examined
Eastern forms meditation from Vedic or Buddhist traditions; few studies have
examined meditation from Africa, North or South America [1].
There are many forms of meditation such as:

1. Contemplation
2. Concentration without contemplation (e.g. focus on breathing or watch-
ing a flame)
3. Mindfulness
4. Zen meditation pondering words or phrases, often paradoxical (e.g. if the
Buddha stands in the way of your enlightenment kill him)
5. Visualizing or imagining certain states such as love
6. Transcendental Meditation, in which sounds without meaning are repeated
to attain a state of restful alertness where the mind is silent (the effect of
the sounds is linked to their resonance frequencies)
7. Meditation designed for people living a monastic life
Activities not typically considered meditation, such as immersion in natural
beauty in mountains, or waterfalls may foster episodes of meditation.  Many
people use music to relax and in some cases meditate; the Bahá’í writings
have called music a ladder for your souls to ascend to the world of spirit
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 38].   Likewise, certain activities such as
fishing may lead to periods of contemplation and reflection.
Before considering the relationship between meditation and health it is
important to define health. The word health comes from the term wholeness.
The World Health Organization has defined health as the optimal state of
physical and mental well-being rather than the absence of disease.  Accord-
ing to this rigorous definition, few people are truly healthy.  In this age of
medical syndromes, the rarest of all syndromes has been described by a New
Zealand comedian, Gary McCormack, as TNP: totally normal person!
Palliative care of people in their last months of life offers rather different
definitions of health as a state of peace and acceptance of death in which
symptoms such as pain and shortness of breath are controlled.  In this model
a person about to die can be seen as whole whereas a person with no measur-
able disease can be quite unhealthy and wishing she or he was dead.
I have organised this article into ten topics.  For each topic I will examine
pertinent references from the Bahá’í Writings and from books and articles
about specific forms of meditation.  I have employed Mars for Windows, a
computer database of the Bahá’í Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
Shoghi Effendi, to sample the relative frequencies and associations of terms
such as meditation, contemplate, reflect and ponder.  Because Mars for Win-
dows lists certain quotations twice when they appear in different books, the
absolute number of citations for a given word is not a perfect measure of the
frequency of that term.  The table below shows that the most frequently cited
term is reflect followed by ponder and meditation.  The least frequently cited
term is commune.  None of these key words were linked within 10 words to
health or healing suggesting that the Bahá’í writings either do not or rarely
connect meditative practices to health or healing.
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Word
Citations
Health / Healing
Reflect
Ponder
Meditation
Meditate
Contemplate
Transcend
Commune
1. Prayer and Meditation: Synergistic Forces of Spiritual
Transformation
The Bahá’í Writings often associate the words prayer and meditation in
the same sentence.  The words meditate or meditation appear in 100 citings
from Mars for Windows.  In fifty one percent of these citings, the words
meditate (tion) and prayer appeared within 10 words of one another; in 47%
these terms were within three words of one another.  Bahá’í book titles link-
ing meditation and prayer include  Prayers and Meditations and The Impor-
tance of Prayer, Meditation and the Devotional Attitude: A Compilation.  The
Bahá’í month of fasting is also a month of meditation [Kitáb-i-Aqdas  Notes,
pp. 176-177].
Here are several examples of exhortations to pray and meditate:
The first thing to do is to acquire a thirst for Spirituality, then Live the
Life!  Live the Life!  Live the Life!  The way to acquire this thirst is to
meditate upon the future life.  Study the Holy Words, read your Bible, read
the Holy Books, especially study the Holy Utterances of Bahá’u’lláh;
Prayer and Meditation, take much time for these two.  Then will you know
this Great Thirst, and then only can you begin to Live the Life!
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  The Importance of Deepening, p. 204]
For the core of religious faith is that mystic feeling which unites Man
with God.  This state of spiritual communion can be brought about and
maintained by means of meditation and prayer.
[Shoghi Effendi.  Directives of the Guardian, p. 86]

The Guardian has thus linked prayer and meditation with communion
with God.  In summary, meditation is depicted as a necessary companion to
prayer in the journey of spiritual transformation.  The Bahá’í Teachings
also link study with prayer and meditation: ‘These gifts of the spirit are
received through prayer, meditation, study of the Holy Utterances and serv-
ice to the Cause of God....’
[Shoghi Effendi.  The Importance of Deepening, p. 232]
Bahá’u’lláh has emphasized the link between worship and bliss: ‘Who-
soever experienceth the holy ecstasy of worship will refuse to barter such an
act or any praise of God for all that existeth in the world’
[The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and Fasting, p. 5].
Dr Hossain Danesh, a Bahá’í psychiatrist and academic, has explained that:
While meditation is directly connected with our capacity to know, prayer
is indispensable to our capacity to love. Through prayer we commune with
the ultimate object of our love.  Prayer is love talk.  The lover earnestly
supplicates the Beloved, humbly entreating the loved one to shower her or
him with loving bounties.  In the context of spiritual transformation, the
loved one is God - the source of all truth, love, and assistance.  Therefore
when we pray we enkindle our soul, open our heart and mind, attract the
hearts of other people, and help to create a reciprocal relationship of love,
truth and service.
[Danesh. The Psychology of Spirituality.  From Divided Self to Integrated
Self  p. 230]
2. What is Meditation According to the Bahá’í Writings?
Perhaps the best explanation of meditation within the Bahá’í Writings is in
a passage from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that appears in Paris Talks.   Because the meaning
of this passage is so concentrated, I will analyse it sentence by sentence.  To
begin, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá cites Bahá’u’lláh stating that contemplation is essential
for understanding and that this process requires the meditator to remain silent:
‘Bahá’u’lláh says there is a sign (from God) in every phenomenon:  the sign of
the intellect is contemplation and the sign of contemplation is silence, because
it is impossible for a man to do two things at one time - he cannot both speak
and meditate’ [`Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks, p. 174].
The word contemplate was cited 53 times in Mars for Windows but never in
association with meditate or meditation.
Next, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá depicts meditation as speaking with your own spirit -
asking questions and receiving answers:
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
‘It is an axiomatic fact that while you meditate you are speaking with
your own spirit.  In that state of mind you put certain questions to your
spirit and the spirit answers:  the light breaks forth and the reality is
revealed’
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks, p. 174].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá labels meditation as an essential feature distinguishing hu-
mans from animals:
‘You cannot apply the name ‘man’ to any being void of this faculty of
meditation; without it he would be a mere animal, lower than the beasts’
[`Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks, p. 175].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá assures us that God bestows the breath of the Holy Spirit
during meditation:
‘Through the faculty of meditation man attains to eternal life; through it
he receives the breath of the Holy Spirit - the bestowal of the Spirit is given
in reflection and meditation’
[`Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks, p. 175].
He further asserts that we are inspired, strengthened and informed of new
wisdom during meditation, receiving spiritual nutrition:
‘The spirit of man is itself informed and strengthened during medita-
tion; through it affairs of which man knew nothing are unfolded before his
view.  Through it he receives Divine inspiration, through it he receives heav-
enly food’
[`Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks, p. 175].
‘Abdu’l-Bahá assures us that we can unlock the doors of mysteries during
meditation:
Meditation is the key for opening the doors of mysteries.  In that state
man abstracts himself: in that state man withdraws himself from all outside
objects; in that subjective mood he is immersed in the ocean of spiritual life
and can unfold the secrets of things-in-themselves. To illustrate this, think of
man as endowed with two kinds of sight; when the power of insight is being
used the outward power of vision does not see.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks, p. 175]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá emphasizes the importance of meditation to advancing sci-
ence, art and civilization:

This faculty of meditation frees man from the animal nature, discerns
the reality of things, puts man in touch with God.   This faculty brings forth
from the invisible plane the sciences and arts.  Through the meditative fac-
ulty inventions are made possible, colossal undertakings are carried out;
through it governments can run smoothly. Through this faculty man enters
into the very Kingdom of God.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks, p. 175]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá enjoins us to direct the mirror of meditation towards spir-
itual matters and issues that benefit humanity:
Nevertheless some thoughts are useless to man; they are like waves
moving in the sea without result.  But if the faculty of meditation is bathed
in the inner light and characterized with divine attributes, the results will
be confirmed. The meditative faculty is akin to the mirror; if you put it
before earthly objects it will reflect them.  Therefore if the spirit of man is
contemplating earthly subjects he will be informed of these.  But if you
turn the mirror of your spirits heavenwards, the heavenly constellations
and the rays of the Sun of Reality will be reflected in your hearts, and the
virtues of the Kingdom will be obtained. Therefore let us keep this faculty
rightly directed - turning it to the heavenly Sun and not to earthly objects
- so that we may discover the secrets of the Kingdom, and comprehend
the allegories of the Bible and the mysteries of the spirit.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks, pp. 175-176]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá referred to prayers that ‘transcend the murmur of syllables
and sounds ...’ [Bahá’í Prayers (US edition), pp. 70-71]:
Adorn our bodies with the robe of Thy bounty, and remove from our
eyes the veil of sinfulness, and give us the chalice of Thy grace; that the
essence of all beings may sing Thy praise before the vision of Thy gran-
deur. Reveal then Thyself, O Lord, by Thy merciful utterance and the mys-
tery of Thy divine being, that the holy ecstasy of prayer may fill our souls
- a prayer that shall rise above words and letters and transcend the mur-
mur of syllables and sounds  - that all things may be merged into nothing-
ness before the revelation of Thy splendor.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Bahá’í Prayers (US edition), pp. 70-71]
Might such prayers not represent a meditation that leaves the plane of
thinking and travels towards the absolute Being?
I propose that Bahá’í meditation comprises three or more distinct proc-
esses:
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
1. Contemplation or thinking in a conscious state.
In this paper I will use the term contemplation to refer to this process. An
example is reading the Writings and pondering the meaning using logic
or intuition.
2. Silent wordless reflection, seeking Divine wisdom
In this paper I will use the term wordless reflection to denote this process.
3. Reflection on repeated words or phrases
An example is repeating the Greatest Name [Allah-u-Abhá] ninety-five
times.
In this article I will use the term reflection on words to refer to this process.
3. Meditation as Pondering, Reflecting and Thinking Deeply
There are a number of passages in the Bahá’í Writings which depict medi-
tation as pondering, reflecting and thinking deeply as opposed to a process
which goes beyond or transcends formal thinking.  Bahá’u’lláh enjoined
meditation for a thousand years:
‘It is necessary for them to meditate, to meditate for a thousand thou-
sand years, that haply they may attain unto a sprinkling from the ocean of
knowledge, and discover the things whereof they are oblivious in this day.’
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 126-127]
He particularly emphasized pondering the Divine verses:
Do thou meditate on that which We have revealed unto thee, that thou
mayest discover the purpose of God, thy Lord, and the Lord of all worlds.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Gleanings, p. 153]
Meditate profoundly, that the secret of things unseen may be revealed
unto you, that you may inhale the sweetness of a spiritual and imperish-
able fragrance, and that you may acknowledge the truth that from time
immemorial even unto eternity the Almighty hath tried, and will continue
to try, His servants, so that light may be distinguished from darkness,
truth from falsehood, right from wrong, guidance from error, happiness
from misery, and roses from thorns.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  The Kitáb-i-Iqan, p. 8]
Meditate on the world and the state of its people.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 56]
Bahá’u’lláh has assured us that meditation, like reflection, is a highly
condensed form of worship:

‘...the meditation referred to in the words “One hour’s reflection is
preferable to seventy years of pious worship” must needs be observed...’
[Bahá’u’lláh.  The Kitáb-i-Iqan, p. 238].
Shoghi Effendi has assured us that meditation would confer Divine inspi-
ration; I cannot determine whether the Guardian was referring to contempla-
tion or another type of meditation in this passage.
The inspiration received through meditation is of a nature that one
cannot measure or determine.  God can inspire into our minds things that
we had no previous knowledge of, if He desires to do so. We cannot clearly
distinguish between personal desire and guidance, but if the way opens,
when we have sought guidance, then we may presume God is helping us.
[Shoghi Effendi.  Directives of the Guardian, pp. 77-78]
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have linked the words meditate and pon-
der in a number of passages: Referring to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh
enjoined his followers to peruse, meditate and ponder the Most Holy Book:
‘Blessed those who peruse it!  Blessed those who apprehend it!  Blessed those
who meditate upon it!  Blessed those who ponder its meaning!’ [Bahá’u’lláh.
Kitáb-i-Aqdas  Other Sections, p. 16]. The separate instructions suggest a
hierarchy from peruse (survey in superficial study) to apprehend (logical study)
and meditate (seeking Divine inspiration).
In other passages, ponder and meditate have been linked:
The sanctified souls should ponder and meditate in their hearts re-
garding the methods of teaching.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 200]
It is incumbent upon you to ponder in your hearts and meditate upon
His words, and humbly to call upon Him, and to put away self in His
heavenly Cause.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 241)
The words ponder and reflect are often linked in the Bahá’í Writings:
Ponder and reflect how mighty and potent hath the Cause of God be-
come!
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Selections p. 99]
O SON OF MAN! Ponder and reflect.  Is it thy wish to die upon thy
bed, or to shed thy life-blood on the dust, a martyr in My path, and so
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
become the manifestation of My command and the revealer of My light in
the highest paradise?  Judge thou aright, O servant!
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Arabic Hidden Words, p. 46]
Pondering can release extraordinary power.  In the Fire Tablet, the Blessed
Beauty advised us: ‘Should all the servants read and ponder this, there shall
be kindled in their veins a fire that shall set aflame the worlds’ [Bahá’u’lláh.
Bahá’í Prayers (US), p. 221]. Thus, reading the Fire Tablet is only one step
in the process of enkindlement - pondering is also necessary. Elsewhere
Bahá’u’lláh writes:
Do thou ponder on the penetrative influence of the Word of God’
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 75-76]
“Blessed the man”, He, moreover, has stated, “who will read it, [the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas] and ponder the verses sent down in it by God, the Lord of
Power, the Almighty.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Kitáb-i-Aqdas Other Sections, p. 16]
In more than one passage Bahá’u’lláh asks his followers to ponder with
their hearts:
Ponder this in thine heart, that the truth may be revealed unto thee,
and be thou steadfast in His path.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Gleanings, p. 76].
Ponder this in your hearts, O people of Bahá, and render thanks unto
your Lord, the Expounder, the Most Manifest.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Gleanings, p. 117]
Ponder this in your hearts, O people, and be not of those who have
turned a deaf ear to the admonitions of Him Who is the Almighty, the
All-Praised.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 13]
We are also enjoined to ponder with our inner and outer eyes.  Outer
vision is essential for most of our daily activities.  How much more important
is inner vision to our spiritual development:
Ponder a while thereon, that with both your inner and outer eye, ye
may perceive the subtleties of Divine wisdom and discover the gems of
heavenly knowledge...
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Gleanings, p. 144]

O My Brother!  Until thou enter the Egypt of love, thou shalt never
come to the Joseph of the Beauty of the Friend; and until, like Jacob, thou
forsake thine outward eyes, thou shalt never open the eye of thine inward
being; and until thou burn with the fire of love, thou shalt never commune
with the Lover of Longing.
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Seven Valleys and Four Valleys, p. 9]
What is our inner and outer eye?  Could the inner eye refer to a state of
detachment with our minds focused on or opened towards God in wordless
reflection? Bahá’u’lláh writes, ‘O MAN OF TWO VISIONS! Close one eye
and open the other.  Close one to the world and all that is therein, and open
the other to the hallowed beauty of the Beloved’ [Bahá’u’lláh.  Persian Hid-
den Words, p. 12].
Thus, meditation may be compared to opening our spiritual eye to be-
come more conscious of the perfection of God and less aware of the imper-
fections of the world.
Bahá’u’lláh has enjoined His followers to reflect on the Teachings:
Reflect:  Who in this world is able to manifest such transcendent power,
such pervading influence?
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Kitáb-i-Iqan, p. 235]
This subject needs deep thought.  Then the cause of these changes will
be evident and apparent.  Blessed are those who reflect!
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Some Answered Questions, p. 96)
Study groups in the Ruhi institute collectively reflect on the teachings:
The posture of learning avoids searching for formulas that are to be
followed strictly.  Decisions are carried out, after consultation, with the
understanding that the developments which follow will be observed and
reflected upon.  This community reflection is done in light of the wisdom
enshrined in the Writings.
[Institute Training Programs, June 1995]
In the Ridván 157 Message of April 2000 the Universal House of Justice
enjoined the Bahá’ís to meditate on the sacred word.  This passage is most
likely referring to conscious contemplation of the Writings: ‘...members of
our worldwide community also gave more attention to drawing on the power
of prayer, to meditating on the sacred Word, and to deriving the spiritual
benefits of participation in devotional gatherings’ [Ridván 157 Message, p.
3].
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Bahá’u’lláh enjoined His followers to ‘...Bring thyself to account each
day ere thou art summoned to a reckoning...’ (Bahá’u’lláh.  Arabic Hidden
Words, p. 31). Contemplation and reflection is a suitable process of review-
ing each day and correcting our behaviour.
4.  Meditation as Silent Wordless Reflection, Seeking Divine
Wisdom
In the Book of the River, Bahá’u’lláh asserts that experience and ob-
servation is necessary to understanding - logic is not sufficient:
...human reason is not a sufficient standard.  When viewed with the
eye of insight, no phenomenon on earth could be comprehended by
any human, whether high or low, without prior observation and expe-
rience.  Observe the sun in the heavens... Certainly, human reason
would not be inclined to accept the possibility of the existence of such
a thing by means of any rational definition or description without ac-
tual observation and experience.
[Sahifiy-i-Shattiyyih (Book of the River) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh.  A
Provisional Translation.  By Nader Saiedi.  Journal of Bahá’í Studies 1999;
9:3, p. 57]
Nader Saiedi concludes that: ‘After actual observation and experi-
ence, reason takes for granted all the wonders of natural phenomena and
reduces them to necessary rational truths capable of deduction through
rational analysis’ [Concealment and Revelation in Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of
the River. Journal of Bahá’í Studies 1999; 9:3, p. 301].
These passages from the Book of the River have particular relevance
to the Bahá’í approach to meditation.  If meditation is a direct communi-
cation channel with God, then it can provide the experience of knowing
God, which is far more important than knowing about God.  This experi-
ence of knowing God is not and cannot be put into words.
Reflection without words may follow periods of prayer, communion
with God or study of the Writings.  Just as prayer can be viewed as speak-
ing to God, reflection without words may represent listening to God or
communing without the constraints of language.
Various passages in the Writings refer to entering the Divine Presence
and being immersed in the love and bounties of God: ‘...the people of
Bahá have entered the blissful abode of the Divine Presence, and quaffed
the wine of reunion, from the chalice of the beauty of their Lord, the
All-Possessing, the Most High’ (Bahá’u’lláh.  Gleanings, p. 32).

5. Meditation Using Repetition of Words or Phrases
As mentioned above, Bahá’ís repeat the Greatest Name, [Allah-u-Abhá],
ninety-five times per day. When believers repeat the Greatest Name they are
using a phrase with meaning as opposed to a mantra, which is a sound with-
out meaning.  The mantra in Transcendental Meditation is used to settle the
mind in a deep state of restful alertness, at which time the meditator pas-
sively lets go of the mantra.   If one persists repeating the sound after one
starts to transcend, then the mind is drawn back to the intellectual level and
out of transcendence.  The repetition of the Greatest Name  is different from
repeating a mantra until a state of transcendence is reached.  However, Jan
Dietrick has suggested that ‘the Greatest Name is so transcendental in its
meaning that it can support the mind to transcend its meaning’ [personal
communication].  She recommends that during repetition of the Greatest Name
one should ‘slow down and turn inward to the Self between words’ [personal
communication].
There are a number of Bahá’í prayers which use repetition in a manner
that fosters meditation. One of the prayers for the Fast re-affirms our spiritual
lifeline fourteen times, reminding us that we are: ‘...clinging to the hem of the
cord to which has clung all in this world and in the world to come’
[Bahá’u’lláh.  Bahá’í Prayers US Edition pp. 238-245]. Each verse of the
Tablet of the Holy Mariner except for the last three ends with the phrase
‘Glorified be my Lord, the All-Glorious!’ [Bahá’u’lláh.  Bahá’í Prayers US
Edition pp. 220-229]. The long prayer for the departed includes nineteen
repetitions of six separate phrases, emphasizing each as a separate medita-
tion on the greatness of God.
6. Forms of Bahá’í Meditation
The Guardian stated that there is no set form of Bahá’í meditation -
believers may choose whichever forms suit them: ‘As to meditation:  This
also is a field in which the individual is free.  There are no set forms of medi-
tation prescribed in the teachings, no plan as such, for inner development.
The friends are urged - nay enjoined - to pray, and they also should meditate,
but the manner of doing the latter is left entirely to the individual’ [Shoghi
Effendi.  Directives of the Guardian, p. 35].
Bahá’ís are not to teach specific methods of meditation at Bahá’í summer
school because this could be divisive and the Faith does not endorse one
method over another method:
There are, of course, other things that one can do to increase one’s
spirituality.  For example, Bahá’u’lláh has specified no procedures to be
followed in meditation, and individual believers are free to do as they
wish in this area, provided that they remain in harmony with the teachings,
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
but such activities are purely personal and should under no circumstances
be confused with those actions which Bahá’u’lláh Himself considered to
be of fundamental importance for our spiritual growth.  Some believers
may find that it is beneficial to them to follow a particular method of
meditation, and they may certainly do so, but such methods should not be
taught at Bahá’í Summer Schools or be carried out during a session of
the School because, while they may appeal to some people, they may repel
others.  They have nothing to do with the Faith and should be kept quite
separate so that enquirers will not be confused.
[Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to a National
Spiritual Assembly, September 1, 1983)  Lights of Guidance, p. 542]
The Guardian affirmed that meditation connects us with God: ‘Through
meditation doors of deeper knowledge and inspiration may be opened.  Natu-
rally, if one meditates as a Bahá’í he is connected with the Source... Medita-
tion is very important, and the Guardian sees no reason why the friends should
not be taught to meditate, but they should guard against superstitions or fool-
ish ideas creeping into it’ [Shoghi Effendi.  Directives of the Guardian, p.
47].
Meditation, like prayer, should be linked with action and bear fruit: ‘Prayer
and meditation are very important factors in deepening the spiritual life of
the individual, but with them must go also action and example, as these are
the tangible results of the former. Both are essential’ [Shoghi Effendi. Lights
of Guidance, p. 457]. Prayer and meditation are the prelude for action, par-
ticularly service.  Shoghi Effendi has indicated that we act in cycles, with
periods of reflection and meditation followed by periods of action and serv-
ice, precluding a monastic existence:
Dear friends, this is the day of faithfulness; this is the day of unity;
this is the day of service.  Let us not wait, nor ponder, but, detached from
the world and its concerns, clad in the armour of faith, filled with the
divine spirit of love, and quickened by His life-giving exhortations, let us
arise in utmost love and harmony, hasten to the field of service, and sub-
due the domain of hearts with the arms of the love of God and the sword
of peace and brotherhood.
[Shoghi Effendi.  Bahiyyih Khanum, p. 164]
7.  Forms of Meditation With Proven Health Effects
Bahá’í Writings either do not or rarely directly link meditation with health
or healing.  As mentioned previously, the Mars for Windows database con-
tains no sentences in which the words meditate, meditation, ponder, reflect,
or contemplate includes the words health or healing.  The absence of such
links, however, do not prove that the Bahá’í Teachings do not connect the

two subjects.  In fact, the Writings advise us to study health and treatment of
disease.
Let them also study whatever will nurture the health of the body and
its physical soundness, and how to guard their children from disease.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Selections, p. 124]
Thou shouldst endeavour to study the science of medicine.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Health and Healing, p. 461]
Individual Bahá’ís are encouraged to compare the Writings to scientific
knowledge.  Thus the admonitions to refrain from smoking and drinking al-
cohol would be reinforced by scientific studies demonstrating the harmful
health effects of smoking and alcohol abuse.
Although health is not the primary purpose of Bahá’í meditation, medita-
tion could have as a secondary purpose the goal of health improvement.  For
example, although we regard the  ‘procreation of children as the sacred and
primary purpose of marriage’ [Shoghi Effendi.  World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
p. 188] there are many other important purposes of marriage. In the Tablet to
a Physician, Bahá’u’lláh warns that ‘anger burneth the liver.’  If anger is
harmful to health, then it follows that measures that prevent or control anger
can protect against the damage from anger.  Meditation and other forms of
relaxation can dissipate anger and may indirectly improve health conditions
influenced by anger. Furthermore, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá assures us that communion
with God attracts a power to understand the secrets of the universe, which
presumably include secrets about our health and well-being:
...if thy mind become empty and pure from every mention and thought
and thy heart attracted wholly to the Kingdom of God, forget all else
besides God and come in communion with the Spirit of God, then the
Holy Spirit will assist thee with a power which will enable thee to pen-
etrate all things, and a Dazzling Spark which enlightens all sides, a Bril-
liant Flame in the zenith of the heavens, will teach thee that which thou
dost not know of the facts of the universe...
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Bahá’í World Faith, p. 369]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá enjoins us to focus our attention or ponder the Divine teach-
ings: ‘Now, if thou wishest to know the true remedy which will heal man from
all sickness and will give him the health of the divine kingdom, know that it is
the precepts and teachings of God.  Focus thine attention upon them’
[`Abdu’l-Bahá.  Selections from the Writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 152].
Evaluation of the health effects of the meditation of Bahá’ís would be
extraordinarily difficult given that the practice is completely individualized
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
and unique for each person.  It may however be possible to examine the health
effects of elements of Bahá’í prayer or meditation such as recitation of the
Greatest Name ninety-five times.
The form of meditation that has been most widely studied with respect to
health and healing is Transcendental Meditation.
8.
Transcendental Meditation and the Bahá’í Teachings
Transcendental Meditation, often labelled TM, is the most widely re-
searched form of meditation. TM claims to create a state of restful alertness
different to that of waking, dreaming or sleeping without dreaming.  TM
involves repetition of a sound without meaning for twenty minutes twice
daily, in the morning and late afternoon or early evening.  This sound is used
to quieten the mind; once in a state of quietness the meditator does not con-
sciously repeat the sound.
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, a physicist by training, developed TM after study-
ing Vedic scriptures under a spiritual master.  Although Maharishi did not
originate TM, he made it accessible for Westerners and helped to establish its
scientific basis.  He remains the central figure in TM.
About one-third of TM research has studied an advanced technique known
as the TM-Sidhi program.  Outcomes of conventional TM must be analysed
separately from the outcomes of the TM-Sidhi program in the same way that
an exercise group doing a 15 minute light warmup four times per week would
be analysed separately from another group running 10 km four times per
week after a 15 minute light warmup.
The basis of TM shares much in common with the Bahá’í teachings. In
the following list, numbers in square brackets refer to the page number from
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, The Science of Being and the Art of Living.  Tran-
scendental Meditation:
1. One almighty God
2. All religions come from the same Absolute Being
3. Meditation is essential
4. Live a life of service to others
5. Individuals responsible for their own spiritual progress
6. World government to bring world peace
7. Spiritual basis for solving economic problems
8. Obey the government and abide by law of the land [166]
9. Moderation in all things [170, 225]
10. Alcohol is harmful and should be avoided [117, 162, 291]
11. Follow the scriptures of your own Faith [132]
12. Unity in diversity. [351]
13. A set of natural laws underpin the universe [323]

Some teachings of Maharishi contradict those of the Bahá’í Writings, such
as:
1. Follow Your Own Religion - do not look to other Faiths [131-132]
2. Reincarnation [110]
3. Behave naturally, do not plan or ponder how to behave [112]
4. The ‘Bhagavad-Gita is the highest divine wisdom ever revealed to man...’
[321]
5. Maharishi’s Transcendental Meditation Movement, continuing in the
world, will create an ideal civilization. [author not stated p. 333]
6. No reference to the Bahá’í Faith in TM literature
These teachings, however, do not relate to the practice of TM.  Hence the
practice of TM does not conflict with Bahá’í principles.
TM proponents are permitted to earn money through the teaching and
application of TM in publishing, health spas and other areas whereas Bahá’ís
do not as a general rule earn money from teaching or applying the Bahá’í
teachings.
The Bahá’í Writings praise the word transcendental: ‘No one except Thy-
self can unravel the secret of Thy nature, and naught else but Thy transcen-
dental Essence can grasp the reality of Thy unsearchable being’ [Bahá’u’lláh.
Gleanings, p. 64]. Shoghi Effendi has labelled Bahá’u’lláh as transcenden-
tal: ‘Dominating the entire range of this fascinating spectacle towers the in-
comparable figure of Bahá’u’lláh, transcendental in His majesty, serene,
awe-inspiring, unapproachably glorious’ [World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 97]
The Bahá’í Writings further depict a set of universal laws similar to Natu-
ral Law in TM:
This Nature is subjected to an absolute organization, to determined
laws, to a complete order and a finished design, from which it will never
depart - to such a degree, indeed, that if you look carefully and with keen
sight, from the smallest invisible atom up to such large bodies of the world
of existence as the globe of the sun or the other great stars and luminous
spheres, whether you regard their arrangement, their composition, their
form or their movement, you will find that all are in the highest degree of
organization and are under one law from which they will never depart.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Some Answered Questions, p. 3]
It is said that Nature in its own essence is in the grasp of the power of
God, Who is the Eternal Almighty One:  He holds Nature within accurate
regulations and laws, and rules over it.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Some Answered Questions, p. 4]
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
‘Abdu’l-Bahá referred to natural law in at least three passages:
The world of creation is bound by natural law, finite and mortal.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks, p. 57]
The phenomenal world is entirely subject to the rule and control of
natural law.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 17]
Man is not the captive of nature, for although according to natural
law he is a being of the earth, yet he guides ships over the ocean, flies
through the air in airplanes, descends in submarines; therefore, he has
overcome natural law and made it subservient to his wishes.
[‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 17]
Maharishi describes natural law somewhat differently than ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
According to Maharishi, natural law cannot be overcome or made subservi-
ent.
I will now compare features of meditation mentioned in the Bahá’í Writ-
ings to the practice of Transcendental Meditation:
1. Contemplate in silence (do not speak while meditating)
2. Speak with your own spirit
3. Ask questions of the spirit and receive answers
4. Meditation unlocks the doors of mysteries
5. Meditation informs and strengthens the spirit
6. Meditation is like a mirror which should be turned towards spiritual, sci-
entific and artistic themes that benefit humanity
7. Meditation as prayer that transcends the murmur of syllables and sounds
8. Meditation should generate action
9. Prayerful meditation on the Bahá’í Teachings, particularly meditations
written by Bahá’u’lláh
Starting with the first feature, Transcendental Meditation is practiced in
silence:
...sanctuaries of silence be constructed in the midst of noisy market-
places of big cities, before going to their businesses, and after completing
their businesses of the day, may enter into silent meditation rooms, dive
deep within themselves, and be profited by undisturbed, regular, and deep
meditations... it seems necessary that such silent meditation centers also
be constructed in the holiday resorts where people go on weekends to
stay for one or two days.
[Maharishi p. 300]

Maharishi regards contemplation as an intellectual path towards God con-
sciousness, different from TM:
... the intellectual path of God realization through contemplation is
not a path for practical men...No man remaining active in the world...can
possibly succeed in infusing the divine nature into his mind through this
method of contemplation.  The intellectual path of divine revelation suits
those who have nothing to do with practical life... The silence which a
recluse enjoys is such that it keeps him away from work.  He is in silence
most of the time...
[Maharishi p. 282]
Although TM is not portrayed as contemplation, Maharishi does not op-
pose contemplation as an adjunct to meditation.  TM is a specific form of
meditation whereas the Bahá’í Writings define meditation more broadly.
The second feature of Bahá’í meditation, speaking with your own spirit,
is not a phrase used by Maharishi, who depicts TM as communication with
the Absolute.  TM refers to this process as returning to the Absolute Self.
The third feature of Bahá’í meditation, asking questions of the spirit and
receiving answers, is likewise not a phrase used by Maharishi.  He refers to
this phenomenon as creative intelligence, in which the meditator receives
inspiration from the Absolute to gain unlimited imagination, energy and joy:
Because absolute Being is the source of all thought and of all crea-
tion, when the conscious mind comes to that level, it comes in contact
with the unlimited creative intelligence of absolute Being.  Great creative
intelligence enters into the nature of the mind; constructive imagination,
the power of creative thinking, increases along with joyfulness and con-
tentment.  The mind coming in tune with the field of Being gains the source
of unlimited energy.  Such a powerful, energetic mind naturally has very
powerful thoughts.
[Maharishi, p. 116]
The forth feature of Bahá’í meditation, unlocking the doors of mysteries,
is related to the creative intelligence released by TM as previously described.
The fifth feature of Bahá’í meditation, that meditation informs and
strengthens the spirit, is consistent with the writings of Maharishi on TM and
creative intelligence.  The elimination of stress in the mind and body while
practicing TM strengthens the mind and body as well as spirit and can em-
power an easier pursuit of a devotional life.
The sixth feature of Bahá’í meditation is that meditation is like a mirror
which should be turned towards spiritual, scientific and artistic themes that
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
benefit humanity.  Maharishi’s writings support this view of using medita-
tion; after meditation the mind is more open to right thought which will in
turn create right action.
The seventh feature of Bahá’í meditation, in which meditation is viewed
as prayer that transcends the murmur of syllables and sounds, is consistent
with  TM, which does not employ words with meaning to achieve a state of
higher consciousness.
The eighth feature of Bahá’í meditation, that meditation should generate
action, is consistent with TM.  Maharishi has explained the unique role of
meditation in creating right action:
A right thought will be that which will produce a good, harmonious,
useful and life-supporting influence for the doer and for the entire uni-
verse in the present and for all times... It does not seem possible to enter-
tain thoughts which are always right by trying to think rightly.  Any con-
scious attempt on the part of the mind to entertain only right thoughts will
only mean straining the mind on a plane over which there can be no con-
trol.  In order that the mind succeed in entertaining only right thoughts, it
should be cultured so that by nature it picks up only a right thought.
[Maharishi p. 140]
The ninth feature of Bahá’í meditation, prayerful meditation on the Bahá’í
Teachings, particularly meditations written by Bahá’u’lláh, would be regarded
by TM as contemplation rather than meditation.
9. Transcendental Meditation and Health
TM is associated with health promotion, disease prevention and improved
health status.  A large number of scientific studies have been published in
refereed medical and scientific journals to support the role of TM and the
TM-Sidhi in prevention and treatment of disease and risk factors for disease.
Less than one-quarter of the studies randomized subjects to either TM or a
control method, in part because it is difficult to gain adherence to a life-style
change not selected by the participants.  By comparison, it is very easy to
randomise subjects to take a tablet once daily that might contain an active
treatment or a placebo.
Review of these studies [3-29 below] indicates that:
1. TM reduces risk factors for vascular disease and dementia such as blood
pressure, serum cholesterol, smoking and anxiety [7, 8, 21, 24, 25, 28]
2. TM practice may virtually eradicate essential hypertension, the most com-
mon form of high blood pressure [10, 13, 21, 22]
3. TM prevents all forms of stroke based on its effects on blood pressure,

smoking and prevention of heart disease [7]
4. TM reduces symptoms of many conditions such as angina [5], headache,
pain [25] and asthma [29]
5. TM reduces the rate of hospital admission by 50% in North America [9]
We cannot extrapolate this finding to Australia or New Zealand
6. TM reduces hospital admissions in all categories except childbirth [9]
7. TM improves cognitive performance [18, 23]
8. TM reduces biological aging as measured by DHEA-S levels, systolic
blood pressure, visual and auditory thresholds and intellectual perform-
ance [3, 4, 15, 27]
9. TM improves psychological health and stress hardiness [6, 11, 12, 14, 16,
17, 19, 20]
These studies suggest that the benefits of TM are cumulative: groups
practicing for five years have greater benefit than novices while those
practicing for ten years have greater benefit than those practicing for five
years.
10.
Conclusions
According to the Bahá’í Writings, meditation is essential for our spiritual
growth.  The regular practice of meditation is exalted to the level of prayer
and fasting.  The Bahá’í Writings also encourage natural preventative prac-
tices to maintain health and thereby serve mankind. Bahá’ís are required to
seek competent physicians when they are ill and follow the physician’s in-
structions. A growing number of health practitioners are recommending TM
for preventative and curative health benefits.  Bahá’ís consider learning TM
as part of their health.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserted that the meditator must observe silence.  Medita-
tion should generate action such as service.  There is no set form of Bahá’í
meditation.  Therefore individuals are free to choose processes that enhance
their spiritual development.  There are at least three processes involved in
meditation: 1) contemplation or thinking in a conscious state, as exemplified
by reflecting on the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh or calling ourselves to account
each day; 2) wordless reflection in an altered state of consciousness, as sug-
gested by prayer that ‘transcends the murmur of syllables and sounds.’  TM
qualifies as one such meditative practice; 3) repetition of words and phrases
such as the Greatest Name.  These words and phrases may be separated by
periods of contemplation or wordless reflection.
Scientific evidence on the health benefits of Transcendental Meditation is
quite strong.  Further research is needed to identify health benefits from other
forms of meditation and to assess the effects of different forms of meditation
on the well-being and health of Bahá’ís.
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Acknowledgements
The author deeply appreciates the constructive remarks from Felicity
Rawlings-Sanaei, Jan Dietrick and Ron Whitehurst on the draft paper pre-
sented at the Australian Association for Bahá’í Studies Conference in Octo-
ber 2000.
Bahá’í References
‘Abdu’l-Baha.  The Importance of Deepening.  In Compilation of Compila-
tions.  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Sydney, 1991.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Paris Talks.  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, London, 1972.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Promulgation of Universal Peace.  Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, 1982.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Bahá’í World
Centre, Haifa, 1982.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Some Answered Questions. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette,
1990.
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Bahá’í Prayers (US edition), Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, Wilmette, 1985.
Bahá’u’lláh.  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette,
1988.
Bahá’u’lláh.  Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, Wilmette, 1990.
Bahá’u’lláh.  Hidden Words. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1985.
Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa, 1992.
Bahá’u’lláh.  The Kitáb-i-Iqan. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1989.
Bahá’u’lláh.  Prayers and Meditations. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette,
1987.
Bahá’u’lláh.  Seven Valleys and Four Valleys. Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, 1991.
Bahá’u’lláh.  Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1988.
Danesh, Hossain B.  The Psychology of Spirituality.  From Divided Self to
Integrated Self. Landegg Academy Press, 1977.
Effendi, Shoghi.  Bahiyyih Khánúm.  Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa, 1982.
Effendi, Shoghi. Directives of the Guardian. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, New
Delhi, 1973.
Effendi, Shoghi.  World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, 1991.
The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and Fasting. Selection of Extracts and
Prayers from the Bahá’í Writings Compiled by the Research Department
of the Universal House of Justice.  Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa, 2000.
Multiple authors.  Lights of Guidance. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, New Delhi,
1994.

Saiedi, Nader.  Sahifiy-i-Shattiyyih (Book of the River) Revealed by
Bahá’u’lláh.  A Provisional Translation.  Journal of Bahá’í Studies 1999;
9 (number 3): page 57-61.
Saiedi, Nader.  Concealment and Revelation in Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of the
River.  Journal of Bahá’í Studies 1999; 9 (number 3):25-56.
References to Transcendental Meditation
1. Shapiro, Deane. Examining the content and challenge of meditation: A
challenge for psychology in the areas of stress management, psychotherapy,
and religion / values. Journal of Humanistic Psychology 1994; 34: 101-
2. Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. (1963) The Science of Being and the Art of Liv-
ing. Transcendental Meditation. New York: Signet.
3. Wallace RK, Dillbeck MC, Jacobe E, Harrington B.  The effects of the
Transcendental Meditation and TM-Sidhi program on the aging process.
International Journal of Neuroscience 1982; 16: 53-58
4. Alexander CN. Langer EJ, Newman RI, Chandler HM, Davies JL. Tran-
scendental Meditation, mindfulness and longevity: an experimental study
with the elderly.  Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 1989 Dec;
57(6): 950-64
5. Zamarra JE, Schneider RH, Besseghini I, Robinson DK, Salerno JW.
Usefulness of the Transcendental Meditation program in the treatment of
patients with coronary artery disease.  American Journal of Cardiology
1996: 77: 867-870
6. Gaylord C, Orme-Johnson D, Travis F.  The effects of the Transcendental
Meditation technique and progressive muscle relaxation on EEG coher-
ence, stress reactivity and mental health in black adults.  International
Journal of Neuroscience 1989 May; 46(1-2): 77-86
7. Castillo-Richmond A, Schneider Robert H, Alexander CN, Cook R, Myers
H, Nidich S, Haney C, Rainforth M, Salerno J.   Effects of stress reduc-
tion on carotid atherosclerosis in hypertensive African Americans.  Stroke
2000; 31: 568-573
8. Alexander CN, Robinson P, Orme-Johnson DW et al. Effects of Tran-
scendental Meditation compared to other methods of relaxation and medi-
tation in reducing risk factors, morbidity and mortality.   Homeostasis
1994; 35: 243-264
9. Orme-Johnson D. Medical care utilization and the Transcendental Medi-
tation program.  Psychosomatic Medicine 1987; 49: 493-507
10. Wenneberg SE, Schneider RH, Walton KG, MacClean CRK, Levitsky
DK, Salerno JW, Wallace RK.  A controlled study of the effects of the
Transcendental Meditation program on cardiovascular reactivity and am-
Meditation and Health

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
bulatory blood pressure.  International Journal of Neuroscience 1997 Jan;
89 (1-2): 15-28
11. Electrophysiological correlates of higher states of consciousness during
sleep in long-term practitioners of the Transcendental Meditation pro-
gram.  Mason LI, Alexander CN, Travis FT, Marsh G, Orme-Johnson
DW, Gackenbach J, Mason DC, Rainnforth M, Walton KG.    Sleep 1997
Feb: 20(2): 102-110
12. Jevening R, Wilson AF, Davidson JM.  Adrenocortical activity during
meditation.  Hormones Behaviour 1978;10: 54-69
13. Seer P, Raeburn JM.  Meditation training and essential hypertension: a
methodological study.  Journal of Behavioural Medicine 1980 March;
3(1): 59-71
14. Warrenburg S, Pagano RR, Woods M, Hlastala M.  A comparison of so-
matic relaxation and EEG activity in classical progressive relaxation and
Transcendental Meditation.  Journal of Behavioural Medicine 1980 March;
3(1): 73-93
15. Glaser JL. Brind JL, Vogelman JH, Eisner MJ, Dillbeck MC, Wallace
RK, Chopra D, Orentreich N.  Elevated serum dehydroepiandrosterone
sulfate levels in practitioners of the Transcendental Meditation program.
Journal of Behavioural Medicine 1992 Aug; 15(4): 327-341
16. Dillbeck MC.  The effect of the TM technique on anxiety level.  Journal
of Clinical Psychology 1977;33: 1076-78
17. Throll DA.  Transcendental Meditation and progressive relaxation: their
physiological effects.  Journal of Clinical Psychology 1982 Jul;38(2): 522-
18. Jedrcazak A, Toomey M, Clements G.  The TM-Sidhi programme, age
and brief tests of perceptual-motor speed and nonverbal intelligence.  Jour-
nal of Clinical Psychology 1986 Jan;42(1): 161-164
19. Gelderloos P, Hermans HJ, Ahlscrom HH, Jacoby R.  Transcendence and
psychological health: studies with long-term participants of the Transcen-
dental Meditation and TM-Sidhi program.  Journal of Psychology 1990
March;124(2): 177-197
20. Alexander C, Rainforth M, Gelderloos P.  Transcendental Meditation, self-
actualization and psychological health: A conceptual overview and statis-
tical analysis.  Journal of Social Behaviour and Personality 1991;6(5):
189-247
21. Wallace RK, Silver J, Mills PJ, Dillbeck MC, Wagoner DE. Systolic blood
pressure and long-term practice of the Transcendental Meditation and TM-
Sidhi Program: Effects of TM on systolic blood pressure.  Psychosomatic
Medicine 1983;45: 41-46
22. Barnes VA, Treiber FA, Turner JR, David H, Strong WB.  Acute effects of
Transcendental Meditation on hemodynamic functioning in middle-aged

Meditation and Health
adults.  Psychosomatic Medicine 1999;61: 525-531
23. Pelletier KR.  Influence of Transcendental Meditation upon autokinetic
perception.  Perceptual and Motor Skills 1974;39:1031-1034
24. Jevning R, Anand R, Biedebach M, Fernando G.  Effects on regional cer-
ebral blood flow of Transcendental Meditation.  Physiology and Behav-
iour 1996 March;59(3): 399-402
25. Orme-Johnson DW.  Autonomic stability and Transcendental Meditation.
Psychosomatic Medicine 1973;35:341-349
26. Mills W, Farrow JT.  The Transcendental Meditation technique and acute
experimental pain.  Psychosomatic Medicine 1981 April:43(2): 157-164
27. Werner OR, Wallace RK, Charles B, Janssen G, Stryker T, Chalmers RA.
Long-term endocrinologic changes in subjects practising the Transcen-
dental Meditation and TM-Sidhi program.  Psychosomatic Medicine 1986
January;48(1-2): 59-66
28. Schneider RH, Nidich SI, Salerno JW, et al.  Lower lipid peroxide levels
in practitioners of the Transcendental Meditation program.  Psychoso-
matic Medicine 1998 Jan-Feb;60(1): 38-41
29. Wilson AF, Hornsberger R, Chiu JT, Novey HS.  Transcendental Medita-
tion and asthma.  Respiration 1974;32: 74-80

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Maharishi Ayurveda
A Bahá’í Exploration*
Felicity Rawlings-Sanaei
Abstract
Ayurveda is the traditional health system of India. Maharishi Ayurveda is
the restoration of Avurveda in a system adapted for universal application in
the modern world. This article explores the parallels between the Bahá’í writ-
ings on health and healing, and the principles of Maharishi Ayurveda. After
an introduction to Ayurveda, the article provides a comparative assessment
of the understanding of homeostasis, pathogeny, and the mind-body relation-
ship. It then outlines some of the therapeutic strategies of Maharishi Ayurveda
and examines how they correspond to the Bahá’í writings on healing. The
article does not purport to be a comprehensive discourse on Maharishi
Ayurveda. It is, rather, a layperson’s brief exploration from a Bahá’í perspec-
tive. It is neither attempted nor indeed possible to include all the pertinent
Bahá’í writings, as they are voluminous and transcend the scope of this arti-
cle.
The world of being shineth, in this Day, with the resplendency of
this Divine Revelation. All created things extol its saving grace, and
sing its praises. The universe is wrapt in an ecstasy of joy and gladness.
The Scriptures of past Dispensations celebrate the great Jubilee that
must needs greet this most great Day of God.
(Bahá’u’lláh)
*
This article was originally published in The Journal of Bahá’í Studies, 4.3.1991. Grateful acknowledg-
ment is made for permission to reprint the article by the Association for Bahá’í Studies (North America)
and to reprint excerpts from Perfect Health by Deepak Chopra, © 1990 Deepak Chopra. Reprinted by
permission of Harmony Books, a division of Crown Publishers, Inc. This presentation of Maharishi
Ayurveda primarily aims to show the close relation of the theoretical framework of Maharishi Ayurveda
to the Bahá’í writings. The article does not advocate Maharishi Ayurveda as a Bahá’í medicine. Neither
does it advocate Transcendental Meditation as a Bahá’í technique. While the author practises the Ma-
harishi Ayurveda regimen, she does not have any commercial interest in Maharishi Ayurveda or any
formal affiliation with its organizations.
Note from the Editor of The Journal of Bahá’í Studies: Readers of this article are asked to take note of the
following quotation from the Bahá’í writings: “No specific school of nutrition or medicine has been
associated with the Bahá’í teachings. What we have are certain guidelines, indications and principles
which will be carefully studied by experts and will, in the years ahead, undoubtedly prove to be invalu-
able sources of guidance and inspiration in the development of these medical sciences” (from a letter
written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, cited in Lights of Guidance 297).

Ayurveda is a science to maintain perfect health.1 It is an integral part of
the Vedic literature, the world’s most ancient divine scriptures still extant.
Two of the most important Ayurvedic texts are Caraka Samhita, a treatise on
general medicine, and Sushruta Samhita, a classic text on surgery. Ayurvedic
medicine has been practised in India for thousands of years. It became frag-
mented when India was occupied by foreign nations. (Consequently, the cur-
rent poor levels of health in India can provide no measure of its effective-
ness.) Ayurveda is a comprehensive and preventive system of health care. It
has application in surgery, gynaecology, ophthalmology, paediatrics, obstet-
rics, toxicology, internal medicine, and many other fields of medicine. Ma-
harishi Ayurveda is the reconstruction of the original completeness of Ayurveda
by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi2 in collaboration with many of the world’s great-
est Ayurvedic scholars and physicians.3
Background
The ancient rishis (seers) identified the source of all life as conscious-
ness—that essential unity which animates all existence. By interacting with
itself (Purusha, the eternal unmanifest reality, in conjunction with Prakriti,
(likewise eternal, unmanifest, but assuming a creative function) conscious-
ness unfolds, manifesting itself in all the various expressions of nature
(Sushruta Samhita 2: 114-17). Bahá’u’lláh affirms that all existence origi-
nates from one unified divine principle:
The world of existence came into being through the heat generated
from the interaction between the active force and that which is its recipi-
ent. These two are the same, yet they are different. (Tablets 140)
In the Lawh-i-Ayiy-i-Núr (Tablet of the Verse of Light), Bahá’u’lláh
expounds on this theme:
Know that the first tokens that emanated from the pre-existent Cause
in the worlds of creation are the four elements: fire, air, water, and
earth…. Then the natures (ustuqusát) of these four appeared: heat,
moisture, cold, and dryness—those same qualities that ye both reckon
and know. When the elements interacted and joined with one another,
two pillars became evident for each one: for fire, heat and dryness,
and likewise for the remaining three in accordance with these rules,
as ye are aware. By them God created all that there is in the worlds of
creation, whether of the higher or lower realms. In whatsoever thing
these natures came into equilibrium that thing endured the passage of
time, as ye behold with the sun and the moon; and in whatsoever thing
these natures came not into balance, that thing passed quickly into
extinction, even as ye observe to be the case with the creatures of the
lower worlds. (Má’idiy-i-Asmání 4:82)4
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Some of the most recent developments in quantum physics lend sup-
port to the view that finite matter emerges from a single supersymmetric
field known as the unified field, where the four fundamental forces of
nature—electromagnetism, strong and weak interactions, and gravitation
— are completely unified (Freedman, van Nieuwenhuizen, “Supergravity”
126-43). It can be surmised that the unified field corresponds to “univer-
sal reality” in the following quotation:
The first thing which emanated from God is that universal reality,
which the ancient philosophers termed the “First Mind,” and which
the people of Bahá call the “First Will.” This emanation, in that which
concerns its action in the world of God, is not limited by time or place;
it is without beginning or end—beginning and end in relation to God
are one. (`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions 203)
This surmise is corroborated by ‘Abdu’l Bahá’s affirmation that the First
Will (also referred to as the Primal Will) “is the inner reality of things, and all
existing things are its manifestations (mazáhir) . . .” (Makátíb 3:356).5
According to Maharishi, the unified field sequentially gives rise to the
diversity in creation through a process of self-referral and self-interaction
(Maharishi, Life Supported 25-26; Chandler, “Introduction” 9-10). In phys-
ics, this process is known as spontaneous symmetry breaking: The unified
field moving within itself generates the fundamental forces of nature and the
fundamental matter fields. From the interaction of these fields, potential is
transformed into actuality: The physical structures arise, specifically the DNA
molecule (Wallace et al., “Vedic Physiology” 8-9).
A statement of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá suggests that creation unfolds in a sequen-
tial manner: “. . . the mind proveth the existence of an unseen Reality that
embraceth all beings, and that existeth and revealeth itself in all stages (“Tab-
let to Dr Auguste Forel” 222).
The transformation of consciousness into matter is described in
Ayurveda as follows: Prakriti contains three gunas or attributes; sattva
(essence), rajas (energy), and tamas (inertia). Five elements arise out of
the interaction of the gunas: akash (space), vayu (air), agni (fire), jala
(water), and prthvi (earth) (Caraka Samhita 1: 6-7; Sushruta Samhita 2:
114-21).6 These elements constitute all of the physical universe: A basic
premise of Ayurveda is that the elements which exist in the macrocosm
(nature) are also present in the microcosm (the individual) (Caraka
Samhita 1: 440; Sushruta Samhita 2: 118-21). This is affirmed in the Bahá’í
writings. The following quotation has a broader meaning but is relevant
nevertheless. Quoting ‘Alí, Bahá’u’lláh writes: “Dost thou reckon thyself
only a puny form / When within thee the universe is folded?” (Seven Val-
leys 34). This premise is also restated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “… all parts of

the creational world are of one whole” (Bahá’í World Faith 364). In refer-
ence to animals and vegetables, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes, “…the animal, as to its
body, is made up of the same constituent elements as man” (Selections 153).
“All the elements that are combined in man exist also in vegetables” (Some
Answered Questions 258).
Homeostasis, Pathogenesis, and the Mind-Body Relationship
Ayurveda teaches that an individual’s uniqueness is defined by the unique
proportion of the five elements (Caraka Samhita 1: 447; Sashruta Samhita 2:
119-2l).7 These five elements combine to form three governing principles
known as doshas.
DOSHA      COMBINATION OF ELEMENTS            MAJOR FUNCTIONS
Vata
Akash, Vayu
Movement and Elimination
Pitta
Agni, Jala
Metabolism and Digestion
Kapha
Jala, Prthvi
Cohesion and Structure
(Caraka Samhita 1: 7, 131, 399; Sushruta Samhita 1: 120-21)
Although in differing proportions, all doshas are present in an individu-
al’s physiology. The predominant dosha(s) determine the individual body
type (“Maharishi Ayurveda psychosomatic type”) (Glaser, “Maharishi
Ayurveda” 100-101). Each psychosomatic type has corresponding physical
and psychological characteristics that predisposc an individual to different
diseases when the doshic balance is disturbed. For example, since agni is
present in pitta, individuals of pitta psychosomatic type are thought to be
prone to anger and susceptible to inflammatory diseases.8 Primary attention
therefore is given to preserving the doshic balance (Caraka Samhita 1: 8,
131; Sushruta Samhita 1:127, 194, 196, 202). The importance of maintaining
homeostasis is made clear in the Bahá’í writings:
…the human body is composed of numerous elements, but in the meas-
ure of an especial equilibrium. As long as this equilibrium is maintained,
man is preserved from disease; but if this essential balance, which is the
pivot of the constitution, is disturbed, the constitution is disordered, and
disease will supervene. (‘Abdu’l Bahá, Some Answered Questions 257)
Ayurveda teaches that to preserve the doshic balance, there must be har-
mony between the mind and body, and between the individual and the envi-
ronment (Caraka Samhita 1: 7, 121, 131, 447),9 because the same laws of
nature are present in the cosmos as in the human body (Maharishi, Life Sup-
ported 111-12). Ayurveda therefore regards the individual and the environ-
ment as interdependent.10 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá addresses the importance of this re-
lationship:
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Were one to observe with an eye that discovereth the realities of all
things, it would become clear that the greatest relationship that bindeth
the world of being together lieth in the range of created things them-
selves, and that co-operation, mutual aid and reciprocity are essential
characteristics in the unified body of the world of being, inasmuch as all
created things are closely related together and each is influenced by the
other or deriveth benefit therefrom, either directly or indirectly. (Cited in
Compilation 1: 71)
According to Ayurveda, biological and environmental rhythms get out of
synchronization when there has been some violation of natural law, such as
the practice of harmful habits, repression of emotions, environmental abuse,
or incorrect diet (Caraka Sarnhita 1. 7, 120-21; Sushruta Samhita 1: 123,
201-3).11 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that there are many different causes of dis-
ease: “. . . lustful appetites, . . . sin and contumacy (Selections 152-53), and
sorrow (Star 19:254) among others. Maharishi Ayurveda identifies the first
expression of the disease process on the quantum level, where conscious-
ness, mind, and body interact (Chopra, “Bliss” 72). Quantum means the small-
est possible unit of energy. The quantum level is therefore the deepest level
of matter. Dr. Deepak Chopra has coined the term “quantum mechanical body”
(“Bliss” 63). This conception of the human body enables one to regard it as
“a silent flow of intelligence, a constant bubbling up of impulses that create,
control and become your physical body” (Chopra, Perfect Health 10). The
quantum mechanical body is viewed then, not as a static entity, but rather as
a “flow of intelligence” subject to constant change. This view extends to
embrace existence itself (Chopra, “Bliss” 71-73). The Bahá’í writings also
put forward the view that existence is in a process of constant change. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá writes:
Creation is the expression of motion. . . . All created forms are pro-
gressive in their planes, or kingdoms of existence, under the stimulus of
the power or spirit of life. The universal energy is dynamic. Nothing is
stationary in the material world of outer phenomena or in the inner world
of intellect and consciousness. (Promulgation 140)
Maharishi Ayurveda teaches that the disease process begins when there is
a disruption in the “flow of intelligence.”12 “Flow of intelligence” may be
equated with “mind force” in the following quotation:
The mind force—whether we call it pre-existent or contingent—doth
direct and co-ordinate all the members of the human body, seeing to it
that each part or member duly performeth its own special function. If,
however, there be some interruption in the power of the mind, all the
members will fail to carry out their essential functions, deficiencies will

appear in the body and the functioning of its members, and the power will
prove ineffective.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections 48)
Chopra uses a computer analogy to describe the mind-body relationship.
He asserts, “To change the printout out of the body. you must learn to rewrite
the software of the mind” (Perfect Health 12). The mind writes the computer
program, which in turn creates the printout, i.e., the physical body (Chopra,
“Bliss” 62). Every thought the “program” processes in turn generates a chemi-
cal reaction in the body.13 The computer analogy can be demonstrated by the
placebo effect. The placebo effect is the change in health status as a result of
expectation rather than of a specific treatment. The Bahá’í writings acknowl-
edge the effect of thought processes on the physical body: “. . . the sudden
realization of a chief desire will give such joy that the nerves will be excited
by it, and this excitement may produce health” (`Abdu’l-Bahá, Some An-
swered Questions 255).
The reader may ask to what degree the computer model is compatible
with the Bahá’í understanding, because in the Bahá’í view the critical condi-
tion for well-being is obedience to Bahá’í teachings. The point in question
then is how congruent are Maharishi Ayurveda measures with Bahá’í princi-
ples. The discussion below will attempt to show that the measures improve
physiological functioning and promote behavior in accordance with environ-
mental and biological rhythms. It follows then that the adoption of such meas-
ures would be compatible with obedience to Bahá’í teachings. This writer
still maintains, however, that we are all subject to the Will of God; therefore
good health is dependent not only upon personal effort but also upon God’s
grace.   Maharishi Ayurveda teaches that treatment is regarded as most effec-
tive when it is applied on the quantum level (Chopra, “Bliss” 72). According
to Chopra, more power is available on this level than on the gross level of the
physiology: “What is at work here is the quantum principle, which reveals
that the most subtle levels of nature hold the greatest potential energy” (Per-
fect Health 8). He cites the example of the laser, “which takes the same light
that is emitted by a flashlight, and by organizing it into coherent quantum
vibrations boosts its power enough to cut through steel” (Perfect Health 8).
The Mental Approach: Transcendental Meditation
The mental approach operates on the quantum level (Chopra, “Bliss” 72-
73). It is therefore regarded as the most powerful therapeutic strategy. In
Maharishi Ayurveda, Transcendental Meditation (TM) (a mental technique)
is the primary prevention approach. The TM technique has been described as
a systematic means for taking the conscious mind from active levels of aware-
ness to more abstract and fundamental levels of mental activity, resulting in
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
the experience of pure consciousness” (Hagelin, “Is Consciousness” 62).
During the experience of pure consciousness, the mind remains fully alert
while experiencing profound silence, a state which has been shown to have
physiological correlates such as decreased respiration rate and increased ba-
sal skin resistance (Dillbeck, Orme-Johnson, “Physiological Differences” 879-
81). Extensive research demonstrates TM’s remarkable range of benefits.14
Meditation has an important role in the Bahá’í teachings:
The spirit of man is itself informed and strengthened during medita-
tion; through it affairs of which man knew nothing are unfolded before
his view. Through it he receives Divine inspiration, through it he receives
heavenly food.
Meditation is the key for opening the doors of mysteries. In that state
man abstracts himself: in that state man withdraws himself from all out-
side objects; in that subjective mood he is immersed in the ocean of spir-
itual life and can unfold the secrets of things-in-themselves.…
This faculty brings forth from the invisible plane the sciences and arts.
Through the meditative faculty inventions are made possible, colossal
undertakings are carried out; through it governments can run smoothly…
(‘Abdu’l Bahá, Paris Talks 175)
Some readers may find a semantic difficulty with the word meditation. It
is not proposed that TM equates with “meditation” as it is most frequently
employed in the Bahá’í writings; to imply reflection on the Word of God:
Meditate upon that which hath streamed forth from the heaven of the
Will of thy Lord, He Who is the Source of all grace, that thou mayest
grasp the intended meaning which is enshrined in the sacred depths of the
Holy Writings. (Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets 143)
An in-depth discussion is not possible within the confines of this article.
Chopra, however, addresses this point (Quantum Healing 182-83).
The Super Radiance Effect
The “Super Radiance Effect” or “Maharishi Effect” can be defined as the
improved quality of life produced when, in one place, the square root of one
percent of a population practises the Maharishi Technology of the Unified
Field (MTUF)—TM and the TM-Sidhi program (Hagelin, “Is Conscious-
ness” 64-65). The TM-Sidhi program is a set of specific procedures prescribed
in the Vedic literature that train the individual to function from the level of
the unified field (Chandler, “Introduction” 20). As Maharishi describes it:
In this program, human awareness identifies itself with that most wide
and most powerful level of nature’s functioning and starts to function from
there. The purpose of the TM-Sidhi program is to consciously create activity
from that level from where nature performs. (Life Supported 74)15

Research has repeatedly demonstrated that the group practice of the MTUF
has the effect of decreasing crime and accident rates, and of reducing vio-
lence and international conflict.16 According to physicist Dr. John Hagelin,
the Super Radiance Effect illustrates the principle known as constructive in-
terference (Scientific Research 71). In applying this principle to society, it is
found that the effect generated is proportional to the square of the number of
individuals practising the MTUF (Hagelin, “Is Consciousness” 65).   If, as
research findings suggest, the Super Radiance Effect contributes to the peace-
making process, Bahá’ís could expect references to be made to such an effect
in the Bahá’í writings. I submit the hypothesis that the following quotation
refers to the MTUF:
In the treasuries of the knowledge of God there lieth concealed a knowl-
edge which, when applied, will largely, though not wholly, eliminate fear.
This knowledge, however, should be taught from childhood, as it will
greatly aid in its elimination. Whatever decreaseth fear increaseth cour-
age. Should the Will of God assist Us, there would flow out from the Pen
of the Divine Expounder a lengthy exposition of that which hath been
mentioned, and there would be revealed, in the field of arts and sciences,
what would renew the world and the nations. A word hath, likewise, been
written down and recorded by the Pen of the Most High in the Crimson
Book which is capable of fully disclosing that force which is hid in men,
nay of redoubling its potency. We implore God—exalted and glorified be
He—to graciously assist His servants to do that which is pleasing and
acceptable unto Him. (Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle 32)
When Shoghi Effendi was asked about the meaning of this passage, his
secretary replied on his behalf: “Unfortunately it would seem that the knowl-
edge ‘which could largely eliminate fear’ has not been disclosed or identified
by Bahá’u’lláh, so we do not know what it is” (Bahá’í News 210: 3). As the
first major experiment to measure the sociological effects of the collective
practice of the MTUF was not conducted until 1983, the Super Radiance
Effect was not known about at the time this letter was written.17
To test the hypothesis, it is necessary to determine whether the theoretical
understanding and research into the MTUF are consistent with Bahá’u’lláh’s
exposition in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. A brief inquiry is offered here.
First and foremost, the sociological measures of reduced violence and
international conflict cited above constitute powerful evidence to suggest that
the application of the MTUF satisfies the primary condition: “eliminate fear.”
What other pointers are provided? We find: “that force which is hid in
men.” It has already been contended that the unified field (which, according
to Hagelin is “experienced as the most fundamental state of human awareness”
[“Is Consciousness” 59]) is the unification of the four fundamental forces of
nature (Freedman, van Nieuwenhuizen, “Supergravity” 126-43). Thus, this
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
statement provides support to the view that the organizing power of the unified
field accords with a literal interpretation of “that force which is hid in men.”
A careful scrutiny of the Crimson Book (the Book of the Covenant, and the
book “which is capable of fully disclosing that force . . .”) sheds more light.
We find:
0 ye My Branches! A mighty force. a consummate power lieth con-
cealed in the world of being. Fix your gaze upon it and upon its unifying
influence, and not upon the differences which appear from it.  (Bahá’u’lláh,
“The Book of the Covenant,” Tablets 221)
It can be conjectured that “mighty force” may also be identified as the
organizing power of the unified field. On what basis is this conjecture made?
Bahá’u’lláh tells us that this “mighty force” has a “unifying influence.” It has
been asserted that a unifying influence is generated when individual con-
sciousness functions from the level of the unified field during the practice of
the MTUF (Hagelin, Scientific Research 70; Orme-Johnson, et al., “Interna-
tional Peace Project” 806). This assertion is supported by research which
shows that coherence is generated during the practice.18 Bahá’u’lláh also tells
us that “differences” appear from this “mighty force.” If this interpretation of
“mighty force” is correct, it would follow that “differences” may refer to the
diversity of the phenomenal world, which, according to Maharishi, emerges
from the unified field (Life Supported 25-26; Chandler, “Introduction” 10).
Bahá’u’lláh provides one further instruction: “Fix your gaze upon it and upon
its unifying influence, and not upon the differences which appear from it.” It
is possible that Bahá’u’lláh is exhorting human beings to detach themselves
from the phenomenal world, and to turn their attention to the spiritual realm.
The inference here, that the unified field is in the spiritual realm, may find
support in the following excerpt from a letter written by Shoghi Effendi:
“The essence of existence is a spiritual reality because invisible forces of the
spirit are the origin of matter and the foundation thereof” (cited in Brown, “A
Bahá’í Perspective” 29).
Equally striking is the point in Bahá’u’lláh’s exposition in Epistle to the
Son of the Wolf “. . . there would be revealed, in the field of arts and sciences,
what would renew the world and the nations” (32). This quotation provides a
further pillar of support to the hypothesis since the MTUF also has experi-
mental and applied values in the arts and sciences. Its ability to show how a
discipline relates to the unified field of natural law is providing profound
insights into many traditional academic disciplines (Dillbeck, “Maharishi
Technology” 398-99). 19
Given that international peace is the “most momentous question of this
day” (`Abdu’l-Bahá, cited in Compilation 2: 168), and given the research
findings on the MTUF, this technology merits serious examination.

Diagnosis and Individualized Treatment
A distinctive advantage of Ayurveda is that its diagnostic methods (in
particular pulse diagnosis) can identify an imbalance at the unmanifest
level (Caraka Samhita 1: 325-28; Sushruta Samhita 1: 210; Rigby, “New
Perspectives” 82), allowing treatment to intervene before disease becomes
manifest, when it can be difficult and costly to treat.20 (These methods are
in sharp contrast to those in Western medicine, which can generally only
recognize disease when it is organically obvious.)
Individualized treatment is a distinguishing feature of Ayurveda. As
explained above, individuals are vulnerable to different diseases accord-
ing to their unique combination of doshas. To maximize immunity to dis-
ease and to achieve balance by eliminating excessive accumulation of the
doshas, treatment must be tailored to the needs of the individual. The
vaidya (Ayurvedic practitioner) takes into account the individual’s psy-
chosomatic type, condition, environment, and other influencing factors
(Caraka Samhita 1:124, 326, 448; Sushruta Samhita 1: 185-86, 210, 232).
Individualized treatment is affirmed by ‘Abdu’l Bahá:
The skillful physician does not give the same medicine to cure each
disease and each malady, but he changes remedies and medicines ac-
cording to the different necessities of the diseases and constitutions.
(Some Answered Questions 94)
Therapeutic Strategies
There are many therapeutic strategies in Maharishi Ayurveda.21 Most
strategies enliven innate self-repair mechanisms and increase internal bio-
logical strength (Rothenberg, Averbach, “Three Important Studies” 3).
Ayurvedic treatments are therefore preventive as well as curative. It is the
intelligence (order) in a treatment that triggers the healing process (Chopra,
“Bliss” 69-70). “Intelligence” may be equated with “mind” in the follow-
ing quotation: “All that we see around us is the work of mind. It is mind
in the herb and in the mineral that acts on the human body, and changes
its condition” (`Abdu’l-Bahá, Star 8.18: 233). It is relevant to point out
here that the use of herbs and minerals comprises important rejuvenation
strategies in Ayurveda. This use will be discussed in more detail below.
The Bahá’í writings make it clear that many approaches can be used
to restore health:
The state or condition through which healing takes place is the
condition of the heart. By some this state is reached through pills,
powders, and physicians. By others through hygiene, fasting, and
prayer. By others through direct perception. (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Star 8.18:
233)
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Diet
‘Abdu’l-Bahá foresaw the use of dietary measures:
When the science of medicine reaches perfection, treatment will be
given by foods, aliments, fragrant fruits and vegetables, and by various
waters, hot and cold in temperature. (Some Answered Questions 258-59)
Diet is regarded as extremely important in Ayurveda and therefore de-
serves special attention. According to Ayurveda, a person can intuitively gravi-
tate towards the foods she or he requires to maintain balance (Caraka Samhita
1: 231; Sushruta Samhita 1: lxiii). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá affirms this view: “... when
the constitution is in a state of equilibrium, there is no doubt that whatever is
relished will be beneficial to health” (Selections 155). He cites the example
of animals, which have no knowledge of pharmacopoeia and yet are able
“according to a natural law” to differentiate between numerous plants and
find the one that will cure their disease (Selections 154). This ability is con-
ditional upon the constitution’s being in a “state of equilibrium.” Ayurveda
teaches that many people have strayed far from their natural diet and in so
doing developed a doshic imbalance (Caraka Samhita 1: 448). Consequently
their power of discrimination does not function as accurately as it might.
Accordingly, the Maharishi Ayurveda practitioner recommends dietary pro-
grams that are specifically prescribed to redress the doshic imbalance (Caraka
Samhita 1: 447-48; Sushruta Samhita 1: lxii, 186). The taste and the quality
of food affect the doshas. For example, unctuous (oily) foods increase kapha
and decrease vata. A person with a vata imbalance would therefore be ad-
vised to increase intake of these foods, especially when vata is aggravated
(Caraka Samhita 1: 448-49; Glaser, “Maharishi Ayurveda” 102). ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá has stated:
It is the function of a skilled physician to determine which constituent
of his patient’s body hath suffered diminution, which hath been augmented.
Once he hath discovered this, he must prescribe a food containing the
diminished element in considerable amounts, to re-establish the body’s
essential equilibrium. (Selections 154)22
Waters are also used. Differing amounts and temperatures are prescribed
according to psychosomatic types and seasons (Sushruta Sarnhita 2: 497).
Pharmacology
The pharmacology of Ayurveda is an extensive science that has been re-
fined by many centuries of experience. The ancient Ayurvedic texts detail the
properties and effects of a vast number of herbal and mineral remedies. Ac-
cording to Ayurveda, plants contain chemicals that counterbalance undesir-
able effects of their active ingredients. Therefore, the entire part of the plant
is commonly used, an important reason why iatrogenic illness—illness caused

by the adverse effects of treatment—is avoided (Glaser, “Maharishi Ayurveda”
95-96, 100). (This method is in contrast to the common practice in Western
medicine of using the active ingredient in isolation.23) Since Ayurvedic prin-
ciples are based on natural law (which is universal), the knowledge is not
confined to the indigenous flora of India. Ayurveda recognizes that the native
plants of a given country are the most beneficial for the health of the people
living in that country. Research is being carried out on the medicinal value of
flora from many countries.24
Special herbal and mineral preparations are used in rasayana therapy.
Rasayanas are health-promoting treatments that revitalize the essence of the
physiology (Caraka Samhita 2: 3-4; Sushruta Samhita 2: 515). Recently, the
knowledge of an ancient and long-lost rasayana renowned for its health-be-
stowing properties, namely amrit kalash, has been revived, chiefly by Dr.
Balaraj Maharishi. Traditionally, it is considered to enhance immune response,
promote homeostasis, and increase a sense of well-being (Glaser, “Maharishi
Ayurveda” 94). Research on “Maharishi Amrit Kalash” is at the initial stage.
However, findings to date appear to confirm traditional observations.25
Eating Habits
In Ayurveda, the manner in which a person eats is as important as the type
of food eaten because if food is properly digested, a vivifying principle called
ojas is maximized. Ojas is essential for strength and immunity (Caraka
Samhita 1: 120; Sushruta Samhita 1:130, 556-64).26 Maharishi Ayurveda rec-
ommends a number of “Body Intelligence Tips” (Chopra, Perfect Health 256)
to increase ojas and promote perfect digestion. Many of these recommenda-
tions are enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh in “Tablet to a Physician” (Star 13.9:
252).27 In the following pairs, the first quotation is from “Tablet to a Physi-
cian,” unless stated otherwise, and the second quotation is from Perfect Health
256.
*
“O people, do not eat except when you are hungry.” “Eat only when you
feel hungry.”
*
“Do not take nourishment except when [the process of] digestion is com-
pleted.” “Wait until one meal is digested before eating the next.
*
“If two diametrically opposite foods are put on the table do not mix them.”
“Drink milk separately from meals, either alone or with other sweet foods.”
(In Ayurveda there arc a number of foods that should not be mixed
[Sushruta Samhita 1:186-88].)
*
“If a man eats too much, he ruins his digestion...” (`Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris
Talks 49) “Leave one third to one-quarter of your stomach empty to aid
digestion.”
The Bahá’í writings affirm numerous additional Ayurvedic practices such
as the taking of a light breakfast (Star 13.9: 252).
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Sound
Therapeutic use of sound (Gaudharva-Veda) is a powerful approach in
Maharishi Ayurveda. Voice and melodic sounds are used to heal disorders
and to restore balance in the physiology. To explain: Maharishi Ayurveda
teaches that unmanifest sounds (resonance frequencies) form the basis of the
quantum mechanical body. Imbalances occur when these sounds get out of
synchronization. An imbalance can be corrected by matching the comple-
mentary frequency, a principle called “complementarity” (Chopra, “Bliss”
68-70). It is of interest that Transcendental Meditation heals by the same
principle. In this technique, a sound is used internally in an abstract form on
the level of thought. Significant recognition is given to the healing effect of
sound in the Bahá’í writings:
A fine voice when joined to beautiful music causes a great effect, for
both are desirable and pleasing. All these have in themselves an organi-
zation, and are constructed on natural law. Therefore, they correspond to
the order of existence like something which would fit into a mold. . . .
When it is so, this affects the nerves, and they affect the heart and spirit.
(‘Abdu’l Bahá, quoted in Compilation 2: 78)
Conclusion
It is hoped that the interested reader will be moved to investigate further
the wealth of Maharishi Ayurveda-not only for one’s own health but more
importantly to enable one to better serve the Kingdom. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points
out the effect of good health on one’s capacity to serve:
Between material things and spiritual things there is a connection.
The more healthful his body the greater will be the power of the spirit of
man; the power of the intellect, the power of the memory, the power of
reflection will then be greater. (Star  8.18: 229-230)
It is hoped also that Bahá’í Vedic scholars will further explore and elabo-
rate on subjects discussed in this article. Bahá’ís are advised to weigh knowl-
edge in the balance established by the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, so that any-
thing not in keeping with the Word of God can be disregarded and that which
is valuable, accepted. With this exhortation on one hand, and ‘Abdu’l Bahá’s
exhortation to “Put all your beliefs into harmony with science. . .” (Paris
Talks 146) on the other, Bahá’ís will be well armed to make a discerning
assessment of the value of Maharishi Ayurveda. For my own part, this pre-
liminary survey has brought me to the realization that Maharishi Ayurveda
has the mechanics to put many of the Bahá’í teachings into practice and help
to make Shoghi Effendi’s vision a reality:
The enormous energy dissipated and wasted on war, whether economic
or political, will be consecrated to such ends . . . to the extermination of

disease, to the extension of scientific research, to the raising of the stand-
ard of physical health, to the sharpening and refinement of the human
brain,… to the prolongation of human life, and to the furtherance of any
other agency that can stimulate the intellectual, the moral, and spiritual
life of the entire human race. (World Order 204)
References
‘Abdu’l-Bahá Makátíb-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá (Collected Letters). Vol. 3. Cairo:
Kurdistán-I-‘llmíyyih, 1921.
__. Paris Talks. 11th ed. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969.
__. Promulgation of Universal Peace, The: Talks Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
during His Visit to the United States and Canada in 1912. Comp. Howard
MacNutt. 2d ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
__. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Comp. Research Dept.
Bahá’í World Centre. Trans. Marzieh Gail et al. Haifa: Bahá’í World Cen-
tre, 1978.
__. Some Answered Questions. Comp. and trans. Laura Clifford Barney. 4th
ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.
__. “Tablet to Dr Auguste Forel” in The Bahá’í Revelation. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1955.
Bahá’u’lláh. Alwáh-i-Mubárak-i-Hadrat-i-Bahá’u’lláh. (Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh). Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1978.
__. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf.  Trans. Shoghi Effendi. 3d ed. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988.
__. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Trans. Shoghi Effendi. 2d
ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
__. Má’idiy-i-Ásmání. Vol. 4. Comp. Ishráq Khávarí. Tehran: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 129 B.E.
__. The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. Trans. M. Gail with AK. Khan. 3d
ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1978.
__. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitab i Aqdas. Comp. Research
Department. Trans. H. Taherzadeh et al. 2d ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 1978.
__. “Tablet to a Physician” in Star of the West, 13.9 Oxford: George Ronald,
1978.
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l Bahá. Bahá’í World Faith. Rev. ed. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1956.
Brown, Keven. “A Bahá’í Perspective on the Origin of Matter.” The Journal
of Bahá’í Studies 2.3 (1990): 15-44.
Caraka Samhita. Trans. P. V. Sharma. 2 volumes. Varanasi, India: Chaukhamba
Orientalia, 1981.
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Chandler, Kenneth. “Modern Science and Vedic Science: An Introduction.”
Modern Science and Vedic Science 1.1(1987): 5-26.
Chopra, Deepak. “Bliss and the Quantum Mechanical Body.” Modern Sci-
ence and Vedic Science 2.1 (1988) 60-74.
__. Perfect Health. New York: Harmony Books, 1990.
__. Quantum Healing. New York: Bantam Books, 1989.
__. Total Health: The Rediscovery of Avurveda (six tape audio series) pro-
duced by Stitchting Maharishi Ayurveda Products, Holland 1988.
Compilation of Compilations, The. Two volumes prepared by the Universal
House of Justice 1963 1990. Australia: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 1991.
Dillbeck, Michael C. “Intervention Studies on Reduction of Domestic and
International Violence through Collective Consciousness.” In Abstracts
and Summaries of Contributed Papers, Third Midwest Conference for
the United States Institute of Peace, Minneapolis: University of Minne-
sota, 1987: 10.
Dillbeck, Michael C., and Edward C. Bronson. “Short Term Longitudinal
Effects of the Transcendental Meditation Technique on EEG Power and
Coherence.’ International Journal of Neuroscience 14 (1981): 147-51.
Dillbeck, Michael C., and Susan Levin Dillbeck. “The Maharishi Technol-
ogy of the Unified Field in Education: Principles, Practice, and Research.”
Modern Science and Vedic Science 1.4 (1987): 383-431.
Dillbeck, Michael C., and David W. Orme Johnson. “Physiological Differ-
ences between Transcendental Meditation and Rest.” American Psycholo-
gist 42 (1987): 879-81
Esslemont, J. E. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. Rev. ed. Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1980.
Freedman, Daniel Z., and Peter van Nieuwenhuizen. “Supergravity and the
Unification of the Laws of Physics.” Scientific American 238.2 (1978):
126-43.
Glaser, Jay L. “Maharishi Ayurveda: An Introduction to Recent Research.”
Modern Science and Vedic Science 2.1 (1988): 89-108.
Hagelin, John S. “Is Consciousness the Unified Field? A Field Theorist’s
Perspective.” Modern Science and Vedic Science 1.1 (1987): 29-87.
Janssen, G. W. H. M. “The Application of Maharishi Ayur-Veda in the Treat-
ment of Ten Chronic Diseases: A Pilot Study.” Nederlands Tijdschrift voor
Integrale Geneeskunde 5.33 (October 1989): 586 94.
Lovell-Smith, David. “Diagnosis by the Pulse.” New Zealand General Prac-
tice (October 23, 1990): 24-25.
“Maharishi Ayurveda, Vanaushadhi Samrat Dr Balaraj Maharishi.” Mahari-
shi World Centre of Ayurveda, Holland: Maharishi Vedic University Press,
1987.
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Life Supported by Natural Law. Washington: Age of
Enlightenment Press, l-86.

Momen, Moojan. “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics.” In Studies
in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Vol. 5. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press,
1989: 185-217.
Orme-Johnson, David. “Medical Care Utilization and the Transcendental
Meditation Program.” Psychosomatic Medicine 49 (1987): 493-507.
Orme-Johnson, David, et al. “International Peace Project in the Middle East:
The Effects of the Maharishi Technology of the Unified Field.’ The Jour-
nal of Conflict Resolution 32 (1988): 776-812.
Orme-Johnson, Rhoda F. “A Unified Field Theory of Literature.” Modern
Science and Vedic Science 1.3 (1987): 323-73.
Rigby, Byron P. “New Perspectives in Medical Practice: The Psychophysi-
ological Approach of Maharishi Ayurveda.” Modern Science and Vedic
Science 2.1(1988): 76-87.
Rothenberg, Stuart, and Richard Avenbach. “Three Important Studies on the
Transcendental Meditation Program and Improving the Immune System.”
MAAA Newsletter 3.1 (1989): 3.
Scheier, Ronni L. “MDs Eager to Convey Message of the East.” American
Medical News (Jan.24-31, 1986): 104.
Schneider, R., et al. “Physiological and Psychological Correlates of Mahari-
shi Ayurveda Psychosomatic Types.” Paper presented at the Eighth World
Congress of the International College of Psychosomatic Medicine, 3-7
September 1985, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
Scientific Research on the Maharishi Technology of the Unified Field: The
Transcendental Meditation and TM-Sidhi Program. Iowa: Maharishi In-
ternational University Press, 1988.
Sharma, H. M., and R. V. Panganamala. “Inhibition of Human Platelet Ag-
gregation in Vitro by Maharishi Amrit Kalash.” Journal of the Federation
of American Societies of Experimental Biology 2.4: Abstract no. 606,
March 1988.
Shoghi Effendi. Advent of Divine Justice. 4th ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust, 1984.
__. Excerpts from Letters of the Guardian to Assemblies and Individual Be-
lievers. Bahá’í News 210 (August 1948): 2-3.
__. The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters. 2d ed. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
Star of the West. 8:18, 13:9, 19. Oxford: George Ronald, 1978.
Sushruta Samhita. Trans. K. K. Bhishagratna. 2 volumes. Varanasi, India:
Chowkhamba Sanskrit Series Office, 1981.
The Throne of the Inner Temple. Comp. Elias Zohoori. Jamaica: University
of the West Indies, 1985.
“Traditional Medicine: Views from the South-East Asia Region.” WHO
Chronicle 31(1977): 47-52.
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Universal House of Justice. Letter. 8 June 1989. Bahá’í Studies Bulletin 4.3/
4 (1990): 58.
Wallace, Robert Keith, et al. “Systolic Blood Pressure and Long-Term Prac-
tice of the Transcendental Meditation and TM-Sidhi Program: Effects of
TM on Systolic Blood Pressure.” Psychosomatic Medicine 45.1 (March
1983): 41-46.
Wallace, Robert Keith, John B. Fagan, and David S. Pasco. “Vedic Physiol-
ogy.” Modern Science and Vedic Science 2.1 (1988): 3-59.
Endnotes
1. Ayurveda has been given recognition by the World Health Organization.
See, for example, “Traditional Medicine: Views from the South-East Asia
Region.”
2. Maharishi is the founding teacher of Transcendental Meditation and the
founder of several institutions and organizations, including the World
Federation of Ayurveda (1985) and the Iowa-based Maharishi Interna-
tional University (1971). This university combines study of traditional
disciplines with study and research in consciousness. It is accredited
through the Ph.D. level by the North Central Association of Colleges and
Schools. Maharishi’s work, which has its basis in the Vedic tradition, is
open to empirical verification. Many rigorous studies have been published
in major scientific journals.
3. The author discusses “Maharishi Ayurveda” as distinguishable from
“Ayurveda” for two reasons. First, her research and experience is in Ma-
harishi Ayurveda. Second, a number of major distinctions (identified in
this article) exist between the two. However, she readily acknowledges
that Ayurveda is widely practised in India and elsewhere. Ayurveda is
referred to where applicable.
4. Provisional translation by Keven Brown, “A Bahá’í Perspective” 35-36.
5. Provisional translation by Keven Brown, “A Bahá’í Perspective” 24. The
preceding quotation reveals the Bahá’í view that God is the progenitor of
the creative process, not the creative process itself. Some schools of Vedic
philosophy hold a pantheistic view. Bahá’í scholar Dr. Moojan Momen
argues for a resolution of the dichotomy from a relativist position in “Rela-
tivism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics.”
6. The reader will observe that the space element, akash, does not appear in
Bahá’u’lláh’s exposition above. A deeper understanding of the function
of this element will help to resolve this apparent distinction. This subject
is dealt with in more detail in Deepak Chopra, Perfect Health 58-59. The
above description of Sankhya philosophy of cosmic evolution is a radical
simplification. A detailed comparative assessment cannot be made here,
as the author is not qualified to do so. Moreover, it would require a paper

of its own. Interested readers should consult Deepak Chopra, Total Health;
Moojan Momen, “Relativism”; and Keven Brown, “A Bahá’í Perspec-
tive.” For a discussion of the apparent correspondences between the struc-
tures of existence described in Sankhya philosophy and those described
in modem theoretical physics, see Hagelin, “Is Consciousness” 75-76.
7. This subject is dealt with in more detail in Deepak Chopra, Total Health.
8. It is of interest that pitta individuals are also susceptible to liver disorders
(Sushruta Samhita 2: 52), as Bahá’u’lláh writes “. . . anger doth burn the
liver . (quoted in Esselmont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era 108). Admit-
tedly, Bahá’u’lláh may not have intended this statement to be interpreted
literally, but it is certainly consistent with an aggravated pitta condition.
9. This subject is dealt with in more detail in Deepak Chopra, Perfect Health,
ch. 2.
10. This subject is dealt with in more detail in Deepak Chopra, Total Health.
11. This subject is dealt with in more detail in Deepak Chopra, Perfect Health,
ch. 4.
12. This subject is dealt with in more detail in Deepak Chopra, “Bliss.”
13. The mind body relationship is dealt with in more detail in Deepak Chopra,
Quantum Healing.
14. See, for example, David Orme-Johnson, “Medical Care Utilization.” This
study found that regular participants in the TM program had lower medi-
cal utilization rates than did other members of the same insurance carrier.
For example, outpatient visits per 1000 were 46.8% fewer than the norm
for children (0 to 18), 54.7% fewer for young adults (19 to 39), and 73.7%
fewer for older adults (40+).
15. For research, see for example, R. Keith Wallace, et al., “Systolic Blood
Pressure.” This study found that subjects practising the TM and TM-Sidhi
programs showed a significantly lower systolic blood pressure than were
the norms for the general population.
16. For Bahá’ís, it is indubitably clear that “that which the Lord hath ordained
as the sovereign remedy and mightiest instrument for the healing of all
the world is the union of all its peoples in one universal Cause, one common
Faith” (Bahá’u’lláh, Compilation 2: 157) and that the principal means for
its establishment is the Covenant. However, Bahá’u’lláh also counsels:
“In all circumstances one should seize upon every means which will
promote security and tranquillity among the peoples of the world” (Tablets
171). For research on the group practice of the MTUF, see for example,
D. W. Orme-Johnson, et al., “International Peace Project.” This study found
that the group practice of TM and the TM-Sidhi program in Jerusalem
during August and September, 1983, resulted in reduced conflict in
Lebanon and improved quality of life in Israel. Dependent variables
included war deaths in Lebanon; Israeli national stock index; crime rates,
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
etc. Other variables such as temperature and holidays were explicitly
controlled. A review of research design, methods of data collection,
controls, etc., is not possible within the confines of this article.
17. See for example. M. C. Dillbeck, “Intervention Studies.” In this experi-
ment at Maharishi International University from December 17, 1983, to
January 6, 1984, the group practising the Maharishi Technology of the
Unified Field numbered more than 7000, which is approximately the square
root of 1% of the world’s population. This study showed that there were
reductions in international conflicts (36%, based on newspaper content
analysis), a rise in a worldwide economic index (measured by market
value of the stock markets in nineteen countries), decreased traffic fatali-
ties in the United States, etc.
18. See for example, M. C. Dillbeck and E. C. Bronson, “Short Term Longi-
tudinal Effects.” This study found that EEG coherence increases longitu-
dinally over time as a result of the practice of the TM program.
19. See for example, Rhoda Orme-Johnson, “A Unified Field Theory.”
20. Explanation of pulse diagnosis in Deepak Chopra, Perfect Health 137.
Medical comment in David Lovell-Smith, “Diagnosis by the Pulse.” Re-
search in R. Schneider, et al., “Physiological and Psychological Corre-
lates.” This study found that Maharishi Ayurveda psychosomatic types
were found to overlap with modern systems of typing. Ayurvedic pulse
diagnosis was used to diagnose psychosomatic types.
21. For a discussion of the major healing approaches of Maharishi Ayurveda,
see Deepak Chopra, Perfect Health, ch. 7. It is notable that Maharishi
Ayurveda treatments are standardized worldwide. It is not possible within
the confines of this article to discuss all major approaches.
22. Since many of the Bahá’í writings have not yet been translated into Eng-
lish, the author does not yet have access to a number of relevant tablets
such as the Lawh-i-Tibb. About this tablet Keven Brown writes: “In the
Lawh-i-Tibb (Tablet of Healing) Bahá’u’lláh outlines a healthful regi-
men, which if followed, He says, will preserve the normal equilibrium of
the natures of the body and ensure that the primary substance (as1) re-
mains in its pristine purity (Alwáh 224)” (“A Bahá’í Perspective” 40).
23. The author wishes to acknowledge the advancement of Western medi-
cine, in particular in surgery and other treatments in crisis management.
There are, however, many aspects in Western medicine in which Mahari-
shi Ayurveda has been shown to offer improvements, such as the predic-
tion of therapeutic response, cost effectiveness, and patient compliance.
See Byron P. Rigby, “New Perspectives.” It should be understood that
Maharishi is committed to the integration of Ayurveda with Western medi-
cal practice. This commitment, together with his rigorous scientific ap-
proach, substantive published research on Transcendental Meditation, the

extensive ancient texts, and Ayurveda’s internally consistent theoretical
framework has attracted the interest and support of a considerable number
of medical doctors. See Jay L. Glaser, “Maharishi Ayurveda” 91 and Ronni
L. Scheier, “MDs Eager” 104.
24. For commentary, see “Maharishi Ayurveda, Vanaushadhi Samrat Dr Balaraj
Maharishi.” For research, see for example G. W. H. M. Janssen, “The
Application of Maharishi Ayur-Veda.” This study found Maharishi
Ayurveda to be effective in the treatment of ten chronic diseases. Sev-
enty-nine percent of 126 patients had significant improvements after three
months’ treatment with herbal preparations. No harmful side effects were
noted. The ten chronic diseases were: bronchial asthma, eczema, psoria-
sis, chronic bronchitis, hypertension, chronic sinusitis, chronic constipa-
tion, rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes mellitus, and headaches (including
migraine headaches).
25. See, for example, H. M. Sharma and R. V. Panganamala, “Inhibition of
Human Platelet Aggregation.” This study found that Maharishi Amrit
Kalash reduced the aggregation of blood platelets in the test tube. These
findings indicate that it may be useful in the prevention of cardiovascular
disorders associated with the formulation of blood clots.
26. This subject is dealt with in more detail in Deepak Chopra, Perfect Health,
ch. 12. In regard to alcohol, Maharishi Ayurveda teaches that it “destroys
ojas” (Chopra, Perfect Health 259) and therefore, to quote `Abdu’l-Bahá,
“weakeneth the nerves and consumeth the mind” (quoted in Throne 43).
27. A full translation of “Tablet to a Physician” is not yet available. The fol-
lowing is an excerpt from a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi:
“The Tablet to a Physician was addressed to a man who was a student of
the old type of healing prevalent in the East and familiar with the termi-
nology used by the medical men of those days. These terms are quite
different from those used by modem medicine, and one would have to
have a deep knowledge of this former school of medicine to understand
the questions Bahá’u’lláh was elucidating” (quoted in letter from the
Universal House of Justice, dated 8 June 1989, which appeared in the
Bahá’í Studies Bulletin 4:3-4 [1990]: 58).
Maharishi Ayurveda: A Bahá’í Exploration

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001

Unhealthy Science,
Religion, and Humanities:
The Deep Connection and
what Bahá’u’lláh had to say
about it*
Ron House
Abstract
Looking at the range of social, political, and environmental problems in
the modern world, most Bahá’ís will have no difficulty giving due credence
to Bahá’u’lláh’s assessment: “Such shall be [the world’s] plight that to dis-
close it now would not be meet and seemly. ... when the appointed hour is
come, there shall suddenly appear that which shall cause the limbs of man-
kind to quake.” (GWB. LXI) Wise as Bahá’u’lláh’s decision not to explain in
plain language undoubtedly is, His writings do, however, appear to contain
veiled references to a single crucial philosophical error that this writer has
identified underlying many of the serious mis-steps in modern science, phi-
losophy, religious understanding, and most disciplines in the humanities. This
paper explains this error, traceable to Hume (although Hume himself repudi-
ated it), and presents tantalising material by Bahá’u’lláh, which, though heavily
disguised, points the finger at precisely the mistake that the world, unaware,
has adopted in various forms as a central pillar of modern thought. The fail-
ure of the modern intellectual edifice would produce a profound crisis of
faith in the world’s scientific, rationalistic, non-theistic zeitgeist and, the au-
thor speculates, this could produce much greater long-term destruction to the
world’s fabric than any calamity of a purely material nature (short of actual
extinction of human life).
Introduction
Today I want to discuss some matters connected with the state of affairs
*
A presentation delivered at the ABS Conference on “Health, Healing and Religion”, Toowoomba, Sep-
tember 30 - October 1, 2000.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
that Bahá’u’lláh predicted would precede the ‘calamity’, and to offer some
thoughts about what that calamity might be. He wrote:
“The world is in travail, and its agitation waxeth day by day. Its face
is turned towards waywardness and unbelief. Such shall be its plight, that
to disclose it now would not be meet and seemly. Its perversity will long
continue. And when the appointed hour is come, there shall suddenly ap-
pear that which shall cause the limbs of mankind to quake. Then, and
only then, will the Divine Standard be unfurled, and the Nightingale of
Paradise warble its melody.” (Gleanings LXI)
I believe it is now possible to discern some of the distinctive characteris-
tics of the ‘unbelief’ that Bahá’u’lláh predicted would envelop the world, and
I want to mention one today. It is a somewhat abstract philosophical notion,
but one with surprising practical consequences. Let me start, though, by list-
ing some of the things that I see as negative consequences of the principle I
want to talk about. Some of the items I’ll list here will probably surprise you,
and there might not be much obvious connection amongst them, so please
bear with me for the moment. Also, the argument I want to make is too big
for a one-hour talk, so a lot of what I’ll say I won’t have time to justify.
With that proviso, let’s take a look at some examples from various fields
where I believe serious mis-steps are being made:
*
In science, falsifiability; this is the notion that scientific theories can never
be proved, only disproved (originally from Popper).
*
In the humanities, many examples:
Science as a power struggle - for example, the claim that Newton’s
Principia might as well be called Newton’s rape manual, also misuse of
Kuhn’s ‘paradigm’ theory to imply, for example, that voodoo and science
are merely different ways of knowing, neither better than the other, with
science having greater credence only because of power relations.
Deconstruction, postmodernism, poststructuralism, etc. All these have in
common a disbelief in any absolute claim to knowledge. Typical claims
are (from deconstruction) “There is nothing but the text” - that is, denial
of meaning; (and from postmodernism) the idea that a history book is no
different from a novel - denying objective truth.
*
In religion, fundamentalism. Seemingly quite different from the preced-
ing, I hope to show the family resemblance later.
*
In economics, free market philosophy and economic rationalism.

*
In law, the replacement of the principle of natural rights by ‘community
standards’ etc.
It may seem surprising to lump all these in the same basket, as apparently
they represent divergent world views, in some cases almost direct opposites.
I hope to show how all of these apparently divergent examples have underly-
ing common factors and represent a loss of belief that is worthy of
Bahá’u’lláh’s description quoted above. We’ll start by taking a look at two
different conceptions of how to gain knowledge, in the course of which I
hope to convince you that one way is better than the other, and then examine
the underlying philosophical error behind the less satisfactory way; then we’ll
look at how the error has influenced some of the fields listed above.
Two Ways of Understanding
The first way is the well-known Cartesian program: start with indisput-
able premises and deduce, using correct logical procedures, further conclu-
sions from the premises.
To see what is involved here, let us consider how fallible creatures obtain
knowledge. Is it in fact true that we, in daily life, proceed by deduction from
unassailable premises, the implication being that anything less than certainty
is unacceptable? This is discussed by Prof. Frederick L. Will in his book,
Induction and Justification. He remarks that “Of course instincts and the rest
do fail, but they do not all fail simultaneously and completely, and the ideal
of objectivity does not require that we treat them as if they had... A reason for
doubting... whether A shot B, is not itself a reason for doubting the existence
of firearms, explosives, or projectiles. It is in terms of a settled background of
practice, belief, opinion, and presumption about such things that an investi-
gation can be launched and conducted in such a way that partisans of differ-
ent judgments on the matter can agree that the matter at issue was dealt with
by a procedure that did not itself in any way favour or prejudice the rightness
of the claims or counterclaims that were involved.”
What I believe is the issue here is this: that as fallible creatures in a uni-
verse in which nothing can be known in itself as an absolute certainty, we
proceed by creating pictures of reality. The ‘homo erectus’ walking across
the African plain had a picture of the herds of animals, the lions stalking
them, the stripped bones of the animals after the various carnivores had fin-
ished with the kill, and, within the large bones, the nutritious marrow; so he
acted in accordance with his understanding of reality and waited for the car-
nivores to leave the scene, then with a large rock brought there for the pur-
pose, smashed the bones and obtained food. The process was not infallible:
perhaps he believed that an appeal to a god or goddess would lead the herd in
a certain direction, whereas the truth might be that his intuitions based on
Unhealthy Science, Religion, and Humanities

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
observation led him to foresee the future movement of the herd.
Similarly, modern humans make pictures, both everyday and scientific.
Thus the Newtonian worldview of physics made some things seem more likely
than others. I believe Lord Kelvin once said that understanding something in
physics was the same as knowing the mechanism by which it happened. Since
the advent of quantum mechanics, however, such an understanding of expla-
nation in physics has become untenable. We are led to see the point behind
Kuhn’s idea of paradigms; that one world view can be replaced by another
when two things happen: the preponderance of evidence makes the old view
untenable, and a new view exists to take its place. (But more about Kuhn
later.)
Now let me return to the question of fundamentalism and
deconstructionism. It seems to me that both these ideas are related to the
flawed Cartesian program for obtaining knowledge - flawed because we can’t
have the certainty needed for the program to succeed.
The deconstructionist says “Because I can’t be certain, because every-
thing is embedded in some paradigm related to my society, therefore I cannot
know anything; therefore there is no impartial truth, nothing is beyond the
text, everything is political, everything is a power relation.” And so on.
Deconstructionism accepts that the Cartesian program fails, but incorrectly
assumes that this program is the only one on offer.
Fundamentalism, on the other hand, is the persistent use of the failed
paradigm. Whether because no new paradigm is discernable, or because the
new paradigm is unacceptable, the fundamentalist continues the Cartesian
program: a religious text is deemed to be the source of unimpeachable truth
and the words of that text are examined minutely and conclusions deduced,
without checking those conclusions against any wider view of the world or
any considerations of rationality or ethics.
But Bahá’u’lláh teaches that truth is to be obtained also from sources
other than scriptures. In the Four Valleys He says: “Hereafter We will show
them our signs in the regions of the earth, and in themselves, until it become
manifest unto them that it is the truth...” In this one passage He clearly al-
ludes to both science and mysticism. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also teaches that religion
must be in conformity with science: “...religion must be in harmony with
science and reason. If it does not conform to science and reconcile with rea-
son it is superstition.” (Bahá’í World Faith, p. 247)
The Cartesian program at the root of both the harmful humanist philoso-
phies of today and also religious fundamentalism is clearly unable to recon-
cile the above quotations with Bahá’u’lláh’s strong emphasis on the eternal
verities He has revealed to mankind in this dispensation.
We might call the alternative to Cartesianism the “method of faith”. Clearly
faith is not about believing something for which there is no evidence; that is
fundamentalism, not faith. A person of true faith accepts and trusts the method

that God has given us for learning truth in an uncertain universe: to compare
what we see with our complete understanding of the world and ourselves,
and trust that by following rational methods informed by our fullest sources
of information, we can proceed successfully. God has not created a malicious
universe. The fullest sources of information include, as well as practical facts
about the universe, a knowledge of our own natures as sentient, feeling be-
ings with the capacity for love, friendship, empathy, and so on - as well as
our capacity for hate, vindictiveness, and other vices.
From time to time in history someone has produced a new paradigm, a
new way of understanding our spiritual condition. Thus Buddha taught the
Four Noble Truths, an incisive understanding of our psychological and spir-
itual reality, along with techniques for bringing our spirits into accord with
the laws of the universe. Similarly, Jesus taught the doctrine of love, and told
us how we can find the Kingdom of Heaven through action: the practice of
love and goodness in our real, present lives. Likewise Bahá’u’lláh taught that
the love of Jesus must be extended to the whole world, not just to one’s neigh-
bour or family or nation.
Any of us can embrace these great truths as taught by these great souls
and put them into practice in our own lives, but we should do so within the
same framework that God in His goodness gave us as far back as our wander-
ings on the African plains: we must have faith that God has not made an
incomprehensible, traitorous universe in which nothing can be known; we
must continually bring our understanding into accord with a rational under-
standing of the world, and we must continually test our ideas against the
great teachings of love from Buddha, Jesus, and Bahá’u’lláh.
Now let me address where I believe fundamentalism makes its error. Con-
sider someone who has a large map printed on paper, and who must make
some measurements from the map as accurately as possible. Suppose there is
a drafting table available, with a sliding ruler such that positions and angles
may be read off. Now we all know, from Euclidean geometry, that to unam-
biguously position a shape in two dimensions, all we need do is define two
points. So let us hold the map on the table by putting a small piece of sticking
tape on one corner. As the tape covers more than two points, by Euclidean
geometry it has fixed the map precisely, and so we can proceed to take our
highly accurate measurements. Or can we? The tape isn’t perfectly inelastic,
nor is the glue on the tape infinitely strong and rigid, neither is the paper
perfectly flat and undeformable. In short, the rest of the paper, unfixed, will
slip and slop this way and that and the measurements will be defective.
By contrast, the wise person in this situation will spread the map as
carefully as possible and fix it at least at all four corners before taking
measurements. In other words, irrespective of the ‘proof’ that follows from
Euclidean principles about one piece of tape in one corner, the wise person
secures the entire picture against errors. Even by doing so there is no guarantee
Unhealthy Science, Religion, and Humanities

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
of perfection, but we do know that there are limits to how far the map can slip
as we take our readings.
It is a philosophical version of this mistake that I think best describes the
fundamentalist program. Whether the fundamentalist decrees Jesus or
Muhammad or Bahá’u’lláh to be the infallible authority, they fix their teach-
ings firmly to their map of reality in one corner and expect the whole map to
give infallible readings, regardless of the fact that we know we are fallible
beings in a universe in which there is ‘many a slip between cup and lip’.
Thus, a fundamentalist fixes his belief in a religious text and decrees the
sheer logic of the text to be the total basis of his understanding. Anything
whatever that can be deduced from the text is accepted, no matter how unrea-
sonable or how contrary to the obvious spirit of the religion’s teachings the
deduction may be. It seems to me that there is an arrogance in this process, as
the fundamentalist is effectively saying that he can vouch absolutely for the
correctness of the original text, translate and interpret it perfectly, and infal-
libly deduce its consequences.
My point is this: the way we fallible creatures are meant to learn about
reality is not by such deduction, but by employing everything we can learn
and understand about the world, although with the proviso that occasionally
we may have to revise our picture when a deficient understanding is validly
replaced with a better one.
The fundamentalist reasoning method is such a deficient paradigm, and
the better one, namely bringing all our actions and understandings into ac-
cord with the love of God at every moment, has been taught by the great
souls whom God has sent to guide the world. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá taught us not to
follow authority blindly in this fashion. He writes:
“If you find harmful teachings are being set forth by some individual
no matter who that individual be, even though he should be my own son,
know verily that I am completely severed from him... If... you see anyone
whose deeds and conduct are contrary to and not in conformity with the
good-pleasure of the Blessed Perfection and against the spirit of the “Hid-
den Words”, let that be your standard and criterion of judgment against
him, for know that I am altogether severed from him no matter who he
may be. This is the truth.”  (Promulgation of Universal Peace pp452-453)
We are here ordered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to check our actions against the
standard of the spirit of the Hidden Words. This is a direct expression of the
spirit of true faith which I have contrasted in this article with the deductive
authoritarian spirit of fundamentalism.
The challenge for all members of all religions, therefore, is to bring one’s
practice and understanding into accord with the universal principles of love
and free rational enquiry that God has granted to us. When we find fellow
believers following fundamentalist principles and overlooking the principles

of love and justice, we should explain better ways of understanding that will
permit them to let go of the fear that leads them to take refuge in fundamen-
talism.
The Philosophical Error
So on the one hand we have a view of gaining knowledge as logical de-
duction from inviolable first principles, and on the other, the way of faith
whereby we adjust our understanding in accordance with the totality of the
information available.
Before looking at the logical mistake that I believe underlies all the ideas
I listed earlier, I must first stress that the issue I will examine here is not the
only common factor; various political, emotional, and ideological
commonalities exist also, as well as a common heritage that can be traced
historically (with only religious fundamentalism having completely distinct
historical origins). But the issue I am considering is clear and provable and
throws a great deal of light on many things we think we know about the
world.
The error originated, at least in one instance, with the Scottish philoso-
pher David Hume (1711-1776). Hume writes: “Even after the observation of
the frequent or constant conjunction of objects, we have no reason to draw
any inference concerning any object beyond those of which we have had
experience.” We have seen the sun come up every morning since time imme-
morial, but just maybe, so the argument goes, it won’t come up tomorrow
(and no amount of theorising tonight can rule out the possibility). It is easy to
see from this how Popper can conclude that we can never confirm a scientific
theory, only disprove one: no matter what the number of confirming instances
for a theory, just maybe a disconfirming instance will pop up next time we do
an experiment.
The Australian philosopher David Stove, in “Anything Goes; origins of
the cult of scientific irrationalism” minutely dissects the logic of Hume’s
argument and discovers a flaw in it. Stove gives Hume’s conclusion the title
“scepticism about the unobserved” - that is there is no reason to believe any
contingent proposition about the unobserved (such as that the sun will come
up tomorrow). He shows that this depends on two other propositions: (a)
empiricism - that any reason to believe a contingent proposition about the
unobserved is a proposition about the observed (for example, evidence of
how the earth turns on its axis), and (b) inductive scepticism - that no propo-
sition about the observed is a reason to believe a contingent proposition about
the unobserved (for example, our observations of the turning of the earth on
its axis is no guarantee that it will turn at other times).
Tracing Hume’s argument backwards, Stove discovers an unnoticed im-
plicit assumption, and it is a big one: deductivism (in slightly simplified form,
that something is a reason to believe another thing only if there is a logical
Unhealthy Science, Religion, and Humanities

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
argument validly deducing the second from the first). The connection with
the material in the previous part of this paper will now be immediately appar-
ent. Popper’s falsifiability criterion for science is a direct application of Hume.
Humanist irrationalism about the merits of science versus, say, voodooism or
folk tales depends upon Kuhn’s paradigm theory, which implicitly assumed
the main results of Popper. An examination of deconstructionist and
postmodern writings easily uncovers evidence of scepticism regarding any-
thing that cannot be logically proved (for example, “all facts are theory-laden”).
Modern economic theory is a classic example of meticulous logical/ math-
ematical deduction from axioms - except that the axioms do not correspond
with reality. The loss of principles of natural rights in law also derives from
the logical impossibility of proving the existence of these rights. Only reli-
gious fundamentalism seems to have a different provenance, going back in
one case, for example, to Luther’s establishment of the principle of biblical
infallibility.
But now that the hidden assumption behind Hume is clear, we also see the
impossibility of giving any rational credence to his argument. (Indeed, Hume
himself rejected inductive scepticism in his old age.) For it is a commonplace
that we as human beings cannot live without assuming that good reasons
exist apart from pure logical deductions. We wake in the morning and open
our eyes; never do we keep them shut out of consideration that there is no
logical reason whatever to believe that the sun has come up and we will be
able to see the room around us, and we put our feet on the floor, which we
assume will still hold our weight; and so on. Of course, in any of these steps
we ‘might’ be wrong. But so what? We are not infallible and we must expect
occasional mistakes.
As I was thinking about this, it occurred to me that the deductivist as-
sumption isn’t even consistent - and the reason is simple, for human beings
cannot make a logical argument without relying on memory to go from one
step to the next, and we only have the previous reliability of our memory to
guarantee its future reliability. So every logical argument (for a human being
in this universe) carries with it an implicit inductive argument!
Bahá’u’lláh’s Prophecy
I promised you a prophecy. I believe there is a wonderful, if veiled, de-
nunciation in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings of the deconstructionist position. For
those who haven’t seen this stuff before, I shall give a small sample from
Derrida, the father of the movement. This was posted on an email list in
response to a request from me for a sample of the best Derrida could pro-
duce:
“Differance is a structure and a movement that cannot be conceived
on the basis of the opposition presence/absence. Differance is the system-
atic play of differences, of traces of differences, of the spacing by which

elements relate to one another. This spacing is the production, simultane-
ously active and passive (the “a” of differance indicates the indecision as
regards activity and passivity, that which cannot yet be governed and or-
ganized by that opposition) of intervals without which the “full” terms
could not signify, could not function.”
Perhaps the best comment one could make about this and similar pas-
sages comes from Gilbert and Sullivan:
“If you’re anxious for to shine in the high aesthetic line As a man of
culture rare, You must get up all the germs of the transcendental terms
And plant them everywhere. You must lie upon the daisies and discourse
in novel phrases Of your complicated state of mind, The meaning doesn’t
matter if it’s only idle chatter Of a transcendental kind.”
(W.S. Gilbert: Bunthorne’s song from “Patience”, 1881)
My correspondent also gave me the following from a disciple of Derrida’s,
Culler:
“The meaning of a word, it is plausible to claim, is what speakers
mean by it. A word’s meaning within the system of a language , what we
find when we look up a word in the dictionary, is a result of the meaning
speakers have given it in past acts of communication. And what is true of
a word is true of language in general: the structure of the language, its
system of norms and regularities, is a product of events, the result of prior
speech acts. However, when we take this argument seriously and begin to
look at the events which are said to determine structures, we find that
every event is itself already determined and made possible by prior struc-
tures. The possibility of meaning something by an utterance is already
inscribed in the structure of the language. The structures themselves are
always products, but however far back we try to push, even when we try to
imagine the “birth” of language and describe an ordinary event that might
have produced the first structure, we discover that we must assume prior
organization, prior differentiation. As in the case of causality we find only
nonoriginary origins. If a cave man is to successfully inaugurate lan-
guage by making a special grunt signify “food,” we must suppose that the
grunt is already distinguished from other grunts and that the world has
already been divided into the categories of “food” and “nonfood” that
allows food to be signified or the contrast between signifying elements
that allows a sequence to function as a signifier.”
The inherent scepticism about knowledge that I have been discussing
comes through loud and clear in this passage. The way of faith has no trouble
with language: we know that we can speak with others, and we accept some
possibility that we might be misunderstood, and we can take care to become
Unhealthy Science, Religion, and Humanities

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
better and better judges of what will be easily understood and what will con-
fuse others, and to use this knowledge to become better communicators. But
at no point do we feel the need to trace our words back through prehistory to
be sure that some homo heidelbergensis ancestor had a good logical or obser-
vational ground for uttering the first word. (And by the way, even a bacte-
rium can distinguish between food and non-food: you’ll find very often that
the key objections to deconstruction are almost farcically obvious.) If ever
there was a example of taking the Cartesian program to excess, this would
have to be it.
What would Bahá’u’lláh say about all this? In the Four Valleys, He re-
lates the following:
“The story is told of a mystic knower, who went on a journey with a
learned grammarian as his companion. They came to the shore of the Sea
of Grandeur. The knower straightway flung himself into the waves, but
the grammarian stood lost in his reasonings, which were as words that
are written on water. The knower called out to him, Why dost thou not
follow? The grammarian answered, O Brother, I dare not advance. I must
needs go back again. Then the knower cried, Forget what thou didst read
in the books of Sibavayh and Qawlavayh, of Ibn-i-Hajib and Ibn-i-Malik,
and cross the water.
“The death of self is needed here, not rhetoric: Be nothing, then, and
walk upon the waves.”
The four writers Bahá’u’lláh mentions were the leading Arabic systema-
tisers of the first four centuries of the Islamic era, and it is not hard to imag-
ine that Bahá’u’lláh had in mind some such foggery as the example from
Culler above. But God puts His Manifestation’s Words to work in surprising
ways, and as a denunciation of the Derridaean insecurities (“there is nothing
but the text”, “death of the author”, etc.), it simply cannot be excelled. We
find here a contradiction of every aspect of the deconstructionist program:
the denial that study of grammar and rhetoric will lead to the really important
insights; the absolute nature of the “Sea of Grandeur” and of “the knower”;
and the spirit of faith in action without regard for rhetorical scepticism. And
lastly, what better way to describe the words of one who believes that texts
have no inherent meaning and that all there is is an endless play of word upon
word as “words that are written on water”?
Where Do We Go from Here?
Anyone with familiarity with academe will be aware that (especially in
America) the humanities nowadays operate virtually exclusively on a con-
stellation of “academic left” presumptions including postmodernism and
deconstruction. I don’t want to go into the intricacies of all the various phi-
losophies on offer, except to make this one point: almost everywhere there is

disregard, and often contempt, for the empirical gathering of evidence in gen-
eral and for science in particular. The decay of civic society and the increase
in every measure of social maladaption (crime, homelessness, single mother-
hood, drug addiction, alcoholism, etc.) has tracked the adoption of this con-
stellation of philosophies by society. Now I know that’s a controversial state-
ment and we don’t have time to debate it here, as making this case involves
challenging thirty years of intellectual edifice-building; but let’s consider what
is going to happen next.
There is one final preliminary before we can peer into our crystal ball at
the future, and that is this observation: at the end of the nineteenth century,
scientists thought that all that remained to be done in understanding the world
was to put “a few more decimal points” on the measurements. Well, we know
what happened: the notion of the ether was apparently torpedoed by the
Michelson-Morley experiment and observations of the orbits of the moons of
Jupiter - but fortuitously Einstein had developed a theory that handled these
facts (special relativity); and observations of the atom led to the discovery of
quantum mechanics, which, in the popular mind at least, dissolved the idea
of a solid realistic universe. The modern twentieth century fascination with
all forms of relativism is to a very large measure an outworking of that disap-
pointment. In other words, the disastrous disbelief in “absolute reality” (to
quote a phrase of Bahá’u’lláh’s) that is poisoning our world originated in
large measure in the failure of nineteenth century physics.
This point is important: in the popular mind (and that includes humanities
academics) absolute truth has been displaced by the two relativity theories
(special and general) and the objective world has been disproved by quantum
mechanics. I don’t have time to explain why, but all of these pop-scientific
ideas are fallacious.
Something else happened early this century: observations of distant gal-
axies showed a consistent red-shift, which was interpreted as similar to a
Doppler effect due to the galaxies receding from us. This in turn led to the
idea of an expanding universe. A solution to Einstein’s equations of general
relativity by Friedmann in 1922 required that the universe either expand or
contract (in the absence of a cosmological constant), and it seemed that all
these ideas fitted together: special and general relativity, with the observa-
tion-based theory of the origin of the universe, the big bang.
What if all these theories (SR, GR and the BB) were proven false?
Two-thirds of modern physics would be disproved, along with the current
origin myth of our civilisation.
If the present relativist doctrines of the humanities resulted from the rela-
tively minor earthquake in physics at the end of the nineteenth century, one
can only speculate on the effects of the collapse of most of modern physics.
In the session I shall distribute a photograph of a galaxy, Arp220, along
with its near neighbours. The only problem is, whilst Arp220 has a low redshift,
Unhealthy Science, Religion, and Humanities

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
those neighbours have high redshifts up to z=0.5, which is a recession veloc-
ity of half the speed of light! If you obtain the book “Seeing Red; redshifts,
cosmology and academic science” by Halton Arp, you will find a wealth of
evidence that redshifts are not in general due to recession velocity. The Big
Bang is living on borrowed time, and when it goes, both general and special
relativity will go (at least in their present form) with it.
I can’t hope to prove in this talk what a catastrophic effect such a collapse
of established certainties will have on western civilisation. I could talk about
the exhaltations of such irrationalists as the creationists and the
deconstructionists, but the largest effects will be much more subtle and won’t
happen in a day. Suffice it to say that relativism in all forms (epistemological,
moral, social) will sweep the field and leave anyone who believes in good-
ness or truth looking like a fool.
And which scientific theory will survive the catastrophe? Quantum me-
chanics! The one theory so badly misunderstood in the humanities already
and that is widely believed to be non-realist.
In brief, I believe that the outcome of such influences will be a dark age,
dominated by privatisation, intellectual obscurantism and soulless applica-
tion of technology. (In fact we are already on a trajectory towards that out-
come, even without these developments.) Like the previous dark age, the
human race cannot hope to emerge within a thousand years - and that as-
sumes that big business will not, with the assistance of foolish national gov-
ernments, destroy the environment and cause an ecological collapse that kills
most or all of the human race. See “The Future of Capitalism” by Lester
Thurow for comparison of conditions now and at the end of the Roman Em-
pire. All the following characteristics apply to both periods:
* commenced with a period of uncertainty! - NOT with an external shock
* technologies did not disappear, but conditions made it impossible to
apply them. * real per capita incomes fell dramatically * the rate of inven-
tion was up, production was down * social disorganisation and disinte-
gration * public systems were privatised * private police forces * loss of
civic pride * growing resentment to paying taxes * sell-off of public as-
sets, ceasing of public investments * drop in literacy * falling incomes at
the bottom of the social ladder * rise in religious fundamentalism * no
vision of how one made a better life
Baha’is can stop all this. I believe that Baha’is must go back to the teach-
ings of Baha’u’llah Himself and notice some highly salient facts, chief of
which is the complete absence of any non-realist teaching in the entire cor-
pus of His writings. Baha’is must teach themselves the importance of science
and empirical knowledge and open, tolerant societies, as Baha’u’llah recom-
mended to Queen Victoria. Baha’is must free themselves both from the per-
nicious effects of both fundamentalism and the relativist doctrines taught

today throughout the humanities disciplines.
If Baha’is do this, then when the world loses its faith, Baha’is will not
lose theirs. The Divine Standard will be unfurled and the Nightingale of Para-
dise will warble its melody.
“O people of Baha! The source of crafts, sciences and arts is the power
of reflection. Make ye every effort that out of this ideal mine there may
gleam forth such pearls of wisdom and utterance as will promote the well-
being and harmony of all the kindreds of the earth.”
(Tablets of Baha’u’llah, 72)
Postscript: Kuhn
Kuhn’s theory of scientific paradigms is relevant to the material presented
here. Simply, (perhaps too simply), it states that science falls into paradigms
in which most scientists work and, from time to time, as a result of some kind
of crisis, switches to a new, incommensurable paradigm. An example would
be the change from Newtonian mechanics to relativity. Interpreted as a de-
scription of human psychology (namely that humans tend to follow a domi-
nant idea until the idea becomes untenable and there is another idea available
for adoption), the theory makes a lot of sense and explains neatly the reason
why scientists are continuing to pursue the big bang theory. However, as a
theory of truth or knowledge (that truth itself is not out there to be found and
that there is nothing more than whatever the dominant paradigm stipulates
and that different paradigms are simply incommensurable) it is in sharp disa-
greement with Baha’u’llah and, indeed, is incoherent for reasons that doom
every relativist theory of knowledge. Briefly, all relativist theories make at
least one absolute statement, and Kuhn’s is no different. Kuhn’s theory itself
represents a paradigm shift, but if a paradigm is no better than the paradigm
it replaces, and if paradigms do not represent an approach to the truth, then
Kuhn’s own paradigm cannot be objectively any better than the idea of progress
that it replaced. Simply, the mere statement of any relativist theory is self-
negating.
Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Promolgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust 1982.
Arp, Halton: “Seeing Red; redshifts, cosmology and academic science”.
Apeiron, Montreal, 1998. This book contains amassed evidence contra-
dictory to the big bang theory, and notes about a possible alternative to
the current understanding of general relativity.
Unhealthy Science, Religion, and Humanities

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Bahá’í World Faith. Selected Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Wilmette, Illinois: 2nd Edn, 1953.
Bahá’u’lláh. The Four Valleys. In Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, A Compilation.
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, New Dehli, 1986.
Bahá’u’lláh. The Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. In Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, A Com-
pilation. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, New Dehli, 1986.
Ellis, John M.: “Against Deconstruction”. Princeton University press, 1989.
A hostile introduction to deconstruction.
Gross, Paul R. and Levitt, Norman: “Higher Superstition; the academic left
and its quarrels with science”. Johns Hopkins University Press, 1998. This
book documents and debunks the academic left’s attack on science.
Stove, David: “Anything Goes; origins of the cult of scientific irrationalism”.
Macleay Press, Paddington, Australia, 1998. A partly technical, yet highly
entertaining demolition of the philosophies of Popper, Kuhn, Lakatos,
and Feyerabend.
Thurow, Lester: “The Future of Capitalism”. Allen and Unwin 1996. An in-
formed book about current and future trends in capitalism and econom-
ics; it’s a real surprise to find eight pages of warning about a dark age in a
book like this.
Will, Frederick L.: “Induction and Justification; an investigation of Cartesian
procedure in the philosophy of knowledge.” A technical examination of
the Cartesian philosophy of knowledge and an introduction to the struc-
tures of a better theory.
Windschuttle, Keith: “The Killing of History; how literary critics and social
theorists are murdering our past”. The Free Press (Simon and Schuster)
1996. Explains some of the bigger mistakes in postmodernist theory.

Aboriginal Health,
Healing, Spirituality,
Truth and Forgiveness
Diana rose Yoka
I wish to acknowledge Dr Vahid Payman for inviting me to give this pres-
entation*, the Traditional Murris of this land for their permission to speak, in
particular, Lillian Colonel of the Jarowia people, and Beris Anning, director
of Kumbari Nurapai Lag, and the mayor of Toowoomba, Councilllor Dianne
Thorley. I am not an academic but an experiential learner.  In this presenta-
tion, I will use terms like “Dominant culture”, “Wedjela”,  and “Gardiya”,
which refer to non-Aboriginal people.
This presentation is about love, healing and forgiveness, which can only
take place when the truth is told.  It is not about blame or guilt, for people
present here today have little, if any, knowledge about the real circumstances
surrounding the colonisation of this country. Indeed, I did not know that I
was of Aboriginal descent until I was 50 years of age, and I guess my tradi-
tional people decided that I was finally mature enough to know the truth.
Aboriginal people like myself don’t want your pity; we want your humanity,
your compassion and your understanding.
Past, Present, and Future operate on one continuum. There is only Now.
And what happened Yesterday affects what is happening Today. What hap-
pens Today will affect what will happen Tomorrow.
We are here today together, to learn the truth, so we can make a difference
and leave our children and our grandchildren memories and an inspiration
that were our lives that will have changed the negative past into a positive
future for white, black, and brindle (people of mixed heritage) alike.
Therefore, I respectfully ask all here to listen with your Hearts and not
with your heads to this presentation, so you begin to feel the hurt and the
pain of others.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says: “The injury of one shall be considered the injury of
*
A presentation delivered at the ABS Conference on “Health, Healing, and Religion”, Toowoomba,
September 30 - October 1, 2000.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
all” (Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 168), which means you should be
able to appreciate the pain of your Aboriginal sisters and brothers, as you feel
the same pain for yourselves.
I will also say here and now, how much sorrow I feel for the Iranian friends
who continue to be persecuted because of their adherence to the Faith.  Your
brothers and sisters, like Aboriginal brothers and sisters, are Deaths in Cus-
tody, the difference being that you are being persecuted for your Faith whilst
Aboriginal people are being persecuted for their race as well as for their
religious beliefs.  In July this year in Western Australia, Aboriginal people
lost 7 people in custody in a space of 6 weeks. Locally, a twelve year old
Murri boy has just been jailed. For what reason? His family does not know.
We are now going to view 5-10 minutes of a video called “The Coolbaroo
Club”, produced by urbanized Aboriginal people of Perth.  At the conclusion
of this brief footage, I will ask your opinion of what has been shown.  If the
people in this footage were members of your own race and family, would you
be able to forgive the perpetrators?
We now return to how the colonisation of Australia occurred. In the 1700’s,
the colonisation of Aboriginal Australians began in New South Wales and
spread to other parts of Australia.  The British colonialists who occupied this
country referred to it as “terra nullius”, unoccupied land.  Yet this land was
owned and operated by Aboriginal people and Torres Strait Islanders.  When
the Indigenous inhabitants realised that the British intended to steal and not
to share the land, the resistance and guerrilla warfare to the brutal colonisa-
tion of Aboriginal inhabitants began.
In the words of Kevin Gilbert, Aboriginal activist and print-maker:
As Aborigines began to sicken physically and psychologically, they
were hit by the full blight of the alien way of thinking. They were hit by the
intolerance and barbarism of a people intent on progress only in material
terms, a people who never credited that there could be cathedrals of the
spirit as well as of stone. It is my belief that Aboriginal Australia under-
went a rape of the soul so profound that the blight continues in the minds
of most blacks today.
Aboriginal people were referred to as “vermin”, “coons”, “niggers”, and
“animals”, to name a few discriminatory terms, and were likewise hunted by
many of the Colonisers of this country, including the so-called “Famous Aus-
tralian Explorers” and “Pastoralists”.
Oral histories of Aboriginal people report on the dismembering of their
people whose body parts ended up in the British and European museums for
purposes of study.  Even today, those same museums are still refusing to
repatriate those remains to their descendants to allow a ceremonial reburial
to occur.

Aboriginal traditional burials are varied, but I have been given permis-
sion to cite an example.
Once a person is considered deceased, they are interred facing east, in a
hollow grave approximately 3 feet deep, which is lined with leaves and logs.
The deceased is interred sitting up in the foetal position, so if they are not
dead, they can climb out of the grave and resume their lives.  If the person is
obviously dead, their body will remain in situ for approximately 12 months
and those remains will be given a ceremonial reburial.  The grave itself will
have a marker placed near it and sometimes a circle of grass will be burnt
around it. In 12 months time, it will be green again, marking the position of
the burial site.
The name of the deceased is not mentioned again for a time. Words that
rhyme with the deceased person’s name are not used, neither are plants and
animals from which the name has been derived.  The conception and birth
sites are also avoided.  The Kinship system takes precedence over personal
preferences, and the loss of a dear one makes for imbalance in this system
which has been given to Aboriginal people by their own Ancestor Lore Maker
(Manifestation of God). Therefore, the break in continuity needs time to heal
and repair so the harmony of the group is restored.
In the setting of the Dominant culture’s hospital system, it is deeply of-
fensive to Aboriginal people to have their deceased relatives subjected to the
dismembering of their body parts, namely, the removal of their brains and
hearts etc during autopsy, for the purposes of Gardiya study.
People of the Jewish Faith are not treated with such contempt. Indeed, the
Rabbi is summoned once death is pronounced and the body of the deceased
is removed and buried the next day according to the rites of the Jewish Faith.
Aboriginal people need to be consulted in the Hospital setting and often
require a traditional ‘smoking and wailing ceremony’, which could take place
away from smoke alarms and other hospital patients, if a special area was set
aside for such purposes.
In urbanized areas like Perth, once an Aboriginal person dies, the people
there often do not have the amount of money needed to hire a funeral parlor
to bury their relative.  It often takes 2 weeks for extended kin to raise the
necessary funding for even a deposit. In addition, if an Aboriginal person
dies at home, unless money is available, the relevant health authorities refuse
to remove the body until funds are obtained. This type of discrimination would
not be tolerated by Wedjelas, who usually bury their loved one within three
days.
Giving birth is also a sacred act. Baha’u’llah says that “the soul is given
to the child upon conception”. Aboriginal people say that, “a spirit child is
put there in the mother’s womb.”
The wise older woman will take the pregnant young mother to-be to a
Aboriginal Health, Healing, Spirituality, Truth and Forgiveness

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
sacred woman’s place.  The ground is sterilized by spinifex, which is fired
up, and sterilising herbs are added to the fire, producing sterilising smoke,
which the young girl is asked to straddle so the aromatic smoke can engulf
her body. The older woman then leads the young girl to a birthing tree and
she instructs the girl to squat down while she massages the spine in a circular
motion.  The squatting girl braces herself up against the tree and braces her-
self while pushing to help the baby in its descent from the womb.  The older
woman scrapes out a hollow in the ground to receive the baby, and when it is
born she cuts the umbilical cord with her teeth and buries the afterbirth in the
depression.  She then moves away with the baby from the young mother, and
breathes into the nostrils the names of the child’s totems that acknowledge
his indebtedness to, and respect for, the plants, animals and earth.  The baby
is then wrapped in paperbark and returned to the mother in a coolamun (bark
carrying dish).  The mother and wise older woman remain in seclusion for a
few days and then return to the group where the newborn is greeted with
ceremony and joy.
The Hidden Words of Baha’u’llah state: “Know ye not why We have cre-
ated you all from the same dust? That no one should exalt himself over the
other”.
Aboriginal people traditionally have an egalitarian society, unlike Domi-
nant culture, whose society is based on Feudalism and divide and rule.
From George, a traditional man cited in The Survival Dreaming by Peter
McCloy:
Why would I want to set myself above my people? To do so would
interfere with our kinship, I would not be able to assume any position of
real leadership if I set myself apart from the other elders or the people.
For us, leadership brings obligation, not privilege, unless you count it as
a privilege to serve.  Why would we want to change that for your system?
How can people claim to be leaders, when their method of gaining this
position is by creating division.’’ “In our society”, says George,”everyone
shares responsibility for the welfare of the land and the people, but in
your society you elect politicians and you blame your lack of responsibil-
ity on them.
In the book, Indigenous Education, by Bill Barnes, Bahá’u’lláh is quoted
as saying:  “By one word more he was guided to recognize the Source of his
education.”  Bill Barnes goes on to say:
We start at the Source, which for human beings is the archaic, the
primitive and the indigenous... The indigenous is at the center of educa-
tion.  Education must start at the centre, with Revelation, which is the
‘essence of knowledge’ (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p.138), with prayer, with
moral example, with the basic and permanent structures of thought and

social purpose gained from the indigenous vision of Revelation animat-
ing the indigenous powers, and work out from there.  The indigenous
powers are the universal powers restored at the origin and centre by
Revelation.
In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh also says hunting is not forbidden, but
it must not be done to excess. This implies land rights for Aboriginal people,
and Rúhíyyih Khánum, I have been told, also advocated land rights. It is
time, I believe, that the Australian Bahá’í Community supported Aboriginal
people with regard to issues of justice.
My Aboriginality came as a result of payback. I had a Gardiya great grand-
father who committed atrocities with his mates at La Grange in 1865.  Under
tribal law, a member of that family was paid back for those atrocities. In this
instance, my white grandmother, who gave birth to an Aboriginal boy who
was murdered, gave birth a year later to my Mother, who was fair enough to
be passed off as white but was abused by her mother, who blamed Mum for
the circumstances surrounding her conception.  Mum’s mother was Edith
Cowan’s first cousin, and Edith Cowan’s father-in-law, Walkingshaw, was a
Native Protector from York. Walkingshaw was a decent man, who actually
did protect the Natives, unlike his contemporaries, and his son John married
an Aboriginal woman, Matilda, from Blackwood station.
I would also like to say a few words about Edith Cowan, the first woman
member of  Parliament in Australia. Edith Cowan’s main interest was in so-
cial welfare and together with some of her contemporaries, she established
the Karrakatta Club of Perth, Western Australia. These women formed the
Women’s Service Guild and their aims were as follows:
1) To educate women on moral, social and economic questions and the dis-
advantages of the use of alcohol as a beverage.
2) To support from the standpoint of women any movement to protect, de-
fend or uplift humanity.
3) To be loyal citizens of State, Commonwealth and Empire.
4) To seek public good and not personal advantage.
5) To establish equal rights of citizenship for both men and women.
6) To form a link, through  national, Empire, and international affiliations,
with women throughout the world.
7) To provide a common ground on which women of all shades of thought
and opinion can meet.
A similar organisation was formed in the state of Western Australia, whose
aims were as follows:
1) To establish a bond of union between the various affiliated societies
Aboriginal Health, Healing, Spirituality, Truth and Forgiveness

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
2) To advance the interests of women and children and of humanity in gen-
eral
4) To confer on questions relating to the welfare of the family, the state, and
the commonwealth.
Returning to the subject of my interaction with my mother, Mum abused
my sister and I, although she did have some positive interactions with me.
Because Mum’s identity had to be hidden,  she was sent to an up-market
boarding school called Koobeelia at Katanning in the south west of Western
Australia.  She learnt everything to survive, from reading and writing, to
handling money, bookkeeping, academic  work,  gardening,  cooking, sew-
ing, washing, ironing, and cleaning.  Mum was a Jill-of-all-trades and mis-
tress of them all.  I am the eldest of five siblings so Mum knew nutrition
sufficiently well to feed us all properly.  She also trained as a Nurse at Prin-
cess Margaret Hospital in Perth and used to go flying with the flying doctor
to various parts of Western Australia.    Mum was a brilliant nurse, who was
excellent with other people’s children, but she despised my sister and I be-
cause of what her white mother had done to her.
A few lines of my poem “Void” describes Mum’s interactions with me:
I was her punching bag, my head smashed against walls, the boxing-
ring of life,  for I was always in strife. I was shocked and bewildered, a
small child, not understanding, why I did not fit in, why, what did I do to
deserve this, in a world I never made?
I was privileged to meet my tribal grandfather in 1944 at Brown Hill Boul-
der Kalgoorlie.  He was the payback man that I have previously mentioned.
He took me for walks with him and also, to his credit, he apologised for what
he did  (taking advantage of my white grandmother by using love-magic).
That old man taught me to respect everyone regardless of caste, creed or
colour, and he taught me to be a servant of the people.  I was also taught
about the atrocities committed by my white great grandfather, and was in-
formed that my job was to restore honour to the black and white history of
my family by exposing the truth.  Later, when Dad returned from World War
II, I ran away with grandfather again, but the miners came up after me with
guns and were going to shoot him in front of me. I yelled at them and saved
his life, as well as saving the lives of the women, young men and children.
The last I ever saw of him he was walking free back out into the desert.  But
his spirit has been with me ever since that day, which occurred when I was
two and a half years of age.
A year after the event with my grandfather, my mother called me into the
dining room and she presented me with an Oxford Dictionary to teach me to
read.  She also gave me simple books on other people’s cultures, mythology,

and a picture book on Comparative Religions.    Later, at the first one-teacher
school of 14 children, the teacher there made us learn about Persian History
of the 19th century, and it was there, at the age of 5 years, that I learnt about a
“political dissident” called “The Báb”. When I heard his story, I informed the
Catholic teacher,  “that Man was a Man of God and I shall follow Him”. ..for
which statement I was given the cane.  In fact, because I did not understand
Mathematics, and the Gardiya way in which it was taught, I frequently was
given the cane. Some of the Catholic children there stoned me and beat me,
and one child, who was physically mature, tried to  rape me.   My mother’s
response to those events was: “Get out of my sight, I wish you were dead, I
wish you had never been born, I don’t want to know you, or anything about
you”. My mother was abused the same way by her Gardiya mother, and,
because she was starved of love and affection, she was incapable of feeling
for her daughters.
Life at school was so bad for me that I could not cope with it any more,
and, one day, I ran away from school out into the desert. In those times,
Afghans and their camels brought fruit, vegetables, and pots and pans to the
mining towns in Western Australia, so when I thought I was alone, and was
crying by myself, I was amazed to hear a Voice from No-where asking me
why I was crying. I saw an old man  with a fez and a grey coat, he also had a
snow white beard and the bluest eyes I had ever seen. I knew because of His
vibrations and the Light around His body that He was not one of those “Af-
ghans”, indeed we had an amazing conversation which pointed me in the
direction of Progressive Revelation about which I talked to Church officials
and for which I was abused continually, and He told me that my parents
would never know me or ever understand me. And was I willing to do as He
asked me, especially and most importantly to always strive to “Tell the Truth”
no matter what was done to me, so I agreed, but asked Him for  courage and
Divine Protection, which He agreed to give me.
My family moved to Queensland in 1949, and I attended various schools
there, and the abuses continued by teachers as well. In one incident, I was
caned in front of the whole school for saying “hullo” to two identifiable Abo-
riginal youths. In another incident, a teacher hit me over the back of the head
with a book called “The Third Reich” and he threatened to kill me if I told
my parents, so I walked in my sleep and screamed the place down for 6 months.
So my parents sent me to another school and, unfortunately, I was put into a
Catholic Priest’s class for Religious instruction, and I was denounced as a
heretic and was caned and the yard stick was used on my spine which was
fractured in several places.   I was never taken to a doctor by my mother, I
usually used to go by myself, but there was no point in going when the whole
district turned against me and I was described as being ‘contaminated’ and
all children were instructed to avoid me.  I have never recovered from that
Aboriginal Health, Healing, Spirituality, Truth and Forgiveness

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
incident, I did not reach puberty until I was nearly 17 years of age and this
came with a Kundalini awakening, and later when I was 18 years of age, I
went nursing with childhood fractures of the skull and other parts of my
body, a very bad scoliosis,  and chronic exhaustion from Meningitis, which I
had in 1949 without  antibiotic treatment.
I was a nurse for 35 years and worked in medical and surgical nursing as
well as with children, orthopaedics, geriatrics, palliative care, and psychia-
try, to name a few.  I became a Nurse Educator without the university degree,
and an assistant manager of a retirement village, but in spite of my achieve-
ments, I had no sense of self in which to have any confidence or esteem.
It was not until I began to understand Bahá’u’lláh’s Hidden Words where
He says, “Noble have I created thee, yet thou hast abased thyself, rise then
unto that for which thou hast been created”, that I began to make sense of my
life.  Up to that stage I was so put down, that not only did I not have a sense
of self, I was totally unaware of my own repressed anger, and of the effect I
was having on other people. I was told one day by a friend that I did not
accept myself. That statement really touched my inner being, and I burst into
tears and began to write out my feelings for the first time in my life:
“Do you see this little child, she never had a chance, all she wanted was
acceptance, all she wanted was a loving glance, but all she ever got each day
was ridicule and scorn, I wish you were dead the Mum said, I wish you had
never been born”.   As I explored my own issues, I became aware they were
the same issues for the stolen generation and anybody who is labelled “dif-
ferent” or “queer” or “eccentric” etc, and I became aware that I was not alone.
Most of my life I was subjected to name calling such as ‘moron’, ‘mon-
grel’, ‘lazy-good-for-nothing’, ‘spineless’, ‘useless’, ‘you’ll never amount to
anything’, etc, which, as Bahá’u’lláh says,  very badly affects people even
more than the power of the sword. “Sticks and Stones will break your bones,
but names will never hurt you” was the childish song sung by most children
in the 1940’s and 50’s, but name-calling does hurt children and I have no
doubt it is responsible for the Australian population having the highest sui-
cide rate in the world.  After all, if you tell a child they will never amount to
nothing…’nothing’ is annihilation, it means you won’t have a job, earn money,
have a girl-friend, etc. I am also sure this is why young people break into
houses. If gardiya people won’t employ them, they will take what doesn’t
belong to them, on the basis of unconscious payback.
In 1990, I was told that I was of Aboriginal descent by an Elder I met in
New South Wales, and since that time, I have been working through my own
‘issues of identity’ with support from Aboriginal people who have set up
their own Medical and Counselling services around Australia.
Aboriginal people are very diverse and there are many success stories,
which are rarely mentioned by the media, which only focuses on negativity.

In Australian universities, it is a policy that Aboriginal people are tar-
geted as objects of study by people studying social work, psychology, and
related health sciences. Aborigines are fed up with being treated with such
contempt, because families are still being invaded by do-gooders and chil-
dren are still being taken away.
As Pat Dugeon and Darlene Oxenham say regarding  white academic
colonisation of their culture: “That Aboriginal people are exploited for data.
What benefits do the source community obtain for the papers, books, PhD’s
and employment that are gained by studying Aboriginal people?”
That ownership of this data then, transformed into processed informa-
tion, allows arrogation to an expert status and entrenches non-Aboriginal
positions of power and influence of Aboriginal Affairs and so affects Abo-
riginal self-determination. Western concepts, (psychological and social) must
be seen as reflecting that culture and as such are inappropriate for assess-
ments/appraisal/ understanding of Aboriginal culture.
In conclusion, until Dominant culture acknowledges the shared history of
the colonisation of Australia,  until this alien culture addresses its own issues
and studies its own race to find out why they have difficulties dealing with
their own issues, there can be no final reconciliation, in spite of the many
wonderful, caring, and loving interactions that are finally occurring with both
groups.
My challenge to the Bahá’í community is that I hope you will write let-
ters to the Local and National Spiritual Assemblies and request that The Uni-
versal House of Justice takes an interest in Indigenous communities around
the world, so that they can be an advocate for justice in the same way that
they are advocates for the Iranian friends.
Nelson Mandela says that his heroes are women and men of good will
regardless of status. May the Bahá’í community agree with this view and
may we all go together, hand in hand, to ‘defend the victim of oppression’ as
we would also like to be defended.
The following is from my poem, “Nobody”:
For they were gentle souls, whose deeds go unsung, except in the
memory of God who knew their worth and gave them in the world of
spirit, much higher rungs.  They would not have wanted a Eulogy written
about them on several pages, for they were unsung heroes, rocks for all
ages. They were but a thread of life woven by the Eternal Mind, and they
fulfilled God’s destiny for them, which was to till the soil and sod of this
precious time.  For they were no less an equal in the Eyes of God’s sweet
Grace, they were not Nobodies but Somebodies worthy of an Eternal Place.
Aboriginal Health, Healing, Spirituality, Truth and Forgiveness

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
Bibliography:
Oral Histories:
The Coolbaroo Club Ronin Films available from Early Childhood Education
Royal Street East Perth WA.
The Survival Dreaming by Peter McCloy (1995) published by Management
Interface Pty Ltd Sydney
The Complexity of Aboriginal Diversity (1989) Identity and Kindredness in
BLACK VOICES vol 5 no 1, James Cook University Townsville Queens-
land , Pat Dudgeon and Darlene Oxenham.
The Aboriginal Justice Council July 2000 Issue:  “On any one Day in Western
Australia:
6% of all Aboriginal men are in prison
6% of all Aboriginal men are on community supervision orders
.5% of all Aboriginal women are in prison.
2% of all Aboriginal  women are on community supervision orders
9% of all  young Aboriginal people aged between 10 and 17 years are under
community supervision and 1.5% of all Aboriginal youths are in detention.
A rape of the Soul so profound by Peter Read (1999) Allen and Unwin
Another video not mentioned in this presentation available from SBS:
“ Stolen Generations” screened July 2000 Naidoc Week Celebrations:
Key points include:
-
Most whites knew that Aboriginal people were being murdered in large num-
bers
-
the demise of the Aboriginal population due to being shot, diseases, and
drinking poisoned water.
-
At the time there were few white women, so the white men had sexual liai-
sons with Aboriginal women.
-
The government stopped the integration of Aboriginal people with white set-
tlers because they saw the Aboriginal population as : a security threat,  mor-
ally corrupt, and racially unhygienic.
-
There was an increase in “half-caste populations” which outnumbered the
European population, and this was responsible for children being “taken away”.
-
Government reserves, missions, and cattle stations, were in control of chil-
dren of Aboriginal descent being taken away.
The 1905 act allowed the removal of children from their families. The Tindale
stud book (called that by Aboriginal people) under the forced assimilation
policy said that: 1 full blood with a half–caste equalled a three-quarter-caste;
a three quarter caste with one quadroon equalled a half-caste; this was the
Eugenics principle through breeding out the “full bloods” to improve Abo-
riginal people by breeding out their” impurities and colour”.
“Indigenous Education: Rebuilding Civilisation”, Bill Barnes, Daystar Interna-
tional School, Japan.

Bahá’í References
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publish-
ing Trust, 1982.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words. London: Nightingale Books, 1992.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre: 1982.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, 2001
CONTRIBUTORS
Kiser Barnes is a member of the Universal House of Justice, the world
governing body of the Bahá’í Faith.
Paul Friedman is a Fellow of The Royal Australasian College of Physicians
and a specialist in rehabilitation and geriatric medicine.
Ron House is a lecturer in applied computer science at the University of
Southern Queensland.
Peter J. Khan is a member of the Universal House of Justice, the world
governing body of the Bahá’í Faith.
Felicity Rawlings-Sanaei is a researcher in the Faculty of Education at
Monash University.
Mark T. Wood, is a psychologist, inventor, and recently a tutor in Statistics
and Business Communication at Griffith University.
Diana rose Yoka is a trained nurse and has an Advanced Diploma of
Environmental Art and Design from Midland College of Tafe, Western
Australia.