THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1988-06-16

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dear b ahá’í f riends,

recent events have given rise to eleven vacancies in the membership

of the continental boards of counselors. mr. Adib Taherzadeh has been

grossmann, mrs. lauretta king, mr. donald rogers, mrs. joy Stevenson 53.1

53.2

53.3

53.4

54.1

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

9and mr. peter vuyiya have been appointed as counselor members of the

international Teaching center.

in addition, ill health has sadly made it impossible for dr. chellie Sun-

dram to continue his services as a counselor for Asia, dr. iraj Ayman and

mrs. Thelma khelghati have been compelled by circumstances beyond their

control to leave, respectively, the continents of Asia and Africa in which

they were serving, and mr. Adam Thorne has had to resign, for personal

reasons, from the continental board of counselors for europe. we wish

first to express our profound appreciation of the contributions these dear

friends have made to the advancement of the cause of god during their

years of service as counselors, and we pray that the blessings of bahá’u’lláh

will surround them in all they undertake in the future.

we now have great happiness in announcing the appointment of the

following believers as continental counselors:

Africa: mr. g eorge Allen and mr. h izzaya h issani

The Americas: mr. gustavo correa, mrs. jacqueline delahunt and

dr. william r oberts

Asia: d r. kim m yung-j ung and mrs. Shantha Sundram

Australasia: mrs. v iolette h aake

Europe: mr. patrick o’m ara, mrs. elisabeth mühlschlegel and

dr. Shapoor rassekh.

furthermore, as two of the counselors now appointed to the interna-

tional Teaching center had been T rustees of their respective continental

funds, we now appoint counselor peter mclaren to be T rustee of the con-

tinental fund in the Americas, and counselor ben Ayala to be T rustee in

Australasia.

As was abundantly apparent at the time of the Sixth international bahá’í

convention and in the meetings of the counselors which followed, the

bahá’í world has entered on a stage of the greatest importance in its develop-

ment, when the teaching work throughout the world must be in the fore-front of the thoughts of every ardent follower of bahá’u’lláh. The challenges

and opportunities are great, and are increasing in number with each passing

day. we supplicate the Almighty to grant an unprecedented measure of

divine confirmation to the institutions of his embryonic world order and

to his faithful believers who are laboring for the diffusion of his message in

every region of the globe.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

54.3

54.4

54.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

955

The Importance of Reaching Out to Native

Communities

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]