THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1972-09-19

To the Bahá’ís of the World

121.1 With feelings of deep sorrow we relate to the Bahá’í world the distressing circumstances surrounding the murder of three Iranian Bahá’í students, pioneers to the Philippine Islands. 121.2 Parvíz Ṣádiqí, Farámarz Vujdání and Parvíz Furúghí were among a number of Iranian Bahá’í youth who answered the call for pioneers.  With eleven others they registered at the Universities in Mindanao with the intention of completing their studies and proclaiming the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.  These three had conceived the plan of making teaching trips to a rural area inhabited by Muslims.  When on 31 July the authorities of Mindanao State University were notified that they had left the campus the previous day and had not yet returned, search parties were immediately formed and the assistance of the police and local authorities obtained.  After inquiries and search, led entirely by President Tamano of Mindanao State University, the bodies 175of the three young men were found in a shallow grave.  They had been shot, grievously mutilated and two had been decapitated.  The bodies were removed and given Bahá’í burial in a beautiful plot donated for the purpose.

121.3  Immediately upon receipt of the tragic news, Vicente Samaniego, Counselor in Northeast Asia, in close cooperation with the National Spiritual Assembly of the Philippines, acted vigorously on behalf of the Bahá’ís and was given the utmost cooperation and sympathy by the authorities, police, military and civil.  A convocation was called, attended by more than 900 students, faculty members and University officials.  Prayers were said in English, Arabic and Persian.  The President of the University gave a talk in which he said that the murdered Iranian students are not ordinary students, for with them is the Message of Bahá’u’lláh which is the way to unity.  The Council of the Student Body asked that their new Social Hall be renamed Iranian Student Memorial Hall.  Three thousand people marched in the funeral procession and six hundred went to the burial site to attend the interment.

121.4 A dignified burial was conducted by the Bahá’ís in the presence of University authorities and friends.

121.5  The relatives and friends of these three young men, who gave their lives in the service of the Blessed Beauty, are assured of the loving sympathy and prayers of their fellow believers.  The sacrifice made by these youth adds a crown of glory to the wonderful services now being performed by Bahá’í youth throughout the world.  Bahá’u’lláh Himself testifies: 121.5a They that have forsaken their country in the path of God and subsequently ascended unto His presence, such souls shall be blessed by the Concourse on High and their names recorded by the Pen of Glory among such as have laid down their lives as martyrs in the path of God, the Help in peril, the Self-Subsistent.

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

122 Release of a Compilation on Bahá’í life

24 N OVEMBER  1972

To all National Spiritual Assemblies Dear Bahá’í Friends, 122.1  We are asking the National Spiritual Assembly of the United Kingdom to send you by surface mail one copy of their compilation The Pattern of Bahá’í Life , and attached we are sending you an addendum consisting of quotations from the letters and writings of the beloved Guardian.

122.2  These extracts are shared with you with the thought that you may be able to use them in assisting the believers to attain a fuller understanding of what it means to be a Bahá’í and to guide and aid them to pattern their personal lives in accordance with the Teachings. 122.3  You are free to use this material in whatever way is appropriate and best suited to the needs of your community.  For example, you may wish to purchase copies of The Pattern of Bahá’í 176Life and use them with printed or mimeographed copies of the attached compilation, or you may prefer to issue a compilation of your own.  The important thing is that the moral and spiritual admonitions contained in our writings be widely disseminated, properly understood, and the friends encouraged to follow them.  Shoghi Effendi has pointed out:

122.3a  Humanity, through suffering and turmoil, is swiftly moving on towards its destiny; if we be loiterers, if we fail to play our part surely others will be called upon to take up our task as ministers to the crying needs of this afflicted world.

122.3b Not by the force of our numbers, not by the mere exposition of a set of new and noble principles, not by an organized campaign of reaching—no matter how worldwide and elaborate in its character—not even by the staunchness of our faith or the exaltation of our enthusiasm, can we ultimately hope to vindicate in the eyes of a critical and sceptical age the supreme claim of the Abhá Revelation.  One thing and only one thing will unfailingly and alone secure the undoubted triumph of this sacred Cause, namely the extent to which our own inner life and private character mirror forth in their manifold aspects the splendor of those eternal principles proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

123 Adoption of the Constitution

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]