BY GEOFFREY CAMERON AND TAHIRIH DANESH
PREFACE BY LORD MARK MALLOCH BROWN
A REVOLUTION
WITHOUT RIGHTS?
WOMEN, KURDS AND BAHA’IS
SEARCHING FOR EQUALITY IN IRAN

A revolution without rights?
Women, Kurds and Baha’is searching for equality in
Iran
By Geoffrey Cameron and Tahirih Danesh
Preface by Lord Mark Malloch Brown

First published in 2008 by
The Foreign Policy Centre
Suite 14, Second Floor
23-28 Penn Street
London, N1 5DL
United Kingdom
Website: www.fpc.org.uk
©Foreign Policy Centre 2008
All rights reserved
ISBN-13 978-1-905833-12-2
ISBN-10 1-905833-12-1

Acknowledgments
The Foreign Policy Centre is indebted to a number of people
for their help with this pamphlet.
First and foremost to the authors Geoffrey Cameron and
Tahirih Danesh who have worked tirelessly to put this report
together.
There are many others who have assisted with the publication
of this report including: Kaveh Moussavi, Dr Nazila Ghanea,
Reza Washahi and Sarah Neil of the Iranian Minority Human
Rights Organisation, Nazenin Ansari, Sharan Tabari, Dr Ziba
Mir-Hosseini, Daniel Wheatley, Said Shams, Michael Farquhar
of the Kurdish Human Rights Project, Rob Weinberg and
Moojan Momen, Roya Kashefi and the Association of Iranian
Researchers, Roya Toloui, Fariba Davodi, Lily Pourzand, Dr
Ladan
Boroumand
and
the
Abdorrahman
Boroumand
Foundation, and a number of other defenders of women’s
rights in Iran.
Cover design by Tony Mono, Wave (www.wave.coop)
Printed by Intype Libra www.intypelibra.co.uk
Disclaimer
The views expressed in this report are not necessarily those
of the Foreign Policy Centre.

Contents
Preface by Lord Mark Malloch Brown, Minister of State,
Foreign and Commonwealth Office and Former UN
Deputy Secretary General
Executive Summary
Introduction
Background: Women, Kurds and Baha’is in Iran
Religious Obstacles
Legal Obstacles
Social Obstacles
Conclusions
Policy Recommendations
Notes

Preface
Lord Mark Malloch Brown
While Iran as a global security threat is a regular news
feature, the life of ordinary Iranians rarely gets the profile it
deserves.
I
congratulate
the
Foreign
Policy
Centre
for
offering a fresh perspective on Iran: a unique insight in to the
treatment of women, Kurds and Baha’is. This report is an
important contribution to the debate, and an important part
of ensuring that improving Iran’s human rights record stays
firmly on the agenda of think tanks, academics, activists and
policymakers worldwide.
Women, Kurds, Baha’is and other minority groups in Iran
clearly continue to face significant problems. Women suffer
systemic discrimination through civil and penal codes and
legal
processes
deliberately
designed
to
work
to
their
disadvantage. There are some appalling violations of human
rights highlighted in the report; cases of women experiencing
sexual violence or sentenced to death by stoning.
Iranian Baha’is are denied any level of internal community
organisation: seven leading members of the Baha’i commu-
nity remain detained without formal charges since their arrest
in May. Baha’is suffer from lack of access to higher education
through policies deliberately designed to threaten the future
development
of
the
community.
The
draft
penal
code
currently being considered by the Iranian parliament is deeply
concerning: it sets out a mandatory death sentence for the
‘crime’ of apostasy. If adopted, this would violate the right to
freedom of religion and could have serious consequences for
religious minorities in the country.
Discrimination
against
Iran’s
Kurds
and
other
ethnic
minorities is also on the increase. Large numbers of the
Kurdish community, including journalists, trade unionists,
students and human rights defenders, were detained this

summer on charges of endangering national security. Some
were sentenced to imprisonment. Last month a group of Azeri
rights activists were also arrested.
The situation of women, Baha’is and Kurds reflects some of
the wider human rights concerns in Iran. Iran consistently
fails to meet the international commitments that it is signed
up to, such as the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, to which Iran is a state party. It ignores its
own laws and terms of its own constitution such as arbitrary
arrest and the denial of due process. And it is increasingly –
and worryingly – using vague, national security-related
charges such as ‘acting against state security’ and ‘propa-
ganda against the system’ against individuals who are
exercising their right to peaceful protest. In recent months a
number of human rights activists have been handed severe
prison sentences, of up to eleven years, on these types of
trumped up charges. The cases are dealt with behind closed
doors, in Revolutionary Courts.
Freedom of expression has been under increasing pressure
in past years. Newspapers, websites and other publications
are regularly closed down and their editors threatened for
crossing red lines, providing critical commentary or including
material that might be considered un-Islamic. Paranoid, and
often violent, clampdowns on all forms of organised protest
have affected teachers demonstrating for a living wage,
women’s
rights
defenders
campaigning
for
an
end
to
discriminatory laws, trade unionists calling for basic labour
rights, and students protesting against corruption.
The increasing use of the death penalty is particularly
concerning, especially its continued use against juvenile
offenders, including seven already confirmed in 2008, and the
practice of public and mass executions. Criminal punishments
such as amputation and stoning still occur.
The increasing prominence of human rights groups in Iran is

a promising development; take for example that Campaign
for Equality launched in August 2006 to peacefully mobilise
support for women’s rights and to press for change to Iran’s
discriminatory laws, including some of those highlighted in
this report. The campaigners and volunteers aim to collect
one million signatures on a petition calling for legislative
change, in line with Islamic law. The Iranian government’s
arrest and imprisonment of some women connected to the
Campaign is completely unacceptable, and we must, as an
international community, lend whatever support we can to
these groups to enable them to continue their vitally
important work.
The effective participation of women and minorities in all
spheres of life is a prerequisite for democracy and good
governance, and can make a significant contribution to
economic development. Iran is a nation with a proud history,
including – as the Foreign Policy Centre points out – the
development of the first known human rights charter and the
first parliament in the Middle East. Iran must fulfil this
historical potential, and accept that it has responsibilities to
its people, to the region and to the wider international
community. The international community must take respon-
sibility to lobby the Iranian government and support those
within Iran who are bravely fighting for their human rights. I
hope that this report will be a valuable resource to inform the
fulfilment of our collective responsibility.

Executive Summary
Iran is regularly in the headlines for its nuclear program, but
far less attention is generally paid to its internal struggles
around civil rights. Almost thirty years after the 1979 revolu-
tion, which established the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
government still faces the challenge of reconciling an Islamic
ideology with the pressing demands of its citizens for full
equality.
The challenge of equality in Iran is vividly depicted in the
experiences of women, Baha’is and Kurds – three groups that
face routine discrimination and persecution based on their
identity. This report looks at the religious, legal and social
obstacles faced by these three groups. It evaluates the
Iranian government’s compliance with its own constitution
and looks at how Iran’s treatment of women and minorities
measures up to the international agreements it has signed.
Religious Obstacles
Iran is a theocratic state and the government is dominated
by a small group of clerics that share a conservative inter-
pretation of Shi’a Islam. Members of the Baha’i Faith, the
largest non-Muslim religious minority in Iran, are considered
heretics or apostates by these clerics and are therefore
denied access to higher education and state employment,
among
other
basic
rights
outlined
in
the
constitution.
Security forces have recently been instructed to identify and
monitor Baha’is.1 Women, on the other hand, are required to
observe rigid standards of ‘modesty’ in public, which are
enforced with verbal and physical abuse, and sometimes
imprisonment. Most Kurds are members of the Sunni sect of
Islam, and the state actively blocks their religious practices –
including the building of Sunni mosques. While both clerics
and citizens have advanced alternative interpretations of
Islam that endorse civil rights for these groups, they have
been marginalised or ignored by the regime.

Legal Obstacles
Although Iran’s constitution declares “the abolition of all
forms of unjust discrimination and the provision of equitable
opportunities for all,”2 the law is not applied equally. Women
face the most explicit legal discrimination; they have fewer
rights than men in areas of marriage and divorce, child
custody, inheritance and freedom of movement. Because the
constitution empowers judges to apply their interpretation of
Shari’ah in court cases, women, Kurds and Baha’is often find
themselves unprotected by the law. Spurious evidence is
used to convict women of adultery, Kurds of ‘acting against
state security,’ or Baha’is of ‘propaganda’ against the state of
Iran. All three groups are regularly denied their due process
and detainee rights under the law.
Social obstacles
Social and cultural norms in Iran have led to the margin-
alisation of Kurds, Baha’is and women in society. Because a
portion of the Kurdish population has, in the past, fought for
independence form Iran, Kurds as a whole are stigmatised
as
‘anti-Iranian.’
The
Kurdistan
region
is
economically
under-developed, and Kurds are underrepresented in educa-
tion and the public service.3 Baha’is suffer from a similar
cultural intolerance, fed by a prejudiced school curriculum and
state-run
newspapers
that
regularly
publish
defamatory
articles about the Baha’i Faith and its history. Although women
have advanced in education and employment under the
Islamic
Republic,
the
government
still
tries
to
restrict
educational choices and career avenues. People are defined by
their identities – as a woman, Kurd or Baha’i – and often find
their social position restricted on that basis.
Conclusions
At a basic level, what these three groups want from their
government is the dignity of equal treatment as Iranian

citizens. The reform necessary to achieve this goal would
involve addressing religious, legal and social obstacles to
equality. The state would need to allow the open expression
of alternative interpretations of Islamic theology on the
subject of civil rights by clergy and citizens. A national debate
on this question has been simmering for some time, but it
calls for a more open and public airing. Legal reforms are
necessary to remove explicit barriers to equality under the
law, and to clarify or remove areas of ambiguity, such as
the crime of ‘insulting Islamic sanctities.’ At the social
level, women, Kurds and Baha’is must be accepted as full
participants in public life – free to associate, have equal
opportunities for education, and fair access to job oppor-
tunities. A vast and increasing number of Iranians share this
vision of equality, but there remains a long road ahead.

A revolution without rights?
Women, Kurds and Baha’is searching for
equality in Iran
Introduction
The unique contribution of this report is its comparison of
three different groups – women, Baha’is and Kurds – that all
face discrimination and intensifying persecution in the Islamic
Republic of Iran. It may seem an odd choice to compare such
diverse experiences; other studies have looked only at
women, or at the treatment of religious or ethnic minorities.
What these groups have in common, however, is discrimina-
tion on the basis of identity. Being a Baha’i, woman or Kurd
in Iran makes an individual vulnerable to injustice at the
hands of the state. These groups deserve our attention
because they face chronic persecution. The nature of this
persecution may change from time to time, and not all
members of a group will suffer, but pressure from the state
is constant and overbearing.
We have selected the cases of women, Kurds and Baha’is to
draw out the general characteristics of persecution based on
gender, ethnic or religious identity. By comparing these three
populations and drawing parallels between their experiences,
we identify systemic obstacles to equality that affect other
groups and minorities in Iran.
This report looks at the contours of state persecution of these
groups to draw lessons about the potential for change in Iran.
We break up our analysis into three sections: religious
obstacles, legal obstacles and social obstacles. This distinc-
tion is simply made to clarify our analysis – in reality these
obstacles are deeply inter-related and not as separate as they
can appear. All three groups are studied within each section,
though not necessarily in equal depth. Women, for example,
face the most explicit discrimination in Iran’s Penal and Civil
Codes so it makes sense to emphasise their experience in this

area. By breaking up the analysis in this way we are able
to show the unique experience of each group while also
pointing to the shared characteristics of the discrimination
they face.
While the report draws attention to recent developments in
Iran, it takes a longer view of the entire period since the 1979
revolution when the Shah was overthrown and an Islamic
Republic was installed. This broader perspective allows us to
look at what has changed in the Islamic Republic and what
has not. Sometimes we can mistake the appearance of
change for the disappearance of continuity. Many of the worst
abuses took place in the 1980s, but decreasing intensity has
not fundamentally changed the social position of groups
affected. For example, Baha’is are no longer summarily
executed in Iran as they were in the early 1980s, but this
does not mean that the state policy that inspired widespread
killing is now defunct; it is simply deployed in a more
strategic and insidious manner. The sources of persecution
are connected with the people, institutions, and ideas that
have governed Iran since the revolution.4
Iran’s 1979 constitution set up a highly centralised govern-
ment.
While
there
is
technically
a
separation
of
the
legislature, judiciary and executive, the system is dominated
by the figure of the Supreme Leader. Iran’s government is
defined by the doctrine of Velayat-e Faqih, or rule by the
supreme jurist (a highly trained cleric).5 This doctrine,
developed by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, is based on the
relatively flexible structure of religious leadership in Twelver
Jafari Shi’ism.6 It has long been a practice among Twelver
Shi’a Muslims for every believer to choose a high-ranking
cleric – called a marja-e taqlid, or ‘source of emulation’ – and
follow his teachings and judgments. There are a limited
number of marjas to follow, and when one passes away
another is gradually recognised as occupying this station.
From time to time, the marjas will recognise one of their own
as a ‘source of emulation’ and his sayings and writings

become universally authoritative.7 Ayatollah Khomeini, the
father of the Islamic Republic, incorporated the principle of
universal leadership on religious matters into a structure of
government for a modern state.8
Velayat-e Faqih gives the office of the Supreme Leader
extensive powers over all arms of government. The Supreme
Leader appoints six members of the Guardian Council, four of
whom may veto any legislation passed by the parliament
(called
the
majlis).
Because
this
arrangement
led
to
legislative impasses, Khomeini created a new Expediency
Council9 – whose members he appointed – which would
resolve all disputes between the Guardian Council and the
majlis. This Council is the highest legislative authority in Iran
and it is “one of the most powerful centres of decision
making.”10 By securing central control over the state, the
doctrine of Velayat-e Faqih ensures the continued domina-
tion of the government and legislature by a small cadre of
typically hard-line clerics led by the Supreme Leader.
Akbar Ganji, an Iranian political journalist, has referred to
Max Weber’s concept of ‘Sultanism’ to describe government in
Iran: Sultanism is characterised by both traditional and
arbitrary authority, expressing itself through military force
and the use of an efficient administrative system.11 It is
defined by the concentration of power in the hands of a ruler
who uses it at his discretion (in Iran, it is always a ‘him’).12
Sultanism aptly describes post-revolutionary Iran, where
power is centralised and responsibility is diffused.
No matter who is elected as President, power is ultimately in
the hands of the Supreme Leader – currently Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei. All important decisions in Iran must be approved
by Khamenei. Often decisions include a degree of ambiguity
in their reference to ‘Islamic conditions’ or ‘standards.’
Such coded terminology is found throughout Iranian law
and policy, and it ensures that the will of the Supreme Leader
is implemented at the grassroots without the necessity of

giving precise and explicit instructions. As this report shows,
Kurds, Baha’is and women often face discrimination because
the lack of clarity in policy allows widely held prejudices to
be translated into state-sponsored actions with the tacit
approval of senior members of government.13
Iran’s remarkable history shows that it is a country unafraid
of progressive change. It is the birthplace of arguably the
oldest
and
newest
monotheistic
world
religions:
Zoroastrianism (ca. 1000 BCE)14 and the Baha’i Faith (1844
CE). Cyrus the Great, the Persian emperor from 559-529
BCE, is widely credited with producing the first known human
rights charter and defending the rights of minorities.15
Between 1905 and 1911, Iran underwent a constitutional
revolution that produced the first parliament in the Middle
East. Today, this rich tradition is carried forward by Iran’s
vibrant and vocal civil society.
Politics
in
twentieth
century
Iran
involved
constant
struggles over how to reconcile three powerful ideas: Shi’a
Islam, nationalism and democracy. The Islamic Republic of
Iran came out of the 1979 revolution as a compromise
between these ideas. Today, the struggle is increasingly
between Shi’ism and civil rights. Does an Islamic state have
an obligation to treat all its citizens equally? How are civil
rights defined within a Shi’a legal system? Iran itself has to
answer these questions. But in doing so it will have to address
all of its citizens’ demands for justice and equality.

Background: Women, Kurds and Baha’is in
Iran
Women
“The situation of women [in Iran] shows all the contradictions
of the revolution,” writes Nikki Keddie, a leading historian
of Iran.16 On the one hand, the widespread mobilisation of
women across social classes helped the 1979 revolution to
succeed. Since the revolution, levels of literacy among
women, formal education, and participation in the work force
have all increased.17 On the other hand, the regime has
abolished many of the legal protections that women had
won under the Shah. Reform of the Civil Code and the
re-interpretation of Shari’ah law have become a focus of
activism for women’s rights in Iran.
In the 19th century, the women’s movement was primarily
advanced by a minority of elite and secular middle-class
women, who campaigned for access to education and the
right to vote. Under the Pahlavi regime (1925-1979) women
successfully fought for new rights and protections, which
were seen as part of the state-led process of modernization
and secularization.18
In 1963 Mohammad Reza extended to women the right to
vote and to hold public office. Despite the opposition of many
clerics the Family Protection Law (FPL) was passed in 1967,
and it provided equal rights to women in divorce and child
custody. The FPL also created new courts presided over by
civil judges – some of them women – to deal with family
disputes. The advancement of women’s rights in Iran was
achieved by a minority of empowered women, who saw
themselves emulating the liberation of women in the West.19
The revolution reversed many of the legal gains made by
women, but it also dramatically expanded the participation of
women in the public sphere.20 Many scholars agree that “the

active participation of women in revolutionary politics . . .
awakened the consciousness of many popular-class women
about their political potential, and middle-class women
increasingly acted to promote women’s rights.”21 As the
Islamic Republic has radically curtailed women’s rights, a
broadened base of women have spoken against discrimina-
tion.
The women’s movement in Iran has both expanded and
transformed since the revolution. Before the revolution the
liberation of women was connected to the process of
secularisation. Under the Islamic Republic, however, women
are increasingly making arguments for the expansion of their
rights by pointing to protections under the constitution, while
others are reinterpreting Shari’ah law. Some scholars have
referred to the emergence of ‘Islamic feminism,’ a term that
highlights the difference of approaches that coexist within the
women’s movement in Iran.22 As a result, “the terrain of
women’s rights is one of unprecedented cooperation among
disparate groups on the one hand and severe ideological and
political struggles on the other.”23
Kurds
The Kurds are one of Iran’s largest ethnic minorities. There
are about 6.5 million Kurds in Iran, constituting between
7-9% of the total population and living primarily in the
west and northwest of the country.24 They are particularly
vulnerable as a minority population in Iran for two main
reasons: some Kurds have a long history of struggle for
national autonomy in Iran25 and they are mostly Sunni
Muslims (a minority in Shi’a Iran).26 The border areas they
inhabit are relatively underdeveloped and they have suffered
from violent repression before and since the revolution. The
Islamic Republic of Iran has continued a pattern established
by previous regimes of creating a strong centralised state
that is intolerant of ethnic dissidents.27

Kurdish human rights groups trace the suppression of Kurdish
autonomy back to the Safavid Persian Empire, which began to
promote state centralisation in the 1500s.28 A Treaty between
the Ottoman Empire and the Safavids in 1639 divided the
Kurdish-inhabited regions between the two empires. This
division has been maintained to the present day; about 12
million Kurds live in Turkey and around 6 million live in Iraq.29
The Kurds in Iran, however, enjoyed a period of autonomy
during the 1800s, when the Qajar state permitted the Kurdish
regions to function as semi-autonomous principalities.30
This period of autonomy ended in the early 20th century
following the 1921 military coup led by Reza Shah. The new
Pahlavi
regime
“initiated
a
new
repressive
period
of
nation-state building, creating a centralised nationalist state
agenda and a uniform national identity based on a created
Persian consciousness that emphasised the primacy of
“Persianness” over other ethnic or religious identities.”31
Kurdish opposition was crushed by the military, land was
confiscated by the state, and Kurdish tribal leaders were
deported.
During the Second World War, the Soviet Red Army occupied
parts of Iran, including Kurdistan and Azerbaijan. Under the
protection of the Soviet Union, the Kurdish Republic of
Mahabad was formed in 1946. The Republic of Mahabad
lasted only 11 brief months. Following the withdrawal of
Soviet troops later in the year, Iran restored its control of the
region and continued to co-opt various Kurdish tribal leaders
with
political
and
financial
rewards.32
Although
Kurds’
traditional leadership was undermined, the formation of the
Republic led to the creation of a modern political party that
remains influential today. The Kurdish Democratic Party of
Iran (KDPI) continues to promote its motto: “Democracy for
Iran, autonomy for Kurdistan.”33
The KDPI supported the overthrow of the Shah and many
Kurds participated in the 1979 revolution, but they were

quickly marginalized by the new regime. When a popular
referendum was held to vote on the creation of an Islamic
Republic, most Kurds boycotted the vote. They objected to
the draft constitution, which did not mention the Kurds or
make provision for regional autonomy. Shortly thereafter,
the KDPI helped to organise a rebellion in the region. The
uprising was met with brutal violence. Human Rights Watch
reported that “more than 271 Iranian Kurdish villages were
destroyed and depopulated between 1980 and 1992.”34 An
estimated 10,000 Kurds were killed in the two years after the
revolution.35
Although strong feelings of nationalism remain among some
of the Kurds in Iran, most Kurds express their identity
non-violently.
However,
journalists
and
historians
who
publish their thoughts or opinions on Kurdish nationalism
have been tried, imprisoned and often sentenced to death.36
They are usually convicted of ‘enmity with God’, a vague
charge that is often used by the regime to silence its critics.
In
September
2008,
about
Kurdish
“prisoners
of
conscience” in Iran went on a hunger strike to protest the
use of the death penalty and the prevalence of torture in
detention centres across the country.37
Baha’is
At the time of the 1979 revolution the Baha’i community in
Iran was estimated to be between 300,000 and 350,000,
easily making it the country’s largest non-Muslim religious
minority.38 Unlike most other religious minorities, Baha’is
come from all ethnic backgrounds – they live throughout Iran
and are not identifiable by any outward characteristics. The
persecution of Baha’is is based exclusively on religion.39 For
this reason their treatment by the government is now
considered a primary indicator for Iran’s compliance with its
human rights obligations.”40
The
Iranian
constitution
implicitly,
but
intentionally,41

excludes Baha’is from many rights of citizenship. Article 13
says: “Zoroastrian, Jewish and Christian Iranians are the
only recognised religious minorities.” Without any legal
recognition or protection, a recent report from the UN
Secretary General, Ban Ki-Moon, notes that members of the
Baha’i community are “subjected to arbitrary detention, false
imprisonment, confiscation and destruction of property,
denial of employment and Government benefits and denial of
access to higher education.”42 The report continued to single
out the “extremely severe restrictions” on the rights of
Baha’is, protected under the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights.43
The reason that Baha’is are denied legal recognition in Iran is
essentially
theological.44
Baha’is
are
followers
of
Mirza
Husayn-Ali – known as Baha’u’llah – who founded a new
independent religion in mid-19th century Persia. Baha’u’llah’s
claim to a divine revelation directly challenges the conserva-
tive Shi’a interpretation of the Qur’an: that Muhammad was
the last messenger of God. Appearing at a time of social
upheaval and religious expectation, the rapid spread of the
Baha’i Faith has also led clergy to fear the erosion of their
authority and influence in Iran.
Baha’is have faced severe persecution in Iran since the
beginning of the religion. Despite Baha’u’llah’s rejection of
the use of violence and any claim on political power, Baha’is
were often imprisoned, tortured and killed because of their
belief in a religion that upholds such principles as the
equality of women and men and the unity of religion.45 Many
Shi’a clergy used their influence over the masses to vilify the
Baha’is and, from time to time, compel the authorities to lend
state power to their persecution.46 It has been estimated that
as many as 20,000 early believers were killed in the 19th
century.47
Under
the
Pahlavi
Regime
(1927-1979),
Baha’is
faced
alternating tolerance and persecution by the regime –

depending on whether the Shah sought independence or
support from the increasingly politicised clergy.48 While Reza
Shah initially allowed the hiring of Baha’is in the civil service,
he later passed laws restricting the employment of Baha’is by
the state – “as a salve to the mullahs.”49 During the 1950s,
one influential cleric began to organise anti-Baha’i sentiment
into the Anjuman-i-Tablighat-i-Islami50 – an increasingly
powerful organisation that claimed over 12,000 members by
1977.51 The Society drew its financial support from the
clerical elite but it also collaborated with the SAVAK, the
Shah’s secret police, in its persecution of the Baha’is.52
The Hojjatieh Society, as it came to be known, would be
influential in educating the leaders of the 1979 revolution and
in organising the new Islamic Republic of Iran.53
The
persecution
of
the
Baha’is
long
been
justified
by
associating the community with dominant foreign powers.
Baha’is have successively been accused of being tools of
Russian imperialism, British colonialism, American expan-
sionism and most recently, of Zionism. There has been no
credible evidence to support these accusations which any
modern historian would recognise as contradictory. Today, the
IRI still refers to the Baha’i Faith as a ‘political movement’,
even
though
Baha’i
teachings
require
believers
to
be
obedient to their government and to avoid partisan political
activity. The rhetorical strategy of branding Baha’is as
‘outsiders’ is intentional: in a country characterised by a
strong national identity (among Muslims and secular Iranians
alike), sympathising with foreign enemies creates the false
perception of Baha’is as ‘anti-Iranian’.54
The reaction of the national Baha’i community to persecution
has been both non-violent and defiant. In the early years of
the Islamic Revolution, the Baha’i leadership – at national and
local levels – was targeted for elimination by the new regime.
Without leadership, the community was expected to dissipate
or be open to manipulation. Not only does the Baha’i
community continue to exist against the odds: it has also

pioneered grassroots initiatives to educate its young people
who are denied access to university, and its members
are urged to continue to serve their compatriots and be
well-wishers of Iran. The Baha’i leadership has also published
and circulated open letters that challenge the government to
live up to its rhetorical human rights declarations.55 The
Baha’i community resists oppression by openly defending its
right to exist as a community in Iran.56

Religious Obstacles
Shi’a Islam has a long history of vibrant debate over the
interpretation of the Qur’an and authoritative texts,57 but the
Islamic Republic has been dominated by a conservative and
inflexible version of Islam promoted by hard-line clerics. This
version of Islam is used to deny Baha’is, women and Kurds
civil rights that are protected by law. Iran’s constitution says
that the government must abolish “all forms of undesirable
discrimination and [promote] the provision of equitable
opportunities for all.”58 However, because the protection of
civil rights is conditioned upon vaguely defined “Islamic
criteria,”59 conservative religious elements use their inter-
pretation of Islam to promote discrimination against these
groups. Baha’is are treated as ‘infidels’ without rights, the
private lives of women are regulated by the state, and Sunni
Kurds are denied basic religious freedoms. While prominent
voices
–
such
as
Ayatollah
Hossein-Ali
Montazeri
and
Ayatollah Yousof Sanei – have advanced alternative inter-
pretations of Islam that endorse civil rights, they have been
marginalized or ignored by the regime.60 The influence of a
small group of politically powerful clerics continues to block
the treatment of Baha’is, women and Kurds as equal citizens
of Iran.61
Baha’is
From the early days of the revolution, persecution of the
Baha’is has been spearheaded by Shi’a clerics who promote
an ideology that calls for the elimination of the Baha’i
community. “The clergy and religious segments have always
held a deep hostility against the Baha’is,” says Dr Eliz
Sanasarian. “They were the true ‘infidels’ . . . to be dealt with
harshly and to be destroyed.”62 Although Iran shows many
signs of an authoritarian state – in its clampdown on activists,
for example – the reason for the persecution of the Baha’is is
ultimately theological.63

Iran regularly claims that Baha’is are involved with subversive
political activity in Iran,64 but the United Nations has rejected
these claims as fabrications designed to cover up the real
religious reason for the suppression of Baha’is.65 For example,
thousands of Baha’is have been denied their pensions
because of their religion, and they have been openly offered
their pensions back for converting to Islam. One such letter
written to a Baha’i reads:
You have already been advised and guided by this
Government to repent and sever your relations with the
misguided group (Baha’i) and thereby return to the
life-giving bosom of Islam to enjoy the fragrance of
the Words of God (Qur’an). Such repentance will be
accepted in accordance with the injunctions of the Holy
Qur’an and you will be able to continue your services in
this office and receive your unpaid dues. Otherwise,
you
will
be
dismissed
from
government
service,
charged with having a corrupt character, and you will
be deprived of all your rights. On behalf of the
Governorate of Fars, (Signed) Ni’matu’llah Tuqa’66
Similar offers were made even to those who faced execution
for their beliefs. Twenty-one Baha’is were executed in Shiraz
in 1983 after being subjected to torture and interrogations
intended to convince them to recant their faith.67 During their
trial, the head of the Revolutionary Court issued a public
warning to Baha’is: “They should repent from Baha’ism [sic],
which is reasonably and logically condemned, before it is too
late.”68
While Iran shows many contradictions, the state’s ideology
has consistently been “the driving force” in its treatment of
minorities.69 To understand why Baha’is face relentless and
systematic persecution in Iran, one must turn to the Shi’a
theology that shapes the outlook of the regime. One aspect
of Shi’a theology (shared by other branches of Islam) is

particularly influential: the belief that Islam is the final and
perfect revelation from God.
Shari’ah law does not recognise Baha’is as ‘protected religious
minorities’ because the Baha’i Faith is a post-Islamic religion.
Baha’is claim that the founder of their religion, Baha’u’llah,
brought a fresh revelation from God more than 1200 years
after that of the Prophet Muhammad. This runs directly
counter to the most commonly held interpretation of a
passage in the Qur’an which states that Muhammad is ‘The
Seal of the Prophets.’ Most clerics interpret this passage to
mean that Muhammad is the final prophet of God and Islam
the last and complete religion from God. In Iran, the
existence of a viable Baha’i community is not tolerated
because it violates this core tenet of conservative Shi’a belief.
Clerics and their theology do more than influence the world-
view of Iran’s leaders and citizens, they also shape the very
structure of government. A relatively small group of hard-line
clerics, many of them present from the early days of the
revolution – continue to hold the levers of power in Iran.
Many trained in the ranks of an anti-Baha’i movement that
gained popularity and widespread influence in the 1960s and
1970s, and it shaped the worldview of these leaders “usually
at a transitory stage in their ideological development.”70
In the 1940s, Iran’s clerics were increasingly dissatisfied with
their limited access to political power under the Shah and
the Baha’i community was a common scapegoat for their
frustration. They projected the Baha’i Faith as a political
movement that had been sent by foreign powers to under-
mine Islam. As clerics organised in opposition to the Baha’is,
an emerging political awareness crystallised; no longer
satisfied with educating the masses and encouraging piety,
some clerics had a more ambitious vision for Iranian society.
The emerging “anti-Baha’i movement,” Prof Mohammad
Tavakoli-Targhi argues, “played a crucial role in transforming
‘Islamic faith’ into ‘political confrontation’.”71 In fact, “the

battle to cleanse Iran of its Baha’i citizens was transformed
into a campaign to overthrow the Pahlavi monarchy.”72
The
most
influential
anti-Baha’i
organisation
was
the
Anjuman-i-Tablighat-Islami (The Society for the Propagation
of Islam), known today as Hojjatieh.73 It was founded by the
charismatic cleric Sheikh Mahmud Halabi in the 1950s with
the explicit purpose of eliminating the Baha’i Faith from Iran
as part of a wider mission to prepare the world for the
coming
of
the
12th
Imam,
a
prophetic
expectation
of
Shi’ism.74 The Society had over 12,000 members by 1977.75
Although Halabi urged his followers not to use violence, there
is documentary evidence that Hojjatieh collaborated with the
Shah’s secret service (SAVAK) in its raids on Baha’is in 1956,
1963, and 1978.76 Hojjatieh was not openly committed to the
overthrow of the Shah, but it shaped the ideology of many
future leaders of the revolution and the Islamic Republic.77
The impeccable religious credentials of Hojjatieh members
and the highly organised structure of the Society allowed it
to play a key role in the revolution and in shaping the
new regime. Many members of the Society soon occupied
influential positions in the Revolutionary Council and other
arms of the regime. Prior to the revolution, Hojjatieh had
infiltrated Baha’i groups to gain access to their community
records,
and
these
documents
were
supplemented
by
membership lists confiscated during armed raids on the
national Baha’i headquarters in Tehran.78 Dr Sanasarian
notes: “the sweeping tide of Baha’i arrests, imprisonment and
executions after the revolution is often attributed to Hojjatieh
infiltrators’ access to Baha’i registration books and confi-
dential correspondence.”79
Hojjatieh was formally disbanded in 1984 because of political
disagreements
between
Ayatollah
Khomeini
and
Sheikh
Halabi,80 but the influence of the Society has lived on.
Following the revolution the Ministers of Education, Labour and
Commerce were all known former members.81 The ideas of

Hojjatieh and the possibility of a revival continues to feature
more prominently since President Ahmadinejad and accom-
panying religious hardliners have come to power.82 Both
Ahmadinejad and Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei are widely
rumoured to have participated in Hojjatieh activities as young
adults.83
Given the influence of Hojjatieh within Iran’s centralised
government, it should come as no surprise to informed
observers that the persecution of Iran’s Baha’is has been
“widespread, systematic, and uninterrupted.”84 In June 1979
– barely three months after the Islamic Republic had been
established – Muhammad Ali Raja’i, the Minister of Education,
issued a memo ordering all Baha’i teachers to be expelled
from schools around the country. The memo said that “the
Ministry of Education . . . will not allow . . . the followers of
the Baha’i sect to stay in its educational unit, and through
this channel, defile and lead astray the pure minds and
thoughts of the innocent students,” and that “dismissal
according to the existing law is a minimum punishment.”85
Raja’i was known as a former organiser of the Hojjatieh group
in Qazvin; he was one of several new Ministers with close ties
to the Society.86
The new regime proceeded systematically to undermine the
viability of the Baha’i community by targeting its religious
leadership. In the early days of the revolution, such actions
would have appeared haphazard or disorganised, but the
pattern of violence indicates a clear intention. It was likely
assumed that the Baha’i community would effectively dissolve
in the absence of the members of appointive or elective
institutions of the faith.87 Between 1979 and 1983, members
of Baha’i institutions in the major cities of Tehran, Yazd,
Tabriz, Hamadan, and Shiraz were executed or abducted.
When the nine members of the National Spiritual Assembly
abducted in August 1980, another nine were duly elected in
their place. The authorities abducted and secretly executed
and buried eight of these nine members in December 1981.

They were buried in the ‘infidel’ section of the Kufrabad
cemetery without the knowledge of their families. The
National Assembly was again reformed, and after it publicly
complied with a 1983 ban on Baha’i institutions, the regime
nevertheless arrested seven members and executed them.88
During the first several years of the Islamic Republic more
than 200 Baha’is – many of them occupying positions of
leadership – disappeared, were publicly executed, or even
shot during Baha’i activities.89 Twenty-two Baha’i centres and
cemeteries were destroyed, and arson, looting, mob attacks,
and forced recantations were reported by Baha’is in more than
fifty cities and towns across Iran.90 In 1982, Firuz Kazemzadeh
solemnly wrote in The New York Review of Books that “the
threat of genocide hangs over the Baha’is of Iran.”91
The targeting of the Baha’is by the new regime drew
widespread international exposure, which likely contributed
to
a
revised
approach
by
the
government.
“By
the
mid-1980s,” writes Dr Reza Afshari, “as the waves of killings,
kidnappings and tortures subsided, the anti-Baha’i discrimi-
nation began to be institutionalised.”92 The late 1980s and
early 1990s witnessed the consolidation of the revolution into
a functioning state, and this enabled the use of bureaucracy
to uniformly and non-violently suppress the Baha’i commu-
nity. In December 1990, the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei directed President Rafsanjani to address “the
Baha’i Question,” and the issue was referred to the Supreme
Council of the Cultural Revolution (SCCR). According to
the text of the memo, Ayatollah Khamenei wanted policy
proposals “devised in such a way that everyone will under-
stand what should or should not be done” with respect to the
Baha’is.93
In response to Ayatollah Khamenei’s request, Dr Seyyed
Mohammad Reza Hashemi Golpayani, Secretary of the SCCR,
prepared a confidential memo to outline policy guidelines in
light of the constitution and religious and civil laws of the

country. Signed by some of the most powerful members of
the government, the memo clarifies what had become a de
facto state policy: the Baha’is must be treated in such a way
that “their progress and development will be blocked.” The
memo states that Baha’is may earn a “modest livelihood”, but
“they must be expelled from universities,” and the state must
“deny them employment if they identify themselves as
Baha’is,” and “deny them any position of influence, such as in
the educational sector, etc.” Children, the memo says, “should
be enrolled in schools which have a strong and imposing
religious ideology.”94 After this secret memorandum was
leaked in 1993, Human Rights Watch concluded that it
provided
concrete
evidence
of
“an
official
policy
of
persecution.”95
As one element of the policy, Baha’i students have been
formally denied access to higher education since 1981.96 In
December 2003, however, the government announced that
students would not have to state their religion on their
application for the national university entrance examination,
and about 800 Baha’is registered to take the exam. When the
results were released, several hundred Baha’i students
ranked among the best of their peers.97 On their results,
however, they were misidentified as Muslim, because many
wrote their compulsory religious studies examination on
Islam. Although they were first notified by the authorities that
the error would be corrected, ultimately only ten Baha’is were
offered admission to universities.98
The government has continued the charade of permitting
Baha’is to sit qualifying exams without any intention of
allowing them to study. In June 2007, around 1000 Baha’i
students wrote the exams, but more than 700 were informed
afterwards that their files were ‘incomplete’ and their exams
could not be graded. Of more than 200 admitted, 128 were
later identified as Baha’is and consequently expelled. A
leaked confidential communication from the director general
of the Central Security Office of the Ministry of Science,

Research and Technology has been revealed, instructing
eighty-one Iranian universities to expel any Baha’i students.99
In 2008, Baha’i students attempting to access their university
entrance examination results were directed to a webpage that
said “Error-incomplete file.”100 Blocking the Baha’is from
access to higher education may superficially appear to be of
less concern than the physical attacks on the Baha’is in the
early 1980s, but the consequences of the policy for the Baha’i
community will resonate for generations.
The election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2005
symbolised the victory of conservative forces over a reform
movement that appeared to make some headway with the
election of President Khatami. It has been followed by the
appointment of hardliners to influential positions and a
dramatic escalation in the persecution of the Baha’is. In
November 2005, Ayatollah Khamenei called on the military
and security forces to “monitor and manage their [the
Baha’is’] social activities.”101 Soon after this memo was
leaked,
the
Iran
Human
Rights
Documentation
Centre
observed: “Given the historic hostility of the conservative
clerical establishment to the Baha’i community, there is good
reason to fear that this measure is laying the foundation for
a new cycle in anti-Baha’i oppression.”102 These fears were
echoed by General Romeo Dallaire, who expressed his “deep”
concern “that Baha’is are not being specifically targeted by a
regime that has the means to carry out the most despicable
of intentions.”103 Since 2005, dozens of Baha’is have been
arrested, including the seven members of the Friends of Iran
– an informal national body that coordinates the activities of
the Baha’is.104 Sporadic acts of brutal violence against Baha’is
are taking place across the country with alarming frequency,
and
the
state-sponsored
media
regularly
publishes
anti-Baha’i articles.105
The current government is dominated by hardliners, many of
whom are reputed to have connections to Hojjatieh, and the
recent intensification in anti-Baha’i activity has raised the

concern of many human rights monitors.106 In September and
October 2008 a group calling itself ‘The People’s Movement
Against Baha’ist Institutions in Iran’ circulated a petition
that “demands that the Public Prosecutor deal with all the
elements
of
the
[Baha’i]
institutions
and
dissolve
this
organisation.”
In
Tehran,
the
petition
was
prominently
displayed at a major sermon by Ayatollah Khamenei, and
officials from the Ministry of Intelligence were on hand to gain
the maximum number of signatures. In Qom, it was on
display outside the Khomeini Mosque, which encloses one of
the holiest shrines for Shi’a Muslims in Iran. These highly
symbolic actions suggested that the government endorsed
the
use
of
the
petition
to
further
inflame
anti-Baha’i
sentiment.107
Women
In the early days of the revolution, graffiti, leaflets, the
media, and clerics repeated an old Iranian cliché: the
“Woman Represents the Chastity of Society.”108 Images of
veiled women symbolised revolutionary heroism. The leaders
of the revolution promoted the Islamicisation of women’s
dress and their duties within the family as a barometer for
the success and protection of the new Islamic state.109
Hamideh Seghdi notes that “concealing women’s bodies,
gender
segregation
and
inequality
became
integral
to
state-building and its identity: Islamic, anti-imperialist, and
anti-Westernist.”110
Choices
that
may
have
once
been
con-sidered acts of personal piety or religious devotion are
now public issues for state intervention. Indeed, an early act
of the new Islamic Republic was the creation of hijab laws
that require female covering in public.111
The first instance of public attacks against supporters of
women’s rights was during the anti-hijab demonstrations in
Tehran on 8 March 1979, followed by other demonstrations on
the 9th and 10th of the same month. When thousands of
women took to the streets to oppose the requirement to wear

a veil, they were met by revolutionary guards and fanatical
elements who physically assaulted the women and fired shots
to disperse them.112
Hijab has been defined in various ways. Some consider it a
physical act of covering women’s hair113 and body in its
entirety, leaving parts or all of the face exposed. Others
define it as morality, chastity and purity. In Iran, the public
enforcement of hijab is “is the most visible symbol of the
Islamic Republic’s power”114 – the state reaches into the
personal life and appearance of every woman. Hijab carries
with it the sense of honour that men must uphold both in
private and public spheres over women, who are considered
by dominant Shi’a theology as inferior in rights and worth.115
This division results in different expectations of behaviour
from men and women.116
The creation of hijab laws provoked widespread opposition,
and initially officials claimed that they would not be made
mandatory; however, that is precisely what happened in April
1983. The law was enforced on all women regardless of their
background or beliefs117 and those who opposed it were
punished in public. Ayatollah Gilani, a high-ranking official of
the Republic, set in place specific punishments for various
degrees of opposition to hijab rules.118 In addition to the hijab
dress codes, the Islamic Republic enforces segregation of
the sexes in schools, universities, offices, buses, hospital,
swimming pools, beaches,119 and public ceremonies among
others. This is done so both exposure and interaction among
the sexes is limited.
The destructive effect of enforcing such strict regulations on
the lives of women can be seen in the life of Dr Homa Darabi.
She was an accomplished professor of psychiatry who had
trained in Iran and at leading US teaching hospitals, and she
returned to Iran to teach at the University of Tehran. During
the 1980s, Dr. Darabi despaired at the strict religious
rules increasingly enforced upon her by her husband, her

employers, and her society. She finally lost her faculty
position in 1990 after failing to observe the dress code. On 21
February 1994, Dr Darabi carried a container of gasoline into
a public square in Tehran and as she lit herself on fire, she
shouted “Death to tyranny! Long live freedom! Long live
Iran!” Recounting her story, Reza Afshari remarks, “It was as
though her anger and defeat could be expressed only through
the fire that killed her, sending a message to the world that
only she possessed her body.”120
Some women have responded to hijab laws by promoting
alternative interpretations of theology and Islamic jurispru-
dence. Such efforts have aroused staunch opposition from
hardline clerics. Ayatollah Yazdi, the Head the Judiciary,
dismissed
reinterpretation
initiatives
because
Islam’s
“primary ordinances” on subjects such as hijab were beyond
question. In 1998, conservative deputies passed a law
forbidding all interpretation about women’s position in society
that took place “outside the legal and Shari’ah framework.”121
The enforcement of hijab laws was progressively relaxed
under Presidents Rafsanjani and Khatami, though this trend
has since been reversed. A bill introduced at the end of
Khatami’s presidency proposed a greater degree of control
over promotion of morality and prevention of vice. ‘The
Means and Ways of Propagating the Culture of Chastity and
Hijab’ was ratified by the High Council of the Cultural
Revolution in April 2005. Soon after the bill’s approval and
following the election of President Ahmadinejad, a body was
set up to oversee its strict application to all aspects of life for
Iranian women.122 The agents and officers of this body often
employ verbal abuse, corporal punishment, imprisonment
and torture123 as enforcement techniques.124
Kurds
Most Kurds are Sunni Muslims in a country that is 80–90%
percent Shi’a, and in which Twelver/Jafari Shi’a Islam is the

official state religion125 and Shi’a clergy the wielders of
political power. As a result many Kurds, as both an ethnic and
religious
minority,
find
themselves
marginalised
and
excluded, existing on the periphery of mainstream Iranian
society. The treatment of Sunni Kurds mirrors that of many
other Sunni Muslims in Iran.
While the Iranian constitution explicitly defends the rights
of non-Shi’a Muslims,126 in practice Kurds face religious
discrimination in their community affairs and in access to
public office. Very few Sunnis have positions in embassies,
universities and other important public institutions. They
are unable to achieve the highest-ranking positions in
government or the judiciary. Article 115 of the constitution
states that the President may not be an adherent of another
school of Islamic thought.127 Even in Kurdish areas where
the majority are Sunnis there is a notable lack of Sunni
representation in local authorities.
The government-appointed governor of the Kurdish region
has usually been Shi’a and non-Kurdish. In September 2002,
all six Kurdish members of parliament resigned in protest
at not being consulted over the appointment of the new
governor.128 As a report for the United Nations Commission
on Human Rights noted: “Their joint letter to the Interior
Minister claimed that the legitimate rights of the Kurds,
especially the Sunnis amongst them, was denied and their
calls for justice on the political, economic, cultural and social
levels had been neglected.”129
Although the constitution protects the rights of Sunnis to
administer their own religious affairs, religious leadership in
Kurdish areas has usually been non-Sunni and non-Kurdish.
The state appoints Shi’a clerics to run Friday prayers in Sunni
mosques in Kurdish towns. Human Rights Watch has reported
an incident in which a Friday prayer leader in Sanandaj
announced he would issue the call to prayer and carry out
other religious rites according to Shi’a traditions, despite the

fact that he was serving a Sunni congregation.130 Such cases
clearly
violate
the
constitution
and
Iran’s
international
obligations to ensure freedom of religion.
The dominance of Shi’ism in Iran is reflected in Article 12 of
the constitution, which states that the Sunnis may have
religious rights, provided they do not infringe upon “the rights
of the followers of other schools.”131 This exception is used
to deny Kurdish (and other) Sunnis basic religious rights
that have a profound effect on community life. A Kurdish
community that raised over a million rials (about seventy
thousand pounds in 2008) to enlarge the Dar al-Ehsan
mosque in Sanandaj was blocked from completing the
project. Despite the fact that “all the necessary building
permits were obtained from local authorities, the Ministry of
Islamic Guidance stepped in to block the new extension and
confiscated the funds raised to carry out the project.”132 In
Tehran there are over one million Sunni Muslims but not a
single mosque in the city to serve that community. State
broadcasting does not transmit the Sunni call to prayer, which
is different to Shi’a ones.133
As Sunnis, Kurds face intimidation and arbitrary detention for
religious reasons. According to the United States Commission
on International Religious Freedom, “Iranian Sunni leaders
have reported widespread abuses and restrictions on their
religious practice, including detentions and torture of Sunni
clerics . . . Sunni Muslim leaders are regularly intimidated and
harassed by intelligence and security services and report
widespread official discrimination.”134 In his recent report to
the United Nation General Assembly, Secretary-General Ban
Ki-Moon noted: “Members of . . . the Kurdish community . . .
[and] Sunni community . . . have reportedly been subjected
to arbitrary arrests and torture, allegedly in connection
with peaceful demonstrations for their rights, such as the
right to speak their own language and to hold religious
ceremonies.”135

Legal Obstacles
The law in Iran is often used to discriminate against women,
Baha’is and Kurds. In some respects, this is ironic because
Iran is one of the only Muslim states to have signed and
ratified the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
two International Covenants, and Iran’s constitution protects
many basic rights and freedoms.136 Despite these formal
commitments to equality, many laws enshrine discrimin-
ation against all three groups, but especially women.137
Furthermore, individuals’ entitlement to their rights is open to
interpretation based on ‘Islamic criteria,’ so in practice basic
rights are provisional and not universal.
Judges can be more powerful than the law itself. According to
Article 170 of the constitution, “Judges of courts are obliged
to refrain from executing statues and regulations of the
government that are in conflict with the laws and norms of
Islam.” Judges make their decisions based on interpretations
of
Shari’ah
principles,
and
they
often
reference
the
conservative rulings of Ayatollah Khomeini.138 The experience
of women, Kurds and Baha’is shows that the application of
the law is sometimes arbitrary and often discriminatory. Iran’s
legal system is plagued by a lack of transparency and
impunity, and the government appears uninterested in
serious reform so long as legal ambiguity serves to isolate
undesirable groups and individuals.
Women
Women face systemic discrimination under a version of
Shari’ah law that upholds unequal rights for women and men.
Women are treated as inferior to men in areas of marriage
and divorce, child custody, inheritance and freedom of
movement. The Civil and Penal Codes, their interpretation in
court, and the process of trial and sentencing all disadvantage
women in the court of law. The government has also

responded to campaigns for women’s rights with arbitrary
violence and imprisonment.
Women are discriminated against in many areas of the law,
particularly in family law. Men have the more rights to
divorce, and a man may divorce his wife at any time. He may
also marry as many as four women, and he can contract
unlimited ‘temporary marriages’. To obtain a divorce a woman
must prove in court that her husband is: mentally ill; unable
to provide for them and their families; unable to consummate
the marriage and have children; or suffering from an
incurable disease.139 With respect to child custody, the basic
tenets
of
family
law
automatically
favour
the
father:
according to the Civil Code, any child born during and after
marriage belongs to the husband.140 In other areas of the law,
a woman is counted as worth half of a man.141
In 2008 the Parliament debated a new Family Protection Bill,
which would deepen discrimination against women. For
example,
Article
of
the
bill
would
not
require
the
registration of ‘temporary marriages,’ a Shi’a legal provision
that can be used to legitimise prostitution. Article 23
authorises polygamous marriages if the man can financially
provide for another wife; he would not have to obtain the
consent of his present wives to contract additional marriages.
Article 25 proposes a new tax on women’s dowries, often
their only source of financial support after marriage. Article
46 criminalises the marriage between an Iranian woman and
a foreign national, without the consent of the government.
Punishment for violating this law could be a year in prison.
The bill also introduces highly complicated procedures for
women to obtain divorce, even in cases of domestic violence.
Although the Legal and Judicial Commission of Parliament
approved the bill in outline on 9 July 2008, it is currently with
the Commission for further revisions (and has received loud
opposition by women’s rights organisations).142
Women face additional discrimination in the sentencing for

crimes such as adultery, which is punishable by stoning to
death. The Penal Code requires a judge to use documented
evidence, the law, and his ‘knowledge’ or ‘intuition’ to make
decisions. Women sentenced to death by stoning are usually
not convicted on the basis of testimony or confession,
however, but primarily according to the intuition of the
judge.143 Although both women and men may be convicted
of adultery, discriminatory144 aspects of the law place women
at a greater risk of facing death by stoning.145 Far more
women than men have been convicted of adultery and
sentenced to death.146 The Women Living Under Muslim Laws
group argues: “the judicial system, in which no females are
included, provides a loophole to the burden of proof and
disrupts the consistency in issuing stoning sentences.”147 More
generally, the UN Special Rapporteur on Violence Against
Women notes: “The ruling clergy, in their reading of the
Shari’ah that shapes both the attitudinal as well as the
institutional structures, have tended towards conservative,
gender-biased interpretations.”148
Women face widespread physical abuse and sexual violence
in Iran, and very few legal provisions exist to protect them.149
In other instances the authorities fail to enforce laws that are
already in place, such as the 2004 Law on Combating Human
Trafficking. This is of particular concern as an increasing
number of Iranian women become victims of trafficking.
Majority of these underage women are forced into slavery or
prostitution. A 2005 UN report states “women are kidnapped,
bought or entered into temporary marriage in order to be sold
into sexual slavery in other countries.”150
Rape victims must provide four male eyewitnesses or three
male and two female witnesses to achieve legal recourse.
Such requirements make it extremely difficult to charge men
for rape, and it also makes it risky for victims to take cases
to court. If the defendant is acquitted because of insufficient
evidence, the victim can be charged with ‘false accusation’ or
‘illicit sexual relations.’ The UN has received reports of women

sentenced to prison terms for defending themselves against
sexual assault; ‘self-defence’ is not considered to be grounds
for acquittal in Iran.151
Violence against women is particularly prevalent in the prison
system. Although female prisoners are subjected to sexual
violence, including rape, they rarely speak about their
experiences.
Some
have
been
raped
as
part
of
their
interrogation while others have suffered at the hands of
guards. Witness accounts about executed prisoners have
testified that sexual violence has been institutionalised within
some prisons. Sarmast Akhlaq Tabandeh, a senior Guards
Corps interrogator, recounted one such case in a Shiraz
prison: “Flora Owrangi, an acquaintance of one of my friends
was one such victim. The night before her execution, the
resident mullah in the prison conducted a lottery among
the members of the firing squads and prison officials to
determine who would rape her. She was then forcibly injected
with anaesthesia ampoules, after which she was raped.”152
Activists who argue for better legal protections for women
have received harsh responses from the authorities. Peaceful
demonstrations, campaigns, newspapers and organizations in
support of women’s equal rights are suffocated one way or
another.153 The prominent Campaign for Equality154 (also
known as the One Million Signatures Campaign), which
informs women of their rights and is attempting to gather one
million signatures to petition against discriminatory laws, has
faced a recent crackdown.155 Zeynab Beyzeydi was detained
on 9 July 2008, and all charges against her were eventually
dropped except that of participating in the one millions
signature campaign. Esha Momeni, a young student photo-
grapher from California State University was arbitrarily
arrested by the authorities on Wednesday October 15, 2008
and
transferred
to
Evin
Prison.156
She
was
in
Tehran
conducting research for her Master’s thesis and had just
recorded video interviews with members of the Campaign for
Equality.157

Amnesty International reports that the demands of the
campaign are not intended to fundamentally challenge the
Islamic Republic, and organisers are careful to conduct activities
in full compliance with the law. The Campaign insists that they
are participating in a broader debate about the meaning of
equality within Islamic law. They point to a recent statement by
Ayatollah Hossein Mousavi Tabrizi, General Secretary of the
Organization of Researchers and Scholars in the Qom Seminary:
We have many laws . . . that address women’s status or
even men’s status, which have to be reformed in
accordance with current needs in order to come in line
with and meet the needs of citizens. Concerning
women, laws such as diyeh[compensation for bodily
injury], inheritance, child custody, divorce . . . can in
fact be changed, and these reforms and changes in no
way contradict Shari’ah law. In fact, many religious
leaders
and
grand
ayatollahs
have
issued
fatwas
[religious rulings] which seek to reform current laws.158
Despite the Campaign’s effort to conduct its affairs in
accordance with the law, dozens of its members have been
repeatedly imprisoned. The charges are often spurious:
“propaganda against the system” and “acting against national
security.”159
Impunity in the treatment of women in Iran is widespread.
Husbands are unaccountable for the treatment of their wives,
judges make arbitrary decisions against women, and prison
guards are not investigated for abuse of women. The case of
Canadian photojournalist Zahra Kazemi brought international
attention to the lengths taken by the Iranian government to
avoid scrutiny of the justice system. Ms. Kazemi died in
custody on 10 July 2003, and the authorities first claimed
that she died of a digestive disorder and then reported that
she was killed by a stroke. Credible reports, however,
indicate that she was subjected to torture and abuse while
in detention.160 Iran refused requests by the Canadian

government to examine her body and no public investigation
was carried out.
Kurds
Although there are no specific anti-Kurdish laws in the
constitution, the authorities find pretexts for persecuting
Kurds who openly and non-violently profess their group
identity. Once arrested many have experienced violations of
due process that contravene Iranian law and fall far below
international standards. Kurds are also denied rights to teach
their language, and they face discrimination with respect to
housing, public education and employment.
The Iranian constitution does not grant autonomy to ethnic
minorities, but it does allow the use of minority languages in
education. Kurds have found, however, that this aspect of the
constitution is often violated. Amnesty reported that an NGO
running two nursery schools in Sandaj and Mahabad had
been closed down because they taught in the Kurdish
language.161 In a report to the United Nations, one scholar
has noted: “The authorities have refused the teaching of
Kurdish at any level of schools in Kurdistan, and have limited
the use of Kurdish in the print and electronic media and
drastically reduced the air-time for Kurdish programming
since 1979.”162 Ironically, while Kurds are not allowed to teach
Kurdish in schools, Armenians have been permitted to do
so.163
Kurds face state-sponsored discrimination in housing, public
education and employment. A 2005 report by U.N. Special
Rapporteur on Adequate Housing, Miloon Kothari, found that
Kurds were being disproportionately affected by confiscation
and
‘confiscation
style’
purchase
of
property
by
the
government.164 Kurds complain that state universities grant
few places to students from Kurdistan, compromising the
future development of the region. Furthermore, according to
Kurdish human rights activist, Roya Toloui, higher taxes are

paid in Kurdish regions even though average income is much
lower than the national average.165
Unemployment in Kurdish areas is notably higher than in
other regions of the country. This is no coincidence. It is
alleged that the government intentionally marginalises Kurds
by denying them jobs in the public sector when the state is
by far the country’s biggest employer.166 Reports suggest
that material advancement of the Kurds is also stunted by
unofficial policies carried out by the authorities, including
the denial of business licences in primary and secondary
industries such as mining and manufacturing. Those who
engage in trade across state borders must deal with corrupt
and violent border guards who are able to act with impunity.
Human rights campaigners and journalists in Iran who speak
out on behalf of the Kurds face severe consequences, which
can also affect their families. In October 2008, Negin
Sheikholeslami was arbitrarily arrested – she is the founder
of the Azar Mehr Women’s Social and Cultural Society of
Kurdistan which organises training and sports activities for
Kurdish women. Sheikholeslami also works for the Human
Rights Organization of Kurdistan (HROK), which reports
incidences of human rights abuses, and her arrest is the
latest in a string of arbitrary arrests of HROK members.167
Even those who do not go out of their way to criticise the
regime have been arrested for merely expressing their
Kurdish identity. Journalist and environmental activist, Hiwa
Butimar, for example, has written about the origins, culture
and politics of the Kurds. In December 2006 he was arrested
and sentenced to death for engaging in “acts against national
security” and “spying for western countries.” Intelligence
officers searched his belongings and confiscated a key ring
and wall clock, both bearing the Kurdish flag.168 Hiwa
Butimar’s death sentence was overturned by the Supreme
Court in October 2007 on the basis of procedural irregulari-
ties, but the case was returned to the same judge who had

first sentenced him, Hamid Sultan Bakhash. In April 2008, Mr
Butimar was sentenced to death a second time, by the same
judge.169
The Kurdish Human Rights Project reports that there are
more than 200 Kurdish prisoners of conscience in Iran, who
have
been
imprisoned
for
expressing
their
opinions
non-violently.170 One of the commonly used security laws in
the Penal Code is Article 186, which carries the possible
sentences of death and banishment for being a member of, or
supporting, an organisation that has waged armed struggle
against the Islamic Republic. Another is Article 500, which
punishes anyone found guilty of “advertising against the
order of the Islamic Republic of Iran.”171 Kurdish activists such
as Farzad Kamangar, teacher and reporter for the Human
Rights Organization of Iran, have been sentenced to death
for “acting against state security” and “enmity with God.”
The charges made against Kurdish activists often include
allegations of unspecified breaches of national security or
violating morality, which create a legal exemption from
honouring
human
rights
protections
outlined
in
the
constitution. For example, freedom of expression is allowed,
“except when it is detrimental to the fundamental principles
of Islam or the rights of the public.”172 Activities that count as
being ‘against’ Islam or the Islamic Republic can be very
broadly defined to suit the purposes of the local or national
government. Such charges are used as a pretext for cracking
down on criticism, activism or dissent of any kind.
Many activists, students and journalists have been detained,
tortured and even executed by Iranian intelligence and
security forces and judiciary on fabricated national security
charges. The lawyer for Farzad Kamangar told the Iranian
Minority Human Rights Organization (IMHRO) that nothing in
Kamangar’s judicial files and records demonstrates any links
to the charges brought against him.173 Even the peaceful
expression of Kurdish identity is often misinterpreted as the

spreading of propaganda or working against the regime.
According to Human Rights Watch, the trend of cracking down
on the peaceful activists “has intensified under President
Ahmadinejad and his intelligence apparatus.”174
Human rights organisations have testified that arbitrary
detention, disappearances, unfair trials and indefinite solitary
confinement are routine treatment for Kurdish prisoners.
Torture in all its forms, humiliation and other punishments are
used against those in custody. In an interview with Radio
Farda, Roya Toloui described how she had been kicked,
slapped, and beaten.175 Only when those who had physically
abused her asked for her children to be brought into the prison
and threatened to burn them to death, did she give them the
false confessions they desired.176 Aside from violating inter-
national law, the widespread use of torture also contravenes
Iran’s own constitutional ban on the use of torture.177
Due process has also been violated in the trials of Kurdish
prisoners, even though Article 168 of the constitution upholds
the right to an open jury trial.178 In the case of Mr. Kamangar,
only one judge reviewed the case, the defendant was not
allowed to speak, and the trial lasted less than ten minutes.179
Such violations of the right to a fair trial and judicial review
are widespread.
Often those in custody are held in solitary confinement for
long periods of time – sometimes in rooms of only one square
metre – and they are prevented from any communication
with their families. For the first month and a half that
Mohammad Sadigh Kabodwand, Founder and Chairman of the
Kurdish Human Rights Organization, was in custody, his
family did not know where he was being detained. This is not
unusual for political prisoners of any ethnicity. During the six
months that he was kept in solitary confinement he is
reported to have suffered a heart attack and stroke and was
initially denied access to medical treatment.180
From 25 August to 10 October 2008, Kurdish political prisoners

went on hunger strike “calling for an end to the use of torture
and other ill-treatment of prisoners and for an immediate end
to executions and the use of the death penalty.”181 They
also demanded “better prison conditions and independent
inspection of Iranian prisons by national and international
human rights bodies, for an end to the use of internal exile as
a method of punishing dissent and for an end to official
discrimination
against
the
Kurdish
minority,
including
prisoners.”182
Baha’is
Iran’s constitution recognises some religious minorities as
‘protected’ groups: Judaism, Christianity and Zoroastrianism
are recognised in this way, and their members have some
rights. Members of the Baha’i Faith – and other ‘unrecognised’
religions, such as Buddhism – are left in a legal vacuum by
the constitution. Without any protection, Baha’is often receive
arbitrary judgments in court when judges enforce conser-
vative interpretations of Shari’ah law.
The Iranian constitution was intentionally designed to exclude
the Baha’is. In her analysis of the drafting process, Dr Eliz
Sanasarian
writes
that
“anti-Baha’ism
was
obvious”
throughout
the
debates
over
the
final
version
of
the
constitution.183 The delegates haggled over “every word and
expression of certain articles” to ensure that the Baha’is
would not be included.184 The first draft of the constitution
was written by human rights lawyer Abdolkarim Lahiji, but
his draft was edited by the Assembly of Experts so that it
would be clear that Baha’is had no rights at all.185
The constitution upholds many human rights norms, but
makes them conditional on interpretations of Islamic law. For
example, Article 14 says that Muslims must respect the
human rights of “all who refrain from engaging in conspiracy
or activity against Islam and the Islamic Republic of Iran.”186
Iranian officials have publicly argued that Baha’is are a

“misguided group . . . whose affiliation with world Zionism is
a clear fact,” and who could not be “in the same category as
minorities like the Christians, Jews and Zoroastrians.”187 The
conditions for human rights protection under Article 14 are
often interpreted such that Baha’is are unprotected.
In one case, two men were accused of communicating with
the Baha’i World Centre,188 which led to charges of serving
Western powers that were plotting to destroy Islam. The
court ruling stated: “Due to religious laws and theological
codes mentioned above, the above [Behnam Misaqi and
Keyvan
Khalajabadi]
cannot
be
considered
among
the
Kuffar-i-Dhimmi [protected infidels] and therefore the court
condemns them to death as Kuffar-i Harbi [unprotected
infidels at war with Islam].”189 The application of the death
sentence in this case highlights the severity of the Baha’is’
legal status as ‘unprotected infidels’.
In 1983, the government removed any ambiguity about its
position on the Baha’is. Without offering formal notification to
the Baha’is, Prosecutor General Seyyed Hussein Musavi-Tabrizi
announced a ban on all administrative and community
activities of the Baha’i Faith in Iran. He publicly declared
(through
a
newspaper)
that
membership
on
a
Baha’i
institution would be a criminal offence because they were “at
war with God (mohareb),” “conspirators,” and “engaged in
espionage.”190 In a newspaper interview, the Prosecutor
General defended the decision, saying: “[The Baha’is] agitate
and sabotage in some affairs, and spy for others . . . All of
these problems have caused us to announce right now that
all the collective and administrative activities of Baha’ism in
Iran are, and have always been, banned. The Islamic
Republic of Iran and the constitution of the country does not
recognise them.”191
Although the national Baha’i leadership immediately complied
with the ban,192 the authorities enforced it retroactively.193
Soon after the ban was publicised, hundreds of former

members of dissolved local and national Baha’i institutions
were arrested. Roger Cooper, a British journalist in Iran,
reported an “unprecedentedly large-scale campaign of mass
arrests” of former members of Baha’i institutions; 700 Baha’is
were
summarily
detained,
sometimes
with
their
infant
children, and held without charges.194
The strict ‘Islamic conditions’195 placed on civil rights makes
Baha’is vulnerable to arbitrary rulings by conservative judges.
According to Article 167 of the constitution a judge must rule
in each case based on relevant codified law. However, in cases
that fall outside of these parameters, “the judges are required
to primarily look into credible Shari’ah principles.”196 Because
the Baha’is are excluded from the constitution and relevant
bodies of Iranian law, their cases are subject to each judge’s
interpretations of Shari’ah law. As a result, it is often not clear
what constitutes an offence under the law.197 Khomeini’s
fatwas condemning the Baha’is have been cited in several
cases, including one where two men were freed from
punishment after being convicted of murdering a Baha’i.198
The court ruled that the men would not be sentenced because
the victim “was a member of the misguided and misguiding
Baha’i sect.”199
At the hands of such judges, many Baha’is have been convicted
of apostasy (converting from Islam to another religion)200 – an
offence that did not exist formally in Iran’s Penal Code.201
However, in September 2008 the Parliament approved a bill in
outline that would make apostasy illegal under the Penal Code
as a crime with a mandatory death sentence.202 The text of the
bill is now being finalised by the judicial commission of
the Majles before it is approved by the Guardian Council and
voted on in plenary (its second reading in Parliament). In a
declaration on 26 September 2008 the European Union urged
the bill to be dropped because of the threat it posed to
religious minorities, especially to Baha’is and Christians. On 8
October 2008, British Foreign Secretary David Miliband issued
a
similar
condemnation,
stating
that
“if
adopted,
[the

legislation] would violate the right to freedom of religion, which
is also an important basis of any civilised society.”203
Including apostasy as a crime under the Penal Code would
openly flout Iran’s prior commitments to Articles 18 of both
the
Universal
Declaration
of
Human
Rights
and
the
International Covenant on Political and Civil Rights. In its
general comment 22(48) of 20 July 1992, the Human Rights
Committee observed that the freedom to “have or to adopt a
religion or belief necessarily entailed the freedom to choose
a religion or belief, including the right to replace one’s current
religion or belief with another or to adopt atheist views, as
well as the right to retain one’s religion or belief.” Article 18,
paragraph 2, of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political rights bars coercion that would impair the right to
have or adopt a religion or belief, including the use of threat
of physical force or penal sanctions to compel believers or
non-believers to adhere to religious beliefs and congrega-
tions, to recant their religion or belief or to convert.
Making apostasy a crime may also deter human rights
defenders from taking up the cause of the Baha’is.204 This can
clearly be seen in the case of Shirin Ebadi, the Nobel-prize
winning lawyer, who took up the case of seven members205 of
the
Baha’i
national
coordinating
committee,
who
were
arbitrarily arrested and imprisoned without trial or legal
representation on 14 May 2008.206 Soon after she announced
her decision to take their case press sources close to the
government have published stories to the effect that her
daughter had become a Baha’i, and some stories even stated
that she herself had become a Baha’i.207 If the apostasy law
had been in place at the time, it would have been tantamount
to being accused of a capital offence. It can easily be seen
how such pressure could quickly isolate the Baha’i community
and drive away any who may otherwise feel inclined to speak
out against the human rights abuses that they suffer or to
support them in other ways – it might even be used to
pressure their employers for example. The government has

clearly and effectively signalled that anyone who shows any
sympathy at all for the Baha’is is in danger of being accused
of being Baha’i and thus, once the law is passed, in danger of
the death penalty.208
Given the animus of hard-line clerics against the Baha’is, law
is often used arbitrarily to keep the community off balance.
The
use
of
short-term
detentions
and
holding
Baha’is
incommunicado and without charges has emerged as a
pattern in the past four years. The arrest of the Baha’i leaders
mentioned above has corresponded with the recent detention
of at least 22 other Baha’is, who have been imprisoned only for
being Baha’is. While the government officially denies that the
Baha’is are persecuted because of their religion, the official
charges in one of these cases were given as “teaching
Baha’ism, propaganda against the regime of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, and insulting the sacred institutions of
Islam.”209

Social Obstacles
Kurds, Baha’is and women are often marginalised in society
because of social and cultural norms. Iranian society is
heavily influenced by nationalism and Shi’a Islam, which
promote an ideal of ‘unity’ “over factors which might divide
it.”210 The Expediency Council noted in its 2000 general
policy on minorities that “the culture and civilization of Islam
and Iran, the Persian language and writing are key factors of
solidarity.”211 The pre-eminence of Persian ethnicity and Islam
means that Kurds and Baha’is are often stigmatised as
‘anti-Iranian’ or as sources of division. Women, on the other
hand, are required to abide by cultural norms and related
laws that restrict their full and equal participation in society.
Social and cultural norms are perpetuated through schools,
the media, and the public statements of clerics. In a recent
study of Iran’s curriculum, Saeed Paivandi notes that it
teaches that “individuals are not equal and, in the hierarchy
of values, are defined and judged based on gender, ethnic
background, religion, and piety.”212 This observation also
applies to society at large. People are defined by their
identities – as a woman, Kurd or Baha’i – and often find their
social position restricted on that basis.
Kurds
From the very establishment of the Islamic Republic there
was a terrible fear of territorial disintegration, and as a result,
Kurdish nationalism has been undermined and depicted as
dangerous and anti-Iranian. Ayatollah Khomeini himself made
a statement in December 1979 in which he declared:
Sometimes the word minorities is used to refer to
people such as Kurds, Lurs, Turks, Persians, Baluchis,
and such. These people should not be called minorities,
because this term assumes that there is a difference
between these brothers. In Islam, such a difference has

no place at all. There is no difference between Muslims
who speak different languages . . . It is very probable
that such problems have been created by those who do
not wish Muslim countries to be united . . . They create
the issues of nationalism . . . and such-isms which are
contrary to Islamic doctrines. Their plan is to destroy
Islam and Islamic philosophy.213
Such claims at the beginning of the revolution – that there is
no such thing as minorities and no difference between
Muslims – were aimed at creating unity under the new
regime. In practice, however, unity meant domination by
Persian Shi’a elements of society. The result has not been
inclusion and assimilation, but exclusion. The denial of
Kurdish identity has provoked the alienation of Kurds from
mainstream Iranian society. Although the majority supported
the revolution, when the draft constitution omitted any
mention of the Kurds, most boycotted the referendum on the
constitution.
In the above statement from Khomeini in 1979, not only did
he refuse to acknowledge the existence of Kurdish identity
rights, he also suggested that those who made such claims
were agents of foreign powers. This is indicative of the state
paranoia that has existed from the outset of the revolution,
that foreign powers might exploit Kurdish nationalism to
destabilise the regime. Khomeini’s words give space for
labelling Kurds as ‘anti-Iranian’ and ‘anti-Islamic,’ which
stigmatises Kurds and opens them up to accusations, such as
threatening national security or being an enemy of God, for
which they can be tried in court.214
The geography of Kurdish communities, many of them near
borders, contributes to the perception that they are both an
internal and external threat to the integrity of the state.215
Most of their villages are found in the west and northwest in
areas neighbouring Kurdish communities in Iraq and Turkey.
Without documentation or evidence, the authorities often

claim
that
Kurdish
cultural
activities
or
human
rights
advocacy are fuelled by partisan agendas that threaten
national security. Such accusations contribute to a dangerous
culture of suspicion. Sceptical of Kurdish loyalty to Iran, in
the 1980s vigilante groups and paramilitary groups operated
with impunity when targeting Kurdish areas.
Popular and state-level suspicion of Iranian Kurds is not new
to Iran, particularly given Kurdish history of nationalism and
campaigns for greater autonomy. The question is, however,
whether the Iranian government is doing anything to help
stop
discrimination
against
Kurds,
whether
it
actually
encourages the stereotyping of Kurds as hostile dissenters.
Anti-Sunni propaganda by the state adds to the social
marginalisation
of
Kurds.
According
to
a
State
Department report, Sunnis claim the state broadcasting
company Voice and Vision airs programmes that are insulting
to Sunnis.216 In April 2004 it was reported that Sunni
members of Parliament had petitioned the Supreme Leader to
issue an order bringing an end to ‘anti-Sunni propaganda in
the mass media, books, and publications; the measure would
include the state-run media . . .’217
Kurds suffer not only from state-level discrimination and
harassment,
but
also
from
neglect.
For
example,
Koohi-Kamali explains that although there is difficulty with
obtaining access to water in the eastern areas of Iranian
Kurdistan, these water shortages “could be eliminated if
adequate
assistance
and
guidance
were
given
to
the
peasants by the government.”218 According to Yildiz and Taysi,
“Many Kurds feel that their region suffers from intentional
underdevelopment at the hands of the government.”219
Whether this neglect is intentional or not, it contravenes
Article 48 of the constitution which says that there must be
no discrimination among the various provinces with regard to
the distribution of public revenues to ensure that each region
has the necessary resources to meet its needs and capacity
for growth.220 President Mohammad Khatami noted during a

visit to Kurdistan Province in August 2000 that it suffers from
the “pain of chronic deprivation” as well as “poverty and [a]
high rate of unemployment.”221 As Yildiz and Taysi point out,
this economic marginalisation “severely inhibits the Kurds
from actively participating in Iranian public life.”222
Widespread
prejudice
against
Kurds
has
affected
their
livelihoods in direct ways. In May 2001, the non-Kurdish
president of the Piranshehr Sugar Company was allowed to
dismiss eighty percent of the Kurdish employees and instead
hire workers of other ethnicities and those who collaborated
with the Revolutionary Guards.223 Despite complaints to the
government, the Company was not penalised.
The authorities also turn a blind eye to incidents of crime
within Kurdish communities. Violence against women is worse
in Kurdish areas than elsewhere, but the authorities often
turn
a
blind
eye.
According
to
Amnesty
International,
“discrimination and violence against women and girls in the
Kurdish regions is both pervasive and widely tolerated.”224
Kurdish women are doubly vulnerable by virtue of living in
a
patriarchal
society
under
a
state
that
systemically
discriminates against ethnic minorities.
The educational system in Iran also disadvantages Kurds. A
2003 UN report found that literacy rates for the age group
15-24 in Kurdistan were notably below the national average.
This may be unsurprising given the degree of discrimination
and harassment faced by Kurdish teachers. The Human
Rights Organization of Kurdistan reported in February 2007
that more than 1,500 teachers and professors in Kurdistan
had been fired by the authorities on religious grounds. They
wrote an open letter to the government decrying their lack of
freedom and calling on human rights organisations to protest
against their dismissal.225

Baha’is
Professor H.E. Chehabi, an eminent scholar of Iran, has noted
a troubling fact: “the murder of close to 300 Baha’is since the
revolution has elicited relatively little public outrage from
non-Baha’i [Iranian] defenders of human rights.”226 To an
outside
observer,
this
would
be
surprising
given
the
courageous activism of many Iranians. But while there have
been a handful of recent exceptions to Chehabi’s observa-
tion,227 Baha’is have long been treated as a taboo group in
Iran.228 Even among secular Iranians, the term ‘Baha’i’ is
frequently used as an insulting label – in much the same way
as the label “Jew” would have been widely used in Europe
prior to the Second World War.229
Despite the fact that the Baha’i Faith originated in 19th-
century Persia, Baha’is are publicly maligned as anti-Iranian.
This perception owes something to the cosmopolitan outlook
of the Baha’i Faith, which encourages believers to consider
the interests of humanity above national feelings. Iranian
nationalism is a powerful force among the general public,230
and
the
universal
outlook
of
Baha’is
brands
them
as
something other than ‘true’ Iranians.231
How is this cultural intolerance towards Baha’is perpetuated?
Newspapers, schools, and the public statements of clerics all
contribute towards the creation of a discriminatory culture
in Iran.232 The use of the media to defame the Baha’i
community has been particularly dangerous in the past.
Media campaigns in 1955 and the 1980s accompanied
periods of more intense persecution of the Baha’is – which
included mob attacks against them by other Iranians.
In the 1980s, the media regularly published articles that
quoted
prominent
clerics
encouraging
and
justifying
widespread
violence
against
the
Baha’is.
For
example,
Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, who has been a powerful member
of
the
conservative
religious
establishment
since
the

revolution, made the following public remarks in an address
that
questioned
the
relevance
of
a
prominent
social
movement:
Before
the
revolution
you
were
involved
in
the
‘anti-Baha’ism movement,’ arguing that the Baha’is are
a danger to Islam and have ties to Israel. We already
know all that. Our position was that they must be cut
off at the roots, while you were doing no more than
chopping away at their leaves and branches. Very well!
Now they have been denied any place at all under the
Islamic Republic.233
Comments such as those by Jannati were regularly featured
in the Iranian media in the early 1980s, a time of brutal
violence against the Baha’is at the hands of the revolutionary
courts and vigilante groups. According to Eliz Sanasarian,
“the existent hostility towards Baha’is was fuelled by the
revolution and its ideological elements”234 – these included
clerics like Jannati, who is now a close advisor to President
Ahmadinejad.235
The last several years have witnessed a dramatic escalation
in attacks on the Baha’is in state-controlled media. Within a
week of President Ahmadinejad’s election, Kayhan news-
paper,236 edited by a representative of Ayatollah Khamenei,
began to publish a series of aggressive and defamatory
articles about the Baha’i Faith. The titles of such articles
are intended to be provocative: ‘Contradictions in the
Teachings of Baha’ism’ (10 November 2005); ‘Promoter of
Terrorism’
(19
November
2005);
‘Intertwined
with
the
Zionist’ (23 November 2005); ‘A Cesspool of Corruption’
(29 November 2005); ‘Deceiving the Masses to Attract Them’
(3 December 2005).237 In the last three years, more than
200 defamatory articles about the Baha’is were published in
Kayhan. From July to September 2008, such articles ran
daily.238

Clerics are also using the internet to shape public thought.
The Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei maintains a
website where he answers questions posted by readers.
The Irish Times239 reported the following posting on his
website:
Q: “We have Baahi (Baha’i) neighbours . . . Our
neighbours are good people and we have excellent
relations with them. What should we do?”
A: “These people are harem [haram] (forbidden,
unlawful) and are the enemy of our religion and
beliefs . . . You should end your relationship with them.”
While some clerics have softened their language in more
recent public statements, the message remains the same:
Baha’is are not equal to other Iranians. In an address that
was reported in two Iranian newspapers on 10 February
2000,
the
prominent
cleric
Ayatollah
Mohammad
Taqi
Mesbah-Yazdi
rejected
the
slogan
‘Iran
belongs
to
all
Iranians’: “Today they are trying to recognise the Baha’is with
the slogan ‘Iran belongs to all Iranians.’ Is not a Baha’i
considered an Iranian? Don’t we have first and second-class
citizens? Are people considered equal and, therefore, the
citizens should also be considered equal and of the same
rank? Are we defending these kinds of human rights? Is
this the purpose of our revolution?”240 Mesbah-Yazdi is known
to be a close counsel and religious guide to President
Ahmadinejad.241
Prejudice against Baha’is is taught from a young age. An
illustrated children’s book that retells the life of one of the
central figures of the Baha’i Faith, calling him a liar and a mad
man, was recently circulated among school children in
Shiraz.242 The elementary school curriculum includes a
distorted description of Baha’i history in a lesson titled
‘Sect-Building by Colonialism’ in a History textbook for 13–14
year olds. The lesson begins: “The British and Russian

governments were extremely afraid of the unity of Muslims in
Iran . . . One of their goals in sowing discord was supporting
new false religions. Among these false religions were Baabism
[sic] and Baha’ism [sic].”243 Creating the false perception that
Baha’is are imperialist agents plays into the widespread
Iranian paranoia about foreign control.
Children are also taught prejudice towards Baha’is through
the conduct of their teachers. In the past two years, the
harassment of Baha’i children in class (some as young as six)
has been increasingly reported across the country. Between
mid-January and mid-February 2007, about 150 incidents of
abuse by school authorities were reported from at least 10
cities.244 In secondary schools, the vast majority of such
incidents were directed at girls. “The extent and nature of this
reprehensible activity has led the Baha’is in Iran to conclude
that this is an organized effort,” reported Bani Dugal, the
principal
representative
of
the
Baha’i
International
Community to the United Nations.245
In 1985, the British journalist Roger Cooper concluded a
report
with
the
following:
“Prejudice
seems
to
be
so
deep-rooted that it may take more than a generation before
the Baha’is can be assimilated into their native land.”246 More
than 20 years later the cultural institutions of the Islamic
Republic continue to breed such prejudice in the minds of
Iranians.
Women
Iran has made notable improvements in women’s social
standing in some respects, only to restrict it in others. These
contradictions can be seen in the disparity between improved
access to education for girls and women, and the limited roles
provided for women in the work force.
In her report to the Commission on Human Rights, the
Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, Yakin Ertürk,

noted that “despite the continuing reports of violations of
women’s human rights, there have been some positive
developments during the past decade . . . in the area of the
right to education.”247 The ratio of girls to boys attending
primary school is almost equal. Women’s literacy rate in 2006
was 69%, compared to 83% for men. Significantly, 62% of
students in higher education are women.248 While these gains
are notable in their own right, they can be qualified by the
ways in which women are restricted from full and equal
access to education.
The curriculum taught in Iranian schools teaches gender
inequality from a young age.249 It draws on textual and visual
examples that inculcate a culture of Shi’a male superiority. A
recent study of Iranian curriculum by Saeed Paivandi found
that “gender discrimination permeates Iran’s textbooks . . .
Women are accorded little importance as individuals, and
their contributions to society outside the home are largely
ignored.” The study draws on examples that demonstrate
“this attitude toward women is justified in the textbooks
through numerous references to the Koran and the lives of
prophets and Imams.”250
For many female students, particularly those in rural areas,
accessing education at all is still a challenge because of social
norms. UNICEF has noted that fewer women than men in
rural areas move on to secondary school from primary school,
and literacy rates among women are in rural areas are 20%
lower than in urban areas.251 It is even more difficult for rural
women to access higher education. A recent law states that
female students may only be admitted to institutions of
higher education where their parents or spouses reside. In
those cases where women must be admitted in other
locations, they can only do so with the permission of their
parents or spouses. Using a justification that seeks to link a
certain interpretation of theological values to public interest,
these plans greatly restrict women’s access to education,
freedom of choice and movement.

Female university students have also recently had fields of
study restricted on the basis of sex. In April 2003, the
Ministry of Higher Education introduced sex-based quotas for
university students in particular faculties, such as agriculture,
physiotherapy, material science and medicine. The new
quotas met strong public resistance, and the Minister of
Health and Medical Education was forced to explain why the
number of female doctors had to be limited. He referred to
the legal requirement for a woman to follow her husband’s
choice of residence, which he claimed to fear would restrict
the number of doctors available to practice in rural areas.252
Other Iranian officials offered similar justifications, basing
their arguments not on legal grounds but on protecting
religious or family values.253
Women encounter a variety of challenges in the workforce,
especially educated women who seek skilled, full-time jobs.
Women constitute only 14.2% of the formal labour force, and
they primarily work in “low-paid, sex-stereotyped sectors.”254
Female participation in the workforce is discouraged by
patriarchal social norms that are reinforced by the law.
Article 1117 of the Civil Code gives the husband the right to
forbid his wife from taking a job that is incompatible with the
interests of the family or her dignity.
The imbalance between the high proportion of female
university students and the low rate of employment has led,
unsurprisingly, to frustration among women. A survey carried
out by the Association of Iranian Researchers in 2007 found
that the greatest concern of Iranian women was financial
insecurity (80.7%). This was closely followed by lack of
personal security (72.6%), lack of job security (63.7%)
and
lack
of
a
democratic
system
(60.8%).
Ironically,
discrimi-nation
was
listed
their
last
issue
of
concern
(47.8%).255 The report argued that the disparity between
university attendance and female employment helped to
explain the pattern of findings.256

Iran is currently exacerbating the problem of barriers facing
women’s full participation in society. Soon after taking office,
President Ahmadinejad changed the name of the ‘Centre for
Women’s Participation’ to the ‘Centre for Women and Family
Affairs.’ Soon afterwards, in October 2005 the new Islamic
Guidance Minister Safar-Harandi issued a directive that
women should go home at the end of office hours to their
families because their presence at home warmed the heart
of the family unit.257
Despite the unpopularity of the Minister’s directive, this year
President Ahmadinejad renewed discussion of limiting the
numbers hours women could work by proposing a bill to this
effect. He noted the crucial role of the woman as a mother
and that suggested that by working she may be failing in her
duties as a wife and a mother.258 The draft bill may appear
benign or even appealing: fewer hours at work according to
the number of children at home and two full days off during
the month with full pay. In reality, however, this reduces the
desirability of women as prospective employees and makes it
very difficult for those in employment in an already ailing
economy that suffers from recession and increasing rates of
poverty.259

Conclusions
As this report has shown, the Islamic Republic of Iran has
consistently and systematically discriminated against Baha’is,
women and Kurds. Members of these groups are restricted in
many aspects of their daily lives by the structure of the
theological state, the legal system derived from it, and
certain societal and cultural norms that have become more
pervasive under the Islamic Republic. When the experience of
women, Baha’is and Kurds is viewed comparatively, common
themes emerge.
Iran
routinely
ignores
its
own
laws
and
international
obligations with regard to the protection of human rights. The
right to equality (non-discrimination) is enshrined in both the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Islamic
Declaration of Human Rights, which bans “any discrimination
on the grounds of race, colour, language, gender, or religious
beliefs or political affiliation.”260 Iran’s 1906 constitution says:
“the citizens of the Kingdom of Iran will have equal rights
before the law,” and the 1979 constitution declares “the
abolition of all forms of unjust discrimination and the
provision of equitable opportunities for all.”261 These commit-
ments to equality are routinely undermined, however, by
clerics and judges who claim that equal treatment would
violate ‘Islamic standards.’262 The highly centralised structure
of government in Iran means that ‘Islamic standards’ are
usually defined by a small group of powerful hard-line clerics.
All three groups are regularly denied their due process and
detainee rights under the law. Legal processes are outlined in
the Iranian constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure,
but many are not adhered to in practice. Those held in
custody are often held incommunicado for long periods of
time without any indication of the charges against them.
When groups of people are arrested together, some may be
released without explanation while others continue to be held
without charges. When women, Baha’is or Kurds are detained

some have been tortured. Arbitrary arrest, detention without
charges, and the use of torture are all illegal under Iranian
law and they violate the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights.263
Iran increasingly uses the pretext of national security when it
detains women, Baha’is and Kurds. As in many western
countries, invoking national security allows the state to
side-step due process laws. The cases highlighted in this
report show how the lack of credibility of such charges when
used to detain a Kurdish historian, a female petitioner, or a
group of Baha’i leaders – all acting peacefully. In a recent
report,
Human
Rights
Watch
quoted
a
student
aptly
observing that in Iran “the articles on security are so general
that you can detain anyone for anything and give him a prison
sentence.”264 The charges used to justify the detention of
women, Kurds and Baha’is are often ambiguous, such as
‘acting against the regime,’ ‘enmity with God,’ or ‘insulting
the sacred institutions of Islam,’ and thus application of the
law is often unpredictable and seemingly arbitrary.
Comparing the experience of these three groups also shows
similar tactics of state-sponsored persecution, in addition to
those outlined above. Clerics and state media frequently use
the label ‘anti-Iranian’ to discredit marginal groups. Members
of
the
Baha’í
community,
women
protesting
against
discrimination, or Kurds teaching in their own language are all
branded with this derogatory label. The state also places
obstacles to education and employment which prevent social
advancement by members of these groups. Baha’is are
denied access to state universities, far fewer Kurds than the
national average get places, and women are restricted in their
choice
of
courses
(even
if
they
dominate
numerically
overall). All three groups have difficulty gaining employment
in the public sector (Baha’is are completely banned).
This report also highlights the problem of impunity in Iran.
The regime avoids responsibility and accountability for its

persecution of women, Baha’is and Kurds. There is often no
recourse available to victims of rights violations, and where
cases are overturned upon appeal to the Supreme Court they
can be retried by the same lower court judge with the same
outcome.
At a basic level, what these three groups want from their
government is the dignity of equal treatment as Iranian
citizens. The reform necessary to achieve this goal would
involve addressing religious, legal and social obstacles to
equality. The state would need to allow the open expression
of alternative interpretations of Islamic theology on the
subject of civil rights by clergy and citizens. A national debate
on this question has been simmering for some time, but it
calls for a more open and public airing. Legal reforms are
necessary to remove explicit barriers to equality under the
law, and to clarify or remove areas of ambiguity, such as
the crime of ‘insulting Islamic sanctities.’265 At the social
level, women, Kurds and Baha’is must be accepted as full
participants in public life – free to associate, have equal
opportunities
for
education,
and
fair
access
to
job
opportunities. A vast and increasing number of Iranians share
this vision of equality, but there remains a long road ahead.

Policy Recommendations
1. That the human rights situation in Iran receive continuous
and wide ranging attention, independent of matters of
mutual concern or antipathy between the United Kingdom,
EU and the Islamic Republic of Iran.
2. That the EU address the deteriorating human rights
situation
in
the
Islamic
Republic
of
Iran
at
every
opportunity– bilaterally and multilaterally, both publicly
and in discussions, and at the highest levels – especially
with
regards
to
freedom
of
religion
or
belief
and
particularly change of religion; equality before the law;
due process guarantees; and non-discrimination in fact
and in law on the basis of sex, race, religion and other
criteria.
3. To encourage the Islamic Republic of Iran to co-operate
fully with all UN mechanisms and procedures – including
its
response
to
the
UN
General
Assembly’s
annual
resolutions
of
concern
regarding
its
human
rights
situation, the request of the UN Special Rapporteur on
freedom of religion or belief to visit that country; its
overdue reporting for (i) the UN Human Rights Committee,
(ii) UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights, and (iii) the UN Committee on the Elimination of
Racial Discrimination; and to also with all other UN
mechanisms and procedures.
4. For EU governments, to urge the Islamic Republic of Iran
to ratify the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
of Discrimination Against Women and the UN Convention
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment or Punishment without reservations.
5. That
the
effective
exclusion
of
Baha’ís
from
higher
education be addressed in a public communiqué by the UK
Minister of State for Higher Education and Intellectual

Property
and
the
EU
Commissioner
for
Education,
Training, Culture and Youth.
6. For
the
EU
to
consider
the
strategic
application
of
incentives and penalties to support the improvement of
the human rights situation in Iran.
a. An improvement in human rights could be measured by
changes in the following areas: arbitrary detention;
torture in custody; lack of adequate appeal procedures;
hate speech in media; and exclusion from public
institutions,
services
and
employment
(inter
alia:
universities, business licenses, work, pensions).
b. Economic incentives may include promoting trade and
investment opportunities such as approval of a new
EU-Iran
Trade
and
Cooperation
agreement
and
providing technical assistance for Iran’s bid for WTO
accession once nuclear related sanctions and restric-
tions have been lifted.
c. Sanctions can be targeted to key members of the
regime directly involved in the promotion of discrimi-
nation by issuing travel bans or banking restrictions
including freezing private assets.266

Notes
1 19 August 2006 letter from the Iranian Ministry of the Interior to
political-securities deputies of the offices of the Governor’s General
of the country availale in English at: <http://www.babai.org/perse-
cution/iran/19-08-06> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
2 Article 8 of the Supplement to the Constitution of 1906; Clause 9
of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
3 See: Amnesty Inernational report, ‘Iran: Human Rights Abuses
Against the Kurdish Minority’. <http://www.amnesty.org/en/library/
asset/MDE13/088/2008/en/d140767b-5e45-11dd-a592-
c739f9b70de8/mde130882008eng.pdf> [Accessed 14 November
2008].
4 It should be acknowledged that many of the societal issues
affecting the groups highlighted in this report have roots before the
Islamic Revolution.
5 Seyyed Hasan Taheri Khorramabadi, no date. Velayat-e-Faqhi
va Hakemiyat-e-Mellat. No place of publication. Published by
Daftar-e-Entasharat-e-Eslami, (associated with Jame’eh Modarresyn
at Hoze Elmiyeh Qom).
6 See: Hamid Mavani, 2001. The Most Learned of the Shi’a. The
Institution of the Marja’ Taqlid. edited by Linda S. Walbridge. New
York: Oxford University Press. Also see: Ruhollah Khomeini in Algar,
Hamid (translator and editor): Islam and Revolution: Writing and
Declarations of Imam Khomeini, Berkeley: Mizan Press. Seyyed
Hasan Taheri Khorramabadi, no date. Velayat-e-Faqhi va Hakemiyat-
e-Mellat. No place of publication. Published byDaftar-e-Entasharat-e-
Eslami, (associated with Jame’eh Modarresyn at Hoze Elmiyeh Qom).
7 This section draws upon: Reza Afshari, 2001. Human Rights in Iran:
The
Abuse
of
Cultural
Relativism.
Philadelphia:
University
of
Pennsylvania Press, Roy Mottahadeh, 1985. The Mantle of the
Prophet: Religion and Politics in Iran. New York: Pantheon Books.
8 In the original version of the constitution, the Supreme Leader had
to be recognised as a marja and possess political abilities. The first

requirement was amended in the constitution soon before Khomeini
passed away, opening the way for any middle-ranking cleric to
assume the office of Supreme Leader. Ayatollah Khamenei was not
a high-ranking cleric when a process of political manoeuvring
concluded with his elevation to the office of Supreme Leader. This
clear violation of the doctrine originally developed by Khomeini has
undermined the theologically legitimacy of Khamenei’s position.
Wilfried Buchta, 2005. ‘Taking Stock of a Quarter Century of the
Islamic Republic of Iran’. Occasional Publications 5. Islamic Legal
Studies Program ILSP, Harvard Law School.
9 Its actual name, translated by Afshari, is the ‘Council for Assessing
What Is in the Interests of the Order’. Afshari, 2001: 20.
10 Afshari, 2001: 20.
11 Akbar Ganji, 2008. ‘The Latter-Day Sultan: Power and Politics in
Iran’. Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec 2008.
12 See Chapter IX of the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran,
‘The Executive Power’.
13 An example of this phenomenon is captured in the following
analysis:
Ahmad
Zeidabadi,
2008.
‘The
Baha’i
Issue’.
<http://www.roozonline.com/english/archives/2008/06/the_bahai_
issue.html> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
14 Bruce Lincoln, 1991. Death, War, and Sacrifice: Studies in
Ideology and Practice. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
15 Arthur H. Robertson & J.G. Herills, 1996. Human Rights in the
World: An Introduction to the Study of the International Protection
of Human Rights. Manchester: Manchester University Press.
Nikkie
Keddie,
2006.
Modern
Iran:
Roots
and
Results
of
Revolution. London: Yale University Press: p. 292.
Louise
Halper,
2005.
‘Law
and
Women’s
Agency
in
Post-
Revolutionary Iran’. Harvard Journal of Law and Gender: p. 28.

18 Mahnaz Afkhami & Erika Friedl, 1994. In the Eye of the Storm:
Women in Post-Revolutionary Iran. London: IB Tauris.
19 See, for example: Afkhami & Friedl, 1994.
20 Halper, 2005.
21 Keddie, 2006: 292-3.
22 Halper, 2005.
23 Keddie, 2006: 296.
24 Yildiz & Taysi, 2007.
25 David McDowall, 2000. A Modern History of the Kurds. London: IB
Tauris.
26 Human Rights Watch, 1997. ‘Iran – Religious and Ethnic Minorities:
Discrimination
in
Law
and
Practice’,
Vol.9,
No.7(E).
<http://
www.hrw.org/reports/1997/iran> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
27 McDowall, 2000.
28 Kerim Yildiz & Tanyel B. Taysi, 2007. The Kurds in Iran: The Past,
Present and Future. London: Pluto Press.
29 Hussein D. Hassan, 2007. ‘Iran: Ethnic and Religious Minorities’.
Washington DC: Congressional Research Service.
30 Nazila Ghanea, 2003. ‘Ethnic and Religious Groups in the Islamic
Republic of Iran: Policy suggestions for the integration of minorities
through participation in public life’. Commission on Human Rights
E/CN.4/Sub.2/AC.5/2003/WP.8.
31 Yildiz & Taysi, 2007: 34.
32 Yildiz & Taysi, 2007.
33 The KDPI advocated the use of violence in the struggle for
autonomy until the late 1990s/early 2000s.

34 Human Rights Watch 1997.
35 McDowall, 2000.
Kurdish
Human
Rights
Project
2008.
‘Press
Release:
Iran
Prisoners Mount Hunger Strike’, 10 September 2008. Mimeo.
37 Ibid.
38 Ghanea, 2003: 119. The number cited above is the most common
estimate. Reza Afshari notes the difficulty of arriving at a reliable
number of Baha’is in Iran: “Some recognizable groups of victims
changed in the new regime, but Baha’is have remained a permanent
fixture in the country’s fertile landscape of human rights abuses . . .
Since they do not exist officially, it is hard to determine how many
thousands of them live across Iran; estimates vary from 150,000 to
500,000.”
“Political
considerations
cannot
fully
explain
the
violent
suppressions of their human rights. It seems that motivations for
anti-Baha’i policies and actions originate in the clerics’ blind hatreds,
whose roots lie in a pre-modern religious prejudice.” Afshari, 2001:
120.
40 Article entitled ‘The Baha;l Issue’ by Ahmad Zeldabadi published
on 22/5/2008 in Rooz available at: <http://www.roozonline.com/
archives/2008/05/post_7506.php> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
41 Eliz Sanasarian, 2000. Religious Minorities in Iran. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
42 United Nations Secretary-General, 2008. Report of the Secretary-
General on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran. A/63/459.
43 Ibid., p.15.
44 “The clergy and religious segments have always held a deep
hostility against the Baha’is. They were th true ‘infidels,’ in the strict
application of the term, to be dealt with harshly and to be
destroyed.” Sanasarian, 2000: 114.

45 Shahrough Akhavi, 1980. Religion and Politics in Contemporary
Iran: clergy-state relations in the Pahlavi period. Albany, New York:
SUNY Press.
46 Douglas Martin, 1984. ‘The Persecution of the Baha’is in Iran:
1844-1984’. Baha’i Studies 12/13.
47 It is impossible to arrive at an accurate number of Baha’is killed in
the 19th century, but the number of 20,000 is widely cited (if
occasionally disputed). See: Moojan Momen, 2005. ‘The Babi and
Baha’i community of Iran: A case of ‘suspended genocide’?’. Journal
of Genocide Research 7(2): pp. 221-241.
48 Mottahadeh, 1985.
49 Martin, 1984: 16. Also see: Akhavi, 1980.
50 ‘Society for Islamic Propagation’
51 Iran Human Rights Documentation Centre, 2006. A Faith Denied:
The Persecution of the Baha’is in Iran. New Haven: IHRDC.
52 ‘Mujahid’ newspaper published on 9 July 1980 refers to this secret
memorandum sent to the director of SAVAK from the Third Bureau
341 dated 27/8/1351 (18 November 1972). The memo refers to a
request for aid from SAVAK by the head of the Anjuman in relation
to their systematic attacks against the Baha’is, and the Bureau’s
agreement to it. A copy of this article and other related documents
showing this relationship are available in Martin, 1984.
53 Reza Afshari, 2008. ‘The discourse and practice of human rights
violations of Iranian Baha’is in the Islamic Republic of Iran’, in
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw and Seena B Fazel, eds. The Baha’is of
Iran: Socio-Historical Studies. London: Routledge.
54 H.E. Chehabi, 2008. ‘Anatomy of Prejudice: Reflections on secular
anti-Baha’ism in Iran’, in Dominic Parviz Brookshaw and Seena B.
Fazel, eds. The Baha’is of Iran: Socio-Historical Studies. London:
Routledge.
55 See the response of the Iranian National Spiritual Assembly to

government orders that Baha’i institutions be dissolved: <http://
b a h a i - l i b r a r y . c o m / f i l e . p h p 5 ? f i l e = n s a _
banning_bahai_iran&language=> [Accessed 14 October 2008].
56 In November 2004 the Baha’i community in Iran presented an
appeal to President Khatami. For an English translation and full
details
please
see:
<http://question.bahai.org/003_3.php>
[Accessed 14 November 2008].
57 See the open letter from the Iranian Baha’i community to President
Khatami
on
November
2004:
<http://question.bahai.org/
003_3.php> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
58 Article 3.9, the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
59 Article 4 of the constitution says: “All civil, penal, financial,
economic, administrative, cultural, military, political, and other laws
and regulations must be based on Islamic criteria. This principle
applies absolutely and generally to all the articles of the constitution
as well as to all other laws and regulations, and the fuqaha of the
Guardian Council are judges in this manner.”
See:
<http://www.payvand.com/news/06/mar/1067.html>
[Accessed 13 November 2008].
61 Nisrine Abiad argues that “it is not Shari’ah which is preventing the
implementation of human rights or justifying their violation in [Iran].
Rather, it is a lack of political will among the governing establish-
ment . . . that [is] largely responsible for poor human rights records.”
Nisrine Abiad, 2008: 173. Sharia, Muslim States and International
Human Rights Treaty Obligations: A Comparative Study. London:
British Institute of International and Comparative Law.
62 Sanasarian, 2000: 114.
63 Afshari, 2001.
64 United Nations General Assembly, 2008. ‘Report of the Secretary-
General on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran’, 1 October 2008. A/63/459.

65 Ibid.
See
a
copy
of
the
original
letter
in:
Baha’i
International
Community, 1982. The Baha’is in Iran: A report on the persecution
of a religious minority. New York: BIC.
67 Afshari, 2008. While the regime later claimed that the Baha’is were
executed for political reasons, the visitation cards for the prisoners
listed their crime to be membership in “the wayward sect of
Baha’ism.” IHRDC, 2007.
68 Khabar-i Junub, “Religious Magistrate of Shiraz: ‘I warn the Baha’is
to come to the Bosom of Islam.” 3 March 1983.
59 Sanasarian, 2000: 7.
70 Mahmoud Sadri, ‘Hojjatiya’. Encyclopaedia Iranica Online, 2004.
Available at www.iranica.com.
71 Tavakoli-Targhi, 2008: 224.
72 Ibid.
73 For ease of reading, the rest of the report will refer to the
Hojjatieh Society.
74 Mahmoud Sadri, ‘Hojjatiya’. Encyclopaedia Iranica Online, 2004.
Available at www.iranica.com.
75 Darius M. Rejali, 1994. Torture and Modernity – Self, Society and
State in Modern Iran. Oxford: Westview Press: p. 103.
76 Martin, 1984: 34.
77 Sadri, 2004.
78 Martin, 1984; Sanasarian, 2000.
79 Sanasarian, 2000: 120.
80 Sadri, 2004.

81 Afshari, 2008: 235.
82 Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL), 13 September 2004,
volume 7, number 31. Bill Samii, 2004. ‘Is the Hojjatieh Society
Making
A
Comeback?’.
<http://www.rferl.org/reports/iran-
report/2004/09/31-130904.asp> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
83 Kasra Naji, 2008. Ahmadinejad: The Secret History of Iran’s
Radical Leader. London: University of California Press.; Washington
Post, 10 December 1982, cited in: Martin, 1984: 62.
84 Sanasarian, 2000: 53.
85 Martin, 1984: 45.
86 Afshari, 2001.
87 The Baha’i Faith has no clergy. Martin, 1984: 49.
88 There are many documented sources to confirm these incidents.
The most comprehensive is IHRDC, 2006.
89 Friedrich W. Affolter, 2005. ‘The Specter of Ideological Genocide:
The Baha’is of Iran’, War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against
Humanity, 1(1).
90 IHRDC, ‘A Faith Denied’, 2006: 21.
91 Firuz Kazemzadeh, 1982. ‘The terror facing the Baha’is’, The New
York Review of Books, 13 May 1982: pp. 43-44.
92 Afshari, 2008: 256.
93 This quotation is from Dr Seyyed Mohammad Golpaygani,
Secretary of the Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council in the
memo addressed to the Head of the Office of Ayatollah Khamenei,
the Supreme Leader of Iran. A copy of the original memo and a full
English translation are in IHRDC, 2006 (Appendix 7).
94 See: IHRDC, 2006: Appendix 7.

95 HRW, 1997.
96 The expulsion of Baha’i students began as early as June 1979.
IHRDC, 2006: 46.
97 Baha’i International Community, 2006. Closed Doors: Iran’s
Campaign to Deny Higher Education to Baha’is. New York: BIC.
98 Ibid.
99 Baha’i International Community, 2007. ‘Confidential Iran memo
exposes policy to deny Baha’i students university education’.
Baha’i
World
News
Service,
August
2007.
<http://news.
bahai.org/story/575> [Accessed 30 October 2007].
100 The Baha’i International Community reported: “The Web page to
which they were automatically directed had a URL (Internet address)
ending with the words “error_bah” – an apparent reference to the
fact that their files were declared in “error” because they were
Baha’is.” See: <http://www.news.bahai.org/story/657> [Accessed
13 November 2008].
101 Golnaz Esfandiari, ‘Iran: UN, U.S. Concerned Over Situation of
Baha’is’. RFE/RL, 30 March 2006.
102 IHRDC, 2006: 2.
103 <http://bahaiworldnews.org/story/481> [Accessed 13 November
2008].
104 <http://edition.cnn.com/2008/WORLD/meast/05/16/iran.bahais/
index.html> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
105 United Nations General Assembly, 2008. ‘Report of the Secretary-
General on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran’, 1 October 2008. A/63/459.
See:
<http://www.amnesty.org/en/library/info/MDE13/017/
2008>; <http://www.fidh.org/spip.php?article3221>; <http://hrw.org/
english/docs/2006/06/05/iran13515.htm>; Anti-Defamation League.
2006. “ADL Says Iranian Attempt to Monitor Bahais Sets ‘Dangerous

Precedent’,” 3 April 2006. See: <http://www.adl.org/NR/exeres/
6D76431B-A665-4CE0-9AF7-4CF07D733D31.htm> [Accessed 30
October 2007].
See:
<http://iranminoritynews.org/2008/09/30/anti-baha%
E2%80%99i-petition-initiated-at-friday-prayers/>
[Accessed
November 2008].
108 Hamideh Sedghi, 2007. Women and Politics in Iran: Veiling,
Unveiling, Reveiling. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press: 201.
109 Ayatollah Khomeini argued that an Islamic society rested on
two pillars, an Islamic family structure and hijab laws for women.
For more please see Parvin Paidar, 1997: 232. Women and the
Political Process in Twentieth-Century Iran. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
110 Sedghi, 2007: 201.
111 Paidar, 1997: 239.
112 Azar Tabari & Nahid Yeganeh, 1982. In the Shadow of Islam: The
women’s movement in Iran. Zed Press. The authors discuss the
significance of this and other attempts by women to demand and
safeguard their rights.
113 President Abol-Hassan Banisadr justified the need for hijab based
on scientific claims stating: “research proved female hair had a kind
of radiance”. John Simpson & Tira Shubart, 1995. Lifting the Veil,
Life in Revolutionary Iran. Hodder & Stoughton Ltd: p. 116.
114 Elaine Sciolino, 2000. The Elusive Face of Iran. Free press: p. 132.
115 Nikki R. Keddie, 2006. Women in the Middle East: Past and
Present. Princeton University Press: p. 239.
116 Our thanks to Roya Kashefi for explaining this concept.
117 John Simpson and Tira Shubart, 1995. Lifting the Veil, Life in
Revolutionary Iran. Hodder & Stoughton Ltd: p. 116.

118 Gilani has openly supported the use of torture and was
responsible for many executions, including those of thousands of
young women, in Iranian prisons since he took office as Chief of
Tehran’s Revolutionary Court after the establishment of the Islamic
Republic in Iran.
119 In summer of 1979 the popular Caspian Sea shores were affected
by the segregation laws and revolutionary guards enforced the new
rule by publicly whipping those women who opposed this law.
120 Afshari, 2001: 251.
121 See Afshari, 2001: 258. As Afshari notes, “They conveniently
ignored the fact that they themselves were guilty of the same
infraction.”
122 General Zarei, who was placed in charge of this body, was
arrested along with six naked women in a brothel in Tehran. see:
<http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/7350165.stm>
[Accessed 13 November 2008].
123 All of these violate Articles within the Iranian constitution,
including Articles 38 and 39, which state: ‘All forms of torture for the
purpose of extracting confession or acquiring information are
forbidden. Compulsion of individuals to testify, confess, or take an
oath is not permissible; and any testimony, confession, or oath
obtained under duress is devoid of value and credence. Violation of
this article is liable to punishment in accordance with the law.’ and
‘All affronts to the dignity and repute of persons arrested, detained,
imprisoned, or banished in accordance with the law, whatever form
they may take, are forbidden and liable to punishment.’
124 See: <http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/04/world/middleeast/
04tehran.html> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
125 Article 12 of the constitution states: “The official religion of Iran
is Islam and the Twelver Ja’fari school and this principle will remain
eternally immutable.”
126 Article 12 of the constitution states: “Other Islamic schools are
to be accorded full respect, and their followers are free to act in

accordance with their own jurisprudence in performing their religious
rites. These schools enjoy official status in matters pertaining to
religious education, affairs of personal status (marriage, divorce,
inheritance, and wills) and related litigation in courts of law. In
regions of the country where Muslims following any one of these
schools constitute the majority, local regulations, within the bounds
of the jurisdiction of local councils, are to be in accordance with the
respective school, without infringing upon the rights of the followers
of other schools.’ Article 3 of the constitution states that the IRI has
a duty of directing its resources towards the goal of ‘the participation
of the entire people in determining their political and cultural
destiny.”
127 Article 115, the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran: The
President must have ‘convinced belief in the fundamental principles
of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the official madhbab of the
country.’
128 <http://www.freedomhouse.org/modules/mod_call_dsp_country-
fiw.cfm?year=2002&country=1405> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
129 Ghanea, 2003: 8.
<http://www.hrw.org/reports/1997/iran/Iran-05.htm#P209_
34007> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
131 Article 12, the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
132 HRW, 1998.
133 A. William Samii, 2000. ‘The Nation and Its Minorities: Ethnicity,
Unity and State’. Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the
Middle East, Vol. XX, Nos. 1&2: p. 131.
134 United States Commission on International Religious Freedom
USCIRF, 2008. Annual Report 2008. Washington DC: p. 139.
135 UN A/63/459: Report of the Secretary-General on the situation of
human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, 2008.

136 The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights has even
been cited as a source of law in Iranian court cases. See Abiad, 2008.
137 Adineh Abghari, 2008. Introduction to the Iranian Legal System
and the Protection of Human Rights in Iran. London: British
Institute of International and Comparative Law.
138 Firuz Kazemzadeh, 2000. ‘The Baha’ís in Iran: Twenty Years of
Repression’. Social Research 67(2),
139 See the Iranian Civil Code, Articles 1125 and 1129.
140 See Articles 1158 and 1159 in the Iranian Civil Code.
141 For information regarding testimony, see Islamic criminal code
Articles 74, 75, 118, 119, 128, 137 and 171; Iranian legal pro-
cedure code, Article 230. For information regarding inheritance, see
Iranian Civil Code, Paragraph 1, Articles 899, 900, 901, 907.
<http://www.awid.org/eng/Women-s-Rights-in-the-News/
Women-s-Rights-in-the-News/Iranian-government-backs-down-on-
discriminatory-Family-Protection-Bill>
[Accessed
November
2008].
143 Shadi Sadr, 2007. ‘The Revival of the Abandoned Law of Stoning’.
Zanan,
Issue
134.
August
<http://www.meydaan.org/
stoning/showarticle.aspx?arid=36&cid=46> [Accessed July 2007].
Amnesty
International,
2008.
‘Disproportionate
Impact
on
Women’. In: ‘Iran: End Execution by Stoning’. Report published on 15
January 2008.
145 Lily Pourzand points out that according to Article 102 of the Penal
Code ‘The stoning of an adulterer or adulteress shall be carried out
while each is placed in a hole and covered with soil, he up to his
waist and she up to a line above her breasts.’ She also highlights
that according to Shi’a laws if a criminal escapes while implement-
ing the punishment, he or she is pardoned. In her opinion, the
difference in the level of soil implies that it is more likely for a man
to escape. She also explains that Iranian men are able to have up
to four permanent wives as well as many temporary ones. In an

adulterous relationship between a married man and a woman, he
can deny adultery charges because by law he is not required to
provide any proof and can verbally claim it was a temporary
marriage. The same does not apply to women.
146 “Discriminatory Laws against Women in Iran”, Women Living
Under Muslim Laws, Rochelle Terman.
147 Ibid.
148 UN Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women. 2006 Report
on Iran, p.10, E/CN.4/2006/61/Add.3. <http://www2.ohchr.org/
english/issues/women/rapporteur/annual.htm>
[Accessed
November 2008].
149 A case that attracted international attention to Iran’s discrimina-
tory laws was that of Nazanin Fatehi, see: <http://scenews.blog.
com/Nazanin%20Fatehi/> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
150 See: point 36 on page 11 of the report available at: <http://dac-
cessdds.un.com/doc/UNDOC/GEN/G06/104/76/PDF/G0610476.pdf?
OpenElement> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
151 Ibid.
152 See: A report entitled Women, Islam and Equality written by The
National Council of Resistance of Iran Foreign Affairs Committee:
<http://www.iran-eazad.org/english/book_on_women/
chapter2.html>
[Accessed
November
2008].
Based
on
theological grounds, the execution of a virgin is not permitted as a
virgin’s soul will go to heaven. The authorities then force many
Iranian female prisoners, many of whom are either under age or
pregnant, into temporary marriage carried out by prison authorities,
often the hangman, just prior to their execution. A closer look at the
use of torture as a feature of life for women in Iranians prisons is
available in ‘Le Nouvel Homme Islamiste: La Prison Politique en Iran
(D’un autre regard), by Chahla Chafiq, published in Paris, 2002.
153 In early 2008 the government authorities shut down a women’s
magazine, alleging the publication endangered ‘the spiritual, mental

and intellectual health of its readers’ <http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/
world/middle_east/7268536.stm> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
154 The Campaign is aimed at both educating women through a
one-on-one discussion and review of a pamphlet about Iran’s
discriminatory laws, and collecting their signatures to petition the
government and seek changes within the body of laws based on
equality of rights for women and men. The official site of the
campaign:
<http://campaign-for-equality.org/english.php>
[Accessed 14 November 2008].
<http://www.amnesty.org/en/news-and-updates/iran-end-
pressure-women-s-rights-defenders-20080827>
[Accessed
November 2008].
156 Individuals who identified themselves as under cover traffic police
pulled her over on Moddaress highway, claiming she had unlawfully
passed another vehicle while driving.
157 <http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5jSZnTzz6_TPet5MnScU7B
_14qsGQ> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
158 Amnesty International, 2008. Iran: Women’s Rights Defenders
Defy Repression. London: p. 7.
159 Ibid.
160 A report of her maltreatment and death are available at
http://www.zibakazemi.org/.
Also
see:
Iran
Human
Rights
Documentation Centre, 2006. Impunity in Iran: The Death of
Photojournalist Zahra Kazemi, New Haven: IHRDC.
161 <http://www.amnestyusa.org/document.php?id=ENGMDE1308
82008&lang=e> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
162 Ghanea, 2003.
163 Ghanea, 2003.
164 <http://www.krg.org/Articles/detail.asp?rnr=73&lngnr=12&anr=

4951&smap=02010200> [Accessed 14 November 2008]. See UN
Report E/CN.4/2006/41Add.2.
165 Personal Communication with Roya Toloui. August 2008.
166 Iran VNC report, 11 September, 2008.
167 <http://www.amnesty.org/en/library/info/MDE13/148/2008/en>
[Accessed 14 November 2008].
168 <http://www.khrp.org/news/pr2007/30-07-07.htm> [Accessed
14 November 2008].
169 Hiwa Butimar’s brother, Hadi, has advised IMHRO that his
brother’s appeal, at which the death sentence was upheld, took place
at Branch 23 of the High Court in Tehran, and that the judge who
presided over the appeal hearing was the same judge that presided
over the initial case. Report from Iranian Minorities Human Rights
Organisation. Mimeo.
<http://www.khrp.org/content/view/397/2/>
[Accessed
November 2008].
171 Iranian Penal Code, Book 5, Article 500.
172 Article 24, the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
173 Interview with Reza Washahi, IMHRO, August 2008.
174 <http://hrw.org/backgrounder/2008/iran0908/iran0908web.pdf>
[Accessed 14 November 2008].
175 Without explicitly stating it, it was implied that she was tortured
and raped in custody.
<http://www.abfiran.org/english/document-243-499.php>
[Accessed 14 November 2008].
177 Article 38, the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
178 Article 168, the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.

179 Human Rights Watch, September 2008: Iran: Rights Crisis
Escalates
Faces
and
Cases
from
Ahmadinejad’s
Crackdown:
<http://hrw.org/backgrounder/2008/iran0908/iran0908web.pdf>
[Accessed 14 November 2008].
180 IMHRO: Free Mohammad Sadigh Kabodwand; Iranian Minorities’
Human Rights Organisation (IMHRO); Ref.IMHRO.16; 2008-07-03:
<http://iranianminorityshumanright.blogspot.com/2008/07/free-
mohammad-sadigh-kabodwand.html>
[Accessed
November
2008].
181 NB. This quotation is from Amnesty, rather than directly quoting
the prisoners themselves. <http://www.amnesty.org/en/library/
asset/MDE13/136/2008/en/da17935b-802b-11dd-8e5e-
43ea85d15a69/mde131362008en.html> [Accessed 14 November
2008].
<http://www.amnesty.org/en/library/asset/MDE13/136/2008/
en/da17935b-802b-11dd-8e5e-43ea85d15a69/mde131362008en.
html> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
183 Eliz Sanasarian, 2000. Religious Minorities in Iran. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
184 Sanasarian, 2000.
Afshari,
2001.
Lahiji
is
now
Vice
Chair
of
the
eminent
International Federation for Human Rights.
186 The Iran Human Rights Documentation Centre observes that
“Article 14 effectively criminalised the faith.” The Article reads: ‘In
accordance with the sacred verse “God does not forbid you to deal
kindly and justly with those who have not fought against you
because of your religion and who have not expelled you from your
homes” [60:8], the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and
all Muslims are duty-bound to treat non-Muslims in conformity with
ethical norms and the principles of Islamic justice and equity, and to
respect their human rights. This principle applies to all who refrain
from engaging in conspiracy or activity against Islam and the Islamic
Republic of Iran.’” IHRDC, 2006: 21-22.

187 Statement by the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Buenos
Aires, September 26, 1979. See: Martin, 1984: 43.
188 The Baha’i World Centre is located in Haifa, Israel. The reason for
its location in Israel is that Baha’u’llah was banished by the Persian
and Ottoman Empires to the prison city of Akka in 1868. The Baha’i
World Centre has been located in the Akka/Haifa area long before the
establishment of the state of Israel. Nevertheless, Iranian Baha’is’
communication with the Baha’i World Centre has been interpreted
by the government as ‘conspiring against Islam’ because of its
incidental location in Israel.
189 Kazemzadeh, 2000: 8.
190 Izharat-i Dadsitan-i Kull-i Inghilab . . . [ Statement of the
Prosecutor General of the Revolution KAYHAN HAVA’I, 6/30/1362
(September 21, 1983). Cited in: IHRDC, 2006: 34.
191 Ibid.
192 The National Spiritual Assembly wrote an open letter dissolving
all Baha’i institutions. In the letter they also responded to the
government accusation that the Baha’i Faith is a political party by
explaining that Baha’i teachings do not allow Baha’is to affiliate
themselves with political parties. The letter also rebuts many other
accusations made against the Baha’is and requests the government
to protect specific rights of Baha’is in response to their obedience to
the dissolution order. The full text of the letter is available here:
<http://bahailibrary.com/file.php5?file=nsa_banning_bahai_iran&
language=> [Accessed 14 October 2008].
193 Contravening Article 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights. Cooper, 1985.
194 Roger Cooper, 1985. ‘The Baha’is of Iran’, The Minority Rights
Group Report No. 51. London: Minority Rights Group: p. 13.
195 These ‘Islamic conditions’ are interpretations by powerful clerics
within the Jafari/Twelver school of Shi’a Islam. Other Shi’a and Sunni
clerics do not share the same interpretations.

196 Adineh Abghari, 2008. Introduction to the Iranian Legal System
and the Protection of Human Rights in Iran. London: British
Institute of International and Comparative Law.
197 Human Rights Watch, 1997.
198 Kazemzadeh, 2000: 12.
199 Kazemzadeh, 2000: 21.
200 Report on the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention: Visit to the
Islamic
Republic
of
Iran:
15-27
February
–
E/CN.4/
2004/3/Add.2, UN Commission on Human Rights, 27 June 2003.
201 While apostasy has not been a crime in the penal code, judges
have used Shari’ah to convict people of apostasy. One example is
the case of Dhabihullah Mahrami, who has a death sentence
commuted to life imprisonment. (See:Amnesty International. Iran:
Dhabihullah Mahrami: Prisoner of Conscience, October 1996. AI
INDEX: MDE 13/34/96.) Many liberal Muslims point out that the
Qur’an only specifies a spiritual punishment in the afterlife for
apostasy. See: Qur’an 3:72, 3:90, 16:106, 4:137 and 5:54. Our
thanks to Moojan Momen for these references.
202 The bill is a larger piece of legislation on an Islamic Penal Code.
It passed with a vote of 196 for, 7 against, and 2 abstentions.
203 “Britain condemns Iran’s Planned Apostasy Bill”. 9 October 2008.
<http://www.persecution.org/suffering/newssummpopup.php?news
code=8676&PHPSESSID=700e22dac2e5629e2bf25a5623c4c637>
[Accessed 14 October 2008].
204 See article by Mehrangiz Kar: <http://www.roozonline.com/
archives/2008/08/post_8639.php> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
205 One member, Mrs. Mahvash Sabet, was arrested in March. The
rest were arrested in May.
206 <http://edition.cnn.com/2008/WORLD/meast/05/16/iran.bahais/
index.html> [Accessed 1 November 2008].

See:
<http://www.iran-press-service.com/ips/articles-2008/
august2008/by-attacking-mrs-shirin-ebadi-the-islamic-
republic.shtml> [Accessed 8 November 2008]. Also see the response
of the Baha’i International Community: <http://bic.org/statements-
and-reports/featured/Iran-Intensifies-Disinformation.htm>
[Accessed 14 November 2008].
208 Our thanks to Moojan Momen for highlighting these connections.
<http://news.bahai.org/human-rights/iran/iran-update.html>
[Accessed 14 October 2008].
210 Samii, 2000: 128. These are from the words of the Supreme
Leader Ayatollah Khamenei, “The noble nation gives priority to unity
over factors which might divide it.”
211 Samii, 2000: 139.
212 Saeed Paivandi, 2008. Discrimination and Intolerance in Iran’s
Textbooks. Freedom House: Washington DC: p. 74.
213 Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Radio Tehran, December 17, 1979.
Quoted in David McDowall, 1996. A Modern History of the Kurds,
London, I.B. Tauris & Co: p. 271.
214 <http://www.state.gov/g/drl/rls/irf/2004/35497.htm> [Accessed
14 November 2008].
215 Kerim Yildiz & Tanyel B. Taysi, 2004. ‘The Kurds in Iran: The Past,
Present and Future’, Pluto Press, London: p. 59.
216 <http://www.state.gov/g/drl/rls/irf/2004/35497.htm> [Accessed
14 November 2008].
217 Ibid.
218 Farideh Koohi-Kamali, 2003. ‘The Political Development of the
Kurds in Iran’. Palgrave Macmillan, Hampshire: p. 38.
219 Kerim Yildiz & Tanyel B. Taysi, 2004. ‘The Kurds in Iran: The Past,
Present and Future’. Pluto Press, London: p. 32.

220 Article 48, the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
221 Quoted in Samii, 2000: 132.
222 Kerim Yildiz & Tanyel B. Taysi, 2004. ‘The Kurds in Iran: The Past,
Present and Future’. Pluto Press, London: p. 32.
223 UN Doc. E/CN.4/2002/42, Commission on Human Rights, 58th
Session, January 2002.
224 Amnesty International, 2008: p.14. ‘Iran: Human rights abuses
against the Kurdish minority’. London: p. 14.
<http://didebannews.blogspot.com/2007/02/educators-
experience-mass-layoffs-in.html> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
226 H.E. Chehabi, 2007. ‘Anatomy of Prejudice: Reflections on
secular anti-Baha’ism in Iran’, Dominic Parviz Brookshaw and Seena
B. Fazel, eds., The Baha’is of Iran. London: Routledge: pp. 184-199.
227 Ali Keshtgar, and Ahmad Batebi recently published articles in
defense of the Baha’is. Shirin Ebadi has offered her assistance to the
imprisoned Baha’i leadership. Five Canadian academics, all natives of
Iran but not members of the Baha’i Faith, have also recently written
to U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon to protest the condition of the
Baha’is. These are welcome exceptions to a long period of relative
silence.
228 Reza Afshari also observed in 2001: “Secular Iranian writers are
legendary in expressing poetic solidarity with all the oppressed
peoples of the world. Sadly, they remained wordless, during both the
monarchy and the theocracy, on the Baha’i sufferings.” Reza Afshari.
2001. Human Rights in Iran: The Abuse of Cultural Relativism.
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
229 Afshari wrote: “The Islamist hatred of the Baha’is had been
unbounded. Their [public statements] are reminiscent of Nazis’
description of the Jews . . . setting off alarm bells in the human rights
community.” Afshari, 2001: 158.
Farideh
Farhi,
2005.
‘Crafting
a
National
Identity
amidst

Contentious Politics in Contemporary Iran’, Iranian Studies 38(1):
pp. 7-22.
231 Professor Chehabi suggests: “the anti-Baha’i prejudices of many
secular Iranians derive from the anti-cosmopolitan outlook of
Iranian nationalism.” Chehabi, 2007: 193.
232 Saeed Paivandi, 2008. Discrimination and Intolerance in Iran’s
Textbooks. Freedom House: Washington DC.
233 The full text of Jannati’s speech addressing the Hojjatieh move-
ment was published in Ettela’at, a leading Tehran daily. The original
is reprinted in Martin, 1984: 63. Commenting on more recent
anti-Baha’i statements made by Jannati, Eliz Sanasarian writes:
“Ayatullah Jannati was not a regular mullah seated in the corner of
an isolated village mosque. He was the head of the influential
Guardian Council and remained a powerful player in Iranian politics.
Labelling non-Muslimness as some form of derision from the normal
human has been made many times before by those in a position of
authority.” Eliz Sanasarian, 2008. “The Comparative Dimension of
the Baha’i Case and Prospects for Change in the Future,” in Dominic
Parviz Brookshaw and Seena B Fazel, 2008. The Baha’is of Iran:
Socio-Historical Studies. London: Routledge: p. 158.
234 Sanasarian, 2008.
235 Mohebat Ahdiyyih, 2008. “Ahmadinejad and the Mahdi,” Middle
East Quarterly XV(4):27-36.
236 Kayhan Weekly, published out of London, is an entirely different
publication. The founding editor of Kayhan had his assets seized at
the time of the revolution and he fled to London, where he restarted
the paper with a much smaller circulation. The Tehran-based Kayhan
newspaper continued to run under the close supervision of the office
of the Supreme Leader.
See:
<http://www.bahai.org/persecution/iran/mediaattacks>
[Accessed 1 October 2008]. Scans of some of these articles are
available in Persian from the website.
Baha’i
International
Community.
2008.
‘Iran
Update:

September 2008’, 25 September 2008: <http://news.bahai.org/
human-rights/iran/iran-update.html>
[Accessed
September
2008].
239 The Irish Times, 20 May 2004.
240 Arya newspaper, Tehran, reprinted in Keyhan—London edition—
No. 794, February 10, 2000.
241 Ahdiyyih, 2008. Vali Nasr has called Mesbah-Yazdi the most
“powerful” and “influential . . . clerical oligarch” in Qom, Iran’s
principal centre of religious training. Vali Nasr, 2006. The Shi’a
Revival. London: W.W. Norton: p. 216.
242 Seyyed Mehdi Rezaie Fard, 2007. (first run was 5000 copies)
ISBN: 978-964-9998-42-8. Rakhshid Publications, (Address: Second
Floor, Setayesh Building, Zolanvar St., Shiraz, Iran).
243 The quotation comes from page 37 of the textbook. Quoted in:
Saeed Paivandi, 2008: 43. Discrimination and Intolerance in Iran’s
Textbooks. Freedom House: Washington DC.
244 BWNS, ‘Baha’i schoolchildren in Iran increasingly harassed and
abused by school authorities’, 5 April 2007: <http://news.bahai.org/
story/515> [Accessed 27 September 2008].
245 Ibid.
246 Roger Cooper, 1985. ‘The Baha’is of Iran’, The Minority Rights
Group Report No. 51. London: Minority Rights Group.
247 Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, 2006: 9.
248 Ibid.
249 Please see discrimination and intolerance by Saeed Paivandi
available at http://www.freedomhouse.org/uploads/press_release/
IranTextbookAnalysis_FINAL.pdf> [Accessed 14 November 2008].
250 Ibid.

UNICEF,
no
date.
<http://www.unicef.org/iran/girls_
education.html> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
252 Maryam Ghadessi, 2004. If you can’t beat ‘em, ban ‘em.
<http://www.iranian.com/Women/2004/March/Quota/index.html>
[Accessed 13 November 2008].
253 These officials included: Ebrahim Mekaniki, president of Babol
University of Medical Sciences, Kamran Bagheri Lankarani, Iranian
minister of Health and Medical Education, Masoud Salehi, President
of Zahedan University, and Bagher Larijani, the President of Tehran
University of Medical Sciences. Their remarks pointed to challenges
in university accommodation or transportation.
254 Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, 2006: 9.
255 <http://www.aciiran.com/English%20Ex%20Sum.pdf> [Accessed
13 November 2008].
256 This is despite the fact that according to a research carried out in
Iran in 2003/2004 academic year the number of girls registering for
high school was less than boys (46.33% girls, 53.66% boys).
<http://8march.blogfa.com/post-18.aspx> [Accessed 13 November
2008].
257 Reuters News Agency, 2005. Get home by Dusk, Iran Tells Female
Civil Servants. Published on 11 October 2005.
258 See: <http://www.autnews.eu/archives/1387,04,00010200>;
<http://www.iran.ir/cms/index.php?option=com_content&task=vie
w&id=5051&Itemid=113>;
<http://www.aftabnews.ir/prtbf8b0.
rhb05p.brrblh8uouii2u.r.html> [Accessed 13 November 2008].
259 According to UNDP’s 2007/2008 report, almost 13% of Iranians
live in poverty.
260 See Abghari, 2008: 119.
261 Article 8 of the Supplement to the constitution of 1906; Clause 9
of Article 3 of the constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.

262 Iran ratified the ICCPR on 24 June 1975 and it entered into force
on 23 March 1976. Abghari, 2008: 121.
263 See Abghari, 2008.
264 HRW, 2008: 7.
265 For example see Iranian Penal Code, Book 5, Chapter 2, Article
513.
266 HM Treasury has already issued individual and corporate financial
sanctions on those associated with Iran’s nuclear programme, in
accordance
with
European
Commission
Regulation
(EC)
No
219/2008.

About the Foreign Policy Centre
The Foreign Policy Centre is Britain’s leading progressive
foreign affairs think tank, established in 1998 by the late
Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook. The aim of the FPC, carried
out through research, publications and events is to develop
innovative policy ideas which promote practical solutions to
global challenges. The aim of the Foreign Policy Centre is to
develop a vision of a fair and rule-based world order. Through
our research, publications and events, we aim to develop
innovative policy ideas which promote:
• Effective multilateral solutions to global problems
• Democratic and well-governed states as the foundation of
order and development
• Partnerships with the private sector to deliver public goods
• Support
progressive
policy
through
effective
public
diplomacy
• Inclusive
definitions
of
citizenship
to
underpin
inter-
nationalist policies.
Over the past ten years the FPC has hosted numerous events.
Some notable names in recent years have included Tony Blair,
David Cameron, David Miliband, Peter Mandelson, Paddy
Ashdown, Douglas Alexander, Hilary Benn, Andrew Mitchell,
Chinese State Councillor Tang Jiaxuan and Former Russian
Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov.
The FPC has also produced many influential and ground break-
ing publications by key thinkers. They include Global Politics
After 9/11 by Alan Johnson, After Multiculturalism by Yasmin
Alibhai-Brown, The Post-Modern State and the New World
Order by Robert Cooper, Brand China by Joshua Cooper Ramo,
Preventing the Next Cold War: A view from Beijing by Andrew
Small and A Global Alliance for Global Values by Tony Blair.
The organisation is led by the Director, Stephen Twigg. For
further information visit www.fpc.org.uk

£4.95
ISBN-13 978-1-905833-12-2
ISBN-10 1-905833-12-1
A revolution without rights?
Women, Kurds and Baha’is searching for equality in Iran
by Geoffrey Cameron and Tahirih Danesh
Preface by Lord Mark Malloch Brown
Cameron and Danesh examine the religious, legal and social
obstacles to equality faced by women, Baha’is and Kurds in Iran,
comparing the experiences of the groups. They evaluate the
Iranian government’s compliance with its own constitution and
look at how Iran’s treatment of women and minorities measures
up to the international agreements it has signed. The pamphlet
lays out practical steps that British and European policy-makers
can take to support the equal treatment of women and minorities
with their fellow citizens in Iran.