THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-06-01

dear b ahá’í f riends,

recently a number of questions have been raised regarding the deputi-

zation of institute teachers and coordinators, and the universal house of

justice has instructed us to bring to your attention the passage below from

its ri¤ván 1996 message and to comment on it as follows.

“center your energies in the propagation of the faith of god,”

bahá’u’lláh thus instructs his servants, adding, “ whoso is worthy of

so high a calling, let him arise and promote it. whoso is unable, it is

his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this revela-

tion. . . .” just as one deputizes another to teach in one’s stead by cov-

ering the expenses of a pioneer or traveling teacher, one can deputize a

teacher serving an institute, who is, of course, a teacher of teachers. To

do so, one may make contributions to the continental bahá’í fund,

as well as to the local, National and international funds, earmarked

for this purpose.270-1

referring to this passage in its letter of 6 August 1996,270-2 the house of

justice informed the bahá’í world of its decision to contribute uS$300,000

for the deputization of institute teachers, to be divided among the five con-

tinental funds, and expressed the hope that the friends, especially those

with means, would follow suit and would give adequate attention to this area of urgent need. in that letter, it was indicated that the counselors

would be asked to keep their Auxiliary board members apprised of the level

of deputization required by institutes in various regions so that they could make this information available to those who wished to pursue this new possibility.

270-1. See no. 216, pp. 480–95.

270-2. See no. 231, pp. 546–47 .270.1

270.1a

270.2

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

625clearly, the individual believer has a number of options available to him

or her in complying with bahá’u’lláh’s injunction. funds can be given di-

rectly to a specific believer who has been selected to act as one’s deputy or

can be contributed to one of the various funds of the faith, as mentioned

above. however, for the deputization of institute teachers, the house of

justice wished to ensure that contributions and needs would be matched in

such a way that national communities whose resources are meager would benefit from the assistance of those in communities with more resources at their disposal, whether in the same continent or another. Since the conti-

nental boards of counselors are in the best position to know the needs of

institutes in various regions, it was felt that contributing to the continental

fund is an efficient way for an individual believer to perform this service.

with this in mind, the house of justice requested the international

Teaching center to compile and organize the necessary information and

to share it with all counselors. Accordingly, the Teaching center identified

three figures around which the deputization needs worldwide seemed to be clustered: uS$1,200, uS$3,600 and uS$7,200 per staff member per year.

it also drew up a list of countries, in groups by continent, where institute

teachers and coordinators could benefit from deputization. it was suggested

to the counselors that they provide this list and the figures to the Auxiliary

board members to use in their consultations with those wishing to sup-

port one or more staff members of an institute for a given period of time,

allowing the friends to choose the region to which their funds should be channelled. The T rustees of the continental funds were asked to see to

it is envisioned that the Teaching center will bring the list of countries up

to date from time to time and revise the figures as necessary.

while the Auxiliary board members are not being asked to solicit funds,

they are expected to go beyond the general promotion of deputization among the believers and to discuss the specific details with them when it is appropri-ate to do so. The arrangements needed to ensure that the contributions reach

the proper continental funds vary from country to country. Therefore, you

may wish to consult with the counselors to determine what measures can be

taken to advance this important endeavor in your community.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat270.3

270.4

270.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

626271

Passing of Peter Vuyiya, Former Counselor

Member of the International Teaching Center

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]