Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book One

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfá n re p re s e n t the views of their authors.
Re p roductions from this compilation are permitted prov i d e d
that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central St re e t
Evanston, IL 60201
U S A
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3502
E-mail: iayman@usbnc.org
Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Se m i n a r s
Book On e
Sp o n s o red by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fu n d
157 B.E.  2000 C.E.
Copyright© 2000, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fu n d
Pre p a red by Trey & Lynne Ya n c y
t e x a s e m b a s s y @ h o m e . c o m

Lights of ‘Irf á n
O
My servants! My holy, My divinely ordained Revelation may be likened
unto an ocean in whose depths are concealed innumerable pearls of great price,
of surpassing luster. It is the duty of every seeker to bestir himself and strive to attain
the shores of this ocean, so that he may, in proportion to the eagerness of his search and
the ef forts he hath exerted, partake of such benefits as have been pre-ordained in God’s
irrevocable and hidden Tablets.
— B a h á ’ u ’ l l á h
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 326

Lights of ‘Irf á n

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Table of Contents
Preface  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i i i
Pil g r im age and Re l i gi ous Ide n tity in the Bahá’í Fa i t h
Pe r-Olof Åke rd ahl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Ki t á b -i-A qdas as Described and Glor i f i ed by Shoghi Effe nd i
Cyrus Alai  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
The Seven Vall e ys of Bahá’u’ lláh and Far id ud-Din At tar
S h eila Ban an i  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
C ommon Teac h in gs in Chinese Cult ure and the Bahá’í Fa i t h
From Mate r i al Civ il iz ati on to Spir i t u al Civ il iz ati on
A lbert K. Cheun g  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Be l i ef:
The Doctrine of Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on
Za id Lundbe rg  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
The New Age Phenom e non and the Bahá’í Fa i t h
Za id Lundbe rg  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
A St udy of the Mean ing of the Word “A l-A mr”
in the Qur’an and in the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh
Mo ojan Mom e n  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
The Book of Re ve l ati on Re veal ed in Glory:
A Summ ary of Glor i ous Re ve l ati on
Will i am Rid ge rs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
The Deve lopment of Hum ankind
Julio Sav i  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
The Concept of Sac red Ju s ti ce in Heb rew Eschatolo gy
G ary Selc h e r t  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
S ome Chronolo gi cal Issues in the Law ˙ -i-H ikm at of Bahá’u’ lláh
Pe ter Te r ry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s Expl an ati on of the Teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh :
Tabl e ts and Talks Tran s l ated in to English (1911–1920)
Pe ter Te r ry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
i

Lights of ‘Irf á n
i i

12/17/21, 8:15 AM
Irfan Colloquium
https://irfancolloquium.com/history.php
1/2
Haj Mahdi Arjmand
(1861-1941)
Haj Mehdi Arjmand was born to a Jewish family in the city of Hamadan, Iran. He embraced the Faith of Baha'u'llah at a young age. His yearning for
reading and understanding the Baha'i holy scripture moved him to master Farsi and Arabic languages. His fame for his exemplary knowledge of
the Bible and the Qur'an had also spread throughout the country. All the way to the last moments, Haj Mehdi was engaged in teaching the Faith.
The most notable teaching event of his life is his two year long debate with the American Dr. Holmes of the Presbyterian denomination who had
traveled to Iran as part of a missionary effort. At the end Dr. Holmes confessed that Haj Mahdi's knowledge of the Bible was so deep that it felt as
if he had written it himself. Haj Mahdi became reciepient of several tablets from Abdu'l-Baha.

Descendants of Haj Mahdi Arjmand, in honor of his services, established a memorial fund which became responsible for the launch and
continuation of Irfan Colloquium programs since 1993.
Houshang Arjmand
(1930 - 2015)
Houshang Arjmand, grandson of Haj Mehdi Arjmand, founder and the main benefactor of Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund, who was the main
supporter of the Irfan Colloquium project, passed away in La Jolla, California on 20 August 2015. He was born in Tehran, Iran on March 20th, 1930.
After completing his High School education in Tehran, Houshang pursued higher education in Engineering in Germany, France and the United
States. Upon his return to Iran, together with his brother-in-law Mr. Yadollah Mahboubian founded "Iran Electric Company," which became the
largest importer, distributor and manufacturer of electrical cables and equipment in Iran. After the revolution in 1979, Houshang's life changed
drastically when his partner was arrested, imprisoned and ultimately martyred in Tehran by the government of Islamic Republic for his beliefs in
the Baha'i Faith . Tragic loss of brother-in-law and partner severely affected Houshang. He, with unconditional love, assumed the guardianship of
his sister, the widow of Mr. Mahboubian, and their two daughters.

To immortalize the memory of his grandfather, Haj Mehdi, and in consultation with the Treasurer's office of the Baha'i National Center of the
United States, Houshang established the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund in 1992. Main purpose of this fund is to promote the study of Baha'i
and other religious scriptures as they relate to teaching the Baha'i Faith. His encouragement resulted in involvement of other members of the
Arjmand family in this undertaking. The first to join was Houshang's sister, Mrs. Parvin Mahboubian, who became a major partner in supporting
that Fund. This was followed by joining of his elder sister Mahboubeh and his brother Sohrab who together have been instrumental in
maintaining this memorial fund over the past two decades.

Following message was sent by the Secretariat of the Universal House of Justice and conveyed to Arjmand family by the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha'is of the United States: "The Universal house of Justice regretted to learn of the passing of dedicated follower of Baha'u-
llah, Houshang Arjmand. His generous support for a wide range of Baha'i activities bears testimony to his magnanimity and ardent desire to
promote the interests of the Cause. Kindly convey to his family and loved ones the heartfelt sympathy of the House of Justice and assured them
of its supplication in the Holy Shrines for the progress of his noble soul in the heavenly kingdom. Prayers will also be offered for their comfort
and solace in their bereavement."
The `Irfan Colloquium started in 1993 and has continued to be held annually in North America and Europe. `Irfan activities aim at fostering
systematic studies of the scriptures of the world's religions from the Baha'i perspective and promoting scholarly studies in the sacred writings,
verities, and fundamental principles of the belief system of the Baha'i Faith. The programs of these colloquia also include presentations of the
interface between the Baha'i Faith and various religions and schools of thought. Annual colloquia and seminars are held separately in the
English, German and Persian languages at the Center for Baha'i Studies, Acuto, Italy; Louhelen Baha'i School, Michigan, USA; Bosch Baha'i
School, California, USA; and the Tambach Conference Center in Germany.

`Irfan Colloquia provide an opportunity for dialogue, networking and team-building among those engaged in Baha'i studies. It is also a unique
occasion for all those attending these gatherings to meet and associate with researchers and scholars and benefit from their presentations. A
lighter program including poetry, music and song is offered in the evenings. Participants receive a set of `Irfan publications. 'Irfan is a Persian-

12/17/21, 8:15 AM
Irfan Colloquium
https://irfancolloquium.com/history.php
2/2
Arabic word referring to mystical, theological, and spiritual knowledge. `Irfan Colloquium was launched, and the colloquia are being held, with the
sponsorship of Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund in memory of Haj Mehdi Arjmand (1861-1941). `Irfan Colloquia are organized under the
auspices of the National Spiritual Assemblies of the Baha'is of the countries where they are held.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Pre f a c e
T
he Li g h ts of ‘I r f án is a new series of the ‘I r f án publ i cati ons in the English lan g u age, con ta in in g
the te xt of the pap e rs pre s e n ted at the ‘I r f án Colloquia and Semin ars, spon s ored by the Haj Me hd i
A r j m and Me mor i al Fund. ‘I r f án is a Pe rsi an-A rabic word refe r r ing to mys ti cal, theolo gi cal, and
s pir i t u al knowl ed ge. Haj Me hdi Arjmand (1861–1941) was a distinguished Bahá’í scholar of Biblical studies
and a prominent teacher of the Bahá’í Faith in Iran.
The ‘I r f án Colloquia star ted in 1993 and have con tinued to be held annu ally in North America and
Europ e. The a im and purpose of the ‘I r f án ac tiv i ties is to fo s ter sys te m atic studies of the scriptures of
the world’s re l i gi ons from a Bahá’í pers p ec tive and to promote schol arly studies in the sac red writin gs ,
ve r i ties, and theolo gi cal pr inci ples of the Bahá’í Faith. Annu al colloquia and semin ars are held separate-
ly in the English and Pe rsi an lan g u age s.
Beginn ing in 1996, a series of annu al semin ars was added to the ‘I r f án colloquia for the purpose of
pre s e n ting studies on the writin gs of the Bahá’í Fa i t h, star ting with the study of the writin gs of
B ahá’u’ lláh, the founde r-prophet of the Bahá’í Faith. In the semin ars, each year selec ted writin gs from
one of the main periods of Bahá’u’ lláh’s min is t ry have been pre s e n ted and dis cu s s ed in chronolo gi cal
orde r.
In 1999, more than forty topics we re pre s e n ted at the ‘I r f án colloquia and semin ars, which we re held
at the Trent Park Campus of Middlesex Unive rsity in London, England, and at the Louhelen and Bosch
B ahá’í Schools in Mi c h i gan and Cal i fornia in the United State s. Book One of the Li g h ts of ‘I r f án con-
ta ins a dozen pap e rs that we re pre s e n ted at those colloquia and semin ars in 1999. We hope and in te nd
to con tinue publ is h ing the Li g h ts of ‘I r f án series in the years to com e.
One of the main themes of the ‘I r f án Colloquia in 1999 was “World Re l i gi ons and the Bahá’í Fa i t h .”
Pap e rs on “Pil g r im age and Re l i gi ous Ide n tity in the Bahá’í Fa i t h,” “C ommon Teac h in gs in Chin e s e
Cult ure and the Bahá’í Faith: From Mate r i al Civ il iz ati on to Spir i t u al Civ il iz ati on,” “The New Age
P h e nom e non and the Bahá’í Fa i t h,” “A St udy of the Mean ing of the Word ‘A l-A mr in the Qur’án and in
the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh,” and “The Book of Re ve l ati on Re veal ed in Glory: A Summ ary of G lor i ou s
Re ve l ati on,” “The Deve lopment of Hum ankind ,” and “The Concept of Sac red Ju s ti ce in Heb re w
E s c h atolo gy” are re l ated to that theme.
“The Bedrock of Bahá’í Be l i ef: The Doctrine of Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on” and “‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s
E xpl an ati on of the Teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh: Tabl e ts and Talks Tran s l ated in to English (1911–1920” are
re l ated to the other theme of the colloqu i a—“Fund am e n tal Ve r i ties and the Pr inci ples of the Bahá’í Be l i ef
Sys te m .” “Ki t á b -i-A qdas as Described and Glor i f i ed by Shoghi Effe nd i,” “The Seven Vall e ys of
B ahá’u’ lláh and Far id ud-Din At tár,” and “S ome Chronolo gi cal Issues in the Law ˙ -i-H ikm at of
B ahá’u’ lláh” are pap e rs that we re pre s e n ted at the ‘I r f án Semin ars.
The present volume con ta ins the pap e rs that we re received for publ i cati on before the end of Dece mbe r
1999. The texts of these papers are published as provided by their authors without further editing; there f o re, they
do not follow the same style or scholarly approach. In addition, there may be errors of transliteration, which we re
not corrected due to time constraints related to publication. The papers re p resent the views and understandings of
the authors. They are published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of the names of the authors.
Ab s t rac ts of all the pre s e n tati ons made at the colloquia and semin ars are publ is h ed in separate book l e ts.
The pap e rs pre s e n ted at the first and second sessi ons of the ‘I r f án Colloquia, Newca s t l e-up on-Ty n e ,
E n g l and, in Decemer 1993 and Wilm e t te, Ill inois, in March 1994 are publ is h ed by George Ron ald ,
O xford, England, 1997 under the title S c r i p t ure and Re ve l ati on.
I raj Ay m an
i i i

Lights of ‘Irf á n

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Pilgrimage and Religious Identity in the Bahá’í Faith
by Per-Olof Åkerdahl
The Importance of Pilgrimage in the Bahá’í Faith
T
h e re are a number of ways to bu ild re l i gi ous ide n ti t y, but in re veal ed re l i gi ons it could hardly be
done without creating a strong bond to the founder of that re l i gi on, the prophet him s e l f. There is
not just a single way of accompl is h ing this, and in this paper one of these means, the pil g r im age ,
w ill be stud i ed. I will start with a ge n e ral dis cu s si on on pil g r im age as such and on diffe rent kinds of
pl aces of pil g r im age. I will then con tinue with a dis cu s si on of the “World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh” as the
world view in the Bahá’í Faith and how this takes its expre s si on in the in te r n ati on al ce n ter of the Bahá’í
Faith in Ha i fa and the ‘Akká area in Israe l .
Bu ild ing on the re l ati onship be tween will ingness to accept mar t y rdom and the creati on of the stron g
b ond be tween the be l i e ver and the prophet, I will come to the nat ure of the concept of mar t y rdom. In
the Bahá’í Faith the will ingness to accept mar t y rdom is strongly re l ated to the re l ati onship of the be l i e v-
er as a servant and Bahá’u’ lláh as the man i fe s tati on of God, a spir i t u al king parall e l ing Chr ist as the
Me s si ah .
1 The ideal re l ati onship be tween Bahá’u’ lláh and the be l i e ver is given by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and the
p o si ti on he poin ts toward in his talks, his writin gs and his life was the role of a servan t. The martyr in
the Bahá’í Faith is thus a be l i e ver who acce p ts the role of a servant to such a deg ree that he or she give s
up life its e l f. The diffe re nce be tween the ind iv idu al that works with the Bahá’í adm in is t rati on and the
m artyr is a mat ter of deg ree, not of pr inci pl e. Both are servan ts of Bahá’u’ lláh and both have ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá as their ideal .
The ge n e ral dis cu s si on of the re l ati onship be tween East and West, that is so imp or tant in order to
unde rs tand the pers ecuti on of the Iran i an Bahá’ís, must be suppl e m e n ted with another dis cu s si on. To
unde rs tand the con te xt of the pers ecuti ons, the East and West re l ati onship must be dis cu s s ed. To unde r-
s tand the reac ti on of the Bahá’ís, howe ve r, the dis cu s si on of the re l ati onship be tween the ce n ter and the
p e r i ph e ry is more imp or tant, as the found ati on of Bahá’í ide n tity is an ind iv idu al acce p tance of
B ahá’u’ lláh as a prophet of God. This makes the dim e n si on of ce n te r-p e r i ph e ry being cruci al, as the
be l i e ve rs have not been encouraged to ph ysi cally gather around the leader of the commun i t y, but have
been encouraged to spread to as many pl aces as possible in order to spread the message of Bahá’u’ lláh to
as many pl aces as possibl e.
The Ea s t-West dim e n si on within the Bahá’í Faith has given a speci al role to the Bahá’í commun i ties in
I ran and the United State s. The Bahá’í commun i ties in other countries have had their own role, but these
two countries have had a speci al imp or tance and have for m ed separate pl atforms for spread ing the Bahá’í
Faith to other coun t r i e s. The Ea s t-West dim e n si on has no doubt exis ted as a problem within the Bahá’í
commun i t y. This problem has, howe ve r, never re sulted in a split in two or more separate commun i ties a s
it has been bal anced by an ac tive effort to brid ge over this diffe re nce and to create a un i ted glob al Bahá’í
commun i t y, based on a common re l i gi ous ide n ti t y: the ideal of the servan t. The Bahá’í pil g r im age has, a s
an in s ti t uti on, been ce n t ral to this soluti on .

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Pil g r im age and Re l i gi ous Ide n ti t y
To go on pil g r im age is a common way to express re l i gi ous be l i ef and to create and strengthen re l i gi ou s
ide n ti t y. In the proph e tic re l i gi ons, it is common to go on pil g r im age to pl aces re l ated to the proph e t ,
most notably the prophet grave. This is, howe ve r, far from the only kind of pl ace for pil g r im age. Eve ry
pl ace for pil g r im age has its own theoph any and is a point of at t rac ti on of its own to the be l i e ve rs. The
s t ron gest posi ti on that pil g r im age has as a re l i gi ous in s ti t uti on is prob ably within Islam, wh e re pil-
g r im age is a re l i gi ous law. In this way pil g r im age becomes closely conn ec ted to re l i gi ous ide n tity amon g
Mu s l im s.
I s l am is a good example of the re v i tal izing power of pil g r im age. This came ab out with the inc rea s ed
p o s sibility of Mu s l ims to go on pil g r im age to Mecca, due to re n e wed possibil i ties with mo dern tran s-
p or tati on. What had happ e n ed before was that the dis tance to Mecca was a maj or fac tor to decide
whether a pers on could go on pil g r im age. To d ay there are inc rea sing numbe rs of Mu s l ims com ing from
all over the world on pil g r im age and re t urn home as comm i t ted uph olde rs of the cause of Islam. This
mo dern tre nd is an imp or tant part of the bac k g round to the awake n ing of the Mu s l im world in the lat-
ter part of the twe n tieth ce n t ury.
The Concept of Pil g r im age
The word pil g r im age comes from pereg r inus (lat.) which means stran ge r. The pil g r im is trave ll ing to a
pl ace that is holy to his or her re l i gi on. Trave ll ing for re l i gi ous rea s ons has been conn ec ted with a num-
ber of diffe rent re l i gi ous move m e n ts all through his tory, alt h ough not with all. In Ind i an con te xt pil-
g r im age is ve ry we ll establ is h ed and has been prac ti ced by many of the exis ting re l i gi ous trad i ti on s. In
C hr is ti an con te xt pil g r im age was mainly done to the Holy Sepulc hre of Jesus Chr ist dur ing the first mil-
l e nn i um. At the end of the first mill e nn i um this possibility was de n i ed to Chr is ti an pil g r ims, a si t u a-
ti on that re sulted in the Cr u sade move m e n t. This re sulted in Europ eans in s tead making pil g r im ages to
pl aces in Europe that we re holy to them, especi ally to the tombs of the sa in ts.
In many re l i gi ons it has been con side red meritor i ous to make pil g r im ages, but it has not been com-
pul s ory. In Islam pil g r im age — h ajj— was emph a siz ed by making it a law and thereby also def in ing it. By
giv ing the hajj such a speci al stati on, other kinds of pil g r im age have been dis couraged. Another kind of
pil g r im age did, howe ve r, come in to being and this kind of pil g r im age, the zíárat, became especi all y
imp or tant to twe l ver Shí‘a. The word itself is an Arabic word and means “v isi t.” In the Shí‘a con te xt it
was used especi ally for visi ts to the holy graves of the twe l ve Imám s. After visi ting such a grave the Shí‘a
be l i e ver is given a title, parallel to hajj í, de p e nd ing up on which Imám shr ine was visi ted, such a s
Karbilá’í, Naja f’í and Ma s hh ad’í .
B oth of these conce p ts are found in the Bahá’í Faith. The Ki t á b -i-A qdas menti ons two pl aces of pil-
g r im age, the house of the Báb in Shir áz and the house of Bahá’u’ lláh in Bag hd ad, and in the Arabic or i g-
in al, the word being used is hajj. When the be l i e ve rs go on pil g r im age to the Bahá’í World Center to visi t
the tombs of Bahá’u’ lláh, the Báb and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, the word zíárat is used and at these shr ines a tabl e t
of visi tati on is read —z í árat-n ám e h
2 (the tomb of the Bá b) and mun ájá t-i-l a qá
3 (the tomb of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá).
Z í árat-n ameh is also read in the tomb of Bahá’u’ lláh. Zíárat-n ameh is written by Bahá’u’ lláh and
mun ájá t-i-l a qá by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
Is it possible to go on a pil g r im age to a liv ing pers on? The def in i ti on of pil g r im age is to visit a pl ace
t h at is holy to on e’s re l i gi on, and not to visit a pers on. Often the goal of the pil g r im age is a shr ine of a
h oly pers on or a pl ace that is conn ec ted with div ine re ve l ati on. Trad i ti on ally the zíárat is made to a
s hr ine and it is conn ec ted to such a ritual. When the Bahá’ís visi ted Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá they
d id it as a way of show ing a great re s p ect and re ve re nce. Even when it was not possible for the Bahá’ís
to see Bahá’u’ lláh in pers on dur ing those periods when he was held in ve ry strict impr is onment in ‘A k k á,
they would still travel the long way from Iran in order to stand outside the pr is on, only to see a qu i c k
g l impse of the face of Bahá’u’ lláh .
5 These visi ts should, howe ve r, also be seen as a way to show a will-
ingness to serve and it was not uncommon for them to ac t u ally be a s ked to do a ce r ta in kind of serv i ce.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
One such example is Bádí’ who was a s ked to de l iver a letter to the Shah, which he did. After de l ive r in g
t h at lette r, he was kill ed and became one of the we ll-known mar t y rs in the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
P l aces of Pil g r im age
In Israel there are a number of pl aces of pil g r im age that are visi ted by Jews, Chr is ti ans and Mu s l im s.
If the area of dis cu s si on is exte nded to the other countries in that regi on, the most ce n t ral pl aces of pil-
g r im age of all these re l i gi ons will be inc luded. These pl aces have been the fo cus of these re l i gi ons for
ce n t uries and the source of re n e wal of the pers on al faith of ge n e rati ons of be l i e ve rs. In the follow in g
d is cu s si on regard ing the role of pil g r im age in the pro cess of the creati on and de ve lopment of a re l i gi ou s
ide n ti t y, these pl aces of pil g r im age will be group ed under three head in gs: proph e t-g rave, axis mundi and
s y mb ol of theo c rac y. My su g ge s ti on is, howe ve r, not that all pl aces of pil g r im age can be put under these
h ead in gs. It is simply a help to make a comparative dis cu s si on regard ing these three diffe rent kinds of
pil g r im age pl ace s. Its main purpose is, howe ve r, to form a bac k g round to the dis cu s si on ab out the
imp or tance of pil g r im age in the Bahá’í Faith for the de ve lopment of a Bahá’í ide n ti t y.
Table 1
Prophet grave
Axis mundi7
Symbol of theocracy
Ju d a i s m
Shrine of Ab r a h a m
Te m p l e
Te m p l e
C h r i s t i a n i t y
Shrine of Je s u s
Place of cru c i f i x i o n
Di f f e rent places,
depending on the
theology of each churc h
Is l a m
Shrine of Muhammad in Me d i n a
Me c c a
Di f f e rent places,
depending upon which
school and time intended
Ba h á ’ í
Shrine of Ba h á ’ u’lláh
Shrine of the Báb
Un i versal House of Ju s t i c e
A re these pl aces comparabl e? Yes, but ce r ta in comm e n ts have to be added. Ab rah am is a lege nd ary per-
s on and it is most unce r ta in if he ever lived. There is, howe ve r, a holy pl ace call ed the shr ine of Ab rah am
and it is reco g n iz ed as such. It is, howe ve r, not unde rl in ed. There is no grave of Moses at hand and eve n
if the grave of Ab rah am in Heb ron is imp or tant to Jud a is m, it can in no way be compared in imp or tance
to the Te mple in Jerusalem. The Jewish Te mple is a part of a ideal past and was re pl aced by the Scroll s
of the Law in the synago g ue dur ing the time of the Di a s p ora. The for m ati on of the state of Israel and
i ts con t rol of the city of Jerusalem has, howe ve r, aga in put the fo cus more on the Te mpl e. I have chosen
the Te mple as Axis mundi and the symb ol of theo c racy in the table as it is a nat ural goal of pil g r im age
to the be l i e ve rs.
To Chr is ti an pil g r ims, there are two pl aces of pil g r im age that are of maj or imp or tance: the church of
the Nativity in Be t hlehem and the church of the Holy Sepulc hre
8 in Jerusalem. The Chr is ti an pil g r im to
J e r u salem who walks through Gol gata and passes all its stati ons would prob ably inc lude the sys tem of
s tati ons and not only the Sepulc hre its e l f. Alt h ough there are trad i ti ons that point towards the pl ace of
the cruci f ixi on being the axis mund i, there is no such pl ace that is acce p ted by all Chr is ti ans or eve n
the maj or i t y. Regard ing symb ol of theo c racy the si t u ati on is sim il ar. To Cat h olics the Pope or the Vati can
would be a common an s we r. To many Prote s tant churches it would in s tead be the Bible its e l f, and in
other Prote s tant churches it would be the king that symb ol iz ed theo c rac y.
To Chr is ti an i t y, the pat tern given in the table might not be seen as ve ry we ll fitted. In Chr is ti an i t y
t h e re is a long trad i ti on of pil g r im age to the shr ines of mar t y rs and sa in ts and, in the his tory of
C hr is ti an churches, there are periods when these kind of pil g r im ages have been ve ry common. This si t-
u ati on, howe ve r, has not been pre valent dur ing the entire his tory of Chr is ti an i t y; rather it has been the
effect of pil g r im roads to Jerusalem being clo s ed by Mu s l im rul e rs.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
With this as a bac k g round, it seems that this typolo gy is not a to ol that can be used in all re l i gi on s.
Pil g r im age has been of great imp or tance in Chr is ti an his tory, which can be exe mpl i f i ed by the Cr u sade s.
To d ay howe ve r, the imp or tance of pil g r im age to Pal e s tine is not so imp or tant, alt h ough there are great
d i ffe re nces be tween diffe rent churc h e s.
In Islam, both Mecca and Med ina have been unde rl in ed, as they are a part of the same pil g r im age.
T h e re is a diffe re nce be tween Sunni and Shí’a in the re l ati onship to the tomb its e l f. Be l i e ve rs from bot h
s c h o ols, howe ve r, visit the mo sque that inc ludes the tomb. It is not possible, thou g h, to find an oute r
s y mb ol of theo c racy that can be visi ted dur ing pil g r im age and that is un ive rsally acce p ted to d ay.
Pilgrimage in the Bahá’í Faith
The Bahá’í Faith has in common with Islam that pil g r im age is a re l i gi ous law. In the Ki t á b -i-A qdas it
is stated: “The Lord hath ord a in ed that those of you who are able shall make pil g r im age to the sac red
House, and from this He hath exe mp ted women as a mercy on His par t. He, of a trut h, is the All-
B oun ti ful, the Most Generou s.”9 Regard ing the “sac red Hou s e ,” there are two pl aces that are refe r red to:
the house of the Báb in Shiraz and the house of Bahá’u’ lláh in Bag hd ad .10 After the pa s sing of
B ahá’u’ lláh, his shr ine, call ed Bahj í, outside of ‘Akká was de si g n ated as a pl ace of pil g r im age by ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá.11 Regard ing the exe mp ti on of women from pil g r im age, it was a part of the Bayán, written by the
Bá b, and Bahá’u’ lláh kept this pr inci pl e. The comment from the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce is that it “has
c l ar i f i ed that this exe mp ti on is not a proh ibi ti on, and that women are free to perform the pil g r im age.”12
When refe r r ing to pil g r im age as a way of creating a Bahá’í ide n tity to d ay, it is zíárat that is in te nded .
Be l i ef in Bahá’u’ lláh as a man i fe s tati on of God is the most ce n t ral part of the Bahá’í Faith and by mak-
ing a zíárat, the be l i e ver is stre n g t h e n ing his or her pers on al tie with the proph e t. It is not possible for
B ahá’ís to unde r take the hajj to d ay for rea s ons of secur i t y. Also, the house of the Báb in Shír áz has be e n
de s t royed, which makes this pil g r im age imp o s sible for now. Yet de ta il ed in for m ati on ab out the pl ann in g
of this house exis ts, which means that it could be rebu ilt in the fut ure.
Regard ing the spirit in which pil g r im age should be made, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá talked ab out this to the pil-
g r ims on the 27th of October 1914, as re p or ted by Mu’ayyad in his book K há tir á t-i-Habib: “Pil g r im age
s h ould be car r i ed out in a state of ut ter humbleness and de voti on. Otherw ise it is not true pil g r im age ;
it is a form of si g h ts e ein g.... Many people used to come and at ta in the pre s e nce of Bahá’u’ lláh. They saw
H is vir t uous charac te r, His bl e s s ed smile, His mag n e tic at t rac ti on and His in f in i te boun ties, yet they
re m a in ed un a ffec ted by Him. Some ot h e rs we re in s tantly tran sfor m ed by at ta in ing His pre s e nce. Jam ál-
i-Burújirdí at ta in ed the pre s e nce of Bahá’u’ lláh in Adr i anopl e. With him we re two men from Burújird .
One of them was call ed Mírzá Abdu’r-Rah ím. He was so in flue nced by the mag n e tic pers on of
B ahá’u’ lláh that he was compl e tely tran sfor m ed. The Blessed Beaut y13 s tated that this man within ten min-
utes to ok one step from this mor tal world and pl aced it in the realms of ete r n i t y. It is therefore nece s-
sary to ac qu ire spir i t u al rece p tive n e s s. A deaf ear will not enj oy the melody of a beauti ful son g, and a
d is ea s ed no s t r il will be in s e n sible to the perfume of the ro s e. The sun shines, the breeze is wa fted, and
the ra in falls, but wh e re the land is a salt marsh not h ing grows but we ed s.”14
Bahá’í Pilgrimage in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh
B ahá’u’ lláh was one of the lead ing Bá bís in Iran when he was impr is on ed and ban is h ed to Bag hd ad. It
was in Bag hd ad wh e re he pro c l a im ed himself as “H im wh om God will make man i fe s t ,” which was don e
just before he was sent to Istanbul, and later ban is h ed to Adr i anople and ‘A k k á. Alt h ough it is not cor-
rect to tec hn i cally call it a pil g r im age, still to Bahá’ís there was only one proper pil g r im age (z í árat) to
m ake — to visit Bahá’u’ lláh, wh e re ver he happ e n ed to live. As he was a pr is on e r, it was not easy to see him
and at periods it was ve ry diff i cult. The maj ority of the Bahá’ís lived in Iran and they had to travel the
long way to ‘Akká without ind i cating in their hom e town wh at they we re doin g. One way of hid ing this
was to give the impre s si on that they we re going on a bu siness trip to Bomb ay. Another way was to firs t
t ravel to Mecca and from there to con tinue to ‘A k k á.
T h e re is ve ry little written by these pil g r ims to show their impre s si ons of Bahá’u’ lláh from these
m e e tin gs. It was not seen prop e r, or possible, to for mul ate these exp e r i e nces in word s. Therefore the

Lights of ‘Irf á n
best de s c r i p ti on from a meeting with Bahá’u’ lláh is the one made by Profe s s or E.G. Brow n e. This
de s c r i p ti on was inc luded in the most commonly used in t ro duc tory book to the Bahá’í Fa i t h, B ahá’u’ lláh
and the New Era, and this de s c r i p ti on has been much used in Bahá’í lite rat ure. The meeting with
B ahá’u’ lláh dur ing pil g r im age was ve ry imp or tant in order to create the Bahá’í ide n tity among the
I ran i an Bahá’ís. The lack of de s c r i p ti ons from the Iran i an Bahá’ís has prob ably more to say ab out their
e xt reme re ve re nce for him than the de s c r i p ti on that the Br i tish schol ar has left to poste r i t y, imp or tan t
as it is. To a ce r ta in deg ree it can, perh aps, be unde rs tood if one studies the reac ti on of the earl y
We s tern Bahá’ís to ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
B ahá’í Pil g r im age at the Time of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
Pil g r im age was, in the time of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, prop e rly def in ed in the Ki t á b -i-A qdas and the add i ti on al
s tatement by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá that the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh should be inc luded in this lis t. The pil g r im age s
from Iran con tinued and going on pil g r im age to Bahjí outside ‘Akká became just as much a part of Bahá’í
ide n tity as it had been in the time of Bahá’u’ lláh. The maj or chan ge came as the Bahá’í Faith was spread
to the We s tern world and the we s tern pil g r ims star ted to com e. To this pil g r im age was now added the
v isit to ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in his func ti on as the pronounced leader of the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
Early Bahá’ís in the We s t
The first Bahá’ís in the West became in i ti ated by Dr. Khay r u’ lláh15, who was sent by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
to North America to spread the Bahá’í teac h in g. He did this in a ve ry effec tive way, but the teac h in gs
we re not entirely those teac h in gs that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá was teac h in g. He was a part of the first pil g r im
g roup from the We s t. At this pil g r im age the diffe re nce became ob v i ous to other Bahá’ís in this group.
S ome years a fter this pil g r im age, the early We s tern Bahá’ís found out that they had to choose
be tween him and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as he did not accept ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as a re l i gi ous aut h ority any more. In
con tact with the we s tern Bahá’ís, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá was not ve ry strict in do g m atic mat te rs and the fac t
t h at Dr. Khay r u’ lláh had been teac h ing reincar n ati on seems not to have been a maj or problem to
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, alt h ough this teac h ing is not a part of the Bahá’í Fa i t h16. The problem was rather that
of aut h or i t y. All the Bahá’ís had to accept the aut h ority of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as the Center of the
C ove n ant, and this also inc luded Dr. Khay r u’ lláh. This pers on al acce p tance of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá was ce n-
t ral to their ide n tity as Bahá’ís and it to ok its outer form by the writing of a pers on al letter to
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, which was sent to him .
First Pilgrims from the West
The first pil g r im group from the West left the United States on Septe mber 22, 189817 and ar r ived in
Ha i fa, Israel, ab out three mon t hs late r. One of the membe rs of this group, Lua Getsin ge r, had an ove r-
wh e lm ing exp e r i e nce dur ing that pil g r im age in such a way that her acce p tance of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as the
C e n ter of the Cove n ant became not only a mere acce p tance but a ce n t ral part of her re l i gi ous ide n ti t y.
She de s c r ibes a meeting with ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, her last in this pil g r im age, in one of her lette rs:
“It was nearly dark, so we went to the apartment of the Holy Lea f,18 wh e re we had tea and then sat
talkin g, wa i ting for the ‘Kin g’ to com e. At last a servant announced that He was com in g, so the two
youn gest dau g h te rs and myself ran out in the court to meet Him. I reac h ed Him first and kn e lt dow n
before Him, kis sing the hem of His robe. He thereup on to ok my hand, and, say ing in Pe rsi an ‘Dau g h te r,
we lcom e’ help ed me to my feet, and ke e ping my hand, walked with me in to the house, wh e re I sat dow n
be side Him wh ile He drank some tea ,—and a s ked me if I was ‘we ll, happy and con te n t’— to which I could
only re ply that to be in His pre s e nce was healt h, happiness and con tentment its e l f.”19
T h is ext remely de voti on al be h av i or of Lua Getsin ger towards ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá was not shared by all the
we s tern Bahá’ís. It would howe ve r, be common to show him great re s p ect and de voti on, alt h ough there
is no ind i cati on that he de m anded this be h av i or among the Bahá’ís. Her be h av i or was, howe ve r, not onl y
de voti on al. For a we s terner to be h ave like this for de voti on al rea s ons could hardly have been nat ural ,
con side r ing the soci ally acce p ted be h av i or of de voted Chr is ti ans in North America. The role she had
acce p ted was rather the role of a servant, not in We s tern countries but in the East, and it shows her com-
pl e te read iness to serve in wh ate ver way he wis h ed .

Lights of ‘Irf á n
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America
In 1912 ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá visi ted the grow ing numbe rs of Bahá’ís in North America. Before this period it
h ad not been possible as he was still a pr is on e r. On this journey he also visi ted Bahá’ís in Europe, and
he spent some time especi ally in Par is wh e re he held the speeches that we re later publ is h ed as Par is
Talk s.
20 T h e re we re other coll ec ti ons of talks by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá that came out from this travel, but no ot h e r
coll ec ti on of talks has been used by the Bahá’í community as much as Par is Talk s.
The Bahá’ís in North America and Europe we re con ve r ts from diffe rent Chr is ti an churches and
b rought this ide n tity with them in to the Bahá’í Faith. They de p e nded up on this Chr is ti an ide n ti t y, wh i c h,
for example, can be seen in the cor re s p onde nce of Lua Getsin ge r. Their de ve lopment of a Bahá’í ide n ti-
ty came gradu ally and is much re l ated to their pers on al con tact with ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. In North America
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá had a wider field of con tact with these Bahá’ís and had the possibility to con tinue this
de ve lopm e n t. He also had con tact with news media and other non-B ahá’ís. The themes around which he
was conce n t rating could we ll be summ ar iz ed in some headl in e s: New York City Eve n ing Ma il: “B AN-
I S H ED FIFTY YEARS, LE ADER OF BAH AI HER E: PERS I AN PH I LOSOPH ER FAVORS WOM AN SUF-
F R AGE AND WILL TALK PE ACE ...”; New York Eve n ing World: “PERS I AN TE ACH ER OF WORLD-
PE ACE IS HER E”; New York He rald: ‘ABDUL BAHA HERE TO CONV ERT AMER ICA TO HIS PE ACE
D O C TR I NE .”21 These con tac ts had more than one func ti on and, among other thin gs, they we re re l ated
to how the American Bahá’ís lo oked up on their own re l i gi on. In this re s p ect, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá did wh at wa s
e xp ec ted by an in te r n ati on al leader of a re l i gi ous commun i t y. The American Bahá’ís, who no doubt we re
the ones in for m ing news media, could see their leader in a posi ti on we re he was we lcom ed with op e n
arms by diffe rent in s ti t uti ons in North America. This was perh aps not so imp or tant for the Bahá’í ide n-
tity of Bahá’ís such as Lua Getsin ger and other de e p e n ed Bahá’ís, but it was prob ably cruci al to the Bahá’í
ide n tity of the North American Bahá’í community at large. Even more imp or tant, ob v i ou s l y, was to meet
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in pers on and to hear his expl an ati on of the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
The Pilgrim Program
The a im of a pil g r im age is to make a visit to a holy pl ace – to travel from the profane to the hol y. This
t ravel is a spir i t u al travel as we ll as a ph ysi cal travel and this a s p ect of hol iness takes diffe rent forms in
d i ffe rent re l i gi on s. In the Bahá’í Faith the dim e n si on of time is imp or tant also in the pil g r im age and a
part of this travel. The Bahá’í World Center is, to the pil g r im, also a symb ol of the fut ure visi on of the
B ahá’í Faith – the World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh .
B ahá’u’ lláh was a pr is oner in the ‘Akká area be tween 1868, when he ar r ived from Ed irne in Turke y
un til he pa s s ed away in Bahj í, outside ‘Akká city in 1892. Because of this there are a number a pl aces for
the pil g r ims to visi t. The most imp or tant pl ace is the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh in Bahjí and the re side n ti al
area be side the shr in e. Around this has been de ve lop ed a large area of garde n s. The shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh
is the Qibl ih of the Bahá’í world, its spir i t u al ce n te r, as we ll as a ve ry imp or tant his tor i cal pl ace in the
B ahá’í his tory.
When the Báb had been executed in 1850 his body was hidden by the Bá bís for many years and then
t ran s p or ted to ‘Akká for bur i al. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá star ted to bu ild a shr ine on the slopes of Mount Car m e l ,
which was compl e ted with a sup e rs t r uc t ure by Shoghi Effe ndi. It was Bahá’u’ lláh who in 1891 poin ted
out the pl ace for that shr ine to be bu ilt.2 2 The re m a ins of the Báb we re bur i ed in the shr ine in 1909 and
the sup e rs t r uc t ure was compl e ted in 1953.23 In the same shr ine ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá also is entombed .
When going on pil g r im age to the Bahá’í World Cente r, the be l i e ver is made a member of a pil g r im
g roup up on ar r ival in Ha i fa. This group takes part in a speci al pro g ram with guided visi ts to a numbe r
of holy pl aces in the ‘A k k á-Ha i fa area. The pil g r im pro g ram has shifted over the years as holy pl aces have
been ac qu ired and re s tored by the Bahá’í community and made ready for pil g r im age. The pil g r im pro-
g ram pre s e n ted be low is thus only one example of possible pil g r im pro g rams, but it is possible to get an
idea of the main par ts of a Bahá’í pil g r im age.
The pro g ram that the pil g r ims nor m ally take part in to d ay is organ iz ed in such a way that pil g r im s
are able to see most of the in te re s ting si te s. There are groups from diffe rent par ts of the world; in the
follow ing example from 1982 ,
24 when the present writer to ok part, there we re four group s. Before the

Lights of ‘Irf á n
I ran i an re voluti on there could be two groups, one Pe rsi an-s p eaking group, com ing from Iran, and an
E n g l is h-s p eaking one with Bahá’ís from the rest of the world. The sys tem with a Ea s tern pil g r im group
t h at was Pe rsi an-s p eaking and a We s tern pil g r im group that was Englis h-s p eaking had been the nor-
m al si t u ati on since the time of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. At the Bahá’í World Center there is a house close to the
S hr ine of the Báb call ed the Pil g r im Hou s e. This used to be an Ea s tern pil g r im house, used as re si-
de nce for the Bahá’ís from Iran; elsewh e re there was a We s tern pil g r im house for the Europ ean and
North American Bahá’ís. The We s tern pil g r im house is not used by the pil g r ims to d ay. To d ay the pil-
g r ims stay in hotels in Ha i fa and the Ea s tern pil g r im house is used by the World Center as a ge n e ral
B ahá’í pil g r im ce n te r.
The pil g r im pro g ram was a nin e- d ay pro g ram in 1982. The first day all four groups visi ted the Shr in e
of the Báb and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá for prayer and med i tati on. The second day the pil g r ims visi ted the shr ine of
B ahá’u’ lláh at Bahjí outside of ‘A k k á; the pro g ram inc luded a guided tour of the man si on bu ild ing as we ll
as prayer and med i tati on in the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh. In the a fte r no on the pil g r ims could meet the
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce in the We s tern pil g r im house, which was then the si te of the Seat of the
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce. On the third day, the pil g r ims could meet the membe rs of the Inte r n ati on al
Teac h ing Cente r. On the fourth day, two groups would visit the Inte r n ati on al Arc h ives bu ild in g, wh e re
the or i gin al writin gs of the Bahá’í Faith are kept, to gether with Bahá’u’ lláh’s clothes, pers on al ute n sil s ,
and so on. He re are also three por t ra i ts of Bahá’u’ lláh (two pa in tin gs and a ph oto) and a pa in ting of the
Bá b. These por t ra i ts should be the only ones exis ting in the Bahá’í commun i t y,
25 which means that the
only possibility for a Bahá’í to see these por t ra i ts is to go on pil g r im age. The other two groups visi ted
the pr is on ce ll of Bahá’u’ lláh in ‘Akká and the house of Abbúd wh e re Bahá’u’ lláh was impr is on ed for
s ome time, also in ‘A k k á. The tour con tinued to Maz ra’íh, a pl ace outside ‘Akká wh e re Bahá’u’ lláh lived
for some time, a fter leav ing the house of Abbúd. The fifth day was a copy of the fourth day, but the four
pil g r im groups to ok part in the pro g ram that they had not taken part in on the fourth day. Back in Ha i fa
the pil g r ims saw a slide show. The seventh day the pil g r ims visi ted the Monument Gardens and the
Te mple Land, the si te of a fut ure Bahá’í Te mpl e. The eighth day they visi ted Bahjí once more and the
n inth day they visi ted the house of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in Ha i fa. To d ay the pil g r ims visit the Seat of the
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce close to the Monument Gardens, which was fin is h ed at the end of 1982 but
was not ready when my pil g r im age was perfor m ed. Pil g r ims also visit other houses in ‘Akká that we re
not open in 1982 .
The pil g r im pro g ram is ce n te red up on the life of Bahá’u’ lláh as a pr is oner in the ‘Akká area and on
v isi ts to the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh and the shr ine of the Bá b. At each pl ace there would be time for praye r
and med i tati on .
The Holy Land
In the Bahá’í writin gs, Israel is refe r red to as the Holy Land ,26 but without any a s p ect of exc lu sive-
n e s s. Accord ing to Shoghi Effe nd i, the hol iness of Israel is re l ated to its long and dive rsi f i ed re l i gi ou s
h is tory—the bir t h pl ace of Jud a ism and Chr is ti an i t y, the bir t h pl ace of Jesus Chr ist, the pl ace wh e re
B ahá’u’ lláh stayed for thir t y-four years and wh e re his re m a ins rest to d ay, and also wh e re the re m a ins of
the Báb re s t. Thus it is not the Holy Land, prom is ed by God. It is rather holy in another sense, as it is
con side red the ce n ter of the world. I will expand on this theme in the chap ter call ed “A xis mund i .”
I ran also has a speci al pl ace in the Bahá’í writin gs. It is the pl ace wh e re three man i fe s tati ons of God27
we re born and it is also the bir t h pl ace of three re l i gi on s. There are a number of writin gs re l ated to Iran
w r i t ten by Bahá’u’ lláh. The follow ing pa s sage, addre s s ed to Te h e ran,28 can be seen as a typi cal exampl e:
“O Land of Tá! Thou art still, through the grace of God, a ce n ter around which His be loved ones have
gat h e red. Happy are they; happy eve ry refu gee that seeketh thy shelte r, in his su ffe r in gs in the path of
God, the Lord of this wondrous day!”29
The his tory of the Bahá’í Faith in Iran has also left be h ind many pl aces of in te re s t. The pers ecuti on of the
I ran i an Bahá’ís has al ways put Iran in fo cus for the Bahá’ís around the world. This fo cus has been given dim e n-
si on through The Daw n-Breake rs and other mar t y rolo gi e s. It is not, howe ve r, the Prom is ed Land that could
s e rve as a refu ge from pers ecuti on. It has rather been the pl ace wh e re pers ecuti ons have been most in te n s e.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh
The public perce p ti on of the Bahá’í Faith te nds to emph a size either of two pers p ec tive s: a broadl y
hum an is tic movement or an in te r n ati on al re l i gi ous organ iz ati on that has a high moral exp ec tati on on its
m e mbe rs with a we ll- def in ed membe rs h i p. Neither of these pers p ec tives is compl e tely wron g. There are
s ome broad hum an is tic tra i ts in the Bahá’í Faith and these tra i ts we re emph a siz ed especi ally by ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá and especi ally in con tact with we s te r n e rs. The same ve rsi on of the Bahá’í Faith is pre s e n ted in E.G.
Brow n e’s in te rv i e w. Another pers p ec tive is equ ally true. It was emph a siz ed in Iran and was more and
more emph a siz ed also in the West as the Bahá’í adm in is t rati on to ok its form and de m anded that those
who would work within that adm in is t rati on acce p ted the dis ci pl ine that was nece s sary to keep the orga-
n iz ati on to ge t h e r. The first step for the ind iv idu al to accept this second pers p ec tive is to acce p t
B ahá’u’ lláh as a man i fe s tati on of God with all that it means in follow ing the laws and pr inci ples of the
B ahá’í Fa i t h .
These two pers p ec tives are not usu ally parallel, at least not to d ay. The pers p ec tive of the Bahá’í Fa i t h
as a ge n e ral hum an is tic movement is usu ally wh at a pers on first meets before he or she ge ts a de e p e r
unde rs tand ing of the Bahá’í Faith and perh aps becomes a membe r. When a pers on in ve s ti gates the Bahá’í
Faith more clo s e l y, he/she will meet an organ iz ed re l i gi on, which inc ludes ac tive par ti ci pati on in the
B ahá’í adm in is t rati on. As there are no pers on al leade rs in the Bahá’í Fa i t h, but rather a form of coll ec-
tive leade rship on lo cal, nati on al and in te r n ati on al levels, most ac tive membe rs take part in the adm in-
is t rati on. They will often be in vol ved in this work to such an extent that it will be a part, perh aps a large
part, of their ide n tity as Bahá’ís.
The Nature of Bahá’í Administration
When the Bahá’í community had to co op e rate in a prac ti cal way when try ing to stop the pers ecuti on
of the Iran i an Bahá’ís, it ob v i ously had to be done through the Bahá’í adm in is t rative sys te m, which is
the means of prac ti cal co op e rati on in the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
To the We s tern student it is nat ural to ask the que s ti on whether or not the Bahá’í adm in is t rative sys-
tem should be con side red a de mo c ratic sys tem. Regard ing this que s ti on, Shoghi Effe ndi has written: “T h e
Adm in is t rative Order of the Faith of Bahá’u’ lláh must in no wise be regarded as purely de mo c ratic in
c h arac ter in a s much as the basic a s sump ti on which re qu ires all de mo c racies to de p e nd fund am e n tall y
up on ge t ting their mand ate from the people is alto gether lac king in this Dis p e n sati on .”30
The Bahá’í adm in is t rati on should, accord ing to Shoghi Effe nd i, rather be de s c r ibed as a theo c ratic sys-
tem. “W h at the Gu ard i an was refe r r ing to was the Theo c ratic sys tems, such as the Cat h olic Church and
the Cal i ph ate, which are not div inely given as sys tems, but man-m ade and yet, hav ing partly de r ived
from the teac h in gs of Chr ist and Muh amm ad are, in a sense, theo c raci e s. The Bahá’í theo c rac y, on the
con t rary, is both div inely ord a in ed as a sys tem and, of course, based on the teac h in gs of the Proph e t
H im s e l f.31
Bahá’í Theocracy
When Shoghi Effe ndi de s c r ibes Bahá’í adm in is t rati on as a theo c rac y, he ob v i ously already has som e
kind of theo c racy in mind, but how should this kind of theo c racy be de s c r ibed? In order to get a per-
s p ec tive to this que s ti on, I will start by searc h ing for diffe rent kinds of theo c raci e s.
In his ar ticle on theo c rac y,
32 D e wey D. Wall ace Jr., has made an ove rview of diffe rent kinds of theo c-
racies and he de s c r ibes four main types: Hiero c racies, Royal theo c racies, General theo c racies and
E s c h atolo gi cal theo c raci e s. Of these four types, it is possible to omit the eschatolo gi cal theo c racy imm e-
d i ate l y, as this kind of theo c racy is “ce n te r ing on visi ons of an ideal fut ure, in which God will rul e.” It
is true that this kind of visi on exis ts in the Bahá’í Faith in the concept of the “Most Great Peace ,” but
in Bahá’í theo c racy God is rul ing already and has done so from the moment the Báb app eared on May
23, 1844. Seen from the Bahá’í pers p ec tive, it is rather mankind that has fa il ed to accept this div ine rul e.
H i e ro c racy has been de s c r ibed as “pure” theo c racy and Wall ace finds a dis tinc ti on be tween two kind s
of hiero c raci e s: one kind that is priestly and another that is proph e ti c- c h ar is m atic. Dur ing the time in

Lights of ‘Irf á n
B ahá’í his tory that is call ed the “He roic age” by Shoghi Effe nd i, 1844–1921, there is no doubt that the
B ahá’í faith is best de s c r ibed as a proph e ti c- c h ar is m atic theo c rac y. Dur ing the time of the Báb and
B ahá’u’ lláh the Bahá’í Faith was led by two proph e ts who func ti on ed in a char is m atic way. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
d id not accept to be de s c r ibed as a prophet, but he was prom is ed direct div ine guid ance in the Ki t á b -i-
A hd (Will and Te s tament of Bahá’u’ lláh)
33 and his way of exe rcising his task must be seen as char is m at-
ic in charac te r. Therefore, he must also be de s c r ibed as a proph e ti c- c h ar is m atic leade r.
Still, this period is prob ably not wh at Shoghi Effe ndi was refe r r ing to. He was conce r n ed with de s c r ib-
ing the nat ure of the adm in is t rative sys tem in the Bahá’í commun i t y, the sys tem that he, him s e l f, wa s
bu ild ing up and which was based on the teac h in gs of the prophet him s e l f. This adm in is t rative sys tem is
not a proph e ti c- c h ar is m atic theo c rac y, as there is no pers on who can be de s c r ibed as a proph e ti c- c h ar is-
m atic leade r. Whether the period of the leade rship of Shoghi Effe ndi (1921–1957) should be con side red
proph e ti c- c h ar is m atic is a mat ter of how this term is def in ed, but this period is a period of tran si ti on,
as is the period 1957–1963. It is rather the period from 1963 on wards that should be stud i ed, from the
year of the first elec ti on of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce.
The second ve rsi on of hiero c racy is the one rul ed by priestly func ti on ar i e s. This could hardly have
been the kind of theo c racy that Shoghi Effe ndi was refe r r ing to, as no priesthood exis ts in the Bahá’í
Faith. Nat urally this is de p e ndent up on how the term “pr i e s t h o o d” is def in ed, but it is ve ry diff i cult to
apply it to Bahá’í adm in is t rati on as the membe rs in its in s ti t uti ons have no priestly func ti on s. Bahá’í
adm in is t rati on is charac te r iz ed by the exis te nce of elec ted a s s e mblies comp o s ed of nine membe rs. These
m e mbe rs have no speci al educati on that could charac te r ize them as priestly func ti on aries and they have
no speci al in i ti ati on that separates them from other Bahá’ís. They are elec ted ind iv idu ally with sec re t
b allots and there is no effec tive sys tem to in flue nce the vote rs. There also are no guaran tees that the
m e mbe rs of the a s s e mblies will be re- e l ec ted .
The next type of theo c racy is wh at Wall ace calls Royal theo c rac y.34 D e wey Wall ace menti ons a num-
ber of examples of this kind of theo c rac y, but the most imp or tant of these examples are from anci e n t
Egypt and Me s op otamia. The most imp or tant feat ure of this kind of theo c racy is that the king has a
sac ral role in the soci e t y. It is also taken for gran ted that the nati on is the base. No king exis ts in the
B ahá’í adm in is t rati on and the adm in is t rati on is of a glob al exte n si on. In Egypt the king was a god him-
self and in Me s op otamia the king was a re pre s e n tative of the god. In this there is a parallel to the
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce. As the Bahá’í adm in is t rati on is in some re s p ec ts a theo c ratic sys te m, the
l ead ing in s ti t uti on is div inely guided and the elec ti on of its membe rs is con side red being guided by God
in a pro cess of elec ti on wh e re the voting de l egates turn to God in praye rs and suppl i cate to be guided by
God when ca s ting their vote s. The Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce is also prom is ed in fall ibility in its deci-
si ons as an in s ti t uti on, which gives it a high deg ree of aut h or i t y. The ind iv idu al membe rs of the
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, howe ve r, have no for m al aut h or i t y.
C on side r ing this dis cu s si on, it might still be the royal theo c racy that Shoghi Effe ndi was refe r r ing to,
but it would be a royal theo c racy cast in a new mould. If this bac k g round is wh at Shoghi Effe ndi wa s
refe r r ing to, it would prob ably be the royal theo c racy in the ve rsi on of ancient Iran, as it is rather the
I ran i an cult ure that forms a bac k g round to the Bahá’í Faith than the cult ure of Me s op otamia or anci e n t
Egy p t.
The de s c r i p ti on of ge n e ral theo c racy is also appl i cable to the Bahá’í Faith. The Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh are
m an i fe s tati ons of God who left a vast number of re veal ed writin gs. Also the life and writin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá and Shoghi Effe ndi are, to a ce r ta in deg ree, con side red to be re ve l ati ons, as they are be l i e ved to be
in s pired by God. Other examples of ge n e ral theo c racy are conn ec ted to div ine law, like the Sharia law
in Islam. The ce n ter of Bahá’í law, the Ki t á b -i-A qdas, is call ed the “Most Holy Book” and to follow Bahá’í
l aw is an imp or tant a s p ect of being a Bahá’í. It is a duty of Bahá’í in s ti t uti ons to make sure that the
m e mbe rs of the Bahá’í community re s p ect and obey these laws. If a ce r ta in ind iv idu al has broken on e
of these laws in a way that it is a ffec ting the Bahá’í community and has been war n ed a number of tim e s ,
the Bahá’í in s ti t uti on can give some kind of pun is hment to that ind iv idu al. One such pun is hment is lo s s
of voting rights.35

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The jud i ci al duties of the Bahá’í adm in is t rati on are not, howe ve r, its most ce n t ral func ti on. When
Shoghi Effe ndi call ed the Bahá’í adm in is t rati on a theo c rac y, he prob ably was not thinking pr im ar ily of
i ts pote n ti al to uph old a div ine law, but more of its pote n ti al to lead the Bahá’í community in accord ance
to the will of God. The Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce is bound by Bahá’í law and the Ki t á b -i-A qdas, yet it
is still the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce that must apply the law and, if nece s sary, make add i ti on al laws.
The jud i ci al a s p ect of ge n e ral theo c racy is, no doubt, a part of the Bahá’í theo c rac y, but it does not cove r
the total mean ing of theo c racy in the Bahá’í Faith. It only expl a ins in wh at ways the div ine law a ffec ts
the life of the Bahá’í commun i t y. It does not expl a in the de ve lopment that has taken pl ace. The que s ti on
t h at has to be an s we red is how the Bahá’í Faith could de ve lop in to an in te r n ati on al organ iz ati on that
could become part of the in te r n ati on al community and a ffect diffe rent par ts of the in te r n ati on al com-
munity with the effect that the is sue of the Iran i an Bahá’ís was taken up by the General Assembly of the
U n i ted Nati on s.
God is King
A ce n t ral concept in the Bahá’í Faith is “b ahá”—g lory —and Bahá’u’ lláh is the glory of God. The word
b ahá carries the name of the re l i gi on its e l f — B ahá’í — m ean ing the re l i gi on of Bahá’u’ lláh and a followe r
of Bahá’u’ lláh. It is conn ec ted to Bahá’í adm in is t rati on as we ll: “The Lord hath ord a in ed that in eve ry
ci t y
36 a House of Ju s ti ce be establ is h ed wh e rein shall gather the coun s e lors to the number of bahá
37 and
s h ould it exce ed this number it doth not mat te r.”
Re l ated to this is the older concept of kh vare n ah, which was later de s c r ibed as far r.39 Ulla Ol s s on dis-
cu s s ed this concept in her do c toral dis s e r tati on on pr incely mir rors in Iran i an trad i ti on: “Vem är hjälte? ”
A part of her dis cu s si on is kh vare n ah—the div ine rad i ance eman ating from the king in the pre-I s l am i c
kin gship ideolo gy in Iran. She poin ts out that Ghaz ali uses the concept far r-i-Iz adí. He asks the que s ti on
whether any man could be call ed king or if this is worthy only of God “...because great men (buz urg án)
owe their greatness to the div ine efful ge nce, (far r-i-Iz adí) and to their rad i ance of soul, pureness of body,
and breadth of in te ll ect and knowl ed ge, as we ll as the dom in i on which has long been in their fam il y.”40
T h is pat tern has its parallel in the adm in is t rative sys tem of the Bahá’í Faith. There are a number of
pa s sages wh e re God is de s c r ibed as king or king of kin gs. The prom ise to the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce
t h at it will have div ine supp ort in its decisi ons also implies that God rules through the Unive rsal Hou s e
of Ju s ti ce: “A nd now, conce r n ing the House of Ju s ti ce which God hath ord a in ed as the source of all go o d
and fre ed from all error, it must be elec ted by un ive rsal su ffrage, that is, by the be l i e ve rs. Its membe rs
must be man i fe s tati ons of the fear of God and days pr in gs of knowl ed ge and unde rs tand in g, must be
s tead fast in God’s faith and the we ll-w is h e rs of all mankind .”41
In the tablet of Ahm ad, Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to the idea of God as the kin g, as it star ts with the word s:
“He is the Kin g, the All-know in g, the Wis e!” It con tinues further on: “... in for m ing the seve red ones of
the message which hath been re veal ed by God, the Kin g, the Glor i ou s...” “O Ahm ad! Bear thou witness
t h at ve r ily He is God and there is no God but Him, the Kin g, the Protec tor, the Incomparable, the
O mn i p ote n t.”42 In the tablet of ‘I s hr á qát he refe rs to God as “the King of Ete r n i t y”;43 in the tabl e t
Tajallí yát as “King of eve rl a s ting days ,”44 in Law ˙ -i-Burhán as “King of all Nam e s ,”45 these being only a
few exampl e s.
A Global Perspective
The geo g raph i cal pers p ec tive of kin gship is the nati on and therefore there is a conn ec ti on be twe e n
kin gship and nati on al ism. The re l ati onship be tween nati on al ism and the Bahá’í Faith is expre s s ed in the
muc h-u s ed quotati on from Bahá’u’ lláh: “The earth is but one coun t ry, and mankind its ci tiz e n s.”46 W h e n
the concept of nati on is used in the Bahá’í Fa i t h, like in the Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembl y, it is pr im ar il y
a level be tween the lo cal town or vill age and the glob al pers p ec tive. It does, howe ve r, also re l ate to the
concept of nati on, as nor m ally unde rs tood. In the words of Shoghi Effe ndi regard ing the “world-w ide law
of Bahá’u’ lláh”: “It can con flict with no legi tim ate all egi ances, nor can it unde r m ine essenti al loyalti e s. Its
purpose is neither to sti fle the fl ame of a sane and in te ll i gent pat r i otism in men’s hear ts, nor to ab ol is h
the sys tem of nati on al autonomy so essenti al if the evils of exce s sive ce n t ral iz ati on are to be avoided .”47
T h is glob al a s p ect is one rea s on why it is not possible to call the Bahá’í Faith a “sac ral kin gs h i p” or,
1 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
in the words of Wall ace, a “royal theo c rac y.” The other one is that there is no king in the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
The theo c racy in the Bahá’í Faith cannot, howe ve r, be separated from the concept of the cove n ant, a con-
cept that in the Bible exis ts parallel to sac ral kin gs h i p. In the Bible these two conce p ts are combin ed in
the cove n ant of Dav id, which in the New Te s tament is de ve lop ed in to the be l i ef of a messi ah. The
cove n ant of Dav id
48 is in this way de ve lop ed from a concept with a nati on al fo cus to a concept with a
un ive rsal fo cu s.
The glob al pers p ec tive is, in this way, already exis ting in Ab rah am i tic trad i ti on as both Chr is ti an i t y
and Islam go be yond the pers p ec tive of nati on and turn to the wh ole of mankind. The basis of this is
t h at God had created all mankind and offe red a cove n ant to all peoples, hence the striv ing to mis si on-
iz e.
The Bahá’í Covenant
The cove n ant in the Bahá’í Faith is a re l ati onship be tween God and hum an i t y, runn ing through the
h is tory of mankind up to the present age. This concept is inh e r i ted from the Bible and the Qur’án and
in this way the Bahá’í Faith stands in the trad i ti on of the Ab rah am i tic re l i gi on s.49 In the cove n ant of the
B ahá’í Faith is menti on ed names from the Bible and the Qur’án, such as Ad am, Ab rah am, Moses, Jesu s
and Muh amm ad. Yet Buddha and Zoroa s ter are also menti on ed, and Shoghi Effe ndi refe rs to “t h e
B h agavad Gi ta of the Hindu s.”50 The cove n ant is based on seven re l i gi on s: Sabeism [si c], Hindu is m,
Jud a is m, Zoroa s t r i an is m, Buddh is m, Chr is ti anity and Islam. To these are added Bá bism [si c] and the
B ahá’í Fa i t h, making the list of nine compl e te.51
T h e re is no ce n t ral idea of reconcil i ati on that has to be done by sac r i f i ce. The his tory of mankind is
seen in s tead as a long period of de ve lopment through a number of man i fe s tati ons of God and not as a
pr imord i al state of order that was brought in to chaos and that has to be brought back to order throu g h
reconcil i ati on. The order is brought to men through the man i fe s tati ons of God, and chaos comes in to
being when men de v i ate from this orde r. Order is re s tored when God sends a new man i fe s tati on with a
new message. The cove n ant be tween man and God de s c r ibes this bal ance, but it is not only a bal ance.
It is also a de ve lopment wh e re hum ankind is grow ing and mat ur ing like a child becom ing a youth then
f in ally an adult.52
This covenant is extended to a minor covenant, as Bahá’u’lláh in his Will appointed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the
Center of the Covenant. To be a Bahá’í is also to accept this part of the covenant. In the will of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, Shoghi Effendi is named as the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, thus making it a part of the minor
covenant. Finally, the authority of the Universal House of Justice is established as part of this covenant.
Kingship and Servanthood
A speci al a s p ect of sac ral kin gship is the idea of the fa i t h ful slave or help e r. Ulla Ohl s s on has touc h ed
up on this theme in her study on pr incely mir rors. The example that she dwe lls up on from the Iran i an
t rad i ti on is the example of re l ati onship be tween the king and the servant in Sultan Mahmoud and Ayaz.
T h is is pi c t ured as the ideal example of servanthood, which is of great value to the kin g.
In the Bible, this is not a ce n t ral theme. The kin g, especi ally king Dav id, is call ed the servant of God,
but ot h e rs are also given this nam e.
53 These are, howe ve r, not examples of kin gship and servanthood a s
a re l ati onship be tween two pers ons, as in the case of Sultan Mahmoud and Ayaz. When stud y ing the spe-
ci al re l ati onship be tween Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, the pers on al re l ati onship is ve ry imp or tant and
so the best parallel to study is prob ably this Iran i an example, in order to get more light and unde r-
s tand ing to the theme.
In Mat hn á ví, Rumi dwe lls on this theme. Rumi de s c r ibes Ayaz as being the most appreci ated pers on
of all, close to the kin g. He was richly re warded and the other envied him .
T h e re are a number of stories show ing Ayaz’s fa i t h fulness to Sultan Mahmoud. One example is wh e n
Sultan Mahmoud has a pr i celess pearl that he asks his vaz ír to evalu ate. When he had done this, Sultan
Mahmoud a s ked him to smash the pearl. The vaz ír could not make himself do that, as the pearl was muc h
too valu abl e. The same que s ti on was put to diffe rent other min is te rs with the same re sult. When fin all y
Ayaz was a s ked that que s ti on, he also estim ated the pearl as pr i ce l e s s. When a s ked to de s t roy it, he to ok
1 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
two stones and crushed it. When receiv ing the reac ti on of the ot h e rs, he sa id: “O re now n ed pr inces, is
the Kin g’s comm and more preci ous or the pearl? In your eyes is the comm and of the sove reign or this
go o dly pearl sup e r i or...”
54 T h e re is more to this story, but the message that is most in te re s ting to this
s t udy is the exe mpl ary obed i e nce of Ayaz.
Re l ati onship Be tween Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
The re l ati onship be tween the lord and the true servant, as de s c r ibed in the story ab out Sultan
Mahmoud and Ayaz is mir rored in the re l ati onship be tween Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
ac ted as the re pre s e n tative of Bahá’u’ lláh in his con tact with the aut h or i ties of ‘A k k á. Shoghi Effe nd i
de s c r ibes him as “the Center and Pivot of Bahá’u’ lláh’s peerless and all- e n fold ing Cove n an t ,”
55 but in his
re l ati on to Bahá’u’ lláh he de s c r ibes himself as a servan t.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá was born on May 23, 1844 in to the fam ily of Bahá’u’ lláh, which was econom i cally ve ry
we ll off. The si t u ati on chan ged for the close fam ily of Bahá’u’ lláh when he was put in to pr is on and late r
e xil ed to the Ottom an Empire. It is from this time that one is able to see this kind of re l ati on s h i p
be tween Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Dur ing his life time, Bahá’u’ lláh often used the serv i ces of ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá. Tah e r z adeh menti ons ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as one of the tran s c r ibe rs of the re ve l ati on writin gs of
B ahá’u’ lláh56 and Bal y uzi57 d we lls on the role of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in ‘A k k á, wh e re he to ok care of the a ffa irs
of the Bahá’í commun i t y, re l ated to off i ci als, and had other exte r n al con tac ts. At the pa s sing of
B ahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’u’ lláh’s Will made ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá the leader of the Bahá’í commun i t y. It was a fter this
t h at he to ok the title ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. He emph a siz ed this in the follow ing lette r: “You have written that
t h e re is a diffe re nce among the be l i e ve rs conce r n ing the ‘S econd Com ing of Chr is t.’ Graci ous God! Tim e
and aga in this que s ti on hath ar is e n, and its an s wer hath eman ated in a clear and ir refutable state m e n t
from the pen of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, that wh at is meant in the proph ecies by the ‘L ord of Ho s ts’ and the
‘Prom is ed Chr is t’ is the Blessed Pe r fec ti on58 (B ahá’u’ lláh) and His hol iness the Exalted One (the Bá b). My
n ame is ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. My qu al i f i cati on is ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. My reality is ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. My pra ise is ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá. Thralldom to the Blessed Pe r fec ti on is my glor i ous and reful gent diadem and serv i t ude to all the
hum an race my perpetual re l i gi on .... No name, no title, no menti on, no comm e nd ati on have I, nor will
I ever have, except ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. This is my lon gin g. This is my greatest year n in g. This is my ete r n al life.
T h is is my eve rl a s ting glory.”59
Aut h ority and Servan t h o o d
The example of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has emph a siz ed the pr inci ple of servanthood for the ind iv idu al and the
g u id ing aut h ority of the elec ted in s ti t uti on. “....the lo cal a s s e mblies should in s pire con f ide nce in the
ind iv idu al be l i e ve rs, and these in their turn should express their read iness to fully abide by the decisi on s
and direc ti ons of the lo cal a s s e mbl y.”60
In the Will and Te s tament of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, the basis of Bahá’í adm in is t rati on, the re l ati on s h i p
be tween the Gu ard i an and the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce is expl a in ed. In the years to follow, the hold-
er of the in s ti t uti on of guard i an s h i p, Shoghi Effe nd i, de ve lop ed both in s ti t uti on s. To d ay the in s ti t uti on
of guard i anship is re pre s e n ted by the Inte r n ati on al Teac h ing Cente r, but not as an inde p e ndent in s ti t u-
ti on. That in s ti t uti on is sub ord in ated the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce.
B ahá’í Mar t y rs: Servan ts and Wi t n e s s e s
The Pe rsi an and Arabic word for mar t y r, used in Islam and in the Bahá’í Faith is shah íd, mean ing “w i t-
n e s s.” This is a link to the New Te s tament word for witnesses, as “w i t n e s s” is the mean ing of the Gre e k
word “m ar t y re ín .”61 The concept of mar t y rdom in Chr is ti anity has its ro ots in the Gospel, wh e re the
apostles are prom is ed help from the Holy Spirit, when in te r ro gated at cour t.
The mean ing of the word shah íd does not, howe ve r, mean that mar t y rs pr im ar ily are con side red wit-
nesses in the Bahá’í Fa i t h, as mar t y rdom also inc ludes the a s p ect of servanthood. The martyr should
rather be con side red a servant of Bahá’u’ lláh who gives up the most valu able thing that one can give: his
or her life. Whether a pers on should be con side red a martyr is decided by the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce.
If the death of a Bahá’í is acce p ted as mar t y rdom, it will be written in a letter that is sent to the Bahá’í
world. Mar t y rdom is therefore al ways ti ed to obed i e nce to the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce.
1 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Fundaments of Bahá’í Administration
When Shoghi Effe ndi de s c r ibed the Bahá’í Faith as a theo c rac y, he was de s c r ibing a kind of theo c rac y
t h at does not fit perfectly in to the pat te r n, given in the ar ticle on theo c rac y. It was a sys te m, based up on
a div ine gove r nment with some sim il ar i ties of sac ral kin gship but without a king and without a nati on .
It is moreover a sys te m, based on a prophet, but without a char is m atic leader a fter the for m ati on of the
f irst Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce in 1963, and without a sys tem of priestly func ti on ar i e s.
T h is theo c racy is lead by an a s s e mbly of nine people, elec ted through a pro cess that has many sim i-
l ar i ties with de mo c rac y. Accord ing to Shoghi Effe ndi it is, howe ve r, not a de mo c racy because it is not
re s p on sible to its vote rs, but to God. At the time of elec ti on the membe rs of the in s ti t uti ons in Bahá’í
adm in is t rati on still have to give the in i ti ative to the membe rs of the Bahá’í commun i t y, who give their
b allots in sec ret elec ti on s. In this way the elec ti ons are car r i ed out accord ing to the same basic pr inci-
ples as elec ti ons in de mo c ratic sys te m s.
The way of working in the Bahá’í adm in is t rative sys tem can be de s c r ibed in terms of both the basi c
pat tern of both the theo c ratic and the de mo c ratic sys te m s. Its fund am e n tals are equ ally compl e x. The
B ahá’í adm in is t rative sys tem is bu ilt on three fund am e n tals and two have been de s c r ibed in this chap-
te r: theo c racy and the Bibl i cal concept of the cove n an t. These two sys tem we re not all the time compat-
ible even in the Bibl e. In order to get a more compl e te pi c t ure of the Bahá’í adm in is t rative sys te m, it is
n ece s sary to con tinue with the third fund am e n tal, which is also an in s t r ument to in teg rate the other two
fund am e n tal s—the World Center of the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
Mount Carmel as Axis Mundi
The holy moun ta in as a symb ol in the his tory of re l i gi ons is a we ll-known moti f, as for exampl e
Mount Ararat to the Armenians and Mount Zi on in Jewish and Chr is ti an trad i ti on s. In the lat ter ca s e
it even serves as the name of a pol i ti cal ideolo gy. To the Bahá’ís, Mount Carmel in Israel has the sam e
func ti on .
In the Tablet of Carmel, Bahá’u’ lláh has re l ated Carmel and Zi on with the follow ing word s: “Call out
to Zi on, O Carmel, and announce the joy ful tid in gs: He that was hidden from mor tal eyes is com e! His
all- con que r ing sove reignty is man i fe s t; His all- e ncompa s sing spl e ndor is re veal ed .”62 In this way he pro-
c l a ims that the proph ecies of the Bible have been ful f ill ed. He does not say exactly which proph ecies, but
h is a im is ob v i ously to conn ect it to bibl i cal trad i ti on. In the same letter he refe rs to a number of re l i-
gi ous trad i ti on s. The trad i ti on of sac ral kin gship is refe r red to with the follow ing word s. “Rej oi ce, for
God hath in this Day establ is h ed up on thee His throne, hath made thee the daw n in g-pl ace of His si g n s
and the day spr ing of the evide nces of His Re ve l ati on .”63 I s l amic trad i ti on is refl ec ted in “...the ce l e s ti al
Ka ab a ...”64 and from Jewish trad i ti on menti on is made of “...the Bur n ing Bu s h ....”65
The status of the Tablet of Carmel is to be the found ati on of the Bahá’í World Center on Moun t
Carmel, its char te r. The other two te xts that are call ed char te rs are ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s Tabl e ts of the Div in e
P l an and the Will and Te s tament of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.66
Mount Car m e l —The Vin e yard of God67
To a visi tor to the city of Ha i fa, Israel, it is ob v i ous that Mount Carmel is of ce n t ral imp or tance to
the Bahá’í Faith. On this moun ta in the Bahá’ís have erec ted an in te r n ati on al adm in is t rative ce n te r, a
s hr ine for the re m a ins of the Báb and a ce n ter of pil g r im age. Sur round ing these ed i f i ces there are gar-
dens to such an extent that a ci tizen of that city once expre s s ed to this aut h or that when she was a child ,
g row ing up in Ha i fa, she thought the Bahá’ís wors h i pp ed garde n in g. To the num e r i cally small Bahá’í
commun i t y,
68 the bu ild ing of this area has been a maj or unde r taking and a prop or ti on ally large part of
i ts economic re s ources have been in ve s ted in this proj ec t.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá star ted the de ve lopment of the area ow n ed by the Bahá’ís by tran s p or ting soil to the bar-
ren land of Carmel and bu ild ing the first part of the shr ine of the Bá b.
69 T h is work was con tinued by
Shoghi Effe ndi and by the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce. The proj ec ts now going on emph a size this on a
g rand scale with the pl an to make the group of adm in is t rative bu ild in gs compl e te and to bu ild a series
1 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
of nine te r races from the top of Mount Carmel down to the shr ine of the Báb and a further nine dow n
to the fo ot of Mount Carmel. This proj ect is de s c r ibed by Shoghi Effe ndi in the follow ing visi on: “T h e
op e n ing of a series of te r races wh i c h, as de si g n ed by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, are to prov ide a direct approach to
the Bá b’s Tomb from the city lying under its shadow; the beauti f i cati on of its precinc ts through the lay-
ing out of parks and gardens, open daily to the public, and at t rac ting tour is ts and re side n ts al ike to its
gate s—these may be regarded as the in i ti al evide nces of the marve lous expan si on of the in te r n ati on al
in s ti t uti ons and endow m e n ts of the Faith at its world ce n te r.”
Axis Mundi
In his book, Pat terns in Comparative Re l i gi on, Mircea Eliade has dis cu s s ed holy moun ta ins as axis
mundi—the ce n ter of the world —s tand ing in the middle of the world, bind ing it to gether with heave n .
T h is theme can be found in many re l i gi ons, Zi on being one example from Jud a ism. Also in Iran i an re l i-
gi on, there are refe re nces to holy moun ta in s.
Shoghi Effe ndi has de s c r ibed the imp or tance of Mount Carmel and the shr ine of the Báb in the fol-
low ing te xt: “The oute r most circle in this vast sys te m, the visible coun te r part of the pivotal posi ti on
con fe r red on the He rald of our Fa i t h, is none other than the entire pl an e t. Wi t h in the heart of this
pl anet lies the ‘Most Holy Land ,’ acc l a im ed by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as ‘the Nest of the Proph e ts’ and which mu s t
be regarded as the ce n ter of the world and the Qibl ih of the nati on s. Wi t h in this Most Holy Land ris e s
the Moun ta in of God of imm e mor i al sanc ti t y, the Vin e yard of the Lord, the Re t reat of Elijah, Whose
Re t urn the Báb Himself symb ol iz e s. Re p o sing on the breast of this Holy Moun ta in are the exte n sive
prop e r ties permanently ded i cated to, and con s ti t uting the sac red precinc ts of, the Bá b’s holy Sepulc h e r.
In the midst of these prop e r ties, reco g n iz ed as the in te r n ati on al endow m e n ts of the Fa i t h, is si t u ated
the Most Holy Court, an enc lo sure compr ising gardens and te r races which at once embe ll is h, and lend
p ecul i ar charm to, these Sac red Precinc ts. Emb o s s ed in these lovely and ve rd ant sur round in gs stands in
all its exqu isi te beauty the Mau s ol eum of the Bá b, the Shell de si g n ed to pre s e rve and adorn the or i gi-
n al struc t ure ra is ed by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as the Tomb of the Mar t y r-He rald of our Faith. Wi t h in this Shell
is enshr in ed that Pearl of Great Pr i ce, the Holy of Holies, those chambe rs which con s ti t ute the Tomb
i ts e l f, and which we re con s t r uc ted by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Wi t h in the heart of these Holy of Holies is the
Tabe r n acle, the Vault wh e rein reposes the Most Holy Ca s ke t. Wi t h in this Vault re s ts the al ab a s te r
Sarcoph agus in which is de p o si ted that in e s tim able Jewel, the Bá b’s Holy Dust. So preci ous is this Dust
t h at the ve ry earth sur round ing the Ed i f i ce enshr in ing this Dust has been extoll ed by the Center of
B ahá’u’ lláh’s Cove n an t ,72 in one of His Tabl e ts in which He nam ed the five do ors be lon ging to the six
c h ambe rs which He or i gin ally erec ted a fter five of the be l i e ve rs a s s o ci ated with the con s t r uc ti on of the
s hr ine, as being endowed with such pote ncy as to have in s pired Him in be s tow ing these names, wh il s t
the Tomb itself hou sing the Dust He acc l a im ed as the Sp ot round which the Concourse on high circ l e s
in adorati on .”73
Does this nece s sar ily mean that it is the shr ine of the Báb that should be con side red the Axis Mund i
of the Bahá’í Faith? In Islam it is the Ka aba that is con side red the Axis Mundi and the Ka aba is also the
Qibl ih in Islam. This func ti on is bound to the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh in the Bahá’í Faith. The ci ted te xt
by Shoghi Effe ndi is, howe ve r, ce n t ral to this que s ti on and this means that in the Bahá’í Faith the Axis
Mundi and the Qibl ih are separated from each ot h e r.
Dedicated by Bahá’u’lláh
When re veal ing the Tablet of Carmel, Bahá’u’ lláh was stand ing on the top of Mount Carmel, read in g
out the tablet in a loud voi ce as a pro c l am ati on. The pl ace he choose for this pro c l am ati on was just ab ove
the Car m e l i te mon a s te ry, which in that moment came to symb ol ize the re l i gi ons of old74 and the proph e-
cy of the Bible that is in te r pre ted as Mount Carmel being the pl ace wh e re Jesus would re t urn. Mircea
E l i ade75 has written ab out this kind of con s ec rati on of holy pl ace s. He poin ts out that those holy pl ace s
we re often known earlier as holy pl ace s.
Mount Carmel is best known from the Old Testament as the mountain of Elia,76 who in the New
Testament is recognized as John the Baptist. This could be seen as a background to the spiritual center on
Mount Carmel, the shrine of the Báb, parallel to John the Baptist in the Bahá’í Faith. His remains have
1 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
been placed at that spot by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá under the instruction of Bahá’u’lláh. The shrine of Bahá’u’lláh is
situated across the Bay of ‘Akká. During pilgrimage it is a part of the program to visit both shrines.
A Mi c ro co s m
In Bahá’í teac h ing the number nine symb ol izes total i t y: “The number nine, which in itself is the num-
ber of perfec ti on, is con side red by the Bahá’ís as sac red, because it is symb olic of the perfec ti on of the
B ahá’í Re ve l ati on which con s ti t utes the ninth in the line of exis ting re l i gi on s...”
77 In Pe rsi an /A rabi c
t h inkin g, a number could be expre s s ed by add ing the numeric value of the lette rs in a word. The word
for nine is “b ahá” in this abjad sys tem. When Bahá’u’ lláh in s t r uc ts in the Ki t á b -i-A qdas that “in eve ry
city a House of Ju s ti ce be establ is h ed wh e rein shall gather coun s e lors to the number of Bahá,”
78 it is
ob v i ous to the reader how many pers ons that should be elec ted to that a s s e mbl y. He is, howe ve r, not onl y
giv ing a numbe r. He is also re l ating that a s s e mbly to the compl e te number of the Bahá’í Faith. In this
way He gives this a s s e mbly a role as a micro co s m, re pre s e n ting the wh ole world. An expre s si on to this
is that eve ry a s s e mbly should, in its decisi ons, try to serve not only the group that has elec ted its mem-
be rs, but the totality of mankind .
A nother number that has a symb olic mean ing in the Bahá’í Faith is nin e teen. The Bahá’í cal e nd ar has
n in e teen mon t hs with nin e teen days in each month. The most imp or tant re l i gi ous serv i ce is the Nin e te e n
Day Fea s t. The number of de l egates in a nati on al con ve n ti on is nin e te e n, two times nin e te e n, three tim e s
n in e te e n, etc., de p e nd ing up on the size of the commun i t y. This re l ati on to number nin e teen began in
the Bá bí re l i gi on, which star ted by ei g h teen pers ons who acce p ted the Báb inde p e nde n t l y. These ei g h te e n,
to gether with the Báb him s e l f, made up the first unit or váh id. The word váh id comes from the Arabi c ,
m ean ing “on e” in the fe m in ine te n s e. In the abjad sys tem the sum of váh id is nin e teen. Váh id can al s o
m ean unity and is used in the Bahá’í Faith to mean the unity of God. Number nin e teen of the Bahá’í
Faith has a parallel in Man i c h eism wh e re number nin e teen has a re l ati onship to Da é n á, the maiden that
wa i ted to accompany the soul in to parad is e.80 The Daéná motif is also refe r red to in the writin gs of the
Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh as the “Ma id from Heave n” speaks to the Báb in “Mun takh abá t-i Ayá t”81 and to
B ahá’u’ lláh in the Tablet of ‘I s hr á qá t.82
Mount Carmel as a Unive rsal Sy mb ol
In his de s c r i p ti on of the holy moun ta in, Mircea Eliade, also emph a sizes the need to rebu ild the hol y
moun ta in in the lo cal vill age and even in the homes of peopl e. There is no example of this that is
de s c r ibed in the Bahá’í writin gs. There are, howe ve r, some tra i ts that re l ate to this idea in the Bahá’í
House of Wors h i p. Mircea Eliade has de s c r ibed the holy moun ta in as the pl ace wh e re earth and heave n
meet and that this is re p eated in the lo cal te mpl e. The Bahá’í Houses of Worship are refl ec ting this by
t h eir dome struc t ure, re s e mbl ing the canopy of heave n .83 The House of Worship itself has nine entrance s ,
n ine pat h ways lead ing up to each entrance and nine gardens sur round ing it. The idea is that each vill age ,
town and city should be bu ilt around a House of Wors h i p, which would emph a size the idea of each te m-
ple being a symb ol of the holy moun ta in, the ce n ter of the world. Around the House of Worship will be
bu ilt de p e nde ncies like schools, lib raries etc. making the in s ti t uti on of the Ma™§r iqu’ l-A £§ k ár compl e te.
“The first part to be bu ilt is the ce n t ral ed i f i ce which is the spir i t u al heart of the commun i t y. Then,
g radu all y, as the outward expre s si on of this spir i t u al heart, the var i ous de p e nde ncies, those ‘in s ti t uti on s
of soci al serv i ce as shall a fford re l i ef to the su ffe r in g, su s te n ance to the poor, shelter to the way fare r,
s ol ace to the be reaved, and educati on to the ignoran t’ are erec ted and func ti on. This pro cess begins in
an emb ryonic way long before a Bahá’í community reaches the stage of bu ild ing its own Ma™§r iqu’ l-
A £§ k ár, for even the first lo cal ce n ter that a Bahá’í community erec ts can begin to serve not only as the
s pir i t u al and adm in is t rative ce n ter and gat h e r ing pl ace of the commun i t y, but also as the si te of a tuto-
r i al school and the heart of other a s p ec ts of community life.”84
The Spir i t u al Cente r
The most holy pl ace, howe ve r, is not Mount Carmel. It is the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh, outside the ci t y
of ‘A k k á, and especi ally wh e re his re m a ins are re s tin g.85 T h is is also the Qibl ih of the Bahá’í world, the
p oint towards which the Bahá’ís turn when pray in g. Dur ing pil g r im age the Bahá’ís al ways will visit this
pl ace at least on one occa si on and to most pil g r ims it is the highlight of their pil g r im age each time they
1 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
can visit this spot. At the time of larger gat h e r in gs, like at in te r n ati on al con ve n ti on s ,
86 t h e re will be to o
m any to enter in to the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh. Instead the de l egates will circum ambul ate this bu ild in g, fol-
low ing a pat h way that goes in a circle with the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh in its ce n te r.
In this way there might seem to be a te n si on be tween Mount Carmel as the ce n ter of the world and
the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh. This is, howe ve r, not the ca s e. The two pl aces have separate roles to the Bahá’ís ,
which are be t ter thought of as compl e m e n tary than comp e tin g. The shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh is the mo s t
h oly spot and Mount Carmel could be seen more as an outer symb ol of the world order of Bahá’u’ lláh .
C onc lu si on
Pil g r im age is a way for the ind iv idu al be l i e ver to strengthen his/her re l i gi ous be l i ef and to form a re l i-
gi ous ide n ti t y. This is true in many re l i gi ons and also in the Bahá’í Faith. St re n g t h e n ing the ties with the
founder of a re l i gi on — for Bahá’ís to strengthen the ties with Bahá’u’ lláh as a man i fe s tati on of God—
m akes a pers on ready to take on diffe rent kinds of re l i gi ous serv i ces and for the Bahá’ís this would be
to work in the Bahá’í adm in is t rati on. In ext reme si t u ati ons, like re l i gi ous pers ecuti ons, this re l i gi ou s
ide n tity will be te s ted to its ut most and this has happ e n ed to the Bahá’ís in Iran .
The Bahá’í adm in is t rati on is founded on two conce p ts, we ll known in the his tory of re l i gi on: sac ral
kin gship and the cove n an t. The Bahá’í World Center makes the means wh e reby the weav ing to gether of
the idea of sac ral kin gship and the idea of the cove n ant has be made.
The kingship of God is represented by the Bahá’í administration, headed by the Universal House of
Justice. The outer symbol of this institution is the Seat of the Universal House of Justice, surrounded by
complementary buildings. The symbol of the covenant is the shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, as this institution is
first and foremost connected to Bahá’u’lláh himself. The binding together of the idea of these two concepts
is done through the idea of Mount Carmel as axis mundi, which is represented by the shrine of the Báb.
Bibl i o g raph y
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Will and Te s tament of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Manc h e s ter 1950.
Á f á q í, Sá bír, Pro ofs from the Holy Qur’án, Mir’át Publ i cati ons, New Delhi 1993.
B ahá’í Praye rs, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1970.
B ahá’í World, xi i, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1956, re pr in ted 1981.
B ahá’u’ lláh, G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1939, Second re v is ed ed i-
ti on 1976.
B ahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b-i-A qd a s, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1992, re pr in ted 1993.
B ahá’u’ lláh, Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qdas, Bahá’í World Cente r, Ha i fa, Israel, 1978.
B al y uzi, Ha san, B ahá’u’ lláh - the King of Glory, George Ron ald, Oxford, 1980.
Bi anc h i, Ugo, Re l i gi on s h is tor iska Probl e m, Nat ur och Kult ur, Halm s tad, 1968.
E l i ade, Mircea, Pat terns in Comparative Re l i gi on, Sheed & Ward LTD, London 1958, Re pr in ted 1971.
E l i ade, Mircea (Ed .), E nc yc lopaedia of Re l i gi on s, MacMill an Publ is h ing Compan y, New York, 1987
E nc yc lop edia Br i tann i ca, Chicago, 1975.
E nc yc lop edie des Islam s
E s s l e mont, J.E., B ahá’u’ lláh and the New Era, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1970, Third re v is ed ed i ti on .
Hom e page of the Bahá’í World Center at Internet, 97- 03 -2
Lights of Guidance, Compiled by Helen Bassett Hornby, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, New Dehli, 1983, third revised edition 1994.
Nabíl-i-Zarand i, The Dawn Breake rs, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Comm i t tee, New York, 1955.
Ohl s s on, Ulla, Vem är hjälte?, Göteb orgs Unive rsi tet, Insti t uti onen för Re l i gi on s ve te n s k ap, nr. 17, 1995.
Rin g g re n, He lm e r, I s rae l’s Re l i gi on, Doxa, Lund, Swede n, 1970.
Ruhe, Dav id S., D o or of Hop e, George Ron ald, Oxford, 1983.
Shoghi Effe nd i, The Ad vent of Div ine Ju s ti ce, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1939, 1969 ed i ti on .
Shoghi Effe nd i, B ahá’í Adm in is t rati on, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1928, 1974 ed i ti on .
1 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Shoghi Effe nd i, Direc tives of the Gu ard i an, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, New Dehl i, no year of publ i cati on .
Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1944, sixth pr in ting 1970.
Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1938, Second re v is ed ed i ti on,
t h ird pr in ting 1969.
Svenskt Bibl iskt Upp s l ags ve rk
Svanbe rg, Ingvar (Ed .), Det mån g k ult ure lla Sve r i ge, Gidlunds bok f örl ag, Sto c kh olm, 1988.
Tah e r z ade h, Ad ib, The Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh vol. 1, George Ron ald, Oxford, re v is ed ed i ti on 1976.
Tah e r z ade h, Ad ib, Tr u s tees of the Me rci ful, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, London, 1972 .
Note s
1) In the mean ing that Me s si ah (the anoin ted on e) is refe r r ing to the kin g.
2) This can be tran s l ated to “letter of visi tati on .”
3) This can be tran s l ated as “prayer of visi tati on .”
4) The words zíárat and the less common word laqá both mean “v isi t” and are also used in a more ge n e ral sense, mean in g
to visit a pers on that one has a great re s p ect for. Both words are Arabic, but zíárat has been more in teg rated in the Pe rsi an
l an g u age.
5) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, sixth pr in ting 1970., (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1944), p. 188
6) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, p. 199
7) The ce n ter of the world .
8) This is the pl ace refe r red to in the table as the Shr ine of Jesu s. As it is ce n t ral to Chr is ti an Faith that the Tomb of Jesu s
was emp t y, it can be seen as dis re s p ec tful to call it the shr ine of Jesu s. It is, howe ve r, not my in te n ti on to dis cuss this
dogma. I simply use this term in order to be able to dis cuss pil g r im age as a ph e nom e non .
9) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois 1992, re pr in ted 1993, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t), p. 30.
10) These two pl aces are the only pl aces wh e re the term hajj is used in the Bahá’í writin gs. In English speaking Bahá’í lite r-
at ure there is no diffe re nce made be tween hajj and zíárat.
11) The Most Holy Shr ine is the shr ine of Bahá’u’ lláh in Bahji, outside ‘Akká in Israel. Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 191.
12) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 191–192 .
13) Bahá’u’ lláh .
14) Tah e r z ade h, Ad ib, The Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, (O xford: George Ron ald, 1983) vol. 3,.p. 64.
15) A Chr is ti an Arab who came from Leb anon. The idea of in i ti ati on is not common in the Bahá’í Faith. It seems that he did
not get this idea from ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, but inc luded it him s e l f.
16) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, (L ondon: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, No year of publ i cati on), Chap ter LXXXI
17) V. Pi ff Me t te lm an, Lua Getsin ge r— He rald of the Cove n an t, (O xford: George Ron ald, 1997), p.7.
18) Bahá’u’ lláh’s eldest dau g h te r.
19) Ve lda Me t te lm an, Lua Getsin ge r— He rald of the Cove n an t, p. 24–25.
20) This coll ec ti on was first publ is h ed under the title The Wis dom of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
21) Ward, All an L., 239 Days, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s Journey in America, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1979), p. 17–18
22) Ruhe, Dav id S., D o or of Hop e, (O xford: George Ron ald, 1983), p. 136.
23) Dav id S. Ruhe, D o or of Hop e, p. 143
24) Pro g ram of Pil g r im age, (Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Cente r, no year of publ i cati on). This booklet is und ated and no aut h or is
given. Each pil g r im receives a copy at the time of con f ir m ati on of the pil g r im age.
25) It is possible that por t ra i ts exist in pr ivate homes as we ll, but if so, they are not ava il able to the Bahá’í commun i t y.
26) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, p. 183
27) Zarat hu s t ra, the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh .
28) Accord ing to the Bahá’í tran s c r i p ti on sys te m, the spell ing is Tihr án .
29) Bahá’u’ lláh, G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, Second re v is ed ed i ti on 1976, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í
P ubl is h ing Trust, 1939), p. 109, 110.
30) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, Second re v is ed ed i ti on, third pr in ting 1969, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í
P ubl is h ing Trust, 1938), p. 153.
31) Shoghi Effe nd i, Direc tives of the Gu ard i an, (New Dehl i, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, no year of publ i cati on) p. 71.
32) D. D. Wall ace, Jr., “T h eo c rac y,” E nc yc lopaedia of Re l i gi on s, Ed. M. Eliade, (New York: MacMill an Publ. 1987), vol. 14,
pp. 427–430.
33) Bahá’u’ lláh, Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, (Ha i fa: Bahá’í World Cente r, 1978), p. 221. In this
tablet ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá is refe r red to under the title, given by Bahá’u’ lláh: the Most Mighty Branc h .
34) I use “Royal theo c rac y” and “sac ral kin gs h i p” as synon y m s.
35) Li g h ts of Gu id ance, Compil ed by Helen Bassett Hor nb y, third re v is ed ed i ti on 1994, (New Dehli: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t ,
1 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1983), pp. 50–51. Quotati on from Shoghi Effe ndi. This pun is hment means that this pers on cannot take part in the Bahá’í
adm in is t rati on .
36) The Arabic word being used by Bahá’u’ lláh for city is Medín e h, which does not imply that the mean ing of the word should
be conn ec ted to a ce r ta in size of the city or any speci al def in i ti on of a city as opp o s ed to a vill age. There are to d ay a
number of vill ages around the world with such an a s s e mbl y.
37) The num e r i cal value of Bahá in the abjad sys tem is 9. This is the trad i ti on al sys tem wh e reby each letter ge ts a numbe r
and the sum of the lette rs in a word ge ts a symb olic value.
38) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 30.
39) The mean ing of kh vare n ah is light, glory in the mean ing of far r-i-Iz adí, which is the glory of God, the same as the mean-
ing of the title Bahá’u’ lláh .
40) Ohl s s on, Ulla, Vem är hjälte?, (Göteb org: Göteb orgs Unive rsi tet, Insti t uti onen för Re l i gi on s ve te n s k ap, nr. 17, 1995),.p. 95f.
41) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Will and Te s tament of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (Manc h e s te r: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1950), p. 7.
42) B ahá’í Praye rs, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1970), p. 129-130.
43) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 123.
44) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 50.
45) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 206.
46) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. xvi.
47) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 41.
48) Rin g g re n, He lm e r, I s rae l’s Re l i gi on, (Lund: Doxa, 1970), p. 161f.
49) Shoghi Effe ndi writes that Bahá’u’ lláh de r ived His de s cent, on the one hand, from Ab rah am through his wife Kat urah,
and on the other hand from Zoroa s te r, as we ll as from Yaz d i gird, the last king of the Sás ás n iyán dynasty. God Passes By,
p. 94.
50) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, p. 95.
51) Shoghi Effe nd i, Direc tives from the Gu ard i an, p. 52 .
52) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 114.
53) He lmer Rin g g re n, I s rae l’s Re l i gi on, p. 155.
54) Ulla Ohl s s on, Vem är hjälte?, p. 188.
55) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 134.
56) The re ve l ati on writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh are notes taken at the time of the re ve l ati on of the tabl e ts. As Bahá’u’ lláh could
not be dis t urbed at those times, the sec re tary taking notes had to write ve ry qu i c k l y. This had the con s e que nce that this
te xt was only possible to read directly a fter the re ve l ati on and had to be tran s c r ibed direc t l y. Tah e r z ade h, Ad ib, T h e
Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, vol. 1, re v is ed ed i ti on (O xford: George Ron ald, 1976), p. 24.
57) Bal y uzi, Ha san, B ahá’u’ lláh: The King of Glory, (O xford: George Ron ald, 1980), index on ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 501–502 .
58) Bahá’u’ lláh .
59) Shoghi Effe nd i, The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 139.
60) Shoghi Effe nd i, The Ad vent of Div ine Ju s ti ce, 1969 ed i ti on, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1939), p. 28.
61) E nc yc lop edie des Islam, p. 281.
62) Bahá’u’ lláh, G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 16.
63) ibid, p. 15.
64) ibid, p. 16.
65) ibid, p. 16.
66) Tabl e ts of the Div ine Plan: ‘propagati on of the Fa i t h’; Will and Te s tament of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá: adm in is t rati on. Ad ib
Tah e r z ade h, Tr u s tees of the Me rci ful, (L ondon: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1972), p. 57.
67) Engnell, Ingvar (ed .), Svenskt Bibl iskt Upp s l ags ve rk, second ed i ti on, ( Sto c kh olm: Esselte, 1962), p. 1302 .
68) Ab out 5 mill i on membe rs to d ay. When the first bu ild in gs on Mount Carmel we re bu ilt in the beginn ing of the twe n ti-
eth ce n t ury, the number of Bahá’ís was much small e r. Hom e page of the Bahá’í World Cente r, Internet, 97- 03 -2 .
69) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, pp. 275 –277.
70) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, pp. 346.
71) Eliade, Mircea, Pat terns in Comparative Re l i gi on, Re pr in ted 1971, (L ondon: Sheed & Ward Ltd, 1958), p. 100.
72) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
73) The Bahá’í World, xi i, re pr in ted 1981, (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1956), pp. 349 –350, con t r ibuti on by
Shoghi Effe nd i .
74) See chap ter with the title “B ahá’í cove n an t.”
75) Mircea Eliade, Pat terns in Comparative Re l i gi on, p. 369.
76) Svenskt Bibl iskt Upp s l ags ve rk, p. 1302 .
77) Shoghi Effe nd i, Direc tives of the Gu ard i an, (New Dehli: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, no year of publ i cati on)., pp. 51–52 .
78) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 30.
79) Shoghi Effe nd i, B ahá’í Adm in is t rati on, 1974 ed i ti on., (Wilm e t te, Ill inois: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1928), p. 21.
1 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
80) Ekb al, Kamran, “Da é n á-Dé n-D ín: The Zoroa s t r i an He r i tage of the ‘Ma id of Heave n’ in the Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh .”
Mo ojan Momen (Ed .) S c r i p t ure & Re ve l ati on, (O xford: George Ron ald, 1997), p. 141f.
81) Bá b, The, S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of the Bá b, Chat h am, Great Br i ta in, 1978, p. 54.
82) Bahá’u’ lláh, Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 122 .
83) The dome struc t ure is a symb ol of heaven. E nc yc lop edia Br i tann i ca,( Chicago: 1975). “Re l i gi ous Sy mb ol ism and
Icono g raph y.”
84) Shoghi Effe nd i, Li g h ts of Gu id ance, Compil ed by Helen Bassett Hor nb y, third re v is ed ed i ti on 1994., (New Dehli: Bahá’í
P ubl is h ing Trust, 1983), p. 556.
86) Dav id S. Ruhe, D o or of Hop e, p. 118.
87) Inte r n ati on al con ve n ti ons are held once eve ry fifth year. The number of de l egates present might be more than 1,000 per-
s on s. The de l egates are the membe rs of each nati on al spir i t u al a s s e mbly and dur ing the 1990s there have been up to 175
n ati on al spir i t u al a s s e mbl i e s. (Hom e page of the Bahá’í World Center on the Inte r n e t)
1 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
2 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and
Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
Introduction
“K
i t á b -i-A qd a s ,” mean ing the “Most Holy Book,” is not an ord in ary work. It is not ab out a sin-
gle topic, nor merely ab out the laws and ord in ances of the Bahá’í Faith. It cannot be com-
pared with any other book, inc lud ing the Holy Bible or the Holy Koran. Therefore, it can
h ardly be re v i e wed in a single ar ticle, wh ate ver its extent, or be explored in a single lec t ure, wh ate ve r
i ts length.
The Aqdas has var i ous a s p ec ts. These a s p ec ts seem, on one hand, to be qu i te inde p e ndent from eac h
ot h e r, each of them re qu ir ing a lengthy dis cu s si on for a satisfac tory cove rage. On the other hand, these
a s p ec ts are so in te r re l ated that none of them can be cor rectly unde rs tood unless the wh ole con tent of
the Book is thorou g hly stud i ed. Only in this way can the spir i t u al power con ta in ed in this mighty work
be re l ea s ed, guid ing the reader to a be t ter compre h e n si on and dige s ti on of its mean ing and appreci ati on
of its si g n i f i cance and force.
The writer of a short ar ticle ab out the entry “A qd a s” in the E nc yc lopaedia Iran i ca (v.2, 1987, pp.191–92)
s tate s: “Accord ing to a ge n e ral evoluti on ary pr inci ple that can be seen to unde rl ay the Bahá’í teac h in gs ,
the Aqdas con s ti t utes an energe tic impulse rather than a rigid canon i cal co de. It foresees the fut ure ab ro-
gati on of its own dis p e n sati on, but not before a thou sand years.”
Since the Ki t á b -i-A qdas has been re veal ed (1873), num e rous pap e rs and seve ral books have been pub-
l is h ed either deb ating the Most Holy Book as a wh ole or dis cu s sing its diffe rent face ts and var i ous top-
i c s. Some of the more recent ones are as follows:
A s r ár u’ l- Ás ár (S ec re ts of the Scripts), a shor ter Bahá’í enc yc lopaedia in Pe rsi an by A. Fázil-i-
M áz and ar ání, volume 1, entry Aqdas, pp.161–169, first publ is h ed by Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust in
Te hran, 1968
Ta q rírát Dar Bár i-yi Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ( U t te rances ab out the Most Holy Book), a book in 420 pages in
Pe rsi an by ‘Abdu’ l-Hamíd Ishr á q-K há varí, 1969, ed i ted by Vah íd Ra’fatí, Bahá’í Ve rl ag, Hofh eim-
G e r m an y, 1997, ISBN 3-87037-966-9
G anj ín i-yi Hudúd va Ahk ám (Trea sures of Laws and Ord in ance s), by A. H. Ishr á q-K há varí, firs t
publ is h ed in Te h e ran 1946 with many later re pr in ts, the latest in New-D e lhi 1980, 466 pages, Pe rsi an
“Ki t á b -i-A qdas, the Mother Book of the Bahá’í Fa i t h,” an ar ticle by A. Rabb an i, Payám-i-B ahá’í, a
mon t hly periodical publ is h ed in France, is sue 150, May 1992, pages 12–24, Pe rsi an
“The Mother Book and the Adol e s ce nce of Mankind ,” an ar ticle by A. F. Iman i, Payám-i-B ahá’í,
is sue 150, May 1992, pages 25 –28, Pe rsi an
“A Glance at the Laws of the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ,” an ar ticle by N. Moh amm ad-Ho s s ein i, Payám-i-B ahá’í,
is sue 150, May 1992, pages 29 –34, Pe rsi an
“Ki t á b -i-A qdas in re s p ect of the Bahá’í Adm in is t rative Order and the Bahá’í World Orde r,” an ar ti-
cle by Cyrus Ala’i, Payám-i-B ahá’í, is sue 150, May 1992, pages 35 –50, Pe rsi an
2 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
2 2
“Ki t á b -i-A qdas in Bahá’í Li te rat ure,” an ar ticle by V. Ra’fatí, Payám-i-B ahá’í, is sue 150, May 1992 ,
pages 51– 62, Pe rsi an
“A Glance at the Li te rary St yle of the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ,” an ar ticle by Vah íd Be hm ardí, Payám-i-B ahá’í,
is sue 150, May 1992, pages 69-76, Pe rsi an
“Jur id i cal Aspec ts of the Mother Book,” an ar ticle by G. Khá varí, Payám-i-B ahá’í, is sue 150, May
1992, pages 77– 81, Pe rsi an
“S c h ol arly Works by Bahá’í Wr i te rs on the Ki t á b -i-Agd a s ,” B. Fur qání, Payám-i-B ahá’í, is sue 150,
May 1992, pages 84–92, Pe rsi an
“Et h i cal Teac h in gs of the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ,” S. Ra s s e kh, Payám-i-B ahá’í, is sue 150, May 1992, page s
92–94, Pe rsi an
“Re m arks on Sente nces in Cr im in al Cases ord a in ed in the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ,” an ar ticle by Udo Schäfe r,
t ran s l ated from or i gin al German in to Pe rsi an by D. Ma‘ání, Payám-i-B ahá’í, is sue 161, Apr il 1993 ,
pages 16–22, German /Pe rsi an
“H is tor i cal Hin ts, War n in gs and Prom ises in the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ,” an ar ticle by S. Mawl aví -N e z hád ,
Payám-i-B ahá’í, is sue 163, June 1993, pages 29 –34, Pe rsi an
“Appl i cability of the Laws of the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ,” by Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, May 1993, B ahá’í
Jour n al, July 1993, Englis h
“The Ki t á b -i-A qdas, its pl ace in Bahá’í lite rat ure ,” a statement by World Center Publ i cati on s ,
Feb r u ary 1993, Englis h
“The Ki t á b -i-A qdas, Bahá’u’ ll’áh’s Most Holy Book,” an ar ticle by K. Fan án á paz ír, B ahá’í Jour n al,
June 1993, Englis h
U n for t un ate l y, little effort has been made to tran s l ate any of these—or inde ed any other we ll-
re s earc h ed and useful works ab out the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s— from Pe rsi an, German and other lan g u ages in to
E n g l is h, a task worth unde r takin g.
Howe ve r, I be l i e ve that one should, first and fore most, refer to the comm e n taries made on this sub-
j ect by Shoghi Effe nd i, the Gu ard i an of the Faith and the app oin ted in te r pre ter of the Bahá’í holy te xts.
O nly his expl an ati ons can con s ti t ute a sound found ati on for any other comm e n tary or re s earch ab out
the Most Holy Book.
B a s ed on the ab ove rea s on in g, I have chosen one of the most imp or tant works of Shoghi Effe nd i, enti-
t l ed God Passes By, which app eared in 1944 on the occa si on of the first ce n te nn i al of the Bá b’s dec l ara-
ti on. This work is dis tin g u is h ed from his other writin gs by being in the form of a book rather than an
open lette r.
In his fore word, Shoghi Effe ndi write s: “It is not my pur p o s e...to write a de ta il ed his tory of the last
hundred years of the Bahá’í Fa i t h ... It is my purpose, on the occa si on of an ann ive rsary of such profound
si g n i f i cance, to at te mpt in the succe ed ing pages a survey of the outs tand ing eve n ts of the ce n t ury that
has seen this Spirit burst forth up on the world ....”
I nde ed, the re ve l ati on of the Ki t á b -i-A qdas may be con side red as the most outs tand ing event of the
f irst Bahá’í ce n t ury, and not h ing be t ter than the survey car r i ed out by the Gu ard i an can enl i g h ten the
m an i fold face ts of the Most Holy Book.
God Passes By was first publ is h ed in 1944 by the Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembly of the USA [si c]. In 1974
a re v is ed ed i ti on app eared, a copy of wh i c h —s econd impr int 1979 — is in my possessi on. It compr ises four
c h ap te rs in 412 page s. Accord ing to the index at tac h ed to this ed i ti on, the term “Ki t á b -i-A qd a s” or the
“Most Holy Book” has been refe r red to in eleven pages, wh e reas accord ing to my own count, these te r m s
app ear in for t y- eight diffe rent page s. Neither is the rea s on for such an ob v i ous mis take known to me,
nor is the blunder so minute and un imp or tant as to be ignored. Accord ing to my count, one or more ref-

Lights of ‘Irf á n
e re nces to the Ki t á b -i-A qdas can be found in ab out 12 percent of the total number of pages, which in
i tself de mon s t rates the si g n i f i cance of the Most Holy Book in the view of Shoghi Effe nd i .
A Few Fac ts Ab out the Most Holy Book
Before refe r r ing to the Gu ard i an’s comm e n taries, a few basic fac ts ab out the Most Holy Book should
be establ is h ed :
1) “The Most Holy Book” is the tran s l ati on of the Arabi c/Pe rsi an title “Ki t á b -i-A qd a s” and the te r m
“Most Hol y” should here be con side red as part of a proper name rather than as an adj ec tive. It is al s o
call ed in som e — m a inly non-B ahá’í — l i te rat ure, “The Book of Aqd a s” or “The Aqd a s.”
2) The Ki t á b -i-A qdas was re veal ed by Bahá’u’ lláh in the House of Údí -K h amm ar in ‘A k k á, the Hol y
L and. It is neither an open letter nor a tablet, addre s s ed to an ind iv idu al or a group. It is a small book
in Arabic, con ta in ing some ten thou sand words (the English tran s l ati on con ta ins nearly twe n t y-t h ou sand
word s—see English ed i ti on, pp.19 – 88— since Arabic, unl ike Englis h, is a ve ry concise lan g u age). It wa s
ut te red by Bahá’u’ lláh and was taken down by a few scribes, in par ti cul ar Zay nu’ l-Mu qar rabín. The clear
copy, which was made later by Zay nu’ l-Mu qar rabín from his notes and seen by Bahá’u’ lláh, is pre s e rved
in the Bahá’í in te r n ati on al arc h ive. It is con side red as the most aut h e n tic first copy of the Most Hol y
B o ok. The Book was ce r ta inly not re veal ed without in te r r up ti ons, but ve ry little is known ab out the
durati on of its re ve l ati on. The only known fact is that the Book was compl e ted in 1873.
3) A reader un fam il i ar with theolo gi cal terms and some de ta il ed his tor i cal eve n ts may not ea sily or
fully compre h e nd some of the pa s sages of the Ki t á b -i-A qdas except by refe r r ing to a number of ind is-
p e n sable note s. These notes have been carefully pre pared in 194 sec ti ons by the Unive rsal House of
Ju s ti ce and inc luded in the English ed i ti on (see pp.165 –251).
4) The or i gin al manuscript of the Aqdas, the num e rous sub s e quent manuscript copies, and the earl y
pr in ted ed i ti ons are in the form of a con tinuous te xt without punc t u ati on or div isi on in to ve rses or para-
g raphs. Only later did the Pe rsi an Bahá’í schol ar Ishr á q-K há ve rí div ide the Holy Te xt in to 463 ve rs e s ,
l eav ing out the op e n ing phrase “In the Name of Him Who is the Supreme Ruler over all that hath be e n
and all that is to be.”
In the English ed i ti on, the div isi on of the Holy Te xt in to ve rses has been ignored. Instead, it is div id-
ed in to 190 parag raphs, each compr ising of one or a few of the ve rs e s. Howe ve r, there are exce p ti ons to
t h is rul e. For example, ve rse 366 is div ided in to two sente nces, for m ing two separate parag raphs 152 and
153 (see page 75), wh e reas ve rse 439 is split in to two sente nces, for m ing the clo sing sente nce of para-
g raph 181, and the op e n ing sente nce of parag raph 182 (see page 85).
In the newly publ is h ed Arabi c/Pe rsi an ed i ti on — which is in the same for m at as the English ed i ti on —
the ve rses are separated by the in s e r ti on of a star be tween them, but are not numbe red. Howe ve r, the
number of each parag raph is noted in the margin. Con s e que n t l y, find ing a par ti cul ar ve rse by its num-
ber would be a tim e- con sum ing exe rcis e. It is note worthy that in the Bahá’í lite rat ure in Pe rsi an and
A rabic, when a refe re nce was made to a pa s sage of the Most Holy Book, un til recently only the numbe rs
of the re l ated ve rses we re menti on ed to enable the reader to ide n tify the given ve rses ea sily and establ is h
t h eir aut h e n ti ci t y. A table matc h ing the numbe rs of the ve rses with the numbe rs of the parag raphs of the
Most Holy Book has been pre pared but not yet publ is h ed .
5) There are a number of pa s sages by the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh made before the re ve l ati on of the Aqd a s ,
h e rald ing the for t h com ing of the Most Holy Book. In add i ti on, many later tabl e ts by the Aut h or of the
B o ok and by the Center of His Cove n ant have been con side red as adde nda to the Aqd a s. Some of these
suppl e m e n tary te xts, to which we will later refe r, are inc luded in the English volume, pages 91–102 .
6) After the Ki t á b -i-A qdas was re veal ed, Bahá’u’ lláh in s t r uc ted His lear n ed and trusted scribe, Zay nu’ l-
Mu qar rabín, to peruse the Book to see if there we re any ambi g u i ties, in which case he would come bac k
with pertinent que s ti ons to be an s we red by Bahá’u’ lláh. As a re sult of this exe rcise, the treatis e
“Que s ti ons and Answe rs” was created, the tran s l ati on of which from the or i gin al Pe rsi an is inc luded in
the English volume, pages 105 –140.
2 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
7) After the re ve l ati on of the Ki t á b -i-A qdas, it has been copi ed by hand time and aga in. Hum an error
in tran s c r i p ti on may have been the main rea s on for any occa si on al slight diffe re nces be tween these man-
u s c r i p ts and con s e quently any pr in ted ed i ti ons based on them. The English tran s l ati on, publ is h ed in
1992, is based on the most re l i able or i gin al manu s c r i p t— t h at of Zay nu’ l-Mu qar rabín, seen by Bahá’u’ lláh .
T h e refore, it should be con side red as aut h e n tic, and all other manu s c r i p ts and pr in ted copies should be
cor rec ted accord in g l y.
8) Some years a fter the re ve l ati on of the Ki t á b -i-A qdas, Bahá’u’ lláh had manuscript copies sent to
B ahá’ís in Iran and, in 1890–91, towards the end of His life, He ar ran ged for the publ i cati on of the or i g-
in al Arabic te xt of the book in Bomb ay. Therea fte r, num e rous pr in ted ed i ti ons of the book star ted
app ear in g, based on diffe rent manu s c r i p ts, mostly ve n t ured by a few ind iv idu al Bahá’ís. Howe ve r, up on
the in s t r uc ti ons of the Gu ard i an, this pro cess was stopp ed ab out five decades ago in an ti ci pati on of a
new ed i ti on, which he was pre par in g, the re l ease of which he had made a goal in the Ten Year Cr u sade
(1953– 63). Since the Gu ard i an pa s s ed away in 1957, this duty re m a in ed for the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce
for its compl e ti on .
In 1973, the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce is sued an annotated summ ary with an in t ro duc ti on and selec t-
ed tran s l ati ons by Shoghi Effe ndi on the ce n te n ary occa si on of the creati on of the Most Holy Book
(1873), enti t l ed Sy nop sis and Codificati on of the Laws and Ord in ances of the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s. This publ i-
cati on in English was pre s e n ted to the third Inte r n ati on al Bahá’í Con ve n ti on in Ha i fa in Apr il 1973 and
is inc luded in the English volume of 1992 (pages 143–164).
In 1986, the UHJ decided that the time had come when the pre parati on of an English tran s l ati on of
the compl e te te xt of the Most Holy Book was possible and essenti al, and made its accompl is hment a goal
of the six years glob al pl an (1986-1992). Ab out a third of the te xt had already been tran s l ated by Shoghi
Effe nd i, and publ is h ed in his var i ous Lette rs and Books, a compl e te list of which is inc luded in the
E n g l ish Volume (pages 255-257). The UHJ state s: “We are now satisf i ed that the tran s l ati on has reac h ed
a point wh e re it re pre s e n ts an acce p table re nde r ing of the or i gin al. Nevertheless, it will undoub tedl y
give rise to que s ti ons and su g ge s ti ons which may shed further light on its con te n ts.”
The Gu ard i an had adop ted an elevated style for the tran s l ati on of the Most Holy Book. Di ana Malo of,
a young Bahá’í, conduc ted a re s earch on the tran s l ati on norms employed by Shoghi Effe ndi for the Hol y
B ahá’í Wr i ts and conc luded that the follow ing pol i cies we re appl i ed by him :
E l e vate the tone of the lan g u age to befit Holy Wr i t;
Beautify the English te xt;
Euph on ize the tran s l ati on ;
C l arify and in te r pret the te xt.
The style adop ted by Shoghi Effe ndi has been followed for the tran s l ati on of the re m a inder of the
Ki t á b -i-A qd a s. (See “The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh, Tran s l ati on Norms Employed by Shoghi Effe nd i,”
Di ana Malo of, an ar ticle inc luded in pages 129 –139 of The Visi on of Shoghi Effe nd i, Bahá’í St ud i e s
P ubl i cati ons, Ottawa, Can ada, 1993, ISBN 0-920904-24- 6)
It is note worthy that Evgenii Edu ardovich Be r tels, the nin e teenth ce n t ury Ru s si an schol ar, was the
f irst pers on who at te mp ted to tran s l ate the Most Holy Book in to a foreign lan g u age, namely Ru s si an .
T h e re is also an incompl e te Ru s si an tran s l ati on ava il able by A. Tum an s kij, publ is h ed in 1899 in St
Pe te rsburg. The first English tran s l ati on, by the Chr is ti an mis si on aries E. E. Elder and W. M. Mill e r, is
e n ti t l ed A l-Kitáb al-A qdas or The Most Holy Book and was publ is h ed in London in 1961 by the London
Royal Asi atic Soci e t y, Oriental Tran s l ati on Found ati on. This re nde r in g, alt h ough compl e te, is not al ways
cor rect, especi ally in the note s. The older Ru s si an ve rsi on is more re l i abl e.
9) The ge n e ral re l i gi ous in s pirati on of the Aqdas is monot h eis tic. As the first ve rse clearly states, eve n
good works, if separated from the channel of the posi tive re ve l ati on, have only lim i ted value: “The firs t
duty pre s c r ibed by God for His servan ts is the reco g n i ti on of Him Who is the Days pr ing of His
Re ve l ati on and the Foun ta in of His laws, Who re pre s e n teth the Godh ead in both the kin gdom of His
2 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Cause and the world of creati on. Whoso ac h i e veth this duty hath at ta in ed un to all good; and whoso is
de pr ived thereof hath gone a s t ray, though he be the aut h or of eve ry righteous de ed .”
A non-B ahá’í reade r, or even a new con vert, may be struck by the apparent lack of order in the
s e que nce of prece p ts, exhor tati on, and war n in gs. The rea s on, in my view, is that the Aqdas is not a sys-
te m atic co de of law. It or i gin ated from div ine re ve l ati ons, which left its Aut h or no time to think ab out
the order of seque nce. etc. He ut te red His holy in s pirati ons without any pauses for cor rec ti ons or adj u s t-
m e n ts. Qu i te in con t rary, a book of law is based on num e rous sources and must be ed i ted and re-w r i t-
ten seve ral times before compl e ti on. Therefore, there is no sim il arity be tween the two writin gs, and so
they cannot and should not be compared .
B ahá’u’ lláh could have re- ar ran ged the Book late r, but chose not to. Inde ed, He kept His an s we rs to
the que s ti ons of His scribe separate from God’s Words, as He be l i e ved that the Holy Pa s sages should
re m a in in tac t.
10) Appl i cability of the laws of the Aqd a s: The in t ro duc ti on to the English tran s l ati on of the Ki t á b -i-
A qdas states that its publ i cati on does not inc rease the number of laws which are bind ing on Bahá’ís.
Be sides the pre v i ous bind ing laws—see the letter of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce to the Nati on al
Spir i t u al Assembly of Ice l and, dated June 9, 1974—the law of Óu q úqu’ lláh was appl i ed un ive rsally at
Ri∂ van 1992. In due course, the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce will announce further appl i cati ons of the
l aws when the fr i e nds have had the opp or t unity to fam il i ar ize themselves with the Most Holy Book, and
when it is propi ti ous to do so.
I nde ed, some of these laws are meant for the Golden Age of the Bahá’í Era and may not be appl i cabl e
w i t h in the near fut ure.
Commentaries by Shoghi Effendi
The comm e n taries by Shoghi Effe ndi on the Ki t á b -i-A qdas can be found in for t y- eight diffe rent page s
of his work God Passes By. For our purpose, they are div ided in to nine categories accord ing to the sub-
j ect to which they refe r:
1) How the Ki t á b -i-A qdas was created, and its rank and imp or tance:
“Unique and stupendous as was this proclamation [referring to the Chapter of Temple—Súrih Haykal], it
proved to be but a prelude to a still mightier revelation of the creative power of its Author, and to what
may well rank as the most signal act of His ministry— the promulgation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Alluded to
in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán; the principal repository of that Law which the Prophet Isaiah had anticipated, and
which the writer of the Apocalypse had described as the ‘new haven’ and the ‘new earth,’ as the ‘Tabernacle
of God,’ as the ‘Holy City,’ as the ‘Bride,’ the ‘New Jerusalem down from God,’ this ‘Most Holy Book’ whose
provisions must remain inviolate for no less than a thousand years, and whose system will embrace the
entire planet, may well be regarded as the brightest emanation of the mind of Bahá’u’lláh, as the Mother
Book of His Dispensation, and the Charter of His new World order.” (page 213)
“Revealed soon after Bahá’u’lláh had been transferred to the house of ‘Údí Khammár (circa 1873), at a
time when He was still encompassed by the tribulations that had afflicted Him, through the acts commit-
ted by His enemies and the professed adherents of his Faith, this Book, this treasury enshrining the price-
less gems of His Revelation, stands out, by virtue of the principles it inculcates, the administrative insti-
tutions it ordains and the function with which it invests the appointed Successor of its Author, unique and
incomparable among the world’s sacred Scriptures. For, unlike the Old Testament and the Holy Books which
preceded it, in which the actual precepts uttered by the Prophet Himself are non-existent; unlike the
Gospels, in which the few sayings attributed to Jesus Christ afford no clear guidance regarding the future
administration of the affairs of His Faith; unlike even the Qur’án which, though explicit in the laws and
ordinances formulated by the Apostle of God, is silent on the all-important subject of the succession, the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, revealed from first to last by the Author of the Dispensation Himself, not only preserves
for posterity the basic laws and ordinances on which the fabric of His future world order must rest, but
ordains, in addition to the function of interpretation which it confers upon His Successor, the necessary
institutions through which the integrity and unity of His Faith can alone be safeguarded.” (page 213–214)
2 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
“...t h is Book [Ki t á b -i-ˆqán]...o ccupies a posi ti on un e qu all ed by any work in the entire ran ge of Bahá’í
l i te rat ure, except the Ki t á b -i-A qdas, Bahá’u’ lláh’s Most Holy Book.” (page 139)
“...a Book de si g n ated by its Aut h or as ‘the source of true fe l i ci t y,’ as the ‘U n e r r ing bal ance ,’ as the
‘St raight Pat h’ and as the ‘qu i c kener of mankind’...” (page 215)
2) Shoghi Effe ndi refe rs to a number of tabl e ts and pa s sages from the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh writte n
before the re ve l ati on of Aqdas, herald ing the creati on of the Most Holy Book :
“‘we ll it is with him, who fixeth his gaze up on the Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, and re nde reth thanks un to
h is Lord. For He will a s suredly be made man i fe s t. God hath inde ed ir re vo cably ord a in ed it in the Bayán .’
[a pa s sage from the third Unit of Bayán] It is with that self-same Order that the Founder of the prom is ed
Re ve l ati on, twenty years late r— incor p orating that same term in His Ki t á b -i-A qd a s— ide n ti f i ed the Sys te m
e n v isaged in that Book, a ff ir m ing that ‘t h is most great Orde r’ had de ran ged the world’s equ il ib r i um, and
re voluti on iz ed mankind’s orde red life.” (pages 25 –26, see also page 59)
“...the Praye rs for Fa s tin g, written in an ti ci pati on of the Book of His Laws ;” (page 172)
“... B ahá’u’ lláh in s t r uc ted ... Nabíl to reci te on His be h alf the two newly re veal ed Tabl e ts of the
Pil g r im age [Hajj], and to perfor m, in His stead, the rites pre s c r ibed in them, when visi ting the Bá b’s
House in Shir áz and the Most Great House in Bag hd ad —an act that marks the ince p ti on of one of the
h oliest ob s e rvances, wh i c h, in a later period, the Ki t á b -i-A qdas was to for m ally establ is h .” (page 177)
“...Súrih Ghusn [the Chapter of the Branch] was revealed...a Tablet which may well be regarded as the har-
binger of the rank which was to be bestowed upon Him [‘Abdu’l-Bahá], in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas....” (page 177)
3) Shoghi Effe ndi refe rs to some later treatises and tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh and Abdu’ l-B ahá, inc luded a s
an app e nd ix or adde ndum to the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s:
“The for mul ati on by Bahá’u’ lláh, in His Ki t á b -i-A qdas, of the fund am e n tal laws of His Dis p e n sati on
was followed, as His Mis si on drew to a close, by the enunci ati on of ce r ta in prece p ts and pr inci ples wh i c h
lie at the ve ry core of His Fa i t h, by the rea ff ir m ati on of trut hs He had pre v i ously pro c l a im ed, by the
e l ab orati on and elucid ati on of some of the laws he had already laid dow n, by the re ve l ati on of fur t h e r
proph ecies and war n in gs, and by the establ is hment of sub sid i ary ord in ances de si g n ed to supplement the
prov isi ons of His Most Holy Book. These we re recorded in unnumbe red Tabl e ts, which he con tinued to
re veal un til the last days of His ear t hly life, among which the ‘I s hr á qá t’ (Spl e ndours), the ‘Bis hár á t’ (G l ad
Tid in gs), the ‘Tar áz á t’ (O r n am e n ts), the ‘Tajallí yá t’ (Efful ge nce), the ‘Kal am á t-i-Fe rd aws í yy ih’ (Words of
Parad is e), the ‘L awh-i-A qd a s’ (Most Holy Tabl e t), the ‘L awh-i-D un yá (Tablet of the World), the ‘L awh-i-
Ma qs úd’ (Tablet of Ma qs úd), are the most note wor t h y.” (page 216)
“The Document [the Will and Te s tament of Abdu’ l-B ahá] establ is h ing that Order [Adm in is t rative
O rde r], the Char ter of a fut ure world civ il iz ati on, which may be regarded in some of its feat ures as sup-
pl e m e n tary to no less mighty a Book than the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ;....” (page 328)
4) Refe re nces to the rul e rs (kin gs and pre side n ts etc .) and the lear n ed (re l i gi ous leade rs) :
“In this Char ter of the fut ure world civ il iz ati on its Aut h or—at once the Jud ge, the Lawgive r, the
Unifier and Redeemer of mankind —announces to the kin gs of the earth the promul gati on of the ‘Mo s t
Great Law’; pronounces them to be His va s sals; pro c l a ims Himself the ‘King of Kin gs’; dis c l a ims an y
in te n ti on of lay ing hands on their kin gdoms; re s e rves for Himself the right to ‘s eize and possess the
h ear ts of men’; warns the world’s ecc l e si a s ti cal leade rs not to weigh the ‘B o ok of God’ with such stand ard s
as are cur rent amon gst them; and a ff irms that the Book itself is the ‘U n e r r ing Bal ance’ establ is h ed
among them.” (page 214)
“The si g n i f i cant summons is sued to the Pre side n ts of the Re publics of the American con tinent to seiz e
t h eir opp or t unity in the Day of God and to champi on the cause of Ju s ti ce; the inj unc ti on to the mem-
be rs of parl i am e n ts throu g h out the world, urging the adop ti on of a un ive rsal script and lan g u age; His
war n in gs to Will i am I [Wilh e lm I], the con que ror of Nap ol eon III; the re pro of He adm in is te rs to Francis
Jo s e ph [Franz Jo s e ph], the Emp e ror of Austria; His refe re nce to ‘the lam e n tati ons of Be rl in’ in His ap o s-
t rophe to ‘the banks of the Rhin e’; His conde mn ati on of ‘the throne of tyrann y’ establ is h ed in
2 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
C on s tan tinople, and His pred i c ti on of the extinc ti on of its ‘outward spl e ndour’ and of the tribul ati on
de s tin ed to ove r take its inh abi tan ts ;” (page 215)
The essence of these pa s sages are de ta il ed and re p eated in many other pages of God Passes By. One
can refer to page 206 for Bahá’u’ lláh’s further announce m e n ts to the kin gs; page 208 and 226 for His
announcement to Will i am I and to Francis Jo s e ph; page 225 wh e re Sultan ‘Abdu’ l-A z íz is menti on ed ;
pages 207, 254 and 396 wh e re the Rul e rs of America and the West are refe r red to; and to page 395 wh e re
Queen Mar i e’s ac knowl ed gement of the Div ine Me s sage are de s c r ibed as the first fr u i ts of the visi on
which Bahá’u’ lláh had seen long before in His cap tiv i t y, and had announced in His Ki t á b -i-A qd a s.
“In immor tal pa s sages of His Ki t á b -i-A qd a s... He bids the entire company of the ecc l e si a s ti cal leade rs
to ‘fear God’, to ‘rein in’ their pens, ‘fl ing away idle fancies and im agin in gs, and turn them towards the
Hor iz on of Certi t ude’....” (page 209)
5) The laws and ord in ance s:
One should refer to the other maj or Holy Books, in par ti cul ar the Koran and the Bayán, in order to
reco g n ize the ro ots of some of the laws ord a in ed in the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s. Alt h ough the mould of some of
the ord in ances pre s c r ibed in those Holy Books, such as fa s tin g, obl i gatory praye rs and pil g r im age, have
been kept in the Most Holy Book, their form and con tent have been chan ged. The Báb had made the
appl i cability of His laws de p e ndent up on the approval of the One Whom God will make man i fe s t.
B ahá’u’ lláh, being that prom is ed Man i fe s tati on, con f ir m ed some of those ord in ances, such as the
N in e teen Day Fea s ts and the new Cal e nd ar, and rej ec ted or chan ged many ot h e rs. Alt h ough this is a use-
ful and de sirable stud y, it is not a pre re qu isi te for the unde rs tand ing and ab s or p ti on of the laws and ord i-
n ances of the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s.
“The laws and ord in ances that con s ti t utes the maj or theme of this Book, Bahá’u’ lláh, moreove r, has
s p eci f i cally charac te r iz ed as ‘the breath of life un to all created thin gs ,’ as ‘the mightiest stron g h old ,’ a s
the ‘fr u i ts’ of His ‘Tre e ,’ as ‘the highest means for the main te n ance of order in the world and the secur i-
ty of its peopl e s ,’ as ‘the lamps of His wis dom and lov in g-prov ide nce ,’ as ‘the sweet smell ing savour of
H is gar m e n t ,’ as the ‘ke ys’ of His ‘m e rc y’ to his creat ure s. ‘T h is Book,’ He Himself te s tifies, ‘is a heav-
en which We have ador n ed with the stars of Our comm andm e n ts and proh ibi ti on s.’ ‘B l e s s ed the man’, He ,
moreove r, has stated, ‘who will read it, and ponder the ve rses sent down in it by God, the Lord of Powe r,
the Alm i g h t y.” (pages 215 –216)
“In it He for m ally ord a in s
the institution of the ‘House of Justice,’ defines its functions, fixes its re venues, and designates its members as
the ‘Men of Justice,’ the ‘Deputies of God,’ the ‘Trusties of the All-Me rc i f u l , ’
alludes to the fut ure Center of His Cove n ant, and in ve s ts Him with the right of in te r pre ting His
h oly Wr i t;
an ti ci pates by impl i cati on the in s ti t uti on of Gu ard i an s h i p;
bears witness to the re voluti on izing effect of His World Orde r,
e nunci ates the do c t r ine of the ‘Most Great Infall ibil i t y’ of the Man i fe s tati on of God;
a s s e r ts this in fall ibility to be the inh e rent and exc lu sive right of the Proph e t;
and rules out the possibility of the app earance of another Man i fe s tati on ere the lapse of at lea s t
one thou sand years.
In this Book He, moreove r, pre s c r ibes the obl i gatory praye rs ;
de si g n ates the time and period of fa s tin g ;
proh ibi ts con g regati on al prayer except for the dead ;
f ixes the Qibl ih [the ce n ter all must turn to for obl i gatory praye rs];
in s ti t utes the Óu q úqu’ lláh [Right of God];
for mul ates the law of inh e r i tance ;
ord a ins the in s ti t uti on of the Ma™§r iqu’ l-A £§ k ár [Bahá’í Te mpl e];
e s tabl ishes the Nin e teen Days Fea s ts, the Bahá’í fe s tivals and the Inte rcal ary Days ;
ab ol ishes the in s ti t uti on of pr i e s t h o o d ;
proh ibi ts slave ry,
2 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
a s ce ti cis m,
m e nd i canc y,
mon a s ti cis m,
p e n ance ,
the use of pulpi t
and the kis sing of hand s ;
pre s c r ibes mono gam y;
conde mns crue lty to an im al s ,
idleness and slot h,
b ac kbi tin g
and calumn y;
ce n sures divorce ;
in te rd i c ts gambl in g,
the use of opi um, wine and other in toxi cating dr ink s ;
s p ecifies the pun is hment for murde r,
ars on,
adulte ry,
and theft;
s t resses the imp or tance of mar r i age and lays down its essenti al cond i ti on s ;
imposes the obl i gati on of engaging in some trade or profe s si on, exalting such occupati on to the rank
of wors h i p;
e mph a sizes the nece s sity of prov id ing the means for the educati on of childre n ;
and lays up on eve ry pers on the duty of writing a te s tam e n t
and of strict obed i e nce to on e’s gove r nm e n t.
Apart from these prov isi ons Bahá’u’ lláh exhor ts His followe rs to con s ort, with amity and concord
and without dis c r im in ati on, with the adh e re n ts of all re l i gi on s ;
Warns them to guard aga inst fan ati cis m, sed i ti on, pr ide, dis pute and con te n ti on ;
I nculcates up on them imm acul ate cleanl in e s s ,
strict trut h fuln e s s ,
s p otless chasti t y,
t r u s twor t h in e s s ;
h o s pi tal i t y,
f ide l i t y,
cour te s y,
forbearance ,
j u s ti ce and fa ir n e s s ;
counsels them to be ‘e ven as the fin ge rs of one hand and the limbs of one body’;
calls up on them to ar ise and serve His Cause; and a s sured them of His undoub ted a id .
He, fur t h e r more, dwe lls up on the in s tability of hum an a ffa irs ;
dec l ares that true liberty con sis ts in man’s sub m is si on to His comm andm e n ts ;
cauti ons them not to be indul gent in car ry ing out his stat ute s ;
pre s c r ibes the tw in in s e parable duties of reco g n izing the ‘Days pr ing of God’s Re ve l ati on’ and the
ob s e rv ing all the ord in ances re veal ed by Him, neither of wh i c h, He a ff irms, is acce p table without
the ot h e r. (56 sec ti ons, pages 214–215)
Further refe re nces to Ma™§r iqu’ l-A £§ k ár (B ahá’í Te mpl e) can be found on pages 255, 300 and 340; to
the World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh on page 325; to the Houses of Ju s ti ce on page 331; and to Óu q úqu’ lláh
(Right of God) on page 328.
6) Proj ec ti ons and proph eci e s:
“...the words of cheer and com fort He addresses to His native city [Te h e ran], a s sur ing her that God
h ad chosen her to be ‘the source of the joy of all mankind’; His proph ecy that ‘the voi ce of the hero e s
2 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
of Khur ás án’ will be ra is ed in glor i f i cati on of their Lord; His a s s e r ti on that men ‘e ndued with mighty
valour’ will be ra is ed up in Kir m án who will make menti on of Him; and fin all y, His mag n an imou s
a s surance to a perfid i ous brother who had a ffl i c ted Him with such an g u is h, that an ‘e ve r-forgiv in g, all-
b oun teou s’’ God would forgive him his in iqu i ties we re he only to re p e n t—all these further enrich the
con te n ts of a Book de si g n ated by its Aut h or as ‘the source of true fe l i ci t y,’ as the ‘U n e r r ing Bal ance ,’ a s
the ‘St raight Pat h’ and as the ‘qu i c kener of mankind’...” (page 215)
“The Sove reign wh o, as fore s h adowed in Bahá’u’ lláh’s Most Holy Book must adorn the throne of His
n ative land and cast the shadow of royal protec ti on over His long pers ecuted followe rs, is as yet und is-
cove red .” (page 411)
“The conc lu si on of the te r r ible con flict [the first world war]... ful f ill ed the om inous pred i c ti ons made
by Bahá’u’ lláh in the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s ,....” (page 305)
7) The Bahá’í Faith is an inde p e ndent re l i gi on :
“...d is s o ci ati on of the Sys tem envisaged in the Ki t á b -i-A qdas from the Sunni ecc l e si a s ti cal Law in
Egypt [refe r r ing to the jud gement of May 10, 1925 in Egy p t], has paved the way for the reco g n i ti on of
t h at sys tem in the Holy land its e l f,....” (page 34; see also pages 365 and 367)
Refe r r ing to the pro c l am ati on of the inde p e nde nce of the Bahá’í laws from other ecc l e si a s ti cal sys-
tems, Shoghi Effe ndi wrote: “In the United States of America ...the speci al stress laid on some of the fun-
d am e n tal laws con ta in ed in the Ki t á b -i-A qdas regard ing daily obl i gatory praye rs....” (page 373; see al s o
pages 370 and 374)
8) Cove n an t:
“... ide n tifies Him (Abdu’ l-B ahá) with ‘the One Whom God hath pur p o s ed ,’ ‘Who hath branc h ed from
t h is pre- e xis tent Ro ot ,’ refe r red to in the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s....” (pages 239 –240)
“On Him (Abdu’ l-B ahá), at a later period, the Aut h or of the Ki t á b -i-A qdas, in a ce l eb rated pa s sage, sub-
s e quently elucid ated in the ‘B o ok of My Cove n an t ,’ had be s towed the func ti on of in te r pre ting His Hol y
Writ, pro c l a im ing Him, at the same time, to be the One ‘W h om God hath pur p o s ed, Who hat h
b ranc h ed from this Ancient Ro ot’....” (page 242, also see pages 238 and 112)
9) Other subj ec ts:
“H is [the Bá b’s] we ll-known comm e n tary on the Sú r ih of Va’ l-A s r... which Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to in the
Ki t á b -i-A qd a s....” (page 14)
“As to the si g n i f i cance of the Dec l arati on let Bahá’u’ lláh Himself re veal to us its imp or t. Acc l a im in g
t h at his toric occa si on as the ‘Most Great Fe s tival ,’ the ‘King of Fe s tival s ,’ the ‘Fe s tival of God,’ He has,
in His Ki t á b -i-A qdas, charac te r iz ed it as the Day wh e reon ‘all created thin gs we re imm e rs ed in the sea of
pur i f i cati on’....” (page 154)
“B ahá’u’ lláh had thus addre s s ed His followe rs in His Ki t á b -i-A qdas, ‘and will a s sist wh o s o e ver will
ar ise to a id My Cause with the hosts of the Concourse of high, and a coh ort of the angles, who are nigh
un to Me’....” (page 376)
At the end, it should be noted that the topics refe r red to in the Ki t á b -i-A qdas are not lim i ted to wh at
is menti on ed in this pap e r. The purpose of this ar ticle has only been to prov ide some basic in for m ati on
ab out the Aqdas and whet the app e ti te of the reader to peruse the wh ole of the Most Holy Book.
2 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
3 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
“Y
e are even as the bird which soare t h, with the full force of its mighty win gs and with compl e te
and joyous con f ide nce, through the imm e n sity of the heavens, un til, imp e ll ed to satisfy its
hun ge r, it turneth lon gingly to the water and clay of the earth be low it, and, hav ing be e n
e n t rapp ed in the mesh of its de sire, findeth itself imp otent to re sume its flight to the realms wh e nce it
cam e. Powe rless to shake off the burden wei g h ing on its sull i ed win gs, that bird, hitherto an inm ate of
the heavens, is now forced to seek a dwe ll in g-pl ace up on the du s t.”1
I n t ro duc ti on
W h ile in Bag hd ad in exile, Bahá’u’ lláh left the city for a period of two years (Apr il 10, 1854 to Marc h
19, 1856) to withdraw to the moun ta ins of Kurd is tan and the town of Sul ay m an iyy ih wh e re His true
ide n tity as unknown but word of His sanc ti f i ed charac ter and mys ti cal knowl ed ge spread. After He
re t ur n ed to Bag hd ad, Bahá’u’ lláh, who had not yet op e nly dec l ared His mis si on, wrote a letter re s p ond-
ing to que s ti ons posed to him by a sufi mys tic, Shaykh Muh y i’d-Din, which has come to be known by the
title The Seven Vall e ys (Ha ft-Vad i). This short mys ti cal essay, written in the Pe rsi an lan g u age, traces the
e s s e nce of the journey of the soul in its ete r n al approach towards its Creator, God. The seven stages (val-
l e ys) of this journey is a trad i ti on al Ea s tern mys ti cal conce p t. The metaph or of the seven vall e ys is al s o
found in the famous late twe l fth ce n t ury work of Far id ud-Din At tar, a nar rative poem of more than four
t h ou sand lines, call ed “The Con fe re nce of the Bird s” (Man teq at- Ta ir). The Seven Vall e ys of Bahá’u’ lláh
is an or i gin al comm e n tary on that trad i ti on al mys ti cal theme and alludes to His own imp e nd ing pro c l a-
m ati on in many subtle ways. With the threads of sim il arity of theme, stories, all egory, and especi all y
bird im age ry, Bahá’u’ lláh weaves a new garment for the mys ti cal path of hum an i t y. The theme of bird
im age ry in both the work of Bahá’u’ lláh and of At tar is the topic for this pap e r.
I m age ry of the Bird —Su f ism and At tar’s poem
The Con fe re nce of the Birds is the best known work of the mys ti cal Pe rsi an poet, Far id ud-Din At tar,
who was born in mid-twe l fth ce n t ury A.D. in nor t h- east Iran (wh e re Omar Khayyam also was bor n). His
n ame, At tar, ind i cates a perfume seller or dr u g gis t/do c tor which may have been his occupati on as we ll
as poet. He trave l ed wide l y, much as his coun te r par ts in med i e val Europe, the troub adours and wande r-
ing schol ars. After his wande r in gs, he settled in his hom e town of Nis h apur alt h ough there is some evi-
de nce that later he was tried for here s y. He was ban is h ed and his property lo oted. Howe ve r, at the tim e
of his death he was back in Nis h apur wh e re he is bur i ed .
At tar’s “The Con fe re nce of the Bird s” is a poem ab out su f is m, a do c t r ine of the mys tics of Islam .
Su f is we re con tinu ally under threat of being accu s ed of being here tics (by or t h o dox Islam) because their
teac h in gs we re handed down from shaykh (s pir i t u al leade r) to pupil and they we re forbidden to re veal their
most imp or tant be l i efs, alt h ough diffe rent su f is liv ing at diffe rent times have clearly be l i e ved in diffe r-
ent thin gs.
Sufi do c t r ines inc lude: only one God exis ts, all other thin gs are an eman ati on of Him, or are His
‘s h adow’; re l i gi on is useful mainly as a way of reac h ing to a Tr uth be yond the teac h in gs of par ti cul ar re l i-
gi on s— h owe ver Islam is the most useful re l i gi on; man’s dis tinc ti ons be tween good and evil have no
m ean ing for God who knows only un i t y; the soul is trapp ed within the cage of the body but can, by
lo oking in ward, reco g n ize its essenti al a ff inity with God; the awake n ed soul, guided by God’s grace, can
3 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
pro g ress along a ‘Way’ which leads to ann ih il ati on in God. The do c t r ine received its most ext re m e
e xpre s si on in the writin gs of the Span ish Arab pan t h eist Ibn Arabi, a con te mp orary of At tar, who main-
ta in ed that the being of creati on and the Creator are ind iv isibl e. In “The Con fe re nce of the Bird s ,” At tar
fre quently seems to be ab out to prop ound the same do c t r ine, only to step back at the last moment and
m a in ta in a fin al dis tinc ti on be tween God and His creat ure s.
Su f ism was not simply a do c t r ine but was a dis ci pl ine for liv ing wh e re its prac ti ti on e rs followed a care-
fully pre s c r ibed ‘Way.’ At tar’s poem, “The Con fe re nce of the Bird s ,” is a de s c r i p ti on of the stage s
e ncoun te red by the ade p ts of the su f is’ Way in the form of an all egory of the “bird s” of the world gat h-
e red to gether to seek their “kin g” (G o d). In their quest, the birds are led by one of them call ed the
h o opoe bird (hod-hod, in Pe rsi an) who ac ts as their shaykh (s pir i t u al guide) on their journey through the
s e ven vall e ys: quest, love, in sight in to mys te ry, de tac hment, un i t y, be w ilderment, and pove r t y/not h in g-
n e s s. The purpose of the dis ci pl ine is to ac h i e ve pur i f i cati on .
A lt h ough the stories are told by the hoopoe to birds they are in reality told by At tar to hum an i t y. The
h o opoe te lls the birds that they inde ed have their own kin g —call ed the Simorg h — but that he lives far
away. The birds are at first enthu si a s tic to begin their searc h, but when they real ize how diff i cult the
j ourney will be they start to make excu s e s. The nightin gale, for example, cannot leave his be loved; the
h awk is satisf i ed with his posi ti on at court wa i ting on ear t hly kin gs; the finch is too a fra id even to set
out. The hoopoe coun te rs each of their excuses with stories and an ecdotes which show how their de sire s
and fears are mis taken and gives ad v i ce for liv in g. The birds fly a little way and then pause to ask the
h o opoe ab out the length of the jour n e y. In an s wer the hoopoe de s c r ibes the seven vall e ys of the Way.
The journey is quickly dealt with and, out of the thou sands of birds who began the jour n e y, only thir t y
birds have made it to the end wh e re they ar r ive at the court of the Simorgh. At first they are tur n ed bac k
t h e n, a fter each bird is a s ked to review its own mis de eds in life, with their spir i ts now ref in ed, the bird s
are fin ally adm i t ted and find that the Simorgh they have sought is none other than themselves refl ec t-
ed in the “face” of the Simorgh. The story de p e nds on a pun in which the words in Pe rsi an si (30) and
morgh (bird s) re m a in at the end of the jour n e y, and the si morg h (30 bird s) meet the Simorg h, the goal of
t h eir que s t. Two sufi themes are diffu s ed throu g h out the poem: the nece s sity for de s t roy ing the Self, and
the imp or tance of pa s si on ate love. The two are conn ec ted: the Self is seen as an entity de p e ndent on
pr ide and re putati on; there can be no pro g ress un til the bird (pil g r im) is ind i ffe rent to bot h, and the
commonest way of making him ind i ffe rent is the exp e r i e nce of ove rwh e lm ing love.4
The hoopoe says to the bird s:
I know our kin g — but how can I alon e
E ndure the journey to His dis tant thron e?
Join me, and when at last we end our que s t
O ur king will greet you as His honoured gue s t.
How long will you persist in bl a s ph e m y?
E s cape your self-h o o d’s vici ous tyrann y —
W h o e ver can evade the Self tran s ce nd s
T h is world and as a lover he a s ce nd s.
Set free your soul; impatient of de l ay,
Step out along our sove rei g n’s royal Way:
We have a king; be yond Ka f’s moun ta in peak
The Simorgh lives, the sove reign wh om you seek,
A nd He is al ways near to us, though we
Live far from His tran s ce ndent maj e s t y.
A hundred thou sand veils of dark and light
Wi t hdraw His pre s e nce from our mor tal si g h t ,
A nd in both worlds no being shares the thron e
T h at marks the Simorg h’s power and His alon e —
He reigns in und is t urbed omn i p ote nce ,
B at h ed in the light of His mag n i f i ce nce —
3 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
No mind, no in te ll ect can penetrate
The mys te ry of His un e nd ing state . . .
A nd near the end of the poem At tar says:
You cannot hope for Li fe till you pro g re s s
T hrough some small shadow of this Not h in g n e s s.
First He will humble you in dust and mire ,
A nd then be s tow the glory you de sire.
Be not h ing firs t! And then you will exis t ,
You cannot live wh ilst life and Self persis t—
Till you reach Not h ingness you cannot see
The Li fe you long for in ete r n i t y.
Imagery of the Bird—Bahá’í sources
One of the Apostles of Bahá’u’ lláh, the famous call i g raph e r, Mírzá Óu say n-i-I sfah ani (d i ed in ‘A k k á,
1912 AD) enti t l ed Mis hkin-Qal am (Mu s k-s ce n ted Pe n), who is perh aps most we ll known as the de si g n e r
of the “Greatest Nam e” symb ol, was the first Bahá’í ar tist to use the Islamic cult ural art of call i g raph y
and pa in ting to express his Bahá’í re l i gi ous and mys ti cal fe e l in gs. Bird im age ry, which app ears so ofte n
in his call i g raphic re nde r in gs, is a powe r ful expre s si on of the theme of the “N i g h tin gale of Parad is e”
announcing the brin ging of the heave nly message of a new Faith to our ear t hly hom e. Num e rous exam-
ples of his outs tand ing work are pre s e rved in mu s eums (inc lud ing the Sackler Mu s eum at Harvard
U n ive rsi t y) and Bahá’í ce n te rs around the world .7
The Central Fi g ures of the Bahá’í Faith have used the im age of the bird to con vey num e rous spir i t u al
cond i ti ons and states of bein g, draw ing on a rich cult ural heritage to express more viv idly their message.
A list of examples inc lude:
From Bahá’u’lláh:
bird of ut te rance (Epistle to the Son of the Wol f); bird of the hum an heart, bird of the Throne, bird
of the spirit, the bird which soareth (G l ean in gs); bird of Desire, bird of Ete r n i t y, bird of Heave n, bird
of the hum an mind, mys tic bird (Ki t á b -i-ˆqán); bird of thy soul, Pe rsi an bird, bird of the heavens of God,
t h is mor tal Bird (S e ven Vall e ys); and ce l e s ti al bird, broken bird (Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh).
From ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá :
b roke n-w in ged bird, bird of love and unde rs tand ing (B ahá’í Praye rs); div ine bird, rov ing bird, bird of
high flight (Japan Will Turn Abl az e); bird of joy, kingly bird (Me mor i als of the Fa i t h ful); wealth of a
bird (S ome Answe red Que s ti on s); and bird of my mind, bird of clay, bird of fa i t h fulness, soar ing bird
(S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá).
From Shoghi Effe nd i :
the bird of hum an kind (God Passes By).
B ahá’u’ lláh’s Uses of Bird Image ry in The Seven Vall e ys
In the lette r’s preamble, Bahá’u’ lláh addresses Shaykh Muh y i’d-Din with these lov ing word s:
“Fur t h e r, we have harke n ed to wh at the nightin gale of knowl ed ge sang on the bou g hs of the tree of
thy bein g, and lear n ed wh at the dove of ce r ti t ude cried on the branches of the bower of thy hear t.”8
“... and the bird of thy soul shall recall the holy sanc t u aries of pre e xis te nce and soar on the win gs of
lon gin g...”9
A nd in the form of a postscript at the end of His lette r, Bahá’u’ lláh an s we rs a que s ti on from the
S h aykh which may have been ab out one of the famous birds from At tar’s Con fe re nce of the Bird s.
B ahá’u’ lláh write s:
3 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
“The thou g h ts thou has expre s s ed as to the in te r pre tati on of the common species of bird that is call ed
in Pe rsi an Gunjis hk (s par row) we re con side red. Thou app earest to be we ll-g rounded in mys tic trut h .
Howe ve r, on eve ry pl ane, to eve ry letter a mean ing is allot ted which re l ateth to that pl an e. Inde ed, the
way farer findeth a sec ret in eve ry name, a mys te ry in eve ry lette r. In one sense, these lette rs refer to hol i-
n e s s.”
B ahá’u’ lláh’s ad v i ce to the Shaykh chall e n ge his spirit and que s ting soul with these word s:
“Wert thou to harken to the melodies of this mor tal Bird [Bahá’u’ lláh], then wouldst thou seek out the
und y ing chal i ce and pass by eve ry peris h able cup.”11
The spir i t u al journey which Bahá’u’ lláh de s c r ibes passes through the seven vall e ys of searc h, love ,
knowl ed ge, un i t y, con tentment, wonderment and pove r t y/ab s olute not h in g n e s s.
To be able to pass through the second valley (love), Bahá’u’ lláh write s:
“A nd, if con f ir m ed by the Creator, the lover escapes from the claws of the eagle of love...”12
To leave the third valley (knowl ed ge), Bahá’u’ lláh write s:
“If thou be a man of commun i on and praye r, soar up on the win gs of a s sis tance from Holy Souls, that
t h ou mayest be h old the mys teries of the Fr i e nd and at ta in to the lights of the Be loved .”
In the middle of the fourth valley (un i t y), Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to His own precar i ous cond i ti on, say in g:
“A nd if a nightin gale soar up ward from the clay of self and dwe ll in the rose bower of the heart, and
in Arabi an melodies and sweet Iran i an son gs recount the mys teries of God—a single word of which qu i c k-
eneth to fre s h, new life the bodies of the dead, and be s toweth the Holy Spirit up on the molde r ing bon e s
of this exis te nce — t h ou wilt be h old a thou sand claws of envy, a myriad beaks of rancor hun ting a fte r
H im and with all their power in tent up on His deat h .”
“T hus it hath been made clear that these stages de p e nd on the visi on of the way fare r. In eve ry city he
w ill be h old a world, in eve ry Valley reach a spr in g, in eve ry meadow hear a son g. But the falcon of the
m ys tic heaven hath many a wondrous carol of the spirit in His breast, and the Pe rsi an bird keepeth in
H is soul many a sweet Arab melo d y; yet these are hidde n, and hidden shall re m a in .”15
In the fifth valley (con te n t m e n t), Bahá’u’ lláh write s:
“The ton g ue fa ileth in de s c r ibing these three Vall e ys, and speech falleth shor t. The pen ste ppeth not
in to this regi on, the ink leaveth only a blot. In these pl anes, the nightin gale of the heart hath other son gs
and sec re ts, which make the heart to stir and the soul to clamor, but this mys te ry of inner mean ing may
be wh is p e red only from heart to heart, con f ided only from breast to brea s t.”16
A nd in the seventh valley (t r ue poverty and ab s olute not h in g n e s s), Bahá’u’ lláh conc lude s:
“T h e n, ere the nightin gale of the mys tic parad ise re pa ir to the garden of God, and the rays of the heav-
e nly mor n ing re t urn to the Sun of Tr ut h — m ake thou an effort, that haply that in this du s t-h eap of the
mor tal world thou mayest catch a frag rance from the eve rl a s ting garde n, and live fore ver in the shadow
of the peoples of this ci t y. And when thou hast at ta in ed this highest stati on and come to this mighti e s t
pl ane, then shalt thou gaze on the Be loved, and forget all else.”17
Conclusion
B ahá’u’ lláh, in most of his writin gs, says that all we can “know” of the unknowable essence of God is
wh at we unde rs tand through be l i ef and worship of His Man i fe s tati on (s). There is a clear dis tinc ti on
be tween the three realms of the Creator, the Man i fe s tati ons of God, and the creati on. The closest we can
come to God is liv ing a life in God, “t h at eve ry man may te s ti f y, in him s e l f, by him s e l f, in the stati on
of the Man i fe s tati on of his Lord, that ve r ily there is no God save Him, and that eve ry man may there-
by win his way to the summit of real i ties, un til none shall con te mpl ate an y t h ing wh ats o e ver but that he
s h all see God therein .”
18 The hoopoe bird in At tar’s poem which ac ts as a spir i t u al guide (s h aykh) to the
world of birds on their quest to reach their kin g, Simorg h, is not the same as a Man i fe s tati on of God,
but his words of wis dom shed light on the jour n e y’s Way.
3 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
In The Seven Vall e ys Bahá’u’ lláh, speaking of His own Stati on as a Man i fe s tati on of God, war n s:
“O My fr i e nd! Many a hound pursueth this gaz e lle of the desert of oneness; many a talon claweth at
t h is thrush of the ete r n al garden. Pi tiless ravens do lie in wait for this bird of the heavens of God, and
the hun ts m an of envy stalketh this deer of the meadow of love....”
“ [t]hey who soar in the heaven of singleness and reach to the sea of the Ab s olute, rec kon this ci t y —
which is the stati on of life in God—as the fur t h e r most state of mys tic knowe rs, and the farthest hom e-
l and of the love rs.”19
After brin ging the “s e ve red way fare r” through the seven vall e ys, Bahá’u’ lláh re veals that “to this
e van e s cent One of the mys tic ocean, this stati on is the first gate of the hear t’s ci tadel, that is, man’s firs t
e n t rance to the city of the hear t” of which He cannot speak unless a “kindred soul” can be found .20
Note s
1) Glean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, 327.
2) Far id ud-Din At tar, The Con fe re nce of the Bird s, tran s l ated by Afkh am Darb andi and Dick Dav is, Pe n g u in Books, 1984,
pp. 11–12 .
3) ibid., 14.
4) ibid . ,, 15 –19.
5) ibid., 33–34.
6) ibid . ,, 221–222 .
7) Mis hkin-Qal am: XIX Century Artist and Call i g raph e r, Society for Pe rsi an Lette rs & Arts, Landegg Acade m y,
Sw i t z e rl and, 1992 .
8) Bahá’u’ lláh, The Seven Vall e ys and the Four Vall e ys, 1991 ed i ti on, 2.
9) ibid., 3.
10) ibid., 42 .
11) ibid., 43.
12) ibid., 11.
13) ibid., 17.
14) ibid., 20.
15) ibid., 28 –29.
16) ibid., 30.
17) ibid., 38.
18) ibid., 1–2 .
19) ibid., 41.
20) ibid., 41.
3 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
3 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith
From Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
Introduction
W
ith five thou sand years of his tory, the Chinese cult ure is one of the oldest civ il iz ati on s. The
B ahá’í Faith is the youn gest inde p e ndent world re l i gi on of just 156 years.1 These two civ il iz a-
ti ons from diffe rent pl aces and times have many teac h in gs in common. Both the Bahá’í Fa i t h
and the Chinese cult ure speak to the pro cess of tran sfor m ing from mate r i al civ il iz ati on to spir i t u al civ-
il iz ati on. Inde ed, the his tory of hum ankind de mon s t rates this pro cess of spir i t u al tran sfor m ati on at var-
i ous stages in our search for mean ing in life in the arenas of fam il y, tribe, nati on, and fin ally in a glob-
al commun i t y. The reality of our common hum an exp e r i e nce is that we are spir i t u al bein gs goin g
t hrough the journey of a ph ysi cal life on Earth. Yet, the maj ority of people are still struggling with the
ph ysi cal journey with ve ry little regard for their own spir i t u al we ll bein g. Mean wh ile, our world is now
l iv ing through the pro cess of a glob al tran si ti on to a spir i t u al age when all peoples from eve ry nati on
w ill be gat h e red to gether in to one hum an fam il y.
The Bahá’í Faith has grown from a small movement in the Middle East to the second-most wide s pread
of the inde p e ndent world re l i gi ons, It has been establ is h ed in over 250 countries and te r r i tor i e s. The
in te r n ati on al Bahá’í community emb races people from more than 2,100 ethnic, raci al, and trib al group s.
B ahá’u’ lláh (1817–1892), the Prophet Founder of the Bahá’í Fa i t h, brin gs the div ine teac h in gs for the spir-
i t u al iz ati on of the wh ole pl anet and pro c l a ims, “The earth is but one coun t ry, and mankind it’s ci tiz e n s.”
The Bahá’í Faith promotes world peace and the unity of hum ankind. Abdu’ l-B ahá (1844–1921), one of the
ce n t ral figures of the Bahá’í Fa i t h, speaks of the Chinese people as “most simple hear ted and trut h-s e e k-
in g” and of China as “the coun t ry of the fut ure.”2 T h e re are many refe re nces to the Chinese and to Chin a
in state m e n ts from Bahá’í in s ti t uti ons, such as the follow in g:
C h in a—a land which has its own world and civ il iz ati on, whose people con s ti t ute on e-
fourth of the popul ati on of the globe, which ranks fore most among all nati ons in
m ate r i al, cult ural and spir i t u al re s ources and pote n ti al i ties, and whose fut ure is
a s suredly bright.3
C h ina re pre s e n ts the largest element of this emerging glob al society and its cult ure
one of the most preci ous re s ources possessed by the hum an race...C h ina will pl ay a
un ique role in shaping a new and un ive rsal civ il iz ati on .4
T h e refore, the Chinese cult ure and the Bahá’í Faith are re l e vant to one another and need to be con-
side red in an at mo s ph e re of the ut most co - op e rati on and mut u al unde rs tand in g. There are ob v i ous dif-
fe re nces be tween them from both his tor i cal and de ve lopm e n tal pers p ec tive s. Howe ve r, their common
teac h in gs speak to the unity of their spir i t u al found ati on. This paper is a simple at te mpt to show the
h ar mony in the maj or teac h in gs of both. There are soci al teac h in gs such a s: 1) the Great Unity (world
p eace); 2) unity of the hum an fam il y; 3) serv i ce to ot h e rs; 4) moral educati on; and 5) exte nded fam ily val-
ue s—the Golden Rul e. These soci al teac h in gs are based on fund am e n tal spir i t u al teac h in gs such a s: 6) the
in ve s ti gati on of trut h; 7) the Highest Reality (G o d); 8) the common found ati on of re l i gi ons; 9) har mon y
in Nat ure; 10) the purpose of te s ts and su ffe r in gs; and 11) mo de rati on in all thin gs.
In add i ti on, the Bahá’í teac h in gs prov ide a new and inc lu sive value sys tem to meet the needs of an
3 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
3 8
e m e rging glob al civ il iz ati on. These new teac h in gs are the har mony of sci e nce and re l i gi on; the ab ol i ti on
of prej ud i ce; a spir i t u al soluti on to economic problems; un ive rsal educati on; un ive rsal auxil i ary lan-
g u age; the equ ality of women and men; and world gove r nm e n t. These new and glob al values are dis cu s s ed
in the books lis ted in the refe re nce sec ti on of this pap e r. He re we want to emph a size that the Bahá’í
teac h in gs of “oneness of hum ankind” and “unity in dive rsi t y” can prov ide the un ive rsal fram e work for
the Chinese and all other ethnic groups to par ti ci pate fully in the glob al commun i t y.
Historical Perspective
No mat ter how far the mate r i al world ad vances, it cannot establ ish the happiness of mankind. Onl y
when mate r i al and spir i t u al civ il iz ati on are linked and co ord in ated will happiness be a s sured. Then
m ate r i al civ il iz ati on will not con t r ibute its energies to the forces of evil in de s t roy ing the oneness of
hum an i t y, for in mate r i al civ il iz ati on good and evil ad vance to gether and main ta in the same pace.5
T h e re is a Chinese prove rb which says: “H is tory not forgot ten is the teacher of thin gs to com e.” The
h is tory of hum ankind is like a tree grow ing through the ce n t uries and the Chinese cult ure is a branc h
on it. A cult ure and civ il iz ati on would have more than a thou sand years to grow and mat ure. The fr u i ts
of wis dom of the Chinese cult ure are in the written classics of teac h in gs and ph ilo s ophies such as those
from Con fucius and Lao -Tse ab out twe n t y-f ive ce n t uries ago. They still re m a in as the found ati on of the
C h inese cult ure to d ay. In the dis tant past, the “silk road” conn ec ted China with India, Pe rsia, Gre ece and
Rome through Central Asia. From time to time, re l i gi ons and cult ures from outside —such as Buddh is m,
C hr is ti an i t y, and Islam — would come in to China. Once these foreign teac h in gs we re ab s orbed in to
C h inese cult ure, they all to ok on maj or Chinese charac te r is ti c s.
Buddh ism came to China dur ing the Han dynasty (f irst ce n t ury) and had a maj or in flue nce on the
C h inese cult ure. The Chinese to ok a thou sand years to digest Buddh ist ph ilo s oph y. Buddh ism unde rwe n t
a pro cess of a s sim il ati on. First, it de ve lop ed along the Taoist teac h in gs and was known as “Buddh ist Tao.”
L ate r, it establ is h ed its own stand ing as a separate re l i gi ous trad i ti on. By the end of the fifth ce n t ury,
t h e re we re more than three thou sand Buddh ist writin gs tran s l ated in to Chin e s e.
T h is star ted a grand synthesis of ancient Chinese and Ind i an ph ilo s oph i e s. By the Tang Dy n a s t y
(618 –901), seve ral Chinese branches such as the Tien Ta i, Hua Yin, and Zen Buddh ism app eared and we re
acce p ted as part of the main s t ream Chinese cult ure.6
He nce, the Buddh ist teac h in gs have merged effec tively with Con fuci an ism and Taoism in to one am al-
gam ati on in the Chinese trad i ti on s. All three have a maj or in flue nce on Chinese daily life and are equ al-
ly imp or tant and in s e parabl e.
C hr is ti anity came to China with the Nestor i an Chr is ti ans from Pe rsia dur ing the Tang Dynasty in the
s e venth ce n t ury. It did not have a si g n i f i cant impact un til the Cat h olic Jesu i ts ar r ived in the late six-
teenth ce n t ury, bear ing gi fts of we s tern sci e nces and pers on al sal vati on. The Jesu i ts, most notabl y
Mat teo Ri cci (1552–1610), sought to create a synthesis be tween the Chinese teac h in gs and the Cat h ol i c
do c t r in e s. They we re known as the “accommo d ati on is ts” and their early con ve r ts we re from the
C on fuci an schol ars. Howe ve r, the Jesu i ts would su ffer a great setb ack in the Qing Dynasty (1644–1911)
and also at the hand of the Pope back in Rom e. In 1724, the Qing Emp e ror pro s c r ibed Cat h ol i cism and
l is ted it among the “p e rve r ted sec ts and evil do c t r in e s.” In 1742, as the re sult of the “r i tes con t rove rs y”
ab out the compatibility of Cat h ol i cism and Con fuci an is m, the Pope proh ibi ted Chinese Cat h olics from
par ti ci pating in var i ous Con fuci an rite s. Therefore, Chr is ti anity did not in teg rate in to Chinese cult ure
and has re ta in ed its foreign ide n tity to the present day. Chinese Chr is ti ans are torn by the con fl i c ts
be tween their be l i ef in a we s tern “G o d” and their Chinese heritage. Unl ike we s tern cult ure, the Chin e s e
h ave a way of liv ing with con t rad i c ti on s. The key is to find a bal ance among them. Howe ve r,
C hr is ti anity did serve as a channel of we s te r n iz ati on and mo de r n iz ati on for China. Since the 1980s, the
C h inese have red is cove red Chr is ti anity in mass with the op e n ing of mainl and China to the West aga in .
To d ay, Chr is ti ans are still a tiny minority of the popul ati on .
I s l am also came to China dur ing the Tang Dy n a s t y. In 650, the Tang Emp e ror Kao Tsung sent an emis-
sary to Cal i ph Osman at Mad ina to pl ead for the last Sa s san i an Pr ince Fir uz who had sought refu ge in
the Chinese capi tal Cheng-An (Xi an). The Cal i ph sent a ge n e ral in re t urn and establ is h ed the first Mu s l im

Lights of ‘Irf á n
E mbassy in China. In the mid- eighth ce n t ury, the Abb a sid Cal i ph Abu Ja ffar sent thou sands of Mu s l im
s old i e rs on two occa si ons (circa 757) to the Chinese capi tal to help the Tang emp e rors to suppress rebe l-
l i on s. These sold i e rs never re t ur n ed home but mar r i ed and re m a in ed in China. Other Mu s l ims came to
C h ina for comm e rce and trade. In the Sung Dynasty (960–1279), Mu s l ims dom in ated the foreign trade all
over China. They we re reco g n iz ed as being fa ir, law- abid in g, and self- d is ci pl in ed. By the Ming Dy n a s t y
(1368 –1644), a period con side red to be the golden age of Islam in China, Mu s l ims fin ally a s sim il ated in to
C h inese society a fter seven hundred years. They adop ted Chinese names, lan g u age, and cu s toms wh il e
re ta in ing an Islamic mo de of dress and dietary habi ts. By then, the Mu s l ims could not be dis tin g u is h ed
from Chinese, other than by their re l i gi ous cu s tom s. To d ay, Mu s l ims con s ti t ute the largest minor i t y
g roup in China with a popul ati on of over ei g h teen mill i on .
Current Development
The in te rac ti ons be tween the Chinese cult ure and outside in flue nces would have both their bl e s sin gs
and struggles. In the last three ce n t uries, sci e n tific, indu s t r i al, de mo c ratic, and commun ist re voluti on s
came and left dis tinc tive mark s. The Chinese are still try ing to digest these more recent imp or ts.
Howe ve r, they do not bring lasting happiness as they do not offer elements of su s ta in able soci al and
s pir i t u al de ve lopm e n t. As success would chan ge to ad ve rsi t y, so would economic and mate r i al de ve lop-
m e n ts chan ge to su ffe r in gs. In times of diff i culties, the people would search for mean in gs in life, aga in
and aga in .
In the last two ce n t uries, the Chinese people have su ffe red con tinuous dis pl ace m e n ts, in te r n al strug-
gles and exte r n al threats. Their growth and de ve lopment we re re tarded by a lack of fut ure visi on and
d isun i t y. In the last twenty years, the mainl and Chinese people have been lo oking to other indu s t r i al-
iz ed countries for mo dels of economic de ve lopm e n t. Alt h ough they we re aware of the imp or tance of
s o ci al and moral is sues, the bal ance is ove rwh e lm ingly in favor of economic growth in the need to mobi-
l ize one bill i on people for mo de r n iz ati on. The con s e que nces are more con fu si on ab out the fut ure. The
l e s s on here is that mo de r n iz ati on needs to de ve lop not only in mate r i al pro g ress but also with the spir-
it of the age. Mo de rati on of the excesses of indu s t r i al iz ati on is needed to gether with approaches that
h ar mon ize with the a s pirati ons of the peopl e.
In the fut ure, the Chinese cult ure will make maj or con t r ibuti ons to the emerging glob al civ il iz ati on .
The Chinese people, who con s ti t ute more than on e-f i fth of the world’s popul ati on, have al ways worked
towards peace and pro s p e r i t y. Now, a fter long is ol ati on, they are will ing to lo ok outside for mean in gs ,
for direc ti ons and tran sfor m ati ons in a “g lob al vill age.” They are ready to join the world to bu ild the
“Great Unity” in s c r ibed in the Chinese classi c s.
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith
The Great Unity (Universal Commonwealth) and World Peace
The Chinese cult ure has long cheris h ed the visi on of Great Unity (Unive rsal Common wealt h) from
C on fucius (551–479 BCE) :
When the perfect order (Great Tao) pre va ils, the world is like a home shared by all. Vir t uous and
capable people are elec ted to public off i ces; trust and peace are the maxims of liv ing among the
p eopl e. All love and re s p ect their own pare n ts and childre n, as we ll as the pare n ts and children of
ot h e rs. There are car ing for the old; works for the adults; nour is hment and educati on for the chil-
dren. There are supp or ts for the widows and the widowe rs; for all the people who are alone; and for
the disabl ed. Eve ry man and wom an has an appropr i ate role to pl ay in society and fam il y. A sense
of shar ing dis pl aces effec ts of selfis hness and mate r i al ism. A de voti on to public duty leaves no
ro om for idl e n e s s. Intrigues and conn iv ing for ill ga in are unknown. Vill a ins such as thieves and
robbe rs do not exis t. The do or to eve ry home need never be lo c ked by day or night. These are the
c h arac te r is tics of the Great Unity. 7
The Bahá’í writin gs are fill ed with refe re nces to world peace. Profe s s or Ed ward G. Browne of
Camb r id ge Unive rsity recorded his in te rv i e ws with Bahá’u’ lláh in 1890:
3 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
We de sire but the good of the world and the happiness of the nati on s...T h at all nati ons should
become one in faith and all men as brot h e rs; that the bonds of a ffec ti on and unity be tween the son s
of men should be stre n g t h e n ed; that dive rsity of re l i gi on should cease, and diffe re nces of race be
annull ed - wh at harm is there in this? ...Yet so it shall be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars
s h all pass away, and the “Most Great Peace” shall com e... These strifes and this blo o d s h ed and dis-
cord must cease, and all men be as one kindred and one fam il y... Let not a man glory in this, that
he loves his coun t ry; let him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind ...
In 1985, the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, the in te r n ati on al gove r n ing council of the Bahá’í Fa i t h, is sued
a statement on “The Prom ise of World Peace” to the people of the world :
The Great Peace towards which people of good will throu g h out the ce n t uries have inc l in ed their
h ear ts, of which seers and poets for countless ge n e rati ons have expre s s ed their visi on, and for wh i c h
from age to age the sac red scriptures of mankind have con s tantly held the prom ise, is now at lon g
last within the reach of the nati on s. For the first time in his tory it is possible for eve ryone to view
the entire pl anet, with all its myriad dive rsi f i ed peoples, in one pers p ec tive. World peace is not onl y
p o s sible but in e v i tabl e. It is the next stage in the evoluti on of this pl anet and the pl an e tiz ati on of
m ankind .9
Unity of the Hum an Fam il y
World peace can only be bu ilt on the found ati on of the unity of the wh ole hum an race as a fam il y.
T h is is clearly emph a siz ed in the Chinese classi cal writin gs.
A ll within the four seas are brot h e rs. (C on fucius, Anal ec ts, 12:5)
Heaven is my father and Earth is my mot h e r, all people are my brot h e rs and sis te rs, and all
t h in gs are my compan i on s. Re s p ect the aged, show deep love toward the or ph an ed and the
weak. The sage ide n ti f i ed his charac ter with that of Heaven and Earth. Even those who are
tired, in f ir m, crippl ed, or sick; those who have no brot h e rs or childre n, wives or hu sb ands, are
all my brot h e rs and sis te rs. In life I follow and serve Heaven and Ear t h, and in death I will be
at peace. (C h ang Tsa i, 1020–77)
The Bahá’í writin gs prov ide further elab orati on on this pr inci pl e. Bahá’u’ lláh states, “The earth is but
one coun t ry, and mankind its ci tiz e n s.”10 A l s o,
O ye children of men, the fund am e n tal purpose an im ating the Faith of God and His Re l i gi on is to
sa feg u ard the in te re s ts and promote the unity of the hum an race.... The we ll-being of mankind, its
p eace and secur i t y, are un at ta in able unless and un til its unity is fir mly establ is h ed .
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá exp ounds on its mean ing and that unity is organic as in a hum an body.
The second teac h ing of Bahá’u’ lláh concerns the unity of mankind: All are the servan ts of God
and membe rs of one hum an fam il y. God has created all, and all are His children. He rears ,
nour ishes, prov ides for and is kind to all .... His sun be s tows its efful ge nce un s par ingly up on
all; His clouds send down ra in without dis tinc ti on or favor; His breezes refresh the wh ol e
ear t h .... Some are imp e r fec t; they must be perfec ted. The ignorant must be taught, the si c k
h eal ed, the sleepers awake n ed. The child must not be oppre s s ed or ce n sured because it is unde-
ve lop ed; it must be patiently tra in ed. The sick must not be neg l ec ted because they are a il in g ;
n ay, rat h e r, we must have compa s si on up on them and bring them heal in g. Br i efl y, the old con-
d i ti ons of an imo si t y, bi got ry and hat red be tween the re l i gi ous sys tems must be dis p e ll ed and
the new cond i ti ons of love, ag reement and spir i t u al brot h e rhood be establ is h ed among them.
Man cannot live singly and alon e...he is in need of co op e rati on and reci pro ci t y... m ankind has
been created from one single or i gin, has branc h ed off from one fam il y. For example, a mem-
ber of the hum an organ ism is the eye. If the eye should be a ffec ted that a ffl i c ti on would a ffec t
the wh ole nervous sys te m .... If kindness had been shown to the membe rs of this fam ily sure l y
all the membe rs thereof would have enj oyed com fort and happin e s s.13
4 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
S e rv i ce to Others
One of the best known writin gs of Con fucius is the chap ter on “The Great Lear n in g.” There are ei g h t
s teps in the Great Lear n in g. They are: 1) in ve s ti gate nat ure; 2) ac qu ire knowl ed ge; 3) since re motive; 4)
rec tify hear t; 5) self- cultivati on; 6) har mon ize the fam il y; 7) serv i ce to coun t ry; and 8) establ ish peace.
T h is is, in short, the summ ary of the purpose of life for the Chin e s e: to cultivate self, har mon ize fam i-
l y, serve the coun t ry, and to establ ish peace.
The way to Great Lear n ing is to illu s t rate illu s t r i ous vir t ue; to serve the people; and to persist un til
p e r fec ti on .... To know wh at comes first and wh at follows will lead near to the way of the Great
L ear n in g.... The anci e n ts who wis h ed to illu s t rate illu s t r i ous vir t ue throu g h out the kin gdom first adm in-
is te red we ll their own state s...h ar mon iz ed their fam il i e s...cultivated their pers on s... rec ti f i ed their
h ear ts... s ought to be since re in their thou g h ts...e xte nded to the ut most their knowl ed ge. Such exte n si on
of knowl ed ge lay in the in ve s ti gati on of the nat ure of thin gs. Thin gs being in ve s ti gated, knowl ed ge
became compl e te...t h ou g h ts we re since re...h ear ts we re then rec ti f i ed ...p e rs ons we re cultivated ... fam il i e s
we re har mon iz ed ... s tates we re rightly adm in is te red ...the wh ole kin gdom was made peaceful and happy.
In the Bahá’í writin gs, the pr inci ple of serv i ce is the chief in s t r ument to pers on al happiness and to
the establ is hment of world peace. Bahá’u’ lláh write s: “The essence of faith is fewness in words and abun-
d ance of de ed s.”15
T h at one inde ed is a man who ded i cateth himself to the serv i ce of the entire hum an race. The
Great Being saith: Blessed and happy is he that ar iseth to promote the best in te re s ts of the peo-
ples and kindreds of the earth. In another pa s sage He hath pro c l a im ed: It is not for him to
pr ide himself who loveth his own coun t ry, but rather for him who loveth the wh ole world. The
earth is but one coun t ry, and mankind its ci tiz e n s.16
Be ge n e rous in pro s p e r i t y, and thank ful in ad ve rsi t y. Be worthy of the trust of thy nei g hb or,
and lo ok up on him with a bright and fr i e ndly face. Be a trea sure to the poor, an admon is h e r
to the rich, an an s we rer of the cry of the need y, a pre s e rver of the sanc tity of thy pl ed ge. Be
fa ir in thy judgment, and guarded in thy speech. Be unjust to no man, and show all meekn e s s
to all men. Be as a lamp un to them that walk in darkness, a joy to the sor row ful, a sea for the
t h irs t y, a haven for the dis t re s s ed, an uph older and defe nder of the victim of oppre s si on. Let
in tegrity and uprightness dis tin g u ish all thine ac ts. Be a home for the stran ge r, a balm to the
su ffe r in g, a tower of strength for the fu gi tive. Be eyes to the bl ind, and a guid ing light un to
the feet of the errin g. Be an or n ament to the coun te n ance of trut h, a crown to the brow of
f ide l i t y, a pill ar of the te mple of righteousness, a breath of life to the body of mankind, an
e n sign of the hosts of justi ce, a lum in ary ab ove the hor iz on of vir t ue, a dew to the soil of the
hum an heart, an ark on the ocean of knowl ed ge, a sun in the heaven of boun t y, a gem on the
d i adem of wis dom, a shin ing light in the fir m ament of thy ge n e rati on, a fruit up on the tre e
of hum il i t y.17
Moral Educati on
C h inese cult ure pl aces moral educati on ab ove all other a s p ec ts of educati on. The purpose of lear n in g
and self- cultivati on is to de ve lop vir t ues such a s: loyalt y, fil i al pi e t y, compa s si on, love, propriety of con-
duc ts, justi ce, hon e s t y, and sense of sham e.
At fifteen I set my heart up on lear n in g. At thir t y, I had pl an ted my feet firm up on the ground. At
for t y, I no lon ger su ffe red from perpl e xi ti e s. At fift y, I knew wh at was the Mand ate of Heaven. At sixt y,
I heard them with do cile ear. At seve n t y, I could follow the dictates of my own hear t. My de sire no lon ge r
ove rs te pp ed the bound aries of propr i e t y.” (C on fucius, Anal ec ts, 5:27)
Like w ise, Bahá’í teac h in gs emph a size spir i t u al educati on which is the source of moral value s. Spir i t u al
educati on tra ins the hum an soul wh e reas mate r i al and hum an educati on tra in the body and soci e t y. “T h e
a im of an educator is to so tra in hum an souls that their an gelic a s p ect may ove rcome their an im al side.”
The pur p ort is this, that to tra in the charac ter of hum ankind is one of the wei g h tiest com-
m andm e n ts of God, and the in flue nce of such tra in ing is the same as that which the sun
4 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
e xe r teth over tree and fr u i t. Children must be most carefully watc h ed ove r, protec ted and
t ra in ed ;.... Otherw ise, the children will turn in to we eds grow ing wild ... know ing not right
from wron g, dis tin g u is h ing not the highest of hum an qu al i ties from all that is mean and vil e ;
they will be brought up in va in g lory...
The fear of God hath ever been a sure defe n s e.... It is the chief cause of the protec ti on of
m ankind, and the supreme in s t r ument for its pre s e rvati on. Inde ed, there exis teth in man a fac-
ulty which de te r reth him from, and guardeth him aga inst, wh ate ver is un worthy and un s e e m-
l y, and which is known as his sense of sham e.... Re l i gi on is ve r ily the chief in s t r ument for the
e s tabl is hment of order in the world and of tran qu illity amon gst its peopl e s. The weake n ing of
the pill ars of re l i gi on hath stre n g t h e n ed the fo ol ish and emb olde n ed them and made them more
ar ro gan t.
The greatest be s towal of God in the world of hum anity is re l i gi on; for a s suredly the div in e
teac h in gs of re l i gi on are ab ove all other sources of in s t r uc ti on and de ve lopment to man .
Re l i gi on con fe rs up on man ete r n al life and guides his fo ots teps in the world of moral i t y. It
opens the do ors of un e nd ing happiness and be s tows eve rl a s ting honor up on the hum an kin g-
dom. It has been the basis of all civ il iz ati on and pro g ress in the his tory of mankind .21
E xte nded Fam ily Value s—The Golden Rul e
In Con fuci u s’ teac h in gs, the fam ily unit is the found ati on of both the community and the state. The
fam ily unit values are thus exte nded to cover larger numbe rs of fam ilies in the community in the sense
t h at the elde rs and children of other fam ilies are treated as the elde rs and children of on e’s own. These
re l ati onships are based on mut u al supp ort and reci pro ci t y. Con fucius teaches the Golden Rule a s: “W h at
you would not de sire for yours e l f, don’t do un to ot h e rs.”
The father is merci ful, the son fil i al; the elder brother is good, the youn ger brother sub m is-
sive; the hu sb and upright, the wife compl a isan t; the adult is kind, the child obed i e n t. (B o ok of
Ri te s.)
The Bahá’í teac h in gs on fam ily are ve ry sim il ar but with more emph a sis on unity of the fam ily to meet
the needs of pre s e n t- d ay soci e t y. The Golden Rule in Bahá’u’ lláh’s writin gs is: “A s c r ibe not to any soul
t h at which thou wouldst not have a s c r ibed to thee, and say not that which thou doest not. This is My
comm and un to thee, do thou ob s e rve it.”22
The in tegrity of the fam ily bond must be con s tantly con side red, and the rights of the ind iv id-
u al membe rs must not be tran sg re s s ed. The rights of the son, the fat h e r, the mot h e r— none of
them must be tran sg re s s ed, none of them must be arbi t rary. Just as the son has ce r ta in obl i g-
ati ons to his fat h e r, the fat h e r, like w ise, has ce r ta in obl i gati ons to his son. The mot h e r, the sis-
ter and other membe rs of the hou s e h old have their ce r ta in pre ro gative s... The inj ury of on e
s h all be con side red the inj ury of all; the com fort of eac h, the com fort of all; the honor of on e ,
the honor of all .23
Note ye how ea sil y, wh e re unity exis teth in a given fam il y, the a ffa irs of that fam ily are con-
duc ted; wh at pro g ress the membe rs of that fam ily make, how they prosper in the world ... And
if we widen out the sph e re of unity a little to inc lude the inh abi tan ts of a vill age who seek to
be lov ing and un i ted, who a s s o ci ate with and are kind to one anot h e r, wh at great ad vances they
w ill be seen to make, how secure and protec ted they will be. Then let us widen out the sph e re
a little more, let us take the inh abi tan ts of a ci t y, all of them to ge t h e r: if they establ ish the
s t ron gest bonds of unity among themselves, how far they will pro g ress, even in a brief peri-
od and wh at power they will exe r t. And if the sph e re of unity be still further wide n ed out ,
t h at is, if the inh abi tan ts of a wh ole coun t ry de ve lop peaceable hear ts, and if with all their
h ear ts and souls they yearn to co op e rate with one another and to live in un i t y, and if they
become kind and lov ing to one anot h e r, that coun t ry will ac h i e ve und y ing joy and lastin g
g lory. Peace will it have, and pl e n t y, and vast wealt h .
4 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Common Spiritual Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith
Investigation of Truth
C on fucius teaches that the in ve s ti gati on of the nat ure of thin gs is the first step in Great Lear n in g. He
s p ecifies the re qu ire m e n ts of since re motive and rec ti f i ed heart for “s e l f- cultivati on which is the foun-
d ati on of eve ry t h in g. All must con sider it carefully from the emp e ror to the mass of peopl e.” The pur-
pose is to har mon ize fam il y, serve the state and establ ish peace. On the other hand, Lao -Tse (c. sixth ce n-
t ury BCE) teaches that one should be as inno cent and uncon tam in ated as a newb orn in fant and a blo c k
of uncarved wood (Tao Te Ching—the book of Tao and Vir t ues, chap te rs 5 & 10). The Tao is far from the
p eople of “useless lear n in g” and how “the wise are not lear n ed and the lear n ed are not wis e” (c h ap ter 20,
81).
L ao-Tse teaches the purpose of life is to ob ta in the “Tao” and to follow the Tao. He re the word “Tao”
m eans the way, the pat h, the direc ti on, or the pr inci ple, the method, the trut h, and the highest realt y.
The Tao op e rates accord ing to spir i t u al laws.
It is the “mot h e r” (ch. 1, 52) and “ance s tor” (ch. 4) of all thin gs. It exis ts before heaven and earth (c h .
25). It is the “s tore h ou s e” of thin gs (ch. 62). It is at once their pr inci ple of being and their sub s tance.
“A ll thin gs de p e nd on it for life” (ch. 34). In its sub s tance it is “in v isibl e ,” “in aud ibl e ,” “vag ue and elu-
sive” (ch. 14, 35), inde s c r ib able and ab ove shape and form (ch. 14, 41). It is One, a unity be h ind all mul-
ti pl i city (ch. 14, 42). It is eve rl a s ting and unc h an geable (ch. 7, 16, 25). It is all-p e rva sive and “flows eve ry-
wh e re” (ch. 34). “It op e rates eve rywh e re and is free from dan ge r.” (ch. 25) It is nat ural (ch. 25), for it
comes in to exis te nce by itself and is its own pr inci ple for bein g. It is nameless (ch. 1, 32, 37, 41), unl im-
i ted in space and time (ch. 1, 25). It is not a conc re te, ind iv idu al thing or de s c r ib able in par ti cul ar te r m s.
Ab ove all, it is “non-bein g.” “A ll thin gs in the world come from bein g. And being come from non-bein g”
(ch. 40).
B ahá’u’ lláh admon ishes the seeker of truth to first cleanse his heart, so that no love or hate may lin ge r,
and be op e n-m inded to forsake both im i tati ons and adh e re nce to hered i tary forms of knowl ed ge. The
s e e ker must need pati e nce and pers e ve rance with an in tense de sire to in ve s ti gate the trut h .
The best be loved of all thin gs in My sight is Ju s ti ce; turn not away therefrom if thou de sire s t
Me, and neg l ect it not that I may con f ide in thee. By its a id thou shalt see with thine own eye s
and not through the eyes of ot h e rs, and shalt know of thine own knowl ed ge and not throu g h
the knowl ed ge of thy nei g hb or.
When a true seeker de te r m ineth to take the step of searc h ...he must, before all else, cleanse his
h ear t... from the ob s cur ing dust of all ac qu ired knowl ed ge, and the allu si ons of the emb o d i-
m e n ts of satanic fanc y. He must purge his brea s t...of eve ry def ilement, and sanc tify his soul
from all that perta ineth to water and clay, from all shadowy and eph e m e ral at tac hm e n ts. He
must so cleanse his heart that no re mn ant of either love or hate may lin ger therein, lest that
love bl indly inc l ine him to error, or that hate repel him away from the trut h ...h ow most of the
p eopl e...h ave strayed far from the Emb o d im e n ts of the Div ine mys teries, and, sheph e rdless, are
roam ing through the wilderness of obl iv i on and error.27
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá emph a sizes the imp or tance of forsaking im i tati ons and that realty is on e:
The teac h ing of Bahá’u’ lláh on the in ve s ti gati on of real i t y: Man must seek reality him s e l f, for-
saking im i tati ons and adh e re nce to mere hered i tary for m s. As the nati ons of the world are fol-
low ing im i tati ons in lieu of truth and as im i tati ons are many and var i ous, diffe re nces of be l i ef
h ave been pro duc tive of strife and war fare. So long as these im i tati ons re m a in, the oneness of
the world of hum anity is imp o s sibl e. Therefore, we must in ve s ti gate reality in order that by its
light the clouds and darkness may be dis p e ll ed. Reality is one real i t y; it does not admit multi-
pl i city or div isi on. If the nati ons of the world in ve s ti gate real i t y, they will ag ree and becom e
un i ted .28
4 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Highest Reality (G o d) is the Unknowable Essence
The concept of the Highest Reality (G o d) app ears in the earliest Chinese classi cal lite rat ure dating bac k
two to three thou sand years ago, in “The Book of His tory” and “The Book of Ode s.” The Chinese con-
cept of God app ears in seve ral diffe rent forms, each refe r r ing to God in a diffe rent con te xt with spe-
cific mean in gs. There are seve ral maj or forms for the at t r ibutes of God in Chinese writin gs:
1. The Chinese word “Ti e n,” which means Heaven lite rall y, is often used to re present God the Celesti al
Powe r; God the Highest Aut h or i t y; and God the Omn i pre s e nce.
2. The term “S h ang Di, ” which means the Sove reign Lord of Unive rs e.
3. The term “Tien Di,” which means the Sove reign Lord in Heaven. (The Chinese emp e rors used the
title “S on of Heave n” to symb ol ize they have the “Mand ate of Heave n” to rule the coun t ry with ab s olute
p owe r.)
4. The word “S h e n,” which means God the Mys ti cal; God the Spir i t u al; God—the Unseen; and God—
the Unknowable Essence.
5. The term “S h ang Chan g,” which means God the Creator of Unive rs e.
6. The term “C h ang Ti e n,” which means God the Creator in Heave n .
7. The word “S h e n g,” which means God the Hol y, the Div in e.
8. The word “Tao,” which means “the way” lite rall y, is used as God the Nat ural Orde r, God the Nat ural
Way, God the Nameless, the Ete r n al Way that is unm e n ti on abl e.
9. The term “Tien Tao,” which means God the Order of Heaven or Way of Heave n .
In the Tao Te Chin g, Lao -Tse teaches the “e s s e n ti al unity of the un ive rs e — mon ism (ch. 39), of re ve rsi on
(ch. 16, 28, 36, 40), pol ar iz ati on — y in and yang (ch. 2), and ete r n al cycles (ch. 16, 36), of the leve l ing of
all diffe re nces (ch. 2, 10), the re l ativity of all stand ards (ch. 2), and the re t urn of all to the Pr im e val One
(ch. 65), the div ine in te ll i ge nce (ch. 41, 81), the source of all thin gs (ch. 1, 25, 32, 34, 41, 52).”
29 The Tao
is “n am e l e s s”— unknowable (ch. 1, 32, 37, 41), “non-bein g” (ch. 1, 40), “non- ac ti on” (ch. 3, 37, 81), “e ve r-pre-
s e n t” (ch. 4, 34), “e ve r-l a s tin g” (ch. 7, 16, 25), and “m ys te r i ou s” (ch. 14, 25, 35). He re is some of the te xt:
The Tao that can be Tao is not the ete r n al Tao.
The name that can be nam ed is not the ete r n al Nam e.
Nameless, the beginn ing of heaven and Earth. Nam ed, the mother of all thin gs.
Ever de sireless, unravels the sec re ts. Ever de sir in g, sees the man i fe s ted .
These two spr ing from the same source but differ in name; Both are call ed mys te ry;
Mys te ry up on mys teries; The gate to all the sec re ts.
L o ok, it cannot be seen—it is dis tan t. Lis te n, it cannot be heard—it is be yond sound .
Gra s p, it cannot be held—it is in tan gibl e. These three are indef in able; and fuse in to on e.
From ab ove it is not bright; be low it is not dark: unb roken thread be yond de s c r i p ti on .
It re t urns to not h in g n e s s. The form of the for mless; the im age of the im age l e s s ,
T h is is the elu sive mys te ry.
Stand before it and there is no beginn in g. Follow it and there is no end .
Hold fast to the ancient Tao; So to guide the pre s e n t.
To know the ancient beginning is the path of Tao31
These Chinese concepts are in harmony with the Bahá’í writings, which mention numerous attributes of
God such as the Almighty, the Innermost Spirit of Spirits, the Eternal Essence of Essences, the Invisible
and Unknowable Essence, the Incomparable and All-Glorious, the Ruler of the Universe, the All-Merciful,
the Self-Subsisting. The Bahá’í teaching on the Highest Reality is that God, the Creator, is the unknowable
essence. The finite nature of creatures can never comprehend the infinite nature of the Creator.
From time imm e mor i al He hath been veil ed in the in effable sanc tity of His exalted Self, and
w ill eve rl a s tingly con tinue to be wrapt in the imp e n e t rable mys te ry of His unknowabl e
E s s e nce. Eve ry at te mpt to at ta in to an unde rs tand ing of His in acce s sible Reality hath ended in
4 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
compl e te be w ilderment, and eve ry effort to approach His exalted Self and envisage His
E s s e nce hath re sulted in hopelessness and fa ilure.
To eve ry dis ce r n ing and illum in ed heart it is evident that God, the unknowable Essence, the
d iv ine Bein g, is immensely exalted be yond eve ry hum an at t r ibute, such as cor p oreal exis te nce ,
a s cent and de s cent, eg ress and reg re s s. Far be it from His glory that hum an ton g ue should ade-
qu ately recount His pra ise, or that hum an heart compre h e nd His fat h omless mys te ry. He is and
h ath ever been veil ed in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and will re m a in in His Real i t y
e ve rl a s tingly hidden from the sight of men.
The do or of the knowl ed ge of the Ancient of Days being thus clo s ed in the face of all bein gs ,
the Source of in f in i te grace hath cau s ed those lum inous Gems of Hol iness to app ear out of the
realm of the spirit, in the noble form of the hum an te mple, and be made man i fest un to all
m e n, that they may impart un to the world the mys teries of the unc h an geable Bein g, and te ll of
the sub t l e ties of His imp e r is h able essence. From Him pro ce ed their knowl ed ge and powe r;
from Him is de r ived their sove rei g n t y. The beauty of their coun te n ance is but a refl ec ti on of
H is im age, and their re ve l ati on a sign of His deat hless glory. They are the Trea suries of div in e
knowl ed ge, and the Re p o si tories of ce l e s ti al wis dom. Through them is tran s m i t ted a grace that
is in f in i te, and by them is re veal ed the light that can never fade. “... He hath known God wh o
h ath known him s e l f.”34
Since all that we can compre h e nd of the nat ure of the Highest Realty is through the teac h in gs of the
proph e ts of God (the Man i fe s tati ons of God) in his tory, our unde rs tand in gs are nece s sar ily lim i ted and
re l ative to our ind iv idu al capaci t y. Bahá’u’ lláh states that:
A ll that the sages and mys tics have sa id or written have ever exce eded, nor can they ever hop e
to exce ed, the lim i tati ons to which man’s fin i te mind hath been strictly subj ec ted ... such mind
and heart can never tran s ce nd that which is the creat ure of their own thou g h ts.35
C ommon Found ati on of Re l i gi on s
T hrou g h out its his tory, the Chinese people have been op e n-m inded in acce p ting all re l i gi ous teac h in gs
t h at reac h ed it. The Chinese have the fund am e n tal be l i ef that re l i gi ons teach people to do good and that
“Ye shall know them by their fr u i ts.” These can also be found in eve ry holy book. “Taoism and Buddh is m
are equ al in illum in ating and tran sfor m ing peopl e. Di ffe rent re l i gi ons de ve lop under a variety of cond i-
ti ons to meet the same end .” (Ku Hu an, c.392–453) “C on fucius sought order and peace in soci e t y, and
the Buddha sought enl i g h te nment in the fund am e n tal nat ure of exis te nce, but their goals are the sam e.”
(Sun Ch’o, 265 –420) Con fucius and Lao -Tse did not establ ish new re l i gi ons, but re n e wed morals and
ancient vir t ue s. They all share the common found ati on of unity and they all serve to ad vance the spir i-
t u al civ il iz ati on among hum ankind .
B ahá’u’ lláh states that all re l i gi ons have come from the same source and that: “T h is is the chan ge l e s s
Faith of God, ete r n al in the past and ete r n al in the fut ure.”36 The Proph e ts in his tory, as founde rs of re l i-
gi ons, are Div ine Educators who have come to lead the people from the darkness of their own ignorance
to the light of guid ance of div ine knowl ed ge. They only differ in the in te n sity of their re ve l ati on :
These at t r ibutes of God are not and have never been vouc hsa fed speci ally un to ce r ta in
Proph e ts, and withh e ld from ot h e rs. Nay, all the Proph e ts of God, His we ll-favoured, His hol y,
and chosen Me s s e n ge rs, are, without exce p ti on, the beare rs of His names, and the emb o d i-
m e n ts of His at t r ibute s. They only differ in the in te n sity of their re ve l ati on, and the compar-
ative pote ncy of their light. ...these illum in ated Souls, these beauteous Coun te n ances have ,
each and eve ry one of them, been endowed with all the at t r ibutes of God, such as sove rei g n-
t y, dom in i on, and the like, even though to outward seeming they be shorn of all ear t hl y
m aj e s t y. 37
The fund am e n tal purpose an im ating the Faith of God and His Re l i gi on is to sa feg u ard the
in te re s ts and promote the unity of the hum an race, and to fo s ter the spirit of love and fe llow-
ship amon gst men. Su ffer it not to become a source of dis s e n si on and dis cord, of hate and
4 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
e nm i t y. This is the straight Pat h, the fixed and immovable found ati on. Whats o e ver is ra is ed on
t h is found ati on, the chan ges and chances of the world can never impa ir its stre n g t h, nor will
the re voluti on of countless ce n t uries unde r m ine its struc t ure.
Re l i gi on must be the source of fe llows h i p, the cause of unity and the nearness of God to man .
If it rouses hat red and strife, it is evident that ab s e nce of re l i gi on is prefe rable and an ir re l i-
gi ous man be t ter than one who professes it. Accord ing to the div ine Will and in te n ti on re l i-
gi on should be the cause of love and ag reement, a bond to unify all mankind, for it is a mes-
sage of peace and go o d w ill to man from God.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá expl a ins that there are two kinds of Proph e ts:
U n ive rsall y, the Proph e ts are of two kind s. One are the inde p e ndent Proph e ts Who are fol-
lowed; the other kind are not inde p e ndent and are themselves followe rs. The inde p e nde n t
Proph e ts are the lawgive rs and the founde rs of a new cyc l e.... They are like the sun which is
lum inous in its e l f: the light is its essenti al nece s si t y; it does not receive light from any ot h e r
s tar. These Daw n in g-pl aces of the morn of Unity are the sources of bounty and the mir rors of
the Essence of Real i t y.
The other Proph e ts are followe rs and promote rs, for they are branches and not inde p e nde n t;
they receive the bounty of the inde p e ndent Proph e ts, and they profit by the light of the
Gu id ance of the un ive rsal Proph e ts. They are like the mo on, which is not lum inous and rad i-
ant in its e l f, but receives its light from the sun .
The Man i fe s tati ons of un ive rsal Prophethood Who app eared inde p e ndently are, for exampl e ,
Ab rah am, Moses, Chr ist, Muh amm ad, the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh. But the ot h e rs who are fol-
lowe rs and promote rs are like Solomon, Dav id, Isa i ah, Jere m i ah and Ezekiel. ... Buddha al s o
e s tabl is h ed a new re l i gi on, and Con fucius re n e wed morals and ancient vir t ues, but their in s ti-
t uti ons have been entirely de s t royed. The be l i efs and rites of the Buddh is ts and Con fuci an is ts
h ave not con tinued in accord ance with their fund am e n tal teac h in gs.40
Har mony in Nat ure; Union with Nat ure (Tao)
One of the outs tand ing con t r ibuti ons of Taoist teac h ing is that hum an civ il iz ati on should live in har-
mony with nat ure. Impl i cit in this be l i ef is that all thin gs are conn ec ted in unity (Tao). This is som e-
times elevated to the mys ti cal be l i ef of seeking un i on with the un ive rs e. “The Unive rse came in to bein g
with us to ge t h e r; and all thin gs are one with us.”41
The Tao begot One (before-bein g). One begot Two (bein g).
Two begot Three (bein g /before-bein g). And Three begot all thin gs.
A ll thin gs car ry Yin (the pa s sive) and emb race Yang (the ac tive).
They main ta in har mony by ke e ping the vital Qi (s pir i t u al energy).
It is mys te r i ously for m ed, Born before Heaven and Ear t h; In the sil e nce and the void .
Stand ing alone and unc h an gin g, Ever present and in moti on .
It could be the Mother of all thin gs. I know not its name so call it Tao.
Man follows Ear t h; Earth follows Heaven; Heaven follows Tao ;
and the Tao is spon tan eously so.
E mpty yourself of eve ry t h ing; hold fast to the sere n e ,
A ll thin gs act in concert, and exp ec tant of their cycle re t ur n .
Re t ur n ing to the source is sere n i t y, it is the way of Nat ure.
The way of Nat ure is con s tant decay and re n e wal .
K now ing this con s tancy is enl i g h te nm e n t; Not know ing it is to court disa s te r.
In sim il ar fa s h i on, Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to nat ure as the emb o d iment of the Creator’s will man i fe s ted in
d ive rse cau s e s. When con te mpl ating on the incomparable glory in nat ure, He re m inds us of the highn e s s
and loftiness, the power and boun t y, the majesty and grandeur, the ensign and stand ard of the
O mn i p ote nce of our Creator.
T h at which hath been in exis te nce had exis ted before, but not in the form thou seest to d ay. The
4 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
world of exis te nce came in to being through the heat ge n e rated from the in te rac ti on be twe e n
the ac tive force and that which is its reci pi e n t. These two are the same, yet they are diffe re n t...
Nat ure in its essence is the emb o d iment of My Name, the Make r, and the Creator. Its man i-
fe s tati ons are dive rsi f i ed by vary ing causes, and in this dive rsity there are signs for men of dis-
ce r nm e n t. Nat ure is God’s Will and is its expre s si on in and through the con tin gent world. It
is a dis p e n sati on of Prov ide nce ord a in ed by the Ord a in e r, the All-Wis e. We re an yone to a ff ir m
t h at it is the Will of God as man i fe s ted in the world of bein g, no one should que s ti on this
a s s e r ti on. It is endowed with a power whose reality men of lear n ing fa il to gra s p. Inde ed a man
of in sight can perceive naught therein save the efful gent spl e ndour of Our Name, the Creator.
Say: This is an exis te nce which knoweth no decay, and Nat ure itself is lost in be w ilde r m e n t
before its re ve l ati ons, its comp e ll ing evide nces and its efful gent glory which have encompa s s ed
the un ive rs e.
By Thy glory! Eve ry time I lift up mine eyes un to Thy heave n, I call to mind Thy highness and
Thy loftiness, and Thine incomparable glory and greatness; and eve ry time I turn my gaze to
T h ine ear t h, I am made to reco g n ize the evide nces of Thy power and the tokens of Thy boun-
t y. And when I be h old the sea, I find that it speaketh to me of Thy maj e s t y, and of the pote n-
cy of Thy might, and of Thy sove reignty and Thy grandeur. And at wh ate ver time I con te m-
pl ate the moun ta ins, I am led to dis cover the ensigns of Thy victory and the stand ards of Thin e
omn i p ote nce.46
Te s ts and Di ff i culti e s
A mong the teac h in gs of the re l i gi ons is that there is purpose to te s ts and diff i culties in this ear t hl y
l i fe, in that they lead to many spir i t u al re ward s. One of Con fucius most we ll-known followe rs, Me nci u s
(372–289, BCE), teaches that te s ts and diff i culties are bl e s sin gs from Heaven. The follow ing be loved pa s-
sage in his classic writin gs is we ll memor iz ed by eve ry Chinese stude n t.
“Heave n, When it is ab out to pl ace a great re s p on sibility on a man, al ways first te s ts his re s-
oluti on, wears out his sin e ws and bones with toil, exposes his body to starvati on, subj ec ts him
to ext reme pove r t y, fr u s t rate his effor ts so as to stimul ate his mind, toughen his nat ure and
m ake good his def i ci e nci e s. Men for the most part can mend their ways only a fter they made
m is take. Only when they are fr u s t rated in mind and in their de l ibe rati ons can they stand up
an e w. Only when their in te n ti ons become visible on their coun te n ances and aud ible in their
voi ces can they be unde rs tood by ot h e rs. As a rule, a state will perish without law- abid ing fam-
ilies and trustworthy public servan ts on the one hand, and without the threat of exte r n al
ag g re s si on on the ot h e r. Only then do we real ize that anxiety and dis t ress lead to life; and that
ease and com fort end in deat h .”47
B ahá’u’ lláh re- a ff irms these teac h in gs and calls us to be con tent and rad i ant in te s ts and diff i culti e s.
He further re m inds us that fire and ve n geance are really light and merc y; that ad ve rsity is followed by
success and rej oi cing follow woe, and that we should hold fast to wh at will profit mankind .
If ad ve rsity befall thee not in My pat h, how canst thou walk in the ways of them that are con-
tent with My pl ea sure? If trials a fflict thee not in thy lon ging to meet Me, how wilt thou
at ta in the light in thy love for My beaut y?48
My cal amity is My prov ide nce, outwardly it is fire and ve n geance, but in wardly it is light and
m e rc y. Ha s ten thereun to that thou mayest become an ete r n al light and an immor tal spir i t. This
is My comm and un to thee, do thou ob s e rve it.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá further expl a in s:
Those who su ffer most, at ta in to the greatest perfec ti on. While a man is happy he may forge t
h is God; but when grief comes and sor rows ove rwh e lm him, then will he re m e mber his Fat h e r
who is in Heave n, and who is able to de l iver him from his hum il i ati on s. Men who su ffer not ,
at ta in no perfec ti on. The pl ant most pr un ed by the garde n e rs is that one wh i c h, when the sum-
mer comes, will have the most beauti ful blo s s oms and the most abund ant fr u i t.
4 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Mo de rati on in All Thin gs
Mo de rati on is an essenti al pr inci ple in both Chinese and Bah a’i teac h in gs. Lao -Tse teaches the “impar-
ti al mean”(5), the “gentle way”(8), and mo de rati on as the “Tao of Heave n”(9).
Heaven and Earth are impar ti al; all thin gs are equ al .
The wise are impar ti al; the people are equ al ....
E xcess of words bring emp tin e s s ;
be t ter stay with the impar ti al Mean .
The sage is like wate r; water be n ef i ts all thin gs and softly follows Nat ure....
Be kind to ot h e rs; be true in speec h; be just in rul ing; be comp e te n t; and
In ac ti on, be conce r n ed of the time and sea s on .
When one is gentle, there is no con te n ti on .
Be t ter to stop in time than fill to the brim .
O ve r-s h arpen the bl ade, it will soon be blun t.
Fill your house with gold and jade, no one can protect it.
Pr ideful of wealth and titles, disa s ter will follow.
Re tire when the work is don e. This is the Tao of heave n .
The world has its mysterious way; you can not inf luence it.
Try to change it and you will be ruined.
Try to hold it and you will lose it...
T h e refore the sage avoids ext remes, excesses, and compl ace nc y.
C on fucius establ ishes the “Tao of the Mean” as the guid ing pr inci ple in our daily life:
W h at Heaven con fe rs is call ed “n at ure.” Accord ance with this nat ure is call ed the Tao.
Cultivating the Tao is call ed “educati on .” That which is call ed Tao cannot be separated from for an
in s tan t. What can be separated from is not the Tao. Therefore the Sup e r i or Man is cauti ous in the
pl ace wh e re he is not seen, and appre h e n sive in the pl ace wh e re he is not heard. Not h ing is more
v isible than the hidde n, and not h ing is more apparent than the sub t l e. Therefore the Sup e r i or Man
is cauti ous when he is alon e. When joy, an ge r, sor row and pl ea sure have not yet ar is e n, it is call ed
the “Mean” (in Chin e s e —c h’un g). When they ar ise to their appropr i ate levels, it is call ed “har mon y.”
Mean is the great ro ot of all-unde r-h eaven. Har mony is the penetrati on of the Tao through all-
unde r-h eaven. When the mean and har mony are ac t u al iz ed, Heaven and Earth are in their prop e r
p o si ti ons, and the myriad thin gs are nour is h ed .55
B ahá’u’ lláh admon ishes us to exe rcise mo de rati on in all thin gs:
In all mat te rs mo de rati on is de sirabl e. If a thing is car r i ed to excess, it will prove a source of evil .
C on sider the civ il iz ati on of the West, how it hath agi tated and al ar m ed the peoples of the world. An
in fe r n al engine hath been de v is ed, and hath proved so cruel a weap on of de s t r uc ti on that its like non e
h ath ever witnessed or heard. The purging of such de e pl y-ro oted and ove rwh e lm ing cor r up ti ons cannot
be effec ted unless the peoples of the world un i te in pursuit of one common a im and emb race one un i-
ve rsal fa i t h .56
It is incumbent up on them who are in aut h ority to exe rcise mo de rati on in all thin gs.
W h ats o e ver passeth be yond the lim i ts of mo de rati on will cease to exert a be n ef i ci al in flue nce.
C on sider for in s tance such thin gs as libe r t y, civ il iz ati on and the like. Howe ver much men of
unde rs tand ing may favourably regard them, they will, if car r i ed to excess, exe rcise a pernici ou s
in flue nce up on men...57
Say: Hum an ut te rance is an essence which a s pireth to exert its in flue nce and needeth mo de ra-
ti on. As to its in flue nce, this is cond i ti on al up on ref inement which in turn is de p e ndent up on
h ear ts which are de tac h ed and pure. As to its mo de rati on, this hath to be combin ed with tac t
and wis dom as pre s c r ibed in the Holy Scriptures and Tabl e ts.58
Whoso cleaveth to justi ce, can, under no circum s tances, tran sg ress the lim i ts of mo de rati on .
The civ il iz ati on, so often vaun ted by the lear n ed exp on e n ts of ar ts and sci e nces, will, if
allowed to ove rl eap the bounds of mo de rati on, bring great evil up on men. If car r i ed to exce s s ,
4 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
civ il iz ati on will prove as prolific a source of evil as it had been of go o dness when kept with-
in the re s t ra in ts of mo de rati on .
C onc lu si on —“Oneness of Mankind” and “Unity in Dive rsi t y”
T h is paper a ims to show the essenti al unity in the teac h in gs from the Chinese cult ure and the Bahá’í
Faith. They share the same spir i t u al found ati on de s pi te the mill e nnia of his tory separating them.
Howe ve r, the soci al cond i ti ons of the present day world re qu ire many new and un ive rsally appl i cabl e
pr inci ples to help un i te the hum an fam ily as on e. The Bahá’í Faith brin gs new teac h in gs for an emergin g
g lob al civ il iz ati on. These new teac h in gs inc lude the har mony of sci e nce and re l i gi on; ab ol i ti on of prej-
ud i ce; spir i t u al soluti on to economic problems; un ive rsal educati on; un ive rsal auxil i ary lan g u age; equ al-
ity of women and men; and world gove r nm e n t. They are dis cu s s ed in the refe re nced books such a s:
B ahá’u’ lláh and the New Era, The Bahá’í Faith— the Emerging Glob al Re l i gi on and A Short Intro duc ti on
to the Bahá’í Fa i t h.
In conc lu si on, the pivotal pr inci ple of the Bahá’í Faith is the “oneness of mankind” and the op e ratin g
pr inci ple is “unity in dive rsi t y.” These pr inci ples are eloquently expl a in ed in the follow ing pa s sage s.
The pr inci ple of the Oneness of Mankind is no mere outburst of ignorant emoti on al ism or an
e xpre s si on of vag ue and pi ous hop e. Its app eal is not to be merely ide n ti f i ed with a reawake n-
ing of the spirit of brot h e rhood and go o d-w ill among men, nor does it a im solely at the fo s-
te r ing of har mon i ous co op e rati on among ind iv idu al peoples and nati on s. Its impl i cati ons are
de e p e r... Its message is appl i cable not only to the ind iv idu al, but concerns itself pr im ar ily with
the nat ure of those essenti al re l ati onships that must bind all the states and nati ons as membe rs
of one hum an fam il y. It implies an organic chan ge in the struc t ure of pre s e n t- d ay soci e t y, a
c h an ge such as the world has not yet exp e r i e nced. It con s ti t utes a chall e n ge, at once bold and
un ive rsal, to outworn shibb ol e t hs of nati on al cre ed s.... It calls for no less than the recon s t r uc-
ti on and the de m il i tar iz ati on of the wh ole civ il iz ed world —a world organ i cally un i f i ed in all
the essenti al a s p ec ts of its life, its pol i ti cal mac h in e ry, its spir i t u al a s pirati on, its trade and
f in ance, its script and lan g u age, and yet in f in i te in the dive rsity of the nati on al charac te r is-
tics of its fede rated un i ts.60
Unity in Dive rsi t y
The an im ating purpose of the world-w ide Law of Bahá’u’ lláh, far from a im ing at the sub ve rsi on of
the exis ting found ati ons of soci e t y, seeks to broaden its basis, to re mold its in s ti t uti ons in a man-
ner con s on ant with the needs of an eve r- c h an ging world. It can con flict with no legi tim ate all e-
gi ances, nor can it unde r m ine essenti al loyalti e s. Its purpose is neither to sti fle the fl ame of a san e
and in te ll i gent pat r i otism in men’s hear ts, nor to ab ol ish the sys tem of nati on al autonomy so essen-
ti al if the evils of exce s sive ce n t ral iz ati on are to be avoided. It does not ignore, nor does it at te mp t
to suppress, the dive rsity of ethn i cal or i gins, of clim ate, of his tory, of lan g u age and trad i ti on, of
t h ought and habit, that diffe re n ti ate the peoples and nati ons of the world. It calls for a wider loy-
alt y, for a larger a s pirati on than any that has an im ated the hum an race. It in sis ts up on the sub ord i-
n ati on of nati on al impulses and in te re s ts to the imp e rative claims of a un i f i ed world. It re pud i ate s
e xce s sive ce n t ral iz ati on on one hand, and dis c l a ims all at te mp ts at un i formity on the ot h e r. Its
watc h word is ‘unity in dive rsi t y.’
The call of Bahá’u’ lláh is pr im ar ily direc ted aga inst all forms of prov inci al is m, all in sul ar i ties and
prej ud i ce s. If lon g- c h e r is h ed ideals and tim e-h onored in s ti t uti ons, if ce r ta in soci al a s sump ti ons and
re l i gi ous for mul ae have cea s ed to promote the we l fare of the ge n e rality of mankind, if they no
lon ger min is ter to the needs of a con tinu ally evol v ing hum an i t y, let them be swept away and re l e-
gated to the limbo of ob s ol e s cent and forgot ten do c t r in e s. Why should these, in a world subj ect to
the immutable law of chan ge and decay, be exe mpt from the de te r i orati on that must needs ove r take
e ve ry hum an in s ti t uti on? For legal stand ards, pol i ti cal and economic theories are solely de si g n ed to
sa feg u ard the in te re s ts of hum anity as a wh ole, and not hum anity to be cruci f i ed for the pre s e rva-
ti on of the in tegrity of any par ti cul ar law or do c t r in e.61
4 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Wider Inc lu sive Loyalt y
A word of war n ing should, howe ve r, be ut te red in this conn ec ti on. The love of on e’s coun t ry
has not, through this dec l arati on, this clar i on- call of Bahá’u’ lláh, been either conde mn ed or
d is paraged. It should not, inde ed it cannot, be con s t r ued as a re pud i ati on, or regarded in the
light of a ce n sure, pronounced aga inst a sane and in te ll i gent pat r i otis m, nor does it seek to
unde r m ine the all egi ance and loyalty of any ind iv idu al to his coun t ry, nor does it con flict with
the legi tim ate a s pirati ons, rights, and duties of any ind iv idu al state or nati on. All it does impl y
and pro c l a im is the in su ff i ci e ncy of pat r i otis m, in view of the fund am e n tal chan ges effec ted
in the economic life of society and the in te rde p e nde nce of the nati ons, and as the con s e que nce
of the con t rac ti on of the world, through the re voluti on in the means of tran s p or tati on and
commun i cati on .... It calls for a wider loyalt y, which should not, and inde ed does not, con fl i c t
with lesser loyalti e s. It in s tills a love wh i c h, in view of its scope, must inc lude and not exc lude
the love of on e’s own coun t ry. It lays, through this loyalty which it in s pires, and this love wh i c h
it in fuses, the only found ati on on which the concept of world ci tizenship can thr ive, and the
s t r uc t ure of world un i f i cati on can re s t. It does in sist, howe ve r, on the sub ord in ati on of nati on-
al con side rati ons and par ti cul ar is tic in te re s ts to the imp e rative and paramount claims of
hum anity as a wh ole, in a s much as in a world of in te rde p e ndent nati ons and peoples the ad van-
tage of the part is best to be reac h ed by the ad van tage of the wh ol e....
The world is, in trut h, mov ing on towards its de s tin y. The in te rde p e nde nce of the peoples and
n ati ons of the ear t h, wh ate ver the leade rs of the div isive forces of the world may say or do, is
already an accompl is h ed fac t. Its unity in the economic sph e re is now unde rs tood and reco g-
n iz ed. The we l fare of the part means the we l fare of the wh ole, and the dis t ress of the par t
b r in gs dis t ress to the wh ol e. The Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh has, in His own words, “:lent a fre s h
impulse and set a new direc ti on” to this vast pro cess now op e rating in the world. The fires lit
by this great ordeal are the con s e que nces of men’s fa ilure to reco g n ize it. They are, moreove r,
h a s te n ing its con summ ati on. Ad ve rsi t y, prolon ged, world w ide, a ffl i c tive, all i ed to chaos and
un ive rsal de s t r uc ti on, must needs con v ulse the nati ons, stir the con s ci e nce of the world, disil-
lu si on the masses, preci pi tate a rad i cal chan ge in the ve ry conce p ti on of soci e t y, and coal e s ce
ultim ately the dis j oin ted, the bl e ed ing limbs of mankind in to one body, single, organ i call y
un i ted, and ind iv isibl e.
Refe re nce s: Chinese Cult ure
The Record of Ri te s, Book IX., Con fuci u s
The Book Great Lear n ing from Con fuci u s
The Chap ter on the Doctrine of the Mean, from Con fuci u s
Me ncius Book VI: Kao Ts e
Tao Te Chin g–L ao Ts e ( The Book of Tao and Vir t ues )
C hu ang Ts e, the book.
A Source Book in Chinese Philo s oph y, Win g-Tsit Chan, Pr ince ton Unive rsity Press, 1963.
The Chinese Re l i gi on and the Bahá’í Fa i t h, P. Chew, George Ron ald, 1993.
A His tory of Chinese Philo s oph y, Fung Yu-L an, Pr ince ton Unive rsity Press, 1953.
The Wis dom of Lao Ts e, Lin Yutan g, Random House, 1948.
C h inese Trad i ti on al Cult ure Re v isi ts, the First Inte r n ati on al Sy mp o si um on Chinese Cult ure
(in Chinese, Shan g h a i), Comm e rci al Press, Hong Kon g, 1986.
Refe re nce s: Bahá’í Fa i t h
B ahá’í World Fa i t h, by Bahá’u’ lláh and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1976.
The Book of Certi t ude, by Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974.
G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1976.
The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974.
Praye rs and Med i tati on s, by Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974.
The Pro c l am ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1967.
5 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1978.
The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1982 .
S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1982 .
The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, Shoghi Effe nd i, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974.
The Prom is ed Day is Com e, Shoghi Effe nd i, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1974.
The Prom ise of World Peace, Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, 1985.
The Prosperity of Hum ankind, by the Off i ce of Public Infor m ati on, Bahá’í Inte r n ati on al Commun i t y, 1994.
B ahá’u’ lláh and the New Era, J. E. Esslemont, Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1980.
The Bahá’í Fa i t h –The Emerging Glob al Re l i gi on, Will i am S. Hatch and J. Douglas Mar tin, Harper and Row, 1984.
A Short Intro duc ti on to the Bahá’í Fa i t h, M. Mom e n, One World Publ i cati ons, 1996.
Note s
1) See books in the refe re nce sec ti on for further in for m ati on on the Bah a’i Fa i t h .
2) Re p or ted in “Star of the We s t”, vol. 8, Apr il 28, 1917, No. 3, p. 37.
3) Letter from Shoghi Effe nd i, the Gu ard i an of the Bah a’i Fa i t h, dated 23 Janu ary 1923.
4) Statement from the Bah a’i Inte r n ati on al Commun i t y, 1 July 1999.
5) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, Bah a’i Publ is h ing Trust, 1982, p. 109.
6) “The in t ro duc ti on of Buddh ism from India to Chin a – s ome pers p ec tives on the de ve lopment of Chinese Cult ure ,” Prof.
Tong Yi-Jia (Beijing Unive rsi t y) in C h inese Trad i ti on al Cult ure Re v isi ts in the First Inte r n ati on al Sy mp o si um on Chin e s e
Cult ure (in Chin e s e), Shan g h a i, 1986, Comm e rci al Press, Hong Kon g.
7) The Great Unity Chap te r, Con fucius, in The Book of Ri tes, Book IX.
8) A Trave ll e r’s Nar rative (Epis o de of the Bab), pp. xxxix-x l .
9) The Prom ise of World Peace , U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, p1.
10) G l ean in gs of the Wr i tin gs of Bah a’u’ ll ah, p. 251.
11) The Pro c l am ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 112 .
12) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, by `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 180.
13) Found ati ons of World Unity, by `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 38.
14) The Great Lear n ing Chap ter from Con fuci u s.
15) Tabl e ts of Bah a’u’ ll ah, (Words of Wis dom), p. 156.
16) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 251.
17) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 285.
18) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, by `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 235.
19) ‘Abdu’ l-B aha, in The Compil ati on of Compil ati on s, vol. 1, p. 263.
20) Tablet of Bah a’u’ ll ah, pp. 63–64.
21) B ahá’í World Fa i t h, by `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 270.
22) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh (A rabi c), by Bahá’u’ lláh, no. 29.
23) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, by `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 168.
24) S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 279.
25) The Way of Lao Tz u, W.T. Chan, chap ter 7.
26) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh (A rabi c), by Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 1.
27) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 264.
28) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, by `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 180–181.
29) The Wis dom of Laotse, Lin Yutan g, Random House, 1948, p. 14.
30) Tao Te Chin g, Laotse, ch. 1. (aut h or’s own tran s l ati on with ad ap tati on from ot h e rs.)
31) Tao Te Chin g, Laotse, ch. 14.
32) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 62 .
33) The Book of Certi t ude, by Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 97.
34) The Book of Certi t ude, by Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 97–100.
35) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bah a’u’ ll ah, no. 148, p. 316.
36) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 136.
37) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 140.
38) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 169.
39) The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace, by `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 180.
40) S ome Answe red Que s ti on s, by ‘Abdu’ l-B aha, p. 165.
41) C hu an g-tsu, Chap ter 2.
42) Tao Te Chin g, Chap ter 42—Tao begot One.
5 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
43) Tao Te Chin g, Chap ter 25—The Tao is spon tan eously so.
44) Tao Te Chin g, Chap ter 16—The way of the Nat ure.
45) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, pp. 140–142 .
46) Praye rs and Med i tati on s, by Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 272 .
47) Me ncius Book VI: Kao Ts e, Part II, 15.
48) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh (A rabi c), by Bahá’u’ lláh, no. 50.
49) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’ lláh (A rabi c), by Bahá’u’ lláh, no. 51.
50) Par is Talk s, by `Abdu’ l-B ahá, p. 50.
51) Tao Te Chin g, Chap ter 5— I mpar ti al Mean .
52) Tao Te Chin g, Chap ter 8—Gentle Ways.
53) Tao Te Chin g, Chap ter 9—Mo de rati on .
54) Tao Te Chin g, Chap ter 29 — Avoids Ext re m e s.
55) D o c t r ine of the Mean, Con fuci u s.
56) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 69.
57) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 169.
58) Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qd a s, p. 172 .
59) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, p. 342 .
60) The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, Shoghi Effe nd i, p. 42–43.
61) The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, Shoghi Effe nd i, p. 41–42 .
62) The Prom is ed Day is Com e, Shoghi Effe nd i, p. 121–122 .
5 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
T
he Br i tish med i e val Chr is ti an theolo gi an and churc hm an St. Anselm of Can te rbury (1033–1109) sa id
t h at “T h eolo gy” which util izes do c t r ines is “faith seeking rati on al self-unde rs tand in g.”1 N ine ce n-
t uries late r, Alis ter Mc Grath sim il arly states that “D o c t r ine may...be regarded as the in te ll ec t u al
s e l f- e xpre s si on of a liv ing trad i ti on ....”2 These pa s sages could be in te r pre ted on the one hand that throu g h
colloquia and semin ars like this one on Pr inci ples of the Bahá’í Be l i ef Sys tem or Bahá’í Theolo gy, we, a s
B ahá’ís, have the rare and preci ous opp or t unity to, ultim ate l y, de ve lop a greater self-unde rs tand ing and
s e l f- e xpre s si on of the Bahá’í Faith its e l f. Yet, on the other hand, it is si g n i f i cant that in 1992 Udo
S c h aefer stated that:
if we compare the de ve lopment of the do c t r ines of our Fa i t h, the schol arly sys te m atiz ati on and
pre s e n tati on of its teac h in gs in terms of ph ilo s oph y, theolo gy, re l i gi ous studies, with that of
I s l am, for in s tance, we must admit that we are still in our in fanc y...our re s earch has mainl y
been fo cu s ed on the his tory of our Fa i t h .... The theolo gi cal do c t r in e s...which are at the ve ry
core of a re l i gi on, have not been stre s s ed much in [Bahá’í] re s earc h ... and] ve ry little has be e n
w r i t ten on the metaph ysi cal and theolo gi cal a s p ec ts of Bahá’u’ lláh’s Re ve l ati on .3
Jack McL ean’s Re v isi on ing the Sac red: New Pe rs p ec tives on a Bahá’í Theolo gy (1997) may be seen a s
a recent and serious at te mpt, in vol v ing seve ral Bahá’í “t h eolo gi an s ,” to in ve s ti gate the theolo gi cal
d im e n si on of the Bahá’í Faith. Nonetheless, McL ean writes in the same work that:
The sys te m atic “B ahá’í theolo gi an” has yet to emerge... and a number of fund am e n tal Bahá’í
teac h in gs have su ffe red from neg l ect ...t h e re is still no maj or schol arly work in Bahá’í pers p ec-
tive on this most vital theme [the oneness of re l i gi on],4 which along with the oneness of
hum an i t y, is the most dis tinc tive and charac te r is ti cally Bahá’í teac h in g. Neither is there yet an y
m aj or schol arly work on pro g re s sive re ve l ati on, one of the grand themes of Bahá’u’ lláh’s pre-
e m inent do c t r in al work the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán .5
Doctrine, Belief, Theology, and Religion
In a We s tern and a Chr is ti an trad i ti on al sense, the study of do c t r ines has been reco g n iz ed as bein g
in tim ately re l ated to theolo gy, or theolo gi cal sys tems, and have therefore often labe l ed “s ys te m atic the-
olo gy” and “do g m atis m .”
6 Howe ve r, in a broader pers p ec tive, Nin i an Sm art arg ues that the do c t r in al
d im e n si on is one of six ce n t ral dim e n si ons of re l i gi on .
7 Sim il arl y, Ri c h ard Com s tock states that do c t r in e
is “a category in the comparative study of re l i gi on that be lon gs with ritual, sac rament, mys ti cal exp e r i-
e nce ,”
8 and he further writes that terms like torah in Jud a is m, k alám in Islam, d ars h ana and dh arma in
H indu ism and Buddh is m, and c h i ao in Con fuci an ism and Taois m, all con vey sim il ar mean in gs of “do c-
t r in e” or “teac h in g.”
9 I nde ed, the ve ry term do c t r ine can etymolo gi cally be de r ived from the Latin do c-
t rína “teac h in g” (from do cé re, “to teac h” )
10 and it is commonly unde rs tood as “s om e t h ing that is tau g h t ,”
“a pr inci pl e ,” “the wh ole body of pr inci ples in a branch of knowl ed ge ,” and a “s ys tem of be l i ef.”
11 T h e
term is therefore often found a s s o ci ated with other re l i gi ous terms and conce p ts like be l i ef, catec h e sis ,
c re ed, con fe s si on, dogma, and ke ryg m a .
In a ge n e ral pers p ec tive on the nat ure of do c t r ine, Sm art def ines do c t r ines as “an at te mpt to give sys-
te m, clarity and in te ll ec t u al power to wh at is re veal ed through the mytholo gi cal and symb ol i cal lan g u age
of re l i gi ous faith and ritual .”
13 A lt h ough Sm art def ines do c t r ines “as an at te mpt to give sys te m,” in his
l ater writin gs he poin ts out that do c t r ines “are not rigidly sys te m ati c ,” but that they “are more like
5 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
schemes than sys te m s.” Moreove r, he main ta ins that a “scheme is organ i c ,” and he seems to imply a
h e r m e n eutic pr inci ple when he further arg ues that “to unde rs tand a scheme, it is imp or tant to see eac h
part in the con te xt of the wh ol e.”
Sm art also enum e rates five func ti ons of do c t r ine, which are to:
• bring order to wh at is given by re ve l ati on
• sa feg u ard the refe re nce myths have to that which lies Be yond
• re l ate their claims to the cur rent knowl ed ge of the age
• refl ect and stimul ate a fresh visi on of the world
• def ine the commun i t y15
These five poin ts can fin ally be compared with R. M. Sp ei g h t’s eight func ti ons of cre eds a s:
• the basis of membe rs h i p
• a test of or t h o dox y
• a type of praye r
• a basis for re l i gi ous in s t r uc ti on
• a cor p orate or ind iv idu al re s p onse in faith to div ine re ve l ati on
• an expre s si on of self-unde rs tand ing by the re l i gi ous commun i t y
• an a s s e r ti on and con f ir m ati on of the unity of the commun i t y
• a witness to the world, expre s sing the core of be l i ef16
It is here note worthy that Sm ar t’s fifth and Sp ei g h t’s sixth poin ts inc lude self- def in i ti on and self-
unde rs tand ing as func ti ons of do c t r in e s/c re eds in that they “def ine the commun i t y” and that they are
“an expre s si on of self-unde rs tand ing by the re l i gi ous commun i t y.” Sim il arl y, Mc Grath states that
“D o c t r ine def ines commun i ties of dis course, possessing a re pre s e n tative charac te r, at te mp ting to
de s c r ibe or pre s c r ibe the be l i efs of a commun i t y.”17 Sp ei g h t’s last point, “e xpre s sing the core of be l i ef,”
is par ti cul arly illum in ating since this paper arg ues that the Bahá’í do c t r ine of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is
“the bedrock of Bahá’í be l i ef.”
In sum, the purpose of this paper is to show that the Bahá’í idea or concept of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on
is expl i ci t l y18 de s c r ibed as a “do c t r in e ,” “s om e t h ing that is tau g h t ,” “a scheme,” “a pr inci pl e” and that it
e ven is labe l ed as a “ph ilo s oph y,” that it expresses “the core of be l i ef,” and, ultim ate l y, that it not onl y
def ines the Bahá’í community but the Bahá’í Faith its e l f.
THE DOCTRINE OF PROGRESSIVE REVELATION:
The Term Progressive Revelation in the Writings of the Central Figures
In order to de te r m ine if the concept of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on expl i ci t l y19 is a Bahá’í do c t r ine, it is
f irst nece s sary to in ve s ti gate the English tec hn i cal term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on as it occurs in the Bahá’í
w r i tin gs.
B ahá’u’ lláh
The tec hn i cal term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on occurs in the English tran s l ati ons of the extant writin gs of
B ahá’u’ lláh only once and in the follow ing pa s sage of G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh:
C on te mpl ate with thine in ward eye the chain of succe s sive Re ve l ati ons that hath linked the
Man i fe s tati ons of Ad am with that of the Bá b. I te s tify before God that each one of these
Man i fe s tati ons hath been sent down through the op e rati on of the Div ine Will and Pur p o s e ,
t h at each hath been the bearer of a specific Me s sage, that each hath been entrusted with a
d iv inely re veal ed Book and been comm is si on ed to unravel the mys teries of a mighty Tabl e t.
The mea sure of the Re ve l ati on with which eve ry one of them hath been def in i tely fore-
ord a in ed ...A nd when this pro cess of pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on culm in ated ... He chose to hide His
own Self be h ind a thou sand veils, lest profane and mor tal eyes dis cover His glory.
The or i gin al pa s sage is in Arabic and was tran s l ated by Shoghi Effe ndi. Howe ve r, it is imp or tant to
note that an equ ivalent to the tec hn i cal term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on never occurs in the or i gin al Arabi c
5 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
te xt. Howe ve r, it is si g n i f i cant that the term occurs in the in te r n al con te xt of the ab ove pa s sage and
e s p eci ally in conn ec ti on with such key terms as the “c h a in of succe s sive Re ve l ati on s ,”
21 and the
“Man i fe s tati on s” (i .e., the Man i fe s tati ons of God).
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
Sim il arl y, the tec hn i cal term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on never occurs in any of the extant English tran s l a-
ti ons of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s oral or lite rary works, but a couple of close equ ival e n ts can ea sily be found. The
follow ing pa s sages may serve to exe mplify this:
Re l i gi on is the outer expre s si on of the div ine real i t y. Therefore, it must be liv in g, vital iz ed, mov-
ing and pro g re s sive. If it be without moti on and non-pro g re s sive, it is without the div ine life; it is
dead. The div ine in s ti t utes are con tinuously ac tive and evoluti on ary; therefore, the re ve l ati on of
them must be pro g re s sive and con tinuou s.22
A mong the boun ties of God is re ve l ati on. He nce re ve l ati on is pro g re s sive and con tinuou s. It neve r
cea s e s. It is nece s sary that the reality of Div inity with all its perfec ti ons and at t r ibutes should
become re s pl e ndent in the hum an world. The reality of Div inity is like an endless ocean. Re ve l ati on
m ay be like n ed to the ra in .23
In the first pa s sage re l i gi on itself is seen as pro g re s sive. Fur t h e r, it is si g n i f i cant that in both pa s sage s
the term pro g re s sive is directly coupl ed with the term con tinuou s.
Shoghi Effe nd i
Of the three ce n t ral Bahá’í figure s ,
24 Shoghi Effe ndi is the only one who ever applies the tec hn i cal
term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on, alt h ou g h, as shall be seen be low, he apparently did not coin this term. In a
l e t te r, written in 1935, Shoghi Effe ndi states that he made a “te n tative and incompl e te list of the subj ec ts
refe r red to in these tran s l ati on s.”
25 A mong the fift y-four subj ec ts enum e rated, Shoghi Effe ndi menti on s
the “Unity of Proph e ts” as the first subj ec t. Howe ve r, wh at is si g n i f i cant in this con te xt is that, as sub-
j ect for t y-t hree, he briefly states that “Div ine Re ve l ati on is pro g re s sive.” Generall y, and sim il ar to
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s statement ab ove, Shoghi Effe ndi re p eatedly writes that “Div ine Re ve l ati on is a con tinuou s
and pro g re s sive pro ce s s.”
26 Fur t h e r, writing on the topic of re l i gi ons, Shoghi Effe ndi states that “O n e
cannot call one World Faith sup e r i or to anot h e r, as they all come from God; they are pro g re s sive, eac h
su i ted to ce r ta in needs of the tim e.”
27 E l s e wh e re he also refe rs to “a series of pro g re s sive dis p e n sati on s
a s s o ci ated with Moses, Zoroa s te r, Buddha, Jesus, Muh amm ad and other Proph e ts.”
More speci f i call y, Shoghi Effe ndi expl i ci t l y, direc t l y, and fre quently employs the tec hn i cal term pro-
g re s sive re ve l ati on. For example, writing ab out the a s ce n si on of Bahá’u’ lláh in both his God Passes By
and The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh, he refe rs to the Bá bí and Bahá’í “Dis p e n sati on” as encompa s sin g
f i fty years of “con tinuous and pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on.”
29 O nce aga in it can be noted that the term pro-
g re s sive is coupl ed with the term con tinuou s. Other expre s si ons in the sin g ul ar are:
• the concept of pro g re s sive re l i gi on
• the pr inci ple of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on
• the Bahá’í ph ilo s ophy of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on
Shoghi Effe ndi also uses plural terms of pro g re s sive re ve l ati ons like:
• series of pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on s33
• a series of succe s sive, of pre l im in ary and pro g re s sive re ve l ati on s34
• one link in the chain of con tinu ally pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on s35
• a further stage in a chain of pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on s36
C on s e que n t l y, with regard to the three ce n t ral Bahá’í figures and the tec hn i cal term pro g re s sive re ve-
l ati on, it should now be clear that this term occurs only once (as tran s l ated by Shoghi Effe nd i) and
impl i citly in the writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh; it is impl i ci t l y, ind irec t l y, and rarely stated in the writin gs of
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá;37 but it is expl i ci t l y, direc t l y, and fre quently employed by Shoghi Effe nd i .38
5 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Term Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on in the Wr i tin gs of Other Aut h ors
Howe ve r, Shoghi Effe ndi is apparently not the first Bahá’í aut h or who uses this te r m, but it is highl y
in te re s ting and si g n i f i cant that its first usage in a Bahá’í con te xt is made by Shoghi Effe nd i’s clo s e
Br i tish fr i e nd, J. E. Esslemont (1874–1925), who also was his English lan g u age sec re tary.
39 T hus, the per-
h aps earliest dating of the English term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on in Bahá’í [u sage] occurs as the sub title of
the eighth chap ter on “Re l i gi ous Unity” in Esslemon t’s B ahá’u’ lláh and the New Era, publ is h ed in 1923.
It is also imp or tant to note that in 1919, Esslemont sent chap te rs of his book for approval to ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá wh o, before he died in 1921, re v is ed the first nine chap te rs.
41 A lt h ough Esslemont never elab orate s
on the te r m, he does refer to pa s sages by Bahá’u’ lláh
42 and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
43 E s s l e mont, howe ve r, may not
be the first Bahá’í aut h or to use the term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on, since Will i am Coll ins writes that “From
s om e wh e re around 1900, American Bahá’ís had access to the bibl i cal in te r pre tati ons found in Bahá’í
s c r i p t ures, up on which a sound concept of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on could be based .”
44 In add i ti on, Samue l
Wil s on states that early English speaking Bahá’í write rs (e.g., Kheiralla, Re m e y, Deal y, and Br i t tin g h am)
“refe r [red] to Mill e r, Cumm in gs, Seiss, Gu inness, and ot h e rs.”
46 T h is is a cruci al statement, since the
Gu inness Wil s on is refe r r ing to is most likely He nry Grat tan- Gu inness, who employed the tec hn i cal te r m
pro g re s sive re ve l ati on already in 1878.
A nother pers on who fre quently used the term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on was the former Anglican pr i e s t
G eorge Tow n s h e nd48 (1876–1957), who also was a close fr i e nd to Shoghi Effe ndi. In this con te xt it is espe-
ci ally note worthy since Shoghi Effe ndi greatly adm ired his comm and of English and therefore sent him
h is tran s l ati ons and manu s c r i p ts.49
In 1954 the term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on makes a clear and def in i te app earance since John Fe r raby used
the term as the ve ry title of a pamphl e t. More rece n t l y, pro g re s sive re ve l ati on has, in English Bahá’í lit-
e rat ure, var i ously been refe r red to as the:
• idea of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on50
• pr inci ple of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on51
• pro cess of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on52
• theme of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on53
• B ahá’í thesis of Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on54
• B ahá’í noti on of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on55
• concept of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on56
• b a sic Bahá’í teac h ing of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on57
Progressive Revelation as an Explicit Doctrine
The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation in the Writings of the Central Figures
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
It should be clearly stated that from the extant English sources of the writin gs of Báhá’u’ lláh and
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá neither aut h or expl i citly dec l ared pro g re s sive re ve l ati on as a do c t r in e. Howe ve r, qu i te a fe w
B ahá’í schol ars state that Bahá’u’ lláh’s Ki t á b -i-ˆqán not only “e nunci ates the essenti al do c t r in al pr inci-
ples of the Bahá’í re ve l ati on,”
58 but that it also has been refe r red to as “B ahá’u’ lláh’s fore most do c t r in al
work.”
59 Other Bahá’í aut h ors have arg ued that Bahá’u’ lláh’s Ki t á b -i-ˆqán is the pr im ary Bahá’í te xtb o ok
on pro g re s sive re ve l ati on. Thus, for example, Ad ib Tah e r z adeh states that the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán has “un folded
the pat tern and dis c lo s ed the mean ing of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on,”
60 and sim il arl y, Will i am Hatcher state s
t h at it is “B ahá’u’ lláh’s most imp or tant do c t r in al work”
61 and that it “d is cusses pro g re s sive re ve l ati on .”
In add i ti on, Seena Fazel & Khazeh Fan an apazir state that Bahá’u’ lláh’s Sú r iy-i-Sab r is “a tablet de voted to
the exp o si ti on of the theme of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on .”
In the case of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, it is si g n i f i cant that he state s:
In eve ry Dis p e n sati on the light of Div ine Gu id ance has been fo cu s ed up on one ce n t ral theme.... In
t h is wondrous Re ve l ati on, this glor i ous ce n t ury, the found ati on of the Faith of God and the dis tin-
g u is h ing feat ure of His Law is the con s ci ousness of the Oneness of Mankind .64
5 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
From this pa s sage it would be possible to conc lude that “the Oneness of Mankind” could be con sid-
e red the “ce n t ral theme” of Bahá’í [do c t r in e]. Howe ve r, dur ing his travels to Europe and America ,
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá also for mul ated wh at has been refe r red to as “a core set of Bahá’í ‘pr inci pl e s’”
65 and wh i c h
“could a s sume cre ed al for mul ati on as a simple summ ary of the Bahá’í Fa i t h .”
66 Fore most among these
pr inci ples is the pr inci ple which states that “it is incumbent up on all mankind to in ve s ti gate the trut h .”
It is si g n i f i cant that inc luded in this first pr inci ple ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá alludes to a ce n t ral theme, or a s p ec t ,
of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on - that of an essenti al re l i gi ous un i t y —since he states that “The diffe rent re l i-
gi ons have one truth unde rl y ing them, their reality is on e.... All the div ine Proph e ts and Me s s e n ge rs we re
the in s t r um e n ts and channels of this same ete r n al, essenti al trut h .”
Shoghi Effe nd i
Earlier it was seen that only Shoghi Effe ndi util ize the tec hn i cal term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on. Shoghi
Effe ndi also refe rs to Bahá’í do c t r ines in ge n e ral state m e n ts like “The pr inci pl e s” and “fund am e n tals of
the Fa i t h,”
68 “b a sic and sac red pr inci pl e s ,”
69 “ve r i ties of the Fa i t h,”
70 “the essenti al ve r i ties of the Fa i t h,”
“t r ut hs which lie at the basis of our Fa i t h,”
72 “the maj or be l i efs of our Fa i t h,”
73 and “the pr inci ples and
prece p ts con s ti t uting the bedrock of [t h e] Fa i t h,”
74 and “the incon t rove r tible pr inci ples that con s ti t ute
the bedrock of Bahá’í be l i ef.”
75 More speci f i call y, he posi tively ide n tifies “the oneness of the entire
hum an race” as “the pivotal pr inci ple and fund am e n tal do c t r ine of the [Bahá’í] Fa i t h.”
76 O nce aga in, the
oneness of mankind may seem as the fund am e n tal Bahá’í do c t r in e. The follow ing parag raphs by Shoghi
Effe nd i, howe ve r, can be used to directly a s ce r ta in that pro g re s sive re ve l ati on also is expl i citly stated a s
a ce n t ral Bahá’í do c t r ine, here refe r red as a pr inci pl e:
The fund am e n tal pr inci ple enunci ated by Bahá’u’ lláh ... is that re l i gi ous truth is not ab s olute but
re l ative, that Div ine Re ve l ati on is a con tinuous and pro g re s sive pro ce s s.77
Its [the Bahá’í Fa i t h’s] teac h in gs re vol ve around the fund am e n tal pr inci ple that re l i gi ous trut h
is not ab s olute but re l ative, that Div ine Re ve l ati on is pro g re s sive, not fin al.78
the fund am e n tal pr inci ple which con s ti t utes the Bedrock of Bahá’í be l i ef, the pr inci ple that
re l i gi ous truth is not ab s olute but re l ative, that Div ine Re ve l ati on is orde rl y, con tinuous and
pro g re s sive and not spa s modic or fin al.79
The Faith of Bahá’u’ lláh should inde ed be regarded ...as the culm in ati on of a cycle, the fin al
s tage in a series of succe s sive, of pre l im in ary and pro g re s sive re ve l ati on s.80
It is possible to in te r pret the first three parag raphs ab ove that “re l i gi ous truth is not ab s olute but re l-
ative” as a separate pr inci ple from “Div ine Re ve l ati on is a con tinuous and pro g re s sive pro ce s s ,” or that
t h at “Div ine Re ve l ati on is pro g re s sive.” Moreove r, by the ve ry fact that it is menti on ed first, the pr in-
ci ple of “re l i gi ous re l ativ i t y” could be con side red as the fund am e n tal pr inci ple of Bahá’í. It is also pos-
sible, howe ve r, to see the two sente nces as in s e parably re l ated and as a more elab orate ve rsi on of a sin-
gle pr inci pl e. Two other pa s sages by Shoghi Effe ndi may clarify this re l ati onship in de te r m in ing wh e t h e r
they are to be treated as two separate pr inci ples, or as one single pr inci pl e:
Let none, howe ve r, mis take my purpose, or mis re present this card in al truth which is of the
e s s e nce of the Faith of Bahá’u’ lláh. The div ine or i gin of all the Proph e ts of God—inc lud in g
J e sus Chr ist and the Apostle of God [Muh amm ed], the two greatest Man i fe s tati ons preced in g
the Re ve l ati on of the Bá b— is unre s e rvedly and un s h ak ably uph e ld by each and eve ry followe r
of the Bahá’í -re l i gi on. The fund am e n tal unity of these Me s s e n ge rs of God is clearly reco g-
n iz ed, the con tinuity of their Re ve l ati on is a ff ir m ed.
He re Shoghi Effe ndi ind irectly refe rs to the “con tinuity of their Re ve l ati on” as a “card in al truth wh i c h
is of the essence of the Faith of Bahá’u’ lláh .” In the first sec ti ons ab ove, one may also noti ce that the
term con tinuous is directly coupl ed with the term pro g re s sive, wh e reas the last quote con ta ins the te r m
succe s sive. In The Prom is ed Day is Come, and in a chap ter si g n i f i cantly enti t l ed “The Con tinuity of
Re ve l ati on,” Shoghi Effe ndi once aga in uses a sim il ar expre s si on :
Re pud i ating the claim of any re l i gi on to be the fin al re ve l ati on of God to man, dis c l a im-
ing fin ality for His own Re ve l ati on, Bahá’u’ lláh inculcates the basic pr inci ple of the re l a-
5 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
tivity of re l i gi ous trut h, the con tinuity of Div ine Re ve l ati on, the pro g re s siveness of re l i-
gi ous exp e r i e nce.
W h at is especi ally note worthy in this pa s sage is that Shoghi Effe ndi uses the sin g ul ar “b a sic pr inci-
pl e ,” but, more imp or tan t l y, he links not only the terms “re l ativ i t y” and “con tinu i t y,” but he is in tur n
re l ating these to the expre s si on “pro g re s sive n e s s.”
As a further supp ort that the unity of the “Me s s e n ge rs of God” is seen as a ce n t ral do c t r ine of Bahá’í,
can be seen in the next pa s sage by Shoghi Effe nd i :
T h at all the Me s s e n ge rs of God should be regarded as “abid ing in the same Tabe r n acle, soar in g
in the same Heave n, seated up on the same Throne, ut te r ing the same Sp e ec h, and pro c l a im in g
the same Fa i t h”83 mu s t... re m a in the un alte rable found ati on and ce n t ral tenet of Bahá’í be l i ef.84
In add i ti on, Shoghi Effe ndi states in a sim il ar con te xt of the “unity of the Man i fe s tati ons of God”
t h at to regard Bahá’u’ lláh “as essenti ally one of these Man i fe s tati ons of God... is one of the maj or be l i efs
of our Fa i t h.”85
As a fin al supp ort that Shoghi Effe ndi con side rs pro g re s sive re ve l ati on a ce n t ral Bahá’í do c t r ine is that
he states that:
the Bahá’í ph ilo s ophy of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on ... s h ould be thorou g hly acce p ted and taught by
e ve ry loyal ... B ahá’í.86
In accord ance with the def in i ti ons of do c t r ine re v i e wed ab ove, it is si g n i f i cant to note that the ph i-
lo s ophy of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on should not only be “t h orou g hly acce p ted ,” but it should be taught a s
we ll .
The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation in the Writings of Other Authors
A lt h ough it is clear that is ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and especi ally Shoghi Effe ndi have been most in s t r um e n tal in
s ys te m atizing var i ous Bahá’í do c t r ines, other Bahá’í aut h ors have used the term do c t r ine only rece n t l y.
For example, in 1931 Mabel Hyde Pa ine recorded, in her “Pil g r im s’ Note s” the follow ing lines, at t r ibuted
to Shoghi Effe nd i :
Pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is the basis of Bahá’í Teac h in gs.87
A lt h ough such a statement cannot be con side red aut h or i tative, it su g ge s ts a do c t r in al status of
pro g re s sive re ve l ati on. More rece n t l y, Schaefer states that the “t h eolo gi cal pivot [of the Bahá’í
Fa i t h] is the teac h ing of the unity of the Man i fe s tati ons [of God], and, hence, the unity of the
re l i gi on s.”88 Sto c km an also refe rs to pro g re s sive re ve l ati on as “the fund am e n tal Bahá’í teac h-
in g.”89 Sim il arl y, Mi c h ael Sours, who de votes a chap ter to pro g re s sive re ve l ati on,90 s tates that
“At the core of Bahá’u’ lláh’s teac h ing is the be l i ef in the compl e te oneness and pro g re s sive n e s s
of re l i gi on .”91 In like mann e r, under the head ing “B a sic Teac h in gs ,” Will i am Hatcher & Dou g l a s
Mar tin refer to “t hree fund am e n tal pr inci pl e s ,” a s: 1) The Oneness of God, 2) The Oneness of
Hum an i t y, and 3) Oneness of Re l i gi on. A de s c r i p ti on of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is inc luded in
the third pr inci pl e.92
Howe ve r, the first aut h or to use the terms “the Bah a’i do c t r ine of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on” was not a
B ahá’í but a non-B ahá’í, Pe ter L. Be rge r, the famous soci olo gist of re l i gi on .93 It would take more than
t h irty years [before] Robert Sto c km an would use the exact same te r m s.94 In this con te xt it is especi all y
si g n i f i cant that in 1954 Be rger also wrote that “Pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is still held as a card in al do c t r in e
by the Bah a’is to this day....”95
T h at the concept of an essenti al unity of re l i gi ons is conn ec ted with pro g re s sive re ve l ati on and Bahá’í
do c t r ine can be seen in a statement by Mo ojan Mom e n :
The concept of the unity of re l i gi ons is one of the key do c t r ines of the Bahá’í Faith. At its
most basic level, this do c t r ine can be expre s s ed as the be l i ef that the diffe rent re l i gi ous sys-
tems of the world merely refl ect diffe rent stages in a single pro cess, the pro g re s sive un fold-
ment of re l i gi ous “Tr ut h .”96
5 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
He re one may noti ce the expre s si on “key do c t r in e s” and the statement “At its most basic leve l ,” and
t h at it is re l ated to “the pro g re s sive un foldment of re l i gi ous ‘Tr ut h .’” Sim il arl y, when Dann May state s
t h at “The Bahá’í concept of re l i gi ous un i t y... is one of the most fund am e n tal do c t r ines of the Bahá’í
Fa i t h,” he con tinues to de s c r ibe this do c t r ine as follows:
T h is do c t r ine a ff irms the exis te nce of a common tran s ce ndent source from which the world’s
re l i gi ous trad i ti ons or i gin ate and receive their in s pirati on. The Bahá’í writin gs view the re l i gi on s
of the world not as is ol ated and sporadic eve n ts, but as par ti ci pan ts in a succe s sively un fold in g
pro cess call ed pro g re s sive re ve l ati on.
I nd irectly addre s sing the concept of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on, Alessandro Bau sani succinctly states that
“the wh ole Bahá’í Faith is ce n te red on this theoph an i cal idea [e voluti on in time, and unity in the pre s e n t
h our]” and that “all of the do c t r ines of the Faith can be encompa s s ed by the phrase ‘e voluti on in tim e.’”98
The three ke ywords here are: theoph any (“the Man i fe s tati on of God” ), evoluti on (“pro g re s s” ), and un i t y,
terms and conce p ts which all pl ay pr im ary roles in the Bahá’í do c t r ine of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on .
Pro g re s sive re ve l ati on has also been dis cu s s ed in re l ati on to Islam .99 He s hm at Moayyad, for exampl e ,
d is cusses pro g re s sive re ve l ati on in the con te xt of the Islamic “S eal of the Prophet do c t r in e” and re l i gi ou s
f in al i t y, and refe rs to it as “the Bahá’í do c t r ine of con tinu in g, pro g re s sive re ve l ati on.”100 Ste ph e n
L ambden writes that Bahá’í in some re s p ec ts is “n eo -I s l am i c” in that ce r ta in Bahá’í do c t r ines (e.g. ,
tawh íd, al-ism al- a’z am, and pro g re s sive re ve l ati on) are “ob v i ously Islam i c .”101
Ju an Cole is the first aut h or who uses the term “The Babi-B ah a’i do c t r ine of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on”
and it is si g n i f i cant that he views this do c t r ine in terms of “a con tinuous sac red his tory.”102 L on i
Bram s on-L e rche states that pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is an “imp or tant do c t r ine of the Bahá’í Fa i t h.”103
S c h aefer goes one step further and in a chap ter enti t l ed “The New Paradigm: Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on,”
since he refe rs to pro g re s sive re ve l ati on as a “fund am e n tal do c t r in e.”104 Most rece n t l y, in a review ar ti-
cle of the earlier menti on ed Re v isi on ing the Sac red, it is notable that Su san Stiles Man eck uses the te r m s
“the Bahá’í do c t r ine of Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on .”105
The one Bahá’í aut h or who most clearly and elab orately states that pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is not onl y
an imp or tant Bahá’í do c t r ine, but the ce n t ral one, is Nader Sa i edi. Alt h ough he also states that the do c-
t r ine of the Man i fe s tati on of God “is a fund am e n tal, ce n t ral, theolo gi cal, ph ilo s oph i cal, and soci olo gi-
cal concept of the Bahá’í Fa i t h,” he simultan eously states that the “do c t r ine of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on can
be charac te r iz ed as the ce n t ral theolo gi cal pr inci ple of the Bahai Fa i t h.”106 Moreove r, even though Sa i ed i
s tates that pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is “One of the most imp or tant pr inci ples of Bahá’í theolo gy,”107 he al s o
p oin ts to its compl e xity when he dec l ares that “the do c t r ine of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on” simultan eously is
“a theory of knowl ed ge, a metaph ysics of bein g, a proph e tolo gy, a theolo gy, an eschatolo gy, a soci al the-
ory, an ethical do c t r ine, and an ae s t h e tic approach to life.”108
Fin all y, it should also be menti on ed that the term and concept of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on has been por-
t rayed in the form of a video,109 it has also has found its way in to var i ous Bahá’í dicti on aries, a Bahá’í
e nc yc lop edia, and is ce n t ral to many Bahá’í hom e-page s.110 Most si g n i f i can t l y, the off i ci al Bahá’í hom e-
page, which inc ludes var i ous “Spir i t u al Tr ut hs” of Bahá’í, it is note worthy that “The Oneness of
Re l i gi on” is inc luded, and that “The pr inci ple of the unity of re l i gi on” is de s c r ibed as being “at the ce n-
ter of Bahá’í teac h in gs.”111 T h at pro g re s sive re ve l ati on has ac qu ired do c t r in al status in Bahá’í is clear
since the Inte r n ati on al Bahá’í Lib rary (I s rae l) classifies pro g re s sive re ve l ati on under the head in g
“D o c t r ines, Theolo gy.”112 T h at the do c t r ines of man i fe s tati on and pro g re s sive re ve l ati on are in tim ate l y
re l ated and imp or tant, can be seen in that a gradu ate- course, de ve lop ed and taught by Landegg Acade m y
(Sw i t z e rl and), enti t l ed “C omparative St udy of Re l i gi on and the Conce p ts of the Man i fe s tati on and
Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on .”113
A fin al, and ve ry recent example, that the Bahá’í Faith can be unde rs tood in terms of pro g re s sive re v-
e l ati on may also be seen a non-B ahá’í source—the E nc yc lop edia Br i tann i ca:
The cor n e rs tone of Bah a’i be l i ef is the con v i c ti on that Bah a’ Ull ah and his fore r unn e r, who wa s
known as the Bab, we re man i fe s tati ons of God, who in his essence is unknowabl e. The pr inci pal
5 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
B ah a’i te n e ts are the essenti al unity of all re l i gi ons and the unity of hum an i t y. Bah a’is be l i e ve that
all the founde rs of the world’s great re l i gi ons have been man i fe s tati ons of God and age n ts of a pro-
g re s sive div ine pl an for the educati on of the hum an race.
W h at is especi ally in te re s ting with these in t ro duc tory re m arks of de s c r ibing the Bahá’í Faith is that
they imm ed i ate l y, albeit impl i ci t l y, ide n tify pro g re s sive re ve l ati on as the “cor n e rs tone of Bah a’i be l i ef”
and that “the essenti al unity of all re l i gi on s” is one of “pr inci pal Bah a’i te n e ts.” The fin al sente nce ab ove
conn ec ts the var i ous poin ts ra is ed earlier since “the world’s great re l i gi ons have been man i fe s tati ons of
G o d” (inc lud ing the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh) are all part of “a pro g re s sive div ine pl an” i.e., pro g re s sive re v-
e l ati on .
Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on Def in ed
To ci te a few examples of Bahá’í def in i ti ons of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on, the follow ing examples will su f-
f i ce. In Dayb o ok— Pa s sages for Deepening and Med i tati on, the reader is a s ked the que s ti on “W h at is
m eant by the term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on?” wh e reup on the an s wer is given a s:
Pro g re s sive re ve l ati on refe rs to the be l i ef that God has a great pl an which He un folds to man in dif-
fe rent periods in his tory. Each Me s s e n ger of God (such as Moses, Chr ist, and Bahá’u’ lláh) re veals a
new stage of this pl an .115
A Basic Bahá’í Di c ti on ary def ines pro g re s sive re ve l ati on a s:
The concept that Div ine Re ve l ati on is not fin al, but con tinu in g. The concept is founded on
the be l i ef that all the Greater Proph e ts of the past we re Man i fe s tati ons of God who app eared
in diffe rent ages with teac h in gs appropr i ate to the needs of the tim e....116
Sim il arl y, in A Re s ource Gu ide for the Schol arly St udy of the Bahá’í Fa i t h, pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is
def in ed a s:
The Bahá’í be l i ef that the maj or re l i gi ons have been founded by Man i fe s tati ons of God and
t h at the Man i fe s tati ons succe ed one anot h e r, each brin ging a greater mea sure of div ine trut h
to hum an i t y.
Fin all y, the most elab orate at te mpt to concisely ar ti cul ate pro g re s sive re ve l ati on has been made by
Sto c km an, wh o, in a Bahá’í Enc yc lop edia ar ticle, state s:
Po s sibly the ce n t ral pr inci ple be h ind the Bahá’í concept of the oneness of re l i gi on, pro g re s sive
re ve l ati on a s s e r ts two imp or tant posi ti on s: 1) that all the maj or re l i gi ons of the world are at
l east par ti ally based on a div ine re ve l ati on, con ve yed to them by a Man i fe s tati on of God; and
2) that the re ve l ati ons brought by the Man i fe s tati ons are not con t rad i c tory, but con s ti t ute a
single, on going div ine educati on al pro cess for hum an i t y.118
In this con te xt it is notable that Sto c km an states that pro g re s sive re ve l ati on possibly is “the ce n t ral
pr inci ple be h ind the Bahá’í concept of the oneness of re l i gi on .”
From these four def in i ti ons a few recur rent themes emerge. First of all, it is evident that three of the
def in i ti ons refer to pro g re s sive re ve l ati on as a be l i ef, wh ile one de si g n ates it as a ce n t ral pr inci pl e.
S econdl y, the noti on of Man i fe s tati ons of God occur in all four def in i ti ons, and thirdl y, the inc lu si on of
var i ous key terms such as succe s si on (“succe ed”) and con tinuity (“con tinu in g”) are si g n i f i can t.
Taken to ge t h e r, these examples strongly su g ge s ts that pro g re s sive re ve l ati on can inde ed be unde rs to o d
as a “be l i ef” and “s om e t h ing that is tau g h t.”
The Pro cess of Doctrin al iz ati on
In this con te xt it is si g n i f i cant that E. G. Browne stated that the Bá bí -B ahá’í teac h in gs we re “vary in g
and un f ixed ,” and that he noted that it con ta in ed little do c t r ine “touc h ing on que s ti ons of Me taph ysi c s ,
O n tolo gy, or Eschatolo gy.”
119 A lt h ough Ibrah im Kheiralla in t ro duced many id i o s y nc ratic and highly per-
s on al ideas in to the early American Bahá’í commun i t y, he still emph a siz ed “the Bahá’í do c t r ine of pro-
g re s sive re ve l ati on .”
120 A lt h ough his list of “Proph e ts” did inc lude Ab rah am, Moses, Zoroa s te r, Buddh a ,
6 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
C hr ist, and Muh amm ad, he also inc luded such re l i gi ous figures as Con fuci u s
121 and Ha iwat h a .
122 Wi t h
the ad vent of a few Pe rsi an Bahá’í teac h e rs to America to clarify the Bahá’í Fa i t h,
123 it is note worthy that ,
for example, ‘Abdu’ l-Karím-i-Tihr ání may have dis cu s s ed pro g re s sive re ve l ati on as early as 1890.
Moreover, at the beginning of the twentieth century, a dozen American Bahá’ís attempted to summarize
lists of the Bahá’í teachings. An early example of such a list may be exemplified by Corinne True, who in
1902 entitled her list “Fundamental Points of Behaism.” What is especially interesting in this context is
that the list was “dominated by points on progressive revelation and the central figures of the Bahá’í
Faith.”
125 It is also significant that two years later, and what was called “the House of Spirituality” in
Chicago, “added a note” to its Constitution “that demonstrated the fascination of the early American
Bahá’ís with the Bahá’í principle of progressive revelation and with their Faith’s fulfillment of prophecy.”
Simultaneously, Peter Smith also states that in the American Bahá’í community, at the beginning of the
twentieth century, “There was no credo to affirm” and that there was “the lack of any creedal formulation
beyond the statement of universal principles” and further that there was even “opposition toward the idea
of dogma.”
127 Thus, it is informative that in 1908 Thornton Chase writes the following lines about ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá: “Unless questions of metaphysics, dogmas and doctrines are introduced, he seldom mentions
them.”
128 It is also of interest that even as late as 1915 Wilson wrote that “Bahaism has not a fixed body
of doctrines.”
129 However, Peter Smith maintains that in 1917 (which was the centennial celebration of
Bahá’u’lláh’s birth) some Chicago Bahá’ís had plans for teaching in the Central States in the U.S.A. and
where “pure doctrine were asserted in no uncertain terms,”
130 and he further states that with Shoghi
Effendi’s publication of The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh in 1934 the “doctrinal confusion” was ended.
C onc lu si on
It should by now be evident that the term and concept pro g re s sive re ve l ati on has unde rgone wh at may
be refe r red to as a “pro cess of do c t r in al iz ati on .” Star ting with Bahá’u’ lláh, neither the term nor the do c-
t r ine of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on we re expl i citly stated. Gradu all y, and most likely in s pired by visi tin g
Pe rsi an Bahá’í teac h e rs to America, var i ous at te mp ts to make lis ts to summ ar ize the Bahá’í teac h in gs
we re made. A few years later ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá for mul ated a set of core-pr inci ples dur ing his travels to the
West, among which the essenti al unity of re l i gi ons was ce n t ral. Sub s e que n t l y, with Shoghi Effe nd i’s
e xte n sive cor re s p onde nce with the glob ally expand ing Bahá’í Fa i t h, pr inci ples of adm in is t rati ons we re
set, and a variety of Bahá’u’ lláh’s writin gs we re tran s l ated. Alt h ough the tec hn i cal term pro g re s sive re v-
e l ati on an ted ates Shoghi Effe nd i’s “Gu ard i an s h i p,” it is only dur ing his adm in is t rati on that it became a
ce n t ral do c t r in e.132 Follow ing the te r m inolo gy in t ro duced by Shoghi Effe nd i, later Bahá’í aut h ors alte r-
n atively have refe r red to pro g re s sive re ve l ati on as an idea, concept, pr inci ple, theme, thesis, and basi c
B ahá’í teac h in g, and most imp or tan t l y, as a be l i ef and do c t r in e. The ultim ate step in the pro cess of do c-
t r in al iz ati on can be seen when the ve ry term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on not only ente red Bahá’í pamphl e ts ,
d i c ti on aries, enc yc lop edias, the Inte r n ati on al Bahá’í Lib rary, and the off i ci al Bahá’í hom e-page, as a ke y
te r m, concept, and do c t r ine, but, most si g n i f i can t l y, that it also has been taught as a gradu ate cours e.
From this brief review it should by now be evident that it is possible to find direct and expl i cit sup-
p ort in var i ous te xts by the ce n t ral Bahá’í figures and other aut h ors, that the idea of pro g re s sive re ve l a-
ti on is not just an idea or a concept, but that it is a ce n t ral Bahá’í do c t r in e. If not the ce n t ral do c t r in e ,
then at least, to gether with the do c t r ine of the oneness of hum ankind, one of the most ce n t ral Bahá’í
do c t r in e s. Thus, any at te mp ts to bu ild a fut ure Bahá’í theolo gy — in order to def ine, unde rs tand, and
e xpress the Bahá’í Fa i t h — must be sol idly bu ilt on this, the “Bedrock of Bahá’í Be l i ef.”
Li te rat ure
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1979. Par is Talk s: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in Par is in 1911-12. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, London
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982a. S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Bahá’í World Centre, Ha i fa
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982b. The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace. Talks de l ive red by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá dur ing His visit to the United
States and Can ada in 1912. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill
Á f á q í, Sá bir 1993. Pro ofs from the Holy Qur’án (Regard ing the Ad vent of Bahá’u’ lláh). Mir’át Publ i cati ons, New Delh i .
B ahá’í Publ is h ing Trust 1985
6 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Dayb o ok— Pa s sages for Deepening and Med i tati on. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
B ahá’u’ lláh 1978. A tablet by Bah a’o’ ll ah to the Pe rsi an Zoroa s t r i an Bah a is. Star of the We s t B o ok 1, volume 1. George Ron ald
B ahá’u’ lláh 1983a. G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá á’u’ lláh. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill
B ahá’u’ lláh 1983b. The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill
B ahá’u’ lláh 1986. Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh—A Compil ati on. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, New Delh i
B an an i, Amin 1981. Intro duc ti on, in M írzá Abú’ l-Fadl Gulpá yg ání Miracles and Me taph ors. Kal imát Press, LA
B au san i, Alessandro 1985. Fore word, in J. R. Cole (ed .) M írzá Abú’ l-Fadl Gulpá yg ání. Lette rs and Essays: 1886-1913. Kal im á t
Press, LA
Bec kw i t h, Francis 1985. B ah a’i. Be t h any House Publ is h e rs, Minn eap ol is, MN
Be rge r, P. L. 1954. From Sect to Church: A Soci olo gi cal Inte r pre tati on of the Bah a’i Move m e n t. Ph.D. dis s e r tati on. New
S c h o ol for Soci al Re s earc h, NY
Bram s on-L e rche, Loni 1982. “S ome Aspec ts of the Deve lopment of the Bahá’í Adm in is t rative Order in America, 1922-1936 ,”
in M. Momen (ed .) St udies in Bá bí and Bahá’í His tory, vol. 1. Kal imát Press, LA
Bram s on-L e rche, Loni 1988. “S ome Aspec ts of the Establ is hment of the Gu ard i an s h i p,” in M. Momen (ed .) St udies in the Bá bí
and Bahá’í Re l i gi on s, vol. 4. Kal imát Press, LA
Browne, E. G. 1912. Intro duc ti on, in M. H. Phelps Abbas Effe ndi: His Li fe and Teac h in gs. G. P. Put nm an’s Son s. NY.
Buc k, Chr is topher 1995. Sy mb ol and Sec re t: Qur’an Comm e n tary in Bah a’u’ ll ah’s Ki t á b -i-ˆqán. St udies in the Bá bí and Bahá’í
Re l i gi on s, Vol. 7. Kal imát Press, LA.
Buc k, Chr is topher 1996. Native Me s s e n ge rs of God in Can ad a ?: A Test Case for Bahá’í Unive rsal is m. The Bahá’í St ud i e s
Re v i e w, vol. 6.
Buc k, Chr is topher 1998. A Sy mb olic Prof ile of the Bahá’í Faith. The Jour n al of Bahá’í St ud i e s 8.4.
Chase, Thor n ton. 1908. In Gal il e e. Bahai Publ is h ing Soci e t y, Chicago. Chr is ti an, W. A. Sr. 1987. Doctrines of Re l i gi ou s
C ommun i ti e s: A Philo s oph i cal St ud y. Yale Unive rsity Press, New Have n .
C ole, J. R. 1985 (ed .) 1985. M írzá Abú’ l-Fadl Gulpá yg ání. Lette rs and Essays: 1886-1913. Kal imát Press, LA.
C ole, J. R. 1993. ”I am all the Proph e ts”: The Po e tics of Plural ism in Bah a’i Te xts. Po e tics To d ay 14:3.
C ole, J. R. 1996. Marking Bound aries, Marking Tim e: The Iran i an Past and the Con s t r uc ti on of the Self by Qajar Thinke rs.
I ran i an St udies 29, 1-2. (35-56).
C oll ins, W. P. 1990. Bibl i o g raphy of Englis h-L an g u age Works on the Bá bí and Bahá’í Fa i t hs 1844-1985. George Ron ald ,
O xford .
C oll ins, W. P. 1995. The Mill e r i tes and Time Proph ec y: Their Func ti on as Mill e nn i al Themes in the American Bahá’í
C ommun i t y. Unpubl is h ed M. A. thesis, Sy racuse Unive rsi t y.
C om s to c k, W. R. 1987. ”Doctrin e ,” in Eliade, Mircea (ed .) E nc yc lop edia of Re l i gi on. Mac m ill an, NY. Enc yc lop edia Br i tann i ca
1987. ”Re l i gi ous Doctrines and Dogmas.” Mac rop ed i a. Chicago.
E r i c k s on, M. J. 1983. C hr is ti an Theolo gy. Baker Book House, Grand Rapids, MI .
E s s l e mont, J. E. 1980. B ahá á’u’ lláh and the New Era. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
Fazel, Seena 1993. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá on Chr ist and Chr is ti an i t y: The te xt of an in te rview with Pa s teur Monnier on the re l ati on-
ship be tween the Bahá’í Faith and Chr is ti an i t y, Par is, Feb r u ary 17th 1913. B ahá’í St udies Re v i e w 3 :1.
Fazel, Seena and Fan an apazir, Khazeh 1993. A Bahá’í Approach to the Claim of Fin ality in Islam. The Jour n al of Bahá’í
St ud i e s, 5. 3. Grat tan- Gu inness, He nry 1880. The Approac h ing End of the Age. Holder & Stou g h ton, London .
Hatc h e r, J. S. 1997. The Val idity and Value of an His tor i cal- Cr i ti cal Approach to the Re veal ed Works of Bahá’u’ lláh, in
Mo ojan Momen (ed .) S c r i p t ure and Re ve l ati on. Bahá’í St udies Volume III. George Ron ald, Oxford .
Hatc h e r, W. S. & Mar tin, J. D. 1989. The Bahá’í Faith - the emerging glob al re l i gi on. Harper & Row, Publ is h e rs, San Francis co.
Heg gie, James 1986. B ahá’í refe re nces to Jud a is m, Chr is ti an i t y, and Islám with other mate r i als for the study of Pro g re s sive
re ve l ati on. George Ron ald, Oxford .
Hor nb y, Helen 1988. Li g h ts of Gu id ance: A Bahá’í Refe re nce Fil e. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, New Delhi. Hyde Pa ine, Mabe l
1931. Exce r p ts from Notes on Shoghi Effe nd i’s Table Talk. Unpubl is h ed Pil g r im Note s.
Kol s toe, J. E. 1995. Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on: A Pi c t ure Story of How God Sp eaks to Mankind. Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembl y
of the Bahá’ís of Alaska.
L ambde n, S. N. 1991. Muh amm ad and the Qur’án: Some Intro duc tory Note s. The Bahá’í St udies Re v i e w, 1.1. Landegg 1997
( Feb. 16-20). Landegg Academy Academic Cal e nd ar. Landegg Acade m y, Sw i t z e rl and .
Lindbec k, G. A. 1984. The Nat ure of Doctrin e: Re l i gi on and Theolo gy in a Po s t l ibe ral Age. SPCK, London. Lon g m an 1978.
L on g m an Di c ti on ary of Con te mp orary Englis h. Lon g m an, Harlow.
6 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Lundbe rg, Za id 1996. B ahá’í Ap o cal y p ti cism: The Concept of Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on. Unpubl is h ed M. A. thesis, Lund
U n ive rsi t y.
Lundbe rg, Za id (for t h com in g). From Ad am to Bahá’u’ lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Proph ec y.
May, Dann 1993. The Bahá’í Pr inci ple of Re l i gi ous Unity and the Chall e n ge of Rad i cal Plural is m. Unpubl is h ed M. A. thesis ,
U n ive rsity of North Te xa s.
Mc Grat h, A. E. 1997. The Genesis of Doctrin e: A St udy in the Found ati ons of Doctrin al Cr i ti cis m. Eerdm ans, Grand Rapid s ,
Mi c h i gan .
McL ean, Jack (ed .) 1997. Re v isi on ing the Sac red: New Pe rs p ec tives on a Bahá’í Theolo gy. St udies in the Bá bí and Bahá’í
Re l i gi on s, vol. 8. Kal imát Press, LA.
Moayyad, He s hm at 1990. The His tor i cal Inte r re l ati onship of Islam and the Bahá’í Fa i t h, in He s hm at Moayyad (ed .) The Bahá’í
Faith and Islam. Bahá’í St udies Publ i cati ons, Ottawa .
Mom e n, Mo ojan 1975. D r. J. E. Esslemon t. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, London .
Mom e n, Mo ojan 1988. Re l ativ ism: A Basis for Bahá’í Me taph ysics, in M. Momen (ed .) St udies in the Bá bí & Bahá’í Re l i gi on s,
vol. 5. Kal imát Press, LA.
Mom e n, We ndi (ed .) 1991. A Basic Bahá’í Di c ti on ary. George Ron ald, Oxford .
New Cat h olic 1967. New Cat h olic Enc yc lop ed i a. NY.
Re s earch Department 1983. Pearls of Wis dom: The Imp or tance of Deepening Our Knowl ed ge and Unde rs tand ing of the
Fa i t h. Compil ed by the Re s earch Department of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, New Delh i .
Sa i ed i, Nader 1997. C omparative St udy of Re l i gi on and the Conce p ts of the Man i fe s tati on and Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on [C ours e
de s c r i p ti on]. Landegg Acade m y, Sw i t z e rl and .
Sa i ed i, Nader 1998. Antinomies of Rea s on and the Theolo gy of Re ve l ati on. The Jour n al of Bahá’í St ud i e s 8.4.
Sav i, Julio 1989. The Ete r n al Quest for God: An Intro duc ti on to the Div ine Philo s ophy of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. George Ron ald ,
O xford .
S c h aefe r, Udo 1992. Chall e n ges to Bahá’í St ud i e s. The Bahá’í St udies Re v i e w 2:1.
S c h aefe r, Udo 1995. Be yond the Clash of Re l i gi on s: The Emerge nce of a New Parad i g m. Zero Palm Press, Prag ue.
Shoghi Effe ndi 1947. Me s sages to America. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
Shoghi Effe ndi 1965. Ci tadel of Fa i t h. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
Shoghi Effe ndi 1971a. L e t te rs from the Gu ard i an to Au s t ralia and New Zeal and, 1923 -1957. N. S.W., Au s t ral i a .
Shoghi Effe ndi 1971b. Me s sages to the Bahá’í World: 1950-1957. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
Shoghi Effe ndi 1973. Direc tives from the Gu ard i an. Publ is h ing Trust, New Delh i
Shoghi Effe ndi 1974. God Passes By. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
Shoghi Effe ndi 1980. The Prom is ed Day Is Com e. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
Shoghi Effe ndi 1981. The Unfold ing Destiny of the Br i tish Bahá’í Commun i t y. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, London .
Shoghi Effe ndi 1991. The World Order of Bahá á’u’ lláh - selec ted lette rs. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
Shoghi Effe ndi. Letter addre s s ed to the Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembly of the United States and Can ada dated May13, 1935,
Shoghi Effe ndi. Letter to an ind iv idu al be l i e ver dated March 19,1945.
S keat, W. W. 1984. A Concise Et y molo gi cal Di c ti on ary of the English Lan g u age. Clare ndon Press, Oxford .
Sm art, Nin i an 1983. World v i e ws: Cro s s cult ural Explorati ons of Hum an Be l i efs. Charles Scrib n e r’s sons, NY.
Sm art, Nin i an 1984. The Re l i gi ous Exp e r i e nce of Mankind. Charles Scrib n e r’s sons, NY.
Sm art, Nin i an 1996. Dim e n si ons of the Sac red: An Anatomy of the World’s Be l i efs. Harper Coll in s. London .
Sm i t h, P. R. 1988. What Was a Bahá’í? Concerns of Br i tish Bahá’ís, 1900-1920, in M. Momen (ed .) St udies in Bá bí and Bahá’í
H is tory, vol. 5. Kal imát Press, LA.
Sm i t h, Pe ter 1982. The American Bahá’í Commun i t y, 1894-1917: A Pre l im in ary Surve y, in M. Momen (ed .) St udies in Bá bí
and Bahá’í His tory, vol. 1. Kal imát Press, LA.
Sm i t h, Pe ter 1987. The Babi and Bah a’i Re l i gi on s: From messi anic Shi’ism to a world re l i gi on. George Ron ald, Oxford .
S ours, Mi c h ael 1990. Pre par ing for a Bahá’í /C hr is ti an Di alo g ue Vol. 1 Unde rs tand ing Bibl i cal Ev ide nce. One World, Oxford .
S ours, Mi c h ael 1997. The Stati on and Claims of Bahá’u’ lláh. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, IL.
Sp eight, R. M. 1987. ”Cre ed s: An Ove rv i e w” in Mircea Eliade (ed .) E nc yc lop edia of Re l i gi on. Mac m ill an, NY.
Stiles Man ec k, Su san 1999. Review of J. A. McL ean s’s (ed .) ”Re v isi on ing the Sac red: New Pe rs p ec tives on a Bahá’í Theolo gy,
vol. 8 in St udies in the Bá bí & Bahá’í Re l i gi on s.” The Jour n al of Bahá’í St ud i e s 9.2. S
6 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Sto c km an, R. H. 1985. The Bahá’í Faith in America. Vol. 1: Origins 1892-1900. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill .
Sto c km an, R. H. 1993. Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on. Unpubl is h ed manu s c r i p t.
Sto c km an, R. H. 1995. The Bahá’í Faith in America. Vol. 2: Early Expan si on 1900-1912. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Tr u s t ,
Wilm e t te, Ill .
Tah e r z ade h, Ad ib 1987. The Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, vol s. 1- 4. George Ron ald, Oxford .
Tow n s h e nd, George 1995. The Heart of the Gospel. George Ron ald, Oxford .
Ward, A. L. 1960. An His tor i cal St udy of the North American Sp eaking Tour of ‘Abdu’ l-B aha and a Rhetor i cal Anal ysis of
H is Addre s s e s. Unpubl is h ed Ph.D. dis s e r tati on, Ohio Unive rsi t y.
W h i te h ead, O. Z. 1976. S ome Early Bahá’ís of the We s t. George Ron ald, Oxford. Wil s on, S. G. 1970. Bah a’ism and Its Claim s.
AMS Press, NY.
I n ternet refe re nce s
A Re s ource Gu ide (1999-10-23). ”Sac red His tory: Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on,” A Re s ource Gu ide for the Schol arly St udy of the
B ahá’í Fa i t h. A publ i cati on of the Re s earch Off i ce of the Bahá’í Nati on al Cente r, Wilm e t te, Ill inois. http://www.b ah a i-
l ib rary.org /b o ok s/rg /
E nc yc lopædia Br i tann i ca O nl ine - Bah a’i faith (1999-10-23): http://m e mbe rs.eb.com /b ol /topi c?
I n te r n ati on al Bahá’í Lib rary (1999-10-19): http:// l ib rary.b ah a i .org /cat/fc fc m5.h t ml
Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on (1999- 09-27): http://www.te l i al ink. n e t/% r mcdonld /pro g re v.h t ml
The Bahá’í Faith 1/9 - Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on (1999- 09-27): http://www. m irac l e s.w in-uk. n e t/B ah a i /B a si cFac ts/b a si c1.h t ml .
T h e B ahá’íWorld :T h e O n e n e s s of Re l i gi on (1999-10-24): http://www.b ah a i .org. /b world /m a in .c fm ?
The KnowMadz - Bah a’i Faith (1999- 09-30): http://www. know m adz.org /m e ta /b ah a /re veal ed .h t m
Vir t u al St udy Cours e: Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on (1999- 09-27). http://www.b cca .org /commun i ti e s/u s/n y/n yc/s t ud y/s ec ti on3.h t ml
Note s
1) Enc yc lop edia Br i tann i ca 1987:366.
2) Mc Grath 1997:197.
3) Schaefer 1992:26, italics added .
4) Dann May’s MA thesis (1993) The Bahá’í Pr inci ple of Re l i gi ous Unity and the Chall e n ge of Rad i cal Plural ism ce r ta inl y
qu alifies as a schol arly work on the ”oneness of re l i gi on .”
5) McL ean 1997: x v, clar i f i cati on and italics added; Smith 1988:232. Far from claim ing to be a sys te m atic theolo gi an, muc h
less ”the sys te m atic ‘B ahá’í theolo gi an,’” I still hope that this paper (and especi ally my for t h com ing Ph.D. dis s e r tati on)
w ill be regarded as a pre l im in ary academic at te mpt to address not only the topic of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on, but to simul-
tan eously in ve s ti gate areas like Bahá’í proph ec y, the idea of pro g ress, do c t r ine, rh e toric and ro ot-m e taph or. The for t h-
com ing Ph.D. dis s e r tati on is cur rently enti t l ed The Emic Con s t r uc ti on of Re l i gi on: The Bahá’í Doctrine, Rhetoric, and
Ro ot-Me taph or of Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on .
6) In this con te xt it is in te re s ting that Lindbeck 1984:76 noti ces that ”Most of the books enti t l ed ‘c hurch do c t r in e’ or
‘c hurch do g m ati c s ,’ . . . are in fact wide-ran ging theolo gi cal treatises rather than being conce r n ed simply with do c t r in e s
of the churches in the nar row sense . . .” Erickson 1983 :23 sees ”Theolo gi cal stud i e s” as a ge n e ral field of study wh e re
” D o c t r in al stud i e s” is but one sub s p ecies which further can be div ided in to ”Sys te m atic theolo gy.”
7) Sm ar t’s 1983 :96-158, 1984:6-12 six dim e n si ons of re l i gi on are: 1) the Exp e r i e n ti al Dim e n si on; 2) the Mythic Dim e n si on ;
3) the Doctrin al Dim e n si on; 4) the Et h i cal Dim e n si on; 5) the Ri t u al Dim e n si on; and 6) the Soci al Dim e n si on .
8) Com s tock 1987:386.
9) Com s tock 1987:385-386.
10) The Latin do cé re may in turn be de r ived from the Greek doke’in (to seem, to teac h) which aga in is the ro ot for the Gre e k
do g m a (opin i on, teac h in g) and or t h o dox (right opin i on, teac h in g). See e.g., Skeat 1984. The Greek term d id a s k alia al s o
gives a sim il ar mean ing of ”basic teac h in gs” and is used in I and II Timot h y.
11) Lon g m an 1978:322 .
12) See Lindbeck 1974:243 -246; 1984:88; New Cat h olic 1967:939.
13) Sm art 1984:8, italics added; 1983 :97.
14) Sm art 1983 :102. Cf. Shoghi Effe nd i’s statement that “We must take the teac h in gs as a great bal anced wh ole, not to seek
out and oppose each other two strong state m e n ts that have diffe rent mean in gs; som e wh e re in be tween there are link s
un i ting the two. This is wh at makes our Faith to fl e xible and we ll bal anced .” (19 March 1945 to an ind iv idu al be l i e ve r)
15) Sm art 1983 :97-100, italics added; Mc Grath 1990:37.
16) Sp eight 1987, italics added .
17) Mc Grath 1997:11, italics added, 39, 80, 196-197; Chr is ti an 1987:14, 20; Sm art 1996 :56.
6 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
18) In my dis s e r tati on I also at te mpt to show that it is also impl i citly part of a “wh ole body of pr inci pl e s ,” and at that it is
at the core of its “s ys tem of be l i ef”.
19) With expl i cit state m e n ts of the Bahá’í do c t r ine of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on means state m e n ts wh e re either the concept, or
the term pro g re s sive re ve l ati on, occur to gether with the term “do c t r in e” or an equ ival e n t.
20) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983 a :74-75; 1986 :418 - 419, italics added .
21) For a dis cu s si on on the theme of “the chain of succe s sive Re ve l ati on s” see Lundbe rg (for t h com in g). [22] ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
1982b :140, italics added .
23) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982b: 378, italics added
24) Alt h ough Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:131 refe rs to the Bá b, Bahá’u’ lláh, and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá as the “T hree Central Fi g ure s ,” he
simultan eously at te s ts to ”the inde p e ndent charac ter of the Bá bí Dis p e n sati on” (102) and that the Báb “is fully enti t l ed
to rank as one of the self-su ff i cient Man i fe s tati ons of God” in ve s ted with “inde p e ndent Proph e t h o o d .” (123) Thus, the
Báb is not con side red here. For a dis cu s si on on this see Esslemont 1980:20; Smith 1988:228.
25) Dated May 13, 1935, addre s s ed to the Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembly of the United States and Can ad a .
26) Shoghi Effe ndi 1980: v, italics added; 1991:58, 115.
27) Shoghi Effe ndi 1973 :40, italics added .
28) Shoghi Effe ndi 1971b :154, italics added .
29) Shoghi Effe ndi 1974:223; 1991:143, italics added .
30) Shoghi Effe ndi 1981:451, italics added .
31) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:102, italics added .
32) Shoghi Effe ndi 1981:432, italics added .
33) Shoghi Effe ndi 1965 :82, italics added .
34) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:103, italics added .
35) Shoghi Effe ndi 1974:100, italics added .
36) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:163, italics added .
37) Esslemont 1980:257 is an example of an impl i cit statement since pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is stated in pare n t h e sis.
38) Lundbe rg 1996.
39) Momen 1975 :19, 32-33.
40) Esslemont 1980:122. The term occurs also ind irectly on p. 257 wh e re it is at t r ibuted to ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
41) Esslemont 1980: xi i i; Momen 1975 :11-19.
42) Esslemont quotes from a Tablet by Bahá’u’ lláh which he labels a Tablet to a Zoroa s t r i an. This pa s sage can be found in A
tablet by Bah a’o’ ll ah to the Pe rsi an Zoroa s t r i an Bah a is publ is h ed in 1910 in Star of the We s t and re pr in ted in B ahá’u’ lláh
1978: book 1. vol 1.
43) See Fazel 1993.
44) Coll ins 1995 :61, italics added .
45) i.e., Ibrah im Kheiralla, Ma s on Re m e y, Paul K. Deal y, and Isabe lla D. Br i t tin g h am. For a refe re nce of their lives and work s
see Sto c km an 1985, 1995; Coll ins 1990.
46) Wil s on 1970:102 .
47) Grat tan- Gu inness 1878.
48) See e.g., Tow n s h e nd 1995 :37, 68, 73, 76, 111, 116.
49) White h ead 1976 :211.
50) Ward 1960:112; Heg gie 1986 : v i i; Smith 1988:223; Cole 1993 :453, italics added .
51) Moayyad 1990:76, 82; Coll ins 1995 :86, italics added .
52) Sours 1997:43, italics added .
53) Buck 1995 :121, 281-82, italics added .
54) Sa i edi 1998:76, italics added .
55) Smith 1988:223, italics added .
56) Ward 1960:40- 41, 154, italics added; Smith 1988:223, Coll ins 1995 :191; Buck 1998:6.
57) Sto c km an 1995 :233, italics added .
58) Hatcher 1997:39, italics added; Buck 1995 :281-82; McL ean 1997: x v.
59) Buck 1998:5.
60) Tah e r z adeh 1987: vol. I:162; Buck 1995 :281-82; McL ean 1997: x v.
61) In the fore word of his tran s l ati on of the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán 1931, Shoghi Effe ndi refe rs to it as “t h is book of un sur pa s s ed pre-
e m in e nce among the writin gs of the Aut h or of the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on .”
62) Hatcher 1997:35-36.
63) Fazel & Fan an apazir 1993 :25.
64) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá quoted in Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:36, italics added; ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982 a :114.
65) Buck 1998:5; ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1979:131-175, 1982 a :107-108, 1982b :105-110.
66) Smith 1982:128, 127.
6 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
67) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982b :105-106.
68) Re s earch Department 1983 :21 (#73).
69) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:123.
70) Shoghi Effe ndi ci ted in Hor nby 1988:484, #1612 .
71) Re s earch Department 1983 :27 (# 90), 45- 47; Shoghi Effe ndi 1965 :76-77; 1971a :75-76, 93.
72) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:99.
73) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:114.
74) Shoghi Effe ndi 1974:158, italics added .
75) Shoghi Effe ndi 1980:110, italics added. From these two last quotes by Shoghi Effe nd i, it is evident that the phrase “t h e
bedrock of Bahá’í be l i ef” here occurs in ot h e r, but sim il ar, con te xts.
76) Shoghi Effe ndi 1974:281, italics and clar i f i cati on added; 1991:42 .
77) Shoghi Effe ndi 1980: v, italics added
78) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:48, clar i f i cati on and italics added .
79) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:114-115, italics added; 57-58.
80) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:103, italics added; 163; 1974:10.
81) Shoghi Effe ndi 1980:107-108, clar i f i cati on and italics added .
82) Shoghi Effe ndi 1980:108, italics added
83) See Bahá’u’ lláh’s Ki t á b -i-I qán 1983b :153 -54.
84) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:166, clar i f i cati on and italics added .
85) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:114, italics added .
86) Shoghi Effe ndi 1981:432, italics added .
87) Hyde Pa ine 1931:4, italics added .
88) Schaefer 1995 :57, clar i f i cati on added .
89) Sto c km an 1985 :192 .
90) Sours 1990:137-169, 6-7.
91) Sours 1997:42; Smith 1988:246.
92) Hatcher & Mar tin 1989:74-83.
93) Be rger 1954:184, italics added .
94) Sto c km an 1985 :58. The term has since been used by Smith 1987:73; Cole 1993 :454; and Buck 1996 :129, 133.
95) Be rger 1954:31-32, italics added; Bec kwith 1985 :10.
96) Momen 1988:185, italics added .
97) May 1993 :83, italics added .
98) Bau sani 1985 :ix-x, italics added .
100) Moayyad 1990:78, italics added .
101) Lambden 1991:9.
102) Cole 1996 :45- 46; Buck 1998:6.
103) Bram s on-L e rche 1988:281, italics added .
104) Schaefer 1995 :118, italics added, 132-33, 135, 144.
105) Stiles Man eck 1999:92 .
106) Sa i edi 1997:course de s c r i p ti on, italics added .
107) Sa i edi 1998:83.
108) Sa i edi 1997:course de s c r i p ti on .
109) Kol s toe 1995.
110) Vir t u al St udy Course; The Bahá’í Fa i t h; Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on; The KnowMadz - Bah a’i Fa i t h .
111) The Bahá’í World .
112) Inte r n ati on al Bahá’í Lib rary. Other sub g roups under the head ing “D o c t r ines, Theolo gy” are e.g., “G o d ,” “Man i fe s tati on s
of God,” “O n e n e s s ,” “Proph ec y,” “Fut ure Man i fe s tati ons of God,” “C ove n an t ,” etc .
113) Landegg 1997.
114) E nc yc lopædia Br i tann i ca O nl ine, italics added .
115) Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust 1985 :194, italics or i gin al .
116) Momen 1991:186.
117) A Re s ource Gu ide - Glo s sary. [
118) Sto c km an 1993 :1, italics added .
119) Browne 1912: x x v-x x v i .
120) Sto c km an 1985 :58, 192 .
121) Con fucius is not Man i fe s tati on of God accord ing to Shoghi Effe ndi 1971a :41 who says that “C on fucius was not a
Proph e t. It is qu i te cor rect to say he is the founder of a moral sys tem and a great refor m e r.”
6 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
122) Sto c km an 1985 :67. For a dis cu s si on on Native American re l i gi ous figures and Man i fe s tati ons of God see Buck 1996.
123) On this point Ban ani 1981: xiv writes that “The nascent community of Bahá’ís in America was in dire need of an
aut h or i tative and coh e rent unde rs tand ing of the fund am e n tals of its Fa i t h .” (i talics added)
124) Sto c km an 1985 :23. That Mírzá Abú’ l-Fadl Gulpá yg ání clearly was aware of, and impl i citly elab orated up on, the conce p t
of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on is evident from his A Letter to Tr i p ol i w r i t ten in 1897. See Cole 1985 :124-126.
125) Sto c km an 1985 :92-93, italics added .
126) Sto c km an 1985 :168, italics added .
127) Smith 1982:196-97, 168, 174.
128) Chase 1908:34.
129) Wil s on 1970:77.
130) Smith 1982:134.
131) Smith 1982:102 .
132) e.g., Bram s on-L e rche 1982:265 writes that “Shoghi Effe ndi con tinued to push the community in the direc ti on of be t te r
organ iz ati on and more unity in do c t r in al mat te rs.”
6 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
6 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
T
he New Age ph e nom e non has received ve ry little at te n ti on in the Bahá’í Faith and Bahá’í schol ar-
s h i p. Udo Schaefe r, the great pi oneer of Bahá’í schol ars h i p, was prob ably the first to address this
is sue in 1992 .1 Two years late r, in a speci al volume of The Bahá’í St udies Re v i e w de voted to the
theme of Bahá’í schol ars h i p, Ste phen Lambden poin ted out the need for Bahá’í schol ars to study “T h e
Age of Aqu ar i u s ,” and further sa id that “Such Bahá’ís as are in te re s ted in this area should becom e
ac qu a in ted with a s p ec ts of ‘new age’ ph ilo s ophy and Bahá’í reac ti ons to it through the study of sensibl e
s ource s.”2 Simultan eou s l y, and equ ally imp or tan t l y, he su g ge s ted that:
B ahá’ís need to spell out, in light of Shoghi Effe nd i’s writin gs and other scriptural te xts, our
concept of the new age and its full real isati on of the fut ure....3
C on s e que n t l y, in order to spell out “our concept of the new age” it is, on the one hand, nece s sary to
e xam ine the ve ry idea of a “new age” by stud y ing “s e n sible source s” i.e., to draw up on the sources of aca-
demic schol ars h i p. On the other hand, in order to ob ta in “our concept of the new age” it is cruci al to
s t udy the “new age” in the light of the Bahá’í scripture s.
Since the pi on e e r ing work of Schaefer and the schol arly ad v i ce of Lambde n, the aut h or of this pap e r
and Paul Dode nh off have, inde p e ndently of each ot h e r,
4 reco g n iz ed the imp or tance of exam in ing the
re l ati onship be tween the Bahá’í Faith and the New Age ph e nom e non (N AP).
5 Yet, the study of the re l a-
ti onship be tween the Bahá’í Faith and the NAP has barely beg un, but in order to satisfy Lambde n’s two
p e rs p ec tives, the purpose of this pap e r, is to briefly in t ro duce the NAP and the Bahá’í Faith by an s we r-
ing the follow ing set of que s ti on s:
1) Why should the re l ati onship be tween the NAP and the Bahá’í Faith be exam in ed ?
2) What is “New Age” and how is it def in ed ?
3) What are some of the sim il ar i ties and diffe re nces be tween the NAP and the Bahá’í Fa i t h ?
4) How may the NAP be evalu ated from a Bahá’í pers p ec tive?
The Re l ati onship Be tween the New Age Phenom e non and the Bahá’í Fa i t h
First of all, some aut h ors have a s s o ci ated the Bahá’í Faith with the NAP and have group ed it to ge t h e r
with Theo s oph y, neo -H indu reform move m e n ts, and neo -Su f is m .6
A lt h ou g h, Kyle writes that “The Bahá’í faith has more te nuous conn ec ti ons with the New Age” he con-
tinues to state that:
W h ile it [Bahá’í Fa i t h] came out of Su f ism [si c!] it has lost much of its mys ti cal qu al i ti e s. Ye t
it does teach some ideas pre valent in the New Age—oneness in world re l i gi ons and the pol i ti-
cal orde r, and a com ing new age.
S econdl y, it ought to be stud i ed since some schol ars of re l i gi on claim that the NAP has sur pa s s ed and
outd ated Chr is ti anity as a be l i ef-s ys te m /world-view in the We s t.
8 T h irdl y, if the ab ove state m e n ts are
t r ue, and if we as Bahá’ís, are to be succe s sful in our pro c l am ati ons and teac h in gs, especi ally with “E n t ry
by tro op s ,” it is vital to unde rs tand this “n e w” be l i ef-s ys tem or world-v i e w. These three rea s ons, take n
to ge t h e r, may su ff i ce to persu ade Bahá’í schol ars to further exam ine the re l ati onship be tween the NAP
and the Bahá’í Faith more thorou g hl y.
6 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
7 0
W h at is “New Age” and How is it Def in ed ?
In a ve ry real sense, hum anity is approac h ing not only a new ce n t ury but a new m ill e nn i um. He nce ,
e ven from a secul ar and te mp oral pers p ec tive (wh i c h, in the West, is based on the birth of Chr is t)
hum anity is liv ing at the thre s h old of a “new age.” It is also we ll known that mill e n ar i an and ap o ca-
l y p tic move m e n ts flour ish at such criti cal tur n ing poin ts in his tory.
A lt h ough the exact dating of the or i gin of the NAP is highly deb ated (as will be seen be low), it has
only recently caught the at te n ti on of schol ars of re l i gi on. It has largely been ignored for two rea s on s:
1) it was seen as a “fadd is h” or app eared to be “s h allow,” and 2) it has no clear bound aries (which will
be dis cu s s ed be low),11 and therefore, his tor i cally and methodolo gi call y, it has been much ea sier to
s t udy wh at has been labe l ed “New Re l i gi ous Move m e n ts” (NRMs) since they are rather we ll def in ed
and therefore more acce s sible for soci al and re l i gi ous re s earch. Fur t h e r more, some schol ars main ta in
t h at the NAP is a large “sub - cult ure” and that it is part of a much greater “paradigm shift” or “cul-
t ural shift” in the West, or that it is basi cally a “p o s t-mo de r n” ph e nom e non, wh ile ot h e rs state that it
has by far sur pa s s ed and out- d ated Chr is ti anity as a be l i ef-s ys tem in the West and therefore should be
e valu ated as a “p o s t- C hr is ti an” ph e nom e non .12 O t h e rs still, predict that the NAP as a movement is a
t ran sient fad, that it is do om ed, but that its ideas may con tinue to in flue nce and tran sform the pre-
sent soci e t y.13
The NAP has, by a number of schol ars, adm i t tedly been probl e m atic to def ine and stud y. For exam-
ple, it is on the one hand seen to have ancient his tor i cal ro ots14 (He ll e n ism 300 BCE, Gno s ti cis m
100–300 CE, He r m e tism 1500 CE), and, on the other hand, it is de s c r ibed as a ph e nom e non that began
in the coun te rcult ure of the [19]60s –70s. These ext reme pers p ec tives can be seen by the de s c r i p ti ons by
two lead ing schol ars in this field. For example, Robert Ell wood sees the New Age as “a mo de r n
re v ival ...of a lon g-s tand ing trad i ti on of wh at may be call ed the alte r n ative spir i t u ality of the we s t ,” and
t h at it can be traced to “the Greco -Rom an world” via “Re n a is sance occultis m ...ei g h teenth ce n t ury
Fre e m a s onry, and nin e te e n t h- ce n t ury Spir i t u al ism and Theo s oph y,”15 wh ile Gordon Me lton writes that
“the New Age movement is a re l atively new ph e nom e non. It de ve lop ed in the late 1960s and emerged
as a self- con s ci ous movement in the early 1970s.”16
The NAP has further been def in ed and /or de s c r ibed a s:
• a move m e n t ,17 re l i gi on,18 and qu a si-re l i gi on19
• non- o ccult/non- e s ote r i c ,20 w ile ot h e rs say that it is occult/e s ote r i c21
• ce n te r ing on the Self/n arcis sis m,22 wh ile ot h e rs state that it is basi cally in vol ved with soci al /g lob al
t ran sfor m ati on23
Moreove r, the NAP has also been def in ed by its own adh e re n ts. For example, a lead ing New Age
aut h or, Dav id Span g l e r,24 d is cerns four levels of the NAP charac te r iz ed a s:
1) comm e rci al (sup e r f i ci al)
2) glamour and popul ar cult ure (m edia at te n ti on)
3) “an im age of chan ge” (t ran sfor m ati on /paradigm shift)
4) the birth of the sac red and a re sac ral izing of life on ear t h, the “new age is fund am e n tally a spir i-
t u al eve n t”
From this brief ove rview it is possible to conc lude and stress that the term “New Age” (like most re l i-
gi ous terms and conce p ts) is multi face ted, highly ambi g uous, and has many dim e n si ons and levels, and
t h e refore is rather diff i cult to de s c r ibe and def in e.25
Sim il ar i ties and Di ffe re nces Be tween New Age Phenom e non and the Bahá’í Fa i t h
D e s pi te the diff i culties of def in ing the NAP, Lewis has enum e rated some ge n e ral charac te r is tics of
NRMs (as def in ed by Ell wo o d) which he also think are appl i cable to the New Age move m e n t.26 It is pos-
sible to compare these ge n e ral charac te r is tics of the NAP (in b old) to the Bahá’í Faith as follows:

Lights of ‘Irf á n
• Emphasis on Healing
Heal ing is not emph a siz ed in the Bahá’í Faith alt h ough the concept of heal ing does occur in the Bahá’í
w r i tin gs. e.g., the Man i fe s tati ons of God are som e times refe r red to as “Div ine ph ysi ci an s” and the re v-
e l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh is symb ol i cally compared to an “E l ixir.”
27 It is also reco g n iz ed that hum ans can
h eal through spir i t u al means, especi ally through praye r.
• A Desire To Be “Modern” and Use Scientific Language
The Bahá’í Faith is som e times de s c r ibed as a “mo de r n” re l i gi on,29 e s p eci ally su i table for this mo d-
ern age, and that re l i gi on and sci e nce are seen as compl e m e n tary is one of its fund am e n tal pr inci-
pl e s.30 It is the re l i gi ous lan g u age, howe ve r, and not the sci e n tific lan g u age, that dom in ates the Bahá’í
w r i tin gs.31
• Eclecticism and Syncretism
The Bahá’í Faith emerged his tor i cally in the Near- and Middle East, i.e., mainly within an Islamic re l i-
gi ous con te xt (b oth Shi’i and Sunn i), alt h ough a variety of re l i gi ons also co e xis ted (and still do) within
t h is large area: Zoroa s t r i an is m, Jud a is m, Chr is ti an i t y, and a variety of Sufi orde rs. It is qu i te clear, jud g-
ing from the Bahá’í writin gs, that Bahá’u’ lláh was fam il i ar with especi ally Islam and Chr is ti an i t y, but
also with Zoroa s t r i an ism and, to some extent, even Hindu is m .32 It is possible to point out both ec l ec ti-
cism and sync re tism within Bahá’í, but this is also the case for other re l i gi on s.33
• A Monistic and Impersonal Ontology
It is here wh e re the Bahá’í Faith clearly diffe rs from the NAP, since the Bahá’í Faith on tolo gy basi cal-
ly is pan e n t h eis tic, i.e., God permeates the co s mos, and His at t r ibutes are refl ec ted in creati on .
B ahá’u’ lláh, for example, states that:
The wh ole un ive rse refl ec teth His glory, wh ile He is inde p e ndent of, and tran s ce ndeth His
c reat ure s. This is the true mean ing of Div ine un i t y. He Who is the Ete r n al Tr uth is the on e
Power Who exe rciseth und is puted sove reignty over the world of bein g, Whose im age is refl ec t-
ed in the mir ror of the entire creati on .34
Yet, God cannot be ide n ti f i ed w i t h, or reduced to, His creati on since God is simultan eously seen a s
“inde p e ndent of, and t ran s ce nde t h H is creat ure s.” Thus, God is ultim ately tran s ce nde n tal which is clear-
ly por t rayed in another pa s sage by Bahá’u’ lláh :
I mm ea surably exalted is He [G o d] ab ove the striv in gs of the hum an mind to grasp His Essence ,
or of hum an ton g ue to de s c r ibe His mys te ry. No tie of direct in te rcourse can ever bind Him
to the thin gs He hath created, nor can the most abstruse and most re mote allu si ons of His crea-
t ures do justi ce to His bein g. . . He is and hath ever been veil ed in the ancient eternity of His
own exalted and ind iv isible Essence, and will eve rl a s tingly con tinue to re m a in conceal ed in
H is in acce s sible majesty and glory.
35 [ E mph a sis min e]
A lt h ough God som e times is de s c r ibed in ag no s tic or negative te r m s ,
36 God is also de s c r ibed in per-
s on al and posi tive te r m s.
37 In other words, God is seen both as a deus ab s cond i t u s (a hidden God) and a
deus re ve l at u s (a re veal ed God) de s c r ibed by Bahá’u’ lláh as “the Visible and the Invisibl e” or even “t h e
most man i fest of the man i fest and the most hidden of the hidde n !”
• Optim is m, Success Orientati on, and a Te nde ncy to Evoluti on ary Vi e ws
The Bahá’í Faith may in ge n e ral be de s c r ibed in op tim is tic and pro g re s sive terms but yet, there are
also noti ons of dec l ine, crises and even “ap o cal y p ti c” sce n ar i o s.39 The evoluti on ary views are par ti cu-
l arly strong and Darw in’s theory of evoluti on is not de n i ed, but rather rein te r pre ted in, wh at could be
call ed, a ”s pir i t u al theory of evoluti on .”4 0
• Emph a sis on Ps ychic Powe rs
To de ve lop psychic powe rs is not only de- e mph a siz ed in Bahá’í but even strongly dis couraged .41 Rat h e r,
it is the spir i t u al at t r ibutes and powe rs that should be de ve lop ed, and wh i c h, ultim ate l y, are seen as a
refl ec ti on of the at t r ibutes and powe rs of God. For example, Bahá’u’ lláh writes that:
7 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
7 2
Up on the reality of man . . . He [G o d] hath fo cu s ed the rad i ance of all of His names and at t r ib-
utes, and made it a mir ror of His own Self
.42
A lready here in this ve ry brief ove rview and som e wh at sup e r f i ci al compar is on, it is possible to dis-
cern that it is ve ry diff i cult to a s ce r ta in whether Bahá’í matches the NAP or not. On some poin ts it ce r-
ta inly does, but on ot h e rs it clearly does not.
It is also possible to compare the Bahá’í Faith to another scheme, de ve lop ed by Hamm e r, and wh i c h
he refe rs to as “An ae r i al view of the New Age move m e n t.”44
• Cosmos is an Unb roken Whol e
T h e re are a few pa s sages in the Bahá’í writin gs that could supp ort such a view. For example ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá writes that:
all par ts of the creati on al world are of one wh ol e...A ll the par ts are sub ord in ate to the wh ol e.
The con tin gent bein gs are the branches of the tree of life wh ile the Me s s e n ger of God is the
ro ot of that tre e.45
• There is a directionality in this wholeness
T h is statement could be equ ated with a “B ahá’í te l eolo gy,” and te l eolo gi cal state m e n ts are read ily found
in the Bahá’í writin gs:
T h ou didst wish to make Thyself known un to men; therefore, Thou didst, through a word of Thy
mout h, bring creati on in to being and fa s h i on the un ive rs e
.46
Accord ing to these pa s sages, God expresses a wis h, or de sire, from his side, to be know n, and this is
ultim ately uph e ld as the ge n e rating impulse of creati on .
47 T hus, God’s de sire to be know n, and God’s cre-
ati on of hum an bein gs in order to be know n, app ear to be in tim ately compl e m e n tary. From another per-
s p ec tive, Bahá’u’ lláh states that “The purpose all creati on is the re ve l ati on of this most subl ime, this
most holy Day, the Day known as the Day of God.”
48 Moreove r, Bahá’u’ lláh states that the exis te nce and
l i fe of “the de s tiny of the true be l i e ve r” is “to be regarded as the or i gin ating purpose of all creati on .”
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá speaks of man as “part of the un ive rsal pl an”
50 and that “The purpose the creati on of man
is the at ta inment of the supreme vir t ues of hum anity through de s cent of the heave nly be s towal s.”
Sim il arl y, Shoghi Effe ndi refe rs to:
a greater Plan, one and ind iv isible, whose Source is God, whose aut h or is Bahá’u’ lláh, the the-
ater of whose op e rati ons is the entire pl anet, and whose ultim ate obj ec tives are the unity of
the hum an race and the peace of all mankind .
• This Wholeness is Pe r m eated by a Power or Energy Which Conn ec ts Us with the Cosmo s
Accord ing to the Bahá’í view, the power or energy which permeates the co s mos is often refe r red to a s
the Holy Spir i t. For example, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá writes that:
t h at both in te rac ti on and co op e rati on are evident and proven amon gst all bein gs, whether large or
s m all. In the case of large bodies in te rac ti on is as man i fest as the sun, wh ilst in the case of small
bodies, though in te rac ti on be unknow n, yet the part is an ind i cati on of the wh ol e. All these in te r-
ac ti ons therefore are conn ec ted with that all- e mb racing power which is their pivot, their ce n te r,
t h eir source and their motive powe r.53
E l s e wh e re he also says that:
A ll created forms are pro g re s sive in their pl anes, or kin gdoms of exis te nce, under the stimulu s
of the power or spirit of life. This un ive rsal energy is dynamic. Not h ing is stati on ary in the
m ate r i al worlds of outer ph e nomena or in the inner world of in te ll ect and con s ci ou s n e s s.54
Although it was seen above that the universe is seen as an unbroken whole, there are numerous passages
in the Bahá’í writings which makes it clear that the cosmos also is divided in “planes” or ”kingdoms,” and
consequently, that there exists a certain “spiritual hierarchy.”55 The most crucial difference, however, is that
the cosmos is viewed in neither monistic nor pantheistic terms, but that it is panentheistic.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
• Hum anity has Mis m an aged Its Own Wholeness (The Re l ati onship Be tween Body—S oul)
T h is is not emph a siz ed in the Bahá’í Faith. It is rather hum an i t y’s re l ati onship with God, the
Man i fe s tati ons of God, and with the true nat ure of re l i gi on, that have been mis m an aged .
56 For exampl e ,
B ahá’u’ lláh states that:
The vitality of men’s be l i ef in God is dying out in eve ry land; not h ing short of His wh ol e s om e
m ed i cine can ever re s tore it. The cor ro si on of un go dl iness is eating in to the vitals of hum an
s o ci e t y; wh at else but the Elixir of His potent Re ve l ati on can cleanse and re v ive it?
He re one may reco g n ize the metaph or of the Man i fe s tati on of God as the “Div ine Physi ci an” wh o,
t hrough his “wh ol e s ome med i cin e” is able to re s tore and re v ive hum an society from a dis ease, de s c r ibed
as the “cor ro si on of un go dl in e s s.” This may be in te r pre ted as either “at h eis m,” or the lack of vitality in
on e’s be l i ef, or spir i t u al i t y. It is especi ally note worthy that the terms “p otent Re ve l ati on” is equ ated with
the “E l ixir.” Noti ce also that Bahá’u’ lláh is refe r r ing to the dow n fall of re l i gi o sity “in eve ry land ,” wh i c h
is su g ge s tive of a glob al pro cess of secul ar iz ati on. It is hence possible to equ ate the mal a ise of hum an-
ity with the dec l ine of re l i gi on. This would acce n t u ate the in tim ate and mut u al re l ati onship be tween re l i-
gi on and hum an i t y.58
• The Planet Earth is a Whol e n e s s
T h is is clearly stated in the Bahá’í writin gs. The follow ing pa s sages by Bahá’u’ lláh may exe mplify suc h
a view:
Regard ye the world as a man’s body, which is a ffec ted with dive rse a ilm e n ts, and the recove ry
of which de p e ndeth up on the har mon izing of all of its comp onent elements.59
Regard the world as the hum an body wh i c h, though at its creati on wh ole and perfect, hath be e n
a ffl i c ted, through var i ous causes, with grave dis orde rs and mal ad i e s.60
With regard to the former point, it is evident from these pa s sages that hum anity has mis m an-
aged its re l ati onship with the pl anet earth as we ll .
• Eve ry Hum an Being has a Unique Place in This Whol e n e s s
T h is can also be con f ir m ed in the Bahá’í -w r i tin gs. For example, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá states that:
m an is but a part or member of that wh e reof nat ure is the wh ol e.61
C on tinu in g, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá further likens man with a drop and the un ive rse with the ocean, and a s k s:
Is it conceivable that a drop should be imbued with qu al i ties of which the ocean is compl e te l y
de pr ived? The drop is a par t; the ocean is the wh ol e.62
• Hum an Bein gs Do Not Only Live This Li fe, But Have Tran s m i g rated Through a Chain of
E xis te nces and Will Reincar n ate Many More Tim e s
He re is another cruci al diffe re nce be tween the NAP and the Bahá’í Fa i t h, alt h ough the lat ter would be
in ag reement with the first two sente nces in that: 1) there is life a fter deat h,63 and 2) hum an i t y, as a
s p ecies, has tran s m i g rated through a series of pr i or exis te nces (the min e ral-, vege tabl e-, and an im al-kin g-
dom s), but the Bahá’í writin gs do not har mon ize with the concept of reincar n ati on,64 since it is be l i e ved
t h at the hum an soul is created at the moment of conce p ti on,65 and that a fter this ear t hly exis te nce, it
e vol ves in to a new dim e n si on—the spir i t u al kin gdom .66
• There Are Other, Perhaps Better Paths to Knowledge Than the Senses and The Rational Mind
T h is is clearly con f ir m ed in the Bahá’í writin gs. For example, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá speaks of “four methods
of ac qu ir ing knowl ed ge”: 1) the senses, 2) rea s on, 3) trad i ti on, and 4) the bounty of the Holy Spir i t. If
the first is con side red “imp e r fec t” the last is de s c r ibed as “in fall ible and indubi tabl e.”67
• Var i ous Non- C hr is ti an Re l i gi ons Con ta in Such Ideas or an Ancient Wis dom Which Can
Be n efit Us To d ay
This is more difficult to answer since the Bahá’í Faith on the one hand upholds all religions/cultures’ spir-
itual heritage originates, ultimately, with a Manifestation of God.
68 For example, Bahá’u’lláh states that:
7 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The light which these souls [The Proph e ts and Me s s e n ge rs of God] rad i ate is re s p on sible for the
pro g ress of the world and the ad vancement of its peopl e s. They are like un to the leaven wh i c h
l eaveneth the world of bein g, and con s ti t ute the an im ating force through which the ar ts and
wonde rs of the world are made man i fe s t.
Yet, on the other hand, the Bahá’í Faith also main ta ins that all re l i gi on s/cult ures dec l ine and that they,
e ve n t u all y, become ob s ol e te and mal func ti on in g.
70 In other words, alt h ough the var i ous re l i gi on s/cul-
t ures still con ta in an ancient wis dom, to some deg ree, they are, nonetheless, seen as in ade qu ate to sol ve
the world’s cur rent spir i t u al and glob al probl e m s. Howe ve r, the Bahá’í Faith also stresses “unity in dive r-
si t y” and ad vo cates the richness and pre s e rvati on of the great variety of hum an i t y’s cult ural heritage.
• Hum anity Faces a Spir i t u al and Soci e tal Re voluti on, A New Age
T h is is prob ably one of the most fund am e n tal feat ures of the Bahá’í Faith and the ve ry title of
E s s l e mon t’s book—B ahá’u’ lláh and the New Era—c l early con ve ys this theme.72 The Bahá’í writin gs re p eat-
edly emph a size that hum anity is facing an unprecede n ted spir i t u al-, soci e tal-, and glob al re voluti on, and
t h at it is at the thre s h old of a new age, a new world orde r, the lesser- and the Most Great Peace, and ulti-
m ate l y, the Kin gdom of God on Ear t h .73
O nce aga in sim il ar problems of compar is on emerge as with the pre v i ous re v i e w. The Bahá’í Fa i t h
seems to fit on a number of poin ts, but then aga in, it clearly rej ec ts such cruci al categories as pan t h e-
is m, mon is m, and reincar n ati on .
C on s e que n t l y, since: a) the def in i ti on of the New Age is highly probl e m atic and con ta ins a variety of
e xt reme posi ti ons, and b) that the Bahá’í Faith seems to both fit and not fit, it comes as no sur pr ise that
it is possible to both ide n tify it with, and to separate it from, the NAP.
Howe ve r, alt h ough such compar is ons clearly are possible to make, they do not establ ish cau sati on i.e. ,
they do not clarify the problem of his tor i cal in flue nce s. For example, if one uph olds that the NAP is a
re l atively new ph e nom e non ([19]60s-70s), then the Bahá’í Faith is a con side rably older ph e nom e non, since
it or i gin ated a ce n t ury earlier (1844– 63). If one states that NAP has its ro ots in the synthesis created by
T h eo s ophy dur ing the nin e teenth ce n t ury, one is faced with yet another probl e m, since the Bahá’í Fa i t h
not only emerged seve ral decades before the birth of the Theo s oph i cal Society (1875), but that it al s o
arose outside a Euro -A m e r i can con te xt. In add i ti on, if one main ta ins that the NAP has “a long trad i ti on
in the we s t ,” with ro ots in He ll e n is m, then one comes ac ross still another probl e m, since He ll e n is m
e xpanded not only to ancient Pe rsia (wh e re Zoroa s t r i an ism was a state re l i gi on at the time bein g), but all
the way to India (wh e re both Hindu is m, Buddh ism and Ja in ism we re already establ is h ed). He nce, in orde r
to expl a in some of the sim il ar i ties and diffe re nces be tween the NAP and the Bahá’í Fa i t h, one ou g h t
rather to trace its in flue nces elsewh e re, especi ally the Bá bí Fa i t h, Shaykh is m, Shí’i Islam, Su f is m, Neo -
P l aton ism etc .
In the compar is ons be tween the NAP and the Bahá’í Faith some cruci al “t h eore ti cal” diffe re nces we re
noti ced, but it should also be menti on ed that there also are some “prac ti cal ,” “s t r uc t ural ,” or “organ iz a-
ti on al” diffe re nce s. As was menti on ed earl i e r, the NAP is a ve ry loosely struc t ured ph e nom e non .
Accord ing to Heelas, it should
not be taken to imply that the New Age is in any sense an organ iz ed enti t y. Far from being ce n-
t rally adm in is te red, it is compr is ed of dive rse mo des of op e rati on: we ll- organ iz ed NRMs and com-
mun i ti e s... n e twork s...on e-to - one pat hs within ...ce n te rs...the we e k- e nd tra in ing semin ars, hol id ay
h om e s... fe s tival s...gat h e r in gs... s h op s...c lub s... s c h o ol s.
T hus, the NAP is struc t ured in wh at has been labe l ed a “m e ta-n e twork” (a net-work of net-work s) rat h e r
t h an as a un i f i ed and hierarc h i cal organ iz ati on .
75 In other words, and taken as a wh ole, in the NAP there is:
• no founde r
• no holy canon
• no ce n t ral do c t r in e
• no myth or ritual
7 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Bahá’í Fa i t h, on the other hand, which claims a new and un ique re ve l ati on from God, clearly rec-
o g n izes and exhibi ts:
• two specific founde rs (Bá b/B ahá’u’ lláh)
• a holy and vast canon
• a un i f i ed set of do c t r in e s
• re l atively few myths and ritual s
In con t rast to the NAP, the Bahá’í Faith moreover con sis ts of:
• a we ll- def in ed organ iz ati on and adm in is t rati on that is establ is h ed on lo cal-, nati on al-, and in te r n a-
ti on al leve l s. Nevertheless, there is no priesthood, but ind iv idu al Bahá’ís elect their re pre s e n tative s
de mo c rati call y.80
In compar ing the NAP with the Bahá’í Fa i t h, the lat ter re s e mbles more the so call ed “c l a s si cal” re l i-
gi ons (e s p eci ally Jud a is m, Chr is ti an i t y, and Islam), and, to some deg ree, the NRMs, alt h ough such com-
par is ons also are highly probl e m atic. It is possible to in this con te xt con sider wh at Wi t tge n s tein call ed
“fam ily re s e mbl ance s”81 be tween var i ous themes (as we have seen in the compar is ons earl i e r), but such a
re s e mbl ance can be found in, and be twe e n, other re l i gi ons as we ll .
The New Age Phenom e non Evalu ated From a Bahá’í Pe rs p ec tive
Since the NAP is so highly complex and elu sive, it is not ve ry easy to evalu ate it. Howe ve r, the mo s t
imp or tant poin ts of ag re e m e n ts be tween the NAP and the Bahá’í Faith seem to be Span g l e r’s third and
fourth levels of the New Age: i.e., that it is “an im age of chan ge” (t ran sfor m ati on /paradigm shift),82 and
t h at it may refl ect the birth of the sac red and a re sac ral izing of life on earth and that the “new age is
fund am e n tally a spir i t u al eve n t”. Inde ed, the ve ry idea of “t ran sfor m ati on” is ce n t ral to the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
T hus, Bahá’u’ lláh, for example, asks the follow ing que s ti on :
Is not the obj ect of eve ry Re ve l ati on to effect a tran sfor m ati on in the wh ole charac ter of
m ankind, a tran sfor m ati on that shall man i fest itself both outwardly and in wardl y, that shall
effect both its inner life and exte r n al cond i ti on s?83
Moreove r, it is in te re s ting that, accord ing to Span g l e r, “the phrase an emerging pl an e tary cult ure is
re pl acing the phrase an emerging new age”84 and sim il arl y, that Kyle states that:
G lob al unity is ce n t ral to New Age pol i ti cal thought and will receive further at te n ti on late r.
New Age rs see the world as already un i f i ed by mo dern tran s p or tati on and commun i cati on sys-
te m s. But they also seek glob al pol i ti cal un i f i cati on. There is to be a new world order charac-
te r iz ed by in te r n ati on al is m .... The noti on of glob al is basic to the New Age visi on. Such a con-
cept goes by a number of nam e s: pl an e tary un i t y, pl an e tiz ati on, world orde r, pl an e tary con-
s ci ousness, and the new glob al soci e t y.85
Such views are in compl e te har mony with the Bahá’í view.86 Howe ve r, a ce r ta in paradox with the NAP
can be noti ced, since on one hand the We s tern world has, especi ally since the Enl i g h te nment and the
I ndu s t r i al Re voluti on, become gradu ally more secul ar iz ed, at h eis tic, and mate r i al is tic, and yet, on the
other hand, the NAP seems to be an ind i cati on of an opp o si te tre nd —an inc rea sing pro cess of spir i t u-
al iz ati on .
It is possible that this paradox may be sol ved by the same token as the conce p ts of “an old” and “n e w
world orde r,” and in this con te xt, the term “orde r” may be seen as in te rc h an geable with the term “age.”
In the Bahá’í writin gs, howe ve r, the emerge nce of the two orde rs, or ages, are not seen as mut u ally exc lu-
sive, but are rather evalu ated as two simultan eous and parallel pro ce s s e s. For example, accord ing to
Shoghi Effe nd i :
We stand on the thre s h old of an age whose con v ul si ons pro c l a im al ike the deat h-pan gs of the
old order and the bir t h-pan gs of the new. Through the ge n e rating in flue nce of the Fa i t h
announced by Bah a’u’ ll ah this New World Order may be sa id to have been conceived. We can,
at the present moment, exp e r i e nce its stir r in gs in the womb of a trava il ing age —an age wa i t-
ing for the app oin ted hour at which it can cast its burden and yield its fa irest fr u i t.
7 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
T h is present age is seen as being on the “t hre s h old of an age” i.e., be tween two world orde rs— t h e
“deat h-pan gs of the old orde r” and the ”bir t h-pan gs of the new.” A sim il ar expre s si on is found in the
w r i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh wh e re he says: “S o on will the pre s e n t- d ay order be roll ed up, and a new one spread
out in its stead .”
88 These and earlier pa s sages by the Bahá’í aut h ors ind i cate that the world, at present, is
in a maj or ph a s e-t ran si ti on be tween two maj or cyc l e s. Inde ed, Shoghi Effe ndi also refe rs to this pre s e n t
age as the “Age of Tran si ti on .”
T h is age is fur t h e r more re pre s e n ted not only by two opp o sing world orde rs, but also by two maj or
concur r ing pro ce s s e s. Aga in, to quote from Shoghi Effe nd i :
A twofold pro cess, howe ve r, can be dis tin g u is h ed, each te nd in g, in its own way and with an acce l-
e rated mom e n t um, to bring to a clim ax the forces that are tran sfor m ing the face of our pl an e t. The
f irst is essenti ally an in teg rating pro cess, wh ile the second is fund am e n tally dis r up tive. The for m e r,
as it stead ily evol ves, un folds a Sys tem which may we ll serve as a pat tern for that world pol i t y
towards which a stran ge l y- d is orde red world is con tinu ally ad vancing; wh ile the lat te r, as its disin te-
g rating in flue nce deepens, te nds to tear dow n, with inc rea sing viol e nce, the an tiqu ated bar r i e rs that
seek to block hum an i t y’s pro g ress towards its de s tin ed goal. The con s t r uc tive pro cess stands a s s o-
ci ated with the nascent Faith of Bahá’u’ lláh, and is the harbin ger of the New World Order that Fa i t h
must ere long establ ish. The de s t r uc tive forces that charac te r ize the other should be ide n ti f i ed with
a civ il iz ati on that has refu s ed to an s wer to the exp ec tati on of a new age, and is con s e quently fall in g
in to chaos and dec l in e.90
It is in te re s ting to note that both pro cesses are being de s c r ibed as “acce l e ratin g” and that they are
reac h ing a clim ax which will be “t ran sfor m ing the face of our pl an e t.” The first pro cess is de s c r ibed a s
“in teg ratin g” and “con s t r uc tive” wh e reas the lat ter is de pi c ted as “d is r up tive” and “d isin teg ratin g.”
Fur t h e r more, the former pro cess is a s s o ci ated with the “n a s cent Faith of Bahá’u’ lláh” and the “N e w
World Orde r.” The second pro cess, alt h ough por t rayed as “de s t r uc tive ,” is seen in a posi tive light in that
it tears down the “an tiqu ated bar r i e rs that seek to block hum an i t y’s pro g ress towards its de s tin ed goal .”
T h is barrier is hence re l ated to a civ il iz ati on which has “refu s ed to an s wer to the exp ec tati on of a new
age.” This last sente nce could refer to: 1) the re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh in ge n e ral, and /or 2) the rece p ti on
of Bahá’u’ lláh’s lette rs, sent to var i ous re l i gi ous and pol i ti cal leade rs in the nin e teenth ce n t ury.91
T hus, rather than viewing the NAP as an is ol ated ph e nom e non, as a “fadd is h”, a “sub - cult ure ,” a
We s tern “p o s t-mo de r n” or “p o s t- C hr is ti an” ph e nom e non, or even just a cult ural shift or paradigm shift ,
it could be viewed within a much larger con te xt— in the Bahá’í con te xt of the tran si ti on of the old and
new world orde rs, that mankind is com ing of age, of re l i gi ous cycles, and ultim ate l y, within the con te xt
of pro g re s sive re ve l ati on .92
T h at this age is un ique in a Bahá’í pers p ec tive is clear since ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá says that “T h is age is inde ed
as a hundred other age s.”93 It is therefore appropr i ate to end this pap e r, written at the end of this ce n t u-
ry, with a quote from ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá wh o, at the beginn ing of this ce n t ury, sa id:
Now the new age is here and creati on is reb orn. Hum anity hath taken on new life. The aut umn
h ath gone by, and the re v iv ing spr ing is here. All thin gs are now made new.... Re n e wal is the
order of the day. And all this newness hath its source in the fresh out p our in gs of wondrou s
g race and favour from the Lord of the Kin gdom, which have re n e wed the world. The peopl e ,
t h e refore, must be set compl e tely free from their old pat terns of thought, that all their at te n-
ti on may be fo cu s ed up on these new pr inci ples, for these are the light of this time and the ve ry
s pirit of this age.94
Li te rat ure
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1981. S ome Answe red Que s ti on s. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982a. The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace. Talks de l ive red by ‘Abdul-B ahá dur ing His visit to the United
States and Can ada in 1912 .C omp, Howard MacNut t. 2nd edn. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982b. S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Bahá’í World Centre, Ha i fa .
7 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
A rl eb rand, Håk an 1995. Det ok änd a. Lib r is.
Aull, Br i an 1988/89. The Faith of Sci e nce and the Method of Re l i gi on. The Jour n al of Bahá’í St udies 1. 2. Bahá’í
P ubl is h ing Trust 1976. B ahá’í World Fa i t h. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
___________________ 1991. A Selec ti on of Praye rs Re veal ed by Bahá’u’ lláh, the Bá b, and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. Bahá’í Publ is h in g
Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
___________________ 1994. Li fe, Deat h, and Immor tal i t y: the Journey of the Soul. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te ,
I ll inois.
B ahá’u’ lláh 1972. The Pro c l am ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh to the kin gs and leade rs of the world. Bahá’í World Centre, Ha i fa .
B ahá’u’ lláh 1983a. The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán —The Book of Certi t ude. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
B ahá’u’ lláh 1983b. G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
B ahá’u’ lláh 1984. The Seven Vall e ys and the Four Vall e ys. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
B ahá’u’ lláh 1986. Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh—A Compil ati on. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, New Delh i .
B ar t h olom e w, G. A. 1989. Har mony of Sci e nce and Re l i gi on: A Compl e m e n tary Pe rs p ec tive. The Jour n al of Bahá’í
St udies 1. 3.
Brow n, Ke ven 1998. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s Re s p onse to Darw in ism: Its His tor i cal and Philo s oph i cal Con te xt. Unpubl is h ed
pap e r.
C l arke, P. B. & Byrne, P. (ed s.) 1993. Re l i gi on Def in ed and Expl a in ed. St. Mar tin’s Press, NY.
C ole, J. R. 1984. Bahá’u’ lláh and the Na qs hb andí Su f is in Ira q, 1854-1856. St udies in Bá bí and Bahá’í His tory, vol. 2.,
Kal imát Press, LA.
C ole, J. R. 1993. Bahá’u’ lláh on Hindu ism and Zoroa s t r i an ism: The Tablet to Mirza Abu’ l-Fadl Conce r n ing the
Que s ti ons of Man akji Limji Hataria. Unpubl is h ed pap e r.
C ohn, Nor m an 1993. The Pursuit of the Mill e nn i um: re voluti on ary mill e n ar ism and mys ti cal an arc h ist of the middl e-
age s. Piml i co, London .
D o de nh off, P. S. 1997. “Budd y, Can You Spare a Paradigm?” The Bahá’í Faith and the New Age Move m e n t. Paper pre s e n ted
at the 15th Irfan Colloqu i um, Bahá’í Nati on al Cente r, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
E s s l e mont, J. E. 1980. B ahá’u’ lláh and the New Era. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
Fare ll Bedn arows ki, Mary 1992. The New Age Movement and Fe m in ist Spir i t u al i t y: Ove rl apping Con ve rsati ons at the
E nd of the Century, in Lewis, J. R., & Me lton, J. G. (ed s.) Pe rs p ec tives on the New Age. SUNY Pre s s.
Figl, Joh ann 1993. Die Mi t te der Re l i gi on e n — Idee und Praxis un ive rsalre l i giöser Be weg un gen. Wis s e n s c h a ft l is c h e
Buc h ge s e ll s c h a ft. Dar m s tadt.
Fowl e r, Alasta ir 1982. Kinds of Li te rat ure: An Intro duc ti on to the Theory of Genres and Mo de s. Clare ndon, Oxford .
Hamm e r, Ol av 1997. På span ing efter helh e ten—New Age en ny folk t ro? Wik s t r öm & Wid s t rand .
Han eg ra a ff, W. J. 1995. New Age Re l i gi on and We s tern Cult ure: Esote r i cism in the Mir ror of Secul ar Thou g h t.
U n ive rsity of Utrec h t.
Hatc h e r, W. S. and Mar tin, J. D. 1985. The Bahá’í Fa i t h —The Emerging Glob al Re l i gi on. Harper & Row, Publ is h e rs, San
Francis co.
Heelas, Paul 1996. The New Age Move m e n t. Blac kwe ll .
Holl e y, Horace 1913. B ah a is m, the Mo dern Soci al Re l i gi on. Sidgwick & Jac k s on, London .
Hor nb y, Helen 1988. Li g h ts of Gu id ance: A Bahá’í Refe re nce Fil e. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, New Delh i .
K hurs h e ed, Anjam 1987. S ci e nce and Re l i gi on. One World Publ i cati ons, London .
Kyle, Ri c h ard 1995. The New Age Movement in American Cult ure. Unive rsity of America, Inc., NY.
L alonde, Roxanne 1994. Unity in Dive rsi t y: A Conce p t u al Fram e work for a Glob al Ethic of E n v ironm e n tal Su s ta in abil i t y.
The Jour n al of Bahá’í St ud i e s 6. 3.
L ambde n, Ste phen 1994. Doing Bahá’í Schol arship in the 1990s: A Re l i gi ous St udies Pe rs p ec tive. The Bahá’í St udies Re v i e w,
3. 2 .
L ambde n, Ste phen 1997. The Bac k g round and Centrality of Ap oph atic Theolo gy in Bá bí and Bahá’í Scripture, in Jac k
McL ean (ed .) Re v isi on ing the Sac red: New Pe rs p ec tives on a Bahá’í Theolo gy.
St udies in the Bá bí and Bahá’í Re l i gi on s, Vol. 8. Kal imát Press, LA
L e w is, Frank l in 1997. Scripture as Li te rat ure. The Bahá’í St udies Re v i e w 7.
L e w is, J. R., & Me lton, J. G. (ed s.) 1992. Pe rs p ec tives on the New Age. SUNY Pre s s.
Lundbe rg, Za id 1996. B ahá’í Ap o cal y p ti cism: The Concept of Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on. Unpubl is h ed MA thesis. Lund
U n ive rsi t y.
7 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Lundbe rg, Za id 1999. The Bedrock of Bahá’í Be l i ef: The Doctrine of Pro g re s sive Re ve l ati on. Unpubl is h ed pap e r.
MacE oin, Denis 1994. Ri t u als in Babism and Bah a’is m. Br i tish Academic Press, London .
Mats on, Katinka 1979. The Enc yc lop edia of Real i t y: A Gu ide to the New Age. Gran ada Publ is h in g.
McL ean, J. A. 1992. Prol egomena to a Bahá’í Theolo gy. The Jour n al of Bahá’í St ud i e s 5.1.
McL ean, J. A. (ed .) 1997. Re v isi on ing the Sac red: New Pe rs p ec tives on a Bahá’í Theolo gy. St udies in
the Bá bí and Bahá’í Re l i gi on s, vol. 8. Kal imát Press, LA.
Mc Ginn, Be r n ard 1979. Visi ons of the End: Ap o cal y p tic Trad i ti ons in the Middle Age s. Columbia Unive rsity Press, NY.
Mill e r, Ell i ot 1989. A Crash Course on the New Age Move m e n t. Baker Book House, Grand Rapid s.
Mom e n, Mo ojan 1988. Re l ativ ism: A Basis for Bahá’í Me taph ysics, in M. Momen (ed .) St udies in the Bá bí & Bahá’í
Re l i gi on s, vol. 5.- Kal imát Press, LA.
New Re n a is sance 1997. The New Re n a is sance: A Jour n al for Soci al and Spir i t u al Awake n ing 7. 2.
Offe r m ans, Jü rgen 1997. Zen i Vat t um annens tid s ålde r. Unpubl is h ed manu s c r i p t. Lund Unive rsi t y.
Pe te rs, Ted 1991. The Cosmic Self. Har p e r, San Francis co.
Rom arh eim, Arild 1989. K r istus i Vat t um annens tec ken: Nyre l i giö sa uppfat t n in gar om Jesus Kris t u s. Lib r is, Öreb ro.
Rot hs tein, Mik ael 1993. Er Me s sias en Vandm an? En bog om nye re l i gi oner og New Age. G. E .C. Gad, Cop e nh age n .
Rot hs tein, Mik ael (in pre s s). New Age be v æ gelsen i ritual an al y tisk pers p e k tiv, in O. Hammer & S. Arv id s s on (ed s.)
Re l i gi on s h is tor iska stud i e r. Lund Unive rsi t y.
Sav i, Julio 1989. The Ete r n al Quest for God: An Intro duc ti on to the Div ine Philo s ophy of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá. George Ron ald ,
O xford .
S c h aefe r, Udo 1995. Be yond the Clash of Re l i gi on s: The Emerge nce of a New Parad i g m. Zero Palm Press, Prag ue.
Shoghi Effe ndi 1976. High Endeavours: Me s sages to Alaska. Nati on al Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Alaska.
Shoghi Effe ndi 1990. The Ad vent of Div ine Ju s ti ce. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
Shoghi Effe ndi 1991. The World Order of Bahá’u’ lláh —S e l ec ted lette rs. Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, Wilm e t te, Ill inois.
Span g l e r, Dav id 1984. E m e rge nce: The Rebirth of the Sac red. Dell, NY.
Sto c km an, Robert 1993. A Cur r i culum Gu ide for the Bahá’í Fa i t h. Unpubl is h ed manu s c r i p t.
Sto c km an, Robert 1996. Mill e nn i al ism in the Bahá’í Faith: Pro g re s sive and Cata s t rophic Themes. Unpubl is h ed man
s c r i p t.
Walb r id ge, John 1996. Sac red Ac ts, Sac red Space, Sac red Tim e. George Ron ald, Oxford .
Wi t tge n s tein, Ludwig 1953. P h ilo s oph i cal Inve s ti gati on s. (t ransl. by G. E. M. et al .) Blac kwe ll, Oxford .
Wo o dm an, Ross 1997. Me taph or and the Lan g u age of Re ve l ati on. The Jour n al of Bahá’í St ud i e s 8:1.
York, Mi c h ael 1995. The Emerging Network. Rowan & Li t t l ef i e ld .
Note s
1) Schaefer 1995 :35 –49 (or i gin ally publ is h ed in German in 1992).
2) Lambden 1994:72 .
3) Lambden 1994:72, italics added .
4) See Dode nh off 1997. The aut h or of this ar ticle and Dode nh off pro duced a paper each on the topic of the NAP and the
B ahá’í Faith for the 14th (Manc h e s te r, UK) and 15th (Wilm e t te, USA) Irfán Colloquia in 1997 re s p ec tive l y.
5) Rather than taking side in the deb ate whether “New Age” is to be labe l ed a “move m e n t” or “re l i gi on” this aut h or have
decided to here use the more neut ral term the “New Age Phenom e non,” henceforth abb re v i ated as the NAP.
6) Mats on 1979:49-51;Figl 1993 :78 – 89.
7) Kyle 1995 :59, clar i f i cati on and italics added .
8) See e.g., Hammer 1997:25, 83– 84.
9) Lambden 1994:71-72 also menti ons in a fo ot note that the LSA of Warwick pro duced a lea flet enti t l ed The New Age in
order to approach adh e re n ts of the ‘new age.’
10) See e.g., Cohn 1993 and Mc Ginn 1979.
11) Lewis & Me lton 1992: x.
12) Kyle 1995 :6, 41, 66, 78, 214; Hammer 1997:302-305.
13) Kyle 1995: 198 –201.
14) Hammer 1997:289 –293.
15) Lewis & Me lton 1992:59.
7 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
16) Lewis & Me lton 1992:18, italics added .
17) Most schol ars in Lewis & Me lton’s book 1992 and Kyle 1995 categor ize the New Age as “The New Age Move m e n t” and
compares it to New Re l i gi ous Move m e n ts. Even Heelas uses the term “move m e n t ,” which also is the title of his book
1996 The New Age Move m e n t.
18) Han eg ra a ff 1997 and Hammer 1997:274 are more con sis tently using the term “The New Age re l i gi on,” but Hammer al s o
uses the term “The New Age move m e n t” (p. 25). Rot hs tein alte r n ates be tween the terms “move m e n t” and “re l i gi on” and
w r i tes that “The New Age is . . . a re l i gi on of ac ti on” (p. 11, my tran s l ati on). Both Hammer and Rot hs tein state that the
New Age ph e nomena is a folk t ro “folk be l i ef.”
19) Kyle 1995.
20) Hammer 1997:23.
21) Kyle 1995 :13. Arl eb rand 1995 even inc ludes satan ism in his def in i ti on of New Age! Moreove r, in Germany the term “N e w
Age” has largely been re pl aced by the term Esote r ik “e s ote r i cis m” or Ganz h eitlich “hol is ti c .” See Offe r m anns 1997:1.
22) e.g., Heelas 1996 de s c r ibes New Age as the “re l i gi on of the Self.”
23) Lewis & Me lton 1992:3; Kyle 1995 :46.
24) Spangler 1984:80-81; Fare ll Bedn arows ki 1992:167; Kyle 1995 :5-7.
25) For a dis cu s si on on the diff i culties of def in ing “re l i gi on” see e.g., Clarke & Byrne 1993.
26) Lewis & Me lton 1992:7.
27) See e.g., Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :200.
28) See e.g., ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1981:254–259.
29) e.g., Horace Holley who in 1913 enti t l ed one of his works Bah a is m, the Mo dern Soci al Re l i gi on .
30) See e.g., ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1979:131-175, 1982 a :107–108, 1982b :105 –110; Aull 1988/89; Bar t h olomew 1989; Khurs h e ed 1987
31) See e.g., Lewis 1997; Wo o dm an 1997.
32) See e.g., Cole 1993.
33) For a more in- depth dis cu s si on on the theme of Bahá’í and sync re tism see Sto c km an 1993.
34) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :166.
35) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :318, clar i f i cati on added .
36) For a de ta il ed an al ysis on the Bahá’í view on ap oph atic (n egative) theolo gy see Lambden 1997.
37) See e.g., Lundbe rg 1996.
38) Bahá’u’ lláh 1986 :113; Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust 1991:143.
39) For dis cu s si ons on Bahá’í theolo gy see e.g., Momen 1988; McL ean 1992, 1997; Lundbe rg 1996.
See e.g., Lundbe rg 1996; Sto c km an 1996.
40) For dis cu s si ons on Bahá’í and the topic of evoluti on see ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982 a :358 -359; Lundbe rg 1996; Brown 1998.
41) See e.g., Hor nby 1988:513 -522 .
42) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :65, clar i f i cati on added, 177-178.
43) For another compar is on of sim il ar i ties and diffe re nces be tween the Bahá’í Faith and the NAP see Schaefer 1995 :45 –48.
44) Hammer 1997:18 –19, italics added .
45) Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust 1976 :364, italics added .
46) Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust 1991:123
47) Bahá á’u’ lláh 1986 :414- 415.
48) Bahá’u’ lláh quoted in Shoghi Effe ndi 1990:77.
49) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :141, italics added .
50) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982 a :80, italics added .
51) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982 a :4, 89.
52) Shoghi Effe ndi 1990:72–73, italics added .
53) Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust 1976 :345.
54) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982 a :140, italics added
55) See e.g., Bahá’u’ lláh 1984:36–37; Cole 1984:12–13; Momen 1988:189 –195; Lundbe rg 1996.
56) See e.g., Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :213. For a dis cu s si on on the dec l ine of re l i gi on see Lundbe rg 1996.
57) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :200.
58) See e.g., ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982 a :363–364.
59) Bahá’u’ lláh 1986 :329; 498.
60) Bahá’u’ lláh 1986 :498.
61) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982a: 80.
62) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982 a :80.
63) See e.g., Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust 1994.
64) Kyle 1995 :90 writes that “Reincar n ati on and karma are bedrock New Age conce p ts.” For a Bahá’í view on the conce p t
of reincar n ati on see e.g., ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1981:281–289; Hor nby 1988:536–538.
7 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
65) See Shoghi Effe ndi 1976 :71.
66) See e.g., ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982a; Lundbe rg 1996.
67) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1981:297-99.
68) Hor nby 1988:543.
69) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :156-157; Bahá’u’ lláh 1986 :455.
70) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982 a :10, 161, 179, 363–364, 407, 412 .
71) See e.g., Lalonde 1994.
72) See Esslemont 1980; Lundbe rg 1996.
73) See Lundbe rg 1996.
74) Heelas 1996.
75) Kyle 1995 :73, 129. For a dis cu s si on on New Age and networks and metan e tworks see Miller 1989; York 1995.
76) Kyle 1995 :75. Yet, as had been shown in this pap e r, a few New Age schol ars, e.g., Lewis & Me lton 1992; Hammer 1997,
do see a set of core-pr inci pl e s. Pe te rs 1991:57–90 summ ar izes the New Age in eight teac h in gs: 1) hol is m, 2) mon is m, 3)
the higher self, 4) hum an pote n ti al i t y, 5) reincar n ati on, 6) evoluti on /t ran sfor m ati on, 7) gno sis, and 8) a New Age Jesu s.
Sim il arl y, Kyle 1995 :197 states that “W h at unifies the New Age is its worldview and a s sump ti ons regard ing real i t y, God,
hum an nat ure, and the basis of the hum an pred i cam e n t.”
77) Kyle 1995 :175 –177, 197. Yet, schol ars like Hammer 1997:17, 274–276 and Rot hs tein (in pre s s) also see myths and ritual s
in the NAP.
78) For a dis cu s si on on one of these do c t r ines see e.g., Lundbe rg 1999.
79) MacE oin 1994; Walb r id ge 1996.
80) For a dis cu s si on on Bahá’í adm in is t rati on see Hor nby 1988:1–43.
81) For a dis cu s si on on how Wi t tge n s tein uses the term “fam ily re s e mbl ance” see e.g., Wi t tge n s tein. 1953; Fowler 1982 .
82) Sim il arl y, Kyle 1995 :154 states that “Tran sfor m ati on is at the heart of the New Age.”
83) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983 a :240–241, italics added .
84) Spangler 1984:38, italics added .
85) Kyle 1995 :120–121, 122–125, italics added .
86) For a dis cu s si on on the Bahá’í view of a glob al civ il iz ati on see e.g., Shoghi Effe ndi 1991.
87) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:169.
88) Bahá’u’ lláh 1983b :7.
89) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:171.
90) Shoghi Effe ndi 1991:170, italics added .
91) See Bahá’u’ lláh 1972 .
92) See e.g., Lundbe rg 1996.
93) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982b :111.
94) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá 1982b :252–253, italics added .
8 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
A STUDY OF THE MEANING OF THE WORD “AL-AMR”
IN THE QUR’ÁN AND IN THE WRITINGS OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH
Moojan Momen
S
umm ary: The word “amr” in Pe rsi an or “al- amr” in Arabic has a ran ge of mean ing that cove rs sev-
e ral words in English. In two in s tances the precise mean ing has become a source of con t rove rsy and
it is therefore nece s sary to exam ine this mat ter more carefull y. In this pap e r, I will lo ok in de ta il at
the use of the word in the Qur’án in order to de l in eate the seman tic ran ge for this word in the Qur’án .
T h is is in order to exam ine the a s s e r ti on by Bahá’í ap olo gis ts that the term “al- amr” in Qur’án 32:5 (“He
e s tabl ishes His Dec re e —al- amr— from heaven to earth and it will re t urn to Him in a Day, the length of
which is one thou sand years in your rec kon in g”) refe rs to the app earance of a new re l i gi on one thou sand
years a fter the Prophet Mu ˙ amm ad. I will also exam ine the seman tic ran ge of the occur re nce of this
word in the early writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh in order to assess the a s s e r ti on of Prof. E.G. Browne that the
phrase “m aßd ar-i- amr” which app ears in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán is an ac knowl ed gement by Bahá’u’ lláh of the
l eade rship of Azal at the time of the re ve l ati on of the ˆqán in ab out 1861– 62 .
The purpose of this paper is to study the seman tic ran ge of the word al-A mr in two con te xts: the
Qur’án and the early writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh dur ing the Bag hd ad period. The rea s on for this study is
because this word has become con t rove rsi al with re s p ect to two par ti cul ar pa s sages, one occur r ing in the
Qur’án and one in Bahá’u’ lláh’s Ki t á b -i-ˆqán .
The first pa s sage which we shall con sider in this paper in vol ves the fifth ve rse of the Sur áh al-Sajd ah
in the Qur’án. In order not to prej ud ge the is sue of the exact mean ing of the word al- amr in this set-
tin g, I will here give Yu suf Ali’s tran s l ati on but in s e r ting the tran s l i te rati on of al- amr:
He establ ishes al- amr from heaven to earth and it will re t urn to Him in a Day, the length of
which is one thou sand years in your rec kon ing (32:5)
T h is ve rse is in vol ved in a con t rove rsy in re l ati on to the polemics be tween Islam and the Bahá’í Fa i t h .
B ahá’ís con sider that the ve rse refe rs to the app earance of a new re ve l ati on from God one thou sand years
a fter the com ing of Mu ˙ amm ad. Because of the Mu s l im unde rs tand ing of the concept of Mu ˙ amm ad
being the ‘S eal of the Proph e ts ,’ Mu s l ims in te r pret this ve rse without any impl i cati on of the com ing of
a further re ve l ati on from God.
The second pa s sage which has in vol ved con t rove rsy over the mean ing of the word al- amr, is a state-
ment made by Bahá’u’ lláh in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, aga in merely tran s l i te rating al- amr at the point wh e re it
o ccurs in Shoghi Effe nd i’s tran s l ati on :
By the righteousness of God! Our withdrawal con te mpl ated no re t ur n, and Our separati on
h op ed for no reun i on. The one obj ect of Our re tirement was to avoid becom ing a subj ect of
d is cord among the fa i t h ful, a source of dis t urb ance un to Our compan i ons, the means of inj ury
to any soul, or the cause of sor row to any hear t. Be yond these, We cheris h ed no other in te n-
ti on, and apart from them, We had no end in view. And yet, each pers on schemed a fter his ow n
de sire, and pursued his own idle fanc y, un til the hour wh e n, from the Source of al- amr, there
came the summons bidd ing Us re t urn wh e nce We cam e. Sur re nde r ing Our will to His, We sub-
m i t ted to His inj unc ti on. (B ahá’u’ lláh: Ki t á b -i-ˆqán, p. 251)
This passage, in which Bahá’u’lláh relates the circumstances surrounding his return to Baghdad after his
sojourn in Sulaymáníyyih, is involved in a controversy in relation to the polemics between Bahá’ís and the
8 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
supporters of Mírzá Ya˙yá Azal. Supporters of Azal’s position, such as E.G. Browne, have translated this
passage as referring to a summons by Mírzá Ya˙yá instructing Bahá’u’lláh to return to Baghdad.
H is rea s on for alte r ing this re s oluti on was that ‘the order to re t urn eman ated from the source of com-
m and’, which clearly shows us that at this date (A . D. 1861– 62) Be há still reco g n iz ed Ezel as his chief, and
sub m i t ted to his aut h or i t y, at least nom in all y.
Browne thus used this pa s sage as evide nce that at the time of the comp o si ti on of the ˆqán in 1861–2 ,
B ahá’u’ lláh still ac knowl ed ged the leade rship of Azal. Bahá’ís main ta in that the ‘s ource of comm and’
(m aßd ar-i amr) which Browne con side rs to be Azal, in fact refe rs to God. In other words that it was on
G o d’s in s t r uc ti ons that Bahá’u’ lláh re t ur n ed to Bag hd ad. Shoghi Effe ndi tran s l ates ‘m aßd ar-i amr’ a s
‘Mys tic Source ,’
A. Al-A mr in the Qur’án
Re t ur n ing now to the first in s tance that we are exam in ing in this pap e r, we must try to establ ish the
m ean ing of the word al- amr in this ve rse of the Qur’án. We have var i ous approaches to this que s ti on that
we can util iz e.
1. Di c ti on ary def in i ti on s. In the first pl ace it is useful to exam ine wh at is stated in the stand ard dicti o-
n ar i e s. In Ed ward Lan e’s L e xi con of the Arabic Lan g u age, there are two series of mean ing given for amr:
A. ‘a comm and; an orde r; a bidd ing; an inj unc ti on; a dec ree; an ord in ance; a pre s c r i p t’ with the plur-
al of awám ir and the an tonym of nahy (proh ibi ti on).
B. ‘a thing; an a ffa ir; a bu siness; a mat te r; a concern; a state, of a pers on or thin g, or of pers ons or
t h in gs or a ffa irs or circum s tances; a cond i ti on; a case; an accide n t; an eve n t’ with synonyms of shan,
˙ál, hal ah, ˙ád i t h ah, or fi‘l and a plural of umú r.
In exam in ing this Qur’ánic ve rse in the light of Lan e’s def in i ti on of amr, there are two con side rati on s.
The first is: which mean ing goes best with the preced ing word “y ud abbir u”? And the second is: wh i c h
m ean ing goes best with the follow ing phrase which refe rs to al- amr de s ce nd ing from heaven to earth and
then a s ce nd ing aga in. With regard to the first que s ti on, yud abbiru, which is the third pers on of the pre-
s e n t/fut ure tense of the II form ve rb of the ro ot d-b -r, can be tran s l ated by a wide ran ge of Englis h
word s: to make ar ran ge m e n ts, pre pare pl ans, pl an, organ ize, de v ise, ar ran ge, bring ab out, con t r ive ,
d irect, conduct, man age, run, reg ul ate. It would app ear that mean in gs in either ran ge A or B ab ove would
fit with yud abbiru, alt h ough ran ge B would be som e wh at be t te r. With regard to the second que s ti on,
h owe ve r, it is clear that mean in gs in ran ge A fit much be t te r: the pi c t ure of God send ing down com-
m ands, orde rs, inj unc ti ons, dec rees or ord in ances from heaven to earth is one that is common to all of
the re l i gi ons of the Ab rah amic lin e.
2. Qur’ánic Comm e n tary. It is also usu al in try ing to a s ce r ta in the mean ing of a pa s sage in the Qur’án
to con sult the var i ous stand ard comm e n taries on the Qur’án. Most of the comm e n taries do not app ear
to give a direct opin i on on the mean ing of the word ‘amr’. One exce p ti on is al-Ka s hshaf of az-
Zam akhs h arí (d .1144) which comm e n ts thus on this ve rs e:
‘A l- amr’— He causes the ac ts of obed i e nce and pi ous de eds which are ord a in ed (al-m a’múr bih i
m in at- † á‘át wa’ l- a‘m ál a s- ß ál i˙ ah) to be sent down in an organ iz ed manner (mud abbiran) ‘from
the heavens to the ear t h .’ Then they are not ac ted up on and there does not ar ise to Him those
t h in gs that are ord a in ed in a pure form as He de sires and wishes except in a ve ry lengthy peri-
od of time on account of the fewness of numbe rs of the worke rs of God and of the paucity of
pi ous souls among His servan ts. And the fewness of de eds that a s ce nd is because only right-
eous de eds are de s c r ibed as a s ce nd ing and the evide nce for this is His words conce r n ing its
effec t: ‘little thanks do ye give’ (23 :78) or He establ ishes the amr of all of the world from heav-
en to earth for eve ry day of the days of God; and this is one thou sand years, just as He has
sa id: ‘Ve r ily a day with your Lord is as one thou sand years as you rec kon .
‘Then it will re t urn to Him’— t h at is to say wh ate ver is ra is ed up of this amr and ente rs in to
being will go to Him and will be con f ir m ed with Him and will be written down in the scroll s
8 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
of His an gels eve ry moment of this period of time un til this period reaches its end. Then He
w ill ar ran ge also the last Day and so on un til the [Last] Hour ar is e s. And it is sa id that the re v-
e l ati on (al-wah y) is sent down with Gabriel (up on him be peace) from the heaven to the ear t h
and then wh ate ver acce p tance or rej ec ti on of the re ve l ati on there was re t urns to Him with
G abriel. This occurs in a time that is in reality one thou sand years because the dis tance of trav-
el is one thou sand years in de s cent and a s cent in a s much as the dis tance be tween heaven and
earth is a journey of five hundred years and it becomes a day of your days on account of the
s p e ed of Gabriel, for he cuts through a journey of one thou sand years in one day. And it is sa id :
He establ ishes the amr of the world from the heaven to the earth un til the [Last] Hour ar is e s ,
then all of this amr will re t urn to Him, that is to say it will go to Him in order that He may
j ud ge it.
‘In a day, the length [m iqd ar, amoun t] of which is one thou sand years’—and this is the Day of
Re sur rec ti on (yawm al-qiyám ah)
From this lengthy extract from az-Zamakhsharí, the following interpretations may be derived.
Zamakhsharí evidently interprets al-amr as the decree of God to human beings concerning what are cor-
rect and righteous actions that should be performed in obedience to God (at-†á‘át wa’l-a‘mál as-ßáli˙ah).
These are carried down by Gabriel and it appears from this passage that az-Zamakhsharí identifies what is
sent down with al-wahy, the revelation that is sent down to the Messengers of God. This would be logical
since the revelation of God’s decrees concerning correct and righteous actions was the very purpose of the
coming of the Messengers of God, such as the Prophet Mu˙ammad. And of course the revelation to
Mu˙ammad was carried by the angel Gabriel. Lastly, az-Zamakhsharí describes this process as continuing
until the Last Hour and he identifies the ‘day’ mentioned in this verse with the Day of Resurrection.
A l-B ay∂ á wí (d. 1291) re p eats much of az-Zam akhs h arí, almost word for word in pl ace s. He does not
give a specific in te r pre tati on of the word amr, but rather expl a ins the first part of this ve rse as mean-
in g: ‘He organ izes the amr of the world with heave nly in s t r um e n ts such as the an gels and ot h e rs, their
effec ts going down to the ear t h .’3 L ater in expl a in ing the second half of the ve rse, al-B ay∂ á wí re p eats az-
Zam akhs h arí ’s phrase ‘the ac ts of obed i e nce which are ord a in ed (al-m a’múr bihi min at- † á‘á t)’ thus impl i c-
itly ag re eing with the lat te r’s gloss on al- amr. Al-B ay∂ á wí re p eats the ide n ti f i cati on of wh at is sent dow n
as being re ve l ati on (al-wah y) and also the a s s e r ti on that this pro cess will go on un til the Last Hour and
w ill end when it re t urns to Him on the Day of Re sur rec ti on. Thus al-B ay∂ á wí concurs in all of the main
p oin ts that we have ide n ti f i ed ab ove in az-Zam akhs h arí ’s comm e n tary.
Other aut h ors of comm e n taries on the Qur’án are not so helpful. Many of them seem to give most of
t h eir at te n ti on in comm e n ting on this ve rse to state m e n ts ab out how long an gels take in de s ce nd in g
from heaven to earth. Thus for example Ibn Kat h ír (d. 1372) :
‘He establ ishes His Dec ree (al- amr) from heaven to earth and it will re t urn to Him’ that is to
say, his amr comes down from the highest part of heaven to the furthest dis t r i c ts of the sev-
enth ear t h, as He (e xalted be He) has sa id: ‘A ll ah is He Who created seven Fir m am e n ts and of
the earth a sim il ar numbe r. Through the midst of them (all) de s ce nds His Comm and, (65 :12)’
A nd de eds rise up to their account books (i .e. each pers on’s ac ti ons rise to heaven wh e re they
are ente red in to on e’s heave nly accoun t), which is ab ove the sky of the world, the dis tance
be tween them and the earth being a journey of five hundred years and the thickness of heav-
en is five hundred years....4
In ge n e ral, howe ve r, it is not useful to turn to the later comm e n tators for in te r pre tati ons of this ve rs e
in the con te xt of our in ve s ti gati on. This is because once the do c t r ine of Mu ˙ amm ad being the ‘S eal of
the Proph e ts’ became a firm do c t r ine in Islam at ab out the beginn ing of the fourth Islamic ce n t ury (late
tenth ce n t ury AD),5 all in te r pre tati ons of ve rses such as this one we re con s t ra in ed by this do c t r ine and
it became inc rea singly diff i cult to offer any in te r pre tati ons that that could be seen as ca s ting doubt on
t h is do c t r in e. Since the Bahá’í in te r pre tati on of this ve rse does, as we shall see late r, cast doubt on the
t rad i ti on al Mu s l im in te r pre tati on of the concept of the ‘S eal of the Proph e ts ,’ we cannot exp ect to find
supp ort for it in the comm e n taries, except perh aps in the ve ry earliest on e s. Unfor t un ate l y, comm e n tary
8 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
as a lite rary form in Islam ar r ived re l atively late and so there is little comm e n tary mate r i al ava il able from
the earliest period, before the concept of the ‘S eal of the Proph e ts’ became a firm do c t r ine in Islam .
3. Inte r pre ting the Qur’án by means of the Qur’án. While the in for m ati on that the dicti on aries and
comm e n taries give is useful, for our purposes, it is prob ably be t ter to adopt the classi cal Islam i c
approach of ‘ta fs ír al-Qur’án bi’ l-Qur án’— in te r pre ting the Qur’án by means of the Qur’án. This is not
only because of the con s t ra in ts imp o s ed up on in te r pre tati on by later do c t r ine as menti on ed ab ove, but
also because the Qur’án itself is almost the only do cument that we can re l i ably state stems from this
period. And so if we want to know wh at a word meant at the time of the re ve l ati on of the Qur’án then
really it is only the Qur’án that can act as do cum e n tary evide nce.
The word al- amr is exte n sively used in the Qur’án and has a ran ge of mean in gs. There are 153 occur-
re nces of the word al- amr alone and in combin ati on with var i ous pronouns and 13 occur re nces of the
plural, al-umú r, as de ta il ed in Table 1.
Table 1: Occur re nces of the Noun “al-A mr” in the Qur’án
A mr/al- amr
amran
amr uk um
amr uná
amr uhu
amr uhá
amr uhum
amrí
TOTAL
al-umú r
S ource: This table shows all occur re nces of the noun al- amr in its var i ous cases as we ll as with var i-
ous pronom in al su ff ixes accord ing to: Mu ˙ amm ad Fu’ád ‘Abd al-Bá q í, Mu‘ajam al-Mu far is li-A l f áΩ al-
Qur án al-Karím, Ca iro, 1364. Alt h ough the words are given ab ove in nom in ative for m, they inc lude
o ccur re nces of other ca s e s.
An an al ysis of these 153 refe re nces to the word amr shows that they may be div ided in to the two dif-
fe rent mean in gs given by Lane and also accord ing to whether the word amr re l ates in some way to God
or not. Such an an al ysis gives the follow ing re sult (e xc lud ing for the time being ve rse 32:5) :
Table 2: Anal ysing al- amr in the Qur’án
in Re l ati on to its Mean ing and Con te xt
Re l ated to God
Not re l ated to God
Mean ing A: comm and, dec ree, orde r
Mean ing B: a ffa ir, state, event, mat te r
C ould mean either A or B
Ve rse 32:5 its e l f
Total
8 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
8 5
J. M. S. Balj on has written a paper an al y zing the app earance of the word amr in the Qur’án .
7 B alj on’s
m a in in te n ti on in this paper is to dis c redit the earlier noti on that the word amr was equ ivalent to the
C hr is ti an lo gos conce p t(a Div ine hyposta sis. Nevertheless, Balj on makes a few poin ts that are of in te re s t
to our dis cu s si on. He dis cerns the word amr in the Qur’án as mean ing seve ral stages in the pro cess wh e re-
by God in te rac ts with the world. In the first pl ace, it re l ates to God’s pre parati on or organ iz ati on of the
H is dec rees (yud abbiru ’l- amr); then He de te r m ines (ya q∂ iya, 19:35, 39) the amr; then He sends it down to
earth (yatan az z alu, 65 :12). But the de s cent of al- amr can be either a posi tive or a negative fac tor. For those
who have dis obe yed God, such as the people of Lot, it is a fear ful pun is hment (15 :66); wh ile for those wh o
are God-fear in g, al- amr is an easy mat te r (65 :4).
8 It should be noted that the stage of God’s pre parati on of
H is dec ree has been in s e r ted by Balj on in order to account for the ve ry ve rse that we are con side r ing here
(Qur’án 32:5). Ev ide n t l y, the statement that al- amr re t urns to God from earth puz z l ed Balj on and so in
order to account for it, he postul ated an in i ti al stage when the dec ree is sent to earth as an “in qu iry of the
s tate of a ffa irs in the world”; it then re t urns to God who de te r m ines the dec ree and it is then sent down a
s econd time as a dec ree to be executed. It can be seen that in the in te r pre tati on of this ve rse given be low,
t h e re is no need to postul ate this in i ti al stage of pre parati on because all refe re nces to the de s cent of al-
amr refer to the same ph e nom e non and the re t ur n ing of it is the compl e ti on of the cycle which is, in tur n,
the star ting point for the next cyc l e. This would elim in ate the need to postul ate that God’s knowl ed ge is
in some way def i cient and so an in i ti al enqu iry in to the state of the world is nece s sary. In those con te xts
wh e re amr is at t r ibuted to or effec ted by hum ans, Balj on finds the follow ing mean in gs: comm and (20:65,
92, 94), in te n ti ons (10:72), de eds or conduct (59:15, 65 :9), and re l i gi on or rites (23 :55, 22:66).
In try ing to unde rs tand the mean ing of the ve rse in que s ti on (Qur’án 32:5), we can try to find ve rs e s
in the Qur’án that most closely parallel this ve rse in struc t ure and con te n t. Thus we can see from the
ve rse and its con te xt that the wh ole pa s sage is refe r r ing to Div ine ac ti on s. We can therefore elim in ate
from our enqu iry all of those 53 ve rses in Table 2 wh e re the occur re nce of the word amr is not re l ated
to God. Exam in ing the re m a in ing 99 ve rses, we can find seve ral wh e re there are struc t ural and con te n t
sim il ar i ties to this ve rs e.
a. ‘He establ ishes His Dec re e’. The ve rse that we are exam in ing (Qur’án 33 :5) begins with the phra s e
y ud abbiru ’l- amr. This phrase occurs in seve ral other pl aces in the Qur’án .
10:3. Ve r ily your Lord is All ah Who created the heavens and the earth in six Days and is fir m-
ly establ is h ed on the Throne (of aut h or i t y) reg ul ating and gove r n ing all thin gs (yud abbiru ’l-
amr). No in te rce s s or (can pl ead with Him) except a fter His leave (hath been ob ta in ed). This is
A ll ah your Lord; Him ....
10:31. Say: “Who is it that su s ta ins you (in life) from the sky and from the earth? Or who is it
t h at has power over hear ing and si g h t? And who is it that brin gs out the liv ing from the dead
and the dead from the liv in g? And who is it that rules and reg ul ates all a ffa irs (yud abbiru ’l-
amr)?” They will soon say “A ll ah .” Say “Will ye not then show piety (to Him)? ”
13 :2. All ah is He Who ra is ed the heavens without any pill ars that ye can see; is fir mly estab-
l is h ed on the throne (of aut h or i t y); He has subj ec ted the sun and the mo on (to His law)! eac h
one runs (i ts cours e) for a term app oin ted. He doth reg ul ate a ffa irs (yud abbiru ’l- amr) expl a in-
ing the Signs in de ta il that ye may be l i e ve with ce r ta inty in the meeting with your Lord .
He re the evident mean ing is God reg ul ating and orde r ing the a ffa irs of heaven and earth. Since, how-
e ve r, God does this reg ul ating through the dec rees that He is sues, it is diff i cult to decide whether al- amr
h e re should be con side red in its A or B ran ge of mean in gs.
b. ‘H is Dec ree from heaven to ear t h .’ Looking at the next part of Qur’án 32:5, it speaks of al- amr a s
being som e t h ing that comes down from God. If we lo ok in the Qur’án for other occa si ons in which we
f ind al- amr com ing down from God, we find :
16 :2. He doth send down His an gels with in s pirati on of His Comm and to (yun az zila al-
m alá’ik ah bi’r-rú˙ min amr-hi ‘alá) such of His servan ts as He pl easeth (say in g): “Warn (Man)
t h at there is no god but I: so do your duty un to Me.”
44:3–5: We sent it down (anz aln á) dur ing a bl e s s ed night: for We (e ve r) wish to warn (aga in s t

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Ev il). In that (n i g h t) is made dis tinct eve ry a ffa ir of wis dom (amr in hakím in). By a comm and
(amran) from Our pre s e nce. For We (e ve r) send (re ve l ati ons, mursilín).
65 :12. All ah is He Who created seven Fir m am e n ts and of the earth a sim il ar numbe r. Throu g h
the midst of them (all) de s ce nds His Comm and (yatan az z alu ’l- amr bayna -hunn a): that ye may
know that All ah has power over all thin gs and that All ah compre h e nds all thin gs in (H is)
K nowl ed ge.
The ab ove ve rses which are the closest to Qur’án 32:5 in form and con tent give a clear ind i cati on of
the prob able mean ing al- amr of 32:5. The use of ve rbs from the ro ot n-z-l ind i cates that the pro cess of
re ve l ati on is in vol ved, since this is also the ve rb al form that is used in conn ec ti on with the com in g
down of ve rses of the Qur’án (2:23, 97, 176; 3:3, 93; 4:136, 140, etc). This is made clearest in the firs t
of the ab ove ve rses (16 :2), wh e re it is ind i cated that al- amr comes down to one of God’s servan ts with
the in s t r uc ti on to warn hum anity (andh ir u). This func ti on of being a warner is one that is ti ed in the
Qur’án to that of being a Me s s e n ger of God (see 5:19, 7:184, 188, 27:92, 29:50, 33 :45, 34:44, 35 :24, etc .).
In the second example ab ove (44:3 -5), al- amr is clearly ti ed to the re ve l ati on of the Qur’án. Thus the
com ing down of al- amr in 33 :5 app ears from these parallel ve rses to be in tim ately conn ec ted with the
com ing down of re ve l ati on up on a Me s s e n ger of God. It was pre sum ably such con side rati ons that cau s ed
az-Zam akhs h arí, in the pa s sage quoted ab ove, to conn ect al- amr with ‘the re ve l ati on (al-wah y)’ that ‘is
sent down with Gabriel (up on him be peace) from the heaven to the ear t h’. Further evide nce for this is
the follow ing ve rses, the first of which conn ec ts al- amr to the pro cess of re ve l ati on (al-wah y, here in
the ve rb al form aw ˙ ay n á) and second, more speci f i cally links al- amr with the re ve l ati on to Moses on
the west side of Mount Sin a i :
42:52. And thus have We by Our comm and sent in s pirati on to thee (aw ˙ ay-ná il ay-ka ru˙an min
amr i-n á): thou knowest not (before) wh at was Re ve l ati on and wh at was Fa i t h; but We have made
the (Qur’án) a Light wh e rewith We guide such of Our servan ts as We will; and ve r ily thou do s t
g u ide (m e n) to the St raight Way
28:44. Thou wast not on the We s tern Side when We dec re ed the comm is si on to Moses (qa ∂ ay n á
ilá Músá al- amr) nor wast thou a witness (of those eve n ts).
A l- amr may thus be like n ed to the comm is si on which a king or gove r nment gives to a gove r nor or an
army off i ce r; it is this comm is si on which gives that pers on his aut h ority and makes his aut h ority the
e qu ivalent of the giver of the comm is si on. Sim il ar, the giv ing by God of al- amr to the Me s s e n ger of God
gives him the aut h ority of God.
T h e re is an exact parallel to ve rse 16 :2, an al y z ed ab ove, in the follow ing ve rse from the Qur’án in
which al- amr is de s c r ibed as com ing from God and wh e re the con te xt clearly de notes a de s ce n t. He re
aga in this pro cess of the de s cent of al- amr is linked to the func ti on of war n ing (yundh ir u), which a s
ind i cated ab ove is part of the func ti on of the Me s s e n ger of God:
40:15. Ra is ed high ab ove ranks (or deg re e s) (He is) the Lord of the Throne (of aut h or i t y): by his
comm and doth He send the spirit (of in s pirati on) to (yulqí ar-rú˙ min amr i-hi ‘alá) any of His
s e rvan ts He pl eases that it may warn (m e n, yundh ir u) of the Day of Mut u al Me e ting (yawm at-
talá q)
Fin all y, we can lo ok at a large number of other occa si ons in the Qur’án wh e re al- amr is stated to have
come from God to hum an i t y. In many of these in s tances, the con te xt is that of God hav ing sent a
Me s s e n ger of God as a warner to hum an i t y. Hum ankind ignores the war n ing and al- amr is sues from God
in the form of a seve re penalt y. He re, al- amr can be tran s l ated as the ‘dec re e’ or ‘comm and’ of God. The
wh ole of the Sú rah of Húd in the Qur’án con sis ts of in s tance a fter in s tance of this usage. In almost eve ry
case the word al- amr is used in conj unc ti on with the ve rb já’a.- al- amr came or is sued forth. The firs t
in s tance ci ted is that of Noah who is de s c r ibed as being sent as a warner (n adh ír un) to his peopl e. They
refu s ed to be l i e ve in Noah and his message, nor did they help him with his Ark, un til :
11:40. At length be h old! there came Our Comm and (já’a amr u-n á) and the foun ta ins of the
earth gushed for t h !
8 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
11:43. The son re pl i ed: “I will be take myself to some moun ta in: it will save me from the
wate r.” Noah sa id: “T h is day not h ing can save from the Comm and of All ah (amri Alláh) an y
but those on wh om He hath merc y!” and the waves came be tween them and the son was amon g
those ove rwh e lm ed in the Flo o d .
The de s t r uc ti on con tinued un til the wate rs ab ated and al- amr was ended :
11:44. When the word went forth: “O earth! swallow up thy water and O sky! withh old (t h y
ra in)!” and the water ab ated and the mat ter (al- amr) was ended. The Ark re s ted on Mount Jud i
and the word went forth: “Away with those who do wron g!”
Sim il arl y, Húd was sent to the people of ‘Ád and ßál i˙ was sent to the people of Thamúd to warn them,
but they ignored them and then:
11:58. So when Our dec ree is sued (já’a amr u-n á) We saved Húd and those who be l i e ved with
h im by (s p eci al) Grace from Ours e l ve s: We saved them from a seve re Pe n alt y.
11:66. When Our Dec ree (já’a amr u-n á) is sued We saved Saleh and those who be l i e ved with him
by (s p eci al) Grace from Ours e l ves and from the Ig nom iny of that Day. For thy Lord He is the
St rong One and Able to enforce His Will .
N e xt menti on is made of Ab rah am. Ab rah am pl eads with God aga inst the penalty that was to be
imp o s ed up on the people of Lot:
11:76. O Ab rah am! seek not this. The dec ree of thy Lord hath gone forth (já’a amru Rabbi-k a) :
for them there cometh a Pe n alty that cannot be tur n ed bac k!
11:82. When Our dec ree is sued (já’a amr u-n á) We tur n ed (the ci ti e s) up side down and ra in ed
down on them brim s tones hard as baked clay spread layer on laye r...
The Sú rah of Húd then re v i e ws the fate of the people of Mad yán, to wh om Shu‘ayb was sent:
11:94. When Our dec ree is sued (já’a amr u-n á) We saved Shu a ib and those who be l i e ved with
h im by (s p eci al) Me rcy from Ours e l ve s: but the (m i g h t y) Blast did seize the wron gdo e rs and
they lay pro s t rate in their homes by the mor n in g...
In re v i e w ing all of these cases, the te xt of the Sú rah of Húd state s:
11:101. It was not We that wron ged them: they wron ged their own soul s: the dei ties other than
A ll ah wh om they in voked prof i ted them no whit when there is sued the dec ree of thy Lord (já’a
amra Rabbi-k a): nor did they add aught (to their lot) but perd i ti on !
Other examples of this usage of al- amr are:
16 :33. Do the (un go dl y) wait un til the an gels come to them or there comes the Comm and of
thy Lord (for their do om, aw ya’tiya amra rabbi-k a)? So did those who went before them. But
A ll ah wron ged them not: nay they wron ged their own soul s.
57:14. (Those without) will call out “we re we not with you?” (The ot h e rs) will re ply “Tr ue! but
ye led yours e l ves in to te mp tati on; ye lo oked forward (to our ruin); ye doub ted (A ll ah’s prom is e) ;
and (your fal s e) de sires deceived you; un til there is sued the Comm and of All ah (˙attá já’a amr
alláh). And the Deceiver deceived you in re s p ect of All ah .
T hus these examples and the wh ole of the Sú rah of Húd bears witness to this mean ing of al- amr— t h at
it re pre s e n ts the dec ree of God imp o sing a seve re penalty on those who fa il to obey the Me s s e n ger of
God when he com e s.
c. ‘and it will re t urn to Him .’ Con tinu ing with our an al ysis of ve rse 33 :5, we go on to the next phra s e
which refe rs to al- amr re t ur n ing to God (t humma ya‘r uju il ay-h i). The ve rse that come closest in parall e l-
ing this is also of great in te rest because it is the last ve rse of the Sú rah of Húd, wh i c h, as de mon s t rated
ab ove, is full of refe re nces to al- amr as the dec ree com ing from God and penal ising those who opp o s e
the Me s s e n ge rs of God. He re, at the end of this Sú rah, we see that al- amr re t urns to God.
8 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
8 8
11:123. To All ah do be long the unseen (s ec re ts) of the heavens and the earth and to Him go e t h
b ack eve ry a ffa ir (wa il ay-hi yur ja‘u al- amr kull-hu): then worship Him and put thy trust in
H im: and thy Lord is not unm ind ful of aught that ye do.
T h e re are seve ral other ve rses in the Qur’án that have some sim il ar i ties but in each case wh at is record-
ed as going back to God is al-umú r, the plural of al- amr.
d. ‘in a Day.’ Ve rse 40:15, quoted ab ove and also the con te n ts of the Sú rah of Húd, de s c r ibed ab ove ,
h ave imp or tant impl i cati ons also when we come to con sider the next two words of Qur’án 33 :5—‘in a Day,’
(fí yaw m in). We have seen how in the Sú rah of Húd, wh e n e ver the people tur n ed away from the Me s s e n ge r
of God, a seve re penalty was visi ted up on them. In two ve rses of this súrah, it is impl i ed that this fate
t h at befe ll them was their Day of Jud ge m e n t. In both of these ve rses, howe ve r, Yu suf Ali and other tran s-
l ators have chan ged thin gs som e wh at to make it app ear that the refe re nce to a Day of Jud gement is to a
fut ure eve n t. In refe re nce to ‘Ád’s rej ec ti on of their Me s s e n ger of God, Húd, Yu su sf Ali tran s l ate s:
11:60. And they we re pursued by a Curse in this Li fe and on the Day of Jud g m e n t. Ah! be h old !
for the ‘Ad rej ec ted their Lord and Cheris h e r! Ah! be h old! re moved (from si g h t) we re ‘Ad the
p eople of Húd !
A nd sim il arly in re l ati on to the rej ec ti on of Moses by Pharaoh and his people, Yu suf Ali tran s l ate s:
11:99. And they are followed by a curse in this (life) and on the Day of Jud g m e n t: and wo eful
is the gi ft which shall be given (un to them)!
The lite ral word for word tran s l ati on of the op e n ing words of both of these ve rses is, howe ver (the onl y
d i ffe re nce be tween the two is that the word ad- dun yá app ears in 11:60 and not in 11:99) :
Wa utbi‘ú fí hádh ihi [ad- dun yá] la‘n ah wa yawm al-qiyám ah
A nd they we re followed in this [world] by a curse and the Day of Jud gement (ac t u ally prob abl y
more accurately tran s l ated as Day of Re sur rec ti on)
T hus the Arabic te xt pl aces ‘curs e’ and ‘Day of Jud ge m e n t’ side-b y-side as that by which the
p eople we re pursued—the tense being the past te n s e. In other words, it regards wh at happ e n ed
to the people of ‘Ád and the people of Pharaoh as being the Day of Jud gement for them. This
would supp ort az-Zam akhs h arí in his a s s e r ti on that the Day that is refe r red to in 33 :5 is the
Day of Jud gement (see ab ove). This then takes us back to Qur’án 40:15, which links the com-
ing of al- amr from God to earth with the com ing of a re ve l ati on to a Me s s e n ger of God and
to the Day of Mut u al Me e tin g. Az-Zam akhs h arí, in his comm e n tary on ve rse 40:15, states that
the Day of Mut u al Me e ting is the same as the Day of Jud gement and other comm e n tar i e s
ag re e.
40:15. Ra is ed high ab ove ranks (or deg re e s) (He is) the Lord of the Throne (of aut h or i t y): by his
comm and doth He send the spirit (of in s pirati on) to (yulqí ar-rú˙ min amr i-hi ‘alá) any of His
s e rvan ts He pl eases that it may warn (m e n, yundh ir u) of the Day of Mut u al Me e ting (yawm at-
talá q)
e. ‘the length of which is one thou sand years in your rec kon in g’. The next phrase in 33 :5—the length
of which is one thou sand years in your rec kon ing—has one close parallel in the Qur’án. Inte re s tin g l y, this
parallel pa s sage can be con side red as a summ ary of the Sú rah of Húd that we have already dis cu s s ed at
l e n g t h :
22:42-7: If they treat thy (m is si on) as false so did the Peoples before them (with their proph e ts)
the People of Noah and ‘Ad and Thamud; Those of Ab rah am and Lut; And the Compan i ons of
the Mad yan peopl e: and Moses was rej ec ted (in the same way). But I gran ted re s pi te to the
U nbe l i e ve rs and (onl y) a fter that did I pun ish them: but how (te r r ibl e) was My rej ec ti on (of
t h e m)! How many popul ati ons have We de s t royed which we re given to wron g- doin g! They tum-
bl ed down on their ro ofs. And how many we lls are lying idle and neg l ec ted and castles loft y
and we ll-bu ilt! Do they not travel through the land so that their hear ts (and mind) may thu s
l earn wis dom and their ears may thus learn to hear? Tr uly it is not their eyes that are bl ind but

Lights of ‘Irf á n
t h eir hear ts which are in their brea s ts. Yet they ask thee to hasten on the Pun is hm e n t! But
A ll ah will not fa il in His prom is e. Ve r ily a day in the sight of thy Lord is like a thou sand years
of your rec kon in g.
He re the period of one thou sand years is closely linked to a fut ure day of pun is hm e n t. In ot h e r
words the same ove rall scheme as is su g ge s ted in az-Zam akhs h arí ’s comm e n tary is con f ir m ed —
t h at the Day that is menti on ed is the Day of Jud gement and this is linked to a one thou sand
year period.
4. The Coll ec ti ons of Trad i ti on s. While it is true, as stated ab ove, that there are few ot h e r
s ources that we can con sult that re l i ably con ta in usage of Arabic words con te mp oran eous to the
Qur’an, it is useful to lo ok also at the coll ec ti ons of Proph e tic Trad i ti on s. Alt h ough these we re
not written down un til 150 years or more a fter the time of the Qur’án and doub ts have be e n
ra is ed ab out whether they can re l i ably be traced back to the Prophet Mu ˙ amm ad, it is neve r-
theless true that they do re present a early strat um of the usage of Arabic word s. In lo oking at
those coll ec ti ons of Islamic Trad i ti ons that are con side red among the earliest and most re l i abl e ,
we can find a number of these Trad i ti ons wh e re the word al- amr is used in a way that shed s
light on its use in Qur’án 33 :5.
In the coll ec ti on by al-Bukhárí, which is one of two coll ec ti ons that have been given the nam e
a s- ß a˙ í˙ (the cor rec t) by Mu s l ims on account of their re putati on for aut h e n ti ci t y, the follow in g
two Trad i ti ons occur which ge n e rally supp ort the ab ove in te r pre tati ons of al- amr:
God brin gs ab out wh ate ver he wishes of His amr.12
God says: The son of Ad am hur ts me when he curses Time (ad-Dahr), for I am Time; in my
h ands is al- amr and I cause the re voluti on of night and day.13
By far the most in te re s ting of these is a Trad i ti on that occurs in slightly vary ing forms in almost all
of the maj or coll ec ti ons of Trad i ti ons, inc lud ing al-Bukhárí, Mu s l im, Ibn Májah, and at-Tir m idhí. The
follow ing is the form in which it is recorded by Ibn Óanb al :
The Me s s e n ger of God (PBUH) sa id: A group of my followe rs will con tinue victor i ous up on the pat h
of truth and they will not be har m ed by those who desert them un til the amr of God shall com e.
T h is Trad i ti on seems to be the nat ural coroll ary of Qur’án 33 :5, stating that in fut ure, a fter al- amr
re t urns to God, it will come once aga in to ear t h .
5. Ancient Arabic poetry. It is cu s tom ary for Islam i cis ts in con side r ing the mean ing of words in the
Qur’án to turn to ancient Arabic poetry for clue s. Alt h ough the aut h e n ti city and exact re l ati onship of
t h is poetry to the Arabic of the Qur’án is a mat ter of some dis pute, it cannot be de n i ed that, wh e t h e r
ge nu inely pre-I s l amic or written a fter the ad vent of Islam, it is some of the closest lite rat ure to the
Qur’án in time that is ava il able to us.
T h e re are seve ral in s tances wh e re there are close parallels be tween the Qur’ánic use of amr and that
of ancient Arabic poetry. Um ayya ibn Abí ’ß- ß alt, for example writes in one of his poems of the King of
Heaven and His an gels who are elec ted for His amr and de s ce nd to earth with it and a s ce nd aga in .15
The idea that at some time in the fut ure, al- amr of God will de s ce nd aga in and that this is the Day of
Jud gement finds strong con te mp orary supp ort in the poetry of Óassán ibn Thá bit, a Mu s l im poet wh o
was a compan i on of the Prophet Mu ˙ amm ad. He wrote:
T h at the amr of God may de s ce nd up on us hastily this ve ry night or tomor row
Then we shall stand in the [Last] Hour and par ti ci pate in the pure go o d16
6. Summ ary. In summ ary then, we can say that on the basis of a survey of other parallel pa s sages in
the Qur’án and taking in to account the early comm e n tators such as az-Zam akhs h arí and al-B ay∂ á wí, the
coll ec ti ons of Trad i ti ons, and ancient Arabic poetry, the mean ing of ve rse 33 :5 can be recon s t r uc ted thu s:
He establ ishes (yud abbir u): establ ishes, organ izes, orde rs ,
H is Dec ree (al- amr): comm and, dec ree of God
8 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
- that which God send down with the an gel (e s p eci ally the Angel Gab r i e l) as a re ve l ati on (al-wah y) to
the Me s s e n ger of God
- the comm is si on which God gives to the Me s s e n ger of God, charging him with a mis si on on ear t h
- the dec ree of God ord a in ing a seve re pun is hment for people who have ignored or opp o s ed the
Me s s e n ger of God
from heaven to earth (m in a s-sam á’ ilá ’l- ar ∂): this app ears to func ti on as an equ ivalent of a ve rb from
the ro ot naz ala (com ing dow n, de s cent, re ve l ati on) which is used in the Qur’án to de s c r ibe the re ve l a-
ti on of ve rses to the Me s s e n ge rs of God
and it will re t urn to Him (t humma ya‘r uju il ay-h i)—al- amr—the dec ree or comm is si on de l egated to the
Me s s e n ger of God—re t urns to God
in a Day (fí yaw m in)— t h is Day is the Day of Jud ge m e n t—on which the pre v i ous amr re t urns to God
and a new dec ree is is sued —a new amr com e s
the length of which is one thou sand years in your rec kon ing (kána miqd ár-hu alf sin ah min má
ta‘uddú n)—the durati on of time in which the dec ree is in effect before its re t urn to God is compl e ted is
a period of one thou sand hum an years. Each of these is a Day of God—a Day of Jud ge m e n t
7. The Bahá’í Inte r pre tati on. The dis cu s si on ab ove has yielded a number of possible in te r pre tati ons of
the word al- amr in Qur’án 33 :5. Two of these app ear to be ve ry diffe rent from one anot h e r: the re ve l a-
ti on or comm is si on that is given to a Me s s e n ger of God and the penalty imp o s ed by God up on a peo-
ple when they rej ect a Me s s e n ger of God. It is in te re s ting to note that the Bahá’í in te r pre tati on of al-
amr in Qur’án 33 :5 has the ability to link these two mean in gs so as to refer to one eve n t. The Bahá’í
in te r pre tati on of this ve rse would be that it refe rs to the com ing of a Me s s e n ger of God one thou sand
years a fter the Islamic re ve l ati on. In the Bahá’í in te r pre tati on, the com ing of any Me s s e n ger of God is
a Day of Jud gement, for the followe rs of the pre v i ous re l i gi on s. It is their Day of Jud gement to see if
they have been fa i t h ful to the teac h in gs of the pre v i ous Me s s e n ger of God. If they fa il this test and do
not accept these teac h in gs then God sends down up on them a seve re penalty or chastis e m e n t. The day
of jud gement is also call ed the Day of Re sur rec ti on (because those who be l i e ve are spir i t u ally re v i tal-
iz ed) and the Day of God. Thus, in the Bahá’í in te r pre tati on, both of the in te r pre tati ons of al- amr,
whether as re ve l ati on /m is si on or as penalt y/Day of Jud gement, refer to the same ph e nom e non, the com-
ing of the Me s s e n ger of God.
The Bahá’í in te r pre tati on of this ve rse is thus that God sent down from heaven the re ve l ati on to the
Prophet Mu ˙ amm ad. This was also the Day of God, the Day of Jud gement, for the followe rs of pre v i-
ous re l i gi ons such as Chr is ti anity and Jud a ism. As they fa il ed to re s p ond to Mu ˙ amm ad’s message, they
su ffe red a seve re penalt y. The Islamic Day of Jud gement lasted one thou sand years. Since Bahá’ís acce p t
the Shi‘i account of the true nat ure of aut h ority a fter the Prophet Mu ˙ amm ad, this one thou sand year
period began in AH 260, with the occultati on of the Twe l fth Imam, at which time, aut h or i tative, div in e-
l y-g u ided in te r pre tati on of the Islamic re ve l ati on was ended. After one thou sand years, in AH 1260 (AD
1844), the period in which the Div ine comm is si on (al- amr) was entrusted to the Prophet Mu ˙ amm ad
e nded and al- amr re t ur n ed to God. In 1844, God once more sent Div ine re ve l ati on to ear t h, once more ,
t hrough the Bá b.
B. Al-A mr in Bahá’u’ lláh’s Ki t á b -i-ˆqán
The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán is one of Bahá’u’ lláh’s early works from the Bag hd ad period. It was written in
re s p onse to a number of que s ti ons posed by one of the mate r n al uncles of the Báb regard ing why the
signs accompan y ing the com ing of the Mahdí did not app ear to have been ful f ill ed with the com ing of
the Bá b.
At one point in the is work, Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to his two -year soj ourn in the moun ta ins around
Sul ay m ání yy ih in Kurd is tan. Deal ing then with his re t urn from that self-imp o s ed exile, he states that ,
alt h ough he himself had no thought of re t ur n, the comm and for this is sued from maßd ar-i- amr and so
he re t ur n ed. E.G. Browne has arg ued that this refe re nce to maßd ar-i- amr in fact ind i cates that Bahá’u’ lláh
9 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
at this date still defe r red to Azal as leader of the Bá bí move m e n t. Shoghi Effe ndi has tran s l ated maßd ar-
i- amr as “the Mys tic Source.”
In the early days of Our ar r ival in this land, when We dis ce r n ed the signs of imp e nd ing eve n ts, We
decided, ere they happ e n ed, to re tire. We be to ok Ours e l ves to the wilderness, and there, separated and
alone, led for two years a life of compl e te sol i t ude.... Many a night We had no food for su s te n ance, and
m any a day Our body found no re s t. By Him Who hath My being be tween His hand s! notw i t hs tand in g
these showe rs of a ffl i c ti ons and uncea sing cal am i ties, Our soul was wrapt in bl is sful joy, and Our wh ol e
being evinced an in effable gladn e s s.... Our withdrawal con te mpl ated no re t ur n, and Our separati on
h op ed for no reun i on. The one obj ect of Our re tirement was to avoid becom ing a subj ect of dis cord
among the fa i t h ful, a source of dis t urb ance un to Our compan i ons, the means of inj ury to any soul, or
the cause of sor row to any hear t. Be yond these, We cheris h ed no other in te n ti on, and apart from them,
We had no end in view. And yet, each pers on schemed a fter his own de sire, and pursued his own idl e
fanc y, un til the hour wh e n, from the Mys tic Source, there came the summons bidd ing Us re t urn wh e nce
We cam e. Sur re nde r ing Our will to His, We sub m i t ted to His inj unc ti on. (B ah a’u’ ll ah: The Ki t á b -i-ˆqán,
pages 250–251)
In order to clear this mat ter up, it is clearly nece s sary to exam ine Bahá’u’ lláh’s use of the word amr in
de ta il par ti cul arly his use of the word in the ˆqán itself since it is conceivable that Bahá’u’ lláh’s usage of
the word may have chan ged over the years. I have lo oked at 154 in s tances of the noun amr in the Ki t á b -
i-ˆqán. The de ta ils of these in s tances are to be found in Table 3.
Table 3: Occur re nces of the Noun Amr in the Ki t á b -I qán .
amr
105 (103 Pe rsi an, 2 Arabi c)
amrí
25 (Pe rsi an)
amr- a s h
5 (Pe rsi an)
amr- and
1 Pe rsi an
amrí -r á
1 (Pe rsi an)
amr u-há /amr-há
2 (1 Arabic, 1 Pe rsi an)
amran
1 (A rabic but used in Pe rsi an con te xt)
al- amr
9 (A rabi c)
amr u-hu
1 (A rabi c)
amr u-n á
2 (A rabi c)
bi amr i-hi
2 (A rabi c)
Total
In lo oking at the mean ing of the word amr in this con te xt, it is nece s sary to add a mean ing which is
add i ti on al to those de r ived ab ove from Lan e’s Di c ti on ary, but which has already been dis cove red in our
con side rati on of the Qur’ánic mean ing of this word. Most fre quently in the writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, al-
amr means the mis si on given to the Me s s e n ger or Man i fe s tati on of God. Thus amr Alláh means the
Cause of God, or the comm is si on given by God to the Me s s e n ger of God. This mean ing is closely linked
to the dec ree, comm and, order ran ge of mean in gs of amr, and may be con side red as part of that group
but it has been given separately in Table 4 for clar i t y.
U n for t un ately the phrase maßd ar-i amr does not app ear elsewh e re in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán and so this can-
not be used directly to de r ive the mean in g. The word maßd ar is the noun of pl ace (nom ina lo ci) de r ived
from the ve rb ßad ara, which means to go out, is sue for t h, or i gin ate or eman ate. Maßd ar thus comes to
m ean: point of or i gin, source, or or i gin. It is clear that with the preced ing word, maßd ar, the word amr
in this con te xt is more likely to have either mean ing A or C from Table 4, rather than mean ing B. Tabl e
4 ind i cates that the most likely mean ing for amr in this con te xt is that it means the “Div ine comm is-
9 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
si on or Cau s e.” The follow ing are a few examples of its use in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán that de mon s t rate this
m ean ing of the “Div ine comm is si on or Cau s e.”
Moreove r, the more closely you ob s e rve the de n i als of those who have opp o s ed the
Man i fe s tati ons of the div ine at t r ibutes, the firmer will be your faith in the Cause of God [d ar
dín-i khud va amr Alláh mu ˙ k am tar va ra sikh tar shavíd]. (ˆqán, p. 6)
When He was in ve s ted with the robe of Prophethood, and was moved by the Spirit of God to
ar ise and pro c l a im His Cause [bar amr qiyám far múd], wh o e ver be l i e ved in Him and ac knowl-
ed ged His Fa i t h, was endowed with the grace of a new life. (ˆqán, p. 154)
A mong the ut te rances that fore s h adow a new Law and a new Re ve l ati on [s h ar‘-i jadíd va amr-i
b adí‘] are the pa s sages in the “Prayer of Nudbih ....” (ˆqán, p. 240)
Table 4: Anal ysing Amr in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán
in Re l ati on to its Mean ing and Con te xt
Re l ated to God
Not re l ated to God
Mean ing A: comm and, dec ree, order
Mean ing B: a ffa ir, state, event, mat te r
Mean ing C: the Div ine comm is si on or Cau s e
Refe re nce to maßd ar-i- amr its e l f
Total
T hus, maßd ar-i amr is most likely to mean the “S ource of the Div ine comm is si on or Cau s e.” Since the
“the Div ine comm is si on or Cau s e” can only come from God through a Man i fe s tati on of God, the
“S ource” refe r red to can only be either God or the Man i fe s tati on of God. Inde ed with the fre quent recur-
re nce (ten occa si ons in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán) of the phrase amr Alláh, the Cause of God, it becomes clear that
the Source of amr is most likely to be God. In the circum s tances sur round ing the writing of the Ki t á b -
i-ˆqán in Bag hd ad, the mean ing that E.G. Browne tries to give to this phrase thus becomes ve ry unl ike-
l y. In speaking of the Source of Comm and, Bahá’u’ lláh could only really be speaking ab out God or pos-
sibly ab out a Man i fe s tati on of God. The Báb had pre v i ously been mar t y red in 1850 and Azal was not at
t h is time claim ing to be a Man i fe s tati on of God. Inde ed the claim to be a man i fe s tati on of God equ at-
ed within the Bá bí con te xt to a claim to be Man YuΩ h ir uhu’ lláh — He wh om God shall make man i fe s t ,
which Azal did not claim dur ing this Bag hd ad period. Later dur ing the Ed irne period, it seems that he
b r i efly put forward such a claim in re s p onse to Bahá’u’ lláh’s open pro c l am ati on of his claim,17 but it do e s
not app ear to have been acce p ted by any sub s tan ti al group of people and seems to have later been with-
draw n, as Browne does not re p ort any such claim on the part of Azal dur ing the period of his con tac ts
with him. Thus in the con te xt of the Bag hd ad period, this leaves only the in te r pre tati on of this phra s e
as a refe re nce to God. Bahá’u’ lláh is in effect say ing that the cause of his re t urn to Bag hd ad was a Div in e
summon s.
One further approach to elucid ating this is sue which helps us to a ce r ta in extent is to lo ok for
other occa si ons wh e re the term maßd ar-i amr app ears in the writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh. I have only be e n
able to trace a few other in s tances of the use of this term and none of these can be def in i tely stated
to be long to the Bag hd ad period of Bahá’u’ lláh’s writin gs. In the first of these, the con te xt makes it
more likely that God is meant, in the second and third, the Man i fe s tati on of God app ears to be
in te nded .
These words we re sent down from the Source of the Re ve l ati on (m aßd ar-i- amr) of the All-
B oun teous, and we re addre s s ed to Siyy id Javád, known as Karbilá’í. (Epistle to the Son of the
Wol f, p. 160– 61)
9 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
I yield Thee thanks that Thou hast made known un to me Him Who is the Day-Spr ing of Thy
m e rc y, and the Daw n in g-P l ace of Thy grace, and the Re p o si tory of Thy Cause (m aßd ar amr i-k a).
(Praye rs and Med i tati on s, no. 137, p. 225)
... in such wise that the chan ges and chances of the world will be powe rless to hinder me from
reco g n izing Him Who is the Man i fe s tati on of Thine own Self, and the Re vealer of Thy si g n s ,
and the Day-Spr ing of Thy Re ve l ati on, and the Re p o si tory of Thy Cause (m aßd ar amr i-k a).
(Praye rs and Med i tati on s, no. 139, p. 228)
T h e re are also two occur re nces of sim il ar terms that are worth noting here. The first has the word
m aßd ar (m aß ád ir) in the plural and clearly refe rs to the Man i fe s tati ons of God:
T h e y, ve r il y, are the man i fe s tati ons of the power of God, and the sources of His aut h or i t y
(m a s ád ir-i amr), and the re p o si tories of His knowl ed ge, and the days pr in gs of His comm and-
m e n ts. (Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, p. 90)
The second has the word amr in the plural. Since the form of the plural is awám ir, this con f irms that
in this phrase, maßd ar-i amr, the word amr is present in its mean ing of dec ree, comm and, order (i .e.
m ean in gs A or C in Table 4 ab ove; since it is the plural for this ran ge of mean in gs that is awám ir). This
pa s sage is from the Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, the last maj or work of Bahá’u’ lláh. He re, Bahá’u’ lláh
is chall e n ging Shaykh Mu ˙ amm ad-Taqí the reci pient of this epistle, to go to Cy prus and meet Mír z á
Ya˙yá and a s ce r ta in for himself the truth of the mat te r— t h at Mírzá Ya˙ya is not “the source of the
Div ine laws” (m aßd ar-i awám ir) :
In this day, this Wron ged One re que s teth thee and the other div ines who have dr unk of the
cup of the knowl ed ge of God, and are illum in ed by the shin ing words of the Day-Star of
Ju s ti ce, to app oint some pers on, without in for m ing any one, and de s patch him to these
regi ons, and enable him to re m a in a wh ile in the is l and of Cy prus, and a s s o ci ate with Mir z a
Yah ya, perc h ance he may become aware of the fund am e n tals of this Faith and of the source of
the Div ine laws (m aßd ar-i awám ir) and comm andm e n ts. (Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, p.
120–21)
Pe rh aps more pertinent than these examples howe ve r, is the occur re nce of a var i ant of maßd ar-i- amr
in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán its e l f. This the phrase maß ád ir-i amr iyy ih, which app ears in the follow ing con te xt:
K now ve r ily that the purpose unde rl y ing all these symb olic terms and abstruse allu si on s ,
which eman ate from the Re veal e rs of God’s holy Cause (m aß ád ir-i amr iyy ih), hath been to te s t
and prove the peoples of the world. (ˆqán p. 49)
He re aga in the word maßd ar is in its plural form wh ile in s tead of the ge n i tive con s t r uct, the word amr
app ears in adj ec tival form as amr iyy ih. He re aga in, it seems clear from the con te xt that the
Man i fe s tati ons of God are mean t.
In summ ary, this an al ysis shows that the term maßd ar-i- amr is al ways used with the mean ing of amr
re l ating the word to “Div ine dec ree, comm and or comm is si on .” The word maßd ar means source or or i-
gin. Thus the phrase masdar-i- amr cannot have a mean ing re l ated to ear t hly leade rship or even the lead-
e rship of a re l i gi ous movement, such as Azal claim ed. The “s ource of the Div ine comm and or dec re e”
can only be God or a Man i fe s tati on of God who has been given the aut h ority (amr) to car ry out the
dec ree of God. Azal was not claim ing any such stati on at this time and thus Browne unde rs tand ing of
t h is phrase in the Ki t á b -i-ˆqán is incor rec t. It was in fact an a s s e r ti on by Bahá’u’ lláh that he re t ur n ed
from Sul ay m ání yy ih in re s p onse to a Div ine summon s.
Note s
1) “The Bá bís of Pe rsi a-I I”, Jour n al of the Royal Asi atic Soci e t y, vol. 21, 1889, p. 946; re pr in ted in M. Momen (ed .), S e l ec ti on s
from the Wr i tin gs of E.G. Browne on the Bá bí and Bahá’í Fa i t hs (O xford: George Ron ald, 1987), p. 252 .
2) Az-Zam akhs h arí, Abu’ l-Qásim Ma˙múd. A l-Ka s hs háf, 2nd pr in tin g, al-Ma †b a`a al-Kubrá al-A mír iyyah, 3 vol s., Ca iro,
1318, vol. 2, p. 418.
3) Al-B ay∂ á wí, ‘Abd Alláh. A n wár at-Tanz íl. 8 vol s. Dár al-Kut ub al-‘A rabí al-Kub r á, Ca iro, 1330/1912, vol. 4, p. 155.
9 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
9 4
4) Abu’ l-Fidá Ibn Kat h ír, Ta fs ír al-Qur’án al-‘AΩ ím, Dar at-Turáth al-‘A rabí, Ca iro?, n.d., vol. 3, p. 457.
5) See Yoh an an Fr i edm ann, Proph ecy Con tinuou s, Unive rsity of Cal i fornia, Be rke l e y, 1989, pp. 50–58, 70–71.
6) Con side rable doubt has been thrown on whether ce r ta in other items of Arabic poetry, such as the Mu‘all a qát poetry real-
ly do re present pre-Qur’ánic Arabic lite rat ure.
7) J. M. S. Balj on, “The ‘A mr of God’ in the Koran,” Ac ta Oriental i a, vol. 23 (C op e nh age n, 1959) pp. 5–18.
8) Balj on, “A mr of God,” pp. 9–11.
9) Balj on, “A mr of God,” p. 8.
10) See Qur’án 2:210; 8: 44; 22:76; 35 :4; 57:5.
11) ‘The Day of Mut u al Me e ting—the Day of Jud gement for on this Day spir i ts and bodies will meet and also the people of
h eaven and ear t h, and the wors h i pp ed and the wors h i pp e rs, and de eds and the do e rs.’ Az-Zam akhs h arí, al-Ka s hs háf, vol .
5, p. 36. See also Yu suf Ali’s comm e n tary in his tran s l ati on .
12) Al-Bukhárí, ß a˙ í˙, Bk. 93—Taw ˙ íd, ch. 42, vol. 9, p. 460.
13) Al-Bukhárí, ß a˙ í˙, (Kazi Publ i cati ons, Chicago, 1979), Bk. 93—Taw ˙ íd, ch. 35, no. 583, vol. 9, p. 433.
14) Ibn Óanb al, Mu s n ad, vol. 5, p. 279. See also Ibn Óanb al, Mu s n ad, vol. 4, p. 101; vol. 5, p. 278; al-Bukhárí, ß a˙ í˙, 93—
Kitáb at-Taw ˙ íd, ch. 29, no. 551–2, vol. 9, pp. 414–5; Mu s l im, ßa˙ í˙, Kitáb al-I m ára, ch. 1306, No s. 4715–6 and 4719,
vol. 3, p. 1061–2; at-Tir m idh í, Sun an, Kitáb al-Fi tan, ch. 51; Ibn Májah, Sun an, Kitáb al-Fi tan, ch. 9; al- Ó ákim, al-
Mu s tadrak, Kitáb al-Fi tan wa al-Malá˙im, vol. 4, p. 550; al-Mut taqí al-H indí, Kanz al-‘Umm ál, vol. 14, no. 38224, p.
158.
15) Um ayya ibn Abiß- ß alt 55: 10, 16-17 (ed. Schult h e s s), quoted in Balj on, “A mr of God,” p. 13
16) Ha san ibn Thabit 133 :7–8 (ed. Hirs c h fe ld), quoted in Balj on, “A mr of God,” p. 114
17) Shoghi Effe nd i, God Passes By, p. 167.

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory:
A Summary of Glorious Revelation
William Ridgers
A
m an once a s ked God, “How long is a mill i on years?” God re pl i ed, “By my tim in g, a minute.” Then
the man a s ked, “God, how much is a mill i on doll ars?” God re pl i ed, “For me, a penn y.” Next, the
m an sa id, “P l ease God, give me a penn y.” So God re pl i ed, “In a minute!”
In the same way, the Book of Re ve l ati on mea sures days as years and years as mill e nnia. In the 1950s ,
time itself was in que s ti on wh e re I grew up in England’s East Anglia under the shadow of the
A r m ageddon. Nuc l ear holo caust ever lo om ed large, with England a lot closer than the USA to the US S R!
T h e re, I grew up under two sets of shields conn ec ted with the Book of Re ve l ati on. The first set of
h e raldic school chapel shields, show ing its four Liv ing Bein gs, was mund ane enough. But the second set
was nuc l ear. At Pol eb ro ok vill age, three miles from school, some hundred ro c ke ts pl an ted in a field
p oin ted ea s tward s. Their direc ti on var i ed with the latest cold war crisis—s om e times Mo s cow, som e tim e s
Ode s sa or Lenin g rad, we gue s s ed. Later I stud i ed med i cine at Camb r id ge Unive rsity only four teen mil e s
from the USAF-R AF Alconbury base that hou s ed the pl an e t’s bi g gest ars e n al of nuc l ear bombs, with
pl ans and pl anes to de l iver them.
To d ay, howe ve r, the Book of Re ve l ati on marks a mill e nn i al end to this bloody ce n t ury and ushers in a
warless Mill e nn i um. Sw i ft, awe s ome, mate r i al pro g ress, which flew war pl anes and a im ed mis siles in our
own life times, can now con quer causes of war and stop it wa s ting lives and re s ource s. His tory will ce l e-
b rate how hum an awareness awoke from this un ique twe n tieth ce n t ury of both dis cove ry and war fare, and
con ve r ted swords in to plows h are s. Therefore, this mill e nn i al moment of the end of the twe n tieth ce n t u-
ry is timely for re v isi ting St. John’s visi on of glob al un i t y. G lor i ous Re ve l ati on g rasps 2000 AD as a con-
venient cusp of his tory for its accurate in te r pre tati on of the Book of Re ve l ati on of St. John. G lor i ou s
Re ve l ati on pr im ar ily sets out to bring its mov ing mean ing to reade rs to a broadly trad i ti on al Chr is ti an
reade rs h i p. While G lor i ous Re ve l ati on is based as fully as possible on the re veal ed Bahá’í sources, its
in tent, nonetheless, is mainly to be n efit the non- con ve r ted, rather than preach to the con ve r ted .
These Bahá’í sources cred ibly in te r pret the two main time proph ecies of the Book of Re ve l ati on. This
is to their credit, for tim ing is the key to proph ec y. The first time proph ec y, 391 years, in te r pre ts as the
period runn ing from 1453 AD t hrough 1844 AD, and the second time proph ecy of 1,260 years in te r pre ts
to end in 1844 AD as we ll. These specific dates form the time base of in te r pre tati on for all the eve n ts
coursing through the pal ace of the Book of Re ve l ati on. St. John’s comp e ll ing tale of an evol v ing Law (or
Re l i gi on) of God echoes though the ro oms and pa s sages of “Re ve l ati on pal ace ,” pl ay ing out from 95 AD
to un i te the Fa i t hs. G lor i ous Re ve l ati on t urns its proph e tic pages to re veal it as a pre-h is tory of the Fa i t hs
ad vancing the Law of God, the Re l i gi on of God, since 95 AD. Nor is it by chance that the Book of
Re ve l ati on is the Bibl e’s most un i ted book. As the highway brid ges of US -1 link the Flor ida Ke ys, so the
B o ok of Re ve l ati on conn ec ts monot h eis tic fa i t hs, and fo cuses speci f i cally on the three most rece n t. The
f irst faith was Chr is ti an i t y, wh ile the next two fa i t hs came in to being a fter the time of St. John .
The Bahá’í sources re veal, in pi ece m eal fa s h i on, both many symb ols of the Book of Re ve l ati on, and
of its 394 ve rse total, an add i ti on al core 15% that re p e ti ti on expands to 30%. The good news is that the
lon g- awa i ted golden Mill e nn i um of the Book of Re ve l ati on coincides closely with our new mill e nn i um .
In par ti cul ar, the eve n ts proph e si ed by Chap te rs 1–16 are ove r. They already to ok pl ace from 95 AD
t hrough 2000 AD. This inc ludes the a ffl i c ti ons of Chap te rs 15 and 16 and even the last worst a ffl i c ti on
9 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
of Armageddon that began in the nin e teenth ce n t ury, next explo ded in 1914 AD, then con tinued as war-
fare and cold war ac ross the globe throu g h out the now ended twe n tieth ce n t ury. You can hear the pa s s-
ing of Armageddon in Chap ter 16, watch the coll apse and recove ry of the Greatest Depre s si on in
C h ap te rs 17–19, and re l ish the blo s s om ing golden Mill e nn i um in Chap te rs 20–22 .
I n s pired by these newl y-re veal ed in te r pre tati ons, I began writing G lor i ous Re ve l ati on in 1995 as a per-
s on al re tirement pl an for a year at mo s t. After all, the read ily acce s sible newl y-re veal ed writin gs in s e r t
the patches of color and ed ge-pi eces of the ji gsaw puzzle of the mo saic flo or of “Re ve l ati on pal ace.” All
I had to do was ide n tify the best ve rsi on of the Book of Re ve l ati on ava il abl e — m any tran s l ati ons exis t—
and compl e te a parallel in te r pre tati on based on these re veal ed in te r pre tati on s. But this was not to be.
Ultim ate l y, the ve ry power of the in te r pre tati ons themselves clar i f i ed tran s l ati on of many tou g h, tricky
Greek words and phrases too effec tively to be ignored. So I had to learn Koine Greek and tran s l ate the
Greek of the Book of Re ve l ati on mys e l f. For t un ately its Koine street Greek lies som e wh e re be tween my
prof i cient school Latin of five years and my fluent Heb rew from liv ing eight years in Israel. Both my
t ran s l ati on and in te r pre tati on strictly honored the war n ing aga inst chan ge of the Book of Re ve l ati on’s
ve rses 22:18 –19.
As a re sult, the chall e n ge of G lor i ous Re ve l ati on s tead ily grew to keep me fa s cin ated, con tinu all y
c l i c king at the ke yb oard in to the early hours. Tran s l ating and in te r pre ting for m ed a con tinu al, creative ,
in s t r uc tive fe edb ack lo op. The ac t u al in te r pre tati on I began by first fa i t h fully in s e r ting the newl y
re veal ed symb ols and ve rs e s. Thus the land s cape of G lor i ous Re ve l ati on’s ji gsaw puzzle shines its sym-
b ols in the leafy greens of fore s ts, the rippl ing blues of lakes, and the masonry browns of bu ild in gs, and
i ts 30% re veal ed ve rses as ed ge-pi eces and brid ges be tween its land s cap ed regi on s. Sub s e que n t l y, stead il y
pursu ing the clues cast by St. John like lines and hooks throu g h out the cro s s word of his Book of
Re ve l ati on, and appl y ing sensi tive lo gic conn ec ted in te r pre tive ji gsaw pi eces and the clo s ed gaps, step by
s te p. He re and there, a rare flash of pers on al in s pirati on help ed in te r pre tati on to o. Now G lor i ou s
Re ve l ati on’s mo saic ji gsaw puzzle exte nds as the flo or of the pal ace of Re ve l ati on through all of its twe n-
t y-two chap ter ro om s.
St. John has kept reade rs of his Book of Re ve l ati on gue s sing for two mill e nnia and has sa feg u arded its
proph e tic eve n ts. Its light of cloaked truth has con tinued to burn through spir i t u ally dark age s. The
B ahá’í sources name St. John as the aut h or of the Book of Re ve l ati on, pre sum ably as the apostle wh o
w rote the Gospel in rather diffe rent Gre e k. It was he wh o, as bis h op at Eph e sus, was de p or ted to Pat mo s
I s l and as late as 95 AD at the age of ninety years, accompan i ed by his young dis ci ple Pro c h or u s. They
l ived in a par ti cul ar cave ac ross whose mouth the visi on of St. John app eared, and from whose wall its
voi ces spoke.
The diffe rent Greek of St. John’s Gospel and Book of Re ve l ati on can be med i cally expl a in ed by his
b ra in aging in the in te r im, and by their ve ry diffe rent subj ect mat te rs. He publ is h ed his Gospel as a lo g-
i cal young man to record the life and teac h in gs of Jesu s. In con t rast, he dictated his Book of Re ve l ati on
ab out the si g h ts and sounds of his out- of-body visi on at the age of ninety years. His bra in sur face pro-
ce s sing lan g u age and lo gic had almost ce r ta inly shr unke n, wh ile more re silient deeper nerve ce lls and
f ibe rs could still for mul ate the emotive lan g u age for the si g h ts, sounds, and fe e l in gs of his visi on. Suc h
c h an ge in his bra in would mean his thinking lan g u age had prob ably reg re s s ed back to his native Aram a i c
and re l i gi ous Heb re w. This would expl a in his qu i c k-s p eak conde n s ed Semitic Greek in the Book of
Re ve l ati on. Pe rh aps he dictated the si g h ts and sounds of his visi on real-time to Pro c h orus in Aramaic or
Heb re w, and he wrote it down in Koine Greek as fast as he could, join ing 74% of its phrases with “and,”
the ubiqu i tous conj unc ti on Ka i.
S hre wd St. John would re l ish the re sult—a Semitic stew co oked in a spicy pot of street Gre e k—as use-
ful fate that keep his reade rs fa s cin ated and gue s sin g. Just tran s l atin g, not even in te r pre tin g, lets him
l augh you along and chall e n ge you with his odd riddles, pepp e ry puns, tan tal izing tenses, and dis ce r n-
ing word orde r. You dis cover his lite rary cro s s word co des that he cast as lines and hooks to conn ect twe n-
t y-two chap te rs in a web of dis cove ry. In the pro cess, your ta s te for this old wise prophet grows and de e p-
e n ing rapp ort with him helps you tease out his methods, mean in gs, and message s.
9 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
In childhood I al ways had to know the trut h, howe ver pa in ful, which prob ably help ed me study med-
i cine, garner deg rees, and pursue a ful f ill ing career in in te n sive care. Yet over the years I needed to find
higher spir i t u al trut hs to bal ance the lo gic and art of med i cin e. In this regard, re l i gi ous proph ecies ful-
f ill ed over mill e nnia, or even just ce n t uries, held me in awe. Then, lear n ing ab out its new in te r pre ta-
ti ons, the Book of Re ve l ati on, this mother of proph ec y, drew me along its spir i t u al path. These Bahá’í
s ources open its pal ace gate and in t ro duce its Angel messenger of the first chap ter ro om. He gre e ts and
e s cor ts us through the rest of “Re ve l ati on pal ace ,” through his seven Fa i t hs of Chap te rs 2 and 3, his
t hron e-ro om of Chap ter 4 with its cour ti e rs, and in to his lib rary of Chap ter 5 to meet the Ram. Next ,
we read his tories and hear heralds in its East wing of Chap te rs 6 through 10. Then we reach its great ce n-
t ral hall of Chap ter 11, from wh e re the brill i ant seve n-fold light of 1844 AD illum in ates its wh ole pal ace.
T h e re we witness a fresh executi on of the Ram of Jesu s. Sub s e que n t l y, we pass on through troubl ed
Mu s l im his tories and a ffl i c ti ons, inc lud ing Armageddon, in its West wing of Chap te rs 12 through 16.
The seal his tories, trumpet herald an gels, and bowl a ffl i c ti ons act out in sets of seven in Chap te rs 6, 10,
and 15, and recall the riddle of St. Ive s: “As I was going to St. Ives, I met a man with seven wive s. Eac h
w i fe had seven sacks, each sack had seven cats, and each cat had seven ki t te n s. How many we re going to
St. Ive s?” The an s wer “O n e” is the poser of the riddle, here is the Angel of the Glory of God of Chap te r
1 who reapp ears in many guises through the re m a in ing Chap te rs.
Brevity is bl e s s ed, and to this end the direct parallel layout of G lor i ous Re ve l ati on pre s e n ts a concis e
best in te r pre tati on as its single un i ted age nda. Ve rso (left-side) pages first secure the tran s l ati on of the
or i gin al Book of Re ve l ati on of St. John, then the facing rec to (r i g h t-side) pages dis pl ay its matc h ing in te r-
pre tati on. This parallel rec to in te r pre tati on matches St. John’s ve rso or i gin al — parag raph by parag raph,
ve rse by ve rse, phrase by phrase, conj unc ti on by conj unc ti on, and even comma by comma. The in te r-
pre tati on’s length and phrase order re m a in close to the or i gin al. It is written to be read from rec to page
to rec to page, with the facing ve rso or i gin al opp o si te and ready as the aut h or i tative source refe re nce ,
e ven for reade rs who know the Book of Re ve l ati on. Fur t h e r, this layout creates a bu ilt-in glo s sary of sym-
b ols acce s sible via the Inde x. Of nece s si t y, chap te rs start uncon ve n ti on ally on ve rso page s. In add i ti on,
the in te r pre tati on tenses are set to 1995 and stag ger time ac ross the nin e teen ce n t uries of the Book of
Re ve l ati on from its 95 AD publ i cati on year to its nin e teenth ce n te nn i al year, 1995 AD. This lite rary de v i ce
dr ives the in te r pre tati on in viv id real time, dis tin g u ishes the in te r pre tati on even more from the or i gi-
n al, and ge n e rates useful dial ec tic te n si on that catal y z ed in te r pre tati on .
T h is tran s l ati on of the or i gin al Book of Re ve l ati on dil i gently re v i e wed, compared, and re v is ed pre v i-
ous tran s l ati ons based on Maj or i t y, Receptus and Cr i ti cal Te xts.1 , 2 ,3 ,4,5,6 ,7 The most exhau s tive, Aun e’s thre e-
volume work,8 was in valu able, as was the concise Barc l ay Newman dicti on ary lis ting mean in gs by fre-
que ncy of usage.9 The lim i ted vo cabul ary of the Book of Re ve l ati on’s street (Koine or Common) Gre e k
is like both qu i c k-s p eak blunt Cockney English and the first Basic English vo cabul ary of the min imum
of eight hundred words needed to def ine all words in a stand ard Oxford dicti on ary, that even re nde rs
S h ake s p eare qu i te we ll. The ve ry lim i ted vo cabul ary of street Greek has inh e rent in s pirati on al depth. In
add i ti on, the act of tran s l ati on strives for har mon i ous loyalty to both the Greek or i gin al and mo de r n
E n g l ish mean in g. For example, the lite ral “his voi ce was like a sound of many wate rs” re nde rs as “his
voi ce rushed like a wate r fall .” Certa in libe r ties kept a few sente nces brief, for example, by chan ging a
m id-s e n te nce “say in g” to an op e n ing “They sa id ,” or a “so that” to a “S o....” And that wonde r ful wild-
card conj unc ti on, Ka i, op e n ing 74% of the Book of Re ve l ati on’s ve rses, ge n e rated a wealth of legi tim ate
m ean in g. For Ka i m ay stand as an in t ro duc tory A nd, or simply breathe sil e nce ah ead of a new sente nce ,
or tran s l ate from a wide ran ge of English conj unc ti on s.8≤ Regardless of all this, the notor i ous stre e t
Koine Greek of the Book of Re ve l ati on is tough to tran s l ate. Inde ed, one eminent tran s l ator pr ivate l y
adm i ts that even he has often wave red over a word .
I n e v i tabl y, tran s l ati ons of the Book of Re ve l ati on are bi a s ed, usu ally con s pi cuou s l y. Certa inl y,
G lor i ous Re ve l ati on is. But its bias de r ives from source in te r pre tati ons that prove themselves by marked-
ly ea sing the tran s l ati on of its fift y- o dd tou g h, tricky Greek words and phrases that have te s ted tran s l a-
tors and tran s l ati ons for nin e teen ce n t ur i e s. Exte n sive fo ot notes de ta il many of them. The re sultin g
t ran s l ati on is far closer to the or i gin al Greek than ot h e rs. This ve ry ea sing of tran s l ati on boosts the cred-
9 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
ibility of the Bahá’í sources guid ing it. A te ll ing example is the phrase found in ve rse 10:7, “God pro-
c l a im ed his servant proph e ts ,” ind i cating that God’s pro c l am ati on was his prophet Man i fe s tati ons them-
s e l ve s. But check any Bible and you will read, “God pro c l a im ed to his servant proph e ts ,” in s e r ting a
noti on al “to” before the word “proph e ts.” Yet creating this non- e xis tent dative case proves in accurate and
unn ece s sary.
Mean in gs of proph ecy vary, yet its song sin gs ete r n al. For the main purpose of proph ecy is spir i t u al —
which should be no sur pr is e. Spir i t u al writin gs ag re e: “We speak one word and by it in te nd one and sev-
enty mean in gs ,”
10 and “T h is is one of the mean in gs of the bibl i cal story... refl ect un til you dis cover the
ot h e rs.”
11 You can thus in te r pret the single spir i t u al pr inci ple of a proph e tic visi on as separate val id his-
tories recur r ing in diffe rent times and dive rse pl aces, all with the same spir i t u al pur p o s e.
12 T h is conce p t
t ran sforms the popul ar noti on that you can in te r pret proph ecy “any way you wan t” to another pl an e.
I nde ed, over nin e teen ce n t uries, the multi ple in te r pre tati ons of the qu in te s s e n ti al Book of Re ve l ati on
h ave ge n e rated a wh ole classi f i cati on of proph e tic in te r pre tati on in to h is tor i cis t, pre te r is t, fut ur is t, s pir-
i t u al, and now re veal ed categor i e s. G lor i ous Re ve l ati on falls in to, nay def ines, the re veal ed category of
in te r pre tati on by the Bahá’í sources, yet still proj ec ts its in te r pre tati ons through his tor i cist and fut ur is t
l e n s e s.
T hus the beast of the Book of Re ve l ati on spir i t u ally symb ol izes beastly rul e rs and regim e s. Throu g h
t h eir own proph e tic lens, Chr is ti ans te nd to view this beast as the Rom an Empire pers ecutin g
C hr is ti an i t y. While though the lens of the later Fa i t hs of G lor i ous Re ve l ati on, this same beast lo oms a s
the Um ayyad Empire. Just as the Rom an Empire once pl ag ued Chr is ti an i t y, so, six ce n t uries late r, the
Um ayyad Empire pl ag ued in i ti ally vir t uous Islam. Lens by lens, proph ec y’s spir i t u al te l e s cope fo cuses on
var i ous val id in te r pre tati on s. Its red lens may por t ray firs t- ce n t ury Rome wh ile its green lens dis pl ays
s e ve n t h- ce n t ury Arabia. Its beast dons period co s t umes from two eras and areas, one Rom an marc h in g
un i for m, the other Um ayyad cavalry colors. Func ti on all y, the din ing ro om of “Re ve l ati on pal ace” lets you
meet as we ll as eat, and its lib rary lets you daydream as we ll as read. In this same con te xt, Chr is ti an s
t y pi cally in te r pret the seven con g regati ons of Chap te rs 1, 2, and 3 as specific con g regati ons wh e re they
we re and also as the wh ole Church in ge n e ral. These two har mon i ous laye rs of in te r pre tati ons are fre e
of con t rad i c ti on. He re, add ing a third har mon i ous layer that in te r pre ts for and we lcomes these con g re-
gati ons also as the re l i gi ous fa i t hs that they are, re m a ins free of con t rad i c ti on .
Yet, in spi te of the val idity of multi ple mean in gs, G lor i ous Re ve l ati on’s layout de l ibe rately comm i ts to
a single, concise, un i ted, best in te r pre tati on. It shelves many sound, but less-prefe r red, alte r n atives and
is especi ally in flue nced by the Middle East setting of the Book of Re ve l ati on. After all, St. John’s hom e
t urf was the Middle Ea s t— not only the ce n t ral Holy Land home of monot h eism but also the sur round-
ing broader regi on. Fur t h e r, the newl y-re veal ed in te r pre tati ons set the Book of Re ve l ati on fir mly in the
monot h eis tic Middle Ea s t. It was this same Middle East that saw the evoluti on of Chr is ti anity and two
more monot h eis tic Fa i t hs a fter 95 AD. The first was Islam in all its forms, for both be t ter and wors e ,
and it should be no sur pr ise that this maj or Middle East fa i t h, Islam, should prom inently feat ure in the
B o ok of Re ve l ati on .
For St. John in 95 AD, Islam was more than a tw inkle in the eye, but still a fe tal Fa i t h, whose due date
was 622 AD, five ce n t uries late r. Islam’s thunde rous fast de s cent ac ross the Middle East was imp or tan t
proph e tic news ab out which St. John inde ed proph e si ed. Inde ed, his Book of Re ve l ati on proph e sies Islam
as one succe s s or of the faith of Chr is ti an i t y, sheds fa s cin ating in sight in to the spir i t u al and war r i or char-
ac ter of Islam, and prov ides nat ural clo sure for the New Te s tam e n t. Some his tor i cist in te r pre te rs did dis-
cover war r i or Islam in Chap ter 9,1 catc h ing sight of its Um ayyad lo cust cavalries swar m ing ac ross the
Middle East and Med i te r ran ean world a fter 633 AD. They heard its cannons con quer Con s tan tinople in
1453 AD. But they still stayed bl ind to the app earance of Mu ˙ amm ad in the Book of Re ve l ati on, since
they we re deaf to his Islam. Nor did they ide n tify Islam as the “beast try ing to chan ge times and laws
for three and a half tim e s” in Daniel 7:25, or real ize that the recur r ing 1,260- d ay time proph ecy of the
B o ok of Re ve l ati on ran on the Mu s l im cal e nd ar.
Continuing with multiple Middle East meanings, Jerusalem and Babylon represent spiritually noble and
destructive ideologies in any area or era. Jerusalem, once Christianity, here shines as a new Faith of Glory.
9 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Babylon, once Rome, is here interpreted as cancerous materialism, while an alternative interpretation would
also see Babylon as the general loss of spirituality by humanity itself. Likewise, “the image of the beast”
in verses 13:11–16 portrays any ruler or regime duplicating a bestial predecessor’s systematic tax extortion
and discrimination against minorities. Here, writ large for Empires dominating the Middle East, the bes-
tial Ottoman Empire of 1299 through 1918 AD succeeds the Umayyad of 661 through 749 AD. Yet in St.
John’s era the bestial Roman Emperor Domitian (82–96 AD also followed Nero (54–68 ad), and ruling the
Middle East, the bestial Umayyad Empire also succeeded the Roman. Then just within Islam, Caliph Yazid
poisoned his father Mu’awiyeh in 680 ad, the Abbasids overthrew the Umayyads in 749 ad (which means the
second beast of verse 13:11 has a serious alternative to the Ottoman regime in this Abbasid regime), and in
addition, the nineteenth century Persian Qajar regime imitated the Ottoman regime.
On a smaller scale, ve rse 9:4’s grass, pl an ts, and trees of the te r r i tories occupi ed by the seventh ce n-
t ury Um ayyads por t rayed both the be n e volent stand ing orde rs rein ing in their cavalries to limit how
much they hurt people and prop e r t y, and also the Sab aean, Jewis h, Zoroa s t r i an, and Chr is ti an con g re-
gati ons, houses of wors h i p, and clergies under their occupati on. Like w ise, ve rse 13 :1’s ocean of the
Um ayyads dis pl ayed both their Arabi an seacoast of or i gin, and also the here ti cal ocean of their coll ec-
tive mind. In a sim il ar vein, lis tin gs of people and subj ec ts may a s sume other val id seque nce s. Thu s
C h ap te rs 2 and 3’s Pe rgamos, Thyatira, and Sard is can be Zoroa s t r i an is m, Hindu is m, and Buddh ism in
another cred ible orde r. Ve rses 6:2–3’s calf and hum an Liv ing Bein gs or Pr im ary Fi g ure s can be re ve rs ed
as the S e rvant of Glory and the D o or to Glory. Like w ise, ve rses 14:6–11’s three herald messenge rs, ve rs-
es 14:14 and 14:17’s two jud ges, and ve rse 21:2’s fifth and sixth Comm andm e n ts, can be acce p tabl y
reorde red — for, regardless of seque nce, the guid ing spir i t u al concept of each list re m a ins true.
G lor i ous Re ve l ati on relies up on re veal ed year dates for time proph ecies in the Book of Re ve l ati on. The
B ahá’í sources use the te s ted year-for- a- d ay bibl i cal pr inci ple of Numbe rs 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:6.
E xpand in g, a mon t h (def in ed as 30 days by Genesis 7:11, 24, and 8:3–4) re pre s e n ts 30 years, and a year
re pre s e n ts 360 years. The two time proph ecies already menti on ed ring in 1844 AD and toll the kn e ll of
I s l am. Ve rse 9:15 sounds the first 391-d ay time proph ecy (a d ay, a mon t h, and a year) ec h oing am idst can-
nons boom ing Ottom an con quest of Con s tan tinople in the 1453 AD. Count these 391 days as years from
1453 AD, and you reach 1844 AD. Chap te rs 11 and 12 broadcast the second 1,260- d ay time proph ecy loud
and clear, four ways, seven times, am id pro c l am ati ons of spir i t u al and mil i tary Islam and its succe s s or
faith. Count these 1,260 days as Islamic years from the first Islamic year of 1 AH (A nno Hijirah), or 622
AD, and you ob ta in 1260 AH, that was 1844 AD.
H is tor i call y, the proph e tic year 1844 AD si g n al ed the taking of effect of 1839 AD’s Ottom an Tanzim at
reforms in Pal e s tin e. These ge n e ral reforms at te mp ted a re v ival of the Ottom an Empire, but too late and
too little. Yet the fre edoms they brought improved the lot of Pal e s tin i an Jews and Chr is ti an s. Thus 1844
AD was the spir i t u al conce p ti on of the State of Israel, which sparked Jewish settlement of Pal e s tine ove r
a compl i cated ce n t ury-long ge s tati on before Israe l’s birth in 1948 CE.
Many time proph ecies outside the Book of Re ve l ati on ide n tify 1844 AD, to o. Coun ting the “2 ,300 days
to the end of de s ol ati on” of Daniel 8:14 as years from the dec ree of Artaxe r xes of 457 B C t h at fin al iz ed
the con s ec rati on of the rebu ilt Jerusalem Te mple re nde rs 1844 AD (no 0 AD/B C year exis ted). This dec re e
was the most imp or tant of four—the first of Cyrus of 536 B C (E z ra 1), the second of Darius of 519 B C
(E z ra 6), the third of Artaxe r xes of 457 B C (E z ra 7) and the fourth of Artaxe r xes of 444 B C (N e h e m i ah
2). An entirely Mu s l im time proph ecy pred i c ted the re t urn of the Shi’i Twe l fth Imam a thou sand years
a fter his disapp earance in 260 AH (873 AD), namely in 1260 AH, that is, 1844 AD. Even more time proph e-
cies for 1844 AD app ear in Jud a is m, Zoroa s t r i an is m, and Islam .
Such re m ark able in te r-Faith ag reement proph e s y ing 1844 AD supp or ts a comp e ll ing case for both in te r-
Faith unity and also proph ec y13 in ge n e ral. Fur t h e r, the tim ing of G lor i ous Re ve l ati on is ah ead of man y
other in te r pre tati ons because 1844 AD g u ides it. Sp eci f i call y, proph e tic eve n ts up to the end of Chap te r
16 have already been ful f ill ed, inc lud ing the last, the Battle of Armageddon .
The word A r m ageddon t ran s l i te rates as Har Megiddo, which is Heb rew for Mount Megiddo. Megiddo
alone, once a mil i tary settlement stabl ing war horses, is now just a te n- ac re tel, an un inh abi ted arc h eo-
9 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
lo gi cal 200-fo ot hillo c k. In Heb re w, te l is a small hill, usu ally man-m ade, a giva’ is a hill, and h ar is a
real moun ta in. Any map shows Mount Carmel is the sole moun ta in ab ove Megiddo, and for this and
other rea s ons G lor i ous Re ve l ati on ide n tifies Mount Carmel as Mount Megiddo or Armageddon. Chap te r
16 de ve lops its seque n ti al “A r m ageddon series” of his tor i cally conn ec ted in te r pre tati ons, all symb ol iz ed
by the spir i t u al spot of Mount Carmel. Ve rse 14 nar rates the “war fare of the greatest day of God,” then
ve rse 16 names “A r m ageddon,” but ah ead of ve rses 17–21 that ac t u ally explo de its war fare.
The first his tory in this Armageddon series was spir i t u al war fare when the Pe rsi an clergy and gove r n-
ment tried to extin g u ish the Faith of Glory a fter 1844 AD, mar t y r ing 20,000 followe rs, and con tinu in g
p e rs ecuti ons through the twe n tieth ce n t ury. Ei g h teen ce n t uries earl i e r, Chr is ti anity unde rwent sim il ar
p e rs ecuti on s. The second Armageddon, around 1870 AD, was the Pro c l am ati on to the Kin gs from the
regi on of Mount Carmel, an exte n sive sys te m atic cor re s p onde nce methodically urging world leade rs to
m ake peace, but they chose war. The outcome was the third Armageddon of the Balk ans, wh e re World War
I star ted in 1914 AD. The fourth Armageddon was the decisive fin al battle end ing World War I in 1918 AD,
l i te rally at Mount Carmel and Megiddo. Br i tish General All e nby decisively routed the army of the
O t tom an Empire that was also enemy to the Faith of Glory. [Earlier in Jerusal e m, my great uncle had be e n
s h ot down from a ballo on and my aunt and unc l e-in-l aw-to -be we re Jerusalem children pre s e n ting flow-
e rs to victor i ous All e nb y.] Fin all y, the fifth most massive Armageddon, writ large in G lor i ous Re ve l ati on,
was man i fest as this wh ole twe n tieth ce n t ury of world w ide war fare and cold war since 1914 AD.
In summ ary, Mount Carmel, for the Faith of Glory, symb ol izes an Armageddon battle series that star t-
ed as Middle East in te r-Faith pers ecuti on, con tinued through app eals for peace, then op e n ed as World
War I in the Balk ans, inc luded the Br i tish defeat of the Ottom an Empire, and ultim ately became the
g lob al war lasting this wh ole twe n tieth ce n t ury. Now, at ce n t ury and mill e nn i um end, inc rea singly effec-
tive glob al in i ti atives aga inst war fare au g ur enough glob al wis dom, powe r, and hope for a new char te r
of nati ons to extin g u ish war fare and guide hum anity towards its mill e nn i um of peace.
Howe ve r, 2000 AD only puts us at the start of Chap te rs 17–19 that bode a pend ing Greatest Depre s si on
f irs t. Chap ter 17 ide n tifies Bab ylon as sys te m atic cance rous mate r i al is m, nar rating how empire a fte r
e mpire have thereby abu s ed hum anity for three mill e nnia. Cance rous mate r i al ism con t roll ed, in par ti c-
ul ar, a series of ancient Empire s: Egypt, Assyria, Bab ylonia, Pe rsia, Gre ece, Rome and By z an ti um. These
s e ven we re ethically the bi g gest and worst, the most imp o sing ones that dom in ated the Middle Ea s t
before, dur in g, and a fter St. John’s tim e. Ap t l y, Chap ter 17 also expl a ins proph e tic in te r pre tati on, usin g
the wh ore, wate rs, beast, and city as its examples in the con te xt of cance rous mate r i al ism. Next, Chap te r
18 de s c r ibes a Greatest Depre s si on, worse than the 1930s, that de s t roys cance rous mate r i al is m, and spir-
i t u ally cor rec ts the Dow-Jones and sim il ar ind i ces, rin ging and wrin ging out cance rous mate r i al ism to
s top it persu a sively and ob s e s sively put ting thin gs before peopl e. Ve rses 11–13 ind i cate seque n ti al mar-
ket cra s h e s—gold earl y, goods next, tran s p ort late r, and lab or last (giv ing worke rs some re s pi te). This is
an unp opul ar subj ect to broach at a re l atively pro s p e rous time in the West, and its exact tim ing cannot
be known. Su ff i ce it to say that accord ing to this in te r pre tati on of G lor i ous Re ve l ati on, it will start sud-
de nly and sur pr ise eve ryb o d y, and lasts a full chap te r! Then Chap ter 19 de s c r ibes its outcome of spir i-
t u al awake n ing and shar ing of God’s mate r i al boun t y. Late r, spir i t u al economics feat ures as one posi tive
new comm andment of Chap ter 21’s Twe l ve Comm andm e n ts of the ad vancing Law of God. Last, the gold-
en Mill e nn i al light of Chap te rs 20–22 dawns as the glor i ous garden of “Re ve l ati on pal ace ,” blo s s om in g
in unity and peace.
We have already seen how the time proph ecies of the Book of Re ve l ati on sync hron ize with those of
other fa i t hs. Inde ed, the in flue nce of the Book of Re ve l ati on exte nds far be yond its strictly Chr is ti an
or i gin. Its ce n t ral sac r i f i ci al figure, the Ram, leads the way. This ar n i on, the dim inutive of ar n e n, mean-
ing sheep, app ears in ve rse 5:6 and tran s l ates as “young Ram .” The trad i ti on al tran s l ati on, “L amb,” is a
m is nom e r, since right from ve rse 5:6 the ar n i on possesses horns and is an g ry in ve rses 6:16–7— b oth typ-
i cal of a ram, not a lamb. Rams we re also sac r i f i ci al an im als just like lamb s. This Ram, the Door of
J e sus, was his proph e si ed Second Com in g, not his Firs t. For this Ram proph e s y ing Jesus in hind sight has
little poin t. In any case, Jesus is nam ed simply Jesus in many ve rs e s. Instead, this Ram is the Door of
J e sus who was his al s o -sac r i f i ced Second Com in g.
1 0 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
T h is Door or Ram of Jesus was a Pe rsi an Man i fe s tati on of God in Pe rsia nam ed the Báb He was bor n
in 1819 AD, pro c l a im ed in 1844 AD, and was executed in 1850 AD. His name, the Bá b, tran s l ates a s
“D o or” or “G ate” as in te rc h an geably t hura does in Gre e k. This name lets G lor i ous Re ve l ati on in te r pre t
the t hura or Door of ve rses 3:8, 3:20, and 4:1 as him. In 1850 AD it was Pe rsi an rul e rs and Mu s l im cler-
gy executing him by fir ing squ ad. But his followe rs and We s tern ob s e rve rs re p or ted that the 750 bull e ts
of the first fir ing squ ad mis s ed him. He van is h ed but was found miraculously un s cat h ed in his ce ll com-
pl e ting his last, pre v i ously in te r r up ted, dictati on. Then the 750 bull e ts from the Mu s l im squ ad, re pl ac-
ing the first now- de s e r ted Armenian squ ad, kill ed him. Bull e ts pi e rced this Second Com ing of the Ram
as cruci f ixi on nails pi e rced his First Com ing as the Lamb of Jesu s. In 1899 AD the Bá b’s hidden re m a in s
we re taken to Mount Carmel for bur i al, entombing him as another Elijah be side the tomb of the firs t
E l ijah. (In Chr is ti anity John the Bap tist had ful f ill ed this same rol e).
Yet, in 1844 AD, Mill e nn i al is ts ,
15 who had trac ked down bibl i cal proph ecies in order to greet the
S econd Com ing of Jesus, mis s ed him. They got the time right, but neither his pl ace nor ide n ti t y. For they
a s sum ed that, som e h ow, Jesus would simply app ear, miraculou s l y, with the clouds, in the sky, for eve ry-
one, no mat ter wh e re, to see. Such lite ral Chr is ti an exp ec tati ons for the Second Com ing of Jesus we re
not met by the Bá b, any more than sim il ar lite ral Jewish Me s si anic exp ec tati ons had been met by Jesu s
ei g h teen ce n t uries before. For or t h o dox re l i gi on in sis ts that proph ecies be ful f ill ed lite rall y,16 thereb y
h id ing the seque n ti al daw n ing of Me s si ahs and Second Com in gs. As a re sult, the Me s si ah who comes is
n e ver the one exp ec ted !
T h e refore the Book of Re ve l ati on is a un ique pre-h is tory, de s c r ibing the evol v ing Law or Re l i gi on of
God that its te mple re pre s e n ts, ad vancing since its publ i cati on as event ad vancing in Chr is ti an i t y, Islam,
and now the latest Bahá’í Fa i t h, which to gether form the Law of God. In Glor i ous Re ve l ati on the Bahá’í
Fa i t h, which re veals its symb ols and ve rs e s ,12 ,17,18,19 is nam ed the “Faith of Glory.” In this con te xt, the Book
of Re ve l ati on reco g n izes the earlier monot h eis tic Fa i t hs of Sab aean is m, Jud a is m, Zarat hu s t r i an is m,
H indu is m, and Buddh is m .
T h is latest Bahá’í Faith was born when the Báb pro c l a im ed in 1844 AD, its first cal e nd ar year, 1 BE
(B ahá’í Era). In Pe rsi an its name de r ives from b ahá, mean ing “g lory,” and the Fa i t h’s fore mo s t
Man i fe s tati on of God is nam ed Bahá’u’ lláh, mean ing “G lory of God.” Fur t h e r, the grand glob al birth cry
of the Bahá’í Faith announces two Man i fe s tati ons of God in s tead of just one, and twe n t y-four found in g
d is ci ples in s tead of just the twe l ve sons of Israel, dis ci ples of Jesus, or Imams of Mu ˙ amm ad. The Bahá’í
Faith dec l ares that the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh are the tw in Man i fe s tati ons wh om God has prom is ed to eve ry
Fa i t h — not least Chr is ti anity and Islam. The Báb preceded, and op e n ed his Door, to his greater succe s s or
Man i fe s tati on of God, Bahá’u’ lláh, who was a con te mp orary Te h e ran nobl e m an born in 1817 AD.20 T h e
Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh are the most recent of a series of Man i fe s tati ons of God inc lud ing Ad am, Noah,
Ab rah am, Moses, Zarat hu s t ra, Kris hna, Buddha, Jesus, and Mu ˙ amm ad, wh o, from age to age, have suc-
ce s sively taught our species the Law of God now ad vancing to glob al stat u s. To d ay, its latest Bahá’í Fa i t h
s tands his tor i cally wh e re Chr is ti anity stood around 156 AD.
B ahá’u’ lláh pro c l a im ed himself in 1863 AD and led the Bahá’í Faith forward in spi te of being in pr is on
most of his life. In 1892 AD he died and was bur i ed in Ottom an Pal e s tine, now Israel. Bahá’u’ lláh was the
A n gel of the exalted Jesus in Chap ter 1 of the Book of Re ve l ati on, with wh i te hair, fl am ing eyes, and a
rad i ant face. These de s c r i p ti ons in ve rses 14–16 accurately refl ect his ph ysi cal feat ure s. Fur t h e r, his
known ge n ealo gy fits both lin eages, the “ro ot” and “offs pr ing of Dav id ,” of ve rses 5:5 and 22:16. The
B o ok of Re ve l ati on’s title “Fat h e r” also applies to Bahá’u’ lláh .21 , 22 , 23 , 24 For this title only once appl i ed to
J e su s ,25 wh om the title “S on” su i ts be s t.
A nother Book of Re ve l ati on title, C hr is to s, equ ivalent to the Heb rew Ma s h i ac h, has the exact lite ral
m ean ing “anoin ted” and de r ives from ce re mon i al anoin ting of kin gs and proph e ts by Jews, and of pol i t-
i cal and re l i gi ous leade rs by Gre e k s. Yet, writ large, the title A noin ted de s c r ibes all the Man i fe s tati on s
of God pa s sing through the mill e nnia, inc lud in g, but not lim i ted to, Jesu s. Chr is tos is Jesus Chr ist for
C hr is ti ans, Ma s h i ach is the awa i ted Me s si ah for Jews, and Bahá’u’ lláh is this era’s Mill e nn i al Me s si ah for
B ahá’ís, with Jesus and Muh amm ad Me s si ahs of pre v i ous cycles of the Law of God. G lor i ous Re ve l ati on
t h e refore applies con te xt to tran s l ate Chr is tos as either “C hr is t” or “Me s si ah .” Aga in, the clu s ter of ti t l e s
1 0 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
“First and Last,” “Beginn ing and End ,” “A lpha and Omega”
20, 26 , 27, 28 def ines Man i fe s tati ons of God as firs t
beginn e rs and fin al ende rs of the re l i gi ous cycles that stead ily ad vance the Law of God through the mil-
l e nnia. These titles first de s c r ibe God in ve rse 1:8, next in t ro duce the 95 AD A n gel of the exalted Jesu s
in ve rses 1:11 and 17, then pro c l a im him as the exalted Bahá’u’ lláh ei g h teen ce n t uries later in ve rses 21:6
and 22:13.
The writin gs of alto gether four Bahá’í pr im ary figures are aut h or i tative. The fore most are Bahá’u’ lláh
and the Bá b, and the ot h e rs, the Fa i t h’s S e rvant of Glory, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, and its Gu ard i an, Shoghi Effe nd i .
Other in te r pre tati ons of the Book of Re ve l ati on based on the Bahá’í source s ,
29,30,31 ,32 ,33 ,34 l ike G lor i ou s
Re ve l ati on, are simply regarded as opin i on. Such strictness boosts the ve ry aut h ority of the in te r pre ta-
ti ons that the pr im ary figures re veal. The Epilo g ue lis ts their ava il able in te r pre tati ons for the Book of
Re ve l ati on, ve rse by ve rse, on pages 145 –48.
35 B ahá’u’ lláh’s 1862 AD B o ok of Certi t ude [Ki t á b -i-ˆqán]
re veals symb ols in the Book of Re ve l ati on in exte n sive de ta il . 35 Sub s e quently ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in te r pre ts the
core 15% of its 394 ve rses; that re p e ti ti on expands to 30 % .
17,35,≥ He w r i tes fur t h e r, “The Book of
Re ve l ati on pro duces wonde r ful effec ts in minds, and causes hear ts to be at t rac ted .”
36 Then the Gu ard i an
e xpands the in te r pre tati ons for key ve rs e s.
18,19,35 A ll their re l e vant writin gs are scat te red pi ece m eal ac ro s s
a ce n t ury in sac red publ i cati on s. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has also in te r pre ted other proph ecies pi ece m eal: Dan i e l ,
but only ve rses 8:13–17, 9:24–26, and 12:6–7, 11–12 ;
37 and Isa i ah, but only ve rses 9:6-9, 11:1–10, 43 :1 ,
48:12, and 55 :12 .
38 B ahá’í re veal ed writin gs do not in te r pret the Book of Re ve l ati on from beginn ing to
e nd. For its in te r pre tati on has help ed teach this Bahá’í Fa i t h, but has not been an end in its e l f. Instead ,
the in te r pre ted symb ols and ve rses have help ed people like Moffe t t ,
29 Ri g gs ,
30 S ears ,
31 Mot l ag h,
32 S ours ,
Ta i-S eal e ,
34 and me fill the gap s. G lor i ous Re ve l ati on, for its part, fa i t h fully incor p orates re veal ed sym-
b ols and ve rses as cor n e rs tones from which to bu ild its in te r pre tati on of the re s t. Bahá’í “pil g r im
note s ,” also exist as hearsay re p or ts, and the few that in te r pret the Book of Re ve l ati on we re written by
we s tern Bahá’ís who met ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá or Shoghi Effe nd i .
One such report by Ruth Moffett identifies the Angel of Jesus of Chapters 1 as Bahá’u’lláh, and the con-
gregations as faiths. Fortunately a letter that Shoghi Effendi wrote to her supports her, in that it states, “He
is the Father and all previous dispensations led up to him.”39 She further quotes him unsubstantiated, say-
ing, “The Book of Revelation is the Master Bridge revealed by Christ for the followers of all religions, lead-
ing to the Kingdom of God upon the earth; and Bahá’u’lláh holds the seven in his right hand....”40
T h e n, Shoghi Effe ndi writes for Chap ter 4 that the twe n t y-four Elde rs around the throne in ve rse 4:4
we re the twe n t y-four founde rs [si c] of the Bahá’í Faith of wh om at least nin e teen we re known as the
L e t te rs of the Liv in g.41 The odd but accurate Greek def in ing the throne posi ti ons helps con side rabl y.
Ve rse 4:6 pl aces the four Liv ing Bein gs both up on and also around the thron e. Not to be outdone, ve rs e
5 :6 pl aces the Lamb or Ram simultan eously both at the ce n ter of the throne and Liv ing Bein gs and al s o
among the Elde rs. Then ve rse 7:17 has the Ram partly shar ing the thron e. In fact, these three ve rses spell
out a Bahá’í W h o’s Who for the ove rl ap of the Pe rs ons Enthron ed, the Liv ing Bein gs, and the Elde rs of
C h ap ter 4. When read in the light of the in te r pre tati on, the odd Greek word ing is seen to be accurate
and becomes clear. For the four Liv ing Bein gs are the pr im ary Bahá’í figures and also four of the twe n-
t y-four Elde rs. Ve rses 4:2–3’s and 5:6’s God’s two Man i fe s tati ons on the throne are Bahá’u’ lláh and the
Bá b, who are also two of the four Liv ing Bein gs. Seen in re ve rse, the twe n t y-four Founde rs inc lude the
four pr im ary Bahá’í figures and another twenty founde rs, and the four pr im ary Bahá’í figures inc lude
B ahá’u’ lláh and the Báb as we ll as ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe nd i .
The patches of color and ed ge pi eces of G lor i ous Re ve l ati on’s ji gsaw mo saic of the Book of Re ve l ati on,
n amely the re veal ed symb ols and ve rses, join other ve rses in its cro s s word puzzle and deco de their mean-
in gs, to o. Re p e ti ti on already expands the re veal ed core 15% of the 394 ve rse total to 30%. For exampl e ,
two of the three re veal ed “Wo e s” of ve rse 11:14 also app ear in ve rses 8:13 and 9:12. Then St. John’s
e xte n sive cro s s word clues, the lite rary lines and hooks he cast throu g h out his Book of Re ve l ati on, are
t r i g ge r-phases and link-words like the ones Fr i edm an dis cove red in Genesis ,42 and they conn ect the ot h e r
70% of ve rses in var i ous ways. Date proph ecies join to gether mat h e m ati call y, small diffe re nces in re p eat-
ing phrases become leads, symb ols re veal mean in gs at both spir i t u al and mate r i al levels, and Heb ra is m s
m ake new sense.
1 0 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
For example, the “m i g h t y” an gel app ear ing in ve rses 5:2, 10:1, and 18:21, simply in te r pre ts as one per-
s on, Bahá’u’ lláh. Four horses that neigh diffe rently in ve rses 6:1– 8, 14:20, and 19:18, still gallop throu g h-
out true to charac ter as cor r upt theolo gy, wide s pread war fare, economic inj u s ti ce, and wan ton deat h,
wh e re ver they are. The 391-year proph e tic period of ve rse 9:15 ends exactly in the 1844 AD of Chap te rs
11 and 12. Clouds double as glory and opp o si ti on, horses as har m ful spir i t u al and mil i tary forces, and
ear t hqu akes as doub ts and war fare. The Heb ra is m, “curse of war” of ve rse 22:3 re veals mean ing for the
ot h e rw ise sol i tary bare word “curs e”— t h anks to Aun e. St. John’s lite rary lines and hooks join his hither-
to conceal ed 70% of ve rses in a web of dis cove ry of G lor i ous Re ve l ati on’s single un i ted age nda. Once
you reco g n ize and catch your first line, gra s ping the ot h e rs comes more ea sil y....
In summ ary, G lor i ous Re ve l ati on t urns the proph e tic pages of the Book of Re ve l ati on and re veals it
as a pre-h is tory of Chr is ti an i t y, Islam, and the Bahá’í Faith of Glory serially ad vancing one Law of God,
the Re l i gi on of God, since 95 AD. I take sole re s p on sibility for G lor i ous Re ve l ati on. It was conceived ,
incub ated, hatc h ed, and nur t ured to fly on bal anced win gs of schol arship and spir i t u ality as an inde-
p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of truth. Encouragement and help from fr i e nds, we ll-w is h e rs, and fe llow trut h
s e e ke rs in all Fa i t hs made it possibl e.
≤ add i ti on all y, along with, al s o, alte r n ative l y, as, as for, as we ll as, at this, because, be h old, but, ce r ta inl y, con s e que n t l y, con-
tinu in g, especi all y, eve n, even so, exac t l y, for, fur t h e r, hereup on, howe ve r, in add i ti on, in other words, in par ti cul ar, inc lud-
in g, inc lu sive of, in other words, inde ed, in s tead, just, last, like, mean in g, mean wh ile, moreove r, nam e l y, next, non e t h e l e s s ,
notw i t hs tand in g, now, nevertheless, or, par ti cul arl y, rat h e r, regardless, speci f i call y, so, so that, still, sub s e que n t l y, such a s ,
t h at, that is, that is to say, then, thereup on, to gether with, thou g h, throu g h out, wh e n, wh e reas, wh i c h, wh ile, wh o, or with!
≥ Ve rses 1:6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 14, 16, 17, 20; 2:7, 17, 28; 3:3, 5, 12, 21; 4:1, 4; 6:14; 7:15, 17; 8:5, 13; 9:1, 11, 12; 11:1–19 (full chap-
te r); 12:1–6; 13 :11, 12, 17, 18; 14:1, 8, 14; 15 :5, 6, 8; 16 :1–21 (full chap te r); 15 –21; 17:12, 14; 18:2; 19:1, 11, 15, 16; 21:1–7, 9–17,
19, 22, 23; 22:1, 2, 12, 13, 16, 17, 19.
Note s:
1) Gregg (1997), Re ve l ati on, Four Vi e ws, pp. 174–201.
2) Fars tad (1994), Greek English Inte rl in ear New Te s tam e n t.
3) Ca ird (1966), Re ve l ati on of Sa int John.
4) Lam sa (1968), Holy Bibl e: Aramaic of the Pe s h i t ta.
5) New English Bible with the Ap o c ry ph a (1970).
6) New American Bibl e (1991).
7) Heb rew Bibl e (1962).
8) Aune (1997), Bibl i cal Comm e n tary, Re ve l ati on.
9) Barc l ay Newman (1993), C oncise Gre e k-E n g l ish Di c ti on ary.
10) Bahá’u’ lláh (1976), Ki t á b -i-ˆqán (B o ok of Certi t ude), p. 255.
11) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (1984), S ome Answe red Que s ti on s (abb re v i ated SAQ), p. 126.
12) Bahá’u’ lláh (1976), Ki t á b -i-ˆqán (B o ok of Certi t ude), pp. 33, 68, 72
13) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (1984), SAQ, p. 71.
14) Bahá’u’ lláh (1976). Pro c l am ati on to the Kin gs.
15) See separate bibl i o g raphy of Mill e nn i ar is ts Wr i tin gs, p. 153.
16) Bahá’u’ lláh (1976), Ki t á b -i-ˆqán (B o ok of Certi t ude), pp. 18, 26, 80– 82 .
17) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (1984), SAQ, pp. 45 – 61, 67–72, 219.
18) Shoghi Effe ndi (1974), God Passes By (abb re v i ated GPB), pp. 7– 8, 53–58, 69, 92–95, 169, 195, 213, 239, 249.
19) Shoghi Effe ndi (1996), The Prom is ed Day Com e, pp. 75, 53, 202, 302 .
20) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (1982), S e l ec ti ons from the Wr i tin gs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, pp. 12-13.
21) Bahá’u’ lláh (1988), Epistle to the Son of the Wol f, p. 57.
22) Bahá’u’ lláh (1978), Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, pp. 11, 14–15.
23) Shoghi Effe ndi (1980), The Prom is ed Day Com e, pp. 32-33, 45, 103.
24) Shoghi Effe ndi (1974), GPB, p. 94–95.
25) Gospel of St. John 14:7–11.
26) Bahá’u’ lláh, (1976), Ki t á b -i-ˆqán (B o ok of Certi t ude), pp. 161–164.
27) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (1984), SAQ p. 219.
28) Shoghi Effe nd i, (1974), GPB, p. 95.
1 0 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
29) Moffett, Rut h, (1977), New Ke ys to Book of Re ve l ati on (abb re v i ated NK BR).
30) Ri g gs, Robert, (1981), Ap o calypse Unseal ed.
31) Sears, Will i am, (1980), T h i ef in the Night: The Case of the Mis sing Mill e nn i um.
32) Mot l agh (1992), I Shall Come Aga in.
33) Sours, Mi c h ael, (1997), U nde rs tand ing Bibl i cal Proph ec y.
34) Ta i-S eale, Thomas, (1992), Thy Kin gdom Com e.
35) See the Epilo g ue of re veal ed in te r pre tati ons of symb ols and ve rses on pages 145 –148.
36) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, (1984), SAQ, p. 253.
37) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (1984), SAQ, pp. 36–44.
38) ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (1984), SAQ, pp. 62– 66.
39) Shoghi Effe nd i, June 8 1952, letter to Ruth Moffe t t.
40) Moffett (1977), NK BR, p. xvii and p. 7.
41) Shoghi Effe ndi (1974), GPB, p. 7– 8.
42) Fr i edm an (1998), H idden Book in Bibl e.
1 0 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
H
um an bein gs may be con side red as the most perfect creat ures or i gin ating from the evoluti on ary
pro ce s s. They have in themselves all the perfec ti ons of all other creat ure s. They share with the
m in e ral world the power of at t rac ti on, with the vege table world the power of grow t h, with the
an im al world the power of sense perce p ti on, volun tary moti on, memory, and nat ural emoti ons or
in s tinc ts. The sim il ar i ties be tween hum an bein gs and an im als, especi ally apes, are such that many con-
sider hum an bein gs to be an im als themselve s. Howe ve r, un ique among all the creat ures, hum an bein gs
also have the power of rati on al perce p ti on. This power enables them to in ve s ti gate reality and to per-
ceive wh at is true, both in the inner and in the outer world s. This power is inn ate in them as a pote n-
ti al i t y, but for its fuller ac t u al iz ati on the guid ance and co op e rati on of other hum an bein gs are re qu ired ,
t hrough a pro cess of educati on .
The cognitive asset acquired through the process of education includes the knowledge of both the outer and the
inner worlds. Knowledge of the outer world concerns, in a broad sense, science and technology. As to know l e d g e
of the inner world, first of all, human beings know their own bodies and all those behaviors that are re q u i red for
c e rtain physical goals to be achieve d — p re s e rvation, re p roduction and regulation. These behaviors, common to
human beings and animals, are usually termed instincts or natural emotions. In the course of the process of their
education human beings learn a certain control over both their bodies and instincts, a control which is part i c u l a r-
ly precious for social life. In this respect, human beings are different from the animals. W h e reas the animals are
completely subjected to their instincts, human beings have the capacity of shaping their behaviors on the gro u n d
of the results of their rational investigation of re a l i t y. In other words, they also have the capacity of throwing off
the yoke of nature, whereas all animals are always and wholly subjected to it. We can there f o re distinguish in
human beings a lowe r, material nature, which they have in common with animals, i.e. their bodies and instincts,
and a higher, specifically human nature, which distinguishes them from the animals, i.e. their power of rational
p e rc e p t i o n .
T hrough their power of rati on al perce p ti on, hum an bein gs become con s ci ous of a third a s p ect of their
n at ure. Initi all y, this con s ci ousness may be perceived as a love of exaltati on, a de sire to reach a greate r
world than the world in which one is, and to mount to a higher sph e re than that in which one is. This
love of exaltati on, which seems not to exist in the an im als, is the simplest expre s si on of that which may
be def in ed as the div ine or spir i t u al nat ure of hum an bein gs. Yet wh ile hum an bein gs begin to perceive
t h is love of exaltati on, they con tinue to be pre s s ed by their in s tinc ts and thus to perceive nat ural emo-
ti ons typi cal of their mate r i al nat ure. Their nat ural emoti ons dr ive them toward the satisfac ti on of their
in s tinc ts and, therefore, toward self- ce n te red be h av i ors, basi cally conn ec ted with the pl ane of ph ysi cal
e xis te nce and conducive to in e v i table con fl i c ts with other hum an bein gs. The love for exaltati on, on the
con t rary, leads them to lon g, albeit ob s cure l y, for an inner har mony with themselves and the outer world ,
a har mony which re qu ires re ve rse qu al i ties like de tac hment from the self and the mate r i al world .
T h e refore a te n si on ar ises in them be tween their emoti ons, born from their mate r i al nat ure, and the
love of exaltati on, born from their div ine or spir i t u al nat ure. This te n si on is often perceived as a fe e l-
ing of inner dis h ar mon y, dis con tent, lon e l iness, and van i t y. At the same time their mate r i al nat ure dic-
tates self- ce n te red be h av i ors conducive to con fl i c ts with other hum an bein gs, which ag g ravate that fe e l-
in g. This cond i ti on of inner and outer con flict is so unpl ea sant, in itself and in its con s e que nces, that
hum an bein gs want to escape from it.
1 0 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Hum an bein gs pursue this goal in diffe rent ways, accord ing to their ind iv idu al i ties and the ideas they
h ave ac qu ired through their educati on al pro cess and from their exp e r i e nce s. In the pers on al sph e re, ofte n
the path of amusement, in its archaic mean ing of ‘d ive rsi on of the at te n ti on (as from the truth or on e’s
real in te n t)’ (Web s te r, 74), is in s tinc tively chosen. Hum an bein gs try to divert their at te n ti on from that
inner fe e l ing of dis com fort and to occupy themselves with other ac tiv i ti e s: not only pl ay ac tiv i ties in
the exact mean ing of the word, but also ce r ta in kinds of ac tive works and even ce r ta in ph ilo s oph i cal
t h ou g h ts, in which a refu ge is, more or less uncon s ci ou s l y, sou g h t. Howe ve r, amu s e m e n ts, wh ate ver they
are, do not sol ve con fl i c ts; they only conceal and postpone them. In the soci al sph e re, som e times hum an
bein gs lo ok for meeting poin ts, shar ing of ideas, ce n te rs of ag g regati on —such as fam il y, nati on, pol i ti-
cal ideal s— t h at may help in ove rcom ing con fl i c ts. Howe ve r, such effor ts in var i ably prove themselves to
be conducive to lim i ted re sults and not to satisfac tory soluti ons of those probl e m s.
The hum an is tic ph ilo s ophies pre va il ing in the con te mp orary world main ta in that the de ve lopment of
the power of rati on al perce p ti on, i.e. in te ll ec t u al de ve lopment, is the highest stage of mat urity wh i c h
hum an bein gs can at ta in and that this growth is all they have and need so that they may gradu ally sol ve
any problem. Howe ve r, his tory de mon s t rates that the power of rati on al perce p ti on is not able to for mu-
l ate compre h e n sive views of real i t y, to elab orate stand ards of values, to dis cover and unde rs tand meta-
ph ysi cal or spir i t u al real i t y, to find effec tive motivati ons for hum an struggle aga inst nat ural emoti on s ,
to be s tow up on hum an bein gs the re qu ired forces and energies so that they may con quer in themselve s
the bind ing power of nat ure and man i fest their pote n ti al div ine or spir i t u al nat ure, or to conceive and
c reate a society func ti on ing accord ing to the reality of that div ine nat ure. So much so, that con te mp o-
rary soci e ties are charac te r iz ed on the one hand by a great de ve lopment of the power of rati on al per-
ce p ti on and on the other by wide s pread fe e l in gs of anxiety and restlessness, by strong te n si ons be twe e n
ind iv idu als and peoples who seem to be con fron ted with enor mous diff i culties in their re l ati ons and
commun i cati on s. Savate r, the Span ish ph ilo s oph e r, writes in this regard: “...the only thing we ag ree ab out
is that we do not all ag re e” (Eti ca per un figlio, 6). In view of these fac ts, how can we be l i e ve in te ll ec-
t u al mat urity to be the last stage in hum an de ve lopment and thus in the wh ole evoluti on? Will such a
fa s cin ating and rich ad ve n t ure end in this dis t urbing cond i ti on of dis h ar mony and con flict or, at be s t ,
in the apathy of ske p ti cis m, in the carpe diem of epi cur is m, in the ataraxy of cynicism? Will all these
d isqu i e ting inner and outer te n si ons re m a in un s ol ved or ignored ?
Re l i gi ons are un an imous in their an s wer to these que s ti on s. Be yond their de ve lopment on the mate r-
i al and in te ll ec t u al level, hum an bein gs can go through a further tran sfor m ati on: the at ta inment of spir-
i t u al i t y, som e t h ing that draws them closer and closer to a lon ged-for inner and outer har mon y.
Spir i t u ality may be def in ed as the con s ci ousness of the Div ine, which hum an bein gs can at ta in with
the a s sis tance of the Div ine its e l f. It may be also def in ed as a de l ibe rate and con s ci ous pro cess wh e reb y
a hum an being becomes con s ci ous, through the in s t r um e n tality of his rati on al perce p ti on, of the div in e
qu al i ties with which he is endowed by birth (for exampl e: equity and hon e s t y; charity and selfl e s s n e s s ;
cour tesy and pati e nce; chastity and hol iness; fa i t h fulness and loyalt y; joy and rad i ance, etc .), qu al i ti e s
which con s ti t ute his div ine or spir i t u al nat ure.
The ac qu isi ti on of this con s ci ousness, i.e. spir i t u al grow t h, implies a pa s sage from an in fe r i or to a
sup e r i or pl ane of exis te nce. Hum an bein gs are born from the world of creati on: it is their first or mate-
r i al birth. Through their spir i t u al grow t h, they learn how to ac t u al ize on the ph ysi cal pl ane of their exis-
te nce the pote n ti al qu al i ties of their div ine or spir i t u al nat ure, which do not be long to this world but to
the worlds of Spir i t. Therefore, in the Gospels, man’s spir i t u al tran sfor m ati on is often def in ed as second
birth (c f. John 3:1– 8). Such a tran sfor m ati on cannot occur through mere hum an powe rs; an exte r n al con-
t r ibuti on is re qu ired from the sup e r i or worlds of Spirit, just as the tran sfor m ati on of a seed in to a tre e
re qu ires the energies eman ating from the sun, the min e ral sub s tances ab s orbed from the a ir and soil, and
the care of a far m e r.
A ll re l i gi ons expl a in that man receives this a s sis tance from God Himself through the guid ance of His
Re ve l ati on. God proposes a ve ry imp or tant and mean in gful Cove n ant to hum ankind: If you want to be
a s sis ted in your effor ts toward the soluti on of your inner and oute r, pers on al and coll ec tive con fl i c ts ,
l earn how to know and love the guid ance of Re ve l ati on which God Himself sends to you from the world s
1 0 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
of Spir i t. At the same time, put in prac ti ce its counsels, follow ing the guid ance of this knowl ed ge and
u sing the power of your own love. In this way you will become aware of your pote n ti al spir i t u al qu al i-
ties by prac ti cal exp e r i e nce. You will learn how to live in the world of mat te r, accord ing to the laws of
the worlds of Spirit and thus you will learn how to sol ve your own con fl i c ts.
Div ine re ve l ati on is sent through spir i t u al Leade rs who man i fest to hum ankind as much of their
Creator as people can unde rs tand. His tory has handed down a record of some of them. They are the
founde rs of the world re veal ed re l i gi on s: Ab rah am, Moses, Jesus, Mu ˙ amm ad, Kris hna, Buddh a ,
Z oroa s te r, the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh. These spir i t u al Ma s te rs guide hum an bein gs in their spir i t u al
pro g ress in two ways. On the one hand, they re veal the laws of the worlds of Spirit, whose knowl ed ge is
re qu ired so that a pers on may live accord ing to the laws of those world s. On the ot h e r, they be s tow up on
us the re qu ired spir i t u al forces so that the in s t r um e n ts of our mate r i al nat ure may be bent to the pur-
poses of our div ine or spir i t u al nat ure.
T h is concept will be more ea sily unde rs tood through a metaph or. The worlds of Spirit can be com-
pared to the world of mat ter and spir i t u al laws to the ph ysi cal on e s. We must know the reality and the
l aws of the mate r i al un ive rse so that we may prop e rly employ our bodies. Mat ter is wei g h t y — l eft by
i ts e l f, it falls down. Water does not permit breat h in g. Fire bur n s. Walking bl indly is dan ge rous; and so
on. If a pers on we re de pr ived of these simple noti ons, he could not surv ive. In the worlds of Spirit it is
just the sam e. Spirit is love. Any soul who is not able to love exp e r i e nces pa in. Envy and jealousy de pr ive
the soul of the forces of Spir i t. Ly ing burns as a fire. A spir i t u ally bl ind man, i.e. a man who ignore s
s pir i t u al reality and laws, cannot ad vance in the worlds of Spir i t. The Founde rs of re l i gi ons re veal to
hum ankind this reality and these laws in a compre h e n sible way. The lan g u age used by the Founde rs of
the past re l i gi ons, wh ile accompl is h ing their task of a s sis ting a still in fant hum ankind in its diff i cult
s pir i t u al jour n e y, has been in te r pre ted throu g h out the ce n t uries in such a way that to d ay it is som e tim e s
an ob s tacle in some peopl e’s unde rs tand ing of the spir i t u al ve r i ti e s. Those spir i t u al laws we re pre s e n ted
as co des, whose dis obed i e nce—“sin”— in vol ved the tor m e n ts of hell. To d ay we can unde rs tand that suc h
words have a metaph or i cal mean ing and, therefore, the idea that the Founde rs of the world re l i gi on s
re veal ed oppre s sive co des is a misin te r pre tati on of their in te n ti on s. They have been careful pare n ts will-
ing to guide us along our diff i cult journey toward the at ta inment of that con s ci ous mat urity that they
w ish for us and for which we have been created. In fact, our fin al and most imp or tant tran sfor m ati on,
the spir i t u al one, is much ea sier if we let ours e l ves be guided by the light of our awareness of the real i-
ty and the laws of Spirit as re veal ed by them.
As to the forces re qu ired to be nd the capaci ties and qu al i ties of our mate r i al nat ure toward the sup e-
r i or purposes of our spir i t u al nat ure, an an alo gy will be useful. Li fe is possible up on the earth becau s e
of the energies re l ea s ed by the sun and used by the creat ures of the earth for their surv ival. In the spir-
i t u al worlds the Founde rs of re l i gi ons are like a sun. Spir i t u al forces eman ate from them, of which an y-
one can par take by exp o sing himself to their in flue nce. The awareness of the great gi ft vouc hsa fed up on
hum ankind by those Ma s te rs binds hum an hear ts to them in a fe e l ing of grati t ude and love, often call ed
faith. This fe e l ing is in itself a force of pr i celess value in the struggle to ove rcome mate r i al nat ure and
at ta in spir i t u al grow t h .
T hus hum an life is a school. The teacher is the spir i t u al Ma s te r, the te xt is the re veal ed book, the pupil
is each hum an bein g, the lessons are the fac ts themselves from which each hum an being can learn how
to dis cover in himself the qu al i ties re qu ired to meet those lessons accord ing to spir i t u al laws. Ve ry ofte n
pa in is the fe e l ing of in ade qu acy a hum an being exp e r i e nces when con fron ted by a si t u ati on that he has
not yet lear n ed how to meet spir i t u all y. Further con s e que nces of spir i t u al imm at urity are in te r p e rs on al
con fl i c ts, since hum an bein gs that have not yet lear n ed how to ove rcome selfis hness through selfl e s s-
ness are likely to come in to con flict with one anot h e r.
Re l i gi ons may thus be con side red as the in s t r um e n ts through which God be s tows up on hum ankind this
preci ous guid ance: conce p ts through whose knowl ed ge and enforcement hum an bein gs are enabl ed to
ove rcome many of their lim i tati on s. Therefore, ethical teac h in gs are a fund am e n tal part of all re l i gi on s.
A nd in this re s p ect re l i gi ousness can be def in ed as obed i e nce to God’s comm andm e n ts.
1 0 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
If we study the spir i t u al and ethical teac h in gs of all re l i gi ons, we may dis cover a gradu al improve m e n t
of ethical stand ards in the succe ed ing re l i gi ons and a simultan eous wide n ing of the sph e res within wh i c h
men are re qu ired to abide by those stand ard s.
Let us con side r, for in s tance, that group of re l i gi ons that flour is h ed in the so-call ed Near and Middl e
Ea s t. The story of Ad am and Eve can be seen as refe r r ing to the first time when hum an bein gs began to
unde rs tand the diffe re nce be tween good and evil, right and wron g. Moreove r, the figure of Ad am-Eve
could be seen as a pr im al hum an psyc h o -ph ysi cal un i t y, wh e reby Ad am symb ol izes the spirit and Eve the
s oul. The soul is bound to the mate r i al world, wh e reof it is con s ci ous, and ignores the spirit, wh e refrom
it comes, alt h ough at the beginn ing it is un aware of it. The world, in the form of a de v il-s n ake, te mp ts
her through the fr u i ts of its tree and inci tes her to in fr in ge the (psyc h olo gi cal-s pir i t u al) space her Creator
has forbidde n, exploi ting her cur i o sity and ignorance. Thus soul-Eve enslaves spir i t-Ad am to the mate r i-
al world. The unh appy cond i ti on of exile and re moteness from a heave nly (s pir i t u al) world, wh e refrom
Eve comes, in which she finds herself a fter her tran sg re s si on, teaches her the diff i cult con s e que nces of
b reaking the law and ind irectly encourages her not to break the law in the fut ure. The story of Noah
teaches that when a society fa ils to act on the dis tinc ti on be tween good and evil, right and wron g, it
must face great diff i culti e s. It also may su g gest the idea that the re m edy to such a plight and the method
wh e reby a bal ance may be re s tored and pre s e rved within society is to obey to a cove n ant whose con te n ts
is typi cally ethical. The Noac h id Cove n ant has been def in ed by Küng as “an ethic for hum ankind” and
de s c r ibed “as a min imum basic order of re ve re nce for life: not to murde r” (‘since God has made hum an
bein gs in his im age’ [G e n e sis 9:6]) and not to eat the flesh of an im als who are still liv in g...proh ibi ti on s
aga inst theft, for n i cati on, idol at ry and bl a s phemy and the comm andment to ob s e rve the law (to set up
cour ts). (Jud a is m, p. 33) Accord ing to Küng, Ab rah am is unde rs tood by the three monot h eis tic re l i gi on s
(Jud a is m, Chr is ti anity and Islam) as a mo del re s p ec tively of “ loyal obed i e nce to the law...un s h ak abl e
fa i t h fuln e s s...uncond i ti on al sub m is si on (= Islam)” (Jud a is m, p. 14), which he showed through his will-
ingness to sac r i f i ce his son, on the altar of God. These vir t ues may be con side red as the kernel of the
ethics of Ab rah am’s re l i gi on and the found ati on of the ethics taught by all the re l i gi ons of this group.
The same Küng de s c r ibes the Decalo g ue as the div ine “g u id ance for a truly hum an life which was made
p o s sible and de m anded by God.” (Jud a is m, p. 42) In the mean time, inde p e ndently from Jud a is m,
Z oroa s t r ism flour is h ed in a not ve ry dis tant land. Campbe ll de s c r ibes it as a “p otent mythical for mul a
for the reor i e n tati on of the hum an spir i t... summon ing man to an a s sump ti on of autonomous re s p on si-
bility for the re novati on of the un ive rse in God’s nam e....” (O ccide n tal My t h olo gy, p. 190) This re n e wal
implies the establ is hment of peace, order and justi ce in the world through hum an ac ti on. Jesus may be
con side red as the founder of the highest ethics of pers on al sanc ti f i cati on of the wh ole world his tory.
J e sus Himself synthesizes His own ethical teac h in gs thu s: “T h ou shalt love the Lord thy God with all
thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great comm andm e n t. And
the second is like un to it. Thou shalt love thy nei g hb or as thys e l f. On these two comm andm e n ts hang all
the law and the proph e ts.” (Matthew 22:37–40) Mu ˙ amm ad stre s s ed the conce p ts of each hum an bein g’s
re s p on sibility for his own ac ti ons, and the equ ality of all before God. A list of pre s c r i p ti ons and proh i-
bi ti ons ve ry sim il ar to the Decalo g ue may be ea sily ide n ti f i ed in the Qur’án, in Sur ih 17 (C h ildren of
I s rae l) :
Set not up another god with God, lest thou sit thee down disg raced, helpl e s s.
Thy Lord hath ord a in ed that ye worship none but him; and, kindness to your pare n ts, wh e t h e r
one or both of them at ta in to old age with thee: ...
A nd to him who is of kin re nder his due, and also to the poor and to the way fare r; yet wa s te
not wa s tefull y,
A nd let not thy hand be ti ed up to thy neck; nor yet open it with all op e nness, lest thou si t
thee down in rebuke, in beg gary. ...
Kill not your children for fear of wan t: for them and for you will we prov ide. Ve r il y, the kill in g
them is a great wickedn e s s.
Have nought to do with adulte ry; for it is a foul thing and an evil way:
N either slay any one wh om God hath forbidden you to slay, unless for a just cau s e: ...
A nd touch not the sub s tance of the or ph an, unless in an upright way, till he at ta in his age of
1 0 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
s t rength: And perform your cove n an t; ve r ily the cove n ant shall be enqu ired of:
A nd give full mea sure when you mea sure, and weigh with just bal ance. ...
A nd follow not that of which thou hast no knowl ed ge; because the hear ing and the sight and
the heart, —each of these shall be enqu ired of:
A nd walk not proudly on the ear t h, for thou canst not cleave the ear t h, neither shalt thou reac h
to the moun ta ins in hei g h t:
A ll this is evil; odious to thy Lord. (17:23–39)
T hus Küng’s ideas may be ag re ed up on, when he conc ludes that “we can speak of a common basic ethic
of the three proph e tic re l i gi on s.” (Jud a is m, pp. 43–44)
In this succe s si on of re l i gi ons a number of levels of wide n ing circles wh e rein spir i t u al laws, which may
be summ ar iz ed in the law of love, are exp ec ted to be enforced may be ide n ti f i ed. Ad am gave the laws of
the ind iv idu al; Noah the laws of the tribe; Ab rah am the laws of the group; Moses the laws of a peopl e.
Mu ˙ amm ad gave a law wh e reby the mere raci al bonds of the Chosen people are sub s ti t uted by the mem-
be rship in a common supra-raci al nati on, the umm ah or community of brot h e rs, wh e reas any other lo cal
or trib al bond is broken off.
A study of all the world re l i gi ons will de mon s t rate that the same “common basic ethic” and the sam e
pro g ress toward a un ive rsal enforcement of the spir i t u al law is also evident in their teac h in gs and his-
tory. This ad vancement toward a deeper unde rs tand ing of the real i t y, and of the un ive rsal enforce m e n t ,
of the spir i t u al law of love is the essence of spir i t u al evoluti on. Our age, the age of the glob al vill age ,
seems ripe for a great step forward in hum an spir i t u al evoluti on, i.e., the adh e re nce to a re l i gi ous teac h-
ing which may un i te all the peoples of the world in the same unde rs tand ing and prac ti ce of the law of
love: to love means to serve all hum ankind .
Bibl i o g raph y
Campbe ll, Jo s e ph. The Masks of God: Occide n tal My t h olo gy, Ark ana, 1991.
K ü n g, Han s. Jud a ism Be tween Ye s te rd ay and Tomor row, New York: Cro s s road, 1992
Savate r, Fe r n ando. Éti ca para am ador, Barce lona: Ed i tor i al Ariel, 1991.
1 0 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 1 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
I
t is a cur i ous fact that wh ile Bahá’í stude n ts of proph ecy have pa id con side rable at te n ti on to Bibl i cal
refe re nces to “G lory” as a motif in end- of-t h e- age im age ry, they have de voted noti ceably less pr in ted
s pace to dis cu s si ons of refe re nces to “Ju s ti ce” and “Jud g m e n t.” Often the re l ati onship be twe e n
C hr is ti an and Bahá’í teac h in gs has been de pi c ted pre e m inently as a con t rast be tween Chr is ti an conce r n
with the sal vati on of the ind iv idu al soul and the Bahá’í pro g ram to tran sform the soci al order of the
pl an e t. Adm i t tedly this schema is in accord ance with Shoghi Effe nd i’s comm e n ts on the role of
C hr is ti anity in the pro g ress of re l i gi on. Reducing the re l ati onship solely to this dim e n si on of compar i-
s on, howe ve r, does not fully account for the ran ge and scope of soci al pre s c r i p ti ons strewn throu g h out
the Bible, and especi ally prom inent in the ancient Heb rew scripture s. Centuries before Jesus, Pe te r, and
Paul ve n t ured forth to bring pers on al spir i t u al sal vati on to the inh abi tan ts of the Rom an Empire, the
s o ci al order of the Israe l i te tribes was legis l ated, adj ud i cated, and enforced in accord ance with the
C ove n ant and Law of Mo s e s. While not world- e mb racing in its visi on, the Mo saic order is ce r ta inly our
or i gin al example of a div ine stand ard of justi ce. The noti on of justi ce as a div inely ord a in ed pat tern of
s o ci al organ iz ati on does not begin with Bahá’u’ lláh .
T h at justi ce is one of the ce n t ral organ izing conce p ts of Bahá’u’ lláh’s order is clear from even a cur-
s ory exam in ati on of Bahá’í in t ro duc tory mate r i al and stands out as a dom in ant theme in many in- de p t h
s t udies of the Bahá’í scripture s. “The essence of all that We have re veal ed for thee is Ju s ti ce ,” Bahá’u’ lláh
a s s e r ts un e qu ivo call y.
1 A nd elsewh e re He emph a siz e s: “t h at the essence of justi ce and the source there-
of are both emb o d i ed in the ord in ances pre s c r ibed by Him who is the Man i fe s tati on of the Self of God
amon gst men, if ye be of them that reco g n ize this truth. He doth ve r ily incar n ate the highest, the in fal-
l ible stand ard of justi ce un to all creati on .”
It is therefore all the more star t l ing that Bahá’ís is ol ate ours e l ves from the common un ive rse of we s t-
ern theolo gi cal dis course by ge n e rally ignor ing the truth that justi ce, unde rs tood as an a s p ect of obed i-
e nce to God’s will, is a fund am e n tal organ izing pr inci ple which pervades the Heb rew scriptures and is
by no means absent from the New Te s tam e n t. This pr inci ple is we ll known to Old Te s tament schol ars ,
and has a de te r m in ing role in the for m ati on of soci al ethics both for Jews and for pro g re s sive Chr is ti an s.
It is the bedrock up on which the theolo gi cal tre nd known as “S o ci al Gospel” is erec ted. It even app ears
from time to time in the lite rat ure of theolo gi cally con s e rvative, evan ge l i cal Prote s tan ts.
4 I nde ed, this
s c r i p t ural norm is ava il able to Bahá’ís as a common meeting ground for dis cu s si on and fe llowship with
m any pro g re s sive and educated Chr is ti an s.
At the same time it is the very familiarity of the scriptural concept of Sacred Justice which paradoxi-
cally inhibits migration of Christian intellectuals from their Christian social and organizational milieu.
Justice as a focal point of religion is not a revelation to them. Christians thoroughly familiar with the Bible
and holding to a liberal, rather than literal, interpretation need not adopt the eccentric customs and set-
tings of what is viewed as a tiny if amiable sect (the Bahá’í community) in order to propagate (and certain-
ly not to finance the application of) religious sentiments of peace, tolerance, justice, equality, and charity.
A nd wh ile many of our tol e rant, pro g re s sive, and refor m ist soci al pr inci ples are shared by Chr is ti an s
of many de nom in ati ons, both the prece p ts in which the Bahá’í re ve l ati on shows its con tinuity with clas-
1 1 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
sic scriptural moral i t y, as we ll as in the clearest examples of its or i gin al i t y, can serve to al i e n ate, re s p ec-
tive l y, theolo gi cal libe rals and con s e rvative s. In its ad vo cacy of a glob al theonomous common wealt h,
h e w ing te n aci ously to the encompa s sing pr inci ple of Div ine Re ve l ati on and hold ing libe ral soci al pr in-
ci ples of justi ce alon gside ve ry strict pers on al and sexu al mores, the Bahá’í community may fa irly be sa id
to be un ique, even rad i cal in its own way, viewed from the pers p ec tives of Chr is ti an or secul ar libe ral-
ism. Yet am idst a post- commun ist in te ll i ge n tsia, ske p ti cal of all in s ti t uti on al aut h ority and re luc tan t
e ven to hold pr ivate l y, much less enforce publ i c l y, moral is tic views of sexu ality in almost any for m, a
community subj ect to an in fall ible House of Ju s ti ce and un y i e ld ing in its refu sal to in s ti t uti on all y
e mb race late twe n ti e t h- ce n t ury stand ards of alte r n ative fam ily comm i t m e n ts can ea sily be viewed a s
aut h or i tar i an on the one hand and pur i tan i cal on the ot h e r. It is, in fact, viewed on occa si on as elitis t
and reac ti on ary.
Like w ise, from the pers p ec tive of con s e rvative Chr is ti an lite ral is m, there is not h ing commonpl ace in
the Bahá’í con te n ti on that an all egor i cal read ing of proph ecy in conj unc ti on with enl i g h te n ed hum an
rea s on can ade qu ately sub s tan ti ate a claim to post-Bibl i cal re ve l ati on on a level with Moses or Jesu s. But
n either is there pr ima facie an y t h ing acce p table in such a claim .
So lest we claim mo dern or i gin ality for ancient ideas, and before we can say with a s surance exac t l y
wh at or i gin al and con s t r uc tive con t r ibuti ons Bahá’u’ lláh has made to the pl an e tary dis cu s si on, and
which of those or i gin al ideas can be impl e m e n ted only within the con te xt of a the Cove n an t-b ound
B ahá’í commun i t y, we must know with clarity wh at has been sa id and done in times pa s t. To si ft throu g h
wh at has been ag re ed up on and taught by proph e ts and theolo gi ans before us, in order to clarify the new
is sues which we ra ise and up on which the world must yet decide for or aga inst, falls within the purv i e w
of Bahá’í schol ars h i p. For so long as the Bahá’í community re m a ins ill-in for m ed conce r n ing the bibl i cal
or i gins of the concept of Sac red Ju s ti ce, we will be un able to dis cuss in te ll i gently with our Jewis h,
C hr is ti an, and Islamic fe llows wh at course the appl i cati on of that ideal ought to take through the te m-
p e s ts of fut ure ce n t ur i e s.
I .
The first problem we encoun ter when treating the role of justi ce as an element of Heb re w, or Old
Te s tament, teac h ing is the que s ti on of exactly with which Heb rew concept are we deal in g. Where the
word “j u s ti ce” app ears in the King James Ve rsi on of Heb rew scripture, it nearly al ways tran s l ates the
word ts ed iqah. This word, howe ve r, and other de r ivatives of the ro ot ts ed iq are more commonly tran s-
l ated “r i g h teou s” or “r i g h teou s n e s s ,” and its de notati ons and connotati ons are closer to the ge n e ral con-
ce p ts of go o dness, fa irness, moral i t y, and inno ce nce than to the more for m al and even jud i ci al conno-
tati ons of the English word “j u s ti ce.” Pre sum ably for this rea s on mo dern Bible tran s l ati ons have te nded
to ab andon the use of “j u s ti ce” to tran s l ate ts ed iqah, which is now typi cally re nde red as “r i g h teou s n e s s.”
At the same time, the word “j ud g m e n t ,” which is the King Jam e s’ re nde r ing of the Heb rew noun
Mis h pat, has come to be seen by tran s l ators as too nar row and perh aps too negative in connotati on for
mo dern speake rs of English to cap t ure the conce p t u al richness and the in t r in si cally posi tive imp or tance
of the Heb rew word. The word Mis h pat, then, is now con ve n ti on ally tran s l ated as “j u s ti ce.” In point of
fact, both conce p ts are of pre e m inent imp or tance to the ove rall motivati on and purpose of Heb rew re l i-
gi on, as witnessed by the comment which God makes to his an gelic escort in Genesis 18:19 (RSV): “I
h ave chosen [Ab rah am], that he may charge his children and his hou s e h old a fter him to keep the way
(d’re k) of the LORD by doing righteousness and justi ce (ts ed iqah va mis h pat).”
One sense of the mean ing in te nded by justi ce or m is h pat, as it app ears in the law of Moses, is con-
ve yed by Exo dus 23 :6–9: “You shall not pervert the justi ce (m is h pat) due to your poor in his suit (rí b).
Keep far from a false charge, and do not slay the inno cent (n ahq í) and righteous (ts ed iq), for I will not
ac quit (‘tsad a q) the wicked (rahs h ah g). And you shall take no bribe, for the bribe bl inds the off i ci als, and
sub ve r ts the cause (debir i) of those who are in the right (ts ed iq ím). You shall not oppress the stran ge r; you
know the heart of a stran ge r, for you we re stran ge rs in the land of Egy p t.” In the nin e teenth chap ter of
L e v i ti cus, the concern for justi ce is exte nded in to such is sues as charity for the ind i gent and the way far-
in g, fa ir wages for the day lab ore r, and impar ti ality towards rich and poor al ike in the cour ts of law.
1 1 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
G o d’s justi ce, howe ve r, is not the ill- def in ed soci al and jud i ci al good which is the goal of soci al striv-
ing in our secul ar age. Rather it con s ti t uted the obj ec tive stand ard of justi ce and soci al order exis tin g
in the mind of God and exe mpl i f i ed among His people by the comm andm e n ts (m i t zva’ot) and ord in ance s
(m is h patím) of the Torah. Nor is the concept of m is h pat con f in ed to is sues strictly reg ul ated by law. It
also encompa s s ed such elements of the soci al order as may be tran s l ated by “orde r,” “m ann e r,” “fa s h i on,”
or “cu s tom” (c f. Table 1). And wh ile it can refer to wh at is strictly speaking “law ful ,” it can also refer to
the order of a “ce re mon y” or to an ind iv idu al’s “c h arge” or re s p on sibil i t y.
Mor ph olo gi call y, m is h pat (M-S H-P-T) is de r ived from the ro ot ve rb s h e ph at (S H-P-T), “to jud ge” or “to
gove r n .” The lo gi cal inde p e nde nce of m is h pat from written law (torah) is impl i ed by the fact that Mo s e s ,
a fter the su g ge s ti on of his fat h e r-in-l aw, Jethro, app oin ted jud ges (s h e ph atím) to govern the daily a ffa irs
of the Israe l i tes pr i or to the re ve l ati on of the Law on Sinai (E xo dus 18:1–27). This implies the exis te nce
of an exis ting body of trad i ti on, cu s tom, and “common law,” which was unde rs tood to refl ect God’s will ,
and accord ing to which pro s ecuti ons and lawsu i ts could be decided .
I I .
T hrou g h out the book of Deute ronom y, God’s exp ec tati ons of kindness, justi ce, and righteousness are
rei te rated, and in Deut. 32:3–4 justi ce is re veal ed as in t r in sic to the nat ure of God’s own greatness and
p e r fec ti on: “I will pro c l a im the name of the LOR D, Oh, pra ise the greatness of our God! He is the ro c k,
H is works are perfect, and all his ways (d’re ki) are just (m is h pat). A fa i t h ful God who does no wron g,
upright (ts ed iq) and just (ys h ar) is he.” In the twe n t y-sixth chap ter of Leviti cus, God lays out the Prom is e
and the Threat. To the nati on, God prom ises peace, stre n g t h, fre edom, and prosperity if His comm and s
are ob s e rved. And aga in to the nati on, God threatens the most ext reme pun is hm e n ts of fam ine, pl ag ue ,
m il i tary defeat, exile and de s t r uc ti on if his comm ands go unh e eded .
The written books of torah howe ver are not ove rwh e lm ingly de voted to noble ideals and soci al legis-
l ati on. Lengthy por ti ons of Exo dus, Leviti cus, and Numbe rs are de voted to reg ul ati ons conce r n in g
tabe r n ac l e/te mple ritual, or n am e n tati on, and fur n is h in gs, priestly ve s t m e n ts, be h av i or, and pur i f i ca-
ti on, clean and unc l ean foods, pers ons, and si t u ati ons, an im al blood sac r i f i ces, Sabb at hs, fe s tivals, and
Holy days, and the qu aran tine of pers ons with noxi ous and dege n e rative dis ea s e s. These seem to have
been scrupulously kept, at least by the priesthood, from ve ry ancient tim e s. But through His servan ts
the proph e ts, God warns Israel in dire terms that without careful adh e re nce to m is h pat, scrupulous obe-
d i e nce to ritual pre s c r i p ti ons of the torah may be of no value. Alt h ough ritual re qu ire m e n ts seem, with-
in the te xt of the books of torah, to be as in teg ral to cove n ant fa i t h fulness as soci al and moral re qu ire-
m e n ts, the proph e ts often treat the rituals as ultim ately offe n sive to God when offe red in a con te xt of
s o ci al inj u s ti ce. Inde ed, the essenti al enta ilment of cor rect worship was sub m is si on and obed i e nce to
G o d’s m is h pat.
I sa i ah, be l i e ved by some to be the first of the lite rary proph e ts ,5 m akes clear in Isa i ah 1:10–28, the
n at ure of God’s pl an: “Hear the word of the LOR D...I have had enough of burnt offe r in gs...I do not
delight in the blood of bull s... incense is an ab om in ati on to me...your app oin ted fea s ts my soul
h ate s...cease to do evil ... l earn to do go o d ...seek justi ce, cor rect oppre s si on .” A mos, be l i e ved by man y
ot h e rs to be the earliest of the proph e ts, pro c l a ims a sim il ar message: “I hate, I de s pise your
fea s ts...t h ough you offer me your burnt offe r in gs...I will not accept them... But let justi ce (m is h pat) roll
down like wate rs, and righteousness (ts ed iqah) l ike an eve r-flow ing stream” (A mos 5:21–24).
W h ile often pa ired in this manner with the concept of ts ed iqah,6 or Ri g h teousness, m is h pat is al s o
pa ired with the concept of h e s ed, var i ously tran s l ated as “kindn e s s ,” “go o dn e s s ,” “m e rc y,” and “s tead fa s t
love.” Ho s ea rej ec ts empty ritual in favor of ge nu ine and hear tfe lt obed i e nce motivated by h e s ed. “I de sire
h e s ed, not sac r i f i ce ,” says Ho s ea, “the knowl ed ge of God, rather than burnt offe r in gs.” (Ho s ea 6:6) In
Mat t h e w, Jesus tw i ce quotes this pa s sage as a rebuke to Phar isees when they criti cize His ritual lax n e s s ,
and He, in tur n, upb ra ids them for ove r-strict rigid i t y. Mi cah expl i citly conj oins the two conce p ts in
Mi cah 6:8: “He has showed you, O man, wh at is good; and wh at does the LORD re qu ire of you but to do
m is h pat and to love hesed, and to walk humbly with your God?” He re aga in, in a stin ging rebuke to the
re l i gi ous leade rs of His day, Jesus echoes this conj unc ti on, mis h pat and hesed, in Matthew 23 :23: “Wo e
1 1 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
to you, scribes and Phar isees, hypocrite s! For you tithe mint and dill and cum in, and have neg l ec ted the
wei g h tier is sues of the law, justi ce [kr isin(G k)=m is h pat(H b)] and mercy [e l eo s(G k)=h e s ed(H b)] and fa i t h-
fulness [ NIV]; these you ought to have done without neg l ec ting the ot h e rs.” Ju s ti ce in this larger sense is
c l early an imp or tant value not only in the Heb rew scriptures, but in the Chr is ti an Te s tament as we ll .
For Isa i ah, m is h pat is an in teg ral part of God’s great n e s s: “Man will be brought low and mankind
humbl ed, the eyes of the ar ro gant humbl ed. But the LORD Almighty is exalted by his mis h pat, and the
h oly God will show Himself holy by His ts ed iqah .” (I s. 5:16) In fine, Jere m i ah links all three conce p ts
and their pivotal imp or tance in Jer. 9:23–24: “T h is is wh at the LORD says: ‘Let not the wise man boa s t
of his wis dom or the strong man boast of his strength or the rich man boast of his riches, but let him
who boa s ts boast ab out this: that he unde rs tands and knows Me, that I am the LORD who exe rcis e s
h e s ed, mis h pat, and ts ed iqah on ear t h, for in these I de l i g h t ,’ dec l ares the LOR D.”
I I I .
Of course an yone with the most curs ory knowl ed ge of the Heb rew scriptures knows that the nati on
of Israel did not live up to the stand ards which God had set in the books of the Torah. Idol at ry, the ab an-
donment of the worship of the one true God for the sup e rs ti ti ous worship of man y, inj u s ti ce, and the
ab andonment of God’s sys te m atic pl an of a just soci al order stra in ed the re l ati onship be tween Israel and
i ts God to the ve ry breaking poin t. By the time of the earliest lite rary proph e ts, God’s message alread y
b ore the re p e ti ti ous burden of imm inent disa s te r.
A lready in his second chap te r, Isa i ah begins to de ve lop this theme. “The haughty lo oks of man shall
be brought low, and the pr ide of men shall be humbl ed; and the LORD alone will be exalted in that day.
For the LORD of Ho s ts has a day aga inst all that is proud and loft y, aga inst all that is lifted up and high.”
(I sa i ah 2:11–12) Then in chap ter thir teen: “The day of the LORD is near; as de s t r uc ti on from the
A lmighty it will com e... Be h old, the day of the LORD comes, cruel, with wrath and fierce an ge r, to make
the earth a de s ol ati on and to de s t roy its sinn e rs from it...I will pun ish the world for its evil .” (I sa i ah
13 :6–11) God’s fury app ears to be ab s olute and co s m i c: “The earth lies polluted under its inh abi tan ts; for
they have tran sg re s s ed the laws, viol ated the stat utes, broken the eve rl a s ting cove n an t. Therefore a curs e
de vours the ear t h, and its inh abi tan ts su ffer for their guilt; therefore the inh abi tan ts of the earth are
s corc h ed, and few men are left.” (I sa i ah 24:5 – 6) “The earth is ut te rly broke n, the earth is rent a sunde r,
the earth is violently shaken. The earth stag ge rs like a dr unken man, it sways like a hut; its tran sg re s si on
lies heavy up on it, and it falls, and it will not rise aga in. On that day the LORD will pun ish the host of
h eave n, and the kin gs of the ear t h, on the earth. They will be gat h e red to gether as pr is on e rs in a pi t;
they will be shut up in a pr is on, and a fter many days they will be pun is h ed .” (I sa i ah 24:19 –23)
A mos also gives us evide nce that the threat of “The Day” is an early theme of the proph e ts. Inde ed it
seems to have already had its pl ace in the common be l i efs of the Israe l i tes as a time when their God would
defeat their enemies, a time to be wis h ed and prayed for. But Amos te lls us howe ver that the su ffe r in g
w ill be un ive rsal. “Woe to you who de sire the day of the LOR D! Why would you have the day of the
LOR D? It is darkness and not light; as if a man fl ed from a lion, and a bear met him; or went in to the
h ouse and lean ed with his hand aga inst the wall, and a serpent bit him .” (A mos 5:18 –19)
The prophet Zeph an i ah aga in emph a sizes the time fram e: “The great day of the LORD is near and
h a s te n ing fa s t; the sound of the day of the LORD is bi t te r, the mighty man cries aloud there.” (Z e ph .
1:14) His tor i call y, this might seem to ind i cate he is refe r r ing in an all egor i cal manner to the Bab ylon i an
con quest and exile, which was inde ed near and haste n ing fa s t. His de s c r i p ti on, thou g h, is at least a s
e xt reme as his fe llow proph e ts. God, says Zeph an i ah, “w ill ut te rly sweep away eve ry t h ing from the face
of the ear t h .... In the fire of his jealous wrat h, all the earth shall be con sum ed; for a full, yea, sudde n
e nd he will make of all the inh abi tan ts of the ear t h .” (Z e ph. 1: 2, 18) Ob ad i ah and Joel both rei te rate
the nearness of the day (Ob ad i ah 16 and Joel 1:5) but they do so a fter the defeat and exile to Bab ylon
h ave already occur red. As suc h, it was unde rs tood from then on as a proph e tic war n ing of the time of
the End, an end which could occur at any tim e. Thus, when John the Bap tist asks the Phar isees in
Matthew 3:7, “Who told you to flee from the wrath to com e? ”, the que s ti on is purely rh e tor i cal; the
proph e ts told them.
1 1 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The litany of do om re p eats itself throu g h out the proph e ts, and of course his tor i cally we know that the
p eople of Israel and Jud ah did go in to exile, pr is on, and death. But God does not seem pre pared to leave
the is sue there. The trauma of exile and dis p e rsi on did exci te the Israe l i te nati on to re p e n tance and re l i-
gi ous re v ival. After 70 years, as the story goes, God in s pired the con que r ing Pe rsi an king Cyrus, and late r
h is succe s s or Artaxe r xes, to dec ree permis si on for the Israe l i tes to re t urn to their hom e l and and rebu ild
t h eir capi tal and their te mpl e. But God has a larger grievance, not only with Israel, but with the nati on s
of the world. God pun ishes Israel as a parent pun ishes a child, but God’s an ger toward Israe l’s nei g hb ors
is the fury of a parent toward people who have unjustly mis t reated her child. One by one, and then col-
l ec tive l y, God decries the evils comm i t ted by the nati ons which sur round Israel and which exte nd ac ro s s
the face of the earth. God dec l ares himself ready to crush them and ann ih il ate their peoples, to ut te rl y
d is lo cate and de s t roy the sun, the mo on, the stars, and the entire earth its e l f. And then He wa i ts.
W h at then is the mean ing of His threat? Is God a brag gart, engaging in child ish hyperb ol e? Is His
sense of time so vast that hum an time frames are mean in g l e s s? Just wh at does God mean when He speak s
of “The Day”? And how exactly does “the Day” l ead to the establ is hment of m is h pat on the ear t h ?
IV.
W h at God wishes, of course, is not the de s t r uc ti on of wh at He has created. In Jer 18:5 –11, God is
most expl i cit conce r n ing the point of the great threat. “If at any time I dec l are conce r n ing a nati on or
a kin gdom, that I will ...de s t roy it, and if that nati on ...t urns from its evil, I will repent of the evil that
I in te nded to do to it.... Re t ur n, eve ry one from his evil way, and am e nd your ways and your doin gs.”
A nd wh at does God ask that will induce Him to re voke the sente nce? “E xecute mis h pat in the mor n in g,
and de l iver from the oppre s s or him who has been robbed, lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn with
none to que nch it, because of your evil doin gs.” (J e r. 21:11)
But wh ile m is h pat can, in some circum s tances, be an accompl is hment of an ord in ary ind iv idu al, firs t
and fore most it is a soci al vir t ue, and like most soci al pol i c y, it is seldom under the con t rol of the poor
and the powe rl e s s. Rather it is for the poor and the powe rless that God and His proph e ts speak out to
warn the wealthy and the powe r ful .
Just as the theme of justi ce often app ears as a salient point in lis ts of God’s exp ec tati ons, its ab s e nce
l ike w ise app ears prom inently in lis ts of Israe l’s offe n s e s. “You have tur n ed mis h pat in to pois on,” A mo s
ra ils, “and the fruit of ts ed iqah in to wor m wo o d .” (A mos 6:12) Isa i ah re m inds Israel that they are the “v in e-
yard of the LOR D” wh e re he “ lo oked for mis h pat, but be h old ... B lo o d s h ed !” (I sa i ah 5:7–10) Isa i ah con tin-
ues by ind i c ting the wealthy “who join house to house, who add field to field” and war n ing them that
“m any houses shall be de s ol ate, large and beauti ful houses, without inh abi tan ts.” I sa i ah even pl ays on the
m ean ing of mis h pat to make his point in Is. 3:13–15: “the LORD takes His pl ace in cour t; He rises to
j ud ge the peopl e. The LORD ente rs in to jud g m e n t (m is h pat) aga inst the elde rs and leade rs of His peopl e:
‘It is you who have ruin ed my vin e yard; the plunder from the poor is in your hou s e s. What do you mean
by crushing my people and grind ing the faces of the poor?’ dec l ares the Lord Alm i g h t y.” (J e r. 21:12)
Aga in Isa i ah re m inds the Judeans that He has pun is h ed them for their inj u s ti ces and dis obed i e nce in
the past and will not hesi tate to chastise them further if they con tinue in evil. “T h e refore ,” he says, “a s
the ton g ue of fire de vours the stubble, and as dry grass sinks down in the fl ame, so their ro ot will be
as rot te nness, and their blo s s om go up like du s t; for they have rej ec ted the torah of the LORD of hosts ,
and have de s pis ed the word of the Holy One of Israe l .” (I sa i ah 5:24) “Woe to those who dec ree in iqu i-
tous dec rees, and the write rs [of jud g m e n ts] who keep writing oppre s si on, to turn a side the needy from
m is h pat, and to rob the poor of my people of their right, that widows may be their spoil and that they
m ay make the fat h e rless their pre y! What will you do on the day of pun is hment, in the storm which will
come from a far? ” (I sa i ah 10:1–3)
“No one ente rs suit justly,” I sa i ah charges, “and no one goes to law hon e s t l y; they rely on empty pl ea s ,
they speak lies....” (I sa i ah 59:4) Therefore, he says, “your in iqu i ties have made a separati on be tween you
and your God, and your sins have hid His face from you ....” (I sa i ah 59:2) “T h e re is no mis h pat in their
pat hs ,” he emph a siz e s. (I sa i ah 59:8) “Mis h pat is far from us...we lo ok for light and be h old, darkn e s s.”
(I sa i ah 59:9) “We lo ok for mis h pat, but there is none; for sal vati on, but it is far from us....” (I sa i ah 59:11)
1 1 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
“Mis h pat is tur n ed bac k, and righteousness stands a far off; for truth has fallen in the public squ ares, and
uprightness cannot ente r.” (I sa i ah 59:14) And wh at aga in does Isa i ah say will re sult? “Accord ing to their
de eds, so will He re pay, wrath to His ad ve rsaries, re qu i tal to His enemies...so they will fear the name of
the LOR D... for He will come like a rushing stream .” (I sa i ah 59:18 –19).
In an g u is h, Jere m i ah pl eads with God, a s king him “O Lord ...I would speak with you conce r n ing your
j u s ti ce (m is h pat): Why does the way of the wicked pro s p e r? Why do all the fa i t hless live at ea s e? ”
A n s we r ing his own que s ti on, Jere m i ah excor i ates the people and especi ally their leade rs: “‘They have
become rich and powe r ful and have grown fat and sleek. Their evil de eds have no lim i t; they do not pl ead
the case of the fat h e rless to win it, they do not defe nd the rights (m is h pat) of the poor. Should I not pun-
ish them for this?’ asks the LOR D. ‘S h ould I not ave n ge myself on such a nati on as this? ’” (J e r. 5:27-29)
A nd fin ally the LORD has had enough: “They have followed other gods to serve them. Both the house of
I s rael and the house of Jud ah have broken the cove n ant I made with their forefat h e rs. Therefore this is
wh at the LORD says, ‘I will bring on them a disa s ter they cannot escap e.’” (J e r. 11:10–11)
V.
Surely the crav ing for un t ramm e l ed liberty is strong in a pote n ti ally rati on al yet imm at ure hum an
bein g. Such has been the ind iv idu al cond i ti on of hum anity for long age s. Integ ral to the glor i ous break-
t hrough in to coll ec tive adulthood is a will ingness to humble oneself with fitting mo de rati on and sub-
mit to the wh ol e s ome dis ci pl ine and reg ul ati ons which befit hum an dignity. Just as Israel was once pun-
is h ed by deat h, exile, and nati on al upro otin g, so in the lat ter days, all nati ons are defeated and upro ot-
ed by their own inj u s ti ce and idol at ry. And just as the dec ree of the Pe rsi an royalty re t ur n ed Israel to its
h om e l and twe n t y-four ce n t uries ago, so, the prophet Isa i ah pro c l a ims, “In that day the ro ot of Jesse shall
s tand as an ensign to the peoples; him shall the nati ons seek, and His dwe ll in gs shall be glor i ou s. In that
d ay the LORD will exte nd His hand yet a second time to recover the re mn ant which is left, from ...t h e
n ati on s...the dis p e rs ed of Jud ah from the four cor n e rs of the ear t h .” (I sa i ah 11:10–12).
The glob ally visible si g n al of the ad vent then of the glob al efflore s ce nce of div ine mis h pat is the
rea s s e mbl ing of the Jewish people in their ancient hom e l and. But the Ro ot of Jesse: Who is he and wh at
is his role in the drama of the lat ter days? Mi cah 2:12–13 seems to su g gest he is the LORD and their kin g
and that “He who opens the breach will go up before them...t h eir king will pass on before them, the
LORD at their head .” The true Kin g, guided by God Him s e l f, precedes Israel in to the Holy land .
H is tor i call y, of course, Jesse is the father of King Dav id, and therefore, in a sense, he is the ro ot of
the Dav idic house and dynasty. God makes no sec ret of the unb reak able loyalty he holds for this hou s e.
In Jere m i ah 33 :20–21 He vows, “If you can break my cove n ant with the day and my cove n ant with the
night, so that day and night will not come at their app oin ted time, then also my cove n ant with Dav id
my servant may be broke n, so that he will not have a son to reign on his thron e.” So the one who com e s
to inherit the sove reignty of Dav id is the Me s si ah, “the shoot from the stump of Jesse” (I sa i ah 11:1–5)
the “b ranc h” which “s h all grow out of his ro ots. And the spirit of the LORD shall rest up on him, the
s pirit of wis dom and unde rs tand in g, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowl ed ge and the
fear of the LOR D. And his delight shall be in the fear of the LOR D. He shall not jud ge by wh at his eye s
see [i .e. with par ti al i t y] or decide by wh at his ears hear [i .e. bias and persu a si on]; but with righteou s n e s s
he shall jud ge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the ear t h; he shall smite the earth with
the rod of his mout h, and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked .”
“Be h old ,” says Isa i ah 32, “a king will reign in righteou s n e s s (ts ed iqah), and pr inces will rule with jus-
ti ce (m is h pat)...the fo ol will no more be call ed noble, nor the kn ave sa id to be honorabl e....Then mis h pat
w ill dwe ll in the wilderness and ts ed iqah abide in the fr u i tful field, and the effect of ts ed iqah will be
p eace (s h alom), and the re sult of ts ed iqah, quietness and trust fore ve r.”
It is at this point that the is sue of in te r pre tati on comes to a head. Broadly speakin g, Chr is ti an at ti-
t udes are split be tween two world views. The libe ral camp of Chr is ti an i t y, both Prote s tant and Cat h ol i c ,
l eans toward seeing most proph ecy as a coll ec ti on of all egories, a symb olic tale which holds up a grand
ideal of justi ce, righteousness and compa s si on toward which be l i e ve rs should strive. Jesus is Lord and
king largely in the sense of an example of a life worthy of emul ati on, a life led in pure hol iness, jus-
1 1 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
ti ce, and righteou s n e s s. Ju s ti ce ad vances inc re m e n tally as the body of be l i e ve rs works to in fuse justi ce
in to the world .
Li te ral is ts, and many con s e rvative Chr is ti ans ge n e rall y, an ti ci pate a time when the re sur rec ted Jesu s
w ill re t urn bodily to the earth and establ ish an ear t hly kin gdom. Liv ing as an immor tal and incor r up t-
ible body, Jesus will dwe ll ph ysi cally on earth and as mon arch of the world; a s sis ted by his re sur rec ted
apostles, he will act as glob al supreme jud ge.
Less popul ar in the Chr is ti an world, but ad vanced by such an in te ll ec t u al lum in ary as Mar tin Bube r
[T h e Proph e tic Fa i t h (New York and Evan s ton: Harper Torc hb o oks, 1960) pp. 138 –154, 224–235], is the
con te n ti on that the Me s si ah who will establ ish un ive rsal peace and justi ce is a Prophet, on a level with
Moses, wh o, like Moses, will establ ish a new soci al orde r, a new m is h pat, this time world- e ncompa s sin g
and world paci f y in g, and then He will de part this mor tal world as have the proph e ts before Him, wh il e
h eave nly prov ide nce uph olds the in tegrity and pote ncy of His New World Mis h pat. I con te nd that a full
appreci ati on of the richness of the concept of m is h pat, dis cu s s ed ab ove and do cum e n ted in Table 1,
p owe r fully impels us toward this in te r pre tati on. Most Bahá’ís, I su s p ect, will be quick to grasp the si g-
n i f i cance of such an in te r pre tati on, and of its wide s pread acce p tance, to the Bahá’í ap olo ge tic mis si on
and pro c l am ati on effor t.
In add i ti on to the connotati ons of the word m is h pat, the pat terns which emerge from fur t h e r
Me s si anic proph ecies te nd to bol s ter this posi ti on and to flesh out the visi on of the Me s si anic age and
the New Mis h pat. A brief survey of those pa s sages shows us speci f i cally the te xts up on which Bube r
bu ilds his sce n ario and which set forth the pr inci ples held in common by Bibl i cal and Bahá’í exp ec tati on .
1) Me s si anic vir t ues are key to the New Orde r: “When the oppre s s or is no more and de s t r uc ti on has
cea s ed, and he who tramples unde r fo ot has van is h ed from the land, then a throne will be establ is h ed in
h e s ed and on it will sit in fa i t h fulness in the tent of Dav id one who jud ges and who seeks mis h pat and
is swift to do ts ed iqah .” (I sa i ah 16 :4–5)
2) God’s servant, the Me s si ah, in s ti t utes God’s m is h pat in the world; this is his pre e m inent goal :
“Be h old my servant, wh om I uph old, my chosen in wh om my soul de l i g h ts; I have put my spirit up on
h im, he will bring forth justi ce (m is h pat) to the nati ons (or ge n til e s), He will not cry or lift up his voi ce ,
or make it heard in the stre e t; a bruis ed re ed he will not break, and a dimly bur n ing wick he will not
que nc h; he will fa i t h fully bring forth mis h pat. He will not fa il or be dis couraged till he has establ is h ed
m is h pat in the ear t h; and the coa s t l ands wait for his law.” (I sa i ah 42:1–4)
3) A new m is h pat e n ac ted by a new Law (torah) will enl i g h ten the nati ons of the earth: “the torah will
go out from me; my mis h pat will become a light to the nati on s.” (I sa i ah 51:4)
4) God supports earthly Justice and Righteousness from the seat of His heavenly throne: “The LORD is
exalted; for He dwells on high [i.e. in Heaven] he will fill Zion with mishpat and tsediqah; He will be the
sure foundation of your times, a rich store of salvation and wisdom and knowledge.” (Isaiah 33:5–6, NIV)
5) God’s mis h pat will be adm in is te red by righteous hum an age n ts: “I will re s tore your jud ges as at the
f irst, and your coun s e lors as at the beginn in g. Afte rward you will be call ed the city of ts ed iq, the fa i t h-
ful ci t y. Zi on will be rede e m ed with mis h pat and her penitent ones with ts ed iqah .” (I sa i ah 1:26–27)
6) God will spir i t u ally in s pire the hum an age n ts of the New Orde r: “In that day the of LORD of Ho s ts
w ill be a crown of Glory and a diadem of beaut y... and a spirit of justi ce (m is h pat) to him who si ts in
j udgment (m is h pat).... I will make mis h pat the line and ts ed iqah the plumm e t.” (I sa i ah 28:5–6, 17)
7) God himself is the supreme exe mpl ar of mis h pat: “He is the ro c k, his works are perfect, and all his
ways (d’re ki) are mis h pat.” (D eute ronomy 32:4)
8) The orde red sys tem of justi ce in s ti t uted by God’s servant the Me s si ah is ce n t ral iz ed at the Moun ta in
of the LOR D’s te mple wh e re all nati ons will come to learn God’s ways (d’re ki). The Word (debir) of God
and the Law (torah) of God are sent out from Zi on and in te r n ati on al dis putes will be re s ol ved at this
Te mpl e. (I sa i ah 2:1–4, Mi cah 4:1–5) “In the lat ter days, the moun ta in of the house of the LORD shall be
e s tabl is h ed as the highest of the moun ta ins and all the nati ons shall flow to it that He may teach us his
1 1 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
ways (d’re ki) for out of Zi on shall go forth the Law (torah), and the word of the LORD from Jerusal e m .
He shall jud ge be tween the nati on s.”
9) “The Ark of the Cove n ant shall not be rebu ilt all nati ons gather to Jerusal e m, the throne and the
Pre s e nce of the LOR D.” (J e re m i ah 3:15 –18)
In this context of messianic prophecy, there is no descent of angelic hosts from the physical heavens, and
there is no instantaneous supernatural conquest of the physical planet. Yet there is far more than a bland
evolution toward social justice, cheered on by a network of compassionate, supportive, liberal churches.
Onto the stage of messianic expectation walks Bahá’u’lláh, claiming equality with Moses, with Jesus, with
Mu˙ammad. He reveals new torah. He founds new institutions. He appoints new shephatím. He ordains a
central locus of governance and pilgrimage. He establishes new standards, new customs, a New Order.
We can see clearly that no concept is qu i te so cruci al to God’s ultim ate pl an for this pl anet as m is h-
pat. Ab out this few schol ars of any faith would disag re e. The chall e n ge for Bible schol arship in a Bahá’í
con te xt is, and will con tinue to be, defense of the noti on of a ce n t ral iz ed, in te r n ati on al, theonomou s ,
cove n an t-b ound, in s ti t uti on al emb o d iment of that ideal .
Table 1: Some Tran s l ati ons of Mis h pat not Invol v ing Ju s ti ce Sp eci f i call y
Re f e re n c e
K J V
R S V
N I V
Gen. 40:13
Ma n n e r
As (formerly)
As [custom]
Ex. 21:9
Ma n n e r
(deal with her)
(grant her the)
Ex. 26:30
Fa s h i o n
Pl a n
Pl a n
Num. 15:16
Ma n n e r
Ord i n a n c e
Re g u l a t i o n
Num. 15:24
Ma n n e r
Ord i n a n c e
Pre s c r i b e d
Num. 29:6–39
Ma n n e r
Ord i n a n c e
As specified;
Josh. 6:15
Ma n n e r
Ma n n e r
Ma n n e r
Judges 13:12
Ord e r ( v. )
Ma n n e r ( o f
Ru l e
Judges 18:7
Manner(of the
Ma n n e r
Like [custom]
I Sam. 2:13
( p r i e s t’s )
Custom (of the
(the) Practice
I Sam. 8:9, 11
Manner (of the
The Ways (of
[ L e a d e r s h i p ]
I Sam. 10:25
Manner (of the
Rights and
Re g u l a t i o n s
I Sam. 27:11
(his [Da v i d’s ] )
(his) Cu s t o m
(his) Pr a c t i c e
I Kings 6:38
Fa s h i o n
Sp e c i f i c a t i o n s
Sp e c i f i c a t i o n s
II Kings 1:7
(What) manner
(what) kind (of
(what) kind
II Kings 11:14
Ma n n e r
Cu s t o m
Cu s t o m
II Kings
Manner(of the
L a w
(what the
I Chron. 6:32
Ord e r ( n . )
Due ord e r
Re g u l a t i o n s
I Chron. 15:13
(the due) ord e r
The way that
The pre s c r i b e d
I Chron. 23:31
( a c c o rding to
( a c c o rding to
(in the) way
I Chron. 24:19
( a c c o rding to
Pro c e d u re
Re g u l a t i o n s
II Chron. 4:7
( a c c o rding to
As pre s c r i b e d
Sp e c i f i c a t i o n s
II Chron. 4:20
(after the)
As pre s c r i b e d
As pre s c r i b e d
II Chron. 8:14
( a c c o rding to
( a c c o rding to
( f o l l owing the)
II Chron. 30:16
(after their)
Ac c u s t o m e d
Regular as
Ezra 3:4
Cu s t o m
Re q u i re d
p re s c r i b e d
Neh. 8:18.
Ma n n e r
Ord i n a n c e
Re g u l a t i o n
Je remiah 30:18
(after the)
(W h e re it used
(in its pro p e r
Ezekiel 11:12
Ju d g m e n t s ,
Ord i n a n c e s
L a w s ,
Ezekiel 11:20
Ord i n a n c e s
Ord i n a n c e s
L a w s
Ezekiel 23:24
Ju d g m e n t
Ju d g m e n t
Pu n i s h m e n t
Ezekiel 42:11
Fa s h i o n s
A r r a n g e m e n t s
Dimensions
1 1 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 1 9
Note s
1) Bahá’u’ lláh, Asl-i-Kullu’ l-K h ay (Words of Wis dom) in Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-A qdas (Ha i fa: Bahá’í
World Cente r, 1978), p. 157.
2) G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’’ lláh, p. 175.
3) See, for example, Wein fe ld, Moshe, S o ci al Ju s ti ce in Ancient Israel and the Ancient Near Ea s t (J e r u salem: The Mag n e s
Press, and Minn eap ol is: For t ress Press, 1995).
4) See especi ally Scott, Waldron, Br ing Forth Ju s ti ce (Grand Rapid s: Eerdm an’s, 1980).
5) See, for example, Pec kh am, Br i an, H is tory and Proph ec y (New York, etc.: Anc h or Bible Refe re nce Lib rary/D oubl ed ay,
1993).
6) Wein fe ld., pp. 35 –36. Wein fe ld con te nds that when conj oin ed in this way m is h pat and ts ed iqah refer to God’s speci f i c
in te rest in justi ce adm in is te red by the wealthy and powe r ful and a im ed at the protec ti on of the poor, weak and vul-
n e rabl e. Wein fe ld main ta ins that this conj oint mean ing is also enta il ed by the by the complex Heb rew concept of h e s ed,
s om e times tran s l ated “kindn e s s.” Inte re s tin g l y, the Greek word c hre s tote ti, also tran s l ated as “kindn e s s.” is menti on ed
by Paul in Rom ans 11:22 as the qu ality in which the be l i e ver must dil i gently con tinue in order not to be “cut off” from
the div ine tree, i.e. to lose on e’s sal vati on .

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 2 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Hikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
T
he student of sac red his tory finds that eve ry maj or Man i fe s tati on of God, be He call ed Avatar,
Buddha, Me s s e n ge r, Prophet or Sav i or, chan ges his tory. There are of course many ways in which He
c h an ges his tory, inc lud ing the follow in g: He re veals pr inci ples and comm andm e n ts which tran sfor m
those who follow Him and which si g n i f i cantly in flue nce those who rej ect Him as we ll. For examples of
t h is in flue nce up on non-be l i e ve rs, the reader may con sider the impact of Jud a ism up on the Sam ar i tan s ;
of Chr is ti anity on Jews and pagans; of Buddh ism on Hindus and Con fuci ans; and of Islám on Chr is ti an s ,
J e ws, Zoroa s t r i ans, Hindus, Buddh is ts, pagan s. The Man i fe s tati on of God envisi ons and proph e sies a
fut ure that His followe rs are comm i t ted to real izing; He in te r pre ts the past in a manner dis tinct and
often markedly dive rgent from the con ve n ti on al mo des of his tor i cal perce p ti on. It is this last-m e n ti on ed
c reative act, the Man i fe s tati on s’ re v isi on ing of his tory, that we will exam ine in this pap e r.
The reader may be accu s tom ed to thinking of his tory as comp o s ed of fac ts and therefore, he might
t h ink that his tory does not stand in need of in te r pre tati on, even by a Man i fe s tati on of God. Some years
ago a coll eag ue opin ed to the present aut h or that his tory is ficti on, or, to put it another way, his tory is
f i c tive. Over the years the aut h or has given much thought to this statement, and has found it diff i cult
to refute. He has noted that eve ry his tor i an chooses wh at to inc lude in his his tor i cal lec t ures and writ-
in gs—and wh at to exc lude. What he inc ludes becomes “his tory,” for “his tory” as we know it is that por-
ti on of his tory which is re m e mbe red. The unre m e mbe red his tory has no pl ace in our lives; it serves no
func ti on. The his tor i an who is con v inced that We s tern civ il iz ati on is the most ad vanced and meritor i-
ous of all will mars h al evide nce in supp ort of that con v i c ti on through his selec tive de pi c ti on of pa s t
e ve n ts. Nat urall y, almost in e v i tabl y, it will app ear to his reade rs that he is cor rect in com ing to that con-
c lu si on. Like w ise, the Mu s l im his tor i an, the Chr is ti an his tor i an, the Jewish his tor i an, the Mar xist his-
tor i an, the fe m in ist his tor i an, the raci al ist his tor i an —each one will in var i ably select such his tor i cal
e ve n ts and pers on al i ties, in flue nces and forces as he or she deems imp or tant to be feat ured in an his-
tor i cal work. This pro cess of selec ti on will exc lude a great mass of “fac ts” which have been jud ged by
t h at his tor i an to be in si g n i f i cant (or, at best, non- e s s e n ti al).
It may be arg ued that “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i ans make eve ry effort to be obj ec tive, to follow sci-
e n tific method. Howe ve r, many careful reade rs have noted that “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i ans are, in
m any regards, among the most selec tive in the his tory of his tory, call ed up on by the eve r-inc rea sing frag-
m e n tati on and speci al iz ati on which charac te r izes their profe s si on, to fo cus on ve ry nar row in te re s ts.
They are preo ccupi ed with writing pap e rs, ar ticles, mono g raphs and tomes which are pre sum ed by the
reader to be obj ec tive when in ac t u ality they are in var i ably shot through with the ext remely lim i ted ego-
centric and often ethno centric visi on of the aut h or. If one is pre pared to enj oy read ing the views of the
“mo dern acade m i c” his tor i an without supp o sing them to be alto gether re l i able, then there is no har m
don e. If, on the other hand, the reader be l i e ves that this his tor i cal “e xp e r t” is som e h ow magi cally exe mp t
from subj ec tiv i t y, and if that reader takes in wh ate ver the his tor i an writes and be l i e ves impl i citly in its
l i te ral trut h, in this case the reader has been dup ed. The writin gs of the “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i an are
no more inh e rently trut h ful than the pronounce m e n ts of the “t rad i ti on al do g m ati c” theolo gi an, the spec-
ul ati ons of the ph ilo s oph e r, or the im agin ati ons of the poet.
Is the aut h or su g ge s ting that the reader re m a in in a state of perpetual disbe l i ef, of profound and un al-
te rable ske p ti cism? Not at all. It is in to this breach that the Man i fe s tati on of God steps, with comm and-
ing aut h or i t y, for He alone can lead us all to the St raight Pat h, and re pl ace our con fu si on and ignorance
with unde rs tand ing and truth. The Man i fe s tati on of God chan ges his tory, and one of the ways in wh i c h
1 2 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
He effec ts that chan ge is through His creative in te r pre tati on of the pa s t. His re- c reati on of the past, and
H is creati on of the present and fut ure become, for His followe rs and for their unbe l i e v ing nei g hb ors a s
we ll, the stand ard by which reality can be dis tin g u is h ed from unreal i t y, true his tory from fictive his tory.
In another essay, the present aut h or has exam in ed the do c t r ine of the Most Great Infall ibility [‘iß m at
al-k ub r á], which de si g n ates the Man i fe s tati on of God as the fore most in te r pre ter of his tor i cal eve n ts.
Br i efl y, Bahá’u’ lláh makes the follow ing claim, in var i ous of His Tabl e ts:
K now thou that the term ‘I n fall ibil i t y’ hath num e rous mean in gs and dive rs stati on s. In on e
sense it is appl i cable to the One Whom God hath made immune from error. Sim il arly it is
appl i ed to eve ry soul wh om God hath guarded aga inst sin, tran sg re s si on, rebe ll i on, impi e t y,
d isbe l i ef and the like. Howe ve r, the Most Great Infall ibility [‘iß m at al-k ub r á] is con f in ed to the
One Whose stati on is imm ea surably exalted be yond ord in ances or proh ibi ti ons and is sanc ti-
f i ed from errors and om is si on s. Inde ed He is a Light which is not followed by darkness and a
Tr uth not ove r taken by error.
We re He to pronounce water to be wine or heaven to be earth or light to be fire, He speake t h
the truth and no doubt would there be ab out it; and un to no one is given the right to que s ti on
H is aut h ority or to say why or wh e refore. Whosoever ra iseth obj ec ti ons will be numbe red with
the froward in the Book of God, the Lord of the world s...1
He Who is the Daw n in g-pl ace of God’s Cause hath no partner in the Most Great Infall ibil i t y
[‘iß m at al-k ub r á]. He it is Who, in the kin gdom of creati on, is the Man i fe s tati on of “He do e t h
wh ats o e ver He will e t h .” God hath re s e rved this dis tinc ti on un to His own Self, and ord a in ed
for none a share in so subl ime and tran s ce ndent a stati on. This is the Dec ree of God, conceal ed
e re now within the veil of imp e n e t rable mys te ry. We have dis c lo s ed it in this Re ve l ati on, and
h ave thereby rent a sunder the veils of such as have fa il ed to reco g n ize that which the Book of
God set forth and who we re numbe red with the heedl e s s.2
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá expl a in ed this pr inci ple and the ac t u al ve rse (K47) of the Ki t á b -i-A qdas in Som e
A n s we red Que s ti on s,3 of which a short excerpt is ci ted here:
It is sa id in the holy ve rs e: ‘T h e re is no partner for Him Who is the Days pr ing of Re ve l ati on
in His Most Great Infall ibility [‘iß m at al-k ub r á]. He is, in trut h, the Exp onent of ‘God do e t h
wh ats o e ver He will e t h’ in the kin gdom of creati on. Inde ed the Almighty hath exc lu sive l y
re s e rved this stati on for Himself and to none is given a share in this subl ime and highly exalt-
ed dis tinc ti on .’
K now that in fall ibility [‘iß m at] is of two kind s: essenti al in fall ibility [‘iß m at-i- dhá tiyy ih] and
ac qu ired in fall ibility [‘iß m at-i-sa f á tiyy ih]. In like manner there is essenti al knowl ed ge [‘ilm-i-
dhá tí] and ac qu ired knowl ed ge [‘ilm-i-sa f á tí ]; and so it is with other names and at t r ibute s.
E s s e n ti al in fall ibility [‘iß m at-i- dhá tiyy ih] is pecul i ar to the un ive rsal Man i fe s tati on [m az h ar-i-
k ullí ], for it is His essenti al re qu irement, and an essenti al re qu irement cannot be separated
from the thing its e l f...
In short, the mean ing of “He doeth wh ats o e ver He will e t h” is that if the Man i fe s tati on says
s om e t h in g, or gives a comm and, or performs an ac ti on, and be l i e ve rs do not unde rs tand its
w is dom, they still ought not to oppose it by a single thought, seeking to know why He spoke
s o, or why He did such a thin g. The other souls who are under the shadow of the supre m e
Man i fe s tati ons are sub m is sive to the comm andm e n ts of the Law of God, and are not to de v i-
ate as much as a hairsb readth from it; they must con form their ac ts and words to the Law of
God. If they do de v i ate from it, they will be held re s p on sible and re proved in the pre s e nce of
God. It is ce r ta in that they have no share in the permis si on “He doeth wh ats o e ver He will e t h,”
for this cond i ti on is pecul i ar to the supreme Man i fe s tati on s.
Shoghi Effe ndi has further expl a in ed the essenti al nat ure of this do c t r ine of the Most Great
I n fall ibility of the Man i fe s tati on of God, as found here in a letter written on his be h alf to an ind iv id-
u al Bahá’í :
1 2 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 2 3
Regard ing your Bahá’í fr i e nd who does not fully unde rs tand the in fall ibility of the
Man i fe s tati on of God: You should in flue nce that pers on to study the mat ter more de e pl y, and
to real ize that the wh ole theory of Div ine Re ve l ati on re s ts on the in fall ibility of the Proph e t ,
be He Chr ist, Muh amm ad, Bahá’u’ lláh, or one of the ot h e rs. If They are not in fall ible, then
They are not div ine, and thus lose that essenti al link with God wh i c h, we be l i e ve, is the bond
t h at educates men and causes all hum an pro g re s s.
Of course, it could be claim ed that the Most Great Infall ibility of the Man i fe s tati on of God does not
cover que s ti ons of his tory. Let us begin with wh at Bahá’u’ lláh has written in refe re nce to this mat te r. In
two pa s sages from Law ˙ -i-H ikm at [Tablet of Wis dom] Bahá’u’ lláh de s c r ibes the manner in which He has
become in for m ed of his tor i cal pers on al i ties and eve n ts re p or ted in that Tabl e t:
T h ou knowest full we ll that We perused not the books which men possess and We ac qu ired not
the lear n ing [‘ulú m i] cur rent amon gst them, and yet wh e n e ver We de sire to quote the say in gs
of the lear n ed [al-‘ul am á’] and the wise [al-huk am á’], presently there will app ear before the face
of thy Lord [rabb ak a] in the form of a tablet [law ˙] all that which hath app eared in the world
[al-‘ál am] and is re veal ed in the Holy books [al-k ut ub] and Scriptures [al-z ubur]. Thus do We set
down in writing that which the eye perceiveth. Ve r ily His knowl ed ge [‘ilmuhu] encompa s s e t h
the earth and the heave n s.
T h is is a Tablet wh e rein the Pen of the Unseen hath in s c r ibed the knowl ed ge of all that hat h
been and shall be —a knowl ed ge that none other but My wondrous Ton g ue can in te r pre t. Inde ed
My heart as it is in itself hath been purged by God from the conce p ts of the lear n ed and is
sanc ti f i ed from the ut te rances of the wis e. In truth naught doth it mir ror forth but the re ve-
l ati ons of God. Unto this beareth witness the Ton g ue of Grandeur in His pers pi cuous Book.
Say, O people of the earth! Be ware lest any refe re nce to wis dom deb ar you from its Source or
w i t hh old you from the Daw n in g-P l ace thereof. Fix your hear ts up on your Lord, the Educator,
the All-Wis e.
In eve ry land We have set up a lum in ary of knowl ed ge, and when the time foreord a in ed is at
h and, it will shine re s pl e ndent ab ove its hor iz on, as dec re ed by God, the All-K now in g, the All-
Wis e. If it be Our Will We are fully capable of de s c r ibing for thee wh ate ver exis teth in eve ry
l and or hath come to pass therein. Inde ed the knowl ed ge of thy Lord pervadeth the heavens and
the ear t h .5
In another of His Tabl e ts, publ is h ed in a compil ati on enti t l ed ‘I s hr á qá t (not to be con fu s ed with His
Tablet call ed Ishr á qá t), Bahá’u’ lláh speci f i cally refe rs to the Most Great Infall ibility in re l ati on to the
c h arac te r iz ati on of an his tor i cal event in the Wr i tin gs of the Bá b :
qulná ita qi alláh va lá ta’tar id ’alá man zayan ahu’ lláh bi- al-’iß m at al-k ubrá va is m á’at al-husná va
si f á tit al-‘ulu yá miz á vár ‘ibád ánkih mashar iq-i- amr iláhí rá ta s d iq nam á yand dar ánc h ih az ú
z ah ir shavad chih kih bih mu q ta siyá t-i-h ikm at-i-bál i g h ih ah adí juz z-i-haqq ágáh nah ya f’alu
m á y is há’ va yahk umu má yuríd va hu va al-mu q tad ir u’ l-qadír
A prov isi on al tran s l ati on of these ve rses, at te mp ted by Dr. Iskand ar Hai and the present aut h or, in
coll ab orati on with Dr. Robert Sto c km an, Dr. Mu’in Afn an i, and other Bahá’í schol ars at te nd ing the 1999
‘I r f án Colloqu i um at the Louhelen Bahá’í School is as follows:
We sa id un to them: Fear ye God, and con te nd not with the One Whom God hath ador n ed with
the Most Great Infall ibil i t y, [w i t h] Exce llent Names and Exalted At t r ibute s! It be h o oveth the
s e rvan ts [m ankind] to te s tify to the truth of wh ats o e ver pro ce edeth from the Daw n in g-pl ace of
the Cause of God, for none save God knoweth the exi ge ncies of con summ ate wis dom. He do e t h
wh ats o e ver He will e t h, and dec reeth wh ats o e ver He de sireth. He is the Alm i g h t y, the Mo s t
Powe r ful .
In one of His Tabl e ts, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has a ff ir m ed the same pr inci ple, that is, the accuracy of
the his tor i cal witness of the Man i fe s tati on of God:

Lights of ‘Irf á n
N e vertheless, Holy Writ [n a s s-i-iláh iyy ih] is aut h or i tative [amr-i-m ahtúm a s t], and with it no
h is tory of the world can compare, for exp e r i e nce hath shown that a fter in ve s ti gati on of the
fac ts [tah arri haqíqat] and a thorough study of ancient records and cor rob orative evide nce, all
h ave refe r red back to the Holy Scriptures [nu s ú s-i-iláh iyy ih]. The most imp or tant thing is to
e s tabl ish the val idity of God’s un ive rsal Man i fe s tati on [m az h ar-i-k ullí -yi iláhí] ; once His claim
proveth true, then wh ats o e ver He may choose to say is right and cor rec t.
Shoghi Effe nd i, in refe re nce to the his tor i cal views set forth in the writin gs of the eminent Bahá’í
s c h ol ar, Mírzá Abú’ l-Fa ∂l Gulpayganí, and in compar is on with the state m e n ts of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (here
call ed, the Ma s te r), has given the follow ing in te r pre tati on :
Shoghi Effe ndi wishes to emph a size that wh at is truly aut h or i tative are the Ma s te r’s word s. In
all such cases we should try and find out wh at He has sa id and abide by His words, even thou g h
they seem con fl i c ting with the find in gs of mo dern schol ars.8
Fin all y, the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce direc ted its Sec re tar i at to write the follow ing letter with ref-
e re nce to this ve ry topi c:
We have been a s ked to say that there is not h ing in the Bahá’í writin gs to supp ort the conc lu si on
t h at the re ve l ati on of a Man i fe s tati on of God is con f in ed to an exp o si ti on of ‘value s’ or that
the in fall ibility of the Proph e ts does not exte nd to and inc lude the area of his tor i cal and sci e n-
tific ‘fac t.’ On the con t rary, in Some Answe red Que s ti ons, pp. 28 –29, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá poin ts out
t h at when the Qur’án was re veal ed, it con ta in ed ve rses expl a in ing the movement of the stars
and pl an e ts in the un ive rs e. Because these state m e n ts disag re ed with the establ is h ed theories of
the time, the ve rses we re rid i cul ed by all the mat h e m ati ci ans who “at t r ibuted the theory to igno-
rance.” ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá goes on to say that it was not un til 900 years late r, when the te l e s cope wa s
in ve n ted, that the val idity of Mu ˙ amm ad’s state m e n ts on this subj ect was prove n .9
Now that the re l e vancy of the Bahá’í do c t r ine of the Most Great Infall ibility in re l ati on to his tory has
been establ is h ed, we will begin our study of the specific chronolo gi cal is sues under con side rati on. The
L aw ˙ -i-H ikm at was addre s s ed by Bahá’u’ lláh to Áqá Mu ˙ amm ad Qá’iní, sur n am ed Nabíl-i-A kb ar, an
e m inent teacher of the Bahá’í Faith memor i al iz ed by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.10 L aw ˙ -i-H ikm at was recently pub-
l is h ed in the or i gin al Arabi c11 and in an English tran s l ati on pre pared under the au s pi ces of the Unive rsal
House of Ju s ti ce.12 T h is Tablet cove rs a wide selec ti on of topics, and will be stud i ed for many ce n t ur i e s
to com e. In this paper we will be conce r n ed with a ve ry brief excerpt from Law ˙ -i-H ikm at, perta in in g
to the in flue nce of two div in e l y-in s pired Heb rew proph e ts up on two ancient Greek ph ilo s oph e rs. We will
begin with the follow ing ve rses, as they establ ish the con te xt for the excerpt under exam in ati on :
When the eyes of the people of the East we re cap tivated by the ar ts and wonde rs of the We s t ,
they roved dis t raught in the wilderness of mate r i al causes, obl iv i ous of the One Who is the
Cause of Causes, and the Su s ta iner thereof, wh ile such men as we re the source and we ll s pr in g
of Wis dom never de n i ed the mov ing impulse be h ind these causes, nor the Creator of the or i-
gin thereof. Thy Lord knowe t h, yet most of the people know not.13
In this brief statement, Bahá’u’ lláh has de s c r ibed the basic methodolo gy of all We s tern academic and
s ci e n tific schol ars h i p, inc lud ing “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i o g raph y. This approach to schol arship rove s
“d is t raught in the wilderness of mate r i al causes, obl iv i ous of the One Who is the Causer of Cau s e s” wh il e
B ahá’u’ lláh’s visi on of his tory a ff irms the div ine or i gin of all those pro g re s sive ph e nomena which we in
the West have ide n ti f i ed as dis tinc tively hum an and civ il iz ed. Bahá’u’ lláh then expl a ins the pur p o s e
which an im ates His sub s e quent refe re nces to his tor i cal pers on age s:
Now We have, for the sake of God, the Lord of Names, set Ourself the task of menti on ing in
t h is Tablet some accoun ts of the sages [al-huk am á’], that the eyes of the people may be op e n ed
t h e reby and that they may become fully a s sured that He is in truth the Make r, the
O mn i p otent, the Creator, the Origin ator, the All-K now in g, the All-Wise [al-h akímu].
I mm ed i ately follow ing these ve rses, Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to the in flue nce of these “sage s” up on the “con-
te mp orary men of lear n in g.” He nce, He begins this sec ti on of the Tablet with two ge n e ral state m e n ts
1 2 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
regard ing “the sage s” and follows these up with specific state m e n ts ab out ind iv idu al Greek ph ilo s oph e rs.
H is purpose in menti on ing these accoun ts, is “t h at the eyes of the people may be op e n ed thereby and
t h at they may become fully a s sured that He is in truth the Make r, the Omn i p otent, the Creator, the
O r i gin ator, the All-K now in g, the All-Wis e.” And Who is “the Make r, the Omn i p otent, the Creator, the
O r i gin ator, the All-K now in g, the All-Wis e”? He is wh at Bahá’u’ lláh call ed, in the pre v i ous parag raph,
“the One Who is the Cause of Causes, and the Su s ta iner thereof.”
He pro ce eds in a sys te m atic manner with the gradu al un veil ing of that reality which unde rlies app ear-
ance s:
A lt h ough it is reco g n iz ed that the con te mp orary men of lear n ing [huk am á’] are highly qu al i-
f i ed in ph ilo s ophy [al-h ikm at], ar ts and cra fts [al-san á’i’], yet we re an yone to ob s e rve with a
d is c r im in ating eye he would read ily compre h e nd that most of this knowl ed ge [‘ilm] hath be e n
ac qu ired from the sages of the past [huk am á’ al-qabl i], for it is they who have laid the found a-
ti on of ph ilo s ophy [a s ása’ l-h ikm at], reared its struc t ure and rein forced its pill ars. Thus doth thy
L ord, the Ancient of Days, in form thee.14
At the conc lu si on of this parag raph, Bahá’u’ lláh in forms His reader of the source of His word s: “T hu s
doth thy Lord, the Ancient of Days, in form thee.” This is not a hum an voi ce te ll ing stories, which the
l is tener or reader can take with a gra in of salt or disbe l i e ve alto ge t h e r. This is the voi ce of God speak-
in g. From the div ine pers p ec tive, the fund am e n tals of pre s e n t- d ay ph ilo s oph y, ar ts and cra fts we re estab-
l is h ed by the Greek sages, hence credit for “ar ts and wonde rs of the We s t” should go to them rather than
to their heirs, the We s tern Europ ean s. If He had stopp ed here, we might have conc lud ing that Bahá’u’ lláh
was a ff ir m ing the value of an old-fa s h i on ed ar is to c ratic We s tern Europ ean educati on in the Greek and
Rom an classi c s. Howe ve r, in this Tablet, Bahá’u’ lláh gradu ally re veals the pat te r n, the warp and wo of of
a vast and magi cal carpet which is ut te rly un fam il i ar to us in the We s t. That carpet is not an Oriental
fan ta s y_it claims to be not h ing less than the true nat ure of thin gs in themselve s.
At this point in the Tablet, Bah a’u’ ll ah in t ro duces a link which expl a ins why He has set Himself “t h e
task of menti on ing in this Tablet some accoun ts of the sage s” and how this may ful f ill His purpose, “t h at
the eyes of the people may be op e n ed thereby and that they may become fully a s sured that He is in trut h
the Make r”:
The sages a fore time ac qu ired their knowl ed ge [al-‘ulú m] from the Proph e ts [al- anbiyá’], in a s-
much as the lat ter we re the Exp on e n ts of div ine ph ilo s ophy [al-h ikm at al-iláh iyyat] and the
Re veal e rs of heave nly mys te r i e s. Men qu a ffed the crys tal, liv ing wate rs of Their ut te rance ,
wh ile ot h e rs satisf i ed themselves with the dregs. Eve ryone receiveth a por ti on accord ing to his
m ea sure. Ve r ily He is the Equ i table, the Wise [al-h akímu].15
T h is statement, com ing not from a mere mor tal, but rat h e r, accord ing to Bahá’u’ lláh, from the voi ce
of God Himself (as the pre v i ous parag raph pro c l a im s: “T hus doth thy Lord, the Ancient of Days, in for m
t h e e” ), fir mly establ ishes the source and found ati on of div ine ph ilo s oph y, impl y ing this div ine knowl-
ed ge was first re veal ed by God to His Man i fe s tati ons, and a ff ir m ing that it was then taught by the
Proph e ts to the ph ilo s oph e rs. That is, true “m e taph ysi c s” or i gin ated not in the ph ilo s oph e rs themselve s ,
but in the efful ge nces of God’s trut h, received by the Man i fe s tati on s. After establ is h ing this, Bahá’u’ lláh
s tates that wh ile eve ry pers on perceives the real accord ing to his own pers on al mea sure and capaci t y, the
t r uth itself is from God and is inde p e ndent of the mea sure of men. He rei te rates both themes in the fol-
low ing ve rses, which brac ket the short parag raph we will shortly exam in e:
The essence and the fund am e n tals of ph ilo s ophy have eman ated from the Proph e ts [al- anbiyá’].
T h at the people differ conce r n ing the inner mean in gs and mys teries thereof is to be at t r ibuted
to the dive rge nce of their views and mind s.
In this pa s sage it seems that Bahá’u’ lláh has broade n ed His a s s e r ti on, claim ing in these ve rses that the
found ati ons of the entire field of ph ilo s oph y — not just div ine ph ilo s oph y, but mate r i al ph ilo s ophy a s
we ll — we re re veal ed to the Proph e ts and taught by them to the ph ilo s oph e rs. Pre v i ously in this Tabl e t
B ahá’u’ lláh has a ff ir m ed that pre s e n t- d ay “ph ilo s oph y, ar ts and cra fts” are based up on the found ati on s
1 2 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
of ph ilo s ophy establ is h ed by the “sage s.” He nce it can be seen that His statement here, ab out the entire-
ty of ph ilo s oph y, has ve ry broad impl i cati ons for our unde rs tand ing of the his tory of the sci e nces, ar ts
and cra fts, as we ll the field of ph ilo s oph y.
B ahá’u’ lláh ide n tifies the “Father of Philo s oph y” in yet another pa s sage from Law ˙ -i-H ikm at:
I will also menti on for thee the in vo cati on voi ced by Balínús who was fam il i ar with the theo-
ries put forward by the Father of Philo s ophy regard ing the mys teries of creati on as given in his
c hrys ol i te tabl e ts...17
The Father of Philo s oph y, accord ing to Islamic his tor i cal trad i ti on, is Idrís, who is also call ed
He r m e s.18 In the Law ˙ -i-B a s ít u’ l-Ha q íqat (Tablet on the Uncomp ounded Real i t y), Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to this
Father of Philo s oph y, this time by nam e:
The first pers on who de voted himself to ph ilo s ophy was Idrís. Thus was he nam ed. Some call ed
h im also He r m e s. In eve ry ton g ue he hath a speci al nam e. He it is who hath set forth in eve ry
b ranch of ph ilo s ophy thorough and con v incing state m e n ts.19
A nd who is Idrís? He is a Prophet of God, accord ing to the Qur’án (as we ll as Islamic his tor i-
cal trad i ti on, ci ted in Ke ven Brow n’s ar ti c l e) :
C omm e morate Idrís in the Book; for he was a man of truth [siddíqan], a prophet [n abiyyan];
A nd We upl i fted him to a lofty stati on .20
He nce, the first ph ilo s opher in eve ry branch of ph ilo s ophy is a Proph e t. This statement, that the
Father of Philo s ophy was a Prophet of God rather than a Greek sage, has re voluti on ary pote n ti al for the
in te r pre tati on of his tory and ph ilo s ophy al ike. This is par ti cul arly true with refe re nce to Greek ph ilo s-
oph y, which has hitherto been almost un ive rsally acc l a im ed as the “leave n” which enabl ed the mag n i f i-
cent ac h i e ve m e n ts of We s tern civ il iz ati on to “r ise up”from the midst of a motley coll ec ti on of ill i te rate
and blo o d-t h irsty “b arb ar i an s.” It tran sfe rs the glory from man to God, or, to be precise, from ce r ta in
ar is to c ratic Greek males to the Unknowable Essence. Bahá’u’ lláh lays con side rable stress on this prove-
n ance, and, as elsewh e re in His Wr i tin gs, up on man’s de p e nde nce up on the Re ve l ati on of God for all
t r ue knowl ed ge and wis dom :
For eve ry land We have pre s c r ibed a por ti on, for eve ry occa si on an allot ted share, for eve ry
pronouncement an app oin ted time and for eve ry si t u ati on an apt re m ark. Con sider Gre ece. We
m ade it a Seat of Wis dom [kurs í yya’ l-h ikm at] for a prolon ged period. Howe ve r, when the
app oin ted hour struc k, its throne was sub ve r ted, its ton g ue cea s ed to speak, its light grew dim
and its banner was haul ed down. Thus do We be s tow and withdraw. Ve r ily thy Lord is He Who
giveth and dive s te t h, the Mi g h t y, the Powe r ful .
Now that the ove rall con te xt of Bahá’u’ lláh’s refe re nces to the his tory of ph ilo s ophy has been dis cu s s ed ,
we will turn our at te n ti on to the specific ve rses which are the subj ect of this par ti cul ar pap e r. In be twe e n
H is statement that the Proph e ts “we re the Exp on e n ts of div ine ph ilo s oph y” and His a ff ir m ati on that the
“e s s e nce and the fund am e n tals of ph ilo s ophy have eman ated from the Proph e ts” Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to two
Greek ph ilo s oph e rs and two Heb rew proph e ts as examples of this mo de of tran s m is si on :
inna abíd a q lísa’ l-l adh iy i-s h tah ara fí ’ l-h ikm at kána fí zam ani dáúda wa-fít há g húritha fí zam an i
sul ay- mána ibni dáúda wa akh adh a’ l-h ikm ata min ma’d in i’ l- nubu wwati wa hu wa’ l-l adhí zann a
ann ahu sam i’a hafífa’ l-fal aki wa-b al agha maqám a’ l-m al aki inna rabb aka yufa s silu kulla amr inn
idhá shá’a inn ahu lahu wa’ l-‘alímu’ l-muh ít u22
E mp edocles, who dis tin g u is h ed himself in ph ilo s oph y, was a con te mp orary of Dav id, wh il e
P y t h agoras lived in the days of Solomon, son of Dav id, and ac qu ired Wis dom from the trea-
sury of prophethood. It was he who claim ed to have heard the wh is p e r ing sound of the heav-
ens and to have at ta in ed the stati on of an- ge l s. In truth thy Lord will clearly set forth all
t h in gs, if He pl easeth. Ve r il y, He is the Wise, the All-Pe rvad- in g.23
Abíd a q lísa (also written Anb adu q lís, Bandu q lís, Abídu q l is, Abídhu q lís, and Anbádu q l is in the source s
con sulted) is the Arabic tran s c r i p ti on for the name of a famous Greek ph ilo s oph e r, known to We s te r n
1 2 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
reade rs as Emp edo c l e s. The op e n ing phrase of this sec ti on ind i cates that Emp edocles was re now n ed in
“ph ilo s oph y” [hikm at] and that he lived in the “tim e” [z am an] of Dav id. Which Dav id? This is clar i f i ed
in the second sente nce. The second sente nce states that Pythagoras (t ran s c r ibed in to Arabic as Fít há g hú r is
and here as Fít há g hú r i t h a), another Greek ph ilo s oph e r— whose Pythagorean theorem and mu sic of the
s ph e res have pre s e rved his memory for schoolc h ildren throu g h out the world — was liv ing in the “tim e”
[z am an] of Solomon, the son of Dav id. His tory has a record of only one Solomon, son of Dav id, these
to gether being two kin gs of Israel, de s c r ibed in the Books of Kin gs (I, II) and Books of Chronicles (I ,
I I ), as found in both the Heb rew and the Greek ve rsi ons of the Bibl e. Another record of these two kin gs ,
in which they are de s c r ibed as proph e ts of God, is found in the Qur’án .
Before we pro ce ed any further with this an al ysis, we must exam ine the mean ing of “tim e” [z am an]. In
ge n e ral, the Arabic word is tran s l ated as “time; period; stre tch of time; durati on,”
24 and as used by
Pe rsi ans the word means “time; sea s on; for t une; cal am i t y.”
25 I n a s much as a par ti cul ar Greek ph ilo s oph e r
is a s s o ci ated in time with Dav id, and then another Greek ph ilo s opher with Solomon, the son of Dav id ,
it seems that Bahá’u’ lláh was using [z am an] in the sense of “ge n e rati on”— re l ating Emp edocles to Dav id’s
ge n e rati on and Pythagoras to Solomon’s ge n e rati on. In a letter written on be h alf of Shoghi Effe ndi and
d ated 15 Feb r u ary 1947,
26 the Gu ard i an gave his def in i ti on of [z am an], as follows: “We must not take this
s tatement too lite rall y; con te mp orary may have been meant in Pe rsi an as som e t h ing far more elastic than
the English word .” Other than this brief refe re nce, there does not seem to be an aut h or iz ed in te r pre ta-
ti on of this term in the Tabl e ts of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and the lette rs of Shoghi Effe nd i .
Before we pro ce ed any further with this in qu iry, let us con sider wh at is at is sue. First of all ,
B ahá’u’ lláh has a ff ir m ed that Emp edocles preceded Pythagoras, even as Dav id preceded his fat h e r,
S olomon. Accord ing to “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i ans, the cor rect dating of Emp edocles is circa
445 –441 B.C.E., and Pythagoras circa 540–536 B.C.E, with Pythagoras preced ing Emp edocles by near-
ly a ce n t ury. While Bahá’u’ lláh has not ind i cated the his tor i cal epoch in which Emp edocles and
P y t h agoras lived, He has Emp edocles preced ing Pythagoras by a ge n e rati on. These two visi ons of his-
tory are in con t rad i c ti on to each ot h e r. Secondl y, Bahá’u’ lláh has sti pul ated that Emp edocles lived dur-
ing the time of Dav id, and Pythagoras in the time of Solomon. Accord ing to the chronolo gies acce p t-
ed by most “t rad i ti on al” Jewish and Chr is ti an his tor i ans, as we ll as the calcul ati ons of “mo dern aca-
de m i c” his tor i ans, Dav id and Solomon lived in the 11–10th ce n t uries B.C.E. A sampl ing of con te m-
p orary his tor i cal chronolo gies is as follows: Dav id lived circa 1040–970 B.C.E. and Solomon lived circa
tenth ce n t ury B.C . E . ;27 Dav id lived circa 1001–986 B.C.E., and Solomon in 965-931 B.C . E . ;28 Dav id
r ul ed 1055 –1015 B.C . E . ,29 and rul ed Solomon star ting either in 1025, 1015, 1009 or 990 B.C.E. for a
period of forty years.30 W h ile Bahá’u’ lláh does not ide n tify the epoch in which Dav id and Solomon
rei g n ed, if it we re to ag ree with that which is almost un ive rsally adh e red to by all his tor i ans of the
East and the West, then it would ob v i ously disag ree with the “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i ans on anot h-
er score, in a s much as Emp edocles is dated by them to the sixth ce n t ury, and Pythagoras to the fift h
ce n t ury B.C . E .
These con t rad i c ti ons be tween the chronolo gy of Bahá’u’ lláh on the one hand and “mo dern acade m i c”
h is tor i ans on the other would not be troubl ing to Bahá’ís if Bahá’u’ lláh had not claim ed to be div in e l y
in s pired with the Most Great Infall ibility [‘iß m at al-k ub r á], and if ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe ndi had
not in te r pre ted this to mean that eve ry word written by Bahá’u’ lláh is un e r r ing and in fall ibly guided .
N e vertheless, if ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá or Shoghi Effe ndi had allowed for a symb olic in te r pre tati on of this pa s sage
from Law ˙ -i-H ikm at, this con t rad i c ti on could be re s ol ved without chall e n ging Bahá’í schol ars to recon-
sider the “t rad i ti on al” chronolo gies and the conc lu si ons of “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i ans as they re l ate
to the ancient his tory of Greek ph ilo s oph e rs and Heb rew proph e ts.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has written at least two Tabl e ts in expl an ati on of some of the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh
con ta in ed in Law ˙ -i-H ikm at. One is a comm e n tary on ce r ta in ve rses of this Tablet which perta in to co s-
molo gi cal que s ti ons, and is enti t l ed Sharh Law ˙ -i-H ikm at.31 The second, enti t l ed Law ˙ -i-Mubárak dar
bár ih-yi taváríkh-i-falási fah (s h or te n ed here to Law ˙ -i-Falása f ih), was aut h ored in 1906, in re s p onse to
the que s ti ons of Miss Ethel J. Ro s e nbe rg, an early Br i tish be l i e ve r, and this Tablet is almost entire l y
taken up with an expl an ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh’s chronolo gy of ph ilo s oph e rs and proph e ts in Law ˙ -i-
1 2 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
H ikm at (7). For the purposes of our close exam in ati on of this topic, a por ti on of Law ˙ -i-Falási fah will
be ci ted in its publ is h ed English tran s l ati on :
As to wh at thou didst ask regard ing the his tory of the ph ilo s oph e rs: his tory, pr i or to Alexande r
of Gre ece ,
32 is ext remely con fu s ed, for it is a fact that only a fter Alexander did his tory becom e
an orde rly and sys te m atiz ed dis ci pl in e...
W h e refore ye should not be sur pr is ed that the Tablet of Wis dom is in con flict with the his-
tor i cal accoun ts. It be h oveth one to refl ect awh ile on the great dive rsity of opin i on among the
h is tor i ans, and their con t rad i c tory accoun ts: for the his tor i ans of East and West are much at
o dds, and the Tablet of Wis dom [ L aw ˙ -i-H ikm at] was written in accord ance with ce r ta in his to-
ries of the Ea s t...
N e vertheless, Holy Writ [n a s s-i-iláh iyy ih] is aut h or i tative [amr-i-m ahtúm a s t], and with it no
h is tory of the world can compare, for exp e r i e nce hath shown that a fter in ve s ti gati on of the
fac ts [tah arri haqíqat] and a thorough study of ancient records and cor rob orative evide nce, all
h ave refe r red back to the Holy Scriptures [nu s ú s-i-iláh iyy ih]. The most imp or tant thing is to
e s tabl ish the val idity of God’s un ive rsal Man i fe s tati on [m az h ar-i-k ullí -yi iláh í ]; once His claim
proveth true, then wh ats o e ver He may choose to say is right and cor rec t.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá a ff irms two poin ts in this Tablet in refe re nce to Law ˙ -i-H ikm at: first, that “the Tablet of
Wis dom was written in accord ance with ce r ta in his tories of the Ea s t” (it is not stated that it was writte n
in accord ance with all Ea s tern his tor i e s); and second, that “Holy Writ [n a s s-i-iláhí] is aut h or i tative, and
with it no his tory of the world can compare_they can never hold their own aga inst Holy Writ [n a s s-i-iláh í ].”
L aw ˙ -i-Falása f ih is written in Pe rsi an, and alt h ough “n a s s” is an Arabic word, we have sought its mean-
in gs in Pe rsi an. One of those mean in gs of “n a s s” is “the Qur’án”33 and “nu s ú s” is the plural of “n a s s.”34
Howe ve r, in a s much as ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá refe rs to “his tor i cal accoun ts” in Law ˙ -i-Falási fah using the te r m
“n a s ú s-i-t áríkh iyy ih” it seems that “n a s s-i-iláhí” should be tran s l ated employ ing a diffe rent mean ing of
“n a s s ,” namely “te xt, word in g”,33 and hence as “d iv ine te xt” or, as re nde red by the Re s earch Depar t m e n t ,
“Holy Wr i t.” It is clear, from ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s choi ce of words, that He is not refe r r ing here to the aut h or i-
ty and trut h fulness of the Heb rew Scriptures, which He de nom in ates “taw r á t” (Torah) in the same Tabl e t ,
or even to the Qur’án (which He would have refe r red to by nam e), but to the Wr i tin gs of all the Proph e ts
of God. Inasmuch as ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (and Miss Ro s e nbe rg, the reci pient of this Tabl e t) reco g n iz ed Bahá’u’ lláh
as a Prophet of God, and His Wr i tin gs as “Holy Wr i t” [n a s s-i-iláh í ], it is then evident that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
regarded the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh as “aut h or i tative” [amr-i-m ahtúm a s t], and therefore “wh ato s e ver He
m ay choose to say is right and cor rec t.” In short, we may in fer from this ge n e ral statement, that ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá has stated categor i cally (alt h ough not word for word) that the pa ir ing of Emp edocles with Dav id and
P y t h agoras with Solomon, son of Dav id “is right and cor rec t” even though it con fl i c ts with the views of
all We s tern his tor i ans and inde ed with those of some Ea s tern his tor i ans as we ll .
In Law ˙ -i-Falási fah we find ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá a ff ir m ing the follow in g: “The most imp or tant thing is to
e s tabl ish the val idity of God’s un ive rsal Man i fe s tati on [m az h ar-i-k ullí -yi iláh í ]; once His claim prove t h
t r ue, then wh ats o e ver He may choose to say is right and cor rec t.” This statement pre supposes that it is
p o s sible, nay, essenti al, to “e s tabl ish the val id i t y” of the Prophet, and in so rul in g, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá links this
Tablet with His many talks and Tabl e ts which refer to the obj ec tive pro ofs of prophethood, and the ful-
f illment of those pro ofs by Bahá’u’ lláh, as we ll as by Moses, Jesus, Muh amm ad and other un ive rsal
Man i fe s tati ons of God. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá a s s e r ts that these pro ofs and evide nces are in ag reement with sci-
e nce and rea s on, inde ed, that they con s ti t ute elements of a div ine sci e nce, a div ine ph ilo s oph y, which is
the complement of ph ysi cal sci e nce and mate r i al ph ilo s oph y, and the help-meet of re veal ed re l i gi on. It is
e m inently rea s on able to assert, the aut h or would su g gest, that a Prophet has access to inn ate knowl ed ge
which enables Him to see thin gs as they are and in themselves, rather than to re m a in lim i ted to the kind s
of knowl ed ge ava il able to nor m al hum an bein gs, and that He should be reco g n iz ed as being endowed
with this sup e rhum an gi ft if He ful f ills the pro ofs of prophethood which have been establ is h ed as appl y-
ing to all aut h e n tic Proph e ts of God. He nce, on this point as we ll, it seems to the present aut h or that
the Bahá’í pr inci ple of the har mony of re l i gi on with sci e nce and rea s on has been a ff ir m ed by ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá in Law ˙ -i-Falási fah rather than comprom is ed in the least de ta il .
1 2 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
The present paper will not dis cuss the pro ofs and evide nces of prophethood, or in ve s ti gate the
c l a ims of Bahá’u’ lláh and His ful f illment of those pro ofs and evide nce s. Nor will it explore His
proph e tic faculty of inn ate and in fall ible knowl ed ge and unde rs tand in g. Howe ve r, it will ide n ti f y
s ome of the “Ea s tern his tor i e s” to which ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá refe r red in Law ˙ -i-Falási fah when He ind i cated
t h at ce r ta in of those his tories we re in ag reement with the chronolo gy of ph ilo s oph e rs and Proph e ts
found in Bahá’u’ lláh’s Law ˙ -i-H ikm at ‘Abdu’ l-Hamíd Ishráq Khá varí re p or ted in his book,
Muhád ir á t ,
35 t h at wh at Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed regard ing Emp edocles and Pythagoras in Law ˙ -i-H ikm at
was menti on ed in “A l-Mil al wa’ l-N ih al” of [1] Abu-Fath al-S h ahra s t ání (1076–1153) and in the “Ta’ríkh
Mu’tab ar wa Shahú r” [apparently the same work as “Kitáb al-Mukh ta sar fí akhb ar al-b a s h ar”] of [2]
‘I m ámu’d-D ín Abú’ l-Fid a’ (1273–1331). Ishráq Khá varí quotes pa s sages from Abú’ l-Fid a’ (pp. 154, lin e s
3–5; 152, lines 15 –17) which perta in to Emp edocles and Pythagoras, and in the second of these two
ci tati ons Abú’ l-Fid a’ is quoting Al-S h ahra s t ání. Ishráq Khá varí does not state that Bahá’u’ lláh quoted
A l-S h ahra s t ání or Abú’ l-Fid a’ in Law ˙ -i-H ikm at. Appare n t l y, he was leav ing his reader to draw his ow n
conc lu si on s.
In his ar ticle, “Problems of Chronolo gy in Bahá’u’ lláh’s Tablet of Wis dom,”
36 J.R.I. Cole noted a con-
n ec ti on be tween the his tor i cal accoun ts of Al-S h ahra s t ání and Abú’ l-Fid a’ and the Law ˙ -i-H ikm at of
B ahá’u’ lláh. J.R.I. Cole stated that Al-S h ahra s t ání and Abú’ l-Fid a’ we re the sources for Bahá’u’ lláh’s ref-
e re nces to Emp edocles and Pythagoras, but went on to ind i cate that other Mu s l im his tor i ans had made
sim il ar state m e n ts, inc lud in g: [3] Sá’id ibn Ahm ad Sá’id Al-A nd alu si (1029 –1070 CE) in “Kitáb Tab a qá t
al-Um am”; [4] Jam álu’d-D ín al-Qi ftí (1172–1248), in “Ta’ríkh al-Huk um á”; and [5] Mu wa ffa qu’d-D ín ib n
Abí Usaybi’ah (1194–1270), in “Tab a qát al-Atbá.”
37 The aut h or of this paper found other Mu s l im his tor i-
ans who made sim il ar state m e n ts in their his tor i cal works, inc lud ing [6] Shams al-D ín al-S h ahrazú rí (d .
1200), in “Nuz h at al- arwáh wa-rawd at al- a fr áh” (36); and [7] Hájjí Khalífah (d. 1609), in “Kashf al-z unú n
fí a s ámí al-k ut ub wa’ l-funú n .”
38 In an inde p e ndent search for the writin gs of these med i e val Mu s l im his-
tor i ans, the aut h or was ve ry for t un ate in dis cove r ing the Arabic te xts of all of the ab ove in the hold in gs
of the New York Public Lib rary.
We will de mon s t rate the sim il arity be tween the words of Bahá’u’ lláh and those of the seven Mu s l im
h is tor i ans stud i ed by ci ting the or i gin al Arabi c:
inna abíd a q lísa’ l-l adh iy i-s h tah ara fí ’ l-h ikm ati kána fí zam ani dáúda (B ahá’u’ lláh, Law ˙ -i-
H ikm at, MG, p. 124)
b andu q lís fak ána fí zam ani dáúd al-n abí ‘al ayhi al- salám ‘alá má dh ikr u’ l-’ul am á’ bi-tawáríkh i
al-um am wa kána akh adh a’ l-h ikm ata ‘an lu q m áni bi’ l-s hám (A l-A nd alu si, “Kitáb Tab a qát al-
Um am,” p. 666)
anbádu q l is... k ána fí zam ani dáúd al-n abí ‘al ayhi al- salám mad aya il ayhi wa tal qiya minhu al-
‘ilm wa akh tal a fa ilá lu q m áni al-h akím (A l-S h ahra s t ání, “A l-Mil al wa’ l-N ih al ,” p. 359; Cole ed i-
ti on, vol. II, p. 132)
anbádu q l is...wa kána fí zam ani dáúd wa kána akh adh a’ l- hikm ata ‘an lu q m áni bi’ l-s hám wa qíl a
‘an sul ay m áni (A l-S h ahrazú rí, “Nuz h at al- arwáh wa-rawd at al- a fr áh,” folio 13)
abídhu q lís hadha fak ána fí zam ani dáúd al-n abí ‘al ayhi al- salám ‘alá má dh ikrahu’ l-‘ul am á’ bi-
tawáríkhi al-um am wa qíla an ahu akh adh a’ l-h ikm ata ‘an lu q m áni al-h akím bi’ l-s hám (A l-Qi ftí,
“Ta’ríkh al-Huk am á’,” pp. 12–13)
b andu q lís kána fí zam ani dáúd al-n abí ‘al ayhi al-salám ‘alá má dh ikrahu’ l-‘ul am á’ bi-tawáríkh i
al-um am wa kána akh adh a’ l-h ikm ata ‘an lu q m áni al-h akím bi’ l-s hám (Ibn Abí Usaybi’ah,
“Tab a qát al-Atbá’,” p. 61)
abídu q l is kána fí zam ani dáúd al-n abí (Abú’ l-Fid a’, “A l-Mukh ta sar fí akhb ar al-b a s h ar,” p. 152 ;
C ole ed i ti on, pp. 84– 85)
b andu q lís kána fí ‘asri dáúd ‘al ayhi al-salám (H ájjí Khalífah, “Kashf al-z unún fí a s ámí al-k ut ub
wa’ l-funú n,” p. 17)
1 2 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
A study of these pa s sages seems to ind i cate a ce r ta in con sis te ncy be tween all eight accoun ts, and
d irect quotati on of two of the accoun ts in ot h e rs source s. Sáid al-A nd alu si, in “Kitáb Tab a qát al-Um am”
is directly quoted in Jam álu’d-D ín Ibn al-Qi ftí, “Ta’ríkh al-Huk am á” (pp. 12-13; 15 –16) and in Ibn Abí
Usaybi’ah, “Tab a qát al-Atbá” (p. 61). The word ing of al-S h ahra s t ání ’s account, in “A l-Mil al wa’ l-N ih al” (p.
359) is markedly diffe rent from that found in Sá’id al-A nd alu si, alt h ough he like w ise writes “k ána fí
z am ani dáúd al-n abí ’al ayhi al-salám” and he ag rees with Sá’id that Emp edocles (wh om he styl e s
“A nbádu q lís” rather than “B andu q lís”) lear n ed from “Lu q m án”—s om e t h ing which is not at te s ted by
B ahá’u’ lláh in Law ˙ -i-H ikm at. Al-S h ahra s t ání ’s account is ci ted and quoted by Shams al-D ín al-
S h ahrazú rí in “Nuz h at al- arwáh wa-rawd at al- a fr áh,”
39 and by Abú’ l-Fid a’ in “A l-Mukh ta sar fí Akhb ar al-
B a s h ar” (p. 152). Al-S h ahrazú rí also ci tes al-Qi ftí in “Rawd at al-Afr áh .”
40 W h ile all of these his tor i an s
w r i te that Emp edocles “k ána fí zam ani dáúd” (E mp edocles lived in the time of Dav id), none of them ci te
the or i gin of this his tor i cal state m e n t. Al-A nd alu si and al-Qi ftí quote the And alu si an write r, Muh amm ad
bin ‘Abdu’ lláh Ibn Ma sar ra al-Jab alí Ibn Ma sar ra (883–931), and al-S h ahra s t ání quotes a mys te r i ous work
e n ti t l ed “Ár á’ al-Falási fah .”
41 Accord ing to S. M. Ste r n, Al-A nd alu si also seems to follow “A l-Ab ad ‘A l a’ l-
A hm ad” by al-‘A m irí,
42 and Stern also states that al-S h ahra s t ání uses the “Siwán al-H ikm at” of
Muh amm ad ibn Tah ír ibn Bahr ám al-Sijis t ání .
43 The last his tor i an ci ted, Hájjí Khalífah, “Kashf al-z unú n
fí a s ámí al-k ut ub wa’ l-funú n” (p. 17) alte rs one word in the sente nce refe r r ing to the life time of
E mp edocles, re pl acing [z am an] with [‘a s r], which is def in ed as “age, era, time; period; epoch.”
44 H ájj í
K h alífah does not ind i cate his source s. In Law ˙ -i-H ikm at, Bahá’u’ lláh uses the same te r m inolo gy as mo s t
of the his tor i ans ci ted, “k ána fí zam ani dáúd” rather than using the term [‘a s r] found in Khalífah (“k án a
fí ’asri dáúd” ).
At this point in time, it seems that we do not know any more than has been re p or ted in this pap e r
ab out the sources for these state m e n ts by the Mu s l im his tor i an s. What is clear is that Bahá’u’ lláh refe r red
to these his tories in ge n e ral, alt h ough it is by no means clear from His specific phra sing that He was ci t-
ing any of these his tories in par ti cul ar. Later in Law ˙ -i-H ikm at Bahá’u’ lláh writes that “wh e n e ver We
de sire to quote the say in gs of the lear n ed and of the wise, presently there will app ear before the face of
thy Lord in the form of a tablet all that which hath app eared in the world .”
45 It is clear that Bahá’u’ lláh
de l ibe rately chose to ci te the ge n e ral word ing of these his tor i cal accoun ts.
To con tinue with the pa s sage from Law ˙ -i-H ikm at, wh e re Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to Pythagoras, in Arabi c:
wa-fít há g húritha fí zam ani sul ay m ána ibni dáúda wa akh adh a’ l-h ikm ata min ma’d in i’ l-
nubu wwati wa hu wa’ l- ladhí zanna ann ahu sam i’a hafífa’ l-fal aki wa-b al agha maqám a’ l-m al aki
inna rabb aka yufa s silu kulla amr inn idhá shá’a inn ahu lahu wa’ l-’alímu’ l-muh ítu (B ahá’u’ lláh,
L aw ˙ -i-H ikm at, MG, p. 124)
A l-S h ahrazú rí ’s te xt on Pythagoras was in acce s sible to the aut h or of this pap e r; howe ve r, S. M. Ste r n
s tates (43) that Al-S h ahrazú rí quotes Al-S h ahra s t ání and Al-Qi ftí as we ll as other source s. Six of the
s e ven Mu s l im his tor i ans ci ted ab ove are once aga in brought in for compar is on :
fít há g hú r is fak ána ba’da band a qulís bi-z am án wa akh adh a’ l- hikm at ‘an a s há bi sul ay m án ban i
d áúd ‘al ay humá al-salám (A l-A nd alu si, “Kitáb Tab a qát al-Um am,” p. 667)
fít há g hú r is... k ána fí zam áni sul ay m án al-n abí ibn dáúd ‘al ay há al-salám qad akh adh a’ l-h ikm a-
ta min ma’d in i’ l- nub awwati wa hu wa’ l-h akímu al-f ád ilu dhú al-ra’ayu al-m atínu wa al-‘a q lu al-
ra s ínu yad’í inn ahu sháh ad a’ l- ‘awál ima al-‘ulu w iyyata bih is sihi wa had sihi wa bal agha fí al-r iyá-
d ati ilá an sam i’a hafífa’ l-fal aki wa wa sala ilá maqám i’ l-m al ak (A l-S h ahra s t ání, “A l-Mil al wa’ l-
N ih al ,” p. 365; Cole ve rsi on, vol. II, p. 132—ci ted in Cole, p. 31, n. 24)
fít há g hú r is... k ána ba’da abídhu q l is al-h akím bi-z am án wa akh adh a’ l-h ikm ata ‘an a s há bi
sul ay m áni bni dáúd al-n abí (A l-Qi ftí, “Ta’ríkh al-Huk am á’,” pp. 15, 258)
inna fít há g hú r is kána ba’da bandu q lís bi-z am án wa akh adh a’ l- hikm ata ‘an a s há bi sul ay m án i
bni dáúd ‘al ay h amá al-salám (Ibn Abí Usaybi’ah, “Tab a qát al-Atbá’,” p. 62)
fít há g hú r is fí zam áni sul ay m áni bni dáúd ‘am wa akh adh a’ l- hikm ata min ma’d in i’ l-nub awwati
wa kán at wa f á ti sul ay m áni bni dáúd li-m ad iyya kh am sa máyata (Abú’ l-Fid a’, “A l-Mukh ta sar fí
1 3 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
akhb ar al-b a s h ar,” p. 152; Cole ed i ti on, pp. 84– 85) thumma fít há g hú r is thumma suqrát thum-
ma a flátún (H ájjí Khalífah, “Kashf al-z unún fí a s ámí al-k ut ub wa’ l-funú n,” pp. 17–18)
In a comparative read ing of these te xts we noti ce imm ed i ately that al-A nd alu si ind i cates that
P y t h agoras “lear n ed wis dom” [akh adh a’ l-h ikm at] “from the compan i ons of Solomon” [‘an a s háb sul ay m án]
and that al-Qi ftí and Ibn Abí Usaybi’ah quote Al-A nd alu si’s statement to this effect almost ve rb atim. This
word ing is not found in Bahá’u’ lláh’s Law ˙ -i-H ikm at but it does app ear in a treatise written by ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá, enti t l ed “Ris ál iy-i-Mad an iyy ih”:
va dar taváríkhi muta’add ad ih madhkúr kih falási f ih-yi yú n án mithli fít há g húrith ak t h ari mas’ili hik-
m ati iláh iyy ih va tabí ’iyy ih rá az talám idh ih-yi hadrat-i sul ay m án iq tibás nimúd46
Mar zieh Gail, in her English tran s l ati on of this work has worded this pa s sage in the follow ing man-
n e r:
It is fur t h e r more a mat ter of record in num e rous his tor i cal works that the ph ilo s oph e rs of Gre ece suc h
as Pythagoras, ac qu ired the maj or part of their ph ilo s oph y, both div ine and mate r i al, from the dis ci pl e s
of Solomon .47
L ou is Cheikh o, the ed i tor of Al-A nd alu si’s “Kitáb Tab a qát al-Um am” in the publ is h ed ve rsi on con-
sulted ,48 in a note app e nded to this account has refe r red to the “lear n ed ones of Israe l” [‘ul am á’ al-
is r á’il iyín]. This in te r pre tati on of the phrase “d is ci ples of Solomon” seems to be favored by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá,
as He makes menti on of a conn ec ti on be tween the “lear n ed ones of Israe l” in at least three of His pub-
lic talk s:
In the spl e ndor of the reign of Solomon their sci e nces and ar ts ad vanced to such a deg ree that eve n
the Greek ph ilo- soph e rs jour n e yed to Jerusalem to sit at the feet of the He- brew sages and ac qu ire the
b a sis of Israe l i tish law. Accord- ing to Ea s tern his tory this is an establ is h ed fac t.49 Even the ce l eb rated
ph ilo s oph e rs of Gre ece jour n e yed to Jerusalem in order to study with the Israe l i tish sages, and man y
we re the lessons of ph ilo s ophy and wis dom they re- ceived .50
Even the ph ilo s oph e rs of Gre ece went to Pal e s tine to dr ink from the foun ta ins of their wis dom and
sit at the feet of their sage s. All these fac ts prove that Moses was a Prophet and a Teac h e r.
As we re t urn to our study of Law ˙ -i-H ikm at, we find that Bahá’u’ lláh’s de s c r i p ti on of Pythagoras uses
word ing which is almost ide n ti cal to that found in Al-S h ahra s t ání (“A l-Mil al wa’ l-N ih al ,” p. 365), who is
quoted in Abú’ l-Fida (“A l-Mukh ta sar fí Akhb ar al-B a s h ar,” p. 152): Pythagoras “lived in the time of
S olomon the son of Dav id” [fí zam an i /z am áni sul ay m án bin dáúd] “and he lear n ed wis dom” [wa akh ad-
h a’ l-h ikm at] “from the trea sury of proph e t h o o d” [m in ma’d in i’ l-nubu wwat]. Bahá’u’ lláh con tinues with
ve rses that are found neither in Al-S h ahra s t ání nor in Abú’ l-Fida. In fact, these ve rses do not seem to be
found in any of the other five sources ei t h e r. There are at least four possibil i ties which present them-
s e l ve s: first, that Bahá’u’ lláh was “quotin g” Al-S h ahra s t ání in this pa s sage; second, that He was “quot-
in g” Abú’ l-Fid a’; third, that He was quoting Al-S h ahra s t ání ’s source; and four t h, that He was ci ting anot h-
er his tor i an, wh o, like Abú’ l-Fida, had de r ived this his tor i cal account from Al-S h ahra s t ání. If His in te n-
ti on had been to ci te the exact words of specific his tor i ans, surely He would not have in t ro duced so man y
var i ati ons in His te xt. It seems that His purpose was to quote the words of var i ous his tor i ans wh i c h,
taken to ge t h e r, would more nearly satisfy the mind of the reci pient of this Tablet, the lear n ed Áqá
Muh amm ad-i-Qá’iní, sur n am ed Nabíl-i-A kb ar.
We now have some idea of which “Ea s te r n” his tories Bahá’u’ lláh may have ci ted in this par ti cul ar pa s-
sage of Law ˙ -i-H ikm at. We might now ask the que s ti on, “But why these par ti cul ar source s?” If we con-
sider the Most Great Infall ibility of the Man i fe s tati on of God as pro c l a im ed by Bahá’u’ lláh, it app ears
t h at one an s wer to this que s ti on is that Bahá’u’ lláh con side red these his tor i cal accoun ts to be accurate.
By quoting them He ce r ta inly seems to in vest them with aut h or i t y. Pr i or to this in ve s ti t ure, they we re
but the state m e n ts of ind iv idu al his tor i ans, no more pr iv il eged in status than those of any other his to-
r i an s. Inasmuch as they are, nonetheless, at ext reme var i ance with “mo dern acade m i c” his tories, we may
we ll ask whether or not there are other “Ea s te r n” his tor i ans who have re p or ted these eve n ts and pers on-
al i ties in this mann e r, and if the only “Ea s te r n” his tories which can be ci ted are aut h ored by Mu s l im
1 3 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
w r i te rs. J.R.I. Cole has fur n is h ed much in for m ati on on this que s ti on in his ar ticle, ci ted earl i e r. The
aut h or of this paper has also con sulted a number of other sources, all of which will be dis cu s s ed here.
Let us begin with the chronolo gi cal order which pl aces Emp edocles before Pythagora s. As we have
noted, Bahá’u’ lláh ind i cates that Emp edocles preceded Pythagoras, apparently by as much as a ge n e rati on .
A number of Mu s l im write rs have ci ted such an orde r, which is, as has already been establ is h ed, the opp o-
si te of wh at We s tern his tor i ans main ta in. The Mu s l im aut h ors will be lis ted here in order of their an tiq-
u i t y: [1] Sá’id ibn Ahm ad Sá’id al-A nd alu si (1029 –1070), in “Kitáb Tab a qát al-Um am”
52 coun ts five great
ancient Greek ph ilo s oph e rs— E mp edocles, then Pythagoras, then Socrates, then Plato and fin all y,
A r is totle; [2] Abu-Fath al-S h ahra s t ání (1076–1153), in “A l-Mil al wa’ l-N ih al”
53 l is ts Pythagoras a fte r
E mp edocles and before Socrates and Plato; [3] Yah ya al-Suhrawardí (d. 1191), in “H ikm at al-I s hr á q”
54 ci te s
P y t h agoras as the dis ci ple of Emp edocles; [4] Shams al-D ín Al-S h ahrazú rí (d. 1200), in “Nuz h at al- arwáh
wa-rawd at al- a fr áh” (37) lis ts Pythagoras a fter Emp edocles and before Socrates in wh at seems to be a
c hronolo gi cal lis ting of Greek ph ilo s oph e rs; [5] Jam álu’d-D ín al-Qi ftí (1172–1248), in “Ta’ríkh al-
Huk am á”
55 l is ts the order of the five great ancient ph ilo s oph e rs as follows: Emp edocles, Pythagora s ,
S o c rates, Plato, Aris totle; [6] ‘I m ádu’d-D ín Abú’ l-Fid a’ (1273–1331), in “A l-Mukh ta sar fí Akhb ar al-
B a s h ar”
56 l ike w ise pl aces Pythagoras a fter Emp edocles and before Hipp o c rates, Socrates and Plato; [7]
H ájjí Khalífah (d. 1609), in “Kashf al-z unún fí a s ám al-k ut ub wa’ l-funú n”
57 has also lis ted “d iv in e
ph ilo s oph e rs” [falása fata’ l-iláh iyyú n] “the greatest of wh om we re Emp edo c l e s_then Pythagoras, then
S o c rates, then Plato, then Aris tot l e.” Con s e que n t l y, we find that this order was not uncommon amon g
Mu s l im write rs— J.R.I. Cole and Ilai Aloni have, be tween them, ci ted seven such write rs, and there may
h ave been ot h e rs.
“Ea s te r n” his tories, apart from those aut h ored by Mu s l ims, which refer to Emp edocles and Pythagora s
h ave been diff i cult to lo cate. To date, the earliest recorded refe re nce to Emp edocles which the pre s e n t
aut h or has dis cove red is found in a work written by Philo Jud aeus (B CE 30?–45 CE). Philo Jud aeus lived
in Alexandria, Egypt, and he was Jewis h, and on both coun ts he may be regarded as an “Ea s te r n” his to-
r i an. He was a copi ous aut h or who seems to have written exc lu sively in the Greek lan g u age. His writin gs
surv ive in Gre e k, Latin and Armenian manu s c r i p ts. In his book enti t l ed “On the Li fe of Mo s e s ,” Philo
Jud aeus stated that Emp edocles, among other Greek ph ilo s oph e rs, “u s ed the Old Te s tament writin gs”58
in ar r iv ing at some of his metaph ysi cal do c t r in e s. Those do c t r ines inc luded, accord ing to other schol-
arly sources, a “do c t r ine of eman ati on s”59 and a sci e nce of “four elements.”60 P h ilo Jud aeus does not ide n-
tify the epoch in which Emp edocles lived. Thus far, he is the only “Ea s te r n” his tor i an, other than the
s e ven Mu s l im his tor i ans already ci ted, who ide n ti f i ed a conn ec ti on be tween Emp edocles and the writ-
in gs of the Heb rew proph e ts. Nevertheless, the exis te nce of Philo Jud aeu s’ te s timony ind i cates that these
Mu s l im his tor i ans did not fab r i cate this his tor i cal an ecdote in the Middle Age s.
We now come to con sider his tor i cal accoun ts of con tact be tween Pythagoras and Solomon which are
found in var i ous “Ea s te r n” his tor i e s. The earliest known refe re nce to a conn ec ti on be tween Pythagora s
and the Heb rew proph e ts is found in “An Inte r pre tati on of the Law of Mo s e s” (also ti t l ed “E xege ti cal
C omm e n taries on the Books of Mo s e s”) by Aris tobulus of Pan eas (also known as Philobulu s), who flour-
is h ed in the second ce n t ury B.C.E. Accord ing to the first book of Maccabees (c h ap ter I, ve rse 10),
A r is tobulus was the teacher of the Alexandr i an mon arch Ptolemy VI (also known as Philom e te r), wh o
d i ed in 146 B.C . E .61 or 145 B.C . E .62 The second book of Maccabees, apparently written in 124 B.C . E .
(accord ing to the te xt, chap ter I, ve rse 10), inc ludes a letter from the people of Jud aea, the city of
J e r u sal e m, the Jud aean council of elde rs and Judas Maccab aeus addre s s ed to Aris tobulus, the teacher of
P tolemy VI, and to the Egy p ti an Jews. Frag m e n ts of Aris tobulu s’ comm e n taries on the Torah are pre-
s e rved in the writin gs of Clement of Alexandria and Eu s ebi u s ,63 in which he con te nds that the do c t r in e s
of Pythagoras, among other Greek ph ilo s oph e rs, we re de r ived from the Heb rew Scripture s. The teac h in gs
of Aris tobulus are dis cu s s ed by Valc ke n ae r.64 C hr is ti an ap olo gis ts often ci ted Aris tobulus in their
at te mp ts to an s wer the arg um e n ts of their Rom an pagan opp on e n ts.65 P h ilo Jud aeus (B.C.E. 30?–45 C.E.)
e mploys some of the same arg um e n ts as Aris tobulus, in his work “On the Li fe of Mo s e s” and ot h e r
b o ok s. Pythagoras is one of the Greek ph ilo s oph e rs wh om he most adm ired, and, accord ing to Profe s s or
Z e ll e r,66 P h ilo Jud aeus “a s sum ed that the He llenic sages used the Old Te s tament writin gs” in ar r iv ing at
1 3 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
t h eir metaph ysi cal posi ti on s. Philo’s writin gs had a tre m e ndous impact up on Chr is ti an theolo gi cal and
ph ilo s oph i cal lite rat ure, and there is a vast schol arly cor pus ded i cated to the study of his writin gs and
t h eir in flue nce up on sub s e quent thinke rs. He nce, we see that there we re at least two Jewish write rs re sid-
ing in Egypt and writin gs ab out the conn ec ti ons be tween civ il iz ati ons (hence, “Ea s te r n” his tor i an s) wh o
at te s ted to some kind of link be tween Pythagoras and the Heb rew proph e ts. Once aga in, this is not a
m ed i e val fab r i cati on ...A r is tobulus lived circa 150 B.C.E. wh ile Philo Jud aeus lived ab out a ce n t ury and
a half late r, both of them hundreds of years before the Mu s l im his tor i ans we have ci ted .
The early Chr is ti an writer Clement of Alexandria (150–211/215 C.E.), in “St rom ateis”
67 l ike w ise a s s e r t-
ed that the Greek ph ilo s oph e rs, inc lud ing Pythagoras ac qu ired their metaph ysi cal wis dom from the
Heb rew Scripture s. Howe ve r, he denies any direct conn ec ti on be tween Pythagoras and Solomon .
A nother Chr is ti an write r, alt h ough not “Ea s te r n” by any def in i ti on, the Camb r id ge Platon ist He nry
More (1614–1687) wrote
69 t h at “P y t h agoras drew his knowl ed ge from the Heb rew Foun ta in s” and a s s e r t-
ed that to this “all Wr i te rs, Sac red and Proph ane, do te s tifie and ave r.” Of the Islamic write rs who refe r
to Pythagoras as a con te mp orary of Solomon, we have seen that the first of these (among those ci ted in
t h is stud y) is Abu-Fath al-S h ahra s t ání (1076–1153), in “A l-Mil al wa’ l-N ih al”; followed by Sham su’d-D ín al-
S h ahrazú rí (d. 1200), in “Nuz h at al- arwáh wa-rawd at al- a fr áh”; and ‘I m ádu’d-D ín Abú’ l-Fid a’ (1273–1331),
in “A l-mukh ta sar fí akhb ar al-b a s h ar.” Mullá Lutf i’ l-Ma q t ú l
70 s tates that div ine wis dom was tran s m i t ted
from Solomon to Pythagora s. Three Islamic his tor i an s—Sá’id al-A nd alu si (1029 –1070), in “Kitáb tab a qá t
al-um am”; Jam álu’d-D ín al-Qi ftí, in “Ta’ríkh al-Huk am á’”; and Ibn Abí Usaybi’ah, in “Tab a qát al- atbá’”—
re p ort that Pythagoras lear n ed wis dom from the dis ci ples or compan i ons of Solomon .
Now that we have exam in ed some of the “Ea s te r n” his tories to which Bahá’u’ lláh seems to have be e n
refe r r ing in the Law ˙ -i-H ikm at, we will take under the con side rati on the sources which “We s te r n” his to-
r i ans have ci ted as fund am e n tal to their aco cunt of these eve n ts. We will begin with the chronolo gy of
the ancient Greek ph ilo s oph e rs. Lu is E. Navia, in Socratic Te s timon i e s ,71 h is exhau s tive study of the life
of Socrates, has ind i cated that the pr inci pal source for the chronolo gy of the pre-S o c ratic ph ilo s oph e rs is
found in The Lives and Opin i ons of Eminent Philo s oph e rs ,72 by Di o genes Lae r ti u s. Navia write s73 t h at
t h e re “is hardly any def in i te knowl ed ge conce r n ing Di o genes Lae r tius him s e l f, and there are even doub ts
as to his cor rect nam e: he has been also call ed Lae r tius Di o genes or simply Lae r ti u s.” Navia con tinue s
regard ing this his tor i cal source74: “It has been a s sum ed that he lived around the year A.D. 250, and that
h is or i gin al work was more exte n sive than its extant for m .” Navia re p or ts75 t h at “Di o genes Lae r tius make s
is clear that the great maj ority of do cum e n ts written ab out Socrates be tween the middle of the fourth ce n-
t ury B.C. and the second ce n t ury A.D. also peris h ed .” It would be rea s on able to conc lude that most of the
do cum e n ts which might have perta in ed to Emp edocles and to Pythagoras would also have peris h ed. Nav i a
c h arac te r iz ed Lae r ti u s’ “Lives of the Philo s oph e rs” as an his tor i cal source as follows: “re veal ing not so
much with re s p ect to the bi o g raphy and ideas of Socrates, but with re s p ect to the sor ts of accoun ts and
an ecdotes ab out him which had been de ve lop ed dur ing the first five ce n t uries a fter his deat h”;76 “to som e ,
for in s tance, it is not h ing but a coll ec ti on of go s si py re p or ts of little his tor i cal worth and of no ph ilo-
s oph i cal con s e que nce, wh ile accord ing to ot h e rs, it is an imp or tant con t r ibuti on that gat h e rs within a fe w
pages valu able in for m ati on ab out the popul ar conce p ti on of Socrates de ve lop ed in ancient tim e s.”77 In ref-
e re nce to both Plato and Socrates in Lae r ti u s’ book, Navia wrote78: “Di o genes Lae r ti u s’ bi o g raphy wh il e
inde ed the most exte n sive Platonic bi o g raphy of ancient times, con ta ins such an ext raord in ary ar ray of
an ecdotal in for m ati on, that, just as in the case of his bi o g raphy of Socrates, it can at most give us an ade-
qu ate idea, not so much of the ac t u al bi o g raphy of Plato, but of the kinds of re p or ts that circul ated ab out
h im dur ing the first five ce n t uries a fter his deat h .” We might note that Aris tobulus lived around four hun-
dred years pr i or to Di o genes Lae r tius, and that Philo Jud aeus died some two hundred years before Lae r ti u s
was born. Pe rh aps they we re in for m ed of re p or ts ab out Emp edocles and Pythagoras which did not surv ive
in the Greek lib raries to which Lae r tius apparently had acce s s.
W h at then did Di o genes Lae r tius ac t u ally write ab out Emp edocles and Pythagoras in his “Lives of
the Philo s oph e rs”? Lae r tius wrote that Emp edocles “flour is h ed in the 84th Ol y mpi ad ,”79 which the
famous classi cist and ed i tor and tran s l ator of Lae r tius, Profe s s or R.D. Hicks (O xford Unive rsi t y) re n-
de rs as 444–441 B.C . E .80 L ae r tius quotes Tim aeus (of wh om we have no inde p e ndent record) to the effec t
1 3 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
t h at Emp edocles was a pupil of Pythagora s ,
81 and also Neathes (whose writin gs have not surv ived exce p t
wh e re ci ted by Lae r ti u s) that Emp edocles stud i ed with the Pythagoreans but was excommun i cated wh e n
he publicly re veal ed ce r ta in of their sec ret teac h in gs in his poem.
82 L ae r tius wrote that Pythagora s
“flour is h ed in the 60th Ol y mpi ad ,”
83 which is re nde red by Profe s s or Hicks as 540–536 B.C . E .
84 L ae r ti u s
de s c r ibed the travels of Pythagoras, and we should note that there is no refe re nce to a visit to the land
of Israe l :
W h ile still youn g, so eager was he for knowl ed ge, he left his own coun t ry and had himself in i-
ti ated in to all the mys teries and rites not only of Gre ece but also of foreign coun t r i e s. Now he
was in Egypt when Pol yc rates sent him a letter of in t ro duc ti on to Amasis; he learnt the
Egy p ti an lan g u age, so we learn from Anti ph on in his book On Men of Outs tand ing Merit, and
he also jour n e yed among the Chald aeans and Magi .
W h ile Bahá’u’ lláh has not speci f i cally addre s s ed the accuracy and re l i ability of Greek his tor i cal
records, He has addre s s ed the que s ti on of “con fl i c ting tales and trad i ti on s” in one of His Tabl e ts:
Fur t h e r more, among exis ting his tor i cal records diffe re nces are to be found, and each of the
var i ous peoples of the world hath its own account of the age of the earth and of its his tory.
S ome trace their his tory as far back as eight thou sand years, ot h e rs as far as twe l ve thou sand
years. To any one that hath read the book of Juk is clear and evident how much the accoun ts
given by the var i ous books have diffe red. Please God thou will turn thine eyes towards the
Most Great Re ve l ati on, and entirely dis regard these con fl i c ting tales and trad i ti on s.86
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has speci f i cally addre s s ed this same topic, that is, the accuracy of ancient his tor i cal
records, and in refe re nce to Greek his tory, in Law ˙ -i-Falása f ih (7) :
As to wh at thou didst ask regard ing the his tory of the ph ilo s oph e rs: his tory, pr i or to Alexande r
of Gre ece (32), is ext remely con fu s ed, for it is a fact that only a fter Alexander did his tory
become an orde rly and sys te m atiz ed dis ci pl in e. One cannot, for this rea s on, rely up on trad i-
ti ons and re p or ted his tor i cal eve n ts that have come down before the days of Alexande r. This is
a mat ter thorou g hly establ is h ed, in the view of all aut h or i tative his tor i an s. How many a his-
tor i cal account was taken as fact in the ei g h teenth ce n t ury, yet the opp o si te was proved true in
the nin e teenth. No re l i ance, then, can be pl aced up on the trad i ti ons and re p or ts of his tor i an s
which an ted ate Alexande r, not even with regard to a s ce r ta in ing the life times of lead ing ind i-
v idu al s...
The his tories pr i or to Alexande r, which we re based on oral accoun ts cur rent among the peo-
ple, we re put to gether later on. There are great dis c re pancies among them, and ce r ta inly they
can never hold their own aga inst Holy Writ [n a s s-i-iláh í ]. It is an acce p ted fact among his tor i-
ans themselves that these his tories we re compil ed a fter Alexande r, and that pr i or to his tim e
h is tory was tran s m i t ted by word of mout h .
It is clear that Emp edocles and Pythagoras lived pr i or to Alexander the Great, and hence, in the esti-
m ati on of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, the his tor i cal records perta in ing to these two Greek ph ilo s oph e rs are not to be
t r u s ted, par ti cul arly if they con flict with wh at has been written in “Holy Wr i t” (n a s s-i-iláh í )— which has
already been de mon s t rated to inc lude, nay, to be crow n ed by, the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, inc lud in g
L aw ˙ -i-H ikm at.”
Now that we have briefly surve yed the pr inci pal source for the We s tern chronolo gy of the anci e n t
Greek ph ilo s oph e rs, we will turn our at te n ti on to the pr inci pal source for both the trad i ti on al Jewis h
and Chr is ti an and the We s tern “mo dern acade m i c” chronolo gy of the ancient Heb rew proph e ts— t h e
Heb rew Scripture s. The Bible has been stud i ed by so many schol ars as to make its in t ro duc ti on to the
reader entirely sup e r fluou s. Howe ve r, the state m e n ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe nd i
regard ing the his tor i cal accuracy and re l i ability of the Bibl i cal te xt are not nearly as we ll know n, and
h e nce these will be ci ted here, beginn ing with this statement by Bahá’u’ lláh :
...the Torah that God hath con f ir m ed con sis ts of the exact words that stream ed forth at the bid-
d ing of God from the ton g ue of Him Who con ve rs ed with Him (Mo s e s).
1 3 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
On the other hand, Bahá’u’ lláh a ff ir m ed in Ki t á b -i-ˆqán that the te xt of the Bible was not perve r ted
by the Jewish peopl e:
Ve r ily by “p e rve r tin g” the te xt is not meant that which these fo ol ish and abj ect souls have
fancies, even as some main ta in that Jewish and Chr is ti an div ines have effaced from the Book
such ve rses as extol and magnify the coun te n ance of Muh amm ad, and in s tead thereof have
in s e r ted the con t rary. How ut te rly va in and false are these word s! Can a man who be l i e ve t h
in a book, and deemeth it to be in s pired by God, mutil ate it? Moreove r, the Pe n tateuch had
been spread over the sur face of all the ear t h, and was not con f in ed to Mecca and Med ina, so
t h at they could pr iv ily cor r upt and pervert its te xt. Nay, rat h e r, by cor r up ti on of the te xt is
m eant that in which all Mu s l im div ines are engaged to d ay, that is the in te r pre tati on of God’s
h oly Book in accord ance with their idle im agin in gs and va in de sire s. And as the Jews, in the
time of Muh amm ad, in te r pre ted Those ve rses of the Pe n tateuc h, that refe r red to His
Man i fe s tati on, a fter their own fanc y, and refu s ed to be satisf i ed with His holy ut te rance, the
c h arge of “p e rve r tin g” the te xt was therefore pronounced aga inst them. Like w ise, it is clear,
h ow in this day, the people of the Qur’án have perve r ted the te xt of God’s holy Book, con-
ce r n ing the signs of the exp ec ted Man i fe s tati on, and in te r pre ted it accord ing to their ow n
inc l in ati on and de sire s.
A l s o, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has written regard ing the re l i ability of the Torah as a te s timony to the Re ve l ati on
of God, and as a source of his tor i cal accoun ts:
K now ye that the Torah is that which was re veal ed in the Tabl e ts to Moses, may peace be up on
H im, or that to which He was bidden. But the stories are his tor i cal nar ratives and we re writ-
ten a fter Moses, may peace be up on Him .89
K now ye that the Torah is that which was re veal ed in the Tabl e ts to Moses, may peace be up on
H im, and in that which He was comm anded to do.... The glor i ous Book, the Mighty Dec ree, is
wh at was in the Tabl e ts which Moses, up on Him be peace, brought from Mount Sin a i, and that
which He pro c l a im ed un to the children of Israel, in accord ance with the expl i cit te xt of those
Tabl e ts.90
Shoghi Effe ndi has con f ir m ed and expanded up on this assessment of the con te n ts of the Bible, as ind i-
cated in the follow ing lette rs written by Shoghi Effe ndi and by his sec re tary on his be h al f:
The Bible is not wh olly aut h e n tic, and in this re s p ect is not to be compared with the Qur’án,
and should be wh olly sub ord in ated to the aut h e n tic writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh .91
When ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá states we be l i e ve wh at is in the Bible, He means in sub s tance. Not that we
be l i e ve eve ry word of it to be taken lite rally or that eve ry word is the aut h e n tic say ing of the
Proph e t.
We cannot be sure of the aut h e n ti city of any of the phrases in the Old or the New Te s tam e n t.
W h at we can be sure of is when such refe re nces or words are ci ted or quoted in either the
Qur’án or the Bahá’í writin gs.
We have no way of sub s tan ti ating the stories of the Old Te s tament other than refe re nces to
them in our own teac h in gs, so we cannot say exactly wh at happ e n ed at the battle of Jericho.
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in Law ˙ -i-Falása f ih has dis cu s s ed the re l ative unre l i ability of the Bible as a source of his-
tor i cal fac ts, ci ting the problem of the var i ous ve rsi ons of the Scripture s:
Fur t h e r more, the Torah, held to be the most ancient of his tories, exis teth to d ay in three sepa-
rate ve rsi on s: the Heb re w, con side red aut h e n tic by the Jews and the Prote s tant clergy; the Gre e k
S e p t u agint, which is used as aut h or i tative in the Greek and the other Ea s tern churches; and the
Sam ar i tan Torah, the stand ard aut h ority for that peopl e. These three ve rsi ons differ great l y, on e
from anot h e r, even with regard to the life times of the most ce l eb rated figure s.
In the Heb rew Torah, it is recorded that from Noah’s flood un til the birth of Ab rah am there
was an in te rval of two hundred and nin e t y-two years. In the Gre e k, that tim e-s pan is given a s
1 3 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
one thou sand and seve n t y-two years, wh ile in the Sam ar i tan, the recorded span is nine hun-
dred and for t y-two years. Refer to the comm e n tary by He nry We s tcott, for tables are suppl i ed
t h e rein which show the dis c re pancies among the three Torahs as to the birth dates of a num-
ber of the de s ce nd an ts of Shem, and thou wilt see how greatly the ve rsi ons differ one from
anot h e r.
Moreove r, accord ing to the te xt of the Heb rew Torah, from the creati on of Ad am un til Noah’s
flood the elap s ed time is recorded as one thou sand six hundred and fift y-six years, wh ile in the
Greek Torah the in te rval is given as two thou sand two hundred and sixt y-two years, and in the
Sam ar i tan te xt, the same period is sa id to have lasted one thou sand three hundred and seve n
years.
Refl ect thou now over the dis c re pancies among these three Torahs. The case is inde ed sur pr is-
in g. The Jews and Prote s tan ts belittle the Greek Torah, wh ile to the Greeks, the Heb rew ve r-
si on is spur i ous, and the Sam ar i tans deny both the Heb rew and the Greek ve rsi on s.
O ur purpose is to show that even in Scriptural his tory, the most outs tand ing of all his tor i e s ,
t h e re are con t rad i c ti ons as to the time when the great ones lived, let alone as to dates re l ated
to ot h e rs. And fur t h e r more, lear n ed soci e ties in Europe are con tinu ally re v ising the exis tin g
records, both of East and We s t. In spi te of this, how can the con fu s ed accoun ts of peoples dat-
ing from before Alexander be compared with the Holy Te xt of God? If any schol ar expre s s e s
a s ton is hment, let him be sur pr is ed at the dis c re pancies in Scriptural his tory. (7)
Since ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá wrote this Tablet, Bibl i cal schol arship has reco g n iz ed even a greater variety of
Bibl i cal ve rsi on s. In add i ti on to the three noted by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in Law ˙ -i-Falása f ih there is a ve rsi on of
the Bible in Et h i opic, also call ed Cop tic; there is another in Armenian; one in Sy r i ac, the lan g u age of
the Pe s h i t to; yet another in Aramaic. The most ancient manu s c r i p ts of the Bible which have yet to be
d is cove red are those which we re found in the 1940s and 1950s in the Qumran caves ove rlo oking the
D ead Sea. These inc lude te xts in Heb re w, Aramaic and Gre e k. This coll ec ti on has yet to be tran s l ated in to
E n g l ish in its entirely and much of it has not been publ is h ed in such manner as to make it acce s sible to
non-s p eci al ist reade rs of the Bibl e. The task of compar ing the Heb re w, Aramaic, Gre e k, Sam ar i tan,
Et h i opic, Armenian, Sy r i ac and other ve rsi ons has occupi ed Bibl i cal schol ars for we ll over a ce n t ury now,
but the Qumran cave manu s c r i p ts will re qu ire that any def in i te conc lu si ons be postpon ed for decade s
or even for ge n e rati ons to com e. Computer tec hnolo gy may speed up the pro cess som e wh at, but fund in g
cuts may re tard it, and there is no te ll ing how long it will be before lay reade rs will be able to compare
the var i ous ve rsi ons of the Bible and come to their own conc lu si ons regard ing the re l i ability of its his-
tor i cal accoun ts.
In Law ˙ -i-Falása f ih, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá frankly dis cusses the “con t rad i c ti on s” be tween three ve rsi ons of the
Bibl e. Many “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i ans would ag ree with His assessment and then go on to state that
due to these “con t rad i c ti on s” the te xt of the Bible is not a re l i able source for the unde rs tand ing of
ancient his tory. ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá reaches an entirely diffe rent conc lu si on, which will be ci ted for the third
time in this pap e r:
N e vertheless, Holy Writ [n a s s-i-iláh iyy ih] is aut h or i tative [amr-i-m ahtúm a s t], and with it no
h is tory of the world can compare, for exp e r i e nce hath shown that a fter in ve s ti gati on of the
fac ts [tah arri haqíqat] and a thorough study of ancient records and cor rob orative evide nce, all
h ave refe r red back to the Holy Scriptures [nu s ú s-i-iláh iyy ih]. The most imp or tant thing is to
e s tabl ish the val idity of God’s un ive rsal Man i fe s tati on [m az h ar-i-k ullí -yi iláhí] ;once His claim
proveth true, then wh ats o e ver He may choose to say is right and cor rec t.
The his tories pr i or to Alexande r, which we re based on oral accoun ts cur rent among the peo-
ple, we re put to gether later on. There are great dis c re pancies among them, and ce r ta inly they
can never hold their own aga inst Holy Writ [n a s s-i-iláh í ]. It is an acce p ted fact among his tor i-
ans themselves that these his tories we re compil ed a fter Alexande r, and that pr i or to his tim e
h is tory was tran s m i t ted by word of mouth. (7)
1 3 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
He nce, alt h ough there are “con t rad i c ti on s” be tween the var i ous ve rsi ons of the Bible, neve r t h e l e s s ,
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá a ff irms that the te s timony of the “Holy Wr i t” is more re l i able than the “ancient record s” of
pre-A l e xandr i an his tory. As has been noted earl i e r, “Holy Wr i t” in this case does not refer exc lu sively to
the Bible, but emb races all of the Scriptures, inc lud ing the Qur’án, the Bayán, and the Wr i tin gs of
B ahá’u’ lláh. Bahá’u’ lláh, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe ndi ind i cate that these more recent Scriptures are
much more re l i able than the Bibl e. Bahá’u’ lláh refe rs to the Qur’án in Ki t á b -i-ˆqán :
A lt h ough many trad i ti ons had been re veal ed by that Source of Prophethood and Mine of
d iv ine Gu id ance, yet He menti on ed only that Book, thereby app oin ting it as the mighti e s t
in s t r ument and surest te s timony for the seeke rs; a guide for the people un til the Day of
Re sur rec ti on .
With un s we rv ing visi on, with pure heart, and sanc ti f i ed spirit, con sider at te n tively wh at God
h ath establ is h ed as the te s timony of guid ance for His people in His Book, which is reco g n iz ed
as aut h e n tic by both the high and lowl y. To this te s timony we bot h, as we ll as all the peopl e s
of the world, must clin g, that through its light we may know and dis tin g u ish be tween trut h
and falsehood, guid ance and error.96
C on side r, how He hath app oin ted and dec re ed this selfsame Book, the Qur’án, as a guid ance
un to all that are in heaven and on earth. He, the div ine Bein g, and unknowable Essence, hat h,
H im s e l f, te s ti f i ed that this Book is, be yond all doubt and unce r ta in t y, the guide of all mankind
un til the Day of Re sur rec ti on .97
A nd yet, the un fa il ing te s timony of God to both the East and the West is none other than the
Qur’án .98
Shoghi Effe ndi has also expre s s ed his views regard ing the aut h e n ti city of the Qur’án, and of the Bá bí
and Bahá’í Wr i tin gs, in the follow ing lette rs written on his be h al f:
In regard to your que s ti on conce r n ing the aut h e n ti city of the Qur’án. I have refe r red it to the
Gu ard i an for his opin i on. He thinks that the Qur’án is, notw i t hs tand ing the opin i on of ce r-
ta in his tor i ans, qu i te aut h e n tic, and that con s e quently it should be con side red in its entire t y
by eve ry fa i t h ful and loyal be l i e ver as the sac red scriptures of the Muh amm ad an Re ve l ati on .99
As to ...’s claim that the Qur’án is not wh olly aut h e n tic, the Bahá’ís refuse to share such a
be l i ef, as they are con v inced that that Holy Book is entirely the words of the Prophet Him s e l f.
Even We s tern his tor i ans and Oriental is ts ag ree that the Qur’án is an aut h e n tic book.
They must strive to ob ta in, from sources that are aut h or i tative and unbi a s ed, a sound knowl-
ed ge of the his tory and te n e ts of Islám—the source and bac k g round of their Fa i t h —and
approach re ve rently and with a mind purged from preconceived ideas the study of the Qur’án
wh i c h, apart from the sac red scriptures of the Bá bí and Bahá’í Re ve l ati ons, con s ti t utes the onl y
B o ok which can be regarded as an ab s olutely aut h e n ti cated Re p o si tory of the Word of God.
The Bible is not wh olly aut h e n tic, and in this re s p ect is not to be compared with the Qur’án,
and should be wh olly sub ord in ated to the aut h e n tic writin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh .
In conc lu si on, wh ile “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i ans may be inc l in ed to regard the pa ir ing of
E mp edocles with Dav id and Pythagoras with Solomon as fictive rather than trut h ful to the his tor i cal
record, Bahá’u’ lláh, endowed with the Most Great Infall ibil i t y, and His app oin ted Inte r pre te rs, with con-
fe r red in fall ibility have al ike a s s e r ted that it is they would are mis taken. He chall e n ges be l i e ve rs in God
and in the Proph e ts to weigh His Wr i tin gs in the Bal ance of the Holy Scriptures, the Bible and the
Qur’án among them:
In mine hand I car ry the te s timony of God, your Lord and the Lord of your sires of old. Wei g h
it with the just Bal ance that ye possess, the Bal ance of the te s timony of the Proph e ts and
Me s s e n ge rs of God. If ye find it to be establ is h ed in trut h, if ye be l i e ve it to be of God,
be ware, then, lest ye cav il at it, and re nder your works va in, and be numbe red with the in f i-
de l s.103
1 3 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
A nd to those “mo dern acade m i c” his tor i ans and other secul ar schol ars who would apply the stand ard s
and methodolo gies of their var i ous dis ci pl ines to de te r m ine the trut h fulness and re l i ability of His
Wr i tin gs, Bahá’u’ lláh write s:
Set before thine eyes God’s un e r r ing Bal ance and, as one stand ing in His Pre s e nce, weigh in
t h at Bal ance thine ac ti ons eve ry day, eve ry moment of thy life.
Weigh not the Book of God with such stand ards and sci e nces as are cur rent amon gst you, for
the Book itself is the un e r r ing Bal ance establ is h ed amon gst men.105
Give ear un to the ve rses of God which He Who is the sac red Lote-Tree reci teth un to you. They
are a s suredly the in fall ible bal ance, establ is h ed by God, the Lord of this world and the next.106
T h is is the in fall ible Bal ance which the Hand of God is hold in g, in which all who are in the
h eavens and all who are on the earth are wei g h ed, and their fate de te r m in ed, if ye be of them
t h at be l i e ve and reco g n ize this trut h .107
In the con te xt of of all of the state m e n ts ci ted in this pap e r, the aut h or would su g gest in conc lu si on
t h at the dis c re pancies be tween the ve rses refe r r ing to Emp edocles and Dav id, Pythagoras and Solomon
the Law ˙ -i-H ikm at of Bahá’u’ lláh on the one hand, and the views of We s tern “mo dern acade m i c” his to-
r i ans on the other hand, can be re s ol ved through the reco g n i ti on of ce r ta in ove rall pr inci ples which su g-
gest the direc ti on of a new his tor i o g raph y. This dis tinc tively Bahá’í his tor i o g raphy ci tes the unre l i abil i-
ty of ancient his tor i cal sources; the speci al status of Scripture as a witness to ac t u al pers ons and eve n ts ;
the all- e mb racing Most Great Infall ibility of the Man i fe s tati ons of God, reac h ing their culm in ati on in
the app earance of Bahá’u’ lláh; the div in e l y-g u ided in te r pre tati ons of his tory which have is sued from His
pen and from His app oin ted Inte r pre te rs, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe ndi. As Bahá’í his tor i o g raph y
de ve lops, the entire field of ancient his tory will unde rgo a rad i cal tran sfor m ati on. The penetratin g
in si g h ts of Bahá’u’ lláh, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá and Shoghi Effe ndi in to the pro cesses, eve n ts and pers on al i ties of
the past will prov ide a leave n ing and chaste n ing in flue nce, guid ing hum anity to an appreci ati on of our
forebears more at t un ed to reality than to the fl awed recon s t r uc ti ons of the his tor i ans and theolo gi ans of
the past and pre s e n t. We are not do om ed to re p eat his tory, nor to live in a man-m ade world, a world of
f i c ti on. We can know the real, the true, and dis tin g u ish it from the unreal, the fal s e. The first ste p
towards such a knowl ed ge is not the rej ec ti on of re l i gi on, as so many of our con te mp oraries have sup-
p o s ed, but rat h e r, it is the reco g n i ti on of the Man i fe s tati on of God, He Who, to ci te His own word s:108
I nde ed He is a Light which is not followed by darkness and a Tr uth not ove r taken by error.
We re He to pronounce water to be wine or heaven to be earth or light to be fire, He speake t h
the truth and no doubt would there be ab out it; and un to no one is given the right to que s ti on
H is aut h ority or to say why or wh e refore.
Bibl i o g raphy and Note s
1) Maj mú’at min al wáh hadrat-i-B ahá’u’ lláh (MB), Be l gi um :1980, pp. 8–9; Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed a fter the Ki t á b -i-
A qdas (TB), Wilm e t te:1988, p. 108
2) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-A qd a s (K A): a) A rabic, Ha i fa :1995, K47, p. 45; b)E n g l ish tran s l ati on, Ha i fa :1992, K47, pp. 36–37.
3) An-Nú r u’ l-Abhá, Mu fawad at ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (AM), pp. 129 –131; S ome Answe red Que s ti ons (SAQ), chap ter XLV, pp. 171–173).
4) Letter written to an ind iv idu al Bahá’í on be h alf of Shoghi Effe nd i, dated 11 Janu ary 1942 (suppl i ed to the aut h or by the
Re s earch Department of the Bahá’í World Centre in a letter dated 15 Dece mber 1994).
5) TB, pp. 149, 150
6) I s hr á qá t, Bomb ay, n.d., p. 18—ci ted in “Áh an g-i-B adí ’,” sál 32, sham ár ih 344, pp. 22–23.
7) Law ˙ -i-Mubárak dar bár ih-yi taváríkh-i-falási fah (s h or te n ed here to Law ˙ -i-Falása f ih), was written by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in
1906, in re s p onse to the que s ti ons of Miss Ethel J. Ro s e nbe rg. This Tablet is found in its or i gin al Pe rsi an te xt in Má’id iy-
i- Ás m ání (volume II, pp. 64– 67/68 –71), and in English tran s l ati on, by the Re s earch Department of the Bahá’í World
C e n te r, in Ethel Jenner Ro s e nbe rg: The Li fe and Times of England’s Outs tand ing Bah a’i Pi oneer Worke r, Robe r t
Weinbe rg (G eorge Ron ald, Oxford, 1995, pp. 78 – 81). A prov isi on al tran s l ati on of this Tablet by the Re s earch Depar t m e n t
at the Bahá’í World Centre was sent with a lette r, dated 15 Dece mber 1994, to the present aut h or pr i or to its publ i cati on
in the a fore m e n ti on ed bi o g raphy of Miss Ro s e nbe rg. Also, Ke ven Brown prov ided the aut h or with his prov isi on al tran s-
l ati on of this Tabl e t. It was in compar ing these two tran s l ati ons with the Pe rsi an or i gin al that the present aut h or cam e
to his conc lu si ons regard ing the imp ort of this te xt.
1 3 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
8) From a letter written on be h alf of Shoghi Effe nd i; ci ted in a letter dated 17 Janu ary 1978, written on be h alf of the
U n ive rsal House of Ju s ti ce to an ind iv idu al be l i e ver (www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /uhj /re sur rec ti on .bibl e.h t ml).
9) Letter written on be h alf of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, ci ted in “S e l ec ted Ext rac ts to Gu ide Bahá’í Schol ars ,” ci tati on
#5, p. 2.
10) Nabíl-i-A kb ar in “Tadhkirat al-Wa f á’ fí Tar jam at Hayát Qud am á’ al-A h ibbá’,” Ha i fa, 1924 (t ran s l ated in to English by
Mar zieh Gail as Me mor i als of the Fa i t h ful).
11) MB, pp. 117–130.
12) TB, pp. 138 –152 .
13) MB, p. 123; TB, p. 144.
14) MB, p. 124; TB, p. 144.
15) MB, p. 124; TB, pp. 144–145.
16) MB, p. 124; TB, p. 145.
17) MB, p. 126; TB, p. 147.
18) Ke ven Brow n, “Hermes Tr im e sgistus and Ap ollonius of in the Wr i tin gs of Bahá’u’ lláh,” in Re v isi on ing the Sac red, New
Pe rs p ec tives on a Bahá’í Theolo gy, Jack McL ean, ed i tor, Kal im at Press, 1997, pp. 153–154, 166, 167–168.
19) Law ˙ -i-B a s ít u’ l-Ha q íqat, pp. 105 –116 in Iqtid ár á t; and volume VII, pp. 140–147, Má’id iy-i- Ás m ání; TB, p. 148, n. 1.
20) Qur’án, Sú rat Maryam, 19:57–58.
21) MB, p. 128; TB, pp. 149 –150.
22) MB, p. 124.
23) TB, p. 145.
24) Hans We hr, A Di c ti on ary of Mo dern Wr i t ten Arabi c (We hr) 4th ed i ti on, Otto Har ra s s owitz, 1994, p. 444.
25) F. Stein gass, A Compre h e n sive Pe rsi an-E n g l ish Di c ti on ary (Stein ga s s) Oriental Books, 1981, p. 622 .
26) Letter written on be h alf of Shoghi Effe nd i, publ is h ed on p. 7, fo ot note 49 of World Orde r, Spr ing 1979 and sub s e que n t l y
on p. 5, World Orde r, Fall-Win ter 1980–1981.
27) Geoffrey Wi go de r, The Enc yc lop edia of Jud a is m, New York: Mac m ill an, 1989, pp. 191 (Dav id), 663 (S olomon).
28) Dan Cohn-S h e rb ok, The Blac kwe ll Di c ti on ary of Jud a is m, Oxford: Blac kwe ll, 1992, pp. 107 (Dav id), 514 (S olomon).
29) H.T. Pec k, ed i tor, I n te r n ati on al Cyc lopaed i a, New York: Dodd, Mead and Compan y, 1898, volume IV, pp. 624– 625.
30) Ibid., volume XIII, pp. 628 – 629.
(31) “S h arh Law ˙ -i-H ikm at ,” publ is h ed in Pe rsi an in M á’id iy-i- Ás m ání (volume II, pp. 68 –70) and A mr va Khal q (volume I, pp.
168 –169).
32) Alexander the Great is re p or ted in all We s tern stand ard his tor i cal works to have lived circa 356–323 B.C . E .
33) Stein gass, p. 1405.
34) Stein gass, p. 1407.
35) ‘Abdu’ l-Hamíd Ishráq Khá varí, Muhád ir á t, Irán: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1964, volume I, pp. 164–166.
36) J.R.I. Cole, “Problems of Chronolo gy in Bahá’u’ lláh’s Tablet of Wis dom,” Spr ing 1979 is sue of World Orde r ( p e r i o d i cal
publ is h ed by the Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States of America. Inasmuch as J.R.I. Col e
m akes no refe re nce to Ishráq Khá varí in his World Orde r ar ticle, it seems likely that he was un ac qu a in ted with the for-
m e r’s pre v i ously publ is h ed refe re nce to this theme in Muhád ir á t.
37) Shams al-D ín al-S h ahrazú rí, “Nuz h at al- arwáh wa-rawd at al- a fr áh,” Ms. 1.488 Leide n —ci ted in Mi g uel Asín Pal acios, Ibn
Ma sar ra y su escuela, Ap e nd i ce 4; re pr int in Ob ras Esco gid a s, Madr id 1946, pp. 192–194; and Ms. 23365 Br i tish Mu s eum,
ed i ted by ‘Abd al-Karím ‘Um ar Abú Shu way rí (Tr i p ol i, 1988)—ci ted in Ilai Alon, Socrates Arabus (Ilai Alon), Jerusal e m :
Heb rew Unive rsi t y, 1995, pp. 24, 98, 17 (A rabi c).
38) Mu wa ffa qu’d-D ín Ibn Abí Usaybi’ah, ‘U yún al-A nbá fí Tab a qát al-Atbá’, Beir ut: Mak tab at al-Hayah, 1965, pp. 61- 62 .
39) Hájjí Khalífah, “Kashf al-z unún fí a s ámí al-k ut ub wa’ l-funú n” (H K), ed i ted by G. Flügel (L e xi con bibl i o g raph i cum et
e nc yc lopaed i cum, London, 1858)—ci ted in Ilai Alon, pp. 24–25, 98 –99, 17–18 (A rabi c).
40) Pal acios, p. 192, enti t l ed “Rawd at al-Afr áh” and ci ted in E nc yc lop edia Islam i ca, 2nd ed i ti on (EI 2), volume I, pp. 483–484.
41) Pal acios, pp. 192–194, ci ted in EI 2:I :483–484.
42) Ms. Aya Sof iya 2450: see EI 2:I :483.
43) EI 2:I :483–484.
44) We hr, p. 721.
45) TB, p. 149.
46) Wr i t ten in 1875, and first publ is h ed in Bomb ay in 1882, Ris ál iy-i-Mad an iyy ih has been re pr in ted by Bahá’í -Ve rl ag, in
G e r m an y, 1984. This quotati on is found on p. 91.
47) The Sec ret of Div ine Civ il iz ati on, Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1970, p. 77. The aut h or offe rs the follow ing lite r-
al re nde r ing of these ve rses from the Pe rsi an: “A nd in many his tor i cal chronicles it is recorded that the ph ilo s oph e rs of
Gre ece sim il ar to Pythagoras ge n e rally ac qu ired their knowl ed ge of the prop o si ti ons of div ine and nat ural ph ilo s oph y
from the dis ci ples of His Emin e nce Solomon .”
48) Sá’id ibn Ahm ad Sá’id Al-A nd alu si, “Kitáb Tab a qát al-Um am” (A A) publ is h ed in “A l-Mac hr iq, Re v ue Cat h ol ique Oriental e
Me n sue ll e ,” Be y routh: I mpr imerie Cat h ol ique, no. 14, Septe mb re 1911, p. 667, n. 4.
1 3 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
49) Talk on 12 October 1912, at Te mple Emm anu-El, San Francis co; Pe rsi an tran s c r i p ti on in “Maj mú’ih Khitábát Hadrat-i-
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’,” p. 612; English tran s l ati on re p or ted in The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace (PUP), Wilm e t te: Bahá’í
P ubl is h ing Trust, 1982, pp. 362–363.
50) Talk on 8 Nove mber 1912, at Eighth St reet Te mple, Wa s h in g ton, D.C.; English tran s l ati on recorded in PUP, p. 406.
51) Talk on 9 Nove mber 1912, at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Pars ons, Wa s h in g-ton, D.C.; English tran s l ati on recorded in PUP,
p. 412 .
52) AA, p. 666.
53) Abu-Fath al-S h ahra s t ání, “A l-Mil al wa’ l-N ih al ,” Qah irah: Mak tab at al-A nj lu al-Mis rí yah, 1977, pp. 359, 365; ed i ted by
‘Abdu’ l-A z íz al-Wakil, Ca iro: Hal abí and Co., 1968, volume II, pp. 119 –120.
54)Yah ya al-Suhrawardí, “H ikm at al-I s hr á q,” in He nry Corbin, O eu v res ph ilo s oph iques et mys tiques de Sohraward i, Te h e ran-
Par is, 1952, II, 300, 13—ci ted in Ilai Alon i, Socrates Arabus, Jerusalem: Heb rew Unive rsi t y, 1995, p. 24, n. 71.
55) Jam álu’d-D ín al-Qi ftí, Ta’ríkh al-Huk am á,’ ed i ted by Dr. Julius Li ppert, Lei p zi g: Di e te r i c h’sche Ve rl agsbuc hh andlun g,
1903, p. 12 .
56) ‘I m ádu’d-D ín Abú’ l-Fid a’, “A l-Mukh ta sar fí Akhb ar al-B a s h ar, in H is toria Anteis l am i ca, Arabi ce, ed i ted by He nry O.
F l eis c h e r, Lei p zi g, 1831, pp. 152, 154; and Al-Mukh ta sar fí Akhb ar al-B a s h ar, Ca iro: al-Hu say n iyyah Egy p ti an Press, n.d . ,
volume I, pp. 84– 85.
57) HK, I:72 ,1; ci ted in Ilai Alon, Socrates Arabus, Jerusalem: Heb rew Unive rsi t y, 1995: in English: p. 98, n. 81 and in Arabi c:
p. 17, n. 80.
58) Profe s s or Edu ard Zell e r, O ut l ines of the His tory of Greek Philo s oph y (E Z ), 13th ed i ti on, re v is ed by Wilh e lm Me s t l e ,
t ran s l ated by L.R. Palm e r, New York: Me r id i an Press, 1955, p. 279 –280.
59) I n te r n ati on al Cyc lopaed i a, volume V, p. 416.
60) Ibid., p. 415.
61) Ibid., volume XII, p. 259.
62) Ibid., volume I, p. 682; and Web s te r’s Bi o g raph i cal Di c ti on ary, p. 1219.
63) EZ, p. 278; E nc yc lop edia Jud a i ca (J e r u salem: Ke te r, 1971, volume III, p. 444) ide n tifies the surv ivals of Aris tobulu s’
comm e n tary in Clement of Alexandria, St rom ata” (1:22; 6:3); and in Eu s ebius, His toria ecc l e si a s ti ca (7:32) and
Prae paratio evan ge l i ca (7:14; 8:10; 13 :12).
64) Valc ke n ae r, De Aris tobulo Jud aeo, Leyde n, 1806.
65) I n te r n ati on al Cyc lopaed i a, volume I, p. 682 .
66) EZ, pp. 279 –280.
67) Clement of Alexandria, “St rom ateis ,” in Mis ce ll anies, V:14, quoted in The Ante-N i cene Fat h e rs, ed i ted by A. Robe r ts and
J. Don ald s on, 1956, pp. 325, 329, 466: ci ted in J.R.I. Cole, p. 33, n. 30–32 .
68) Ibid., ci ted in J.R.I. Cole, p. 33.
69) He nry More, quoted in C.A. Pat r ides, The Camb r id ge Platon is ts, London, 1969, p. 7—ci ted in J.R.I. Cole, pp. 33–34, n.
35.
70) Mullá Lutf i’ l-Maqtúl, tran s l ated by He nry Corbin and Adn an in La Dupl i cati on de l’Aute l, Par is: 1940, p. 25.
71) Lu is E. Navia, S o c ratic Te s timon i e s (LN), Unive rsity Press of America, 1987. (72)Di o genes Lae r tius, Lives of Emin e n t
P h ilo s oph e rs (DL), in Greek and with an English tran s l ati on by R.D. Hicks, two volumes, Harvard Unive rsity Press, 1979.
73) LN, pp. 323–324.
74) Ibid., p. 324.
75) Ibid., p. 321.
76) Ibid., p. 323.
77) Ibid., p. 325.
78) Ibid., p. 197.
79) DL, volume II, book VIII, chap ter ii, parag raph 74, p. 388 –389.
80) Ibid., p. 389, n. a
81) Ibid., parag raph 54, pp. 368 –371.
82) Ibid., parag raph 55, pp. 370–371.
83) Ibid., chap ter i, parag raph 45, pp. 360–361.
84) Ibid., p. 361, n. e
85) Ibid., parag raphs 2-3, pp. 320–323.
86) Bahá’u’ lláh, Law ˙ -i-‘Abdu’ l-Raz z á q, tran s l ated in to English by Shoghi Effe ndi in G l ean in gs from the Wr i tin gs of
B ahá’u’ lláh (GL), Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1971, LXXXVII, pp. 174–175.
87) From a recently tran s l ated Tablet of Bahá’u’ lláh; ci ted in letter written on be h alf of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, 1
Janu ary 1981 (www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /uhj /re sur rec ti on .bibl e.h t ml)
88) Bahá’u’ lláh, Ki t á b -i-ˆqán (K I ), tran s l ated in to English by Shoghi Effe nd i; Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1970, pp.
86– 87.
89) From a recently tran s l ated Tablet of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá; ci ted in letter written on be h alf of the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce, 1
Janu ary 1981 (www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /uhj /re sur rec ti on .bibl e.h t ml)
1 4 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
90) From a recently tran s l ated Tablet of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá (www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /uhj /re sur rec ti on .bibl e.h t ml)
91) From a letter dated 28 July 1936 to a Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembl y, written by Shoghi Effe ndi www.b ah a i-
l ib rary.org /uhj /re sur rec ti on .bibl e.h t ml)
92) From a letter dated 11 Feb r u ary 1944 to an ind iv idu al be l i e ve r, written by Shoghi Effe ndi www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /uhj /re s-
ur rec ti on .bibl e.h t ml)
93) From a letter dated 4 July 1947 to an ind iv idu al be l i e ve r, written by Shoghi Effe ndi www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /uhj /re sur rec ti on .bibl e.h t ml)
94) From a letter dated 25 Nove mber 1950 written by Shoghi Effe ndi www.b ah a i-l ib rary.org /uhj /re sur rec ti on .bibl e.h t ml)
95) KI, pp. 201–202 .
96) Ibid., p. 202 .
97) Ibid., p. 203.
98) Ibid., p. 210.
99) From a letter dated July 6, 1934 written on be h alf of Shoghi Effe ndi to an ind iv idu al be l i e ve r.
100) From a letter written on be h alf of Shoghi Effe nd i .
101) Shoghi Effe nd i, The Ad vent of Div ine Ju s ti ce, Wilm e t te: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust, 1990, p. 49.
102) From a letter dated July 28, 1936 written on be h alf of Shoghi Effe ndi to a Nati on al Spir i t u al Assembl y.
103) Bahá’u’ lláh, Sú rat al-B ayán, tran s l ated in to English by Shoghi Effe nd i, in GL, CXXIX, p. 281.
104) Bahá’u’ lláh, Sú rat al-Mulú k, tran s l ated in to English by Shoghi Effe nd i, in GL, CXIV, p. 236.
105) KA, K99.
106) KA, K148.
107) KA, K183.
108) TB, p. 108.
1 4 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 4 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh:
Tablets and Talks Translated into English (1911–1920)
Peter Terry
‘A
bdu’ l-B ahá (1844–1921), Sir ‘Abbás Effe nd i, eldest son of Bahá’u’ lláh, gave a great number of pr i-
vate and public talks dur ing His soj ourn in Europe and North America, in the years 1911–1913.
Sub s e quent to this jour n e y, He aut h ored many lette rs, usu ally de nom in ated “Tabl e ts” by Bahá’ís ,
in a s much as the spir i t u al nat ure of their subj ect mat ter and the div ine in s pirati on be l i e ved to re side in
t h eir con te n ts set these lette rs apart from all ot h e rs. Vir t u ally all of these talks and lette rs we re exp o-
si ti ons of one or more of the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh. Some of them con ta in ed surve ys of seve ral of
these teac h in gs, and of these, a number inc luded lis ts of such teac h in gs, som e times numbe red and at
other times seque nced without num e rati on. In seve ral of His talks ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá stated that Bahá’u’ lláh’s
teac h in gs we re innum e rabl e:
T h is is a short summ ary of the Teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh. (‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in London, p. 30)
The Tabl e ts of Bahá’u’ lláh are man y. The prece p ts and teac h in gs they con ta in are un ive rsal ,
cove r ing eve ry subj ec t. He has re veal ed sci e n tific expl an ati ons ran ging throu g h out all the
realms of hum an in qu iry and in ve s ti gati on —a s t ronom y, bi olo gy, med i cal sci e nce, etc. In the
Ki t á b -i-ˆqán He has given exp o si ti ons of the mean in gs of the Gospel and other heave nl y
B o ok s. He wrote lengthy Tabl e ts up on civ il iz ati on, soci olo gy and gove r nm e n t. Eve ry subj ec t
is con side red. (5/29/1912, talk in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Kinn e y, NYC; The Promul gati on of
U n ive rsal Peace, p. 155)
These [e l e ven numbe red] are a few of the pr inci ples pro c l a im ed by Bahá’u’ lláh. He has pro-
v ided the re m edy for the a ilm e n ts which now a fflict the hum an world, sol ved the diff i cult
problems of ind iv idu al, soci al, nati on al and un ive rsal we l fare and laid the found ati on of div in e
reality up on which mate r i al and spir i t u al civ il iz ati on are to be founded throu g h out the ce n-
t uries before us. (9/5/1912, talk at St. James Me t h o d ist Churc h, Mon t real; PUP, p. 318)
The teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh are boundless, innum e rable; time will not allow us to menti on
them in de ta il. (10/25/1912, talk at Hotel Sac ram e n to, Cal i fornia; PUP, pp. 375 –376)
The teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh embody many pr inci ples; I am giv ing you only a synop sis.
(11/6/1912, talk at Unive rsal ist Churc h, Wa s h in g ton, D.C.; PUP, p. 394)
The teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh are boundless and ill im i tabl e. You have a s ked me wh at new pr in-
ci ples have been re veal ed by Him. I have menti on ed a few onl y. There are many ot h e rs, but
time does not permit their menti on ton i g h t. (12/2/1912, talk in the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Kinn e y, NYC; PUP, p. 457)
These are some of the teac h in gs in the re l i gi on of Bahá’u’ lláh —all of which would take a great
deal of time to exp ound. (Star of the We s t, III:17, p. 9)
Just as the rays of the ph e nom e n al sun are in f in i te, like w ise the rays of the Sun of Reality are
in f in i te. The ab ove summ ary only con ta ins a few of its rays. (Star of the We s t, XI :1, p. 11)
T h is study will not seek to give an accoun ting of all of the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh; nor will it eve n
seek to ide n tify all of the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh to be found in the talks and lette rs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá.
Such proj ec ts would re qu ire volumes to explore in bef i t ting de ta il. The a im of this study is to exam in e
the enum e rated lis ts and seque nces of Bahá’í teac h in gs found in the talks and lette rs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
1 4 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
which we re tran s l ated in to English and publ is h ed dur ing His life tim e. The te xts of these sources are ide n-
ti f i ed in the first app e nd ix to this pap e r, in chronolo gi cal order of their comp o si ti on (wh e n e ver it wa s
p o s sible to a s ce r ta in the date of their prove n ance). It will then compare these numbe red lis ts and
s e que nces with the teac h in gs which ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ind i cated we re new and dis tinc tive to the Re ve l ati on
and Dis p e n sati on of Bahá’u’ lláh .
The or i gin al words of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, in these talks and lette rs, we re Pe rsi an and Arabic, not Englis h .
They have been tran s l ated in to English by a number of ind iv idu als, inc lud ing Aminu’ ll ah Far id, Ahm ad
S ohrab, Aziz u’ ll ah Bah adur, Zia Bagd ad i, Shoghi Effe nd i, and perh aps ot h e rs who are not ide n ti f i ed by
n am e. Only those for which the Pe rsi an or i gin al te xts have been found, and which we re approved for pub-
l i cati on by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá Him s e l f, can be con side red as aut h or i tative state m e n ts of Bahá’í do c t r in e. This
s t udy will not exam ine each of these accoun ts in order to de te r m ine its status in the Bahá’í canon, or to
compare the con te n ts of non- canon i cal with canon i cal accoun ts.
Rat h e r, we will seek to become be t ter ac qu a in ted with the sub s tance of wh at ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá seems to
h ave regarded as among the most imp or tant teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, not in the Pe rsi an lan g u age source s ,
but, rat h e r, as they we re encoun te red by North Americans and other reade rs of English dur ing ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá’s life tim e.
A ll to gether thir t y-s e ven sources we re con sulted. Thir teen we re for enum e rated teac h in gs and the
re m a in ing twe n t y-four re pre s e n ted seque nced teac h in gs. The sources of these pr inci ples are ci ted here, in
b rac ke ts [...]. P l ease con sult App e nd ix One for a full de s c r i p ti on of these source s. The lis ting of pr inci-
ples (inc lud ing both the numbe red and the seque nced teac h in gs) ran ged from one [2, 29] to seve n teen [9],
but also inc lud ing two [20], three [16, 18, 32], four [11 ,19,33], five [21, 28], six [30], seven [22, 25], ei g h t
[8, 14], nine [4, 5, 17, 26, 31], ten [10, 24,3 4], eleven [13, 15, 23, 27, 37], twe l ve [1, 6], thir teen [6, 35],
four teen [7], and fifteen [3 ,12]. In much Bahá’í in t ro duc tory lite rat ure in English we find a fa irly stan-
d ard list of ten or twe l ve Bahá’í pr inci pl e s. We might note that only two of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s talks or lette rs
feat ures a list of twe l ve teac h in gs, and that in neither case are they numbe red. In the thir t y-s e ven source s
s t ud i ed we find for t y-f ive separate Bahá’í teac h in gs. Only one of these teac h in gs is found in vir t u all y
e ve ry one of those sources (32 out of 37), and twe n t y-t hree of these teac h in gs are only found in one of
the source s. He re are these pr inci ples, beginn ing with those menti on ed the most fre quently and ran gin g
to those which are menti on ed in only one source (the number of sources each pr inci ple is ci ted in is
found to the right of that pr inci ple, in pare n t h e s e s) :
1. Oneness of hum anity (32)
2. Re l i gi on must be in ag reement with sci e nce and rea s on (27)
3. Re l i gi on must be conducive to love and unity (26)
4. Equ ality of men and women (23)
5. Ab andonment of prej ud i ces (23)
6 Inde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of real i t y/s earch for truth (21)
7. Unive rsal Peace (20)
8. Unive rsal educati on and cur r i culum (17)
9. Hum anity must de p e nd up on the Holy Spirit (13)
10. Economic readjustment (13)
11. Found ati on and reality of all re l i gi ons are one (13)
12. Equ al rights for all (11)
13. Unive rsal lan g u age (10)
14. Inte r n ati on al Tr ibun al (5)
15. Unive rsal justi ce (4)
16. Spir i t u al brot h e rhood (4)
17. Tra in ing in useful cra ft, art, sci e nce or profe s si on (3)
18. Mate r i al civ il iz ati on must be combin ed with div ine civ il iz ati on (3)
19. Heave nly morals and spir i t u al civ il iz ati on (3)
20. Work to the best of on e’s ability is worship (2)
21. Re l i gi on must be free from dogma and im i tati on (2)
1 4 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
22. Reconcil i ati on of re l i gi ous sys tems (2)
23. Oneness of God (2)
24. Re l i gi on must not mix with pol i tics (2)
25. Re l i gi on is a mighty bul wark (2)
26. Unive rsal employ m e n t: all must work, work for all (1)
27. Re l i gi on must be a fac tor for hum an pro g ress (1)
28. Oneness of reality (1)
29. Reconcil i ati on of sci e nce and re l i gi on through sci e nce and art (1)
30. Love for an im als (1)
31. Love for all men (1)
32. Educati on of women (1)
33. Ag reement of the peoples of the world (1)
34. Inte r-raci al peace (1)
35. Volun tary shar ing of property with hum anity (1)
36. Demon s t rati on of Div inity and in s pirati on (1)
37. Power of the in flue nce of Bahá’u’ lláh (1)
38. Tr ue fre edom for man is from the world of nat ure (1)
39. Establ is hment of the House of Ju s ti ce (1)
40. Soci al classes refor m ed but ranks pre s e rved (1)
41. Establ is hment of the Center of the Cove n an t
42. Dawn of the Sun of Reality from Pe rsia (1)
43. Re l i gi on is the div ine re m edy (1)
44. Inte r n ati on al unity (1)
45. Find a common point of ag re e m e n t; those who in sist they are right are wrong (1)
The lo cati on of these teac h in gs in the thir t y-s e ven sources are ci ted in App e nd ix Two. C h art One fea-
t ures a subd iv isi on of these pr inci ples in to four groups of nine each. In App e nd ix Three are the rank-
in gs of these pr inci ples, those which are numbe red and those which are seque nced . T h e re are con side r-
able diffe re nces be tween the numbe red and seque nced rankin gs, which might lead us to the conc lu si on
t h at the ac t u al order of the pre s e n tati on of these teac h in gs does not ind i cate its re l ative imp or tance in
the con s te ll ati on of Bahá’í value s. For example, if we con sider those teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh which are
ci ted first in each of these thir t y-s e ven sources, we find that the numbe red lis ts feat ure “T h e
I nde p e ndent Inve s ti gati on of Real i t y/S earch for Tr ut h” as the first teac h ing of Bahá’u’ lláh in twe l ve out
of seve n teen such sources, and “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” in this first rank in five out of the sam e
s e ve n teen source s. On the other hand, if we con sult seque nces of teac h in gs in the re m a in ing twe n t y
s ources, we find one refe re nce to “The Inde p e ndent Inve s ti gati on of Real i t y” (12), and twe l ve [refe re nce s]
to “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” as we ll as other first rankin gs, inc lud ing “Oneness of God” (20, 21),
“U n ive rsal Peace” (7), “Ab andonment of Prej ud i ce s” (2), “U n ive rsal Educati on” (4), “The Unity of the
Re l i gi on of God” (30), and “Ag reement among the peoples of the world” (32). He nce, wh ile the reader of
the numbe red lis ts of Bahá’í teac h in gs might come to the conc lu si on that “The Inde p e ndent Inve s ti gati on
of Real i t y” is the first and fore most of the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, this inc lu si on of seque nced teac h-
in gs seems to ind i cate that “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” is at least as imp or tant and that it was ci ted
e ven more ofte n, in the lim i ted con te xt we are surve y in g, as the first Bahá’í pr inci pl e.
The ove rarc h ing imp or tance of this teac h ing of “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” is ind i cated by the fac t
t h at it is ranked most often as the second teac h ing of Bahá’u’ lláh in the numbe red lis ts, in fully ten out
of four teen numbe red lis ts, and also in five out of twenty of the seque nce s. This compares to three sec-
ond-pl ace rankin gs of “The Inde p e ndent Inve s ti gati on of Real i t y” in the numbe red lis ts, and like w is e
t hree out of the twenty seque nce s. Only one other pr inci ple is lis ted in second pl ace in the numbe red
l is ts, “U n ive rsal Peace” (37), wh ile eleven other pr inci ples are found in the seque nces in this rankin g:
“The Unity of the Re l i gi on of God” (12, 25, 26), “Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and un i t y” (14, 30,
33), “U n ive rsal Peace” (2 ,6), “U n ive rsal brot h e rh o o d” (5), “I n te r n ati on al Unity” (32), “D e p e nde nce up on
the Holy Spir i t” (35), and “Re l i gi on must be in ag reement with sci e nce and rea s on” (24). It is evident from
s t ud y ing these seque nces that two other pr inci ples ti ed with “The Inde p e ndent Inve s ti gati on of Real i t y”
1 4 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
for second pl ace we ll be h ind “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” as the second Bahá’í pr inci pl e. In one of His
talks (29), ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá is re p or ted to have sa id: “the fund am e n tal pr inci ple of Bahá’u’ lláh is the on e n e s s
of the world of hum an i t y_.”
We may also view the pre s e n tati on of “The Inde p e ndent Inve s ti gati on of Real i t y” and “The Oneness
of Hum an i t y” at the forefront of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s talks and lette rs de s c r ibing the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh
as in te nded to facil i tate the unde rs tand ing of the lis tener and reade r. “The Inde p e ndent Inve s ti gati on of
Real i t y” seems to many as an appropr i ate beginn in g_we begin by each of us thinking for ours e l ve s ,
a s sum ing re s p on sibility for our own lear n in g, and com ing to our own conc lu si on s. Like w ise, “T h e
Oneness of Hum an i t y” is a fund am e n tal pr inci ple, to which all the other Bahá’í teac h in gs can be re l at-
ed. For example, if hum anity is one, then it is eminently rea s on able that re l i gi on should be conducive to
love and un i t y, that women and men should be equ al, that we should ab andon our prej ud i ces, that un i-
ve rsal peace should be establ is h ed, and so forth. He nce, the orde r ing of pre s e n tati on may perform the
func ti on of creating an a s s o ci ative map in the mind of the lis tener or reade r, enabl ing him to conn ec t
and therefore to unde rs tand and re l ate to this dive rsity of pr inci pl e s. Each mind and heart is un ique, and
it is te ll ing that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has not ci ted the same list of Bahá’í teac h in gs in any two talks or lette rs_t h e
order of pre s e n tati on varies, and I am su g ge s ting that it varies because ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá was ad ap ting His
re m arks to the par ti cul ar coll ec ti on of minds and hear ts which He was addre s sing on those var i ous occa-
si on s. Con te xt is imp or tant, and here is a lesson for those who would teach in the fo ots teps of the
Ma s te r. On the other hand, the con sis te ncy of the teac h in gs pre s e n ted by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá is like w is e
notabl e. He does not talk a lot ab out Bahá’í laws or Bahá’í in s ti t uti ons, nor does He in sist, in these talk s ,
up on the proph ecies ful f ill ed by the Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh. Inde ed, He rarely menti ons the Pe rs ons of the
Báb and Bahá’u’ lláh in these thir t y-s e ven sources, or, for that mat te r, in most of His other talks and let-
te rs written for We s tern aud i e nces and reade rs. His emph a sis seems to be on giv ing clear and concis e
de s c r i p ti ons of ce r ta in fund am e n tal teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh .
We have earlier noted the fron t-rank status of “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” as a Bahá’í pr inci ple, but
let us now con sider wh at ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá has sa id ab out var i ous other pr inci ples found in these source s. In
H is Tablet to Mrs. Cr ump Cone (2), ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá writes that “the most imp or tant teac h ing of Bahá’u’ lláh,
is to leave be h ind raci al, pol i ti cal, re l i gi ous, and pat r i otic prej ud i ce s_it is imp o s sible to strike at the ro ot
of these raci al, pol i ti cal, re l i gi ous and pat r i otic prej ud i ces unless the inh abi tan ts of the world com e
under the shadow of Bahá’u’ lláh .” He re ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá re l ates this pr inci ple to another teac h ing of
B ahá’u’ lláh, and wh ile He has a ff ir m ed that the ab andonment of prej ud i ce is “the most imp or tant teac h-
ing of Bahá’u’ lláh” nevertheless He a s s e r ts that “it is imp o s sible to strike at the ro ot of these raci al ,
p ol i ti cal, re l i gi ous and pat r i otic prej ud i ces unless the inh abi tan ts of the world come under the shadow
of Bahá’u’ lláh”— which we take to mean: un til they follow the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh as a wh ol e. Anot h e r
s tatement which pl aces “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” in con te xt is found in a talk (20), as follows: “T h e
g reat and fund am e n tal teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh are the oneness of God and the unity of mankind .” In
t h at talk ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá app eals to the Bahá’ís to tran s l ate these ideas in to real i ti e s: “Now must we, like-
w ise, bind ours e l ves to gether in the ut most un i t y, be kind and lov ing to each ot h e r, sac r i f i cing all our
p o s s e s si ons, our honor, yea, even our lives for each ot h e r. Then will it be proved that we have ac ted
accord ing to the teac h in gs of God, that we have been realbe l i e ve rs in the oneness of God and unity of
m ankind .” It is hence in the con te xt of ac t u al izing these teac h in gs that they are “g reat and fund am e n tal
teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh ...”
W h ile ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá calls “the oneness of the world of hum an i t y” in another talk (36) “a fund am e n tal
teac h ing of Bahá’u’ lláh” we should note that He follows this a s s e r ti on in that same talk with this state-
ment (PUP:455): “As to the most great charac te r is tic of the re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh, a specific teac h in g
not given by any of the Proph e ts of the pa s t: It is the ord in ati on and app ointment of the Center of the
C ove n an t.” In anot h e r talk (10/31/1912, Hotel Plaza, Chicago, Ill inois; PUP, pp. 381–383), ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
says, in con f ir m ati on of the imp or tance of this pr inci ple (p. 381): “To d ay the most imp or tant pr inci pl e
of faith is fir mness in the Cove n ant, because fir mness in the Cove n ant wards off diffe re nce s. Therefore ,
you must be as firm as moun ta in s.” There are many ways to unde rs tand these state m e n ts. For exampl e ,
wh ile ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá stresses the fund am e n tal nat ure of “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” in many of His talk s ,
1 4 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
He has spoken of the Center of the Cove n ant in talks addre s s ed speci f i cally to the Bahá’ís. Also, wh il e
He a ff ir m ed “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” a “fund am e n tal teac h ing of Bahá’u’ lláh,” the lan g u age He uses
in refe re nce to the Cove n ant is “most great charac te r is ti c” and “most imp or tant pr inci ple of fa i t h”— b ot h
of which phrases clearly a ff irm rank and value. Fur t h e r more, in the con te xt of the establ is hment of the
C e n ter of the Cove n ant, we may unde rs tand that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s exaltati on of the pr inci ple of “T h e
Oneness of Hum an i t y” is far from an a ff ir m ati on of We s tern hum an ist or de mo c ratic ideals, either a s
they we re unde rs tood dur ing His life time or dur ing our own epoch. On the con t rary, it ind i cates that
B ahá’u’ lláh’s visi on of “The Oneness of Hum an i t y” re qu ires reco g n i ti on of and obed i e nce to a div in e l y-
in s pired and proph e ti call y- aut h or iz ed Cente r, in effect, to a heave nly Kin g. Also, we might note anot h-
er of the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ci ted often (t h ir teen tim e s) in these sources, and in
m any other talks and lette rs which we re tran s l ated in to English dur ing this period, a teac h ing which is
de s c r ibed eloquently in the follow ing exce r p ts from His talks (13 ,15,17, 23 , 25, 27) :
It is only by the breath of the Holy Spirit that spir i t u al de ve lopment can come ab out. No mat-
ter how the mate r i al world may pro g ress, no mat ter how spl e nd idly it may adorn its e l f, it can
n e ver be an y t h ing but a lifeless body unless the soul is within, for it is the soul that an im ate s
the body; the body alone has no real si g n i f i cance. Depr ived of the bl e s sin gs of the Holy Spir i t
the mate r i al body would be in e r t. (Par is Talk s, p. 133)
We unde rs tand that the Holy Spirit is the energizing fac tor in the life of man. Whosoeve r
receives this power is able to in flue nce all with wh om he comes in to con tac t...
An humble man without lear n in g, but fill ed with the Holy Spirit, is more powe r ful than the
most nobl y-b orn profound schol ar without that in s pirati on. He who is educated by the Hol y
Spirit can, in his time, lead ot h e rs to receive the same Spir i t.
I pray for you that you may be in for m ed by the life of the Div ine Spirit, so that you may be
the means of educating ot h e rs. (PT, p. 165)
B ahá’u’ lláh teaches that the world of hum anity is in need of the breath of the Holy Spirit, for
in spir i t u al qu i c ke n ing and enl i g h te nment true oneness is at ta in ed with God and man. (PUP,
pp. 108 –109)
The world of hum anity cannot ad vance through mere ph ysi cal powe rs and in te ll ec t u al at ta in-
m e n ts; nay, rat h e r, the Holy Spirit is essenti al. (PUP, p. 182)
The spirit of man is not illum in ed and qu i c ke n ed through mate r i al source s. It is not re su s ci-
tated by in ve s ti gating ph e nomena of the world of mat te r. The spirit of man is in need of the
protec ti on of the Holy Spir i t. Just as he ad vances by pro g re s sive stages from the mere ph ysi cal
world of being in to the in te ll ec t u al realm, so must he de ve lop up ward in moral at t r ibutes and
s pir i t u al grace s. In the pro cess of this at ta inment he is ever in need of the be s towals of the
Holy Spir i t. (PUP, p. 288)
Tr ue dis tinc ti on among mankind is through div ine be s towals and receiv ing the in t u i ti ons of
the Holy Spir i t. If man does not become the reci pient of the heave nly be s towals and spir i t u al
b oun ties, he re m a ins in the pl ane and kin gdom of the an im al. (PUP, pp. 316–317)
The ci tati on of these pa s sages was not effec ted in order to ad vance a claim as to the re l ative imp or-
tance of one Bahá’í teac h ing over anot h e r. Rat h e r, these state m e n ts have been inc luded in order to
de mon s t rate, by example, the impact which a single Bahá’í pr inci ple can have up on our unde rs tand in g
of all other Bahá’í pr inci pl e s. For example, the Bahá’í pr inci ple which calls for “The Inde p e nde n t
I n ve s ti gati on of Real i t y” might impl y, for some reade rs, that Bahá’u’ lláh encourages each one of His fol-
lowe rs to find his own way to the trut h, re l y ing only up on his own pers on al jud g m e n t. Howe ve r, in the
con te xt of the establ is hment of the Center of the Cove n ant, and the teac h ing that man must “becom e
the reci pient of the heave nly be s towals and spir i t u al boun ti e s” vouc hsa fed by the Holy Spirit, it is clear
and evident that Bahá’u’ lláh is call ing His follower to dis cove ry of that spir i t u al reality which is be yond
h is hum an unde rs tand in g, for the appre h e n si on of which he re qu ires a div in e l y-in s pired guide, the Cente r
of the Cove n ant, and con tinuous de p e nde nce up on “the in t u i ti ons of the Holy Spir i t” rather than
1 4 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
re l i ance up on his five senses, his rati on al faculty and his hum an lear n in g. He nce, it is in the ove rall in te r-
pl ay and in te r p e n e t rati on of these var i ous pr inci ples that the one truth may be reco g n iz ed which tran-
s ce nds par ti cul arity and the dis tor ti ons of hum an perce p ti on .
A Comparison of these Enumerated and Sequenced Teachings with the Principles which ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá Specifically Identified as New and Distinctive to the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
In some of His talks, ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ind i cated that there we re var i ous teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh that have
n e ver before app eared from the Proph e ts of God:
T hus when hat red and an imo si t y, fightin g, slau g h te r in g, and great coldness of heart we re gov-
e r n ing this world, and darkness had ove rcome the nati ons, Bahá’u’ lláh, like a bright star, ro s e
from the hor iz on of Pe rsia, and shone with the great Light of Gu id ance, giv ing heave nly rad i-
ance and establ is h ing New Teac h in g. (Talk at Theo s oph i cal Soci e t y, 30 Septe mber 1911; pub-
l is h ed in ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in London:27)
At such a time as this Bahá’u’ lláh app eared among them like a lum in ary in the heave n s. He
flo o ded the East with light. He pro c l a im ed new pr inci ples and teac h in gs. He laid a basis for
new in s ti t uti ons which are the ve ry spirit of mo de r n is m, the light of the world, the de ve lop-
ment of the body pol i tic and ete r n al honor. (Talk at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Pars on s ,
Wa s h in g ton, D.C., 7 Nove mber 1912; tran s l ated by Dr. Aminu’ ll ah Far id, tran s c r ibed by
Jo s e ph H. Hannen; publ is h ed in PUP:402)
S ome who could find no other pre te xt have sa id, “These teac h in gs are not new; they are old
and fam il i ar; we have heard them before.” Therefore, I will speak to you up on the dis tinc tive
c h arac te r is tics of the man i fe s tati on of Bahá’u’ lláh and prove that from eve ry standp oint His
Cause is dis tin g u is h ed from all ot h e rs. (Talk at the home of Miss Juliet Thomp s on, New York
Ci t y, 15 Nove mber 1912; tran s l ated by Dr. Aminu’ ll ah Far id, tran s c r ibed by Mr. Ho op e r
Har r is; publ is h ed in PUP:431)
I will speak to you conce r n ing the speci al teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh. All the div ine pr inci pl e s
announced by the ton g ue of the Proph e ts of the past are to be found in the words of
B ahá’u’ lláh; but in add i ti on to these He has re veal ed ce r ta in new teac h in gs which are not to be
found in any of the sac red Books of former tim e s. I shall menti on some of them; the ot h e rs ,
which are many in numbe r, may be found in the Books, Tabl e ts and Epistles written by
B ahá’u’ lláh —such as the Hidden Words, the Glad Tid in gs, the Words of Parad ise, Tajallí yá t ,
Tar ázát and ot h e rs. Like w ise, in the Ki t á b -i-A qdas there are new teac h in gs which cannot be
found in any of the past Books or Epistles of the Proph e ts. (Talk at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Kinn e y, New York Ci t y, 2 Dece mber 1912; tran s l ated by Dr. Aminu’ ll ah Far id, tran s c r ibed by
Miss Esther Fo s te r; publ is h ed in PUP:453–454)
I am going to quote you some of Bahá’u’ lláh’s in s t r uc ti ons for this day and you will show me
in which sac red book they are to be found .... These prece p ts we re pro c l a im ed by Bahá’u’ lláh
m any years ago. He was the first to create them in the hear ts as moral laws.” (Talk in Par is ,
n .d.; publ is h ed in ABDP:82, 85)
In some of His talks ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá a s s e r ted that the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh are in ke e ping with the
“s pirit of the Age.” As He pa ired this statement, in two separate talks, with a ff ir m ati ons that those
teac h in gs which con s ti t ute the “s pirit of the Age” we re new teac h in gs, we may conc lude that these teac h-
in gs are also dis tinc tive to the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on :
... all have conceded that the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh are sup e rl ative in charac te r, ac knowl ed g-
ing that they con s ti t ute the ve ry essence or spirit of this new age and that there is no be t te r
pat h way to the at ta inment of its ideal s. (Talk at the home of Miss Juliet Thomp s on, New York
Ci t y, 15 Nove mber 1912; tran s l ated by Dr. Aminu’ ll ah Far id, tran s c r ibed by Mr. Ho op e r
Har r is; publ is h ed in PUP:431)
H is teac h in gs, which embody the div ine spirit of the age and are appl i cable to this period of
m at urity in the life of the hum an world, are... (Talk at Geneolo gi cal Hall, New York Ci t y, 17
1 4 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Nove mber 1912; tran s l ated by Dr. Aminu’ ll ah Far id, tran s c r ibed by Mrs. Edna McKinn e y; pub-
l is h ed in PUP:440)
B ahá’u’ lláh’s teac h in gs are the health of the world. They re present the spirit of this age, the
light of this age, the we ll-being of this age, the soul of this cyc l e. The world will be at re s t
when they are put in to prac ti ce, for they are real i t y. (Talk in Par is, n.d.; publ is h ed in
ABDP:85 – 86)
One more, it is imp e rative that we dis tin g u ish be tween those teac h in gs ide n ti f i ed as new and con s ti-
t uting the “s pirit of this Age” on the one hand, and those teac h in gs which ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá regarded as essen-
ti al and ce n t ral to the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on. In other words, in His te r m inolo gy, new does not nece s sar il y
imply “most imp or tan t.” While further study of these pr inci ples may inde ed ind i cate that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
regarded the new teac h in gs as being among the most imp or tant pr inci ples of the Bahá’í Fa i t h, the pre-
sent aut h or is not pre pared to make such an a s s e r ti on at this tim e. He nce, we seem to have five separate
s ources of “n e w” teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh, and all of them are re pre s e n ted among the sources for this
s t udy—they are, con s ecutive l y, sources (12), (14), (34), (35) and (36). Of these five talks, two (14,34) are
numbe red, and the other three are seque nced. In three out of five lis ts, the first pr inci ple is the inde-
p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of real i t y/s earch for trut h; in the other two, the first pr inci ple is the oneness of
the world of hum an i t y, and the inde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of truth is in the sixth (35) and the second
pl ace (36). The order of pre s e n tati on of these “n e w” pr inci ples follows the same pat terns as the other lis ts
s t ud i ed. Taken as a group, these five sources re present nin e teen teac h in gs, lis ted be low and on Chart Two
(with the number of sources re pre s e n ted in pare n t h e s e s) :
Independent investigation of reality/search for truth (5)
1. oneness of the world of hum anity (5)
2. re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (5)
3. re l i gi on must be in ag reement with sci e nce and rea s on (5)
4. elim in ati on of prej ud i ces (4)
5. reality of the div ine re l i gi ons is one (4)
6. equ ality of men and women (4)
7. compul s ory un ive rsal educati on (4)
8. un ive rsal auxil i ary lan g u age will be adop ted (3)
9. Unive rsal Peace will come (3)
10. Inte r n ati on al Tr ibun al (2)
11. eve ryone must learn a useful profe s si on, art or trade (2)
12. work done in the spirit of serv i ce is the highest form of worship (2)
13. protec ti on and guid ance of the Holy Spirit (1)
14. the diffe rent soci al classes are pre s e rved (1)
15. work for all (1)
16. de s t roy an tagon ism by find ing a point of ag re e m e n t_
17. if two dis pute ab out re l i gi on both are wrong (1)
18. House of Ju s ti ce (1)
19. Center of the Cove n ant (1)
He nce, we find that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ide n ti f i ed at least 19 “n e w” and “d is tinc tive” teac h in gs in five of His
talks and that He a ff ir m ed some twe n t y-six other teac h in gs in other talks and in Tabl e ts written to
We s tern be l i e ve rs dur ing His min is t ry as Center of the Cove n an t. Of these, how many are feat ured in
B ahá’í pamphl e ts and lea fl e ts? Many pamphl e ts and lea fl e ts do not list any of these teac h in gs, wh ile ot h-
e rs fo cus on one or two, such as the oneness of hum an i t y, the equ ality of men and wom e n, or the elim-
in ati on of prej ud i ce s. Those which feat ure lis ts of Bahá’í pr inci ples typi cally ci te ten teac h in gs, usu all y
in this ge n e ral orde r:
1. oneness of mankind
2. inde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of real i t y
3. one found ati on of all re l i gi on s
1 4 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
4. essenti al har mony of sci e nce and re l i gi on
5. equ ality of men and wom e n
6. elim in ati on of prej ud i ce s
7. un ive rsal compul s ory educati on
8. spir i t u al soluti on to the economic probl e m
9. un ive rsal auxil i ary lan g u age
10. un ive rsal peace uph e ld by a world gove r nm e n t
S ome pamphl e ts also feat ure Bahá’u’ lláh’s a ff ir m ati on that there is but one God, and a recent lea fl e t
also feat ures “protec ti on of cult ural dive rsi t y” as a Bahá’í pr inci pl e. While we ll-read Bahá’ís unde rs tand
t h at by “s pir i t u al soluti on to the economic probl e m” we are refe r r ing to a number of Bahá’í teac h in gs—
inc lud ing (12) eve ryone must learn a useful profe s si on, art or trade; (13) work done in the spirit of ser-
v i ce is the highest form of wors h i p; (15) the diffe rent soci al classes are pre s e rved; and (16) work for all —
t h is is not unde rs tood by the reader of these pamphl e ts. Inde ed, this “s pir i t u al soluti on to the econom-
ic probl e m” could mean not h ing more than “be nice to peopl e”— wh e reas the teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh per-
ta in ing to work are much more de ta il ed and chall e n ging to the status quo. It is evident that these pam-
phl e ts and lea fl e ts are not feat ur ing almost half of the teac h in gs which ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá speci f i cally ide n ti-
f i ed as “n e w” and “d is tinc tive” to the Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh in ce r ta in of His talk s. Nor do they men-
ti on, taking in to account the refe re nce to the oneness of God in one pamphlet, some thir t y-f ive ot h e r
B ahá’í pr inci ples that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá enum e rated or seque nced in His talks and Tabl e ts.
The extant in t ro duc tory lite rat ure on the Bahá’í Faith in the English lan g u age inc ludes the classic writ-
ten by Dr. John E. Esslemont, B ahá’u’ lláh and the New Era, first publ is h ed in 1923, and re v is ed in 1937,
1950 and 1970 and two recent works, The Bahá’í Re l i gi on, by Pe ter Smith (G eorge Ron ald, 1988) and T h e
B ahá’í Fa i t h, by Jo s e ph Shepph e rd (Element, 1992). These three books will be given abb re v i ated titles for
the durati on of this pap e r, re s p ec tive l y — BNE, BR and BF. The most recent ed i ti on of BNE feat ures two
c h ap te rs, Chap ter 9, enti t l ed “Tr ue Civ il iz ati on” and Chap ter 10, enti t l ed “The Way to Peace” wh i c h,
be tween them, feat ure most of the “n e w” teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh ci ted by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá; the “n e w” teac h-
in gs not dis cu s s ed in these chap te rs are in t ro duced in other chap te rs of this book. BNE is so compre-
h e n sive that it feat ures all or vir t u ally all of the 45 pr inci ples found in the talks and tabl e ts of ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá. BR de votes Chap ter 2 to “Re l i gi ous Doctrin e s” and Chap ter 3 to “S o ci al Doctrin e s.” In Chap te r
2 we find none either of the “n e w” teac h in gs or of the numbe red and seque nced teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh .
In Chap ter 3 we find the follow in g:
in te r n ati on al orde r: which seems to cor re s p ond to the “n e w” teac h in gs—“un ive rsal peace”: (10) and
“in te r n ati on al tribun al”: (11)
oneness of hum an i t y: (2)
economic justi ce: inc lud ing Bahá’í teac h in gs on this subj ect which have some ove rl ap with ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá’s ar ti cul ati on of “economic readj u s t m e n t”: (10) among the lis ted pr inci pl e s
p ol i ti cal orde r: feat ur ing none of the “n e w” teac h in gs noted by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá but inc lud ing the fol-
low ing “lis ted” teac h in gs— un ive rsal justi ce: (15), and equ al rights: (12)
s e xu al equ al i t y: (7)
un ive rsal educati on: (8), howe ve r, educati on is de s c r ibed as a “r i g h t” rather than as a “re s p on sibil i t y”
incumbent up on eve ry hum an being; refe re nce is made to another of the “n e w” teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh —
e ve ryone must learn a useful profe s si on, art or trade: (12); and to one of the lis ted pr inci ples as we ll —
educati on of women: (32)
s pir i t u al and mate r i al civ il iz ati on: (18) among the lis ted pr inci pl e s
A ll in all, BR feat ures six of the nin e teen “n e w” teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh in Chap ter 2, as we ll as in t ro-
ducing the Unive rsal House of Ju s ti ce and the Center of the Cove n ant in Chap ter 6, “B ahá’í
Adm in is t rati on,” for a total of ei g h t. We also found some of the teac h in gs lis ted in sources stud i ed —
e qu al rights (12), un ive rsal justi ce (15), educati on of women (32). This in t ro duc ti on is much less compre-
h e n sive in its de pi c ti on of “n e w” and “lis ted” Bahá’í teac h in gs than BNE .
1 5 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
BF feat ures var i ous Bahá’í teac h in gs in its “Part III: The Basic Teac h in gs ,” inc lud ing the follow in g
(mostly found in Chap ter 13) :
oneness of God (C h ap ter 10 and Chap ter 13): (23) [in lis ted teac h in gs]
oneness of hum an i t y: (2)
e l im in ati on of prej ud i ce s: (5)
un ive rsal justi ce: (15) [in lis ted teac h in gs]
e l im in ati on of pove r t y: inc luded in (10) [in lis ted teac h in gs]
un ive rsal educati on: (8), howe ve r, without use of the aut h or i tative term “compul s ory” which car r i e s
more weight than “dut y”
re l i gi on and sci e nce should be reco g n iz ed as diffe rent ways of de s c r ibing the same ph e nomena: with
s ome re s e mbl ance to (4), but without the re qu irement that re l i gi on be in ag reement with sci e nce and rea-
s on (which is wh at “d is tin g u is h e s” this teac h ing from other at te mp ts to reconcile re l i gi on with sci e nce
and rea s on
world peace: (10)
in te r n ati on al tribun al: (11)
in te r n ati on al auxil i ary lan g u age: (9)
In Chap ter 15 we find a two -page refe re nce to “B ahá’í Adm in is t rati on” which menti ons the Unive rsal
House of Ju s ti ce in the midst of a single sente nce, but not the Center of the Cove n an t. In fact, the
C e n ter of the Cove n ant is never menti on ed at all, and ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá makes a short app earance in two sen-
te nces, Chap ter 9.
BR and BF do not inc lude all of the “n e w” teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh that we re sin g l ed out for menti on
by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in five of His talk s. Nor do they treat a number of the Bahá’í teac h in gs enum e rated and
s e que nced in the 37 sources stud i ed for this pap e r. For a compre h e n sive in t ro duc ti on to these “n e w” and
“ l is ted” teac h in gs, it is evident that we would have to turn to BNE rather than to either of these more
recent in t ro duc ti ons to the Bahá’í Faith. While the pre s e n tati on and orde r ing of these teac h in gs in BNE
m ay not suit eve ry reade r, and may not be as conducive to memory recall as the enum e rati on and seque nc-
ing of pr inci ples by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, nevertheless, BNE is dis tinc tive in being the lon ge s t-l ived and simul-
tan eously the most compre h e n sive of all in t ro duc ti ons to the Bahá’í Faith. Not one of these three in t ro-
duc tory books re p eats ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s a s s e r ti on that these teac h in gs are “n e w” and “d is tinc tive” to the
Re ve l ati on of Bahá’u’ lláh. Not one of these books states that Bahá’u’ lláh re veal ed innum e rable teac h in gs
which touch up on eve ry a s p ect of ind iv idu al and commun al life, notw i t hs tand ing ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s rei te r-
ated a ff ir m ati on of this truth in some of the sources ci ted ab ove. Nor do they ind i cate wh e re the read-
er may next turn in order to become be t ter in for m ed ab out these teac h in gs, and the many other pr inci-
ples of Bahá’u’ lláh which are not inc luded in these talks and Tabl e ts, notw i t hs tand ing ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s ref-
e re nce to specific tabl e ts re veal ed by Bahá’u’ lláh as sources for those teac h in gs.
The pr im ary purpose of this paper was to in t ro duce its reade rs to the wide ran ge of pr inci ples that
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá inc luded in His talks and lette rs addre s s ed to the We s tern be l i e ve rs in the Bahá’í Faith. It
has been de mon s t rated that ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá ci ted at least for t y-f ive diffe rent Bahá’í teac h in gs in the thir t y-
s e ven sources exam in ed. Inasmuch as ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá did not stand ard ize His lis ting of Bahá’í pr inci pl e s ,
but seems to have ad ap ted His pre s e n tati on to a variety of aud i e nces, it is nevertheless evident that He
in t ro duced the teac h in gs He chose to de s c r ibe in a re l atively con sis tent order and rankin g. Bahá’ís wh o
a s pire to follow His example in pre s e n ting the Bahá’í teac h in gs to the ge n e ral public might be n efit from
a close study of the ran ge and order of those pr inci ples which ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá sought to con vey to His
We s tern aud i e nce. Also, in a s much as He exp ec ted that His We s tern followe rs would spearh ead the prop-
agati on of the Bahá’í Faith throu g h out the pl anet, as evide nced by His aut h orship of the Tabl e ts of the
Div ine Plan, it like w ise seems evident that He in te nded that these pr inci ples be emph a siz ed by Bahá’í
teac h e rs outside of the Occident, inde ed, in addre s sing all of hum an i t y. This is also con f ir m ed by His
aut h or ing of a Tablet addre s s ed to Miss Mo c h iz uki of Japan, source (9), which was tran s l ated by Mir z a
1 5 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
A ziz u’ ll ah Bah adur on 12/9/1920 and publ is h ed in Star of the We s t (SW XI I :2, p. 41), which feat ures a
l ist of Bahá’í pr inci ples ve ry sim il ar to ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá’s lis ts of “n e w” teac h in gs, from talks de l ive red in
L ondon, Par is and New York Ci t y. Howe ve r, there is no ind i cati on, at least from these sources, that
‘Abdu’ l-B ahá wis h ed that the pre s e n tati on of Bahá’u’ lláh’s teac h in gs be stand ard iz ed accord ing to a fixed
for mula, or that any of these teac h in gs, which He so pa in s takingly expl a in ed in His talks and lette rs ,
we re to be brushed a side in the in te re s ts of “econom y” or “simpl i ci t y” of pre s e n tati on .
He nce, it is also the a im of this paper to su g gest that the Bahá’í pr inci ples found in the talks and let-
te rs of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá are not nece s sar ily ranked, in the numbe red and seque nced lis ts, in the order of their
imp or tance to the Cause of God. Rat h e r, these lis ts seem to re present a kind of a s s o ci ative map that
e n ables the reader or lis tener to follow from ge n e ral pr inci ples to re l ated teac h in gs, and ultim ately to
ar r ive at a wh ol is tic unde rs tand ing of ce r ta in fund am e n tals re veal ed by Bahá’u’ lláh. He nce, they ofte n
begin with “The Inde p e ndent Inve s ti gati on of Real i t y” or with “The Oneness of Mankind ,” as both of
these pr inci ples lead by a s s o ci ati on to the other teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh. Pe rh aps, if Bahá’í teac h e rs we re
to study the method followed by ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá, they would learn to more effec tively transmit the Bahá’í
teac h in gs to those mill i ons who are as yet un ac qu a in ted with the most recent Man i fe s tati on of God.
T h e re may be all sor ts of creative ways in which Bahá’í speake rs and aut h ors can apply this web tec h-
n ique to the spir i t u al ed i f i cati on of hum an i t y. This approach may also facil i tate the appl i cati on of Bahá’í
pr inci ples to soci al and economic de ve lopment proj ec ts in commun i ties of all sizes and sor ts.
Fur t h e r more, it seems that the sub s tance and order of pre s e n tati on of Bahá’u’ lláh’s teac h in gs found in
these thir t y-s e ven sources cor re s p ond ve ry closely to “n e w” teac h in gs of Bahá’u’ lláh which ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá
has “d is tin g u is h ed” from earlier Scriptures and Dis p e n sati on s. On the one hand, not all of the Bahá’í
teac h in gs are entirely “n e w” and more re s earch is needed to ide n tify those which are also found in pre-
v i ou s l y-re veal ed Scripture s. The purpose of such a study would be to point out those essenti al teac h in gs
which the Bahá’í Faith has in common with all other div in e l y-re veal ed re l i gi on s. But that is another pap e r
alto ge t h e r! There has been a nat ural te nde ncy for Bahá’ís to regard the teac h in gs set forth in these num-
be red and seque nced lis ts— whether in the talks and Tabl e ts of ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá or in the pamphl e ts and
in t ro duc tory books at our dis p o sal —as the most imp or tant, the essenti al, the fund am e n tal Bahá’í teac h-
in gs. It has been poin ted out that this is not nece s sar ily an accurate read ing of the in te n ti ons of ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá, or, through Him, the purpose of Bahá’u’ lláh. This has been de mon s t rated in refe re nce to ‘Abdu’ l-
B ahá’s talks on the establ is hment of the Center of the Cove n ant, and His in sis te nce up on our hum an
n ece s sity for and de p e nde nce up on in s pirati on from the Holy Spir i t. Pe rh aps this lim i ted paper will
in s pire other stude n ts of the Bahá’í Re ve l ati on to unde r take more thorough and compre h e n sive exam i-
n ati ons of the breadth and depth of Bahá’u’ lláh’s teac h in gs, which will ever be “b oundless and ill im-
i tabl e” (PUP:457).
Bibl i o g raph y
ABDP: ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá on Div ine Philo s oph y, talks coll ec ted by Isabel Fra s e r; Boston: Tudor Press, 1918
ABL: ‘Abdu’ l-B ahá in London; London: Bahá’í Publ is h ing Trust (BPT), 1987
K H : Maj mú‘at-i-K h i t á bá t-i-Hadrat-i-‘Abdu’ l-B ahá; re pr int of the or i gin al ed i ti on,G e r m an y: Bahá’í -Ve rl ag, 1984
PT: Par is Talk s, talks coll ec ted by Lady Blom f i e ld; London: BPT, 1970
PUP: The Promul gati on of Unive rsal Peace; Wilm e t te: BPT, 1982
SW: Star of the West, The Bahá’í Magazin e, March 1910–March 1924; Oxford :G eorge Ron ald, re pr int, 1984
Appendix One: The Talks and Letters of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
L e t te rs
(1) n.d., “The Asi atic Qu ar te rl y,” publ is h ed in SW XI :1, pp. 10–11 (un ide n ti f i ed tran s l ator)
(2) 2/24/1912 (t ran s l ati on), Tablet to Mrs. Antoin e t te Cr ump Cone of Chicago; publ is h ed in SW XI I :6, p. 121 (t ran s l ati on by
Mirza Ahm ad Sohrab)
(3) 3/5/1914, Tablet to Mr. Charles Ma s on Re m e y; SW IX:15, p. 172 (un ide n ti f i ed tran s l ator, prob ably Mirza Ahm ad Sohrab)
(4) 1914–1918, Tabl e t; SW XI I I :6, p. 131 (un ide n ti f i ed tran s l ator, prob ably Mirza Ahm ad Sohrab)
(5) a fter 1918, Tabl e t; SW XIV:12, p. 370 (un ide n ti f i ed tran s l ator, prob ably Mirza Ahm ad Sohrab)
1 5 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
(6) 7/23/1919, Tablet to the Pe rsi an be l i e ve rs in Par is; SW X:12, p. 226 (un ide n ti f i ed tran s l ator, prob ably Mirza Ahm ad Sohrab)
(7) 12/17/1919 (t ran s l ati on), Letter and Tablet to the Off i ce of the Sec re tary, Central Organ iz ati on for a Durable Peace, The
Hag ue; SW XI :8, pp. 125 –127, 129 –134 (t ran s l ati on by Shoghi Effe nd i, Dr. Zia Bagd ad i, Mirza Lotfull ah Hakim, Dr. J. E .
E s s l e mon t) [par ti al re pr int in SWAB #227, pp. 296–307])
(8) 1/28/1920, Tabl e t; SW XIV:12, p. 356 (t ran s l ated by Shoghi Effe nd i)
(9) 12/9/1920 (t ran s l ati on), Tablet to Miss Mo c h iz uki of Japan; SW XI I :2, p. 41 (t ran s l ati on by Mirza Aziz u’ ll ah Bah adur)
(10) circa 1921, Tabl e t; SW XIV:8, p. 229 (un ide n ti f i ed tran s l ati on)
Talk s
(11) n.d., talk; SW XI I I :8, p. 218 (un ide n ti f i ed tran s l ator)
(12) n.d., talk; ABDP, pp. 82-85
(13) n.d., talks; PT, pp. 129-134
(14) 9/30/1911, Fare we ll address to England; SW II:18 Pe rsi an; ABL, pp. 27–30 (un ide n ti f i ed English tran s l ati on, prob ably Dr.
A. Far id)
(15) 11/10-– 8/1911, talks in pr ivate qu ar te rs, Par is; KH, pp. 143 -148; PT, pp. 135 –166
(16) 4/25/1912, talk in home of Mrs. Agnes Pars ons, Wa s h in g ton, D.C.; KH, pp. 357–360; PUP, pp. 61– 64 (t ran s l ati on by Dr.
A. Far id)
(17) 5/7/1912, talk at Hotel Schenl e y, Pi t tsburg h; PUP, pp. 105 –110 (t ran s. by Ibid .)
(18) 5/13/1912, talk at New York Peace Soci e t y; PUP, pp. 124–125 (t ran s. by Ibid .)
(19) 5/19/1912, talk at Church of the Div ine Pate r n i t y, NYC; PUP, pp. 126–129 (I bid .)
(20) 5/29/1912, talk in home of Mr. and Mrs. Kinn e y, NYC; PUP, p. 156 (I bid .)
(21) 6/2/1912, talk at Church of the Asce n si on, NYC; PUP, pp. 163–171 (I bid .)
(22) 6/9/1912, talk at Unitar i an Churc h, Phil ade lphia; KH, pp. 432–441; PUP, pp. 172–176 (I bid .)
(23) 6/9/1912, talk at Bap tist Te mple, Phil ade lphia; KH, pp. 441–454; PUP, pp. 176–182 (I bid .)
(24) 7/14/1912, talk at All Souls Unitar i an Churc h, NYC; PUP, pp. 228 –235 Ibid .)
(25) 8/27/1912, talk at Me taph ysi cal Club, Boston; PUP, pp. 284–289 (I bid .)
(26) 9/1/1912, talk at Church of the Me s si ah, Mon t real; KH, pp. 527–535; PUP, pp. 297–302 (I bid .)
(27) 9/5/1912, talk at St. James Me t h o d ist Churc h, Mon t real; PUP, pp. 312–319 (I bid .)
(28) 9/25/1912, talk at Second Div ine Sci e nce Churc h, Denve r; PUP, pp. 337–342 (I bid .)
(29) 10/8/1912, talk at Leland Stan ford Jun i or Unive rsi t y, Palo Alto; PUP, p. 349
(30) 10/8/1912, talk at Leland Stan ford Jun i or Unive rsi t y, Palo Alto; PUP, p. 354
(31) 10/25/1912, talk at Hotel Sac ram e n to, Cal i fornia; PUP, pp. 370–376 (I bid .)
(32) 11/5/1912, talk at Grand Hotel, Cincinn ati, Ohio; PUP, p. 388 (I bid .)
(33) 11/6/1912, talk at Unive rsal ist Churc h, Wa s h in g ton, D.C.; PUP, pp. 390–397 (I bid .)
(34) 11/15/1912, talk in home of Miss Juliet Thomp s on, NYC; PUP, pp. 431–437 (I bid .)
(35) 11/17/1912, talk at Geneolo gi cal Hall, NYC; PUP, pp. 437–442 (I bid .)
(36) 12/2/1912, talk in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Kinn e y; PUP, pp. 453–457 (I bid .)
(37) 12/20/1912, talk at We s t m in s ter Hotel in London; SW III:17, pp. 6–9 (re p or ted by Isabel Fra s e r; tran s l ator un ide n ti f i ed ,
prob ably Mirza Ahm ad Sohrab)
Appendix Two: The Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh According to Their Sources
L e t te rs
(1) n.d., “The Asiatic Quarterly,” published in SW XI:1, pp. 10–11 (unknown translator: hitherto, un. trans.)
1. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. establ is hment of un ive rsal peace
3. in ve s ti gati on of trut h
4. promul gati on of un ive rsal fe llows h i p
5. inculcati on of div ine love through the power of re l i gi on
6. con formity of re l i gi on with sci e nce and rea s on
7. ab andonment of re l i gi ous, pat r i otic and pol i ti cal prej ud i ce s
8. un ive rsal spread of educati on
9. organ iz ati on of the arbi t rati on al court of justi ce, or Parl i ament of Man
10. equ ality of the sexe s
11. soluti on of the economic problems of the world
12. spread of an auxil i ary world lan g u age
(2) 2/24/1912 (translation), Tablet to Mrs. Antoinette Crump Cone of Chicago; published in SW XII:6, p.
121 (translation by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab)
1.the most imp or tant teac h ing of Bahá’u’ lláh is to leave be h ind raci al, pol i ti cal, re l i gi ous, and pat r i otic prej ud i ce s
(3) 3/5/1914, Tablet to Mr. Charles Mason Remey; SW IX:15, p. 172 (un. transl., probably Mirza Ahmad
Sohrab: numbered)
1. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. in ve s ti gati on of real i t y
1 5 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
3. essenti al unity of the Re l i gi ons of God
4. ab andonment of re l i gi ous, de nom in ati on al, raci al and pat r i otic prej ud i ce s
5. con formity of div ine Re l i gi on with rea s on and sci e nce
6. Re l i gi on of God must become the cause of amity and love amon gst mankind
7. Equ ality be tween man and wom an
8. Essenti al nece s sity of the con f ir m ati on of the Holy Spir i t
9. de mon s t rati on of div inity and in s pirati on
10. power of the in flue nce of Bahá’u’ lláh
11. unde rl y ing unity of all exis ting fa i t hs
12. dawn of the Sun of Reality from the hor iz on of Pe rsi a
13. un ive rsal peace
14. un ive rsal lan g u age
15. educati on of the children of all the Re l i gi ons, under a un ive rsal stand ard of in s t r uc ti on and a common cur r i culum
(4) 1914–1918, Tablet; SW XIII:6, p. 131 (un. transl., probably Mirza Ahmad Sohrab)
1. highest eff i ci e ncy in the educati on al sys te m
2. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
3. con formity of re l i gi on with sci e nce and rea s on
4. equ ality of rights among the children of men
5. breat hs of the Holy Spir i t
6. equ ality of men and wom e n
7. swe e ping away of the prej ud i ces exis ting among the var i ous re l i gi on s
8. heave nly moral s
9. un ive rsal peace
(5) after 1918, Tablet; SW XIV:12, p. 370 (un. transl., probably Mirza Ahmad Sohrab)
1. oneness of hum an i t y
2. un ive rsal brot h e rh o o d
3. unity of sci e nce and re l i gi on
4. in ve s ti gati on of trut h
5. re l i gi on must be the cause of am i t y, un i on and har mony among men
6. equ ality of both sexe s
7. economic pr inci ples, i.e., the we l fare of eve ry ind iv idu al
8. un ive rsal educati on
9. ab ro gate and nullify re l i gi ous, raci al, pol i ti cal and economic prej ud i ce s
(6) 7/23/1919, Tablet to the Persian believers in Paris; SW X:12, p. 226 (un. transl., probably Mirza Ahmad
Sohrab)
1. unity of mankind
2. establ is hment of un ive rsal peace
3. establ is hment of un ive rsal right
4. establ is hment of un ive rsal justi ce
5. re l i gi on must be conducive to har mony amon gst men
6. re l i gi on must con form to rea s on and sci e nce
7. equ ality of men and wom e n
8. fre edom and liberty for all
9. enl i g h te nment of heave nly moral s
10. love for all men
11. love for an im al s
12. un ive rsal iz ati on of ge n e ral knowl ed ge
13. profe s si on, trade, ag r i cult ure are worship of God
(7) 12/17/1919 (translation), Letter and Tablet to the Office of the Secretary, Central Organization for a
Durable Peace, The Hague; SW XI:8, pp. 125–27, 129–134 (translation by Shoghi Effendi, Dr. Zia Bagdadi,
Mirza Lotfullah Hakim, Dr. J.E. Esslemont) [partial reprint in SWAB #227, pp. 296–307]
1. dec l arati on of Unive rsal Peace
2. inde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of real i t y
3. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
4. re l i gi on must be the cause of fe llowship and love
5. re l i gi on must be in con formity with sci e nce and rea s on
6. re l i gi ous, raci al, pol i ti cal, economic and pat r i otic prej ud i ces de s t roy the ed i f i ce of hum an i t y
7. or i gin ati on of one lan g u age that may be spread un ive rsally among the peopl e
8. unity of women and men... not un til the world of women becomes equ al to the world of men in the ac qu isi ti on of vir t ue s
and perfec ti ons, can success and prosperity be at ta in ed as they ought to be
9. volun tary shar ing of on e’s property with ot h e rs among mankind
1 5 4

Lights of ‘Irf á n
10. man’s fre edom, that through the ideal power he should be free and emanci pated from the cap tivity of the world of nat ure
11. re l i gi on is a mighty bul wark
12. alt h ough mate r i al civ il iz ati on is one of the means for the pro g ress of the world of mankind, yet un til it becomes com-
bin ed with Div ine civ il iz ati on the de sired re sult, which is the fe l i city of mankind, will not be at ta in ed
13. promoti on of educati on
14. justi ce and right
(8) 1/28/1920, Tablet; SW XIV:12, p. 356 (translation by Shoghi Effendi)
1. first teac h ing is the search a fter trut h
2. second teac h ing is the oneness of mankind
3. third teac h ing is that re l i gi on is the most mighty stron g h old
4. re l i gi on should be conducive to un i t y, rather than the cause of enmity and hate
5. re l i gi ous, raci al, nati on al and pol i ti cal prej ud i ce, all are sub ve rsive of the found ati on of hum an soci e t y
6. un ive rsal peace
7. establ is hment of a supreme Tr ibun al
8. equ ality in rights of men and wom e n
(9) 12/9/1920 (translation), Tablet to Miss Mochizuki of Japan; SW XII:2, p. 41 (translation by Mirza
Azizu’llah Bahadur)
1. first pr inci ple of Bahá’u’ lláh is inde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of trut h
2. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
3. re l i gi on must be the cause of concord
4. re l i gi on should ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on
5. re l i gi on must be a fac tor of pro g ress to the world of hum an i t y
6. re l i gi on should be free of bl ind im i tati on s
7. all prej ud i ces are de s t r uc tive to the found ati on of the world of hum an i t y
8. equ ality of men and wom e n
9. un ive rsal iz ati on of knowl ed ge (educati on)
10. creati on of one un ive rsal lan g u age
11. justi ce and righteou s n e s s
12. economic facil i ties among mankind
13. need of the world of hum anity of the breat hs of the Holy Spir i t
14. establ is hment of un ive rsal peace
15. in s ti t uti on of the Supreme Court of Arbi t rati on
16. fre edom and equ ality of all mankind
17. brot h e rhood of the world of hum an i t y
(10) circa 1921, Tablet; SW XIV:8, p. 229 (un. transl.)
1. firs t...the in ve s ti gati on of trut h
2. second is the oneness of mankind
3. third is un ive rsal peace
4. four t h, the con formity of re l i gi on with sci e nce
5. fift h, the ab andonment of raci al, de nom in ati on al, worldly and pol i ti cal prej ud i ce s
6. sixt h, right and justi ce
7. seve n t h, the be t terment of moral s
8. ei g h t h, equ ality of both sexe s
9. nin t h, the diffu si on of knowl ed ge and educati on
10. te n t h, economic que s ti on s
Talk s
(11) n.d., talk; SW XIII:8, p. 218 (un. transl.)
1. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. inde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of trut h
3. ab andonment of prej ud i ce
4. un ive rsal peace
(12) n.d., talk; ABDP, pp. 82–85 (un. transl.)
1. free their minds from the sup e rs ti ti ons of the past and seek inde p e ndently for truth put ting a side all do g m a s
2. re l i gi ons are on e
3. the hour of unity which has daw n ed on all mankind
4. ban ish prej ud i ce
5. re l i gi on must be the cause of a ffec ti on
6. re l i gi on which does not con form with the postul ates of sci e nce is mere sup e rs ti ti on
7. ab s olute equ ality of the sexe s
8. educati on of each child is compul s ory
1 5 5

Lights of ‘Irf á n
9. child must learn profe s si on, art or trade
10. work done in the spirit of serv i ce is the highest form of wors h i p
11. the diffe rent soci al classes are pre s e rved
12. work for all
13. un ive rsal auxil i ary lan g u age will be adop ted
14. de s t roy an tagon ism by find ing a point of ag re e m e n t...if two dis pute ab out re l i gi on both are wron g
(13) n.d., talks PT, pp. 129–134 (un. transl.)
1. firs t...the search for trut h
2. second ...the unity of mankind
3. third ... re l i gi on should be the cause of love and a ffec ti on
4. four t h ...the unity of re l i gi on and sci e nce... any re l i gi on that con t rad i c ts sci e nce or that is opp o s ed to it, is only igno-
rance... any re l i gi on con t rary to sci e nce is not the trut h
5. fift h ...prej ud i ces of re l i gi on, race, or sect de s t roy the found ati on of hum an i t y
6. sixt h ...e qu al opp or t unity of the means of exis te nce
7. seve n t h ...the equ ality of men—e qu ality before the law
8. ei g h t h ...un ive rsal peace
9. nin t h ...t h at re l i gi on should not concern itself with pol i ti cal que s ti on s
10. te n t h ...educati on and in s t r uc ti on of wom e n
11. eleve n t h ...the power of the Holy Spirit, by which alone spir i t u al de ve lopment is ac h i e ved
(14) 9/30/1911, Farewell address to England; SW II:18 Persian; ABL, pp. 27–30 (uni. transl., probably Dr. A.
Farid)
1. firs t l y... s earch for Tr ut h
2. secondl y...oneness of hum an i t y
3. thirdl y... re l i gi on is the chief found ati on of love and un i t y
4. four t hl y... re l i gi on and sci e nce are in te r tw in ed
5. fift h ... reality of the div ine re l i gi ons is on e
6. sixt hl y...e qu ality and brot h e rhood must be establ is h ed
7. seve n t hl y... ar ran ge m e n ts so that poverty shall disapp ear
8. ei g h t hl y... Most Great Peace shall come, Great Board of Arbi t rati on
9. nin t hl y... receive the bounty of the Holy Spir i t
(15) 11/10–18/1911, talks in private quarters, Paris; KH, pp. 143–148; PT, pp. 135–166 (un. transl.)
1. firs t...the search a fter trut h
2. second ...the unity of mankind
3. NOT FEATUR ED
4. four t h ...the acce p tance of the re l ati on be tween re l i gi on and sci e nce...when a re l i gi on is opp o s ed to sci e nce it becomes mere
sup e rs ti ti on
5. fift h ...the ab ol i ti on of prej ud i ce s
6. sixt h ... m eans of exis te nce
7. seve n t h ...e qu ality of man ... all men are equ al before the law, which must reign ab s olute l y
8. ei g h t h ...un ive rsal peace... Supreme Tr ibun al ...e s tabl is hment of a un ive rsal lan g u age
9. nin t h ...the non in te r fe re nce of re l i gi on with pol i ti c s
10. te n t h ...e qu ality of sex
11. eleve n t h ...the power of the Holy Spir i t
(16) 4/25/1912, talk in home of Mrs. Agnes Parsons, Washington, D.C.; KH, pp. 357–360; PUP, pp. 61–64
(translation by Dr. A. Farid)
1. firs t...duty incumbent up on all to in ve s ti gate real i t y
2. second ...oneness of the world of hum an i t y
3. third ... re l i gi on and sci e nce are in compl e te ag re e m e n t. Eve ry re l i gi on which is not in accord ance with establ is h ed sci e nce
is sup e rs ti ti on
(17) 5/7/1912, talk at Hotel Schenley, Pittsburgh; PUP, pp. 105–110 (Ibid.)
1. first, it is incumbent up on all mankind to in ve s ti gate trut h
2. second ...the oneness of the world of hum an i t y
3. third ...the oneness of re l i gi on and sci e nce...Any re l i gi ous be l i ef which is not con for m able with sci e n tific pro of and in ve s-
ti gati on is sup e rs ti ti on
4. four t h ... readjustment and equ al iz ati on of the economic stand ards of mankind
5. fift h ... ab andon ing of re l i gi ous, raci al, pat r i otic and pol i ti cal prej ud i ce
6. sixt h ...e qu ality of man and wom an
7. the educati on of all membe rs of soci e t y
8. the world of hum anity is in need of the breath of the Holy Spirit if the moral prece p ts and found ati ons of div ine civ i-
l iz ati on become un i ted with the mate r i al ad vancement of man, there is no doubt that the happiness of the hum an world will
1 5 6

Lights of ‘Irf á n
be at ta in ed and tat from eve ry direc ti on the glad tid in gs of peace up on earth will be announced
(18) 5/13/1912, talk at the New York Peace Society; PUP, pp. 124–125 (Ibid.)
1. oneness of hum an i t y
2. prej ud i ce — re l i gi ous, raci al, pat r i otic, pol i ti cal — is the de s t royer of the body pol i ti c
3. un ive rsal peace
(19) 5/19/1912, talk at Church of the Divine Paternity, NYC; PUP, pp. 126–129 (Ibid.)
1. first, that the oneness of hum anity shall be reco g n iz ed and establ is h ed
2. second, that truth or reality must be in ve s ti gated
3. third, that re l i gi on is in har mony with sci e nce. The fund am e n tal pr inci ples of the Proph e ts are sci e n tific, but the for m s
and im i tati ons which have app eared are opp o s ed to sci e nce
4. four t h, that re l i gi on must be conducive to love and unity among mankind
(20) 5/29/1912, talk in home of Mr. and Mrs. Kinney, NYC; PUP, p. 156 (Ibid.)
1. oneness of God
2. unity of mankind
(21) 6/2/1912, talk at Church of the Ascension, NYC; PUP, pp. 163–171 (Ibid.)
1. first, in ve s ti gate real i t y
2. second, the oneness of hum an i t y
3. third, re l i gi on must be conducive to love of all, the cause of fe llows h i p, unity and light
4. four t h, equ ality be tween men and wom e n
5. fift h, spir i t u al brot h e rh o o d ... fraternity in the Holy Spir i t— for pat r i otic, raci al and pol i ti cal fraternity are of no ava il ...t h e
world of hum anity must be con f ir m ed by the breath of the Holy Spir i t
(22) 6/9/1912, talk at Unitarian Church, Philadelphia; KH, pp. 432-441; PUP, 172–176 (Ibid.)
1. oneness of God
2. unity of the world of hum an i t y
3. men and women are equ al in the sight of God...t h e re is no dis tinc ti on to be made be tween them
4. adop ti on of the same course of educati on for man and wom an
5. fund am e n tal oneness of re l i gi on
6. reality is one and not multi pl e
7. har mony of sci e nce and re l i gi on ... Re l i gi on must stand the an al ysis of rea s on. It must ag ree with sci e n tific fact and pro of
so that sci e nce will sanc ti on re l i gi on and re l i gi on for tify sci e nce
(23) 6/9/1912, talk at Baptist Temple, Philadelphia; KH, pp. 441–454; PUP, pp. 176–182 (Ibid.)
1. firs t...the in ve s ti gati on of real i t y
2. second ...the unity of mankind
3. third ... re l i gi on must be the source of fe llows h i p, the cause of unity and the nearness of God to man
4. four t h ...the ag reement of re l i gi on and sci e nce...If re l i gi ous be l i efs and opin i ons are found con t rary to the stand ards of
s ci e nce, they are mere sup e rs ti ti ons and im agin ati on s
5. prej ud i ce s— whether re l i gi ous, raci al, pat r i otic or pol i ti cal —are de s t r uc tive to the found ati ons of hum an de ve lopm e n t
6. sixt h ...economic readj u s t m e n t
7. seve n t h ...e qu al stand ard of hum an rights must be reco g n iz ed and adop ted
8. ei g h t h, educati on is essenti al, and all stand ards of tra in ing and teac h ing throu g h out the world of mankind should be
b rought in to con formity and ag re e m e n t; a un ive rsal cur r i culum should be establ is h ed, and the basis of ethics be the sam e
9. nin t h, a un ive rsal lan g u age shall be adop ted and be taught by all the schools and in s ti t uti ons of the world
10. te n t h ...the equ ality of man and wom an
11. the world of hum anity cannot ad vance through mere ph ysi cal powe rs and in te ll ec t u al at ta inm e n ts; nay, rat h e r, the Hol y
Spirit is essenti al
(24) 7/14/1912, talk at All Souls Unitarian Church, NYC; PUP, pp. 228–235 Ibid.)
1. firs t...the oneness of mankind
2. re l i gi on is in compl e te har mony with sci e nce and rea s on. If re l i gi ous be l i ef and do c t r ine is at var i ance with rea s on, it pro-
ce eds from the lim i ted mind of man and not from God
3. unity of re l i gi on ... re moval of disag reement and dis s e n si on cau s ed by the for m ati on of re l i gi ous sec ts and de nom in ati on s
4. ab andon hearsay and in ve s ti gate the reality and inner si g n i f i cance of the heave nly teac h in gs
5. we de sire re l i gi on to be the cause of amity and fe llows h i p
6. pol i ti cal, raci al and pat r i otic prej ud i ces are sources of hum an dis s e n si on ...these have been re moved by Bahá’u’ lláh
7. one lan g u age should be sanc ti on ed and adop ted by all gove r nm e n ts
8. un ive rsal peace
9. equ ality be tween man and wom an
10. div ine pl an for the reconcil i ati on of the re l i gi ous sys tems of the world
1 5 7

Lights of ‘Irf á n
(25) 8/27/1912, talk at Metaphysical Club, Boston; PUP, pp. 284–289 (Ibid.)
1. firs t...the oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. found ati ons of the div ine re l i gi on are one reality which does not admit of multi pl i city or div isi on ...the comm andm e n ts
and teac h in gs of God are on e
3. re l i gi on must be conducive to love and un i t y
4. re l i gi on must con form to sci e nce and rea s on; ot h e rw ise, it is sup e rs ti ti on
5. prej ud i ces of all kind s— whether re l i gi ous, raci al, pat r i otic or pol i ti cal —are de s t r uc tive of div ine found ati ons in man
6. the found ati on of in te r n ati on al peace
7. no mat ter how far the world of hum anity may ad vance in mate r i al civ il iz ati on, it is nevertheless in need of spir i t u al
v ir t ues and the boun ties of God...the spirit of man is in need of the protec ti on of the Holy Spir i t...he is ever in need of the
be s towals of the Holy Spir i t
(26) 9/1/1912, talk at Church of the Messiah, Montreal; KH, pp. 527–535; PUP, pp. 297–302 (Ibid.)
1. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. the re ve l ati ons of all the Proph e ts of the past have been in perfect unity and ag re e m e n t
3. the re l i gi on or guid ance of God must be the means of love and fe llowship in the world
4. re l i gi on must be in accord with sci e nce and rea s on. If it does not cor re s p ond with sci e n tific pr inci ples and the pro ce s s e s
of rea s on, it is sup e rs ti ti on
5. all re l i gi ous, raci al, pat r i otic and pol i ti cal prej ud i ce must be ab andon ed
6. all must receive tra in ing and in s t r uc ti on
7. equ ality of the sexe s
8. adop ti on of a un ive rsal lan g u age
9. in te r n ati on al peace
(27) 9/5/1912, talk at St. James Methodist Church, Montreal; PUP, pp. 312–319 (un. transl.)
1. first, man must inde p e ndently in ve s ti gate real i t y
2 . s econd, the oneness of the world of hum anity shall be real iz ed
3.t h ird, re l i gi on must be the main s pr ing and source of love in the world
4. four t h, re l i gi on must reconcile and be in har mony with sci e nce and re l i gi on. If the re l i gi ous be l i efs of mankind are con-
t rary to sci e nce and opp o s ed to rea s on, they are none other than sup e rs ti ti ons and without div ine aut h or i t y
5. fift h, prej ud i ce — whether it be re l i gi ous, raci al, pat r i otic or pol i ti cal in its or i gin and a s p ec t— is the de s t royer of hum an
found ati ons and opp o s ed to the comm ands of God
6. sixt h, the world of hum anity is in need of the con f ir m ati ons of the Holy Spir i t
7. s e ve n t h, the nece s sity of educati on for all mankind is evide n t
8.ei g h t h, un ive rsal peace will be establ is h ed among the nati ons of the
world by in te r n ati on al ag re e m e n t
9. nin t h, there must be an equ ality of rights be tween men and wom e n
10. te n t h, there shall be an equ ality of rights and pre ro gatives for all mankind
11. eleve n t h, one lan g u age must be selec ted as an in te r n ati on al med i um of speech and commun i cati on
(28) 9/25/1912, talk at Second Divine Science Church, Denver; PUP, pp. 340–42 (translation by Dr. A. Farid)
1. firs t...the oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. second ... in ve s ti gati on of real i t y
3. third ...oneness of the found ati ons of the div ine re l i gi on s
4. reconcil i ati on of re l i gi on with sci e nce and rea s on
5. no trace of re l i gi ous, raci al, pat r i otic or pol i ti cal prej ud i ce
(29) 10/8/1912, talk at Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto; PUP, p. 349 (Ibid.)
oneness of the world of hum an i t y
(30) 10/8/1912, talk at Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto; KH, pp. 570–582; PUP, p. 354 (Ibid.)
1. fund am e n tal basis of all re l i gi on is on essence of re l i gi on is hum an fe llows h i p
2. if in ve s ti gate reality unde rl y ing re l i gi ous teac h ing all re l i gi ous would be un i f i ed
3. re l i gi on in te nded as div ine re m edy and pan acea for all the a ilm e n ts of hum an i t y...if proves to be the cause of dis cord and
d is s e n si on, its ab s e nce would be prefe rabl e
4. in te r n ati on al peace
5. all mankind is the one pro geny of Ad am and membe rs of one great un ive rsal fam il y
(31) 10/25/1912, talk at Hotel Sacramento, California; PUP, pp. 372–375 (Ibid.)
1. firs t... m an should in ve s ti gate real i t y
2. second ...oneness of the world of hum an i t y
3. third ...un ive rsal peace among the nati ons, among the re l i gi ons, among the races and native land s
4. re moval of prej ud i ce — whether re l i gi ous, raci al, pat r i otic, pol i ti cal or sec tar i an
5. re l i gi on must be the cause of love and fe llows h i p
6. re l i gi on must be in con formity with sci e nce and rea s on; ot h e rw ise, it is sup e rs ti ti on
1 5 8

Lights of ‘Irf á n
7. equ ality be tween man and wom an
8. mate r i al civ il iz ati on is incompl e te and in su ff i cient and div ine civ il iz ati on must be establ is h ed
9. ext raord in ary and pra is e worthy pro g ress be s towed by the breat hs of the Holy Spir i t
(32) 11/5/1912, talk at Grand Hotel, Cincinnati, Ohio; PUP, p. 388 (Ibid.)
1. establ is hment of ag reement among the peoples of the world
2. pro c l a im ed in te r n ati on al un i t y
3. summon ed re l i gi ons of the world to har mony and reconcil i ati on
(33) 11/6/1912, talk at Universalist Church, Washington, D.C.; PUP, pp. 392, 394 (Ibid.)
1. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. re l i gi on must be the cause of unity and love amon gst men
3. re l i gi on must con form to rea s on and be in accord with the conc lu si ons of sci e nce...If re l i gi ous teac h in g, howe ve r, be at
var i ance with sci e nce and rea s on, it is un que s ti on ably sup e rs ti ti on
4. equ ality be tween men and wom e n
(34) 11/15/1912, talk in home of Miss Juliet Thompson, NYC; PUP, pp. 431–437 (Ibid.)
1. firs t...the in ve s ti gati on of real i t y
2. second ... reco g n i ti on of the oneness of the world of hum an i t y
3. re l i gi on must be in con formity with sci e nce and rea s on
4. re l i gi on must be the source of unity and fe llowship in the world
5. all forms of prej ud i ce among mankind must be ab andon ed
6. perfect equ ality be tween men and wom e n
7. nece s sity for a un ive rsal lan g u age
8. all mankind shall be educated and no ill i te racy be allowed to re m a in
9. all mankind to become fitted for some useful trade, cra ft or profe s si on by which sub sis te nce may be a s sured
10. work is con side red as an act of wors h i p
(35) 11/17/1912, talk at Geneological Hall, NYC; PUP, p. 440 (Ibid.)
1. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. protec ti on and guid ance of the Holy Spir i t
3. found ati on of all re l i gi ons is on e
4. re l i gi on must be the cause of un i t y
5. re l i gi on must accord with sci e nce and rea s on
6. inde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of trut h
7. equ ality be tween men and wom e n
8. ab andon ing of all prej ud i ces among mankind
9. un ive rsal peace
10. un ive rsal educati on
11. un ive rsal lan g u age
12. soluti on of the economic probl e m
13. in te r n ati on al tribun al
(36) 12/2/1912, talk in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Kinney; PUP, pp. 453–457 (Ibid.)
1. oneness of the world of hum an i t y
2. in ve s ti gate trut h — t h at is to say, no man should bl indly follow his ance s tors and forefat h e rs
3. found ati ons of all the re l i gi ons of God is on e
4. re l i gi on must be the cause of un i t y, har mony and ag reement among mankind
5. re l i gi on must be in har mony with sci e nce and rea s on
6. equ ality of man and wom an
7. prej ud i ce and fan ati cis m — whether sec tar i an, de nom in ati on al, pat r i otic or pol i ti cal —are de s t r uc tive to the found ati on of
hum an sol id ar i t y
8. un ive rsal peace
9. all mankind should at ta in knowl ed ge and ac qu ire an educati on
10. the re m edy for the economic que s ti on
11. House of Ju s ti ce
12. ord in ati on and app ointment of the Center of the Cove n an t
(37) 12/20/1912, talk at Westminster Hotel in London; SW III:17, pp. 6–9 (reported by Isabel Fraser; un.
transl., probably Mirza Ahmad Sohrab)
1. firs t...oneness of the hum an fam il y
2. second ... in te r n ati on al peace
3. lim i tati ons and dogmas must be done away with in te r-raci al peace; re l i gi on must ever be the means of love
4. four t h ...con formity of sci e nce and rea s on with true un ive rsal re l i gi on
5. fift h ...prej ud i ce must be ab andon ed
1 5 9

Lights of ‘Irf á n
6. equ ality of men and wom e n
7. seve n t h ...un ive rsal educati on ... all the children should study and ac qu ire a profe s si on, that there should not re m a in a sin-
gle ind iv idu al without a profe s si on wh e reby he can earn his live l ih o o d
8. through the equ i pment of sci e nce and art the misunde rs tand in gs which have pre va il ed be tween re l i gi on and sci e nce will
become reconcil ed
9. in te r n ati on al tribun al will be the court of app eals be tween the nati on s
Appendix Three: The Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh According to their Order of Transmission
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
F I RS T: Numbe red :
I nde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of reality (12 out of 17)
Oneness of hum anity (5/17)
S e que nced:
I nde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of reality (1/20)
Oneness of hum anity (13/20)
C ombin ed :
Oneness of hum anity (17/37)
I nde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of reality (13/37)
S ECOND: Numbe red:
Oneness of hum anity (10/14)
I nde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of reality (3/14)
U n ive rsal peace (1/14)
S e que nced:
Oneness of hum anity (5/20)
I nde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of reality (3/20)
U n ive rsal peace (2/20)
C ombin ed :
Oneness of hum anity (15/34)
I nde p e ndent in ve s ti gati on of reality (6/34)
U n ive rsal peace (3/34)
THIRD: Numbe red:
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (4/12)
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (3/12)
Unity of the re l i gi ons of God (2/12)
U n ive rsal peace (2/12)
S e que nced :
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (4/21)
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (5/21)
Unity of the re l i gi ons of God (3/21)
U n ive rsal peace (1/21)
C ombin ed :
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (8/33)
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (8/33)
Unity of the re l i gi ons of God (5/33)
U n ive rsal peace (3/33)
FOURTH: Numbe red :
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (6/10)
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (1/10)
Ab andonment of all prej ud i ces (1/10)
S e que nced :
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (4/22)
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (6/22)
1 6 0

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Ab andonment of prej ud i ces (3/22)
C ombin ed :
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (10/32)
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (7/32)
Ab andonment of prej ud i ces (4/32)
F I F TH: Numbe red :
Ab andonment of prej ud i ces (7/9)
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (1/9)
Spir i t u al brot h e rhood (1/9)
S e que nced:
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (6/19)
Ab andonment of prej ud i ces (5/19)
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (3/19)
Spir i t u al brot h e rhood (1/19)
C ombin ed :
Ab andonment of prej ud i ces (12/28)
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (6/28)
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (4/28)
Spir i t u al brot h e rhood (2/28)
S IXTH: Numbe red :
Div ine economy (3/8)
Equ ality of men and women (2/8)
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (1/8)
S e que nced :
Div ine economy (1/18)
Equ ality of men and women (3/18)
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (0/18)
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (4/18)
C ombin ed :
Equ ality of men and women (5/26)
Re l i gi on must ag ree with sci e nce and rea s on (4/26)
Div ine economy (4/26)
Re l i gi on must be the cause of love and unity (1/26)
S E V ENTH: Numbe red :
Equ ality of rights of all men before the law (3/7)
U n ive rsal educati on (2/7)
Equ ality of men and women (1/7)
S e que nced :
Equ ality of rights of all men before the law (0/18)
U n ive rsal educati on (1/18)
Equ ality of men and women (5/18)
Ab andonment of prej ud i ces (4/18)
U n ive rsal lan g u age (3/18)
C ombin ed :
Equ ality of men and women (6/25)
Ab andonment of prej ud i ces (4/25)
Equ ality of rights of all men before the law (3/25)
U n ive rsal educati on (3/26)
U n ive rsal lan g u age (3/26)
1 6 1

Lights of ‘Irf á n
EIGH TH: Numbe red :
U n ive rsal peace (3/8)
D e p e nde nce up on the Holy Spirit (2/8)
U n ive rsal educati on (1/8)
Equ ality of men and women (1/8)
S e que nced :
U n ive rsal peace (2/15)
D e p e nde nce up on the Holy Spirit (1/15)
U n ive rsal educati on (4/15)
Equ ality of men and women (3/15)
C ombin ed :
U n ive rsal peace (5/23)
U n ive rsal educati on (5/23)
Equ ality of men and women (4/23)
D e p e nde nce up on the Holy Spirit (3/23)
NI NTH: Numbe red :
Re l i gi on does not in te r fe re in pol i tics (2/7)
U n ive rsal educati on (1/7)
Equ ality of men and women (1/7)
U n ive rsal lan g u age (1/7)
I n te r n ati on al Tr ibun al (1/7)
S e que nced :
Re l i gi on does not in te r fe re in pol i tics (0/14)
U n ive rsal educati on (4/14)
Equ ality of men and women (1/14)
U n ive rsal lan g u age (0/14)
I n te r n ati on al Tr ibun al (1/14)
U n ive rsal peace (3/14)
C ombin ed :
U n ive rsal educati on (4/21)
U n ive rsal peace (3/21)
Re l i gi on does not in te r fe re in pol i tics (2/21)
I n te r n ati on al Tr ibun al (2/21)
TENTH: Numbe red :
Equ ality of men and women (2/6)
Educati on of women (1/6)
Div ine economy (1/6)
Equ ality of rights of all men before the law (1/6)
S e que nced :
Equ ality of men and women (1/10)
Educati on of women (0/10)
Div ine economy (3/10)
Equ ality of rights of all men before the law (0/10)
C ombin ed :
Div ine economy (4/16)
Equ ality of men and women (3/16)
Educati on of women (1/16)
ELE V ENTH: Numbe red :
D e p e nde nce up on the Holy Spirit (3/5)
1 6 2

Lights of ‘Irf á n
Unity of the re l i gi on of God (1/5)
U n ive rsal lan g u age (1/5)
S e que nced :
D e p e nde nce up on the Holy Spirit (0/8)
Unity of the re l i gi on of God (0/8)
U n ive rsal lan g u age (1/8)
C ombin ed :
D e p e nde nce up on the Holy Spirit (3/13)
U n ive rsal lan g u age (2/13)
Unity of the re l i gi on of God (1/13)
TW ELF TH: Numbe red :
Sun of Reality has daw n ed from Pe rsia (1/1)
S e que nced :
Div ine Economy (2/7)
U n ive rsal lan g u age (1/7)
App ointment of Centre of the Cove n ant (1/7)
Pre s e rvati on of soci al classes (1/7)
C ombin ed :
Div ine Economy (2/8)
TH I RTEENTH: Numbe red :
non e
S e que nced :
Div ine economy (2/6)
U n ive rsal educati on (1/6)
D e p e nde nce up on the Holy Spirit (1/6)
I n te r n ati on al Tr ibun al (1/6)
U n ive rsal peace (1/6)
FOURTH EENTH: Numbe red: non e
S e que nced :
U n ive rsal lan g u age (2/4)
Ju s ti ce and right (1/4)
U n ive rsal peace (1/4)
F I F TEENTH: Numbe red :
non e
S e que nced :
U n ive rsal educati on (1/3)
I n te r n ati on al Tr ibun al (1/3)
If two dis pute both are wrong (1/3)
S IXTEENTH: Numbe red :
non e
S e que nced :
Fre edom and equ ality of all mankind (1/1)
S E V ENTEENTH: Numbe red : non e
S e que nced :
Brot h e rhood of the world of hum anity (1/1)
1 6 3

Lights of ‘Irf á n
1 6 4