THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-07-29

of the cook i slands, the eastern caroline i slands,

the f iji islands, kiribati, the m ariana i slands, the

marshall i slands, New caledonia and loyalty i slands,

papua New g uinea, Samoa, the Solomon i slands, Tonga,

T uvalu, v anuatu, and the w estern caroline i slands

dear b ahá’í f riends,

message which requires your immediate attention.

ever since the peace Statement was released in 1985, the house of jus-

tice has entertained the hope that leaders in the pacific region would, in

a joint effort, take initiatives towards the realization of world peace. This

expectation was brightened by the immediate, positive responses the peace

Statement received from two leaders, Sir Thomas davis of the cook islands

and the late president Amata kabua of the marshall islands, both of whom

subsequently visited the bahá’í world center. one of the purposes of the

establishment some time ago of the bahá’í international community office

in the pacific was to encourage these leaders towards constructive endeavors

of global significance, but, alas, for a number of reasons it was not possible to sustain the activities of that office. however, this purpose need not be

abandoned.

The house of justice has decided to send an emissary to call on key

leaders of your countries, particularly heads of state, to emphasize their role in advancing the cause of peace. mr. g iovanni ballerio, a representative of

the bahá’í international community to the united Nations, is to undertake

this mission. following a briefing at the bahá’í world center, he will travel

directly to the pacific region, beginning his itinerary in western Samoa on

9 September and ending it in p alau on 22 d ecember 1998.

you are each urgently and warmly requested to take the following action.

Arrange an appointment for mr. b allerio to meet your head of state during

the period of his stay in your country, as indicated in the enclosed schedule. 279.1

279.2

279.3

279.4

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

67give as your reason for requesting such an appointment that a representa-

tive of the bahá’í international community to the united Nations, who is

based in geneva, will be traveling in the pacific area at the request of the

universal house of justice, the head of that community; and he has been

asked by the house of justice to seek an opportunity to convey its greetings

to the head of state. if it can be arranged, a continental counselor will be

present in your community so as to render any assistance that may be called

for and, along with a member of your Assembly, to accompany mr. b allerio

during his meeting with the head of state.

As a support to your own ongoing efforts to maintain good relations with

your government, you should feel free to take advantage of mr. b allerio’s

presence in your country to arrange for him to meet with other high govern-ment officials, if time permits.

mr. ballerio will communicate directly with you concerning the particu-

lars of his travel schedule and other relevant matters.

we are to assure you of the ardent prayers of the house of justice in the

holy Shrines that your efforts to assist in this important activity may be

abundantly confirmed by the b lessed b eauty.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

280

Continued Persecution by Iranian Government

of Bahá’ís in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]