&


The Meaning of Suffering
The Mystery of Sacriﬁce
Selections from the Bahá’í Holy Writings
Outlined and Compiled by Judith Hatcher

Copyright 2007, Juxta Publishing Limited. www.juxta.com.
Cover art Copyright 2007, Katia Breton. www.katiabreton.org.
ISBN 978-988-97451-6-5
This book has been produced with the consent of the original authors or rights
holders. Authors or rights holders retain full rights to their works. Requests
to reproduce the contents of this work can be directed to the individual au-
thors or rights holders directly or to Juxta Publishing Limited. Reproduction
of this book in its current form is governed by the Juxta Publishing Books for
the World license outlined below.
This book is released as part of Juxta Publishing’s Books for the World
program which aims to provide the widest possible access to qual-
ity Bahá’í-inspired literature to readers around the world. Use of this
book is governed by the Juxta Publishing Books for the World license:
1. This book is available in printed and electronic forms.
2. This book may be freely redistributed in electronic form so long
as the following conditions are met:

a. The contents of the ﬁle are not altered

b. This copyright notice remains intact

c. No charges are made or monies collected for redistribution
3. The electronic version may be printed or the printed version may
be photocopied, and the resulting copies used in non-bound format
for non-commercial use for the following purposes:

a. Personal use

b. Academic or educational use
When reproduced in this way in printed form for academic or edu-
cational use, charges may be made to recover actual reproduction
and distribution costs but no additional monies may be collected.
4. This book may be republished regionally or locally without
royalty by publishers who enter into a relevant micropublish-
ing agreement with Juxta Publishing Limited. Publishers should
contact Juxta Publishing Limited in writing to enquire about the
Juxta Publishing micropublishing agreement. Without entering into
a micropublishing agreement, this book cannot be republished by
other publishers.
Any other reproduction or redistribution in any format is forbidden without
the expressed written consent of Juxta Publishing Limited.

For Bill,
a warm and loving human being

The Meaning of Suffering

… God hath never burdened any soul beyond its
power. (GL 106–107)

Outline
A. Apparent contradictions
1.
The goodness of God and the universality of grief and
afﬂiction
2.
The coexistence of joy and pain in the material world
B. Different kinds of suffering
1.
Suffering inﬂicted on innocent people by oppressors
2.
Suffering that we cause to others and to ourselves
3.
Suffering sent by God to the believers
4.
Sufferings of the Manifestations of God
C. The purpose of tests
1.
Preparation for the spiritual world
2.
The process of spiritual growth
3.
The method of God
4.
The principle of separation and distinction
5.
The process of purgation for humankind
D. The ways tests contribute to our spiritual growth
1.
Remember God and discover the power of prayer
2.
Detach ourselves from the material world
3.
Overcome our own egotism
4.
Learn to forgive ourselves as well as others
5.
Develop true empathy towards others
6.
Learn to sacriﬁce
7.
Develop patience in difﬁculties
8.
Accept the limits of our own understanding
9.
Learn to submit to the Divine Will
10. Strive for true contentment
E. Promises and assurances found in the Bahá’í Writings
1.
Our point of view is extremely relative
2.
God is faithful, loving, compassionate and merciful
3.
God’s mercy is greater than His justice
4.
God does not test us beyond our limits
5.
The soul is not affected by physical or mental illness
6.
Prayer is a real force, even though invisible
7.
Tests exist only in the material world
8.
The reasons for our suffering will become clear in the next
life
9.
Even in this life we will experience beneﬁts from our tests
10. Acceptance of the Will of God leads to true happiness

A. Apparent contradictions
O son of man! My calamity is My providence, outwardly it is ﬁre
and vengeance, but inwardly it is light and mercy. (HW 15)
Every hair of my head proclaimeth: “But for the adversities
that befall me in Thy path, how could I ever taste the divine
sweetness of Thy tenderness and love? (PM 214)
I delight in mine own afﬂictions and in the afﬂictions which
they who love me suffer in Thy path. (PM 140)
Whatsoever may happen is for the best, because afﬂiction
is but the essence of bounty, and sorrow and toil are mercy
unalloyed, and anguish is peace of mind, and to make a
sacriﬁce is to receive a gift, and whatsoever may come to pass
hath issued from God’s grace. (SWA 245)
Wherefore, be thankful to God for having strengthened thee
to aid His Cause, for having made the ﬂowers of knowledge
and understanding to spring forth in the garden of thine heart.
Thus hath His grace encompassed thee, and encompassed the
whole of creation. Beware, lest thou allow anything whatsoever
to grieve thee. (GL 303)
…many of the perplexities that arise in your mind could be
dissipated if you always conceived of the teachings as one
great whole with many facets. Truth may, in covering different
subjects, appear to be contradictory, and yet it is all one if you
carry the thought to the end… (LG 605)
1. The goodness of God and the
universality of grief and afﬂiction
Do you realize how much you should thank God for His
blessings? If you should thank Him a thousand times with each
breath, it would not be sufﬁcient, because God has created and
trained you. (DAL86 52)
…the manifold bounties of the Lord of all beings have, at
all times, through the Manifestations of His divine Essence,
encompasseth the earth and all that dwell therein. Not for a

moment hath His grace been withheld, nor have the showers of
His loving-kindness ceased to rain upon Mankind. (KI 14)
…this earthly world is narrow, dark and frightful, rest cannot
be imagined and happiness really is non-existent, everyone is
captured in the net of sorrow, and is day and night enslaved by
the chain of calamity; there is no one who is at rest from grief
and afﬂiction. (SS 75)
Such is this mortal abode: a storehouse of afﬂictions and
suffering. It is ignorance that binds man to it, for no comfort
can be secured by any soul in this world, from monarch down
to the most humble commoner. If once this life should offer a
man a sweet cup, a hundred bitter ones will follow; such is the
condition of this world. (SWA 210)
2. The coexistence of joy and pain in the material world
In this world we are inﬂuenced by two sentiments, Joy and Pain.
Joy gives us wings! In times of joy our strength is more
vital, our intellect keener, and our understanding less clouded.
We seem better able to cope with the world and ﬁnd our
sphere of usefulness. But when sadness visits us we become
weak, our strength leaves us, our comprehension is dim and
our intelligence veiled. The actualities of life seem to elude
our grasp, the eyes of our spirits fail to discover the sacred
mysteries, and we become even as dead beings.
There is no human being untouched by these two
inﬂuences; but all the sorrow and the grief that exist come from
the world of matter – the spiritual world bestows only joy.
If we suffer it is the outcome of material things, and all the
trials and troubles come from the world of illusion. (PT 110)
Be not grieved if thy circumstances become exacting, and
problems press upon thee from all sides. Verily, thy Lord
changeth grief into joy, hardship into comfort, and afﬂiction
into absolute ease. (SS 75)
The divine messengers come to bring joy to this earth, for this
is the planet of tribulation and torment and the mission of the
great masters is to turn men away from these anxieties and to
infuse life with inﬁnite joy. (SS 70)

B. Different kinds of suffering
1. Suffering inﬂicted on innocent people by oppressors
As to the subject of babes and children and weak ones who are
afﬂicted by the hands of oppressors… for those souls there is
a recompense in another world… that suffering is the greatest
mercy of God. Verily that mercy of the Lord is far better than
all the comfort of this world and the growth and development
appertaining to this place of mortality. (DAL86 89)
These events happen in order that man’s faith may be
increased and strengthened. Therefore, although we feel sad
and disheartened, we must supplicate God to turn our hearts
to the kingdom and pray for these departed souls with faith in
His inﬁnite mercy so that, although they have been deprived of
this earthly life, they may enjoy a new existence in the supreme
mansions of the Heavenly Father. (DAL86 6)
2. Suffering that we cause to others and to ourselves
If a man eats too much, he ruins his digestion; if he takes
poison he becomes ill or dies. If a person gambles he will lose
his money; if he drinks too much he will lose his equilibrium.
All these sufferings are caused by man himself. It is quite clear
therefore that certain sorrows are the result of our own deeds.
(PT 41)
3. Suffering sent by God to the believers
… sufferings there are, which come upon the Faithful of
God. Consider the great sorrows endured by Christ and His
apostles!
Those who suffer most attain to the greatest perfection.
Those who declare a wish to suffer much for Christ’s sake
must prove their sincerity; those who proclaim their longing to
make great sacriﬁces can only prove their truth by their deeds.
Job proved the ﬁdelity of his love for God by being faithful
through his great adversity, as well as during the prosperity of
his life. (PT 42)

Be content with that which God hath ordained for thee. He,
verily, payeth the due recompense of those who are patient.
Hast thou not seen My incarceration, My afﬂiction, My injury,
My suffering? Follow then the ways of Thy Lord, and among
His methods is the suffering of His well-favoured servants.
(FG 169)
4. Sufferings of the Manifestations of God
Suffering, of one kind or another, seems to be the portion of
man in this world. Even the Beloved ones, the Prophets of God,
have never been exempt from the ills that are to be found in
our world… (SS 19)
How could they (God’s teachers) teach and guide others in
the way if they themselves did not undergo every species of
suffering to which human beings are subjected? (SS 19)
You must always remember that the Manifestations of God,
Themselves, were not immune to suffering of the most human
nature; and that from the hands of their relatives, they drank
the bitterest potions, Bahá’u’lláh even being proffered poison
by His half-brother, Mirzá Yahyá. Besides their afﬂictions,
our afﬂictions, however terrible for us, must seem small in
comparison. (FG 187–188)
Every morning I arose from My bed, I discovered the hosts of
countless afﬂictions massed behind My door; and every night
when I lay down, lo! My heart was torn with agony at what it
had suffered from the ﬁendish cruelty of its foes. With every
piece of bread the Ancient Beauty breaketh is coupled the
assault of a fresh afﬂiction, and with every drop He drinketh
is mixed the bitterness of the most woeful of trials. He is
preceded in every step He taketh by an army of unforeseen
calamities, while in His rear follow legions of agonizing
sorrows. (GL 119–120)
Praised be Thou, O Lord my God! Thou seest my poverty and
my misery, my troubles and my needs, my utter helplessness
and my extreme lowliness, my lamentations and my bitter
wailing, the anguish of my soul and the afﬂictions which beset
me. (PM 139)

C. The purpose of tests
1. Preparation for the spiritual world
The Prophets and the Messengers of God have been sent down
for the sole purpose of guiding mankind to the straight Path
of Truth. The purpose underlying their revelation hath been to
educate all men, that they may, at the hour of death, ascend, in
the utmost purity and sanctity and with absolute detachment,
to the throne of the Most High. (GL 156–157)
Man’s physical existence on this earth is a period during
which the moral exercise of his free will is tried and tested in
order to prepare his soul for the other worlds of God, and we
must welcome afﬂiction and tribulations as opportunities for
improvement in our eternal selves. (LG 367)
Know then that the Lord God possesseth invisible realms
which the human intellect can never hope to fathom nor the
mind of man conceive. When once thou hast cleansed the
channel of thy spiritual sense from the pollution of this worldly
life, then wilt thou breathe in the sweet scents of holiness that
blow from the blissful bowers of that heavenly land. (SWA 195)
2. The process of spiritual growth
Tests are beneﬁts from God, for which we should thank Him.
Grief and sorrow do not come to us by chance, they are sent to
us by the Divine Mercy for our own perfecting. (PT 42)
The mind and spirit of man advance when he is tried by
suffering.… suffering and tribulation free man from the petty
affairs of this worldly life until he arrives at a state of complete
detachment. His attitude in this world will be that of divine
happiness. Man is, so to speak, unripe: the heat of the ﬁre of
suffering will mature him. (DAL86 86)
Unless one accept suffering, undergo trials and endure
vicissitudes, he will reap no reward nor will he attain success
and prosperity. Therefore, thou must likewise endure great
tests so that the inﬁnite divine outpouring may encircle thee

and that thou mayest be assisted in spreading the fragrances of
God. (SS 22–23)
I am not impatient of calamity in His way nor of afﬂiction for
His love. God hath made afﬂictions as a morning shower to His
green pasture, and as a wick for His lamp, whereby earth and
Heaven are illumined. (JC 56)
3. The method of God
Know ye that trials and tribulations have, from time immemorial,
been the lot of the chosen Ones of God and His beloved, and
such of His servants as are detached from all else but Him,
they whom neither merchandise nor trafﬁc beguile from the
remembrance of the Almighty, they that speak not till He hath
spoken, and act according to His commandment. Such is God’s
method carried into effect of old, and such will it remain in the
future. Blessed are the steadfastly enduring, they that are patient
under ills and hardships, who lament not over anything that
befalleth them, and who tread the path of resignation. (GL 129)
…from time immemorial even unto eternity the Almighty hath
tried, and will continue to try, His servants, so that light may
be distinguished from darkness, truth from falsehood, right
from wrong, guidance from error, happiness from misery, and
roses from thorns. (KI 8)
4. The principle of separation and distinction
He hath endowed every soul with the capacity to recognize the
signs of God. (GL 105–106)
He Who is the Day Spring of Truth is, no doubt, fully capable
of rescuing from such remoteness wayward souls and of
causing them to draw nigh unto His court and attain His
presence.… His purpose, however, is to enable the pure in spirit
and the detached in heart to ascend, by virtue of their own
innate powers, unto the shores of the Most Great Ocean, that
thereby they who seek the Beauty of the All-Glorious may be
distinguished and separated from the wayward and perverse.…
[this] should be attributed to this same principle of separation
and distinction which animateth the Divine Purpose. (GL 71)

As to tests, these are inevitable.… Is it, then, possible to be
saved from the trials of God? Nay, by the righteousness of the
Lord! There is a great wisdom therein of which no one is aware
save the wise and knowing. Were it not for tests, pure gold
could not be distinguished from the impure. Were it not for
tests, the courageous could not be separated from the cowardly.
Were it not for tests, the people of faithfulness could not be
known from the disloyal. (DAL86 86–87)
But for the tribulations which are sustained in Thy path, how
could Thy true lovers be recognized; and were it not for the
trials which are born for love of Thee, how could the station of
such as yearn for Thee be revealed? The companions of all who
adore thee are the tears they shed, and the comforters of such
as seek Thee are the groans they utter, and the food of them
who haste to meet Thee is the fragments of their broken hearts.
(PM 155)
5. The process of purgation for humankind
You seem to complain about the calamities that have befallen
humanity. In the spiritual development of man a stage of
purgation is indispensable, for it is while passing through it
that the over-rated material needs are made to appear in their
proper light. Unless society learns to attribute more importance
to spiritual matters, it would never be ﬁt to enter the golden era
foretold by Bahá’u’lláh. The present calamities are parts of this
process of purgation, [and] through them alone will man learn his
lesson. They are to teach the nations that they have to view things
internationally, they are to make the individual attribute more
importance to his moral, than his material welfare. (LG 133–134)
Adversity, prolonged, world-wide, afﬂictive, allied to chaos
and universal destruction, must needs convulse the nations,
stir the conscience of the world, disillusion the masses,
precipitate a radical change in the very conception of society,
and coalesce ultimately the disjointed, the bleeding limbs
of mankind into one body, single, organically united, and
indivisible. (PDC 122–123)

D. The ways tests contribute
to our spiritual growth
1. Remember God and discover the power of prayer
While a man is happy he may forget his God; but when grief
comes and sorrows overwhelm him, then will be remember his
Father Who is in Heaven, and Who is able to deliver him from
his humiliations. (DAL86 86)
He indeed is acceptable, O my God, who hath set his face
towards Thee, and he is truly deprived who hath been careless
of the remembrance of Thee in Thy days. Blessed is he that
hath tasted of the sweetness of Thy remembrance and praise.
(PM 205)
Were I to inherit from thee the delights of Paradise, and to keep
them in my possession as long as Thine own Being endureth,
and were I to become, for less than a moment careless of the
remembrance of Thee, I would, of a certainty, cast them away
from me and cease to consider them. (PM 205)
The healer of all thine ills is remembrance of Me, forget it not.
Make My love thy treasure and cherish it even as thy very sight
and life. (HW 33)
2. Detach ourselves from the material world
Were the world to last as long as Thine own kingdom will last,
to set their affections upon it would still be unseemly for such
as have quaffed, from the hands of Thy mercy, the wine of Thy
presence; how much more when they recognize its ﬂeetingness
and are persuaded of its transience. The chances that overtake
it, and the changes to which all things pertaining unto it are
continually subjected, attest its impermanence. (PM 117)
Whenever you see tremendous personal problems in your private
lives…you must remember that these afﬂictions are part of human
life; and, according to our teachings one of their wisdoms is to
teach us the impermanence of this world and the permanence of
the spiritual bonds that we establish with God, His Prophet, and
those who are alive in the faith of God. (FG 187–188)

… Thou wilt never cause tribulations to befall any soul unless
thou desirest to exalt his station in Thy celestial Paradise and to
buttress his heart in this earthly life with the bulwark of Thine
all-compelling power, that it may not become inclined towards
the vanities of this world. Indeed Thou are well aware that
under all conditions I would cherish the remembrance of Thee
far more than the ownership of all that is in the heavens and on
the earth. (BP 226)
3. Overcome our own egotism
This test…removes the rust of egotism from the mirror of the
heart until the Sun of Truth may shine therein. For no veil is
greater than egotism and no matter how thin that covering may
be, yet it will ﬁnally veil man entirely and prevent him from
receiving a portion from the eternal bounty. (DAL74 90–91)
When one is released from the prison of self, that is, indeed,
freedom! For self is the greatest prison.
When this release takes place one can never be imprisoned.
Unless one accepts dire vicissitudes, not with dull resignation,
but with radiant acquiescence, one cannot attain this freedom.
(DAL86 65)
Tests are a means by which a soul is measured as to its
ﬁtness, and proven out by its own acts. God knows its ﬁtness
beforehand, and also its unpreparedness, but man, with an ego,
would not believe himself unﬁt unless proof were given to him.
Consequently his susceptibility to evil is proven to him when
he falls into the tests, and the tests are continued until the soul
realizes its own unﬁtness, then remorse and regret tend to root
out the weakness. The same test comes again in greater degree,
until it is shown that a former weakness has become a strength,
and the power to overcome evil has been established. (SS 14)
4. Learn to forgive ourselves as well as others
Let us not keep on forever with our fancies and illusions, with
our analyzing and interpreting and circulating of complex
dubieties. Let us put aside all thoughts of self; let us close our
eyes to all on earth, let us neither make known our sufferings

nor complain of our wrongs. Rather let us become oblivious
of our own selves, and drinking down the wine of heavenly
grace, let us cry out our joy, and lose ourselves in the beauty of
the All-Glorious. (SWA 247)
O Brethren! Be forbearing one with another and set not your
affections on things below. Pride not yourselves in your glory,
and be not ashamed of abasement. (HW 39)
O Son of Man! Breathe not the sins of others as long as thou art
thyself a sinner. (HW 10)
5. Develop true empathy towards others
Often physical sickness draws man nearer unto his Maker,
suffers his heart to be made empty of all worldly desires until
it becomes tender and sympathetic toward all sufferers and
compassionate to all creatures. Although physical diseases
cause man to suffer temporarily, yet they do not touch his spirit.
Nay, rather they contribute toward the divine purpose; that is,
spiritual susceptibilities will be created in his heart. (JC 110)
It is incumbent upon thee, since thou hast attained the
knowledge of God and His love, to sacriﬁce thy spirit and all
thy conditions for the life of the world, bearing every difﬁculty
for the comfort of the souls, sinking to the depth of the sea of
ordeals for the sake of the love of faithfulness. (DAL74 73)
Concern yourselves with one another. Help along one
another’s projects and plans. Grieve over one another. Let none
in the whole country go in need. Befriend one another until ye
become as a single body, one and all… (SS 84)
6. Learn to sacriﬁce
Self-sacriﬁce means to subordinate this lower nature and
its desires to the more Godly and noble side of our selves.
Ultimately, in its highest sense, self-sacriﬁce means to give our
will and our all to do with as He pleases. Then he puriﬁes and
gloriﬁes our true self until it becomes a shining and wonderful
reality. (BL 15)

Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacriﬁce, he is
bereft of every favor and grace; and this plane of sacriﬁce is the
realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the living God
may then shine forth. (DAL86 69)
The mystery of “ransom” or sacriﬁce is a most great subject
and is inexhaustible. (DAL86 67)
7. Develop patience in difﬁculties
O army of God! When calamity striketh, be ye patient and
composed. However afﬂictive your sufferings may be, stay ye
undisturbed, and with perfect conﬁdence in the abounding
grace of God, brave ye the tempest of tribulations and ﬁery
ordeals. (SS 21)
As these tribulations, however, were sustained in Thy path
and for love of Thee, they who were afﬂicted by them render
thanks, under all conditions, unto Thee, and say: “O Thou who
art the Delight of our hearts and the Object of our adoration!
Were the clouds of Thy decree to rain down upon us the
darts of afﬂiction, we would, in our love for Thee, refuse to
be impatient. We would yield Thee praise and thanksgiving,
for we have recognized and are persuaded that Thou hast
ordained only that which will be best for us. If our bodies be,
at times, weighed down by our troubles, yet our souls rejoice
with exceeding gladness.” (PM 135)
We must not only be patient with others, inﬁnitely patient!,
but also with our own poor selves, remembering that even the
Prophets of God sometimes got tired and cried out in despair.
(SS 28)
8. Accept the limits of our own understanding
The prayers which were revealed to ask for healing apply both
to physical and spiritual healing. Recite them, then, to heal
both the soul and the body. If healing is right for the patient, it
will certainly be granted; but for some ailing persons, healing
would only be the cause of other ills, and therefore wisdom
doth not permit an afﬁrmative answer to the prayer. (SWA 170)

In every suffering one can ﬁnd a meaning and a wisdom.
But it is not always easy to ﬁnd the secret of that wisdom. It
is sometimes only when all our suffering has passed that we
become aware of its usefulness. What man considers to be evil
turns often to be a cause of inﬁnite blessings. And this is due to
his desire to know more than he can. God’s wisdom is, indeed,
inscrutable to us all, and it is no use pushing too far trying
to discover that which shall always remain a mystery to our
mind. (SS 17)
9. Learn to submit to the Divine Will
Blessed is the man that hath acknowledged his belief in God
and in His signs, and recognized that “He shall not be asked
of His doings.” Such a recognition hath been made by God the
ornament of every belief, and its very foundation. Upon it must
depend the acceptance of every goodly deed.… Whoso hath
not recognized this sublime and fundamental verity, and hath
failed to attain this most exalted station, the winds of doubt
will agitate him,… He that hath acknowledged this principle
will be endowed with the most perfect constancy.… Such is
the teaching which God bestoweth on you, a teaching that will
deliver you from all manner of doubt and perplexity.
(GL 86–87)
… Thou hast ordained that the utmost limit to which they
who lift their hearts to Thee can rise is the confession of
their powerlessness to enter the realms of Thy holy and
transcendent unity, and that the highest station which they
who aspire to know Thee can reach is the acknowledgment
of their impotence to attain the retreats of Thy sublime
knowledge… (PM 89)
10. Strive for true contentment
Lament not in your hours of trial, neither rejoice therein; seek
ye the Middle Way which is the remembrance of Me in your
afﬂictions and reﬂection over that which may befall you in
future. (SS 23)

Supply them, then, from Thy sea of certainty with what will
calm the agitation of their hearts. (PM 283)
I beg of Thee, O my God…to ordain that my choice be
conformed to Thy choice and my wish to Thy wish, that I may
be entirely content with that which Thou didst desire, and be
wholly satisﬁed with what Thou didst destine for me by Thy
bounty and favor. (PM 54)
You must not injure yourselves or commit suicide.… Should
anyone at anytime encounter hard or perplexing times, he
must say to himself, “This will soon pass”. Then he will be
calm and quiet. In all my calamity and difﬁculties I used to say
to myself, “This will pass away”. Then I became patient. (SS
21)

E. Promises and assurances found
in the Bahá’í Writings
1. Our point of view is extremely relative
Never lose thy trust in God. Be thou ever hopeful, for the
bounties of God never cease to ﬂow upon man. If viewed from
one perspective they seem to decrease, but from another they
are full and complete. Man is under all conditions immersed in
a sea of God’s blessings. Therefore, be not hopeless under any
circumstances, but rather be ﬁrm in thy hope. (SWA 215)
2. God is faithful, loving, compassionate and merciful
Verily, the will of God engages occasionally in some matter for
which mankind is unable to ﬁnd out the reason. The causes
and reasons shall appear. Trust in God and conﬁde in Him, and
resign thyself to the will of God. Verily, thy God is affectionate,
compassionate and merciful. He will look at thee with the
glances of the eye of mercifulness, will guard thee with the
eye of bounty, and will cause His mercy to descend upon thee.
(DAL74 59)
3. God’s mercy is greater than His justice
The tenderness of Thy mercy, O my Lord, surpasseth the fury
of Thy wrath, and Thy loving-kindness exceedeth Thy hot
displeasure, and Thy grace excelleth Thy justice. (PM 136)
Wert Thou to regard Thy servants according to their desserts
in Thy days, they would assuredly merit naught except Thy
chastisement and torment. Thou art, however, the One Who
is of great bounteousness, Whose grace is immense. Look
not down upon them, O my God, with the glance of Thy
justice, but rather with the eyes of Thy tender compassion and
mercies. Do, then, with them according to what beseemeth Thy
generosity and bountiful favor. (PM 137)

4. God does not test us beyond our limits
He will never deal unjustly with anyone, neither will He task
a soul beyond its power. He, verily, is the Compassionate, the
All-Merciful. (GL 106)
… God hath never burdened any soul beyond its power.
(GL 106–107)
Nothing save that which proﬁteth them can befall My loved
ones. (SS 20)
Thou lookest upon them that are dear to Thee with the eyes of
Thy loving kindness, and sendest down for them only that which
will proﬁt them through Thy grace and Thy gifts. (PM 239)
5. The soul is not affected by physical or mental illness
Know thou that the soul of man is exalted above, and is
independent of all inﬁrmities of body or mind. That a sick
person showeth signs of weakness is due to the hindrances
that interpose themselves between his soul and his body, for
the soul itself remaineth unaffected by any bodily ailments.…
every malady afﬂicting the body of man is an impediment that
preventeth the soul from manifesting its inherent might and
power. When it leaveth the body, however, it will evince such
ascendancy, and reveal such inﬂuence as no force on earth can
equal. (GL 153–154)
6. Prayer is a real force, even though invisible
Let us turn our hearts away from the world of matter and live
in the spiritual world! It alone can give us freedom! If we are
hemmed in by difﬁculties we have only to call on God, and by
His great Mercy we shall be helped. (PT 111)
God will answer the prayer of every servant if that prayer is
urgent. His mercy is vast, illimitable. He answers the prayers of
all His servants.…
But we ask for things which the divine wisdom does not
desire for us, and there is no answer to our prayer. His wisdom
does not sanction what we wish.… But whatever we ask for,

which is in accord with divine wisdom, God will answer.
Assuredly! (DAL86 51)
… Not everyone achieves easily and rapidly the victory over
self. What every believer, new or old, should realise is that the
Cause has the spiritual power to recreate us if we make the
effort to let that power inﬂuence us, and the greatest help in
this respect is prayer. (UD 442)
Supplication and prayer on behalf of others will surely be
effective. (SW VOL VIII, NO 4, 47)
7. Tests exist only in the material world
…the tests and trials of God take place in this world, not in the
world of the Kingdom. (SWA 204)
…all the sorrow and the grief that exist come from the world of
matter—the spiritual world bestows only the joy! If we suffer it
is the outcome of material things, and all the trials and troubles
come from this world of illusion.… The trials which beset our
every step, all our sorrow, pain, shame and grief are born in the
world of matter; whereas the spiritual Kingdom never causes
sadness. (PT 110)
Do not grieve at the afﬂictions and calamities that have befallen
thee. All calamities and afﬂictions have been created for man
so that he may spurn this mortal world—a world to which
he is much attached. When he experienceth severe trials and
hardships, then his nature will recoil and he will desire the
eternal realm—a realm which is sanctiﬁed from all afﬂictions
and calamities. (SWA 250)
8. The reasons for our suffering will
become clear in the next life
When the human soul soareth out of this transient heap of dust
and riseth into the world of God, then veils will fall away, and
verities will come to light, and all things unknown before will
be made clear, and hidden truths be understood. (SWA 186)
Be not in despair, but rather smile by the mercy of thy Lord; and
be not sorrowful when meeting with worldly difﬁculties and

depressions, for they pass away—and thine shall be immortality
during ages and centuries, times and cycles. (SS 23)
…once he hath departed this life, he will behold, in that world,
whatsoever was hidden from him here: but there he will look
upon and comprehend all things with his inner eye.
(SWA 179–180)
9. Even in this life we will experience beneﬁts from our
tests
O My servants! Sorrow not if, in these days and on this earthly
plane, things contrary to your wishes have been ordained and
manifested by God, for days of blissful joy, of heavenly delight,
are assuredly in store for you. Worlds, holy and spiritually
glorious, will be unveiled to your eyes. You are destined by
Him, in this world and hereafter, to partake of their beneﬁts, to
share in their joys, and to obtain a portion of their sustaining
grace. (GL 329)
If thy daily living become difﬁcult, soon (God) thy Lord will
bestow upon thee that which will satisfy thee. Be patient in
the time of afﬂiction and trial, endure every difﬁculty and
hardship with a dilated heart, attracted spirit and eloquent
tongue in remembrance of the Merciful. Verily this is the
life of satisfaction, the spiritual existence, heavenly repose,
divine benediction and the celestial table! Soon thy Lord will
extenuate thy straitened circumstances even in this world.
(DAL74 93)
10. Acceptance of the Will of God leads to true happiness
Afﬂictions and troubles are due to the state of not being content
with what God has ordained for you. If one submits himself to
God he is happy.… When man surrenders himself everything
will move according to his wish. (SS 49)
Contentment is real wealth. If one develops within himself
the quality of contentment he will become independent.
Contentment is the creator of happiness. When one is contented
he does not care either for riches or poverty. He lives above

the inﬂuence of them and is indifferent to them. (attributed to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá; FG 171)
Man must so live that he may become beloved in the sight
of God, beloved in the estimation of the righteous ones and
beloved and praised by the people. When he reaches this
station the feast of eternal happiness is spread before him.
His heart is serene and composed because he ﬁnds himself
accepted at the threshold of His Highness, the One. His soul
is in the utmost felicity and bliss even if he be surrounded by
mountains of tests and difﬁculties. He will be like a sea on
the surface of which one may see huge white waves, but in its
deeps it is calm, unrufﬂed and undisturbed. (SS 60)

The Mystery of Sacriﬁce

The mystery of “ransom” or sacriﬁce is a most great
subject and is inexhaustible. (DAL86 67)

…to make a sacriﬁce is to receive a gift (SWA 257)

Outline
A. Suffering and sacriﬁce
1.
The universality of suffering
2.
God’s method with respect to the believers
3.
The principle that will “endow constancy”
4.
Learning to sacriﬁce: one of the purposes of suffering
B. The mystery of sacriﬁce
1.
The meanings of sacriﬁce
2.
Self-sacriﬁce
3.
Sacriﬁce and faithfulness
4.
Ransom and sacriﬁce
5.
The law of sacriﬁce
C. The Manifestations of God and the law of sacriﬁce
1.
The Manifestation of God
2.
Jesus Christ
3.
Abraham and Muhammad
4.
The Báb
5.
Bahá’u’lláh
D. The believers and the law of sacriﬁce
1.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the perfect exemplar
2.
The believers
E. The consequences of sacriﬁce
1.
Transforms personal effort into spiritual qualities
2.
Has a positive spiritual inﬂuence on others
3.
Helps give meaning to tests and difﬁculties
4.
Releases spiritual power into the world

A. Suffering and sacriﬁce
1. The universality of suffering
Suffering, of one kind or another, seems to be the portion of
man in this world. Even the beloved ones, the Prophets of God,
have never been exempt from the ills that are to be found in our
world; poverty, disease, bereavement – they seem to be part
of the polish God employs to make us ﬁner, and enable us to
reﬂect more of His attributes! No doubt in the future, when the
foundation of society is laid according to the Divine plan, and
men become truly spiritualized, a vast amount of our present
ills and problems will be remedied. We who toil now are
paving the way for a far better world, and this knowledge must
uphold and strengthen us through every trial. (LG 604–605)
2. God’s method with respect to the believers
Know ye that trials and tribulations have, from time
immemorial, been the lot of the chosen ones of God and His
beloved, and such of His servants as are detached from all else
but Him, they who neither merchandise nor trafﬁc beguile
from the remembrance of the Almighty, they that speak not
till He hath spoken, and act according to His commandments.
Such is God’s method carried into effect of old, and such will it
remain in the future. Blessed are the steadfastly enduring, they
that are patient under ills and hardships, and who lament not
over anything that befalleth them, and who tread the path of
resignation. (GL 129)
We hear thy cry and supplication at thy remoteness from the
Dawning-Place of Lights. Be patient and do not bewail thy
plight. Be content with that which God hath ordained for thee.
He, verily, payeth the due recompense of those who are patient.
Hast thou not seen My incarceration, My afﬂiction, My injury,
My suffering? Follow then the ways of thy Lord, and among His
methods is the suffering of His well-favored servants. (FG 169)

3. The principle that will “endow constancy”
Blessed is the man that hath acknowledged his belief in God
and in His signs, and recognized that “He shall not be asked
of His doings.” Such a recognition hath been made by God the
ornament of every belief, and its very foundation. Upon it must
depend the acceptance of every goodly deed.… He that hath
acknowledged this principle will be endowed with the most
perfect constancy. Such is the teaching which God bestoweth
upon you, a teaching which will deliver you from all manner of
doubt and perplexity, and enable you to attain unto salvation
in both this world and in the next. (GL 86–87)
4. Learning to sacriﬁce: one of the purposes of suffering
Other sufferings there are, which come upon the Faithful of
God. Consider the great sorrows endured by Christ and by
His apostles! Those who suffer most attain to the greatest
perfection. Those who declare a wish to suffer much for
Christ’s sake must prove their sincerity; those who proclaim
their longing to make great sacriﬁces can only prove their truth
by their deeds. (PT 42)
Nor shall the seeker reach his goal unless he sacriﬁce all things.
That is, whatever he hath seen, and heard, and understood, all
must he set at naught, that he may enter the realm of the spirit,
which is the City of God. (SV 7)

B. The mystery of sacriﬁce
1. The meanings of sacriﬁce
The mystery of “ransom” or sacriﬁce is a most great subject
and is inexhaustible.
Brieﬂy it is as follows: The moth is a sacriﬁce to the candle.
The spring is a sacriﬁce to the thirsty one. The sincere lover is
a sacriﬁce to the loved one, and the longing one is a sacriﬁce
to the beloved. The point lies in this: He must wholly forget
himself.… He must seek the good pleasure of the True One,
desire the face of the True One, and walk in the path of the True
One.… This is the ﬁrst station of sacriﬁce.
The second station of sacriﬁce is as follows: Man must
become… like unto the iron thrown within the furnace of ﬁre.
The qualities of iron, such as blackness, coldness and solidity,
which belong go the earth, disappear and vanish, while the
characteristics of ﬁre, such as redness, glowing and heat,
which belong to the kingdom, become apparent and visible.
Therefore, iron hath sacriﬁced its qualities and grades to the
ﬁre, acquiring the virtues of that element. (DAL86 67–68)
… Christ, who is the Word of God, sacriﬁced Himself. This
has two meanings, an apparent and an esoteric meaning. The
outward meaning is this:… He arose to teach and educate
men, and so He sacriﬁced Himself to give the spirit of life.
He perished in body so as to quicken others by the spirit. The
second meaning of sacriﬁce is this: Christ was like a seed, and
this seed sacriﬁced its own form so that the tree might grow
and develop. Although the form of the seed was destroyed, its
reality became apparent in perfect majesty and beauty in the
form of a tree. (SAQ 120–121)
… man must sacriﬁce the qualities and attributes of the world
of nature for the qualities and attributes of the world of God.
(DAL86 68)
The mystery of sacriﬁce is that man should sacriﬁce all his
conditions for the divine station of God. The station of God is
mercy, kindness, forgiveness, sacriﬁce, favour, grace and giving

light to the spirits and lighting the ﬁre of His love in the hearts
and arteries. (LG 118)
2. Self-sacriﬁce
Self has really two meanings, or is used in two senses, in
the Bahá’í writings; one is self, the identity of the individual
created by God. This is the self mentioned in such passages as
“he hath known God who hath known himself, etc.” The other
self is the ego, the dark animalistic heritage each one of us has,
the lower nature that can develop into a monster of selﬁshness,
brutality, lust, and so on. It is this self we must struggle against,
or this side of our natures, in order to strengthen and free the
spirit within us and help it to attain perfection.
Self-sacriﬁce means to subordinate this lower nature and
its desires to the more Godly and noble side of ourselves.
Ultimately, in its highest sense, self-sacriﬁce means to give
our will and our all to God to do with as He pleases. Then he
puriﬁes and gloriﬁes our true self until it becomes a shining
and wonderful reality. (LG 113–14)
Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacriﬁce, he is
bereft of every favor and grace; and this plane of sacriﬁce is
the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the living
God may then shine forth. The martyr’s ﬁeld is the place of
detachment from self, that the anthems of eternity may be
raised. Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self, and bind
yourselves to that Countenance of Splendors; and once you
have reached such heights of certitude, ye will ﬁnd, gathered
within your shadow, all created things. This is boundless grace;
this is the highest sovereignty; this is the life that dieth not. All
else save this is at the last but manifest perdition and great loss.
(SWA 76–77)
With reference to what is meant by an individual becoming
entirely forgetful of self: the intent is that he should rise up and
sacriﬁce himself in the true sense, that is, he should obliterate
the promptings of the human condition, and rid himself of
such characteristics as are worthy of blame and constitute
the gloomy darkness of this life on earth—not that he should

allow his physical health to deteriorate and his body to become
inﬁrm. (SWA 189)
Nor shall the seeker reach his goal unless he sacriﬁce all things.
That is, whatever he hath seen, and heard, and understood, all
must he set at naught, that he may enter the realm of the spirit,
which is the City of God. (SV 7)
3. Sacriﬁce and faithfulness
One of the requirements of faithfulness is that thou mayest
sacriﬁce thyself and, in the divine path, close thine eye to every
pleasure and strive with all thy soul that that thou mayest
disappear and be lost, like unto a drop, in the ocean of God’s
love. (DAL74 74)
It is incumbent upon thee, since thou hast attained the
knowledge of God and His love, to sacriﬁce thy spirit and all
thy conditions for the life of the world, bearing every difﬁculty
for the comfort of the world, sinking to the depth of the sea of
ordeals for the sake of faithfulness.… (DAL74 73)
The condition of Faith requires that man ascend to and abide
in the station of sacriﬁce. Without this attainment, one’s faith is
not perfect. The believers must soar toward the summit of self-
sacriﬁce. (SW VOL V, NO 8, 118)
You were sure that if one tried to hurt her [the Greatest Holy
Leaf] she would wish to console him for his own cruelty. For
her love was unconditioned, could penetrate disguise and see
hunger behind the mask of fury, and she knew that the most
brutal self is secretly hoping to ﬁnd gentleness in another.…
Something greater than forgiveness she had shown in
meeting the cruelties and strictures in her own life. To be
hurt and to forgive is saintly but far beyond this is the power
to comprehend and not be hurt.… She was never known to
complain or lament. It was not that she made the best of things,
but that she found in everything, even in calamity itself, the
germs of enduring wisdom. She did not resist the shocks and
upheavals of life and she did not run counter to obstacles. She
was never impatient. She was as incapable of impatience as she
was of revolt. But this was not so much long-sufferance as it

was quiet awareness of the forces that operate in the hours of
waiting and inactivity.
Always she moved with the larger rhythm, the wider
sweep, toward the ultimate goal. Surely, conﬁdently, she
followed the circle of her orbit around the Sun of her existence,
in that complete acquiescence, that perfect accord, which
underlies faith itself. (BW 182–85)
4. Ransom and sacriﬁce
No man can ever claim to have comprehended the nature of
the hidden and manifold grace of God; none can fathom His
all-embracing mercy. Such hath been the perversity of men
and their transgressions, so grievous have been the trials that
have afﬂicted the Prophets of God and their chosen ones, that
all mankind deserveth to be tormented and to perish. God’s
hidden and most loving providence, however, hath, through
both visible and invisible agencies, protected and will continue
to protect it from the penalty of its wickedness. (GL 76)
Fix your gaze upon Him Who is the Temple of God amongst
men. He, in truth, hath offered up His life as a ransom for the
redemption of the world. (GL 315)
May my spirit be a sacriﬁce to the wrongs Thou didst suffer,
and my soul be a ransom for the adversities Thou didst sustain.
(BP 232–233)
Likewise, when the souls are released from the fetters of the
world, the imperfections of mankind and the animalistic
darkness and have… partaken a share from the outpouring of
the placeless and have acquired lordly perfections, they are the
“ransomed ones” of the Sun of Truth. (DAL74 73)
5. The law of sacriﬁce
With reference to your question as to whether individuals can
help each other by accepting to suffer for each other’s sake,
surely such sacriﬁces for our fellow-humans can have helpful
results. The law of sacriﬁce operates in our own lives, as well
as in the lives of the Divine Manifestations. (LG 118)

C. The Manifestations of God and the law of
sacriﬁce
1. The Manifestation of God
As to those souls who are born into this life as ethereal and
radiant entities and yet, on account of their handicaps and
trials, are deprived of great and real advantages, and leave
the world without having lived to the full – certainly this
is a cause for grieving. This is the reason why the universal
Manifestations of God unveil Their countenances to man, and
endure every calamity and sore afﬂiction, and lay down their
lives as a ransom; it is to make these very people, the ready
ones, the ones who have capacity, to become dawning points of
light, and to bestow upon them the life that fadeth never. This
is the true sacriﬁce: the offering of oneself, even as did Christ,
as a ransom for the life of the world. (SWA 64–65)
2. Jesus Christ
Know thou that when the Son of Man yielded up His breath
to God the whole creation wept with a great weeping. By
sacriﬁcing Himself, however, a fresh capacity was infused
into all created things.… The deepest wisdom which the sages
have uttered, the profoundest learning which any mind hath
unfolded, the arts which the ablest hands have produced,
the inﬂuence exerted by the most potent of rulers, are but
manifestations of the quickening power released by His
transcendent, His all-pervasive, and resplendent Spirit.
(GL 85–86)
3. Abraham and Muhammad
The Voice of God commandeth Him (Abraham) to offer up
Ishmael as a sacriﬁce, so that His steadfastness in the Faith
of God and his detachment from all else but Him may be
demonstrated unto men. The purpose of God, moreover, was
to sacriﬁce him as a ransom for the sins and iniquities of all the
peoples of the earth. This same honor, Jesus, the son of Mary,

besought the one true God, exalted be His name and glory, to
confer upon Him. For the same reason was Husayn offered up
as a sacriﬁce by Muhammad, the Apostle of God. (GL 75–76)
4. The Báb
Methinks He, from His most exalted station, saith unto me:
Would that my soul, O Prisoner, could be a ransom for Thy
captivity, and my being, O wronged One, be sacriﬁced for the
adversities Thou didst suffer! (PM 40)
5. Bahá’u’lláh
I am he, O my God, who hath embraced Thy love and accepted
all the adversities which the world can inﬂict, who hath offered
up himself as a ransom for the sake of Thy loved ones, that
they may ascend into the heavens of Thy knowledge and be
drawn nearer unto Thee, and may soar in the atmosphere of
Thy love and Thy good-pleasure. (PM 25)
I have accepted to be tried by manifold adversities for no
purpose except to regenerate all that are in Thy heaven and on
Thy earth. Whoso hath loved Thee, can never feel attached to
his own self, except for the purpose of furthering Thy Cause…
Acquaint them, moreover, with what He Who is the Origin
of Thy most excellent titles hath, in His love for Thee, been
willing to bear for the sake of the regeneration of their souls.
(PM 198)
I yield Thee thanks, O my God, for that Thou hast offered me
up as a sacriﬁce in Thy path, and made me a target for the
arrows of afﬂictions as a token of Thy love for The servants,
and singled me out for all manner of tribulation for the
regeneration of Thy people. (PM 154)

D. The believers and the law of sacriﬁce
1. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the perfect exemplar
Every man trained through the teachings of God and illumined
by the light of His guidance, who becomes a believer in God
and His signs and is enkindled with the ﬁre of the love of
God, sacriﬁces the imperfections of nature for the sake of
divine perfections. Consequently, every perfect person, every
illumined, heavenly individual stands in the station of sacriﬁce,
attaining heavenly graces. (PUP 452)
Make me as dust in the pathway of Thy loved ones, and grant
that I may offer up my soul for the earth ennobled by the
footsteps of Thy chosen ones in Thy path, O Lord of Glory in
the Highest. (BP 333)
Be not sorrowful because of my imprisonment and lament
not over my difﬁculties; nay, rather, ask God to increase my
hardship in His path, for therein lies a wisdom which none are
able to comprehend save the near angels. (DAL74 95)
2. The believers
Reﬂect upon his holiness Job: What trials, calamities and
perplexities did he not endure! But these tests were like unto
the ﬁre and his holiness Job was like unto pure gold. Assuredly,
gold is puriﬁed by being submitted to the ﬁre and if it contain
any alloy or imperfection, it will disappear. That is the reason
why violent tests become the cause of the everlasting glory of
the righteous… (FG 39)
… may you seek to sacriﬁce yourselves in the pathway of
devotion to mankind. Even as Jesus Christ forfeited His
life, may you, likewise, offer yourselves in the threshold of
sacriﬁce for the betterment of the world; and just as Bahá’u’lláh
suffered severe ordeals and calamities nearly ﬁfty years for
you, may you be willing to undergo difﬁculties and withstand
catastrophes for humanity in general. (DAL86 93)
And since the Ancient Beauty was exposed by day and night
on the ﬁeld of martyrdom, let us in our turn labour hard, and

hear and ponder the counsels of God; let us ﬂing away our
lives, and renounce our brief and numbered days. Let us turn
our eyes away from empty fantasies of this world’s divergent
forms, and serve instead this pre-eminent purpose, this grand
design. (SWA 263)
First, you must become united and agreed among yourselves.
You must be exceedingly kind and loving toward each other,
willing to forfeit life in the pathway of another’s happiness.
You must be ready to sacriﬁce your possessions in another’s
behalf. The rich among you must show compassion toward the
poor, and the well-to-do must look after those in distress.…
Your utmost desire must be to confer happiness upon each
other. Each one must be the servant of the others, thoughtful of
their comfort and welfare. In the path of God one must forget
himself entirely. He must not consider his own pleasure but
seek the pleasure of others. He must not desire glory not gifts
of bounty for himself but seek these gifts and blessings for his
brothers and sisters. It is my hope that that you may become
like this, that you may attain to the supreme bestowal and be
imbued with such spiritual qualities as to forget yourselves
entirely and with heart and soul offer yourselves as sacriﬁces
for the Blessed Perfection. (PUP 215)

E. The consequences of sacriﬁce
1. Transforms personal effort into spiritual qualities
As to the inconveniences you have experienced during the
last ten years, the best consolation I can imagine for you is
your own quotation of the Hidden Words, “My calamity is my
providence.” We must bear with one another. It is only through
suffering that the nobility of character can make itself manifest.
The energy we expend in enduring the intolerance of some
individuals of our community is not lost. It is transformed
into fortitude, steadfastness and magnanimity. The lives of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are the best examples for this.
Sacriﬁces in the path of one’s religion produce always immortal
results, “Out of the ashes rises the phoenix”. (LG 604)
O peoples of the world! Whatsoever ye have offered up in the
way of the One True God, ye shall indeed ﬁnd preserved by
God, the Preserver, intact at God’s Holy Gate. (SWB 48)
2. Has a positive spiritual inﬂuence on others
It is difﬁcult for us to understand these calamities when they
come to us. Those who are ﬁrm in the Faith, know that the
Hand of God protects them, and if something of this nature
comes upon them, it is for some reason, which may have to
do with the spiritual development of the one affected, of the
spiritual development and welfare of the loved ones; or even
for the melting of the hearts of non-Bahá’ís who will be affected
by the Divine Spirit, through the manner in which the Bahá’í
meets such an ordeal. (LG 281)
To have sacriﬁced my life for the Manifestations of Thy Self,
to have offered up my soul in the path of the Revealers of Thy
wondrous Beauty is to have sacriﬁced my spirit for Thy Spirit,
my being for Thy Being, my glory for Thy Glory. It is as if I had
offered up all these things for Thy sake, and for the sake of Thy
loved ones. (PM 95–96)

3. Helps give meaning to tests and difﬁculties
The Master has often said that sorrows are like furrows, the
deeper they go the more productive the land becomes. If this
problem… should be settled other problems will arise. Are
the friends to become discouraged or are they to follow the
footsteps of the Master and consider them more as chances to
show their tenacity of belief and spirit of sacriﬁce? (UD 422)
Peace of mind is gained by the centering of the spiritual
consciousness on the Prophet of God; therefore you should
study the spiritual Teachings, and receive the Water of Life
from the Holy Utterances. Then by translating these high ideals
into action, your entire character will be changed, and your
mind will not only ﬁnd peace, but your entire being will ﬁnd
joy and enthusiasm. (LG 112)
4. Releases spiritual power into the world
Should they attempt to conceal His light on the continent,
He will assuredly rear His head in the midmost heart of the
ocean… (DB 18)
No reference to such marvelous progress could fail to
acknowledge the spiritual and social impact effected by the
decade-long episode of persecution inﬂicted with such cruel
excesses on our Iranian fellows-believers. Only in the future
will the full consequence of their sacriﬁce be known, but we
can clearly recognize its inﬂuence on the extraordinary success
in proclaiming the Faith and in establishing good relations
with governmental authorities and major non-governmental
organizations around the world. (RM)
Undoubtedly, the highly esteemed American believers who
bear the designation “spiritual descendants of the Dawn-
breakers”, know quite well that they must now seize their
chance at this critical time to prove their capacity to endure
that living sacriﬁce which, as Shoghi Effendi said, in contrast
to dying, is required of them in the scriptures of our Faith.
May they be granted the celestial strength to pass, over and

over again, the mental tests which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá promised
He would send them to purify them, thus enabling them to
achieve their divinely-conferred potential as a force for change
in the world. (FG 151)
Man must forget his own selﬁsh conditions that he may thus
arise to the station of sacriﬁce. It should be to such a degree
that if he sleep, it should not be for pleasure, but to rest the
body in order to do better, to speak better, to explain more
beautifully, to serve the servants of God and to prove the
truths. When he remains awake, he should be attentive, serve
the Cause of God and sacriﬁce his own stations for those of
God. When he attains to this station, the conﬁrmations of the
Holy Spirit will surely reach him, and man with this power can
withstand all who inhabit the earth. (JC 122–123)

Key to References
HW
The Hidden Words (1994)


GL
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh (1983)
PT
Paris Talks (1995)
LG
Lights of Guidance (1999)
SS
Spiritual Survival (1998)
PM
Prayers and Meditations (1987)
SWA
Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1997)
DAL74
The Divine Art of Living (1974)
DAL 86
The Divine Art of Living (1986)
FG
Fire and Gold, Beneﬁting from Life’s Tests (1995)
JC
A Journey of Courage (2002)
BP
Bahá’í Prayers (2002)
SV
The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys (1991)
SWB
Selections from the Writings of the Báb (1976)
BW
The Bahá’í World (vol. V, 1932–34)
DB
The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh (1981)
SW
Star of the West
UD
Unfolding Destiny (1981)
SAQ
Some Answered Questions (1994)
PDC
The Promised Day is Come (1980)
KI
Kitáb-i-Íqán The Book of Certitude (1989)
RM
Ridván Message, Universal House of Justice (1989)