THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1987-06-21

dear b ahá’í f riends,

. . . The outstanding success of the peace conference in finlandia hall

which your community sponsored last autumn remains one of the high-

lights among the various bahá’í peace events held throughout the world

since the issuance of The Promise of  World Peace. The house of justice is

happy to know of your continuing effort to keep the subject of world peace before the finnish people; however, it advises you to be careful in choosing

what such follow-up efforts should be and offers the following comments on your specific question about promoting the idea of a world conference

of government leaders.

it is not advisable for bahá’í institutions or individuals to initiate ac-

tions designed to prod government leaders to urge their governments or the leaders of other governments to convene the world conference called

for by bahá’u’lláh and echoed in The Promise of  World Peace. T wo points

should be borne in mind in this regard: (1) because of the political gravity

of the decisions implied by this call and the differing political attitudes

which it evokes, such actions on the part of the bahá’í community would

embroil the friends in partisan politics. There is quite a difference between

identifying, as does the peace Statement, the need for a convocation of

world leaders and initiating the political processes towards its realization. (2)

in the writings of the faith (e.g., the closing passages of The Promised Day

Is Come), it is clear that the establishment of the lesser peace, of which the

conference of leaders will be a related event, will come about independently of any direct b ahá’í plan or action.

The following reply was written on behalf of the beloved guardian in a

letter dated 14 m arch 1939 to an individual believer:31.1

31.2

31.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

60your view that the lesser peace will come about through the political

efforts of the states and nations of the world, and independently of

any direct bahá’í plan or effort, and the most great peace established

through the instrumentality of the believers, and by the direct opera-

tion of the laws and principles revealed by bahá’u’lláh and the func-

bahá’í Super State—your view on this subject is quite correct and in

full accord with the pronouncements of the guardian as embodied in

the “u nfoldment of w orld civilization.”31-1

it is clear, then, that the friends must respect the prerogatives of political

leaders in this matter and allow them the latitude to exercise the initiative

that only they can effectively take towards the establishment of the lesser

peace. The fact that bahá’í institutions will not be directly involved in the

eventual convocation of the world leaders and in effecting the political

unity of nations does not mean that the bahá’ís are standing aside and wait-

ing for the lesser peace to come before they do something about the peace

of humanity. indeed, by promoting the principles of the faith, which are

indispensable to the maintenance of peace, by living the Teachings, and by fashioning the instruments of the bahá’í Administrative order, which we

are told by the beloved guardian is the pattern for future society, the bahá’ís

are constantly engaged in laying the foundation for world peace, the most

great peace being their ultimate goal. The bahá’ís should do whatever they

can within the context of their bahá’í teaching and consolidation plans and

also through their professional and other regular activities to promulgate universal peace.

it is a source of great satisfaction to the house of justice to see with

what intensity the peace initiative of the bahá’í community is being pursued

by the friends, who must now accelerate their activities at the grassroots level. The grassroots effort of the bahá’ís should prepare the ground for the

transition from the present system of national sovereignty to a system of

world government. This it can do by concentrating on wide and continual

dissemination of the peace Statement whose contents should be known by

31-1. See wob, pp. 161–206.31.3a

31.4

31.5

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

61the generality of humanity, on engaging people from all walks of life in

discussions on peace, and on instilling and encouraging a sense of personal

commitment to the prerequisites of peace. in a word, what is needed now is

a worldwide consciousness of not only the requirements but also the possi-

bility and inevitability of peace. Therefore, our immediate and inescapable task as b ahá’ís is to imbue the populations with such hope.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

32

Requirements for Membership

in the Bahá’í Community

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]