Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Nine

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of
their authors.
Reproductions from this compilation are permitted provided
that the sources and authors are clearly indicated, with the
exception of provisional translations, which are not to be
further distributed.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Nine
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Editing Assistance Omid Nolley
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
165 B.E. 2008 C.E.
Copyright © 2008, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
Artwork by Trey Yancy
Typeset by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com

All blessings are divine in origin, but none can be
compared with this power of intellectual investigation
and research, which is an eternal gift producing fruits of
unending delight. Man is ever partaking of these fruits.
All other blessings are temporary; this is an everlasting
possession. Even sovereignty has its limitations and
overthrow; this is a kingship and dominion which none
may usurp or destroy. Briefly, it is an eternal blessing
and divine bestowal, the supreme gift of God to man.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, PUP 50

Table of Contents
Preface ...............................................................................................i
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the
Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel.........................................................................5
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel.......................................................................29
Postmodernism and the Bahá'í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge..................................................................................61
Postmodernism and the Bahá'í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge................................................................................115
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge................................................................................179
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
Jack McLean...........................................................................239
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen......................................................................281
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
`Ali Nakhjavani.......................................................................287
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn .....................................................................299
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon.........................................................................315
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani................................................321
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ar∂i’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani ......................................351
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple..............................................................................363
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: The
Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas ....................................................................391

Elucidations
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus ..............................................415
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith..................................421
Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their abbreviations used in
this book ...................................................................................425
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Eight..................................427
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia .................................................435

Preface
Knowledge is one of the wondrous gifts of God.
It is incumbent upon everyone to acquire it.1

`Abdu’l-Bahá, further expanding upon this exhortation of the
Most Supreme Pen, offers this advice: “All blessings are divine
in origin, but none can be compared with this power of
intellectual investigation and research, which is the eternal gift
producing fruits of unending delight….Briefly, it is an eternal
blessing and divine bestowal, the supreme gift of God to man”2
Lights of `Irfán attempts to present the end results of such
investigation and research that are focused on in depth studies
in the Bahá’í Writings and fundamental principles of the Bahá’í
Faith. It also includes studies that, according to the guidance of
Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, “correlate” Bahá’í
beliefs, its teachings and their significance “with the current
thoughts and problems of the peoples of the world.”3
The publication of Book 9 of The Lights of `Irfán coincides
with the centenary of the publication of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Some
Answered Questions, a book which most befittingly presents an
example
of
Shoghi
Effendi’s
above
recommendation.
Celebrating this centenary, Some Answered Questions will be
the general theme of the sessions of `Irfán Colloquia in 2008
and 2009. Studies related to the topics and concepts presented
in that book, particularly those correlating with the current
thoughts and problems of the peoples of the world, will be
published in a volume dedicated to this centenary celebration.
Most of the articles published in this volume are the texts of
the papers presented at the `Irfán Colloquia in 2007, which were
held in Acuto, Italy, Bosch Bahá’í School in California and
Louhelen Bahá’í School in Michigan.
The first two articles are interrelated and deal with the
pivotal principle of unity in Bahá’í beliefs. They investigate the
question, What philosophical viewpoints are necessary for
understanding the concepts of Unity and Oneness of the world,
which are ubiquitous in the Bahá’í Writings? The new vision of
the “integral whole” is used to present a new worldview as the
heart of the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. These twin
articles illustrate a philosophical development that began after

Preface
ii
the Revelation of Bahá’u'lláh.
The article on Relativism deals with the critical subject of
whether religious truth is absolute or relative. It examines the
subject from the perspectives of various branches of knowledge
and various relativist philosophies with reference to the Bahá’í
Writings and concludes that the Writings may best be described
as espousing an “evolutionary Platonic perspectivism.”
Postmodernism is discussed in a two-part article. The first
part is a survey of the history of postmodernism and focuses on
the philosophical principles and implications particularly
concerning epistemology, ontology and ethics. The second part
is a comparative study that examines postmodern philosophy in
relation to the Bahá’í Writings. It argues that there are
coincidental or superstructural similarities but also many
essential disagreements on most fundamental matters between
postmodern philosophy and the Bahá’í belief system.
Two articles are reviews of certain aspects of two major
works of Shoghi Effendi, The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh and
The Advent of Divine Justice. The first examines salient features
of the content of Dispensation as a proactive theological
document and points out certain structural patterns in its
manner of presenting theological truth. The other article is a
general review of the contents of the Advent and its historical
background. It depicts two “startling realizations”: the United
States being the Cradle of the Administrative Order of
Bahá’u’lláh and the North American Bahá’ís initiating the
fulfillment of the goals set forth in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of
Divine Plan. This article concludes with an analysis of the
destiny of America as seen through the eyes of Shoghi Effendi,
and how it relates to present world challenges.
A subject that both the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh have dealt with is
addressing the kings of the world. The article From Suratu’l-
mulk to Suratu’l-mulúk is an attempt to compare and contrast
these two Tablets, one revealed by the Báb and the other by
Bahá’u’lláh. It deals with similarities and differences between
the two texts and their historical backgrounds, as well as their
structure, literary style and other textual features. It closes with
some tentative conclusions about kingship and authority.
Prayers and Rituals in the Bahá’í Faith provides a detailed
historical background and a provisional translation of a famous
Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh addressed to Mullá `Alí-Akbar Ardestání,
one of the early believers and one of the first Bábís who

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
iii
suffered harsh persecution. This Tablet includes, in addition to
strong admonitions to those with misgivings or doubts
regarding whom should be followed after the Báb, the text of
Salát-i-Hájat, a special prayer imploring God to grant one’s
needs.
The article on the Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace is a
concise, clear, and well-documented exposition of the Bahá’í
perspective on peace. It demonstrates a fascinating road map
illuminating the three processes humanity faces: the Lesser
Peace, the Great Peace and the Most Great Peace.
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice is a talk
presenting an account of the challenges that were faced by
Shoghi Effendi during His ministry. It also covers some aspects
of the function of the Covenant in the Bahá’í community.
A very interesting and pertinent observation is presented in
the article Insider and Outsider: Scholarship in the Bahá’í
Studies. It is a preliminary approach to the differences between
the works of scholars who undertake studies in the texts,
teachings and history of their own belief system and scholars
who engage in the same type of studies but related to belief
systems other than their own. This article is more focused on
these two types of studies as they relate to the Bahá’í Faith.
The location and significance of mountains in various
religious traditions are discussed in the article Prophets and
Mountains. It particularly focuses on four mountains in the
Holy Land: Sinai, Zion, Tabor and Carmel that were combined
in many Jewish traditions describing the End of Days and the
reestablishment of the Lord’s Temple. The four Mountains will
be assembled together so that their summits combine to form
the foundations of New Jerusalem.
The section entitled ELUCIDATIONS includes the text of a
message from the Universal House of Justice regarding research
and studies in the Bahá’í Faith, and a memorandum of the Bahá’í
World Center concerning expectations of the return of Jesus
Christ. Receiving documents and short articles elucidating and
clarifying various concepts and questions regarding the verities
of the Bahá’í Faith are welcome for inclusion in this section of
The Lights of `Irfán
For those readers interested to know the topics of the papers
published in previous volumes of The Lights of `Irfán,
Appendix II presents a list of all those papers. It further

Preface
iv
provides a preliminary familiarity with the range, types, and
methodological approaches of the papers that are welcome for
presentation at the `Irfán Colloquia. In addition to the papers
presented at the `Irfán Colloquia, research papers related to the
main goals of the `Irfán Colloquium may also be directly
submitted for inclusion in The Lights of `Irfán.
Starting with Book Six we have made two changes to the
`Irfán Colloquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications
are cited by an abbreviation; see Appendix I, “Bibliography of
the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations Used in This
Book.” Words of Prophets/Manifestations, i.e. quotations
from Sacred Writings, (not including statements by Shoghi
Effendi or the Universal House of Justice), are italicized.
All
papers
in
this
volume
present
the
views
and
understanding of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors. Their writing styles and
scholarly approaches are therefore different. Articles are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of
the author’s last names.





Iraj Ayman





Chicago, May 2008

1 TAB 39.
2 Compilation of Compilations (Bahá’í Publications Australia) p 228
3 Ibid, p 231

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
and Excellence of the Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
The Emerging Universe
The message of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh is that the
universe is God’s creation and every created thing in this world
is leading to God.
Every created thing in the whole universe is but a door
leading into His knowledge, a sign of His sovereignty, a
revelation of His names, a symbol of His majesty, a token
of His power, a means of admittance into His straight
Path.... (GWB 160)
This paper is exploring how science, studying the universe, is
little by little discovering this vision of Bahá'u'lláh. This
development of science is in its beginning and certainly not
unchallenged, nevertheless, this trend ought to be followed up
by those who have a knowledge of the Most Sublime Vision of
Bahá'u'lláh. Every scholarly engaged Bahá'í can recognize what is
said about the pervasiveness and generality of this vision.
So pervasive and general is this revelation that nothing
whatsoever in the whole universe can be discovered that
doth not reflect His splendor. (GWB 184)
First
some
new
discoveries
in
Neuroscience
and
Neurocardiology will be presented and following that the
interpretations of Quantum Mechanics, as presented today in
numerous books will be sorted out from this perspective. The
emergence of a new understanding of the universe is becoming a
popular topic and the horizon of this development cannot be
defined, as of yet.
That means that we can ask questions today in order to
understand what the new view of the world means to Bahá'í
theology, but we must be ready to revise them over time, as the
scientific knowledge and the understanding of the Revelation is

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
constantly evolving in a progressive process. We can only see
what is available today and have to develop our understanding
in a progressive evolution, which will abolish some ideas, will
change others, and will find new answers to the question of the
harmony between religion and science in the future. If this
approach is used in keeping the Covenant of the Faith, it will
not endanger, but enhance our understanding of the Cause of
Bahá'u'lláh.
The following two sections are rather brief and provisionally,
yet they are inserted here to demonstrate that many aspects of
modern science correspond and sometimes support concepts
and thoughts presented in the Bahá’í Scriptures. That does not
necessarily mean that these findings prove anything about the
Bahá’í Cause, but it makes the message of Bahá’u’lláh less open
to attacks from science, as the Christian message was attacked
by a materialistic and mechanistic scientific world view. The
Christian message, as presented in the different churches, was at
the time in clear opposition to scientific progress.
It is a personal experience of this writer as to how much
more difficult it is to believe in and defend the Christian
theology, which requires a philosophical separation between
religion and science, than to attempt the same with the Bahá’í
Faith, which has as one of its principles the harmony of science
and religion. That was why Teilhard de Chardin had so many
difficulties with the church, yet was having such a great impact
on religious thought, because he tried to avoid this separation
and used his scientific expertise to write his book The
Phenomenon of Man (1959). In it he attempts to explain that
the Christian message, if understood progressively, is not in
contradiction with the modern idea of evolution, but can be
translated into these new conceptualizations of progression and
unification. Teilhard was and is often misunderstood and
misused, nevertheless his influence is still remarkable.
Neurocardiology
The common medical understanding of the heart as a
mechanical pump was in drastic contradiction to the historical
understanding of the heart as the center and locus of personal
self. Writing about the Education of the Heart Thomas Taaffe
stated that this old and traditional understanding is based on the
heart in a metaphorical sense only, implying that there is no
reality to the metaphor of the heart as expressing the inmost
self and our true identity. Science has recently discovered that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
the old understanding of the heart as the center of emotions and
health is more realistic and can be researched scientifically.
The new science of neurocardiology attributes to the heart
the ability to have memory, to learn, to make decisions and
communicate with the brain, yet there is no consciousness in
these functions of the heart. According to McCraty et al.:
The heart is a sensory organ and an information encoding
and processing center with an extensive intrinsic nervous
system, enabling it to learn, remember and make
functional decision independent of the cranial brain.
While these neurological pathways do not directly explain the
above mentioned structure of the process, they might give us an
indication that this spiritual process has its physiological
correspondence in the human heart, nervous system, and brain.
It has also been established that the heart is the first to perceive
input from the perception through the senses. As a matter of
fact, it could be proven experimentally that changes in sensual
input are detected by the heart seconds before the random
computer program is started that will select the presentation to
the senses.
Of greatest significance here is our major finding, namely,
the electrophysiological evidence that the heart is directly
involved in the processing of information about a future
emotional stimulus seconds before the body actually
experiences the stimulus.” … “The heart appears to play a
direct role in the perception of future events.
This fact of intuition of future events can only be explained
scientifically if we consider the physical reality as seen in
quantum mechanics. This will be explained below in the section
dealing with physics and quantum mechanics. The heart, which is
a key concept in the Bahá’í Writings, and its physical and
spiritual capabilities, is a topic that certainly needs further
research. Here a short anticipatory comment must suffice.
What is most important in the context of this paper is the
fact that the heart is a sophisticated information processing
center.
An understanding of the complex anatomy and function
of the heart’s nervous system contributes an additional
dimension to the newly emerging view of the heart as a
sophisticated information processing center, functioning
not only in concert with the brain but also independent of

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
it. Further exploration of the part, that neurocardiological
interactions play in sustaining healthy functioning may
permit a more comprehensive understanding of the heart’s
multidimensional role in facilitating successful adaptation
to the challenges of daily living.
Furthermore, it must be emphasized that, according to these
new findings about the heart, the influence the heart has into
the physiological, ethical and social well being of man needs to
be further investigated and compared with the Bahá’í statements
about the theological importance of the heart.
During states of psycho-physiological coherence, bodily
systems function with a high degree of synchronization,
efficiency,
and
harmony
and
the
body’s
natural
regenerative
processes
appear
to
be
facilitated.
Psychologically, this mode is associated with improved
cognitive performance, increased emotional stability, and
enhanced psychosocial function and the quality of life.
Additionally, many people report experiencing a notable
reduction in inner mental dialogue along with feelings of
increased peace, self-security, and sustained positive
emotions after practicing maintaining this mode even for
short periods such as a few days or weeks.
To appreciate the following Hidden Word of Bahá’u’lláh
about the heart becomes much more reasonable when it is
placed in the context of the new scientific findings about the
sensory capacity and ability of the heart to “learn, remember
and make functional decision,” so that we can talk about the
knowledge and wisdom of the heart from a scientific point of
view.
Quaff from the tongue of the merciful the stream of
divine mystery, and behold from the dayspring of divine
utterance the unveiled splendor of the daystar of wisdom.
Sow the seeds of My divine wisdom in the pure soil of the
heart, and water them with the waters of certitude, that
the hyacinths of knowledge and wisdom may spring up
fresh and green from the holy city of the heart. (HW P78)
Neuroscience
Besides the unifying power of the heart, which has been
described above, some ideas about the human mind or intellect
will be added here.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
The picture of Michelangelo in the Sistine Chapel is taken
from a book with the title The Humanizing Brain, Where
Religion and Neuroscience Meet. It is here reproduced in order
to show how in the artist’s imagination of a truth can be
expressed that will take centuries to be fully understood.
As can be clearly seen below, the cloud around God the
Creator has the shape of the human brain. Michelangelo was
familiar with this shape and most likely selected it to show that
man was created in the image of God, and the brain (or the
mind, the human consciousness) is the most obvious element in
man that can show this similarity in the image of God. It seems
that “Michelangelo meant to portray that what God is giving to
Adam is the intellect, and thus man is able to plan the best and
highest and to try all things received.” The authors continue to
say: “Since we are created in the image and likeness of God, we
have the ability to think and imagine and decide – yes, and the
ability to distort and destroy.”
This ability of the heart was described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
similar words:
He has bestowed upon him the power of intellect so that
through the attribute of reason, when fortified by the
Holy Spirit, he may penetrate and discover ideal realities
and become informed of the mysteries of the world of
significances. (PUP 303)
In the above mentioned book it is stated that the human
mind, as recently studied in neuroscience, presents a picture of
the nature of God as perceived in traditional religion, a
speculation that might go sometimes too far in speaking about
God; but it indicates the way the human brain and mind is part
of this world, and that consciousness is related to the material
aspect of this universe. Much more about this ability of the
human mind has recently been said in the interpretation of the
findings of quantum mechanics and has been developed by many
other writers, especially in the context of quantum mechanics
and its implications.
Unity in Quantum Mechanics
It is commonly accepted that the findings of quantum
mechanics have consequences that reach into metaphysics and
ontology. “It should be clear by now that one of the
fundamental problems thrown up by quantum mechanics in
general, and the measuring problem, in particular, is the nature

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
of reality – what is it that ‘really exists’ in the universe?”
The different interpretations of these connections fill books;
how far these applications can go was described by E. H.
Walker. At a conference at “New Visions of Reality”,
sponsored by the Department of Physics of the University of
Berkeley, and in the Journal of Time, Space and Knowledge,
Evan Harris Walker stated: “What we have been doing here is
laying the foundations for a religion of the twenty first
century,” and he reports that he was astounded “how quickly the
other speakers agreed with this assessment of a meeting in which
neither God nor religion had figured as the primary topic.”
Most books on this topic try to insert these new ideas into
Buddhist or Hindu thinking, into some New Age cosmology, or
into the mystic traditions. The value and meaning of these
diverse interpretations can be questioned. But these different
interpretations make one thing clear, i.e., we cannot understand
the new findings of quantum mechanics unless we place them in
a philosophical and/or theological conceptual frame.
When writers attempt to conceptualize the new findings of
Quantum Mechanics using old religious or philosophical
conceptualizations, they frequently make the logical failure Ken
Wilber calls the Pre/Trans Fallacy. In short, they think that an
early developmental state can be compared to a more recent and
more differentiated one, because often the undifferentiated
magic, mythic or pre-rational notion looks for the superficial
observer similar to a later differentiated and higher developed
concept.
It is therefore easy to understand that Hindu, Buddhist,
Biblical and other early conceptualization are used to explain
the findings of Quantum Mechanics. The words of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
about the new age and all the new discoveries in science indicate
that the old ways, the old concepts, are gone and forgotten
(SWAB 253). This is the truth of all Revelations and it is clearly
stated in the Bible (Mark 2:22) in the form of the parable of the
wineskins, translated as bottles in the King James translation.
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: else the new
wine doth burst the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the
bottles will be marred: but new wine must be put into new
bottles.
Therefore, only those interpretations, which can be
understood within the Vision of Bahá’u’lláh were used by this
writer. And that is deliberate and required by the concept of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
progressive theology.
In introducing this topic it must be noted that nothing fits
the following description of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá better than the
findings of quantum mechanics:
All the sciences and arts we now enjoy and utilize were
once mysteries, and according to the mandates of nature
should have remained hidden and latent, but the human
intellect has broken through the laws surrounding them
and discovered the underlying realities. The mind of man
has taken these mysteries out of the plane of invisibility
and brought them into the plane of the known and visible.
(PUP 351)
The
science
of
quantum
mechanics
certainly
is
a
breakthrough and a discovery of underlying realities, taken by
the “mind of man [from] the plane of invisibility … into the
plane of the known and visible” through the science of the
smallest particles of matter. Events observed in experiments at
the microscopic level of subatomic particles are experimentally
transferred to macroscopic effects through the instruments of
observation, which transfer the effect of these microscopic
events to the scientific macroscopic apparatus, such as a Geiger
counter. In this way “the mind of man has taken these mysteries
out of the plane of invisibility and brought them into the plane
of the known and visible.”
It needs to be considered that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said these words
about the scientific discoveries of His days, such as electricity,
x-rays, radio and other new inventions of the time; nevertheless,
these words fit equally well to the newest and most innovative
findings of modern science.
Quantum mechanics is introduced here for two reasons. One
is the change quantum mechanics has made to the cosmology
and the presuppositions of the mechanistic milieu of modern
science – away from a materialistic and reductionistic viewpoint
toward an understanding, which is more open to spiritual issues.
The other is that some of these findings and of their
philosophical interpretations are in surprising harmony with the
philosophical and theological implications of the Bahá’í
Writings, as will be shown below.
This later point will be portrayed here with the understanding
that the surprising development of quantum mechanics out of
the physics of the smallest particles has not happened just
“naturally” but rather follows this statement of Bahá’u’lláh:

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
All the wondrous achievements ye now witness are the
direct consequences of the Revelation of this Name. In the
days to come, ye will, verily, behold things of which ye
have never heard before. (GWB 141)
Of all the achievements of science and technology, especially
in the area of the natural sciences and physics, the findings of
quantum mechanics, developed during the last century, and their
interpretations can certainly best be described “as wondrous
achievement, … of which ye have never heard before.” Two
things must be noted about this statement. Bahá’u’lláh predicts
these wondrous achievements in general, and He claims that
they are a direct consequence of His revelation of the name “the
Fashioner” as one of the names of God presented in His
Writings.
Additionally, quantum mechanics is not only such an
achievement, it further stimulates explanations, at least in some
of its interpretations, which make it easier to understand many
of the statements of Bahá’u’lláh about the renewal of the whole
world through His Revelation. Even in the Christian context, it
explains how to understand the words about Christ, by Whom
everything was made, as stated in the prologue of the Gospel of
John (1:1-3):
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God. All things were made by him; and
without him was not anything made that was made.
In describing quantum mechanics there are several possible
approaches. While even simple textbooks mention that the
findings of this science have repercussions in the fields of
cosmology, of philosophy and metaphysics, there are a number
of scientific and popular books, mostly written by physicists,
which develop these inferences in the different fields of
thinking.
In this paper we will take some new concepts of quantum
mechanics and develop their implication towards the Bahá’í
Revelation. The different reference books are chosen as samples
of how this new understanding can be presented; the last book
of E. H. Walker was chosen because its findings are the most
interesting for this writer and are most in harmony with the
topic of this paper.
Quantum mechanics will here be presented under the topics
of Enchantment through Spiritualization, Emergence of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
New Creation, Entanglement in Unity, and Excellence of the
Human Mind and Consciousness. These concepts and findings
will be compared with ideas presented in the Bahá’í Writings.
Enchantment through Spirituality
Ervin Laszlo in his book Science and the Reenchantment of
the Cosmos, The Rise of the Integral Vision of Reality describes
the changes quantum mechanics has made to the understanding
of the cosmos:
The current finding of the universe’s wholeness is the fruit
of sustained investigation, based on observation and
tested by experiment. It provides an entirely different
image of the world than the mechanistic, materialistic and
fragmented image we were taught in school. A cosmos that
is connected, coherent, and whole recalls an ancient notion
that was present in the tradition of every civilization; it is
an enchanted cosmos. (2)
In this book Laszlo connects the findings of quantum
mechanics with the Hindu concept of the Akashi Field and
develops an Integral vision of Reality in the sense of a “first
meeting-ground between science and spirituality.” (p. 93) As
with many of the new books using quantum mechanics as a
philosophical springboard to the area of spirituality, it is not
necessary to follow all of their conclusions while evaluating
their contributions.
In this case it is the connection with Hindu philosophy,
which we cannot follow except in the sense of a unity of all
religions. Other issues elucidated are valuable, i.e., the
enchantment of the cosmos compared to the traditional and
“objective” concept of classical scientific and deterministic
cosmology, which can be described as a worldview devoid of
spirituality, value and meaning.
The meaning of the word enchantment here is obviously not
“bewitchment” but “fascination.” Both meanings are used in the
translation of the Bahá’í Writings, and they are clearly
distinguished. Here a verse is presented from a prayer of
Bahá’u’lláh, in which He compares the ordeal of the martyrs of
the Faith with the Divine presence as Enchanter of the worlds in
a question.
The bodies of Thy chosen ones lie quivering on distant
sands: Where is the ocean of Thy presence, O Enchanter of

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
the worlds? (BP 212)
In order to understand this comparison, one must accept the
Vision of Bahá’u’lláh, which includes the following belief
expressed in another prayer:
Had not every tribulation been made the bearer of Thy
wisdom, and every ordeal the vehicle of Thy providence,
no one would have dared oppose us, though the powers of
earth and heaven were to be leagued against us. (PM 14)
The apparent contradiction of gruesome martyrdom with an
enchanting world, created by a loving God, who is called the
Enchanter, can only be solved when we accept the Vision that
all ordeals are signs of God’s providence and wisdom. This is,
according to Bahá’u’lláh, as quoted by Shoghi Effendi, the
newness of the whole world and the fruit of His Revelation
which He compares with the “loftiest trees” and its most
“enchanting blossoms,” which are the most “heavenly blessings.”
“The whole earth,” writes Bahá’u’lláh, “is now in a state of
pregnancy. The day is approaching when it will have yielded its
noblest fruits, when from it will have sprung forth the loftiest
trees, the most enchanting blossoms, the most heavenly
blessings. Immeasurably exalted is the breeze that wafteth from
the garment of thy Lord, the Glorified! For lo, it hath breathed
its fragrance and made all things new! Well is it with them that
comprehend.” (WOB 169)
Consequently, it could be said that quantum mechanics opens
up the possibility of understanding the world as the fascinating
Creation of God, which Bahá’u’lláh reveals to us in His new and
Most Sublime Vision.
Emergence of the New Creation
The Nobel Prize laureate in physics, Robert B. Laughlin,
developed the concept of emergence in his book A different
Universe, Reinventing physics from the bottom down. He
considers this change as so important that he formulates it as a
new age, stating
I think a good case can be made that science has now
moved from an Age of Reductionism to an Age of
Emergence, a time when the search for ultimate causes of
things shifts from the behavior of parts to the behavior of
the collective. (208)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
In other words, reality is defined by a view that takes the
whole into consideration, and this whole is a whole that
integrates its parts; it is an integrated whole, as described in the
section on philosophy of the previous paper “Unity of
Revelation / Revelation of Unity.” The concept of emergence
as presented by Laughlin includes a different understanding of
reality in which the truth or certainty of a statement is not
caused by its reduction to the smallest parts but by recognizing
its organization on a specific level. This principle is accepted by
modern biology as well and has been described psychologically
and philosophically by Ken Wilber in his concept of the Holon.
Holons are at the same time parts of higher Holons and at the
same time have lower Holons as their parts.
According to Laughlin, reality is not an aggregate of elements
amassed by the physical deterministic principles of cause and
effects, but it is a product in a hierarchal order established by
collective organizations on the different levels of reality. This is
his understanding of the consequences of quantum mechanics in
understanding the reality of this world.
The concept of emergence implies that the world is not
organized from the bottom up, i.e., in a reductionistic and
atomistic sense, but that the bottom, i.e., the atoms or smallest
particles, indicate that the world is organized in a meaningful
and hierarchical way, which cannot be explained in any
reductionistic manner:
It is not uncommon for a committed reductionist to
dismiss the evidence of the fundamental nature of
collective principles on the grounds that there actually is a
deductive path from the microscopic that explains the
reproducibility of these experiments. This is incorrect.
(ibid. 19)
This emergence and collective structure of reality originates
in the fact of Creation, as Bahá’u’lláh revealed:
Nothing short of His all-encompassing grace, His all-
pervading mercy, could have possibly achieved it. How
could it, otherwise, have been possible for sheer
nothingness to have acquired by itself the worthiness and
capacity to emerge from its state of non-existence into the
realm of being? (GWB, XXVII, 64-65)
This statement can certainly be understood in the sense that all
emergence of unity at any level of reality is caused by God, by
His “all-encompassing grace” and His “all-pervading mercy,”

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
i.e., by the creative power of God “the Unifier.” Therefore we
are admonished to
…strive ye to knit together the hearts of men, in His
Name, the Unifier, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. (GWB
8)
Shoghi Effendi applies this principle of unification to the
social and political unity of the world. He points out that unity
has been misconceived in the past as uniformity, clearly
referring to the classical view of the reality as particularistic and
mechanistic, where unity can only be understood as forced
uniformity, or to the fact that unity could be just a magical or
utopian concept and not the reality of unity in diversity in the
Bahá’í sense.
The principle of unification which it advocates and with
which it stands identified they have misconceived as a
shallow attempt at uniformity, its repeated assertions of
the reality of supernatural agencies they have condemned
as a vain belief in magic, and the glory of its idealism they
have rejected as mere utopia. (WOB 73)
He further explains this unity of society and of religion as
evolutionary or progressive and gradual, exemplifying it in the
different forms of social unity during the history of humanity.
Just as the organic evolution of mankind has been slow
and gradual, and involved successively the unification of
the family, the tribe, the city-state, and the nation, so has
the light vouchsafed by the Revelation of God, at various
stages in the evolution of religion, and reflected in the
successive Dispensations of the past, been slow and
progressive. Indeed the measure of Divine Revelation, in
every age, has been adapted to, and commensurate with,
the degree of social progress achieved in that age by a
constantly evolving humanity. (PDC 118)
The emergence of humanity and the gradual development of
society and civilization in history are described by Shoghi
Effendi as an internal process, requiring new virtues and moral
standards, and higher capacities of humankind. He describes this
newness as a process that leads humanity from the state of
adolescence towards maturity.
Humanity has emerged from its former state of limitation
and preliminary training. Man must now become imbued
with new virtues and powers, new moral standards, new

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
capacities. New bounties, perfect bestowals, are awaiting
and already descending upon him. The gifts and blessings
of the period of youth, although timely and sufficient
during the adolescence of mankind, are now incapable of
meeting the requirements of its maturity. (WOB 165)
Entanglement in Unity
Giancarlo Ghirardi, the chair of the Department of
Theoretical Physics at the University of Trieste, described the
concept of entanglement in his book, Sneaking a Look at God’s
Cards, Unraveling the Mysteries of Quantum Mechanics. This
book gives a historical description of quantum mechanics
without omitting the rather difficult conceptualizations
necessary to understand its development.
In quantum mechanics, entanglement is developed from the
findings that
Practically every interaction [of particles] brings with it a
loss of identity of the systems that are interacting. But
since in the long run everything in practice interacts with
everything, what emerges is a vision of the universe as an
‘unbroken whole,’ an undivided unity whose parts no
longer
have
any
identity.
The
theory
implies
a
fundamentally holistic vision of the universe. (190)
The analysis of this process of entanglement
brings an extension of the holistic view of reality even at
the macroscopic level and in practice for all the physical
systems of the universe. It was not by chance that David
Bohm and Basil Hitley entitled their recent book The
Undivided Universe. (191)
This process has been developed under the name of
entanglement:
The original German expression used by Schrödinger,
Verschränkung, has become known in the scientific
literature as “entanglement. (165)
Erwin Schrödinger, born near Vienna, Austria, (1887-1961)
formulated the importance of this concept:
I consider [Entanglement or “Verschränkung”] not as one,
but as the characteristic trait of Quantum Mechanics, the
one that enforces its entire departure from classical lines

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
of thought.
Ghirardi concludes
The analysis [of entanglement] brings an extension of the
holistic view of reality, even at the macroscopic level and
in practice for all the physical systems of the universe.
In other words all parts of the universe are entangled,
interwoven or intertwined with each other; the universe is a
whole and is organized as mentioned above in emerging units on
all levels of existence.
The physical unity of the universe and its emerging
hierarchical order is best described in the Bahá’í Writings by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (sentences separated by this writer):
The rational proof of this is that the atoms of the material
elements are transferable from one form of existence to
another, from one degree and kingdom to another, lower
or higher.
For example, an atom of the soil or dust of earth may
traverse the kingdoms from mineral to man by successive
incorporations into the bodies of the organisms of those
kingdoms.
At one time it enters into the formation of the mineral or
rock; it is then absorbed by the vegetable kingdom and
becomes a constituent of the body and fibre of a tree;
again it is appropriated by the animal, and at a still later
period is found in the body of man.
Throughout these degrees of its traversing the kingdoms
from one form of phenomenal being to another, it retains
its atomic existence and is never annihilated nor relegated
to nonexistence. (PUP 87-88)
This description of the way of an atom from mineral to
human is a clear description of the entanglement of all physical
elements as well as of the emergence of organization on
different levels of reality, which levels are here called kingdoms.
In a letter, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá added to this description that unity is a
product of attraction and love:
O honoured lady! Look about thee at the world: here
unity, mutual attraction, gathering together, engenders
life, but disunity and inharmony spell death.
“When thou dost consider all phenomena, thou wilt see

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
that every created thing hath come into being through the
mingling of many elements, and once this collectivity of
elements is dissolved, and this harmony of components is
dissevered, the life form is wiped out. (SWA 3)
Again, the created reality is considered in its structure as it
emerges in the integral combination of its elements on the
different levels of existence. It is important to realize that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá stresses the unification of the elements through
mutual attraction as the dynamic principle of this process. This
mutual attraction is a consequence of God’s love for the world,
according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The harmony of their collective
structure is stressed here, and how disharmony and disunity
creates death or the end of their reality.
Concluding this section it can be summarized in this
statement of Bahá’u’lláh – that the unity of the world of being
is the concealed power underlying creation. This sentence
introduces the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh appointing 'Abdu'l-Bahá
as His successor, but it could as well be understood in a wider
sense as the mighty unifying force holding together not only the
covenant but also and fundamentally the world of being:
O ye My Branches! A mighty force, a consummate power
lieth concealed in the world of being. Fix your gaze upon
it and upon its unifying influence, and not upon the
differences which appear from it. (TB 221)
Excellence of the Human Mind and Consciousness
Here in this section the most daring conclusions from the
findings of quantum mechanics are presented. They have been
questioned and doubted, depending on the bias of their critics,
but have not been disproved. Quantum mechanics depends
widely on conceptualization, and making conclusions from the
findings in the subatomic level to the phenomenal world of
human reality is necessary in order to understand it. How far
these conclusions can go and remain still scientific and true is
hard to evaluate. In this case the closeness of these conclusions
to statements of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh presents an
added proof, at least for those thinkers who accept this
Revelation. The fact that, at least in some ways, these finding
are in harmony with certain passages from the Christian
Revelation as well, give them an added aspect of truth for the
followers of Christianity.
Bahá’u’lláh explains the power of the human mind in the

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
following statement:
Say: Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers of sight and hearing
are but one single reality which hath manifold expressions
owing to the diversity of its instruments. As thou dost
observe, man’s power to comprehend, move, speak, hear,
and see all derive from this sign of his Lord within him. It
is single in its essence, yet manifold through the diversity
of its instruments.
Reflect upon this subject that thou mayest comprehend
the true meaning of what hath been intended, find thyself
independent of the sayings of the people, and be of them
that are well assured. In like manner, when this sign of
God turneth towards the brain, the head, and such means,
the powers of the mind and the soul are manifested. Thy
Lord, verily, is potent to do whatsoever He pleaseth. (SLH
154)
The spirit, the mind and/or the soul are a single reality – are,
as Bahá’u’lláh reveals “single in its essence, yet manifold
through the diversity of its instruments.” In other words, the
singleness of the mind cannot be studied except through the
difference and the diversity of its physical instruments in the
material body. Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh says “man’s power to
comprehend, move, speak, hear, and see all derive from this sign
of his Lord within him,” which means that the power of the
mind is exerted through the senses and the human ability to
move, speak and hear. The mind is described here as the
manifestation of the “sign of his Lord within”, but it can only
be seen in its effect in the material world. It is important that
the mind is effective in the physical world, which usually is
understood by the concept of free will, and that the mind, or
the spiritual aspect of man, as it is expressed in the human
mind, can therefore be studied only in its effects on the material
world, when it is expressed in speech, in movement and/or when
it communicates with other minds.
This will be described below in the comments on a book
about the Quantum Mind by E. H Walker, The Physics of
Consciousness, the Quantum Mind and the Meaning of Life.
Walker calls the cause of these changes the Quantum Mind, and
attributes to this mind powers that have been described before
only in theological writings, describing God or God’s Word in
its universal and fundamental power.
How did E. H. Walker do this? What follows is a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
concentrated and simplified summary of this book. As a
physicist he said he is interested in reality, in everything that is
real. And, consciousness is a fact of reality; we all have it and
know it. How can a physicist approach it? The same way any
other new phenomena in physics were recognized in the past.
For example, when electricity was recognized as a reality that
was unknown before, physicists developed methods and
approaches that connected this new reality with known things
and developed a new aspect of physics.
Walker tries the same approach with consciousness. First he
defines it as not material and not mechanical, later as non-local
and non-time dependent, all of which we know from knowing
our mind. This definition actually can be said to define
spirituality, or as the Bahá’í Writings say, the Unseen, the
Hidden, Inwardness, contrasting it with the Seen, the Manifest,
Outwardness, or in the above quoted passage, “sign of his Lord
within.”
Then Walker says that we all know this consciousness of
humankind acts on the physical reality of this world; i.e., the
human consciousness has changed the world much more than the
mighty dinosaurs. Bahá’u’lláh said something very similar in the
quote above, i.e., that we know of the spiritual, the mind or
soul only through its “expressions owing to the diversity of its
instruments.”
Walker studies what we know about consciousness and how
it acts on physical reality. He develops, in typical scientific
manner for example, the field of consciousness, describing its
speed of change as 1/25 of a second (if the pictures or the
movie goes slower, we see them separate; if they are faster we
blend them together, because consciousness does it that way).
Then he describes the dimension of consciousness, explaining
the size of the visual field during that fraction of second and
brings in a certain number of “bits of information” that are
transferred through the two million nerves from the eye to the
brain. He knows the speed these nerves fire, and he can, in this
way, mathematically describe the field of consciousness. He
brings many other numbers together that define consciousness
from neurophysiologic research, and develops his view of
consciousness from the point of view as it affects physical
reality.
And then he asks: how does this consciousness, this non
material mind, make the brain do things with the body, with
matter, like move, etc., which obviously is where the rubber

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
meets the road, where consciousness (and he appropriately
includes here free will) affects physical reality.
To the contrary, the classical understanding in science was
expressed in psychology by the behaviorist Skinner, who tried to
solve the problem by negating mind and will, and claiming that
our brain, which he calls an unknown black box, is exclusively
determined by conditioning from the outside. This conditioning
he then studies physically and materially, since it fits into the
deterministic and materialistic cause and effect thinking of
science. During my studies in psychology this understanding was
in vogue, and I had a seminar on this rather strange and
reductionistic approach, which was proven by Skinner in his
experiments with the pigeon (and his young daughter) in the
famous “Skinner box.”
Contrary to this, Walker would claim that all “scientific”
denial of consciousness, of the mind or its reduction to
neurophysiologic facts, is not really required by science but only
by the materialistic and reductionistic bias of science, which
developed from Newton’s mechanistic cosmology. He discusses
several of these attempts, for example the work of the
Churchlands, among others.
What is quite interesting is that Walker’s conclusions about
the interaction between the spiritual (consciousness) and the
physical is derived from some findings of quantum mechanics,
and yet it fit surprisingly well in the description of the mind by
Bahá’u’lláh, Who stated that “Spirit, mind, soul, and the powers
of sight and hearing are but one single reality which hath
manifold expressions owing to the diversity of its instruments.”
(SLH 154) In other words, what Bahá’u’lláh reveals about the
mind, the soul or the spirit is the fact that it is a single reality,
therefore not physically located or describable, but this reality
is expressed in the diversity of its instruments, which are the
sensual and physical characteristics of the human brain and
body.
According to Walker, the human mind or consciousness can
be measured and physically described by its effects on the
brain’s nervous synapses and consequently on the physical brain
and nervous system that directs all bodily actions. According to
Bahá’u’lláh, the human mind, soul or spirit finds its expression
in its bodily instruments, which is saying almost the same from
the other aspect of the relationship.
Seen from the world of physics we have to explain how this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
spiritual aspect of man, his consciousness and mind, causes
change in the material world. This Walker attempts to do. Seen
from a spiritual point of view, we need to look at this question
by asking how this spiritual element in man expresses itself in
the physical world. Bahá’u’lláh states it expresses itself through
its instruments, i.e. through the bodily senses and movements.
The astounding fact in this comparison is the new science of
quantum mechanics, which according to Walker gives an
explanation of this possibility of the spiritual affecting the
material in quantum events in the synapses of the nervous
system in the brain. These quantum effects, which are not
deterministically defined by cause and effect, can be influenced
by the observer, i.e., by consciousness of the human mind.
Therefore, according to Walker, the spiritual mind can
influence matter at the level of the undetermined quantum
processes in the brain’s synapses that are small enough to allow
quantum effects to happen. Walker describes this process in
detail with the physics of quantum mechanics. In the context of
this description he explains a number of functions of the mind,
like sleep, ability to influence matter in rare cases, and why the
power of the mind is usually restricted, as common sense
experience tells us. Another not yet considered question is the
effect of the little brain of the heart (as described above), which
does not have consciousness. Walker does not consider this, but
it needs to be included in this equation, a rather new and
difficult task that this writer will develop in a later paper.
In the following we will take some concluding statements by
Walker and compare them with statements from the Bahá’í
Writings, drawing inferences from one to the other. The reader
is referred to the book of Walker to see how he came to these
conclusions, because, to describe these details here would
breach the format of this paper.
When talking about the history of the big bang theory
Walker states:
Consciousness may also exist somewhere without being
part of either a living body or a data-processing system.
(256)
This indicates that consciousness is transpersonal and not
confined to the human person. Interestingly enough even
Aristotle had said that the mind (nous) is coming from the
outside. Then Walker relates the mind to quantum mechanics
when, in summarizing, he said:

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
We have found that in their essential nature, quantum
fluctuations are the stuff of consciousness and will.
And now, here, we find that this mind stuff was the
beginning point of the universe – the stuff that out of a
formless void created everything that was created. (334)
This is what Walker calls the Quantum Mind, which he
describes as being the beginning of the universe and the
underlying power of its existence.
In his chapter about “A God for Tomorrow,” Walker claims
that
Everyone worships reality. Each person looks about him,
listens a moment – listens as long as life will let him pause
to listen – and then he falls down and worships whatever it
is that looks like this is what it is all about. (372)
As a conclusion of his research into the reality of consciousness
Walker then concludes:
There must exist a supreme Consciousness out of which
everything else springs. (334)
Then he describes this reality (the sentence is here broken up to
better compare its structure):
We discover that in the beginning, there was the Quantum
Mind,
•
a first cause
•
itself time-independent
•
and non-local
•
that created space time and matter/energy.
In this quote from Walker, he seems to say something rather
unexpected. He speaks about the Quantum Mind (which is
capitalized by Walker), and gives Him attributes that do not fit
to anybody else than the Manifestations.
First cause relates to the Big Bang theory, as Walker explains
it, because the origin of all that came to exist is Consciousness.
This consciousness of the Quantum Mind is time-
independent, another conclusion from quantum mechanics, and
it is also non-local which was proven experimentally; one
electron can influence its pair even if they are separated by wide
distances. If one is observed as a wave or as particle, the other
will be the same, and there is no possibility of physical

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
communication in space and time between these particles or
waves. This unity of all particles and of the whole cosmos is
called entanglement as described above. There are other non-
local relationships in quantum mechanics, and Walker describes
how the brain’s consciousness functions on that basis.
In the following these three attributes given to the Quantum
Mind (i.e., being time-independent, non-local, and the first
cause of everything) are compared to how Bahá’u’lláh describe
the Manifestations, albeit in different words but with a similar
meaning, at least as I read it today.
The issue of First cause is expressed in this statement by
Bahá’u’lláh:
Nay, all else besides these Manifestations, live by the
operation of Their Will, and move and have their being
through the outpourings of Their grace. (GWB 179)
The fact of the Manifestations being time-independent can be
compared to the statement from the Kitáb-i-Íqán about the
Manifestations:
Even as in the ‘Beginning that hath no beginnings’ the
term ‘last’ is truly applicable unto Him who is the
Educator of the visible and of the invisible, in like
manner, are the terms ‘first’ and ‘last’ applicable unto His
Manifestations. They are at the same time the Exponents
of both the ‘first’ and the ‘last.’ (KI 163)
About the issue of non-locality, that plays an important role
in quantum mechanics and is an attribute of the Quantum Mind
in the description of Walker. The following can be said in
comparison to the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh about the
Manifestations:
Whilst walking amongst mortals, they soar in the heaven
of the divine presence. Without feet they tread the path of
the spirit, and without wings they rise unto the exalted
heights of divine unity. With every fleeting breath they
cover the immensity of space and at every moment
traverse the kingdoms of the visible and the invisible. (KI
66)
The Quantum Mind described by Walker above is the first
cause and the creator of time and energy. This compares with
the statement of Bahá’u’lláh about the Manifestations:
Thus it is that through the rise of these Luminaries of God

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
the world is made new, the waters of everlasting life
stream forth, the billows of loving-kindness surge, the
clouds of grace are gathered, and the breeze of bounty
bloweth upon all created things. (KI 33)
Closer and more basic to Walker’s understanding of religion
is probably the quote from the Gospel of John (1:1-3), repeated
here in the same sense of Christ, the Word, being the creator of
everything:
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God. All things were made by him; and
without him was not any thing made that was made.
We need to mention here again that there is much more to
know in the future about this surprising correlation of modern
physics with the Bahá’í Writings, and progress of theology in
understanding the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh will give new and
deeper meaning to all of these Revelations. It must be
emphasized that this is what we can see today, contemplating
the wondrous achievement of modern physics, cosmology and
ontology. The harmony between science and religion is
constituted by this progress of both, of science and of theology,
coming closer as humanity progresses.
Conclusions
In the book of Revelation (21:5) the returning Christ is on
the Throne of the heavenly Jerusalem, which is described as the
New Heaven and the New Earth, and it is said about Him:
And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all
things new.
It is the thesis of this paper that this prophesy has been
verified in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Who is regarded by
Bahá'ís as the return of Christ and of all previous
Manifestations or Luminaries.
Thus it is that through the rise of these Luminaries of God
the world is made new, the waters of everlasting life
stream forth, the billows of loving-kindness surge, the
clouds of grace are gathered, and the breeze of bounty
bloweth upon all created things. (KI 33)
How do we understand this? Bahá’u’lláh clearly explains what is
understood with New Heaven and New Earth when He said:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
On the contrary, by the term “earth” is meant the earth of
understanding and knowledge, and by “heavens” the
heavens of divine Revelation. Reflect thou, how, in one
hand, He hath, by His mighty grasp, turned the earth of
knowledge and understanding, previously unfolded, into a
mere handful, and, on the other, spread out a new and
highly exalted earth in the hearts of men, thus causing the
freshest and loveliest blossoms, and the mightiest and
loftiest trees to spring forth from the illumined bosom of
man. (KI 47-48)
In this paper this earth of understanding and knowledge was
followed up, especially as it is new and has changed the whole
conception of this world “in the hearts of men.”
Concluding, it has to be kept in mind that all the ideas
presented in this paper are provisional and related to the present
level of understanding science, as well as, the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, with the understanding that both the processes of
science and the comprehension of the Revelation are
progressive. So, any conclusion presented here needs to be
revised over time. The major conclusion of this paper can be
summarized in the following sentence:
Metaphysics and physics of consciousness can facilitate the
understanding of the Bahá’í Revelation, if compared to the
sacred Writings of the Faith.
The absolute newness of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and
how it requires a new understanding of this world was expressed
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Until the old ways, the old concepts, are gone and
forgotten, this world of being will find no peace. (SWAB
253)
In a more prophetic and mystic pronouncement, this was
stated by Bahá’u’lláh in a Hidden Word as a condition of
understanding His Most Sublime Vision … “that with a clear
vision, a pure heart and an attentive ear thou mayest enter the
court of My holiness”
Blind thine eyes, that thou mayest behold My beauty; stop
thine ears, that thou mayest hearken unto the sweet
melody of My voice; empty thyself of all learning, that
thou mayest partake of My knowledge; and sanctify
thyself from riches, that thou mayest obtain a lasting share
from the ocean of My eternal wealth. Blind thine eyes, that

Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement
is, to all save My beauty; stop thine ears to all save My
word; empty thyself of all learning save the knowledge of
Me; that with a clear vision, a pure heart and an attentive
ear thou mayest enter the court of My holiness. (PHW 11)

Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Introduction
While the concept of Unity in the Bahá’í Faith is central and
well documented and expressed as Unity of God, of Religions
and of Humanity, the phrase ‘Revelation of Unity’ cannot be
found as such in the Writings. In fact, the idea of Unity is a
prevalent topic of teaching and is described as one of the most
important aspects of the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh, Who calls
complete and enduring unity the distinguishing feature (G 97) of
His Revelation.
Neither is the inverse statement ‘Unity of Revelation’ as such
expressed in the Bahá’í Writings. Yet, how “Unity” is
understood in this dispensation is of importance, as Bahá’u’lláh
has stated in a prayer: “I entreat Thee, (…) to open the eyes of
Thy people that they may recognize in this Revelation the
manifestation of Thy transcendent unity.” (PM 307`)
This paper investigates the question: What philosophical
viewpoints are necessary to understand what Bahá’u’lláh calls
“Thy transcendent unity” i.e., the concept of unity and oneness,
which are ubiquitous in the Bahá’í Writings? The traditional
understanding of the unity between the whole and its parts, as
presented in philosophy, will be considered in the light of the
Bahá’í Writings. The new vision of the ‘Integral Whole’ (“das
integrale Ganze“) will be used to better understand what the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh have revealed as the unity and oneness
of the world. This new worldview is more than a political and
social principle and needs to be considered as the heart of the
New World Order (GWB 136) and of The Most Sublime Vision
(ESW 54) of Bahá’u’lláh; therefore it is an ontological and
metaphysical principle. Furthermore, this understanding relates
to the new findings of quantum mechanics, which will be
described in another paper as Entanglement and as a
fundamentally holistic vision of the universe.
It can be said that this paper is written with the intention to

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
assist in the correlation of the Bahá'í Faith with current
thoughts, as expressed in philosophy and science, following the
advice of the Universal House of Justice:
Newly enrolled professionals and other experts provide a
great resource for the development of Bahá'í scholarship.
It is hoped that, as they attain a deeper grasp of the
Teachings and their significance, they will be able to assist
Bahá'í communities in correlating the beliefs of the Faith
with the current thoughts and problems of the world.
(SCH 13)
While it is quite obvious that to attempt such an endeavor
today surpasses by far the capacity of any scholar, and while the
understanding of the Bahá’í Revelation will take one millennium
to be fully completed, this paper is a simple beginning to first
raise the question, and then to try finding a provisional answer.
In other words, this paper seeks to find the answer which is
available today, but which will need to be revised over time as
our understanding of the Revelation is relative and progressive
according to the beloved Guardian. About the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh, he said: “Its teachings revolve around the
fundamental principle that religious truth is not absolute but
relative, that Divine Revelation is progressive, not final.”
(WOB 57) In pointing towards a change in philosophical
thinking that has developed after the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,
it is hoped that this beginning will open the way to better and
more erudite responses in the future.
The new life of the seeker is described by Bahá’u’lláh, when
He said:
He will find himself endowed with a New Eye, a New Ear,
a New Heart, and a New Mind. (KI 195)
Therefore, this new understanding of “Thy transcendent
Unity” requires in the seeker the endowment of a new eye, ear,
heart and mind. It needs to be understood, right at the outset of
this contribution to the ‘Irfán Colloquia, that this “Most
Sublime Vision” of Bahá’u’lláh can only be appreciated when
the seeker – and that hopefully includes all of us – is “endowed
with a new eye, a new ear, a new heart and a new mind.”
Bahá'u'lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
The question is: how can we approach this Vision of
Bahá’u’lláh, which He himself described as being “Most

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Sublime”? The word sublime, used by the beloved Guardian in
his translation, has in English the following meanings: inspiring,
inspirational, uplifting, awe-inspiring, moving, transcendent,
and magnificent – all of which are fitting description of the new
Vision of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
“Awe-inspiring” and “magnificent” indicates the relation of
this vision to Bahá, i.e., ‘Glory,’ which is a key concept in the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Who’s name is translated as the
“Glory of God” and it is part of the Most Holy Name of God,
“Allah-u-Abhá,” translated as “God is the All-Glorious.”(KA
170)
“Inspirational,” “inspiring” and “moving” indicates the effect
this Vision has on the seeker, the person who seeks to find God
through Bahá’u’lláh. And the word “transcendent” indicates the
total otherness and newness of this Vision. Bahá’u’lláh describes
His Vision as ‘most’ sublime, announcing that this Vision has
some likeness to these concepts, but is beyond all of the above
mentioned attributes.
Describing the effect of this Vision, Bahá’u’lláh stated:
“Were the breezes of Revelation to seize thee, thou wouldst flee
the world, and turn unto the Kingdom, and wouldst expend all
thou possessest, that thou mayest draw nigh unto this sublime
Vision.” (ESW 56) This statement can well be compared to
Christ’s parable about the kingdom of heaven (Matthew 13:45-
46): “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man,
seeking goodly pearls: Who, when he had found one pearl of
great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it.”
It further must be kept in mind that the Vision of Bahá’u’lláh
is the cause of the seeker’s new ability to understand this very
Vision. It moves, inspires, transcends and renews the seeker’s
capacities. That means that the course of action moving
towards understanding this Vision is a circular and continuing
process: we have to accept the Vision, and then we will be more
and more endowed with the capacity to understand this Vision
with our increasingly renewed ear, eye, heart and mind. In a
previous paper this writer has described this process under the
concept of progressive theology.
This process defies both deductive and inductive logic as we
know it. Therefore, this process has to be first developed in this
paper in order to understand its subject matter. Another equally
important pre-consideration of a move towards this Most
Sublime Vision is the fact mentioned by Bahá’u’lláh that our

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
life has to be more and more consonant with this Vision in
order to be able to understand it.
“Purge your hearts from love of the world, and your tongues
from calumny, and your limbs from whatsoever may withhold
you from drawing nigh unto God, the Mighty, the All-Praised.
Say: By the world is meant that which turneth you aside from
Him Who is the Dawning-Place of Revelation, and inclineth you
unto that which is unprofitable unto you. Verily, the thing that
deterreth you, in this day, from God is worldliness in its
essence. Eschew it, and approach the Most Sublime Vision, this
shining and resplendent Seat.” (ESW 54)
The same was expressed by Bahá'u'lláh when He admonishes
philosophers and scientists:
For God doth not ask you of your sciences, but of your
faith and of your conduct. Are ye greater in wisdom than
the One Who brought you into being, Who fashioned the
heavens and all that they contain, the earth and all that
dwell upon it? Gracious God! True wisdom is His. All
creation and its empire are His. He bestoweth His wisdom
upon whomsoever He chooseth amongst men, and
withholdeth it from whomsoever He desireth. (SLH 234)
Furthermore, we have to understand that this Vision can only
be perceived by the “unstopped ear of the inmost heart.” (SLH
86)
It is not accidental; it is rather significant and surprising that
this new life of the seeker is here described in an unmistakable
progression. First is the new ear, which will allow us to hear the
Word of God; then the new eye is mentioned, because God’s
Manifestation can be seen in the whole world and in our own
life after we have perceived the Word of God. The next step in
this process is the new heart, which is the place where this
Vision can become part of the seeker. The last step is the new
mind, a mind that will finally be able to get the picture of this
Sublime Vision, so this vision can become a world vision, a view
of the world, or, we could say, a new “Weltanschauung.” The
terms “hearing of thine heart” for the New Ear (GWB 217), “eye
of thine heart” for the New Eye (KI 57), and “understanding
heart” for the New Mind (GWB 35), are all expressions revealed
by Bahá’u’lláh.
The role of the heart in regards to this Vision is crucial and
will be mentioned in another paper. It is just in the last 30 years
that the role of the heart in the neurological aspect of the body

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
and mind is being researched and the findings are rather
surprising. Even in a cursory view into this matter it is clear
that the heart’s function was not understood previously in the
traditional medical neurology. When the human body is only
seen as a mechanical system, the heart is just a pump. The long
tradition to attribute to the heart so many more functions was
totally ignored and never critically researched.
It needs to be stated right in the introduction that this paper
attempts to see the world differently and in a new way. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá has clearly stated that the Bahá’í Cause is a new beginning,
and the newness encompasses everything that is to be discovered
in the world. We have a new age, and we need to consider the
whole creation as being reborn. For improved clarity, the
following statement is broken down according to the topic
described:
Now the new age is here and creation is reborn…
Arts and industries have been reborn, there are new
discoveries in science, and there are new inventions…

And all this newness hath its source in the fresh
outpourings of wondrous grace and favour from the Lord
of the Kingdom…
… until the old ways, the old concepts, are gone and
forgotten, this world of being will find no peace (SWAB
253)
What is most important about this statement, are these facts:
•
This new age will lead to new discoveries in science,
industry and in inventions.
•
All this newness is caused by, and is an outpouring from,
the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
•
The peace of this world is dependent on a change of
understanding of this new worldview and of forgetting the old
understanding.
A new conceptualization of the physical world is also
required by the discovery of quantum mechanics, as Einstein has
said:
This discovery [i.e., the quantum theory] set science a new
task: that of finding a new conceptual basis for all of
physics.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
This new age starts in the heart of the believer and is a
renewal of the spirit and of the understanding of this world, as
Bahá’u’lláh described it in the beginning of His Mission in the
Seven Valleys:
Nor shall the seeker reach his goal unless he sacrifice all
things. That is, whatever he hath seen, and heard, and
understood, all must he set at naught, that he may enter
the realm of the spirit, which is the City of God. (SVFV 7)
This principle – that any change starts in the heart and from
there will eventually renew the world – defines the structure of
the New World Order as initiated by Bahá’u’lláh.
This paper is based on the vision that all that is new and
valuable today, in science, art, technology and philosophy, is
caused and originated by this Revelation. Consequently, and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá clearly stated it, we have to forget the old ways
and old concepts, i.e., we have to reconsider our whole way of
thinking and perceiving this world in order to bring this world
to peace in the New World Order. While this paper attempts to
follow this direction of the Master, it is obvious that this
attempt is only a beginning, at best, in this pathway into a new
age and new world.
Revelation of Unity of God – Religion – World
In this chapter an important question about unity is raised: Is
it the same or something different that is understood by the
word “unity” in the two different contexts of God and of the
world, of the Creator and of the creation? Usually, when we talk
about unity or oneness, we uncritically take for granted that we
all understand what that means, and that there is only one
meaning to these words.
Consider that in the English language the word “unity,”
compared with “oneness,” has a slightly different flavor. Both
words are derived from the English word “one” or from the
Latin word “unus,” which both have the same original meaning
in their respective languages.
The definition of these two words in Webster’s Dictionary is
not the same. This fact is relevant to this paper and will be
presented below.
ONENESS
1. The quality or state or fact of being one

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
2. Uniqueness, Singleness
Wholeness, Integrity
Harmony, Concord
Sameness, Identity (numerical), Unity, Union
3. Solitariness (archaic)
Unity, on the other hand, is defined more extensively.
UNITY


1. The quality or state of being one or consisting of one,
Oneness, Singleness
2. A condition of concordant harmony
Continuity without deviation or change, absence of
diversity
3. The quality or state of being made one, unification
A combination of ordering of parts
4. The quality or state of constituting a whole
The totality of related parts, a complex or systematic
whole
(Other meanings are related to mathematics, art, drama, and to
law, which we will not mention here.)
Obviously the definitions are overlapping, but the emphasis
is different. Oneness is the more general and practical term,
while unity is used in a more specific and technical sense, which
is generally true for all duplicated words in the English language
derived either from Anglo or Latin roots, for example liberty
versus freedom. Additionally, Integration is only mentioned
under oneness and Unification is mentioned only under unity.
The relationship of the whole and the parts is only mentioned
under Unity, and the meaning of this relationship is expressed
under different subheadings. Furthermore, the word Unity (of
Latin ‘unus’) has many more derivatives in the English language
such as, Union, Unit, Unite, Unitarian, and other combined
words such as Unification, Uniformity, Universe, Univocal,
Unison, Universal, Unipotent, and many more.
In general we will use these two terms interchangeably, but it
is important to keep the differences in mind. In the English
translation of the Writings the word Unity is more frequently
used, for example in the Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, officially translated by Shoghi Effendi, the word
Unity is used five times more often than the word Oneness. We

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
have to ask if there are similar differences in the Persian or
Arabic languages, or if the difference was made by the
Guardian, translating the same words differently into English
according to the context. It appears that there are more than
two words in the original language; however Shoghi Effendi
used the two English words, not in correspondence to the
original text, but related to the context.
Contrary to the Bahá’í Writings, Webster excludes diversity
from unity, and uses a similar word only as an entry for “unity
in variety” as an aesthetic principle related to the fusion of
various elements into an organic whole, which definition comes
closest to the Bahá’í use of the phrase “unity in diversity.”
There are two major reasons why we need to look at this
word more closely. One is the social and political use of the
concept of unity, which had vast and potentially devastating
consequences as it was applied during history and especially
during the last century. The different ways of understanding the
word unity was propagated by different political movements in
the past and is still used today. We have a spectrum of
meanings, from uniformity and identity of parts to aggregation
of unrelated parts, i.e. from totalitarian dictatorship to extreme
and almost anarchic individualism. Later, in the philosophical
section, this will be explored more deeply.
The other reason why this word is the topic of this paper is
the fact that the Bahá’í Writings distinguish clearly between the
word unity as it is used in the created world and the same word
when it is applied to the Creator. Without going into details
here, we can already conclude that any application of the word
unity to God is false if it implies any relationship to numbers,
to multiplicity or any separation of parts, or even any
understanding of unity in the way as unity is understood in our
physical world.
We have to consider first the different use of the word unity,
as applied to God, to the Manifestations and to the world of
humanity, as well as to all the religions of God. The separation
of the different meanings of the word unity, or oneness, in
relation to God has been clearly stated by Bahá’u’lláh when He
said in a prayer:
And if I attempt to describe Thee by glorifying the
oneness of Thy Being, I soon realize that such a
conception is but a notion which mine own fancy hath
woven, and that Thou hast ever been immeasurably exalted

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
above the vain imaginations which the hearts of men have
devised. (PM 123)
It follows from this verse that oneness or unity can be
understood in different ways, depending if we talk about
created oneness, or the Oneness of the Creator, of God. There
are ways in which applying the concept of unity or oneness to
God is nothing but a vain imagination of the human heart and
an attempt to make God an object of human thinking and
understanding; in other words, trying to make the unknowable
essence of God knowable, thus creating an idol rather than
knowing God.
On the other hand, when the word unity is applied to the
Manifestations of God, we can follow the words of Bahá’u’lláh:
Conceive accordingly the distinction, variation, and unity
characteristic of the various Manifestations of holiness,
that thou mayest comprehend the allusions made by the
Creator of all names and attributes to the mysteries of
distinction and unity, and discover the answer to thy
question as to why that everlasting Beauty should have, at
sundry times, called Himself by different names and titles.
… (GWB 22)
When considering the Manifestations we can legitimately talk
about distinction, variation and unity characteristics. Here we
have a unity that is the unification of variation and of
distinctions, a unity that is the sign of creation. As a matter of
fact, Bahá’u’lláh expresses this in a prayer:
Thy unity is inscrutable, O my God, to all except them
that have recognized Him Who is the Manifestation of
Thy singleness and the Day-Spring of Thy oneness. (PM 57)
It could be said that the Manifestations in their historical
plurality are the manifestation of God’s unity. They alone give
access to the inscrutable unity of God to those that have
recognized them. Clearly it is stated here that the unity of God
is unknowable and can only be recognized in the unity of the
Manifestations. Only when this unity is accepted, only when it
is understood that all the Manifestations are one, can the unity
of God be praised. This understanding is prefaced by the
following words indicating the role “of the spirit within the
innermost chamber of thy heart” in comprehending the Divine
inscrutable unity:
O brother! kindle with the oil of wisdom the lamp of the

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
spirit within the innermost chamber of thy heart, and
guard it with the globe of understanding, that the breath
of the infidel may extinguish not its flame nor dim its
brightness. Thus have We illuminated the heavens of
utterance with the splendours of the Sun of divine wisdom
and understanding, that thy heart may find peace, that
thou mayest be of those who, on the wings of certitude,
have soared unto the heaven of the love of their Lord, the
All-Merciful. (KI 61)
The unity of God is frequently expressed in the Bahá’í
Writings but must be understood in this very specific sense. It
is being manifested in the unity of the Manifestations of God.
It is not an abstract or philosophical concept that can be
manipulated and compared with what can be called created
unity. Created unity is always a unity in diversity, or a unity
consisting of parts that need to be unified. This unity brings
with it forever the philosophical and scientific conundrum: how
the relationship of the whole and the parts can be logically
described, and how the physical reality of this world is
composed. In the philosophical section of this paper this issue
will be further developed.
The unity of the world of humanity and the unity of all
religions is another principle of the Bahá’í Faith. It is, one could
say, the most important, most actual and the most emphasized
principle of the Faith, for it undoubtedly is what the world
needs most today. Bahá’u’lláh has expressed this need by
directing us to the situation of our time, when He said:
Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live
in, and centre your deliberations on its exigencies and
requirements. (TU 1.4)
It could here be developed how the understanding of the
relationship between the whole and its parts affects not only the
political and social structures of humanity, but the basic
understanding of this world. One could say that the Christian
theology in its Platonic or Neo-platonic interpretation
emphasizes the unity and degrades the multiplicity of its parts.
Consequently the spiritual is evaluated by devaluating the
material.
This is the reason why the Aristotelian solution that gives the
whole priority over the parts (form over matter), but considers
both as equally real, was so well received in Christian theology
since the time of Thomas Aquinas. This is actually a progress in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
the right direction from the Neo-Platonic understanding that
only the whole is real, and everything partial is derived from it
as an emanation, an overflow, and therefore less real.
The opposite is happening in modern science and modern
philosophy: the material, the parts, the aggregation of the
elements of nature in causality are emphasized, and exclusively
preferred, without consideration of the value of the whole, this
way of thinking devaluates all spiritual aspects of life and
deprives the world of enchantment, of value and meaning. As
will be pointed out in another paper, this is changing since the
findings of quantum mechanics are slowly influencing science.
It appears to this writer that the cosmology inherent in the
Bahá'í Writings gives us a new and revolutionary way of seeing
this relationship. Neither spirit nor matter is devaluated or
negated. The unity of the world is deemed as equally valuable as
the multiplicity and diversity of things material, and both are
seen as elements of the Creation. A problem is only created if
humanity finds one-sided attachment either to the spiritual, as
in some forms of mysticism and in the attempts to reach God in
His unity through meditation, or to the material, in the modern
emphasis
on
physical
reality
in
all
materialistic
and
reductionistic systems of thinking. While this new way of
thinking could be developed from the Bahá'í Writings in a
thorough analysis of how they see the relationship between the
one and the many, the spiritual and the material in all aspects of
life, only some samples can be presented here.
The fact that Bahá’u’lláh states that prayer to God and
service to mankind are equally valuable presupposes the fact
that both the spiritual and the material are created by God and
are basically good. Bahá’í spirituality, therefore, needs to be
conceptualized on the idea of unity in diversity, and its
practical development in the future cannot really be seen today.
Shoghi
Effendi’s
description
of
the
future
Bahá'í
commonwealth is based on similar premises, as will be pointed
out below.
What this unity of humanity is and how it should be achieved
and protected in the future is a most important question of
which the beloved Guardian has said:
World unity is the goal towards which a harassed humanity
is striving.
…The unity of the human race, as envisaged by
Bahá’u’lláh, implies the establishment of a world

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
commonwealth in which all nations, races, creeds and
classes are closely and permanently united, and in which
the autonomy of its state members and the personal
freedom and initiative of the individuals that compose
them are definitely and completely safeguarded. (WOB
202)
Describing this unity of the human race and this world
commonwealth, Shoghi Effendi depicts many of its features and
lays down the principles of its organization. However, he states
that the actual structure and the functioning of this world unity
cannot be visualized at this point:
Who can visualize the realms which the human spirit,
vitalized by the outpouring light of Bahá’u’lláh, shining in
the plenitude of its glory, will discover? (WOB 205)
Unity of the Bahá’í Revelation
This is a principle of the Faith that is not stated as such in the
Writings. It is, nevertheless a constituting principle without
which the Faith cannot be conceived, and it further includes the
unity of all Revelations of God throughout history, which is
implied in unity of religion, and is expressed in the Bahá’í
principle of progressive revelation.
Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, clearly
pointed out the unity of all the Writings when he made the
following statement about the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and the Kitáb-i-Aqdas of Bahá’u’lláh:
A comparison of their contents with the rest of Bahá’í
sacred Writings will similarly establish the conformity of
whatever they contain with the spirit as well as the letter
of the authenticated writings and sayings of Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. (WOB 4)
This is an explicit statement about the unity of the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, and it is noted that this conformity is
related to whatever the Writings contain, i.e., to all of the
Writings, and it extends to the spirit as well as to the letter of
the authenticated Writings of the Báb, of Bahá’u’lláh, and of
His official interpreters, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi.
John S. Hatcher in his book about the “Art of Bahá'u'lláh”
approached this Revelation with the tools of literary criticism.
He has adapted these tools to study the context and style of the
“Ocean of Bahá'u'lláh’s Words”, stating:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
The more intimate we become with the art of Bahá'u'lláh,
the more we come to appreciate this context of the
Revelation as having continuity and integrity. And the
more we come to discover this overall unity to the
Revelation, the more we appreciate that no single work
can be fully studied apart from this context any more than
a single passage can be analyzed out of the context of the
work in which it appears.
The concept of progressive revelation expands this
continuity of all Manifestations of God throughout history,
disregarding their need to bring the Message in accordance to
the understanding of their audiences and in consideration of the
fact that their words have not always been transmitted to us in
their original form.
The unity of the Revelation of the Báb, and of Bahá’u’lláh is
rather remarkable, but can be seen only after a meditative
involvement in the Writings. It is not a superficial unity; it is an
integral and pervasive unity. Even though it includes the
obvious and literal meaning, as well as any deeper and spiritual
meaning, it also encompasses the different styles of the
Writings as Bahá’u’lláh has stated:
At one time We spoke in the language of the lawgiver; at
another in that of the truth-seeker and the mystic, and yet
Our supreme purpose and highest wish hath always been to
disclose the glory and sublimity of this station. God,
verily, is a sufficient witness. (ESW 14)
Tabernacle of Unity
Is there?
Praise of Creation
Pathways
of Love
True of
Thyself
Tabernacle
of Unity
Prayer of
the Báb
(SWB 217)
Bahá’u’lláh
(SVFV 2)
Bahá’u’lláh
(SVFV 25)
Bahá’u’lláh
(SVFV 27)
Bahá’u’lláh
Tablet to
Zoroastrians
5.1
Praise
be God
First Fire Lit from Lamp
of Preexistence and
Singleness (“The fire Thou
hast kindled in me”)
Creature
to
True One
Inwardness
(Spiritual)
Ascent
Lightness,
Heat (To the
Spirit)
He is
God
First Sun Risen in the
Heaven of
Eternity (“From this sun is
generated, and unto it
must return, the light
which is shed over all
True One
to
True One
Firstness
(Individual)
Motion
(Active, Form)

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
thing.”)
All are
His
servants
First Morn Glowed from
the Horizon of
Oneness (“Thou didst
illumine my outer being
with the morning light of
Thy favor”)
True One
to
Creature
Outwardness
(Material)
Descent (From
the Spirit)
All abide
by His
bidding
First Sea Branched from
the Ocean of Divine
Essence (“The water with
which Thou hast created
me”)
Creature
to
Creature
Lastness
(Collective)
Stillness
Weight,
Density
(Passive,
Matter) Have
come into
being through
the will of the
Lord of all that
has been and
shall be.
Above is a sample of the unity of the Writings that can
certainly be improved upon and changed, but it can give us
some understanding of how all the concepts and thoughts, the
literal and the spiritual meanings of the texts, can be seen in a
unified vision and meditated together.
The first column of the picture is from a prayer of Báb, and
it includes the last four statements of this prayer.
The second column is from the introduction of the Seven
Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh. Other explanatory verses of Bahá’u’lláh
have been added in parentheses to place these terms in context.
The verses directly under the underlined concept are the
explanation given in the original text.
The four Pathways of Love are again from the Seven Valleys
and do not need much explanation; these verses originally
inspired this writer to compare them with the prayer of the Báb,
and this conformity was developed in an unpublished paper and
in many presentations.
The next column is again from the Valley of Unity and is the
topic of a paper by this writer, presented and published in the
Lights of ‘Irfán in 2005.
The final column is from a newly translated early Tablet of
Bahá’u’lláh and again presents four concepts in harmony with
the previous texts. Its importance is explained in the words
following these four ideas, where it is said that they “have come
into being through the will of the Lord of all that has been and
shall be.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
In the picture below, the Tabernacle of Unity is organized in
a different way, following the organization suggested by the
Seven Valleys and as described in the paper True of Thyself by
this writer. Some elements are omitted to make the picture less
cluttered and the Bahá’í principles of Prayer, Service, Unity, and
Order are added. The organizing elements are what Bahá’u’lláh
calls the four stages of man when He wrote:
And thus firstness and lastness, outwardness and
inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself,
that in these four states conferred upon thee thou shouldst
comprehend the four divine states, and that the
nightingale of thine heart on all the branches of the
rosetree of existence, whether visible or concealed, should
cry out: ‘He is the first and the last, the Seen and the
Hidden....’ (SVFV 27)
The harmony of the Writings is evident in this comparison. It
is the Most Sublime Vision of Bahá’u’lláh. Its meaning becomes
a proper subject of meditation and allows the believers to
immerse themselves deeper into the Ocean of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh.
The unity of the Bahá’í Faith, in itself and in its Writings, is
not the whole story; it is rather the primary and present day
example illuminating the history of humanity. According to the
principle of progressive revelation and the unity of the
Manifestations, which are especially developed in Bahá’u’lláh’s
early and most significant book, the Kitáb-i-Íqán, all Divine
Manifestations throughout history and all of their Revelations
constitute the Unity of God’s Revelation throughout the history
of humanity. Speaking about all of the Manifestations of God,
Bahá’u’lláh says:
… thou mayest behold them all as the bearers of one Name,
the exponents of one Cause, the manifestations of one
Self, and the revealers of one Truth, and that thou mayest
apprehend the mystic “return” of the Words of God as
unfolded by these utterances. (KI 159)
They not only present the unity of God’s Revelation
throughout history, they all are the Revealers of one Truth, the
Truth of God. This unity of all Manifestations and of the Truth
of their Revelations was described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who
indicated that this understanding is new and has not been
mentioned before in any other Revelation:
His Holiness Bahá’u’lláh has announced that the

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
foundation of all the religions of God is one; that oneness
is truth and truth is oneness which does not admit of
plurality. This teaching is new and specialized to this
Manifestation. (BWF 246)
That unity or oneness of truth belongs in the same vision as
the unity of all Revelations is here expressed. Yet, according to
some postmodern philosophers, there is no unity of truth, and
truth is totally dependent on the subjective understanding of
the individual expressing it, a concept totally alien to the Bahá’í
Revelation.
Bahá’u’lláh clearly applied this truth to all Revelations and
mentioned Jesus in this context saying:
… Jesus, the Spirit of God, [and] His proclamation of the
unity of God and of the truth of His Message! (GWB 57)
This is a direct reference to the words of Jesus in the Gospel
of John (18:37-38)
Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus
answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I
born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I
should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of
the truth heareth my voice. Pilate saith unto him, What is
truth?
We can easily understand the doubtful answer of Pilate, and
many post-modernists and modern bible critics would agree
with him. While the philosophical question of “what is truth”
will not be developed here, it is important to indicate that the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh has a clear and expressed view of this
issue and stands in the tradition of classical philosophy and its
claim that human reason has the ability to recognize truth.
Unity of God in Christianity, Islam, and the Bahá’í
Faith
In the following, a lengthy paragraph from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh will be presented because it brings the questions of
what unity is and how it has to be understood in a new and
surprising focus. We will first quote the whole section, and then
discuss it sentence by sentence. Metaphysics and physics of
consciousness can facilitate this understanding of the Bahá’í
Revelation, if compared to the sacred Writings of the Faith.
He is a true believer in Divine unity who, far from confusing

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
duality with oneness, refuseth to allow any notion of
multiplicity to becloud his conception of the singleness of God,
who will regard the Divine Being as One Who, by His very
nature, transcendeth the limitations of numbers.
The essence of belief in Divine unity consisteth in regarding
Him Who is the Manifestation of God and Him Who is the
invisible, the inaccessible, the unknowable Essence as one and
the same.
By this is meant that whatever pertaineth to the former, all
His acts and doings, whatever He ordaineth or forbiddeth,
should be considered, in all their aspects, and under all
circumstances, and without any reservation, as identical with
the Will of God Himself.
This is the loftiest station to which a true believer in the
unity of God can ever hope to attain. Blessed is the man
that reacheth this station, and is of them that are steadfast
in their belief. (GWB 165)
The first paragraph clearly distinguishes the Divine unity
from all created unity. Created unity cannot be conceived other
than as a unity in multiplicity, a unity that forms a whole from
the unification of parts, which parts than can be numbered.
Therefore, any concept of unity consisting of numbers of parts
and elements that form the unit cannot be attributed to the
Divine unity. This understanding of unity excludes the Christian
concept of the Trinity, as it is usually understood as three-in-
one or one essence in three persons.
Even the so-called atom, which means the fundamental part
of all matter that cannot be further divided (a-tomos means
indivisible, not being able to be divided), has been divided in
modern physics, and the last of its parts that are studied have
been found, at least in quantum physics, as not being a-toms
either, or indivisibles, but are perceived as elements that are on
the border between wave and matter, one could say between a
spiritual or physical entity, as some interpreters of these studies
claim.
In the next paragraph Bahá’u’lláh states something surprising
and unexpected. Talking about the essence of belief in Divine
unity, He makes a statement that can be easily mis-understood
in the sense of the Christian Trinitarian theology, especially if
the paragraph before and after this sentence is not understood,
and some crucial words are overlooked.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
The essence of belief in Divine unity consisteth in
regarding Him Who is the Manifestation of God and Him
Who is the invisible, the inaccessible, the unknowable
Essence as one and the same. (GWB 165)
Let’s imagine that this sentence would have been presented in
the Council of Nicaea, in 325, where the Trinity Theology was
developed, and let’s further replace the Manifestation of God
with Jesus Christ, who certainly is a Manifestation in the Bahá’í
understanding. So the sentence would look like this in this
adapted and shortened form:
The essence of belief in Divine unity consists in regarding
Him, Jesus Christ, and the Divine Essence as one and the
same.
We deliberately left out the fact that Bahá’u’lláh describes
the Divine essence as inaccessible and unknowable. Certainly,
the followers of Athanasius would have agreed, one and the
same is their catchword: “homo-ousios” (of the same substance
or essence). The followers of Arius would have protested. “Not
the same,” they would have screamed, “only of similar
substance, homoi-ousious.” (I am aware that these two words
were actually coined later as the battle cry of these two camps.)
The emperor, who according to Eusebius, entered the council
in his golden splendor, would have agreed as well, even though
he later followed the Arian interpretation. We must consider
that the emperor got baptized only later on his death bed and
that the bishops were probably dressed in simple garments, some
of them still carrying the marks of previous persecutions. The
council had been called by the emperor, and he allowed the
bishops to travel at the government expenses. The bishop of
Rome, too old to travel, sent two priests as his representation
to this council, which was mainly attended by bishops of the
Eastern Roman Empire.
What we left out – the description of the essence of God as
being inaccessible and unknowable – and the next sentence of
Bahá’u’lláh, if it would have been presented in Nicaea, would
probably not have been understood at all at that time. The
bishops might have quoted John 6:60 “Many therefore of his
disciples, when they had heard this, said, This is an hard saying;
who can hear it?”
Bahá’u’lláh continued to say:
By this is meant that whatever pertaineth to the former, all

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
His acts and doings, whatever He ordaineth or forbiddeth,
should be considered, in all their aspects, and under all
circumstances, and without any reservation, as identical
with the Will of God Himself. (GWB 165)
What must be considered is the fact that this sentence does
not limit the previous statement but puts it in the right
perspective. The context of understanding of this statement is
the fact that God is unknowable. So, any sameness or identity
between a creature and God can only be in what is knowable
and pertains to God, i.e., His Word, or His Will and Command,
or, in other words, the Revelations of His Manifestations.
The distinction between unknowable and unknown is usually
not taken very seriously. In the Acts (17:23) Paul is reported to
talk about an unknown God:
For, as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an
altar with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD.
Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto
you.
At the time of Paul, the idea of a god or gods was a well
known and an accepted fact to people in general; only a specific
god could have been unknown in Greece. Paul does not raise the
question if God can be known; that was not a question that
could have been asked at that time, because in the common
sense everyone knew about the gods. It is a question of
importance today, where atheism and agnosticism is widespread,
and was the public policy in a third of the human population
not long ago. It took several centuries to develop this question.
At about the 6th century, Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite,
following the Neo-Platonic tradition, developed the “via
negative” and affirmed the fact that we know nothing about
God. Karen Armstrong calls this an attempt to combine the
Semitic and the Greek conception of God.
We may ask: what is unknowable today, where science and
technology opened so many ways of knowing things? The only
thing that is unknowable in this world is the “personal” and the
“subjective” and even science cannot make it known
objectively. The crucial issue is human consciousness, the
fundament of human personality. We do not know what goes
on in anybody’s mind, unless they talk to us. As a matter of
fact, even neurobiological studies can only tell us that there is
something going on, but not what is going on. Even our
knowledge of our own mind is limited by our ability to reflect.

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
Psychology, with all its tests and clinical evaluations, has to
recognize the fact that there is always a substantial part of the
person which is unknowable. That’s why the therapeutic process
is based on honesty and honest communication with each other,
honesty with oneself and honesty of the patient, a virtue the
patient has to learn in the process of therapy. That was clearly
expressed by the psychoanalyst Loewald’s description of
therapy:
Our object, being what it is, is the other in ourselves and
ourselves in the other. To discover truth about the patient
is always discovering it with him and for him as well as for
ourselves and about ourselves. And it is discovering truth
between each other, as the truth of human beings is
revealed in their interrelatedness.
This is the psychoanalytic description of what the dialogical-
personal thinkers called personal versus substantial knowledge.
Ferdinand Ebner has formulated this truth in the following way:
What exists as personality, can never and in no way be
conceived as existing in the way of a substance. If we
make the concept of substance the basis of the
understanding of reality, then we lock out forever any way
to recognize that, which exists in the way of personality.
To a being of a personality we can only have a ‘personal’
relation, in the final analysis no other relation as the
relation of the ‘I’ to the ‘Thou.’ To a substance we can in
no way have a personal relation – therefore in our relation
to it the ‘I’ disappears in a sense.
Concluding, it can be stated that God is unknowable in any
substantial, scientific and objective way. What we know about
God is what He has revealed to us through His Manifestations,
so it is an eminently personal knowledge that is expressed in
praise and prayer, not in any knowing of what God is.
Therefore, the sameness between God and His Manifestation is
not an essential one of “ousia” or substance, as the Council of
Nicaea understood it, but a personal one. It is based on the
Revelation of God’s Will or Word in His Commands, as
Bahá’u’lláh so clearly describes this oneness as related to the
acts of the Manifestations with the Will of God:
By this is meant that whatever pertaineth to the former, all
His acts and doings, whatever He ordaineth or forbiddeth,
should be considered, in all their aspects, and under all
circumstances, and without any reservation, as identical

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
with the Will of God Himself. (GWB 165)
The mistake, and at that time any other solution might have
been even more wrong than the Nicaean Creed, was not in the
identification of sameness between God and His Manifestation,
but in placing the sameness into the substance, the hypostasis,
or the “ousia”, or essence of God.
This is still true about Catholic Theology today. Karl Rahner,
making a statement in his Theological Dictionary about the
Hypostatic Union (as the explanation for the concept of the
Trinity is traditionally called), said:
This formulation is the fruit of the great Christological
controversies of the first four centuries. These arose of
intellectual speculations which unsuccessfully attempted
to elucidate the fact, evident in Scripture, that Jesus
Christ is true man and true God. … (p. 218-219)
It is remarkable that even Rahner calls it no less than an
intellectual speculation and an unsuccessful attempt. From the
point of view of the Bahá’í Revelation it has become clear that
this speculation probably was unavoidable, but it could not be
successful, because it attempted to understand intellectually
what is unknowable and inaccessible, i.e., the essence or
substance (‘ousia’) or nature of God.
That this intellectual speculation has to be unsuccessful, that
the nature of God cannot be conceived or described, was stated
by Bahá’u’lláh when He revealed in a prayer:
Every praise which any tongue or pen can recount, every
imagination which any heart can devise, is debarred from
the station which Thy most exalted Pen hath ordained, how
much more must it fall short of the heights which Thou
hast Thyself immensely exalted above the conception and
the description of any creature. (PM 194)
Islam has totally rejected the concept of Trinity and accused
Christians of believing in more than one God, accusing them of
Tritheism, a heresy in Christian theology which never reached
importance in theology, even though some practices of
Christians today are not far away from this way of thinking. For
example, there are medieval pictures, which depict God with
three heads on one body. This way of depicting the Trinity was
condemned by the church as clearly wrong,
What is rather interesting is the fact that in Islam the person

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
of Muhammad, the Prophet, does not reach the same veneration
than Christians give to Jesus. This means that in the Muslim
faith it is the Book that attracts the special attention; it is the
Qur’an, which has come from heaven through the Prophet. In
Christianity, the Book, the Bible, is secondary to Jesus; it tells
us about Him, and that is its importance. The emphasis on the
human station of Mohammad, the Prophet, can be understood
as a reaction to the understanding of Christ’s Divinity, as it is
expressed in the concept of the Trinity.
In the Bahá’í Faith these two aspects are combined and
corrected. Jesus and Muhammad are placed in the same position
as all the other Manifestations of God, and the holy Books are
equally seen as testimonies of the Revelation of God. It is the
person of the Manifestation, as well as His Revelation and His
Writings that are the testimony to the truth.
In the Most Holy Book, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, (p. 134),
Bahá’u’lláh has combined these two traditions in calling the
Manifestation the “Living Book,” contrasted it with the written
Book of His Revelation (the Báb, in His Writings, has used this
concept of living book before):
Take heed lest ye be prevented by aught that hath been
recorded in the Book from hearkening unto this, the
Living Book. (KA 66)
Another verse of Bahá’u’lláh specifically explains how the
testimony of the truth of this Revelation is established in the
Person of the Manifestation, in His Revelation, and in the
resulting Book of His Writings, and how this can be recognized
by every soul:
Say: The first and foremost testimony establishing His
truth is His own Self. Next to this testimony is His
Revelation. For whoso faileth to recognize either the one
or the other He hath established the words He hath
revealed as proof of His reality and truth. This is, verily,
an evidence of His tender mercy unto men. He hath
endowed every soul with the capacity to recognize the
signs of God. (GWB 105-106)
The solution to this age old problem of the Oneness of God,
that has caused discord and strife, war and hate between the
followers of these two Revelations of God, is the fact explained
in the above quoted verse of Bahá’u’lláh, that the essence, the
substance, the nature or ‘ousia’ of God is unknowable and
inaccessible. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has formulated this truth revealed by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Bahá’u’lláh, when He said:
But, that Essence of Essences, that Invisible of Invisibles,
is sanctified above all human speculation, and never to be
overtaken by the mind of man. Never shall that
immemorial Reality lodge within the compass of a
contingent being. His is another realm, and of that realm
no understanding can be won. No access can be gained
thereto; all entry is forbidden there. The utmost one can
say is that Its existence can be proved, but the conditions
of Its existence are unknown. (SWAB 54)
Bahá’u’lláh describes this complicated issue by affirming that
the Manifestation can say “I am God,” just like the Christian
believes that Jesus is God. Because all of what we know about
God derives from the life and Revelation of His Manifestation,
Christians and Muslims can say about their Prophet that He is a
“Messenger of God,” and Bahá'u'lláh emphasizes that this is only
possible when the human aspect of the Prophet is seen in its
“uttermost state of servitude”:
Were any of the all-embracing Manifestations of God to
declare: ‘I am God!’ He verily speaketh the truth, and no
doubt attacheth thereto. For it hath been repeatedly
demonstrated
that
through
their
Revelation,
their
attributes and names, the Revelation of God, His name
and His attributes, are made manifest in the world. …
And were any of them to voice the utterance: ‘I am the
Messenger of God,’ He also speaketh the truth, the
indubitable truth. …
And were they to say: ‘We are the servants of God,’ this also
is a manifest and indisputable fact. For they have been
made manifest in the uttermost state of servitude, a ser-
vitude the like of which no man can possibly attain. (KI 178)
This is nothing more than an explication of the statement of
Christ in the Gospel of John (10:30) “I and my Father are one.”
And later (John 10:37-38) “If I do not the works of my Father,
believe me not. But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe
the works: that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in
me, and I in him.”
To close this excurse into Christian dogma, it appears that at
the time of early Christianity the concept of an unknowable
God was unconceivable, since everyone was believed to know
God. It was a time when the statues of many different gods

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
covered the sanctuaries of the land, and the whole world was
conceived as functioning in dependency to these gods. The
Jewish belief in one God only, was tolerated by the Romans as
peculiar and as a historical tribal idiosyncrasy. On the other
hand, the same belief was conceived so aberrant in non-Jews
that Christians who shared that belief were called atheists by the
Romans. To them, belief in only one God was nothing other
than un-belief, a-theism. Christians were persecuted on the
Emperor’s mandate for such beliefs and put to death for it.
How could people raised in this environment conceive of an
unknowable
God,
Who
is
only
known
through
His
Manifestation? So, they had to describe the relationship
between Christ and God in their own way, inventing the
concept of the Trinity and attributing the same essence,
substance, or ‘ousia’, to both Christ and God the Father. This
was a logical and possible unavoidable conclusion taken at the
Council of Nicaea and then carried forth into 2,000 years of
Christian Theology.
Today, after the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, we can
understand that the mistake of their solution was the fact that it
is totally incorrect and impossible to talk about essence,
substance, nature or ‘ousia’ of God; God is absolutely
unknowable in any such way.
Even today, even among the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, who
came from a Christian background, it is quite likely that this
issue is not clear, and our understanding of God is not yet what
it should be in keeping with the Writings of the Bahá’í Faith.
We have not consequently followed through with the idea that
we do not know and cannot know God in any substantial and
objective way, that we cannot even talk about God in this way,
or talk about the essence, the substance or ‘ousia’ of God.
On the other hand, we are exhorted, invited and even
obligated to know God and love Him, not in a scientific and
objective way, but in a personal approach. God has spoken
through the Word of the Manifestations to us, and has allowed
us to speak back and praise Him through prayer and service
The following Verse from a prayer of Bahá'u'lláh can best be
understood in the same way
Here am I with my body between Thy hands, and my spirit
before Thy face. (PM 243)
As in Genesis 2:7

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the
ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life;
and man became a living soul.
God formed the body of Adam, so Bahá'u'lláh talks about the
material body between God’s forming hands. The living soul
was given to Adam through the breath of God, which breath
comes from the face in the picturesque language of the first
book of the bible, hence the many allusions to the face or
countenance of God as a indication of the spiritual aspect of
man. Here clearly the difference between the material and the
spiritual of man is described. Without exaggeration we can say
that the consequences of this understanding will certainly change the
whole structure and meaning of religion in the future.
Concluding the previous two chapters the following can be
stated: The difference in the concept of unity between the
Creator and the creation is important and has to be understood
in the way this unity is manifested in the Prophets of God. It is
not their nature or essence; it is their Word, their Revelation,
and their Message which manifests the unity of God. That
means that the unity of God can only be seen in the unity of the
Manifestations with each other and in the unity of their
individual Revelations, which is the Word of God and originates
in the Will of God. Any other understanding of the unity of
God is vain imagination, as Bahá’u’lláh stated in the prayer
mentioned before.
Consequently, the unknowability of God could be described
in this way: The essence of God is unknowable, so all that can be
known about God is what He makes known of Himself. What
God makes known to humankind is called Revelation, and it is
known to humanity through God’s Messengers, through His
Manifestations, or biblically through His Word, which was
incarnated in Christ.
In other words, nothing can be known about God except
what was revealed through His Manifestations. Secondarily,
God reveals Himself in His creation, which is the place where
God makes Himself known through His Manifestations in
another form, as all that was created was created through His
Manifestation, through His word, as it is said in John 1:1-3 “In
the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All
things were made by him; and without him was not any thing
made that was made.”

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
There are three ways of knowing God: through the life of the
Manifestation, through the Revelation of the Manifestation,
and through the world as being created by the Manifestation. It
needs to be remembered that humanity is part of creation, and
therefore the knowledge of God is innate to humans as well.
These three ways of knowing God are described by
Bahá’u’lláh:
All knowledge of God comes
1. through the Manifestation, through His life,
described as the “Living Book”
Say: God, the True One, is My witness that neither the
Scriptures of the world, nor all the books and writings in
existence, shall, in this Day, avail you aught without this,
the Living Book, Who proclaimeth in the midmost heart
of creation: ‘Verily, there is none other God but Me, the
All-Knowing, the All-Wise.’ (KA 81)
2. and through their Revelation, their written Book:
The source of all learning is the knowledge of God, exalted
be His Glory, and this cannot be attained save through the
knowledge of His Divine Manifestation. (TB 156)
3. and all knowledge of God is evident in His creation,
because all things were made by the Manifestation:
From that which hath been said it becometh evident that
all things, in their inmost reality, testify to the revelation
of the names and attributes of God within them. Each
according to its capacity, indicateth, and is expressive of,
the knowledge of God. So potent and universal is this
revelation, that it hath encompassed all things visible and
invisible. (GWB 178)
Overview of a Philosophy of Integral Unity
In a very cursory form we will present the history of the
unity concept in philosophy by mentioning the major
philosophers and indicating their understanding. Certainly, this
topic could be the subject of an extensive monograph, but here
only a very short overview of the most important authors will
be presented, assuming that the details are known.
B. R. Kadem has described the “Origin of the Bahá’í Concept
of Unity and Causality, A Brief Survey of Greek, Neo-Platonic,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
and Islamic Underpinnings” and has pointed out the distinctive
features of the Bahá’í account. One of the most important
differences is the assertion that the unity concept is attributed
to the Manifestation of God, not to God Himself as in the Neo-
Platonic and Islamic tradition. Therefore he states
The Bahá’í concept of the unity of being is laden with
implications unprecedented in the Greek, Neo-Platonic, or
Islamic forbears. The understanding of these implications
are therefore now part of the current and future labors of
thought for Bahá’í thinkers. (p. 115)
He further states that there is a need to re-think the Neo-
Platonic concept of emanation, when used in the Bahá’í context.
In this paper the concept of Revelation of Unity is carried
further into the present scientific and philosophical thinking,
and only the following very brief reference is made to the
historical aspect of this question.
Pre-Socratic Philosophers: Monism versus Pluralism
Parmenides (and in similar way much later Spinoza, and in
some ways Hegel): One Reality, Monism. His understanding
pervades all of European philosophy, from Plato to the Neo-
Platonists, and into the Christian Philosophy by Origin and
others, especially in the tractate of the Trinity by Augustine. It
further implies an emphasis on unity (spirituality) and distrust
for plurality (materiality).
Democritus (and in similar ways modern science): Atomism.
The whole is the sum of its parts, a mechanical, accidental and
material universe. Any concept derived from the whole and not
the parts is without value and can be neglected; all phenomena
can be reduced to their “atoms,” and truth can only be found in
this reductionistic way of thinking.
Classical Greek Philosophy
Plato: The reality is in the idea; any multiplicity is only a
shadow of reality. Neo-Platonism has developed this further and
was critical in influencing Christian theology towards the
depreciation of the reality of this world
Aristotle: Unity (or Form) and Plurality (Primal matter).
Reality is the unity of form and matter that explains movement
and change; Aristotle developed his meta-physic after studies in
physics (nature). This understanding was renewed by Thomas
Aquinas and became the centerpiece of scholastic philosophy. It

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
is taught in Catholic Universities even today, making Christian
philosophy more realistic and directed towards the reality of
this world. As a matter of fact, this more realistic understanding
was one of the causes of the development of modern sciences.
Modern Philosophy: Idealism versus Materialism
Hegel: Idealism, Unity of Ideals, of the Spiritual, Dialectical
process of these ideas verified in the social arena of the ideal
Prussian State
Marx: Materialism, Economic evolution of World Unity to
be brought about by violent revolution, and cumulating in the
dictatorship if the proletariat, even though it is predicted to
happen with iron necessity. (Before and after Marx, Feuerbach,
Darwin and Freud can be counted in the same group.)
The different ways unity and multiplicity were understood is
a theme with many variations throughout the history of
philosophy. It seems to have come to a harmonious solution
only recently, after the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, and not
without the influence of this Revelation, as was noted by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the above mentioned quote:
And all this newness hath its source in the fresh
outpourings of wondrous grace and favour from the Lord
of the Kingdom. (SWAB 253)
What is the newness in the philosophy of today that relates
to the one and the many, to unity and diversity? In a previous
paper of this writer, the history of this vision of the “Integral
opposition of Unity and Plurality” (“Der integrale Gegensatz
von Einheit und Vielheit”) was briefly described, and the
relevant authors were mentioned. Here the thoughts of
Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld, as described before, will
be more extensively presented as they are important to better
understand the concept of unity in the Bahá’í Writings.
The Integral Whole is described by Wucherer-Huldenfeld in
the following points:
• The Whole relates to the parts integrating or
complementing them in a structure of a real synthesis
• The parts, in their internal unity and diversity, are
equally original and essential, constituting equally the
respective whole, which they build with each other and
for each other

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
• The greatest unity of the whole is realized with the
greatest independence and freedom of its diverse parts
or elements
• In the whole the parts are “healed” and integrated;
through the parts the whole is “healed,” it is made whole
• A dialectic of different conceptions of Unity & Plur-
ality can be developed: Totalitarian dissolution of
Plurality versus Radical Plurality (Postmodern Pluralism)
• From an article on Teilhard de Chardin: Unification
differentiates; the more unity the more complexity is
possible; unity of spirit and matter: Spirit-Matter
The drastic change and the newness of this thought are not
obvious, unless we consider the social and political application
of it. That is really the topic of Shoghi Effendi’s considerations
about the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, even though it is
not expressed in philosophical statements in his writings. The
Guardian does clearly state that all previous social and political
forms of political unity are obsolete and that a new form will be
developed in the Bahá’í Commonwealth:
“The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh,
implies the establishment of a world commonwealth in which all
nations, races, creeds and classes are closely and permanently
united, and in which the autonomy of its state members and the
personal freedom and initiative of the individuals that com-pose
them are definitely and completely safeguarded.” (WOB 203
In this brief formulation, which is more extensively described
in the Guardian’s communication to the American Bahá’ís, it is
remarkable that the unity of all nations, races and creeds is
combined with a complete safeguard of the autonomy of the
individual states as well as with the promotion of the personal
freedom and initiative of all individuals.
What is crucial in the Guardian’s understanding of unity in
diversity is the fact that in this understanding the parts reach
their advantage from the whole and the whole has to guarantee
the welfare of the parts.
The advantage of the part is best to be reached by the ad-
vantage of the whole, and that no abiding benefit can be
conferred upon the component parts if the general interests
of the entity itself are ignored or neglected. (WOB 198)

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
Seen from the side of the parts Shoghi Effendi states that any
distress to the parts affects the whole; they are mutually
dependent, that is, they constitute each other mutually. Neither
is prior, neither is more or less than the other.
The welfare of the part means the welfare of the whole, and
the distress of the part brings distress to the whole. (PDC 122)
Philosophically this conception is only possible in the above
proposed understanding of the unity of the integral whole. It is
remarkable to note that this philosophical thought was only
fully developed after the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, even though
it happened in a tradition that prepared for this development.
There are many statements in the Writings of the Bahá’í Faith
that envision a similar unity, where the parts are equally
protected, cherished and found to be essential to the unity,
especially the many comparisons of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá of the unity
of the world and mankind with a flower garden. Here some
examples how the diversity and variety of a garden adorns its
beauty and increases its perfection.
How unpleasing to the eye if all the flowers and plants, the
leaves and blossoms, the fruits, the branches and the trees
of that garden were all of the same shape and colour!
Diversity of hues, form and shape, enricheth and adorneth
the garden, and heighteneth the effect thereof. In like
manner, when divers shades of thought, temperament and
character, are brought together under the power and
influence of one central agency, the beauty and glory of
human perfection will be revealed and made manifest.
(SWA 291-292)
The importance of variety in oneness is emphasized in this
sample from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings:
When there is variety in the world of oneness, they will
appear and be displayed in the most perfect glory, beauty,
exaltation and perfection. (TH 14)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s beauty in the diversity of the garden expresses
the new understanding of the relationship between the one and
the many, the whole and the parts. It is described as a gift of
God and the felicity of the human world in another statement:
Therefore, the part is expressive of the whole, for this seed
was a part of the tree, but therein potentially was the
whole tree.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
So each one of us may become expressive or representative
of all the bounties of life to mankind.
This is the unity of the world of humanity. This is the
bestowal of God. This is the felicity of the human world,
and this is the manifestation of the divine favor. (PUP 16)
The importance of what Shoghi Effendi called the
“watchword” of the Bahá’í Faith, “unity in diversity,” can hardly
be overestimated. Is it not the basis of any future political,
sociological and philosophical development which the Bahá’í
Writings predict, and is it not the need of our age? This is
expressed by Bahá’u’lláh in these words:
Be anxiously concerned with the needs of the age ye live
in, and centre your deliberations on its exigencies and
requirements.
In the Bahá'í Faith the spiritual is not evaluated by
devaluating the material; both are valued and equal in their own
right. Neither is unity extolled at the cost of diversity and
multiplicity. That means that any devaluation of any aspect of
God’s creation is wrong and alien to this Faith.
A
basic
difference
to
previous
dispensations,
like
Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism, and others, is the value given
to the world as God’s creation. This value judgment is not
placed on the ontological structure of the world, but on the
choices humans make in dealing with the creation. Any
overestimation of one aspect over the other is wrong. When the
material, the multiple, and the diverse is overestimated, we have
materialism and a station of man that is lower than the animal.
On the other hand unity – or the spiritual – should not be over-
estimated either to the detriment of the diversity and the material.
Bahá'u'lláh made this clear in the rejection of asceticism and
monasticism and of certain forms of mysticism.
Bahá'í Unity is understood as unity and diversity, as variation
and oneness, as oneness in multiplicity, which is characteristic
for this created world, and neither can be evaluated by
devaluating the other, neither can be affirmed by negating the
other, yet both are transcended by the inner meaning of the
Word of God, as it is stated by Bahá'u'lláh
Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and advance
into the ocean of acceptance, so that we may perceive,
with an eye purged from all conflicting elements, the
worlds of unity and diversity, of variation and oneness, of

Bahá’u’lláh’s Most Sublime Vision
limitation and detachment, and wing our flight unto the
highest and innermost sanctuary of the inner meaning of
the Word of God. (KI 160)
Bahá'í spirituality, therefore, needs to be conceptualized on
the idea of unity in diversity, and the consequences of this new
approach cannot be fully understood today, neither can the
practical applications in the future be seen in our present world.
Shoghi Effendi’s description of the World Order of Bahá'u'lláh
is the most that can be said today about this future
development. And yet, it can easily by understood that this new
vision will bring a revolutionary change to all religions in the
future, affecting theology, philosophy and the practical life of
all the followers of the world religions. Summarizing we can
make the following conclusions.
• God’s
Unity
is
transcendent,
beyond
unity
and
multiplicity, transcending numbers and comprehension,
i.e., unknowable.
• God’s Unity is revealed only through the Unity of the
Manifestations, their words and laws, expressing God’s
Primal Will and Word
• Created unity is always “unity in diversity”, “oneness in
multiplicity”
• Created unity is constituted by the integration of the
whole and the parts, which are equal and both original;
they are the “same and different” (TB 140)
• The concept of integral unity, or unity in diversity, has
implications for the future, and its practical application in
the future Bahá’í commonwealth was described by Shoghi
Effendi as far as this is possible today.

Postmodernism and the Bahá'í Writings
Part One
Ian Kluge
1. Introduction
Postmodernism is a general name given to an extraordinarily
influential intellectual and artistic movement which in its
philosophical form, originated in France – though its
foundations are largely in the work of German philosophers
such as Kant, Nietzsche and Heidegger1 – and successfully took
root and flourished in North American intellectual culture.
Over the last forty years, postmodernism’s influence has been
felt in a wide variety of subjects; however this paper will focus
on its philosophic aspects and leave aside its manifestations in
art, photography, theatre, architecture and creative literature.
Wherever postmodernism has appeared, the depth and breadth
of postmodernism’s impact is astounding. Some subjects, such
as literary studies, have been radically transformed by the
encounter to the point where ‘theory’ to swamp the subject of
literature itself. Philosophy has felt its very legitimacy and
usefulness as a subject challenged2 not to mention basic
concepts such as knowledge, rationality and truth as well as the
whole notion of metaphysics.3 History has been touched by,
among other things, the struggle over the whole notion of grand
narratives versus small or local narratives,4 the knowability of
the past, as well as the uses of history.5 Women’s Studies,
though not in themselves part of postmodernism, have been
affected
by
the
entire
deconstructionist
project,
by
postmodernism’s analysis of power relations and, more
controversially, by its antipathy to essentialism. Psychology
feels the influence of postmodern thinking in its handling of
gender and political science in discussions of marginalization
and the workings of power.6 Cultural Studies have opened new
vistas for exploration through the study of simulations and
simulacra.7 Postmodernism has also re-shaped and revised
Freudian psychoanalysis.8

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
The breadth and depth of postmodern philosophy’s influence
makes it necessary to examine the nature of its relationship to
the Bahá'í Writings in order to assess whether or not there are
points of agreement, their extent, and whether or not they are
superficial or fundamental.
The movement is so important and, in many respects, so
radical that thought systems and/or religions cannot avoid
taking a position in regards to its ideas. Such is the project
undertaken by this paper which will examine the major
philosophical issues covered by postmodern philosophy in
epistemology and the quest for knowledge especially in
literature, philosophy, history and cultural studies; in ontology;
in philosophical anthropology (theory of man) and in ethics.
This paper shall compare and contrast the positions taken by
major postmodern philosophers with those that are given
directly or implicitly in the Bahá'í Writings.
This inevitably leads to the question ‘Can a Bahá'í adhere to
some form of philosophical postmodernist without losing
intellectual consistency, and if so, in what way?’ This paper
concludes that the Bahá'í Writings and postmodernism share a
variety of ideas but on fundamental issues of ontology,
epistemology, philosophical anthropology (theory of man),
ethics and cultural theory, they are incompatible. Generally
speaking, postmodernism and the Bahá'í Writings do not share
the same or even a similar “Denkweg,”9 or way of thinking. This
is not to say there are no similarities between the two but that
the similarities are relatively superficial or accidental whereas
the differences are deep and foundational.
The plan of this paper is simple: in Part I, we shall survey the
major postmodern writers - in particular Nietzsche, Derrida,
Foucault, Lyotard, Rorty and Baudrillard who are “the major
philosophical figures in the post modern turn in philosophy.”10
In Part II, we shall compare what these philosophers say with
the Bahá'í Writings.
2. The Nature of Philosophical Postmodernism
In its broadest sense, philosophical postmodernism is a
movement that challenges the most fundamental premises that
have guided the development of Western philosophy since the
time of Plato, and most particularly, the philosophical
foundations of the Enlightenment. Indeed, this theme of
opposition to the Enlightenment is so strong, some scholars see
postmodernism
as
a
continuation
of
the
“Counter-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Enlightenment”11 that began in Germany and France in the 18th
Century and found its most influential voice in Nietzsche. The
Counter-Enlightenment
opposed
the
Enlightenment’s
proclamation of the autonomy of reason and the methods of the
natural sciences based on observation as the sole reliable
method of knowledge and the consequent rejection of the
authority of revelation, sacred writings and their accepted
interpreters tradition, prescription and every form of
nonrational and transcendent sources of knowledge ...12
Thus we can see that the central feature of the “Counter-
Enlightenment” was to question and undermine the supremacy
of reason and empiricism in the quest for knowledge and to
make room for intuition and instinct, which we deemed to be
more natural and spiritual. This feature is clearly evident in the
following characterization of postmodernism distinguished by
an
anti-(or
post)
epistemological
standpoint;
anti-
essentialism;
anti-foundationalism;
opposition
to
transcendental arguments and transcendental standpoints;
rejection of the picture of knowledge as accurate
representation; rejection of truth as correspondence to
reality;
rejection
of
the
very
idea
of
canonical
descriptions’ rejection of final vocabularies, i.e. rejection
of principles, distinctions, and descriptions that are
thought to be unconditionally binding for all times,
persons, and places; and a suspicion of grand narratives,
metanarratives of the sort perhaps best illustrated by
dialectical materialism.13
The specific meaning of this statement will become more
clear as we proceed through this paper. Postmodernism also
notably rejects the concept of reason, the rational subject, the
idea of progress, “epistemic certainty”14 and ‘truth,’ and all
manner of binary oppositions such as good and evil, nature and
culture, true and false and perhaps most surprisingly, writing
and speech.15 Steven Best and Douglas Kellner, two of the best
known scholars on postmodernism write, that in addition to
rejecting representation, i.e. the belief that theories reflect
reality, it also
Rejects modern assumptions of social coherence and
notions of causality in favour of multiplicity, plurality,
fragmentation
and
indeterminancy.
In
addition,
postmodern theory; abandons the rational and unified
subject postulated by modern theory in favour of a
socially and linguistically decentered and fragmented

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
subject.16
Many (though not all) of these attributes can be encapsulated
by saying that postmodernism rejects the 18th Century European
Enlightenment and its intellectual culture of seeking certain
truth and “clear and distinct comprehension”17 that could not be
doubted. This goal received its most powerful early formulation
in the work of Descartes whose famous method led him to
reject anything which could possibly de doubted.18 In the last
analysis, he discovers, what cannot be doubted is his own
existence – to doubt it, he must exist! – and the power of reason
to deliver the truth if we reason correctly.19 Thus he established
on a firm philosophical basis, the primacy of the subject in the
quest for knowledge and the primacy of reason. These ideas
became foundational to Enlightenment, i.e. ‘modernist’
thinking which built on them and applied them to the
exploration of reality.
One of the most comprehensive summaries of Enlightenment
thought is presented by Jane Flax. Despite its length, it is worth
quoting in full.
1. The existence of a stable, coherent self. Distinctive
properties of this Enlightenment Self include a form of
reason capable of privileged insight into its own processes
and the “laws of nature.
2. Reason and its “science” – philosophy – can provide
objective,
reliable,
and
universal
foundation
for
knowledge.
3. The knowledge acquired from the right use of reason will
be “true” – for example, such knowledge will represent
something real and unchanging (universal) about our minds
and the structure of the natural world.
4. Reason itself has transcendental and universal qualities. It
exists independently of the self’s contingent existence
(e.g., bodily, historical and social experiences do not
affect reason’s structure or its capacity to produce
atemporal knowledge).
5. There
are
complex
connections
between
reason,
autonomy, and freedom. All claims to truth and rightful
authority are to be submitted to the tribunal of reason.
Freedom consists of obedience to laws that conform to
the necessary results of the right use of reason. (The rules
that are right for me as a rational being will necessarily be

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
right for all other such rational beings.) In obeying such
laws, I am obeying my own best transhistorical part
(reason) and hence am exercising my own autonomy and
ratifying my existence as a free being. In such acts, I
escape a determined or merely contingent existence.
6. By grounding claims to authority in reason, the conflicts
between truth, knowledge and power can be overcome.
Truth can serve power without distortion; in turn by
utilizing knowledge in the service of power, both freedom
and progress will be assured. Knowledge can be both
neutral (e.g. grounded in universal reason, not particular
“interests”) and also socially beneficial.
7. Science, as the exemplar of right use of reason, is also the
paradigm of all true knowledge. Science is neutral in its
methods and contents but socially beneficial in its results.
Through its process of discovery we can utilize the laws of
nature for the benefit of society. However, in order for
science to progress, scientists must be free follow the rules
of reason rather than pander to the interests arising from
outside rational discourse.
8. Language is in some sense transparent . Just as the right
use of reason can result in knowledge that represents the
real, so, too, language is merely the medium in and
through which such representation occurs. There is a
correspondence between word and thing (as between a
correct truth claim and the real). Objects are not
linguistically (or socially) constructed; they are merely
made present to consciousness by naming and the right use
of language.20
Directly or indirectly, Flax’s summary touches on almost all
of the Enlightenment beliefs against which the postmodernists
rebelled in their various ways, thereby revealing the “deep
irrationalism at the heart of postmodernism”21 This opposition
to the Enlightenment is also why postmodern philosophy is so
heavily indebted to Nietzsche and Heidegger, who were both
scathing critics of Enlightenment thought.

What postmodernism primarily offers in return for these
wide-ranging rejections is more room for heterogeneity, for
difference and the different, for the marginalized, for the
colonized, the silenced and the outcast, be they subversive ideas
or interpretations hidden in a text, a social class or group, the
conquered, dominated, suppressed, rejected and demeaned. It

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
also offers a new way to experience ourselves as subjects and a
new way of relating to reality which is regarded as a man-made
social construction. Finally, it offers freedom from being
enslaved to metanarratives or “grand narratives”22 which
threaten the independence and freedom of our lives. Thus, we
can see that postmodernism is, or sees itself, as an intellectual
liberation movement working for the freedom of oppressed
peoples and ideas. It is, therefore, at least to some extent
involved in the politics of knowledge, which means it
formulates theories with an eye to their usefulness and
suitability for its liberationist goals. It is not simply trying to
find truth but truth that makes free.
This oppositional attribute of postmodernism has been
observed by such scholars as Lloyd Spencer whose article bears
the telling title of “Postmodernism, Modernity and the
Tradition of Dissent”. Spencer writes, “postmodernism can be
seen as an extension of the critical, sceptical, dissenting – even
nihilistic – impulse of modernity.”23 This oppositional nature
fits in well with postmodernism’s liberationist agenda.
To the charge that this reduces it from a philosophy with a
disinterested quest for truth, to an ideology which seeks truth
that are useful to a particular end, the postmodern reply is that
whether conscious of it or not, all philosophy is ideology and is
working in the interests of someone or some group. A
disinterested quest for truth is a fiction to deceive others and
ourselves.
3. The Foundations of Postmodernism: Kant
Whereas Descartes may be seen as the initiator of the
Enlightenment or modernism in philosophy, Kant (1724 – 1804)
is generally regarded as its towering philosophical intellect.
However, Kant’s role is ambiguous, because he may also be
understood as also having laid the basis for postmodernism.
Without question, Kant gave primacy to reason in the quest for
knowledge; indeed, rationality is our most important attribute
as human beings.24 At the same time, however, Kant put
limitations on reason, restricting its effective scope to the
phenomenal world of our daily experience. “I shall show that
neither on the one path, the empirical, nor on the other, the
transcendental, can reason achieve anything, and that it
stretches its wings in vain, if it tries to soar beyond the world
of sense by the mere power of speculation.”25 Therefore, he
rejects the belief that God, Who is obviously transcendental to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
this phenomenal world, can be proved cosmologically, i.e. from
the contingent existence of phenomenal reality, we cannot
deduce the existence of a necessary and non-contingent being.26
The final result of Kant’s view is that human reason and
knowledge are confined to the phenomenal world; there is no
possibility of reasoning or obtaining knowledge about whatever
is transcendental.
According to Kant, the limitations of reason were also
demonstrated by the antinomies, that is, the equally possible but
rationally contradictory results which show “discord and
confusion produced by the conflict of the laws (antinomy) of
pure reason.”27 In other words, on some subjects – the
limitation of the universe in space and time; the concept of a
whole cosmos made of indivisible atoms; the problem of
freedom and causality; the existence of a necessarily existing
being – reason can come to opposite but equally rational
conclusions. There is simply no way to break the deadlock.
Thus, “reason makes us both believers and doubters at once”28
leaving us with grounds to believe and disbelieve in God and in
reason itself.
Kant’s third contribution to the development of the
postmodern outlook is the theory of categories. In Kant’s view,
our perceptions of the world did not arrive in the form in which
we actually experience them. Rather they arrive as ‘raw data’
which the mind processes and shapes by means of the categories
which are the conditions on which having an experience
depends. “These categories therefore are also fundamental
concepts by which we think objects in general for the
phenomena, and have therefore a priori objective validity”29
These categories, which include organizing raw data according
to time, space, causality, necessity, contingency, subsistence and
accidence among other things, constitute, that is, create our
experience of the phenomenal world. Thus, our mind shapes the
raw data of our perceptions into a coherent world which
becomes the object of our experience. In Kant’s view, we have
no way of knowing what the raw data was like before it was
shaped into the phenomenal world by the categories of the
mind; that noumenal realm must remain forever beyond our
grasp and there is no point in speculating about this terra
incognita. It is also follows clearly from Kant’s views, that to
one extent or another, the perceiving subject cannot be taken as
a mirror reflecting a pre-existing reality, which is to say, the
subject cannot access reality and deliver accurate reports about
it. Indeed, the subject is “an obstacle to cognition”30 and cannot

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
be trusted.
Kant’s
views
laid
the
foundations
for
postmodern
constructivism, which asserts that our knowledge of reality, be
it natural, social or personal is constructed, not discovered.
Discovery is really construction as Kant’s theory of the data
organizing categories makes clear. We make the world or reality
we experience. As we shall see later, in postmodern theory, the
function of the categories is taken over by language and
culture. This means that there can be no objective knowledge or
representation of reality and that all we have are various
constructions or stories none of which is privileged over others
in terms of its truth value. (How, after all, could truth be
determined if we only have constructions and nothing to
compare our constructions against.?) Not only is external reality
hidden beneath our constructions, so is our individual self or
identity which becomes just another construction or story
among the rest. This is a profoundly different way of
experiencing oneself than the belief in an immortal soul
forming our essence. Indeed, in this view, things such as cats,
stars, species or individuals do not naturally have essences;
rather these so-called essences are constructed for our
convenience by selecting, more or less arbitrarily, a certain
number and/or kind of traits. Postmodernism as we shall see
drew the obvious lesson from Kant’s view: if reality, the world,
and the self can be constructed in one way, they can also be
constructed in another. The world and reality may be changed
by reconstructing it along new lines.
Kant also influenced postmodern thought by providing an
idea to react against, namely, the sharp division between the
perceiving (and organizing) subject and the object, the data
being organized. (Hegel, among others, already sought to
overcome this division in his philosophy) The postmodernists
want to see the subject and object as one di-polar complex, as a
self-in-the-world, as irrevocably embedded in a specific life-
situation with its unique perspective. Self and world are like
two sides of a coin, distinct but not separable from one
another.
Kant’s influence may also be felt in another area important
to postmodern thinking, namely, its rejection of metaphysical
investigation or speculation. According to Kant, it is impossible
for us to gain knowledge about anything that is not part of the
phenomenal world constituted by our mental categories. In
other words, we cannot know anything that is not organised in
accordance with the categories of time, space, causality,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
necessity, subsistence and accidence among other things. The
nature of the raw data or reality – the noumenon – before it is
perceived and shaped by the categories is forever unknowable.
Human knowledge is limited to the phenomenal realm, i.e. that
which is shaped by the categories. For this reason, cosmological
proofs of God are impossible: they attempt to reason from the
nature of phenomena to the nature of an entity – God – Who is
beyond the phenomenal. We cannot apply reason – based on our
understanding of the phenomenal world shaped by the
categories – to that which has not been shaped by the categories.
Consequently,
all
metaphysical
speculation
about
non-
phenomenal reality is pointless.
Finally, Allan Megill points out another area in which Kant’s
philosophy, perhaps inadvertently, influenced postmodern
thought, namely aesthetics. If nature, in Kant’s view, was the
realm of law and our actions were the realm of the good (we
always try and achieve what appears as a good to us) then
aesthetics may be seen as a realm of freedom from these
constraints, a realm in which beauty, pleasure and satisfaction
are the goals. Kant, was read as asserting that there was “an
autonomous realm of the aesthetic”31 In other words, there is a
realm where man is free to construct however he chooses, where
man is completely free. Moreover,
Kant’s insistence on the autonomy of aesthetic judgment
leads him to deny that art has ‘truth value ... At the same time,
however, some of his statements in the Critique of Judgment
can be read as contradicting this view. For he does hint that
while art cannot supply us with knowledge in any logical sense,
it can pout us into contact with something that cannot be fully
presented in experience or grasped through concepts. 32
The lesson to be drawn from this is that only through art and
through art-making or constructing can humankind ever attain
its full measure of freedom and learn whatever ‘truth’ it is able
to learn. Art, the aesthetic, has become the model and ideal of
existence.
4. The Foundations of Postmodernism: Nietzsche
Frederich Nietzsche (1844 – 1900) had such an enormous
influence on postmodern thought that one might well consider
him to be the first postmodernist. According to Best and
Kellner, Nietzsche’s “assault on Western rationalism profoundly
influenced Heidegger, Derrida, Deleuze, Foucault, Lyotard and
other postmodern theorists.”33 According to Clayton Koelb,

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
“Nietzsche initiated many of the basic concepts which stand
behind the broad concept of postmodernism.”34
Many, if not all, postmodern themes are taken up in his
various works, from the early The Birth of Tragedy to his final,
posthumously collected notes in The Will to Power. Of these,
the distrust, indeed, dislike, for reason is clearly evident in one
of his earliest and most widely read works, The Birth of
Tragedy. Nietzsche relentlessly criticizes modern culture and its
(for him) archetypal character, Socrates.
Our whole modern world is entangled in the net of
Alexandrian culture. It proposes as its ideal the theoretical man
equipped with the greatest forces of knowledge, and laboring in
the service of science, whose archetype and progenitor is Socrates.35
The “theoretical man” was Socrates, the champion of reason
and thought as the best means of discovering the truth about
ourselves and reality. In a similar vein, he writes in Twilight of
the Idols:
Today, conversely, precisely insofar as the prejudice of
reason forces us to posit unity, identity, permanence,
substance, cause, thinghood, being, we see ourselves
somehow caught in error, necessitated into error36
Socrates, the “theoretical man” has fallen prey to a profound
illusion... [an] unshakable faith that thought, using the thread
of logic, can penetrate the deepest abysses of being, and that
thought is capable not only of knowing being but even of
correcting it. This sublime metaphysical illusion accompanies
science as an instinct and leads science again and again to its
limits at which it must turn into art: which is really the aim of
this mechanism.37
Nietzsche calls Socrates a “mystagogue of science”38 with
whom originated “the spirit of science... the faith in the
explicability of nature and in knowledge as a panacea.”39
Despite claims to be seeking the truth, the mission of science is
really to comfort humankind by making existence appear
comprehensible and thus justified; and if reasons do not suffice,
myth had to come to their aid in the end—myth which I have
just called the necessary consequence, indeed the purpose, of
science40
Therefore, the mission of science – and the quest for
knowledge in general – is to provide comforting illusions such
as the notion that the universe is an orderly place and/or a place

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
we can understand. To do this, science has “first spread a
common net of thought [“myth”] over the whole globe, actually
holding out the prospect of the lawfulness of an entire solar
system.”41 However, Nietzsche is not hopeful that this strategy
will be successful: “But science, spurred by its powerful illusion,
speeds irresistibly towards its limits where its optimism,
concealed in the essence of logic, suffers shipwreck.”42
These passages explicitly and implicitly point to other
Nietzschean themes in addition to scepticism about knowledge
and science, logic and reason. For example, Nietzsche’s
scepticism about truth is plainly evident when he says, “Truth is
the kind of error without which a certain species of life could
not live. The value of life is ultimately decisive.”43 What is
essential about truth is not that it is true but that it serves life:
“[t]he criterion of truth resides in the enhancement of the
feeling of power.”44 In other words, truth is not which is
actually the case but that which meets our needs in the struggles
of life – a view of truth that is highly subjective and which
allows there to be as many truths as there are individuals with
needs. When we think in existential terms, such might indeed be
the case – we all have our own personal truths – but it is
difficult to see how this could meaningfully apply to
mathematics, medicine, science or history. Elsewhere he says
that truth is “Inertia; that hypothesis which gives rise to
contentment; smallest expenditure of spiritual force.”45 In a
similar vein, he writes, “The biggest fable of all is the fable of
knowledge,”46 thereby expressing his doubts about the existence
of knowledge, something he had already done in The Birth of
Tragedy by calling science a myth.
Nietzsche also strikes several postmodern notes when he
writes:
Will to truth is a making firm, a making true and durable,
an abolition of the false character of things, a
reinterpretation of it into beings. “Truth” is therefore not
something there, that might be found or discovered – but
something that must be created and that gives a name to a
process, or rather to a will to overcome that has in itself
no end – introducing truth as a processus in infinitum, and
active determining – not a becoming conscious of
something that is itself firm and determined. It is a word
for the “will to power”.47
Nietzsche tells us that the “will to truth” is seen in acts of
will, in “making” things “true and durable;” it is an “active

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
determining.” Thus he identifies the “will to truth” with the
“will to power,” which implicitly rejects the notion that truth is
simply our discovery of what is the case. Indeed, he it clear that
truth is something we make, or create by an act of will, and that
this willing process goes on forever. Final truth is, in the last
analysis, unattainable. It is also a product of human creativity:
What, then, is truth? A mobile army of metaphors,
metonyms, and anthropomorphisms—in short, a sum of
human relations which have been enhanced, transposed,
and embellished poetically and rhetorically, and which
after long use seem firm, canonical, and obligatory to a
people: truths are illusions about which one has forgotten
that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out
and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their
pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as
coins.48
Truth, we might say, is an artistic human creation, a
convenient fiction.
This position has at least six consequences that bore fruit
among postmodern thinkers. First, if truth is man-made, then
humankind has no access to reality, only its own fabrications – a
theme we already saw in Kant’s division between the accessible
phenomenal world and the inaccessible noumenal realm. This
aesthetic theory of knowledge rules out any form of the
correspondence theory of truth. Second, we observe the clear
identification of the “will to truth” and the “will to power.” If
these two are the same, then it is hard to avoid the conclusion
that any claim to possessing truth is also a claim to power, i.e.
those who claim to have truth are really advancing power claims
over others. Third, truth is subjective insofar as it reflects what
we need and desire, and what we project or impose on ‘reality.’
It is obvious, of course, that in this situation it is difficult to
speak of reality at all, since there can be no one thing to which
that term refers. Fourth, since truths are artistic creations – “are
illusions” – there is no objective external standard by which to
judge among truth claims and we can embrace them all as
equally true or reject them all as equally false. In other words,
this view exemplifies a thorough-going relativism (if we accept
them all as somehow true) and scepticism (if we reject them all
as doubtful.) Fifth, is the aesthetizing of reality, i.e. presenting
it as a work of art, an idea that will later bear fruit with
postmodern thinkers treating the world like a text or, as in
Baudrillard’s case, quite literally as an artistic work. Sixth, the
Nietzschean concept of truth as an artistic creation makes it

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
clear that the concept of an ‘objective’, disinterested quest for
or contemplation of the truth is “conceptual nonsense.”49
Because the quest for knowledge is a manifestation of the will
to power, all truth is ‘interested’ truth, i.e. truth with an
agenda.50 This is also true because all truth is perspectival: “The
only seeing we have is seeing from a perspective; the only
knowledge we have is knowledge from a perspective,”51 a
position sometimes referred to as perspectivism.
According to Nietzsche’s perspectivism, all statements of any
kind represent only one particular and limited perspective
embedded in the concrete realities of a specific human existence
which has no more legitimate claim to being true than any other.
There is no neutral, ‘Archimedean point’ from which reality can
be ‘objectively observed.’ Speaking of philosophers, Nietzsche
writes,
Every one of them pretends that he has discovered and
reached his opinions through the self-development of cold,
pure, divinely untroubled dialectic ... whereas at bottom a
pre-conceived dogma, an “institution” or mostly a heart’s
desire made abstract and refined is defended by them with
arguments sought after the fact. hey are all lawyers ... and
for the most part quite sly defenders of their prejudices
which they christen “truths”... 52
The unbiased, objective quest for truth as such is a willow-
the-wisp; every claim to know truth is an expression of personal
interest, of the will-to-power. This claim has obvious logical
problem with self-reference: since it applies to Nietzsche’s view
as well, any universal truth value of his statement dissolves
itself – and we find ourselves trapped in the midst of an infinite
number of competing perspectives. Postmodernist philosophers,
however, have simply brushed this problem aside and adopted
Nietzsche’s perspectivism.
From this we can naturally draw the conclusion that what we
call ‘truth’ is only an interpretation; indeed, Nietzsche says,
“facts is precisely what there is not, only interpretations. We
cannot establish any fact "in itself": perhaps it is folly to want
to do such a thing.”53 Nor do things have an essential nature
apart from our constructions and interpretations.54 Perhaps the
following quote may be used to sum up Nietzsche’s prevailing
attitude and beliefs: “There exists neither "spirit," nor reason,
nor thinking, nor consciousness, nor soul, nor will, nor truth:
all are fictions that are of no use.”55

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
To the suggestion that truth is more valuable than lies or
fictions no matter how convenient they are, Nietzsche answers:
“It is no more than a moral prejudice that truth is worth more
than semblance”56 and then asks, “Why couldn’t the world which
matters to us be a fiction?”57 Why not, indeed, since “the will to
know [is based on] the foundation of a much more forceful
will, namely the will to not-know, to uncertainty, to un-
truth!”58 Humankind wants – needs – its deceptions, and
therefore one should not struggle too much for truth since “it
stupefies, bestializes and brutalizes you.”59 The ‘truth-game’ is
not worth the candle:
The world with which you are concerned is false, i.e. it is
not a fact but a fable and `approximation on the basis of a
meagre sum of observations.; it is “in flux,” as something
in a state of becoming, as a falsehood always changing but
never getting near the truth: for – there is no “truth.”60
Obviously, therefore, no eternal or absolute truths exist, and
that being the case, no so-called truths can serve as the
foundations of any system of metaphysics, ethics, philosophical
systems
or,
what
postmodernism
refers
to
as
“grand
narratives.”61 Nietzsche’s rejection of truth is matched by his
equally firm rejection of God. Zarathustra tells his listeners,
“God is a conjecture; but I desire that your conjectures should
not reach beyond your creative will. Could you create a god?
Then do not speak to me of any gods.”62 In other words,
Zarathustra-Nietzsche rejects transcendence, i.e. anything that
is beyond the powers of the human will to create just as Kant
rejects anything beyond the power of the human mind to know.
Rather than wasting time with God, Zarathustra advises people
to turn their energies into overcoming their humanity, and thus
making way for the greater-than-man, the “overman” or
superman” as he is sometimes called: “But you could well create
the overman.”63 Later, Zarathustra says that “man is something
that must be overcome – that man is a bridge and no end.”64 We
should try to surpass our humanity and become something
greater, or, if we cannot, at least help clear the way for
something greater. In postmodernism this idea resurfaces as the
theme of the ‘death of man,’ which plays an especially
important role in the work of Michel Foucault.
5. The Foundations of Postmodernism: Heidegger
Though he is a highly controversial figure because of his one-
time open support of the Nazi party, Martin Heidegger (1990 –

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
1976), perhaps the pre-eminent, most quoted philosopher of the
20th Century, is second only to Nietzsche in terms of influence
on postmodern thought. Heidegger influenced postmodernism
in six main ways. First, he rejects the metaphysics of the entire
western
philosophical
tradition
with
the
exception
Anaximander, one of the pre-Socratics. The western tradition’s
metaphysics and the resulting subject/object epistemology leads
to
a
utilitarian-scientific-technological
world
view
that
impoverishes our lives. Second, he rejects calculative, utilitarian
view of reason as the sole source of legitimate knowledge and
the rejection of the correspondence theory of truth. Therefore,
the concept of ‘truth’ cannot be limited to rationalized
propositions about beings but must include knowledge of the
Being of beings. Third, he sees truth as aletheia, the disclosure
of the Being of beings; truth is not discovered by us but rather
discloses or reveals itself. He also recognises the fundamental
ambiguity of all knowledge. Fourth, he dismisses the notion of
absolute final truth. Fifth, he doubts the ability of verbal
propositions to mirror or reflect reality. Sixth, he sees the task
of art and especially poetry as the disclosure of the Being of
beings. Finally, in Heidegger’s view, language is not a
transparent medium and helps constitute our being-in-the-world
and our life-world.
For reasons uniquely his own, Heidegger, like Kant and
Nietzsche seeks to avoid or rather, “overcome”65 metaphysics
whereby he reinforces the anti-metaphysical trend already
evident in 20th Century philosophy. Postmodern philosophy as
we shall see is a part of this trend. Metaphysics – defined as “the
philosophical investigation of the nature, constitution and
structure of reality,”66 – has, according to Heidegger, gone
askew since the time of Anaximander and continuously
“misconstrues being”67 insofar as it forgets the “question of
Being”68 and replaces it with concern for particular beings.
Thus, Being, which is everywhere manifested in all things. and
which transcends all things, is falsely described as “the most
universal and the emptiest of concepts”69 and is ignored; it
ceases to be a subject of investigation in itself. No western
philosopher since Plato has sought to describe the nature of
Being as such. Instead, Being is replaced by interest in individual
beings.
Metaphysics does indeed represent beings in their being, and
so it also thinks the being of beings. But it does not think being
as such, does not think the difference between being and
beings70.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
Being and beings are confused with one another. Elsewhere,
Heidegger says, Metaphysics, insofar as it always represents
only beings as beings, does not recall Being itself. Philosophy
does not concentrate on its ground.71
According to Heidegger, this failure to deal with the Being of
beings, leads to metaphysics and science both of which depend
on a diminished understanding of truth: “ To metaphysics the
nature of truth always appears only in derivative form of the
truth of propositions. which formulate our knowledge.”72 In
short, we know a lot about things and stuff but have forgotten
Being itself.
To illustrate what he means, Heidegger compares Being to
color and to the Earth in statements that recall Wordsworth’s
passionate assertion,
Our meddling intellect
Mishapes the beauteous forms of things;
- We murder to dissect.73
In a similar vein, Heidegger writes,
Color shines and wants only to shine. When we analyse it
in rational terms by measuring its wavelengths, it is gone.
It shows itself only when it remains undisclosed and
unexplained. Earth thus shatters every attempt to
penetrate into it. it causes every merely calculating
importunity to turn to a destruction ... The earth appears
only cleared and as itself when it is perceived and
preserved as that which is by nature undisclosable ....”74
Our
propositional
knowledge
and
calculative
or
technological reason tell us nothing about color as it makes
itself present (“presences” as a verb in Heidegger’s language) to
us, just as our knowledge of earth-science and technology
cannot makes us aware of the Being of the Earth. Technology
concerns itself not with the Being of things but “the imposition
of man’s will upon the world,”75 upon individual beings. It does
not care if it really knows a thing with which it co-dwells in the
world but only that it achieves mastery and dominion over it To
know the Being of the thing, we must open ourselves to its
Being just as we need to open ourselves to the experience of
color. In effect, we need what Wordsworth calls “a heart/ That
watches and receives.”76
Heidegger’s analysis and the conclusions he draws from it

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
have deeply influenced postmodern (and ecological) philosophy.
Immediately noticeable is that rational and scientific knowledge
(measurement) are limited in what they can tell us and do not
exhaust what can be known about a particular being. They are
merely one kind of knowledge from one particular perspective,
one interpretation about a thing and not knowledge per se; it is
quite possible for other thinkers or cultures with different
perspectives to have developed different kinds of equally valid
knowledge of specific beings. Therefore it is impossible to
claim that any one kind of knowledge of beings is privileged or
has priority over any other. No propositional knowledge is
absolute; it is all relative. As Heidegger says, “There is no
absolute truth across the incommensurable understandings of
being or world-disclosures.”77
This, inevitably, brings us to the question of the meaning of
‘truth’. According to Heidegger, the usual definition of truth
involves the idea of something or a state of affairs being
“actual,”78 of being “the correspondence of knowledge to the
matter,”79 or the correspondence of something “with the “
‘rational’ concept of its essence.”80 However, he disagrees with
this view: “Thus truth has by no means the structure of an
agreement between knowing and the object in the sense of a
likening of one entity (the subject) to another (the Object).”81
In taking this position, Heidegger implicitly throws into
question the subject/object distinction and relationship that has
been the bedrock of western epistemology. If truth is not a
correspondence between subject and object of perception, what
could it be? In Heidegger’s view, the correspondence theory of
truth is also inadequate because it ignores our relationship to
Being, the interpretation or understanding of which influences
our self-understanding as human and thus our relationship to
the specific beings we encounter. Our usual propositions about
specific beings are made as though they were products of an
intellect that is independent of any relation to and
interpretation of Being.82
This, of course is false because conscious of it or not, all
beings have a relationship to Being. For this reason, “the
traditional assignment of truth exclusively to statements as the
sole essential locus of truth falls away. Truth does not originally
reside in the proposition.”83 It is important to note that truth
does nor arise “originally” in propositions, i.e. that there is a
deeper, more primordial original truth which manifests itself in
specific beings. Thus Heidegger does not think propositional
truth is fully adequate to reality.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
Furthermore, he also has doubts about the possibility of a
meaningful relation between propositions and things, which is
to say, he doubts that mere verbal propositions lacking proper
grounding in a relationship to Being can ever satisfactorily
correspond to real specific beings. In Being and Time, he asks,
“In what way is this relation [of correspondence] possible as a
relation
between
intellectus
[mind/intellect]
and
res
[thing/object]?”84 From this question,
it becomes plain that to clarify the structure of a truth it
is not enough simply to presuppose this relational totality
[of complete correspondence between mind and object]
but we must go back and inquire into the context of Being
which provides the support for this totality as such.85
These passages also point out that our awareness of and
attitude towards Being i.e. our “comportment”86 towards Being
influences our self-understanding as human beings which in turn
influences our relationship to specific beings. We, may for
example, ignore Being, and ourselves as a place where Being
reveals itself, and see ourselves strictly as things whose existence
is limited to the superficial daily aspects being – purely
utilitarian considerations, getting, spending, dominating and
being dominated – and, as a consequence, develop a purely
calculative rational approach towards ourselves and the things
of this world. We may reduce things in our surroundings to
mere objects for use or domination, a fate from which artists
and especially poets must rescue them.87 Such objectifying leads
to the dominance of technology in our lives and relationship to
others and nature. Furthermore, Heidegger suggests that reason
is not independent of other factors in our lives which is to say,
is not transcendent i.e. objective or uninfluenced by our lives
and therefore cannot provide a transcending and universal
overview of reality that is uniform for all human viewpoints.
“[A]ll truth is relative to Dasein’s [man’s] Being.”88
According to Heidegger, truth is more than the mere
propositions of calculative reason or a correspondence between
a subject and object: truth, in the primary sense, is aletheia,
unconcealing or “disclosedness”89 of Being and the Being of
beings, of letting Being be, of having, as Wordsworth says, “a
heart/ That watches and receives.” Thus, for Heidegger,
existential truth is prior to propositional truth which implies
that the disclosure of Being depends on our comportment or
demeanour towards Being and the Being of beings including
ourselves. The willingness to let Being be, to let the Being of
things unconceal itself to us is man’s original way of knowing

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
and only later does he ‘fall’ into forgetfulness of Being to
satisfy himself with superficial, calculative, utilitarian reason
and metaphysical propositions.
However, there is a fundamental ambiguity to aletheia for
every unconcealing is also a concealing of Being and the Being
of beings. “The disclosure of beings as such is simultaneously
and intrinsically the concealing of being as a whole”90 because
[i]n the simultaneity of disclosure and concealing errancy
holds sway. Errancy and the concealing of what is
concealed belong to the primordial essence of truth.91
Thus, Being is always simultaneously disclosed and
undisclosed, because these two conditions, like truth and
untruth are not distinct absolutes but are correlates.
Precisely because letting be always lets beings be in a particular
comportment [mood,
stance, attitude] which relates to them and thus discloses
them, it conceals beings as a whole. 92
Because truth is always the truth of a particular being with a
particular comportment to Being as well as existing in a
particular situation, the whole of Being can never disclose itself
to us at any one time. Our availability to Being is always partial,
and therefore, the unconcealing of Being is also a concealing.
We are always faced with a ‘hidden dimension’ in our
encounters with all beings. Because of this, our knowledge of
the Being of things is unlimited; indeed, it is infinite, and for
that reason there can be no limit to our knowledge of the Being
of beings. This idea bore particular fruit in the work of Derrida,
whose deconstructionism posited that no one approach to or
reading of a text could possibly disclose the entirety of its
meaning. There was undisclosed discord between what was
revealed and what was concealed and this discord enable
virtually an endless number of readings just as artists and poets
could disclose endless aspects of the Being of beings. A final
disclosure or reading is an impossibility.
In Heidegger’s view, the arts, above all poetry and painting
disclose the Being of beings; the artist “speaks ... in a
nonsubjective, Being-attuned voice.”93 Art, has a deep
epistemological function, it “puts us in touch ... with a truth
that we cannot attain otherwise than through art.”94
The Greeks called the unconcealedness of beings aletheia.
We say “truth” and think little enough in using this word.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
If there occurs in the work a disclosure of a particular
being, disclosing what and how it is, then there is here an
occurring, a happening of truth at work .. Some particular
entity ... comes in the work to stand in the light of its
being. The being of the being comes into the steadiness of
its shining.95
Thus, the artist rather than the scientist is in a unique
position to lead us to the truth of Being. S/he is the one who
can “get men to think about the involvement of Being in human
nature.”96
However, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the poet
has primary status for Heidegger because of the role that
language plays in constituting man (Dasein): “discourse is
constitutive for Dasein’s existence”97 Language is not just a
clear medium for representing things or ideas. Rather,
[l]anguage is a totality of words – a totality in which
discourse has a ‘worldly’ Being of its own; and as an entity
within-the-world, this totality thus becomes something
which we may come across ready-to-hand.98
Because language is encountered like other beings in the
world, it has a “ ‘worldly’ Being of its own”, it can act on us and
shape i.e. ‘constitute’ our existence in a variety of ways.
Fulfilling this function makes it impossible that language is
merely representational of things or ideas, which in turn means
that language, as a medium with a character of its own, cannot
point us to any transcendental, absolute truths somehow apart
from this world. Here we can already observe the first rejection
of what postmodernists call “representationalism.” Failure to
appreciate this aspect of language leads to a “metaphysics of
presence” i.e. the belief that through the clear medium of
language we can attain and perceive the presence of thins as
they really are.
6. Jean-Francois Lyotard
Jean-Francois Lyotard (1924 – 1998), one of the premier
philosophers of the postmodern movement, is best known for
his book The Postmodern Condition which first brought the
term ‘postmodern’ into common usage. This book, containing
in seminal form most of the later developments of his thought,
provides on of the most frequently quoted definitions of
postmodernism: “I define postmodern as incredulity toward
metanarratives.”99 By “metanarratives,” (also called “grand

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
narrative[s]”100), Lyotard means those ‘stories’ or intellectual
frameworks by which we interpret the world and our activities
and thereby provide meaning for the whole and give certain data
the status of being facts, truths or real knowledge. For example,
Marxism supplied revolutionaries around the world with a
metanarrative encompassing the behavior of matter i.e.
dialectical materialism, as well as the nature, direction and
future outcome of human history, i.e. historical materialism.
The Enlightenment metanarrative concerned the gradual
triumph of reason over irrationality and the progress of
humankind not only in scientific knowledge but also in the
progress towards rational freedom and a tolerant society. The
Christian metanarrative tells the story of humankind’s fall from
grace and its redemption by Christ Whose word must be spread
throughout the world.
All of these metanarratives offer a complete or total vision
by which all possible human action may be interpreted and/or
judged and for this reason Lyotard describes them as a “project
of totalization.”101 The connotation of ‘totalitarian’ is fully
intended by Lyotard who even describes metanarratives as
“terrorist”102 because they can be used to “eliminate[] or
threaten[] to eliminate, a player [point of view, culture] from
the language game one shares with them.”103 From another
perspective we might say that one of the tasks of a
metanarrative is the “legitimation of knowledge,”104 which is to
say that the metanarrative provides the foundational principles
by which to distinguish ‘real knowledge’ from error, folklore,
myth or the babblings of the insane. Thus, the metanarrative
becomes the gatekeeper of knowledge – and, by extension, the
guardian of crucial binary oppositions necessary for a system of
thought or social system to maintain itself. Examples of such
binary oppositions are order / disorder; sane / insane; noumenal
/ phenomenal; true / untrue; competent / incompetent;
knowledge / superstition; rational / irrational and primitive /
civilized. By means of these oppositions, metanarratives take on
a prescriptive function not only for individuals but for entire
societies who must conduct themselves personally and/or
collectively to its standards which are enforced not just by
institutions but by all those who accept the metanarrative.
Lyotard (like Foucault) of course believes this prescriptive
function
imprisons
us
and
the
“incredulity
toward
metanarratives”105 is a means of freeing ourselves from their
rule. For Lyotard, this means freeing ourselves from modernity
which “is identified with modern reason, Enlightenment,
totalizing thought and philosophies of history.”106 Lyotard

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
“rejects notions of universalist and foundational theory as well
as claims that one method or set of concepts has privileged
status.”107
In The Post Modern Condition Lyotard also explains his
views in terms of “language games”108 i.e. systems of discourse
or utterance working on the basis of certain rules that “are the
objects of a contract, explicit or not, between the players.”109
Without these rules (which may have been inherited) there is no
game. In the language game every utterance is a “move.”110 Each
metanarrative, each culture and subculture plays its own
language game; indeed, “language games are the minimum
relation required for society to exist”111 – a statement indicating
that societies and language games are absolute correlatives.
Concepts and statements only have meaning within the context
of a particular game and each game must “privilege certain
classes of statements ... whose predominance characterizes the
discourse of the particular institution.”112 The postmodern
“incredulity towards metanarrative” in favour of the “little
narrative [petit recit]”113 i.e. the limited narrative without
universal claims or implications, leads inevitably to the
fragmentation of language games and the elimination of
metanarratives. In the words of critic and philosopher Terry
Eagleton, “Postmodernism, then, is wary of History but
enthusiastic on the whole about history.”114
Lyotard takes particular aim at the metanarrative of science
which he portrays as one language game among others without
any special or privileged status in the quest for knowledge:
“[t]he game of science is ... put on par with the others.”115 In his
view, both science and “non-scientific (narrative) knowledge”116
i.e. rationality and narrative operate on the basis of different
rules, and what is a good “move” in one game is not necessarily
“good” in the other. Consequently
[i]t is therefore impossible to judge the existence or
validity of narrative knowledge. On the basis of scientific
knowledge and vice versa: the relevant criteria are
different. All we can do is gaze in wonderment at the
diversity of discursive species ... 117
Elsewhere he says, “science plays its own game; it is incapable
of legitimating other language games”118; indeed, it cannot even
legitimate itself since like any other language game it cannot
demonstrate the truth of its own ground rules which are simply
“the object of consensus.”119 The rules are accepted not because
they are true but because we happen to agree on them. Very

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
clearly, Lyotard does not privilege rationality in the quest for
knowledge.
7. Jacques Derrida
Jacques Derrida (1930 – 2004) is the originator of
deconstructionism, perhaps the most influential version of
postmodernist philosophy developed so far. According to
Jonathan Culler, one of deconstruction’s foremost expositors
To deconstruct a discourse [text] is to show how it
undermines the philosophy it asserts, or the hierarchical
oppositions on which it relies by identifying in the text the
rhetorical operations that produce the supposed ground of
argument, the key concept or premise.120
In other words, in some way, every text undermines or
subverts itself and thus destabilises any attempt to find in it a
final, fixed, permanent meaning It is important to note that this
subversion occurs from within. As Derrida says,
The movements of deconstruction do not destroy
structures from the outside. They are not possible and
effective nor can they take accurate aim except by
inhabiting those structures ... Operating necessarily from
the inside, borrowing all the strategic and economic
resources of subversion from the old structure ... 121
The text subverts or works against itself through its choice
of words and phrases, the ambiguity of some words and phrases,
rhetorical devices and/or imagery. Perhaps the best known
example of this procedure is “Plato’s Pharmacy,” in which
Derrida explores Plato’s “”Phaedrus”:
The word pharmakon [remedy] is caught in a chain of
significations. The play of that chain seems systematic.
But the system here is not, simply, that of the intentions
of an author who goes by the name of Plato.122
However, as Derrida points out, pharmakon means not only
‘remedy’ but also ‘poison’ not to mention ‘spell’ or ‘drug’ (as in
hallucinogen) and this “chain of significations” serves to
destabilise any simplistic interpretation of the text. Writing,
which Thoth had introduced as a remedy for humankind’s poor
memory, is also a ‘poison’ that weakens memory, and may cast a
‘spell’ over us by making us think we have understood an idea
when we have not.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
If the pharmakon is “ambivalent,” it is because it
constitutes the medium in which opposites are opposed,
the movement and the play that links them among
themselves, reverses them or makes one side cross over
into the other (body/soul, good/evil, inside/outside,
memory/forgetfulness,
speech/writing,
etc)...
The
pharmakon is the movement, the locus and the play: (the
production of) difference.123
Each reading of ‘pharmacy’ evokes another, often contrary
meaning; we recognize the difference between ‘remedy’ and
‘poison’ and in choosing one, even if only for a moment, we
‘defer’ the other meanings which, despite being deferred, help
complete our understanding of the text. These other meanings
are referred to as ‘supplements,’ (Derrida who is very inventive
in coining new terms for his concepts and often has several
terms for identical concepts.) This process of recognizing
difference and deferring Derrida calls “difference” (note the
spelling) and in his view every text is an endless play of
‘differance’ as we defer, or temporarily push into the
background, the meanings of various words. Each of these
deferred meanings helps complete the full meaning of a word
and for that reason, “The play of the supplement is
indefinite.”124 Derrida makes the same point by stating that
“writing structurally carries within itself (counts-discounts) the
process of its own erasure and annulation...”125 By “erasure”
Derrida does not mean that one meaning of a word is absolutely
excluded but rather that we read a word with awareness of all its
other potential meanings instead of privileging one, usually
conventional, meaning over all the others. We read the word
with all of its meanings, aware of the ambiguity this causes in
our understanding of the text itself.
To the objection that such supplementation is simply an
arbitrary and extraneous addition to what is clearly the author’s
intention, Derrida replies
Certain forces of association unite – at diverse distances,
with different strengths and according to disparate paths –
the words “actually present” in a discourse with all the
other words in the lexical system whether or not they
appears as “words ...126
This claim is based on Derrida’s belief – derived from
Saussure – that meanings of words are not given by
“transcendental”, i.e. extra-linguistic reference to the outside
world but only by their relationship to other words. The

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
signifier does not receive its meaning from the external or
‘transcendental’ signified; there is no longer a direct relationship
between them and we can no longer claim that signifier = the
signified. Instead of referring to an external, ‘transcendental’
signified, the signifier refers us – endlessly as it turns out – to
other words in the linguistic system. Thus, language, statements,
propositions are not reflections of an external or transcendental
reality but only reflect the various “plays” of meaning within a
linguistic system. After all, each word is, ultimately related to
every other word and its meaning depends on the “play of
differences within that system.”127 The meaning of each word is
“inter-textualized”128 with all the others so that each bears a
“trace” of all other words. For that reason there is no inside our
outside of a text: “We do not believe that there exists, in all
rigor, a Platonic text closed upon itself complete with its inside
and its outside.”129 Simply using words that are part of a
language system ensures that the text is in some way influenced
by all these other meanings and that these other meanings may
play some role in the understanding of the text. This presence
yet simultaneous absence of these other meanings is called the
“trace”. The scope of these traces is endless, for which reason
Derrida says, “There is nothing outside of the text”130
beyond and behind what one believes can be circumscribed
as [a] text, there has never been anything but writing;
there have never been anything but supplements,
substitutive significations, which could only come forth in
a chain of differential references, the “real” supervening,
and being added only while taking on meaning from the
trace and from an invocation of the supplement etc. And
thus to infinity.”131
Derrida
also
approaches
the
subject
of
endless
supplementation from the perspective of “play” by which he
means a word’s ‘give’ or tolerance for variation of meanings
and suggestions: “Play is always the play of absence and
presence”132 of all possible traces (of other meanings) which he
also describes as a “field of infinite substitutions.”133 In
addition, Derrida defines play as “the absence of the
transcendental signified as limitlessness of play, that is to say, as
the destruction of ontotheology and the metaphysics of
presence.”134 This simply means that there is no pre-existing
essential meaning in a text i.e. no “transcendental signified”,
that waits us to perceive and understand it, that exists before us
and even without us, and that becomes ‘present’ to us when we
think
‘correctly.’
This
pre-existing,
unconstructed

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
“transcendental signified” can also be referred to as “an
invariable presence – eidos, arche, telos, energia, ousia (essence,
existence, substance, subject) aletheia [disclosure, revelation of
truth], transcendentality, consciousness, God, man and so
forth.”135 The “metaphysics of presence” and “ontotheology” are
the product of thinking in terms of such pre-existent, invariable
and self-sufficient essences. Such thinking is deceptive because
it fails to take into account the ambiguities of meaning revealed
by the “play” of substitutions, supplements and traces which
makes the existence of such independent and self-sufficient
meanings (and entities) a chimera. It leads to the dangerous
delusion that some of us actually know the complete and final
truth about something, have privileged knowledge, are
privileged knowers or have privileged methods of accessing
certain knowledge. This, in turn, leads us to marginalise,
disregard or even oppress other kinds of knowledge and other
ways of knowing. Such is already the case with western
philosophy vis-à-vis non-western philosophy.136 Finally, it
should be noted that in this view, a text has no meaning before
anyone has interpreted it.137 There is no truth outside of or
transcendental to, the interpretation and telling.
Another important aspect of Derrida’s deconstructionism is
what he calls “logocentrism,”138 a complex word rooted in the
Greek ‘logos’ which means not only ‘word’ but also ‘truth’ or
‘reason.’ According to Derrida, all philosophy since the time of
Plato has been the “epoch of the logos”139 and one project of
deconstruction is to undermine the domination of logocentrism
in western thought. In its simplest terms, logocentrism assumes
that at the centre of any concept is a meaning or essence that
exists before the construction of its meaning and is
undeconstructible
in
itself.
This
unconstructed
and
undeconstructible essence, is ‘transcendent’ to its embodiment
in language, i.e. is not dependent on its linguistic embodiment
for its meaning, i.e. is self-sufficient and complete in what it
means. Our understanding of a concept is true insofar as it
corresponds to this “transcendental signified” which “in and of
itself, in its essence, would refer to no signifier [word in the
linguistic system], would exceed the chain of signs and would
no
longer
as
itself
function
as
a
signifier.”140
This
“transcendental signified” also serves as a guarantee for the
fixed meanings of the words we employ. Derrida states that he
has “identified logocentrism and the metaphysics of presence as
the exigent, powerful, systematic, and irrepressible desire for
such a signified.”141 The “metaphysics presence” is that
philosophical thinking which is interested in defining the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
ultimate self-sufficient meanings of terms such as God, Reality,
Truth, Matter, Mind, Consciousness, Time and Self and resists
the conclusion that these, like all other words, are undecidable.
These, like the Biblical “Logos”142 precede any human perception
of their meaning, and the aim of the metaphysics of presence is
to make their true meaning present to us through language.
However, for deconstructionism this is a hopeless quest because
the meaning of these words is undecidable: “meaning cannot be
held in any individual sign since it is always deferred due to the
fact that every sign is a signifier whose signified is another
signifier.”143 As Derrida puts it, “The play of differences
supposes, in effect, syntheses and referrals which forbid at any
moment or in any sense that a simple element [meaning] be
present in and of itself, referring only to itself.”144
Derrida also rejects logocentrism and the metaphysics of
presence for their dependence on oppositional binaries which
privilege one side over the other. Examples of such oppositional
binaries
are
God/creation;
Truth/untruth;
Good/evil;
Justice/injustice;
rational/irrational;
Being/nothingness;
Mind/matter and Self/not-self.145 Since the meanings of these
binaries are, in the last analysis, undecidable, there is no
justification for privileging one of the pair and marginalising
the other.
Derrida maintains that logocentrism and the metaphysics of
presence have an enormously negative impact on culture and
human behavior. Nowhere is this made more clear than in his
essay “Violence and Metaphysics: An Essay on the Thought of
Emmanuel Levinas.”
Although ostensibly about Levinas’ philosophy, the essay also
serves to outline Derrida’s views about problems with
phenomenology146 and ontology147 both of which are largely
concerned with the essences of things, that is, those necessary
qualities which a thing must have to be the kind of thing it is.
Thus, they focus on kinds more than on individuals, for which
reason Derrida says, Incapable of respecting the Being and
meaning of the other, phenomenology and ontology would be
philosophies of violence. Through them, the entire philosophical
tradition, in its meaning and at bottom, would make common
cause with oppression and with the totalitarianism of the
same.148
In short, metaphysics does not respect the other as other but
seeks to incorporate or appropriate it in some way, forgetting
that “[t]he infinitely-other cannot be bound by a concept.”149

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
The other can never be reduced to common denominators or
subsumed by a general concept of ‘essence’: “the other is the
other only if his alterity is absolutely irreducible.”150 Reducing
the other to a common essence is a form of violence that
inevitably breeds a violent frame of mind and violent discourse
and finally physical violence.
8. Michel Foucault
Like Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault (1926-1984) has been
enormously influential in fields outside of his specialities of
philosophy and social history. His writings cover such diverse
topics as the social construction of madness151 and sexuality152,
methods in historiography153, penology154, the nature of power
and discourse. He has had an incalculable effect on cultural
studies, political theory, feminism and sociology.155 It should be
noted that there is a certain amount of debate over whether or
not Foucault is a postmodernist but it is our view that he shares
so many relevant fundamental characteristics with Kant,
Nietzsche, Heidegger, Lyotard and Derrida, that his own refusal
of the label notwithstanding, he is a part of this movement.156
Like Lyotard, Foucault rejects the concept of “grand
narratives”, i.e. he does not believe that it is possible to write
generalized histories that covers all aspects of a particular
civilization. He spells this out clearly in The Archaeology of
Knowledge:
the theme and possibility of a total history begins to
disappear ... The project of a total history is one that seeks
to reconstitute the overall form of a civilization, the
principle – material or spiritual – of a society, the
significance common to all the phenomena of a period, the
law that accounts for their cohesion ...157
Rather, he proposes what he calls “the new history”158 which
pays more attention to “discontinuity”159, to the “series,
divisions, limits, differences of level, shifts, chronological
specificities, particular forms of rehandling, possible types of
relation.”160 Just as Derrida proclaims the necessity of
subverting any authoritative reading of a text, Foucault believes
that “the tranquility with which they [the usual historical
narratives driven by grand themes] are received must be
disturbed”161 by renounc[ing] all those themes whose function is
to ensure infinite continuity of discourse.”162 Historical
discourse must be broken up into what Lyotard calls “little
narratives” or petits recits because only when previously glossed

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
over differences become apparent will new fields of research be
visible and available for investigation. We will become aware of
discrepancies and differences that have been covered up by large
sweeping unifying concepts and no longer lose sight of subtle
but important shifts in meaning and usage. Each concept,
person and event must be understood in terms of its exact
specificity in time, place and culture.
Thus, Foucault’s historiography not only stresses breaks and
discontinuities rather than grand similarities, changes in ideas
and practices rather than extended homogeneities, but also what
he calls the “epistemes” in which knowledge, envisaged apart
from all criteria having reference to its rational value or to its
objective forms grounds its positivity , and thereby manifests a
history which is not that of its growing perfection, but rather
that of its conditions of possibility ... such an enterprise is not
so much a history, in the traditional meaning of the word, as an
‘archaeology.’163
In other words, the episteme is the ‘soil’ from which
‘vegetation’ of ideas, behaviors, experiences, customs and
beliefs grows; it makes all these things possible and, at the same
time, establishes their character and limitations. Epistemes are
“the fundamental codes of a culture.”164 According to Foucault,
an episteme
in a given period delimits in the totality of the experience
a field of knowledge, defines the mode of being of the
objects that appear in the field, provides man’s everyday
perception with theoretical powers, and defines the
conditions in which he can sustain a discourse about things
that is recognised to be true.165
Thus, an episteme determines truth, meaning, identity, value
and reality at a specific time and place. People need not even be
consciously aware of the episteme or its power in their lives
even though it creates the environment or context in which
individuals think, feel, evaluate, behave and speak; it controls
what can be said and understood as meaningful. Great social,
cultural and intellectual changes are the result of changes in the
underlying episteme. Archaeologies study these epistemes
strictly for themselves but cannot draw any universal
conclusions about ‘humankind’ or other epistemes from such
examinations. This limitation is necessary because there is a
sharp break or caesura between epistemes, i.e. “caeseuralism.”
166 That is why, according to Foucault, archaeologies are more
accurate accounts of studying the past: they are not “not

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
seduced by the mythology of a prevailing narrative”167 or “grand
narrative” that purports to provide a single overview of
developments across several epistemes. Nor do archaeologies
assume there are bridges of influence between epistemes, which
is why, according to Foucault, “Archaeology does not seek to
rediscover the continuous, insensible transition that relates
discourses [epistemes].”168 This view also makes any notion of
progress impossible because there is no universal standard by
which to measure such ‘progress.’ If epistemes and their
products are not comparable, we can only say that one episteme
is different from another, but not more advanced. Foucault
makes this rejection of progress clear when he writes, “The
history of sciences is not the history of the true, of its slow
epiphany; it cannot hope to recount the gradual discovery of a
truth.”169
Changes in an episteme or changes from one episteme to
another result in a revolution in perception and understanding:
“ ‘things simply cease, all of a sudden, to be ‘perceived,
described, expressed, characterised, classified and known in the
same way as before.’ ”170 It is as if we were transplanted into a
wholly new world which bears no significant comparison to the
old. This why there are no bridges between epistemes.171 To
highlight the revolutionary and world-altering changes between
epistemes, Foucault often makes such startling statements as
“man is only a recent invention”172 and
[b]efore the end of the eighteenth century, man did not
exist ... He is a quite recent creature, which the demiurge
of knowledge fabricated with its own hands less than two
hundred years ago: but he has grown so quickly that it has
been only too easy to imagine that he has been waiting for
thousands of years in the darkness for that moment in
which he would be known.173
What he means is that the way ‘man’ or humankind is
conceived of in the modern episteme is not the same as the
conception of man in the ancient Greek or Renaissance or
Classical (Enlightenment) episteme. Each of these epistemes
constituted ‘man’ in its own way. In Foucault’s view, ‘man’
appears only at the beginning of the nineteenth century (at the
end of the Classical age) with the full realization of human
finitude in its physical and contingent existence, as well as the
realization that ‘man’ is part of an episteme in which the
primary category is dynamic history and development rather
than static order.174 Modernity discovers “man’ in his
finitude,”175 which is to say,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Modernity begins when the human being begins to exist
within his organism, inside the shell of his head, the
armature of his limbs,, and the whole structure of his
physiology; when he begins to exist at the centre of a
labour by whose principles he is governed ...176
What is obvious here is that the transcendent dimension has
been stripped from life in modernity and this throws an
ominous light on man’s discovery of his “finitude.” He finds
himself “dominated by life, history and language”177 instead of
by transcendents like God, spirit, immortality and eternity, as
was the case with Renaissance humanism and Classical
rationalism. Enclosed in worldly existence, and more forcefully
than ever before, man becomes aware of “the threatening
rumble of his non-existence”178 and discovers both within and
outside himself “an element of darkness,”179 as a kind of Other,
the “unthought”180 that is an inescapable twin to his being.
To know man boiled down to grasping the determinations
of concrete human existence in the facts of life, labour
and language, all of which mould man even before his
birth as an individual.181
Furthermore, this immersion in the empirical and material
had a problem, namely that it was impossible to have empirical
knowledge without recognising that reason is, at least to a
certain degree, transcendent to the empirical facts. If it were
not, how could it serve as a standard to supply and apply
criteria of judgment, distinguish truth from error and the
rational from the irrational? Thus, modern man appears divided
between the empirical and the transcendent i.e. is an “empirico-
transcendent doublet.”182 This is why man in the modern
episteme is subject to deep self-misunderstanding, always torn
between two poles of his being.
In addition to the archaeology of knowledge which concerned
itself with systems of discourse, Foucault also developed a
method called “genealogy” whose purpose was to explain how
changes occurred within an episteme and how one episteme
changed into another. However, while archaeology focussed on
the ruling or dominant episteme, the genealogy also looked to
marginalised knowledge or knowledge about marginalised
subjects that were often in conflict with the ruling episteme.
Genealogies up-set (or as Derrida says, “subvert”) the
established hierarchies and show how this marginalised or
subjugated knowledge interacts with and influences the ruling
episteme. It also pays special attention to the accidents,

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
coincidences, tricks, mistakes, unforeseen “eruptions” and
arbitrary actions that have effected the history of an idea or
episteme in order to show that development is never simply a
smooth, orderly development:
The forces operating in history do not obey destiny or
regulative mechanism, but the luck of the battle.
[Nietzsche, Genealogy of Morals, II, 12] They do not
manifest the successive forms of a primordial intention
and their attention is not always that of a conclusion, for
they always appear through the singular randomness of
events ... the world of effective history knows only one
kingdom, without providence or final cause where there is
only “the iron hand of necessity shaking the dice-box of
chance” ... Effective history, on the other hand shortens
its vision to those things nearest to it – the body, the
nervous system, nutrition, digestion, and energies; it
unearths decadence ... [history] should become a
differential knowledge of energies, failings, heights and
degenerations, poisons and antidotes.... The final trait of
effective history is its affirmation of perspectival
knowledge ...183
This quotation makes four things clear. First, Foucault does
not believe that there is any dominant pattern, intentionality
(divine or otherwise), plan, “final cause,” order or logic to
history. Second, chance and the “randomness of events” are the
‘reasons’ various historical developments take place. This makes
the whole notion of progress problematical.184 Indeed, as already
indicated, Foucault does not believe in progress from one
episteme to another but only in their succession. Third,
Foucault sees history as influenced by seemingly insignificant or
even ‘shameful’ actions and events, by our physiological
attributes which is to say by the ‘marginal’, shunted aside as
unworthy. Fourth, our knowledge of history is perspectival, i.e.
always based on our own position in our own native episteme;
this means that an ‘objective’ view is unattainable.
A fundamental question about Foucault’s epistemes is
whether or not they can admit the actual existence of ‘things’
prior to discourse in an episteme? In terms we have already used
for Derrida, can things be external to or transcendental to the
episteme in which they are constituted?
Is there a ‘God’, or a ‘soul’ that exists prior to and
independently of a word/concept with a place in an episteme or
are all these things human constructions? In Kantian terms,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
which readily spring to mind here, are there noumena which our
epistemes (or transcendental egos) constitute as phenomenal
reality? According to Darren Hynes, “For Foucault, any word-
referent has no concreteness, nor is there a reality which
precedes
discourse
and
reveals
itself
to
discursive
perception.”185 Here, too, Foucault agrees with Derrida. Indeed,
how could Foucault concern himself with anything which exists
prior to its place in the discursive structure of an episteme?
How would one be able to speak about it? Furthermore, if such
transcendent entities existed, they would threaten one of the
fundamental principles of archaeological and genealogical
analysis, namely, that no episteme, no viewpoint is privileged
over any other. If there is a transcendent reference – be it God,
or an a-historical essence which is endures through successive
epistemes – then it follows that the signifiers of some epistemes
will correspond more accurately in some way than others to the
original, transcendent signified. Not only would this violate his
goal of providing a non-hierarchical view of different
epistemes, but it would also violate the principle that
comparisons across epistemes are not possible. As well, it means
that there exists, even if only in principle, an ‘Archimedean
standpoint’ – for example God’s viewpoint as revealed through
His Manifestations - outside of the various epistemes from
which we can obtain objective knowledge, i.e. knowledge free
of all epistemes. In a word, the existence of things before their
‘naming’ in an episteme would be a revival of essentialism – a
belief in independently existing (transcendental) entities with
unchanging, historically unconditioned essences – a concept
impossible for Foucault’s archaeologies and genealogies to
accommodate.
Any attempt to write or speak about the nature [essence]
of things is made from within a rule-governed linguistic
framework, an ‘episteme’ that pre-determines what kinds
of statements are true or meaningful ... There is no
absolute, unconditioned, transcendental stance from
which to grasp what is good, right or true. Foucault
refuses to specify what is true because there are no
objective grounds for knowledge ... 186
Foucault’s suspicion of the concept of an inherent nature or
essence is also evident when he says history teaches us that
“behind things [there is] not a timeless essential secret but the
secret that they have no essence.”187 This is emphasised by his
statement that he is “suspicious of the notion of liberation”188
because “it runs the risk of falling back on the idea that there

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
exists a human nature”189 which somehow exists ‘apart’ from us
and which we can rediscover and regain. He rejects the existence
of any such essence or nature. For Foucault, it makes no sense
to talk of anything outside of or ‘underneath’ or transcendent
to an episteme, which is to say that until a thing is constituted
by human beings, it makes no sense to talk of it as ‘existing.’
Indeed, his goal is
[t]o define these objects without reference to the ground,
the foundation of things, but by relating them to the body
of rules that enable them to form objects of discourse and
thus constitute the conditions of their historical
appearance.”190
Elsewhere he says that the object “does not pre-exist
itself,”191 which is to say, it does not exist before discourse. This
even applies to the human subject who does not transcend the
episteme in which s/he dwells; s/he is a product of the episteme
as much as anything else.
The radical nature of this rejection of natures or essences
prior to being constituted becomes apparent when applied to
gender, race, health, sanity or even human life.192 All essentialist
definitions of these terms are pure historical constructs valid
for a particular episteme but have no universal validity. In the
field of gender this means that there is no universal definition
of what constitutes a woman or man and all such definitions
should be resisted as unjustly imprisoning us. This rejection of a
‘human nature’ or essence extends to the ‘self.’ According to
Foucault’s philosophy, what we mean by ‘self’ or ‘subject’
varies from one episteme to another, which is to say that the
‘self’ is historically contingent product and no one analysis of
the self can lead to universal conclusions. In other words, all
concepts of self are context-bound and there simply is no
stable, universal ‘core’ or essence constituting the self. Like
everything else, the self is merely “a passing historical
invention”193 and is no more stable than concepts of male and
female, justice, race, rationality or beauty. In the words of
Danaher, Schirato and Webb,
Rather than being the free and active organisers of society,
we are the products of discourses and power relations, and take
on different characteristics according to the range of subject
positions that are possible in our socio-historical context.194
We are products of the “games of truth”195 that constitute
any given episteme also compose the self and from this it

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
follows that the self cannot pre-exist the episteme or society of
which it is a part. For this reason, the self “is not a substance. It
is a form and this form is not primarily or always identical to
itself.”196 This statement makes two noteworthy points. First,
that the self is not a substance means that there is no persisting
essence to which the concept refers and which it can reflect.
Second, even within itself, the self constantly changes in regards
to itself as it engages in different activities and relationships. As
a “political subject”197 at a meeting or in the voting booth we
relate to ourselves in a different form than we do as a caring
spouse or parent. One might well describe this self as ‘de-
centered’ because there does not seem to be anything – no
essence, no substance, no transcendent soul – to focus the
various relationships and holding them together other than the
contingencies of time and place. At most it is “a form” but
what such a form that is not even “identical to itself” is
supposed to be is not at all clear.
From this it is clear that Foucault’s concept of the self is not
the single, unitary self that we find in the philosophy of
Descartes or in Kant’s transcendental subject of unity of
apperception which is the basis of our personal consciousness,
that which allows us to say ‘I’. One might also say that Foucault
rejects the “idea of the self-governing subject”198 since the self
is constituted and controlled by the varying discourses and
“games of truth” making up the episteme it inhabits. “We are
the products of discourses and power relations, and take on
different characteristics according to the range of subject
positions that are possible in our socio-historical context.”199
Obviously there is no special need for consistency in such a
concept of self. Best and Kellner sum up this aspect of
Foucault’s thought by saying that “Foucault rejects the active
subject and welcomes the emerging postmodern era as a positive
event where the denuding of agency occurs and new forms of
thought can emerge.”200
Another
consequence
of
Foucault’s
archaeology
and
genealogy is epistemological relativism which follows from his
belief that epistemes are compartmentalized and that we cannot
make evaluations and judgments across differing epistemes.
Their discourse is too different; appearances of similarity
notwithstanding, there are inevitably important breaks and
dislocations of meaning that cannot simply be glossed over. We
have no way of asserting the universal validity of any so-called
truth because there is no universal standard by which to make
any judgments about the truth or untruth of propositions

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
found in various epistemes. How could such a standard exist
when all such standards are themselves bound to some particular
episteme? All we can do instead of making judgments is to note
differences and changes, and express our own preferences or
even try to enforce them. In this situation, there cannot, as
already noted, be any notion of progress through a succession
of epistemes. Nor can there be any question of a universally
valid hierarchy of ethical actions with some being preferable to
others since there can be no universal standard by which to
make such decisions.
Foucault’s epistemological relativism is reinforced by his
suspicion of the Enlightenment and reason. According to
Foucault, his ethos “implies, first, the refusal of what I like to
call the ‘blackmail’ of the Enlightenment.”201 As Best and
Kellner inform us, “Foucault draws upon an anti-Enlightenment
tradition that rejects the equation of reason, emancipation, and
progress.”202 Reason cannot be taken as a guide to universal
knowledge because reason itself is simply one particular kind of
discourse with a particular – western – episteme; it is an
invention like all the others and no more or less reliable than
any other.
I do not believe in a kind of founding act whereby reason,
in its essence, was discovered or established ... I think, in
fact, that reason is self-created, which is why I have tried
to analyse forms of rationality: different foundations, dif-
ferent creations, different modifications in which rational-
ities engender one another, oppose and pursue one another203
In short, reason is thoroughly historical:
What reason perceives as its necessity or, rather, what
different forms of rationality offer as necessary being can
perfectly well be shown to have a history; and the network
of contingencies from which it emerges can be traced.204
That is why “no given form of rationality is actually reason.”205
From this view it follows that reason cannot provide universally
valid knowledge. One might argue that it is difficult even to
know what the words ‘reason’ or ‘knowledge’ can mean in
Foucault’s philosophy since both refer only to what the
episteme has constituted or constructed, and thus, could
conceivably mean anything at all. Foucault mitigates this
argument somewhat by stating that their meaning is based on
human practice throughout history – but he does admit “that
since these things have been made, they can be unmade as long

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
as we know how it was they were made.”206 In other words, in
the last analysis, there are few limits on the future development
of the concept of reason showing that the original critique has
some force.
For Foucault, the analysis of reason is closely tied to the
subjects of truth or knowledge and power. Truth may differ
from one episteme to another, but within each episteme each
truth is part of a system of power:
[T]ruth isn’t outside power or lacking power ... truth isn’t
the reward of free spirits, the child of protracted solitude
... Truth is a thing of this world: it is produced only by
virtue of multiple forms of constraint ... Each society has
its regime of truth, its “general politics” of truth – that is,
the types of discourse it accepts and makes function as
true; the mechanisms and instances that enable one to
distinguish true and false statements; the means by which
each is sanctioned; the techniques and procedures accorded
value in the acquisition of truth; the status of those who
are charged with saying what counts as true.207

This quotation, which encapsulates much of Foucault’s
thought on this subject, shows that truth is closely linked to the
power to control the discourse of a particular episteme by
distinguishing true from false, acceptable from unacceptable
evidence, high status from low status and legitimate from
illegitimate methods of gathering truth. This makes it clear that
all concepts of truth are exclusionary and marginalising, and
violent by nature because they can dominate other versions of
truth under a particular “regime of truth.” In other words, truth
is a matter of cultural and epistemological politics not merely a
matter of objective discovery and rational evaluation.
Moreover, because the social status of those who determine
truth is high, truth tends to become the property of a particular
class and can be manipulated to serve its interests.
Another important aspect of truth or knowledge is that they
are linked to the will-to-power, i.e. and the will-to-truth and the
will-to-power are closely correlated which is why Foucault says
that we cannot liberate truth from systems of power: “truth is
already power.”208 As J.G. Merquior writes, for Foucault, “all
will to truth is already a will-to-power.”209 This is because for a
claim to be recognised as ‘true’ means that it has already
triumphed over its rivals and excluded them or marginalised
them as ‘untrue’ or ‘mythology’ or ‘superstition’. Foucault
himself states the matter even more sharply:

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
The historical analysis of this rancorous will to knowledge
[vouleur-savior] reveals that all knowledge [connaissance]
rests upon injustice (that there is no right, not even in the
act of knowing truth, to truth or a foundation for truth.),
and the instinct for knowledge malicious ( something
murderous, opposed to the happiness of mankind).210
Elsewhere he even claims that knowledge “creates a
progressive
enslavement
to
its
instinctive
violence.”211
Foucault’s beliefs lead to the conclusion that the claim to know
the truth is also, in effect, a claim to power, i.e. a claim to
domination over others and competing truth claims. Best and
Kellner summarise Foucault’s beliefs by writing,
Against modern theories that see knowledge as neutral and
objective
(positivism)
or
emancipatory
(Marxism),
Foucault emphasizes that knowledge is in dissociable from
from
regimes
of
power.
His
concept
of
‘power/knowledge’ is symptomatic of the postmodern
suspicion of reason and the emancipatory schemes
advanced in its name.212
Foucault believes that knowledge “has the power to make
itself true”213 insofar as it constrains and regulates our thoughts,
feelings, actions and even laws. What is certainly clear is that
for Foucault the notion of a disinterested, objective, neutral
and pure truth is at best a naïve fiction but more likely a ruse to
trick one’s rivals into quitting the contest for power.
9. Richard Rorty (1931 - 2007)
Although he prefers to call himself a pragmatist,214 the
American philosopher (or ‘anti-philosopher’ as he is sometimes
called) Richard Rorty is generally regarded as having developed
an American version of postmodernist philosophy.215 Reading
his work leaves little doubt that he shares many of
postmodernism’s principles and beliefs: the rejection of
representationalism, of realism, of “grand narratives,” and of
‘truth, rationality, essentialism, objectivity, foundationalism
and metaphysics. He would replace what is usually called
‘philosophy’ with an edifying216 conversation and an exchange
of descriptions of the world among those whose only goal is to
keep the conversation going.217 The purpose of the edifying
conversation is certainly not to find truth or rational
justification of truth since Rorty’s goal is to “radically
undermine the very basis of the dominant rationalist
approach.”218

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Rorty’s undermining of the rationalist tradition based on
Socrates and Plato begins with his rejection of the principle that
the human mind and language are mirrors whose task is to
accurately reflect or represent a pre-existent reality. The goal of
rational inquirers is to make their representations as objective
as possible, i.e. to make them correspond to reality. In this way,
we would find or discover the truth about the real world. Rorty
unambiguously rejects this referential thinking as well as its
consequences. For example, he writes,
My suggestion that the desire for objectivity is in part a
disguised form of the fear of death echoes Nietzsche’s
charge that the philosophical tradition which stems from
Plato is an attempt to avoid facing up to contingency, to
escape from time and chance.219
He sees no value in objectivity which he dismisses as wanting a
“sky-hook provided by some contemporary yet-to-be-developed
science”220 to free us from the biases of being culture-bound
because he does not think we can ever escape being imprisoned
in our cultures. Therefore,
[t]hose who wish to reduce objectivity to solidarity – call
them “pragmatists” – do not require either a metaphysics
or an epistemology. They view truths as, in William James’
phrase, what is good for us to believe. So they do not need
an account of a relation between beliefs and objects called
‘correspondence’ nor an account of human cognitive
abilities which ensures that our species is capable of
entering into that relation ...For
pragmatists,
the
desire for objectivity is not the desire to escape the
limitations of one’s community but simply the desire to
for as much intersubjective agreement as possible 221
In other words, Rorty has given up the quest for scientific
objectivity which he regards as an impossible effort to
transcend our cultural boundaries and settles for a ‘political’
goal, i.e. solidarity, i.e. he lets epistemology go for the politics
of knowledge. That is why he can say we do not “require either a
metaphysics or an epistemology.” Elsewhere he claims that the
positivists were right in seeking to “extirpate metaphysics when
‘metaphysics’ means the attempt to give knowledge of what
science cannot know,”222 i.e. knowledge that transcends
particular scientific facts – although these latter are also thrown
into question by Rorty’s views about the incommensurability of
different vocabularies or “truth games” and the need for
solidarity. The latter is also why he gives up on the

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
correspondence theory of knowledge which leads to arguments
because it maintains that some knowledge is natural “and not
merely local”223 and that some methods of justification are
natural and not merely social or cultural. Thus, it is impossible
for him to say that some knowledge is truer or reflects reality
better than other. “We must get the visual and in particular the
mirroring metaphors out of our speech altogether.”224 Making
this rejection of correspondence even more clear, he insists that
we admit that sentences are only “connected with other
sentences rather than with the world.”225 That being the case, it
follows that his pragmatism “views knowledge not as a relation
between mind and object but, roughly, as the ability to get
agreement by using persuasion rather than force.”226 If we
cannot appeal to the facts of reality for support, and if, as we
shall see, reason is only another “platitude,” then, unless we
wish to use force, we have only persuasion left.
Rorty describes himself as an “ironist”227 which is to say, he
doubts that his own particular language or vocabulary can
adequately attain truth and objectivity; he recognises that his
current philosophical language cannot resolve these doubts. He
does not think his language is closer to the truth or reality than
anyone else’s. For this reason, ironists repudiate the whole
concept of representationalism, i.e. the concept that our verbal
or mathematical descriptions of reality really represent what is
‘out there.’ Furthermore, because they realise that their
descriptions of reality are limited in descriptive capacity,
contingent and subject to constant change and or more in touch
with reality than others, ironists are “never quite able to take
themselves seriously.”228 Ironists are also people who “do not
hope to have their doubts about their final vocabularies settled
by something larger than themselves.”229 They do not look to
God or revelation nor to a supposedly universal reason or logic
nor a grand narrative to resolve their doubts. Instead, they
possess a great deal of what the poet John Keats called
“negative capability, that is, when a man is capable of being in
uncertainties, mysteries, doubts, without any irritable reaching
after fact and reason.”230 As well, ironists are nominalists, they
think “nothing has an intrinsic nature, a real essence,”231 that is
what
it
is
independently
of
human
observation
and
attribution.232 All alleged attributes are human constructions,
the products of our cultural and historical positioning and the
discourse we employ and for that reason there are no universal
characteristics of anything including human nature.233 There is
simply no way to transcend our language and culture and
compare it with ‘reality’ from some ‘Archimedean point’ to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
obtain a ‘God’s eye view’ on the world. We should simply
recognise that we cannot “come up with a single set of criteria
which everybody in all times and places can accept, invent a
single language game which can somehow take over all jobs
previously done by all the language-games ever played.”234
Rather, our particular culture and language construct what we
appear to perceive and we are locked into these constructions, a
view which was already pre-figured by Kant. Hence any
attempts to use so-called essential attributes as the basis of
universal statements are doomed; knowing this, ironists do
not take the point of discursive thought to be knowing, in
any sense that can be explicated by notions like “reality,”
“real essence,” “objective point of view,” and the
“correspondence of language of [sic] reality.” They do not
think its point is to find a vocabulary which accurately
represents something, a transparent meaning.235
At this point it comes as no surprise that Rorty describes
reason as a faculty that “can now be dispensed with – and should
be dispensed with”236 because for ironists criteria of reason, like
other criteria used for judging among descriptions of the world
“are never more than platitudes which contextually define the
terms of the final vocabulary in use.”237 These criteria are valid,
if at all, only within the language or language game in which
they are being used. Indeed, philosophy is so language and
culture dependent that according to Rorty there is no legitimate
use of the distinction “between logic and rhetoric, or between
philosophy and literature, or between rational and nonrational
methods of changing other people’s minds.”238 In this vein,
Rorty writes, On a pragmatist view, rationality is not the
exercise of a faculty called ‘reason’ – a faculty which stands in
some determinate relationship to reality, Nor is the use of a
method. It is simply a matter of being open and curious and
relying on persuasion rather than force.239
In short, ‘rational’ only means ‘persuasive.’ It is time to
realize that the Enlightenment has been “discredited.”240 There
are no necessary ‘logical’ or reasonable connections between
sentences or propositions that can require us to admit anything
we prefer not to.
On Rorty’s view, philosophy cannot be a quest for ‘truth’ or
‘true understanding’ since the most we can do is redescribe
things to our individual and/or collective liking and discuss our
various descriptions. In other words, the purpose of philosophy
is to be edifying: “I shall is ‘edification’ to stand for this project

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
of finding new, better, more interesting more fruitful ways of
speaking.”241 Edifying philosophy “takes its point of departure
from suspicion about the pretensions of epistemology,”242
which is to say that edifying philosophy is not longer interested
in attaining truth.243 Thus, rather than take part in an inquiry
for the ‘knowledge,’ “we just might be saying something”244
simply in order to “keep the conversation going rather than to
find objective truth.”245 This, for Rorty is “a sufficient aim of
philosophy.”246 At most we can strive for solidarity for in the
post-Auschwitz age: “What can there be except human
solidarity,
our
recognition
of
one
another’s
common
humanity.”?247 (It is, of course highly ironic that Rorty appeals
to our “common humanity” after having repudiated ‘essences’
and the possibility of cross-cultural universal statements.)
Given Rorty’s views, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that
philosophy is just pleasant talk, in itself of no great
consequence and remember that we can always change the
subject with no great harm done.248
Rorty emphatically rejects the notion of a “core self,”249 i.e.
the rejection of the claim that there is a human essence either
for the individual or for the species. In his view, “there is no
self distinct from this self-reweaving web”250 of muscles,
movements, beliefs and states of mind. In reflecting on these
weaving and reweaving patterns, we must
avoid taking common speech as committing one to the
view that there is, after all, such a thing as a “True Self,”
the inner core of one’s being which remains what it is
independent of changes in one’s beliefs and desires. There
is no more a center to the self than there is to the brain.251
We must not let our ordinary usage of pronouns such as ‘I’
or ‘me’ fool us into thinking there is any substantive entity that
actually corresponds to these words. All thoughts about a ‘True
Self’ or soul are delusional. We should “avoid the self-deception
of thinking that we possess a deep, hidden, metaphysically
significant nature which makes us ‘irreducibly’ different from
inkwells or atoms.”252
10. Baudrillard (1929 – 2007)
Jean Baudrillard, who has attained “guru status throughout
the English-speaking world “as a high priest of the new
epoch,”253 is in some respects the most controversial of the five
contemporary postmodernists we shall examine. Baudrillard
embodied
his
postmodern
philosophy
in
socio-cultural,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
economic and political analyses that were distinguished not only
by his challenging insights but also by his flair for startling
turns of phrase and outrageous assertions. For example, in The
Gulf War Did Not Take Place he claims that the 2001 Gulf War
was more a matter of events on TV and radar screens than a real
war in the traditional sense, that it was more a virtual war than
anything else. Elsewhere he writes, “Disneyland is there to
conceal the fact that it is the ‘real’ country, all of ‘real’
America, which is Disneyland.”254 When we look into or beneath
Baudrillard’s multifarious analyses, we find that he shares many
if not all of the same themes and views as the postmodernists we
have examined previously.
The keys to Baudrillard’s thought are the twin concepts of
simulations and simulacra. In Simulations, Baudrillard briefly
retells a Borges story of a map that is so detailed in every
respect that it covers the entire territory it is supposed to
represent and is indistinguishable from it. The map and the
territory have become one, the distinction between ‘real’ and
‘unreal’ has been blurred as has the distinction between original
and copy, natural and artificial and signifier and signified.
What, if anything, we may ask, does the map represent? And
which is the map and which is the territory when “[s]imulation is
no longer that of a territory, a referential being or a
substance.”?255 Obviously, the whole notion of representation is
no longer tenable. We must also recognise that “simulation
threatens the difference between ‘true’ and ‘false’, between
‘real’ and ‘imaginary’.”256 How could one distinguish between
them?
Other
threatened
binaries
are
cause/effect,
active/passive, subject/object and ends/means.257 The essential
natures of these categories no longer exist because they have all
been melded into one another. They have, to use Derrida’s term,
been deconstructed, i.e. it has been shown that the old notion
of distinct and stable essences making up the binary oppositions
of signifier/signified, map/territory, real/imaginary, true/false,
original/copy,
appearance/reality,
the
ideal/real
and
essential/nonessential are no longer functional with each part of
the pair blending into the other. Furthermore, if all these
essential differences no longer exist, it is impossible to be
rational since rationality depends on clear and distinct
oppositional binaries or categories of thought that allow us to
attain clear and decisive answers.
Metaphysics is also impossible according to Baudrillard. In
the first place, “truth, reference and objective causes have
ceased to exist.”258 If these three are not clearly identifiable,

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
metaphysics,
which
requires
clearly
identified
causal
relationships in its study of the structure and nature of reality,
become impossible. Secondly, if our propositions are no longer
referential and do not refer to reality, we cannot discuss reality
at all let alone decide which propositions are true; as Baudrillard
puts it: “All the referentials intermingle their discourses in a
circular Moebian compulsion259 and thus deprive reason of the
“clear and distinct ideas”260 it needs. Consequently, we can no
longer distinguish real from unreal, or appearance from reality
and with this situation
goes all of metaphysics. No more mirror of being and
appearances, of the real and its concept ... It [the real] no
longer has to be rational, since it is no longer measured
against some ideal or negative instance. It is nothing more
than operational. In fact, since it is no longer enveloped
by an imaginary [ideal], it is no longer real at all. It is
hyperreal, the product of an irradiating synthesis of
combinatory in a hyperspace without atmosphere.261
Finally, without reason or logic metaphysics is also
impossible because reason provides the rules by means of which
our propositions about reality lead to conclusions. Eventually,
Baudrillard replaced metaphysics with the satirical ‘pataphysics,’
a term borrowed from the surrealist movement, to illustrate
what happens to thought when distinctions among categories
disappear. This is why “for pataphysics all phenomena are
absolutely gaseous.”262
According to Baudrillard, the “blurring of distinctions
between the real and the unreal”263 is the “hyperreal,” which is “a
condition whereby the models replace the real, as exemplified in
such phenomena as the ideal home in women’s or lifestyle
magazines, ideal sex ... ideal fashion.”264 In each of these, the
model, the simulation determines what is regarded as real and
thus, ultimately, the simulations constitute reality. For that
reason, the power relationship between the real and unreal
simulation has been reversed, with the unreal now so much in
control that we can say that real understood in the traditional,
i.e. pre-postmodern sense no longer exists: “there is no real.”265
Because we live in such a hyperreality where the simulation
constitutes reality, Baudrillard is able to say that Disneyland is
the real America and that the 2001 Gulf War never happened
except as a television event. To our usual way of thinking this
makes no sense because the original ‘real thing’ always has
ontological priority over the any simulation but as Baudrillard
tells us, “The contradictory process of true and false, of real

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
and the imaginary is abolished in this hyperreal logic of
montage.”266 By the “logic of montage” he means the ‘logic’ of
concepts or realities which overlap and impinge on and melt
into one another, losing thereby their distinct boundaries and
with that loss, their usual rules of combination or exclusion.
Oppositional binaries such as original/copy, prior/secondary
and this/that no longer hold. “The hyperreal represents a much
more advanced phase [than modernist realism] in the sense that
even this contradiction between the real world and the
imaginary is effaced.”267 Baudrillard calls this development “the
collapse of reality into hyperrealism.”268 This development
changes our relationship to reality because “it is reality itself
that disappears utterly in the game of reality.”269 Reality
disappears in its simulations because similitude is ultimately
equivalent to the murder of the original, a nullification of
original’s unique ontological status as prior in the order of time
and logic.270
The dominance of the hyperreal has the effect of collapsing
the difference between art and reality and thus mingling the two
so that reality itself becomes a work of art:
And so art is everywhere, since artifice is at the very heart
of reality. And so art is dead, not only because its critical
transcendence [difference from reality] is gone but
because reality itself, entirely impregnated by an aesthetic
which is inseparable from its own structure, has been
confused with its own image.271
From this it follows that the binary opposition of work/play
has also been dissolved. Indeed, because of the collapse of all
binary differences, the postmodern condition “is for Baudrillard
a play with all forms of sexuality, art, and politics, combining
and recombining forms and possibilities, moving into the ‘the
time of transvestism.’ ”272 This “combining and recombining” of
concepts, categories, styles and content liberates things from
their former limits and hyperbolizes existence, for which reason
he also refers to the “post-orgy state of things.”273


1 Alan Megill, Prophets of Extremity; Steven Best and Douglas Keller,
Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations.
2 Rorty
3 Derrida Of Grammatology.
4 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition.
5 Foucault, Madness and Civilization;

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

6 Foucault
7 Baudrillard, Simulation and Simulacra.
8 Lacan; Deleuze and Guattrari
9 Heidegger’s term.
10 Steven Best and Douglas Kellner, “The Postmodern Turn in Philosophy:
Theoretical Provocations and Normative Devices.”
11 Richard Wolin, The Seduction of Unreason, p. 1.
12 The Dictionary of the History of Ideas, Vol. 2, p. 100.
13 Robert Audi, editor, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy.
“Postmodernism”,
Stanford
Encyclopedia
of
Philosophy,
plato.stanford.edu/entries/postmodernism/ ; See also, Concise
Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy,
15 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology.
16 Steven Best and Douglas Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical
Interpretations, p. 4-5.
17 Rene Descartes, Meditations on First Philosophy, Meditation V. See also
Regulae by Descartes.
18 Descartes, Meditations on First Philosophy, Meditation 1, para.2.
19 Descartes, Meditations on First Philosophy, Meditation IV.
20 Jane Flax, “Postmodernism and Gender Relations” in Linda J Nicholson,
ed., Feminism /Postmodernism, p. 41-42.
21 Christopher Butler, Postmodernism: A Very Short Introduction, p.11
22 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition.
23 Lloyd Spencer, “Postmodernism, Modernity and the Tradition of Dissent”
in Stuart Sim ed. The Icon Critical Dictionary of Postmodern Thought, p.
161.
24 See Kant, The Critique of Practical Reason which is entirely based on the
premise of humankind’s rational nature: “we have no knowledge of any
other rational beings beside man.” (Preface). It is interesting to note that
the Bahá'í Writings posit man’s “rational soul” (Some Answered
Questions, 208.)
25 Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, Book I, Chp. 3, Section III.
26 Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, Book I, Chp. 3, Section V.
27 Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, Book I, Chp. 2.
28 Ammittai F. Aviram, “Asking the Question: Kant and Postmodernism?”
29 Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, Book I, Chp. 2, Section II, Subsection
IV.
30 Stephen R.C. Hicks, Explaining Postmodernism, p. 37.
31 Allan Megill, Prophets of Extremity, p.12.
32 Allan Megill, Prophets of Extremity, p. 12
33 Steven Best and Douglas Kellner, “The Postmodern Turn in Philosophy:
Theoretical Provocations and Normative Devices.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

34 Clayton Koelb (ed.), Nietzsche as Postmodernists, Essays Pro and Contra,
p.5.
35 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 18.
36 Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols, “Reason in Philosophy”, # 6.
37 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 15.
38 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 15.
39 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 17.
40 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 15.
41 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 15.
42 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 15.
43 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #493.
44 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #534.
45 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #537.
46 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #555.
47 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 552; emphasis added.
48 Nietzsche, Of Truth and Lie in the Extra-Moral Sense.
49 Nietzsche, On the Genealogy of Morals, Third Essay, paragraph 12; also
The Will to Power, # 481.
50 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 480: “knowledge works as a tool of
power.”
51 Nietzsche, On the Genealogy of Morals, Third Essay, paragraph 12.
52 Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, #5.
53 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 481.
54 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 560; see also # 583.
55 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 480.
56 Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, #34.
57 Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, #34.
58 Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, #24.
59 Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, #24.
60 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #616.
61 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition
62 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, “Upon the Happy Isles”, p. 85.
63 Ibid. 85.
64 Ibid. 196.
Martin
Heidegger,
“Existence
and
Being.”
www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/heideg
g2.htm
66 Robert Audi, editor, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, p. 563.
67 Julian Young, Heidegger’s Later Philosophy, p. 26.
68 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, p.2.; in other works, Heidegger spells

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

it ‘being’ without the capital.
69 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, p.2.
70 Heidegger, “Letter on Humanism” in Julian Young, Heidegger’s Later
Philosophy, p. 26; italics added.
71 Heidegger, “Existence and Being.”
72 Heidegger, “Existence and Being”
73 William Wordsworth, “The Tables Turned.” Heidegger would fully agree
with this poem.
74 Heidegger, Poetry, Language, Thought, p. 47.
75 Allan Megill, Prophets of Extremity, p. 178.
76 Wordsworth, “The Tables Turned.”
77 Cristine Lafont, “Precis of ‘Heidegger, Language and World-Disclosure’”
Heidegger,
“On
the
Essence
of
Truth”.
evans-
experientialism.freewebspace.com/heidegger6a.htm
79 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth”.
80 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth”.
81 Heidegger, Being and Time, p. 261.
82 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
83 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
84 Heidegger, Being and Time, p.259.
85 Heidegger, Being and Time, p.259; italics added.
86 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
87 Heidegger, Poetry, Language, Thought, p.130.
88 Heidegger, Being and Time, 270.
89 Heidegger, “Existence and Being.”
90 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
91 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
92 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
93 Allan Megill, Prophets of Extremity, p.161.
94 Allan Megill, Prophets of Extremity, p.161.
95 Heidegger, Poetry, Language, Thought, p.36.
96 Heidegger, “Existence and Being.”
97 Heidegger, Being and Time, p.204.
98 Heidegger, Being and Time, p.204.
99 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.xxiv.
100 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.xxiii.
101 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.34.
102 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.
103 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

104 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.31.
105 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.xxiv.
106 Best and Kellner, “The Postmodern Turn in Philosophy: Theoretical
Provocations and Normative Deficits”
107 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.146.
108 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.9.
109 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.10.
110 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.10.
111 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.15,
112 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.17.
113 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.60.
114 Terry Eagleton, The Illusions of Postmodernism, p.32.
115 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.40.
116 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.26.
117 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.26.
118 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.40.
119 ibid. 43; Rorty develops this concept of consensus further.
120 Jonathan Culler, On Deconstruction, p.86; italics added.
121 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p. 24; italics added.
122 Jacques Derrida, “Plato’s Pharmacy” in Disseminations, p. 95.
123 Jacques Derrida, “Plato’s Pharmacy” in Disseminations, p. 127.
124 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p.298; also p.281.
125 Jacques Derrida, Positions, p.58.
126 Jacques Derrida, “Plato’s Pharmacy” in Disseminations, p.129-130.
127 Niall Lucy, A Derrida Dictionary, p.144.
128 Niall Lucy, A Derrida Dictionary, p.144.
129 Jacques Derrida, “Plato’s Pharmacy” in Disseminations, p.130.
130 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p.158; also p.163..
131 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p.158.
132 Jacques Derrida, “Structure, Sign and Play” in Writing and Difference, p.
292.
133 Jacques Derrida, “Structure, Sign and Play” in Writing and Difference, p.
291.
134 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p. 50.
135 Jacques Derrida, “Structure, Sign and Play” in Writing and Difference,
p.280.
136 Jacques Derrida, “White Mythology” in Margins of Philosophy, p.207.
137 Niall Lucy, A Derrida Dictionary, p.71.
138 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p.12.
139 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p.12.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

140 Jacques Derrida, Positions, p.19.
141 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p. 49.
142 John, 1: 1-2.
143 Sorcha Fogarty, “Logocentrism,” in The Literary Encyclopedia.
144 Jacques Derrida, Positions, 23.
145 Of special concern to Derrida is the binary Speech/writing which he tries
to overturn by showing how writing, i.e. arche-writing as the play of
differences and supplements, precedes speech which itself depends on
that play of differences.
146 Phenomenology studies our experience of an object and seeks to extract
the essential features of what we experience.
147 Ontology is a branch of metaphysics focusing on the study of being and
beings.
148 Jacques Derrida, “Violence and Metaphysics” in Writing and Difference,
p. 91.
149 Ibid. 95.
150 Ibid. p. 104.
151 Michel Foucault, Madness and Civilization.
152 Michel Foucault, The History of Sexuality.
153 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things and The Archaeology of
Knowledge.
154 Michel Foucault, Discipline and Punish.
155 Andrew Thacker, “Michel Foucault”, The Literary Encyclopedia.
156 Scott H. More, “Christian History, Providence and Foucault”, Fides et
Historia, XXIX:1 (Winter/Spring 1997): 5-14.
157 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.10.
158 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.11.
159 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.23.
160 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.11.
161 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.28; emphasis added.
162 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.28.
163 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.xxii; emphasis added.
164 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theories: Critical Interrogations, p.41.
165 Michel Foucault, interview in La Quinzaine Literature, quoted in J.G.
Merquior, Foucault, p.36.
166 J.G. Merquior, Foucault, p.61.
167 Charles Sherpherdson, “History and the Real: Foucault with Lacan”
www3.iath.virginia.edu/pmc/text-only/issue.195/shepherd.195
168 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p. 155.
169 Michel Foucault, “Life, Experience and Science,” in The Essential
Foucault, p.11.
170 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, in J.G.Merquior, Foucault, p.61.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

171 J.G Merquior, Foucault, p.50.
172 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.xxiii
173 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.308.
174 J.G. Merquior, Foucault, p.52.
175 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.319.
176 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.318.
177 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.335.
178 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.308.
179 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.326..
180 Foucault’s term, J.G. Merquior, Foucault, p. 55.
181 J.G. Merquior, Foucault, p.53.
182 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things, p.322.
183 Michel Foucault, “Nietzsche, Genealogy, History” in The Essential
Foucault, p.361.
184 J.G. Merquior, Foucault, p. 60-61.
185 Darren Hynes, “Michel Foucault’s Archaeology of Knowledge.”
www.mun.ca/phil/codgito/vol4/v4doc1.html
186 Steven Best and Douglas Kellner, “The Postmodern Turn in Philosophy:
Theoretical Provocations and Normative Devices.”
187 Michel Foucault, “Nietzsche, Genealogy, History” in The Essential
Foucault, p.353.
188 Michel Foucault, “The Ethics of Concern for the Self” in The Essential
Foucault, p.76.
189 Michel Foucault, “The Ethics of Concern for the Self” in The Essential
Foucault, p.76.
190 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.53.
191 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.49.
192 James Williams, Understanding Poststructuralism, p.122.
193 Jorge Garcia, “Are Categories Invented or Discovered? A Response to
Foucault.”Review of Metaphysics, 55.1: 3-20.
194 Danaher, Schirato, Webb, Understanding Foucault, p.118.
195 Danaher, Schirato, Webb, Understanding Foucault, p.40.
196 Michel Foucault, “The Ethics of the Concern of the Self” in The Essential
Foucault, p.33.
197 ibid.33.
198 Danaher, Schirato, Webb, Understanding Foucault, p.31.
199 Danaher, Schirato, Webb, Understanding Foucault, p.118.
200 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.51.
201 Michel Foucault, “What is Enlightenment?” in The Essential Foucault,
p.51.
202 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.34.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

203 Michel Foucault, “Structuralism and Post-Structuralism,” in The Essential
Foucault, p.89.
204 ibid. 94.
205 Ibid..93.
206 ibid.94.
207 Michel Foucault, “Truth and Power” in The Essential Foucault, p.316.
208 Michel Foucault, “Truth and Power” in The Essential Foucault, p.317.
209 J.G.Merquior, Foucault, p. 108.
210 Michel Foucault, “Nietzsche, Genealogy, History” in The Essential
Foucault, p.366.
211 Michel Foucault, “Homage to Jean Hippolyte” in Sheridan, Michel
Foucault: The Will to Truth, p.120.
212 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p. 50.
213 Moya K Mason, “Foucault.” www.moyak.com/researcher/resume/
papers/Foucault.html
214 Dean Guerras, “Richard Rorty and the Postmodern Rejection of Absolute
Truth.”
215 On the other hand, his understanding of pragmatist philosophy has been
scathingly called into question by no less an authority than Susan Haack
in
“Vulgar
Rortyism.”
newcriterion.com:81/archive/16/
nov97/menand.htm
216 Rorty’s term; see Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.360.
217 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.378.
218 Chantal Mouffe editor, Deconstruction and Pragmatism, p.1.
219 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity or Objectivity” in Objectivity, Relativism and
Truth, p. 32.
220 Ibid. 13.
221 Ibid. 22 – 23.
222 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.384.
223 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity or Objectivity” in Objectivity, Relativism and
Truth, p. 22.
224 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.371.
225 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.372.
226 Richard Rorty, “Texts and Lumps” in Objectivity, Relativism and Truth,
p.98.
227 Richard Rorty, “Private Irony and Liberal Hope,” in Contingency, Irony
and Solidarity, p.73.
228 ibid.73; also 89.
229 Richard Rorty, “Proust, Nietzsche, and Heidegger,” in Contingency,
Irony and Solidarity, p.97.
John
Keats,
Letter,
Sunday
[21
Dec.
1817]
academic.brooklyn.cuny.edu/english/melani/cs6/keatsltr.html

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

231 Richard Rorty, “Private Irony and Liberal Hope,” in Contingency, Irony
and Solidarity, p.74.
232 Richard Rorty, “Inquiry as Recontextualization” in Objectivity,
Relativism and Truth, p.99.
233 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity” in Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, p.192.
234 Richard Rorty, “Cosmopolitanism without Emancipation” in Objectivity,
Relativism and Truth, p.218.
235 Richard Rorty, “Private Irony and Liberal Hope,” in Contingency, Irony
and Solidarity, p.75.
236 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity” in Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, p.194.
237 Richard Rorty, “Private Irony and Liberal Hope” in Contingency, Irony
and Solidarity, p.75.
238 ibid. 75.
239 Richard Rorty, “Is Natural Science a Natural Kind?” in Objectivity,
Relativism and Truth, p.62.
240 ibid.176.
241 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.360.
242 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.366.
243 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.370.
244 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.371.
245 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.377.
246 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.378.
247 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity” in Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, p.189.
248 Richard Rorty, “The Contingency of Community” in Contingency, Irony
and Solidarity, p.44.
249 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity” in Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, p.189.
250 Richard Rorty, “Inquiry as Recontextualization” in Objectivity,
Relativism and Truth, p.93
251 Richard Rorty, “Non-reductive Physicalism” in Objectivity, Relativism
and Truth, p.123.
252 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.373.
253 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.111.
254 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.25.
255 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.2.
256 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.5.
257 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.55.
258 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.6.
259 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.35.
260 Rene Descartes, Sixth Meditation.
261 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.3.
Jean
Baudrillard,
“Pataphysics,”
trans.
by
Drew
Burk.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=569
263 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.119.
264 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.119.
Jean
Baudrillard,
“Holograms,”
trans.
by
Sheila
Glaser.
www.egs.edu/faculty/baudrillard/baudrillard-simulacra-and-
simulation-11-holograms.html
266 Jean Baudrillard, “The Orders of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.122.
267 Jean Baudrillard, “The Orders of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.142.
268 Jean Baudrillard, “The Orders of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.141.
269 Jean Baudrillard, “The Orders of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.148.
270 Jean Baudrillard, “Holograms,” trans. by Sheila Glaser.
271 Jean Baudrillard, “The Orders of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.151 – 152.
272 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.137.
273 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.137.

Postmodernism and the Bahá'í Writings
Part Two
Ian Kluge
In this portion of the paper, we shall compare the ideas
presented by the forerunners of postmodernism and their most
important successors and the Bahá'í Writings in order to
demonstrate that surface similarities notwithstanding, the
foundational ideas of postmodernism and the Writings are
incompatible.
11. The Counter-Enlightenment and the Bahá'í
Writings
In regards to reason, the Writings adopt a position that is
neither in agreement with the Enlightenment’s unquestioning
faith in reason nor with the scepticism and even rejection of
reason by the Counter-Enlightenment and its post-modern
protégés. To be precise, the Writings exemplify a position that
may be described as “moderate rationalism”, according to which
reason can give us some but not all knowledge; there are kinds
of knowledge – such as the knowledge available to the heart1 -
which are not obtainable by reason alone but are, so-to-speak,
‘trans-rational.’ (We say ‘trans-rational’ rather than ‘irrational’
because this knowledge is not opposed to reason per se but goes
beyond it making use, for example, of revelation.) Therefore,
we must remember that “the human spirit, unless assisted by the
spirit of faith, does not become acquainted with the divine
secrets and the heavenly realities.”2 In other words, there are
truths which cannot be discovered by unassisted or natural
reason and which must be attained by other means, i.e.
revelation and the development of “spiritual susceptibilities.”3
`Abdu'l-Bahá states,
If he [man] attains rebirth while in the world of nature, he
will become informed of the divine world. He will observe
that another and a higher world exists.4

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
Reason expands or transcends its limits if those employing it
become spiritualized. In a further note regarding the limits of
reason and knowledge, `Abdu'l-Bahá says,
Know that there are two kinds of knowledge: the
knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge of
its qualities. The essence of a thing is known through its
qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and hidden.5
Here `Abdu'l-Bahá makes it clear that rational knowledge is
limited to qualities and that essences must be known by way of
qualities; they cannot be known by direct insight or intuition
but must be known indirectly through the mediation of qualities
or attributes. This statement guides, i.e. limits our use of reason
and our inquiry by saying not only that whatever we know
about things and their essences, must come by way of qualities
but also that whatever we know is limited to what qualities can
tell us. The essences of things may have many other aspects
which are not observable by us in our current state of being,
and, therefore, must remain ‘mysterious.’ This has enormous
ontological consequences not the least of which is that it safe-
guards the ontological integrity of all created things and
provides a rational foundation for a belief in ‘mysteries.’ (God,
for example is a ‘mystery’ insofar as He is beyond the
comprehension of human reason.6) . In short, reason can tell us
a great deal but not everything we need to know and live well.
In addition to limitations of scope and applicability, reason
has the limit of fallibility. `Abdu'l-Bahá tells us that “the circle
of this [rational] knowledge is very limited because it depends
upon effort and attainment.”7 Anything depending on human
action is subject to errors of all kinds; thus, by itself, it has
limited reliability and therefore, does not always lead us to the
truth.8 According to `Abdu'l-Bahá, the conflicting opinions
among the philosophers clearly demonstrate that “the method of
reason is not perfect.”9
However,
unlike
the
Counter-Enlightenment
and
its
postmodern successors, the Bahá'í Writings do not reject reason
altogether, but, quite to the contrary, encourage us to use it
while keeping its limitations in mind. The Writings not only
inform us of the limitations of reason but also, at the same
time, endorse reason and its role in our lives. Such an
endorsement of reason is clear when `Abdu'l-Bahá, says “in this
age the peoples of the world need the arguments of reason.”10
and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
[God] has bestowed upon [man] the power of intellect so
that through the attribute of reason, when fortified by the
Holy Spirit, he may penetrate and discover ideal realities
and become informed of the mysteries of the world of
significances. As this power to penetrate the ideal
knowledge is superhuman, supernatural, man becomes the
collective center of spiritual as well as material forces so
that the divine spirit may manifest itself in his being ...11
Through reason “fortified by the Holy Spirit,” we may obtain
knowledge of the “ideal realities” i.e. the supernatural or
spiritual realities of creation insofar as such knowledge is
compatible with our human nature. Hence this knowledge is
“superhuman.” This assurance that reason is able to attain
genuine knowledge is important because that is precisely
something denied by the Counter-Enlightenment and its
postmodern successors. Both reject the ‘privileged’ status that
reason has over ‘other ways of knowing’ and in particular its
‘privileged’ connection to truth. The link between rationality
and truth has been severed.
The enormous positive importance of reason in the Writings
is also seen in that the essential feature that distinguishes
humankind from animals, the differentia, is the “rational
soul.”12
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the animal
is the rational soul, and these two names--the human spirit
and the rational soul--designate one thing. This spirit,
which in the terminology of the philosophers is the
rational soul, embraces all beings, and as far as human
ability permits discovers the realities of things and
becomes cognizant of their peculiarities and effects, and
of the qualities and properties of beings. But the human
spirit, unless assisted by the spirit of faith, does not
become acquainted with the divine secrets and the
heavenly realities.13
Here we observe not only identification of our essential
identifying feature with the rational soul but also, again,
emphasis on the rational soul’s ability to attain genuine
knowledge in the world, and, with the assistance of the “spirit
of faith” or “Holy Spirit”, knowledge of “heavenly realities.”
Once more, `Abdu'l-Bahá draws our attention to the intimate
connection between rationality and obtaining knowledge or
discovering truth. Elsewhere `Abdu'l-Bahá says that the rational
soul or “the human spirit consists of the rational, or logical,

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
reasoning faculty, which apprehends general ideas and things
intelligible and perceptible.”14 Through the power of reason we
can discover the “realities of things.”15
Furthermore, there is continuous emphasis in the Writings on
the use of reason to reconcile science and religion and to
ground faith: “if a question be found contrary to reason, faith
and belief in it are impossible, and there is no outcome but
wavering and vacillation.”16
For God has endowed us with faculties by which we may
comprehend the realities of things, contemplate reality
itself. If religion is opposed to reason and science, faith is
impossible; and when faith and confidence in the divine
religion are not manifest in the heart, there can be no
spiritual attainment.17
There are two matters of interest in these quotes. First, is the
assurance that through the use of reason and other faculties, we
are capable of discovering truths about the “realities of things,”
i.e. the way things really are. Second, it is clear that reason and
“spiritual attainment” are intimately connected i.e. reason is
necessary to genuine spiritual life and faith. In addition, we are
told that “religion must be in conformity with science and
reason, so that it may influence the hearts of men.”18 Here, too,
we observe that reason is not only necessary for genuine
spirituality through its influence on the heart, and through it,
faith.
Religion must be reasonable. If it does not square with
reason, it is superstition and without foundation. It is like
a mirage, which deceives man by leading him to think it is
a body of water. God has endowed man with reason that
he may perceive what is true. If we insist that such and
such a subject is not to be reasoned out and tested
according to the established logical modes of the intellect,
what is the use of the reason which God has given man?19
In a similar vein, `Abdu'l-Bahá informs us that “true science
is reason and reality, and religion is essentially reality and pure
reason; therefore, the two must correspond.”20 Yet again we
observe that reason, religion, science and reality are all
intimately, i.e. indissolubly connected and are not necessarily in
conflict.
Finally, it should be noted that notwithstanding the
possibility of error, reason can also provide us with knowledge
of the truth, something that is denied by all postmodernists

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
from Nietzsche on; indeed, as we have seen, Nietzsche and his
postmodern successors deny that there is such a thing as ‘truth’
to be found. Rather truth is something we make or construct.
`Abdu'l-Bahá states,
God has created man in order that he may perceive the
verity of existence and endowed him with mind or reason
to discover truth. Therefore, scientific knowledge and
religious belief must be conformable to the analysis of this
divine faculty in man.21
Elsewhere he says, “God has created man and endowed him
with the power of reason whereby he may arrive at valid
conclusions.”22 In other words, in spite of the possibility of
error, reason is one way of attaining truth.
From the foregoing discussion, we may conclude that unlike
the Counter-Enlightenment, Nietzsche and his postmodern
protégés for whom there are no truths but only interpretation,23
the Writings maintain that reason does, indeed, provide us with
genuine knowledge of the truth despite the fact that we may use
it incorrectly. It must be used carefully, preferably under the
guidance of the Holy Spirit as we have seen in a number of
previous quotations.24 In other words, one of the conditions for
ensuring that reason works correctly is divine assistance.
Another such condition is given in the following quote:
Consequently, it has become evident that the four criteria
or standards of judgment by which the human mind
reaches its conclusions are faulty and inaccurate. All of
them are liable to mistake and error in conclusions. But a
statement presented to the mind accompanied by proofs
which the senses can perceive to be correct, which the
faculty of reason can accept, which is in accord with
traditional authority and sanctioned by the promptings of
the heart, can be adjudged and relied upon as perfectly
correct, for it has been proved and tested by all the
standards of judgment and found to be complete When we
apply but one test, there are possibilities of mistake. This
is self-evident and manifest.”25
When we view these quotations together, in addition to the
warnings about the fallibility of human reason, we find it
difficult to avoid the conclusion that the Writings exemplify
not only ‘moderate rationalism’ but also a position known as
“reliabilism.” According to the Oxford Companion to
Philosophy, reliabilism is “the position that “a belief can be

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
justified if formed as the result of a reliable process even if the
believer is unaware of what makes it justified.”26 In other
words, reliabilism demands that belief be “the result of some
reliable process of belief-formation.”27 The Writings tells us
that a “reliable process of belief formation” involves, ideally,
the Holy Spirit, but at the very least, the congruence of several
tests among which `Abdu'l-Bahá lists empirical sense knowledge,
reason, tradition and the “promptings of the heart” which we
interpret as the promptings of the Holy Spirit. Of course, the
Writings do not go into all the technical details of reliabilism,
but they do, quite clearly adumbrate this position which is for
us to work out within the guidelines provided.
The inescapable conclusion to which we are led is that while
the Writings do not accept the Enlightenment’s unquestioning
trust in reason, neither do they accept the categorical rejection
of reason exemplified by the Counter-Enlightenment and its
postmodern successors. Indeed, in their emphasis on the
importance of reason in science and religion, as well as in the
identification of humankind’s essence as a “rational soul,” the
Writings demonstrate strong leanings in favour of the
Enlightenment. Philosophically, they may be seen as a
continuation of the Enlightenment albeit it in an amended and
corrected form.
12. The Bahá'í Writings and Kant
In regards to Kant, the Bahá'í Writings, cannot accept his
rejection of metaphysics tout court since they do not accept the
idea that under any and all circumstances, reason is necessarily
confined to the phenomenal realm. According to Kant, we
cannot correctly reason from the phenomenal to the noumenal
or transcendent because the laws and conditions of reasoning do
not apply to the noumenal world. These laws and conditions –
for example time, space, causality, quantity, relation, quality
and modality – are imposed by the human mind on the ‘raw’
data from the noumenal realm and, thereby, make thinking and
reasoning possible.28 However, the categories are not inherently
part of the transcendent noumenal realm, from which it follows
that reason does not apply to this realm of which we have no
experience as it is in itself, i.e. unshaped by us. Because God is
transcendent to the phenomenal realm, we cannot devise proofs
of His existence by way of the phenomenal world.
As we shall see below, the Bahá'í Writings do not agree that
the existence of God cannot be proven from the phenomenal

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
realm. This is made evident, for example, by `Abdu'l-Bahá’s
proof of God as the First Cause.
Such process of causation goes on, and to maintain that
this process goes on indefinitely is manifestly absurd. Thus
such a chain of causation must of necessity lead eventually
to Him who is the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful, who is
Self-Dependent and the Ultimate Cause. This Universal
Reality cannot be sensed, it cannot be seen. It must be so
of necessity, for it is All-Embracing, not circumscribed,
and such attributes qualify the effect and not the cause.29
In `Abdu'l-Bahá’s view, a First Cause is necessary because no
actually real chain of causation can go on infinitely. He does
not say why, nor is it important for us at this point, to know
why he reached this conclusion. What is germane to our
discussion is that he clearly accepts the possibility of reasoning
our way to an “Ultimate Cause” and “Universal Reality [that]
cannot be sensed” i.e. is beyond the phenomenal realm.
Moreover, he does so on the basis of causality, which he regards
as a real feature of the universe and not merely an imposition by
the human mind on raw noumenal data. Since causality is
ontologically real, and infinite causal chains are “manifestly
absurd,” we must eventually find a First Cause to set the chain
of causes into motion.
For the reasons given above, Kant would not accept as
legitimate `Abdu'l-Bahá’s statement that “all beings and all
existences are the centers from which the glory of God is
reflected – that is to say, the signs of the Divinity of God are
apparent in the realities of things and of creatures.”30 If this
statement were accepted, then we would be able to use the signs
of God to reason our way from the phenomenal to the
noumenal and transcendent Source. Similarly, Kant is bound to
reject the claim that “the smallest created thing proves that
there is a creator. For instance, this piece of bread proves that it
has a maker.”31 Here, in this compressed version of Intelligent
Design, we observe reasoning from the created to the Creator
which is precisely what Kant forbids.
It might be argued that the Writings could agree with Kant as
far as the limits of natural reason, i.e. reason unassisted by the
Holy Spirit are concerned. Without such assistance, individuals
will not develop their “spiritual susceptibilities,”32 and their
thinking, therefore, remains confined to the phenomenal realm.
However, the Writings do not take such a position. For
example, the argument to the First Cause cited above needs

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
nothing other than natural reason to make its point; indeed, the
same argument was already used by Aristotle and other
philosophers. No divine inspiration is needed to see why an
initial Cause is necessary. Furthermore, `Abdu'l-Bahá’s other
argument from the contingency and dependency of creation and
humankind to the transcendent non-contingent Source is also
available to natural reason without divine assistance, as is his
argument from the imperfections of all created things to the
existence of a perfect Being.33 In light of these arguments it is
more accurate to say that according to the Writings, natural
reason is sufficient for some kinds and levels of knowledge but
not for others which require the assistance of the Holy Spirit.
Nor do the Writings endorse Kant’s belief that the
phenomenal world in which we live is entirely a human
construction, i.e. the way the categories of the mind organise
data from the noumenal realm according to time, space and
causality for example. Nature – which is what we must interpret
and work with – is made by God Who provides its various
inherent qualities, essences, potentialities and laws. This nature
pre-exists us and therefore does not depend on us for its
existence and/or attributes. It is given to us, with all things
having their natural attributes and behaving according to pre-
existing natural laws decreed by God from which no being
except man may deviate.34 In other words, unlike the philosophy
of Kant, the Bahá'í Writings do not teach that humankind has
any part in the process of constituting natural reality, i.e. the
phenomenal realm in which we live. One could argue that
making such a claim is, in effect, setting oneself up as a kind of
second god and co-creator, or ‘partner’.
And now concerning thy reference to the existence of two
Gods. Beware, beware, lest thou be led to join partners
with the Lord, thy God. He is, and hath from everlasting
been, one and alone, without peer or equal ... He hath
assigned no associate unto Himself in His Kingdom, no
counsellor to counsel Him ... To this every atom of the
universe beareth witness, and beyond it the inmates of the
realms on high ... 35
These words suggest that humankind has no part in this
process of constituting natural reality, i.e. no part in
constituting the phenomenal realm in which we live. We may, of
course, interpret the divinely constituted reality in various
ways, and, of course, we may invent and construct all sorts of
things – machines, laws, social codes, art and so on – using first
nature, but these interpretations and constructions are not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
prior to and should not be confused with the divinely created
reality itself. In other words, reality as created and constituted
by God, i.e. ‘first nature,’ should not be confused with what
humankind makes from ‘first nature’ i.e. an artificial ‘second
nature’, a society and civilization which we create and
constitute according to our wills guided by revelation. To some
extent, our wills can constitute the second nature but only to
the limits allowed by the attributes inherent in the things that
God has created. Fire is inherently hot36 and will not serve as ice.
Thus, the Bahá'í Writings clearly recognise a distinction
between first and second nature, something which is highly
problematical with Kant. We might consider the noumenal to
be the first nature and the phenomenal the second nature, but
this is dubious at best since the phenomenal, for Kant, includes
everything that is shaped by such categories as causality,
quantity, existence and relation, i.e. the entire natural world.
According to the Writings, however, this phenomenal realm is
precisely the nature that is created by God and which
humankind interprets and uses to build second nature, i.e.
societies, laws, conventions, art and science within the limits
defined by the divinely established first nature. The natural
tendency of Kant’s philosophy is to deny the distinction
between the two natures and, thereby, set the stage for the
postmodernist rejection of this distinction.

13. The Bahá'í Writings and Nietzsche
Although one may find individual ideas wherein Nietzsche
and the Bahá'í Writings agree, a survey of his work makes it
abundantly clear that the disagreements are fundamental and
wide-spread. Let us begin with their sharply divergent
assessments of Socrates and the use of reason in scientific
discovery. The Writings praise Socrates as one of the
philosophers who recognised the reality of the spiritual
The philosophers of Greece--such as Aristotle, Socrates,
Plato and others--were devoted to the investigation of
both natural and spiritual phenomena. In their schools of
teaching they discoursed upon the world of nature as well
as the supernatural world ... Because they were interested
in both natural and divine philosophy, furthering the
development of the physical world of mankind as well as
the intellectual, they rendered praiseworthy service to
humanity. This was the reason of the triumph and survival
of their teachings and principles.37

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
Nietzsche, as we have already seen, disparaged Socrates as the
“theoretical man”38 and “mystagogue of science”39 who foolishly
believed that reason could explain and tell us the truth about
reality.40Instead, Nietzsche wants to escape beyond “the eternal
reason-spider and reason cobweb”41 so that we may be free to
live with our fullest passionate capacity of our will-to-power.
Unlike Nietzsche, the Writings hold that recognising the
supernatural, the transcendent or divine is an important
contribution to our existence. Furthermore, as we have seen in
the previous section on the Enlightenment, the Writings also
disagree with Nietzsche’s decisively negative assessment of
reason. After all, of course, they identify humankind’s
distinguishing characteristic, its differentia, as the “rational
soul.”42 They do not, of course, uncritically accept reason as the
final authority on all issues, but, in their moderate rationalism
and reliabilism they accept reason as a legitimate source of real
knowledge. In other words, the Writings accept reason as a
means of discovering truth about reality, and could not accept
Nietzsche’s belief that “ ‘Truth’ is therefore not something
there, that might be found or discovered – but something that
must be created.”43 Nor can they accept his sweeping statement
that truth is no more than
[a]
mobile
army
of
metaphors,
metonyms,
and
anthropomorphisms—in short, a sum of human relations
which have been enhanced, transposed, and embellished
poetically and rhetorically, and which after long use seem
firm, canonical, and obligatory to a people: truths are
illusions about which one has forgotten that this is what
they are.44
The Bahá'í Writings recognise that what Nietzsche describes
may sometimes be the case – as in the gradual degeneration of
religious teachings to the point when a new Manifestation is
needed – but they do not hold that this is what truth-claims
always and necessarily are. Some truth-claims such as ‘God
exists’ are simply correct and others are plainly wrong: the earth
is not a flat disk but a sphere. Distinguishing between real truth
and man-made fictions is the very basis of progress i.e. addition
and improvement of knowledge, both in the sciences and in
progressive revelation. Both of these involve the overcoming of
error and superstition which the Writings also recognise as real
– but which are problematic for Nietzsche. If truth is invented
fiction, then how can we tell a ‘true fiction’ from a ‘false one’?
How can we ever progress from ‘false’ to ‘true’? Indeed, in a
statement that exemplifies an extreme sceptical attitude

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
towards truth, Nietzsche writes, “Truth is the kind of error
without which a certain species of life could not live. The value
of life is ultimately decisive.”45 What is essential about truth is
not that it is true but that it serves life or our life purposes:
“[t]he criterion of truth resides in the enhancement of the
feeling of power.”46 In other words, truth is not which is
actually the case but that which meets our needs in the struggles
of life – a view of truth that is highly subjective and which
allows there to be as many truths as there are individuals with
needs.
The Writings, for their part, maintain that truths are
discovered, not invented and show no sign of accepting
Nietzsche’s extremely subjective characterization of truth.
God has created man in order that he may perceive the
verity of existence and endowed him with mind or reason
to discover truth. Therefore, scientific knowledge and
religious belief must be conformable to the analysis of this
divine faculty in man.47
Elsewhere `Abdu'l-Bahá states,
Man is able to resist and to oppose Nature because he
discovers the constitution of things, and through this he
commands the forces of Nature; all the inventions he has
made are due to his discovery of the constitution of
things.48
He also states,
The mind and the thought of man sometimes discover
truths, and from this thought and discovery signs and
results are produced. This thought has a foundation. But
many things come to the mind of man which are like the
waves of the sea of imaginations; they have no fruit, and
no result comes from them.49
Thus, we may conclude that although they the Writings
recognise the inherent limitations of unaided reason, they do
not share Nietzsche’s extreme scepticism about discovering
knowledge. Therefore, they place a high value on science as a
means of discovering truth and not as a provider of comforting
illusions50 as does Nietzsche. Finally, there is no evidence that
the Bahá'í Writings would accept Nietzsche’s reduction of
‘truth’
to
the
will-to-power
without
any
genuine
epistemological content or truth value; “It [truth] is a word for
the ‘will-to-power.’” 51. This, and his claim that truth is created,

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
i.e. an aesthetic theory of truth, is incompatible with Bahá'í
epistemology which holds to a correspondence theory of truth
in which truth is discovered.52 The correspondence theory of
truth, i.e. the theory that we attain truth when our conceptions
correspond with reality is illustrated in the following:
for the connection which exists between the reality of
things, whether they be spiritual or material, requires that
when the mirror is clear and faces the sun, the light of the
sun must become apparent in it.53
“The mirror of the reality of man”54 reflects realities
“whether they be spiritual or material” and, through this process
of reflection, learns about them and if its concepts adequately
represent the various realities. If they do, then they correspond
to one degree or another to reality; and if they do not, we shall
(hopefully) discover we are in error. This theory is also an
example of ‘representationalism’ insofar as our concepts
represent reality in our minds. For Nietzsche (as for all
postmodernist philosophers), this is problematical because this
not only undermines the theory that truth is created or
constructed but also implies that language is capable of putting
us into touch with reality. This would limit human creativity
and freedom in the construction of reality.
In regards to the “will-to-power”, it should also be noted that
it should not be understood as simply the actualization of our
inherent potentials. Even the most cursory survey of
Nietzsche’s statements on the will-to-power make it clear that
he thinks of it in terms of overcoming and dominating others,
or being unrestrained by normal moral codes. That is why he
mocks Christian and other religious moralities as “slave
morality”55 because they have given up this goal. is emphasized
by his use of the word “Macht” instead of “Kraft” or energy for
power. “Macht” in German implies domination, overcoming and
power over others and we must never lose sight of the fact that
Nietzsche wrote of a “Wille-zur-Macht” not a “Wille-zur-
Kraft.” This is important because the term “will-to-power” is
central in Nietzsche’s philosophy and sets a tone that is
fundamentally out of harmony with the Writings which
emphasize love.
Nietzsche’s doctrine of the “eternal return.”56 is also
profoundly out of harmony with the Writings for two main
reasons. First, it denies the existence of a transcendent
dimension to reality, pre-figuring thereby, postmodernism’s
rejection of any form of transcendence whether it be an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
ontological denial of realms beyond the material or an
epistemological denial of a ‘real’ world that transcends or is
external to our constructions. The Bahá'í teachings about the
reality of an absolutely transcendent God, the immortality of
the soul and its advance into “spiritual heavenly worlds,”57 or
the “spiritual worlds that can neither be expressed in words nor
intimated by allusion,”58 or the Concourse of High, demonstrate
that any rejection of ontological transcendence is not
compatible with the Writings. Furthermore, in his startling and
flamboyant claim that “God is dead”59 Nietzsche does not
merely reject an outmoded vision of the Christian God, but also
expresses his opposition to recognition of any transcendent
being or realm of being because those would detract from
valuing earth and life on earth.. Acceptance of the transcendent
will make us ‘naysayers” to the value of earthly, phenomenal,
material life. The epistemological denial of a real world that
transcends or is outside our constructions is also problematical.
The correspondence theory of truth to which the Writings
adhere requires there be a real world to which we can refer our
constructions, and if need be correct them.
The second reason Nietzsche’s “eternal return” clashes with
the Writings is because this doctrine runs counter to nature.
According to Nietzsche,
all things eternally return, and ourselves with them, and
that we have already existed times without number, and all
things with us ... But the plexus of causes returneth in
which I am intertwined,--it will again create me! I myself
pertain to the causes of the eternal return. I come again
with this sun, with this earth, with this eagle, with this
serpent--NOT to a new life, or a better life, or a similar
life: I come again eternally to this identical and selfsame
life, in its greatest and its smallest, to teach again the
eternal return of all things60
Nietzsche sees the eternal return as a sign of hope and a call
to live heroically, but the Writings clearly reject it for the same
reasons they reject incarnation. First,
reincarnation, which is the repeated appearance of the
same spirit with its former essence and condition in this
same
world
of
appearance,
is
impossible
and
unrealizable.61
The repetition in the eternal return and reincarnation is of the
same kind, a return of the same soul to the same conditions

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
without end. According to `Abdu'l-Bahá this cannot take place
because human existence is not confined to material creation:
The idea that existence is restricted to this perishable
world, and the denial of the existence of divine worlds,
originally proceeded from the imaginations of certain
believers in reincarnation; but the divine worlds are
infinite. If the divine worlds culminated in this material
world, creation would be futile:62
Nietzsche’s eternal return denies the transcendent, non-
material, dimension of existence and requires that we live in
only one world, the world of physical creation within which we
shall be eternally re-cycled without undergoing any evolutionary
process and progress in other realms. In this statement `Abdu'l-
Bahá makes it clear that without such transcendent realms,
creation itself would have no purpose or meaning if it were
limited to material existence. Furthermore, he challenges
Nietzsche’s idea that the eternal return is a glorious and
inspiring vision by calling such a vision of life limited to the
material plane “futile.”
The eternal return is also contrary to nature, for, as `Abdu'l-
Bahá says,
The point of the compass in describing a circle makes no
retrograde motion, for this would be contrary to the
natural movement and the divine order ... and a movement
contrary to the system and law of nature is the cause of
nonexistence. The return of the soul after death is
contrary to the natural movement, and opposed to the
divine system.63
These statements make it clear that Nietzsche’s doctrine of
the eternal return which is so central to his philosophy, is
fundamentally incompatible with the Bahá'í Writings because
such a return violates the naturally progressive essence of the
soul. `Abdu'l-Bahá tells us that “with the human soul, there is no
decline. Its only movement is towards perfection; growth and
progress alone constitute the motion of the soul.”64 To return
to this current material state is simply unnatural.
There are also serious difficulties in reconciling the Writings
with Nietzsche’s perspectivism. A superficial examination of
the Writings might lead us to conclude that they support
Nietzsche’s perspectivism but this is a mirage. Nietzsche’s
perspectivism
(and
the
perspectivism
adopted
by
the
postmodernists) does not recognise that there does in fact exist

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
a privileged point of view, an objective ‘Archimedean point,’ a
transcendental vantage point from which to judge and evaluate
our various individual perspectives and interpretations. This, of
course, is the viewpoint of the Manifestation of God and His
appointed
interpreters.
Whatever
perspectives
and
interpretations we espouse must not reject or, at the very least,
not contradict what the Manifestation teaches and what His
specifically
appointed
successors
decree.
Nietzsche’s
philosophy, is incapable of recognizing the existence of such a
Being, Whose “Book itself is the "Unerring Balance" established
amongst men”65 by which all other views and perspectives are to
be judged. In reflecting on this we should not make the mistake
of confusing Nietzsche’s ‘Super-man’ or ‘Ueber-mensch’ with a
Manifestation. The ‘Super-man’ is a thoroughly human entity
whereas the Manifestation occupies a unique ontological
position in which He has “the station of essential unity ... [and]
the station of distinction”66 which is limited to the created
world. Moreover, the Manifestation in one station has an
ontological position transcendent to the material world –
something that Nietzsche’s philosophy is bound to reject as an
example of hostility to this life in this particular world. Nothing
in Nietzsche’s doctrine of the ‘Super-man’ provides him with
any remotely similar ontological attributes.
14. Commentary on the Bahá'í Writings and
Heidegger
As we recall, Heidegger thought that metaphysics – “the
philosophical investigation of the nature, constitution and
structure of reality,”67 – had gone astray, and lost the “question
of Being,”68 replacing it with concern for particular beings. In
other
words,
metaphysics
or,
more
precisely,
western
metaphysics, replaced a concern for Being with a concern for
particular entities or instantiations of being. In his introduction
to Being and Time, he says, “ ‘Being’ cannot indeed be
conceived as an entity ... nor can ‘Being’ be derived from higher
concepts by definition, not can it be presented through lower
ones.”69 It is also impossible to define Being in the manner of
“traditional logic.”70 For Heidegger,
Metaphysics thinks about beings as beings. Wherever the
question is asked what beings are, beings as such are in
sight. Metaphysical representation owes this sight to the
light of Being. The light itself, i.e., that which such
thinking experiences as light, does not come within the
range of metaphysical thinking; for- metaphysics always

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
represents beings only as beings.71
To continue Heidegger’s metaphor, we may say that
metaphysics no longer looks at the light (of Being) by which we
see all things but only at what the light reveals and, therefore,
comes to forget Being. “Metaphysics, insofar as it always
represents only beings as beings, does not recall Being itself.
Philosophy does not concentrate on its ground.”72 In other
words, metaphysics concentrates on the surface phenomena and
forgets that which makes the surface phenomena possible, the
condition of their being-there [Da-sein].
In our view, the Writings do not agree with Heidegger that
the concern for “beings as beings,” i.e. for specific entities,
necessarily leads to a forgetfulness of Being. It may do so, but
such a result is not necessary. To understand how this can be so,
we must come to grips with the fact that the Bahá'í Writings
abound with metaphysical statements and analysis about the
nature and structure of reality including that of all kinds of
beings. The Writings make wide-spread and consistent use of
the Aristotelian method, terminology and arguments in their
analysis of reality. In the Aristotelian analysis of reality, there
are substances73 which have essential and non-essential
attributes; there are essences with necessary and accidental
attributes; there are potentials in each entity; things are
contingent or necessary, there are four causes (material, final,
formal and efficient) and all materially existing things are
composites of matter and form, and subject to corruption.
There is also a First Mover or God Who is “the object of
desire”74 for all things and towards Whom all things are
attracted. All of these concepts are found and used in the
Writings. 75 In addition, metaphysical arguments of various
kinds – for immortality, against re-incarnation, against
materialism, pantheism and the belief that the world is an
illusion – are also employed.
This leads to an important question: given their wealth of
metaphysical analysis, do the Bahá'í Writings ‘forget’ Being?
Does Heidegger’s statement that “It [metaphysics] refers to
Being and means beings as beings76” also apply to the Writings?
In our view, the answer is negative because the Bahá'í doctrine
of the essential unknowability of God’s Essence:
Far be it from His glory that human tongue should
adequately recount His praise, or that human heart
comprehend His fathomless mystery. He is, and hath ever
been, veiled in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
will remain in His Reality everlastingly hidden from the
sight of men. "No vision taketh in Him, but He taketh in
all vision; He is the Subtile, the All-Perceiving."77
Precisely because God cannot be known in His Essence – a
belief which is emphasized throughout the Bahá'í Writings – we
cannot make God into another particular being subject to
definitions and “traditional logic.”78 All the specific images of
God as an entity are no more than products of our own
individual and/or collective imaginations, or heuristic images
provided by Manifestations for a particular time and place.
These images are not real although they serve a heuristic
purpose that both facilitates and limits our thoughts and
feelings at the same time. If understood correctly, they draw
attention to the utterly transcendent which does not exist as a
being ‘like any other’ and prevent us from forgetting Being
completely.
In other words, if we keep God’s unknowability foremost in
mind, we shall not mistake a being for Being. Since God’s
Essence is unknowable, we can only observe the “signs of God”
(presence of God.) in all created things.79 To use Heidegger’s
metaphor, since we cannot look at the sun, we can still become
aware of the light and how that light is received by individual
beings. Through reflective prayer guided by the Manifestation,
we can still be aware of the light by which we see and its Source:
“No thing have I perceived, except that I perceived God within
it, God before it, or God after it.”80 It is precisely Bahá'u'lláh’s
revelation with its emphasis on the unknowability of God that
ensures we do not forget That which is the very condition for
our being and knowing.
Because the Bahá'í Writings avoid the metaphysical trap of
mistaking Being for ‘a being’ and, forgetting Being, Bahá'ís can
agree with Heidegger’s analogy between Being and colour:
Color shines and wants only to shine. When we analyse it
in rational terms by measuring its wavelengths, it is gone.
It shows itself only when it remains undisclosed and
unexplained. Earth thus shatters every attempt to
penetrate into it. it causes every merely calculating
importunity to turn to a destruction ... The earth appears
only cleared and as itself when it is perceived and
preserved as that which is by nature undisclosable ....”81
Here we see the ineluctability of God or Being, the
“generous,”82 Who “wants only to shine” and on Whom all

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
beings depend for their existence. However, as with colour, the
moment we begin analysis we lose the very thing we seek to
analyse;
propositional
knowledge
and
calculative
and
technological reasoning is of no use in understanding Being.
Indeed, the truest thing we can say about God or Being is that it
is utterly transcendent and “undisclosable.”
Our conclusion is that on the fundamental issue, the Bahá'í
Writings both agree and disagree. They agree with Heidegger
insofar as Being or God is absolutely beyond human conception
and that all our concepts are deficient in this regard. However,
the Writings also show that the doctrine of the unknowability
of God’s Essence is the antidote needed to prevent metaphysics
from diminishing God into a being ‘like the others.’ This
disagreement is fundamental insofar as there is no way to bridge
Heidegger’s rejection of metaphysics and the Writings’ use of
them.
At this point an extremely thorny problem intrudes. Is there
any correspondence between the Bahá'í concept of God and
Heidegger’s concept of Being? Heidegger’s views varied over his
career. In his first major work, Being and Time, we observe
“little interest in the idea that being [Being] is the ground of
beings.”83 “Later, being [Being] is the ground of being ... ‘being
offers us no ground and basis on which we build and in which
we dwell – as do the beings to which we turn. Being is the nay-
saying [Ab-sage] to the role of such grounding...’ “84 Not
surprisingly, there has been considerable discussion of
Heidegger’s alleged atheism – but this has not hindered theistic
views of his work from appearing in large numbers. We are in
no position to engage in this highly complex debate here.
However, we must not overlook the fact that Heidegger’s lack
of clarity on this issue contrasts sharply with the Writings which
see the recognition of God has the first and most essential duty
of humankind: “I bear witness O my God, that Thou has created
me to know Thee and to worship Thee...” Any vacillation or
lack of absolute clarity on this issue is in conflict with the
Bahá'í Writings.
Another area of serious disagreement between Heidegger and
the Writings is his unqualified rejection of the correspondence
theory of truth: “truth has by no means the structure of an
agreement between knowing and the object in the sense of a
likening of one entity (the subject) to another (the Object).”85
He
also
writes,
“In
what
way
is
this
relation
[of
correspondence] possible as a relation between intellectus
[mind/intellect] and res [thing/object]?”86 Heidegger has no

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
confidence in the mind’s ability to form concepts that
correspond to or are adequate to reality.
According to the Bahá'í Writings, the correspondence theory
of truth is valid insofar as it can provide genuine and adequate
knowledge in its appropriate sphere of action. It cannot, for
example, apply to ‘knowledge’ of God Who is unknowable in
his essence; not can it apply to the direct or immediate
knowledge of the essence of things. The appropriate sphere of
human knowledge is whatever can be known by the qualities or
attributes of a thing.87 Thus, the Writings disagree with
Heidegger’s complete rejection of the correspondence theory of
truth. On this issue, `Abdu'l-Bahá writes,
Reflect that man's power of thought consists of two
kinds. One kind is true, when it agrees with a determined
truth. Such conceptions find realization in the exterior
world; such are accurate opinions, correct theories,
scientific discoveries and inventions.
The other kind of conceptions is made up of vain thoughts
and useless ideas which yield neither fruit nor result, and
which have no reality. No, they surge like the waves of the
sea of imaginations, and they pass away like idle dreams.88
He says a thought or concept is true “when it agrees with a
determined truth,” and describes “conceptions [that] find their
realization in the exterior world” as “accurate opinions, correct
theories, scientific discoveries and inventions.” Clearly these are
references to correspondence between our ideas and reality. On
the other hand, “useless ideas” or concepts which “have no
reality” and therefore produce no results obviously do not
correspond to reality. Moreover, the action of overcoming and
correcting mistakes and learning to which the Writings refer
obviously require bringing our conceptions into correspondence
with reality. Finally, the Writings clearly believe in scientific
progress, and that, in turn, depends on ever-improving
correspondence between our concepts and the things we study;
our knowledge gains in accuracy, scope, explanatory and
predictive power and opens hidden aspects of reality that allow
us to make new discoveries and inventions. If our knowledge
did not correspond to reality, this would not be possible.
Conversely, the Writings assert the existence of error,
ignorance and superstition. In other words, there are beliefs
that do not correspond to reality, and these must be corrected.
Heidegger
also
doubts
the
ability
of
language,
or

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
propositions to convey the whole truth about things: “the
traditional assignment of truth exclusively to statements as the
sole essential locus of truth falls away. Truth does not originally
reside in the proposition.”89 In other words, there are truths
about things that cannot be adequately conveyed in language.
Heidegger doubts that mere verbal propositions lacking proper
grounding in a relationship to Being can ever satisfactorily
correspond to real specific beings. The Bahá'í Writings agree
with him on this point, albeit it with serious qualifications. We
observe the boundaries of what words can say, for example
when `Abdu'l-Bahá tells us that the full meaning of first chapter
of John in the Bible (“In the beginning ... “) is “beyond the
power of books or words to contain and express.”90 Obviously,
there are limits to humankind’s powers of comprehension and
explanation. However, while language and propositions have
their limitations, they are not as incapable of reflecting reality
as Heidegger seems to think. There is no absolute disconnect
between language and all aspects of reality. If there were, the
Writings would not be able to endorse the concept of progress
i.e. improvements in accuracy, scope, explanatory and
predictive power, in scientific understanding or in many other
human endeavours. For progress to occur, true propositions
about reality must reflect reality with some degree of accuracy.
Nonetheless, the Writings agree with Heidegger insofar as a
proper relationship to and understanding of Being is necessary
to acquire a fully adequate knowledge of particular beings.
Heidegger writes,
it becomes plain that to clarify the structure of a truth it
is not enough simply to presuppose this relational totality
[of complete correspondence between mind and object]
but we must go back and inquire into the context of Being
which provides the support for this totality as such.91
In terms of the Bahá'í Writings, this means that to have the
fullest possible understanding of specific beings, we also need
to take Being or God into consideration, since God provides the
ground for the very possibility of specific beings even coming
into existence. Being or God is the condition for the existence
of all things. Without a proper relationship to Being, we might,
for example, degrade things to merely material objects without
seeing the “signs of God” in them and think that their existence
is entirely for our use. Such understanding of things would be
unsatisfactory and easily leads to error. This situation is
precisely why science and its propositional knowledge and
religion, and its relationship to Being, must work together to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
attain appropriate knowledge of things.
For the Writings, the correspondence theory of truth is valid
not just of material reality but also of spiritual realities, though
to comprehend these higher realities requires assistance of the
Holy Spirit to develop our “spiritual susceptibilities.”92 When
these are developed, we can correct our ignorance of “divine
religion”93 and think “beyond the range of the senses”94 and
attain the “conscious pathway to the Kingdom of God.”95
`Abdu'l-Bahá tells us that a person who “possesses no spiritual
susceptibilities [] is uninformed of the heavenly world”96; this is
another statement which implicitly posits a correspondence
between our thoughts and reality. That the correspondence
theory also applies to spiritual realities is seen by the close
association between wisdom and the heart:
Sow the seeds of My divine wisdom in the pure soil of thy
heart, and water them with the water of certitude, that the
hyacinths of My knowledge and wisdom may spring up
fresh and green in the sacred city of thy heart.97
Not only does the heart attain knowledge of spiritual
realities, but it is also capable of ‘thinking’ albeit it in its own
way and attaining understanding: “Ponder this in thine heart,
that thou mayest comprehend its meaning,”98 Such exhortations
to ponder things in our hearts are frequent throughout
Bahá'u'lláh’s Writings and indicate that the heart is capable of
acquiring knowledge and understanding. However, this does not
mean the knowledge attained by the heart is incompatible with
the knowledge attained by reason and other ways:
If thou wishest the divine knowledge and recognition,
purify thy heart from all beside God, be wholly attracted
to the ideal, beloved One; search for and choose Him and
apply thyself to rational and authoritative arguments. For
arguments are a guide to the path and by this the heart will
be turned unto the Sun of Truth. And when the heart is
turned unto the Sun, then the eye will be opened and will
recognize the Sun through the Sun itself. Then (man) will
be in no need of arguments (or proofs), for the Sun is
altogether independent, and absolute independence is in
need of nothing, and proofs are one of the things (of
which absolute independence has no need).99
In other words, arguments can clear the way for the heart’s
direct perception of the truth after which point, such arguments
will no longer be needed. When the heart is turned to the sun,

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
we will understand, but we will understand in a way not
mediated by propositions.
Heidegger agrees with the Writings on the issue of truth
simply making itself known, through “disclosedness”100 of Being
and the Being of beings. Letting the Being of beings and Being
itself or God unconceal itself is a higher, or more profound kind
of knowledge than can be stated in propositions. This does not
mean propositional knowledge is unimportant; as we see in
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s words above, propositional knowledge plays an
essential part in the development of the heart - but it is not the
ultimate knowledge we have. However, there are limits to this
agreement between the Writings and Heidegger. The Writings
cannot agree that the knowledge revealed by the assistance of
the Holy Spirit not only reveals but also, in its inherent nature,
conceals and, thereby, leads us into error. This knowledge is
“infallible and indubitable ... and this is the condition in which
certainty alone can be attained.” 101 In contrast, Heidegger says,
“The disclosure of beings as such is simultaneously and
intrinsically the concealing of being as a whole”102 because “[i]n
the simultaneity of disclosure and concealing errancy holds
sway. Errancy and the concealing of what is concealed belong to
the primordial essence of truth.103 The Bahá'í Writings nowhere
suggest that error or “errancy” is an intrinsic part of truth
itself. Our knowledge of the truth may be a mixture of truth
and error but this fact does not extend to the truth in itself, i.e.
“the primordial essence of truth.” Indeed, separating light
“from darkness, , truth from falsehood, right from wrong,
guidance from error”104 is one of the reasons for the
Manifestation’s appearance.
15. Lyotard and the Bahá'í Writings
The Bahá'í Writings and Lyotard’s postmodernism are in
conflict on all fundamental points. It is impossible to embrace
them both without losing logical consistency and thereby
becoming hamstrung both in thought and action. One cannot
both reject metanarratives and accept only small, local
narratives [petits recits], and at the same time accept
progressive revelation as the paradigm for humankind’s spiritual
history and global unity as the goal of earthly evolution without
completely undermining one’s own position intellectually and
thereby making consistent thought and action impossible. As a
metanarrative of humankind’s religious and even non-religious
history, progressive revelation is integral to the identity of the
Bahá'í Faith. It is the foundation on which belief in the essential

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
unity of all religions and of humankind is built. Any philosophy
which rejects metanarratives is, for that reason alone,
fundamentally at odds with the Bahá'í teachings. On the issue of
metanarratives at least, the Bahá'í Writings are in the same
company as Hegel, Marx, Toynbee and Sorokin to name only a
few of the best-known examples of metanarratives of human
history.
It is also clear that the Bahá'í Writings privilege the
metanarrative revealed by the Manifestations over all other
metanarratives. For our time, Bahá'u'lláh is described as the
“true Physician”105 Whose Book is the “infallible remedy”106 that
provides the vision for understanding our world as well as
previous dispensations. Obviously, for the Writings, not all
remedies - or metanarratives - are equally effective or true.
Some are more true, or appropriate or effective than others and
those presented by the Manifestations are supreme. From this it
is also evident that the Bahá'í Writings reject the relativism
inherent in Lyotard’s thought. If all metanarratives are on par,
and there is no external ‘Archimedian standpoint’ from which to
judge among them, it becomes impossible to distinguish
knowledge from superstition, scientific fact from fiction,
divine revelation from imagination and, of course, good from
evil. All differences are justified as differences of viewpoint. If
no viewpoint, or, metanarrative is privileged over any other,
then they are all equally valid, and this leaves us with an
epistemological and moral relativism according to which we can
make no objective or universal judgments about any
statements.
This
relativism
inherent
in
Lyotard’s
philosophy
is
problematic for the Writings because they do not maintain that
all moral positions are equal – they clearly privilege love and
peace over hatred and war – nor do they assert that superstition
is equal to true knowledge or that all putative physicians for
mankind’s ills are of equal skill. They also uphold objective and
universal truths such as progressive revelation, the inability to
know essences directly, the “rational soul” as humankind’s
distinguishing characteristic, and most importantly, the absolute
existence of God. Nowhere do they suggest that contrary views
on these and many other issues are equally valid as relativism is
bound to maintain. The Writings are full of references to those
who deny the teachings of the Manifestation as “ignorant”, in
“‘error,” subject to “superstition,” “mistaken” and even
“absurd.” By such means the Writings actively oppose the idea
that all viewpoints are equally valid and that none is privileged

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
over any other. However, we hasten to add that the recognition
that the Manifestation’s teachings are privileged, does not
justify a feeling or attitude of personal superiority to the other
as a fellow human being. The other’s view may be mistaken but
s/he is still a creation of God and must be treated as such:
Necessarily there will be some who are defective amongst
men, but it is our duty to enable them by kind methods of
guidance and teaching to become perfected. Some will be
found who are morally sick; they should be treated in
order that they may be healed. Others are immature and
like children; they must be trained and educated so that
they may become wise and mature. Those who are asleep
must be awakened; the indifferent must become mindful
and attentive. But all this must be accomplished in the
spirit of kindness and love and not by strife, antagonism
nor in a spirit of hostility and hatred, for this is contrary
to the good pleasure of God.107
Another
serious
conflict
between
Lyotard
(and
postmodernism in general) and the Writings is that the Writings
accept various binary oppositions rejected by Lyotard as
“terrorist,”108 because they can be used to “eliminate[] or
threaten[] to eliminate, a player [point of view, culture] from
the language game [or metanarrative] one shares with them.”109
As we have already seen in previous sections, the Writings
accept the binary opposition of ‘rational’ and ‘irrational’, and
privilege the rational by stating that humankind is distinguished
from animals by the “rational soul.” Another such binary
opposition is ‘civilized’ and ‘uncivilized’, with the former being
clearly privileged as the desirable state for man. For example, in
Paris Talks, ‘Abdu'l-Bahá makes it clear that Mohammed raised
the Arabs who were “a people as savage and uncivilized as the
wild beasts”110 to a higher, more civilized state. The Writings
also make use of the oppositional binary ‘knowledge’ and
‘superstition’
and
unhesitatingly
privilege
the
former.
‘Superstition’
is
always
a
term
of
opprobrium
and
condemnation as seen in the following statement: “It is,
therefore, clear that in order to make any progress in the search
after truth we must relinquish superstition.”111 This theme is
constantly repeated in the numerous references to science and
religion: “If religion does not agree with science, it is
superstition and ignorance.”112 Quite patently, `Abdu'l-Bahá is
condemning superstition, and, in the second quote, privileging
science. He wants us to overcome error, i.e. to leave behind and
marginalise erroneous beliefs instead of succumbing to them.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
This, of course, is not to say that the Writings accept any and
all binary oppositions; oppositional binaries based on race,
nationality and wealth for, example, are not acceptable and
must be overcome.113 We may reject and marginalise ideas but
we must not marginalise individual human beings. However, the
fact that the Writings accept oppositional binaries in any
situation puts them in profound conflict with Lyotard’s
theories.
The Bahá'í Writings can only accept some aspects of
Lyotard’s language game theory. Language game theory, as we
recall, is a development of his theory of metanarrative. Very
briefly, a language game is a particular use of language,
according to particular rules, and these rules vary from game to
game. Science is a language game; so are religion, philosophy,
literature. Every society is/has a language game. For the
Writings, there is no difficulty with the idea that various
cultures and subcultures have different language games and that
a language game is necessary for the existence of society.
However, the Writings cannot accept the claim that a universal
metalanguage114 cannot exist, since the revelation brought by
the Manifestations may be seen as being exactly that, a universal
language game or metanarrative applicable to all cultures and all
human beings. The unification of humankind requires that we
all agree to at least one, universal language game. This is
possible because the Writings maintain that all human beings
share the same human nature which is specifically characterized
by the possession of a “rational soul.”115 The universal
possession of a “rational soul” is the foundation of Bahá'í
anthropology or theory of man as well as the foundation for all
hopes for the unity of humankind; without a common,
universal, essential human nature such unity would have nothing
to build on.
According to Lyotard, language games are water-tight
compartments that prohibit any critical inter-action since they
use language according to different rules. There is really no
possibility of sensible criticism and debate. How could the rules
of tennis be used to critique the rules of soccer? Thus, unlike
the Writings, Lyotard’s theory, resurrected by Stephen J
Gould’s concept of “non-overlapping magisteria”116 sees no
possibility or even need for a dialogue, consensus and harmony
between science and religion since they are playing different
language games. From this point of view, science and religion
are confined in “two solitudes”117 and the goal of harmonizing
them is a willow-the-wisp; they are not competitors and,

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
therefore, do not need harmonizing. Of course, such a view is
philosophically untenable. Whether or not science and religion
are two disparate language games, the fact is that at least some
scientific discoveries have implications for religion and some
religious teachings have implications for science. The “two
solitudes” are not totally isolated and do, indeed, interact, and
for that reason may be in conflict that requires harmonizing.
This is further emphasised by the Bahá'í teaching that “truth is
one, although its manifestations may be very different.”118 Since
that is the case, it follows logically that we should “earnestly
endeavour to be the means of uniting religion and science.”119
`Abdu'l-Bahá advocates more than “two solitudes” that do
not conflict by virtue of not communicating with each other,
rather, he wants that “Religion and science walk hand in
hand.”120
Lyotard rejects the possibility or need for critical interaction
among language games and metanarratives because he is
concerned about preserving heterogeneity or diversity. This
cannot be achieved if one metanarrative or language game
becomes dominant and arrogantly identifies their views with
reality itself and, thereby, turns “terrorist”121 by excluding or
otherwise silencing conflicting views.
His ‘war on totality’ rejects totalizing theories which he
describes as master narratives [metanarratives] that are
somehow reductionistic , simplistic and even ‘terroristic’
by providing legitimations for totalitarian terror and
suppressing differences in unifying schemes.122
Instead, Lyotard wants us to recognise “the heteromorphous
nature of language games,”123 in order to preserve the diversity
of games and metanarratives. Even freely arrived at consensus is
rejected124 because that is simply another way for a majority to
pressure and oppress a minority and requires the surrender of
the very attributes that provide a unique identity and mode of
existence.
Instead
Lyotard
“champions
dissensus
over
consensus, diversity and dissent over conformity and consensus
and heterogeneity and the incommensurable over homogeneity
and universality.”125 This position, held in some form by all
postmodernist philosophers, makes them suspicious of anything
that seems likely to diminish heterogeneity by attempting to
subsume differences – even if this is presented as a freely
arrived at consensus – within a single, all-encompassing i.e.
‘totalizing’ metanarrative and language game. Because of this
“irreducible pluralism”126 there can be at best temporary local

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
arrangements
(but
no
permanent
institutions)
“in
the
professional,
emotional,
sexual,
cultural,
family
and
international domains”127 that can be dissolved at any time at
the behest of the ‘players.’ From this point of view, the Bahá'í
teaching of “unity in diversity”128 could very easily be seen as
operating to suppress diversity for the sake of unity, and
thereby become a recipe for “terrorism.” The concept of a
‘totalizing’ metareligion trying to unify all other religions into
one by concentrating on the essential “oneness of religion”129 is,
from the postmodernist viewpoint, a threat to the independent
existence of all other metanarratives and language games, as is
the desire to establish world unity through some form of global
commonwealth. Such a project inevitably requires the
establishment of permanent global institutions and would
thereby diminish heterogeneity in customs of governance. All
would have to submit to and find their place in the
metanarrative of the development of global unity. Furthermore,
despite the fact that all Bahá'ís have the right and duty to
investigate the truth for himself and to speak their minds freely,
postmodernists like Lyotard see this principle as severely
compromised and undermined by the enormous emphasis put on
unity in Bahá'í community life and LSA decisions. At the
personal level, the use of standardized prayer books as distinct
from extemporaneous individual prayer, is a further example of
control over the language game as is the existence of authorized
and infallible interpreters of the Manifestation’s Word. Rather
than embrace the unity provided by such limitations of the
language game and metanarrative, Lyotard prefers to celebrate
endless pluralities and heterogeneities for no other reason than
their differences. According to him, most people have lost their
interest in grand narratives.130 Finally, with his emphasis on
“dissensus” Lyotard is bound to be highly suspicious of the
entire consultation process because it can be seen as a way to
minimize diversity in the quest for consensus.
It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that Lyotard and the
Bahá'í Writings are in deep conflict. As noted at the outset of
this paper, there may be some areas of minor or superficial
agreement between them, but on the essential and foundational
issues there is none.
16. The Bahá'í Writings and Derrida
As with Lyotard, the Bahá'í Writings have a considerable
number of foundational differences with the philosophy of
Jacques Derrida. These would preclude harmony on anything

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
but superficialities and incidentals. The first of these
foundational differences concerns Derrida’s rejection of
‘privilege’ in regards to knowers and knowledge.
Unlike Derrida, the Bahá'í Writings recognise the existence
of privileged knowers, the Manifestations of God, Who possess
“essential infallibility,”131 or the “Most Great Infallibility”132
which makes it impossible for them to err in Their teaching.
They are “endowed with divine knowledge, not dependent upon
learning acquired in schools”133 and are distinguished above all
others of mankind in every aspect and qualification in order
that He may be able to train effectively the human body politic,
eliminate the darkness enshrouding the human world, uplift
humanity from a lower to a higher kingdom.134
The knowledge of these “infallible Physician[s]”135 is not just
another point of view or interpretation in an endless series of
such, but rather, is the standard by which all other knowledge
must be assessed: “Weigh not the Book of God with such
standards and sciences as are current amongst you, for the Book
itself is the unerring Balance established amongst men.” 136
Obviously, this Book which can only measured by its own
standard137 is privileged above all other human knowledge, and,
in effect, is a transcendental or Archimedean standpoint from
which all other viewpoints may be evaluated. Furthermore, in
the Bahá'í Dispensation there are `Abdu'l-Bahá, an infallible
interpreter of Bahá'u'lláh’s Word, as well as the Guardian whose
interpretations of Bahá'u'lláh’s teachings are also infallible.138 In
addition, the Bahá'í Faith also recognises that the Universal
House of Justice is “under the unerring guidance of God”139 in
its appointed sphere of operations.
The existence of these privileged knowers and interpreters is
fatal to the deconstructive project because they establish an
outside, transcendental privileged Archimedean standpoint
from which to judge human viewpoints and, thereby, impose
limits
on
the
endless
“play,”
self-subversion
and
supplementation of texts that is crucial to deconstruction. They
also place boundaries within which the Writings may be
understood. The problem is that such parameters deprive the
deconstructionist project of its very reason for being and its
modus operandi. An instructive example of how the presence of
privileged interpreters sets constraints on our understanding of
the Writings is the issue of homosexuality. Bahá'u'lláh’s
statements about “boys”140 has been interpreted by Shoghi
Effendi to mean a prohibition of homosexual behavior and
relationships.141 For Bahá'ís, the Guardian’s understanding ends

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
the “play” of words, of self-subversion and of supplementarities
and imposes a final and authoritative meaning on what
Bahá'u'lláh means. To emphasise its denial of any privileged
interpreters of texts, deconstructionism rejects even the notion
that the author has any privileged insight into his own creation.
In regards to the rejection of privilege, it should be noted
that in distinction to Derrida, the Writings privilege one
member of certain oppositional binaries such as good and evil,
rational and irrational, truth and untruth, God and creation
and, as we shall see, signifier and signified. In ontology they also
accept such binary oppositions as substance and attribute,
essential and incidental (accidental), contingent and necessary all
of which deconstructionism rejects. For example, `Abdu'l-Bahá
writes,
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by
itself, and that the spirit is accidental and depends upon
the substance of the body, although, on the contrary, the
rational soul is the substance, and the body depends upon
it. If the accident--that is to say, the body--be destroyed,
the substance, the spirit, remains.142
Very obviously, substance is completely different from
attribute and is superior to it insofar as the accident or
attribute depends on the substance. In the case of the human
soul, the substance does not need the accidental or contingent
human body to exist. In this sense, the rational soul, as
substance, is privileged over the accidental, or, to put it another
way, the essence is privileged over the accident.
Without privileging the substance over the accident `Abdu'l-
Bahá would not be able to establish his proof of the immortality
of the soul – a key Bahá'í doctrine. And what would be the point
of having a Manifestation’s guidance, if we were not willing to
privilege good over evil, the rational over the irrational, truth
over untruth? Who would we need any guidance at all? The
Writings, however, clearly state that humankind needs this
guidance for its material and spiritual evolution, and, therefore,
privilege good over evil, love over hatred, knowledge over
ignorance, truth over lies143 and, as we shall see below, the
rational over the irrational. There is no question for them of
reversing this order by invoking Derrida’s “aporias” i.e. by
invoking explanations that lie outside the standard rules of
reasoning and logic.144 For the Writings, there is simply no need
to puzzle ourselves over the superiority of truth over ignorance
and superstition and the need to overcome the latter. The same

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
case holds for religion. If we are not willing to privilege God
over creation, by recognising God’s ontological independence
and primacy, then there is no possibility of having religion at all
since religion requires the recognition of some original or
foundational Source however it be envisioned.
Although we have already done so in our discussion of the
Bahá'í Writings and the Counter-enlightenment, it is necessary
to draw attention again to the privileging of reason precisely
because this is so contradictory to Derrida’s deconstructionism,
its rejection of binary oppositions and its “aporias.” It may, of
course, be argued that these “aporias” represent moments of
higher insight beyond the merely rational and for that reason
find some resonance in the Writing’s concepts of trans-rational,
intuitive, ‘mystical’ insight gained with the aid of the Holy
Spirit. The Bahá'í Faith certainly recognises these, but the
situation with Derrida’s “aporias” is different. Derrida’s
“aporias” overturn various binary oppositions in order to
destabilise and un-privilege them whereas the moments of
inspiration
and
transcendental
insight
confirm
the
Manifestation’s teachings and the binary oppositions He
establishes, such as, for example, the precedence of knowledge
over ignorance, and love over hatred and God over creation.
That said, let us turn our attention to the privileging of reason
by the Bahá'í Writings.
The Bahá'í Writings, of course, do not regard human reason
as infallible but they clearly privilege reason and the rational
even in religion. Reason is necessary for humankind’s spiritual
evolution but it is not, by itself, sufficient for our spiritual
development. It must be guided by the Manifestations and
“fortified by the Holy Spirit”145 in order to become informed of
the mysteries of the world of significances”146 that constitute
the world of creation. Reason is privileged in Bahá'í
anthropology or theory of humankind. According to `Abdu'l-
Bahá, “[t]he human spirit which distinguishes man from the
animal is the rational soul, and these two names--the human
spirit and the rational soul - designate one thing. 147 The fact
that reason is the essential, and universal feature distinguishing
man from animal is significant because this means that all
human beings share this capacity and have a common, inherent
nature or essence regardless of historical period, place or
culture. Reason already unifies humankind in essence and can,
therefore, be the foundational capacity for manifesting the
unity of humankind in the phenomenal world. It can also be the
basis of recognizing the essential oneness of all religions and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
progressive revelation.
Reason is also necessary to faith and spiritual development,
for as `Abdu'l-Bahá says, “If a question be found contrary to
reason, faith and belief in it are impossible, and there is no
outcome but wavering and vacillation”148 and “If religion is
opposed to reason and science, faith is impossible; and when
faith and confidence in the divine religion are not manifest in
the heart, there can be no spiritual attainment.”149 This is an
example of where the Manifestation and His appointed
interpreter have dissolved a binary opposition – faith and
reason – but this should not be interpreted as a blanket
rejection of all such oppositions.
Privileging reason or the rational soul obviously limits our
ability to fully engage in deconstructive “play” with relevant
passages because we now have a privileged viewpoint or
perspective from which to judge and possibly deny the validity
of other ideas. We can now at least begin the process of
distinguishing knowledge from superstition, rationality from
irrationality, truth from error or deceptions. Once again we
observe how the position adopted by the Writings undermines
and effectively negates the entire deconstructive project.
The Bahá'í Writings also privilege through the agency of
humankind insofar as man, whose unique identifying feature is
“the rational soul” is “the highest creature of the phenomenal
world.”150 Creation itself would have no purpose without man:
“This world is also in the condition of a fruit tree, and man is
like the fruit; without fruit the tree would be useless.”151 Thus
we can see that reason is also privileged ontologically in regards
to the make-up or nature of reality by characterizing it as the
distinguishing feature of God’s highest creation.
Deconstruction programmatically rejects all privileging
because it limits the “play” of words, subversions and
supplementarities. We might say that deconstructionism rejects
these binaries for ‘political’ reasons, insofar as privileging one
term arbitrarily imposes it on the other, it imposes an order of
value and importance, thereby marginalising one of them. To
use Lyotard’s term, privileging is “terroristic” since this
imposed, authoritarian order, limits our freedom to follow the
“play” of concepts. The rejection of privilege accords with
deconstruction’s refusal to subsume things under universal
concepts such as ‘human,’ ‘human nature’ or ‘species,’ i.e. the
refusal to recognise essences. Such universal concepts152 are a
form of violence and totalitarianism against the heterogeneity

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
of the individual. Deconstruction is supposed to free us from
such conceptual oppression.
There are still other problems between Derrida and the Bahá'í
Writings. To understand one of the most important, it is worth
while recalling Jonathan Culler’s remark that “[t]o deconstruct
a discourse [text] is to show how it undermines the philosophy
it asserts, or the hierarchical oppositions on which it relies…”153
Given the infinite play of traces and infinite supplementarity,
we can never know what a text of any kind really means. There
can be no authoritative, final self-sufficient interpretation of a
text because the concept of infinite supplementation means that
“meaning is always deferred.”154 Meaning is something that
simultaneously is and is not, something that never is and is
always to be. It cannot be definitively established for two
reasons. First, any interpretation of a text is itself subject to
the “play” of traces, supplements and substitutions and thus at
least as ambiguous as the original text itself. Second, the self-
sufficient, essential
and privileged meaning cannot be
established by logical or rational means because reason depends
on the principle of identity and non-contradiction: “A = A” and
“A thing cannot be A and not-A in the same respect at the same
time.” The “play” of supplements prevents precisely that simple
identification of “A” with itself; it is always “A and not-quite-
A” because of the traces and supplements originating in links to
the whole linguistic system. Christopher Norris’ comment about
literary critics is apropos to anyone reading a text by Derrida’s
deconstructionist method:
if interpretation is always caught up in a chain of
proliferating sense which it can neither halt nor fully
comprehend, then the critic [or any reader] is effectively
absolved of all responsibility for limiting the play of his
own imagination.155
Indeed, if the traces and supplements can ultimately extend
through the entire linguistic system there is no reason to
arbitrarily call a halt to interpretation. Derrida’s position leads
to the unavoidable conclusion no one can ever really know what
a text is about since both the text and all its interpretations are
constantly undermining themselves. In more general terms,
there can be no knowledge at all because all knowledge is
embodied in texts written or spoken and is, therefore, subject
to the “play” of traces and supplements.
Derrida’s position is extremely problematical for all religious
texts. Why would any religious revelation endorse an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
undertaking which is guaranteed to create additional and
needless ambiguity to texts meant to provide guidance for
human thought and action? Why would a Manifestation speak in
such a way as to undermine or subvert His own meaning? Doing
so would sow needless confusion and contention among people
and thereby defeat the very purpose of religion which is “to
establish unity and concord amongst the peoples of the world;
make it not the cause of dissension and strife.”156 The
prevention of such confusion and contention is the very reason
for appointing `Abdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi as infallible
interpreters. Indeed, if we take the deconstructionist project to
its logical conclusion, we could never know, not even in
principle, what any particular text (revealed or not) actually says
since an infinite number of supplementations could lead to an
infinite number of interpretations at least some of which would
be in direct conflict. This may sound fine in theory but in
practice it is unworkable for a religion trying to unify
humankind, to explicate its teachings clearly and to engage in
meaningful inter-faith dialogue.
It is difficult if not impossible to avoid concluding that
Derrida’s position leads to a profound and corrosive scepticism
about humankind’s ability to obtain and articulate knowledge.
In fact, the whole concept of knowledge distinguishable from
fiction, lies, pretence, error and mythology is thrown into
question. Problems begin with Derrida’s refusal to recognise the
signifier/signified distinction. If at least some propositions and
statements, i.e. signifiers do not refer to some entity or state of
affairs external or transcendental to the signifier but only to the
play of differences in a language system, then how can these
propositions provide knowledge of the world? Derrida’s theory
leads to a profound disconnect between human discourse and
reality, a disconnect so fundamental that it effectively denies
our ability to get knowledge and communicate about the world.
This position is known as scepticism. All we have, in the last
analysis, are different stories, interpretations, perspectives or
texts, each as valid as the next in its own way (see Lyotard’s
position on the validity of each language game), with none
privileged over any other. Furthermore, there is no possible way
to choose between accounts or texts, since there is no way for
humans to attain a transcendental viewpoint, i.e. a viewpoint
outside of all texts from which to make a judgment. Not only
does this conflict with the Writings’ acceptance of privileged
knowers, but also throws into question the whole concept of
progress i.e. overcoming error in favour of more accurate views
in science or any other area of study. psychology or history.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
Progress in science and knowledge of reality in general is an
integral part of progressive revelation. Such deep scepticism
also conflicts with the Writings because it undermines the
concept of reason as a means of achieving progress: reason
itself becomes just another perspective or method of acquiring
‘knowledge’ without having any privileged status. In addition,
Derrida’s view undermines ethics insofar as we can no longer
distinguish the liar from the truthful person: if there is no
independent, i.e. transcendental truth about any situation, all
we have left is confused and conflicting welter of perspectives,
interpretations, claims and counter-claims all of equal validity.
The Writings do not accept Derrida’s view that words do not
refer to a “transcendental” of some kind, i.e. to an object,
person, situation, process or phenomenon that is external to a
particular language. Words, according to Derrida, refer only to
other words in a language and not to something else; to put it
another way, there is no external, transcendental signified
beyond the signifier. In the Bahá'í view, this is untenable. What
would become of the word “God”? If it did not refer to an
‘other’ outside of language, the whole purpose of religion would
be negated, as would the concept of a Manifestation of God,
not to mention God’s Will, or the Names of God. Religion
would literally be reduced to a ‘word-game’ in which each word
simply refers to another in an endless web of cross-references.
Prayer, especially petitionary prayer would lose their rationale
and purpose, as, for example, the Noonday prayer with its daily
rededication of ourselves to “know [God] and to worship
[Him].”157 What be the point of testifying to “[our] powerless
and Thy might”158 if there was nothing external and
transcendental to us Whose power we are recognising? The same
would be true of the Writings’ ontological statements such as
the following: “The essence of a thing is known through its
qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and hidden.”159 What could
this mean if the word ‘essence’ were not a reference to
something outside of language and did not direct us to
something in the object we are studying?
Derrida’s belief that the signifiers do not refer to an external,
transcendental signified undermines all concepts of knowledge
since our statements do not ultimately refer to the world (of
“transcendental” others) but to the linguistic system we inhabit.
Inevitably, this concept undermines the concept of progress in
scientific knowledge.160 How could we measure progress if all
propositions are only about the language system? How could we
know what is or is not true if there is a fundamental disconnect

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
between our statements and reality? The Bahá'í Writings, of
course cannot accept the existence of such a disconnect, as
made clear by the transcendental references in the frequent
allusions to the discovery of truths or realities in the world
around us. If language cannot tell us anything about reality, i.e.
reflect reality with some degree of accuracy, why would we
bother with Bahá'u'lláh’s and `Abdu'l-Bahá ‘s statements about
the current condition of the world, about the necessary
remedies, about the nature of the soul, the structure of creation
and so on? If these statements do not refer to reality but only to
other words, they are pointless.
Because Derrida posits a disconnect between the signifier and
the signified, between words and what they refer to, i.e. he
rejects
the
belief
that
“properties,
kinds,
relations,
propositions, sets and states of affairs are taken to be primitive
[fundamental and real] and irreducible.”161 In other words,
Derrida is a nominalist, holding that humans construct the
concepts
referring
to
“properties,
kinds,
relations,
propositions, sets and states of affairs” and that these
constructions do not necessarily reflect reality. Our ideas
represented by words do not exist outside our minds. General
terms, or universals, such as ‘chair’ or ‘red’ refer to nothing that
the objects of reference actually possess in common but are,
rather, an arbitrary selection that ignores or marginalises some
attributes by privileging others. Only individuals in their full
heterogeneity are real. Hence,“[d]econstruction is opposed to
anything that claims to gather up, to unite, to bring together as
one,”162 i.e. any concept that ‘violates’ individuality by lumping
many individuals under a single category or thought – or
organization. There is, for example, no human nature or essence
– something which, as we have seen, the Bahá'í Writings flatly
assert just as they assert the existence of a plant and animal
nature or essence.163. It is precisely because essences are real that
`Abdu'l-Bahá can tell us that we cannot know them directly but
only by means of their qualities. In other words, the Writings
do not think there is necessarily a disconnect between our
statements and reality, though, of course, there might be in
some specific instances of error.
Accepting
that
the
signifier
refers
to
an
exterior,
transcendental signified, means that in Derrida’s view, the
Bahá'í Writings exemplify a metaphysics of presence. Such a
metaphysics holds not only that our truth-claims are supported
and guaranteed by an external, transcendental (or in Kantian
terms, noumenal) object, situation, relationship or process but

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
also that language can make such truth present to us. The desire
to have language make the truth present to us he calls
“logocentrism” which requires that language be an unsullied or
neutral way of reflecting reality and truth. In Derrida’s view, no
such language exists or can exist. On the basis of various
discussions in different sections of the second part of this
paper, it is virtually self-evident that the Bahá'í Writings
exemplify a metaphysics of presence and logocentrism. Here is
an example of the metaphysics of presence and logocentrism at
work:
Above all, we expressed our conviction that the time has
come when religious leadership must face honestly and
without further evasion the implications of the truth that
God is one and that, beyond all diversity of cultural
expression and human interpretation, religion is likewise
one. 164
Implicit in this statement is the idea that there is one external
transcendental religion – which we can know through the words
of Bahá’u’lláh – ‘behind’ the enormous “diversity of cultural
expressions” that characterise world religion. To know more
about this one religion, we must rely on words, the Writings’ to
report accurately about this aspect of human affairs.
As shown above, there is no indication that the Bahá'í
Writings accept Derrida’s arguments that metaphysics of any
kind and logocentrism are forms of violence because they
recognise that human beings, in addition to being unique
individuals, also share a common essence, i.e. a “rational soul.”
`Abdu'l-Bahá recognises that we are all members of a species,165
i.e. share certain heritable characteristics that distinguish us
from other kinds of beings, i.e. an essence. The concept of an
‘species,’ ‘kind’ or “degree of existence” is also at work in the
following statement by `Abdu'l-Bahá:
As the degrees of existence are different and various, some
beings are higher in the scale than others ... some creatures
are chosen for the highest degree, as man, and some others
are placed in the middle degree, as the vegetable, and some
are left in the lowest degree, like the mineral.”166
No doubt, deconstructionists would see such a hierarchy as
an example of privileging and seek to apply their methods to
destabilize and subvert an allegedly oppressive ontology. From a
Bahá'í perspective, `Abdu'l-Bahá’s statement simply recognises
the way God has created the phenomenal world which has been

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
given to us and must be accepted as such. Furthermore, from
the viewpoint of the Writings, Derrida’s doctrine about the
supposedly oppressive nature of logocentrism and the
metaphysics of presence goes too far in privileging difference,
heterogeneity and the individual i.e. is excessively ‘antinomian’,
i.e. too willing to allow each thing to be sui generis, a kind and
law unto itself. This is not to say that the Writings downplay
heterogeneity and difference:
As the proof of uniqueness exists in all things, and the
Oneness and Unity of God is apparent in the reality of all
things, the repetition of the same appearance is absolutely
impossible.167
Differences are real, but so are commonalities or essences: our
goal is not to privilege one or the other but to apply them
appropriately and in a balanced manner. In social/political
terms we must maintain a middle course between a potentially
anarchic antinomianism and an oppressive totalitarianism that
fails to recognise individual difference.
17. Foucault and the Bahá'í Writings
Foucault’s rejection of “grand narratives” i.e. “the theme and
possibility of a total history”168 puts him seriously at odds with
the Bahá'í Writings in which the concept of progressive
revelation is foundational. We have dealt with this before and
need not discuss it again in detail. Let it suffice to point out
that because revelation is progressive from one dispensation to
the next, there is also some continuity between dispensations,
or, to use Foucault’s term, between ‘epistemes.’ This is clear in
Shoghi Effendi’s statement that in each new dispensation, the
Manifestation “restates the eternal verities they [the preceding
dispensations] enshrine,”169 i.e. “restates their fundamentals”170
in
order
to
ensure
continuity
of
between
different
dispensations. Elsewhere he says, the different dispensations are
“identical in their aims ...[and] continuous in their purpose,”171
thereby re-emphasising the theme of continuity between
dispensations of epistemes. Such emphasis is wholly in conflict
with Foucault’s “caesuralism,” his focus on “discontinuity,”172
between historical epistemes, on the “divisions, limits,
differences of level, shifts”173 from one to the other. In
Foucault’s view, we must “renounce all those themes whose
function is to ensure infinite continuity of discourse.”174
The Bahá'í Writings recognition of historical continuities
between dispensations of epistemes undermines Foucault’s

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
project of emphasising the ‘caesuras’ or breaks in order to
ensure that each is treated as a completely unique and
heterogeneous. Like Lyotard and Derrida, he sees grand
universal themes and continuities (or grand all encompassing
universal concepts) as threats to individuality and diversity.
The Bahá'í Writings reject this unbalanced, one-sided view of
history and accept the presence of both continuities and
discontinuities
as
humankind
evolves.
Re-iterating
the
fundamentals ensures continuity and the emphasis on progress
ensures change, discontinuity and new developments. As Shoghi
Effendi says,
in accordance with the principle of progressive revelation
every Manifestation of God must needs vouchsafe to the
peoples of His day a measure of divine guidance ampler
than any which a preceding and less receptive age could
have received or appreciated.175
Thus, we have a gradual building process or progress as we
evolve through various conditions and various dispensations or
epistemes. Our progress and knowledge is accumulative across
differing epistemes thereby improving our understanding of
ourselves and the world. Foucault, of course, sees no progress
from one episteme to another, but only succession. His one-
sided view of history, his rejection of continuity and progress
brings him into conflict with the Bahá'í belief that human
history shows and erratic but persistent evolution towards the
unification of humankind into a global commonwealth as seen
in `Abdu'l-Bahá’s talk about unity in the “political realm ...
unity of thought in world undertakings ... unity in freedom
....unity in religion ... unity of nations ....unity of races ....[and]
unity of language.”176 This means that the Bahá'í Writings see
history as teleological or goal-oriented, shaped by a final cause,
whereas Foucault, by virtue of his emphasis on discontinuity
and his denial of progress does not.
The Bahá'í Writings have other difficulties with Foucault’s
views on history. First, it bears pointing out specifically that
the progressive nature of science through various epistemes is
regarded as highly problematical for Foucault’s theory.177
Second, while the Writings do not deny that chance and human
failings play a role in history – which is what Foucault wants to
stress – these factors are not able to derail material and spiritual
progress that marks human evolution. Third, the Bahá'í
Writings can agree that historical knowledge is perspectival, but
must do so with serious qualifications. Most obvious is the fact

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
that the perspective of the Manifestation, His appointed
successors and interpreters and the Universal House of Justice
have a privileged perspective on history and this provides us
with an Archimedean point from which to evaluate and judge
other perspectives by their degree of harmony with Bahá'u'lláh’s
revelation. Thus, many viewpoints are possible but whatever
one we choose, must harmonize with or at least not conflict
with what the Writings state. Finally, the Writings disagree with
Foucault’s tendency to explain cultural and historical events
exclusively in terms of the lowest common denominator, i.e. in
terms of what the Writings call man’s “animal nature.”178
Recognising the importance of our animal propensities, as well
as the importance of seemingly insignificant events is not, in
itself at odds with the Bahá'í Writings. Indeed, the Báb’s prayer
that “All are His servants and all abide by His Bidding”179 can be
understood in this context to mean that insignificant, shameful
or even hostile acts will ultimately work for the goal of history,
the eventual unification of humankind. However, such
explanations too easily become reductionistic insofar as they
ignore or denigrate humankind’s higher motives and “spiritual
susceptibilities”180 which also have their role in the unfolding of
history. In other words, whereas the Writings do not deny that
people sometimes act on the basis of their “animal nature,” they
disagree that human beings can be accurately presented solely in
that light.
This last issue is important because it sheds light on a
significant difference between the philosophical anthropology
or theory of man found in the Bahá'í Writings and in Foucault.
In the Bahá'í view, humankind has a dual nature, being both
animal and spiritual: “man is dual in aspect: as an animal he is
subject to nature, but in his spiritual or conscious being he
transcends the world of material existence.”181 Through this
spiritual nature we are able to recognise the existence of
transcendental realities like God and the soul and orient our
lives towards them while our animal nature remains imprisoned
in the material world. Furthermore, man’s true vocation, his
destiny is to transcend the physical world, to seek more than
material knowledge182 and pursue his evolution in the spiritual
plane after his material demise. However, Foucault shows no
awareness of man’s spiritual aspect; it plays no role in his
archaeological and genealogical analyses and explanations of
history or human nature other than as a man-made construct in
a particular episteme. The reason for this is programmatic
unwillingness to probe ‘beneath’ the images generated by our
epistemes in order to identify their transcendental objects.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
He writes, “We shall not return to the state anterior to
discourse,”183 meaning that he will not look beyond the
discourse of signifiers generated by an episteme to some
external or transcendental signified.
By refusing to return to “state anterior to discourse,” i.e. to
an external, transcendental object, Foucault, like Derrida,
conflates epistemology and ontology; he refuses to recognize a
transcendental
signifier
beyond
the
signifier.
Things
ontologically are as we know them, no more and no less; what
we ‘see’ is what there is, and nothing more The Writings, of
course, disagree:
There was a time when they [the realities of things] were
unknown, preserved mysteries and hidden secrets; the
rational soul gradually discovered them and brought them
out from the plane of the invisible and the hidden into the
realm of the visible.184
Admitting that things have “hidden secrets” and unknown
natures means that the signified is not identical to the signifier,
that what a thing is – its ontology – is not limited to what we
know about it – our epistemology. In other words, there is an
external, transcendental signified separate from the discourse
we use about things. This also implies that the subjective
knower is distinct from what is known, i.e. the object of
knowledge
and,
thereby,
reinforces
the
subject-object
distinction. In addition, the object is not dependent on the
subjective knower. For Foucault this is problematic. As James
Williams says, “Foucault is critical of this ambiguous
transcendence of subject and the system, where the subject is
both outside the causality and totality of the system, yet
capable of acting within it.”185 Given this transcendence, the
knower is able to evaluate his or her own knowledge in regards
to accuracy and adequacy to the object and refine and modify
her ideas or even overthrow them completely. That is how
progress occurs. For Foucault, however, this is not possible
since the knower constitutes the object and, therefore, has
nothing – no anterior nature or essence – to compare it against.
For the Bahá'í Writings, Foucault’s position is especially
unacceptable that God, the “Self-Subsistent” is in any
whatsoever dependent on human perception and construction.
Certainly, people and societies form images of God in their own
minds, but these do not constitute God Himself or God’s
Essence in any way. These images or idols have absolutely no
affect on God’s ontological nature. In contrast, Foucault’s

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
position involves a strange reversal: if God’s nature is
constituted by man, then, because of the conflation between
epistemology and ontology, we could say that, in effect, man is
the creator of God. This, of course, would reverse the
relationship between the dependent and the independent,
between the contingent and the necessary, between the
immanent (us) and the transcendent (God) and the time-bound
and the timeless. Finally, we note that the rejection of
transcendence in all its forms, leads to a ‘one-dimensional’
world picture, a ‘flatland’ in which only the immanent is real.
This is unacceptable to the Writings because man’s essence is his
spiritual not his immanent material nature.
It is self-evident that Foucault’s position on epistemes leads
to relativism. Each episteme is completely independent of all
others, and, whatever beliefs and values it has, cannot be judged
by others. However, as we have already seen in previous
discussions, the belief in the discovery of truth, in progressive
accumulation and improvement of knowledge as well as belief
in a universal human nature make such relativism unacceptable
to the Writings. It might, of course, be argued that the Bahá'í
Writings themselves adopt an epistemological relativism, as
Shoghi Effendi seems to do when he says that “religious truth is
not absolute but relative.”186 However, to understand what
Shoghi Effendi means we must look at the entire context of this
quote, namely the subject of progressive revelation in which the
essential “eternal verities”187 remain while the man-made
doctrines and errors are removed and/or changed.
He [Bahá'u'lláh] insists on the unqualified recognition of
the unity of their purpose, restates the eternal verities they
enshrine, coordinates their functions, distinguishes the
essential and the authentic from the nonessential and
spurious in their teachings, separates the God-given truths
from the priest-prompted superstitions.188
It is the man-made additions and doctrines that are relative
and change not the “eternal verities” which are continuous
through successive dispensations and universally valid for all
human beings. Moreover, we must not forget that according to
the Wrings, the Manifestation and His authorized interpreters
provide the absolute standard, the Archimendean standpoint
from which all other views may be evaluated and judged.
Perspectives are to be judged by their degree of harmonization
with what the Manifestation reveals. As we have seen before,
the Manifestation provides us with the means to distinguish
truth from error, science from superstition, moral from

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
immoral and fact from fiction. From this it becomes clear that
Foucault’s relativism is incompatible with the Bahá'í Writings
on the issue of relativism.
The Bahá'í Writings contradict Foucault’s view of reason
insofar as they believe that reason can actually provide
objectively and universally true knowledge. Foucault, of course,
does not trust reason to deliver true knowledge. According to
Best and Kellner, “His concept of ‘power/knowledge’ is
symptomatic of the postmodern suspicion of reason and the
emancipatory schemes advanced in its name.”189 The following
quote from `Abdu'l-Bahá makes clear the great difference
between Foucault’s views and the Writings’: “God has created
man in order that he may perceive the verity of existence and
endowed him with mind or reason to discover truth.”190 This
does, not, of course, mean that in the Bahá'í view reason as a
perfect and flawless instrument for, as we have seen, it is not;
however, it is good enough to be made a criterion for
evaluating both religion and science as evident in the following
quotation:
true science is reason and reality, and religion is essentially
reality and pure reason; therefore, the two must
correspond. Religious teaching which is at variance with
science and reason is human invention and imagination
unworthy of acceptance.191
At the very least, reason can bring us closer to the truth of
things and, since truth is one,192 this truth is, at least potentially,
universal, i.e. valid across all epistemes. For Foucault the idea of
universal truths is untenable because each episteme has its own
rules about reason and truth and, therefore, judgments across
differing epistemes are not allowable.
In regards to the subject of truth and power, the difference
between Foucault and the Writings is that Writings do not
agree that any and all truth claims are necessarily expressions of
the will-to-power and part of a “regime[] of power”193 seeking
to dominate its rivals merely for the sake of power. As Foucault
says, knowledge “creates a progressive enslavement to its
instinctive violence.”194 Like Derrida, Foucault thinks that
knowledge is innately violent because it subordinates individual
heterogeneity to generalizations and universal concepts, and
because each truth-claim is actually a power-claim advanced
against all other truth/power claims. This free-for-all struggle
for domination among truth-claims is inevitable because there is
no standard by which to evaluate and judge them. This inability

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
to distinguish true from false or partially true is, of course, an
unavoidable
consequence
of
relativism
which
lacks
a
transcendental Archimedean standpoint from which to judge
competing truth-claims. Truth-claims thus become mere
assertions of preference and/or will. In short, epistemology is
reduced to power-politics. However, the Bahá'í Writings do not
envisage such a reduction because the quest for truth and
knowledge is not seen as being inherently political in nature but
rather as quest to know and to understand God’s creation. This
attitude is made clear by `Abdu'l-Bahá:
All blessings are divine in origin, but none can be
compared with this power of intellectual investigation and
research, which is an eternal gift producing fruits of
unending delight ... In fact, science may be likened to a
mirror wherein the infinite forms and images of existing
things are revealed and reflected. It is the very foundation
of all individual and national development ... Therefore,
seek with diligent endeavor the knowledge and attainment
of all that lies within the power of this wonderful
bestowal.195
It bears a passing note that this passage contains `Abdu'l-
Bahá’s picture of science as a mirror, reflecting the world,
which is to say, that knowledge is not or at least not entirely a
man-made construction with no reference to anything beyond
the language system. Knowledge, in the Bahá'í view is not simply
immanent to the episteme; it has transcendental references, just
as a mirror refers beyond itself. More immediate to our purpose
is
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s
portrayal
of
knowledge
as
fulfilling
humankind’s “divine purpose” in our “individual and national
development.” In other words, knowledge and truth are not
centered on the acquisition and/or maintenance of power but
instead are centered on fulfilling our divinely mandated destiny,
on personal and/or collective self-actualization. The Writings
do not deny that knowledge is very useful, or that it can be mis-
used for political/power purposes; however, they do not accept
Foucault’s contention that the quest for power is an inevitable
and inherent part of seeking and conveying knowledge.
Another obvious difficulty with Foucault’s philosophy is that
it leaves the self, the human subject, more or less passive, a
helpless object of action the various “truth games” and
discourses that constitute any given episteme. What room can
there be for free action or ethical behavior under such
circumstances? As Danaher, Schirato and Webb point out,
Foucault himself became more sensitive to this problem towards

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
the end of his career and tried to argue that the subject can, in
fact, shape itself like a work of art or a novel.196 However, this
change does not seem to be consistent with the philosophy he
outlined in the majority of his important works in which he
successfully undercut the whole notion of the self or subject as
an agent in its own life.
The Bahá'í Writings, of course, do not agree that the self, or
subject, or soul is not a substance as Foucault claims. `Abdu'l-
Bahá’ says quite pointedly on this issue,
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by
itself, and that the spirit is accidental and depends upon
the substance of the body, although, on the contrary, the
rational soul is the substance, and the body depends upon
it. If the accident--that is to say, the body--be destroyed,
the substance, the spirit, remains.197
Here we have the clearest possible indication that according
to the Writings, the self or subject or soul is a substance that
persists through its accidental changes and is precisely the kind
of single, unitary, independent and consistent entity posited by
Descartes and Kant. Indeed, the soul is not only a substance,
but it also possesses inherent personality from the outset, and,
therefore is not simply a construction based on an episteme.
The personality of the rational soul is from its beginning;
it is not due to the instrumentality of the body, but the
state and the personality of the rational soul may be
strengthened in this world; it will make progress and will
attain to the degrees of perfection, or it will remain in the
lowest abyss of ignorance, veiled and deprived from
beholding the signs of God.198
The personality is essentially transcendent to the episteme,
although the episteme can influence its future development,
strengthening some features, weakening others. Nevertheless,
we must always bear in mind that despite these changes, the
soul’s essential, universal attributes remain the same: it is, as we
have already seen, rational, it has “spiritual susceptibilities,” it
is immortal, it has free will in matters of morality, it is not
bound by time and space, it has powers of infinite growth, it
can discover the ‘realities’ of things, and it has powers that
make it superior to phenomenal nature. Thus, the Bahá'í
Writings do not deny that the self is influenced by its socio-
historical surroundings, but they preserve the free agency of the
self by drawing attention to its power to choose the better way.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Nor do they deny that the self can relate to itself in different
ways while performing different actions, but the essential
nature of the self underneath these changes remains constant.
Such constancy is incompatible with Foucault’s concept of the
self.
18. Richard Rorty and the Bahá'í Writings
When we examine Rorty’s postmodernism, we find that it has
virtually nothing in common with the Bahá'í Writings on any
major issues. In the first place, the Writings clearly accept
representationalism
whereas
Rorty
rejects
it.199
Representationalism, as we recall, is the belief that language
does not just refer to itself but also makes verifiable statements
about an external reality. In other words, language involves a
signifier referring to an external signified, or, is like a mirror
reflecting a transcendental signified beyond itself. Adherence to
representationalism
is
clearly
evident
in
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s
statements that “Science may be likened to a mirror wherein the
images of the mysteries of outer phenomena are reflected,”200
and that “science may be likened to a mirror wherein the infinite
forms and images of existing things are revealed and
reflected.”201
If language did not allow us to reflect reality adequately, we
could not form theories or scientific propositions that inform
us about reality with some degree of accuracy and, therefore,
could not speak of the “progress science and knowledge have
made.”202 We could not speak of such “progress” because our
theories and/or propositions would not tell us anything about
reality, and therefore, we could not know if we had made any
progress by improving theories, i.e. making theories more
accurate reflections of reality. We could not even discard false
theories, because knowing that a theory is false implies that we
already have a better way of understanding reality. In addition,
if we reject representationalism we also find ourselves
perpetually trapped in a prison of language and linguistic
constructs that makes reality – if it even exists – inaccessible.
Just as in Kant’s philosophy, we are permanently enclosed in the
phenomenal
realm,
so
in
Rorty’s
rejection
of
representationalism, we are perpetually confined within
conversations that refer to nothing other than themselves:
sentences, he says, are only “connected with other sentences
rather than with the world.”203 He is satisfied with this
situation.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
An idea closely associated with representationalism is that,
that reason can provide us genuine knowledge about reality. By
means of reason we can develop theories and propositions that
are capable of discovering truths, i.e. reflecting reality: “He
[God] has endowed him [man] with mind, or the faculty of
reasoning, by the exercise of which he is to investigate and
discover the truth, and that which he finds real and true he must
accept.”204 The very purpose of reason is the discovery of truth:
“God has created man in order that he may perceive the verity
of existence and endowed him with mind or reason to discover
truth.”205 Reason, if properly applied, can reflect the truth
about reality, or put otherwise, can correspond to reality. For
his part, Rorty thinks that reason is a faculty that “can now be
dispensed with – and should be dispensed with”206 because it
cannot tell us anything about the real world since sentences are
only connected to other sentences. This is not something to
which the Writings can agree. Nor can they agree to Rorty’s
proposal that instead of pursing knowledge, “we just might be
saying something”207 simply in order to “keep the conversation
going rather than to find objective truth.”208 This, for Rorty is
“a sufficient aim of philosophy.”209 In effect, for Rorty,
philosophy and science are no longer interested in attaining
truth.210 This is completely incompatible with `Abdu'l-Bahá’s
statement that “It is, therefore, clear that in order to make any
progress in the search after truth we must relinquish
superstition.”211 From Rorty’s viewpoint, we might want to
cling to the superstition simply because it keeps the
conversation alive.
One additional consequence of representationalism is that
the Writings, unlike Rorty, accept realism, the belief that reality
is what it is independent of human observation. At this point a
clarification is in order: the Writings espouse realism in regards
to original or ‘first nature’, the universe as created by God, the
universe which depends for its inherent essence and attributes
on God, not humankind. Of course, the Writings recognise that
human creations like societies, laws and customs traditionally
known as ‘second nature,’ depend on us, at least to a certain
extent. However, the arguments surrounding philosophical
‘realism’ are focussed on the issue of whether or not original
nature depends on us in any way, as for example Kant says it
does. The Bahá'í Writings clearly do not accept the Kantian
notion – or postmodern variations of it – that humankind
constitutes original nature and its laws. These natural laws are
discovered and not constituted by us.212

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Since, for Rorty, sentences can only refer to other sentences
and not to reality, it follows that he is incapable of recognising
the existence of essences. On his premises, how could we
possibly know about them since our sentences or propositions
cannot mirror reality? Therefore, they must be linguistic
constructs of some kind, products of conversation. The
Writings, of course, assert the reality of essences of things, and
even of God213 and even provide guidance in we can and cannot
come to know essences:
Know that there are two kinds of knowledge: the
knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge of
its qualities. The essence of a thing is known through its
qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and hidden.214
Just as Rorty denies the existence of essences, Rorty
emphatically rejects the notion of a “core self,”215 an essential
self, a ‘true’ self that somehow endures which remains what it is
independent of changes in one’s beliefs and desires.216 This so-
called ‘self’ is a fiction created by language.217 He tells us that
““there is no self distinct from this self-reweaving web”218 of
muscles, movements, beliefs and states of mind, i.e. no core
substantial independently existing entity. Rorty adds that we
should “avoid the self-deception of thinking that we possess a
deep, hidden, metaphysically significant nature which makes us
‘irreducibly’ different from inkwells or atoms,”219 meaning that
the self is a natural product like anything else. The Writings, of
course reject this view and assert that the “rational soul is the
substance and the body depends on it”220 and, unlike all other
things, can exist independently of the body after death. This
idea of the soul’s existence as an independently existing
substance is re-enforced when `Abdu'l-Bahá says that “the
personality of the rational soul is from its beginning; it is not
due to the instrumentality of the body.”221 If the personality is
“from its beginning”, it is obviously not dependent on our
physical self-construction or ‘reweaving’ to use Rorty’s term,
and, therefore, exists as a real entity.
In contradiction to Rorty and the postmodernists, the Bahá'í
Writings advocate foundationalism, i.e. the belief that there are
certain propositions, principles and/or knowledge and truths
which are non-inferential i.e. not dependent on other
justifications and are self-evident, i.e. cannot be denied without
falling into self-contradiction or into denying self-evident
empirical experience. For example, `Abdu'l-Bahá recognises that
God is “the self-evident Reality”222 and expresses shock that
educated academics cannot see this. Moreover, “[i]t is a self-

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
evident truth that all humanity is the creation of God. All are
His servants and under His protection. All are recipients of His
bestowals,223 and “[I]t is a self-evident fact that phenomenal
existence can never grasp nor comprehend the ancient and
essential Reality.”224 A final example of truths that are
foundational in the Writings:
It is self-evident that the human spirit is simple, single and
not composed in order that it may come to immortality,
and it is a philosophical axiom that the individual or
indivisible atom is indestructible.225
The Writings probably accept foundationalism because all
thinking – including anti-foundationalism – requires certain
premises, assumptions and axioms to work. The notion that
anyone’s thinking let alone a philosophical position can be
genuinely anti-foundational is a self-contradictory willow-the-
wisp. At the very least it would require the assumption that
there exist foundational arguments since if no such arguments
existed, anti-foundationalism would lose its reason for being. In
addition to being foundational, the Writings also endorse
metaphysics, i.e. “the investigation of the nature, constitution,
and structure of reality”226 and are replete with examples of
metaphysical analysis:
Nature is that condition, that reality, which in appearance
consists in life and death, or, in other words, in the
composition and decomposition of all things.
This Nature is subjected to an absolute organization, to
determined laws, to a complete order and a finished design
from which it will never depart ... But when you look at
Nature itself, you see that it has no intelligence, no will.227
These are patently assertions about how nature actually is, its
mode of existing and its limitations i.e. they deal with the
nature and structure of reality. In Rorty’s view, such statements
are impossible and, therefore, patent nonsense.
Another significant difference between Rorty and the Bahá'í
Writings is Rorty’s adherence to relativism, as illustrated by his
remark that ironists like himself “do not hope to have their
doubts about their final vocabularies settled by something
larger than themselves.”228 In other words, he does not look to a
God – or a transcendental, Archimedean standpoint to resolve
his philosophical issues and conflicts. Rejecting one or both of
these makes Rorty – his strenuous denials notwithstanding – a
relativist since that leaves no way of adjudicating among

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
conflicting viewpoints. To prove that he does not think all
views are equally good, he asserts that a pragmatist like himself
“thinks his views are better than the ‘realists,’ but he does not
think his views correspond to the nature of things.”229 Basically,
he thinks his views are better because he is a “liberal” and,
therefore, “more afraid of being cruel than anything else.”230 It
is difficult to take his claim that he is not a relativist at face
value. Given his belief that statements cannot correspond to
reality (and, therefore cannot be tested by reality), that
rationality is simply a local cultural bias without general validity
and that truth itself is a chimera, on what ground other than
sheer dogmatic assertion can he claim that his philosophy is
better? (Unless of course he relies on revelation which he does
not.) If language games are incommensurable, if there is no
rational or empirical way of ‘proving’ one view or another, then
the alleged superiority of one view comes down to a dogmatic
assertion of preference, i.e. of Nietzsche’s will-to-power. In the
last analysis Rorty’s liberalism has nothing more than his
preference to recommend it. Ironically, it is precisely such
dogmatic assertion that his much recommended edifying
conversation is supposed to replace. Judged by his own
standards, Rorty’s views exemplify a thorough-going, i.e.
radical relativism both in epistemology and ethics. The Bahá'í
Writings, will certainly agree about the value of avoiding
cruelty, but they cannot agree that the desire to avoid cruelty is
based on nothing more than personal whim and preference;
instead, they see such a desire grounded in our common human
nature and the essential one-ness of humankind and the
commandments of God.
The foregoing discussion makes it clear that on virtually all
substantive and fundamental issues, the Bahá'í Writings and
Rorty’s
philosophy
differ.
Even
Rorty’s
advocacy
of
“solidarity” and “edifying conversation” do not really bridge the
gap between the two because the Bahá'í Dispensation wants to
achieve
solidarity
through
the
recognition
of
certain
foundational truths such as the existence of God or the essential
one-ness of humankind. It does not think solidarity can be built
on mere ‘political considerations’ in the politics of knowledge
or by temporarily edifying conversations. Rorty’s goals cannot
be relied upon to be the foundation for a social order because
they are merely ‘political’ and not spiritual in nature and
according to the Writings such unity does not last.231 Thus, here
too, as with other postmodern philosophers, we are forced to
conclude that despite superficial or accidental similarities, the
differences between Rorty and the Bahá'í Writings are essential

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
and substantial.
19. Baudrillard and the Bahá'í Writings
For the most part, the Bahá'í Writings have the same kind of
difficulties with Baudrillard as they have with the other
postmodernists. There may well be agreement on individual
points, but the Writings cannot accept the fundamental
ontological and epistemological premises of Baudrillard’s work.
Given such foundational disagreement, we can only conclude
that whatever specific concurrences we may discover are
accidental and, therefore, superficial, and not essential.
Even if we choose to read Baudrillard as a sociologist
describing postmodern social phenomena and not, like the other
postmodernists we have examined, as a philosopher promoting a
certain philosophic programme we shall still have difficulty with
his analysis from a Bahá'í perspective.
The difficulties between Baudrillard and the Bahá'í Writings
begin with the conclusions he draws from the Borges short-
story, “On Exactitude in Science.” According to Baudrillard,
this story shows the implosion of intellectual categories so that
the usually accepted and clearly defined terms of our thought
cease to be distinct and meld into one another. (This is not
unlike Derrida’s subversion in which a term – such as
pharmakon or medicine – may turn into its opposite, poison.) If
the map in the story is really as large as the territory, what does
the map represent? The represented and that which represents
have become one. What is the distinction between the signified
and the signifier, between “a referential being or a
substance”?232 Other threatened binaries are cause and effect,
active and passive, subject and object and ends and means,233 as
well as true and false, real and imaginary. 234 Other untenable
distinctions include real and ideal, original and copy,
appearance and reality, and essential and nonessential.
The Bahá'í Writings do not agree that these terms are
meaningless and/or outmoded in our analysis of reality and the
human situation. Because we have touched on this subject
before, only a brief review of some of the evidence will be
necessary. They clearly distinguish between true and false as
when Bahá'u'lláh says that “the divine Purpose hath decreed that
the true should be known from the false, and the sun from the
shadow.”235 Indeed, without these distinctions, there would no
basis for an ethical teachings. As we have seen previously, the
Writings clearly accept the distinction between cause and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
effect,236 real and imaginary,237 essential and accidental
(nonessential),238 signified and signifier as in the word ‘God’ and
the actual God, substance and accident,239 and subject and
object as in the perceiver and what is perceived.240 In other
words, the Writings accept as useful analytical tools precisely
those binary concepts that Baudrillard no longer finds
serviceable in his analysis of reality and postmodern society.
Quite obviously, Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá find these
concepts applicable and build on them a significant portions of
their analysis of reality, the general condition of humankind and
the condition of the contemporary world.
Furthermore, if all these essential differences simply meld, it
is impossible to be rational since rationality depends on clear
and distinct categories of thought that allow us to attain clear
and decisive answers. According to Baudrillard, “All the
referentials intermingle their discourses in a circular Moebian
compulsion,241 i.e. go around endlessly from one opposite to
another, and, thereby prevent reason from functioning. In other
words, the efficacy of reason as a way of understanding reality
is short-circuited, leaving us no further ahead than we were
without it. The Bahá'í Writings, as we have seen, do not share
this pessimistic view of the ability of reason to discover truth
about reality. According to Baudrillard, however, “truth,
reference and objective causes have ceased to exist.”242
Since “truth, reference and objective causes have ceased to
exist,” it is clear that metaphysics (which he satirizes as
“pataphysics” 243 ) is impossible. After all, metaphysics untenable
since metaphysics requires clearly identified causal relationships
in its study of the structure and nature of reality. Furthermore,
if our propositions are no longer referential and do not refer to
reality, we cannot discuss reality at all let alone decide which
propositions are true. This, too, makes metaphysics impossible
as does the view that we can no longer distinguish real from
unreal, or appearance from reality; with this situation “goes all
of metaphysics. No more mirror of being and appearance, of
the real and its concept ...” 244 However, the Writings do not
accept this view, as is quite evident from the numerous passages
of metaphysics in the Bahá'í Writings. Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-
Bahá obviously think that metaphysics is not only possible but
also, that some metaphysical understanding is necessary for our
well-being and spiritual evolution. Without some understanding
of metaphysics, how can we understand and appreciate our
spiritual nature in this world and our super-natural destiny in
the next?

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
Let us examine another example. The Writings do not agree
with Baudrillard’s claim that in the postmodern world “there is
no real,”245 that we live in a hyperreal world in which the
simulation constitutes reality. This is why, in his view,
Disneyland is America. While the Bahá'í Writings may accept
that for some this might be true insofar as it describes a rather
unfortunate state of mind, it is certainly not an accurate
description of how things actually are. In other words, they
question the melding of reality and simulation into a
hyperreality, and the denial of any difference between them is
simply inadequate metaphysical analysis of reality. The
materially and spiritually poor are not simulations experiencing
simulated poverty and hunger, for example, their deprivations
are very real and cannot be cured with a simulated sandwich.
The distinction between reality and the difference between it
and “vain imaginings”246 is as operative in the postmodern world
as much as it is at any other time in human history.
20. Conclusion
As we have already noted, it is difficult to escape the general
conclusion that as far as the major exponents of post
modernism are concerned, i.e. Nietzsche, Lyotard, Derrida,
Foucault, Rorty and Baudrillard, the disagreements with the
Bahá'í Writings are foundational. There are, of course,
individual similarities and agreements, but in light of the
foundational differences we have observed in epistemology,
ontology, ethics, philosophical anthropology (theory of man)
and cultural studies, such concurrences cannot reasonably be
regarded as more than accidental and fortuitous. In our view,
this means that we cannot adhere to both the postmodern
philosophy articulated by these thinkers and to the philosophical
positions explicitly and implicitly held by the Bahá'í Writings
without losing consistency and coherence of view-point, and
without falling into difficult logical contradictions.
Given this situation, can Bahá'í scholars make use of
postmodern techniques and views in studying or creatively
interpreting the Writings? In our view, the answer is generally
negative because the foundational differences are too great to
be bridged. How, for example, can we overcome the
diametrically opposed positions on grand narratives, privileged
authors, interpreters and viewpoints, or external, transcendental
objects of signification and knowledge? The postmodern
insistence on immanence, its ‘immanentism’ (inherited from
Nietzsche) is also at odds with the Bahá'í insistence on

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
transcendentalism, on the reality of God, the soul and the
supernatural.247 These positions are logically reconcilable. How
could a Bahá'í scholar use Derrida in a study of the Writings
when, according to Derrida, any reading of any text can be
endlessly shown to subvert its own meaning and thereby
forestall any final reading or interpretation. Insofar as there is
no authoritative or final reading, all readings become equal.
How far can deconstruction, subversion and destabilizing texts
go? Can it go so far as to show that, Bahá'u'lláh’s statement,
“Let your vision be world-embracing, rather than confined to
your own self”248 also means its opposite, ‘Let your vision
become narrow and focussed on your own country and your
own self’? Can we apply such endless subversion to the messages
from the Universal House of Justice? Little reflection is
required to see what insurmountable difficulties this would raise
for teaching the Bahá'í Faith, explicating its teachings and
principles, defending it against critics and engaging in
meaningful inter-faith dialogue. Who, if we applied such
methods, would or could really know what the Bahá'í Faith
stood for? Consequently, this paper suggests that Bahá'í scholars
make very cautious use even of the accidental similarities with
postmodernism and ensure they do not entangle themselves in
philosophical positions that create difficulties with the
Writings.
There are two possible partial exceptions to this, Heidegger
and Baudrillard. Heidegger’s philosophy of Being has been given
theological interpretations249 that in many respects are in
harmony with the Writings. There is certainly no problem in
regards to Heidegger’s refusal to confuse Being with beings, or,
in Bahá'í terms, God with creations, either natural or our own
man-made idols. Nor is there any inherent difficulty or
insurmountable difficulty with Heidegger’s theory of truth as
aletheia, the disclosure of the Being of individual beings, or the
task of art and especially poetry as the disclosure of the Being
of beings.250
If we read Baudrillard’s work as a sociological diagnosis of
the corrupt condition of society and culture, i.e. as a
sociological description of a world in which entire societies
have been “deluded by a mere phantom which the vain
imaginations of its peoples have conceived,”251 then one might
be favourably inclined towards his analyses of the postmodern
condition. His assertion that boundaries have blurred between
the real and artificial or imaginary, true and false, cause and
effect, subject and object is not inherently opposed to the

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
Bahá'í Writings if we read it as an analysis of individual and
social pathology. However, if we read Baudrillard’s work as we
read Lyotard’s, Derrida’s, Foucault’s or Rorty’s i.e. as a
program that is being suggested for the analysis and exploration
of the postmodern world, then we have the same problems we
have with these other philosophers: the Bahá'í Writings accept
and make use of the numerous metaphysical categories that
Baudrillard rejects outright. In our view, the latter reading is
more justified than the former because Baudrillard nowhere
gives any sign of recognising that the postmodern view of
reality he describes is a distortion and misrepresentation of
reality as it really is, i.e. reality as described by the Bahá'í
Writings. That is why he is included in this study.
SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY
Robert Audi, ed. The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press
Aviram, Ammittai F. “Asking the Question: Kant and Postmodernism?”
www.amittai.com/prose/kant.php
Baudrillard, Jean. Simulations. Trans by P. Foss, P Patton, P. Beitchman. N.p.
Semiotext(e), 1983.
———.
“Pataphysics,”
trans.
by
Drew
Burk.
www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=569
———.
“Holograms,”
trans.
by
Sheila
Glaser.
www.egs.edu/faculty/baudrillard/baudrillard-simulacra-and-simulation-
11-holograms.html
Best,
Steven
and
Kellner,
Douglas.
Postmodern
Theory:
Critical
Interrogations. New York: The Guilford Press, 1991.
———. “The Postmodern Turn in Philosophy: Theoretical Provocations & Norm-
ative Deficits”  www.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/papers/postmodernturn.htm
———.
“Holograms,”
trans.
by
Sheila
Glaser.
www.egs.edu/faculty/baudrillard/baudrillard-simulacra-and-simulation-
11-holograms.html
Blackburn, Simon, ed. The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1994.
Butler, Christopher. Postmodernism: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 2002.
Caputo, John. D. ed. Deconstruction in a Nutshell: A Conversation with
Jacques Derrida. New York: Fordham University Press,
Culler, Jonathon. On Deconstruction. Ithaca: Cornell University press, 1983.
Derrida, Jacques. Disseminations. Trans. by Barbara Johnson. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1981.
———. Margins of Philosophy. Trans. by Alan Bass. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1982.
———. Of Grammatology. Trans by Gayatri Spivak. Baltimore: The Johns
Hopkins University press, 1977.
———. Positions. Trans. by Alan Bass. New York: Continuum Books, 2004.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
———. Writing and Difference. Trans. by Alan Bass. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1978.
Danaher, Schirato, Webb. Understanding Foucault. St Leonards, NSW: Allen
and Unwin, 2000.
Eagleton, Terry. The Illusions of Postmodernism. Oxford: Blackwell
Publishers, 1996.
Ellis, John. M. Against Deconstruction. Princeton: Princeton University
Press, 1989.
Foucault, Michel. Madness and Civilization. New York. Random House, 1973.
———. Discipline and Punish. Trans. by Alana Sheridan. New York: Vintage
Books, 1977.
———. The Archaeology of Knowledge. Trans by A.M. Sheridan Smith. New
York, Routledge 2005.
———. The Essential Foucault. Ed by Paul Rabinow and Nikolas Rose. New
York: The New Press, 2003.
———. The Foucault Reader. Ed. by Paul Rabinow. New York: Pantheon
Books, 1984.
———. The Order of Things. Trans. not named. New York: Vintage Books, 1973.
Gutting, Gary ed. The Cambridge Companion to Foucault. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2005.
Heidegger, Martin An Introduction to Metaphysics. Trans by Ralph
Mannheim. New York: Anchor Books, 1961.
———. Being and Time. Trans. by John Macquarrie and Edward Robinson.
New York: Harper and Row, 1962.
———. www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/heidegg2.htm
———.
On
the
Essence
of
Truth”.

evans-
experientialism.freewebspace.com/heidegger6a.htm
———. Poetry, Language Thought. Trans. by Albert Hofstadter, New York:
Harper and Row, 1971.
Hicks, Stephen. Explaining Postmodernism. Milwaukee: Scholarly Publishing,
2004.
Honderich, Ted., ed. The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Oxford:
Oxford University Press,1995.
———. The Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy. New York:
Routledge, 2003.
Hornby, Helen. Compiler. Lights of Guidance. New Delhi: Bahá'í Publishing
Trust, 1983.
Hynes,
Darren.
“Michel
Foucault’s
Archaeology
of
Knowledge.”
www.mun.ca/phil/codgito/vol4/v4doc1.html
Inwood, Michael. A Heidegger Dictionary. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers, 1999.
Kant, Immanuel. The Critique of Pure Reason. Trans. by Norman Kemp
Smith. London: Macmillan and Co., 1964; also trans. by Max Mueller.
oll.libertyfund.org/index.php?option=com_staticxt&staticfile=show.php
%3Ftitle=1442&Itemid=27
Kluge, Ian. “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings.” Lights of
Irfán, Volume 4, 2003.
Koelb, Clayton. (ed.), Nietzsche as Postmodernists, Essays Pro and Contra.
Albany: The State University of New York Press. 1990.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings
Lyotard, Francis. The Postmodern Condition. Trans. by G. Bennington and B
Massumi. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1993.
Megill, Allan. Prophets of Extremity: Nietzsche, Heidegger, Foucault,
Derrida. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1985.
Merquuior, J.G. Foucault. Hammersmith: Fontana Press, 1991.
Miller, James. The Passion of Michel Foucault. New York: Anchor Books, 1993.
Lucy, Niall. A Derrida Dictionary. Oxford: Blackwell, 2004.
Nietzsche, Frederich. Beyond Good and Evil. Chicago: Henry Regnery Books,
1969;
also,
trans
by
Ian
Johnston.
www.mala.bc.ca/~johnstoi/Nietzsche/beyondgoodandevil_tofc.htm
———. The Birth of Tragedy. Trans by Francis Golffing. New York: Anchor
Books, 1956; also
———. The Genealogy of Morals. Trans. by Francis Golffing. New York:
Anchor
Books,
1956;
also
trans
by
Ian
Johnston,
www.mala.bc.ca/~johnstoi/Nietzsche/genealogytofc.htm
———. Thus Spake Zarathustra. Trans. by R.J. Hollingdale,. Harmondsworth:
Penguin
Books,
1968;
also
trans.
by
Thomas
Common.
www.geocities.com/thenietzschechannel/zara.htm
———. The Will to Power. Trans. by Walter Kaufmann and R.J Hollingdale.
New York: Vintage Books, 1967.
———. “Of Truth and Lie in the Extra-Moral Sense.” Compiled from
translations
by
Walter
Kaufmann
and
Daniel
Breazeale.
www.geocities.com/thenietzschechannel/tls.htm
Robinson, Dave. Nietzsche and Postmodernism. Cambridge: Icon Books, 1999.
Rorty, Richard Contingency, Irony and Solidarity. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2005.
———. Objectivity, Relativism and Truth. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1991.
———. Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature. Princeton: Princeton University
Press, 1979.
Sheridan, Alan. Michel Foucault: The Will to Truth. New York: Routledge, 1990.
Sim, Stuart. Ed. The Icon Critical Dictionary of Postmodern Thought.
Cambridge: Icon Books, 1998.
Smith, James. K.A. Jacques Derrida: Live Theory. New York: Continuum, 2006.
Smart, Barry. Postmodernity: Key Ideas. New York: Routledge, 1993.
Thomassen, Lasse. Ed. The Derrida-Habermas Reader. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 2006.
Williams, James. Understanding Poststructuralism. Chesham: Acumen, 2005.
Wolin, Richard. The Seduction of Unreason. Princeton: Princeton University
Press, 2004.
Young, Julian. Heidegger’s Later Philosophy. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 2002.

1 “Ponder this in thine heart, that the sweet gales of divine knowledge,
blowing from the meads of mercy, may waft upon thee.” Bahá'u'lláh, The
Kitab-i-Iqan, p. 149. References to this ‘heart-knowable’ abound in the
Writings.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

2 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions p.208; emphasis added.
3 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.288.
4 PUP 304; emphasis added.
5 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
6 See for example, `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 146 - 147
7 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 157.
8 `SAQ 297; PUP 20 – 22.
9 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 298.
10 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.7.
11 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace , p.303
12 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.208.
13 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
14 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdu'l-Bahá v1, p. 115.
15 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.208.
16 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 181.
17 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.298 – 299.
18 Selections from the Writings of `Abdu'l-Bahá, p. 299.
19 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 63.
20 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 107.
21 PUP 287; emphasis added.
22 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.312 -313
23 Nietzsche, The Genealogy of Morals, Book III, Section 12.
24 See footnotes 286 and 288. See also Some Answered Questions, p. 299.
25 `Abdu'l-Bahá , The Promulgation of Universal Peace p.255; emphasis
added.
26 The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, ed. Ted Honderich, p.759.
27 Simon Blackburn, The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, p.327.
28 Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, SS6, Section III.
29 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Tablet to August Forel, p. 18; emphasis added.
30 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 195.
31 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 6.
32 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.179.
33 SAQ 5. Ch. 2: “Proofs and Evidences of the Existence of God”
34 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 17.
35 GWB XCIV, p. 192; emphasis added.
36 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 93.
37 PUP p. 327; emphasis added.
38 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 18.
39 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 15.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

40 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 17.
41 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, “Before Sunrise.”
42 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.208.
43 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 552.
44 Nietzsche, Of Truth and Lie in the Extra-Moral Sense.
45 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #493.
46 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #534.
47 PUP 287; emphasis added.
48 Some Answered Questions, p. 3-4.
49 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 253; emphasis added.
50 Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, Section 15.
51 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 552.
52 Ian Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá'í Writings” in Lights
of Irfan, Book 4, 2003.
53 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.42; emphasis added.
54 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 9.
55 Nietzsche, The Genealogy of Morals. First Essay, Section 6; see also
Beyond Good and Evil.
56 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, Part III, “The Convalescent”, p.215.
57 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 223.
58 The Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 61.
59 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, Part II, “The Pitiful”, p. 87.
60 Nietzsche, Thus Spake Zarathustra, Part III, “The Convalescent”, p. 207;
emphasis added.
61 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 283.
62 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 287.
63 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 286; emphasis added.
64 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 89.
65 The Kita-i-Aqdas 13.
66 The Kitab-i-Iqan, p. 176.
67 Robert Audi, editor, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, p. 563.
68 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, p.21.; in other works, Heidegger spells
it ‘being’ without the capital.
69 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, p.23.
70 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, p.23.
71 Heidegger, “Existence and Being”
72 Heidegger, “Existence and Being.”
73 An Aristotelian ‘substance’ is not necessarily a material substance as
Descartes, Hume and Locke mistakenly thought. A substance is anything
that is not an attribute of something else. For example, ‘strength’ is not a
substance because it can only exist as an attribute of a substance.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

74 Aristotle, Metaphysics, XII, 7, 1072a.
75 Ian Kluge, The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings,” Lights of
Irfan IV, 2003.
76 Heidegger, “Existence and Being.”
77 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XIX, p. 46 – 47.
78 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, p.23.
79 Some Answered Questions, p. 113.
80 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XC, p. 178.
81 Martin Heidegger, Poetry, Language, Thought, p. 47.
82 The Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 23.
83 Micahel Inwood, A Heidegger Dictionary, p. 84.
84 Micahel Inwood, A Heidegger Dictionary, p. 84
85 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, p. 261.
86 Heidegger, Being and Time, p.259.
87 Some Answered Questions, p. 220.
88 Some Answered Questions, p. 251; emphasis added.
89 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
90 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 154.
91 Heidegger, Being and Time, p.259; italics added.
92 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity, p. 69.
93 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity, p. 69.
94 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity, p. 69.
95 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity, p. 69.
96 Bahá'í World Faith, p. 237.
97 Bahá'u'lláh, Hidden Words (Persian) # 33.
98 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XVII, p. 46.
99 Abdu'l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdu'l-Bahá v1, p. 168; emphasis added.
100 Heidegger, “Existence and Being.”
101 Some Answered Questions, p.299.
102 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
103 Heidegger, “On the Essence of Truth.”
104 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Iqan, p. 8.
105 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XVI, p. 40
106 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XCII, p. 183.
107 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 397.
108 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.
109 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.
110 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 47.
111 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 136.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

112 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.128.
113 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 246.
114 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.36.
115 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.208.
Stephen
Jay
Gould,
“Non-Overlapping
Magesteria,”
www.stephenjaygould.org/library/gould_noma.html
117 Rilke, Letters to a Young Poet, Letter 7.
118 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 128.
119 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 131.
120 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 131.
121 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.
122 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p. 171.
123 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.66.
124 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.66.
125 Best and Kellner, “The Postmodern Turn in Philosophy: Theoretical
Provocations and Normative Devices.”
126 Christopher Butler, Postmodernism: A Very Short Introduction, p.60.
127 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.66.
128 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p.42.
129 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.175.
130 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.41.
131 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.171;
132 Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh p.105.
133 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 467.
134 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 467.
135 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, CVI, p. 213.
136 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Aqdas, p.56.
137 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Aqdas, p.56.
138 Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, 33-34.
139 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 172.
140 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 58
141 Lights of Guidance, p. 365; Lights of Guidance, # 725; p. 273.
142 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 239.
143 Furthermore, if truth is not distinguished from and privileged over
untruth on what grounds can Derrida even presume to critique
logocentrism and the metaphysics of presence since one would be as good
as the other? Clearly, he is undermining his own philosophical project.
144 Niall Lucy, A Derrida Dictionary, p.1; this is Derrida’s meaning of aporia;
the term also means a philosophical puzzle or state of puzzlement.
145 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 303.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

146 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 303.
147 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.208.
148 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 181.
149 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 299.
150 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.89.
151 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.201.
152 Jacques Derrida, “Violence and Metaphysics” in Writing and Difference,
p.79.
153 Jonathan Culler, On Deconstruction, p.86; italics added.
154 Christopher Norris, Deconstruction: Theory and Practice, p.32.
155 Christopher Norris, Deconstruction: Theory and Practice, p. 96.
156 Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p.129.
157 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 100.
158 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Aqdas, p. 100.
159 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.220.
160 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.271; emphasis added.
161 Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, p. 634.
162 Niall Lucy, A Derrida Dictionary, p. 78.
163 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 208.
164 One Common Faith. reference.bahai.org/en/t/bic/OCF/
165 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.184.
166 Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.130.
167 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.283.
168 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.10.
169 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come,” p. 108.
170 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 58;
171 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 58.
172 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.23.
173 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.11.
174 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.28.
175 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 102; emphasis added.
176 Selections from the Writings of `Abdu'l-Bahá, p.32.
177 J.G. Merquior, Foucault, p. 60-61.
178 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.41.
179 “Is there any remover of difficulties save God?”,. Compilations, Bahá’í
Prayers, p. 27
180 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.106.
181 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.81.
182 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.82.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

183 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.53.
184 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.217-218; emphasis added.
185 James Williams, Understanding Poststructuralism, p.151.
186 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p.58.
187 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p.108.
188 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p.108; emphasis added.
189 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p. 50.
190 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.287.
191 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.107.
192 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.62.
193 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p. 50.
194 Michel Foucault, “Homage to Jean Hippolyte” in Sheridan, Michel
Foucault: The Will to Truth, p.120.
195 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.50.
196 Danaher, Schirato, Webb, Understanding Foucault, p.150.
197 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.239.
198 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.239.
199 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature.
200 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 29.
201 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 50.
202 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.64.
203 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.372.
204 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.291; emphasis
added.
205 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.287; emphasis
added.
206 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity” in Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, p.194.
207 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.371.
208 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.377.
209 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.378.
210 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.370.
211 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.136.
212 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.258.
213 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XIX, p. 46.
214 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.220.
215 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity” in Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, p.189.
216 Richard Rorty, “Non-reductive Physicalism” in Objectivity, Relativism
and Truth, p.123.
217 Richard Rorty, “Non-reductive Physicalism” in Objectivity, Relativism
and Truth, p.123.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

218 Richard Rorty, “Inquiry as Recontextualization” in Objectivity,
Relativism and Truth, p.93
219 Richard Rorty, Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature, p.373.
220 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 239.
221 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 240.
222 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.17.
223 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.40.
224 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.113.
225 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.306.
226 Robert Audi, editor, The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, p.563.
227 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 3.
228 Richard Rorty, “Proust, Nietzsche, and Heidegger,” in Contingency,
Irony and Solidarity, p.97.
229 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity or Objectivity:” in Objectivity, Relativism and
Truth, p.23.
230 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity” in Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, p.192.
231 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.191, 320.
232 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.2.
233 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.55.
234 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.5.
235 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Iqan, p. 53.
236 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 307.
237 PUP 191; Tablets of `Abdu'l-Bahá, v2, p. 327.
238 TAB v3, p.562; Tablet to August Forel, p. 23.
239 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 239.
240 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 143.
241 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.35.
242 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.6.
Jean
Baudrillard,
“Pataphysics,”
trans.
by
Drew
Burk.
www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=569
244 Jean Baudrillard, “The Precession of Simulacra” in Simulations, p.3.
Jean
Baudrillard,
“Holograms,”
trans.
by
Sheila
Glaser.
www.egs.edu/faculty/baudrillard/baudrillard-simulacra-and-
simulation-11-holograms.html
246 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. 80.
247 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 11.
248 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh XLIII, p. 94.
249 For example, the work of Paul Tillich or John MacQuarrie’s An
Existentialist Theology.
250 Some of these overlaps are explored in “The Call into Being: Introduction
to a Bahá'í Existentialism,” in Lights of Irfan IV, 2003.

Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings

251 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, III, p. 6.

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
1. Introduction
Relativism is a philosophical outlook that denies the
existence of absolutely valid or universal truth claims of any
kind, of ethical or legal standards, of religious revelation, of
any universal point of view, of universal customs and of
rationality or reasoning. In other words, the validity of all
claims to any absolute or universal ‘knowledge’ can be reduced
and limited to statements possibly valid in a particular context,
to a particular situation and to a particular point of view. In
sum, we cannot say that X is true but only that X may be true
for someone in a particular context; “truth is relative to the
standpoint of the judging subject.”1 Indeed, some forms of
relativism reject the notions of ‘truth’ and ‘objectivity’
altogether.2 Furthermore, there is no universal or Archimedean
standpoint from which to judge the validity of various
contesting truth claims – which means, in effect, that no truth
claim can actually be proven wrong. There are no errors. All
opinions and judgments are equally valid. Because truth claims
are so hedged with conditions, there can be no certainty about
anything. While this may be existentially salutary in keeping us
modest, in epistemology and ethics its is, as we shall see,
disastrous.
In its most succinct terms, relativism is an attack on the very
idea of knowledge/truth and an insistence that all claims to
knowledge/truth are no more than personally or culturally held
opinions or according to Nietzsche, Lyotard and Foucault,
expressions of the will to power, or of endless Nietzschean and
Derridean interpretations or Rortian “solidarity” ... of anything
except actual knowledge. Even the ‘evidence’ brought to
support these opinions is itself no more than merely another
opinion or interpretation or another exertion of power and so
on in an infinite regress. Since there can be no neutral and
transcendent Archimedean standpoint from which to arbitrate
among various claims to knowledge/truth, all truth claims may

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
be rejected as in nihilism, held in abeyance as in scepticism
(epistemological agnosticism) or accepted as equally valid as in
relativism.
Any ideology or system of thought that claims to have
knowledge/truth is, by virtue of this claim, is not relativistic
since any arbitration among candidates for truth implicitly or
explicitly requires the discovery of a neutral, privileged and
transcendent Archimedean standpoint from which to render
judgment. On this ground alone, it is questionable that the
Bahá’í Writings may be accurately described as espousing
relativism: they do, after all, categorically assert the existence of
God and hold His existence as provable,3 that Bahá’u’lláh is the
Manifestation of God for this age, that the universe is an
emanation from God, that there are four causes and that all
things have essence and attributes.4 Such assertions are simply
logically
incompatible
with
either
epistemological
or
ontological relativism.
It is the contention of this paper that the Bahá’í Writings
manifest not relativism but relationalism,5 an outlook that is
often confused with relativism. In a nutshell, relationalism
holds that all things exist in relationship to other things but it
does rejects the idea that the existence or reality of things is
dependent on the perceiver, that there is no neutral, privileged
Archimedean point from which to make judgments among
competing knowledge claims, that all knowledge claims are
equally valid, that error is impossible, that partial knowledge is
incorrect knowledge and that no knowledge/truth whatever can
be universal (true from all possible standpoints), objective
(independent of the perceiver) and foundational (not susceptible
to further analysis). This relationalism leads to a position which
may
broadly
be
described
as
‘evolutionary
Platonic
perspectivism.’ It is ‘evolutionary’ because our knowledge
increases or progresses over time; ‘Platonic’ because there are
“eternal verities”6 true for all times and places and
‘perspectivist’ because there may be many perspectives on the
truth although not all perspectives are necessarily valid. The
doctrine of progressive revelation is an example of such
‘evolutionary Platonic perspectivism.’ For example, through
successive revelations we have adopted various perspectives as
we learn more and more about the relationship between the
various Manifestations, but one of these possible perspectives,
denying the “station of unity,”7 is simply not valid.
This change from ‘relativism’ to ‘relationalism’ is more than a
mere change in terminology. In the first place, ‘relativism’ is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
simply not an accurate description of the philosophy embedded
in the Writings. If we do not use terminology correctly and
accurately, we will inevitably raise misunderstandings about
their philosophical nature and lead own thinking astray.
Consequently, it becomes more difficult to teach, explicate and
defend the Faith. Third, as we have seen, and shall see again
below, relativism has a lot of philosophical baggage, i.e. brings
with it a considerable number of philosophical problems that
weaken any explication of the Writings, and leave it open to all
kinds of attacks and misrepresentations. This, too, makes
teaching, explicating and defending needlessly difficult and
inefficient.
Relativism is an important issue because of the tremendous
consequences
for
ethics,
epistemology,
ontology
and
metaphysics, law, religion, cultural studies and politics. For
example, in international relations and law, cultural relativism
prevents us from legislating in favour of universal human rights
since our advocacy of such rights is merely a reflection of our
particular political legal and cultural situation. Because human
rights are merely cultural and not universal, we have no
obligation let alone right to insist that other countries and other
cultures abide by our views. Relativism renders all complaints
about human-rights violations futile or worse, a form of
imperialist bullying to impose one’s own standards on others.
Quite obviously, the practice of international politics is
dramatically affected by the adoption of a relativist outlook.
All too easily hard-heartedness and/or political cynicism can be
the result. Relativism also undermines such Bahá’í teachings as
the unqualified obligation to provide equal education to girls
and boys, to provide equal rights for women and to end the
extremes of wealth and poverty. Who, after all, has the right to
insist that these teachings set the standards by which the world
must abide?
Relativism also has enormous implications in regards to the
subject of truth. For example, if all scientific truth claims are
limited to a particular point of view, culture and situation, then
there can be no universal scientific truth claims of any kind,
and, conversely, there can be no erroneous ones. Thomas
Kuhn’s The Structure of Scientific Revolutions prepared the
way for the acceptance of such radical relativist conclusions.
According to Kuhn, all scientific theories and facts are relative
to the paradigm – the assumptions, techniques and theories –
which is being employed. While there are changes in the history
of science, these changes do not involve an increase or
clarification of improvement of knowledge because different

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
paradigms are “incommensurable.” They employ different
concepts, change the meanings of terms as well as the standards
for what are real ‘facts’ and real ‘explanations. Scientific
theories change not because they are more ‘true’ but because of
power relations, social-cultural customs and other interests at
play in society. Kuhn’s protests that he was not a relativist
notwithstanding, there can be little question that his book
supported a radical epistemological or cognitive relativism.
Indeed, the full fruit of his relativist views became evident in
Paul Feyerabend’s Against Method which says that science has
no claim to superiority over astrology or voodoo, that science
is nothing less than a system of mythology like any other and
should be taught as such in schools and that other approaches to
knowledge such as magic should also be taught.
“All methodologies have their limitations and the only
'rule' that survives is ‘anything goes.’”8
Kuhn’s and Feyerabend’s relativism has received additional
philosophical support from some of the most influential
postmodern philosophers such as Frederich Nietzsche, Francois
Lyotard, Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault and Richard Rorty
to name only the most prominent. By various paths they all
come to agree that there are no facts, only individual or
collective viewpoints, or “solidarities,” that no single all-
inclusive perspective exists, that all these viewpoints are equal
and none “privileged” above any other, and that there is no
universal or Archimedean standpoint from which to judge
among competing viewpoints.9 The influence of postmodern
philosophy reaches throughout virtually all branches and levels
of academia. Some subjects, such as literary studies, have been
radically transformed by the encounter to the point where
‘theory’ to swamp the subject of literature itself. Philosophy has
felt its very legitimacy and usefulness as a subject challenged10
not to mention basic concepts such as knowledge, rationality
and truth as well as the whole notion of metaphysics.11 History
has been touched by, among other things, the struggle over the
whole notion of grand narratives versus small or local
narratives,12 the knowability of the past, as well as the uses of
history.13 Women’s Studies, though not in themselves part of
postmodernism,
have
been
affected
by
the
entire
deconstructionist project, by postmodernism’s analysis of
power relations and, more controversially, by its antipathy to
essentialism. Psychology feels the influence of postmodern
thinking in its handling of gender and political science in
discussions of marginalization and the workings of power.14
Cultural Studies have opened new vistas for exploration

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
through
the
study
of
simulations
and
simulacra.15
Postmodernism has also re-shaped and revised Freudian psycho-
analysis.16
Because of its apparent intellectual egalitarianism and
tolerance of all views as acceptable and equally valid, as well as
its apparent ability to solve alleged contradictions in the Bahá’í
Writings, relativism has attracted the favourable attention of a
number of Bahá’í writers. These often take their cue from
Shoghi Effendi’s statement that
Its [the Bahá’í Faith’s] teachings revolve around the
fundamental principle that religious truth is not absolute
but relative, that Divine Revelation is progressive, not
final. Unequivocally and without the least reservation it
proclaims all established religions to be divine in origin,
identical in their aims, complementary in their functions,
continuous in their purpose, indispensable in their value
to mankind.17
Shoghi Effendi also writes that
the fundamental principle which constitutes the bedrock
of Bahá'í belief, [is] the principle that religious truth is
not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is
orderly, continuous and progressive and not spasmodic or
final.18
These statements in conjunction with the teachings of the
essential oneness of all religions have led some Bahá’ís to adopt
relativism as a means of resolving philosophical, ethical and
religious differences between the Bahá’í Faith and other
religions. For some authors, such as Moojan Momen and Seena
Fazel, relativism has become the intellectual foundation stone
for establishing the unity among the diversity of religions.
This paper contends that these solutions do not accurately
represent the Bahá’í Writings. There philosophically less
problematic ways to understand the Bahá’í Writings and to
explicate their teachings on religious unity and diversity than by
adopting relativism. It holds that the most accurate and least
problematic terms to describe the Writings are “relationalism”
and “evolutionary Platonic perspectivism.”
2. A Theoretical Framework for Relativism
All forms of relativism implicitly or explicitly reject three
positions – universalism, objectivism and foundationalism and

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
that all forms of absolutism accept these three in one way or
another. Universalism in its ontological and “discursive”19
variants asserts that certain ideas, truths, situations, natures and
states-of-being are found everywhere and at all times.
Ontological universalism asserts that there are “entities (classes
of existents) which exist for all persons.”20 “Discursive”21
universalism maintains there are statements and beliefs which
are valid in all contexts, at all times and all places and for all
peoples
Relativism also rejects objectivism which asserts that certain
beliefs and truths as well as certain things, situations, states-of-
being are what they are independently of an observer or a
world-view. Ontological objectivism means that “there are
entities (classes of existents) which exist independently of the
point of view , corpus of beliefs or conceptual scheme held to
or employed by any particular person or society.”22 “Discursive”
objectivism says there are beliefs that are true regardless of
viewpoint, beliefs, or explanatory frameworks, which obviously
conflicts with the idea that man, not the object of perception,
is the measure of things, of truth and falsity.
Relativism also denies foundationalism according to which
there are certain truths as well as existing things and states-of
affairs that are fundamental, i.e. not susceptible to further
breakdown and analysis. Ontological foundationalism asserts
that there is “a common ontology or set of basic existents,
incapable of further analysis out of which all other existents are
constructed.”23 The “discursive” version of foundationalism
asserts there are basic statements or propositions incapable of
further analysis which serve not only as a foundation for other
statements but also as an Archimedean point from which to
make objective judgments.
In studying relativism, we must also be aware of its various
subtypes. Some of these subtypes overlap. Perhaps the most
obvious of these is ethical relativism which denies that there are
any universal, objective or foundational ethical norms applying
to individuals or cultural collectives. In the last analysis, ethics
are a matter of preference, or, a matter of local necessities.
There can be no definitive i.e. universal, ethical judgments, or
as Shakespeare says in Hamlet, “There is nothing either good or
bad but thinking makes it so.”24 The counterposition to ethical
relativism is ethical realism which contends that at least some
ethical standards are universal, objective and fundamental.
Cognitive or epistemological relativism maintains that what
is
considered
‘true’
either
by
individuals
and
by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
cultures/societies will vary and that ‘knowledge’, i.e. so-called
‘facts’, are culture and/or theory laden and reflect only
particular societies and individuals. There are no objective
‘truths’ since all truths are expressed from a specific individual
and/or cultural point of view. In other words, the truth-value
of a statement is relative to its context, and therefore, no
statement or standpoint is privileged over any others. No
possible Archimedean point, or universal viewpoint can be
found to frame all forms of enquiry or to make objective
judgments among different truth claims, world-views or
paradigms. In a word, objectivity, including scientific
objectivity, is impossible – a view we have already encountered
in the work of Kuhn and Feyerabend. Cognitive relativism
asserts that reason, rationality and logic are culturally
determined and not objective, foundational or universally
applicable. Reason is not an avenue to true knowledge.
At this point it is important to distinguish among three
distinct but closely related concepts: scepticism, relativism and
subjectivism. The boundaries among these three positions are
fluid and one easily slides into the other. Scepticism refers to a
complex of views that deny “that knowledge or even rational
belief is possible, either about some specific subject matter (e.g.
ethics) or in any area whatsoever.”25 Sceptics often maintain
that “none of our beliefs is certain, that none of our beliefs is
reasonable, that none of our beliefs is more reasonable than its
opposite.”26 Scepticism can be limited to certain areas, but
[g]lobal scepticism casts doubt on all our attempts to seek
truth.27 Sceptics deny that any knowledge can be universal,
objective and foundational.
In its simplest form, relativism says that all truth claims are
only ‘true’ from one individual or cultural standpoint and that
there is no Archimedean point from which to choose the true
one or even merely the ‘truest’ from among competing views.
Relativism does not necessarily deny that we can know truth but
insists that all truth-claims are standpoint-dependent. Another
way of saying this is that we all have facets or aspects of the
truth from our own viewpoints but that none of these facets
are objective, universal or foundational.
For its part, subjectivism maintains that there is no reality
existing independently from the consciousness of a subjective
observer who constitutes reality as s/he experiences it. Already
evident in the Greek relativist philosopher, Protagoras,
subjectivism is an extreme application to the individual of the
relativist principle that all truth-claims or ethical claims depend

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
on standpoint or context. What we pass off as apparently
objective statements are really the expression of our (often
emotive) preferences.28
At this point it is clear that relativism and scepticism are
closely intertwined and that their differences notwithstanding,
relativism can easily slip into scepticism – from ‘everything is
true from its viewpoint’ to ‘we don’t know if anything is true’
and even ‘there can be no truth.’ The problem with relativism’s
tolerance of all truth-claims as equally valid is that some truth-
claims are so virulently incompatible – a rigorous materialism
and theism for example – that a difference in viewpoint seems
inadequate to resolve the conflict. It is difficult to imagine that
there is a little patch of reality in which God plays no part from
any standpoint whatever, and another part of the universe
where God is omnipresent. Sooner or later, the friction between
these viewpoints will force us to analyse them in regards to
rational/logical and experiential adequacy in order to resolve
the conflict. The same holds true with the various conflicting
subjectivist claims: ‘true for me’ and ‘true for you’ seems an
inadequate response to views about female circumcision for
small girls or the willingness to accept poverty on a large scale.
However, it is not difficult to see how relativism easily merges
into a subjectivist attitude.
Anthropological relativism affirms that what is called ‘human
nature’ is infinitely malleable and that there is no specifically
definable human nature to study. In Sartre’s words, existence
and freedom precede essence29 – indeed, there is no human
nature of essence that is given to us. Because there is no pre-
given, pre-constituted human nature, we cannot argue that
certain practices are ‘unnatural’ or counter to ‘natural law’, or
that there are certain standards that all individuals and/or
cultures ought to adopt.
Closely associated with anthropological relativism is cultural
relativism according to which every culture and by implication
every language organise the flux of impressions into their own
version of reality as well as work out the associated values, their
own protocols for discovering and assessing knowledge or truth
and their own criteria by which to determine human nature. As
a result of this organising or constructing of reality, all facts are
value-laden, shaped and limited by certain biases inherent in
every construction. These biases prevent us from obtaining an
objective viewpoint independent of all observers, from
obtaining a universal viewpoint true of all human beings and a
foundational view necessarily true for all.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
One form of cultural relativism might be called linguistic
relativism. This kind of relativism, known as the Sapir-Whorf
hypothesis, argues that different languages with different
grammars and vocabularies require people to constitute/create
the world variously because languages focus attention on
different things, present time and space differently and
conditions the thought patterns of its speakers. Consequently
there is no way to use language to represent the world perfectly
or for all. Again we see the denial of universalism, objectivism
and foundationalism that characterizes relativist views. How
can there be universalism if no language can express the world
for all? How can there be objectivity if all – even contradictory
world-views are equally valid? If all world versions are different,
how can there be foundational truths?
Legal relativism is, of course, a subtype of ethical relativism.
It asserts that laws do not reflect an objective, universal and
foundational human nature or human situation and are entirely
local to a particular time, place and culture. For this reason,
laws and legal standards such as human rights and the definition
of persons cannot be applied across cultures. There is no sense
to the claim that one legal system is better or worse, or more or
less progressive than any other.
Ontological relativism contends whatever things are deemed
to exist or constitute reality is determined by individual and/or
cultural beliefs and that all statements about the existence of
things is context-dependent. The existence of any ‘reality’ is
entirely dependent on the vision or version of reality we have
constructed
because
there
is
no
viewer-and-standpoint
independent world. It is possible to take this quite literally by
arguing in a manner reminiscent of Kant (on whom more below)
that we humans take the raw materials presented by the universe
and by means of our own concepts and choices of the
boundaries of each thing construct the universe we live in.30
Physics, painting or the writing of history or sociology are all
ways of ‘world-making.’ Thus, there is no such thing as ‘one
world’ and there is no Archimedean standpoint from which to
decide which world is superior in any way. We can only adopt
the pragmatic position that a particular world lends itself to our
purposes more readily than other worlds.
The
rejection
of
universalism,
objectivism
and
foundationalism observed in the various types of relativism
entails at least ten major consequences:
1. There is an infinite number of ‘realities’ which can be
constructed by human beings, either individually or

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
collectively. These many or may not be reconcilable.
There is no common reality or world for all people.
2. There is an infinite number of equally valid theories,
descriptions and explanations of any one or all of these
‘realities.’ These may or may not be reconcilable.
3. There cannot be a single universally valid description,
theory or even scientific explanation of all these
‘realities.’ In other words, there is no final description.
4. There can be no universally valid ethical prescriptions
since ethical prescriptions are matters of individual
and/or collective choice because there is no common
ethical world for all people.
5. Consequently, there can be no universal language capable
of expressing the truths of all ‘realities.’ The existence of
such a ‘universal language’ is strictly prohibited and
would be an undesirable attack on diversity.
6. There are no final, foundation propositions or truths that
cannot be subject to other, contradictory but equally
valid points of view.
7. Relativism
makes
it
impossible
to
adopt
the
correspondence theory of truth because no one can know
which version of reality is decisive, i.e. no version of
reality can lead us to a final decision.
8. As Plato already pointed out in the Theaetetus, relativism
makes it impossible for people to be wrong, misled,
deceived, psychotic or simply perverse in their thinking.
Everyone is right about everything.
9. Viewpoints change, but there is no Archimedean
viewpoint from which to assert that a particular change
represents progress or that one viewpoint is truer than
any other. Thus, relativism makes the Bahá’í concept of
progressive revelation impossible along with the Bahá’í
Faith’s belief in scientific, social, economic and political
progress.
10. Relativism makes the concept of a divine Manifestation
impossible because a Manifestation has a privileged,
Archimedean standpoint which make His pronouncements
normative for all of humankind and all cultures at this
time.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
3. Virtues of Relativism
What, we may ask ourselves, does relativism have to
recommend it, especially in the modern world? The answer that
comes most readily to mind is that relativism helps make us
aware of and sensitive to differing contexts and standpoint and,
thereby, encourages not only a willingness to be open-minded
but also the intellectual discipline of studying issues from new
and unexpected viewpoints. This in turn, forces us to examine
our own beliefs critically and to test their adequacy in regards
to other candidates. These advantages, though apparently easy
to state succinctly, can have an enormous impact on our
intellectual culture and the way we approach knowledge-claims
both our own and others’. Relativism also allows us to make
sense of the bewildering variety of human customs, beliefs and
practices without feeling the need to impose one particular
belief or culture on others. We can embrace the various facets
of truth (if there is such a thing) of each viewpoint. In other
words, relativism can prevent a hasty rush to judgment about
different or even outlandish beliefs.
Becoming more aware of the diversity of contexts we learn
of the tremendous diversity of human cultures, thoughts, legal
and social systems, bodies of knowledge and art forms. Because
it rejects the claim that there exists any Archimedean standpoint
from which to evaluate human constructs and activities,
relativism is non-judgmental, open-minded and understanding.
In a world plagued by all kinds of prejudices and animosities,
relativism seems to foster attitudes and modii operandi that
answer the world’s needs for mutual appreciation and respect.
4. Background to Relativism
To understand why relativism is not compatible with the
Bahá’í Writings, we must engage in at least a cursory
exploration of the subject. The first explicit relativist is
Protagoras, a philosopher in the 5th century B.C.E. Athens, who
declares “Man is the measure of all things: of things which are,
that they are, and of things which are not, that they are not."”31
He also said that “things are to you as they appear to you and to
me such as they appear to me.”32 In these statements that
Protagoras already strikes most, if not all, the major relativist
themes in regards to epistemology, ethics and ontology.
Epistemologically, he means that man, not the object of
knowledge, determines what is true or false about what is
perceived. The nature of an object as well as all of its attributes
are governed by man, i.e. all attributes are relative to the

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
perceiver. Ethically, Protagoras’ statement means that whatever
is good or bad is decided by man and that “There is nothing
either good or bad but thinking makes it so.”33 Ontologically, it
is man who determines whether something or some situation or
state of affairs is or is not. Protagoras also introduces the theme
of subjectivism which accompanies relativism by saying that
things are as they appear to us as individuals, which is to say,
you and I have different truths simply because we are different
individuals with different points of view. In the last analysis
“knowledge is only [personal] perception”34
Protagoras’ pronouncements are paradigmatic for relativism.
Though he did not exhaust the subject, he certainly outlined
most of its essential themes. First, there is the rejection of
universalism both in its ontological and “discursive”35 variants.
Ontological universalism asserts that there are “entities (classes
of existents) which exist for all persons.”36 “Discursive”
universalism maintains there are statements and beliefs which
are valid in all contexts, at all times and all places and for all
peoples.
Second,
Protagoras
also
rejects
objectivism.
Ontological objectivism means that “there are entities (classes
of existents) which exist independently of the point of view ,
corpus of beliefs or conceptual scheme held to or employed by
any particular person or society.”37 When Protagoras says things
are, i.e. exist because we think they are, he denies ontological
objectivism, and, in effect, prefigures some ideas from
postmodernist constructionism. “Discursive” objectivism says
there are beliefs that are true regardless of viewpoint, beliefs, or
explanatory frameworks, which obviously conflicts with the
idea that man, not the object of perception, is the measure of
things, of truth and falsity. Finally, Protagoras beliefs reject
foundationalism which follows as an implicit consequence of his
earlier statements. Ontological foundationalism asserts that
there is “a common ontology or set of basic existents, incapable
of further analysis out of which all other existents are
constructed.”38 This violates Protagoras’ dictum that man
decides “things which are, that they are, and of things which are
not, that they are not.”39 The “discursive” version of
foundationalism
asserts
there
are
basic
statements
or
propositions incapable of further analysis which serve not only
as a foundation for other statements but also as an
Archimedean point from which to make objective judgments.
In Protagoras’ thought we can discern explicitly and
implicitly, the three trade-mark attributes of relativism: the
denial of universalism (no truth applies everywhere), of
foundationalism (there are only viewpoints, no final truths) and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
of objectivism (reality is only what it is to me or to you).
4.1 David Hume (1711 – 1776)
After Protagoras, the next major development in the history
of relativism was Hume, a British philosopher whose work does
not espouse relativism but nevertheless provides it with two of
main ideas. According to Hume, facts and values are completely
unconnected with another; we cannot (in his view) logically
reason our way from a fact to a conclusion about value. Just
because something is the case does not mean that it ought to be
the case. Mortal judgments, therefore do not deal with
empirically verifiable facts but rather are matters of sentiment
and emotion which are not subject to rational tests: we feel
what we feel. As Hume writes,
“Moral distinctions [are] not deriv'd from reason.”40
Since morals, therefore, have an influence on the actions
and affections, it follows, that they cannot be deriv'd
from reason; and that because reason alone, as we have
already prov'd, can never have any such influence. Morals
excite passions, and produce or prevent actions. Reason
of itself is utterly impotent in this particular. The rules of
morality. therefore, are not conclusions of our reason.41
By separating ethics and morality from reason, by showing
how we cannot derive values from facts, and by asserting that
values are fundamentally no more than emotional preferences,
Hume opened to door to an all pervasive relativism about
values. After all, how can we prove that anyone’s emotions are
better than anyone else’s? (Hume, of course believed that all
human beings had a similar emotional nature and would be
repelled by or attracted to similar things but that is a different
issue.) The message of Hume’s texts was clear: we cannot reason
about morals; our ethical choices are simply the expression of
emotions and sentiments and the idea of rationally‘ proving’
our moral choices right was simply absurd.
Hume also contributed to the development of relativism is
his denial of causality, i.e. the belief that one object or event in
any way creates a subsequent event:
In reality, there is no part of matter, that does ever, by its
sensible qualities, discover any power or energy, or give us
ground to imagine, that it could produce any thing, or be
followed by any other object, which we could denominate
its effect. Solidity, extension, motion; these qualities are
all complete in themselves, and never point out any other

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
event which may result from them.42
In short, there is no causality but only succession. It takes
little reflection to realise that denying causality undermines the
entire project of explaining the world scientifically by reference
to causal forces. Scientists can still work with the concepts of
causality, but they must admit that their causal explanations are
ad hoc, assumed, adopted as a matter of faith without any
empirical or rational support. Thus, other, equally valid
viewpoints are possible and a ‘scientific’ explanation is only one
among many, equally valid competitors which are correct in
relation to their own explanatory principles and frameworks. In
other words, we see here a denial of foundationalism (causality
is not a sure foundation), universalism (causality works
everywhere) and objectivism (causality works regardless of how
we think).
4.2 Immanuel Kant (1724-1804)
Immanuel Kant made two major contributions to the
development of modern relativism. The first, which Harre and
Krausz call the “constructivist insight”43 is the theory of
categories according to which our perceptions of the world do
not arrive in the form in which we actually experience them.
Rather they arrive as ‘raw data’ which the mind processes and
shapes by means of the categories which are the conditions on
which having an experience depends. “These categories therefore
are also fundamental concepts by which we think objects in
general for the phenomena, and have therefore a priori
objective validity”44 They organize raw data according to time,
space, causality, necessity, contingency, subsistence and
accidence among other things, that is, constitute, or create our
experience of the phenomenal world. Thus, our mind shapes or
constructs the raw data of our perceptions into a coherent
world which becomes the object of our experience. In short, we
construct our world, both as individuals and as collectives. It is
also follows clearly from Kant’s views, that the perceiving
subject cannot be taken as a mirror reflecting a pre-existing
reality, which is to say, the subject cannot access reality and
deliver accurate reports about it. Indeed, the subject is “an
obstacle to cognition”45 and cannot be trusted. Because we
cannot gain an Archimedean point from which to make
universally valid judgments of our various world-constructs, we
cannot distinguish true constructs from false. All are valid
relative to the principles by which they were constructed. This
also means that since reality is a human construct, there can be
no objective knowledge or representation of reality and that all

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
we have are various constructions or stories none of which is
privileged over others in terms of its truth value. This
ontological relativism in which all world constructs are equal
readily lends itself to a profound epistemological relativism that
challenges the scientific project of discovering the truth about
reality. It is impossible to discover the truth because there is no
one truth about anything. What we have here is the denial of
universalism,
objectivism
and
foundationalism
that
characterises relativist thought.
Kant’s second contribution to the development of modern
relativist thought are his antinomies, i.e. demonstrations of the
limitations of reason. He showed how with some questions
show equally possible but rationally contradictory results i.e.
demonstrate “discord and confusion produced by the conflict
of the laws (antinomy) of pure reason.”46 In other words, on
some subjects – the limitation of the universe in space and time;
the concept of a whole cosmos made of indivisible atoms; the
problem of freedom and causality; the existence of a necessarily
existing being – reason can come to opposite but equally
rational conclusions. There is simply no way to break the
deadlock. Thus, “reason makes us both believers and doubters at
once”47 leaving us with grounds to believe and disbelieve in God
and reason itself. This scepticism about reason makes it easy to
reject reason as the arbitrator among various world-constructs.
We can either become sceptics and doubt them all or relativists
and accept them all as being true in their own way.
4.3 Frederich Nietzsche (1844 – 1900)
Frederich Nietzsche is the pivotal figure in the history of
modern relativism given his role as the chief source and
inspiration of postmodernism. Nietzsche’s special contribution
to modern relativism is his attack on the concepts of truth as
understood by most Europeans, as well as his attack on the
Greek conviction that reason and rationality could provide an
Archimedean standpoint from which to judge all statements,
beliefs and truth-claims. With ‘reason’ and ‘truth’ swept aside,
the way was open to open-mindedly examine standpoints and
explanations that were outlandishly different from their
European counterparts. Thus, his virulent scepticism about
science and logic made it possible for western thinkers to – at
least temporarily – abandon their usual standpoints and to
entertain others.
Nietzsche’s attack on reason and knowledge is plainly evident
when he writes, “Truth is the kind of error without which a

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
certain species of life could not live. The value of life is
ultimately decisive.”48 Here we observe that Nietzsche himself
has a standpoint – life and the enhancement of life – from which
he critiques knowledge and reason so vigorously that he slides
over into radical scepticism. For example, what is essential
about truth is not that it is true but that it serves life: “[t]he
criterion of truth resides in the enhancement of the feeling of
power.”49 (Later, with Rorty, ‘truth’ would be that which serves
“solidarity.”) Truth is not what is actually the case but what
meets our needs in the struggles of life – a view of truth that
also exemplifies subjectivism and which allows there to be as
many truths as there are individuals with needs. Elsewhere he
says that truth is “Inertia; that hypothesis which gives rise to
contentment; smallest expenditure of spiritual force.”50 In a
similar vein, he writes, “The biggest fable of all is the fable of
knowledge,”51 thereby expressing his doubts about the existence
of knowledge, something he had already done in The Birth of
Tragedy by calling science a myth.
What, then, is truth? A mobile army of metaphors,
metonyms, and anthropomorphisms—in short, a sum of
human relations which have been enhanced, transposed,
and embellished poetically and rhetorically, and which
after long use seem firm, canonical, and obligatory to a
people: truths are illusions about which one has forgotten
that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out
and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their
pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as
coins.52
Nietzsche’s radical attack also includes the idea that truth is
made, not iscovered, that the “will to truth”53 and the “will to
power”54 are one and the same.
Will to truth is a making firm, a making true and durable,
an abolition of the false character of things, a
reinterpretation of it into beings. “Truth” is therefore not
something there, that might be found or discovered – but
something that must be created and that gives a name to a
process, or rather to a will to overcome that has in itself
no end – introducing truth as a processus in infinitum, and
active determining – not a becoming conscious of
something that is itself firm and determined. It is a word
for the “will to power”. 55
It is fairly obvious that when truth is reduced to power, then, in
effect, we no longer have a belief in truth at all, especially since
every individual and/or culture makes his own truth. According

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
to Nietzsche, “There exists neither "spirit," nor reason, nor
thinking, nor consciousness, nor soul, nor will, nor truth: all are
fictions that are of no use.”56
Whether his position is best characterised as relativism – he still
adopts the viewpoint of ‘life’ enhancement as decisive – or
scepticism is a matter for further debate. Nietzsche also
influenced the development of modern relativism through his
doctrine of perspectivism, i.e. all truth-claims depend on a
particular perspective or standpoint. There is no neutral,
‘Archimedean point’ from which reality can be ‘objectively
observed.’ The unbiased, objective quest for truth as such is a
willow-the-wisp; every claim to know truth is an expression of
personal interest, of the will-to-power. According to Nietzsche,
“facts is precisely what there is not, only interpretations. We
cannot establish any fact "in itself": perhaps it is folly to want
to do such a thing.”57 Nietzsche accepted the consequence that
if interpretations are all we have, then we are unable to
determine which view is true or better in any way:
The world with which you are concerned is false, i.e. it is
not a fact but a fable and `approximation on the basis of a
meagre sum of observations.; it is “in flux,” as something
in a state of becoming, as a falsehood always changing but
never getting near the truth: for – there is no “truth.”58
The ‘truth-game’ is not worth the candle.
4.4 Jean-Francois Lyotard
Jean-Francois Lyotard (1924 – 1998), one of the premier
philosophers of the postmodern movement, is best known for
his book The Postmodern Condition which not only brought the
term ‘postmodern’ into common usage but also explicitly
established postmodernism as a relativist philosophy. This book
provides on of the most frequently quoted definitions of
postmodernism: “I define postmodern as incredulity toward
metanarratives.”59 By “metanarratives,” (also called “grand
narrative[s]”60), Lyotard means those ‘stories’ or intellectual
frameworks by which we interpret the world and our activities
and thereby provide meaning for the whole and give certain data
the status of being facts, truths or real knowledge. For example,
Marxism supplied revolutionaries around the world with a
metanarrative encompassing the behavior of matter i.e.
dialectical materialism, as well as the nature, direction and
future outcome of human history, i.e. historical materialism.
The Enlightenment metanarrative concerned the gradual
triumph of reason over irrationality and the progress of

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
humankind not only in scientific knowledge but also in the
progress towards rational freedom and a tolerant society. The
Bahá’í metanarrative is “progressive revelation” according to
which God sends successive Manifestations to guide humankind
through its evolutionary development.
All of these metanarratives offer a complete or total vision
by which all possible human action as well as other
metanarratives may be interpreted and/or judged and for this
reason Lyotard describes them as a “project of totalization.”61
The connotation of ‘totalitarian’ is fully intended by Lyotard
who even describes metanarratives as “terrorist”62 because they
can be used to “eliminate[] or threaten[] to eliminate, a player
[point of view, culture] from the language game one shares with
them.”63 In the terms provided by Harre and Krausz,
metanarratives are universalist, i.e. applying to all peoples at all
times and places, they are objective and foundational.
One of the tasks of a metanarrative is the “legitimation of
knowledge,”64 which is to say that the metanarrative provides
the foundational principles by which to distinguish ‘real
knowledge’ or objective knowledge from error, folklore, myth
or the babblings of the insane. Thus, the metanarrative becomes
the gatekeeper of knowledge – and, by extension, the guardian
of crucial binary oppositions necessary for a system of thought
or social system to maintain itself. Examples of such binary
oppositions are order / disorder; sane / insane; noumenal /
phenomenal; true / untrue; primitive / civilized; competent /
incompetent; knowledge / superstition; and rational /
irrational. By means of these oppositions, metanarratives take
on a prescriptive function not only for individuals but for
entire societies who must conduct themselves personally and/or
collectively to its standards which are enforced not just by
institutions but by all those who accept the metanarrative.
Lyotard (like Foucault) of course believes this prescriptive
function
imprisons
us
and
the
“incredulity
toward
metanarratives”65 is a means of freeing ourselves from their
rule. For Lyotard, this means freeing ourselves from modernity
which “is identified with modern reason, Enlightenment,
totalizing thought and philosophies of history.”66 Lyotard
“rejects notions of universalist and foundational theory as well
as claims that one method or set of concepts has privileged
status.”67 He also rejects the notion that one metanarrative is
more objectively true than the rest.
Metanarratives can only be evaluated on their own terms and
within the context they provide; we must not import concepts

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
or procedures from other metanarratives to appraise other
metanarratives. Like Kuhn’s paradigms, metanarratives are
incommensurable, each one being a universe to itself, and
therefore, each one can be assessed only in relationship to itself.
There is no objective, universally valid and necessary or
foundational Archimedean point from which to judge.
4.5 Jacques Derrida
Jacques Derrida (1930 – 2004) is the originator of
deconstructionism, perhaps the most influential version of
postmodernist philosophy developed so far. According to
Jonathan Culler, one of deconstruction’s foremost expositors
To deconstruct a discourse [text] is to show how it
undermines the philosophy it asserts, or the hierarchical
oppositions on which it relies by identifying in the text the
rhetorical operations that produce the supposed ground of
argument, the key concept or premise.68 It is important to
note that this subversion occurs from within. As Derrida
says, The movements of deconstruction do not destroy
structures from the outside. They are not possible and
effective nor can they take accurate aim except by
inhabiting those structures ... Operating necessarily from
the inside, borrowing all the strategic and economic
resources of subversion from the old structure ... 69
The text subverts or works against itself through its choice
of words and phrases, the ambiguity of some words and phrases,
rhetorical devices and/or imagery. Perhaps the best known
example of this procedure is “Plato’s Pharmacy,” in which
Derrida explores Plato’s “”Phaedrus”:
The word pharmakon [remedy] is caught in a chain of
significations. The play of that chain seems systematic.
But the system here is not, simply, that of the intentions
of an author who goes by the name of Plato.70
However, as Derrida points out, pharmakon means not only
‘remedy’ but also ‘poison’ not to mention ‘spell’ or ‘drug’ (as in
hallucinogen) and this “chain of significations” serves to
destabilise
any
simplistic,
final
or
so-called
objective
interpretation of the text. Writing, which Thoth had introduced
as a remedy for humankind’s poor memory, is also a ‘poison’
that weakens memory, and may cast a ‘spell’ over us by making
us think we have understood an idea when we have not.
If the pharmakon is “ambivalent,” it is because it constitutes

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
the medium in which opposites are opposed, the movement and
the play that links them among themselves,
reverses them or makes one side cross over into the other
(body / soul, good / evil, inside / outside, memory /
forgetfulness, speech / writing, etc)... The pharmakon is
the movement, the locus and the play: (the production of)
difference.71
Each reading of ‘pharmacy’ evokes another, often contrary
meaning; we recognize the difference (observe the spelling)
between ‘remedy’ and ‘poison’ and in choosing one even if only
for a moment, we ‘defer’ the other meanings which, despite
being deferred, help complete our understanding of the text.
These other meanings are referred to as ‘supplements,’72 This
process of recognizing difference and deferring Derrida calls
differance’ and in his view every text is an endless play of
‘differance’as we defer, or momentarily push into the
background, the meanings of various words. Each of these
deferred meanings helps complete the full meaning of a word
and for that reason, “The play of the supplement is indefinite.”73
Derrida makes the same point by stating that “writing
structurally carries within itself (counts-discounts) the process
of its own erasure and annulation...”74 By “erasure” Derrida
does not mean that one meaning of a word is absolutely
excluded but rather that we read a word with awareness of all its
other potential meanings instead of privileging one, usually
conventional, meaning over all the others. We read the word
with all of its meanings, aware of the ambiguity this causes in
our understanding of the text itself.
It takes only minimal reflection to see how Derrida’s
deconstructionism supports relativism. If, as Derrida asserts the
play
of
differance
(note
spelling)
and
supplement
is
“indefinite,” then it follows logically the no interpretation can
be foundational – since opposite readings are possible as we
have already seen in “Plato’s Pharmacy.” Furthermore, no
interpretation can be objective since there is no standpoint
from which we can see the text ‘as it really is.’ Of course, no
interpretation can be universal simply because any claims to
universality are challenged by the existence of other, possibly
contradictory interpretations. Finally, interpretations can only
change – there is no progress from one to the next.
Derrida’s
deconstruction
provides
relativism
with
a
particularly potent method of attack – each interpretation is
shown to fail on its own terms, shown to undermine itself and
lead to its opposite. This (apparently) undercuts any attempt to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
assert the existence of an absolute, i.e. of a proposition
claiming objectivity, universality and foundationalism. With
this
method
(it
is
a
method
Derrida’s
objections
notwithstanding) relativism can go on the offensive against all
absolutist claims.
4.6 Michel Foucault (1926 – 1984)
Like Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault has been enormously
influential in fields outside of his specialities of philosophy and
social history. His writings cover such diverse topics as the
social construction of madness75 and sexuality76, methods in
historiography77, penology78, the nature of power and discourse.
He has had an incalculable effect on cultural studies, political
theory, feminism and sociology.79 While there may be some
debate about whether or not Foucault is really postmodernist,80
there is no debate about his standing as a thorough-going
relativist.
Like Lyotard, Foucault rejects the concept of “grand
narratives”, i.e. he does not believe that any global meta-
narrative can explain all aspects of a civilization. He writes,
the theme and possibility of a total history begins to
disappear ... The project of a total history is one that seeks
to reconstitute the overall form of a civilization, the
principle – material or spiritual – of a society, the
significance common to all the phenomena of a period, the
law that accounts for their cohesion ...81
Rather, he proposes what he calls “the new history”82 which pays
more attention to “discontinuity”83, to the “series, divisions,
limits, differences of level, shifts, chronological specificities,
particular forms of rehandling, possible types of relation.”84
Just as Derrida proclaims the necessity of subverting any
authoritative reading of a text, Foucault believes that “the
tranquility with which they [the usual historical narratives
driven by grand themes] are received must be disturbed”85 by
renounc[ing] all those themes whose function is to ensure
infinite continuity of discourse.”86 Historical discourse must be
broken up into what Lyotard calls “little narratives” or petits
recits because only when the glossed over differences become
apparent will new fields of research be visible and available for
investigation. We will become aware of discrepancies and
differences that have been covered up by large sweeping
unifying concepts and no longer lose sight of subtle but
important shifts in meaning and usage. Each concept, person
and event must be understood in terms of its exact specificity

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
in time, place and culture. There are no bridges between
epistemes.87
Thus, Foucault’s historiography not only stresses breaks and
discontinuities rather than grand similarities, changes in ideas
and practices rather than extended homogeneities, but also what
he calls the “episteme” which is the ‘soil’ from which
‘vegetation’ of ideas, behaviors, experiences, customs and
beliefs grows; it makes all these things possible and, at the same
time, establishes their character and limitations. Epistemes are
“the fundamental codes of a culture.”88 According to Foucault,
an episteme
in a given period delimits in the totality of the experience
a field of knowledge, defines the mode of being of the
objects that appear in the field, provides man’s everyday
perception with theoretical powers, and defines the
conditions in which he can sustain a discourse about things
that is recognised to be true.89
Thus, an episteme determines truth, meaning, identity, value
and reality at a specific time and place. People need not even be
consciously aware of the episteme or its power in their lives
though it creates the environment or context in which
individuals think and speak; it controls what can be said and
understood as meaningful. Great social, cultural and intellectual
changes are the result of changes in the underlying episteme.
Archaeologies study these epistemes strictly for themselves
without drawing any universal conclusions about ‘humankind’
or other epistemes.
For our purposes, it sis clear that Foucault’s theory of
epistemes disallows an universalist claims, any foundational
claims and any objectivity claims by any episteme. All
episteme’s are just interpretations with none possessing primacy
in any way. This includes the episteme of western science and
particularly,
that
of
medicine.
Because
episteme’s
are
incommensurable (like Kuhn’s paradigms) there is no progress
from one to the other but only change.
5. Richard Rorty (1931 – 2007)
Richard Rorty is one of the most influential philosophers in
contemporary North America, Though relativism is a label he
strenuously rejects, as we shall see, his denials are not very
convincing. He attempts to distinguish his views from
relativism by saying , “[T]here is a difference between saying
that every community is as good as every other and saying that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
we have to work out from the networks we are, from the
communities with which we presently identify.”90 After
admitting that relativism is logically self-refuting, he clearly
identifies his own position with the latter, supposedly non-
relativistic view. To prove that he does not think all views are
equally good, he asserts that a pragmatist like himself “thinks his
views are better than the ‘realists,’ but he does not think his
views correspond to the nature of things.”91 Basically, he thinks
his views are better because he is a “liberal” and, therefore,
“more afraid of being cruel than anything else.”92
Rorty’s denials notwithstanding, it is difficult to take his
claim that he is not a relativist at face value. Given his belief
that statements cannot correspond to reality (and, therefore
cannot be tested by reality), that rationality is simply a local
cultural bias without general validity and that truth itself is a
chimera, on what ground other than sheer dogmatic assertion
can he claim that his philosophy is better? (Unless of course he
relies on revelation which he does not.) He is also prepared to
give up the quest for truth: “A scientist would rely on a sense of
solidarity with the rest of her profession, rather than picture
herself as battling through the veils of illusion, guided by the
light of reason.”93 If language games are incommensurable, if
there is no rational or empirical way of ‘proving’ one view or
another, then the alleged superiority of one view comes down to
a dogmatic assertion of preference, i.e. of Nietzsche’s will-to-
power. He wants to replace the whole idea of truth “with the
desire for solidarity with that community”94 In other words, he
has replaced the quest for knowledge and truth with the ‘politics
of knowledge’, i.e. the quest for consensus and solidarity. Most
tellingly however, Rorty is unable to justify his beliefs in these
reformed goals with anything more than a plea for us to
recognise that his is a nicer way than its
the supposed alternatives. In the last analysis Rorty’s
liberalism has nothing more than his preference to recommend
it. Ironically, it is precisely such dogmatic assertion that his
much recommended “edifying conversation” is supposed to
replace. Judged by his own standards, Rorty’s views exemplify a
thorough-going, i.e. radical relativism both in epistemology and
ethics.
6 General Problems With Relativism
Before specifically examining relativism in regards to the
Bahá’í Writings, we shall examine five serious philosophical
problems with relativism.

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
The first of these problems is that if relativism is true, then it
is impossible for anyone or any society/culture to be in error.
Even if we show that a view lacks self-consistency, a relativist
might claim it is simply our view that consistency is a
requirement for viable positions. The problem with this
necessary conclusion of relativism is that it is so contrary to our
experience: we humans make all kinds of small and momentous
mistakes on an on-going basis, and these mistakes indicate that
at least for some things, there is a right and a wrong way, or
more or less effective or efficient way. Moreover, some
contentions are simply untrue: Franklin Roosevelt was not the
dictator of the Soviet Union during the Great Terror of the
1930’s95.
The second problem and largest group of problems is that
relativism
is
self-undermining
and
self-refutation.
The
statement “all truth is relative” is either absolutely true or it is
relatively true. If the first, then it refutes itself because it is an
example of an absolute truth. If it is relatively true, it
undermines itself – because that opens the possibility that at
least some truths might be absolute. The same type of problems
faces the proposition that we cannot know anything for sure,
i.e. there can be no certain knowledge. If we can know that
proposition for sure, then it refutes itself, and if we can’t, then
it is possible that we can know something for sure after all. The
same problem bedevils the claim that there are no absolute
truths. If this claim is meant absolutely it refutes itself, and if it
is not meant absolutely, then at least some claims may be
absolutely true. The same problem undermines the claim that
there are no neutral standards of truth as well as the How could
one prove this except by implicitly appealing a neutral standard,
an Archimedean point above and beyond our perceptions? In
short, relativism is a dogmatic assertion, not a provable
contention.
The theories of Derrida, Foucault, and Lyotard illustrate the
self-undermining and self-refuting problems of relativism.
According to Derrida, no interpretation of data can be
“privileged” over any other – yet this interpretation of the data
about literature, history and the like is itself an interpretation
subject to further deconstruction to show the opposite, i.e. that
some interpretations are “privileged.” Furthermore, this
interpretation “privileges” itself by claiming universal validity
for all possible interpretations. Similarly, Foucault declares that
epistemes are incommensurable, i.e. that there is no neutral or
objective Archimedean point from which we can judge between
conflicting epistemes (or Kuhn’s paradigms). However, that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
judgment itself is only possible if we implicitly assume that we
have a neutral standpoint that allows us to judge all other
standpoints. In other words, Foucault “privileges” itself.
Lyotard of course, has the same problem. The declaration that
there can be no “grand narratives” drawing universal
conclusions about history is a universal statement about
history, and thus refutes itself. These serious problems in the
arguments of major philosophers, make it clear that it is
impossible to develop a version of relativism that does not
undermine and refute itself. Without that there is no reason –
other than dogmatic assertion – to be convinced by it.
The third problem also concerns the declaration there are
different truths: what’s true for you is not true for me. In other
words, there are no universal, foundational and objective
truths. But this is highly counter-intuitive. Can any human
being imagine a context in which things do not exist? Even if
the whole world is an illusion, or even a mental delusion, then
things exist albeit not in the usual way. This, of course, was
Augustine’s96 and Descartes’97 great philosophical discovery: the
illusory manner of existence of things cannot undo the fact that
they do, in fact, exist. Nothing that we can think of can be
denied ‘being.’ In other words, the concept of ‘being’ can
provide an objective, universal, foundational which is to say,
Archimedean standpoint on which to begin our thinking. Most
important for our purposes is the fact that `Abdu'l-Bahá agrees
with this position:
This theory [ that the external world is an illusion, is
nothingness] is erroneous; for though the existence of
beings in relation to the existence of God is an illusion,
nevertheless, in the condition of being it has a real and
certain existence. It is futile to deny this.98
In other words, even illusions exist – as illusions but that is
enough to give “a real and certain existence.” At first, this may
not sound promising, but anyone familiar with the works of
Thomas Aquinas and his successors in modern neo-Thomism will
know how much can be built on this.99
The fourth problem with relativism is existential and ethical,
not logical. It is difficult to accept the suggestion that the self-
sacrifice of a Mother Theresa and the actions of a Dr.
Mengele100 are morally equal and that our condemnation of one
and admiration for the other are simply expressions of personal
taste and preference. Who, other than a psychopath or a
“wrangler,” a person who argues for arguing’s sake, would
contend that the actions of these two are morally on par?

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Intellectually it may be possible to do so, but who, except a
psychiatrically disturbed person would aspire to actually follow
in Mengele’s footsteps – or want a child to do so? Applied to
law, the impracticality of relativism is just as glaring. Imagine a
lawyer defending a serial killer on the ground that his client’s
view that murder is a fine hobby is just as valid as society’s view
that it’s a heinous crime! Such a defence would rightly be
laughed out of court. In other words, relativism has a fatal
existential weakness: we can talk the talk but don’t want anyone
to walk the walk.
The fifth problem of relativism concerns its implicit
anthropology, viz., its denial of a universal, objective and
foundational human nature. If there is no human nature and
humankind is infinitely malleable by environmental and social
forces, then there can be no truth about human beings as such
and therefore, no basis for a universal human moral code or a
universal code of law such as the declaration of human rights,
or a world-unifying religion or any basis for the unification of
humankind. There is diversity but no unity. Such a view,
promulgated by Boas, Benedict and Mead to name only the best
known, suffers from two weaknesses. First, the human body,
although subject to some minor variations is universally alike,
and this includes brain functions. The body and the brain thus
represents
an
objective,
measurable
substratum
which
constrains,
shapes,
and
directs
human
responses
to
environmental
and
social
influences.
In
short,
human
physiological functions – including brain functions – are
universal. This is the physical basis for the unity of humankind.
Second, contemporary anthropological studies such as Donald E
Brown’s Human Universals (as well as various successors) show
that there exist well over one hundred101 universal human traits
such as facial expressions for happiness, fear , disgust and anger
(basic emotions); anthropomorphization; use of metaphors and
metonymies; systems of taxonomy; systems of counting; rituals
and the self distinguished from others. In other words, there is a
basic human nature which pre-disposes human beings to deal
with the world and ourselves in similar ways.
7. The Bahá’í Writings and Anthropology
The Bahá’í Writings do not agree that there is no such thing
as human nature. The first line of evidence in this regard are the
passing references to human nature in the writings of `Abdu'l-
Bahá. These passing references show that who remarks, the
Master takes the existence of human nature for granted, as a
given, self-evident fact. For example that the abuse of religion

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
makes “that which was a factor in the sublimity of human
nature” into an instrument for its “degradation.”102 He tells us
that “divine philosophy”
has for its object the sublimation of human nature,
spiritual
advancement,
heavenly
guidance
for
the
development of the human race, attainment to the breaths
of the Holy Spirit and knowledge of the verities of God-103
He tells us that Christ’s disciples
were delivered from the animal characteristics and qualities
which are the characteristics of human nature, and they
became qualified with the divine characteristics ...104
None of these statements would make sense if there were no
such thing as human nature.
The Writings also tell us a great deal about human nature,
that
is,
they
identify
certain
human
traits
and/or
predispositions as universal, objective and foundational. For
example, “his [man’s] nature is threefold: animal, human and
divine. The animal nature is darkness; the heavenly is light in
light.”105 In other words, human nature is constituted by animal
capacities or potentials, specifically human capacities or
potentials and divine capacities or potentials. Sometimes these
divine capacities are called our “spiritual susceptibilities” which
must be awakened “in the hearts of mankind, to kindle anew the
spirit of humanity with divine fires and to reflect the glory of
heaven to this gloomy world of materialism.”106 The specifically
human capacity or potential is our abstract reasoning power:
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the animal
is the rational soul, and these two names--the human spirit
and the rational soul--designate one thing. This spirit,
which in the terminology of the philosophers is the
rational soul, embraces all beings, and as far as human
ability permits discovers the realities of things and
becomes cognizant of their peculiarities and effects, and
of the qualities and properties of beings.107
The animal capacities, of course, are based on humankind’s
bodily needs as well as its instinctual nature. Speaking
specifically in regards to morality, `Abdu'l-Bahá says that our
moral nature is constituted by two capacities, a lower and a
higher:
In man there are two natures; his spiritual or higher nature
and his material or lower nature. In one he approaches

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
God, in the other he lives for the world alone. Signs of
both these natures are to be found in men. In his material
aspect he expresses untruth, cruelty and injustice; all these
are the outcome of his lower nature. The attributes of his
Divine nature are shown forth in love, mercy, kindness,
truth and justice, one and all being expressions of his
higher nature. Every good habit, every noble quality
belongs to man's spiritual nature, whereas all his
imperfections and sinful actions are born of his material
nature. If a man's Divine nature dominates his human
nature, we have a saint.108
A survey of the Writings indicates that the Writings accept
these attributes as universal, that is, applicable to all human
beings regardless of time and place; as objective, that is, as not
dependent on standpoint or, conversely, true from all
standpoints; and foundational, that is, not susceptible to
further breakdown and analysis. In other words, the Writing’s
view of human nature is not relative.
The third line of reasoning that shows the Bahá’í Writings do
not have a relativist view of human nature can be found in
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s remarks about human evolution: “But from the
beginning of man's existence he is a distinct species”109 and “For
the proof of the originality of the human species, and of the
permanency of the nature of man, is clear and evident.”110 Here,
too, we observe, that humankind is credited with a nature that
makes it identifiable and “distinct”, in addition to being
permanent, that is, “his species and essence undergo no
change.”111 Thus, human nature has always been essentially what
it is, which is to say, universal in time in addition to universal in
space, i.e. planetary.
Finally, it is obvious why the Bahá’í Writings would insist on
the absoluteness of human nature: without this basis, its
teaching about the eventual unification of humankind into a
single global commonwealth would lack a proper foundation.
How could the human race be unified if all peoples did not have
something in common, if there were no objectively real,
foundational and universal capacity for rational thinking and
decision making, for actualizing “spiritual susceptibilities”, for
freeing themselves from ancestral imitations and for adopting a
global religion and loyalty? Indeed, the whole concept of
progressive revelation makes no sense since without a human
nature actualizing its latent potentialities, there would simply
be change and not progress. Progress requires that some things
change but also, that others are continuous since without such

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
continuity we could only say there is change. Whatever it is that
changes is foundational, as well as objective and universal.
Applied to man, this means, for example, that the historical
appearances of human rationality can vary from place to place
and time to time, but that the basic capacity for rationality
remains the same.
The Bahá’í Writings show that on the subject of human
nature they are not relativist.
8. Shoghi Effendi’s Statements on Relativism
Superficially at least, some statements by Shoghi Effendi
appear to support the view that the Bahá’í Writings advocate
relativism. It is our contention that such is not actually the case.
Here is one of the Guardian’s statements:
“The fundamental principle enunciated by Bahá'u'lláh ... is
that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that
Divine Revelation is a continuous and progressive process,
that all the great religions of the world are divine in
origin, that their basic principles are in complete harmony,
that their aims and purposes are one and the same, that
their teachings are but facets of one truth, that their
functions are complementary, that they differ only in the
nonessential aspects of their doctrines, and that their
missions represent successive stages in the spiritual
evolution of human society....”112
The statement that “religious truth is not absolute but
relative” cannot have its seemingly obvious meaning since that
would deny the statements that immediately follow about
revelation being a “continuous and progressive process,” that
“all the great religions are divine in origin,” that “they differ
only in nonessential aspects of their doctrines” and so on. These
claims – which are integral to the identity or essence of the
Bahá’í revelation – are obviously intended as absolute truths
which are foundational to the Bahá’í Faith, universal in scope
and objectively true. They are not relative statements in the
sense that their opposites are equally true or valid. In the
philosophy embedded in the Bahá’í Writings, deconstructing
these statements will not bring us to equally valid counter-
truths; the denial of these claims is simply false. There is,
moreover, no way a Bahá’í can reject any of them and/or accept
their opposites and remain consistent with Bahá’í teachings. Of
course Bahá’ís accept the fact that non-Bahá’ís may reject some
or all of these claims, but this is regarded as error, rooted in the

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
failure to take the next step in humankind’s religious evolution.
Just because we are all divine creations of God does not
mean that all our opinions and views are correct. As `Abdu'l-
Bahá’s says,
The divine Manifestations have been iconoclastic in Their
teachings, uprooting error, destroying false religious
beliefs and summoning mankind anew to the fundamental
oneness of God.113
The fact that Manifestations have been “iconoclastic” means
that They have evaluated various truth claims, found them
wanting and swept them aside as erroneous. He also says,
And shouldst destroy them which destroy the earth" means
that He will entirely deprive the neglectful; for the
blindness of the blind will be manifest, and the vision of
the seers will be evident; the ignorance and want of
knowledge of the people of error will be recognized, and
the knowledge and wisdom of the people under guidance
will be apparent ...114
In the words of Bahá'u'lláh:
"Twelve hundred and eighty years have passed since the
dawn of the Muhammadan Dispensation, and with every
break of day, these blind and ignoble people have recited
their Qur'an, and yet have failed to grasp one letter of
that Book! Again and again they read those verses which
clearly testify to the reality of these holy themes, and bear
witness to the truth of the Manifestations of eternal
Glory, and still apprehend not their purpose. They have
even failed to realize, all this time, that, in every age, the
reading of the scriptures and holy books is for no other
purpose except to enable the reader to apprehend their
meaning and unravel their innermost mysteries. Otherwise
reading, without understanding, is of no abiding profit
unto man.115
For his part, Shoghi Effendi writes,
He [Bahá'u'lláh] insists on the unqualified recognition of
the unity of their purpose, restates the eternal verities they
enshrine, coordinates their functions, distinguishes the
essential and the authentic from the nonessential and
spurious in their teachings, separates the God-given truths
from the priest-prompted superstitions116

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Thus it is quite possible for God’s children to be blind and in
error. These statements undermines any assertion that the
Writings espouse a simple relativism which allows virtually any
viewpoint to claim validity by appealing to its own special
standpoint. Indeed, the whole concept of progressive revelation
means that that not all standpoints are valid for all times and
for all times, that religious history shows progress from one
standpoint to the next which is why each Manifestation brings
his own solutions.117
It almost goes without saying that any simplistic reading of
“religious truth is not absolute but relative” falls into the trap
of self-refutation and self-undermining. If this statement of
“religious truth” is meant to be taken absolutely, then it
obviously refutes itself by violating its own message. If,
however, it is meant to be only relatively true, then the door is
open to the possibility that at least some religious truth may be
absolute, that is, universal, objective and foundational. That
would defeat the entire purpose of the statement. Thus, there
are good logical reasons for rejecting any simplistic reading of
Shoghi Effendi’s declaration.
If Shoghi Effendi’s statement about religious truth being
relative cannot mean that religious truth is relative in the sense
of all possible viewpoints on an issue being equally valid, what
does it mean? If we read the Guardian’s entire statement, we
find that it discusses progressive revelation, the historical
changes of presentation undergone by their essentially unified
principles. In other words, what changes are the surface,
historical, phenomenal forms of the divine teachings but the
essential teachings remain the same. In other words, what
changes and is relative is the adapted, phenomenal form of
religions but not the “eternal verities they enshrine,”118 which
are true for all time i.e., under all conditions past and future
and for all humans, or, in philosophical terms, they are
universal, objective and foundational.
From this we conclude that relativism does not apply to the
“eternal verities”(universal, objective and foundational) but
only to the way they may be expressed outwardly, or
historically. Because they are “eternal,” they are absolute, i.e.
true independently of the standpoint, beliefs, hopes and fears of
any
individuals
or
collectives.
(Though
they
are
true
independently of all standpoints, this does not prevent some
from denying them for reasons of their own.) The historical or,
as we may call it, outer, worldly, existential expression of the
infinite potentials inherent in the “eternal verities” is what

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
varies, and not the essential teachings or the “eternal verities”
themselves.
These
remain
constant
and
actualise
their
implications for humankind through our evolution. It is
obvious, of course, that the Bahá’í model of absolute, essential
and constant truths given various existential expressions
throughout human history cannot be accommodated by a
concept of relativism according to which no perspective is
essential or foundational, no concept is universal or applicable
to all peoples at all times and no concept is objective, or true
for all standpoints. Moreover, in violation of relativism, the
Bahá’í Faith “distinguishes the essential and the authentic from
the nonessential and spurious in their teachings, separates the
God-given truths from the priest-prompted superstitions.”119
Making these distinctions assumes that there is an Archimedean
standpoint from which such judgments can be made – a notion
flatly denied by relativism. Another aspect is that the Bahá’í
model accepts the possibility that some views are simply
erroneous. Such assertions are irreconcilable with any form of
relativism.
Although the Bahá’í position is not relativist but absolutist
on some issues – Bahá'u'lláh is the Manifestation for this age,
that HIV is related to AIDS – it rejects as contrary to the
doctrine of progressive revelation the absolutist suggestion that
religious truth is revealed once and for all in full by any
Manifestation. In regards to epistemology, the Bahá’í position
may be described as ‘evolutionary Platonic perspectivism.’ The
reason for calling it ‘Platonic’ is because there are “eternal
verities” which obviously do not change and are true from all
possible standpoints (unless one chooses to be deceived, but
that is a different issue). Because they are eternal and
unchanging, they resemble the Platonic ideas’ insofar as they are
absolutely universal, objective and foundational: “This is the
changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the
future.”120 Of course, it is evident that we do, in fact, have
some knowledge of these “eternal verities” or other absolute
truths but what and how much we know depends on our
perspective or standpoint in history, on our spiritual, social,
cultural
development
and
what
we
learn
from
the
Manifestations throughout human evolution. Thus, throughout
history, we attain partial glimpses of the essential truths, the
“eternal verities” as their various previously hidden potentials
become known to us. That is why this position is described as
evolutionary and perspectivist.
It is important that we not confuse and conflate ‘partial’
knowledge with ‘incorrect’ knowledge. If we only know plane

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
geometry, our knowledge of geometry is partial, but what we
know about it is certainly correct: the interior angles of any
plane triangle have always added up to 180 degrees and we have
no reason to expect a change; Roosevelt was not the Soviet
dictator during the Great Terror. In a more directly Bahá’í
context, we know that Bahá'u'lláh is the Manifestation for this
age, but we have not by any means discovered all the
implications of that fact. Moreover, because the Bahá’í Faith
has privileged, divinely appointed interpreters who occupy an
Archimedean standpoint, it is possible to know that certain
religious and philosophical claims are correct, though not fully
understood by us.
Moreover, the existence of privileged interpreters also allows
us to rule out particular perspectives and claims as untenable.
For example, `Abdu'l-Bahá makes it clear that a materialist
approach to science and reality is inadequate121 and that
pantheism122 and reincarnation123 are untrue beliefs. This limits
and constrains how Bahá’ís may understand the Writings, i.e.
these perspectives are ruled out of bounds. On the positive side,
“although human souls are phenomenal, they are nevertheless
immortal, everlasting and perpetual.”124 This truth, however
partial or perspectival our understanding of it may be, is
nonetheless
true
universally
i.e.
from all
perspectives,
foundationally and objectively. A contrary perspective is simply
an error, both in the factual sense and existentially insofar as it
contributes to human “degradation.”125
9. Relativism versus Relationalism 126
Whereas in regards to epistemology, the Bahá’í position may
be described as ‘evolutionary Platonic perspectivism,’ in regards
to ontology, i.e. the theory of reality, it is best described as
‘relationalism.’ Relationalism is based on the belief that all
things exist in relationship to one another,
For all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to the
properties of things are the causes of the existence,
development and growth of created beings.127
Speaking specifically of humankind, the Master says, the
existence and perfection of humankind
is due to the composition of the elements, to their
measure, to their balance, to the mode of their
combination, and to mutual influence. When all these are
gathered together, then man exists.128

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
In other words, things exist relationally to each other, but
this must not be confused with ontological relativism according
to which
What exists for human beings is relative to the concepts
they possess and the procedures of enquiry with which
their culture equips them ... Ontological relativists are not
saying that it is just what people believe exists [that would
bring us back to epistemological relativism] that varies
from culture to culture, but something much stronger,
that what exists can only be said to exist for this or that
culture.129
The logical consequence of this immediately makes its
untenability clear: what we don’t know doesn’t exist – and,
therefore, according to this view, shouldn’t be able to hurt us.
But we know this is false. The world’s Aboriginal Peoples, for
example, who knew neither gunpowder nor measles and had no
concept of either, were very seriously hurt by both. Here we
have historical proof that either individual or collective human
perception does not constitute reality, that regardless of how
we may constitute reality, factors not included in our
construction may well be at work and able to affect us whether
we recognise them or not.
Let us examine relationalism more closely. Unlike any form
of relativism, it does not mean that there are standpoints from
which real relationships can be validly denied and said not to
exist. Doing that would make the nature of reality itself
dependent on the perceiver – which is a form of ontological
relativism. For relationalism, relationships are real whether or
not they are perceived by anyone; for example, the relationship
between fire and gunpowder has always been such that one
should be extremely careful introducing them to each other. In
other words, relationalism is a form of ontological realism, i.e.
the belief that reality is independent of our ontological
conceptions and schemes. Relationalism recognises that because
things exist in relationship to one another, they may exhibit
different characteristics in regards to different things. Indeed,
they can even display opposite attributes with different thing.
Sea water, for example, allows ocean plants to thrive whereas it
kills land plants. Exercise that may be valuable stimulation for
one person’s heart may kill another person. However, it is
important to realise that relationalism still allows us to say that
certain statements are absolutely true, e.g. that sea water is
deadly for daisies, that there is no viewpoint from which this is
not true. We may not completely understand all the details

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
about why this is true, but the assertion of the opposite is
simply false. Thus, relationalism is able to retain the concept of
truth and of distinguishing among a wildering wilderness of
images/perspectives. It is able to accommodate the idea that at
least some statements are universal, objective and foundational,
and that others are in error.
Thus, it is plain that relationalism and relativism are not the
same and must not be confused and conflated. The Bahá’í
Writings are relationalist and not relativist.
Let us observe relationalism in the following statement by
`Abdu'l-Bahá’:
This dust beneath our feet, as compared with our being, is
nonexistent. When the human body crumbles into dust, we
can say it has become nonexistent; therefore, its dust in
relation to living forms living forms of human being is as
nonexistent, but in its own sphere it is existent, it has its
mineral being. Therefore, it is well proved that absolute
nonexistence is impossible; it is only relative.130
The statement says that in its relationship to human being,
dust is non-existent although, “in its own sphere”, in
relationship to itself, dust exists. It is important to notice that
it is not merely a matter of opinion whether or not dust is dead
in relationship to or relative to the human being – this is
presented as an ontological fact. There is no cognitive
relativism about this; no matter what standpoint we choose to
observe this fact, it will be the same, i.e. it is universal,
objective and foundational. From this example, `Abdu'l-Bahá’
draws a general conclusion: “absolute non-existence” does not
exist, “it [non-existence] is “only relative.” Here, too, we have a
universal claim that is not standpoint dependent but is offered
as a principle of universal ontology. That our understanding of
this
principle
will
grow
and
expand
throughout
our
evolutionary history is not in question, but the basic insight
reflects an abiding truth on which we have one true perspective.
This brings us back to the ‘evolutionary Platonic perspectivism’
where we may get various successive perspectives on the
“eternal verities” or unchallengeably true propositions, as, for
example that “nonexistence is only relative and absolute
nonexistence inconceivable.”131 Nonexistence is always non-
existence in relationship to something and existence is always
existence in relationship to something.
What follows is another statement which illustrates the
difference between relationalism and relativism:

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Therefore, though the world of contingency exists, in
relation to the existence of God it is nonexistent and
nothingness. Man and dust both exist, but how great the
difference between the existence of the mineral and that
of man! The one in relation to the other is nonexistence.
In the same way, the existence of creation in relation to
the existence of God is nonexistence. Thus it is evident
and clear that although the beings exist, in relation to God
and to the Word of God they are nonexistent.132
Again we observe that in these statements the attributes of
existence and nonexistence are not simply matters of opinion or
viewpoint in the relativistic sense of our being able to hold the
opposite view with equal validity. There is, for example, no
standpoint from which creation is not contingent and
dependent upon God, nor is there a standpoint from which God
Himself depends on creation. (This should not be confused with
the claim that humans may devise various concepts of God; the
concepts, but not God Himself are dependent on man.) This is
true even of the “First Mind” or “First Will”: “for the existence
of the universal reality in relation to the existence of God is
nothingness.”133 This ontological principle also applies at the
most humble level” “the life of the nail in relation to the life of
the eye is nonexistent.”134 The failure to adequately consider the
relational nature of existence causes some thinkers to conclude
that the world is an illusion
This theory [that the external world is an illusion, is
nothingness] is erroneous; for though the existence of
beings in relation to the existence of God is an illusion,
nevertheless, in the condition of being it has a real and
certain existence. It is futile to deny this.135
Aside from the characterization of a particular view as
“erroneous” – which implicitly denies epistemological relativism
– this passage shows that things are involved in two kinds of
relationship, a relationship to others or not-self (in this
example, God) and a relationship to itself, its own “condition of
being.” All things thus have a double nature; more importantly
they can have apparently opposite attributes in different
relationships. Furthermore, each of these relationships is
absolutely true and not relative. In respect to God, the world
does not exist – and there is no alternative standpoint from
which to validly assert the opposite. In regards to itself, the
world exists – and as Augustine and Descartes know, there is no
logically defensible standpoint from which to assert the
opposite. `Abdu'l-Bahá’s statement that it is “futile” to deny

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
what he says demonstrates the universal, objective and
foundational nature of his claim, and thereby illustrates a vital
difference between relationalism and relativism.
What follows is an application of relationalism to the human
soul after death.
In the same way, the souls who are veiled from God,
although they exist in this world and in the world after
death, are, in comparison with the holy existence of the
children of the Kingdom of God, nonexisting and
separated from God.136
Here, too, we observe the double-relation: in regards to
themselves as well as the world and “the world after death”,
these veiled souls exist, but in regards to the “children of the
Kingdom”, they are nonexistent. Each statement is true, and not
subject to equally valid contradiction as it would be with
relativism; together these relations constitute the being of those
particular souls. There is no standpoint from which a soul could
be “separated from God” and still exist since that would assert
the independence of the created from the Creator. Nor is there
any standpoint that could validly assert the nonexistence of a
soul “in the world and the world after death” while still existing
for God, because that would be to declare the world more
powerful than God.
Relationalism also applies to ethics according to `Abdu'l-Bahá,
a scorpion is evil in relation to man; a serpent is evil in
relation to man; but in relation to themselves they are not
evil ... The epitome of this discourse is that it is possible
that one thing in relation to another may be evil, and at
the same time within the limits of its proper being it may
not be evil. Then it is proved that there is no evil in
existence; all that God created He created good. This evil
is nothingness; so death is the absence of life.137
Once again, we note how the relationship to not-self/other is
distinguished from relationship to self along with the assertion
that nothing is evil “within the limits of its proper being.”138
This relationship to itself is the ontological foundation for the
teaching that God’s creation is good; all things are good in and
of themselves. In addition, this passage also reinforces the
distinction between relationalism and relativism because there is
no standpoint from which we may correctly say that the
scorpion is evil in regards to itself because that would be to
deny the inherent goodness of God’s creation. In other words,

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
we know this truth from a privileged standpoint from which we
may reject the contrary view as false.
Similar thinking applies to morality as well. `Abdu'l-Bahá says,
The sin in Adam is relative to His position. Although from
this attachment there proceed results, nevertheless,
attachment to the earthly world, in relation to attachment
to the spiritual world, is considered as a sin. The good
deeds of the righteous are the sins of the Near Ones.139
This statement exemplifies relationalism not relativism
because it is not a matter of questioning Adam’s sin – which is
flatly asserted to be sin and not subject to contrary perspectives
according to which it is not – but only that what is factually a
sin in relationship to Adam is not necessarily a sin in
relationship
to
other
beings.
This
is
consistent
with
relationalism because, as already explained, an entity may
exhibit different qualities in relationship to different things
because it interacts differently with each. Thus, what is good in
the “righteous” is “sin” for the “Near Ones.” The statement that
“The good deeds of the righteous are the sins of the Near Ones”
is not dependent on perspective but is offered as a truth that is
universal, objective and foundational. There is no perspective
that could prove `Abdu'l-Bahá wrong.
Another example of relationalism can be found in The Seven
Valleys and The Four Valleys:
Although a brief example hath been given concerning the
beginning and ending of the relative world, the world of
attributes, yet a second illustration is now added, that the
full meaning may be manifest. For instance, let thine
Eminence consider his own self; thou art first in relation
to thy son, last in relation to thy father.140
Here, too, we find no suggestion that the claim “thou art
first in relation to they son, last in relation to thy father” is
subject to equally valid contradictory claim, which is to say that
this statement is universally, objectively and foundationally
true. In other words, this statement implicitly assumes there
exists a neutral, Archimedean standpoint from which its claim
can be made, thereby ruling it out of consideration as an
example of relativism.
The passage goes on to declare that “first” and “last” as well
as “outward appearance” and “inward being” are “four states”
that are “true of thyself.” 141 If we allowed a truly relativistic
reading instead of a perspectivist reading, the truth of this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
passage would no longer be universalist, objectivist and
foundational – and thus would lose its value as a guide in the
quest for religious truth.
Continuing this passage, we read,
These statements are made in the sphere of that which is
relative, because of the limitations of men. Otherwise,
those personages who in a single step have passed over the
world of the relative and the limited, and dwelt on the fair
plane of the Absolute, and pitched their tent in the worlds
of authority and command--have burned away these
relativities with a single spark, and blotted out these words
with a drop of dew. And they swim in the sea of the spirit,
and soar in the holy air of light. Then what life have
words, on such a plane, that "first" and "last" or other than
these be seen or mentioned! In this realm, the first is the
last itself, and the last is but the first.142
Here Bahá'u'lláh reminds us that we live on a “relative”
ontological plane where everything exists in relation to other
things and thus suffer the problem of being limited by
particular perspectives i.e. relating to one thing in one way and
to something else in another. However, it is possible to surpass
this relational plane – to “burn[] away these relativities,” to
transcend the differences of words and attain a plane where
first and last are one and the same, i.e. where things do not exist
relationally as on this earthly plane. What precisely that mode
of existence is we are powerless to say because the words have
been blotted out “with a drop of dew.” We have reached the
limit of rationality. An adherent of philosophical relativism
must, of course, claim that this may be true from a particular
perspective but that the direct contrary view is equally possible
– and there is Archimedean standpoint from which to judge
between the alternatives. The problem is that nothing here
suggests this is what Bahá'u'lláh means.
10. A Test Case 143
In his well-know article “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í
Metaphysics,” Moojan Momen claims that relativism can
reconcile ontological dualism and ontological monism. Writing
about ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I
Was a Hidden treasure,’ ” Momen contends that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
adopts a relativist approach to achieve “a reconciliation of the
dichotomy”144 between an ontological dualism asserting that
“there is a fundamental difference between the human soul and

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
the Absolute”145 and an ontological monism stating that “there
is no fundamental difference between the human soul and the
Absolute.”146 The case of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s “Commentary” is
intended to be paradigmatic in solving the apparent problem
between the teaching of the essential unity of all religions and
humankind’s conflicting religious beliefs.
It is the contention of this paper that Momen’s use of
relativism as a solution to the monism/dualism conflict in the
Writings is a supposed ‘solution’ to a non-existent problem.
There is, as we shall see, no monist position in the Writings. But
is this really the case? After his exposition of both views,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ says,
But to this servant all these expositions and questions,
stations and states are complete in their own station
without defect or flaw. For although the object being
viewed is the same, nevertheless the viewpoints and
stations of these mystic knowers is different. Each
viewpoint, with respect to the person who is in that
station is perfect and complete.147
Analysis shows that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá strictly confines his
remarks to the subjective criteria for truth: given their own
presuppositions and criteria, the advocates of each viewpoint
reason correctly and attain a conclusion that is consistent with
their spiritual conditions as “knowers.” In other words, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s argument is subjectively epistemological – concerned
with the “knowers” and not with what is objectively known and
the quality of their knowledge, with the perceiver and not with
the perceived. He is not talking about what actually is the case
but rather about what the viewer thinks is the case because of
his presuppositions, nature and spiritual condition. Once this
distinction is noted, it becomes clear that his judgment about
the two viewpoints has no ontological implications at all.148
Consequently, seeing ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s words as a relativist
reconciliation of ontological monism and dualism is to mistake
a rather studiously neutral statement about two kinds of
viewers for an endorsement of both their opinions.149 Such is
patently not the case. Momen quotes the following passage to
support his case for relativism:
It is clear to thine Eminence that all the variations which
the wayfarer in the stages of his journey beholdeth in the
realms of being, proceed from his own vision. We shall
give an example of this, that its meaning may become fully
clear: Consider the visible sun; although it shineth with
one radiance upon all things, and at the behest of the King

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
of Manifestation bestoweth light on all creation, yet in
each place it becometh manifest and sheddeth its bounty
according to the potentialities of that place. For instance,
in a mirror it reflecteth its own disk and shape, and this is
due to the sensitivity of the mirror; in a crystal it maketh
fire to appear, and in other things it showeth only the
effect of its shining, but not its full disk. And yet, through
that effect, by the command of the Creator, it traineth
each thing according to the quality of that thing, as thou
observest.150
While this passage certainly supports perspectivalism or
relationalism – there are many perspectives on or relations to
the sun and each of them originates with the wayfarer – this
passage clearly indicates that not all perspectives are equal: “in a
mirror it reflecteth its own disk and shape, and this is due to the
sensitivity of the mirror.” In other words, the mirror reflects
the sun more accurately, faithfully, adequately than in other
things which show “only the effect of its shining, but not its full
disk.” Each reflects “according to the quality of that thing” but
nowhere is it claimed that the quality is everywhere equal.
Indeed, in this very image Bahá'u'lláh suggests an Archimendean
standpoint from which to judge the reflections: the more one is
sensitive like a mirror, the more closely we will reflect the light,
“disk and shape” of the sun. This passage does not support a
relativist reading.
If Momen’s reading is correct, it would follow that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá assumes that the spiritual condition, nature and
understanding of the believer are by themselves sufficient to
determine the objective correctness or truthfulness of a belief.
However, as we have shown with the foregoing passage, the
Writings do not espouse such a subjectivist theory of truth.151
If They did, they would be maintaining that standpoint and
spiritual
condition
is
sufficient
to
establish
objective
truthfulness – which in turn would prevent Them from
dismissing some beliefs as “vain imaginings,”152 “error,”153 and
“the lowest depths of ignorance and foolishness”154.
In attempting to prove that relativism can serve as the “basis
for a Baha’i metaphysics,” Momen endeavours to show how it
can resolve the conflict between monism and dualism by citing
apparently ‘monist’ passages in the Writings. Our contention is
that these passages are not monist at all. For example,
Bahá’u’lláh ’s injunction, “Turn thy sight unto thyself, that thou
mayest find Me standing within thee”155 is not really monist.
Because we can find God’s universal presence reflected in the

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
mirrors of our hearts156 does not mean that we have become
ontologically one with God’s Being. Moreover, this passage
maintains the distinction between the perceiver and the
perceived (God) – a fact which effectively precludes a monist
interpretation.
Another passage Momen quotes to support a monist
interpretation of the Writings is found in The Seven Valleys and
the Four Valleys. Some wayfarers behold various colors, but
“some have drunk of the wine of oneness and these see nothing
but the sun itself.”157 A careful reading of this passage shows
that its concern is epistemological – visionary – and not
ontological, it is about perceiving not about the being of that
which is perceived. To be ontologically monist, this passage
would have to assert that “the place of appearance”158 and the
sun itself are actually one, that the person who gazes is one with
what he gazes upon. However, this passage also preserves the
distinction between the perceiver and the perceived and,
therefore, cannot serve as an example of a monist tendency in
the Writings. Indeed, it is explicitly dualist.
The following is another passage quoted to support a monist
tendency in the Writings:159 “Yea, all he hath, from heart to
skin, will be set aflame, so that nothing will remain save the
Friend.”160 There is no suggestion here or in immediately
subsequent statements, that the seeker becomes ontologically
one with God since the passing away of the world or self or loss
of awareness of them as separate entities – does not imply such
actual, ontological one-ness. This passage is not really
ontologically monist – and therefore, relativism does not need
relativism to reconcile with dualism. Furthermore, we should
recall Bahá’u’lláh’s condemnation of those who,” deluded by their
idle fancies, have conceived all created things as associates and
partners of God.”161 There is no way that the monist vision can
be true without erasing the ontological distinctions between
God and man – a concept that requires us to become one of
God’s ‘partners.’
This statement and others like it irrevocably invalidate any
monist views regardless of our sincerely they might be held.
Sincerity is not a measure of truth, since erroneous views can be
sincerely held.
Finally, it is claimed that the Bahá’í belief that only God has
absolute existence and that human existence is contingent is “in
essence a monist position.”162 Such is far from being the case.
First, the fact that only God possess absolute existence means

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
only that creation has lesser degrees of being, not that all things
are ontologically one with God. Indeed, to insist on such
identity is, in effect, to insist that God is nothing (like creation)
and that creation is absolute (like God.) Both positions are
untenable for Bahá’í s. Second, the assertion of ontological one-
ness between Creator and created means that God is somehow
present – albeit in different forms – in His creation. This
position would be “appearance through manifestation”163 which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá categorically rejects as “quite impossible.”164 The
reason is straight forward: for the human soul to become one
with God would be for it to leave its own condition as human,
and this is rejected:
but it [the human soul] never leaves its own condition, in
which it continues to develop. For example, the reality of
the spirit of Peter, however far it may progress, will not
reach to the condition of the Reality of Christ; it
progresses only in its own environment.
Look at this mineral. However far it may evolve, it only
evolves in its own condition; you cannot bring the crystal
to a state where it can attain to sight. This is impossible.165
This statement makes it clear that there is absolutely no
standpoint from which the soul can alter its essentially human
condition and become ontologically one with God. To become
one with God, also violates Baha’u’llah’s injunction not to
“transgress the limits of one's own rank and station.”166 This re-
emphasizes the dualist position: man is always man and God is
always God. In other words, we always remain in one of the
three stations of existence: “Know that the conditions of
existence are limited to the conditions of servitude, of
prophethood and of Deity.”167 Man is always in the (ontological)
condition of servitude and nothing can change that, either in
this life or the life to come. Furthermore, in the “Commentary
on the Islamic Tradition, ‘I was a Hidden Treasure ...’ ”,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá categorically states his own position that “the path
to knowing the innermost Essence of the Absolute is closed to
all beings ... How can the reality of non-existence ever
understand the ipseity of being?168 Since the knowledge of God
is utterly impossible, then no one – regardless of spiritual
condition – can attain the necessary and sufficient conditions
for obtaining such knowledge which in effect denies the
possibility of unity with God.
Because of the vast ontological gulf between the two169 – a
difference of kind, not of degree – it is impossible for God to
become man or vice versa as held by some mystics. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
describes this view, which he identifies with the Sufis but which
also applies to Christian incarnationism, as “evident error.”170
There is no way that “ the Preexistent should confine itself to
phenomenal forms.”171 He also rejects the view that man may
become God; he asks rhetorically, “[H]ow can the phenomenal
reality embrace the Preexistent Reality?”172 Bahá’u’lláh makes
the same point when He says, “no soul hath ever found the
pathway to His Being ... every saint hath lost his way in seeking
to comprehend [contain, encircle] His Essence.”173 He re-
enforces this point by asking rhetorically, “How can utter
nothingness gallop its steed in the field of preexistence, or a
fleeting shadow reach to the everlasting sun?”174 In other words,
the ontological difference between the Creator and the created
is too great to be overcome by the mere efforts of humankind.
Not only does ontological monism undermine Bahá’í
theology because it makes Manifestations superfluous as
mediators between God and humankind, but it also ignores
logic. First, if man truly becomes one with God, the Creator of
all other beings, then the claimant in effect becomes his own
creator, which is to say, he exists before he exists because God
logically precedes all other beings. This is not logically possible.
Second, the relationship of dependence on God can never be
revoked or negated in any way. God is the perpetually
indispensable ‘necessary and sufficient condition’ for the
existence of anything other than Himself. Consequently, there
can be no possible point of view, position or stance within
creation where the distinction between Creator and created is
overcome, where the primordial relationship of dependence on
God is invalidated, or effectively negated in some way. To claim
otherwise – as ontological monism does – is to ignore
Baha’u’llah’s warning that “He hath assigned no associate unto
Himself in His Kingdom ...175
However, we must remember that the denial of ontological
union or oneness with God does not preclude an ethical oneness
in which man submits to or harmonizes his personal will with
the will of God. This ethical monism is not only allowed but
even encouraged by the Writings as an essential human goal.
Nevertheless,
we
must
not
misinterpret
this
ethical
harmonization as an ontological union.
The
conclusion
that
ontological
or
even
cognitive/epistemological monism are not an option is
inescapable on the basis of the Writings. The monism/dualism
dichotomy simply doesn’t exist in the Writings, and, therefore,
requires no solution. Moreover, even if such a dichotomy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
existed, to propose relativism as a ‘solution’ creates more
philosophical problems than it solves. This is what we shall
demonstrate next.
11: Relativism: A Basis for Metaphysics?
We are still left with the question of whether relativism be “a
basis for Bahá’í metaphysics”176 or ontology as Momen claims.
Analysing this issue in light of the serious philosophical
problems entailed in espousing relativism leads us to the
conclusion that this is not a tenable proposal. As we shall see,
applied to ethical subjects, relativism undercuts the very
possibility of any normative morality, in effect, reducing
morals, vice and virtues, the praiseworthy and the blameworthy
to a matter of personal taste and preference. Applied to
epistemology, it undercuts the very possibility progress in
human intellectual, scientific, technological and spiritual
knowledge, reducing such progress to mere change. It denies as
well the bedrock idea that some cultures are more advanced than
others, as pointed out by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in various statements.177
In the realm of religion, it denies the very the foundational
Bahá’í doctrine of progressive revelation, since, according to
relativism, there can be no progress, only change. As already
seen, relativism makes the entire concept of a metaphysics
untenable.
According to Momen, there can be no ‘correct’ or ‘incorrect’
interpretation of certain experiences and statements as monist
or dualist because all knowledge “is relative [to the speaker’s
standpoint] .... This may be termed a cognitive or epistemic
relativism.” 178
There are several problems here. The first, and perhaps most
obvious is that if there can be no correct or incorrect
interpretations – by what criteria could we make such
judgments since all interpretations are correct from their
various perspectives? – it will be impossible to do metaphysics
at all. Philosophy and metaphysics are more than free-style
expression of viewpoints: “metaphysics [is] most generally the
philosophical investigation of the nature, constitution and
structure of reality.”179 There are questions of logical
correctness and consistency to consider, not to mention the use,
analysis and critiquing of factual evidence and its meaning.
When all opinions are correct from their perspectives and
subsequently immune from evaluation, how could we ever reach
even the simplest conclusions about “Bahá’í metaphysics” i.e.
about the allegedly “Bahá’í” understanding of the “constitution

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
and structure of reality”? If that is the case, we cannot claim to
have a “Bahá’í ” or any other kind of metaphysics: all we have is
a collection or heap of viewpoints many of which exclusive to
one another. This completely undermines the possibility of
developing a coherent metaphysics – or a coherent ethics or
code of law for that matter. 180
For relativism, there is an infinite number of equally valid
‘realities’ which can be constructed by human beings,
individually and/or collectively. These may or may not be
reconcilable. There is no common reality or world for all
people. As a result, there is no common reality or world for all
people. As seen immediately above, this leads to the
impossibility of developing an even minimally coherent
metaphysic – theory of reality – or general world-view
(Weltanschauung). Even more, it also makes the entire Bahá’í
project impossible. The mission of the Bahá’í Faith is to provide
a spiritual framework in which all the religious dispensations
can find their place and be elevated to a new level,181 and in
which the dream of a unified world order can be achieved. Such
unity requires that to a considerable degree we share a common
reality, that at least a sufficient number of people agree about
the nature of reality, the nature of man and the world we live
in. The lack of such a common viewpoint or framework is
precisely what plagues the world today and prevents cooperative
action. Among other things, the Bahá’í Faith
proclaims its readiness and ability to fuse and incorporate
the contending sects and factions into which they have
fallen into a universal Fellowship, functioning within the
framework, and in accordance with the precepts, of a
divinely conceived, a world-unifying, a world-redeeming
Order.182
Relativism, which has no way of distinguishing true from
false, or the useful from the counterproductive or simply
irrelevant, is not capable of developing such a unifying vision
and framework and thus fails to meet the desperate need of
humankind for unity. “Be anxiously concerned with the needs of
the age ye live in, and center your deliberations on its exigencies
and requirements,”183 says Bahá'u'lláh, and thereby provides us
with at least one criterion by which we can distinguish among
contending viewpoints. This allows us to escape the quicksand
of competing views and – unlike relativism – start the process
of selecting among them.
Another severe problem with relativism and the Bahá’í Faith
is that there can be no universally valid ethical prescriptions

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
since ethical prescriptions are matters of individual and/or
collective choice: there is no common ethical world for all
people. However, it is precisely the aim of the Bahá’í Faith to
provide a common spiritual and ethical framework within which
all of humanity can live and work together. That is why the
Faith promulgates teachings on the importance of justice, of
human rights, honesty, truthfulness, loyalty, moderation,
knowledge, spirituality and so on. These are not just a matter of
opinion according to the Writings; they are objectively real
virtues consonant with the best in the nature of man: “The
Prophets come into the world to guide and educate humanity so
that the animal nature of man may disappear and the divinity of
his powers become awakened.”184 There is no question here of
the equal validity of opposing viewpoints: “The All-Knowing
Physician hath His finger on the pulse of mankind. He
perceiveth the disease, and prescribeth, in His unerring wisdom,
the remedy.”185 Here, too, we find that relativism is out of step
with the goals of the Bahá’í Faith.
Furthermore, relativism makes the Bahá’í concept of
progressive revelation impossible along with the Bahá’í Faith’s
belief in scientific, social, economic and political progress. To
assert that a certain development is ‘progressive’ requires that
we attain a universal, objective and foundational Archimedean
point from which to make such a judgment. Relativism, of
course, denies that such an Archimedean standpoint exists; we
can only assert that things change, not that they ‘progress’ –
whatever that might mean. Indeed, relativism must also
recognise as equally valid the view that progressive revelation is
false, and ‘imperialist dogma’ for the conquest or subjugation
of other religions. Such a position, of course, cannot be
harmonized with the Bahá’í teachings. Indeed, undermining of
progressive revelation undermines one of the essential
identifying features of the Faith.
Nor can we escape the fact that relativism makes the concept
of a divine Manifestation untenable because a Manifestation
has a privileged, universal, objective and foundational
Archimedean standpoint which make His pronouncements
normative for all of humankind and all cultures at this time.
IOW, His pronouncements are universal, objective and
foundational. Relativism is simply incapable of recognizing the
existence of such a being – though by its own principles it
cannot rule out His existence – and thereby plunge itself into
self-refutation again. Because what is revealed by the
Manifestation is universal, objective and foundational, there is
no room for equally valid but contrary viewpoints. If

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
contradictory viewpoints were just as valid, why would we need
the Manifestation? Everyone can be his own manifestation!
Bahá'u'lláh makes it clear that this solution is not acceptable for
the simple reason that only one genuine Physician exists for the
world’s ills.
At one time it [the world] hath been agitated by
contentions and disputes, at another it hath been
convulsed by wars, and fallen a victim to inveterate
diseases. Its sickness is approaching the stage of utter
hopelessness, inasmuch as the true Physician is debarred
from
administering
the
remedy,
whilst
unskilled
practitioners are regarded with favor, and are accorded
full freedom to act...186
This passage makes it clear that there is no alternative to the
remedies prescribed by the “unerring Physician,”187 that there is
only one Physician whose viewpoint matters. Baha’u’llah’s
“Book itself is the "Unerring Balance" established amongst
men,”188 a statement demonstrating the Manifestation’s absolute
“epistemic privilege.” Such a position conflicts with relativism
in all its forms.
Yet another problem undermines relativism: as Plato pointed
out in the Theatetus, relativism makes it impossible for anyone
to be wrong, misled or simply perverse in their thinking.
Maintaining that everyone is correct from his own standpoint is
tantamount to saying that people cannot err, and, in effect,
have essential infallibility. Not only does this violate common
life-experience, but it also leavers us unable to explain
references to “the divines and the foolish of this age, ”189 to
“certain foolish ones who, after having ascended into the
heavens of their idle fancies, ”190 or to those who are “ignorant
of the mysteries that lie enfolded within him.”191 These
quotations make it clear that relativism is not an accurate
description of what we find in the Writings. It would, of
course, also present insurmountable ethical problems, we would
not be able to distinguish between the actions of a Mother
Theresa and a Dr. Mengele or Stalin’s chief butcher Lavrentiy
Beria.
Relativism also confuses and conflates two distinct
propositions: (a) knowledge is relative to standpoint and (b) all
viewpoints are equally correct.. Two hidden assumptions should
also be mentioned. The first is that there is no Archimedean
standpoint from which to judge amongst competing views, and
the second is that everyone interprets his viewpoint accurately.
The fact that knowledge is relative to standpoint does not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
logically lead to the conclusion that all perspectives are equally
valid. Making that leap is precisely what distinguishes relativism
from relationalism and evolutionary Platonic perspectivism. The
Bahá’í Writings certainly believe that knowledge is relative to
standpoint but they do not believe all perspectives are equal. If
that were the case, how could we find such passages as “Even as
it is evident in this day how the people of error are, by their
countenance, known and distinguished from the followers of
divine Guidance.”192 Or take the following:
He is indeed a true believer in the unity of God who, in
this Day, will regard Him as One immeasurably exalted
above all the comparisons and likenesses with which men
have compared Him. He hath erred grievously who hath
mistaken these comparisons and likenesses for God
Himself.193
There is no suggestion in either of these quotations that those
who are in error are correct from their own particular
standpoint.
It is important as well to mention the self-refutational
problems of relativism because Moojan Momen, in his article,
“Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics” claims that “there
can be no “absolute statements about Reality.”194 The problem
is that this itself is an absolute statement about reality and rules
itself out of court. Once we understand the self-refutational
nature of such relativist pronouncements, we can see why they
cannot form the basis of any programmatic thought and thus
lose any epistemic privilege to become the “basis of Bahá’í
metaphysics.” Furthermore if such categorical statements about
reality are forbidden, what are Bahá’í s to make of the assertion
“God exists”? For Bahá’ís, this declaration cannot be anything
less than absolute, i.e. universal, objective and foundational,
since ‘Abdu’l-Bahá himself provided “proofs and evidences of
the existence of God”195 without any conditions on that
conclusion. It is affirmed absolutely as true from all possible
viewpoints and because nothing can be added to make it more
or less true than it already is. Furthermore, from God’s absolute
existence, we can – contrary to Momen’s claim – make
indisputable ontological deductions. For example, God’s
existence puts Him at the head of a hierarchy of being whose
other members are existentially dependent on Him. This
dependence is true from all possible viewpoints within creation.
Denying or relativizing this irreparably undermines the
foundations of the Bahá’í theology.

Another problem is that the denial of “absolute

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
statements about reality” 196 in effect asserts that all viewpoints
are equally true (or false) which in turn undermines the central
doctrine of “progressive revelation.” 197 Guided by successive
Manifestations, humans attain ever more adequate – though
never perfect – knowledge of reality. We were “created to carry
forward an ever-advancing civilization.”198 This injunction
implicitly suggests an evolutionary Platonic perspectivism which
asserts that knowledge – while never perfect – is nonetheless
genuinely improving, i.e. being augmented, becoming more
accurate and therefore, progressive.
A fourth difficulty: if we argue that the statements of the
Manifestations are privileged, but human interpretations of
these statements are not, we face the problem of vacuousness.
When all readings are equally true, then – because some readings
contradict others – none are. Consequently, it becomes
impossible to teach the Writings or even to discuss them since –
all interpretations being equally accurate – no one knows what
the Writings actually say. What is the point of becoming a
Bahá’í or offering the Faith’s teachings as a solution to a wide
variety of world problems if no one knows what the Writings
‘really’ mean? How can the Writings be explicated or defended
if what opponents of the Faith says is as true as what the
proponents say? Obviously, the very raison d’être of the Bahá’í
Faith is removed by an unqualified epistemological relativism.
How can we distinguish various degrees of truthfulness
without infringing on every Bahá’ís right to interpret the
Writings for him or herself? This paper contends that the Bahá’í
community has adopted negative gate-keeping as a means of
retaining doctrinal cohesion. Any understanding of the Writings
is acceptable if it is not ‘forbidden,’ that is, inconsistent with
the letter and spirit of the Sacred Text and/or the guidance
from `Abdu'l-Bahá , Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of
Justice. Such negative gate-keeping would bar all forms of
monism since they assert the possible one-ness of God and the
creature. By adopting negative gate-keeping, Bahá’ís have, in
fact, adopted inasmuch as negative gate-keeping stipulates that
within the framework provided by Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ,
Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice, all
understandings that are not forbidden are equally valid or true.
The fifth problem with Momen’s views on relativism is his
interpretation of Shoghi Effendi’s statement that Bahá’í Faith’s
“teachings revolve around the fundamental principle that
religious truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine
Revelation is progressive, not final.”199 He appears to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
understand this as a blanket relativism applicable to all subjects,
but such is not the case. The context of this statement is
progressive revelation in regards to which we must recall
Abdu’l-Baha’s statements that “every one of the divine religions
contains essential ordinances, which are not subject to change,
and material ordinances, which are abrogated according to the
exigencies of time.”200 It is the “material ordinances” not the
“essential ordinances” or “golden core”201 which are relative.
Because these “essential ordinances”202 of religion are not
relative, but “eternal; verities” seen from various perspectives
by successive ages, we have earlier in this paper described this
view as evolutionary Platonic perspectivism.
12. Conclusion

The Bahá’í Writings do not exemplify relativism as a
philosophy but rather something superficially similar but
actually
quite
different,
namely,
relationalism
and
an
evolutionary Platonic perspectivism. Nowhere do the Writings
align themselves with the various philosophical aspects of
relativism,
and
therefore,
to
say
they
are
relativistic
misrepresents their philosophical nature both to Bahá’í s and
not non- Bahá’í s. Such misunderstanding can make the work of
teaching, explicating and defending the Faith even more
difficult than it already is by creating needless obstacles.
Nor can relativism be employed as a solution to the problem
of religious diversity. First of all, Bahá’í s have to remember
that
Bahá’u’lláh does not include all religious phenomena in
His definition of the religion of God ... Bahá’u’lláh has
not taught that every school, every branch of the true
religions of God are rightly guided and hence reflect truly
reflect the intentions of their Founders.203
For example, Bahá’u’lláh says that some religions are “the
outcome of human perversity.”204 This alone should prevent
Bahá’í s from simply accepting at face value any and all religious
claims; rather they should examine them critically to see if they
accord with Bahá’u’lláh’s divine teachings and reason, as
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
does
in
his
discussions
about
Sufism,
Theosophy205,
Hinduism206
(in
regards
to
reincarnation),
Catholicism (in regards to monks and the doctrine of
transubstantiation207)
and
Buddhism.208
`Abdu'l-Bahá’s
discussions show no sign of wanting to accept any and all ideas
and developments in religious thought – and this alone

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
demonstrates that he does not express or conduct himself like a
relativist. The Master loves people, but this does not prevent
him from examining their ideas in the light of Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings209 and critical reasoning. The teachings are the
Archimedean point from which other religious claims must be
evaluated:
Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and
sciences as are current amongst you, for the Book itself is
the unerring Balance established amongst men. In this
most perfect Balance whatsoever the peoples and kindreds
of the earth possess must be weighed, while the measure of
its weight should be tested according to its own standard,
did ye but know it.210
Relativism is also powerless to solve the problem of
conflicting religious diversity because relativism has no answer
to the conflicts except to let them continue since all viewpoints
are true from their own standpoint. There is no possible way to
resolve their differences on the basis of relativist philosophy
because a relativist philosophy encourages the perpetuation of
these differences and sees no need to bring them together. They
are not seen as problematical in the first place. Why should it, if
everyone is right? And on what basis could it do so? Choosing
any such basis, would, in effect, be choosing a Archimedean
standpoint from which to evaluate other beliefs – and that leads
to all sorts of difficulties relativism seeks to avoid.
Here is yet another reason to conclude that the Bahá’í
Writings do not exemplify a relativist philosophy. Rather, as we
have seen, it illustrates an approach we have called relationalism
and evolutionary Platonic perspectivism which do justice to the
Faith’s respect for diversity without sinking in the quicksand of
relativism.


1 The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, ed. Simon Blackburn, p. 326; see
also The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, The Oxford Companion to
Philosophy, The Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, The
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.
2 Richard Rorty, Objectivity, Relativism and Truth, p.27 and 32.
3 “Tablet to Dr. Forel” in Baha’i World Faith, 343; Tablet to August Forel, p.
19.
4 See Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Baha’i Writings,” Lights of
Irfan, Volume 4, 2003.
5 Relationalism is generally associated with the process philosophy of
Whitehead and his successors. It is supported by the Writings, e.g.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.178 – 179; See also Selections
from the Writings of `Abdu'l-Bahá 160
6 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. 14; p.108.
7 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XXII, p.51.
8 Paul Feyerabend, Against Method, p.5.
www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/ge/feyerabe.htm
9 For a full discussion of this subject see Ian Kluge, “Postmodernism and the
Bahá’í Writings,” Lights of Irfan 9, 2008.
10 Rorty
11 Derrida Of Grammatology.
12 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition.
13 Foucault, Madness and Civilization;
14 Foucault
15 Baudrillard, Simulation and Simulacra.
16 Lacan; Deleuze and Guattrari
17 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p.58.
18 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p.115.
19 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.4.. The
identification of universalism, objectivism and foundationalism as
pivotal concepts for studying relativism is based on this book.
20 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.4.
21 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.4
22 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.5.
23 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.5.
24 Shakespeare, Hamlet, 2.2.255-256.
25 The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, ed. Simon Blackburn, p. 340.
26 Concise Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy, p. 795.
27 The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, ed. by Ted Honderich, p.794.
28 The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, ed. Robert Audi, p. 885.
29 Jean-Paul Sartre, Being and Nothingness, p. 30.
30 See Nelson Goodman in Ways of World-Making (Indianapolis: Hackett
Publishing Company, 1978). Goodman, unconvincingly tries to dissociate
himself from more radical consequences of his views.
31 Plato, Theaetetus,
32 Plato, Theaetetus.
33 Shakespeare, Hamlet, 2.2.255-256.
34 Plato, Theaetetus.
35 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.4.
36 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.4.
37 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.5.
38 Rom Harre and Michael Krausz, Varieties of Relativism, p.5.

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings

39 Plato, Theaetetus, emphasis added.
40 David Hume, Treatise of Human Nature, Book III, Section 1, p. 278.
41 David Hume, Treatise of Human Nature, Book III, Section 1, p. 279.
42 David Hume, An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, Book I,
Sect. VII, Part I, p.32.
43 Varieties of Relativism, p. 20.
44 Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, Book I, Chp. 2, Section II, Subsection
IV.
45 Stephen R.C. Hicks, Explaining Postmodernism, p. 37.
46 Kant, The Critique of Pure Reason, Book I, Chp. 2.
47 Ammittai F. Aviram, “Asking the Question: Kant and Postmodernism?”
48 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #493.
49 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #534.
50 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #537.
51 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #555.
52 Nietzsche, Of Truth and Lie in the Extra-Moral Sense.
53 Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, I,1.
54 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 552.
55 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 552; emphasis added.
56 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 480.
57 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, # 481.
58 Nietzsche, The Will to Power, #616.
59 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.xxiv.
60 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.xxiii.
61 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.34.
62 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.
63 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.63.
64 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.31.
65 Lyotard, The Postmodern Condition, p.xxiv.
66 Best and Kellner, “The Postmodern Turn in Philosophy: Theoretical
Provocations and Normative Deficits”
67 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theory: Critical Interrogations, p.146.
68 Jonathan Culler, On Deconstruction, p.86; italics added.
69 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p. 24; italics added.
70 Jacques Derrida, “Plato’s Pharmacy” in Disseminations, p. 95.
71 Jacques Derrida, “Plato’s Pharmacy” in Disseminations, p. 127.
72 Derrida who is very inventive in coining new terms for his concepts and
often has several terms for identical concepts.
73 Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, p.298; also p.281.
74 Jacques Derrida, Positions, p.58.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

75 Michel Foucault, Madness and Civilization.
76 Michel Foucault, The History of Sexuality.
77 Michel Foucault, The Order of Things and The Archaeology of Knowledge.
78 Michel Foucault, Discipline and Punish.
79 Andrew Thacker, “Michel Foucault”, The Literary Encyclopedia.
80 Scott H. More, “Christian History, Providence and Foucault”, Fides et
Historia, XXIX:1 (Winter/Spring 1997): 5-14
81 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.10.
82 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.11.
83 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.23.
84 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.11.
85 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.28; emphasis added.
86 Michel Foucault, The Archaeology of Knowledge, p.28.
87 J.G Merquior, Foucault, p.50.
88 Best and Kellner, Postmodern Theories: Critical Interrogations, p.41.
89 Michel Foucault, interview in La Quinzaine Literature, quoted in J.G.
Merquior, Foucault, p.36.
90 Richard Rorty, “Postmodernist Bourgeois Liberalism :” in Objectivity,
Relativism and Truth, p.202.
91 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity or Objectivity:” in Objectivity, Relativism and
Truth, p.23.
92 Richard Rorty, “Solidarity” in Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, p.192.
93 Richard Rorty, “Science as Solidarity” in Objectivity, Relativism and
Truth, p.44.
94 Richard Rorty, “Science as Solidarity” in Objectivity, Relativism and
Truth, p.39.
95 Someone might claim such was the case in an alternative world, but that
does not make it true in this world. There simply is no viewpoint from
which such a claim is true for the world we live in.
96 Augustine, The City of God, 11:26.
97 Descartes, Meditations on First Philosophy, Meditation IV.
98 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.278.
99 I do not intend to suggest Thomism is the last word in philosophy but its
beginning with the concept of ‘being’ certainly puts it on solid
philosophical ground.
100 Dr. Josef Mengele, the “Angel of Death” at Auschwitz, infamous for his
experiments on live and often conscious human subjects as well as twins.
101 See also Steven Pinker, The Blank Slate, for more.
102 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.179.
103 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 326 – 327.
104 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 224.
105 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 465.

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings

106 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.7.
107 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.208
108 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, 60.
109 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.184.
110 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.184.
111 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions p.184.
112 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come., p.2. See also The World
Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p.58, 111; Bahá’í Administration, p. 185.
113 PUP 154; emphasis added.
114 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.59.
115 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Iqan, p.172.
116 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p.108.
117 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 213.
118 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. 108.
119 Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p.108.
120 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, LXX, p. 136.
121 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 262.
122 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 290.
123 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.282.
124 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 151 – 152.
125 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 89.
126 The term is mainly associated with Whitehead’s process philosophy and its
later developments.
127 SAQ 178 – 179; See also SWAB 160
128 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.179; emphasis added.
129 Varieties of Relativism, p.111. See Nelson Goodman’s Ways of World-
Making for example.
130 PUP 89; emphasis added.
131 PUP p. 88.
132 Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 281; emphasis added.
133 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.203.
134 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.243.
135 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.278; emphasis added.
136 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.243.
137 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.263 – 264.
138 ‘Proper’ here is meant more in its traditional sense of ‘belonging to itself.’
139 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.243.
140 Bahá'u'lláh, The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, p. 27-28.
141 Bahá'u'lláh, The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, p. 27-28.
142 Bahá'u'lláh, The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, p. 27-28
143 Terry’s article “The Oneness of Reality: A Response to Relativism” focuses

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

specifically on the religious/theological difficulties with Momen’s thesis.
bs.ericwil.nl/modules.php?op=modload&name=UpDownload&file=index&re
q=getit&lid=142.
144 Momen, “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics” Bahai-
library.com/articles/relativism.html . Posted with permission of author
and publisher (Kalimat Press 1988.)
145 Momen, “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics.”
146 Momen, “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics.”
147 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá , “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was a Hidden
Treasure’ ”; emphasis added.
148 A similar conclusion was reached by Keven Brown in “‘Abdu’l-Bahá ’s
Response to the Doctrine of the Unity of Existence” in The Journal of
Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 11, Number 34, September-December 2001.
149 This, of course, raises the question as to why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would take
such a neutral position and on this score we enter the realm of historical
speculation. It is possible, for example, that he did not want to get the
new faith or its adherents embroiled in a long-standing Islamic theological
dispute especially while they were in Baghdad.
150 Bahá'u'lláh, The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, p. 18 – 19.
151 In fact, the Writings hold to a correspondence theory of truth. See Ian
Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings” for detailed
documentation about the correspondence theory of truth in the Writings.
Published in Lights of Irfan, Vol.4, 2003.
152 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 41.
153 Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 10.
154 SAQ 137. This rejection of a subjective theory of truth is illustrated by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s denial of the geocentric theory of the solar system. He
says, “The eye sees the sun and planets revolving around the earth,
whereas in reality the sun is stationary, central, and the earth revolves
upon its own axis.” “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics.”
155 The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh (Arabic) #13, 7.
156 SWAB 108
157 The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys 20 – 21.
158 The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys 20.
159 Quoted in Momen, “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics.”
160 The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys 36 – 37.
161 GWB  LXXXIV, p.166; see also 187.
162 Momen, “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics.”
163 Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
164 Some Answered Questions, p. 203.
165 Some Answered Questions , p. 233.
166 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCIII, 188.
167 Some Answered Questions , p. 230.
168 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá , “Commentary on the Islamic Tradition: ‘I Was a Hidden
Treasure’ ”; emphasis added.

Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings

169 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá , of course, reveals a three-fold division of existence – the
stations of Creator, Manifestation and the rest of creation. (Some
Answered Questions 295.) However, unaided natural reason, can, by
itself, only identify two stations, Creator and created. The station of
Manifestation requires revelation by the Manifestations of God.
Moreover, the first fundamental division is between Creator and created.
170 Some Answered Questions 195
171 Some Answered Questions 195
172 Some Answered Questions 221.
173 SVFV 23 (“The Valley of Unity”); emphasis added;
174 ibid.
175 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCV, 192; emphasis added.

177 For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, SAQ 119; SDC 86.
178 “Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics”
179 The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, ed. Robert Audi, p. 563.
180 It would, for example, make impossible William Hatcher’s project in
Minimalism: A Bridge between Classical Philosophy and the Baha’i
Revelation. Minimalism depends on the acceptance of certain basic
principles as foundational to the Baha’i Faith.
181 “Verily I say, in this most mighty Revelation, all the Dispensations of the
past have attained their highest, their final consummation.” (Gleanings
from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, CLXI, p. 340.)
182 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 100.
183 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, CVI, p.213.
184 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p.41.
185 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, CVI, p. 213.
186 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XVI, p. 39 – 40.
187 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XXXIV, p. 81.
188 The Kitab-i-Aqdas 13.
189 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Iqan, p. 7.
190 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XCIII, p.187.
191 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, XCIII, p. 186.
192 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Iqan, p. 173- 174.
193 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, CLX, p.336 – 337.
194 Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics” .
195 Some Answered Questions 5. Of course, it is important to distinguish the
absolute assertion that God exists from particular descriptions of God;
the latter may well be limited by our personal perspectives, but the
former is an absolute truth.
196 Relativism: A Basis for Bahá’í Metaphysics”
197 The Kitab-i-Aqdas p. 220.
198 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CIX, p.215; emphasis added.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

199 The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh p.58; see also the Preface to The
Promised Day is Come; Bahá’í Administration p.185.
200 The Promulgation of Universal Peace p.106.
201 Alexander Skutch, The Golden Core of Religion.
202 The Promulgation of Universal Peace p.106.
203 Peter Terry, “The Oneness of Reality: A Response to Relativism.”
204 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXI, p. 217.
205 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p.290.
206 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 167.
207 `Abdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 213.
208 `Abdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 165.
209 People and their ideas are not the same things; an essential part of the art
of consultation is learning how to distinguish the two and how to
separate oneself from one’s ideas.
210 Bahá'u'lláh, The Kitab-i-Iqan, p.56.

Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
A Theology of the Word
Jack McLean
The Epitome of His Writings
According to anecdotal reports, Shoghi Effendi Rabbaní
(1897-1957), the former head and Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith,
considered the four-part treatise, The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh (1934), to be the ne plus ultra of his writings and his
last Will and Testament.1 The Guardian describes “...the scope
and purpose...” of this document as “...an exposition of the
fundamental verities of the Faith.”2 The exposition consists of
four sections. Sections one to three define the “station”
(maqám) of the Bahá’í Faith’s “Three Central Figures.”3 Part
four elucidates the “political”4 aspects of Bahá’í governance and
supplies the ideological basis for Bahá’u’lláh’s new world order
as an ideal type of theocracy. Shoghi Effendi wrote that part
four should be considered as a “supplement” to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Will and Testament.5 This paper selectively analyses mainly the
first three sections of the Dispensation.
While the word theology is nowhere used in the text, this
work cannot be classified as anything other than a theological
treatise. The expression “theology of the word” used in the title
refers to: (1) Shoghi Effendi’s interpretations of the ontological
reality and station of the two Divine Manifestations or
Prophets, the Báb (1819-1850), Bahá’u’lláh (1817-1892) and “the
Mystery of God” (Seirulláh),6 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1844-1921), the
authorised
interpreter
of
their
teachings
and
“perfect
Exemplar”7 of the Bahá’í teachings. (2) Other interpretations of
Bahá’í sacred scripture made by the Guardian in The
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh. While the expression “theology of
the word” has its counterpart in Christian theology, and was
used to designate a group of neo-orthodox (i.e. Christocentric)
theologians who believed in the self-sufficiency of the Christian

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
revelation,8 it is derived textually from the Will and Testament
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá which refers to Shoghi Effendi as follows: “He
is the Interpreter (mubáyyín) of the Word of God.”9 This
statement is repeated verbatim by Shoghi Effendi in the
Dispensation when he explicates the functions of the Guardian:
“He is the Interpreter of the Word of God.”10
Nine themes have been selected: (1) the proactive role of the
Dispensation in determining some of the fundamental tenets of
Bahá’í theology. (2) the virtue of economy. (3) the creation of a
new theological idiom. (4) the station of the Báb and the
“proof” from history. (5) logical consequences and the station
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. (6) Shoghi Effendi’s rejection of bad
hermeneutics: the so-called “mystic unity” theory of Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. (7) the balance of positive and negative
theology. (8) exclusivist, inclusivist and pluralist statements in
the Dispensation. (9) Shoghi Effendi’s apologetic method of
comparison and the “new comparativism.” Due to limitations
of space, I have focused on the stations of the Báb and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, and analyzed some of Shoghi Effendi’s theological
interpretations and method. Neither the station of Bahá’u’lláh,
nor the theocratic basis of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh are
explored here.
Proactive Authoritative Theology
Writer, poet, mystic, scholar and Hand of the Cause of God,
Horace Hotchkiss Holly (1887-1960), editor of the Guardian’s
world order letters, included the Dispensation in the eight letter
collection published as The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh (1938).
However, the substance of parts one to three clearly belongs to
theology (theologia, Gk.+ Lat.=discourse on the divine), rather
to considerations of world order per se. Like his other writings,
with the exception of the historical work God Passes By (1944),
The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh is epistolary. However, the
Dispensation is no ordinary letter. It has been aptly described
by Madame Rúhíyyih Rabbaní as a “weighty treatise.”11
Although Madame Rabbaní’s comments are understandably
personal and favourable, they are nonetheless incisive. They
indicate that the Dispensation created a quantum leap in the
growing intellectual and spiritual understanding of the Bahá’í
community regarding its most fundamental beliefs. Her remarks
establish the priority that Shoghi Effendi gave to the
Dispensation vis-à-vis the mass of his other writings:
The weighty treatise known as The Dispensation of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Bahá’u’lláh, written in 1934, burst upon the Bahá’ís like a
blinding white light. I remember when I first read it I had
the most extraordinary feeling as if the whole universe had
suddenly expanded around me and I was looking out into a
dazzling star-filled immensity; all the frontiers of our
understanding flew outwards; the glory of this Cause and
the true station of its Central Figures were revealed to us
and we were never the same again. One would have
thought
that
the
stunning
impact
of
this
one
communication from the Guardian would kill puniness of
soul forever! However Shoghi Effendi felt in his inmost
heart about his other writings, I know from his remarks
that he considered he had said all he had to say, in many
ways, in the Dispensation.12
Since the Dispensation explicates fundamental Bahá’í beliefs,
a few remarks are in order on the relevance of “Bahá’í theology”
as an academic discipline. While this phrase has gained
acceptance among scholars over the past twenty years,13 it was
once viewed with suspicion among the rank and file and even
some of the learned.14 The negative, stereotypical view of
theology is associated with priesthood, monolithic dogmatism
and a divisive sectarianism. At worst, the record of odium
theologicum shows an ancient history of bloody wars. To cite
but one example, during the schism of the learned priest Arius
of Alexandria, early in the fourth century CE, when the Arian
bishop, Macedonius, was returned to office in Constantinople,
over three thousand people lost their lives in the fighting. More
Christians were slain by fellow Christians in this one contest
alone than had died during the last terrible persecution of the
Roman
emperor
Diocletian
in
CE.
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá
condemned the schism of Arius in a letter to Roy Wilhelm).15
Theology’s logocentrism,16 as articulated in the opening verse
of the fourth Gospel—“In the beginning was the Word, and the
Word was with God, and the Word was God.” (John 1:1)-- gave
theology an absolute didactic character that has been
historically misused in a political will-to-power. However,
despite theology’s troubled history, it is nonsensical to imagine
that a world religion, as doctrinally sophisticated as the Bahá’í
Faith, can define itself, and engage in interreligious dialogue,
without benefit of theological analysis. The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh ensures the place of theology on the Bahá’í
curriculum, whatever the nomenclature that will ultimately be
used to describe the systematic approach to the knowledge of
God or the form it will take.

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
Mathematician and philosopher of religion and science,
William S. Hatcher (1935-2005), in “An Analysis of The
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” makes this helpful observation:
“Rarely, if ever, have subtle and vexatious theological questions
been settled at an early stage in the history of a revealed
religion.”17 Hatcher’s reflection merits a categorical assertion:
vexatious theological questions were never previously solved at
an early stage in the history of a revealed religion. The issue that
Shoghi Effendi clarifies throughout the first three parts of this
work, namely, the stations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is, mutatis mutandis, the very question that
bedevilled Christian theologians in the primitive church and
fractured Christian structural and doctrinal unity for all time.
The creeds that ultimately defined the Christ-nature
...underwent a long historical development that was not
uncontested. They were finally elaborated in their present
form after four centuries of acrimonious theological
quarrelling that necessitated four [seven for the orthodox
church] world councils of the church --those of Nicaea,
Ephesus, Constantinople and Chalcedon--that brought in
their wake bloody warfare among Christian factions.
These
christological
controversies
resulted
in
the
fragmentation of the churches of Asia Minor from those
of Greek Orthodox Constantinople, a fragmentation that
has continued to this day.18
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has alluded to the “...the complex matters of
religious doctrine.”19 While the details of the christological
controversies are not pertinent to this paper, nevertheless, an
object lesson may be learned from this divisive period of early
church history. Because of its close links to metaphysics,
theology can prove to be speculative and abstruse. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, for example, refers to questions dealing with the origin of
the universe as having no beginning and free will and
determinism as being respectively “one of the most abstruse
spiritual truths” and “one of the most important and abstruse
of divine problems,”20 although Shoghi Effendi was averse to
speculation,
and
according
to
one
observer,
“loathes
abstractions.”21 The Universal House of Justice has referred to
the past abuses and errors of theology in an observation that
cautions against the intellectual pride that would attempt to
define where definition was not advisable:
In past dispensations many errors arose because the
believers in God’s Revelation were overanxious to
encompass the Divine Message within the framework of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
their limited understanding, to define doctrines where
definition was beyond their power, to explain mysteries
which only the wisdom and experience of a later age would
make comprehensible, to argue that something was true
because it appeared desirable and necessary.22
The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh has played a proactive role,
whose significance cannot be overestimated, in vastly reducing
any potential differences that could have otherwise arisen
among Bahá’í scholars attempting to understand the subtle and
complex questions surrounding the station and the ontological
nature of the Bahá’í Faith’s Three Central Figures.
The Virtue of Economy: “Less is More”
A casual reading of the Dispensation misleads by its
deceptive simplicity. Readers of academic theology are
accustomed to dense text, copious references and complex
arguments. Contemporary systematic theology, moreover, has
generally abandoned exegesis and its scriptural roots, a
separation that the distinguished theologian Hans Küng has
called a “misery,”23 whereas the Dispensation is noticeably text-
rooted. The neat saying, attributed variously to the poet Robert
Browing, the American architect Philip Johnson and the famous
German minimalist architect, Mies van der Rohe, is an apt
descriptor of The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh—“Less is more.”24
The Guardian’s economical exposition maximises the meaning
with a minimum of words. William Hatcher has correctly
observed:
Thus, at least as first glance, the structure of The
Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh appears to be extremely
simple
and
straightforward.
However,
this
initial
impression is quickly dispelled by the power and density of
Shoghi Effendi’s writing, by the number and complexity
of the themes treated in the course of the exposition, by
the abundant citations from both Bahá’í and non-Bahá’í
sources, and finally the frequent and sometimes subtle
literary and historical allusions.25
Just as in physics a plenum is space filled with matter, Shoghi
Effendi’s theological doctrines, while they authoritatively
define fundamentals, leave space for further reflection.
The Creation of a Distinct Theological Idiom
The Guardian’s theological vision is expressed in a distinct

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
theological idiom. Such phrases, for example, as the “Three
Central Figures,” “the fundamental verities,” “station,” “the
New World Order,” “Covenant,” “Center of the Covenant,”
“Administrative Order” and “dispensation” have all contributed
to form a common Bahá’í vocabulary. However, all these terms
may be developed as technical theology. One of the major
contributions of Shoghi Effendi’s writings is to have created a
discrete and original discourse that reflects the Bahá’í belief and
value system, i.e. a Weltanschauung without which no
independent world religion can adequately function or be
recognized. The accents of Shoghi Effendi’s voice are,
moreover, clearly discernible in the various messages of the
Universal House of Justice written since its first election on
April 21, 1963. The historical retrospective, Century of Light
(2001), written under the supervision of the Universal House of
Justice, builds upon the historical observations and moral
judgements of the Guardian.

The Station of the Báb and the Proof From
History
In his discussion of the “twofold station” of the Báb, that of
“divinely-appointed Forerunner” and “the inaugurator of a
separate religious Dispensation,”26 Shoghi Effendi presents
something that he calls “evidence,” evidence that is based on the
remarkable historical events that took place during the nine year
dispensation of the Báb (1844-1853), which witnessed the brutal
repression of the Bábí community and which culminated in the
Báb’s martyrdom on July 9, 1850. In a novel argument, Shoghi
Effendi presents this transformative history as a proof of the
Báb’s prophethood. In context, the Guardian’s word “evidence”
should be taken as an intuitive rather than a scientific proof; it
falls under the rubric of what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá called “spiritual
proofs.”27 This evidence calls upon the reader’s ability to
perceive a large ensemble of remarkable historical events as
being generated by the Báb’s prophetic powers:
The marvelous happenings that have heralded the advent
of the Founder of the Bábí Dispensation, the dramatic
circumstances of His own eventful life, the miraculous
tragedy of His martyrdom, the magic of His influence
exerted on the most eminent and powerful among His
countrymen, to all of which every chapter of Nabíl’s
stirring narrative testifies, should in themselves be
regarded as sufficient evidence of the validity of His claim
to so exalted a station among the Prophets.28

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Shoghi Effendi’s affirmation is matter-of-fact. It is
accompanied by that apocalyptic certitude that generally
characterizes his doctrinal statements. Although the above
passage alludes to the magical and the miraculous, it refers
nonetheless to the properly historical events of a major episode
in the history of the Qájár dynasty. The Guardian’s view, which
is based largely on Nabíl, parallels a passage from Bahá’u’lláh
which also contains a “proof” from history, this one praising
the Báb’s companions:
If these companions, with all their marvellous testimonies
and wondrous works, be false, who then is worthy to claim
for himself the truth? I swear by God! Their very deeds are
a sufficient testimony, and an irrefutable proof unto all
the peoples of the earth, were men to ponder in their
hearts the mysteries of divine Revelation.”29
The Guardian’s statement that the Báb’s prophethood is
proven by the transformative events of the history He
generated is remarkable, both for what it says and does not say.
It does not, for example, refer directly to the Báb’s writings or
to the manner in which the Báb proved Himself to be the
promised Qá’ím by fulfilling certain conditions or prophecies,
although this point would be included within the history to
which the Guardian alludes. Instead, Shoghi Effendi calls upon
an entire sacred history as evidence, a dramatic pattern of
events, whose first word was written by the Báb momentous
declaration before an ecclesiastical court: “I am, I am, I am the
Promised One.”30
The sacred history to which the Guardian alludes as “evidence
of the validity of His claim to so exalted a station among the
Prophets” is one in which historical transformation is
inextricably linked to personal transformation. In Shoghi
Effendi’s view, Heilsgeschichte is not just a sequence of events
to be reified in “objective” fashion by the historian. Babí-Bahá’í
history has been written, to put Winston Churchill’s celebrated
words to a different use, with the “...blood, toil, tears and
sweat”31 of a generation of Muslim heretics who had recognized
the Sáhibuz-Zamán (Lord of the Age). This history never could
have been written had not the Báb radically transformed the
lives of those saints, scholars, teachers, heroes and martyrs with
whom He came into direct contact.
Logical Consequences and the Station of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
The Dispensation is the definitive reference point for anyone
who seeks to better understand the mysterious being who is the
“Center of the Covenant” (markaz-i-missagh). 32 Part three of
the Dispensation corrects some major misconceptions about the
station and being of Bahá’u’lláh’s eldest Son held by some
western Bahá’ís in the opening three decades of the twentieth
century.
Shoghi
Effendi’s
method
of
correcting
these
misunderstandings is collaterally instructive. In laying down his
theological definitions, Shoghi Effendi uses a simple but
trenchant logic. Such phrases as “unwarranted inference,”
“erroneous conception,” “altogether unjustified inference” and
“the inescapable inference” indicate that deductive logic is at
work, an inference in which a conclusion follows necessarily
from one or more given premises (Lat. deductio= a leading
down).33
The main thrust of Shoghi Effendi’s argument is stated
negatively, namely, “That ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is not a Manifestation
of God...” To believe the contrary is an “...unwarranted
inference...” which he emphatically rejects. Two scriptural
statements substantiate the Guardian’s rejection of the error
that once misconceived ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as a prophet: (1) In the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh warns that no prophet shall appear
“...ere the expiration of a full thousand years...”34 This
statement
categorically
excludes
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
from
prophethood. (2) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s own statements confirm that
His essential station is that of servant of Bahá. In a dramatically
conclusive
reply,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
provided
the
most
comprehensive statement on His own self-understanding:
You have written that there is a difference among the
believers concerning the ‘Second Coming of Christ.’
Gracious God! Time and again this question hath arisen,
and its answer hath emanated in a clear and irrefutable
statement from the pen of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, that what is
meant in the prophecies by the ‘Lord of Hosts’ and the
‘Promised Christ’ is the Blessed Perfection (Bahá’u’lláh)
and His holiness the Exalted One (the Báb). My name is
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. My qualification is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. My reality
is ‘Abdu'l-Bahá. My praise is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Thralldom to
the Blessed Perfection is my glorious and refulgent
diadem, and servitude to all the human race my perpetual
religion...
No
name,
no
title,
no
mention,
no
commendation have I, nor will ever have, except ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. This is my longing. This is my greatest yearning. This
is my eternal life. This is my everlasting glory.35

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
By disabusing the Bahá’ís of his time of any lingering
misconception of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prophethood, Shoghi Effendi
makes the reader indirectly aware of the generative process
inherent to deductive logic. While logic is an effective tool in
verifying the true, and eliminating the false, its conclusions are
only as valid as its premises. A false premise can create,
moreover, a deleterious nexus of beliefs that is not only
theologically incorrect but, more importantly, carries “real life”
adverse consequences. (This is particularly true in the
consequential world of religion). Shoghi Effendi draws the
reader’s attention to this very point regarding the erroneous
belief that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was a Manifestation of God:
Indeed, as I have already stated, those who overestimate
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s station are just as reprehensible and have
done just as much harm as those who underestimate it.
And this for no other reason except that by insisting upon
an altogether unwarranted inference from Bahá’u’lláh’s
writings they are inadvertently justifying and continuously
furnishing the enemy with proofs for his false accusations
and misleading statements.36
While there is much evidence to suggest that the covenant-
breakers37 (“the enemy”) in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s immediate family
were driven by the basest of motives, the western believers who
overestimated ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s station unknowingly fuelled the
persecution inflicted on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by members of His
family. These covenant-breakers could point to these western
believers to prove their allegation that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was
claiming prophethood.
However, this was only one of two evils. Shoghi Effendi is
also referring to the accusation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s half-brother,
“the
arch-breaker
of
the
Covenant
of
Bahá’u’lláh,”38
Muhammad-‘Alí and his associates, that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had
claimed Divinity. In his so-called “epistle of repentance,”
Bahá’u’lláh’s youngest son, Badí’u’lláh (d. 1950), described the
offences committed by Muhammad-‘Alí. These included the
interpolation of Bahá’u’lláh’s sacred writings to belittle the
station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and to exalt Muhammad-‘Alí’s.39 Like
the doubting apostle, St. Thomas (John 20:26-29), the youngest
son was a wavering Badí’u’lláh. His brief moment of repentance
was soon followed by a relapse of rebellion. (But unlike
Badí’u’lláh, the sceptical Thomas, according to Christian
tradition, became steadfast and died a martyr’s death).40
Badí’u’lláh confessed in his letter that among these “false

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
accusations” was Muhammad-‘Alí’s allegation that “...the
Master claims to be the embodiment of Divinity...”41 This
falsehood was circulated despite ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s repeated and
explicit written denials of such a preposterous claim. In a tablet
that stigmatizes his younger brother as “the Centre of Sedition,”
and outlines some of his odious deeds, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to
Muhammad-‘Alí’s accusations: “Another day he would raise an
uproar, saying that the oneness of God had been denied, since
another Manifestation had been proclaimed, prior to the
expiration of a thousand years.”42
Shoghi Effendi makes three other important deductions that
necessarily follow from his statement that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is not a
Manifestation of God. First, the Guardian corrects the false
impression that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá enjoys a so-called “mystic unity”
with Bahá’u’lláh. (Further to this point, see the next section).
Second, the notion that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is a prophet would have
had the following consequence:
It would also amount to a reversion to those irrational and
superstitious beliefs which have insensibly crept, in the
first century of the Christian era, into the teachings of
Jesus Christ, and by crystallizing into accepted dogmas
have impaired the effectiveness and obscured the purpose
of the Christian Faith.43
What the Guardian seems to have in mind here is the dogma
of the trinity, which was itself subject to a historical process--
this may explain the reference to “dogmas”-- with its
divinization of the Son who was elevated to the Godhead. Third,
to maintain such a belief would result in an unconscionable,
strange reversal. It would lower the station of the Báb:
Furthermore, the inescapable inference from the belief in
the identity of the Author of our Faith with Him Who is
the Center of His Covenant would be to place
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a position superior to that of the Báb, the
reverse of which is the fundamental, though not as yet
universally recognized, principle of this Revelation.44
It is noteworthy that Shoghi Effendi points out that this
principle was “...not as yet universally recognized...” The
Guardian’s statement testifies to the great sway that “...the
vibrant, the magnetic personality of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá...” with its
“...glory and power with which They who are the Manifestations
of God are alone endowed” 45 still held over the hearts and
minds of early North American Bahá’ís. Simply put, the Bahá’ís

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
generally ascribed a greater station to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá than they
did to the Báb.
Rejection of Bad Hermeneutics: The “Mystic
Unity” Theory
Another false notion that followed from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
supposed prophethood was the so-called “mystic unity”46
between Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. This belief was in part
based on the wrong inference drawn from a hadith quoted in the
Kitáb-i-Íqán: “I am He, Himself, and He is I, myself.”47 The
phrase was truncated into English as “He is Myself” and taken
out of context. According to the maxim in biblical and literary
hermeneutics, “A text without a context is a pretext.”48 The
mystic unity theory is a reminder that holy scripture must be
interpreted in context to avoid an exegetical fallacy. Shoghi
Effendi wrote the following clarification:
I feel it necessary, therefore, to state without any
equivocation or hesitation that neither in the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas nor in the Book of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, nor
even in the Tablet of the Branch, nor in any other Tablet,
whether revealed by Bahá’u’lláh or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, is there
any authority whatever for the opinion that inclines to
uphold the so-called “mystic unity” of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, or to establish the identity of the latter with
His
Father
or
with
any
preceding
Manifestation…Moreover, to maintain that the assertion
“He is Myself,” instead of denoting the mystic unity of
God and His Manifestations, as explained in the Kitáb-i-
Íqán, establishes the identity of Bahá’u’lláh with ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, would constitute a direct violation of the oft-
repeated principle of the oneness of God’s Manifestations
-- a principle which the Author of these same extracts is
seeking by implication to emphasize.49
This statement makes it clear that the principle of mystic
unity does legitimately apply to the relationship between God
and His Manifestation or to the Manifestations with one
another. The unity of the Divine Manifestations or Prophets
with God, as contained in the phrase “He is Myself,” which is
one of the teachings of the Kitáb-i-Íqán,50 was misappropriated
and applied to the relationship between Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá.
Taking a statement out of context, i.e. from one context that
conveys one or more of its legitimate meanings and applying it

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
in another, which distorts the meaning, can be evidence of one
or more of the following: (1) an esoteric mind-set that strains to
make a point (2) a fundamentalist mind-set that fails to make
necessary distinctions where they are warranted (3) forcing an
argument (4) a tendency to round-off in an non-discriminating
levelling process that is liable to occur when a comprehensive
concept such as “unity” is at issue.
Thornton Chase’s letter to Wellesley Tudor-Pole, quoted
below, substantiates point (1). It informs us that in the opening
years of the twentieth century, some Bahá’ís selected scriptural
code-words that they applied esoterically. However, it is
understandable that Bahá’ís of Christian background would be
liable to such a misconception given the magnitude of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s magnetic, divine charisma. Father-Son phraseology was
for centuries, and still is, basic to Christian theology. It was an
easy and natural transfer to apply the Father-Son relationship of
God and Christ to Bahá’u’lláh (the Father), and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
(the Son). Shoghi Effendi’s correction and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
explicit denials make it clear that the “Christian Bahá’ís”
regarded ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as a Christ figure: “that He is not to be
acclaimed as the return of Jesus Christ, the Son Who will come
“in the glory of the Father”—. 51
Thornton Chase, however, was not so confused. Dr. Robert
Stockman’s archival research shows that the man designated by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá as “the first Bahá’í in America,”52 complained
frequently in his letters that the Bahá’ís misunderstood ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s station. In a letter to Wellesley Tudor-Pole (December 1,
1911) that does not conceal his disappointment, Chase wrote:
Many of those who have named themselves Bahá'ís are of
an enthusiastic and emotional nature which seeks a living
object upon which to lavish the wealth of their hopes.
They seek out single phrases and words, occurring in
various Tablets from Abdul-Bahá, give to them their own
interpretations, and then set them up as a sort of authority
contrary to the evident strong and oft repeated
declarations of Abdul-Bahá himself regarding his mission
and station. As though that which he emphasizes were not
sufficiently great, they strive to consider and proclaim him
to be the Christ, the Word Incarnate, the Savior, etc., and
they bitterly antagonize those who look upon Baha’o’llah
as the fulfiller and completer of these Offices.53
To his credit, Chase understood and upheld the distinction
between the stations of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá at a time

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
when many American Bahá’ís were simply too awed to
understand ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s station according to His own self-
understanding. Stockman points out that the question of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s station was “completely confusing to the
American Christian mind. He did not fit into any category.”54
The subtleties involved in discerning how “...the incompatible
characteristics of a human nature and superhuman knowledge
and perfection have been blended and are completely
harmonized”55 were too complex for many who met ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá to see Him in any other light than that of a prophet.
Echoes of the old misunderstanding surfaced during my
interview with prolific writer, teacher and personality,
Stanwood Cobb (1881-1982), at his home at the Green Acre
Bahá’í School near Eliot, Maine in the summer of 1977. Mr.
Cobb who was then 96 years old, shared his impressions of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá whom he had met on five different occasions:
Akká (1909, 1910), Boston and Washington (1912) and Paris
(1913). When I asked about his view of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in light of
the passing years, the tension between orthodoxy and personal
impression was clearly felt. With sudden emotion, Mr. Cobb
said: “Well, if I told you what I really thought you would find it
reprehensible.” When I asked for a clarification, he replied: “If
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had not specifically denied being a prophet, as far
as I was concerned, He was. He moved with the ease of a king.
He was as free as a bird and did just as he pleased.” Mr. Cobb’s
anecdotes included such remarks as “If he wanted to visit a
home in town, He just knocked on the door and walked in.”56
Unlike Thornton Chase, other Bahá’ís, like the naturopath
Dr. Edward Getsinger, failed to be convinced, even by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s fervent denials. Although Getsinger spent over six
months in Akká in 1899, 1900 and 1901, still he clung to his
own opinion. One of his letters indicated that Getsinger
thought he knew better than ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. For Dr. Getsinger,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s claim of pure servitude was a mere veil of
humility that could not conceal His true reality--at least as the
doctor divined it. In May, 1903 he wrote the Bahá’ís of North
Hudson, New Jersey, making this dogmatic pronouncement:
“We should never cease to impress all that the Master is whom
we believe He is--The Christ of this generation to the Gentiles,
and not what He in His humility chooses to claim for Himself--
a servant.”57 Getsinger’s argument was so convincing that the
North Hudson Board of Council “heartily endorsed” and
recorded the doctor’s opinion in its minutes!58 It was,
consequently, with good reason that Shoghi Effendi found it

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
imperative to clarify the station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Ali Kuli Khan, who had spent fourteen months between
1900-1901 in Akká working as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s translator, saw
the conundrum. If Bahá’u’lláh is Christ, who then is the
majestic personage called ‘Abdu’l-Bahá? Upon his arrival in
America in 1901, he wrote: “If you want to say that all our
Christian world have been waiting the Appearance of [the]
Father & Christ, & that if you tell them Beha was Christ then
you will have difficulty in proving to them Abdul-Beha--this is a
question which you will have to write for the Master, and then
He will direct you how to teach this point.”59
Another factor may account for the mystic unity theory. This
has to do with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s function as “Interpreter of the
Word of God.”60 It seems plausible to assume that the one who
was capable of interpreting infallibly the writings of Bahá’u’lláh
must “know” the mind of Bahá’u’lláh and be “unified” with it.
But Shoghi Effendi has made a distinction that rejects such an
idea. Although the Guardian’s comment applies to his own
function as interpreter, his point may be applied by analogy to
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
The fact that the Guardian has been specifically endowed
with such power as he may need to reveal the purport and
disclose the implications of the utterances of Bahá’u’lláh
and of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá does not necessarily confer upon him
a station co-equal with those Whose words he is called
upon to interpret. He can exercise that right and discharge
this obligation and yet remain infinitely inferior to both
of them in rank and different in nature.61
This quotation requires qualification. Interpretation not-
withstanding, the Guardian made it clear that the gulf that
separates him from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is much wider than the one
that separates ‘Abdu’l-Bahá from Bahá’u’lláh:
To degrade His lofty rank by identifying His station with
or by regarding it as roughly equivalent to, the position of
those on whom the mantle of His authority has fallen
would be an act of impiety as grave as the no less heretical
belief that inclines to exalt Him to a state of absolute
equality with either the central Figure or Forerunner of
our Faith. For wide as is the gulf that separates ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá from Him Who is the Source of an independent
Revelation, it can never be regarded as commensurate with
the greater distance that stands between Him Who is the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Center of the Covenant and His ministers who are to carry
on His work, whatever be their name, their rank, their
functions or their future achievements.62
The Balance of Positive and Negative
Theology
One feature of the deep structure of Shoghi Effendi’s
thought reveals that his interpretations are formulated by the
balance of positive (affirmative) and negative (contrary)
statements. This process may be viewed as a “dialectic” which I
define simply as a laying down of first principles or
fundamental truths. (I am not suggesting here that Shoghi
Effendi consciously followed a philosophic dialectic in making
his interpretations but rather that when examined they reveal
this structure). Due to limitations of space, only two examples
of this construction will be provided. Six other brief examples
are found at the end of this section.
The “negative theology” that I attribute to Shoghi Effendi is
quite different from the apophatic or negative theology in the
Abrahamic religions, the theologica apophatika that maintains
the strictest silence about the essence of divinity.63 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
encapsulates the essence of negative theology when he says: “We
affirm these names and attributes, not to prove the perfections
of God, but to deny that He is capable of imperfections.”64
Rather, Shoghi Effendi’s use of the balance of positive (X is
this) and negative theology (X is not this) both affirms and
denies a thing in order to define its true nature. In defining the
station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, there is no mediating middle other than
the category of mystery itself. This lack of a middle position is
typical of some, although by no means all, his theological
judgements which are generally categorical. Here is just one
example that rejects divine incarnation (Ar. =hullul), pantheism
and anthropomorphism:
So crude and fantastic a theory of Divine incarnation is as
removed from, and incompatible with, the essentials of
Bahá’í belief as are the no less inadmissible pantheistic and
anthropomorphic conceptions of God--both of which the
utterances of Bahá’u’lláh emphatically repudiate and the
fallacy of which they expose.65
However, we should not conclude from this one statement
alone that broad, liberal or inclusivist doctrines are not found
in Shoghi Effendi’s interpretations. (This question is explored
below in “Exclusivist, Inclusivist and Pluralist Statements in the

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
Dispensation”).

Example One: The Summary Statement of the Station
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Shoghi Effendi’s summary statement of the station of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá interweaves both affirmations and negations. By
artificially inserting [+] and [-] signs into the text, it becomes
apparent that Shoghi Effendi has juxtaposed and balanced
positive and negative elements in the formulation of his
interpretation. Overall, they contain four negative and three
positive elements. His statement is concise but packed with
meaning:
[1][-]That ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is not a Manifestation of God, [+]
that He gets His light, His inspiration and sustenance
direct from the Fountain-head of the Bahá’í Revelation;
[2][+] that He reflects even as a clear and perfect Mirror
the rays of Bahá’u’lláh’s glory, [-] and does not inherently
possess that indefinable yet all-pervading reality the
exclusive possession of which is the hallmark of
Prophethood; [3] [-]that His words are not equal in rank,
[+] though they possess an equal validity with the
utterances of Bahá’u’lláh; [4][-] that He is not to be
acclaimed as the return of Jesus Christ, the Son Who will
come “in the glory of the Father”--.66
His
interpretation
is
followed
by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
self-
interpretation which has been quoted above but which bears
repeating:
My name is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. My qualification is ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. My reality is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. My praise is ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. Thraldom to the Blessed Perfection is my glorious
and refulgent diadem, and servitude to all the human race
my perpetual religion... No name, no title, no mention, no
commendation have I, nor will ever have, except ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. This is my longing. This is my greatest yearning. This
is my eternal life. This is my everlasting glory.67
With his [positive + negative polarization], [statement +
qualification], [statement + caution] construction, Shoghi
Effendi considers both ends of the theological spectrum. He
eliminates those excesses, either positive or negative, which
produce errors. In the following statement, for example, Shoghi
Effendi cautions the reader against a reduction of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s pure servitude or His being a mere interpreter of His
father’s words:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
From such clear and formally laid down statements,
incompatible as they are with any assertion of a claim to
Prophethood, we should not by any means infer that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá is merely one of the servants of the Blessed
Beauty, or at best one whose function is to be confined to
that of an authorized interpreter of His Father’s teachings.
Far be it from me to entertain such a notion or to wish to
instill such sentiments.68
By clearly defining end limits, Shoghi Effendi gives full
weight and balance to the teachings he interprets. In this
balance, he excludes both an overly exalted and demeaning view
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The same holds true for his analysis of the
station of Bahá’u’lláh.
Example Two: Positive Bahá’í Spirituality and its
Negative Counterpart in Contemporary Society
The second example is taken from the portrait of Bahá’í
community spirituality. The Guardian’s illustration is found in
part four which delineates the basic features of the
Administrative Order. By including things spiritual in a
treatment of things administrative, Shoghi Effendi seems to be
following Bahá’u’lláh’s method in the Aqdas which mixes
normally disparate categories, such as legal formulations and
ritual law, with the mystical language of love, beauty and
refinement. As for the Aqdas, this blending of administrative
and spiritual themes in the Dispensation notifies the reader that
there can be no separation of spiritual from administrative
principles, a point that Shoghi Effendi has made explicitly
elsewhere:
To dissociate the administrative principles of the Cause
from the purely spiritual and humanitarian teachings
would be tantamount to a mutilation of the body of the
Cause, a separation that can only result in the
disintegration of its component parts, and the extinction
of the Faith itself.69
The Positive Pole
In the final section of the Dispensation, Shoghi Effendi
compares and contrasts “...the process of slow and steady
consolidation that characterizes the growth of its [the Bahá’í
Faith’s] infant strength and the devastating onrush of the forces
of disintegration that are assailing the outworn institutions,
both religious and secular, of present-day society!” with the

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
outstanding spirituality of the Bahá’í Faith’s “administrators,”
“itinerant teachers” and others. This technique of comparison
and contrast also constitutes a literary device which is the
counterpart to the formulation of positive and negative
theology:
The vitality which the organic institutions of this great,
this ever-expanding Order so strongly exhibit; the
obstacles which the high courage, the undaunted
resolution of its administrators have already surmounted;
the fire of an unquenchable enthusiasm that glows with
undiminished fervor in the hearts of its itinerant teachers;
the heights of self-sacrifice which its champion-builders
are now attaining; the breadth of vision, the confident
hope,
the
creative
joy,
the
inward
peace,
the
uncompromising integrity, the exemplary discipline, the
unyielding unity and solidarity which its stalwart defenders
manifest; the degree to which its moving Spirit has shown
itself capable of assimilating the diversified elements
within its pale, of cleansing them of all forms of prejudice
and of fusing them with its own structure--these are
evidences of a power which a disillusioned and sadly
shaken society can ill afford to ignore.70
It will be readily seen from this contrast that the confident
and vibrant spirituality exemplified by the Bahá’í community
corresponds to the positive pole of Shoghi Effendi’s analysis.
The spiritual attributes that he lists above may be reduced to the
following substantives: courage, resolution, enthusiasm, fervor,
self-sacrifice, vision, hope, fervor, joy, integrity, discipline,
unity and solidarity and freedom from prejudice.
The Negative Pole
The Guardian then juxtaposes the positive spirituality shown
by the Bahá’í community to the negative character traits
displayed by the disillusioned and desperate citizens of a
moribund world order:
Compare these splendid manifestations of the spirit
animating this vibrant body of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh
with the cries and agony, the follies and vanities, the
bitterness and prejudices, the wickedness and divisions of
an ailing and chaotic world. Witness the fear that
torments its leaders and paralyzes the action of its blind
and bewildered statesmen. How fierce the hatreds, how
false the ambitions, how petty the pursuits, how

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
deep-rooted the suspicions of its peoples! How disquieting
the lawlessness, the corruption, the unbelief that are eating
into the vitals of a tottering civilization!71
To make this construction of the balance of positive and
negative poles more explicit, two sets of contrasting spiritual
attributes from the above passages are juxtaposed here:
high courage/cries and agony,
the exemplary discipline/the follies and vanities,
the unyielding unity and solidarity/ the wickedness and
divisions of an ailing and chaotic world
the
uncompromising
integrity/the
lawlessness,
the
corruption, the unbelief
the inward peace/the fear that torments its leaders
the heights of self-sacrifice/how petty the pursuits
undiminished fervor/the bitterness and prejudices
One should not conclude from this example that the
Guardian is making unfair comparisons or is indulging in
condemnation for condemnation’s sake. He views the spiritual
vitality of the Bahá’í community, and the deplorable moral
condition of the modern world, as a necessary consequence of
the transformative power of Bahá’u’lláh for those who have
accepted Him, and the inevitable result for those who have
rejected Him. His judgment, however, comes to a note of
wisdom: he views the present state of the world as an
unavoidable and necessary stage that will lead eventually to the
establishment of world unity and peace:
Might not this process of steady deterioration which is
insidiously invading so many departments of human
activity and thought be regarded as a necessary
accompaniment to the rise of this almighty Arm of
Bahá’u’lláh? [the Administrative Order] Might we not look
upon the momentous happenings which, in the course of
the past twenty years, have so deeply agitated every
continent of the earth, as ominous signs simultaneously
proclaiming the agonies of a disintegrating civilization and
the birth pangs of that World Order--that Ark of human
salvation--that must needs arise upon its ruins? 72
Other
examples
of
this
positive-negative
balanced
construction are found, not only throughout the Dispensation,

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
but the entire corpus of Shoghi Effendi’s writings. Here are six
examples from our text that for brevity’s sake I will simply
state without further explication:
1. That Bahá’u’lláh is the supreme Manifestation of God but
He is not God.73
2. That the Bahá’í Faith is the fulfilment of the world
religions but is not superior to them.
3. That the Bahá’í universal cycle which began in 1844,
despite the promise of its 500,000 year duration, is not
the final revelation from God.
4. That the Báb is a self-sufficient Manifestation of God,
not merely an inspired precursor of Bahá’u’lláh.
5. That the Guardian is the permanent head of the Universal
House of Justice but cannot legislate, except as an
individual member of that body.
6. That the exalted position of the Guardian does not make
him a co-sharer in the station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Exclusivist, Inclusivist and Pluralist
Statements in the Dispensation
Given the fundamental beliefs in Bahá’u’lláh as “the promise
of all ages” and the Bahá’í dispensation as the culmination of a
6,000 year prophetic cycle,74 on the one hand, and progressive
revelation, the oneness of the prophets and the organic unity of
the world’s religions, on the other hand, how does Shoghi
Effendi’s
theology
fit
with
the
influential
tripartite
interreligious typology of exclusivism, inclusivism and pluralism
developed by Allan Race, John Hick, Gavin D’Costa, Dianna
Eck, Paul Griffiths and others? This question was explored in
papers by Dr. Seena Fazel and Dann J. May in 1997, and more
recently by Grant Martin (2007), although these scholars have
come to different conclusions.75 Fazel argued that the Bahá’í
Faith is pluralist, while Dann J. May has argued for a relativist
“dynamic perspectivism,” and cautioned against oversimplifying
Bahá’í inclusivism.76 Grant Martin, doctoral candidate in
religious studies at McGill University (2008), has argued that the
Bahá’í Faith is exclusivist as much as it is inclusivist.77
It is important to note at the outset that the use of
exclusivism, inclusivism and pluralism by Christian theologians
and philosophers of religion is not univocal, nor is it univocal

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
as used by Bahá’í scholars Fazel, May and Martin. John Hick’s
reported definition of Christian inclusivism as either the Roman
Catholic belief that Christ’s atonement redeems all of humanity
even though individuals may be unaware of him or that the
incarnate Christ, the universal divine Logos, accomplishes the
work of salvation in and through other salvific figures,78 does
not equate with Bahá’í inclusivism based on the oneness of the
world’s religions and progressive revelation. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
described the Bahá’í Faith as “… an inclusive movement; the
teachings of all religions and societies are found here…The
Bahá’í message is a call to religious unity…”79 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
would seem to be pointing to some common essence of religion
or philosophia perennis, a phrase coined by Leibniz.
In the section above, I have argued that a deep structure is
latent in Shoghi Effendi’s theology which formulates his
interpretations by juxtaposing and balancing positive and
negative propositions. The positive pole tends to be “dogmatic”
or exclusive, i.e. it affirms a theological truth based on strong
divine authority which defies contradiction. This authoritative
statement leaves space, nonetheless, for further interpretations
and correlations to be made with other points of Bahá’í belief
and/or the teachings of the other world’s religions. This
structural polarity, it is important to note, should not be
perceived as reductive, black and white thinking or a closed
fundamentalism without distinctions. As we shall see, Shoghi
Effendi’s theology includes not only dogmatic or exclusivist,
but also inclusivist and pluralist statements.
Historically, the definition of religious doctrine tends to be
exclusivist because it generally follows this formula: statement
X is the predicate of Y but excludes Z. This exclusivism has
occurred, of course, in the development of all orthodox
theologies within the Abrahamic religions in their contests with
heterodox theologies. Jewish and Islamic monotheism, for
example, would rigidly exclude Christian trinitarianism,
although
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
expounded
a
more
inclusivist
interpretation of the trinity.80 The renowned twentieth century
essentialist-existentialist theologian Paul Tillich (1886-1965)
viewed the development of Christian dogma, for example, as a
“continuing narrowing down,” a process that was necessary to
the very identity of the Christian church. Tillich commented on
this narrowing down within historical Christianity from the
early days of its orthodox struggles with Gnosticism and what it
viewed later as other heresies:
The whole history of Christian dogma is a continuing

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
narrowing down, but at the same time a defining. And the
definition is important, because without it many elements
would have undercut the whole church, would have denied
its existence. The dogma, therefore, the dogmatic
development, is not something merely lamentable or evil.
It was the necessary form by which the church kept its
very identity...81
This phenomenon is no less true of Shoghi Effendi’s
interpretations in the Dispensation. If Tillich’s idea is
transposed, mutatis mutandis, to the theological interpretations
made by the Guardian, we realise that grosso modo a similar
process is taking place. By excluding, Shoghi Effendi is defining
and thereby creating a distinct Bahá’í theology. However, he is
not just applying a scalpel to eliminate the excess tissue of
erroneous beliefs. Although he subtracts (the negative pole), he
also adds (the positive pole). For example, although the
Guardian denied the credibility of the “mystic unity” theory
between Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he advocated instead the
more positive “mystic intercourse” between Father and Son, a
phrase that is found among a cluster of generative images that
Shoghi Effendi used in the Dispensation to expound the
mystical origins of the Will and Testament, images that recall,
in some of their features, the birth narratives of the infant Jesus
and a Christian mysticism of the divine marriage. Birthing
imagery is present, for example, when we read that the Will and
Testament resulted “from that mystic intercourse between Him
Who communicated the generating influence of His divine
purpose [Bahá’u’lláh] and the One Who was its vehicle and
chosen recipient.” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá]. The mystic intercourse
resulted in the birth of the Will as “the Child of the Covenant”:
The Will may thus be acclaimed as the inevitable offspring
resulting from that mystic intercourse between Him Who
communicated the generating influence of His divine
Purpose and the One Who was its vehicle and chosen
recipient. Being the Child of the Covenant -- the Heir of
both the Originator and the Interpreter of the Law of God
-- the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá can no more be
divorced from Him Who supplied the original and
motivating impulse than from the One Who ultimately
conceived it. Bahá’u’lláh's inscrutable purpose, we must
ever bear in mind, has been so thoroughly infused into the
conduct of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and their motives have been so
closely wedded together, that the mere attempt to
dissociate the teachings of the former from any system

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
which the ideal Exemplar of those same teachings has
established would amount to a repudiation of one of the
most sacred and basic truths of the Faith.82
Despite the exclusivist definitions that are found in the
Dispensation, broad, inclusivist positions are also taken by
Shoghi Effendi. His pronouncement on the relationship of the
Bahá’í Faith to its sister world religions represents a liberal
inclusivism that validates, not only the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, but
the world’s religions that have preceded it. His statement
amounts to a magna carta on progressive revelation and the
oneness of religion, one that invites further exploration by
scholars. Here, for example, is one major statement:
Nor does the Bahá’í Revelation, claiming as it does to be
the culmination of a prophetic cycle and the fulfillment of
the promise of all ages, attempt, under any circumstances,
to invalidate those first and everlasting principles that
animate and underlie the religions that have preceded it.
The God-given authority, vested in each one of them, it
admits and establishes as its firmest and ultimate basis. It
regards them in no other light except as different stages in
the eternal history and constant evolution of one religion,
Divine and indivisible, of which it itself forms but an
integral part. It neither seeks to obscure their Divine
origin, nor to dwarf the admitted magnitude of their
colossal achievements. It can countenance no attempt that
seeks to distort their features or to stultify the truths
which they instill. Its teachings do not deviate a
hairbreadth from the verities they enshrine, nor does the
weight of its message detract one jot or one tittle from the
influence they exert or the loyalty they inspire. Far from
aiming at the overthrow of the spiritual foundation of the
world’s religious systems, its avowed, its unalterable
purpose is to widen their basis, to restate their
fundamentals, to reconcile their aims, to reinvigorate their
life, to demonstrate their oneness, to restore the pristine
purity of their teachings, to coordinate their functions
and to assist in the realization of their highest aspirations.
These divinely-revealed religions, as a close observer has
graphically expressed it, ‘are doomed not to die, but to be
reborn... ‘Does not the child succumb in the youth and the
youth in the man; yet neither child nor youth perishes?’83
Consequently, for all his encomiums of the unique features
of the Bahá’í Faith, one cannot argue that Shoghi Effendi was
promoting an exclusive, religious nationalism, i.e. the

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
superiority of the Bahá’í Faith over the other world’s religions.
He was explicit on this point:
This same prophecy,84 we must furthermore recognize,
attests the independent character of the Bábí Dispensation
and corroborates indirectly the truth that in accordance
with the principle of progressive revelation every
Manifestation of God must needs vouchsafe to the
peoples of His day a measure of divine guidance ampler
than any which a preceding and less receptive age could
have received or appreciated. For this reason, and not for
any superior merit which the Bahá’í Faith may be said to
inherently possess, does this prophecy bear witness to the
unrivaled power and glory with which the Dispensation of
Bahá'u'lláh has been invested -- a Dispensation the
potentialities of which we are but beginning to perceive
and the full range of which we can never determine”85
(italics mine).
Critiquing psychiatrist Dr. Seena Fazel, who types the Bahá’í
Faith as pluralist in “Interreligious Dialogue and the Bahá’í
Faith: Some Preliminary Observations,”86 Grant Martin, in
“Why the Bahá’í Faith is not Pluralist,” has argued that
Bahá’u’lláh’s religion is instead a subtle synthesis of exclusivism
and inclusivism.87 Martin bases his argument on the views of
philosophers of religion, Paul Griffiths88 and John Hick,89
interpreted in a Bahá’í perspective. I would agree with Martin
that Bahá’í theology indicates a combination of exclusivist and
inclusivist tenets regarding its relationship to the world’s
religions. However, in my view, it is not tenable to categorically
exclude a “pluralist” dimension to the Bahá’í Faith: “…in other
words, it [the Bahá’í Faith] is not pluralist.”90 A pluralist view
could be maintained, in one of its dimensions, on the basis of
progressive revelation, i.e. that the various world’s religions
form one organic whole even though they are revealed
sequentially in historical time. Shoghi Effendi wrote: “… it [the
Bahá’í Faith] proclaims all established religions to be divine in
origin, identical in their aims, complementary in their functions,
continuous in their purpose, indispensable in their value to
mankind.”91 In other words, a plurality of faiths is recognized
by the Guardian in this statement as being indispensable and
integral to the religious history of humanity.
While the preceding statement tends to align the Bahá’í Faith
with pluralism, Shoghi Effendi’s position is more subtle and
complex. Dann J. May was correct in cautioning against an
oversimplification of Bahá’í inclusivism. In bold, kerygmatic

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
language, the Guardian proclaimed Bahá’u’lláh as the unique
salvific figure for our age:
He Who in such dramatic circumstances was made to
sustain the overpowering weight of so glorious a Mission
was none other than the One Whom posterity will acclaim,
and Whom innumerable followers already recognize, as the
Judge, the Lawgiver and Redeemer of all mankind, as the
Organizer of the entire planet, as the Unifier of the
children of men, as the Inaugurator of the long-awaited
millennium, as the Originator of a new “Universal Cycle,”
as the Establisher of the Most Great Peace, as the Fountain
of the Most Great Justice, as the Proclaimer of the coming
of age of the entire human race, as the Creator of a new
World Order, and as the Inspirer and Founder of a world
civilization.92
The Guardian’s exclusivism, however, cannot be equated with
Christian exclusivism. He does not view the Bahá’í religion as a
“once and for all” revelation of divine truth, like the narrow
proponents of Christian exclusivism as defined by Hick above
and further in n. 89. The Guardian’s liberal interpretation of the
most exclusivist statement of Bahá'u'lláh, “No man can obtain
everlasting life, unless he embraceth the truth of this
inestimable, this wondrous, and sublime Revelation,”93 does not
necessarily lead to the conclusion that individual salvation is
strictly confined only to those who believe in Bahá’u’lláh. This
statement has to be understood in light of other Bahá’í texts
such as this one: “Religion bestoweth upon man the most
precious of all gifts, offereth the cup of prosperity, imparteth
eternal life, and showereth imperishable benefits upon
mankind.”94 One of the generic gifts of religion is the imparting
of “eternal life,” i.e. to the followers of all religions. The
Guardian advised that Bahá’u’lláh’s seemingly exclusive sentence
“should not be taken literally: by ‘everlasting life’ is meant
spiritual felicity, communion with the Divine Spirit.”95 (This
interpretation does not entirely rule out difficulties without
recourse to relativism or further contextualisation). Another
statement of Shoghi Effendi supports the inclusivist view:
It should also be borne in mind that, great as is the power
manifested by this Revelation and however vast the range
of the Dispensation its Author has inaugurated, it
emphatically repudiates the claim to be regarded as the
final revelation of God's will and purpose for mankind. To
hold such a conception of its character and functions
would be tantamount to a betrayal of its cause and a

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
denial of its truth. It must necessarily conflict with the
fundamental principle which constitutes the bedrock of
Bahá’í belief, the principle that religious truth is not
absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is orderly,
continuous and progressive and not spasmodic or final.
Indeed, the categorical rejection by the followers of the
Faith of Bahá’u’lláh of the claim to finality which any
religious system inaugurated by the Prophets of the past
may advance is as clear and emphatic as their own refusal
to claim that same finality for the Revelation with which
they stand identified.96
In other words, Shoghi Effendi’s theology may be simplified
along the following lines: the Bahá’í revelation corresponds to
the functional imperative of our age, that of global unity, in a
type of Toynbeean “challenge-and-response” model,97 rather
than from any supposed triumph of the faith of Bahá’u’lláh
over its sister religions. Triumphalism has been specifically
rejected by the Guardian—“nor arrogant in the affirmation of
its claims”--since it runs counter to the Bahá’í Faith’s view of
progressive revelation as a gradual unfoldment of one divine
truth that has been one in its essence, while various in its
manifestations, since it first appeared at the dawn of history.
The Guardian wrote:
It [the Bahá’í Faith] is neither eclectic in the presentation
of its truths, nor arrogant in the affirmation of its claims.
Its teachings revolve around the fundamental principle
that religious truth is not absolute but relative, that
Divine Revelation is progressive, not final. Unequivocally
and without the least reservation it proclaims all
established religions to be divine in origin, identical in
their aims, complementary in their functions, continuous
in their purpose, indispensable in their value to mankind.98
Viewed in this light, it becomes apparent that the Guardian’s
comparisons, while they are exclusivist in certain respects, are
also inclusivist and relative. Dann J. May’s observation seems
accurate that attempts to perfectly match the Bahá’í Faith to the
categories and typologies conceived by scholars remain elusive:
“Indeed, the Bahá’í Faith continually frustrates [attempts at]
such easy and simplistic classification.”99 Regarding the
exclusivist-inclusivist-pluralist typology, the formula would
seem to be that the Bahá’í Faith contains dimensions of all of
them but none of them integrally and at one and the same time.
May’s argument is reasonable: perspectivism is required, one
that uses the relativity of a sliding-scale, but one that does not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
abolish fundamental Bahá’í beliefs. Such a task is complex and
requires subtle and careful analysis.
Shoghi Effendi’s Apologetic Method of
Comparison and the “New Comparativism”
It should be obvious from the above analysis that one
principal feature of Shoghi Effendi’s didactic method—and this
is true not only for The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh but also for
his epistolary generally—is to compare (similarities ) and
contrast (differences) of the unique features of the Bahá’í Faith
with the history, teachings and organisations of the religions of
past dispensations and/or the mores of contemporary society
and the political realities of today’s failed global civilization.
This method of comparison and contrast has both theological,
i.e. apologetic and literary functions. For example, in section
(7), “The Balance of Positive and Negative Theology,” the
vibrant and confidant spirituality shown by the Bahá’í
community was contrasted with the deplorable lack of faith and
morals that has led to universal desperation. In section (5), I
observed that Shoghi Effendi defined the station of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá by comparing and contrasting those points that could be
either included or excluded in his theological analysis.
The Guardian’s comparative method establishes clearly
defined theological doctrines which are accompanied by strong
value-judgments. Both doctrines and value-judgments show a
favourable prejudice either to the Bahá’í Faith, or to the vital
function of religion in society,100 or to the indispensable role of
the prophets in the history of civilization, and the unfolding
sequence of the world’s revealed religions, a process he calls
“the principle of progressive revelation.”101
As an intellectual phenomenon, comparison would appear to
be intrinsic to the operations of the human mind itself by which
investigators compare data “...and group or classify them (Latin:
gener, genus=class) according to generalizations they make
about the similarities, and consequently the differences, among
them.”102 However, the phenomenon of comparison, while it is
widely used in religion, has not always met with approval.
Literary, i.e. popular references have for centuries been
generally disapproving of comparisons. John Lydgate’s 1430 (?)
edition of the Fall of Princes stated that ‘[c]omparisouns doon
offte gret greuaunce.’103 Cervantes’ dictum in the great Spanish
classic Don Quixote has it that “..all comparisons are always
odious (odiosa).”104 The idea caught on with other writers, both

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
ancient and modern, and has appeared with little variation in
the writings of the English jurist, John Fortescue, Jonathan
Swift, John Lyly, Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Heywood,
John Donne and George Herbert. 105 Shakespeare wrote an
ironic variation in Much Ado About Nothing: “Comparisons are
odorous” (act iii, sc. v).
In the academic study of religion, comparison has been so
widely used since Friedrich Max Müller (1823-1900), one of “the
founding fathers of comparative religion,”106 and Oxford’s first
professor of comparative theology, laid the foundation for
Religionswissenschaft in the late 19th century, that it has given its
name to the method. While anthropologists have inconclusively
debated the theories and methods involved in examining cross-
cultural data, only recently has the comparative method come
under some negative scrutiny in religious studies, especially in
the scholarship of Jonathan Z. Smith and Luther H. Martin.107
Comparative religion originated in the encounters resulting
from European exploration and colonial expansion and non-
Christian cultures and civilizations between the 17th and 19th
centuries.
Max
Müller,
who
established
a
“scientific”
methodology in religious studies, came to anticipate a “...new
religion...for the whole world...firmly founded on a belief on
the One God, the same in the Vedas, the same in the Old, the
same in the New Testament, the same in the Korân, the same
also in the hearts of those who have no longer any Vedas or
Upanishads or any Sacred Books whatever between themselves
and their God.”108 The great scholar based his comparison of
religions on common genealogy and massive philological data.
The cumulative result was the monumental fifty volume Sacred
Books of the East (1879-1910), produced under his direction,
that encompassed seven religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism,
Confucianism, Zoroastrianism, Jainism and Islam.
Later comparativists, such as Gerardus van der Leeuw (1890-
1950) and Mircea Eliade (1907-1986), found homologous
patterns of essential religiosity within the multiplicity of the
world’s great religions, the religions of classical antiquity and
the religions of societies without writing.109 More recent
comparativists, such as the celebrated dean of comparative
religion, Huston Smith (1919-) and William Cantwell Smith
(1916-2000), who in the opinion of John Hick (1922-)
accomplished more than anyone else in the twentieth century to
promote interreligious understanding based on the comparative
method,110 have expounded the “primordial tradition” (H.
Smith) and “world theology” and “the psychic unity of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
mankind” (W.C. Smith).111
The “new comparativism” proposed by Luther H. Martin and
Jonathan
Z.
Smith
critiques
all
previous
comparative
approaches for the following reasons: (1) the independent
variables of religious symbols, ideas and experiences are
culturally selective data and are not self-evident. They already
“presume some operative theory of religion.”112 (2) Scholars who
emphasize either similarities or differences in religion are merely
engaging in “a reflexive exercise within the religious context of
the observer.”113 (3) Syncretistic theories of religion based on
cultural contact assume “some view of an original religiosity”
which cannot be subjected to historical or anthropological
research. These theories tend to be “retrojections of
contemporary meanings” and are based on stereotypical
assumptions.114 (4) Theories of the “primordial tradition” that
posit some essential unity of the world’s religions à la Max
Müller, Huston Smith or W.C. Smith, and which anticipate
some coming form of world religious unity, are discounted as
being “commonsensical,” “propagandistic” and “serving the
“agenda of the comparativist.”115 Even such a fundamental
religious category as the “sacred” is critiqued on the basis of its being
derived from the “religious traditions of the Western scholar.”116
The work of Martin and Smith that propose newer, more
appropriate models of comparison is just the latest wrinkle in
an ongoing methodological debate that surfaced in the 1970’s
and 1980’s. Only hints of this debate can be given within these
confines. Briefly, an emerging religious scientism attacked
traditional theological, metaphysical and phenomenological
approaches with sanitized, “scientific,” agnostic or social-
scientific approaches that purport to be objective and value-
free.117 These more recent approaches are based on the epistemic
authority of the scientific method that has continued to grow
since the Enlightenment. This methodological agnosticism
would purge the study of religion from any theological or
metaphysical bias, or religious sentiment, including the belief in
God, the One or the Absolute, which its extreme proponents,
like Donald Wiebe, view as infections.118 (This explains my use
of the word “sanitized”).
The “naturalistic biases” of the new comparativism proposed
by Martin and Smith view religion reductively as a collection of
dependent variables that must conclude with “scientific
generalizations” that must be based on “naturalistic theories of
religion.”119 The new agnostic models, which banish God, faith
and revealed religion from academic analysis, are borrowed

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
from
cognitive
psychology,
with
its
“common
mental
constraints,” or from “biological substructures,” or a “non-
ethnocentric framework,” or trans-historical “cross-cultural
constraints,” or contemporary linguistics based on the work of
Saussure at the beginning of the 20th century. However, this
agnostic methodology hesitatingly admits Max Weber’s theory
of “ideal types,” but advises that this typology need not include
his western categories of “god,” “priests,” “prophets,” “ethics”
and “salvation religions.”120 The new theory of ideal types
purportedly must be based on scientific rather than religious or
faith-based models that would neutralize cultural categories.
Shoghi Effendi’s operative theory of religion is decidedly at
the antipodes of methodological agnosticism. While he
emphasized that the Bahá’í Faith was “scientific in its
method,”121 the Guardian’s interpretations of the Bahá’í Faith,
and the origin of the perennial phenomenon of religion, hold
that the great monotheistic faiths trace their ultimate genesis to
supernatural divine revelation and dispensational prophetology.
His religious Weltanschauung is definitely not compatible with
this current trend in religious studies which reduces religion to a
sterile humanism based on a set of dependent variables deriving
from naturalistic, psychological or social scientific theories. The
Guardian’s religious viewpoint, it is important to note, does
include cultural adaptation of the laws and teachings of the
prophets to the varying cultural, historical, social and spiritual
needs of humanity in space-time, and thus includes a certain
view of relativism. But while the world’s religions, as ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and Shoghi Effendi have explained, admittedly suffer
cyclical degradations in which “virtues are replaced by vices,
and holiness and purity disappear”122 and the “pristine purity”123
of their essential message is obscured by human doctrinal
accretions and errors, their genesis can in no way be explained
solely on the basis of cultural or socio-biological factors—at
least in Shoghi Effendi’s belief system.
However, in one definitive sense, the Guardian did take the
position that “all comparisons are odious.” Although Shoghi
Effendi clearly viewed the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh as belonging to
the most recent species of the genus of revealed religion, and
while he proposed certain commonalities between the Bahá’í
Faith and the religions of past dispensations,124 nonetheless, he
held certain exclusive views that God’s most recent divine
revelation belonged in a category by itself. His considered, but
nonetheless strongly stated view, was that comparison was
literally out of the question regarding the origin and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
development of the Bahá’í Faith and what he viewed as fitful,
momentary, ill-conceived secular movements:
How unfair, how irrelevant, to venture any comparison
between the slow and gradual consolidation of the Faith
proclaimed
by
Bahá’u’lláh
and
those
man-created
movements which, having their origin in human desires
and with their hopes centered on mortal dominion, must
inevitably decline and perish! Springing from a finite
mind, begotten of human fancy, and oftentimes the
product of ill-conceived designs, such movements succeed,
by reason of their novelty, their appeal to man’s baser
instincts and their dependence upon the resources of a
sordid world, in dazzling for a time the eyes of men, only
to plunge finally from the heights of their meteoric career
into the darkness of oblivion, dissolved by the very forces
that had assisted in their creation.125
The same is true for his view of the unique design of the
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh for which, he argued, no historical
parallel could be found in the institutions of government,
whether secular or religious. For comparisons are valid only
when a basis for comparison exists:
A word should now be said regarding the theory on which
this Administrative Order is based and the principle that
must govern the operation of its chief institutions. It
would be utterly misleading to attempt a comparison
between this unique, this divinely-conceived Order and
any of the diverse systems which the minds of men, at
various periods of their history, have contrived for the
government of human institutions. Such an attempt would
in itself betray a lack of complete appreciation of the
excellence of the handiwork of its great Author. How
could it be otherwise when we remember that this Order
constitutes the very pattern of that divine civilization
which the almighty Law of Bahá’u’lláh is designed to
establish upon earth? The East or in the West, offer no
adequate criterion wherewith to estimate the potency of
its hidden virtues or to appraise the solidity of its
foundations.126
Conclusion
The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh (1934) is the seminal, central
text in Shoghi Effendi’s writings which he considered to be his
last Will and Testament, i.e. the epitome of his understanding.

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
In defining the fundamental tenets of the stations of the Bahá’í
Faith’s Three Central Figures, the Dispensation not only created
a distinctive, economical, theological idiom, but it also
proactively resolved potentially divisive, complex theological
questions,
while
leaving
space
for
further
scholarly
commentary. This paper selectively examined the Guardian’s
definitions of the stations of the Báb and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá which
he set in their proper perspective: that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was neither
a mere interpreter, nor servant among servants, nor the return
of Jesus Christ come “in the glory of the Father.” Shoghi
Effendi clarified the dual station of the Báb and corrected the
misapprehension that had led some Bahá’ís to overestimate
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s station in relation to the Báb.
This paper partially explicated the Guardian’s method,
namely, a comparative apologetics based on “dogmatic” or
exclusive interpretations, i.e. doctrines laid down by the strong
interpretive authority accorded him by virtue of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Will and Testament. These interpretations do not exclude,
however, relative, inclusive and pluralist statements vis-à-vis his
understanding of progressive revelation, the oneness of religion,
prophetology and the functional role of religion in the growth
of civilization and the development of a sane society.
I have argued that a deep structure is inherent to Shoghi
Effendi’s thought that consists of the dynamic juxtaposition of
positive and negative poles in the construction of his
theological interpretations. The Guardian employs deductive
logic as well as apodictic definitions which form the basis of his
dialectic, i.e. the intuitive defining of first principles or
fundamental truths.

NOTES
1 In addition to Shoghi Effendi’s comment reported by Rúhíyyih Rabbaní
that “he had said all he had to say, in many ways, in the Dispensation,” Ali
Nakhhjavani has written that “He [Shoghi Effendi] had actually told
several Hands of the Cause and pilgrims that the Dispensation should be
considered by the friends as his Will and testament.” See n. 11 and Ali
Nakhhjavani, “The Bahá’í Covenant,” Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the
Principal Bahá’í Beliefs, papers presented at the Irfán Colloquia and
Seminars, Book 8, ed. Iraj Ayman (Evanston, IL: Bahá’í National Center,
2007), p. 308.
2 The context of Shoghi Effendi’s remarks concern “the character and
functions ” of the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice but
his remarks apply more broadly to “…this general exposition of the
fundamental verities of the faith.” Shoghi Effendi, “The Dispensation of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

Bahá’u’lláh” in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh (Wilmette: IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1991), p. 147. For brevity’s sake, subsequent references
to “The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” will be abbreviated to the
Dispensation.
3 Ibid, p. 131.
4 The word “political” excludes its contemporary meaning of an expedient
rapport de forces based on the adversarial systems of political parties. It
refers instead to the legitimacy and establishment of institutional
practices and policies deriving from the Bahá’í belief and value system.
The word political has a legitimate use in Bahá’í parlance and need not be
banished from the discussion because of its association with party
politics.
5 “Indeed Shoghi Effendi had written that his “Dispensation” was to be
considered as a “supplement” to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament.” Ali
Nakhhjavani, “The Bahá’í Covenant,” Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the
Principal Bahá’í Beliefs, Book 8, 308. For the Guardian’s original
statement on the Dispensation as a “supplement” to the Will and
Testament, see The Light of Divine Guidance, vol. 1, p. 65.
6 Dispensation, p. 134.
7 Ibid, p. 134.
8 The theologians who believed in the self-sufficiency and completeness of
the Christian revelation were writing in the first half of the twentieth
century and included Barth, Brunner, Cullman, Aulén, Nygren and
Bonhoeffer.While there were differences among them vis-à-vis the
possibility of natural theology, the role of philosophy in theology, and
the relative truth and value of the non-Christian religions, all adhered to
the fundamental position of the distinctiveness of Christianity and the
insufficiency of philosophy, natural theology and the non-Christian
religions. While Bahá’í theology is clearly “logocentric,” i.e. teaches the
necessity of belief in the self-sufficiency of the Divine Word, it diverges
from such restrictive views. For a succinct overview of this school, see
John Macquarrie, “The Theology of the Word” in Twentieth-Century
Religious Thought. The Frontiers of Philosophy and Theology, 1900-1960
(London: SCM Press, 1963), pp. 318-338.
9 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1971), p. 11.
10 Dispensation in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 148.
11 Rúhíyyih Rabbaní, The Priceless Pearl (London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1969), 213.
12 Ibid.
13 It was to legitimize the whole notion of Bahá’í theology that I edited
Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives on a Bahá’í Theology (Los
Angeles:Kalimát Press, 1997). In the Introduction to that volume I wrote:
“While the Bahá’í sacred writings shed much light on both ancient
questions and contemporary issues, there is as yet no centuries-old
tradition of theological and philosophical reflection on the Bahá’í
revelation upon which to draw. Indeed, there are some who still reject the
validity of the whole notion of Bahá’í theology itself, however broadly
and carefully one defines the concept. The work of the present generation
of scholars is consequently still very much ground-breaking, and I hope
this volume will help water the seed bed that is now beginning to

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

flourish” (xiii). The respected German scholar, Dr. Udo Schaefer, the
Hasan Balyuzi lecturer for the year 2002, has done more than any one to
legitimize the notion of Bahá’í theology over the past forty years,
without which, as he has often remarked, no self-respecting world
religion can be taken seriously. “Prolegomena to a Bahá’í Theology” in
The Journal of Bahá’í Studies, vol. 5, no. 1, March-June, 1992, pp. 25-67
was also written with this purpose in mind.
14 Among those who opposed the concept of Bahá’í theology was a very
emphatic Dr. Soheil Bushrui who told me in a telephone conversation
circa 1990 that it was legitimate to speak of fiqh but that Bahá’í theology
was unacceptable because it might resemble what Christians understand
by the word. Neither did B. H. (Betty) Conow, based on the file of our
paper correspondence in 1994, approve of the term Bahá’í theology. She
wrote a paper called “East’s Side, West’s Side: All Around the Ology” in
which she argued that theology had outlived its usefulness and should not
be revived in the Bahá’í Faith. She favoured a more philosophical
approach and argued that the proper term should be “divine philosophy.”
The difference struck me as purely semantic. What is divine philosophy if
not philosophical theology, i.e. theology, since all theology has
philosophical content, particularly in the Bahá’í Faith?
15 Jack McLean, “The Deification of Jesus,” World Order, vol. 14, nos. 3 &
4, Spring/Summer, 1980, p.33, n. 31.The schism of Arius was condemned
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a tablet to Roy Wilhelm, Star of the West, vol. 10
(June 5 1919), p. 95. However, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserted that “The Covenant
of God shall remain stable and secure.”
16 The word logocentricism was first coined by the German philosopher
Ludwig Klages in the 1920’s. It refers to the perception that discourse is
intelligible by the presence of reason (logos) which lies at its center. By
“logocentrism” I do not intend the postmodern use of the word,
especially Derrida’s deconstructionist use of it, which critiques reason in
texts, i.e. logical, stable meanings, distinctions and inferences. (See Of
Grammatology, trans. 1976). Here I use it in precisely the opposite way:
to refer to a divine, universal, rational, principle which provides an
explanation of the nature, origin and meaning of phenomena which is
embodied in an intelligible structure or order consisting of stable
meanings.
17 William S. Hatcher, “An Analysis of The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in
The Vision of Shoghi Effendi: Proceedings of the Association for Bahá’í
Studies Ninth Annual Conference, 1984 (Ottawa: Bahá’í Studies
Publications, 1993), p. 73.
18 Jack McLean, “The Deification of Jesus,” p. 23.
19 This is Marzieh Gail’s paraphrase. The Persian literally reads: “the
foundations of fundamental divine questions and the complexity of the
truth of religious beliefs.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine
Civilization, trans. Marzieh Gail (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1990), p. 26.
20 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, collected and translated by Laura
Clifford Barney (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981), pp. 180
and 248.
21 An unnamed pilgrim quoted by Rúhíyyih Rabbaní, The Priceless Pearl, p.
81.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

22Wellspring of Guidance: Messages From the Universal House of Justice
1963-1968 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969), pp. 87-88.
23 Küng wrote: “In fact, the gap between exegesis and systematic theology is
the misery afflicting present day dogmatics.” Theology for the Third
Millennium: An Ecumenical View, trans. Peter Heinegg (New York:
Doubleday, 1988), p. 194.
24 In Robert Browning’s poem Andrea del Sarto (1855), titled after the
painter by the same name (1486-1531), del Sarto addresses the painting of
his dull-witted and unfaithful but beautiful wife Lucrezia whom he
murdered: “Well, less is more, Lucrezia: I am judged.” In an essay by
Rebecca Comay called “Almost Nothing: Heidegger and Mies,” regarding
the phrases “Less is more” and “almost nothing” (beinahe nichts) often
attributed to Mies, Comay writes: “To my knowledge Mies never actually
wrote those words.” She attributes “Less is more” to the American
modern architect Philip C. Johnson. The Presence of Mies, ed. Detlef
Mertins, (New York: Princeton Architectural Press, 1994), p. 179. This
collection of essays relates, inter alia, Mies van der Rohe’s concept of
architecture to twentieth century philosophic concepts. Mies’s defenders
attribute the saying to van der Rohe nonetheless.
25 William S. Hatcher, “An Analysis of The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh” in
The Vision of Shoghi Effendi, p. 77.
26 Dispensation in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 123.
27 See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Spiritual Proofs,” Chapter 14 of Some Answered
Question., pp. 75-77. In context, the spiritual proofs referred to by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá implies the ability to perceive the seasonal and historical
prophetic cycles whose beneficial effects have been exerted on
civilization over the ages.
28 Dispensation in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 124
29 Kitáb-i-ˆqán pp. 226-27.
30 Shoghi Effendi has written of the circumstances surrounding this dramatic
declaration of the Báb: “The circumstances attending the examination of
the Báb, as a result of so precipitate an act, may well rank as one of the
chief landmarks of His dramatic career. The avowed purpose of that
convocation was to arraign the Prisoner, and deliberate on the steps to be
taken for the extirpation of His so-called heresy. It instead afforded Him
the supreme opportunity of His mission to assert in public, formally and
without any reservation, the claims inherent in His Revelation. In the
official residence, and in the presence, of the governor of Ádhirbáyján,
Násiri’d-Dín Mírzá, the heir to the throne; under the presidency of Hájí
Mullá Mahmúd, the Nizámu’l-‘Ulamá, the Prince’s tutor; before the
assembled ecclesiastical dignitaries of Tabríz, the leaders of the Shaykhi
community, the Shaykhu’l-Islám, and the Imám-Jum’ih, the Báb, having
seated Himself in the chief place which had been reserved for the Valí-
‘Ahd (the heir to the throne), gave, in ringing tones, His celebrated
answer to the question put to Him by the President of that assembly. “I
am,” He exclaimed, “I am, I am the Promised One! I am the One Whose
name you have for a thousand years invoked, at Whose mention you have
risen, Whose advent you have longed to witness, and the hour of Whose
Revelation you have prayed God to hasten. Verily, I say, it is incumbent
upon the peoples of both the East and the West to obey My word, and to
pledge allegiance to My person.” God Passes By, p. 21.

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

31 On May 13, 1940 Churchill said in a short, simple but stirring speech during his
inaugural address to the House of Commons as the newly elected Prime Minister
of Great Britain: “I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat.” The
phrase
was
repeated
in
other
war
speeches.
Accessed
@
www.historyplace.com/speeches/churchill.htm.
32 Dispensation, p. 136.
33 “Deduction” in the Dictionary of Philosophy, ed. Dagobert D. Runes (Totowa, NJ:
Littlefield, Adams and Company, 1968), p. 74.
34 The above quotations are from the Dispensation in The World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh, pp.132, 137, 132.
35 Ibid, p. 139.
36 Ibid, p. 137.
37 A covenant-breaker is an individual or group of individuals who, for a variety of
unsavory motives, deny, disregard or disobey the legally appointed head of the
Bahá’í Faith in order to create a sect in the community and gain a following. For a
definition of covenant-breakers and the necessity to shun them, see Ali
Nakhhjavani, “The Bahá’í Covenant,” Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the Principal
Bahá’í Beliefs, Book 8, pp. 302-03.
38 Shoghi Effendi uses this epithet to describe ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ half-brother in Bahíyyih
Khánum: The Greatest Holy Leaf, compilation by the Research Department
(Haifa: World Centre Publications), p. 37. Accessed online @ bahai-
library.com/books/bahiyyih.khanum/
39 Badí’u’lláh confessed that before his eyes he watched Muhammad-‘Alí
interpolate a tablet of Bahá’u’lláh from the pre-Akká period that
condemns the misdeeds of Bahá’u’lláh’s younger brother Mirzá Yahyá.
Muhammad-‘Alí changed the condemnatory words “My brother” (Yahyá)
to “My Greatest Branch” (Abdu’l-Bahá). Muhammad-‘Alí justified this
action by saying that Bahá’u’lláh had given him permission to interpolate
His writings for the protection of the Cause and that he needed to do this
“to check His [‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s] influence.” Badí’u’lláh quoted in Adib
Taherzadeh, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh (Oxford: George Ronald, 1992),
p. 153.
40 St. Thomas was the apostle to southern India. Tradition says that after
being condemned to death, he was led out to a hill outside the city of
King Misdai, where he died “pierced through with spears by four
soldiers.” “St. Thomas the Apostle,” The Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. 14,
1912 accessed @ < www.newadvent.org/cathen/14658b.htm>.
41 Adib Taherzadeh, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 153. Here Badí’u’lláh is
quoting the words of Muhammad-‘Alí as reported in his letter of
repentance.
42 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections From the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, compiled by
the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice and
translated by a committee at the Bahá’í World Center and by Marzieh
Gail (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996),p. 217.
43 Dispensation, p. 138.
44 Ibid., p. 138.
45 Ibid., pp. 97,98.
46 Dispensation, p. 137
47 Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 100
48 The complete quotation is “A text without a context is a pretext for a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

proof text.” According to Dr. Donald A. Carson, professor of New
Testament studies at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield,
Illinois, and prolific author of books on the evangelical perspective of
the New Testament, his father, a Canadian minister, was the original
source of the quotation. The maxim was intended to avoid exegetical
fallacies. Accessed @  www.fallacyfiles.org/quotcont.html.
49 Dispensation, p. 137
50 The actual phrase quoted by Bahá’u’lláh is a hadith of Muhammad and was
translated by Shoghi Effendi to signify the unity of the prophets with
God as “This is the significance of the tradition: ‘I am He, Himself, and
He is I, myself.’ Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán, p. 100.
51 Dispensation, p.139
52 God Passes By, p. 257. Robert Stockman has informed me that this
designation was originally recorded by Ahmad Sohrab in a tribute to
Thornton Chase by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when the Master arrived in San
Francisco on October 4, 1912. Mr. Chase died on September 30th.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá eulogizied Mr. Chase at his graveside at the Inglewood
cemetery in Los Angeles on October 19, 1912 at 1:00 p.m. in which he
requested that “the friends of God must visit this grave and on my behalf
bring flowers and seek the sublimity of the spiritual station for him....”
Star of the West , vol. III, no. 13, November 4, 1912, p. 14. Dr.
Stockman discusses William James and Edward Dennis becoming Bahá’ís
prior to Mr. Chase. Robert H. Stockman, The Bahá’í Faith in America.
Vol. 1: Origins, 1892-1900 (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985),
pp. 35-36.
53 Robert Stockman, Bahá’í Faith in America, Vol. 2: Early Expansion, 1900-
1912 (Oxford: George Ronald, 1995), Appendix 3.
54 “That ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was neither an ordinary man nor a Manifestation of
God was completely confusing to the American Christian mind. He did
not fit into any category.” The Bahá’í Faith in America: Early Expansion,
1900-1912, Vol. 2 (Oxford: George Ronald, 1995), p. 406. Appendix 3 on
the station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
55 Dispensation, p. 134.
56 Quoted in J.A. McLean, Dimensions in Spirituality: Reflections on the
Meaning of Spiritual Life and Transformation in Light of the Bahá’í Faith
(Oxford: George Ronald, 1994), p. 96.
57 Quoted in the North Hudson Board of Council Minute Book, entry of
May 6, 1903, p. 68. From Stockman , Bahá’í Faith in America, Vol. 2,
Appendix 3.
58 Ibid., Appendix 3.
59 Ali Kuli Khan to Hooper Harris, July 28, 1901 in Ibid, Appendix 3.
60 Shoghi Effendi quoted ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “…I am the Interpreter of the Word
of God; such is my interpretation.” Dispensation, p. 133.
61 Dispensation, p. 151
62 Ibid., p.132.
63 See “Via Negativa” in The Encyclopedia of Religion, Mircea Eliade, editor-
in-chief (New York: MacMillan Publishing Company, 1986), vol. 15, pp.
252-54. Cataphatic theology admits the use of analogies to describe God
but declares that these analogies, like the denial of definitions in negative

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

theology, in no way describe Him. Thus the via negativa admits the truth
of paradoxical statements in affirmations about God. The via negativa is
also a way of mystical union with God found in such theologians as
Dionysus the Areopagite and the fifteenth century German cardinal
Nicholas of Cusa. The concept is also found in the eastern religious
traditions, particularly in Buddhism. See for, example, “The Zen Doctrine
of No-Mind” in Zen Buddhism, Selected Writings of D. T. Suzuki, ed.
William Barrett (Garden City, New York: Doubleday Anchor Books,
1956), pp. 157-226.
64 “The Divinity Can Only Be Comprehended Through The Divine
Manifestations” in Some Answered Questions, p. 148. For an excellent
overview of apophatic theology in the Jewish, Christian, Muslim, Bábí
and Báha’í traditions, see Stephen N. Lambden’s “The Background and
Centrality of Apophatic Theology in Bábí and Báha’í Scripture” in
Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives on a Báha’í Theology, volume
eight in Studies in the Bábí and Báha’í Religions, ed. Jack McLean (Los
Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1997), pp. 37-78.
65 Dispensation, pp. 112-113.
66 Ibid., p.139.
67 Ibid, p. 139.
68 Ibid., p. 133.
69 The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 5
70 Ibid., pp.154-55.
71 Ibid., p. 155.
72 The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 155.
73 Shoghi Effendi put the matter simply: “As regards your question:
Bahá’u’lláh is, of course, not God and not the Creator; but through Him
we can know God....” From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi
to an individual, June 4, 1951 in Lights of Guidance, no. 1553, p. 472.
74 Shoghi Effendi wrote: “The Faith of Bahá’u’lláh should indeed be regarded,
if we wish to be faithful to the tremendous implications of its message, as
the culmination of a cycle, the final stage in a series of successive, of
preliminary and progressive revelations. These, beginning with Adam and
ending with the Báb, have paved the way and anticipated with an ever-
increasing emphasis the advent of that Day of Days in which He Who is
the Promise of All Ages should be made manifest.” Dispensation, p. 102.
75 As well as my own readings, the discussion of exclusivism, inclusivism and
pluralism has been informed by Grant Martin’s paper “Why the Báha’í
Faith is not Pluralist.” The tripartite typology has been used mainly by
Christian theologians and philosophers of religion to discuss whether or
not non-Christians can be saved. See Martin’s “Why the Báha’í Faith is
not Pluralist” in Lights of ‘Irfán: Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs,
Book 8, 2007, pp. 179-201.
76 Dann J. May, “The Báha’í Principle of Religious Unity: A Dynamic
Perspectivism” in Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives on a Báha’í
Theology, pp.19-20.
77See Martin,“Why the Báha’í Faith is not Pluralist” in Lights of ‘Irfán:
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs, Book 8, 2007, pp. 179-201.
78 For the quotation from Hick, see note 88.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

79 The complete quotation reads: “The Báha’í Cause is an inclusive movement;
the teachings of all religions and societies are found here…The Báha’í
message is a call to religious unity and not an invitation to a new religion,
not a new path to immortality. God forbid! It is the ancient path cleared
of the debris of imaginations and superstitions of men, of the debris of
strife and misunderstanding.” Quoted by Dann J. May in “The Báha’í
Principle of Religious Unity: A Dynamic Perspectivism” in Jack McLean,
ed., Revisioning the Sacred: New Perspectives on a Báha’í Theology,
volume eight in Studies in the Bábí and Báha’í Religions (Los Angeles:
Kalimát Press, 1997), pp. 19-20. The original source is not identified.
May cites for the quotation in n. 75, Pritam Singh God, His Mediator,
and Man (Wilmette: IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1958), p. 14.
80 See “The Trinity” in Some Answered Questions, pp. 113-15.
81 Paul Tillich quoted in Ultimate Concern, ed. D. Mackenzie Brown (New
York: Harper & Row, 1965), pp. 64-65.
82 Dispensation, p.144.
83 Dispensation, p.114.
84Shoghi Effendi is referring to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s interpretation of a
Zoroastrian prophecy of the latter days which predicts the lengths of the
Muhammadan, Bábí and Bahá’í dispensations as lasting ten, twenty and
thirty days respectively. In His interpretation of the thirty days, referring
to the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá comes up with “a period
of at least five hundred thousand years,” the length of the entire Bahá’í
cycle. Dispensation, p.102. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has used a sliding-scale to
determine the length of the three religious dispensations which are not,
on first reading, apparent. But Shoghi Effendi has interpreted the thirty
days representing 500,000 years astrologically as follows: “The thirty days
in the last dispensation should not be reckoned numerically, but should
be considered as symbolizing the incomparable greatness of the Bahá'í
Revelation which, though not final is none-the-less thus far the fullest
revelation of God to man. From a physical point of view, the thirty days
represent the maximum time takes by the sun to pass through a sign of
the zodiac. They thus represent a culminating point in the evolution of
this star. So also from a spiritual standpoint these thirty days should be
viewed as indicating the highest, though not the final stage in the spiritual
evolution of mankind.” From a letter written on behalf of the Guardian
to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada,
August 7, 1934, quoted in Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File,
compiled by Helen Bassett Hornby (New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
4th rev. edn. 1996), no. 1558.
85 Dispensation, pp.102-103.
86See Seena Fazel, “Interreligious Dialogue and the Bahá’í Faith: Some
Preliminary Observations,” in Jack McLean, ed., Revisioning the Sacred:
New Perspectives on a Báha’í Theology, pp. 127-152.
87Space is lacking here to summarize Martin’s arguments for Báha’í
exclucivism-inclusivism. The “categories” of exclusivism, inclusivism and
pluralism were first conceived by Allan Race in 1983. As mentioned
above, the typology was also elaborated by Dianna Eck, Gavin D’Costa,
Paul Griffiths and others. John Hick’s “A Philosophy of Religious
Pluralism” (1984) and Problems of Religious Pluralism (1985) and
especially An Interpretation of Religion: Human Responses to the

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

Transcendent (1989) added weight to the discussion. See Martin, pp. 179-
201.
88 Paul Griffiths, Catholic philosopher of religion at the University of Illinois
at Chicago, in his Problems of Religious Diversity (2001), has
reinterpreted the categories of exclucivism, inclusivism and pluralism to
defend exclusivism and inclusivism against pluralism. Grant Martin has
adopted Griffiths’ schema and has applied it to argue that the Bahá’í Faith
is not pluralist. See pp. 190-199 of Martin.
89The categories of exclusivism, inclusivism and pluralism to analyze the
relations among religions were used by John Hick in his essay “A
Philosophy of Religious Pluralism” published in The World’s Religious
Traditions: Essays in Honour of Wilfred Cantwell Smith (Edinburgh: T. &
T. Clark, 1984). While the tripartite typology is not univocal, John Hick
interprets it this way: “…that salvation is restricted to this one group, the
rest of mankind being either left out of account or explicitly excluded
from the sphere of salvation” (exclusivism). The inclusivist view takes
two turns: (1) the Roman Catholic belief that Christ’s atonement redeems
all of humanity even though individuals may be unaware of him. (2) the
incarnate Christ, the universal divine Logos, accomplishes the work of
salvation in and through other salvific figures. Thus one can speak of
“anonymous Christians” (Karl Rahner) or “the unknown Christ of
Hinduism.” The pluralist view is “…the view that the transformation of
human existence from self-centeredness to Reality-centredness is taking
place in different ways within the contexts of all the great religious
traditions.” These points from “A Philosophy of Religious Pluralism” in
John Hick, ed., Classical and Contemporary Readings in the Philosophy
of Religion, 3rd ed. (Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1990),
pp. 421-23.
90Grant Martin, “Why the Báha’í Faith is not Pluralist,” p. 189.
91Dispensation, p. 58.
92Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 93-94.
93 Gleanings From the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi
(Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983),
p. 183.
94 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,
compiled by the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
and translated by Habib Taherzadeh with the assistance of a Committee
at the Bahá’í World Centre (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988),  130.
95 Lights of Guidance, no. 1599, p. 483.
96 Dispensation, p. 115.
97 The challenge-and-response motif is one of Arnold Toynbee’s major
theories of the growth and decline of civilizations as elaborated in his
massive ten volume A Study of History. The challenge-and-response
motif appears especially in “V. Challenge and Response” of D.C.
Somervell’s abridgement of volumes 1-IV, pp. 60-79. A Study of History,
abridged by D.C. Somervell (New York and London: Oxford University
Press, 2 vols. 1957).
98 Dispensation, p. 58
99 Dann J. May, “The Báha’í Principle of Religious Unity: A Dynamic
Perspectivism,” p 20.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

100 The Guardian made the following comment about the eclipse of religion:
“No wonder, therefore, that when, as a result of human perversity, the
light of religion is quenched in men's hearts, and the divinely appointed
Robe, designed to adorn the human temple, is deliberately discarded, a
deplorable decline in the fortunes of humanity immediately sets in,
bringing in its wake all the evils which a wayward soul is capable of
revealing.” The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 186. Compare this with
Bahá’u’lláh’s statement: “And now concerning thy question regarding the
nature of religion. Know thou that they who are truly wise have likened
the world unto the human temple. As the body of man needeth a garment
to clothe it, so the body of mankind must needs be adorned with the
mantle of justice and wisdom.” Gleanings, p. 285.
101 Dispnesation, p. 102.
102 Luther H. Martin, “Comparison,” in Willi Braun and Russell T.
McCutheon, eds., Guide to the Study of Religion (London and New York:
Cassell, 2000), p. 45.
103 Lydgate quoted in ibid, p. 45. The original quotation is found in Lydgate’s
Fall of Princes (ed. circa 1430).
104 This dictum is a compression of “... you do not know that
comparisons...beauty with beauty, birth with birth are always odious.”
Part two, chapter one (Lockhart’s edition).
105 Sir John Fortescue (de laudibus Legum Angliae ), Swift (Drapier’s Letters),
Lyly (Euphues), Marlowe (Lust’s Dominion), Heywood (A Woman Killed
With Kindness), Donne (Elegy), Herbert (Jacula Prudentum). From
bartleby.com/100/113.html &  www.answers.com/topic/comparisons-are-odious
106 Eric J. Sharpe, Comparative Religion: A History, 2nd ed. (London: Gerald
Duckworth, 1986), p. 252.
107 See Luther H. Martin, “Comparison,” pp. 45-56.
108 Max Müller, quoted in “Comparison,” p. 52. Original quotation from
Müller’s Biographical Essays (1884) (New York: Scribners), pp. 80-81.
109 “Comparison,” p. 52.
110 Hick wrote that W.C. Smith was responsible “…more than any other single
individual, for the change which has taken place within a single generation
in the way in which many of us perceive the religious life of mankind.” “A
Philosophy of Religious Pluralism” in John Hick, ed., Classical and
Contemporary Readings in the Philosophy of Religion (Englewood Cliffs,
New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1990), p. 418.
105 “Comparison,” p. 51. The timeless and spaceless primordial tradition is
synonymous with the perennial philosophy (philosophia perennis). See
Huston Smith’s Forgotten Truth: The Primordial Tradition (1976). In
Toward a World Theology: Faith and the Comparative History of
Religion (Philadelphia: Westminister Press, 1981), W.C. Smith wrote that
“Those who believe in the unity of mankind, and the unity of God, should
be prepared therefore to discover a unity of mankind’s religious history” 4
112 Luther H. Martin, “Comparison,” p. 49.
113 Ibid, p. 50.
114 Ibid, p. 51.
115 “Comparison,” p. 52.
116 Ibid.

The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh

117 See, for example, the debate between Charles Davis and Donald Wiebe in
Studies in Religion/Sciences Religieuses (1984). For the theological, i.e.
faith inclusive view interacting with religious studies, read Charles Davis
“Wherein there is no ecstasy,” Studies in Religion/Sciences Religieuses,
vol. 13, no. 4, 1984, pp. 393-400. See Donald Wiebe’s strong rejoinder
that proposed instead an “objective,” “detached,” “scientific,” anti-
theological, secular humanistic view in “The Failure of Nerve in the
Academic Study of Religion” in ibid, pp. 401-22. Philip Boo Riley gives a
good historical account of the methodological quest in “Theology and/or
religious studies: A case study of Studies in Religion/Sciences religieuses,
1971-1981” in ibid, pp. 423-44. For a view favorable to a self-conscious
religiosity as the only adequate basis for the social scientific study of
religion, see R.N. Bellah, “Christianity and Symbolic Realism,” Journal
for the Scientific Study of Religion, vol. 9, 1970.
118 See Donald Wiebe, “Modernism” in Willi Braun and Russell T.
McCutheon, eds., Guide to the Study of Religion (London and New York:
Cassell, 2000), pp. 351-64. Wiebe wrote earlier, and his position has not
changed since, that religious studies must be committed to “...an
objective, detached,
scientific
understanding of religion
wholly
uninfected by any sentiment of religiosity.” “The Failure of Nerve in the
Academic Study of Religion” in op. cit., p. 393.
119Luther H. Martin, “Comparison,” p. 54.
120 Ibid, p. 53.
121 Shoghi Effendi, letter of June 1933 to the High Commissioner of
Palestine. Extract from Compilation of Letters and Extracts of Writings
From the Guardian Published in the Baháí News of the United States
(December 1924 - November 1934), no. 85.

This letter provides a cogent summary statement of the teachings of the
Bahá’í Faith.
122 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 75. The context in the talk
“Spiritual Proofs” is the cyclical rise and fall of each world religion.
123 The complete sentence reads: “Far from aiming at the overthrow of the
spiritual foundation of the world’s religious systems, its avowed, its
unalterable purpose is to widen their basis, to restate their fundamentals,
to reconcile their aims, to reinvigorate their life, to demonstrate their
oneness, to restore the pristine purity of their teachings, to coordinate
their functions and to assist in the realization of their highest
aspirations.” The context is Shoghi Effendi’s exposition of the station of
Bahá’u’lláh which is accompanied by his usual cautionary or qualifying
statement. Dispensation, p. 114.
124 See n. 83.
125 The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 54.
126 Dispensation, p. 152.

Insider and Outsider Scholarship in
Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
It is difficult to know whether, in discussing this subject, one
should remain within the framework of the immediate matter at
hand: that of scholarship on the Bahá’í community; or whether
one should take the discussion deeper to the foundations of the
problems which of course have been discussed over the
centuries in debates over the relative value of the mind as
against the heart, the analytic approach as against the holistic
one, Enlightenment rationalism as against Romanticism. I feel
that we cannot focus in on the specifics of the discussion
without at least acknowledging the wider context in which the
debate occurs. Therefore I am going to briefly outline the wider
issues involved before focussing on the specifics of scholarship
on the Bahá’í Faith.
The academic study of religion, the history of religions, the
field that in German is known as religionswissenschaft, is firmly
and for very good reasons wedded to a methodology that is
rationalist, materialistic and historically-based - in the sense that
all phenomena are seen to be rooted in, and therefore wholly
derived from, preceding phenomena. This is the basis of the
world view - the weltanschauung - of the academic world.
Academic outsider scholars live within this construction of
reality, this universe of discourse, and like all other human
beings, they take this socially constructed reality to be reality
itself. They take the methodology of scholarship that they have
constructed within this universe of discourse and which is fully
validated within that universe to be the only valid methodology
of scholarship. They privilege statements made within their
universe of discourse over those made from within a different
universe.
So what objections do believing or insider scholars have to
this methodology of the academy? The brief answer is none.
Most scholars think that this methodology when applied with

Insider and Outsider Scholarship

rigour, flair and fair-mindedness produces knowledge of the
greatest quality and depth. I cannot stress this too strongly
because in debates that have gone on in the past, it has been
claimed that insider scholars are somehow inimical to the
academic methodology and this simply is not true.
The problem that insider scholars have is not with the
academic methodology per se, but with the claim that this is the
only pathway to true and certain knowledge -- the arrogation to
this pathway of a claim of superiority and indeed of exclusivity.
Insider scholars accept the methodology of rationalism and
historically-based
argumentation
as
a
way
of
deriving
knowledge, but they set alongside that other pathways to (and
sources of) knowledge: intuitive knowledge (which `Abdu'l-Bahá
describes as being the result of meditation, the mind conversing
with the soul), a rootedness in the spiritual heritage of humanity
and a belief that this world has a spiritual aspect alongside its
physical aspect, the introduction of values and ethics into
methodology, and lastly a belief in Divine Revelation.
Ultimately these other methodologies yield criteria for truth
that are unacceptable to the strict application of the academic
methodology. They cannot be contained within either the
academic universe of discourse or in the academic methodology.
Insider scholars, especially those who are academically
trained, stand in a difficult place. They are on the interface
between two different and in many ways incompatible universes
of discourse. They have the responsibility of mediating the ideas
of the academy to the world of the believer and also of
correctly representing the world of the believer to the academy.
Given the radical and foundational differences between the two
universes, they are in the position of ultimately never fully
satisfying either world -- the position of being criticised from
both directions.
I want now to bring my presentation from generalities to a
focus on the area of Bahá’í scholarship. Here I think it would be
useful to distinguish between two areas: a core area which deals
with the history and writings of the central figures and
institution of the Bahá’í Faith where I think there will always be
a clash between insider and outsider scholars, and a more
peripheral area concerned with the rest of Bahá’í history and the
application of Bahá’í teachings, where I think there is every
prospect of a relatively conflict-free co-existence.
With regard to the core area, this is as I stated, an area where
it seems to me that there will always be a conflict between

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
insider and outsider scholars because the conflict is not over
facts that can be resolved by an appeal to the sources -- nor can
the opinions and position of one side be overturned by the
discovery of a new source of information. The differences are
foundational and relate to the fact that statements are being
made from within different universes of discourse. They are
thus in essence not resolvable. There is a great deal we could
talk about, but I want to focus on two key concepts that cause
perhaps the greatest amount of conflict and where this matter
of the existence of two separate universes of discourse stands in
greatest contrast. The first of these is Divine Revelation, a
concept that we have already mentioned above and which is one
that I think outsider scholars understand even if they do not
accept it. The second is the Bahá’í concept of the Covenant and
here I think that many outsider scholars do not even understand
the concept, especially its ramifications, let alone accept it.
Divine Revelation is the idea that a single individual has
access to a source of knowledge that is outside this phenomenal
and contingent world. This idea of the authority of the words
and ideas of a particular individual, Bahá'u’lláh, and the
assertion that he is outside the contingencies of history and of
the relativism of knowledge to which all human beings are
subject is alien to the academic mind. Academic outsider
scholars will insist on treating Bahá'u’lláh as a product of his
times, whose ideas and teachings were derived from his
education, his milieu and life experiences and his interactions
with others. Insider scholars will understand such presentations
of Bahá'u’lláh but will think them both inadequate and
distorted. They will insist that, although the time, context and
culture within the setting of which Bahá'u’lláh's words were
written can provide useful information about how these words
should be understood, these words can also be legitimately
understood in ways that are outside this setting.
The second area that I want to speak about is that of the
Bahá’í concept of the Covenant. This is an especially revealing
example because it sets up axioms that verge on being
unintelligible to the academic; for example, the idea that when
Shoghi Effendi is engaged in interpreting one of the passages of
the writings of Bahá'u’lláh, he is not deriving interpretations
that are based on his own understanding and experience (the
historical contingency of being Shoghi Effendi), but rather they
are the result of some supra-natural guidance being imparted by
Bahá'u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi's words, in these circumstances,
impart the import that Bahá'u’lláh himself wishes to give these

Insider and Outsider Scholarship

word. Similarly, the concept of the Covenant implies that, when
the Universal House of Justice is engaged in its work of
legislation or in leading the Bahá’í community, then its decisions
are not the result of a balance among the various human
personalities that sit upon the House of Justice but are again
supra-mundanely guided by Bahá'u’lláh. Such concepts lead
inevitably to accusations by outsiders that insider scholars
privilege the statements of the central authorities in the Bahá’í
Faith over the statements of others. They lead to accusations of
anachronism, where the authority of Shoghi Effendi is used to
define what Bahá'u’lláh meant. And of course, they lead to
frustration among outsider academics that Bahá’ís refuse to
limit their analyses of Bahá'u’lláh's words to the prevailing
academic methodologies.
Thus I would maintain that scholarship in this core area from
an outsider perspective is fated to always be in conflict with the
Bahá’í community and insider scholars are fated to stand in an
uncomfortable intermediary role between two universes in
discord. Disagreements between insider and outsider academics
over points in this core area are fated to remain unresolved and
unresolvable, with neither side fully comprehending the other.
In the area of the periphery, however, there is much less
likelihood of conflict occurring. Historical or sociological
studies of Bahá’í communities or the broad area that could be
described as applied Bahá’í studies do not inherently have the
same problems as the core area. At the periphery, one is dealing
with ordinary Bahá’ís, their lives and their attempts to put into
practice the teachings of Bahá'u’lláh. In this area, scholars,
whether insiders or outsiders, are free to postulate that
individuals act in accordance with contingent influences upon
them -- their culture, education and life experiences; the
statements of particular individuals are not privileged over
those of others and, while popular Bahá’í literature may often
have recourse to the supra-natural, Bahá’í scholars will usually
not.
Is it an implication of what I have written that it is not
possible for a Bahá’í scholar to do good academic scholarship in
the core area? I think not. While the theory may be that good
academic scholarship is based on a cold, neutral, detached,
agnostic,
objective
methodology,
in
practice
the
best
scholarship emerges from those who are enthusiastic, passionate
and involved. In the area of Bahá’í studies, we need look no
further than the early years of E G Browne, the founder of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
field. His enthusiasm, passion and involvement cannot be
doubted. The same characteristics led him later to a similar
passionate
involvement
in
the
Persian
Constitutional
Revolution on the side of the Constitutionalists. Indeed, I
would argue that it is Browne's very passion and involvement
with his subject that makes his scholarship so compelling. Thus I
see no reason to suggest that just because a person is involved
in their subject they are therefore necessarily incapable of good
scholarship. Insider academic scholarship is however a difficult
endeavour -- being placed in between two universes that are in
conflict and having to reflect and explain each to the other.
Lastly, do I think that it is impossible for an outsider to do
good scholarship on the Bahá’í Faith? No, I think an outsider has
every chance of seeing things from a new perspective, and
therefore seeing aspects of the Bahá’í Faith that insider scholars
may miss because of their insider perspective. Therefore I
welcome and look forward to increasing amounts of outsider
scholarship. The only proviso that I would make in this regard
however is that the outsider scholar must be sincerely seeking
knowledge and truth -- not using a veneer of academic
methodology to camouflage a prejudice against the Bahá’í Faith
nor an agenda against the institutions of the Bahá’í Faith. For
just as I think an enthusiasm and a genuine sense of warmth and
empathy for one's subject is an important ingredient of good
scholarship -- so I think a prejudice or concealed hatred of one's
subject matter results in distortion and poor scholarship.
(A presentation prepared for the conference in Copenhagen
on "Globalisation and the Bahá’í Faith" August 2001)

The Lesser Peace and the Most Great
Peace*
`Ali Nakhjavani
Looking at the Writings of Shoghi Effendi in English, one
can readily observe how he was able -- through his marvellously
creative pen – to give a comprehensive description and an all-
embracing analysis of the state of the world today. The reader
could clearly perceive why such extraordinary developments in
social, political, economic, scientific and cultural affairs have
taken place; why these developments continue to be on the rise;
how humanity would be influenced by them; what stages of
growth society at large would need to traverse; and to what
ultimate station would humanity be led.
According to the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, in whatever age
the Manifestations of God appear, they guide humanity to more
elevated levels of spiritual as well as material advancements;
and, although these advancements are all positive in themselves,
their establishment requires a destruction of the foundations of
the old order so that a new divine civilisation may be established
upon its ruins. Consider the sun and how – on the one hand – it
is able to melt the snow over the mountains, creating
frightening floods that lead to havoc and the destruction of
cities, villages and hamlets; but – on the other hand – how it can
produce the heat and light necessary for the growth of
vegetation and all other living things. It can therefore be noted
that now that the Sun of Truth has dawned from the Horizon of
the Cause of the Blessed Beauty, both of these processes need to
unfold on a global level. In other words, one can notice the
signs of destruction – or the negative aspects – as well as the
signs of construction – or the positive aspects.
Bahá’u’lláh has described the destruction of the world and all
that is therein by the following statement:
Soon will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new
one spread out in its stead. (GWB 7)

The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

And also:
The time for the destruction of the world and its people
hath arrived. (ADJ 81)
And again:
From two ranks amongst men power hath been seized:
kings and ecclesiastics. (PDC 20)
Yet again:
The whole earth is now in a state of pregnancy…the day is
approaching when it will have yielded its noblest fruits,
when from it will have sprung forth the loftiest trees, the
most enchanting blossoms, the most heavenly blessings.
(GPB 217)
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has also referred to these parallel processes in His
Writings. He says:
…these chronic diseases shall never be healed; nay, they
shall grow fiercer from day to day… (SWAB 249)
And about the positive effects of these developments He says:
Thus the world of humanity will be wholly transformed
and the merciful bounties become manifest. (SWAB 282)
The negative evidences of these developments are abasement,
destruction and chaos in society; while their positive impacts
are the progress and the expansion of the Cause of God on
earth. Made explicit in texts from the Holy Writings, the
starting point of these two parallel processes was the
Declaration of the Blessed Báb in Shiraz in 1260 AH or 1844
AD.
There are references both in the Bible and in the Qur’an to
the fact that the commencement of these processes would
coincide with the advent of the Promised Day. For example it is
written in the Bible:
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first
heaven and the first earth were passed away. (Revelations
21:1)
And in the Qur’an, it is written:
One day the earth will be changed to a different earth, and
so will be the heavens. (Q 14:48)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
It is clear that by “earth” here is meant the temporal
civilization, and by the “heavens” is meant the heavens of divine
Revelation, as stated in the Kitáb-i-Íqán by the Blessed Beauty.
In describing these two-fold processes, Shoghi Effendi has
written the following:
A twofold process, however, can be distinguished, each
tending, in its own way and with an accelerated
momentum, to bring to a climax the forces that are
transforming the face of our planet. The first is essentially
an integrating process, while the second is fundamentally
disruptive. The former, as it steadily evolves, unfolds a
System which may well serve as a pattern for that world
polity towards which a strangely-disordered world is
continually advancing; while the latter, as its disintegrating
influence deepens, tends to tear down, with increasing
violence, the antiquated barriers that seek to block
humanity's progress towards its destined goal. The
constructive process stands associated with the nascent
Faith of Bahá'u’lláh, and is the harbinger of the New
World Order that Faith must erelong establish. The
destructive forces that characterize the other should be
identified with a civilization that has refused to answer to
the expectation of a new age, and is consequently falling
into chaos and decline. (WOB 170)
In his Writings, the beloved Guardian also refers to a third
process, which consists of positive advancements that are taking
shape in the world -- independent of the direct involvement of
the Bahá’í community. Nevertheless, since this third process is
indirectly derived from the life-giving influences of the Cause
of God, it is in harmony with the spirit of the Bahá’í Teachings.
Shoghi Effendi’s statement in this regard is as follows:
“So
marvellous
a
conception
finds
its
earliest
manifestations in the efforts consciously exerted and the
modest beginnings already achieved by the declared
adherents of the Faith of Bahá'u’lláh who, conscious of the
sublimity of their calling and initiated into the ennobling
principles of His Administration, are forging ahead to
establish His Kingdom on this earth. It has its indirect
manifestations in the gradual diffusion of the spirit of
world solidarity which is spontaneously arising out of the
welter of a disorganized society.” (WOB 191)
After the First World War, in the midst of the afflictions

The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

facing the entire human race, the League of Nations was
established in 1920. Although this League was confronted with
numerous difficulties, still its establishment was -- from a
global political point of view -- the first significant step taken
in this path and in absolute harmony with the Teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh.
Shoghi Effendi has stated the following in this regard:
For the first time in the history of humanity the system of
collective security, foreshadowed by Bahá'u’lláh and
explained by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, has been seriously envisaged,
discussed and tested. (WOB 191)
Regarding the Unity of Mankind proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh as
the cornerstone of His All-embracing Dominion, Shoghi
Effendi states:
Uttered at a time when its possibility had not yet been
seriously envisaged in any part of the world, it has, by
virtue of that celestial potency which the Spirit of
Bahá'u’lláh has breathed into it, come at last to be
regarded, by an increasing number of thoughtful men, not
only as an approaching possibility, but as the necessary
outcome of the forces now operating in the world. (WOB
47)
After the Second World War, in 1945 the League of Nations
was changed to The United Nations Organisation, which has
since been going through its process of growth and
development. It has of course encountered many problems and
difficulties such as determining the number of the members of
its Security Council or issues pertaining to veto rights; however,
as foreseen by Bahá’u’lláh, this organisation must indeed
complete its evolutionary growth towards its state of maturity,
which is none other than the establishment of the Lesser Peace
envisaged by the Blessed Beauty.
Bahá’u’lláh has stated, addressing the kings and rulers of the
world:
Now that ye have refused the Most Great Peace, hold ye
fast unto this, the Lesser Peace, that haply ye may in some
degree better your own condition and that of your
dependents. (GWB 253)
This Lesser Peace is one that is solely founded upon political
considerations and requirements. In other words, although its

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
future constitution will -- to some extent -- be influenced by
moral and ethical standards, it will undoubtedly be devoid of
the bounty of the spiritual principles of the Cause of God. For
example, even though the Lesser Peace would undoubtedly
ensure equality of rights for all and the honouring of individual
or collective beliefs, yet we must bear in mind that there is a
tremendous difference between the observance of human rights
-- which is a worldly and legal matter -- and the necessity for the
complete eradication of religious and racial prejudices, which is
a spiritual condition and a matter of conscience.
Towards the end of the twentieth century, there appeared a
debate amongst the friends with regards to the Tablet of the
Seven Candles of Unity, in which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states:
The fifth candle is the unity of nations -- a unity which in
this century will be securely established, causing all the
peoples of the world to regard themselves as citizens of
one common fatherland. (SWAB 32)
Some friends therefore concluded that the Lesser Peace must
be fully established by the end of the 20th century. This
conclusion of course stands in contradiction with the statement
of Shoghi Effendi in a letter dated 1946 to one of the friends in
the West. In this letter, the beloved Guardian clearly indicates
that the time for the fulfilment of the establishment of the
Lesser Peace is not determined:
All we know is that the Lesser and the Most Great Peace
will come -- their exact dates we do not know. (LOG 434)
If we ponder closely on `Abdu’l-Bahá’s words concerning the
unity of nations, it will become evident that He is not speaking
of the Lesser Peace; but rather He is stating that under the fifth
candle of unity and throughout the 20th century, a unity will be
established, “…causing all the peoples of the world to regard
themselves as citizens of one common fatherland.” Considering
the earth as one country is of course not the same as
establishing the Lesser Peace. What `Abdu’l-Bahá indicates is
that the scientific explorations of the twentieth century on the
one hand and economic relations on the other will undoubtedly
prove to the inhabitants of the earth that the planet is indeed
one country. This was of course proven in practicality,
especially when astronauts managed to take some beautiful
aerial photographs of the planet earth, which were widely
published.
As for the Great Peace, Bahá’u’lláh describes this process as

The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

follows:
The tabernacle of unity hath been raised; regard ye not one
another as strangers. Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the
leaves of one branch... If the rulers and kings of the earth,
the symbols of the power of God, exalted be His glory,
arise and resolve to dedicate themselves to whatever will
promote the highest interests of the whole of humanity,
the reign of justice will assuredly be established amongst
the children of men, and the effulgence of its light will
envelop the whole earth… The time must come when the
imperative necessity for the holding of a vast, an all-
embracing assemblage of men will be universally realized.
The rulers and kings of the earth must needs attend it, and,
participating in its deliberations, must consider such ways
and means as will lay the foundations of the world's Great
Peace amongst men… This will ensure the peace and
composure of every people, government and nation. (TAB
163)
In connection with this Great Peace, Shoghi Effendi writes:
A world community in which all economic barriers will
have
been
permanently
demolished
and
the
interdependence
of
Capital
and
Labor
definitely
recognized; in which the clamor of religious fanaticism
and strife will have been forever stilled; in which the flame
of racial animosity will have been finally extinguished; in
which a single code of international law -- the product of
the considered judgment of the world's federated
representatives -- shall have as its sanction the instant and
coercive intervention of the combined forces of the
federated units; and finally a world community in which
the fury of a capricious and militant nationalism will have
been transmuted into an abiding consciousness of world
citizenship -- such indeed, appears, in its broadest outline,
the Order anticipated by Bahá'u’lláh, an Order that shall
come to be regarded as the fairest fruit of a slowly
maturing age. (WOB 40)
This statement by the beloved Guardian requires careful
attention, for it speaks of religious and racial prejudices, and
specifies that it is through the process of the Great Peace that
the “clamour of religious fanaticism” and “the flame of racial
animosity” will finally be wiped out entirely from the face of
the earth. Here, one can easily deduce that unfortunately under
the Lesser Peace, religious strife and racial prejudice will not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
have entirely left the hearts and souls of the human race.
However, by the emergence of the Great Peace, the Bahá’í
Teachings will have beyond any doubt penetrated the organs of
the Lesser Peace, leaving no room for religious and racial
prejudices and thus healing the world’s spiritual ailments with
the blessings of the divine panacea.
Let us consider the Most Great Peace now. Shoghi Effendi
provides the following explanation:
The Most Great Peace, on the other hand, as conceived by
Bahá'u’lláh -- a peace that must inevitably follow as the
practical consequence of the spiritualization of the world
and the fusion of all its races, creeds, classes and nations --
can rest on no other basis, and can be preserved through
no other agency, except the divinely appointed ordinances
that are implicit in the World Order that stands associated
with His Holy Name. In His Tablet, revealed almost
seventy years ago to Queen Victoria, Bahá'u’lláh, alluding
to this Most Great Peace, has declared: "That which the
Lord hath ordained as the sovereign remedy and mightiest
instrument for the healing of all the world is the union of
all its peoples in one universal Cause, one common Faith.
This can in no wise be achieved except through the power
of a skilled, an all-powerful and inspired Physician. This,
verily, is the truth and all else naught but error… (WOB
162)
And again the beloved Guardian quotes from one of the Tablets
of Bahá'u’lláh:
It beseemeth all men in this Day…to take firm hold on the
Most Great Name, and to establish the unity of all
mankind. There is no place to flee to, no refuge that any
one can seek, except Him. (WOB 163)
Shoghi Effendi offers a detailed exposition, outlining and
explaining the conditions which will come into place in the
world of being, as a result of the establishment of the Most
Great Peace. Here are some extracts from his statements
regarding this matter:
“In such a world society, science and religion, the two
most potent forces in human life, will be reconciled, will
cooperate, and will harmoniously develop… Destitution on
the one hand, and gross accumulation of ownership on the
other, will disappear. The enormous energy dissipated and
wasted on war, whether economic or political, will be

The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

consecrated to such ends as will extend the range of human
inventions and technical development, to the increase of
the productivity of mankind, to the extermination of
disease, to the extension of scientific research, to the
raising of the standard of physical health, to the
sharpening and refinement of the human brain, to the
exploitation of the unused and unsuspected resources of
the planet, to the prolongation of human life, and to the
furtherance of any other agency that can stimulate the
intellectual, the moral, and spiritual life of the entire
human race.
A world federal system, ruling the whole earth and
exercising unchallengeable authority over its unimaginably
vast resources, blending and embodying the ideals of both
the East and the West, liberated from the curse of war and
its miseries, and bent on the exploitation of all the
available sources of energy on the surface of the planet, a
system in which Force is made the servant of Justice,
whose life is sustained by its universal recognition of one
God and by its allegiance to one common Revelation --
such is the goal towards which humanity, impelled by the
unifying forces of life, is moving.” (WOB 203)
`Abdu’l-Bahá in Some Answered Questions describes the Most
Great Peace as follows:
One of the great events which is to occur in the Day of the
manifestation of that Incomparable Branch (Bahá'u’lláh) is
the hoisting of the Standard of God among all nations. By
this is meant that all nations and kindreds will be gathered
together under the shadow of this Divine Banner, which is
no other than the Lordly Branch itself, and will become a
single nation. Religious and sectarian antagonism, the
hostility of races and peoples, and differences among
nations, will be eliminated. All men will adhere to one
religion, will have one common faith, will be blended into
one race, and become a single people. All will dwell in one
common fatherland, which is the planet itself. (SAQ 65)
It is therefore clear that upon the establishment of the Most
Great Peace, all the divine laws and ordinances revealed in the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas and in other Bahá’í Holy Writings will be
officially implemented. This peace will not be merely for the
fortification of the basis of a political unity; nor is it solely
intended to promote a spirit of brotherhood or the abolishment
of racial prejudice and religious fanaticism. These achievements

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
in removing all traces of prejudice are all features of the Great
Peace. The Most Great Peace will ensure the greater expansion
of the Bahá’í Teachings with a wider and more effectively
penetrating influence upon the world and its inhabitants,
inasmuch as under the Most Great Peace, “all men will adhere to
one religion, will have one common faith, will be blended into
one race, and become a single people.”
It can therefore be concluded that humanity has three
processes ahead of itself: the Lesser Peace, the Great Peace and
the Most Great Peace.
The Lesser Peace is one that will – as explained before – be
established through the efforts of the nations of the world, and
will be regarded by them as the last and only remaining solution
to their political ordeals. It can be said that this development
may indeed reflect the maturity of the United Nations; a stage
which will be reached through the severity of the trials and
tribulations heaped upon the peoples and nations of the world.
All these nations will voluntarily – and by force if necessary –
come under this political unification; for they will realise that
they have no other recourse but to establish one official world
government. This world government will have the power to
limit justly the unbridled authority exercised by some of the
governments today, and subordinate national interests to
whatever promotes the welfare of humanity.
The Great Peace is the next stage following the Lesser Peace
and a prelude to the Most Great Peace. This Peace will come
about through the operations of the Major Plan of God and the
pervading influence of the Divine Will. Moreover, it
constitutes -- as indicated in the Holy Writings -- the Order
designed by the Blessed Beauty, inasmuch as the Bahá’í
International Institutions at that time will be in a position to
inspire the work of the world federation and all its branches and
to guide its operation in conformity with the spirit of the
Teachings of the Faith -- which are all based on the principle of
the unity of mankind.
As for the Most Great Peace: this Peace is the ultimate peace
promised to all the peoples and nations. It is a peace, the
features of which are all derived from the Teachings of the
Blessed
Beauty.
This
peace
will
embody
secular
and
administrative factors as well as spiritual and divinely ordained
principles, so that material requirements and spiritual standards
may completely integrate and marvellously blend together. This
world embracing New World Order will establish a civilization

The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace

which is neither of the East nor of the West and which has been
promised by all the religions of the past.
We all know that the current Local and National Spiritual
Assemblies of the Bahá’í World each exercise (within their own
jurisdiction) legislative, executive and judicial powers, enabling
them to conduct the spiritual and administrative affairs of the
community. However, it is also clear that these three powers
will in the future be separated in accordance with the guidance
of the Universal House of Justice. The Spiritual Assemblies --
which will later be named Local and National Houses of Justice
-- will as a result of this separation of powers become the
legislative arm under whose aegis the two other divisions,
namely the executive and the judiciary, will be established and
will operate in conjunction with their subsidiary agencies. This
separation of powers will undoubtedly be realised on the
international level as well.
One of the distinguishing features of the New World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh as compared to other secular disciplines in the
world is that the central axis of the institutions of the Faith is
the legislative power, meaning the Houses of Justice; while in
secular organisations, it is normally the executive power that
governs. In two of his letters (The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
p. 40, p. 162), the beloved Guardian offers separate
explanations with regard to the Great Peace and the Most Great
Peace. In the case of the Great peace, the executive power is
given precedence, while in the case of the Most Great peace, it
is the legislative power that comes first. This legislative power --
as explained above – is represented by the Houses of Justice, be
they local, national or international.
Concerning the importance and the necessity of the
establishment of the Lesser Peace, Shoghi Effendi has given us
the following comprehensive and remarkable statement in one
of his letters, and with it we will conclude this article:
“The long ages of infancy and childhood, through which
the human race had to pass, have receded into the
background.
Humanity
is
now
experiencing
the
commotions invariably associated with the most turbulent
stage of its evolution, the stage of adolescence, when the
impetuosity of youth and its vehemence reach their
climax, and must gradually be superseded by the calmness,
the wisdom, and the maturity that characterize the stage of
manhood. Then will the human race reach that stature of
ripeness which will enable it to acquire all the powers and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
capacities upon which its ultimate development must
depend.
Unification of the whole of mankind is the hall-mark of
the stage which human society is now approaching. Unity
of family, of tribe, of city-state, and nation have been
successively attempted and fully established. World unity
is the goal towards which a harassed humanity is striving.
Nation-building has come to an end. The anarchy inherent
in state sovereignty is moving towards a climax. A world,
growing to maturity, must abandon this fetish, recognize
the oneness and wholeness of human relationships, and
establish once for all the machinery that can best incarnate
this fundamental principle of its life.” (WOB 202)










* This is the English version of the Persian text published in Safini-yi `Irfán,
Book Ten, 2007

The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-
mulúk
A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Throughout the course of their lives, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh,
founders of the Bábí and Bahá’í religions, respectively,
addressed proclamatory letters to the rulers of the world
collectively, and to specific individuals amongst them,
especially those in various Middle Eastern regions. In so doing,
they followed an ancient tradition of prophets addressing kings.
The Báb addressed kings and rulers in the first chapter of one of
his earliest writings, the Qayyúm al-asmá. This chapter is
entitled the Súrat al-mulk, or Súrah (Chapter) of the dominion.
Similarly, Bahá’u’lláh addressed the world’s leaders in numerous
of his writings, most notably, perhaps, in his Súrat al-mulúk, or
Súrah (Chapter) to the Kings. Although Bahá’u’lláh does not
specify a direct connection between his work and the Súrat al-
mulk, numerous themes in the Súrat al-mulúk echo the Súrat al-
mulk, as do the title and certain phrases of the Tablet.1 The
purpose of this paper is to compare and contrast the Súrat al-
mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk, focusing on the theme of kings
and viziers in both of these writings. Such a comparison
highlights and brings into focus the similarities and differences
in the Bábí and Bahá’í religions, and the nature of their
founders’ attitudes towards notions of authority.
Pre-19th Century Islamicate Kingship
The history of the Middle East generally and Iran specifically
has a rich tradition of kingship, stretching far back into the pre-
Islamic period. So that we may better understand the nature of
the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh’s statements to kings, here follows a
brief overview of the history of kingship in the Islamic world,
with particular emphasis on Iran.
Iran had experienced a long history of kingship by the time

The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk

Islamic rule established itself in the country and put an end to
the Sasanian dynasty. Successive Islamic dynasties that ruled
over Iran, beginning with the Umayyads and the Abbasids, led
to the articulation of new forms of authority and political
legitimacy. Whereas kings had ruled as the sháhansháh, or king
of kings, the caliphs based their legitimacy on their claim of
succession to the prophet Muhammad. When the ‘Abbasids
came to power in the eighth century, they transferred the capital
of the empire from Damascus to Baghdad, resulting in a strong
Sasanian influence on their style of rulership. Indeed, ‘Abbasid
caliphs lived in palaces and held ceremonies similar to those of
Persian kings.
We must look to the later ‘Abbasid period, however, when
the entire Middle East witnessed a long period of political
fragmentation and decentralization, for movements in which
Persian kingship was revived. Between the years 950-1258, as
‘Abbasid rule diminished and gradually became restricted to the
city of Baghdad, leaders who carved out territory for themselves
and their descendants came to rule Iran, while at the same time
acknowledging the religious authority of the caliph in Baghdad.
These individuals claimed political authority for themselves and
legitimized their rule through, for example, attaching old pre-
Islamic titles such as sháhansháh (“king of kings”) to their
names, and forging genealogies showing descent from Iran’s
pre-Islamic kings.
In 1258, Hulagu Khan, grandson of Genghis Khan (Chingiz
Khan), invaded the Middle East, sacked the city of Baghdad,
which had long been a center of culture and learning, and
brought an end to the Abbasid caliphate. The Mongols brought
with them their own notions of kingship, based on nomadic and
steppe principles of authority. The destruction of the caliphate
meant that post-caliphal rulers had to work out other ways to
legitimize their rule, often by combining pre-Islamic and/or
Perso-Turko-Mongol forms of kingship.2
When the Safavid dynasty came to power in the 16th century,
new ideas of political legitimacy and kingship emerged, which
blended with older theories and currents. After the Safavids
established Twelver Shi’ism as the official state religion in 1501,
imposing it upon a country where the majority of the
population was Sunni, a class of Shi‘i religious clerics gradually
became increasingly powerful and in challenged the way in
which Safavid kings were legitimizing their rule. Safavid
kingship rested on three main pillars: the Safavid ruler as head

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
(shaykh) of the Safaviyya Sufi order which brought the Safavids
to power, the Safavid ruler as descendant of Músá al-Kázim, the
seventh imam of the Twelver Shi‘a and therefore ruler in the
name of the Hidden Imam, and the Safavid ruler as the shadow
of God on earth in line with pre-Islamic Iranian notions of
kingship.
Qajar Kingship
In the late-18th to 19th centuries, the Qajar dynasty ruled
Iran. The Qajars were one of original Turkic Qizilbash tribes
that put the Safavid Shah Ismá‘íl in power. The Qajars rose to
power in the wake of political fragmentation and decentralized
rule in Iran following the fall of the Safavids. In his biography
of
Násir
al-Dín
Shah
(r.
1848-1896),
Abbas
Amanat
characterizes the legitimacy of Qajar kings as having four major
dimensions: (1) the pre-Islamic Persian dimension, (2) the
Islamic/Shi‘ite dimension, (3) the nomadic concept of power
and leadership, and (4) the Western/European model of
government.3
The Súrat al-Mulk and the Súrat al-Mulúk:
Some introductory information
The Báb revealed his Súrat al-mulk in 1844 in his home in
Shiraz to Mullá Óusayn Bushrúí, who became his first major
disciple. This first chapter of the Qayyúm al-asmá’ (hereafter
QA), it consists of some 960 words in translation. Although the
QA has not been published or fully translated into English,
Stephen Lambden has electronically published a partial
translation and commentary of several chapters on his website,
including a complete translation of the Súrat al-mulk.4
It is beyond the scope of this paper to outline the history of
the word mulk and notions of sovereignty throughout Islamic
history. Two examples, however, illustrate how the word has
been used within the context of conceptions of sovereignty and
authority. Qur’an 3:26 expresses the notion that God possesses
true sovereignty and rulers derive it from him:
Say: ‘Lord, Sovereign of all sovereignty (málik al-mulk),
You bestow sovereignty (mulk) on whom You will and take
it away from whom You please; You exalt whomever You
will and abase whomever You please. In Your hand lies all
that is good; You have power over all things.’ (Q. 3:26)
A 17th century tract on kingship by Mullá Muhsin Fayd (Fayd

The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk

Káshání), known as the Á’ina-yi sháhí, written for the Safavid
Shah ‘Abbás II, also makes use of the word mulk in connection
with the need for sovereigns to obey “revealed law”:
Whenever the sovereign obeys the revealed law and
follows its commands, the outward appearance of the
cosmos, known as the “Kingdom” (mulk), follows the
inward reality of the cosmos, known as the “Dominion”
(malakut)....But whenever the sovereign does not obey the
revealed law, intellects are made prisoners of the senses
and the Dominion is subjected to the Kingdom.5
Bahá’u’lláh composed his Súrat al-mulúk in Edirne in fall-
winter 1867[-68], so some 23 years, then, separate these two
works. The Súrat al-mulúk appears to be the earliest surviving
work of Bahá’u’lláh to address kings.6 The translated text
numbers some 15,000 words, making it roughly 15 times longer
than the Súrat al-mulk. Much more scholarship exists on the
Súrat al-mulúk than the QA/Súrat al-mulk.7
Addressees
In an attempt to establish the primary similarities and
differences between these two texts, what follows are some very
basic comparative points, beginning with intended audience, or
addressees. The Báb addresses several audiences in the Súrat al-
mulk. These include three general groups and two specific
individuals, as follows:
concourse of kings and the sons of kings
King of Islam [=Muhammad Shah]
Minister of the Shah [=Hájjí Mírzá Áqásí]
servants of the all-merciful
people of the earth
Bahá’u’lláh, similarly, addresses more than one audience in the
Súrat al-mulúk, but here we come to the first major difference
between these two texts: the addressees the Súrat al-mulúk are
far more varied and more specific than the addressees of the
Súrat al-mulk. The audiences that Bahá’u’lláh addresses include
the following:
people of the earth
kings
sultans

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Christian kings
ambassador of the king of Paris
servant
people of the city
people
deputies (viziers Fuad and Ali Pasha?)
sultan (Sultan ‘Abd al-Azíz)
king
Persian ambassador in the city (Hajjí Mírzá Husayn Khán,
the Mushír al-Dawlah, Persian ambassador in Istanbul)
people of the East (Iran)
shaykhs of the city (Istanbul)
hakims of the city and philosophers of the earth
Obviously, it will take some time to identify all of the specific
individuals listed here, a task that is beyond the scope of this
short presentation. Some of the individuals have been
tentatively or definitively identified by Taherzadeh and others.
For example, the Sultan is the Ottoman Sultan Abd al-Aziz, the
ministers include the well-known Pashas, Ali (grand vizier) and
Fuad (the foreign minister); the Persian ambassador, Hajjí Mírzá
Husayn Khan, the Mushir al-Dawlah. Another vizier that
Bahá’u’lláh alludes to is Mírzá Buzurg Khan, the Persian Consul-
General in Baghdad.8
The Obligations of Kings in General
Turning now to one of the specific categories of addressees
in the Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk, namely kings, the
Báb’s statements in the Súrat al-mulk to kings in general and to
Muhammad Shah in particular are outlined most specifically in
QA 1: 22-29. These verses form a discrete portion of the
chapter, with a distinct beginning, middle, and end. This section
opens with an address to kings and the sons of kings:
O concourse of kings and the sons of kings! (yá ma‘shar al-
mulúk wa abná’ al-mulúk)
Lay aside, one and all [in truth, as befits the Truth] your
dominion which belongeth unto God (mulk Alláh).9
The section concludes with a final emphatic call to kings in
general, the same kings and sons of kings that the Báb addressed
at the beginning of the section. This passage can be read with

The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk

QA 1:20 as the end of one complete sentence or phrase. In this
final portion, the Báb specifies what it means for kings to lay
aside their sovereignty (mulk):
And [O kings!] give aid towards victory before God
through thy very own selves and thy swords (bi-anfusikum
wa asyáfikum) in the shade of the Most Great
Remembrance (al-dhikr al-akbar) for the sake of this pure
Religion (al-dín al-khálisú) which is, in very truth,
mighty.10
Here, the Báb expresses sovereignty in a complex manner. First
and foremost, sovereignty belongs to God, and kings should lay
aside their own sovereignty because, apparently, the eschaton
has arrived. If kings have any interest in preserving their
sovereignty or mulk in the next world, which appears to be the
only place where they can enjoy any dominion whatsoever, then
they must come to the assistance of the Báb in this world, aiding
him to spread his religion by means of their swords. Much of
what the Báb has to say about jihad and holy war, which is what
the “swords” passage in the Súrat al-mulk alludes to, has to do
with the expectations that his audience had of the messiah, the
qa’im, conquering the world through force and propagating a
universal Shi‘i religion. In accordance with the predictions in
Shi‘i hadith literatures of eschatological holy war, the
mahdi/qa’im was to embark on a universal jihad, and by making
this statement, the Báb was tapping into the messianic
atmosphere that had a distinct bearing upon his religious
mission.
In addition to waging war on his behalf, the Báb also calls on
kings to perform a second major task: that of distributing his
writings to Turkey, India, and everywhere else: “O concourse of
kings! (yá ma‘shar al-mulúk) Deliver with truth and in all haste
the verses sent down by Us, to the peoples of Turkey and of
India and beyond them, with power and with truth, to lands in
both the East and the West.”11 In specifying the places of
Turkey and India, the Báb could be referring to the two Sunni
great empires of the early modern period: the Ottoman and
Mughal empires.12 In the Súrat al-mulk, these two tasks—waging
war and distributing his writings—are connected and the Báb
orders kings to accomplish both.
In these sections and elsewhere in QA1, then, the Báb’s
instructions to the kings of the earth can be organized into four
separate and specific instructions. Kings must (a) lay aside their
dominion, (b) aid the Most Great Remembrance [the Báb], (c)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
give aid towards victory with their selves and their swords for
the sake of this religion, and (d) Deliver the Báb’s verses to the
Turks and to India and then to the rest of the east and west.
Bahá’u’lláh also commands the kings of the world to do
certain things. Although his “list” is far more extensive than
that of the Báb, we may also break these down into four general
categories. Kings must: (a) Obey God and detach themselves
from worldly things, (b) Fear God, (c) Be just, and (d) Reduce
their armaments. The differences between these two lists are
quite striking, as are the similarities. Perhaps the most
significant is that whereas the Báb asks kings to come to his
assistance with their swords, Bahá’u’lláh tells them to reduce
their arms. The notion of the prophet waging a holy war and
asking the kings of the world to come to his assistance to
conquer that world is entirely absent from Bahá’u’lláh’s
writings. Instead, he states:
Compose your differences and reduce your armaments,
that the burden of your expenditures may be lightened,
and that your minds and hearts may be tranquillized. Heal
the dissensions that divide you, and ye will no longer be in
need of any armaments except what the protection of your
cities and territories demandeth. Fear ye God, and take
heed not to outstrip the bounds of moderation and be
numbered among the extravagant.13
It is in fact significant to note that from the very outset of
his mission, from the time of his messianic declaration near
Baghdad in 1863, among the central teachings that Bahá’u’lláh
announced to his audience was that the propagation of the
religion by the sword was now forbidden.14
Historical context can explain this difference in emphasis
only to a certain degree, since a short 22 yrs separate the two
texts. Although the following points are true: (1) by the time the
Báb had addressed Muhammad Shah a third time, in a tablet
written from Bushihr some time in 1845, he did not bring up the
issue of jihad, (2) At least five months prior to writing this
letter, partly due to Mulla ‘Alí Bastámí’s imprisonment, the Báb
had cancelled the gathering that his followers expected to take
place in Karbala, where he would disclose something of his
messianic role and wage that universal holy war, and (3) On 10
Muharram 1261/20 January 1845, the Báb had sent a letter to
Mulla Husayn Bushrúí. In this letter, the Báb redirects his
followers in the ‘Atabat to leave that region and go to Shiraz.15
Nevertheless, we also know that despite the changes in his

The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk

relationship with Muhammad Shah and what he demanded from
that king, the Báb never ceased calling for jihad, as seen in a
number of later tablets, such as the Persian Seven Proofs and
the Persian and Arabic Bayáns.16
Beyond historical context, the differences in prophetic
“mission” or religious purpose perhaps better explains the
attitudes of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh to issues such as kingship
and holy war. The Báb’s claims and concerns seem to have
addressed to a large degree certain messianic expectations
within Shi‘i Islam and focused on creating the conditions for
the coming of a second messianic figure whom he referred to as
man yuzhiruhu alláh (“He whom God shall make manifest”).
Bahá’u’lláh, however, envisioned a rather different future in
which he was apparently not so constrained by Shi‘i messianic
expectations. While there is no doubt that a good proportion of
what Bahá’u’lláh said is firmly rooted in Shi’i Islam, he was
more able than the Báb to transcend it in fashioning his new
global religion, partly because of the Báb.
Perhaps because some scholarship on the Bahá’í religion
associates the religion of the Báb with the religion of
Bahá’u’lláh, using phrases such as “Bábí-Bahá’í,” the tendency
exists to forget how opposite, at times, these two religions
were, and what different world views their founders held.
‘Abdu’l Bahá states the following about this:
In the Day of the manifestation of His Holiness the
Exalted One (the Báb), the striking of necks (Q: 8:12), the
burning of books and treatises (kutub va awráq), the
destruction of places/sites, and general (universal) killing
(qatl-i ‘ám) of all except such as believed and were
steadfast, were clearly enunciated. However, in this
amazing age (qarn-i badí‘) and exalted era, the foundation
of God’s religion and the basis of God’s law is [to show]
great mercy and tremendous compassion to all nations,
and sincere heartfelt friendship, loyalty, and kindness to
all peoples and communities and proclaim the unity of the
world of humanity.17
The Obligations of Specific Kings: Muhammad
Shah and Sultan Abdul Aziz
The Súrat al-mulk and Muhammad Shah.
In subsequent verses of the Súrat al-mulk, the Báb

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
specifically addresses Muhammad Shah, referring to him as the
“king of Islam,” and asking for his assistance. Muhammad Shah
Qajar (1808-1848) came to power in 1834. He grew up being
tutored by a Sufi dervish, Hájjí Mírzá Áqásí, resulting in the
king’s largely mystical religious persuasion. He was the third
ruler of the Qajar dynasty, and succeeded his grandfather Fath
‘Alí Shah after being nominated successor in 1834. At this time,
he went to Tabriz, where he became the governor of Azerbaijan,
thereby gaining practical experience in kingship. Upon
becoming king, Muhammad Shah placed his teacher Hájjí Mírzá
Áqásí in an important ministerial position. He faced many
challenges during his rule, both internal and external. 18
In the Súrat al-mulk, Muhammad Shah’s destiny is quite
exalted, the Báb claims, if he comes to his assistance:
O king of Islam (Muhammad Shah r.1834-1848) (lit. “king
of the Muslims”, malik al-muslimún)! Aid thou, with the
truth, after having aided the Book, Him Who is Our Most
Great Remembrance (dhikriná al-akbar), for God hath, in
very truth, destined for thee and for such as circle round
thee, on the Day of Judgment [Resurrection] (yawm al-
qiyáma), a responsible position in His Path. I swear by
God O [Muhammad] Shah! [lit. O thou king!] If thou
showest enmity unto Him Who is His Remembrance
(dhikr), God will, on the Day of Resurrection, condemn
thee, before the kings, unto hell-fire, and thou shalt not,
in very truth, find on that Day any helper except God, the
Exalted.19
The Báb’s commands to Muhammad Shah here are not at all
vague; on the contrary, he lays out quite explicitly what he
expects from the king in terms of assistance. The Báb makes
certain promises to the king regarding the positive outcomes
that would result from his compliance, and at the same time
warns him of the consequences of disobedience. Specifically,
Muhammad Shah should: (a) not show enmity to the Báb,
otherwise he’ll receive hell fire on the day of resurrection before
the kings, (b) Purge the sacred land from the people of
opposition (ahl al-radd), (c) submit to the Báb, (d) subdue the
countries, (e) not let his sovereignty deceive him because he will
eventually die, and (f) be content with the commandment of
God.
Continuing with his request to kings in general, he commands
Muhammad Shah to help him by waging a holy war against
various regions, starting with Iraq and continuing to other

The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk

countries. Muhammad Shah should do this because, the Báb
says, the king has been “mercifully invested” with sovereignty,
and complying with the Báb’s request will reward him in the
next world:
Purge thou, O [Muhammad] Shah, the Sacred Land (al-ar∂
al-muqaddas) from such as have repudiated the Book (ahl
al-radd), ere the day whereon the Remembrance of God (al-
dhikr) cometh, terribly and of a sudden, with His potent
Cause (al-amr al-qawiyy) by the leave of God, the Most
High.”20
The Báb then broadens his request to the king, requesting that
he subdue “the countries”:
God, verily, hath prescribed to thee [Muhammad Shah] to
submit unto Him Who is His Remembrance (al-dhikr), and
unto His Cause (al-amr), and to subdue, with the truth and
by His leave, the countries, for in this world thou hast
been mercifully invested with sovereignty (al-mulk), and
wilt, in the next, dwell, nigh unto the Seat of Holiness,
with the inmates of the Paradise of His good-pleasure.
(jannat al-ridwán, lit. Garden of Ri∂wán).21
The Báb ends his address to Muhammad Shah by reminding him
of his own limited sovereignty, stating that he will eventually
die and that true sovereignty rests in the hands of the
“Remembrance”:
Let not thy sovereignty (al-mulk) deceive thee, O
[Muhammad] Shah, for `every soul shall taste of death,’
[Q. 3:182] and this, in very truth, hath been written down
as a decree of God.
Be thou content with the commandment of God the True
One, inasmuch as sovereignty (al-mulk) as recorded in the
Mother Book (umm al-kitáb) by the hand of God is surely
invested in Him Who is the Remembrance (al-dhikr).22
The Súrat al-mulúk and Sultan Abdulaziz
The monarch whom Bahá’u’lláh addresses most extensively in
his Súrat al-mulúk is Sultan Abdu’l Aziz (r. 1861-1876), the
thirty-second sultan to reign over the Ottoman empire where
Bahá’u’lláh was exiled at the time he composed the Súrat al-
mulúk. The Ottoman empire during this time was faced with
challenges from its European provinces, in the form of revolts
and insurrections in Bosnia and in Greece, leading to the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
intervention of European powers. In general, the borders of the
Ottoman empire had shrunk in comparison with earlier
centuries,
and
the
empire
had
entered
a
period
of
“transformation.” In addition to France, other powers that had
influence and designs on the Ottoman empire were Britain and
Russia. Sultan Abdul Aziz was the thirty second Ottoman
sultan. He was brother to the previous Sultan, Abdul Mecid (r.
1839-1861), whom the Báb had addressed in a Tablet that has
been translated by Necati Alkan.23 In addition to the external
challenges that I have already outlined, he continued with the
Ottoman program of reforms, known as the tanzimat, which
included attempts at military, educational, and governmental
reforms, largely based on European models.
In those portions of the Súrat al-mulúk intended for the
Ottoman Sultan, Bahá’u’lláh comments appear to fall in o1ne of
approximately three general categories. The sultan must (1)
choose his advisors carefully, (2) fear, listen to, and obey God,
and (3) be a good and just king. Bahá’u’lláh of course elaborates
quite extensively in each of these categories. Perhaps he states
the most about justice. Bahá’u’lláh emphasizes the notion of
justice in his comments to kings in general and to the Ottoman
Sultan in particular. The theme of justice runs throughout his
works, including the earlier Arabic Hidden Words, the first
entry starting “The most beloved of all things in my sight is
justice…”
The idea of a just king goes far back into Iran’s pre-Islamic
history. It is perhaps best known through the notion of the
“circle of justice,” elaborated in the medieval Islamic period. In
a recent article, Linda Darling succinctly summarizes this circle
of justice by quoting the ninth century Sunni Muslim
theologian and adab (belles letters) writer Ibn Qutayba’s ‘Uyún
al-akhbár:
There can be no government without men,
No men without money,
No money without cultivation [or, prosperity],
And no cultivation [or, prosperity] without justice and
good administration.”24
Countless treatises have been written elaborating on this
theme, which form a genre of advice literature called “Mirrors
for Princes.” These texts often appear in the form of a wise man


The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk

or sage giving advice to a king. NiΩám al-Mulk’s Siyásatnámah,
for example, outlines the rules for kingly conduct, explaining
how the king should treat ambassadors, make kingly
appointments, and engage in other official kingly activities.25 In
these models, responsibility for maintaining the circle of justice
begins with the king and then continues to the subjects and the
army. The Báb, however, in the QA, inserts into the circle of
justice, the sovereignty of God as mediated through him, the
Báb. As representative of the Hidden Imam, he ultimately
possesses true sovereignty. Thus, the king’s sovereignty does
not depend on maintaining an army, but in this instance using
that army to come to the Báb’s assistance. Otherwise, his
sovereignty is subject to removal, at best.
In the Súrat al-mulúk, however, Bahá’u’lláh does not ask the
Ottoman sultan to give up his kingship. Rather, he asks the
sultan to behave with justice:
Let My counsel be acceptable to thee, and strive thou to
rule with equity among men, that God may exalt thy name
and spread abroad the fame of thy justice in all the world.
Beware lest thou aggrandize thy ministers at the expense
of thy subjects. Fear the sighs of the poor and of the
upright in heart who, at every break of day, bewail their
plight, and be unto them a benignant sovereign. They,
verily, are thy treasures on earth.26
In many other places in the Súrat al-mulúk, Bahá’u’lláh
encourages the king to take care of the poor in his midst--again
echoing one of the Hidden Words--and treat his people with
justice.
The Obligations of Ministers (Viziers)
In addition to Muhammad Shah, the Báb also addresses the
king’s vizier, Hájjí Mírzá Áqásí, in the Súrat al-mulk. He states,
O Minister of the Shah! (wazír al-malik) [Hájjí Mírzá
Áqásí c.1783-1848] Fear thou God, besides Whom there is
none other God but Him, the Sovereign Truth, the Just,
and lay aside thy dominion (al-mulk), for We, by the leave
of God, the All-Wise, inherit the earth and all who are
upon it (cf. Q.19:41), and He shall rightfully be a witness
unto thee and unto the Shah [King] (al-malik).27
Were ye to obey the Remembrance of God (al-dhikr) with
absolute sincerity, We guarantee, by the leave of God, that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
on the Day of Resurrection, a vast dominion (al-mulkan
‘azíman) shall be yours in His eternal Paradise (jannat al-
‘adn, Garden of Eden).28
Here, the Báb’s message to Hájjí Mírzá Áqásí is almost
exactly the same as his message to Muhammad Shah. Like
Muhammad Shah, Áqásí must give up his dominion and obey the
Báb. If he does this, he will be granted a vast dominion in God’s
“eternal paradise.” The Báb does not say anything about the
relationship between king and vizier.
Bahá’u’lláh, however, has a great deal more to say--more than
I have time to go into--about ministers, or viziers, and their
relationship to the ruler. He tells ministers of the state, for
example, to “keep the precepts of God, and to forsake your own
laws and regulations, and to be of them who are guided aright.”
The specific ministers whom Bahá’u’lláh alludes to in the Súrat
al-mulúk are the deputies whom he addresses as the wukalá
include the Ottomans Fu’ad Pasha and Ali Pasha. Bahá’u’lláh
strongly admonishes the ministers for their role in his
banishment, and then unlike the Báb, who tells Hájjí Mírzá
Áqásí to lay aside his dominion because everything belongs to
God, Bahá’u’lláh emphasizes that that he does not wish to rob
them of their possessions:
O concourse of Ministers of State! Do ye believe in your
hearts that We have come to divest you of your earthly
possessions and vanities? Nay, by the One in Whose hand
is My soul! Our intention hath been to make clear that We
oppose not the commands of the sovereign, nor are We to
be numbered with the rebellious.
Conclusions
Although the specifics changed from the era of the Báb’s
religion to the subsequent Bahá’í era and from the commands of
the Báb to the commands of Bahá’u’lláh, kings, neither in
general nor specifically, complied. Evidence from the Báb
himself suggests that Muhammad Shah never received or read
the QA. In 1844, Mulla Husayn Bushrúí, the Báb’s first major
disciple, who, according to Nabíl’s history, was present in his
home when he revealed the QA, went to Tehran.29 During that
trip, he apparently attempted to present the king with a copy of
the QA and a letter that the Báb had written to the king, but the
Báb states in a later communication, to be discussed below, that
he knew the letters were intercepted and did not reach the
king.30 We do know, however, that he did not comply with the

The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk

Báb’s requests: he did not wage a holy war on behalf of the Báb,
nor did he disseminate his writings or give up his dominion.31 I
have not been able to find any evidence of Sultan ‘Abdu’l ‘Aziz
having received or read the Súrat al-mulúk, let alone having
complied with Bahá’u’lláh’s admonitions. Rather, he had
Bahá’u’lláh ultimately banished to the prison city of Acre. At
the end, the sultan was deposed on 30 March 1876 and a few
days later, he committed suicide.

Author’s Note: I am grateful to Dr. Stephen Lambden for suggesting this
interesting topic to me as a possible research topic, and for his valuable
assistance throughout the preparation of this paper. I take full
responsibility for all errors.
1Stephen Lambden, “The Messianic Roots of Bábí-Bahá’í Globalism,” in
Bahá’í and Globalisation, ed. Margit Warburg, et. al. (Aarhus, Denmark:
Aarhus University Press, 2005), 31-32. See, for example, the phrase “yá
mash‘ar al-mulúk” in both texts.
2 See John E. Woods, The Aqquyunlu, rev. and exp. edition (Salt Lake City:
University of Utah Press, 1999), 4.
3 Abbas Amanat, Pivot of the Universe (Berkeley: University of California
Press, 1997), 7.
Stephen
Lambden,
www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-
THE%20BÁB/QAYYUM%20AL-ASMA’/Q-ASMA.001.htm.
For
scholarship on the QA, see Todd Lawson, “Interpretation as Revelation:
The Qur’an Commentary of Sayyid `Ali Muhammad Shirazi, the Báb,” in
Approaches to the History of the Interpretation of the Qur’an, ed. A.
Rippin (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1988), 223-253; Todd Lawson,
“The Qur’an Commentary of Sayyid ‘Ali Muhammad, the Báb (1819-
1850),” unpublished PhD thesis, McGill University, 1987.
5 William Chittick, “Two Seventeenth-Century Persian Tracts on Kingship,”
in Authority and Political Culture in Shi’ism, ed. Said Amir Arjomand
(Albany: State University of New York Press, 1988), 275.
6 See Bahá’u’lláh, The Summons of the Lord of Hosts: Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
(Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2002), 185-234. Hereafter cited as
Summons. Of course, the full Arabic text has been available for some
time and is available from the World Centre texts website. Bahá’u’lláh,
Alváh-i názilah khi†áb bi-mulúk va rú’asá-yi ‘arΩ (Tehran: Mu‘assasah-i
Millí-i Ma†bú‘át-i Amrí, 124/1977), 2-152.
7 For example, Adib Taherzadeh, in his Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, devotes an
entire chapter to this work. See Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh (Oxford: George Ronald, 1977), 301-336. More recently, Juan
Cole includes an extended discussion of the Súrat al-mulúk in his
Modernity and the Millenium, placing it in the context of Ottoman
constitutionalism. Juan Cole, Modernity and the Millenium (New York:
Columbia University Press, 1998), 109-139.
8 Taherzadeh, 312.
9 The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb, trans. Habib Taherzadeh
(Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1976), 41 (hereafter cited as SWB).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-
THE%20BÁB/QAYYUM%20AL-ASMA'/Q-ASMA.001.htm
10 www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-THE%20BÁB/QAYYUM%20AL-
ASMA’/Q-ASMA.001.htm
QA
1:
34-35;
www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-
THE%20BÁB/QAYYUM%20AL-ASMA’/Q-ASMA.001.htm
12 I am grateful to Professor Todd Lawson for bringing this point to my
attention.
13 Summons, 189.
14 For an extended discussion of Bahá’u’lláh’s reducing armaments, see Cole,
125-126.
15 Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal: the Making of the Bábí
Movement in Iran, 1844-1850 (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1989),
251.
16 See Denis MacEoin, “The Babi Concept of Holy War,” Religion 12 (1982),
108-109.
17 ‘Abdu’l Bahá, Makátíb-i ˙aΩrat-i ‘Abdu’l Bahá vol. 2 (Iran: Mu‘assasah-i
Millí-i Ma†bú‘át-i Amrí, 1330/1912), 266.
18 For more details, see EI2, “Muhammad Shah,” from which this brief sketch
was drawn.
SWB,
41-2;
www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-
THE%20BÁB/QAYYUM%20AL-ASMA’/Q-ASMA.001.htm
SWB,
42;
www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-
THE%20BÁB/QAYYUM%20AL-ASMA’/Q-ASMA.001.htm The “sacred
land” (al-ar∂ al-muqaddas) the Báb refers to here must be the ‘Atabát
region. Although the official translation of this passage includes a
parenthetical gloss equating the “sacred land” with Tehran, other evidence
from the Báb’s writings, including elsewhere in the QA itself, lends
weight to the notion that he actually means Iraq. See, for example, SWB,
69.
SWB,
42;
www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-
THE%20BÁB/QAYYUM%20AL-ASMA’/Q-ASMA.001.htm
SWB,41;
www.hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/03-
THE%20BÁB/QAYYUM%20AL-ASMA’/Q-ASMA.001.htm
23 This translation has not yet been published.
24 Linda Darling, “ ‘Do Justice, Do Justice, for That is Paradise’: Middle
Eastern advice for Indian Muslim Rulers,” Comparative Studies of South
Asia, Africa and the Middle East 22 (2002), 3.
25 See Nizam al-Mulk, The Book of Government, or Rules for Kings
(London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1978).
26 Summons, 212; Alvah, 40-41.
27 SWB, 42-43.
28 SWB, 43.
29 Muhammad Nabíl Zarandí, The Dawnbreakers: Nabíl's Narrative of the
Early Days of the Bahá'í Revelation, trans. and ed. Shoghi Effendi
(Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1932), 55.

The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk


30 See Denis MacEoin, “The Bábí Concept of Holy War,” Religion 12 (1982):
105. According to MacEoin, a copy of this letter exists in the INBA
collections 4011C pp 332-36 and 5006C pp 367-69. See Denis MacEoin,
The Sources for Early Bábí Doctrine and History: a Survey (Leiden: E. J.
Brill, 1992), 58 and 192. The INBA collections containing this first letter
of the Báb were unavailable to me.
31 It is unclear the degree to which the Báb expected him to do so. In the QA,
the Báb makes claims in line with various expectations found in the
massive heritage of Shi‘i Muslim messianic traditions. Numerous Imami
messianic hadith informed the religiosity of the Báb’s first followers.
These individuals were Twelver Shi‘is who had certain expectations of the
Qá’im, such as his waging of a universal jihad. See MacEoin, “The Bábí
Concept of Holy War,” 93-129; Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, 33-
69; Lambden, “The Messianic Roots,” 17-34.

Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Every great prophet has his mountain. Moses spoke to God
on Mount Sinai. (Exodus, 20:19) Jesus’ name is associated with
the Mountain of Beatitude overlooking the Sea of Galilee
(Matthew, 5:1ff) and with the Mount of Olives from where his
ascension is supposed to have taken place (Luke 24:50, 51; Acts
1:12). Muhammad received his first revelation, and was
consecrated to prophecy, in a cave on Mount Hirá’ near Mecca.
(Ibn Hishám, Sírat Rasúl Allah. Cairo, 1955 (1): 235ff) The Báb
associated himself with Mákú which he called “the Land on the
Mountain;” Bahá’u’lláh’s mountain is Mount Carmel (“God’s
vineyard”). It is also the mountain of Elijah who witnessed the
divine presence on Mount Sinai as well.
Mountains are not only lofty, nearer to heaven, so to speak,
but the less accessible, and the higher and more rugged they are,
the more secluded and more mysterious they seem. It is not a
coincidence
therefore,
that
in
all
cultures
mountains,
particularly summits, became the dwelling places of the gods.
The Greeks chose Mt. Olympus as the residence of their gods,
the Jews gathered at Mount Sinai to hear God speaking to them
from smoke-engulfed, burning Sinai, and chose Mount Moriah,
Zion, in Jerusalem for His temple “the place established for His
dwelling.” (Cf. Psalms, 132:13) Christian tradition placed the
mysterious event of the Transfiguration of Jesus on Mount
Tabor and turned this mountain, too, into a Holy Mountain
which was sanctified when Jesus ascended it. (Matthew 17:1-3)
More than a thousand years before Jesus, Deborah the
Prophetess sat under a palm tree on Mount Tabor and judged
the Israelites, and from that same mountain she led the army of
Israel, together with Barak, to defeat the Canaanite army of
Siserah. (Judges 4:4ff)
The worship of the gods and goddesses on the mountains was
one of the major issues against which the prophets of Israel
fought vehemently. From the many passages in Bible it is clear
that the idol worship on the mountains was the commonest and

Prophets and Mountains
most popular form of worship. It was no doubt exciting,
frivolous and accessible. Isaiah attacking the immorality and
inequity of his people using the words of the Lord added: “they
have burnt incense upon the mountains and blasphemed Me
upon the hills.” (Isaiah 65:7) Hoseah, who is probably the most
outspoken of all the prophets of Israel leaves no doubt about
the nature of this mountain worship. “They sacrifice upon the
tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under
oaks and poplars and elms, because the shadow of them is good;
therefore your daughters should commit harlotry, and your
spouses shall commit adultery.” (Hoseah 4:13)
This alien mountain worship constituted the real danger to
the Israel’s strict monotheism, and to the uniqueness of Israel as
the people of the one God. Therefore, the description of the
worship on the mountains is coupled with the emphatic order to
the Israelites to destroy it. “Ye shall utterly destroy all the places
wherein the nations which ye shall possess served their gods
upon the high mountains and upon the hills…” (Deuteronomy
12:2)
The mountains of the heathen worshippers were clearly the
negation of the Mountain of the Lord and His holy place. In
contradistinction to the abundance of the places on the many
mountains and hilltops where the worship of the gods of the
other nations took place stood the one mountain, onto which
only “he who hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not
lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully” “shall
ascend.” (Psalms 24:3-4) This mountain was identified as Mount
Moriah and Mount Zion, the same mountain to which Abraham
was sent to sacrifice his son Isaac: “Get thee into the land of
Moriah – said the Lord – and offer him there for a burnt
offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.”
(Genesis 22:2) This is the mountain, which was later identified
with the one on top of which the Temple of Solomon and the
subsequent temples were built. This is the Mountain that was
chosen by god himself to be the geographical connection
between Him and His people: “Thou shall bring them in, and
plant them in the mountain of thine inheritance, in the place, O
Lord, which thou hast made for thee to dwell, in the sanctuary,
O Lord, which thy hands have established.” (Exodus 15:17) It is
clear that also in the case of the monotheist faith of Israel, God
dwells, so to speak on a mountain. The interpreters of the Bibles
have gone one step foreword by asserting that this particular
verse means that: “the sanctuary below is directed towards the
Throne above.” (Rashi’s (1040-1105 France) commentary of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
verse )
In addition to Mount Zion, Mount Sinai is also identified as
the Holy; thus two Mountains are the Holy Mountains. Sinai is
the Mountain of the revelation. This is the mountain of the
public revelation to Israel and the private revelation to Moses.
This is the Mountain of the Lord from which he called his
prophet to come to Him. “And Moses went up to the God”
(Exodus 19:3) and he heard from Him that “the third day the
Lord will come down in the sight of all the people on Mount
Sinai. (ibid, 19:11) And as promised “the Mount of Sinai was
altogether in a smoke because the Lord descended upon it in
fire…” On this mountain, the private revelation to the greatest
prophets of Israel reaches its highest peak. For on this occasion
Moses achieves the most intimate cognition of the divine being
he comes as near as possible for a human being to the perfect
knowledge of the divine reality. What a tremendous power have
these simple words: “And the Lord spoke unto Moses face to
face as a man speaketh unto his friend.” (Exodus, 33:11) It is
not an accident that in later, Islamic tradition Moses is
described as Kalím Alláh – he who speaks with God. The Biblical
description is very clear on this point: these few words
emphasize the fact that not in fire and pandemonium came the
Lord to meet his prophet and “majordomo” but in a cloud; and
there they stood together, the creator and the created,
“speaking” to each other.
Next to Moses, only Elijah, the Prophet warrior, had a similar
occurrence but not identical. He too stood on Mount Sinai
when God Passed By and was part of the immense mystical
experience of being in the presence of the Divine Being. Elijah
came from Mt. Carmel to Sinai after proving the superiority of
the Lord of Israel over his competitor the Ba‘al. Hidden in a
small crack in the rock he heard the voice of God but he could
not experience the Mystery of His reality like Moses to whom
God said: Thou shalt see my back, for my face cannot be seen,
for no human sees me and remains alive.” (The whole episode:
Exodus 33:19-22) Elijah experience was different He witnessed
on the same mountain the Presence of God: “And behold the
Lord passed by and a great and strong wind rent the mountains,
and broke in pieces the rocks before the Lord; but the Lord was
not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord
was not in the earthquake. And after the Earthquake fire; but
the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire a still small
voice;” in it was the presence of God. Elijah witnessed the
raging powers of nature before the stillness of the divine

Prophets and Mountains
presence but he was not in the degree of “Thou shall see my
back.” However unlike Moses Elijah did not die but was taken
up to heaven “by a whirlwind.” (2 Kings 2:1) In such a way he
remains present in this world in all monotheistic traditions and
tales.
Mount Zion is not only the dwelling place of the Lord but
also the mountain from which he will appear in all His majesty.
From Zion adorned with beauty the Lord Shall appear and begin
his act of redemption for His people. In this way the Mountain
of the Lord becomes the scene of the fulfillment of the
Messianic prophecy.
Mount Sinai is identified with Moses not with Elijah, whose
Mountain is the Carmel. This mountain is coupled in the north
of the country with Mount Tabor. Therefore , we see that there
are four mountains that gained sanctity in the tradition of
Israel: Tabor and Carmel, Sinai and Zion. Many midrash
traditions are connected with these particular mountains. Most
of them deal with the question which of all these mountains
deserved that the Divine Presence should be on it or that the
future Temple of the Lord should be built on it, or that the
Torah should be given on it or that the Divine redemption
should be manifested on it. While dealing with these issues the
midrash emphasizes that prior to their sanctification in Israel at
least two of them were the sites of heathen worship.
Thus we read in Genesis Rabbah:
When, The Holy Blessed be He, came to give the Torah on
Sinai, the mountains started to quarrel with each other,
one saying on me the torah will be given and the other
saying on me the Torah will be given. Tabor came from
Bet Elim and Carmel from Aspamiah. This one says I was
called, and the other says, I was called (to come). To which
God said: “why leap ye high hills” (Psalms 68:16/17)? On
the tops of all of you idolatry was committed except for
Sinai on which there was no idolatry and this is the
mountain which God chose to sit on for which reason we
read (Exodus,19:20): “And god descended on Mount
Sinai.” (Genesis Rabbah, 99)
The neighbours of Israel were very familiar with the close
relation between the Mountains and the god of Israel. In one
case we are told that the Arameans of Syria blamed their
defeated by the Israelites on the hilly territory in which the
battle had taken place because the god of Israel, they said, is a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
god “of hills; therefore they were stronger than we. But let us
fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger
than they.” (1Kings 20:23)
When the kingdom of Israel came under the influence of the
cult of the Phoenician God Ba‘al and his spouse the Goddess
Astarte, Mt. Carmel was one of the main centres of their
worship.
The Book of Kings contains one of the most dramatic
accounts about the competition that took place on Mount
Carmel between Elijah, the lone zealot prophet of the God of
Israel, and the multitude of 400 priests of the Ba‘al. Elijah,
asking the help of God and receiving it in a form of divine fire
that came down from heaven, proved the uselessness of the alien
gods on that same Mountain which they wanted to claim for
themselves. (1Kings, 20:20ff) Local tradition connected his
memory with caves on Mount Carmel where he was supposed to
have found refuge. The Greeks attributed divinity to the
mountain or made it the dwelling place or one of the dwelling
places of Zeus. In this case it was the god or Zeus of the
Carmel. It is said that Vespasian, received the good tidings that
he was to become the Roman Emperor from the chief priest of
the god of Carmel.
The two mountains in the north of the Holy Land, Mt.
Carmel on one hand and Mt. Tabor on the other, attracted the
eye by their special features. They fired the imagination, and it
is no accident that they play important part in the Biblical
accounts and many traditions. Tabor, ascending from the
surrounding plain attracts the eye with its peculiar shape of
almost perfect dome, and the evergreen Carmel thrusts itself
majestically into the sea like a head of a gazelle. The unusual
topographical features of Tabor and Carmel conveyed certainty:
Nothing can change their features. It is not surprising,
therefore, that Jeremiah uses the example of the two mountains
in order to prophecies the certainty of the arrival of the
Babylonian King to attack on Egypt: “As I live saith the King,
whose name is the Lord of Host, Surely like Tabor amongst the
mountains and like Carmel by the sea, so shall he come.”
(Jeremiah 46:18)
These four mountains in the Holy Land: Sinai, Zion (Moriah),
Tabor and Carmel were combined in many Jewish traditions
describing the End of Days and the reestablishment of the
Lord’s Temple. The four Mountains will be assembled together
so that their summits combine to form the foundations of New

Prophets and Mountains
Jerusalem.
The Jewish Midrash, influenced no doubt by the evergreen
vegetation on the Carmel and the vineyards flourishing on its
fertile slopes, emphasizes the meaning of its Hebrew name: “the
vineyard of God (kerem el),” and in the Jewish Cabbalist
literature it is closely related to the mystery of the Divine
Presence. The Carmel stood out as a unique topographical and
geographical feature. It is
green, forested and lofty,
overlooking its environs and protruding into the sea. Its ancient
sanctity was reinforced by the Biblical references and by the
Jewish Midrashic tradition giving it a unique place in the
Messianic Times and the divine redemption. Its close
connection with the figure of Elijah, and his prophetic activity
emphasized this bond between the mountain and the Messianic
Advent. In the traditions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam, the
Prophet Elijah, who never tasted death, is the herald of the
Messiah. It is not surprising, therefore, that Bahá’u’lláh, as the
divine Messiah of the age, chose it as Mt. Carmel as his own
mountain as well as the resting place of the Báb, whom he
presented as his Herald, the modern embodiment of Elijah.

Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí
Ar∂∂i’l-Álif
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Who was Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar-i-Ardistání?
The historical information about Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar-i-
Ardistání that the authors were able to find are scanty.
However they are enough to give an understanding of the
allusions of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet addressed to him. Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar was almost certainly born in Ardistán, a town 2000
meters high, located at the southern foothills of the Karkas
mountain chain, adjacent to Dasht-i-Kavír, the central Iranian
desert, not far from Káshán and Náyin. This town, not very
important to day, in the past used to be a major city on the
route of the caravans and it has been described as the birthplace
of the Sasanian king of kings, Khusraw I, entitled the Just (531-
578 ce) or Anúshírván (of the immortal soul).
In his youth Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar lived in Ißfáhán, the renowned
artistic city in which Avicenna resided and taught in the twelfth
century. In Ißfáhán he was a pupil of Mulla Íádiq-i-Khurásání
(Balyuzi, The Báb 77), known as Muqaddas and later entitled by
Bahá’u’lláh Ismu’lláhu’l-Aßdaq, one of the four Hands of the
Cause appointed posthumously by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (see ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, Memorials 5-8). In that town he embraced the Cause of
the Báb in 1845 (Manuchehri) together with his master, when
Mullá Óusayn-i-Bushrú’í (1813-1849), the first of the 18
disciples of the Báb, known as Letters of the Living, went there
after having been dismissed by the Báb in Shíráz. Immediately
after his conversion Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar went with Mulla Íádiq to
Kirmán and then to Shíráz. In this town Mullá Íádiq and his
pupil met Mullá Mu˙ammad-‘Alí Barfurúshí, entitled Quddús
(1822-1849), the most illustrious among the Letters of the
Living. The three Bábís began to teach the new Faith and to put
in practice its precepts. Particularly, Mullá Íádiq carried out the
Báb’s instruction to modify the adhán, the call to prayer, adding

Prayers and Rituals
the words: “‘I bear witness that He whose name is ‘Alí Qabl-i-
Mu˙ammad [‘Alí preceding Mu˙ammad, the Báb] is the servant
of Baqíyyatu’lláh [the Remnant of God, Bahá’u’lláh]’” (Balyuzi,
The Báb 78). This action horrified the pious Muslims of the
town, who were already upset because of the people converted
to the new Movement through the efforts of the three Bábís,
and aroused their anger against the one who had performed that
action and his two friends. The three men were arrested, beaten,
their beards were burnt, their noses were pierced, through this
incision a cord was passed, and with this halter they were led
through the streets of the city. Therefore he and his two
companions were “the first to suffer persecution on Persian soil
for the sake of the Cause of God” (Nabíl, Dawn-Breakers 414).
Immediately after this punishment, the three men met the Báb in
the vicinity of Darvázih Sa‘dí (Door of Sa‘dí), when He came
back to Shíráz from His pilgrimage to Mecca (Mu˙ammad-‘Alí
Faizí). Later on, Mullá Íádiq and Quddús left Shíráz and Mullá
‘Alí-Akbar remained there, hiding himself in ruins outside the
town (see Balyuzi, The Báb 78n). In those circumstances he
addressed a letter to the Báb. In that letter he wrote that he had
taught the Cause in three towns, Yazd, Kirmán and Shíráz,
asked permission to meet the Báb and a guidance on his
behavior. From Shíráz Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar returned to Ardistán
where he continued serving the Faith of the Báb, while keeping
afar from any dangerous situation (Óusayní 269).
According to Sepehr Manuchehri, an expert of Azalism,
“after that event he adopted taqiyyah and never again involved
himself at times of danger” (3:3, see also Mazandarani, Kitáb
Zuhur Al-Haqq 3:103). Taqiyyah, sometimes translated as
dissimulation, “denotes dispensing with the ordinances of
religion in cases of constraint and when there is a possibility of
harm” (Strothmann). Its upholders, especially among the
Shi’ites, consider it as based on the Qur’an (see 3:28 and 16:106)
as well as on Óadíth and juridical commentaries. Taqiyyah was
not abrogated by the Báb, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes in His Tablet
known in the West as “Tablet of Purity”:
The Báb, at the outset of His mission, explicitly
prohibited tobacco, and the friends one and all abandoned
its use. But since those were times when dissimulation was
permitted (zaman-i-taqíyyih búd, lit.: it was the time of
dissimulation), and every individual who abstained from
smoking was exposed to harassment, abuse and even
death—the friends, in order not to advertise their beliefs,
would smoke. (SWAB 147, no. 129, Muntakhabátí 144)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Therefore Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar cannot be condemned for having
adopted taqiyyah. Moreover Shaykh KáΩim-i-Samandar from
Qazvín (1844-1918), one of the so called Bahá’u’lláh’s apostles,
and the son of Shaykh Mu˙ammad, entitled Nabíl, a devote
follower of the Bab and His visitor in the fortress of Máh-Kú
and Chihríq (see Taherzadeh, Revelation 3:88), writes that he
was his pupil in Tabríz for two years (see Samandar 172, qtd. in
Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís 200). Evidently the Mullá had a good
reputation among the Bábís and Bahá’ís. Samandar writes
moreover:
After the declaration of the Abhá Beauty, he [Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar] became hesitant for a while, sunk in his own
thoughts. Even in a Tablet, He [Bahá’u’lláh] commanded
me to bear a message to him, this great teacher of mine.
But before long the Will of God prevailed, and that
sagacious, acute and subtle man, subsequent to deep
investigation, came through the test and attained the
highest degree of certitude and knowledge, and engaged in
glorifying his Lord and teaching His Faith until he passed
away. (172, qtd. in Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís 200).
Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar, who lived for a long time after the Báb’s
martyrdom (see Óusayní 269), left a number of manuscripts,
comprising a collection in three volumes of works by the Báb,
that he copied in 1845. The Hand of the Cause of God Mr.
Abu’l-Qásim Faizí (1906-1980), who examined them before they
were dispatched to Shoghi Effendi in the Holy Land, writes:
“These books were written in black ink, but whenever the many
references were made to ‘Bahá,’ this word always appeared in
red. During the very first year of His ministry, the Báb had
instructed His amanuensis to write in this manner in order that
those who had no time or patience to read all His Writings
would be helped to see this Name” (8).
The circumstances of the Tablet’s revelation
Bahá’u’lláh has seemingly addressed this Tablet to Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar in that time when he was “sunk in his own thoughts”
(Samandar 172), with the intention of purifying him through
His vivifying Word “from the defilement of the superstitious”
(T1). This Tablet should thus have been written in the Baghdad
period (1853-1863).
Those were difficult years for the Bábís. The Báb had been
shot, all the greatest exponents of His Faith had been martyred,
and the one who had been provisionally appointed by the Báb as

Prayers and Rituals
“a figure-head (marja‘-i-ismíy-i-ahl-i Bayán, lit. figure-head of
the people of the Bayán) pending the manifestation of the
Promised One” (GPB 28-9, Kitáb-i-qarn-i-badí‘ 89), that is,
Mírzá Ya˙yá Núrí (1831-1912), a half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh,
was not able to act as the central figure of the community.
Bahá’u’lláh writes of this period.
Upon Our arrival in Iraq We found the Cause of God sunk
in deep apathy and the breeze of divine revelation stilled.
Most of the believers were faint and dispirited, nay utterly
lost and dead. (TB 131)
During His absence from Baghdad the situation worsened.
Shoghi Effendi writes: “Such was the decline in their fortunes
that they hardly dared show themselves in public. Kurds and
Persians vied with each other, when confronting them in the
streets, in heaping abuse upon them, and in vilifying openly the
Cause which they professed” (GPB 125). As soon as Bahá’u’lláh
came back to Baghdad from His retirement in Kurdistan, He
arose to regenerate the Bábí community. This Tablet was
probably written in this time and can be numbered among the
many exhortations He addressed to the Bábís to renew and
readdress their faith.
The Tablet to Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar as a path
towards reunion with the Lord
Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar, a devote follower of the Báb, who had
endured a harsh persecution on His path, is now “immersed in
the seas of doubt and passion” (T1) and Bahá’u’lláh wants to
purge him “from the defilement of the superstitious” (T1). He
“droneth round the Fire” (T2) and his position is so grievous
that, as Bahá’u’lláh writes, “the whirlwinds of wrath and the
tempests of rage were ready to blow from thy doubts upon all
beings. Fear thou God, then beg thou forgiveness seventy times,
so that He may forgive thee by His grace” (T6). Despite his
errors, Bahá’u’lláh consoles him saying that if he will put his
trust in God and will be God-fearing, God will turn that Fire
into “a light for… [him], and a mercy upon… [him], and a safety
to the worlds” (T2). His doubts depend on the fact that he relies
on human beings, who are as fallible as he is, whereas he should
rely only on the guidance of the Manifestation of God. This
teaching, later codified as “free and independent search after
truth,” occupies a central position among Bahá’u’lláh’s
teachings. As early as in the Seven Valleys He writes: “O My
Brother, journey upon these planes in the spirit of search

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
(ta˙qíq), not in blind imitation (taqlíd) A true wayfarer will not
be kept back by the bludgeon of words (kalamát), nor debarred
by the warning of allusions (ishárat)” (SV 24, Haft Vádí 116).
Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar has thus fallen into error because he did not
purify his “heart from all allusions (ishárat)… and from the
words (kalamát) of the people of the Qur’án” (T7). He should
rather look “with… [his] inward eyes the proof through which…
[his] faith hath been previously confirmed”, he should not
“question anyone about this,” and should be content “with what
is revealed on the part of… [his] Lord” (T7). In the days of
God’s revelation, most religious leaders are “wrapt in the dense
veils of the self and are among the heedless. And whosoever
questions such people as these is like unto one born blind who
questions another born blind” (T7). Bahá’u’lláh writes to Mullá
‘Alí-Akbar that He has perceived from him “the flavor of the
ancient allusions (ishárat) of them to whom the Qur’án was
given, allusions about references to the vicegerency (wißáyyat)…
wherefore… [he] was saddened” (T9). He adds: “Hast thou not
heard that He liveth in the All-Glorious Horizon and hath no
need of a vicegerent (waßí) after His Revelation?” (T10).
The concepts of vicegerent and vicegerency mentioned in this
sentence deserve an explanation. The Encyclopaedia of Islam
defines the word waßí as “a theological term in Shí‘ism variously
rendered as legatee, executor, successor or inheritor” and
explains that it “was first used to designate ‘Alí as the inheritor
of Muhammad’s worldly possessions (such as his books and
weapons) and of his political and spiritual authority” and later
on to designate “al-Óasan and the other imáms, all of whom are
awßiyá’” (Kohlberg). This concept is very important, because
the waßí is the One who comes after the Manifestation of God
and is invested with the authority of guiding the community in
its pursuing the goals set by the Manifestation of God. An
incomplete understanding of this concept in the past has given
rise throughout the centuries to many divisions in religions born
to be instruments of spiritual unity.
In the years when Bahá’ú’lláh addressed this Tablet to Mullá
‘Alí-Akbar the Bábí community did not know who was the
vicegerent/successor (waßí) of the Báb, because, as Shoghi
Effendi points out, “a successor or vicegerent the Báb never
named, an interpreter of His teachings He refrained from
appointing” (GPB 28). He had, instead, written in the Persian
Bayán: “apparently, since in this cycle neither prophets (nabí)
nor vicegerents (waßí) were mentioned, [these titles] are ascribed
to the believers, till the Day of Resurrection when each will call
the Tree if Reality as he will like to (va dar Ωaváhir chunkih

Prayers and Rituals
dhikr-i-nabí va vaßí dar ín kuúr ni-mí-gardad, bi-muminín i  láq
mí-shavad, illá yawm-i-qiyámat kih har-kas rá shajjariy-i-
Óaqíqat bi har ism kih khawhad dhikr mí-kunad)» (6:14).
However, Mírzá Ya˙yá, who, as has been said, the Báb had
simply named “a figure-head pending the manifestation of the
Promised One” (GPB 28-9), surreptitiously suggested that he
was the successor of the Báb. He openly claimed this station
only in the Adrianople period (1863-1868), when he began
proclaiming to be the “successor of the Báb (vaßíy-i-musallam,
lit. indisputable vigerent),” and to pride himself “on his high
sounding titles of Mir’atu’l-Azaliyyih (Everlasting Mirror), of
Subh-i-Azal (Morning of Eternity), and of Ismu’l-Azal (Name of
Eternity) (GPB 114, Kitáb-i-qarn-i-badí‘ 241). Therefore
Bahá’u’lláh explained in His “Law˙-i-Siráj,” revealed in
Adrianople:
In these days the leaders of the Bayán foolishly quote and
have quoted, to demonstrate their truth, the same proofs
that were quoted by the worst of the people of the
Qur’án, for instance, the concept of vice-regency
(vißáyat), a concept that My previous Manifestation has
utterly effaced from the Book, as everyone knows, and
beside the Letters and the Mirrors nothing has been
revealed by the Pen of the Merciful in the Bayán. (7: 40-1,
provisional translation by the authors)
It seems that Bahá’u’lláh intends here to warn Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar
against the nefarious influence of Mírzá Ya˙yá and his
upholders. Bahá’u’lláh confirms His previous words thus:
Yeah, God hath mirrors (maráyá) for Himself wherein He
may shine to themselves for themselves, if they are placed
before the sun and its rays… And they speak of the
splendor of the sun, if they are placed before it and if they
remain where they were beforehand. When they depart, the
light returns unto its source and place, and with the
mirrors the veils remain. (T11)
These words also deserve an explanation. The Báb had named
a “hierarchy (marátib-i-rú˙ání, lit. spiritual grades)” of
“‘Mirrors’
(maráyá)…
‘Guides’
(adillá)
and
‘Witnesses’
(shuhadá),” but all these people “had either been put to the
sword, or hounded from their native soil, or bludgeoned into
silence” (GPB 89, Kitáb-i-qarn-i-badí‘ 200). Bahá’u’lláh now
states that the authority conferred by the Manifestation of God
to His hierarchy also depends on their faithfulness. If they turn
their back to His guidance, they lose any authority. This

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
happened to Bahá’u’lláh’s son, Mu˙ammad-‘Alí (1853-1937, see
Taherzadeh, Covenant 125). He had been chosen to succeed
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the leadership of the Bahá’í community. But
since he rebelled against the will of his Father, he lost all his
rights, according to Bahá’u’lláh’s words: “‘Should he for a
moment pass out from under the shadow of the Cause, he surely
shall be brought to naught’.” (qtd. in WT 6).
Bahá’u’lláh also explains that the station (maqám) of “true
believer (mawqin)”
is not specially set aside for anyone at the exception of
any other one. By God, the True One, in this Day should
all creatures turn themselves towards the lights of the sun
that shine above the All-Glorious Horizon with the
ornament of God, the Omnipotent, the Exalted, the
Mighty, the splendor of the lights of the sun would be
reflected in them and none would deny it, except those
who are ignorant and far removed and other similar to
them. (T11)
The criterion is very simple: a “true believer” is whoever
turns his heart towards the Manifestation of God, “the sun that
shine[s] above the All-Glorious Horizon with the ornament of
God” (T11), and is able to conform to the following
exhortation:
Beware lest thou lookest at Me through the eyes of anyone
but Me and if thou wishest to know Me, look at Me
through My eyes and thou wilt not know Me through
anything but those, although thou ponderest so that thou
mayest know Me till the end that none among the
reckoners can reckon. (T12)
This exhortation refers to a Muslim tradition, known as
˙adíth an-nawáfil (nawáfil, sing. náfilih, supererogatory prayer),
and also Óadíth at-taqarrub, that is, of the approaching to God
(taqarrub), that recites:
Allah’s Apostle said, ‘Allah said, “I will declare war against
him who shows hostility to a pious worshipper of Mine.
And the most beloved things with which My slave comes
nearer to Me, is what I have enjoined upon him; and My
slave keeps on coming closer to Me through performing
Nawafil (praying or doing extra deeds besides what is
obligatory) till I love him, so I become his sense of hearing
with which he hears, and his sense of sight with which he
sees, and his hand with which he grips, and his leg with

Prayers and Rituals
which he walks; and if he asks Me, I will give him, and if
he asks My protection (Refuge), I will protect him; (i.e.,
give him My Refuge) and I do not hesitate to do anything
as I hesitate to take the soul of the believer, for he hates
death, and I hate to disappoint him.”’ (al-Bukhárí, ßa˙í˙
8.76.509; see Furúzánfar, A˙adíth, no. 148)
This tradition implies that a seeker who strictly adheres to the
religious laws will be able to approach to God to the point that
he will lose his own qualities and acquire His attributes. This
condition opens the eye of the heart, that is the capacity of
perceiving spiritual reality, beyond any mental and intellectual
category, and opens the way towards higher levels of spiritual
progress. In this condition the spiritual seeker is capable of
recognizing the Manifestation of God as disguised as he may
appear.
The “Reunion Prayer”
At this point the second part of the Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá
‘Alí-Akbar fí Ar∂i’l-Álif begins, known in the Arab and Persian-
speaking worlds as ßalát-i-˙ájat, the prayer of the needs. This
name may have been inspired by the following words at the end
of the Tablet:
I swear by the life of Him Whom God shall make manifest,
whoever performs this action wholly for the sake of his
Lord and rid of all attachment to all else except Him,
verily God can satisfy his wants (hawá’ij, pl. di ˙ájat) and
shall raise him up on the day of resurrection in such wise
that the company of the favoured angels will be
bewildered. (28)
The Bahá’í scholar ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq Khávarí (1902-
1972), who quotes this prayer in his celebrated anthology of
Bahá’í writings entitled Má’idiy-i-Ásmání, summarized these
words as follows: “Let him then raise his head, and ask from
God whatever he desireth (Óájat-i-khud)” (7:135). Bahá’u’lláh
also adds:
Verily, We have instructed and warned thee, that thou
mayest attain unto the presence (liqá’) of thy Lord and
mayest not be deprived of what is better for thee than the
treasures of the heavens and the earth. (T28)
Therefore this prayer may also be considered as a prayer
asking God for the greatest bounty: arriving at the presence of,
and recognizing His Manifestation in His Day. The meaning of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
the “Presence of God,” or reunion with God is explained in the
Kitáb-i-ˆqán:
whosoever, and in whatever Dispensation, hath recognized
and attained unto the presence of these glorious, these
resplendent and most excellent Luminaries, hath verily
attained unto the “Presence of God (liqá’u’lláh)” Himself,
and entered the city of eternal and immortal life. (KI 142,
¶ 151, Kitáb-i-Musta  áb 111)
Therefore this prayer may be also called ßalat-i-Liqá’, the
“Reunion Prayer.” It is an invitation to the mystic nuptials with
the Lord, “the Best-Beloved of every understanding heart” (PM
104, no. LXV, ¶ 2).
In this perspective, the instructions comprised in this prayer
become reminiscent of such ancient, or even modern, rituals as
the vestition of the bride to be presented to her groom in the
day of their wedding or the vestition of the priest before his
celebration of a rite. First, detaching oneself “from all things”
(T13), performing the “ablutions with clear and pure water”
(T13), hands and face (T14, 15), perfuming oneself and wearing
the best clothes (T17), then turning towards the Qiblih (T17),
standing “firm” in one’s “place” (T18), “with manifest poise and
dignity” (T18), then raising one’s hands “towards God” (T18)
and taking “three paces forward” towards the ideal reunion
place (T20, 22, 24), then prostrating oneself before His beauty
(T26), and finally silently invoking Him from one’s innermost
heart (T28).
Mystical meanings can also be ascribed to the prescriptions
contained in this prayer. They may be read as a description of
the mystical path leading towards the reunion with the Divine.
Detaching oneself “from all things” and performing the
ablutions is a clear reference to the purifying connotations of
the purgative way. Perfuming oneself and wearing the best
clothes is a preparation to the acquisition of virtues, an
acquisition that is perfected while invoking God that He may
turn the simple acts performed by one’s body into inner
attitudes of purification and expression of fragrant virtues,
typical of the illuminative way. The illumination is realized in
“three paces” (T20), each referring to a different Manifestation
of God. The first step refers to Moses, seemingly a symbol of
detachment from the world of names and of the capacity of
seeing God in each part of creation (T21). The second step
refers to Jesus, seemingly a symbol of teaching the Faith, of
detachment from the world of Attributes and spiritual

Prayers and Rituals
resurrection (T23). The third step refers to all the Prophets and
the Chosen Ones (T25), seemingly anticipating the entrance into
the Paradise of His Presence, a station in which the
Manifestations of God “are all invested with the robe of
Prophethood, and honoured with the mantle of glory”
(Bahá’u’lláh, KI 152, ¶ 161). Here one comes closer to the apex
of the mystical way, the unitive way, followed by a prostration,
a physical sign of the recognition of one’s nothingness, in one’s
praise of God. At last, the final invocation, asking that one may
avoid the risk of not understanding the signs of God:
I beseech Thee, O my God… not to reckon me among them
who heard Thy voice and failed to answer Thy call, or
them unto whom Thou hast revealed Thy Being in Thy
most exalted manifestation and glorious splendour, and
did not obey Thee. (T27)
This invocation is reminiscent of the fact the one’s spiritual
progress on earth is always uncertain:
How often hath a sinner attained, at the hour of death, to
the essence of faith, and, quaffing the immortal draught,
hath taken his flight unto the Concourse on high! And how
often hath a devout believer, at the hour of his soul’s
ascension, been so changed as to fall into the nethermost
fire! (KI 194, ¶ 214)
Therefore this prayer may also be called the “Reunion
Prayer,” in remembrance of the following advice by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá: “Beseech thou from God’s infinite grace whatsoever thou
desirest. But wert thou to heed my advice thou wouldst desire
naught save entrance into the Abhá Kingdom” (in CC 2:231, no.
1741).
Rituals in the “Reunion Prayer”
In the Bahá’í Faith rites, that is, established, ceremonious,
acts codified in the Holy Writings, are very few. The Universal
House of Justice explains that
the Faith has certain simple rites prescribed by Bahá’u’lláh,
such as the obligatory prayers, the marriage ceremony and
the laws for the burial of the dead, but its teachings warn
against developing them into a system of uniform and
rigid rituals incorporating man-made forms of practices,
such as exists in other religions where rituals usually
consist of elaborate ceremonial practices performed by a
member of the clergy… (on behalf of the Universal House

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
of Justice, 16 October 1979, in LG 478, no. 1573).
The rites associated with the “Reunion Prayer”, seemingly
uncommon in the Bahá’í Writings, are thus an exception in the
Bahá’í religious world. These rites are in part similar to those
associated with the Obligatory Prayers, with a few differences.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that “in every word and movement of the
obligatory prayer there are allusions, mysteries and a wisdom
that man is unable to comprehend, and letters and scrolls cannot
contain” (in CC 2:233, no. 1748). And Shoghi Effendi explains
that the “very few and simple” regulations associated with the
Obligatory Prayers “are of a great spiritual help to the
individual believer, in that they help him to fully concentrate
when praying and meditating. Their significance is thus purely
spiritual” (on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 5 November 1934, in
CC 2:237, no. 1759). The spiritual meanings of the physical
gestures that a person, spontaneously or conforming to a
prescribed rituals, performs during the prayer are also
recognized in the Christian world. The hypertext La formazione
permanente “paradigma” della formazione iniziale (Permanent
Training: Paradigm of the Early Training) devotes an entire
chapter to “The Body in Prayer.” It writes:
The golden rule of the body’s integration into prayer is… a
progressive interiorization of all physical gestures into
tranquility and unification, so that the whole person may
be absorbed in prayer, all one’s being may become prayer.
This unification may lead to a correct use of the physical
gestures expressing one’s personal, deep and deeply felt,
prayer as an adequate resource for a holistic prayer. One
should thus aim at one’s unification in an attitude of utter
receptivity and listening, in a prayerful and contemplative
silence, implying for the mind and the heart to be unified
towards God.
Performing the ablutions, turning towards the Qiblih,
standing, raising one’s hands and prostrating are part of the
rites of the daily Obligatory Prayers and of the repetition of the
Greatest Name 95 times a day. Perfuming oneself, wearing a fine
dress and advancing towards the Qiblih are new and typical of
this prayer. Also the explicit prescriptions of an attitude of
detachment “from all things” (T13) and of “manifest poise and
dignity” (T18) are typical of this prayer.
“perform ablutions with clear and pure water…” (T13)
Ablutions as a purification rite are a feature of many

Prayers and Rituals
religions. The Bible for example prescribes that the priests
“when they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, they
shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near
to the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the
Lord” (Exodus 30:20, KJB). Another form of ablution among
the Jews is the total immersion of one’s body in a pool filled
with running water, called mikvah or mikveh, to become
purified from such previous defilements, as for example a
menstrual cycle, a childbirth, a nocturnal emission, or coming
into contact with the dead or other ritually unclean objects.
Christians use ablutions in the baptism rite, supposedly going
back to the Pentecost Day (see Facts 2:38), in the rite of the
washing of the feet in Maundy Thursday, as a remembrance of
what Jesus did in the Last Supper (see John 13:4-5) and,
symbolically, in the lavabo rite, when the priest washes his
fingers with water while celebrating the Mass. Early Christians
used to wash their hands before praying, either during a
common rite or individually, in obedience to Paul’s exhortation
“I will therefore that men pray every where, lifting up holy
hands, without wrath and doubting” (1 Timothy 2:8). Muslims
use ablutions (wudú), hands and face, as a preparation to their
Daily Obligatory Prayers.
Bahá’í ablutions consist in washing the hands and the face in
preparation for prayer (see KA 182, n34). The water should be
pure, that is it should not be changed in colour, taste or smell
(see ibid. 212, n105). The essential features of Bahá’í ablutions
may be found in Shoghi Effendi’s “Synopsis and Codification of
the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.” The relevant
part is reproduced, integrated, in the footnotes, with
explanations given in note 34 of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas’ text.
a) Ablutions must precede the recital of the Obligatory Prayers.
b) For every Obligatory Prayer fresh ablutions must be
performed.
c) Should two Obligatory Prayers be offered at noon one
ablution for both prayers is sufficient.
d) If water is unavailable or its use harmful to the face or hands,
the repetition, five times, of a specifically revealed verse is
prescribed.
e) Should the weather be too cold the use of warm water is
recommended.
f) If ablutions have been performed for other purposes, their

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
renewal prior to the recital of the Obligatory Prayer is not
required.
g) Ablutions are essential whether a bath has been taken
previously or not. (KA 36)
“turn thy face towards the Sanctuary of God [Qiblih,
t.n.]” (T17)
The Qiblih (from the Arabic root qabila, to turn toward) is
“the ‘Point of Adoration’, that is, the point to which the
worshipper should turn when offering obligatory prayer” (in KA
n34). Turning towards a direction considered as holy while
praying is a common feature of many religions. The Jews pray
turning towards the sancta sanctorum of Jerusalem Temple.
Early Christians residing in Europe prayed turned towards East,
that is, towards Jerusalem. In the Moslem world, initially the
Qiblih was Jerusalem, but Mu˙ammad changed it later to Mecca
and the Kaaba Shrine (see Koran 2:142-4).
The Bahá’í Qiblih is appointed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and in
“Questions and Answers”:
Fear ye the Most Merciful and consider what He hath
revealed in another passage. He said: “The Qiblih is indeed
He Whom God will make manifest; whenever He moveth,
it moveth, until He shall come to rest.” Thus was it set
down by the Supreme Ordainer when He desired to make
mention of this Most Great Beauty. (KA 68, ¶ 137)
ANSWER: Facing in the direction of the Qiblih is a fixed
requirement for the recitation of obligatory prayer, but
for other prayers and devotions one may follow what the
merciful Lord hath revealed in the Qur’án: “Whichever
way ye turn, there is the face of God.” (KA 111, D14)
Shoghi Effendi explains that this orientation is
a physical symbol of an inner reality, just as the plant
stretches out to the sunlight—from which it receives life
and growth—so we turn our hearts to the Manifestation of
God, Bahá’u’lláh, when we pray; and we turn our faces,
during this short prayer, to where His dust lies on this
earth as a symbol of the inner act. (on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi, 24 June 1949, in CC 2:243, no. 1780)
“stand firm on your place” (T18)
People of all religions stand while praying, an attitude

Prayers and Rituals
denoting respect in many cultures. Jews stand while reciting the
19 blessings of the most important prayer in their liturgy,
Amidah (standing prayer), and face the sancta sanctorum of
Jerusalem Temple. Christians usually pray in their knees and
with their hands joined. However, Catholics stand up, as a sign
of special reverence, while listening to the words of the Bible
during the Mass. The hypertext La formazione permanente
explains that “the attitude of standing up while praying is
emphasized in early Christianity as a sign of freedom, of
priesthood, of participation to the resurrection of the Lord.
Therefore it was forbidden praying on one’s knees in Easter
Time.” Muslims stand up at the beginning of each “unity
(rak’ah)” forming the Daily Obligatory Prayer (ßalat).
In His “Reunion Prayer” Bahá’u’lláh says: “stand firm on
your place (qum mustaqarran)” (T18) as in the Long Obligatory
Prayer prescribes: “let him stand erect (yaqúma mustaqíman) and
say” (KA 95, Arabic edition 35). The spiritual meaning of this
physical gesture in the “Reunion Prayer” may be better
understood in the light of Bahá’u’lláh’s own words. For
example: “Thou seest Thy handmaiden, O my God, standing
(qámat) before the habitation of Thy mercy” (Prayers and
Meditation 147, Munáját 101), “Thou seest, O my Lord, Thy
suppliant waiting (qá’iman) at the door of Thy bounty” (Prayers
and Meditation 265, Munáját 178), “Aid me, O my Lord… to
stand (al-qíyam) humbly at His door” (Prayers and Meditation
209, Munáját 142) and “I have stood (qumtu) at the door of Thy
grace with utter self-effacement and complete abnegation”
(Prayers and Meditation 55, Munáját 43). These words suggest
the idea of a vassal presenting himself to his sovereign to both
render homage and invoke his grace. Last but not least,
Bahá’u’lláh repeatedly quotes Koran 83:6: “‘The Day when
mankind shall stand before the Lord of the worlds (yaqúmu an-
nás li-rabbi’l-‘alamín)’,” a verse alluding to the eschatological
meeting with the Lord on the Day of Judgment, a verse fitting
with the concept of this prayer as “Reunion Prayer.”
“raise thy hands towards God” (T18)
The meaning of praying with raised hands as both a request
for assistance and an expression of praise is intuitive and thus is
a feature of many religions. Psalm 141:2 recites: “Let my prayer
be set forth before thee as incense; and the lifting up of my
hands as the evening sacrifice.” Catholics raise their hands while
praying according to the following verse: “I will therefore that
men pray every where, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and
doubting” (1 Timothy 2:8). The hypertext La formazione

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
permanente elucidates this gesture as follows:
All religions value the praying language of the hands.
Hands raise towards the Lord in a searching (Psalms 62:5)
or an offering attitude (Psalms 140:2), raised hands denote
the evening sacrifice, open hands signify an attitude of
intercession, according to Paul’s advice (1 Timothy 2:8).
Raised hands also are a sign of sacrificial offering...
…The Odes of Solomon remember the primitive meaning
of this gesture: “I extended my hands and hallowed my
Lord, For the expansion of my hands is His sign. And my
extension is the upright cross. Hallelujah” (nos. 27 and
42).
Muslims raise their hands, upward towards the face, four
times during each Daily Obligatory Prayer. Bahá’ís are invited to
raise their hands in both their Medium and Long Obligatory
Prayer. In the Medium Obligatory Prayer Bahá’u’lláh specifies
that palms should be “upward toward the face” (KA 99) in the
Muslim way, an instruction that is not repeated anywhere else.
All the inner meanings of this gesture are confirmed in
Bahá’u’lláh’s words. In one of His prayers for the Fast He
writes: “And these are my hands, O my Lord, uplifted toward
the heaven of Thy favor and tender mercy. Wilt Thou, then,
turn away this poor one…?” (in Importance, sec. 3, no. IV).
Other references to hands raised in a supplicating attitude are:
“Thou beholdest how… my hands are stretched out unto the
heaven of Thy bestowals” (PM 182-3, no. CIX, ¶ 1) and “Thou
seest, O my Lord, how… my hands [are] raised up towards the
heaven of Thy bounty and favor” (Prayers and Meditations 270,
no. CLXXVI, ¶ 9).
“fall down upon the ground” (T26)
Jews and Christians prostrate rarely. Jews call prostration
nefillat appayim, that means “falling on one’s face.” They
prostate for example while reciting the liturgical poem known
as Aleynu (we must) concluding the musaf (Additional offering
or prayer) in the holy days of Rosh HaShanah and Yom Kippur.
In the Catholic liturgy prostration (prone, sometimes with
outstretched arms) is used during the imposition of the Holy
Orders and during the liturgy of Good Friday. The Catechism of
the Catholic Church explains:
Adoration is the first attitude of man acknowledging that
he is a creature before his Creator. It exalts the greatness
of the Lord who made us [Cf. Psalms 95:1-6] and the

Prayers and Rituals
almighty power of the Savior who sets us free from evil.
Adoration is homage of the spirit to the “King of Glory”
[Psalms 24:9-10], respectful silence in the presence of the
“ever greater” God. (par. 2628)
The
hypertext
La
formazione
permanente
explains
prostration as follows: “Full prostration, prone… is a sign of
utter humility before God, of a physical contact with the earth
from which we come, of utter surrender in our adoration of
God.” Muslim prostration (sujúd), used to glorify and praise
God, is part of the rites of the Daily Obligatory Prayer at the
end of each of its unities (rak’at).
The simple rules of Bahá’í prostration are explained in the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
God hath granted you leave to prostrate yourselves on any
surface that is clean, for We have removed in this regard
the limitation that had been laid down in the Book; God,
indeed, hath knowledge of that whereof ye know naught.
(KA 22, ¶ 10)
The spiritual meaning of this Bahá’í ritual act seems clear:
recognizing one’s nothingness before the Omnipotent Lord.
Bahá’u’lláh writes:
Behold me, then, O my God, fallen prostrate upon the dust
before Thee, confessing my powerlessness and Thine
omnipotence,
my
poverty
and
Thy
wealth,
mine
evanescence and Thine eternity, mine utter abasement and
Thine infinite glory. (PM 90, no. LVIII, ¶ 5)
…when they beheld the lights of Thy countenance, they set
their faces towards Thee, and prostrated themselves before
Thy beauty, submissive to Thy greatness and severed from
all things besides Thee. (in Importance, sec. 3, no. VI)
“perfume thyself” (T17)
Ancient Jews used incense and they had a special altar made
“of shittim wood” (Exodus 30:1) to burn incense upon it.
Exodus 30:22-29 describes the four “principal spices” that
should be used to perfume the oil of the sacred anointment,
employed to consecrate the shrine and the priests: “pure myrrh…
sweet cinnamon… sweet calamus… cassia.” Whoever took part
to divine worship was asked to “give… a sweet savour as
frankincense, and flourish as a lily, and send forth a [good]
smell” (Sirach 39:14). Christians also burn incense in the course

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
of several rites. Catholic priests incense the altar at the
beginning of the Mass, burn incense at the elevation of the
Sacred Host and the chalice after the consecration. Muslims
perfume their bodies at the beginning of their pilgrimage to
Mecca after having performed the specific ablutions and before
they wear the special pilgrim garment. After that they cannot
use any perfume. Muslims wear their best clothes and use
perfumes whenever they meet a specially respected person. An
episode of the Bahá’í history, reminiscent of this use, is
described by Shoghi Effendi as follows:
One night, aware that the hour of her [  áhirih’s] death was
at hand, she put on the attire of a bride, and annointed
herself with perfume, and, sending for the wife of the
Kalantar, she communicated to her the secret of her
impending martyrdom, and confided to her her last wishes.
Then, closeting herself in her chambers, she awaited, in
prayer and meditation, the hour which was to witness her
reunion with her Beloved. (GPB 74)
Wearing clean and perfumed dresses is a prescription of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
God hath enjoined upon you to observe the utmost
cleanliness, to the extent of washing what is soiled with
dust, let alone with hardened dirt and similar defilement.
Fear Him, and be of those who are pure. Should the garb
of anyone be visibly sullied, his prayers shall not ascend to
God, and the celestial Concourse will turn away from him.
Make use of rose-water, and of pure perfume; this, indeed,
is that which God hath loved from the beginning that hath
no beginning, in order that there may be diffused from
you what your Lord, the Incomparable, the All-Wise,
desireth. (KA 47, ¶ 76)
The meaning of this prescription may be better understood in
the light of the following words by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
It is even as a voice wondrously sweet, or a melody played:
although sounds are but vibrations in the air which affect
the ear’s auditory nerve, and these vibrations are but
chance phenomena carried along through the air, even so,
see how they move the heart. A wondrous melody is wings
for the spirit, and maketh the soul to tremble for joy. The
purport is that physical cleanliness doth also exert its
effect upon the human soul. (SWAB 146, ¶ 129)
This special rite has also purely spiritual meanings, as may be

Prayers and Rituals
deduced from even a superficial search in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings.
He writes for example: “This is the Day whereon every sweet
smelling thing hath derived its fragrance from the smell of My
garment—a garment that hath shed its perfume upon the whole
of creation” (GWB 29, sec. XIV, ¶ 6). If the word “garment” is
interpreted as “the Divine Revelation,” the spiritual meaning of
the act of perfuming oneself become more clear. Bahá’u’lláh
mentions “the smell of the love of Thy Lord” (GWB 283, sec.
CXXIX, ¶ 10), “the sweet savors of holiness” (GWB 304, sec.
CXXXIX, ¶ 8), “the sweet smelling savor of purity and
holiness” (GWB 306, sec. CXLI, ¶ 4). He also raises the
following prayer for his beloved ones:
Empower them also, O my God, to be as the rain that
poureth down from the clouds of Thy grace, and as the
winds that waft the vernal fragrances of Thy loving-
kindness, that through them the soil of the hearts of Thy
creatures may be clad with verdure, and may bring forth
the things that will shed their fragrance over all Thy
dominion, so that every one may perceive the sweet smell
of the Robe of Thy Revelation. (PM 190, no. CXIII, ¶ 2)
Thus perfuming oneself may be a symbol of an inner attitude
of spiritual radiance, of living a virtuous life.
The prescription of using perfumes and wearing beautiful
clothes is part of the elaborated rituals prescribed for the
pilgrimage to the Houses of Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad and of the
Báb in Shíráz, rituals which are not yet obligatory for the
present generations of Bahá’ís. As to the former, Bahá’u’lláh
writes: “And when he [the pilgrim] reacheth it, let him put on
his best clothes and then perform ablutions as God hath
commanded him” (qtd. in MacEoin 155). As to the latter, He
writes: “make use of the best of perfumes, then put on the best
clothes you are able to afford” (qtd. ibid. 155).
“attire thyself with thy finest raiment” (T17)
Wearing special clothes in certain occasions is part of Jewish,
Christian and Muslim rituals. Jews wear the tallit and the
kippah. The tallit, the prayer shawl, is a rectangular piece of
cloth, of various dimensions, usually white, more or less
decorated, characterized by special fringes known as tzittzit
attached to its four corners. The tallit is worn by any observant
Jewish male above 13 years, who is a “son of the
commandment” (bar mitzvah), that is, has become obligated to
observe the commandments. These fringes are prescribed so that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
the people wearing them “ may look upon it, and remember all
the commandments of the Lord, and do them” (Numbers 15:39).
The kippah is a skullcap traditionally worn by all observant
Jewish men in worship places, as a sign that they recognize the
superiority of God, that they accept the 613 commandments
(mitzvot), that they identify themselves with the Jewish people.
Both the tallit and the kippah are a sign that one is a Jew.
Christian priests wear special paraments when they celebrate any
religious function. These vestments are different in the
different celebrated rites. Christians wear special clothes when
they receive such Sacraments, as Baptism, “First Holy
Communion,” Confirmation and Marriage (in the latter case,
specially women). Muslim males wear a special garment (i˙rám)
during the days of their pilgrimage to Mecca. The Muslim
pilgrim garment is made of three elements: two clean, white and
unhemmed sheets and a pair of sandals. One of the sheets is
wrapped around the loins below the breast (izár), the other is
thrown over the left shoulder (ridá). The two sheets are secured
by a white belt. The sandals must not cover the ankles. The
pilgrim garment iÓrám is a symbol of purity, of renunciation to
evil and earthly possessions and of the equality of human beings
before God.
Some of the symbolical meanings of clothes in the Bahá’í
world may be better understood in the light of the following
words by Bahá’u’lláh:
From among all created things He hath singled out for His
special favor the pure, the gem-like reality of man, and
invested it with a unique capacity of knowing Him and of
reflecting the greatness of His glory. This twofold
distinction conferred upon him hath cleansed away from
his heart the rust of every vain desire, and made him
worthy of the vesture with which his Creator hath deigned
to clothe him. It hath served to rescue his soul from the
wretchedness of ignorance.
This robe with which the body and soul of man hath been
adorned is the very foundation of his well-being and
development. Oh, how blessed the day when, aided by the
grace and might of the one true God, man will have freed
himself from the bondage and corruption of the world and
all that is therein, and will have attained unto true and
abiding rest beneath the shadow of the Tree of Knowledge!
(GWB 77-8, sec. XXXIV, ¶ 1-2)
The “robe” of human beings is seemingly the body of their

Prayers and Rituals
spiritual endowments, here described as their “unique capacity
of knowing Him and of reflecting the greatness of His glory.”
Bahá’u’lláh in His typical use of the metaphorical genitive
associates the word “cloth” or similar with various spiritual
attributes: the raiment of “fear of God” (GWB 290, sec.
CXXXIV, ¶ 3), the “robe of forbearance and justice” (GWB
304, sec. CXXXIX, ¶ 8), “the vesture of forgiveness and
bounty” (TB 69), “the robe of righteousness” (TB 59), “the
vesture of true wisdom” (TB 166), “the raiment of goodly
deeds” (TB 178, KA 46, ¶ 73), “the vesture of high endeavour”
(TB 257). Finally, the “metaphor of the fragrant ‘garment’ is
frequently used in the Bahá’í Writings to refer to the
recognition of the Manifestation of God and His Revelation”
(in KA 164, n1). In this vein the Kitáb-i-ˆqán says: “God grant
that through His gracious and invisible assistance, thou mayest
divest thy body and soul of the old garment, and array thyself
with the new and imperishable attire” (KI 158, ¶ 168). This
condition is explained by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as follows: “As regards
the teachers, they must completely divest themselves from the
old garments and be invested with a new garment. According to
the statement of Christ, they must attain to the station of
rebirth—that is, whereas in the first instance they were born
from the womb of the mother, this time they must be born
from the womb of the world of nature” (TDP 96). This
explanation is perfectly suitable to the “Reunion Prayer.”
“take three paces forward, turning towards God” (T20)
Procession is a very common rite in the Christian world. It
provides for its participants to move along on a particular
course in a devotional attitude. A Jew procession is the
circumambulation of the Torah Scrolls (haqqafa), typical of the
festivals of Sukkot, the Feast of Tabernacles. In the first six
days of the nine days of this festival every day a circuit is made
by the worshippers around the Torah Scrolls. The seventh day
nine circuits are made, while chanting poetical hymns,
comprising an invocation of personal and community salvation
from any natural or social danger and from the hostility of the
enemies and a remembrance of the greatness of patriarchs and
great historical personages. Christian processions comprise
priests and faithful, provide for hymns, psalmodies and litanies,
the participants sometimes follow a statue or a sacred icon.
Processions are done by Catholics in Palm Sundays, falling on
the Sunday before Easter, as a remembrance of the triumphal
entry of Jesus into Jerusalem the days before His Passion, and
in the festivity of “Corpus Domini,” recurring sixty days after

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Easter, when the Church celebrates “Corpus Domini,” the
Eucharist, the body—corpus—of Christ in the sacramental sign
of bread. Muslims circumambulate the Ka’bah seven times, in a
counter-clockwise direction (tawáf), during their Pilgrimage.
Muslim pilgrims also run seven times back and forth between
the two little hills of Safa and Marwa located near the Ka’ba
(say’). These are the two hills where Hagar ran in search of water
for her son Ishmael, a water that then miraculously gushed forth
from the fount of Zemzem. Shiites do a procession during the
day of ‘áshúrá, commemorating the martyrdom of the Imam
Óusayn which took place on 10 October 680 ce at Karbala.
Taking three steps towards the Qiblih, as prescribed in the
“Reunion Prayer,” seems to be a symbol of the gradualness of
spiritual growth. Bahá’u’lláh often describes spiritual lovers as
pilgrims gradually moving towards the goal of their hearts, the
Lord:
O Son of Love! Thou art but one step away from the
glorious heights above and from the celestial tree of love.
Take thou one pace and with the next advance into the
immortal realm and enter the pavilion of eternity. Give ear
then to that which hath been revealed by the pen of glory.
(HW 24, Persian no. 7)
In this vein He mentions people who have directed their steps
“to the seat of Thy grace” (PM 118, no. LXXII, ¶ 3), “towards
Thy dearly-loved Sanctuary, and Thine adored and hallowed
Court” (PM 175, no. CV, ¶ 2), “towards the shores of Thy
oneness, confessing Thy singleness, acknowledging Thy unity,
and hoping for Thy forgiveness and pardon” (PM 221, no.
CXXXIV, ¶ 2), “towards the seat of Thy gracious favors” (PM
206, no. CXXI, ¶ 1), people whom nothing can hinder “from
directing… [their] steps towards the paths of Thy pleasure and
the ways of Thy Cause” (PM 204, no. CXX, ¶ 3). In this prayer
the three steps are seemingly a symbol of the lover’s gradual
advancement towards his Beloved One, through his adherence to
the Divine commandments.
“detach thyself from all things” (T13)
It is the first prescription by Bahá’u’lláh to Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar
and, as a ritual prescription, is typical of the Reunion Prayer.
Detachment, its qualities, prerequisites and effects are described
at length in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings.
As to its qualities, “the essence of detachment is for man to
turn his face towards the courts of the Lord, to enter His

Prayers and Rituals
Presence, behold His Countenance, and stand as witness before
Him” (TB 155). It is as “waters” flowing “out from the Supreme
Pen” (ESW 12); it is a “breath” (ESW 9), which a worshiper will
inhale if he were to ponder on whatever of Bahá’u’lláh’s prayers
he is reciting; and a “well-spring” from which one will “quaff
the wine of immortal life” (HW 41-2, Persian, no. 55).
As to its prerequisites, detachment is a “crown” with which
Gods adorns “the heads of… [His] loved ones” (TB 57); an
“atmosphere,” into which whosoever has quaffed “from the
fingers of… [His] bounteousness the living waters which have
enabled every one that hath partaken of them to rid himself of
all attachment to any one save… [God]” and to fix his “gaze
upon… [His] loving providence and… manifold gifts” (PM 240,
no. CL, ¶ 1) soars; a “light” which enlightens those who are
“ablaze with the fire of love and affection” (TB 74) and with
which God illumines the people He has attired “with the robe of
righteousness” (TB 59); an “ocean” upon whose shores “such
valiant souls as have passed beyond the sea of names… [pitch]
their tents” (TB 57-8); a “mead,” where those who have passed
“beyond the narrow retreats of… [their] evil and corrupt
desires” and have advanced “into the vast immensity of the
realm of God” abide (GWB 241, sec. CXV, ¶ 2); a “Horizon”
towards which people whose hearts have been brightened “with
the splendors of the light of… [His] knowledge” set their faces
(PM 275, no. CLXXVI, ¶ 23). Detachment is as “lofty heights”
attained by people who have quaffed “the wine of renunciation”
(KI 238, ¶ 267) and traversed “the vale of renunciation” (Gems
28, ¶ 38); an “atmosphere” where whosoever has quaffed “from
the fingers of… bounteousness the living waters which have
enabled [him] to rid himself of all attachment to any one save…
[Him]” (PM 240, no. CL, ¶ 1) soars.
As to its effects, detachment is a “breath” (ESW 9), which
would make one “have pity upon… [himself] and upon others”
(ESW 9); “a breath… which if it were to be breathed full upon
the world, all beings would renounce their lives, and sacrifice
their souls” (KI 232, ¶ 260). It is as “waters” that will “cleanse”
one’s soul (Summons 74, sec. 1, ¶ 143). It is a “Salsabil” that
cleanse the eye of him who drinks it from all veils (KI 74, ¶ 81);
“a court,” that when one enters it, he “casteth away all signs,
allusions, veils, and words, and beholdeth all things with an eye
illumined by the effulgent lights which God Himself hath shed
upon him... [and] seeth all differences return to a single word
and all allusions culminate in a single point” (Gems 29, ¶ 39).
The blessed beings flying on its “wings” soar “beyond all created
things” (KA 39, ¶ 54); wing their flight “towards the loftiest

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
summits of… creation” (PM 103, no. LXIV, ¶ 2); rise to such
heights that “neither the vain imaginations of the learned, nor
the multitude of the hosts of the earth… [succeed] in deflecting
[them] from His cause”; and attain “the station which, as
ordained by God, overshadoweth the entire creation” (GWB 34,
sec. XIV, no. 18). Detachment is man’s “true and abiding glory”
(SLH 47, sec. 1, ¶ 88) and “true adornment” (SLH 61, sec. 1, ¶
119); a “breeze” that God expects to be “wafted from the
meadows of… [human] hearts” (HW 38, Persian, no. 45); and a
“path” in which Bahá’u’lláh invites His lovers to demonstrate
what their “endeavors… will reveal” (HW 52), after He has
revealed his vivifying Word unto them.
No wonder, thus, that detachment is such an important
attitude for worshippers. Bahá’u’lláh writes: “whosoever
reciteth… [the Obligatory Prayer], even one time, with a
detached heart, will find himself wholly severed from the world”
(in Importance sec. 1, no. VIII). Being detached while praying is
also conducive to the greatest possible joy. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
writes:
There is a pleasure in offering prayers that transcendeth all
other pleasures, and there is a sweetness in chanting and
singing the verses of God which is the greatest desire of all
the believers, men and women alike. While reciting the
Obligatory Prayer, one converseth intimately and shareth
secrets with the true Beloved. No pleasure is greater than
this, if one proceedeth with a detached soul, with tears
overflowing, with a trusting heart and an eager spirit.
Every joy is earthly save this one, the sweetness of which is
divine. (in Importance sec. 2, no. XIII)
Last but not least, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá advises:
When a man commenceth the recitation of the Obligatory
Prayer, he should see himself severed from all created
things and regard himself as utter nothingness before the
will and purpose of God, in such wise that he seeth naught
but Him in the world of being. This is the station of God’s
well-favored ones and those who are wholly devoted to
Him. Should one perform the Obligatory Prayer in this
manner, he will be accounted by God and the Concourse
on high among those who have truly offered the prayer. (in
Importance sec. 1, no. IX)
This sentence seems to explain one of the reasons why
detachment is prescribed while praying. It is an attitude
conducive to the reunion with God, typical of a person who has

Prayers and Rituals
come to the “Valley of Unity” and thus “looketh on all things
with the eye of oneness, and seeth the brilliant rays of the divine
sun shining from the dawning-point of Essence alike on all
created things, and the lights of singleness reflected over all
creation” (SV 18). This is also the station, to which Bahá’u’lláh
summons Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar just before revealing the Reunion
Prayer:
Beware lest thou lookest at Me through the eyes of anyone
but Me and if thou wishest to know Me, look at Me
through My eyes and thou wilt not know Me through
anything but those, although thou ponderest so that thou
mayest know Me till the end that none among the
reckoners can reckon.
“with manifest poise and dignity (waqár wa sukún)”
(T18)
Waqár is an Arabic word, deriving from the root waqara,
“He, or it was, or became, still or motionless” (Lane, s.v.
waqara). Wehr ascribes to this root also a connotation of
“reverence” (1276). Lane defines waqár as “gravity, staidness,
steadiness, and calmness” (s.v. waqara, waqár). Bahá’u’lláh
describes “the dignity (waqár)” of the “station” of human beings
(KA 63, ¶ 123, Arabic edition 117).”
Sukún is an Arabic word, deriving from the root sakana, “it
was, or became, still, calm, tranquilized, appeased, allayed…”
(Lane, s.v. sakana). Wehr translates sukún as “calm, tranquility,
peace” (488). Bahá’u’lláh refers to the Manifestations of God as
abiding “upon the throne of peace (sukún) and certitude” (KI
53, ¶ 57, Kitáb-i-Musta  áb 41) and describes the “resignation
(taslím) and serenity (sukún)” (ESW 75, Law˙-i-Mubárak 55) of
the martyrs of the Faith before their torture-mongers, “the
rock-like stability (sukún) of… [His] chosen ones” (GWB 341,
sec. CLXIII, ¶ 2, Muntakhabátí 219), “the patience (ßabr), the
calm (sukún), the resignation (taslím) and contentment” (ESW
74-5, Law˙-i-Mubárak 55) of the Mázindarání Bábí.
The locution vaqár va sukún is used by Bahá’u’lláh while
describing the condition of the Bábí and Bahá’í martyrs, that He
defines
as
characterized
by
“
constancy…
firmness…
steadfastness… certitude... imperturbability (tamkín) and…
dignity (vakár va sukún)” (ESW 87, Law˙-i-Mubárak 64).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ascribes this attitude to Ustád Báqir and Ustád
AÓmad, two brothers natives of Káshán, that He describes as
“tranquil, dignified (vakár va sukún), confident, strong in faith,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
sheltered by the All-Merciful” (Memorials 72, Tadhkirat 117),
while living as prisoners in ‘Akká.
Therefore, Bahá’u’lláh seemingly prescribes to Mullá ‘Alí-
Akbar an attitude worthy of “the dignity (vaqár)” of the station
of human beings (KA 63, ¶ 123, Arabic edition 117), a station
that requires them to submit “unto such restraints as will
protect… [them] from… [their] own ignorance, and guard…
[them] against the harm of the mischief-maker” (ibid.). In other
words Bahá’u’lláh prescribes him to be submitted to the divine
Will. At the same time He asks him to adopt the attitude of
“serenity,” “calm,” and “stability,” typical of individuals ready
to give their lives on His path.
This attitude is also recommend by Bahá’u’lláh for the
recitation of the Obligatory Prayer. He writes that the
worshipper should “regard himself as utter nothingness before
the will and purpose of God, in such wise that he seeth naught
but Him in the world of being” (in Importance, sec. 1, no. IX).
And ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that in this condition the worshipper
“holdeth communion with God, seeketh to draw near unto Him,
converseth with the true Beloved of one’s heart, and attaineth
spiritual stations” (in CC 2:232, no. 1744), that is, he has
realized that kind of prayer that Western mystics call
contemplation.
The special meaning of the “Reunion Prayer”
Bahá’u’lláh writes at the end of this prayer:
I swear by the life of Him Whom God shall make manifest,
whoever performs this action wholly for the sake of his
Lord and rid of all attachment to all else except Him,
verily God shall satisfy his wants and shall raise him up on
the day of resurrection in such wise that the company of
the favoured angels will be bewildered. (T28)
These words resemble the words of the more famous “Tablet of
AÓmad”: “Should one who is in affliction or grief read this
Tablet with absolute sincerity, God will dispel his sadness, solve
his difficulties and remove his afflictions” (BP 211).
The Bahá’ís associate the “Tablet of AÓmad” with the
following words by Shoghi Effendi:
These daily obligatory prayers, together with a few other
specific ones, such as the Healing Prayer, the Tablet of
Ahmad, have been invested by Bahá’u’lláh with a special

Prayers and Rituals
potency and significance, and should therefore be
accepted as such and be recited by the believers with
unquestioning faith and confidence, that through them
they may enter into a much closer communion with God,
and identify themselves more fully with His laws and
precepts. (on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 10 January 1936,
qtd. in BP 208)
The “Reunion Prayer” could be one of these prayers “invested
by Bahá’u’lláh with a special potency and significance.” Indeed
this prayer summarizes the essential prerequisites of prayer
explained in the Bahá’í writings.
Bahá’í prayer is in the first place a spiritual obligation.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes: “It behoveth the servant to pray to and
seek assistance from God, and to supplicate and implore His
aid” (in CC 2:232, no. 1746) and explains:
Know thou, verily, it is becoming in a weak one to
supplicate to the Strong One, and it behooveth a seeker of
bounty to beseech the Glorious Bountiful One. When one
supplicates to his Lord, turns to Him and seeks bounty
from His Ocean, this supplication brings light to his heart,
illumination to his sight, life to his soul and exaltation to
his being. (qtd. in Esslemont 93)
As any spiritual obligation imposed on the Bahá’ís, also the
obligation to pray should be understood in the light of the
following
words
of
the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
“‘Observe
My
commandments, for the love of My beauty’” (KA 20, ¶ 4). This
concept seems implicit in the final words of the “Reunion
Prayer”:
Verily, We have instructed and warned thee, that thou
mayest attain unto the presence of thy Lord and mayest
not be deprived of what is better for thee than the
treasures of the heavens and the earth. If thou doest
perform it, it is for thine own sake, and if thou doest
neglect it, thy Lord, verily, can well dispense with all
creatures. (28)
Bahá’í prayer also is a remembrance of God (dhikru’lláh), a
remembrance that “cleanseth all things from defilement”
(Bahá’u’lláh, GWB 294, sec. CXXXVI, ¶ 1) and acts as “‘…a
ladder of ascent for the believer’” (Bahá’u’lláh, in Importance,
sec. 1, no. X), “a healing medicine to the souls and a light to the
hearts of men” (Bahá’u’lláh, in CC 2:228, no. 1732). In the
“Reunion Prayer” He writes:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Then, detach me, o my God, from this world and from the
world to come, cause me to enter the Paradise of Thy
presence (liqá’) and the Garden [Ri∂ván] of Thy mighty
and luminous glory. O Lord! Blot out from my heart every
remembrance (dhikr) except Thine, that I may arise to
praise Thy Being between earth and heaven. (25)
If the worshipper attains to this condition he prays “only for
the love of God, not because… [he] fear[s] Him or hell, or
hope[s] for bounty or heaven....” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá’, qtd. in
Esslemont 95), he is “associating with God” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
SWAB 201, no. 172), “is alone with God, converseth with Him,
and acquireth bounties… he will obtain the confirmations of the
Holy Spirit, and this will entirely obliterate love of self”
(‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Importance, sec. 2, no. XI). The idea of the
communion with God is the central motif of the “Reunion
Prayer,” whose recitation Bahá’u’lláh recommends to all those
who wish “to attain to the pinnacle of grace and draw nigh unto
the most exalted court” (T13).
In this condition the worshipper reaches “the kingdom of
mystery, and the worship of the Supreme One…. [comes near]
unto His threshold” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Importance, sec. 2, no.
XIII), “day by day… [his] awareness… increase[s], and, through
the power of the knowledge of God,… [he rends] asunder the
veil of error of the people of doubt” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in
Importance, sec. 2, no. XVI). The attainment of awareness is
part of the requests advanced in the “Reunion Prayer”: “Cause,
moreover, the waters of knowledge to flow out from my
mouth, in my recognition of Thy Self, the Merciful, that
through it I may produce Thy proof unto such of Thy creatures
as trembled on Thy manifest, radiant and undeviating path” (T23).
In this condition “the worshipper is delivered from the fire,
and entereth the paradise of God’s good-pleasure” (SWB 77-8).
For him now prayer is a need and a joy. In him the following
two sentences by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are realized: “If one friend feels
love for another, he will wish to say so. Though he knows that
the friend is aware that he loves him, he will still wish to say
so....” (qtd. in Esslemont 94), and also: “For a lover, there is no
greater pleasure than to converse with his beloved, and for a
seeker, there is no greater bounty than intimacy with the object
of his desire” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Importance, sec. 2, no. VII). He
thus realizes exactly what Bahá’u’lláh suggested at the beginning
of the “Reunion Prayer”:
Beware lest thou lookest at Me through the eyes of anyone

Prayers and Rituals
but Me and if thou wishest to know Me, look at Me
through My eyes and thou wilt not know Me through
anything but those, although thou ponderest to know Me
till the end that none among the reckoners can reckon. (T12)
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Memorials of the Faithful. Trans. Marzieh Gail. Wilmette,
Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.
_____ Muntakhabátí az Áthár-i-Óa∂rat-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, Illinois:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979.
_____ Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, Illinois:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1978.
_____ Tablets of the Divine Plan. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1993.
_____ Tadhkiratu’l-Vafá’ fí Tarjumat Óayát Qudamá’ al-AÓibbá’. Haifa:
Ma  ba‘ah al-‘Abbásiyyah, 1343 ah [1924 ad].
_____ A Traveller’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb.
Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.
_____ Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1944.
Afnán, Abu’l-Qásim. ‘Ahd-i-A‘lá. Oxford: Oneworld Publications, 1999.
Báb, The. Le Béyân Arabe. Le Livre Sacre du Babysme de Seyyed Ali
Mohamed dit Le Bab. Traduit de l’Arabe par A.-L.-M. (Louis Alphonse
Daniel) Nicolas [Paris: Ernest Leroux, 1905. Repr. East Lansing,
Michigan: H-Bahái, 2004.
_____ . Le Béyân Persan. Traduit par Louis Alphonse Daniel Nicolas (A.-L.-
M.). Paris: Librairie Paul Geuthner, 1911, 1913, 1914. Repr. East Lansing,
Michigan: H-Bahái, 2004.
_____ . Bayán-i-Farsi (The Persian Bayan). Teheran: Azali Publication, 1946.
Repr. East Lansing, Michigan: H-Bahá’í, 1999.
_____ . Selections from the Writings of The Báb. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1976.
Bahá’í Prayers: A Selection of Prayers. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1991.
Bahá’u’lláh. Áthár-i-qalam-i-a‘lá. Vol. 3. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
129 B.E./1972-73.
_____ .The Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1988.
_____ .Gems of Divine Mysteries. Javáhiru’l-Asrár. Haifa: Haifa Bahá’í
World Centre, 2002.
_____ .Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983.
_____ .“Haft Vádí,” in Áthár-i-qalam-i-a‘lá, vol. 3, pp.92-137.
_____ .The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh. Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1975.
_____ . Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992.
_____ . Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Arabic edition). Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1995.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
_____ . Kitáb-i-ˆqán: The Book of Certitude, 2a ed. riv. Wilmette, Illinois:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983.
_____ Kitáb-i-Musta  áb-i-ˆqán. Reprinted from the original edition, Egypt,
1934. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980.
_____ .Law˙-i-Mubárak-i-Khi  áb bih Shaykh Mu˙ammad-Taqí Ißfahání.
Persian Institute for Bahá’í Studies, Canada, 2001.
_____ .«Law˙-i-Siráj», in Má’idiy-i-Ásmání 7:40-1.
_____ .Munáját. Rio de Janeiro: Editora-Bahá’í Brasil, 1981.
_____ Muntakhabátí az Áthár-i-Óa∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh. Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahá’í-Verlag, 1984.
_____ .Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1987.
_____ .The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. 3d. ed. Wilmette, Illinois:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1986.
_____ . The Summons of the Lord of Hosts. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh.
Bundoora, Victoria: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 2002.
_____ . “Tablet of AÓmad,” in Bahá’í Prayers 209-13.
_____ . Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the KA. Wilmette, Illinois:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1978.
Balyuzi, Hasan M. The Báb. The Herald of the Day of Days. Oxford, UK:
George Ronald 1973.
_____ .Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford, UK: George
Ronald, 1985.
Bukhárí, al-. Mu˙ammad ibn Isma’íl. ßaÓíÓ. Translated by M. Muhsin Khan.
www.usc.edu/dept/MSA/fundamentals/hadithsunnah/bukhari
accessed
22 April 2006
Catechism
of
the
Catholic
Church.
2nd
edition.
www.scborromeo.org/ccc.htm.
Chittick, William. “Mysticism in Islam, A lecture delivered at the David M.
Kennedy Center for International Studies, Brigham Young University,
May 2003,” meti.byu.edu/mysticism_chittick.html accessed 8 April 2006.
Compilation of Compilations. The, Prepared by The Universal House of
Justice 1963-1990. 2 vols. Maryborough, Victoria, Australia: Bahá’í
Publications Australia, 1991.
Encyclopaedia of Islam. CD-ROM Edition v. 1.0. Leiden: Koninklijke Brill
NV, 1999.
Esslemont, John Ebenezer. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. 5th. rev. edn.
Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
Faizí, Abu’l-Qásim. An Explanation of the Greatest Name. Wilmette,
Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
Faizí, Mu˙ammad-‘Alí. Óa∂rat-i-Nuq  iy-i-Úlá. Langenhein: Bahá’í-Verlag,
n.d.
Furúzánfar, Badí’u’z-Zaman. AÓadíth va qißaß-i-Mathnaví: talfiqí az dú kitáb
‘AÓadíth-i- Mathnaví’ va ‘Má’khidh-i- qißaß va tamthílát-i- Mathnaví.
Edited by HΩusayn Dávúdí. 2nd ed. Teheran: Amír Kabír, 1381 / 2002.
Óusayní, Naßru’lláh Mu˙ammad. Óa∂rat-i-Báb. Mu’assisiy-i-Ma’arif-i-
Bahá’í, n.d.

Prayers and Rituals
The Importance of Obligatory Prayer and Fasting. Selection of Extracts and
Prayers from the Bahá’í Writings. Compiled by the Research Department
of The Universal House Of Justice. May 2000.
Ishráq Khavárí, ‘Abdu’l-Óamid. Má’idiy-i-Ásmání. A compilation of Bahá’í
Writings. 9 vols. Teheran: Mu’assisa Millí Ma  bu‘át Amrí. Vol. 7, 129 be
[1972].
Kohlberg, Etan. “Waßí,” in Encyclopaedia of Islam.
La formazione permanente «paradigma» della formazione iniziale: un nuovo
stile di vita nel contesto dei progetti personali e comunitari. 1st ed.
IntraText
CT.
Èulogos,
2007.
See
also:
Crediti
www.intratext.com/X/ITA0979.HTM
Lane, Edward William. An Arabic-English Lexicon. CD-Rom Edition
published by Thesaurus Islamicus Foundation. Cairo: Tradigital, 2003.
[Lane, Edward William (1801-1876). An Arabic-English Lexicon. London
and Edinburgh: Williams and Norgate, 1863-93.]
Lights of Guidance. A Bahá’í Reference File Compiled by Helen Basset
Hornby. rev. ed. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996.
MacEoin, Denis. Rituals in Babism and Bahá’ísm. Pembroke Persian Series
Vol. 2. British Academic Press, 1994.
Manuchehri, Sepehr. “The Practice of Taqiyyah (Dissimulation) in the Babi
and Bahái Religions,” Research Notes in Shaykhi, Babi and Bahá’í Studies
III, 3 (settembre 1999)  www.h-net.org/  bahai/notes/vol3/taqiya.htm.
Mázandarání, Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fá∂il. Amr u Khalq. 4 vols. Tehran:
Mu’assisa-i-Millí-i-Ma  bú‘át-i Amrí, 111–131 be /1954–1975; repr.
Hofheim-Langenhain, Bahá’í-Verlag, 1986.
_____ .Kitáb   uhúru’l-Óaqq. Vol. 3. Teheran: n.p., 1944.
Nabíl-i-A‘Ωam (Mu˙ammad-i-Zarandi). The Dawn-Breakers: Nabíl’s Narrative
of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
New York: Bahá’í Publishing Committee, 1932.
The
Odes
of
Solomon
Translation
by
James
Charlesworth,
www.misericordia.edu/users/davies/thomas/odes.htm.
Qadímí, Ryá∂. Sul  án-i-Rusul Óa∂rat-i-Rabb-i-A‘lá. Toronto: University of
Toronto Press, n.d.
Samandar, Shaykh KáΩim. Taríkh-i-Samandar. Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Teheran, 131 eb [1974].
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
_____ .Kitáb-i-qarn-i-badí‘. Translated by Nasru’lláh Mavaddat. Dundas,
Ontario, Canada: Persian Institute for Bahá’í Studies, 1992.
Strothmann, Rudolph [Djebli, Moktar], “Ta  iyya,” in Encyclopaedia of
Islam.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford, UK: George
Ronald, 1982.
_____ .The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1974-1987.
Wehr, Hans. A Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic (Arabic-English).
Edited by J. Milton Cowan. Fourth ed. Wiesbaden: Otto Harrassowitz 1979.

Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí
ar∂  i’l-álif 1
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
He is the Ever-Abiding, the All-Knowing, the
Omniscient.
1. O Pen of the Most High! Make mention of him who is
immersed in the seas of doubt and passion, that perchance
thou mayest purify him through that which floweth from
thee and purge him from the defilement of the superstitious.
2. Say: O servant who tarrieth in the land of bewilderment, and
droneth round the Fire, say: “In the name of God, the Most
Mighty, the Most Holy, the Most Glorious.” Then enter
therein, and let the fear of no one dismay thee, put thy trust
in God, the Lord of might and power. Verily, He causes it to
become a light for thee, and a mercy upon thee, and a safety
to the worlds. Beware, beware lest thou fearest the God Who
created thee by virtue of His behest, or hast a doubt about
the Revealer of the Bayán and what is therein whereby they
may recognize Him Who is the Compassionate, the All-
Merciful, and God hath quickened all things that they may
attain His presence. This is what We have revealed in all the
Tablets, if thou art of them that apprehend. All things are in
the grasp of His power, all faces submit to His sovereignty
and all were created through the potency of His weighty and
unerring Command.
3. Hast thou any doubt concerning Him before Whose
countenance every luminary bows down (see Koran 12:4),
before Whose majesty every man of glory is submissive,
before Whose sovereignty every man of light humbles
himself, before Whose knowledge every man of learning is
ignorant, before Whose door every man of wealth is poor,
before the manifestations of Whose might every man of
power is abject, before the signs of Whose potency every
mighty one is powerless, before Whose holiness every essence

Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar
is subjected to limitations, before the evidences of the lights
of Whose eternity every man of the eternal realm is
extinguished, and before the brilliance of Whose sanctified
and luminous Face every man of splendor is eclipsed?
4. Dost thou hesitate in your acceptance of Him on Whom all
books have descended, to Whom all Scriptures have been
revealed, and through Whom all the most glorious and
exalted Names have been created? Dost thou ask the shadow
about the sun and its light? Open thine eyes, then behold so
that thou mayest find it in its zenith, in its sovereignty,
might and grandeur with the lights that have enveloped with
their brightness the Concourse on high and the denizens of
the oceans of names and all that was and is, couldst thou but
perceive it. And should the ophthalmia of vain imaginings
prevent thine eyes from beholding the lights of the Beauty of
thy Lord, the Exalted, the Most High, heal thou them, in My
Name, the Healing, the Sufficing, the Manifest, the
Wondrous. Dost thou ask the drop that hath remained in the
depths of the darkest abyss about the ocean and its waves and
sovereignty? I swear by God, this is an injustice from thyself
towards thyself and towards thy Lord, the Mighty, the All-
Knowing. Doth it beseem a man that hath eyes to perceive to
ask about the sun in the sky after it has shone forth? No, by
the Lord of the worlds.
5. Beware, beware, the Decree of thy Lord is not dependent
upon the sanction of anything but Him or the acceptance of
any creature. Verily, all else besides Him have been created
through His command and have been fashioned through His
will. And He hath created them as He hath created thee, and
there is no difference in this day between thee and all else
except thyself, except him whom God hath assisted through
His Cause and acquainted with the manifestation of His Self.
And verily he is the best among all creatures in the holy and
preserved Tablets. Say: Verily He hath been known from
eternity through Himself, and not by the testimony of
anyone among His servants and their acceptance. He
remaineth for eternity as He was, and no one denieth this
truth but all contumacious deniers.
6. Therefore, O servant, be fair in thyself. Is God powerful over
His Cause or canst thou fix His manifestation in a time of
times? If thou recognizeth that He is powerful to exalt His
transcendent sovereignty, verily He manifesteth Himself as
He wisheth and no one questions what He desireth. And if
thou dost imagine that thou art powerful, adduce then thy

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
proof and be not of the negligent. Beware lest thou deemest
the Cause of God subject either to the limitations of thy self
or to those of any of His people. Know thou, then, that all
else besides Him is powerless to know His Being and the
nature of His Manifestation, except they who know Him
through a bounty on His part and a mercy from Him. Verily,
He is the Most Merciful of the Merciful. The whirlwinds of
wrath and the tempests of rage were ready to blow from thy
doubts upon all beings. Fear thou God, then beg thou
forgiveness seventy times, so that He may forgive thee by
His grace. And verily He is the Great Giver, the Bountiful.
7. Purify thine heart from all allusions that are in thee and from
the words of the people of the Qur’án. Then, arise towards
the atmosphere wherein the lights of the Face of thy Lord, the
Merciful, shine forth, that thou mayest perceive thyself
independent from whatever thou hast heard and mayest find
thyself freed from the worlds. O servant! I swear by God!
Verily, in this most great, most mighty Revelation, the
testimony of God hath been fulfilled ere the revelation of a
single letter of His Verses which the most learned of the
learned are powerless to comprehend. After this Revelation,
look thou with thine inward eyes upon the proof through
which thy faith hath been previously confirmed. Beware lest
thou question anyone about this. Content thyself with what
is revealed on the part of thy Lord. Verily, He suffices thee
above anything else but Him. Say: Praised be God, the King
of the Mighty Throne. Often in the time of the Revelation t
those to whom the people turn for answers (mas’ul, lit.
questioned persons) are wrapt in the dense veils of the self
and are among the heedless. And whosoever questions such
people as these is like unto one born blind who questions
another born blind. Does this profit him in any way? No, by
the Self of the Lord, the Most Exalted, the All-Wise.
8. Beware lest thou art among them that have clung to the hem
of their leaders in the time when God came upon the clouds
of the Cause in His Name, the Most August, the Most
Mighty, and have turned their back upon God in opposition,
and therefore the verdict of divine chastisement was
pronounced against them and they returned to their abode,
and wretched is the abode of them that have repudiated the
Truth. Cast the veil of vain imaginings under thy feet. Then
ascend towards the resplendent court of Sanctity and
Majesty, that thou mayest see all things under the shadow of
the Word that was revealed by His Pen, or even better under

Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar
the shadow of His Self, the Exalted, the Incomparable.
9. O servant! Verily, We have perceived from thee the odor of
the ancient allusions of them to whom the Qur’án was given,
allusions about references to the vicegerency and others,
wherefore I was saddened and the Manifestations of the
Names in their Realms and the Revealers of His attributes in
their dominions were grieved. For We have enjoined Our
servants in the Bayán to sanctify themselves from all that
pertaineth unto them, because all that pertaineth unto them
does not make them wholly independent in the Day of
Judgment and shuts them out from the presence of God and
deprives them of His holy fragrance, as thou thyself didst
behold and didst bear witness.
10. Hast thou not heard that He liveth in the All-Glorious
Horizon and hath no need of a vicegerent after His
Revelation? Say: Far be from the glory of God what I have
imagined in my heart and the wrongs I have committed, and I
was among the oppressors. And there is no temporal thing
with Him that His vicegerent may divide among his heirs. As
to His Cause, it is with Him and is not separated from Him.
Beware lest thou dost assign to Him any representative, or
vicegerent, or reckoner, or counselor, or peer, and be among
them that have truly repented. Verily, He is sufficient
through Himself to all creation and nothing is independent
of Him in the heavens and on earth, if thou art among the
mindful.
11. Yea, God hath mirrors for Himself wherein He may shine to
themselves for themselves, if they are placed before the sun
and its rays. This is what thou beholdest in the outer mirrors,
if thou art among the observers. And they speak of the
splendor of the sun, if they are placed before it and if they
remain where they were beforehand. When they depart, the
light returns unto its source and place, and with the mirrors
the veils remain. Thus have We explained unto thee that of
which thou wert unaware, that thou mayest be among the
true believers. And this station is not specially set aside for
anyone at the exception of any other one. By God, the True
One, in this Day should all creatures turn themselves towards
the lights of the sun that shine above the All-Glorious
Horizon with the ornament of God, the Omnipotent, the
Exalted, the Mighty, the splendor of the lights of the sun
would be reflected in them and none would deny it, except
those who are ignorant and far removed and others similar to
them.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
12. Hast thou not heard, O servant, that the Manifestation that
became manifest in the year Sixty was the Manifestation of
God and brought to a close the Prophethood of Muhammad,
the Messenger of God? Verily, God, thy Lord, is sanctified
from all mention, and allusion, and proof, and relation, and
association. Verily, He has been established throughout
eternity upon the Throne of Holiness and sanctified from all
created things and it would be unseemly for anyone to assign
to Him a vicegerent. Verily, the vicegerent is for those
prophets who were created through His word. Say: Blessed be
God, the most excellent of creators! Blessed be God, the most
excellent of makers! Verily, We have abrogated such names in
the Bayán and We have dashed to the ground the idols of
fancy, that none should remain shut out as by a veil by them
from God, thy Lord and the Lord of thy fathers. Beware lest
thou lookest at Me through the eyes of anyone but Me and if
thou wishest to know Me, look at Me through My eyes and
thou wilt not know Me through anything but those,2
although thou ponderest so that thou mayest know Me till
the end that none among the reckoners can reckon.3
13. Whenever thou wishest to attain to the pinnacle of grace
and draw nigh unto the most exalted court and desirest that
all the good in the heaven of the divine decree may be
ordained for thee, on the part of thy Lord, the Most Exalted,
the Most Glorious, detach thyself from all things, perform
ablutions with clear4 and pure water, as hast been ordained
for thee in the Book (Bayán)5 on the part of Him Who is the
Sovereign Revealer, the Ancient of Days and, while thou art
washing thy hands, say:6
14. O Lord! Cleanse me from all save Thee, and prepare me to
meet thee (liqá) in the day of the manifestation of Thy Beauty
and the rise (qiyámi) of Thy Self. Sanctify me from
whatsoever may shut me out as by a veil from Thy
resplendent Beauty. Purify me, moreover, O my God, that I
may recognise Thy Self, the Most Exalted, the Omniscient.7
15. And while washing thy face, say:8
16. O Lord! This is my face that I wash with this water, as Thou
didst ordain. I beseech Thee, therefore, O my God, by Thy
Name from which Thy servants,9 except the faithful
(muwaÓidún) among Thy creatures, are shut out as by a veil,
to cleanse my face with the waters of Thy mercy, flowing out
from the right hand of the throne of Thy Majesty, that it may
be purified through Thine hallowed, resplendent and

Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar
luminous Face. O Lord! Protect it, through Thy Name, the
Most Holy, the Most Exalted, the Most Wondrous, the Most
Glorious, that it may have no regard for aught else besides
Thee, and may not turn towards them who have disbelieved
in the greatest of Thy signs in the day of the manifestation of
Thy Self, the Exalted, the Most High. O my God! Withhold
not from me the glances of the eye of Thy loving-kindness,
and shatter not my hopes in the holy breezes of Thy favour.
Verily, Thou art He Who is ready to answer whosoever
calleth upon Thee and is nigh unto them that seek Thy
presence.10 Verily, Thou art the Possessor of Great Bounty! O
Lord! Illumine my face in the day when faces11 have turned
black and enlighten it with the lights of Thy bountiful Face.
17. And shouldst thou recite this after ablutions, it would be
permissible, and this is a grace on the part of thy Lord, the
Omniscient. When thou hast finished, perfume thyself, then
attire thyself with thy finest raiment, turn thy face towards
the Sanctuary of God (the Qiblih), round which at this
moment the spirits of every existence, whether seen or
unseen, and those who were not enjoined to prostrate
themselves before Adam and who have been and will always
be turned towards the countenance of thy Lord, the Most
Exalted, the Mighty, the Most High circle.
18. Then, stand firm in your place, raise thy hands12 towards
God with manifest poise and dignity and say:13
19. O Lord! I ask Thee by Thy Name, whereby Thou didst shine
forth upon all beings and didst transcend the entire creation,
that even as I have anointed myself with this perfume, so
Thou mayest imbue me with the fragrances of the holy
paradise14 of Thy mercy and with the breezes wafting the
savours of the raiment of Thy Self, the Almighty, the
Luminous, so that none15 may inhale from me but the pure
scent of Thy Grace and Favour, and I may be wholly turned
towards Thee and detached from all save Thee. Verily, potent
art Thou to do as Thou willest, and Thou art, in truth, the
Bestower, the Pitiful. O Lord! My Beloved,16 my Hope, the
Possessor of my being and my soul! Send down, at this
moment, upon Thy servant that which beseemeth the
sovereignty of Thy generosity and bounty and is worthy of
the wonders of Thy grace and celestial glory.17 Deprive me
not, O my God, of the things Thou hast ordained, in the
heaven of Thy will and the clouds18 of Thy purpose, for Thy
chosen ones, whom Thou hast singled out for Thine own Self,
the Almighty, the Beauteous. O Lord! I am poor, and I cling

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
to the cord of Thy wealth;19 I am lowly, and I hold fast to the
rope of Thy might and majesty; I am weak, and I have drawn
nigh unto the Pavillions of Thy transcendent power and unto
the glorified Tabernacle of the glory of Thy dominion and
sovereignty. Therefore, O my God, I am standing before
Thee, longing for Thy grace, forgetful of anyone except
Thee, fleeing from all else save Thee, turning towards the
sanctuary of Thy presence and the goal of Thy good-
pleasure.20 Is there anyone save Thee to whom21 I may turn?
Or any manifestation, except Thine Own,22 that I may
approach? No, by Thy Beauty. All that is manifest is as
nothing when compared with the revelations of the holy
lights of Thy greatness. and all that is exalted sinks into
oblivion when brought before the manifestations of Thy
glorious highness and loftiness. Send down, then, O my God,
upon Thy servant that which shall so enrich him as to
dispense with all the things which have been created in the
heavens and on the earth. Verily, Thou art the Most Merciful
of the Merciful.
20. Then, take three paces forward, turning towards God, and
while taking the first pace say:23
21. O Lord! Reveal unto me, in this station,24 that which Thou
didst reveal unto the Speaker (Moses) upon the Paran of Thy
love, and the Horeb of Thy benevolence, and on the Sinai of
Thine glorious and most exalted might and mercy! Detach me,
moreover, O my God, from the Names and their kingdoms,
lest I be shut out as by a veil, through them, from Him Who
created them by a command from Him. Thy might, in truth,
is equal to all things over all things. O my God! Cause me to
hear, moreover, Thy call from every tree, as Thou didst cause
Thy servant,25 whom Thou hast chosen and sent to the
worlds, to hearken to Thy call from the Lote-Tree of Thy
Cause.
22. Then take a second pace, stop and say:26
23. O Lord! Shine forth upon me,27 in this station, as Thou didst
shine forth upon the Spirit (Jesus), that I may arise to praise
Thy Self and to proclaim Thy verses among Thy heedless
servants, perchance thereby their hearts may be cleansed28
from all doubts and uncertainty regarding Thy Cause, at
which all, except a few, of them that dwell in the kingdoms
of names29 swooned away.30 O Lord! Sanctify me, in this
station,31 from the attributes and their kingdom, that have
come32 between me and the sight of the splendour of the

Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar
divine Essence. Give me to drink, moreover, O my God, of
the cup of immortality from the hands of the remembrance
of the Name of my Lord, the Exalted, the Most High,33 once
more.34 Verily, Thou35 art the Lord of immeasurable Grace. O
Lord! Give me to drink from the stream of everlasting life,
that I may be set afire by the heat of Thy love, in such wise
that Thy servants may be inflamed thereof. Cause, moreover,
the waters (salsabíl) of knowledge to flow out from my
mouth, in my recognition of Thy Self, the Merciful, that
through it I may produce Thy proof unto such of Thy
creatures as trembled on Thy manifest, radiant and
undeviating path.
24. Then,36 take a third pace forward, stop and say:37
25. O Lord! Shine forth upon me,38 in this station, as Thou didst
shine forth upon all Thy Prophets and Chosen Ones as have
drawn nigh unto Thee. Then, detach me, O my God, from this
world and from the world to come, cause me to enter the
Paradise of Thy presence and39 the Garden of Thy mighty and
luminous glory.40 O Lord! Blot out from my heart every
remembrance except Thine,41 that I may arise to praise Thy
Being42 between earth and heaven. O Lord! Forgive my
mighty sins, my grievous trespasses, all that in which I have
failed in my duty towards my Lord, the Exalted, the Most
High and my hesitation upon the path43 that hath
encompassed the worlds. O Lord! Attire me with the raiment
of forgiveness and the robe of certitude. Verily, Thou art He
Who supplieth the needs of those who seek Him.
26. Then fall down44 upon the ground and say:45
27. Praise be to Thee, O my God, for the wonders of Thy
bounties and the revelations of Thy benevolence towards me,
inasmuch as Thou taught me the ways of Thy knowledge and46
the paths of Thy guidance! I beseech Thee, O my God, by the
light of Thy face, through which all beings have been
enlightened and the entire creation hath been illumined, not
to reckon me among them who heard Thy voice and failed to
answer Thy call, or them unto whom Thou hast revealed Thy
Being in Thy most exalted manifestation and glorious
splendour, and did not obey Thee. Then, establish me upon a
seat of glory nigh unto Thy Name, the Merciful, in the
garden Thou hast created in the midmost heart of Paradise
and join me with such of Thy servants as have drawn nigh
unto Thee. Send down upon me,47 then, every good thing that
is in Thy knowledge, and cause me to be raised up on the Day

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
of Resurrection in the presence of the Manifestation of Thy
Self, the Inaccessible, the Most Exalted, the Powerful.48
28. Then lift up thy face from the ground, for thou hast
completed that which has been prescribed unto thee in this
lucid Tablet. I swear by the life of Him Whom God shall
make manifest, whoever performs this action wholly for the
sake of his Lord and rid of all attachment to all else except
Him, verily God can satisfy his wants and shall raise him up
on the day of resurrection in such wise that the company of
the favoured angels will be bewildered.49 Verily, We have
instructed and warned thee, that thou mayest attain unto the
presence of thy Lord and mayest not50 be deprived of what is
better for thee than the treasures of the heavens and the earth. If
thou dost perform it, it is for thine own sake, and if thou dost
neglect it, thy Lord, verily, can well dispense with all creatures.51

1 This provisional translation by Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
refers to the Arabic text of “Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar fí ar∂i’l-
álif,” received by the authors from the Bahá’í World Centre. The Tablet
was attached to the following letter:
Dear Bahá’í Friends, Your email letter of 24 July 2006 requesting the full
original-language text of a Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh, including a prayer to
be recited in time of need, published in part in “Má’idiy-i-Ásmání”
(  ihrán: Mu’assisiy-i-Ma  bu‘át-i-Amrí, 129 BE), volume 7, pages 131–
135 and “Amr va Khalq” (Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1986),
volume 4, pages 74–79, was referred to the Research Department for
study. A partial provisional translation into English has been published
in “Rituals in Babism and Bahá’ísm” (London: British Academic Press,
1994), pages 115-118. However, we enclose a copy of the full text of
the Tablet in its original language. With loving Bahá’í greetings. (The
Department of the Secretariat, 10 December 2006, to Dr. Faezeh
Mardani and Dr. Julio Savi)
Má’idiy-i-Ásmání and Amr u Khalq are two commented collections of
Tablets by Bahá’u’lláh edited by ‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Ishráq Khavárí (1902-
1972)
and
Mírzá
Asadu’lláh
Fá  il-i-Mázandarání
(1880c.-1957)
respectively. The authors have also consulted a text of this prayer
handwritten by Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín, sent by the Universal House of
Justice to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran on 11
Kalimát 133 BE [23 July 1976], through a photocopy dispatched by Mr.
Ya˙yá Haydarí to Mr. Ibrahím Takallú, on 6 Mihr 2536 [28 September
1977] (from now on “Iran edition”).
2 See “A servant is drawn unto Me in prayer until I answer him; and when I
have answered him, I become the ear wherewith he heareth ....”
(Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys 22, see also Hidden Words, 14, Ar. no. 44).
3 At this point the so called “ßalát-i-Óájat” begins. Má’idiy-i-Ásmání
introduces it with the following words: “A prayer revealed by the
Supreme Pen to realize important legitimate needs (ßurat-i-ßalatí kih
baráy-i-barávardih shudanih ˙áját-i-mashrú‘iy-i-muhimmi az qalam-i-A‘la

Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar

názil dhudih ast)” (131). Amr u Khalq calls this prayer “ßalát-i-˙ájat” and
presents it, in a chapter entitled “Prayers (dar ‘ibádát)” with these words:
“And the Most High has said in a Tablet (va níz dar lawhí ast qawlahu al-
A‘lá)” (74). The Iran edition is introduced by the following note
handwritten by Mr. Ya˙yá Haydarí:
Mr. Ishráq Khávarí in Má’idiy-i-Ásmání, vol. 2, 1st ed., p. 133, vol. 7, p.
131, 2nd ed., calls the quoted prayer “ßalát-i-Óájat,” that is Prayer in
time of needs. The Universal House of Justice writes in a letter written
on its behalf, to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran,
on 11 Kalimát 133 BE [23 July 1976], to which a photocopy of the
Blessed Tablet revealed in honor of Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar Ardistání,
handwritten by Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín, is attached: “It must be explained
that the prayer, which sometimes has been called ‘ßalát-i-˙ájat,’ that is
Prayer in time of needs, is part of a longer Tablet. This Tablet has not
been called ‘ßalát-i-Óájat’ by the Supreme Pen” (Ya˙yá Haydarí, 17
Murdád 2536 [8 August 1977]).
4 “clear (ßáfí),” Amr u Khalq writes ßáfin (74).
5 See “Quand vous voulez faire vos ablutions, asseyez-vous suivant la forme
de l’Unité (accroupisses-vous) et parfumez-vous avec des eaux parfumées.
/ Le fruit de cet ordre est, que, au jour du jugement vous arriviez avec de
bonnes odeurs auprès du soleil de la Vérité” (The Bab, Le Béyân Arabe
8:10, p. 174. “L’eau est pure par elle-méme et purifie par elle-méme les
autres objets quand elle n’a pas changé ses trois qualités: couleur, odeur,
goût” (The Bab, Sayyid ‘Ali Muhammad, Le Béyân Persan 6:2, III, p. 74).
6 The Iran edition and Amr u Khalq write this prescription in Persian:
“While washing his hands, let him say (Dar hingám-i-shustán-i-dast bi-
gúyad)” (2, 231).
7 “the Omniscient (‘Alím).” Amr u Khalq writes “the Mighty (‘AΩím)” (74).
8 The Iran edition and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání write this prescription in Persian:
“And while washing his face, let him say (Dar Óayn-i-shustan-i-ßúrat
bigúyad)” (2, 131).
9 “Thy servants (‘ibádu).” Amr u Khalq writes “most of Thy servants
(‘anhu áktharu’l-‘ibádu)” (74).
10 Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes mujíban ... qaríban (132) instead of mujíbun ... qaríbun.
11 “faces (wujúhu).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes “existence (wujúd)” (132).
12 “thy hands (yadayk).” Amr u Khalq writes yadák (75).
13 The Iran edition and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání summarize paragraphs 17 and 18
in Persian as follows: “Then let him perfume himself, and stand up,
and facing the Qiblih, let him raise his hands towards the threshold of
God, and say (Pas az án khud-rá mu‘aṭṭar namayad va rúy bi qiblih bi-ístad
va hard u dast bi dargáh-i-khudá buland kunad va bi-gúyad)” (3, 132).
14 “the fragrances of the holy paradise (nafa˙ati riḍváni qudsi).” Amr u
Khalq writes “the holy fragrances (nafa˙ati qudsi)” (75).
15 “none (a˙adun).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání does not write the word a˙adun (132).
16 The Iran edition adds at this point “my Desire (wa Maqßúdí)” (4)
17 “[Thy] celestial glory (imtináni-ka).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes “Thy
restraint (imtiná‘i-ka)” (132).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine

18 “clouds (saÓábi).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes “atmosphere (hawá’)” (132).
19 “Thy wealth (ghaná’i-ka).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes “Thy tender mercy
(‘ináyata-ka)” (133)
20 “Thy good-pleasure (riḍá’a-ka).” Amr u Khalq writes riḍá’i-ka (76).
21 “to whom (ilayhi).” Amr u Khalq writes ilay-ka (76), which seems a
mistake in transcription.
22 “except Thine Own (li-siwá-ka).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes li-siwá’i-ka (133).
23 The Iran edition and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání write: “Then, let him put down
his hands, take one pace forward in the direction of the Qiblih, stop,
and say (dast-háy-i-khud-rá bi-zír ávardih va yik qadam bi-samt-i-
qiblih písh ravad bi-ístad va bi-gúyad)” (5, 133).
24 “hadha’l- maqámi.” Amr u Khalq, the Iran edition and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání
add fi (77, 5, 133). In the text received from the Bahá’í World Centre
the preposition fí, in, is not written (a typo?). The word maqam has
connotations of both “place” and “station.”
25 “Thy servant (‘abdaka).” Amr u Khalq writes “[this] servant (abda)” (77).
26 The Iran edition and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání write in Persian: “Then, let him take
another pace, and say (yik qadam píshtar bi-ravad va bi-gúyad)” (6, 133).
27 “upon me (‘allí).” Amr u Khalq does not write “unto me (‘allí)” (77).
28 “may be cleansed (yutahharu).” Amr u Khalq writes tatahhara (77),
feminine passive, imperfect, conjunctive form of the verb tahara,
whose masculine form is yutahharu.
29 “in the kingdoms of names (fí jabarúta’l-‘asmá’i).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání
writes: “in the heaven and in the earth (fi’s-samawát wa’l-araßayn)”
(134).
30 “swooned away (inßa‘aqa).” Amr u Khalq writes inßa‘aqat (77).
31 “in this station (fí dhalika’l-maqámi).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes fí
fi‘lika’l-maqám (a typo?) (134).
32 “have come (yakúnu).” Amr u Khalq writes takúnu (77), feminine imper-
fect, indicative form of the verb kaná, whose masculine form is yakúnu.
33 “my Lord, the Exalted, the Most High (Rabbí al-‘Alíyi’l-’Alá).” Amr u
Khalq writes “my Lord, the Most High (Rabbí al-A‘lá)” (77).
34 “once more (fí hadha’l-karrati’l-ukhrá).” This locution may also be
translated as “in this second cycle.” An allusion to the Bahá’í vs the
Babí Dispensation?
35 “Thou (anta).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání does not write anta (134).
36 “Then (thumma).” Amr u Khalq does not write thumma (77).
37 The Iran edition and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání write in Persian: “Then, let him
take a third pace towards the Qiblih, and say (qadami siyyum rá
bardáshtih píshtar bi-ravad bi-ístad va bi-gúyad)” (7, 134).
38 “upon me (‘allí).” The Iran edition and Amr u Khalq do not write the
locution “upon me (‘allí)” (7, 78).
39 The Iran edition and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání repeat the preposition “in (fí)” (7, 134).
40 “Thy mighty and luminous glory (bahá’i-ka’l-‘azízi’l-muníri).” Amr u
Khalq writes “Thy utterance (bayán’ika)” (78).

Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar

41 “except Thine [mention] (dúna dhikrika).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání does not
write the locution “except Thine [mention] (dúna dhikrika)” (134).
42 “to praise Thy Being (bi thaná’i nafsi-ka).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes “to
praise Thee (‘alá thaná’ika)” (134).
43 “the path (siráti).” Má’idiy-i-Ásmání and Amr u Khalq write “His path
(sirátihi)” (134, 78)
44 “fall down (akhrur).” Amr u Khalq writes akharra (78), the perfect
indicative form of kharra, whereas akhrur is the imperative form, 2nd
person, masculine.
45 The Iran edition and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání write: “Let him then bow his fore-
head to the ground and say (bi-sijdih bi-ravad va dar sijdih bi-gúyad)” (8, 135)
46 “and (wa).” Amr u Khalq writes “on (fí)” (78).
47 “Send down upon me (anzil ‘allí)” (9). The Iran Edition does not write the
locution “to me (‘allí),” and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání writes “nourish me
(arziqní)” (135).
48 At this point Amr u Khalq and Má’idiy-i-Ásmání insert the locution
“the end (intihá)” (78, 135).
49 The Iran edition writes: “dar ín hingám bardár ßúratat rá az khák, zírá
tu anjám dádih-í ‘amalí rá kih amr shudí bidán dar ín law˙-i-mubín.
Sawgand bi-ján-i-man yaΩharuhu’lláh kasí-kih anjám dahad ín ‘amal rá
khálißan li-vajha’lláh va munkqati‘an ‘an dúnihú, bi-ta˙qíq bar avarad
˙aváhij-ash rá va bar míangízad úrá rúz-i-rastkhíz bi-zívarí kih
mutiÓayyir shavand az ‘an malá’ikiy-i-muqarrabín” (9) that is a Persian
translation of the Arabic text.
50 “mayest not (lá takúna).” Amr u Khalq writes lá takúnanna (79).
51 The Iran edition writes: “chinín ta‘lím dádím bi-tu va yád-kardím tu-rá
sháyad dark kuní liqá’i parvardigárat rá va mabáshí ma˙rúm az ánchih
bihtar ast baráy-i-tu az án-chi dar zamínhá va ásimánhá ast. Agar
anjám dahí baráy-i-khudat hast, va agar tark kuní parvardigárat bínyáz
ast az ‘álamyán” (9) that is a Persian translation of the Arabic text.
Má’idiy-i-Ásmání abridges paragraph 28 as follows: “Let him then
raise his head, and ask from God whatever he desireth (Pas az án sar az
sujdih bardárad va Óájat-i-khud-rá az khudávand bikhwahad)” (135).

The Guardianship and the Universal
House of Justice*
Ian Semple
When, earlier today, I was recalling these past years, it
occurred to me how much the British Bahá’í Community has
grown in that short time. When I left in 1961 I recollect there
were about eight hundred Bahá’ís in the whole British Isles, and
they were already not only operating twenty five Local Spiritual
Assemblies, but directing the work in east and west Africa, and
starting to think about the Pacific, and all sorts of things. At
that time they were in fact about the size of a normal local
congregation of a Non-Conformist Church, but the Faith
obviously had much greater strength – as you see by the range of
activities that they were undertaking. Now just see the size of
the meeting here and think of all the other friends in the British
Isles. It is a tremendous advance.
What I have been asked to talk about tonight is the
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice, which, in a
sense, is a brief outline of part of the history of the Faith. I
think history is vital for us to know and to understand but we
should also see ourselves as part of it. We cannot divide life
rigidly into the past, present and future. Academically, perhaps,
one has to. I remember when I was at university one of my
friends wanted to study the history of the First World War, but
he was told by his professor of history that he could not do
that, it just wasn’t history; it was current affairs.
Of course, really, current affairs is just a continuation of
history. This was brought home to me in 1962, when we were at
Bahjí commemorating the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh. In those
days we would go out there in the evening and have a meal
together, and then we would spend the evening either dozing or
walking around or sitting, talking, and then we would probably
go to sleep for a while and, finally, in the morning hours gather
for the commemoration of the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh. Well,
that particular night, while we were sitting around the table

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
where we had been eating, the Hand of the Cause Mr Samandarí,
who was there with us, told us 1how moved he was to be there
on that evening because it was the first time he had been in
Bahjí on the night of the Ascension since it took place. And we
realised he had been a pilgrim when Bahá’u’lláh ascended and
had been in the presence of Bahá’u’lláh. And here he was sitting
with us. That’s how short Bahá’í history is. This is just the year
162 – we are in the middle of the second century. We are not, in
Bahá’í terms, at the beginning of the 21st century; we are in the
second century. We are in the springtime of the world.
We remember this every Ridván when we think of the
declaration of Bahá’u’lláh. It also makes you think of the
relative youth of the Faith as you look at the developments that
have taken place in recent decades. We were recalling today the
visit of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the United Kingdom. I do not think
there are any Bahá’ís left here now that remember that visit but
there were when I first became a Bahá’í. It was when Shoghi
Effendi was here in London that he learnt of the death of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and had to return to the Holy Land. He was a very
young man. A lot of the Bahá’ís now are youth; just think what
it meant to a young man of twenty four to suddenly find
himself in the position of the Guardian of the Cause of God,
appointed by his beloved grandfather ‘Abdul-Bahá. It was a
shattering experience for Shoghi Effendi. Think of yourself ...
what would you do if you suddenly were told “Look! Here is the
Cause of God for a thousand years. Look after it. Be the
Guardian of this Cause, protect it, teach it, build it.” That’s
what Shoghi Effendi faced. And he faced doing it with both
tremendous positive assets and tremendous liabilities.
Positively there were many, many deeply devoted Bahá’ís
around the world who rallied to him, who turned to him as
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had said, who just longed to do what he wanted;
to do what he showed them for the advancement of this Cause.
It wasn’t that they were starting from scratch – ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
had already been educating them. You had people like Martha
Root who went around the world. Read the letters between
Martha Root and Shoghi Effendi and see the profound love that
existed between them. One must remember how small the Bahá’í
world was in those days when Shoghi Effendi became the
Guardian. There was a very lovely relationship of profound
friendship that existed among true Bahá’ís in those days.
They were nevertheless human beings and they had their
struggles. I remember Hasan Balyuzi telling me about the early
community in England. He said that they were real, strong

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
characters. They had to try to be Bahá’ís in those days. It wasn’t
easy for someone like Lady Blomfield to be a Bahá’í. They loved
one another, they would fight like cat and dog in a meeting, and
then go their ways, and then they had to come together again.
They had their strong ideas, and they had only just begun to
learn about the Faith. They hadn’t any of the letters of the
Guardian on which we so ardently rely – he had only just
become Guardian. They were strong characters, but they fought
for the Cause, they loved the Cause and they clung together.
And this unity among the friends, the love among the friends,
and the idealism of the friends, their willingness to go out and
sacrifice themselves was what enabled the Guardian to build so
much.
But we shouldn’t think it was easy for Shoghi Effendi. He
was faced with the most tremendous obstacles in the very early
years of his Guardianship. Some of the most prominent Bahá’ís
turned against him. Avareh, who was an outstanding teacher of
the Faith in Iran, thought he could tell the Guardian how to run
the Cause of God. Ahmad Sohrab, who had been the secretary of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, didn’t like the idea of the Administrative Order
and did all he could to undermine it. If you read nowadays some
of the things that Ahmad Sohrab wrote, they might sound very
reasonable. But you need to know how he sometimes showed his
“reasonableness” in the way he mistranslated some of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s talks. Sometimes when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá would talk about
the fear of God, Ahmad Sohrab would think this wasn’t the
thing people wanted to hear and translated it as the love of
God. To think one knows better that the Centre of the Cause is
the beginning of a slippery slope.
The Guardian had to face such issues, and right at the heart
of the problems he had with his family was one Bahá’í called
Nayir Afnán. He had been accepted back into the Faith after
having broken the Covenant and was there in the family, a
descendant of Bahá’u’lláh. There is a story I was told – by
Hassan Sabri, I think - about a Bahá’í who was on pilgrimage
shortly after Shoghi Effendi became the Guardian and went to
Bahjí. In Bahjí he was met by Nayir Afnán who lived in a little
house which is now between the Shrine and the Pilgrim House.
In conversation, Nayir said Shoghi Effendi was impatient and
was a very difficult person to work for, but of course he had
been appointed in the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
they naturally had to obey. It horrified the pilgrim that someone
would speak this way about the Guardian. When he returned to
Haifa, Shoghi Effendi asked if he had visited Bahjí and he said

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
“Yes”, and he asked if he had seen anybody there and the pilgrim
said “Yes, Nayir Afnán” and when Shoghi Effendi asked if Nayir
had said anything the pilgrim just couldn’t bring himself to
repeat the conversation and said “Oh, nothing in particular”.
Later that night he thought to himself, “What have I done?. The
Guardian asked me whether Nayir said anything and I didn’t tell
him!” So the next morning he was up at the crack of dawn to see
the Guardian and he recounted what Nayir had said, and the
Guardian said to him: “We must be grateful that he accepts the
Will and Testament. What he said about me doesn’t matter.”
Then, later, the Guardian’s sister, against his will, married
Nayir Afnán and Nayir Afnán gradually poisoned the whole
family against the Guardian. Rúhíyyih Khánum recalled how,
shortly after she was married, the Guardian would sit with the
members of his family and say, “This Nayir, this Nayir, this
Nayir, he will destroy you all! Send him away!”. And they
wouldn’t. And that is what happened: Nayir Afnán poisoned the
minds of members of Shoghi Effendi’s family against him, and
caused them all to break the Covenant.
I mention this now because it is the background against
which you can see what Shoghi Effendi achieved. When you read
those marvellous letters that he wrote to the west, Bahá’í
Administration, the World Order letters, his letters encouraging
the friends, all this outpouring of enthusiasm, of guidance, of
love was made against a background of barbs and criticism, and
problems caused for him by some of those who were closest to
him. I mention this at the beginning because you should
understand it, but this is not the totality of his problems. For
example, shortly after he became Guardian the followers of
Mírzá Muhammad-‘Alí stole the keys of the Shrine of
Bahá’u’lláh. Here was this young man facing such a crisis. He
eventually got them back, but remember that these were the
sorts of things he was dealing with when you look at what he
was doing for the whole Bahá’í world. He wrote these fantastic
letters, these marvellous letters, and it’s good to read them
through. Don’t just dip into them. Get Bahá’í Administration
and The Advent of Divine Justice and the World Order letters
and read them through, it may take quite a while, but you’ll see
the unfolding of his ideas.
The Hand of the Cause Leroy Ioas used to relate that the
Guardian had once said to him: “Leroy, did you think that, when
I became Guardian I had this whole pattern of the
Administrative Order laid out before me and I then began to
gradually unfold it to the Bahá’ís?” And Leroy replied that,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
indeed, that was what he did think. The Guardian replied that it
was not at all like that, he just had to take one decision after
another. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had said he would be guided and he
trusted ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. So, when something needed to be decided,
Shoghi Effendi, having confidence in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s promise,
would decide it. He would know it was right. He would then
move on and the next stage would evolve. Moreover, he didn’t
hesitate to change his mind occasionally. This is where one has
to understand that the Manifestation of God and those that He
leaves at the centre of His Faith are sensible people.
In one case, the Guardian had appointed as a goal of the plan,
that a translation of Bahá’í literature was to be made into a
certain language, and the National Assembly responsible wrote
to him saying “We’ve looked to find this language but we have
been told it became extinct some time ago. What do we do?
Shoghi Effendi said that they should go ahead and translate into
such and such another language. He didn’t say “Oh dear, I’ve
made a mistake, I can’t be infallible.” He said, “choose that – it
doesn’t work? - OK choose another one!” He had the
combination of great wisdom, of great confidence and great
humility, and of great good common sense, and you can see this
comes out in all his writings. So I do ask you to make a point of
reading through his writings. You may say it is difficult English,
and in some ways it is, but that’s because it’s extremely good
English. He says things clearly. Take a sentence of the Guardian
and it seems to be a very long sentence but in fact it is a
contracted paragraph. He’s got so many ideas in it. And he used
to read and write aloud. Rúhíyyih Khánum said he liked to read
aloud when he was writing and sometimes this helps if you are
having difficulties with the Guardian’s writing. Read it aloud.
Because that’s how he wrote it, and you will see in this way how
it makes sense and how it links together. You may be able to
make sense without reading it aloud but, even so, it helps
sometimes because you see the points in the flow of his ideas.
During all these events, the Guardian gradually built up the
Bahá’í world. He started with constructing the Administrative
Order. Early on, he had wanted to call for the election of the
Universal House of Justice and in fact he gathered to Haifa a
number of prominent Bahá’ís from around the world to consult
about what could be done. But he came to the conclusion that it
couldn’t be done, it wasn’t the time; it was premature. First he
had to build the groundwork on which the House could rest. So
you see all these letters about the election of Local Assemblies,
how Assemblies function; the spirit that has to suffuse

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
consultation. And then the election of National Assemblies and
how National Assemblies function. All this business of
administrative functioning was essential to the Cause. Some
Bahá’ís criticised him and said “What about the Divine Plan of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá?” In fact this is what Ahmed Sohrab said, he said
“Why are you talking about all this administration when
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ’s Divine Plan is there. Why don’t you put it into
action?” The Guardian explained that he had to have
instruments for the work.
Martha Root was the greatest teacher we’ve known but very
little remained of what she did because there was nothing to
follow up her achievements. There was no structure, few local
communities or Local Spiritual Assemblies, let alone National
Assemblies, committees and so on. So this is how the Guardian
approached things, with the guidance of God. As he told Leroy,
he didn’t see it all it from the beginning but he saw what he had
to do at each stage, and he did it. In those early years he raised
up the structure of the Administration and then began to
implement the Divine Plan of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He launched the
Bahá’ís on the series of great teaching plans: first of all, the first
Seven Year Plan when in the Western Hemisphere they had to
establish Assemblies in every state of the United States,
including Alaska, and every province of Canada, and establish a
centre in each republic of Latin America; then, in the second
Seven Year Plan, the teaching campaign to establish and
strengthen the Faith in ten countries of the then war-torn
continent of Europe
While the second Seven Year Plan was going on, Shoghi
Effendi encouraged various other countries to join in. In
Britain we had our Six Year Plan. That’s when I had the good
fortune to become a Bahá’í – towards the end of the Six Year
Plan, in 1950. At that time the community was just humming.
The pioneers had gone out all over the British Isles establishing
the Assemblies. These were very fragile institutions. The friends
had to keep re-pioneering to save the Assemblies. The National
Assembly would send out almost weekly bulletins as the end of
the plan approached: that there are two more gaps in this place,
three more there. And the friends would get up and pioneer, and
eventually the Six Year Plan was won. Just barely! With
tremendous effort, but it was a basis.
At each stage, the Guardian aroused the friends to establish a
foundation on which they could move forward. And the British
Bahá’ís had no sooner taken a deep breath, having accepted the
idea of completion of the Six Year Plan, when the Guardian

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
opened their minds to the idea of the Africa campaign. It’s one
thing to pioneer from London to Belfast, or Dublin, or
somewhere like this, but to pioneer to Africa? And if you talk
to pioneers of the Ten Year Crusade, you will hear a number of
them hadn’t the faintest idea where they were going. Írán
Muhájir tells me that when she and Dr Muhájir were to pioneer
to Indonesia she had only the foggiest idea where Indonesia was,
let alone what it was like. But there they went. These pioneers
just arose and went out and scattered the Faith all over the
world. The Guardian used to talk often of the need for the
diffusion of the Faith first and then for the suffusion of the
Faith in all these territories. To spread it all over the world and
then, in all these countries, to increase the depth of the
understanding of the Faith. This is what has been going on all
this time.
Having got the plans going Shoghi Effendi was using his
administration to send the Faith out in the world. He continued
the building of the Administrative Order, and a great
astonishment to the Bahá’í world came in 1951 when he
appointed the first International Bahá’í Council. In those days,
remember, we had just learnt to use Local and National
Assemblies and suddenly here was an international institution
that he said was the embryo of the Universal House of Justice.
The very thought of the House of Justice had been way, away,
in the future, but now we were given, as it were, a foretaste,
and we saw something beginning to function. In the Holy Land,
of course, the effect was to give the Guardian some reliable
helpers at last. For a long time his helpers had been his brothers
and cousins and they were the ones who turned against him.
Then, of course, he had married Rúhíyyih Khánum, and she
became his secretary. There is a wonderful message2 he wrote
referring to her as “my helpmate, my shield in warding off the
darts of Covenant-breakers and my tireless collaborator in the
arduous tasks I shoulder.” This is really a whole other story but
I hope, if Violette Nakhjavání comes again to London, that she
can tell you more about Rúhíyyih Khánum, because she was the
most extraordinary woman, of tremendous character, great
love, great understanding and profound humility. She was the
Guardian’s right hand, helping him and writing his letters, and
again you see the smallness of the Bahá’í world at that period.
You read a letter from Rúhíyyih Khánum to the Secretary of the
National Assembly of the British Isles and it starts “Dear John”.
John Ferraby was secretary and Rúhíyyih Khánum calls him
“Dear John”. He called her Rúhíyyih Khánum of course, but
you can see there was this closeness and this love between the

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
friends. Now, with the appointment of the International Bahá’í
Council, we saw some friends being sent to Haifa.
In England we were all astonished when we got a message to
the National Spiritual Assembly to ask Luftullah Hakim to go to
Haifa for services. Luftullah Hakim was a descendant of I think
the earliest Jewish Bahá’í in the Faith and he had been
pioneering. He had served ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and he was pioneering
at this time in Edinburgh, and so he went to Haifa, we didn’t
know why. Then there were two elderly ladies who were in
America, the Revell sisters, devoted Bahá’ís; they were called
there too: Jessie and Ethel, and they were two wonderful souls,
small lovely ladies, sisters, but very different in character.
Rúhíyyih Khánum said once that there were two saints in
Haifa. One was Ethel Revell and the other was Alice Kidder.
Alice was a companion of Rúhíyyih Khánum at that time, a
kindly, gentle, patient soul, a qualified osteopath who helped
many of us who got strains or similar problems from time to
time. Ethel Revell was also a saint in every way. She had a very
wry sense of humour. She completed her work every day. When
she was given a job she would work at it until it was finished,
and then she would go to sleep even if it took till the early hours
of the morning. The next day was a new day and she started
again. When I was on pilgrimage I got up rather early to get
ready to leave, but Ethel Revell was up already, in the kitchen
beginning to get breakfast. One of her eyes didn’t work
properly with the other, it looked out a little bit and she tended
to hold her head on one side. And as I came into the kitchen she
looked at me and she said, with a twinkle in her eye: “The early
bird catches the worm. But who wants a worm anyway?” That
was typical of Ethel. Now Jessie was quite a different character,
a bulldog, she had the International Fund in her hands; in fact
she had it in a pink toffee tin. She kept it in her room and her
room was the only room in the building that had a Yale lock on
it because she had the fund in there. And she would bargain for
the benefit of the Faith. She was absolutely adamant in defence
of the Faith. So now these two sisters were there, in Haifa,
together with the other members appointed to the Council.
We had just got used to the idea of the Council being called
into being by the Guardian when, the following December, in
1951, he appointed the first living Hands of the Cause of God
during his ministry. Until then the only Hands we had ever
thought of or heard of, were from the times of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá or the ones appointed posthumously, and clearly
they were the most outstanding people, but the idea of actually

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
having a Hand of the Cause in this world, whom you could meet
and talk to just never occurred to us. It was again something
for the future. Suddenly here were the Hands of the Cause
appointed by the Guardian. It was such a thrill for the Bahá’í
world. And I remember that one of the few I had met at the
time was Hermann Grossmann. And his character was so
outstanding that, once he was appointed, I thought “Oh yes,
that’s what a Hand is like”.
These Hands were appointed all around the world, and it was
only 1951. The Guardian had already started building the
Administrative Order at the base, and then got the National
Assemblies going, and then, suddenly, he started from the top
on the other arm of the Administration, so here was the
Guardian appointing his Hands. And they had been functioning
only a short time when he called on them to appoint the
Auxiliary Board Members. No one had even heard of the
Auxiliary Board members before – these helpers to the Hands
that the Hands themselves had to appoint. And some of the
Hands were asking the Guardian whom they should appoint, but
the Guardian replied that that was their job, He was appointing
them and they were to appoint their Auxiliary Board Members.
This whole concept was quite new and very difficult for some
Bahá’ís, because we had got out of the way of thinking of
certain Bahá’ís as being kingpins, we had got used to thinking of
institutions as the authoritative bodies and then suddenly to
have individuals who had rank and status and advisory authority
over Assemblies rather jangled the brains of the some of the
friends. They found it difficult to accept because we hadn’t got
used to the idea that the Administrative Order has two pillars,
and one of them is this pillar of appointed persons, the Hands
of the Cause and their Board members, doing certain functions
which are different from the sorts of functions we are used to
in other religions. They are not a clergy. They are very different.
The Guardian, in The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, describes
these different elements of the Bahá’í Administration. That is
again another letter to read through very carefully. For example,
Shoghi Effendi includes the principle of democracy which is
evident in the method of election. There is the principle of the
monarchy which is in a sense the Guardian and his functions.
Then of course there is the quality of aristocracy. Now some
friends thought the Hands were the aristocrats, but that’s not
it. The principle of aristocracy appears in the responsibility of
Spiritual Assemblies and their members to decide what they
believe is right; not merely what they think the people would

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
want. Assemblies are responsible to consult the Bahá’ís, to find
out what the Bahá’ís think, to find out what they need. But their
responsibility is to God, to decide by their conscience what they
believe is right. Now this is what aristocracy means, “the rule of
the best”. It is the principle of our elective bodies. Thus the
principle of a Bahá’í election is for the believer to vote for the
best that he or she can. That does not mean that those elected
are going to be marvellous - we are all just human beings; but
that is the aristocratic principle, that we should elect people
who we think are the best available, not just those who we
expect to do what we want them to do. The sovereign is not the
people, the sovereign is God. This is the Kingdom of God on
earth, not the republic of God on earth. And when we elect our
Spiritual Assemblies we are electing those who we feel are best.
Whom we can consult, whom we can advise, but whom we will
obey. This is the aristocratic principle of the Faith, and it’s
interesting how the Hands followed the same pattern when the
Universal House of Justice came into being and they accepted
its authority. But I will come to that later.
The Guardian had been building all this, and had given us the
vision of the Ten Year Crusade, which we were pursuing, when
he suddenly passed away. This was a most tremendous blow to
the Bahá’í world. He was young, 60 years old, when he died and
we loved the Guardian so intensely. As I said, it was a small
world and there were many Bahá’ís who had met the Guardian.
One of the greatest blessings of my life is that I had the bounty
of doing so. He was such a considerate person, and full of
enthusiasm. He had majesty – you would never underestimate
the stature of the Guardian – but he was so loving. I was a
British pilgrim, and when he welcomed me the first thing he
started talking about was the weather; he knew British people
talked about the weather! That was an example of how he helped
pilgrims to feel at ease.
I learnt later from Rúhíyyih Khánum how he had solved a
problem in relation to the western pilgrims. I mention this
because it is an example of how the Guardian dealt with such
issues. The problem was this, that the pilgrims used to be
gathered in a room, and the Guardian would come in to meet
them, and, as you know, in western society ladies do not stand
up for men when they come into the room. So some of the
western ladies, when the Guardian came in, would continue
sitting and hold out their hand to be shaken and say “How do
you do Shoghi Effendi?” Shoghi Effendi couldn’t permit this to
continue. To start with, it was too terrible a test for the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
oriental Bahá’ís who might witness it and he couldn’t allow that
to happen. But he didn’t issue an instruction that when the
Guardian comes in would everyone please stand up, including
the ladies. He so arranged it that in future he would be in the
room first. And then the pilgrims came in and so, of course,
they were standing up. (They didn’t come in sitting down!). And
then he could welcome them and show them to their seats. He
was a perfect host welcoming his guests. This is the sort of way
he solved problems. Nevertheless, he could be angry sometimes.
God knows, he often had sufficient reason to be angry. He
himself said he was not the exemplar of Bahá’í life. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá was that. Nevertheless, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also could be angry
when necessary; and also Bahá’u’lláh Himself.
The degree of love reached its peak in the Manifestation of
God. Rúhíyyih Khánum told me that throughout her childhood
it had been ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to whom she had felt most close and,
when she married, she asked one of the members of the Holy
Family, whether Bahá’u’lláh was really as loving as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
was. And this member of the Holy Family said, “Oh, compared
with Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wasn’t loving at all!” So we get a
little glimpse of the degree of the qualities of the Manifestation
of God.
But, to get back to the Guardian, Rúhíyyih Khánum said that
when, on occasion, he was angry, you could feel the whole house
shake. But, of course, he usually wasn’t angry with the pilgrims.
He was so loving, so understanding, so interested in the
pilgrims, he could see the genuineness of character.
One of the things I was frightened about when I went on
pilgrimage was that I had a sneaking feeling that the Guardian
could see right through me. He would know what I was like.
And that is a very uncomfortable feeling in relation to anybody,
and if it’s the Guardian of the Cause of God, it is extremely
uncomfortable. The resolution of that worry was given to me in
getting a glimpse of the nature of the Guardian himself. I felt
that, indeed, he saw right through me, but I also realized that
although he really knew you, there was the consolation that the
flaws he just ignored. They were not what he was interested in.
What he concentrated on was any possibilities that he could do
something with. Any possibility for positive capacity he would
then encourage. Many pilgrims had this similar experience. He
had this positive effect on the friends, and aroused their great
love and affection. The friends loved him very, very dearly and
when he passed away it wasn’t only the loss of the Guardian that
we suffered, it was the loss of Shoghi Effendi himself

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
His funeral, as you know, was in London and Rúhíyyih
Khánum was here. She comforted the friends, and she rallied the
Hands and took them back to Haifa and we received the
wonderful message that the Hands sent out from their first
Conclave, and they took forward the whole Ten Year Crusade to
a vic1torious conclusion.
The Guardian had been very worried by the midpoint of the
Crusade that the impetus was dying down, the outflow of the
pioneers had lessened. And he spoke to two lots of pilgrims in
two different ways. He said something similar to several groups
of pilgrims, but to one group he said “I called on them to
pioneer and they wouldn’t go, I called upon them to disperse
and they wouldn’t go. They will leave as refugees.” To others he
said “I called on them to pioneer and they wouldn’t go, I called
upon them to disperse and they wouldn’t go, I will not call upon
them again.” And not long after that he passed away.
Then, when the Hands reminded the Bahá’ís of the goals of
the Ten Year Crusade, the whole Bahá’í world rose up and the
Crusade was won. With the winning of the Crusade we had the
wonderful Congress here, and the House of Justice had been
elected. And this is where the House of Justice comes into the
picture.
The Universal House of Justice was faced with this situation
once it was elected: what happens to the Guardianship? There
had been some disagreement among the friends. Some said
“Obviously the Will and Testament says how the Guardian is to
be appointed, this can’t be done, so there can’t be any
Guardian.” Others were saying “Obviously there must be a
Guardian, it’s part of the whole Administrative Order. There
must be a Guardian.” The Hands very wisely said “Stop
speculating, that’s not your business. Only the Universal House
of Justice can give an answer.” And I remember that, when
Mason Remey broke the Covenant, claiming to be the second
Guardian, and the French NSA followed him, a new NSA was
quickly elected and a meeting of all the European National
Spiritual Assemblies was called, attended by the members of the
new French NSA. The Hand of the Cause Mr Faizi came to
Europe and attended this conference. He told all the friends,
“The House of Justice is shortly going to come into existence.
Beware! Don’t form any preconceived conceptions of what the
House of Justice will decide, or you will test yourself. Be ready


Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
for whatever it decides.”
From the point of view of the House of Justice this was, of
course, a tremendous problem. The Will and Testament, you
see, does not say how a Guardian is to be appointed. The Will
and Testament says firstly, about Shoghi Effendi, that Shoghi
Effendi will be succeeded by the first-born of his lineal
descendants. Now one problem is what is meant by lineal? Is it
only his children or does it include the other collateral branches.
We don’t know, we never had to answer the question. But that’s
in the air. Then, later on in the Will it states that the Guardian
must appoint his successor in his lifetime and this choice is to
be approved by the nine Hands of the Cause of God in the Holy
Land. If the Guardian’s eldest son does not fulfil the spiritual
qualities of appointment then he should choose another branch
and appoint him. It says nothing about what the Guardian
should do if all his sons turn out to be hopeless. Or if there’s no
one he could appoint. Which is what happened. The Guardian
had no sons, and all his brothers and sisters and cousins had
broken the Covenant. There was no branch for him to appoint.
People asked why the Guardian did not say anything about this.
The House of Justice in one of its letters, written on 27 May
19663, says we should understand that “in his very silence there
is a wisdom and a sign of his infallible guidance.” If you look at
the way he explains the Will and Testament it is quite clear that
the Guardian’s function is interpretation of the Sacred texts. He
interprets the Faith, he defends the Faith, he does not legislate
on what the text leaves open. And he himself used to stress that
he was meticulous in not legislating. Even with the Declaration
of Trust and By-laws of National Spiritual Assemblies, he got
the American National Assembly to formulate and enact the
Declaration of Trust and By-laws, informed by his guidance.
But he didn’t legislate them. He got a National House of Justice
to make this law. It wasn’t for him to say what the friends
should do if the Will and Testament leaves something
uncovered. When some friends had expressed to him their
worries, he had said that they had the Will and Testament and
the Universal House of Justice to turn to. And that’s what he
did. He couldn’t have said anything, it wasn’t a matter of
interpretation, so he didn’t say anything.
But then the Universal House of Justice was faced with the
problem: what do we have to do? Are we given this function of
legislation just so that in such a situation we can appoint a
successor? If we cannot appoint a successor, could we make a
law of how a successor can be appointed for Shoghi Effendi? Is

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
that why we have this authority? Or is that something far
beyond our capacity and it    would be a breach of our authority
to do that? This consultation had to be worked through and the
House of Justice also consulted the Hands in the Holy Land.
We now know exactly what the House of Justice eventually
said, in its message of 9 October 19634: “The Universal House
of Justice finds that there is no way to appoint or to legislate to
make it possible to appoint a second Guardian to succeed
Shoghi Effendi.”. That is what it decided and it is all it decided.
Don’t go extrapolating this with your own understandings. We
are not interpreters of the Cause, any of us. The House of
Justice is not the Interpreter of the Cause, it is not a prophet. It
stated what it concluded and we know what it is. That is
enough.
Later when friends asked questions, the House of Justice
explained how these events did not undermine the Covenant,
how the House of Justice’s authority was clearly in the texts,
and how authoritative interpretation, in the absence of the
Guardian, is no longer there. You should make yourselves
familiar with these letters.5
Later, also, the House of Justice had to decide whether it
could appoint more Hands of the Cause of God, but this is a
different situation. You see, the text of the Will and Testament
is different in the two situations, it doesn’t say how a Guardian
is to be appointed by his predecessor, it says how the living
Guardian is to appoint his successor. It is an active statement,
not a passive one. In the case of the Hands it does say how the
Hands are to be appointed: by the Guardian. It is a passive
statement, not an active one. So, without the Guardian you
cannot appoint any Hands. The House of Justice then had to
discuss this whole relationship between the House of Justice
and the Hands. Had it authority to tell them what to do? In the
absence of the Guardian, yes, it was the Head of the Faith. So it
then developed its relationship with the Hands. Then it was able
to bring into being the Boards of Counsellors, who are not
Hands, but they perform some of the functions of the Hands,
and they are able to carry forward this whole side of the
teaching and protection of the Faith, that the Hands had been
responsible for.
In all this work of filling in the gaps in the system – of
reconstructing the system – the House of Justice was
continually referring back to the texts of the Guardian and
consulting the Hands. It used to meet regularly every week with
the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land and, every time the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Hands had a Conclave each year, it would meet with the
Conclave and discuss the next major decision to be made. So
there was a very close inter-relationship between the Hands and
the House of Justice. It was a profoundly loving relationship
that deepened over the years. A very sad experience for the
members of the House of Justice over these past years has been
the passing of the Hands.
Two very serious events have, as it were, burned the hearts of
the members of the House of Justice. One is the persecution in
Iran where it had to study every aspect of the situation, seek the
advice of the friends in Iran and then decide what should be
done on each occasion, hoping and praying that no action it
took would precipitate any worse persecutions. This gradually
took things forward. To a major degree, the guidance had the
desired effect, but the friends continued to suffer very much in
Iran and this has been a burden on the House for many years.
The other has been the gradual loss of the Hands of the Cause –
this whole institution which had been there, as a faithful
bulwark, since the Universal House of Justice came into being.
Slowly individual Hands passed away. Some suddenly, some
through old age. One, Enoch Olinga, being murdered. From the
House of Justice members’ point of view they were not just
high officers of the Faith that we were losing, they were
intimate friends that we would not see any more.
It was the passing of ‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúhíyyih Khánum on 19
January 2000, however, that had the most profound effect on
the Bahá’í World Centre. She had been a tower of strength to
the Universal House of Justice for all those years. She had
served the Guardian with unshakable fidelity and she
unhesitatingly transferred this loyalty to the House of Justice.
And just as she often asked the Guardian questions, she was
often raising issues with the House of Justice. I remember, one
evening when I was on pilgrimage, one of the pilgrims at the
dinner table asked Shoghi Effendi to confirm whether what he
had just said meant so and so. Rúhíyyih Khánum obviously
thought that the pilgrim had misunderstood, and she intervened
and said “Oh no!” and the Guardian turned to her and said “Oh
yes!” This is in front of the pilgrims! The Guardian spoke so
freely in front of the pilgrims. And there was this lovely
relationship between him and Rúhíyyih Khánum and he would,
as it were, pull her leg occasionally. She used to take little
vitamin pills, and he would comment at the table about
Americans’ being very fond of pills. There was this complete
freedom of expression and absolute devotion that she gave to

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
the Guardian, that she transferred to the House of Justice.
Again and again, if she thought something was going wrong at
the World Centre, or something developing that could lead to
problems, she would come and meet with the House of Justice
and say what she thought and what she recommended be done.
And then she faithfully followed whatever the House of Justice
decided. So the loss of ‘Amatu’l-Bahá, in this and in countless
other ways was a tremendous blow to the House of Justice. But,
thank God, Mr ‘Alí-Akbar Furútan was to live for almost
another four more years, until 26 November 2003, and we still
have the blessing of the presence of Dr ‘Alí-Muhammad Varqá,
a Hand of the Cause who is also the occupant of the oldest
institution in the whole Bahá’í World Order: The Trustee of
Huqúqu’lláh. This is a very great, a vital, institution, and Dr
Varqá is still taking part in its development6.
These years have seen the inter-locking relationship between
the Guardian and the House of Justice in both administrative
developments and the teaching work As would be expected, the
House of Justice has carried forward and developed the pattern
that Shoghi Effendi established. Over these decades, as the
House of Justice mentioned in a recent letter, the whole Bahá’í
world has been experimenting and learning, and it has been able
to summarize the lessons of what works well and what is less
fruitful. This is really what the present push of the Faith is, this
whole matter of training institutes, the core activities, the
development of clusters, is a systematic approach to the
teaching work which the House of Justice has deduced from the
successes of the friends in their pursuit of their work. That is
why now, I think, things need to go forward so fast.
We are seeing, I think, an interaction, a kind of spiritual
conversation between the Universal House of Justice and the
Bahá’í world on how things are best done. As the Bahá’í world
responds to the guidance of the House of Justice, we can see
the Faith going faster and faster forward. This is the same
pattern as the Guardian followed.
What the future will hold we don’t know. But we can be
quite certain the Covenant is there, it is strong and nothing can
shake it. We had the Guardian for 36 years without the House
of Justice, and now we have the House of Justice for maybe
another thousand years without the Guardian – I don’t know
how long. It’s not our business, that is God’s business. At the
present time we have the Universal House of Justice and that is
quite enough to enable the Bahá’ís to build the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Thank you!
Questions and Answers
Q: Why is membership of the House of Justice exclusively
confined to men?
A: The short answer to that is: I haven’t the faintest idea.
But I believe we should think about it, not in the particular
square in which the question is posed, but rather think a bit
about why it is a problem. How do we conceive of elections and
the nature of elections and the nature of being elected? You see,
in the world as a whole, democracies have usually evolved as a
result of a struggle against a tyranny. Either wresting power
from the monarch which has sort of happened in the British
constitutional process or, as in America, of constructing a
constitution which carefully pits each of three powers against
the others to try and counter-balance one another because you
cannot trust any one of them. Now this is the basic thing.
Democracy is regarded as a way of achieving power in order to
limit power. It’s all about power and that’s why you have this
odd concept of winning an election. That an election is
something that one person wins and another one loses, because
the candidates want to get power for some purpose.
The candidate may want to have power for beneficial ideas,
he may want all this for the good of the people. He may also
want
power
for
very
bad
ideas.
Hitler
was
elected
democratically in Germany and then got the power and misused
it. It is all about power and the limiting of power. Now my
point is that, in the Bahá’í administration, that is a total
misconception. Bahá’í elections have nothing to do with power.
Bahá’í elections and the whole administration is to do with
service. Nobody ever seeks to be elected or appointed,
(Although I do remember one year we did have a letter to the
House of Justice from an individual Bahá’í who said he thought
he would make a very good Counsellor!). But that’s not the
normal approach because it isn’t the Bahá’í concept. You don’t
say I would like to be the Chairman of a Local Assembly, how
do I get myself elected? It just shouldn’t occur to Bahá’ís.
The whole Bahá’í process gives absolute freedom to the
electors and no freedom at all to those who have been elected,
or very little freedom. There are no nominations, there is no
electioneering, the electors are left free to use their own good
sense as to who are the nine people who are best suited to be on
this particular body. And they vote. Now the nine people who

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
are elected are not given a choice as to whether or not they want
to serve. The Guardian said he deprecated refusal to serve. If
you are elected, you serve, unless there is a very good reason
why you cannot, in which case you ask the Assembly to allow
you to resign. Which is what happens to members of the House
of Justice when they get decrepit like me. You have to ask “May
I resign because I cannot do my work properly?” The House of
Justice says “Yes” and you can resign. And that’s what’s
happened in each case when a member of the House of Justice
has resigned, not because they are a certain age, but because
they have come to a conclusion that they cannot carry out the
work the House of Justice requires them to carry out. So that’s
the situation.
Now, the voter conveys authority to the people he or she
elects. But the power in the Bahá’í Faith, as the Guardian said, is
in the hands of the individual believers. The Assembly can do
nothing unless the individual believers do what they are guided
to do.
So the thinking is that the people who are voting are
conveying authority upon a group of people to carry out what
they believe in their own judgment is the right thing. Therefore
it is quite wrong for anyone who is elected to think “Ah, good!
Now I have some power, now I can get this thing done.” That’s
not his job, his job or her job is to serve on the Assembly and
to be a member of a consultative body to find out what is the
correct thing to do in a particular situation taking into account
the wishes of the Bahá’ís and the conditions of the Bahá’ís.
What, therefore, does this mean for women, as far as
membership on the Universal House of Justice is concerned?
And it’s only that body – all the other bodies of the Bahá’í Faith
that are appointed or elected are open to men and women. The
only thing that happens is that women are not permitted to be
elected to the Universal House of Justice. But then this isn’t a
refusal to give them power. It is an exemption from having to
perform a service. Every Bahá’í man in the world, if he is
elected, has to perform this duty. You can’t have a man elected
to the House of Justice saying “Sorry I am too busy, I’m in the
middle of my career, I’m a great artist, please I can’t…” David
Ruhe was in a situation like that. He was a fine doctor, and he
was an expert in medical education, and he loved that and he
was about to ask permission to resign from the American NSA
to get back to his profession, when he was elected to the House
of Justice. And no one asked any more questions. He was
elected and he rendered great services, and at the same time he

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
managed to do some medical work which in itself was a service
to the Faith in Haifa.
This is the way you should think about the issue. If it’s an
exemption from performing a service maybe you would say this
is not very polite to women, but that’s an interpretation. The
fact remains that it is an exemption in that sense. It is not
something they are entitled to have – some power they are
entitled to get – of which they are deprived
This is merely my own thinking about it. But think is what
you have to do. You have to think outside the square and
consider what is the nature of service, what is the nature of
administration, and what is the concept of power and authority
in the Bahá’í community. Then ultimately as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
a time will come when it will be as clear as the noonday sun. As
yet, I don’t think it is.
Q: Please tell us something more about the personality of
Shoghi Effendi, for example, about his voice, his smile, how he
chanted and his sense of humour.
A: I never heard Shoghi Effendi chant because the westerners
didn’t. He chanted in the presence of the eastern men, he took
them to the Shrine and chanted there. But I am sure he must
have had a very melodious chanting voice. The Persian friends
who heard him said he did. And his speaking voice was very
melodious. It was a strong voice, it wasn’t a loud voice. But it
was strong and very clear. And he spoke beautiful English. He
was crystal clear in his thinking. One night he got us to look at
the map of the world that he was designing and his hands were
quite firm as he was pointing out various things, vigorous
hands, strong hands and vigorous. He had very beautiful hands,
fine and nicely formed. Rúhíyyih Khánum said that the Greatest
Holy Leaf used to hold Shoghi Effendi’s hands and say “These
are my Father’s hands” because he had hands very like those of
Bahá’u’lláh. And his humour: he had a very acute sense of
humour. One night I remember we were looking at designs for
temples and he got Rúhíyyih Khánum to get out some designs
that were rejected for the Temple in Tihrán. They were most
peculiar. He got Anna Grossmann to hold up one of them so we
could see it, and he said, “Look! It looks like a frog. Anna
what’s the German for frog?” Anna couldn’t get the German
word Frosch out because she was laughing, and then the
Guardian began to laugh. I think he was of that generation when
it wasn’t polite to laugh out loud. He didn’t guffaw, he sort of
bubbled over with laughter. Everyone who knew him said he had

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
a very acute sense of humour and a very lovely sense of humour.
He was very kindly and very understanding to people.
One of Rúhíyyih Khánum’s favourite stories was about the
Guardian and Charles Dunning. Here I should explain the
seating in the dining room in those days. The dining table was in
a small room, placed so that the long side faced the door
through which one entered. The Guardian sat at the right end of
the long side, facing the incoming pilgrims, whom he would
welcome as they entered.. To his right sat ‘Amatu’l-Bahá
Rúhíyyih Khánum and the members of the International Council
who were present. To his left, at the end of the table sat either
Charles Mason Remey or, if he was absent, the most recently
arrived pilgrim. As new pilgrims arrived they moved on down
the side of the table opposite the Guardian. A Knight of
Bahá’u’lláh, however, would not move on down; he or she
would remain near the Guardian.
Charlie Dunning was the Knight of Bahá’u’lláh for the
Orkney Islands, a wonderful Bahá’í. He was a little man, and he
looked like Popeye. He and Shoghi Effendi would talk, and he
would wave his finger at Shoghi Effendi’s nose and say
“Guardian. they tell me so and so”, and the Guardian would lean
towards him and answer, and they would talk in this way. The
Guardian loved Charles Dunning. He saw the beauty and the
spirit in Charlie although most people would think he was a
funny little man. And the thing that struck me after Charlie had
been on pilgrimage, and it’s made me think a lot about the way
one’s appearance mirrors one’s soul, you might say, because
Charlie spoke at the National Convention about his pilgrimage,
and the thing that struck me was that superficially Charlie was
an ugly little man, but when he was talking about his pilgrimage
he was beautiful. Really beautiful. And he hadn’t changed, his
features were the same, but this was a beautiful person talking,
and I think his soul was as it were reflecting what the Guardian
had seen in him.
So these are just some of the characteristics of the Guardian.
I am afraid it is not very much, I’m not very good at explaining.
Shoghi Effendi is in a sense inexplicable. I just wish you all
could have met him.
Q: How would you explain the concept of the infallibility of
the Universal House of Justice to a seeker?
A: Infallibility is such a difficult word to define. And if
possible I think, if you are talking to a seeker, unless the seeker

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
is very close to the Faith, avoid the issue, because it sounds so
strange in the western ear and is linked up of course with the
concept of papal infallibility in the minds of western people. So
there is a prejudice against it to start with.
In a sense, the infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
is
the
culmination
of
consultation.
The
principle
of
consultation is that one mind is generally not enough, that it is
good for several people to consult together with the idea of
achieving a good solution. This is simply a process of the
interrelationship of human beings, of creating a bigger mind
than one. It isn’t only for the House pf Justice. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
says that if a Local Spiritual Assembly consults in the right way
it will receive divine guidance. It is, one might say, putting
itself in harmony with the spirit of the universe, and, when it
does, it decides the right things. The only difference between
the Local Assembly and the Universal House of Justice is that
the Universal House of Justice always achieves such a decision.
Now that’s an oversimplification, the way you might explain it
to a seeker, it describes a way of electing people in various
stages, who know the Faith well enough, so that when they
consult together they produce a decision that’s in harmony with
the facts, and with the nature of the universe and, in that sense,
is infallible.
I think that in reality it is much more than that, and it's
difficult to specify it. I mean most consultations of the House
of Justice are like any Assembly consultation: a consensus
emerges. But the House of Justice has to be much more patient
in getting its decision. It knows it has to be the right decision,
and I remember on one occasion where it got to the point where
eight of the nine members thoroughly agreed to one particular
course of action and one member didn’t. And the reaction of
the other eight was: what has he seen that we haven’t? And to
continue consulting. On one occasion I remember, it ended up
with all the other eight agreeing with the ninth. But I have seen
similar situations when we thought we hadn’t quite got it, and
asked to continue consulting, and eventually the majority
decided “Yes, we have understood it, we just don’t agree, that’s
all.” and we’d take a majority decision. But it needs careful
thinking and the wish to get the right answer. Sometimes the
Guardian said he would occasionally be given unusual insights as
a result of the power of Bahá’u’lláh, it wasn’t his own capacity,
it was Bahá’u’lláh wanting him to know something, and so he
knew it. There’s a story I heard of the Guardian coming into the
room one day waving an unopened letter saying, “He’s lying!”

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
Now he may have known the character of the person who was
writing, I don’t know, but that’s the sort of thing that makes
you sit up. But I remember one occasion when the House of
Justice was discussing a question, and it was the end of the day
and there was a unanimous decision, we all wanted to do the
same thing, but suddenly someone said: “Hadn’t we better wait
until tomorrow? Do we have to make this decision tonight?” So
we decided to wait until the next morning. The next morning in
the mail came information which changed the whole picture.
That’s not a thing to discuss with a seeker because it sounds
peculiar. We have to be aware of these things: that when we are
dealing with the spiritual world, peculiar things can happen. But
generally the House of Justice’s consultation is just like that of
any Local Assembly which is practised in consultation.
Q: What pitfalls should a budding Bahá’í scholar avoid?
A: One has to realize what one is dealing with when one is
dealing with the Faith. I remember when it was suggested one
day that, at some Bahá’í institution, we should have a course
that would lead to a Master in Bahá’í Studies, and the House of
Justice said this is impossible. You can’t have a human being
saying “I am a Bahá’í and I am a Master of Bahá’í studies.” How
big is this revelation for a 1,000 years or more? How can you be
a master of it? It’s terminological nonsense. You can have a
Master’s degree in the application of the Bahá’í teachings to
conflict management or something like that, but in Bahá’í
Studies? No one is a master of Bahá’í studies. All of us are at the
kindergarten stage of understanding the Faith. And we shall be
for quite a long time yet. So it’s first of all getting one’s
understanding of the Faith into perspective. To what extent can
one expect to be a Master of something that is a Revelation of
God to take us forward for one or more thousand years. It’s
impossible. But a scholar shouldn’t ever conceive of himself as
someone who has understood everything.
The essence of a scholar is a person who has the
temperament, and the skill and the capacity to study a thing
seriously. To study it meticulously, and profoundly and
carefully. That is a scholar, and a budding scholar is someone
who is learning how to do this. It is not always easy, it’s very
difficult in present day society, for example, I remember one
scholar saying that, in order to write anything acceptable, you
had to have read ‘the literature’ and been able to quote it. What
in the world did he mean by ‘the literature’? There’s a vast
number of letters by Bahá’u’lláh, which have not been translated
yet. OK, so he can’t mean all Bahá’í literature. He meant the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
published writings of other scholars on that subject. That isn’t
all the literature; it happens to be what a few scholars have
written in English. What about all the Chinese scholars or the
Indian scholars, or the Latin American or German scholars. You
can’t read all the literature on any subject, you may read all the
current literature, but that is hardly adequate. What, therefore,
should we understand by this need “to read and quote all the
literature?”
I think we must accept that the pattern of modern academic
scholarship isn’t simply a matter of scholarship carried out in
order to understand something. We have got a body of people
who are engaged in academia and who, out of courtesy to their
fellow scholars, should acknowledge the contribution other
scholars have made to their thinking. Say, if Mr Smith has read
Mr Jones’ book and he has involved it in his thinking, he should
say he has read Mr Jones’ book. Likewise, if there is a published
source that counters Mr. Smith’s argument, it would be helpful
to the reader for Mr. Smith to refer to it and indicate why he
does not accept its validity. That’s where you have to quote
your sources and give your references to other people.
But how is one to conceive of this obligation? Are you going
to say that, when a writer presents his ideas cogently, but
without quoting everyone else who has written on the subject,
that his scholarship is worthless because he hasn’t read this and
that? It may not be worthless. It may just have gaps. So I think
that budding Bahá’í scholars should get into the way of
accepting that whatever they produce is, in its essence, full of
gaps, and be content with that, and try to decrease the number
of gaps and increase the accuracy of what they are saying, to be
meticulous. That I think is the way to do scholarship.
Then you can do all sorts of things, but I think one has to be
devoted to the truth of the matter not necessarily to certain
patterns of scholarship. Much scholarship these days is basically
100% materialist. For a Bahá’í to leave out everything except
materialism is difficult, to say the least!
Q:
How
do
we
guard
against
the
emergence
of
fundamentalism within the Bahá’í community?
A: It think you have to have a very good sense of humour.
And patience. Some people are very eager. And they sound
enthusiastic, too enthusiastic. And then one’s got to get people
to be able to look around things. Does it make sense? One has
got the principle that Bahá’u’lláh says one should go back to the

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
Texts. And we should base everything on the Revelation. But
also on experience in life. One of the problems people
sometimes fall into, sounds like fundamentalism. It is to say
“Look! In this text Bahá’u’lláh says so and so, and that’s it.
Finish!” But then they’ve forgotten that in another text
Bahá’u’lláh says something else that means exactly the opposite.
And you have to understand that, and see how the texts relate to
one another, and think about things.
A fundamentalist temperamentally is someone who wants to
stop you thinking. And of course that’s where a sense of
humour comes in, because you say this is ridiculous. The way to
stop getting into fundamentalism is to insist on thinking about
things. Examine them. Remember what the Guardian wrote. I’ve
heard some people say that independent investigation of truth is
until you find Bahá’u’lláh; after that it doesn’t apply. But the
Guardian has written that the Bahá’í Faith “enjoins upon its
followers the primary duty of an unfettered search after
truth…”7 So why, therefore, do you continue investigating truth
after you have found Bahá’u’lláh? The answer is because you
have the humility to recognise that you are a fallible human
being and unless you keep thinking hard and investigating hard,
you are not going to understand what Bahá’u’lláh said. You are
going to misunderstand it, and that’s fundamentalism:
misunderstanding and misapplying a Revelation and insisting
that you are right.
Q: How should we approach the study of the writings of
Shoghi Effendi?
A: One should study the writings of Shoghi Effendi as part
of one’s general study. We have the Bahá’í law that you are
meant to read the holy scriptures morning and evening, and I
think it’s very good, when doing that in the case of the writings
of Bahá’u’lláh, to make a pattern always of reading through all
the writings of Bahá’u’lláh one book after another until you
finish the lot and then start again. If you just read the bits you
like, it’s not the best idea. Each time you read through the book
it will enrich your understanding, which helps you the next time
you read through, so you continue to read and that you have to
do anyway, whether you are studying the writings of Shoghi
Effendi or not.
But to understand the Revelation, it is vital also to read the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. You can take
excerpts from the Guardian’s writings, such as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Call to the Nations, and it is helpful to do so, but,
fundamentally, I think one should, as far as possible, simply
read through all his published writings, at least the major ones.
Just read them through, patiently, and think about them.
Because there are many things he covered. And it is probably
best to start with what the Guardian himself wrote rather than
depending solely upon collections of excerpts from letters
written on his behalf by his Secretaries.
But then that isn’t all you are doing in your life because
you’re living in your local community, and perhaps helping to
administer it. You are involved in teaching the Faith. So you’ve
got to keep looking at many books. But for a methodical study
of the Guardian’s writings, there’s nothing like going right
through, reading the whole of God Passes By and all his writings
like that, slowly, slowly, I think!8
Q: Could you please share some of your recollections of the
first International Convention for the election of the Universal
House of Justice in 1963?
A: They are rather limited, my recollections, because of
course I was on the Council and one of the functions of the
Council was to prepare for the election of the House of Justice,
and so we had all the nitty-gritty work like getting the ballots
out, getting the delegates registered and so on. It was a very
exciting time. The Hands were very worried, because they were
deeply concerned that nothing should go wrong in that election.
There were some Bahá’ís at that time, one or two, who had
obviously set out to tour the Bahá’í world, donating things here
and there and making themselves very popular and very well-
known, and the Hands were worried that in some cases it was
not genuine. Some people are very generous people, but in other
cases there was a little electioneering going on. But the Hands
thought “What can we do? If we interfere it is the same thing,
we must just trust to Bahá’u’lláh”. And they did, and none of
those who were fiddle-faddling got elected. So the delegates
were sensible enough, and Bahá’u’lláh looked after His Cause
well enough, that the problem went away. But that didn’t stop
the Hands worrying at the time. So as part of that process of
trying not to influence the ballots when the delegates were
arriving, the Hands decided that no males at the World Centre
would contact the delegates – At all, no matter who they were.
The women in Haifa looked after the delegates, took them on
their pilgrimages and so on.
I had a difficulty at one point: being the Assistant Secretary

Guardianship and Universal House of Justice
of the International Council I had to get in touch with Borrah
Kavelin, who was both a member of the Council and Chairman
of the American NSA. He was the Member at Large of the
Council. And we were going to have a Council meeting and I
had to get word to Borrah to come and join the meeting of the
Council. He was staying in a hotel called the Lev HaCarmel
Hotel on top of the mountain. So I went up there in the
evening, and the only way I could think of getting a letter to
him was to sneak through the bushes and the shrubbery up to
the office of the hotel and pop it through the window to the
staff and tell them “Please give that to Mr Kavelin”, so I did
that, and disappeared through the bushes back out again. And
the Council had its meeting.
These are little details but they were part of the care the
Hands took in the management of the Convention. Then of
course there was the question of where to hold the election and
Rúhíyyih Khánum hoped very much we could have it in the
Masters’ House. One evening, ‘Alí and I were with her, and we
thought we probably could manage it if we took all the doors
off the rooms in the central hall, so she suggested we try it out.
So we took all the doors off and measured all the floors and
found we could just get all the delegates into that hall, and
that’s how it was decided to hold the election in the Master’s
House, which was very appropriate and wonderful. The spirit of
the delegates was so beautiful, they were coming to elect the
Universal House of Justice and the whole atmosphere was
beautiful, they had a little pilgrimage first and they then
gathered in the Master’s House, and the election took place, and
the next day the results were announced in the Convention
session at Beit Harofe. So it was a very beautiful experience.
Q: Of all the many extraordinary experiences you had in the
Holy Land is it possible to single out one that was the most
moving?
A: It is almost impossible to do so because there were so
many moving events. And many of them were very similar. I
mean moving in the sense of sad. There were many sad
happenings: the news of the martyrdoms in Iran, the murder of
Enoch Olinga. Very sad things happened. Then there were joyful
things, the news of wonderful teaching work, the attainment of
vital objectives, such as the completion of the Constitution,
and so on.
In the process of consultation there were some things that
were very moving. Sometimes it would happen that suddenly a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
lot of individuals would write asking very similar questions or
suggesting similar subjects for the House of Justice to consider.
At another time the House of Justice might have scheduled a
consultation on a subject that it felt required consideration in
depth. In either case – and, indeed, on other occasions too – the
consultation would start in the normal way, with members
exchanging ideas, and then, quite suddenly one would get the
feeling that the consultation was taking off. And it would
evolve way above anything that was being thought of in the
earlier stages of consultation. A whole new concept would
emerge in this process of consultation. And the feeling, as I
recall it, would be one of exaltation: “This is right! this is what
the answer should be!” and no one had thought of it before. It
was as if events had conspired for the House of Justice to
consult on this particular problem, and this was the conclusion
that emerged. That was a very exalting feeling, a very moving
one to have. Apart from that there was nothing in particular.
There were many happy things as well as sad ones.
Thank you!

* A talk given by Ian Semple in Baden Powell House, London on Saturday 28
January 2006. Edited for publication on 1 January and 26th March 2008

2 Message to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada, 1
March 1951
3 MUHJ 1963-1986: Section 35.3
4 MUHJ 1963-1986: Section 5.1
5 MUHJ 1963-1986: Sections 5, 23, 35, 59, 75
6 Dr. ‘Alí-Muhammad Varqá passed away on 22 September 2007
7 Guidance for Today and Tomorrow, page 4
8 In 2004, 2005 and 2006, Mr. ‘Alí Nakhjavání gave three courses for the
European Bahá’í youth at Acuto in Italy. These courses were later
published in book form by the Casa Editrice Bahá’í and provide a
brilliant survey of Shoghi Effendi’s work. They are called Towards World
Order, Shoghi Effendi: Author of Teaching Plans and Shoghi Effendi: The
Range and Power of his Pen. I did not know of their existence when I
gave this talk, and now urge friends who are not familiar with Shoghi
Effendi’s writings to read these three books as a guide to them.

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and
Secular Life of Man
An Exposition on excerpts from The Advent
of Divine Justice by Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Introduction
Shoghi Effendi, the Beloved Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith and
great grandson of its founder Bahá’u’lláh, began the follow-up
to the ground work laid out in his previous letter The
Unfoldment of World Civilization in 1936 with his treatise, The
Advent of Divine Justice in late December of 1938. The
purpose here is to examine four vital issues in this pivotal work.
First is the manner in which he raised the consciousness of the
young Bahá’í community in the West to a deeper level of Bahá’í
theology as the dark clouds of WWII were beginning to sweep
over Europe. Second is the systematic manner by which the
Guardian introduced methods for expansion of the Faith while
in the midst of a disintegrating society including how barriers
were to be overcome in the face of enormous challenges. Third
is the introduction of a form of justice not seen before in
human history. Fourth is the special role that the American
Bahá’í community would play in the future progress of the Faith
with special emphasis on the unique station of its community
and of its members.
He addressed the young American Bahá’í community just
when it was endeavoring to achieve one of the many plans,
which would ultimately be assigned to them in the fullness of
time. He found it difficult to adequately express his joy and
exultation when contemplating “the ceaseless evidences of the
dynamic energy which animates the stalwart pioneers of the
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh in the execution of the Plan
committed to their charge.” He applauded the close cohesive
interaction and harmony between the various agencies that
constituted the basic framework of every properly functioning

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
Bahá’í community. And he referred to this as a “striking
contrast to the disruptive tendencies” which the discordant
elements of society so tragically manifested. (ADJ-2)
Recurrent Crises
These disruptive tendencies caused recurrent crises that were
described as “afflicting an ever-increasing portion of the human
race” which must continue to exercise, at least temporarily, a
morbidly negative influence on the young Bahá’í community
that had by then reached the far corners of the world, albeit in
small numbers. He asked:
How can the beginnings of a world upheaval, unleashing
forces that are so gravely deranging the social, the
religious, the political, and the economic equilibrium of
organized society, throwing into chaos and confusion
political systems, racial doctrines, social conceptions,
cultural standards, religious associations, and trade
relationships -- how can such agitations, on a scale so vast,
so unprecedented, fail to produce any repercussions on the
institutions of a Faith of such tender age whose teachings
have a direct and vital bearing on each of these spheres of
human life and conduct? (ADJ 2-3)
This did indeed affect the lives of the followers of
Bahá’u’lláh as they found themselves in a maelstrom of
“contending
Passions”
wherein
their
institutions
were
endangered while the very core of their belief system was under
attack. In mid-Europe the Bahá’í community with its potential
to “radiate the splendor of the light of the Faith on the
countries that surround it“ was stifled by the Nazi regime and
its voice silenced.
The large Bahá’í community of ’Ishqábád, Turkistan in
central Asia where the first Bahá’í Center and Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár (House of Worship) had been built, was at the mercy of
forces that, for decades were bent on reducing it to utter
impotence. This culminated with the expropriation of its
Temple by the Soviet Union concurrently with disbandment of
its Spiritual Assemblies and the imprisonment of a number of
the followers of the Faith.
In Iran where the vast majority of Bahá’ís lived and whose
Capital, Ṭihrán had been hailed by Bahá’u’lláh as "the mother of
the world" and “the dayspring of the joy of mankind" there was
a civil authority “as yet undivorced officially from the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
paralyzing influences of an antiquated, a fanatical, and
outrageously corrupt clergy.” The fact was that the political
collapse of the Ottoman Empire in 1908 left the smoldering
remains of a spiritually bankrupt priesthood as the only
meaningful influence on the people of the Middle East, civil
authority notwithstanding. And with the pathetic demise of the
despicable, corrupt Qájár Dynasty of Iran in 1925, the vestigial
remains of a once glorious civilization offered its final death
rattle. The Guardian described the actions by this unholy
symbiotic relationship of clergy and state as it relentlessly
repressed the adherents of the Bahá’í Faith in the land of its
birth.
Indifferent to the truth that the members of this
innocent and proscribed community can justly claim to
rank as among the most disinterested, the most
competent, and the most ardent lovers of their native
land...such an authority refuses to grant to a Faith
which numerically outnumbers the adherents of either
the Christian, the Jewish, or the Zoroastrian Faiths in
that land, the necessary legal right to enforce its laws,
to administer its affairs, to conduct its schools, to
celebrate its festivals, to circulate its literature, to
solemnize its rites, to erect its edifices, and to
safeguard its endowments. (ADJ-4)
Concurrently, in the Holy Land, incidents of racial strife,
terrorism and fratricide enflamed the animosities between Jew,
Christian and Muslim alike. The rising tide of lawlessness
endangered the neutral status of the Bahá’í community and
interfered with its normal functions. Its very members were
imperiled, as was the flow of Bahá’í pilgrims and yet the Bahá’í
Holy places were miraculously preserved.
Shoghi Effendi then defined the world as being “torn with
conflicting passions, and perilously disintegrating from within,”
but a world also confronted by an infant Faith that... “seems to
be drawn into its controversies, entangled by its conflicts,
eclipsed by its gathering shadows, and overpowered by the
mounting tide of its passions.” He further explained that within
the heart of the cradle of “the as-yet unemancipated Faith of
Bahá'u'lláh,..” the forces of violence were impelling its retreat.
(ADJ-5)
The strongholds of such a Faith, one by one and day after
day, are to outward seeming being successively isolated,
assaulted and captured. As the lights of liberty flicker and

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
go out, as the din of discord grows louder and louder
every day, as the fires of fanaticism flame with increasing
fierceness in the breasts of men, as the chill of irreligion
creeps relentlessly over the soul of mankind, the limbs and
organs that constitute the body of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh
appear, in varying measure, to have become afflicted with
the crippling influences that now hold in their grip the
whole of the civilized world. (ADJ-5)
He then quoted ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s timely comment on the
seriousness of the hour. “The darkness of error that has
enveloped the East and the West is, in this most great cycle,
battling with the light of Divine Guidance. Its swords and its
spears are very sharp and pointed; its army keenly bloodthirsty.”
(ADJ-6)
And again:
This day, the powers of all the leaders of religion are
directed towards the dispersion of the congregation of the
All-Merciful, and the shattering of the Divine Edifice. The
hosts of the world, whether material, cultural or political
are from every side launching their assault, for the Cause
is great, very great. Its greatness is, in this day, clear and
manifest to men's eyes. (ADJ-6)
Chief Remaining Citadel
In spite of these crises there was still an enduring hope for
the embryonic Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi declared the
Bahá’í community of North America to be the chief remaining
citadel of the Faith and he further identified it as the cradle of
the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. He reminded the doubters
of the special spiritual destiny of America with a quote from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
The continent of America is, in the eyes of the one true
God, the land wherein the splendors of His light shall be
revealed, where the mysteries of His Faith shall be
unveiled, where the righteous will abide, and the free
assemble.” (ADJ-6)
The Guardian observed that the North American believers
had “shown its capacity to be recognized as the torchbearer of
that light, the repository of those mysteries, the exponent of
that righteousness and the sanctuary of that freedom.” He then,
with great honor, referred to the American believers as “the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
spiritual descendants of the Dawn-Breakers of an heroic Age”
who would usher in the New World Order, “the shell ordained
to enshrine that priceless jewel, the world civilization, of which
the Faith itself is the sole begetter.” (ADJ-7)
He asked: What community other than the North American
Bahá’ís had established the administrative institutions that
would become so critical to the new Order? It had also, with
consistency, resourcefulness, perseverance and fidelity extended
the framework within which those nascent institutions could
alone multiply and mature. The community was fired by noble
vision to raise an edifice that could be regarded “as the greatest
contribution ever made by the West to the Cause of
Bahá'u'lláh?” Furthermore, the community had secured the
allegiance of Royalty with marvelous testimony. It had shown
foresight, organizing ability in establishing schools “for the
enrichment and consolidation of its teaching force.” (ADJ-8)
The community had produced pioneers with qualities of
audacity, consecration, tenacity, and devotion that would
forsake their all to “scatter over the surface of the globe, and
hoist in its uttermost corners the triumphant banner of the
Faith. They undertook the labor to exercise the patience, and to
provide the funds required for the translation and publication
of their sacred literature. It was the first Bahá’í community
to frame its national and local constitutions, thereby
laying down the fundamental lines of the twin charters
designed to regulate the activities, define the functions,
and safeguard the rights, of its institutions.”(ADJ 9-10) It
secured the basis of its national endowments, and obtained
the necessary documents assuring the recognition of its
Spiritual Assemblies.
And finally what other community has had the privilege,
and been granted the means, to succor the needy, to plead
the cause of the downtrodden, and to intervene so
energetically for the safeguarding of Bahá'í edifices and
institutions in countries such as Persia, Egypt, Iraq,
Russia, and Germany, where, at various times, its fellow-
believers have had to suffer the rigors of both religious
and racial persecution? (ADJ-10)
Shoghi Effendi acknowledged the achievements of the
American Bahá’í community during the previous two decades as
deserving to rank “as a memorable chapter in the history of the
Formative Period of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh.” He commented

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
further that, great as had been the friends achievements, the
tasks before them were far greater in magnitude than anything
they had achieved in the past. History would bear out the truth
of those words.
The Guardian described a “Crusade of still greater
magnitude” with the explanation that the virtual establishment
of the Administrative Order of their Faith was the first task for
the American Bahá’ís called into being by the Will of 'Abdu'l-
Bahá. They addressed themselves, with equal zest and
consecration, to the next more arduous task of erecting the
magnificent House of worship at the holiest spot in North
America and then resolved to undertake yet another task--the
Seven Year Plan, the first practical step towards the fulfillment
of the Tablets of the Divine Plan.
The opening of the second century of the Bahá'í era was to
include the formation of at least one center in each of the
Republics of the Western Hemisphere. And most interesting
was his declaration that the Plan espoused by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
would, after perusal “instantly reveal a scope for their activities
that stretches far beyond the confines of the Western
Hemisphere.”
The moment this Divine Message is carried forward by the
American believers from the shores of America and is
propagated through the continents of Europe, of Asia, of
Africa, and of Australasia, and as far as the islands of the
Pacific, this community will find itself securely estab-
lished upon the throne of an everlasting dominion. (ADJ-13)
In effect then, The Tablets of the Divine Plan, addressed to
the Bahá’ís of the U.S. and Canada, were ultimately intended to
inspire the expansion of the Faith throughout the world. The
believers in the west thus initiated the Seven Year Plan as
decreed by Shoghi Effendi.
The Guardian then laid out a startling array of possibilities
for the future of the American Bahá’ís, possibilities that far
exceeded anything that they might have imagined. They were to
erect the various dependencies of the first Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of
the West, and to deal with the intricate issues involving the
establishment and the extension of the structural basis of Bahá'í
community life. They were to play a significant part in the
election of the International House of Justice and its
establishment in the Holy Land, and to help establish the
spiritual and administrative center of the Bahá'í world, together

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
with the formation of its auxiliary branches and subsidiary
institutions. They were to be vitally involved in the worldwide
Bahá’í community efforts regarding the multitude of challenges
facing that community. Listed was the codification and
promulgation of the ordinances of the Most Holy Book, and the
third Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of the Bahá'í world in the outskirts of
the city of Ṭihrán. Also included were the precautionary and
defensive measures to be devised, coordinated, and carried out
to counteract the full force of the inescapable attacks that the
organized efforts of ecclesiastical organizations of various
denominations would progressively launch and relentlessly
pursue. And they were to “enable a sore-tried Faith to pass
through the successive stages of unmitigated obscurity, of
active repression, and of complete emancipation.” He further
commented:
The challenge offered by these opportunities the
American believers, I feel confident, will, in addition to
their answer to the teaching call voiced by 'Abdu'l-Bahá
in His Tablets, unhesitatingly take up, and will, with
their traditional fearlessness, tenacity, and efficiency,
so respond to it as to confirm, before all the world,
their title and rank as the champion-builders of the
mightiest institutions of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh. (ADJ-
15)
The believers were kindly encouraged to acknowledge the
bounty spread before them and they were lovingly nourished in
preparation for the arduous trials that would confront them in
the dark days before WWII. He reminded them that His
unfailing light was shinning upon them with incomparable
splendor.
Though small in numbers, and circumscribed as yet in
your experiences, powers, and resources, yet the Force
which energizes your mission is limitless in its range and
incalculable in its potency. Though the enemies which
every acceleration in the progress of your mission must
raise up be fierce, numerous, and unrelenting, yet the
invisible Hosts which, if you persevere, must, as
promised, rush forth to your aid, will, in the end, enable
you to vanquish their hopes and annihilate their forces.
(ADJ 16)
The Guardian paused to emphasize the distinction between
the North American believers and the people from which God
had raised them up. It was important that they recognize the

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
impact of the transmuting power of Bahá’u’lláh on their lives.
“Otherwise, the supreme and distinguishing function of His
Revelation, which is none other than the calling into being of a
new race of men, will remain wholly unrecognized and
completely obscured.” (ADJ-16)
The Supreme Function Of His Revelation
The historical consistency of the appearance of the Great
Prophets of God in times and places where man had sunk to the
lowest levels of spiritual and moral degradation were noted.
Examples were the Hebrews under the Pharaohs before Moses
came to lead them to the Holy Land, the decline of the Jews
when Christ appeared, the barbarity of Arabia when Muhammad
arose and the decadence of Persia in the hour of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation. It was never the high moral standards nor the social
attainments of any people that would initiate the appearance of
a Divine Messenger.
For it is precisely under such circumstances, and by such
means that the Prophets have, from time immemorial,
chosen and were able to demonstrate their redemptive
power to raise from the depths of abasement and of
misery, the people of their own race and nation,
empowering them to transmit in turn to other races and
nations the saving grace and the energizing influence of
their Revelation. (ADJ-18)
Persia had sunk to the lowest depths of perversity and
thereby became the receptacle of the transforming power of the
Revelations of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. Their regenerating spirit
transformed “the most cowardly, and perverse of peoples into a
race of heroes,..” It was untenable to maintain the belief that
the excellence of Persia and the nobility of its people were the
basic reasons for the appearance of the new Revelation. In a
similar manner, but lesser extent, this principle would also apply
to the country that would be designated as the cradle of the
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. The United States, the country that
would bear such an honor was not chosen because of its
excellence or special merit.
It is precisely by reason of the patent evils which,
notwithstanding
its
other
admittedly
great
characteristics and achievements, an excessive and
binding materialism has unfortunately engendered
within it that the Author of their Faith and the Center
of His Covenant have singled it out to become the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
standard-bearer of the New World Order envisaged in
their writings. (ADJ-19)
Shoghi Effendi declared that this was the best way that
Bahá’u’lláh could demonstrate His power to raise up men and
women who were “immersed in a sea of materialism, and
notorious for its political corruption, lawlessness and laxity in
moral standards,” to become the champions of moral rectitude
and undiscriminating fellowship. This would be prerequisite to
their call to bring into being the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh
and a new world civilization.
He pondered the staggering responsibility that would be born
by the young, inexperienced American believers in their efforts
to weed out the faults and habits derived from their own nation
while cultivating the characteristics so necessary to their
participation in the work of their Faith. He further stressed
what he felt were the essential requirements for the work that
would demand the undivided attention of the North American
believers.
Spiritual Prerequisites
The first of these spiritual prerequisites was defined as a high
sense of moral rectitude in their social and administrative
activities. This would particularly apply to their elected
representatives at all levels of administration. The second would
primarily concern Bahá’í youth who must all observe chastity in
their individual lives. The third would require that all members
of the Bahá’í community be free of prejudice of any kind. The
Guardian strongly reaffirmed these points.
A rectitude of conduct, an abiding sense of undeviating
justice, unobscured by the demoralizing influences
which a corruption-ridden political life so strikingly
manifests; a chaste, pure, and holy life, unsullied and
unclouded by the indecencies, the vices, the false
standards, which an inherently deficient moral code
tolerates, perpetuates, and fosters; a fraternity freed
from that cancerous growth of racial prejudice, which
is eating into the vitals of an already debilitated society
-- these are the ideals which the American believers
must, from now on, individually and through concerted
action, strive to promote,... (ADJ-23)
Shoghi Effendi called upon the words of Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá extensively in the effort to unequivocally

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
emphasize the importance of the rectitude of conduct that all
Bahá’ís must observe. Following are a few admonitions:
The companions of God are, in this day, the lump that
must leaven the peoples of the world. They must show
forth such trustworthiness, such truthfulness and
perseverance, such deeds and character that all mankind
may profit by their example. I swear by Him Who is the
Most Great Ocean! ‘Within the very breath of such
souls
as
are
pure
and
sanctified
far-reaching
potentialities
are
hidden.
So
great
are
these
potentialities that they exercise their influence upon all
created things. (ADJ 23)
Again from Bahá’u’lláh an explanation of purpose:
The purpose of the one true God in manifesting
Himself is to summon all mankind to truthfulness and
sincerity, to piety and trustworthiness, to resignation
and submissiveness to the will of God, to forbearance
and kindliness, to uprightness and wisdom. His object
is to array every man with the mantle of a saintly
character, and to adorn him with the ornament of holy
and goodly deeds. (GWB 299)
Also He warns:
Beware, O people of Bahá, lest ye walk in the ways of
them whose words differ from their deeds. Strive that ye
may be enabled to manifest to the peoples of the earth the
signs of God, and to mirror forth His commandments. Let
your acts be a guide unto all mankind, for the professions
of most men, be they high or low, differ from their
conduct. It is through your deeds that ye can distinguish
yourselves from others. Through them the brightness of
your light can be shed upon the whole earth. Happy is the
man that heedeth My counsel, and keepeth the precepts
prescribed by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
(GWB 305)
And ‘Abdu’l-Bahá counseled the believers:
Should any one of you enter a city, he should become a
center of attraction by reason of his sincerity, his
faithfulness and love, his honesty and fidelity, his
truthfulness and loving-kindness towards all the peoples
of the world, so that the people of that city may cry out
and say: ‘This man is unquestionably a Bahá'í, for his

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
manners, his behavior, his conduct, his morals, his
nature, and disposition reflect the attributes of the
Bahá'ís. Not until ye attain this station can ye be said to
have been faithful to the Covenant and Testament of
God...The most vital duty, in this day is to purify your
characters, to correct your manners, and improve your
conduct. (BWF-401)
He further asserted: “Truthfulness is the foundation of all
human virtues.” Bahá’ís embrace this for without it, progress
for the soul is impossible in any of the worlds of God! Shoghi
Effendi elaborated on the potency of such conduct in the
actions of elected representatives, and of participants in
business dealings. The same should be true in domestic matters
and in service. In fact, all human conduct should be in
compliance with the Most Holy, the Book of Laws. Such
rectitude of conduct at all levels of Bahá’í life constitutes the
transcendental principle of Divine Justice “that must be
regarded as the crowning distinction of all Local and National
Assemblies, in their capacity as forerunners of the Universal
House of Justice...” (ADJ-27) This concept is then supported by
numerous quotes from the writings of the Faith followed by this
statement from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
God be praised! The sun of justice hath risen above the
horizon of Bahá'u'lláh. For in His Tablets the foundations
of such a justice have been laid as no mind hath, from the
beginning of creation, conceived. The canopy of existence
resteth upon the pole of justice, and not of forgiveness,
and the life of mankind dependeth on justice and not on
forgiveness. (ADJ-28)
The implications of modesty, temperance and decency require
moderation in all the things that we do, according to the
Guardian. Spiritual prerequisites are restated:
It requires total abstinence from all alcoholic drinks, from
opium, and from similar habit-forming drugs. It condemns
the prostitution of art and of literature, the practices of
nudism and of companionate marriage, infidelity in
marital relationships, and all manner of promiscuity, of
easy familiarity, and of sexual vices. It can tolerate no
compromise with the theories, the standards, the habits,
and the excesses of a decadent age. Nay rather it seeks to
demonstrate, through the dynamic force of its example,
the pernicious character of such theories, the falsity of
such standards, the hollowness of such claims, the

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
perversity of such habits, and the sacrilegious character of
such excesses. (ADJ-30)
The Most Challenging Issue
The Guardian identified racial prejudice as the most
challenging issue facing the American Bahá’í community. He
referred to it as a corrosion that had bitten into the fiber of
American society. He declared that it would take ceaseless
efforts in sacrifice, vigilance, moral courage and fortitude to
resolve this issue of paramount importance. And he appealed to
both white and Negro alike who identify with the Bahá’í Faith,
to participate and lend assistance to the task of fulfilling the
instructions of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He admonished them to follow
the examples set by Him, “Let them remember His courage, His
genuine love, His informal and indiscriminating fellowship, His
contempt for and impatience of criticism, tempered by His tact
and wisdom.” He further stated:
To discriminate against any race, on the ground of its
being socially backward, politically immature, and
numerically in a minority, is a flagrant violation of the
spirit that animates the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh...Freedom
from racial prejudice, in any of its forms, should, at
such a time as this when an increasingly large section of
the human race is falling a victim to its devastating
ferocity, be adopted as the watchword of the entire
body of the American believers, in whichever state they
reside, in whatever circles they move, whatever their
age, traditions, tastes, and habits. (ADJ-35)
He appealed to white friends to resolve to contribute their
share to the solution of racism and to abandon any sense of
superiority and to avoid a patronizing attitude. Most
importantly a genuine friendship and sincerity of intentions is
required in dealing with a people who have suffered “such
grievous and slow-healing wounds.” He then admonished the
Negroes to make a corresponding effort to forget the past, to
show their power of warmth and to wipe out any trace of
suspicion. Neither should assume that the solution to such
problems is exclusively the responsibility of the other.
Their Double Crusade
Shoghi Effendi again emphasized the rectitude of conduct
and declared it to be the primary weapon that the American
believers must weld in their double crusade of regenerating the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
inner life of the Bahá’í community and of assailing the evils that
remained entrenched in the life of their nation. The perfecting
of such weapons was far more important than the development
of any particular plan. More than anything else, this would
prepare them to bring into operation that “World Order which
was incubating within the worldwide administrative institutions
of their Faith.”
In the conduct of this twofold crusade the valiant warriors
struggling in the name and for the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh
must, of necessity, encounter stiff resistance, and suffer
many a setback. Their own instincts, no less than the fury
of conservative forces, the opposition of vested interests,
and the objections of a corrupt and pleasure-seeking
generation, must be reckoned with, resolutely resisted, and
completely overcome. (ADJ-41)
He pleaded that the Bahá’ís in the west be not afraid of
criticism for it is a voice that indirectly reinforces the
proclamation of the Cause. But to effect a spiritual
transformation in the multitudes of the hungry, restless and un-
shepherded requires that the agency by which the message of
Bahá’u’lláh is imparted be free of the defilements that it seeks
to remove!
It was the Seven Year Plan that would occupy the believers
time and thought in the ornamentation of the Temple in
Wilmette, Illinois and the expansion of teaching efforts in
North and South America. The Temple stood on the holiest spot
in the western hemisphere and its completion would, in time,
have a profound effect as a “silent teacher” in the Cradle of the
Administrative Order of the Bahá’í Faith. The teaching goal was
to have at least one local spiritual assembly in every state of the
United States and every province in Canada. Also, one Bahá’í
center was to be created in each Latin American Republic.
The Teaching Requirements
At this juncture, Shoghi Effendi felt compelled to clarify the
purpose of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár of the West “as no more than
an instrument for a more effective propagation of the Cause...”
over and above its beauty and the ideals that it symbolized. In
addition, the teaching requirements of the Seven Year Plan
would include the sustained attention of the entire Bahá’í
community in spite of any limited experience. Teaching was not
to be the sole domain of the administrative institutions.

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
The field is indeed so immense, the period so critical, the
Cause so great, the workers so few, the time so short, the
privilege so priceless, that no follower of the Faith of
Bahá'u'lláh, worthy to bear His name, can afford a
moment's hesitation... That God-born Force, irresistible in
its
sweeping
power,
incalculable
in
its
potency,
unpredictable in its course, mysterious in its workings,
and awe-inspiring in its manifestations...is, under our very
eyes, sundering, on the one hand, the age-old ties which
for centuries have held together the fabric of civilized
society, and is unloosing, on the other, the bonds that still
fetter the infant and as yet unemancipated Faith of
Bahá'u'lláh. (ADJ-46)
The
Guardian
intimated
that
such
extraordinary
circumstances to spread the knowledge of their Faith might not
recur again. Moreover, the importance of the teaching
campaign in Canada and throughout the United States could not
be overestimated. And he felt that it must follow certain
principles to attain its objective.
First, the believers were to thoroughly familiarize themselves
with the history and teachings of the Faith, the station of its
Forerunner, the Báb and the laws revealed by its Author,
Bahá’u’lláh. To do so would require conscientious study if its
literature and assimilation of its laws and principles. It would
also require memorization of prayers and exhortations. It would
be necessary to master the essentials of its administration and to
keep abreast of current affairs and latest developments.
Following this, they were to familiarize themselves with the
languages of Latin America as well as the three great Island
groups in the Pacific Ocean. He advised the teaching pioneers,
with an admonition from Bahá’u’lláh: “Be unrestrained as the
wind,” The Guardian further added:
No participator in this inter-American campaign of
teaching must feel that the initiative for any particular
activity connected with this work must rest solely with
those agencies, whether Assemblies or committees, whose
special concern is to promote and facilitate the attainment
of this vital objective of the Seven Year Plan. It is the
bounden duty of every American believer, as the faithful
trustee of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's Divine Plan, to initiate, promote,
and
consolidate,
within
the
limits
fixed
by
the
administrative principles of the Faith, any activity he or
she deems fit to undertake for the furtherance of the Plan.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
(ADJ 50)
Shoghi Effendi then suggests a wide variety of approaches to
teaching depending upon the characteristics of a given culture
yet all the while safeguarding the integrity of the Faith. Then he
emphasized how important the spirit of teaching should be:
Let him remember the example set by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, and
His constant admonition to shower such kindness upon
the seeker, and exemplify to such a degree the spirit of the
teachings he hopes to instill into him, that the recipient
will be spontaneously impelled to identify himself with the
Cause embodying such teachings. (ADJ 52)
Yet, Shoghi Effendi tempered the afore mentioned flexibility
with the following guidelines.
Let every participator in the continent-wide campaign
initiated by the American believers, and particularly those
engaged in pioneer work in virgin territories, bear in mind
the necessity of keeping in close and constant touch with
those responsible agencies designed to direct, coordinate,
and facilitate the teaching activities of the entire
community. (ADJ 52)
The Guardian unequivocally placed the mandate of teaching
upon every participant in the Seven Year Plan with the caveat
that it be “the all-pervading concern of his life.” This would
apply to “all the republics, classes and denominations of the
entire Western Hemisphere.”
The Awakening Of Latin America
The next step for the North American Bahá’ís in their
initiation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan was to set in motion a
tremendous exertion to assist a few isolated believers in their
efforts to awaken the nations of South America to the call of
Bahá’u’lláh. This second phase of the Seven Year Plan would
have to be entered before it could be considered as fully
launched. And they were assured of the effusions of Divine
Grace that would be poured upon them with overwhelming
evidences of their regenerative power.
Central and South America embraced twenty independent
nations equaling one third of the sovereign states at the time
and would play “an increasingly important part in the shaping
of the world’s future destiny.” Shoghi Effendi then exuded one
his inspiring appeals to the Bahá’í community of North

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
America:
Let some, at this very moment, gird up the loins of their
endeavor, flee their native towns, cities, and states, forsake
their country, and, “putting their whole trust in God as the
best provision for their journey,” set their faces, and direct
their steps towards those distant climes, those virgin fields,
those unsurrendered cities, and bend their energies to
capture the citadels of men's hearts -- hearts, which, as
Bahá'u'lláh has written, “the hosts of Revelation and of
utterance can subdue.” Let them not tarry until such time as
their fellow-laborers will have passed the first stage in their
campaign of teaching, but let them rather, from this very
hour, arise to usher in the opening phase of what will come
to be regarded as one of the most glorious chapters in the
international history of their Faith.(ADJ 59)
His appeal then relied upon the call of Bahá’u’lláh:
O wayfarer in the path of God! Take thou thy portion of
the ocean of His grace, and deprive not thyself of the
things that lie hidden in its depths.... A dewdrop out of
this ocean would, if shed upon all that are in the heavens
and on earth, suffice to enrich them with the bounty of
God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. With
the hands of renunciation draw forth from its life-giving
waters, and sprinkle therewith all created things, that they
may be cleansed from all man-made limitations, and may
approach the mighty seat of God, this hallowed and
resplendent Spot. Be not grieved if thou performest it thy-
self alone. Let God be all-sufficient for thee... (GWB 279)
Following this were the inspiring words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
O ye apostles of Bahá'u'lláh! May my life be sacrificed for
you!... Behold the portals which Bahá'u'lláh hath opened
before you! Consider how exalted and lofty is the station
you are destined to attain; how unique the favors with
which you have been endowed...My thoughts are turned
towards you, and my heart leaps within me at your
mention. Could ye know how my soul gloweth with your
love, so great a happiness would flood your hearts as to
cause you to become enamored with each other...The full
measure of your success is as yet unrevealed, its
significance still un-apprehended. (BWF 423)
The goal was to establish in each Latin American country at
least one Bahá’í center by the hundredth anniversary (22 May,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
1944) of the birth of the Faith. This would provide the
foundation upon which the North American believers could
build, in Central and South America, the Administrative Order
during the opening years of the second century of the Bahá’í
era.
The object was to establish a necessary foundation, to pave
the way in a systematic manner of the laying of the basis for the
permanent national and local Bahá’í institutions in Latin
America. Further, the campaign would initiate the revealing of
essential stages the American believers were to play in the
worldwide propagation of their Cause. Ultimately, it would be
the believers in Latin countries that would distinguish
themselves but first it would require the sending of settlers and
itinerant teachers “to raise the call of the New Day in a new
continent.”
All manner of support and resources were to be provided the
pioneers
including
properly
translated
literature
and
appropriate publicity for its distribution. The teachers were to
mix in a friendly manner, with all sections of the population
regardless of creed or color. They were to patiently endeavor to
implant such love and devotion in their hearts of the few who
were receptive to enable them to become self-sufficient
promoters of the Faith in their localities. But they were also
advised to exercise care so that their efforts would not be
misconstrued to be proselytizing.
In his appeal for pioneers, the Guardian particularly
addressed the American believers who were able to establish
permanent residence in Latin countries by establishing their own
means of livelihood. This would greatly relieve the pressure on
the Teaching Fund while allowing them to partake of the sacred
privilege of carrying out so noble an enterprise. For those who
were unable to go should appoint and support one who could.
Shoghi Effendi was especially grateful to the “Handmaidens
of God” who had, since the inception of the Faith, opened up so
many diversified countries around the globe. They, more than
the men, had boldly moved forward in the selfless act of
teaching at all levels.
A special appeal was made to the Bahá’í youth to exercise
their adventurous spirit and vigor in arousing the interest of
their fellow youth in the Faith. Though inexperienced, it would
be their optimism and alertness that would animate them to
fulfill their potential in service to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
He then made special note of Panama, observing that the
unique geographical position of Panama endowed it with great
importance
in
connecting
the
North
American
Bahá’í
communities to the Central American States as well as to the
South American Continent. In like manner it was noted by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá that it connected the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific
through the Canal and would thus provide significant traffic
that would allow the Faith to unite the East and West. Teaching
in Panama would therefore have great importance because a
strong Bahá’í community in Panama would provide a key matrix
from which the Faith could spread North to South and East to
West.
The Guardian recalled the vision set by the Seven Year Plan as
a vast functional priority facing the American believers and
called upon them to not let strife and confusion befog their
own vision. Upheavals should never deflect their course nor
should denunciations sap their loyalty. Reliance on God’s all
compelling Will would always be their pillar and guide.
Far from yielding in their resolve, far from growing
oblivious of their task, they should, at no time, however
much buffeted by circumstances, forget that the
synchronization of such world-shaking crises with the
progressive unfoldment and fruition of their divinely
appointed task is itself the work of Providence, the design
of an inscrutable Wisdom, and the purpose of an all-
compelling Will, a Will that directs and controls, in its
own mysterious way, both the fortunes of the Faith and
the destinies of men. (ADJ 72)
The Seven Year Plan was but an initial stage in a far greater
Plan as delineated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and authored by Bahá’u’lláh.
Reflections on these aspects would steel the resolve of the
American Bahá’í community and would dissipate their
forebodings regarding the ultimate objective of unity for the
entire planet.
The Advent of The Kingdom
The Guardian noted a valuable insight offered by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá:
The full measure of your success is as yet unrevealed, its
significance still unapprehended. Erelong, ye will, with
your own eyes, witness how brilliantly every one of you,
even as a shining star, will radiate, in the firmament of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
your country, the light of Divine Guidance, and will
bestow upon its people the glory of an everlasting life....
The range of your future achievements still remains
undisclosed. (TDP 39)
It was His hope that the success attending their efforts in the
Americas would carry over to the rest of the world. Following
this, the advent of the Kingdom of the Lord would be
proclaimed in all inhabited continents of the globe. The positive
consequences of this would be very great for the American
Bahá’ís because they would then be recognized as spiritually
illumined and divinely guided. But to rest on such laurels would
be tantamount to betrayal of the trust placed upon them by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, a trust that Shoghi Effendi reassured us would
never be broken. The Guardian then reinforced this with
copious utterances gleaned from the untranslated reservoir of
Bahá’u’lláh’s billowing words, a few of which follow:
Cling ye to the Cord of steadfastness, in such wise that all
vain imaginings may utterly vanish. Speed ye forth from
the horizon of power, in the name of your Lord, the
Unconstrained, and announce unto His servants, with
wisdom and eloquence, the tidings of this Cause, whose
splendor hath been shed upon the world of being. Beware
lest anything withhold you from observing the things
prescribed unto you by the Pen of Glory, as it moved over
His Tablet with sovereign majesty and might. Great is the
blessedness of him that hath hearkened to its shrill voice,
as it was raised, through the power of truth, before all
who are in heaven and all who are on earth.... O people of
Bahá! The river that is Life indeed hath flowed for your
sakes. Quaff ye in My name, despite them that have
disbelieved in God, the Lord of Revelation. (ADJ 76)
He continues describing deeper aspects of His Cause:
Verily I say! No one hath apprehended the root of this
Cause. It is incumbent upon everyone, in this day, to
perceive with the eye of God, and to hearken with His ear.
Whoso beholdeth Me with an eye besides Mine own will
never
be
able
to
know
Me.
None
among
the
Manifestations of old, except to a prescribed degree, hath
ever
completely
apprehended
the
nature
of
this
Revelation. I testify before God to the greatness, the
inconceivable greatness of this Revelation. Again and
again have We, in most of Our Tablets, borne witness to
this truth, that mankind may be roused from its

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
heedlessness. (ADJ 77)
These quotes of Bahá’u’lláh as used by the Guardian not only
inspired the pioneers but also further educated the embryonic
community of American Bahá’ís in the verities of the Faith.
This is the Day in which God's most excellent favors have
been poured out upon men, the Day in which His most
mighty grace hath been infused into all created things....
This is the Day whereon the Ocean of God's mercy hath
been manifested unto men, the Day in which the Daystar
of His loving-kindness hath shed its radiance upon them,
the Day in which the clouds of His bountiful favor have
overshadowed the whole of mankind. (GWB 6)
The window of opportunity to teach in virgin lands had
never been greater and every effort was precious to the Cause as
characterized by Bahá’u’lláh:
This Day a door is open wider than both heaven and earth.
The eye of the mercy of Him Who is the Desire of the
worlds is turned towards all men. An act, however
infinitesimal, is, when viewed in the mirror of the
knowledge of God, mightier than a mountain. Every drop
proffered in His path is as the sea in that mirror. For this
is the Day which the one true God, glorified be He, hath
announced in all His Books, unto His Prophets and His
Messengers. (ADJ 78)
A regenerating energy was showered upon the believers by
Bahá’u’lláh’s words, which would serve as a balm to them when
faced with enormous challenges in fulfilling the Seven Year
Plan.
Through the movement of Our Pen of Glory We have, at
the bidding of the Omnipotent Ordainer, breathed a new
life into every human frame, and instilled into every word
a fresh potency. All created things proclaim the evidences
of this worldwide regeneration. O people! I swear by the
one true God! This is the Ocean out of which all Seas have
proceeded, and with which every one of them will
ultimately be united. (GWB 92)
These were but a few of the extraordinary utterances by
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that were previously unavailable
to the Bahá’ís. Shoghi Effendi finally referred to what he called
“some of the most momentous and thought-provoking
pronouncements ever made by 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in the course of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
His epoch-making travels in the North American continent....”
May this American Democracy be the first nation to
establish the foundation of international agreement. May
it be the first nation to proclaim the unity of mankind.
May it be the first to unfurl the Standard of the Most
Great Peace... The American people are indeed worthy of
being the first to build the Tabernacle of the Great Peace,
and proclaim the oneness of mankind.... For America hath
developed powers and capacities greater and more
wonderful than other nations.... The American nation is
equipped and empowered to accomplish that which will
adorn the pages of history, to become the envy of the
world, and be blest in both the East and the West for the
triumph of its people....The American continent gives
signs and evidences of very great advancement. Its future
is even more promising, for its influence and illumination
are far-reaching. It will lead all nations spiritually. (PUP 36)
The Destiny Of America
As a literary convenience, the Guardian would often
interchange the terms ‘nation’ and ‘American’ when addressing
the Cradle of the Administrative order of Bahá’u’lláh,
specifically the United States of America and when doing so
there were three things that he brought to bear regarding the
future of that embryonic order. First, the nation was endowed
with the worthiness to play the part envisioned by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
It was the recipient of spiritual capacities of which a God-given
mission had fused into its people and which were even then
being manifested through the teaching efforts of the Bahá’ís.
Second, the orientation of that nation was inexplicably
gravitating toward policies and associations that would put it
on the course of its true destiny as a result of the creative
energies generated by the first stirrings of the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. Third, the world was rapidly moving toward a
conflict of ominous proportions and “the Great Republic of the
West” was being reluctantly drawn into its vortex. Shoghi
Effendi recognized the significance of these events within the
prophetic utterances of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
The world is contracting into a neighborhood. America,
willingly or unwillingly, must face and grapple with this
new situation. For purposes of national security, let alone
any humanitarian motive, she must assume the obligations
imposed by this newly created neighborhood. Paradoxical

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
as it may seem, her only hope of extricating herself from
the perils gathering around her is to become entangled in
that very web of international association which the Hand
of an inscrutable Providence is weaving. (ADJ-59)
The populace, except for the small community of believers
did not recognize the Hand that directed their destiny. Yet the
activities of both groups were contributing to the fulfillment of
the promises voiced by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Concurrently the world
had become an armed camp as religion’s light was diminishing
and moral authority was disintegrating. The words of
Bahá’u’lláh in the 1870s echoed a still fresh concern: “The winds
of despair are, alas, blowing from every direction, and the strife
that divides and afflicts the human race is daily increasing. The
signs of impending convulsions and chaos can now be
discerned....”(GWB-216) And, soon after the termination of the
first World War, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá prophesied:
The ills from which the world now suffers will multiply;
the gloom, which envelops it, will deepen. The Balkans will
remain discontented. Its restlessness will increase. The
vanquished Powers will continue to agitate. They will
resort to every measure that may rekindle the flame of
war. Movements, newly born and worldwide in their
range, will exert their utmost for the advancement of their
designs. The Movement of the Left will acquire great
importance. Its influence will spread. (ADJ-88)
The clear, emphatic voice of President Franklin Roosevelt
warned that attack was very possible due to the advanced
development of military aircraft and by other factors. The
Secretary of State said “These resurgent forces loom
threateningly throughout the world -- their ominous shadow
falls athwart our own Hemisphere...” And in the American
press: “We must mount vigilant guard over the Western
Hemisphere.” (ADJ-89)
Meanwhile, Shoghi Effendi noted the significant distance
that the nation had traveled since its formal repudiation of the
Wilsonian ideal (League of Nations) and found it to be highly
encouraging. He pondered the future possible relationships
between the Western republics and the affairs of the world
under the impact of international crises with respect to the
ultimate destiny of America. However, he emphasized that
nothing could alter the eventual course ordained by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá in The Tablets of The Divine Plan.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
The
Guardian
further
surmised
that
the
impending
perplexities afflicting humanity would bode darkly for America
but that she would emerge determined to bring the full weight
of its influence “to exorcise forever, in conjunction with its
sister nations of both the East and the West, the greatest curse
which, from time immemorial, has afflicted and degraded the
human race.” It was felt that America would become purified
from the crucible of a common war and would be disciplined,
even molded by its lessons. Only then would it be positioned to
“lay the cornerstone of a universal and enduring peace, proclaim
the solidarity, the unity, and maturity of mankind, and assist in
the establishment of the promised reign of righteousness on
earth.” (ADJ 90-91)
Then, and only then, will the American nation, while the
community of the American believers within its heart is
consummating its divinely appointed mission, be able to
fulfill the unspeakably glorious destiny ordained for it by
the Almighty, and immortally enshrined in the writings of
'Abdu'l-Bahá. Then, and only then, will the American
nation accomplish “that which will adorn the pages of
history, become the envy of the world and be blest in both
the East and the West.” (ADJ-91)
This last quotation concluded his communication and was
signed “SHOGHI” on Christmas Day, 1938. Now, with the
benefit of seven decades of hindsight it is astonishing to
observe the accuracy and insight expressed in the writings of the
Guardian when comparing his views to the historical events that
ensued after his remarkable utterances regarding the human
condition in the late 1930s.
In Summary
The first vital issue under question in The Advent of Divine
Justice mentioned earlier involved the Guardian educating the
Western Bahá’ís in the verities of their Faith by immersing them
in certain of its writings regarding the overriding principles,
virtues and administrative requirements that would armor them
in dealing with the travails of a disintegrating age. In the second
issue, he identified the most challenging spiritual barriers they
would face and the methods they would need to employ in
achieving success of the ambitious Seven Year Plan for teaching
the Faith in the Americas. Moreover, this would open the door
for worldwide expansion. Indeed, the future of the Faith was in
their hands as America was declared to be its Chief Remaining

The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man
Citadel. Regarding the third vital issue, that is Justice, the
Guardian explained in his inimitable way that the infusion of
laws and principles annunciated by Bahá’u’lláh within the
rectitude of conduct at all levels of Bahá’í community life
literally defined the transcendental principle of Divine Justice.
Thus a concept of justice that had never been acknowledged
before was born in those initial stages of the Divine Plan. He
declared this to be the “crowning distinction of all Local and
National Assemblies.”(ADJ-27) Of the fourth issue, Shoghi
Effendi surmised that America would be purified and molded by
the impending conflicts of world conflagration in a way that
would prepare her to lay the cornerstone of universal peace. Its
Bahá’í members were honored with the designation as the
Spiritual Descendants of the Dawn Breakers and the country
was given the high honor of being the Cradle of the Bahá’í
Administrative Order.
Conclusion
Perhaps the most subtle and enduring of these issues under
discussion is the notion of Divine Justice. With it, Justice has
reached an unprecedented plateau for it will henceforth embody
the spiritual characteristics that are so necessary for the
advancement of civilization. With it, the scourge of war will be
obliterated from the planet as will the most challenging issue of
racism. Such a perspective was previously augmented by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá as noted by Shoghi Effendi: “The continuance of
mankind depends upon justice and not upon forgiveness.”
(SAQ-270) This infers that justice is earned whereas forgiveness
is acquired by grace but grace alone will not suffice the rigors
and complexities of the modern age. In the words of
Bahá’u’lláh: “The structure of world stability and order hath
been reared upon, and will continue to be sustained by, the twin
pillars of reward and punishment...”(GWB-219) He also exalts
the spiritual ramifications of this concept when, speaking with
the voice of God, He says “The best beloved of all things in My
sight is Justice...By its aid thou shalt see with thine own eyes
and not through the eyes of others...Verily justice is My gift to
thee and the sign of My loving-kindness. Set it then before thine
eyes.”(HWB-3)
Finally, we can say with full conviction that the theory of
justice, which traditionally has tended to parallel the prevailing
range of ethical and political philosophy, now is embraced by a
profound new paradigm of spiritual parameters.

Elucidations
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
M E M O R A N D U M
To: The Universal House of Justice
Date: 9 October 1989
From: The Research Department
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
In her letter dated ... to the Research Department, ... requests
explanations of the Resurrection and return of Jesus. She has
read the relevant interpretations in "Some Answered Questions"
and "The Wine of Astonishment", yet feels that her
understanding is not sufficient to satisfy her Christian friends.
The Research Department provides the following.
The Resurrection of Jesus
...'s Christian friends challenged the truth of Bahá'u’lláh by
the following argument:
Where
are
Jesus
Christ's
remains
compared
to
Bahá'u’lláh's? Christ was God, that is why his remains
disappeared. Bahá'u’lláh's remains are still here so he can't
be God.
...then summarizes the issue by asking, "Why did Christ's body
disappear and Bahá'u’lláh's didn't?"
...'s friends regard the Resurrection of Christ and His
Ascension into heaven as physical events involving His physical
body, whereas the Bahá’í writings explain that these accounts
should be interpreted symbolically. The general issue of
symbolism in the Bible is treated in great detail by Bahá'u’lláh in
the "Kitáb-i-Íqán" and on page 49 of that book [rev. ed.],
(Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985), Bahá'u’lláh explains
the purpose of symbolism in all the Holy Books:
Know verily that the purpose underlying all these symbolic

Elucidations: Return of Jesus

terms and abstruse allusions, which emanate from the
Revealers of God's holy Cause, hath been to test and prove
the peoples of the world; that thereby the earth of the pure
and illuminated hearts may be known from the perishable
and barren soil. From time immemorial such hath been the
way of God amidst His creatures, and to this testify the
records of the sacred books.
In the days when the New Testament was written, and for
many centuries thereafter, the accepted concept of creation was
that the world in which we live was at the centre of the physical
universe, hell was literally below the earth, while heaven was
literally above the clouds, beyond the spheres of the planets. To
the people of those times there was nothing absurd in a literal
understanding of the "harrowing of hell" (Jesus's descent into
hell to bring up the souls of the virtuous of past ages) or of His
physical ascent into heaven.
At the time of Jesus the ideas of the people about the next
life were very vague, whether they were Jews or pagans. Even
though they may have thought of the next world as a physical
location to which the spirit went, they conceived of the life
there as a shadowy, unreal, pale reflection of reality. Jesus was
able to teach them that the next life is as real as, indeed even
more "real" than, this life; it is not surprising, therefore, that
Christian tradition over the centuries should have "concretized"
what were meant to be spiritual teachings.
Nowadays, when we have a clearer understanding of the
nature of the physical universe, the idea of a physical body
descending to the heart of the earth, or ascending beyond the
stratosphere (except in a spaceship) is a ridiculous impossibility.
The Bahá’í teachings make it clear, however, that even though
we cannot accept these accounts as literally true, this does not
lessen the truth or importance of the spiritual realities that they
convey.
Moreover, if one reads the biblical accounts with an unbiased
mind, one can see that the events related are far from typical of
a physical body. It is true that Jesus tells doubting Thomas to
feel His wounds to demonstrate that it was really He, but just
before that He had suddenly appeared in a room with locked
doors. In a similar manner, after speaking with two followers
on the road to Emmaus, Jesus suddenly disappears. He also
appears suddenly in different parts of the Holy Land, in
Jerusalem, Galilee, and so forth.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
In this context we must remember St. Paul's statement in I
Corinthians 15:50-54:
Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption
inherit incorruption. Behold, I shew you a mystery; We
shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, In a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for
the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this
corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal
must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall
have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put
on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying
that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.
From this it is clear that, even in Christian thought, it is the
spiritual that is vital and eternal, not the material. The ways in
which Christian theologians have interpreted and understood
these teachings vary, but the essential elements are in accord
both with Bahá’í teaching and with the accounts that we read in
the New Testament.
In discussing these matters, 'Abdu'l-Bahá, in "Some Answered
Questions", rev. ed. (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1985),
pp. 103-4, points out that Jesus states that He "came down
from heaven", whereas it is known that from a physical point of
view He was born as a baby in this material world. Thus His
"descent" from "heaven" was a spiritual event, and "likewise His
ascension to heaven is a spiritual and not material ascension".
Concerning the location of the burial site of Jesus' sacred
remains, a letter dated 22 March 1982 written on behalf of the
Universal House of Justice to an individual believer states:
Pilgrims have recorded in their notes oral statements made by
'Abdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi to the effect that the disciples
hid the body of Christ by burying it under the wall of
Jerusalem, and that it is now under the Church of the Holy
Sepulchre. The House of Justice knows of nothing in the
Writings of the Faith, however, explicitly confirming these
statements.
The Return of Jesus
...poses a second question: "Why did Christ explain His
second coming with such detail in the book of Revelations if it
were all symbolical?" The "Kitáb-i-Íqán" identifies Christ's

Elucidations: Return of Jesus

explanation concerning His return as symbolical and elucidates
the meanings behind the symbolism. Regarding Christ's second
coming, this subject is also explained in the "Kitáb-i-Íqán", and
in chapters 26 and 33 of "Some Answered Questions", which
deal with Christ's return and the subject of "return" in general.
A letter dated 29 November 1937 written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi to an individual believer identifies the fulfilment of
Christ's prophecy of His return -- of the coming of the
Kingdom of the Father -- with the worldwide realization of the
sovereignty of Bahá'u’lláh:
Now as regards the signs that would herald the advent of
the new Manifestation; The Guardian wishes you to read
over very carefully Bahá'u’lláh's explanation as recorded in
the Íqán". There it is made clear that what is meant by the
appearance of the Son of God after the calamitous events
preceding His coming is the revelation of His full glory
and its recognition and acceptance by the peoples of the
world, and not His physical appearance. For Bahá'u’lláh,
Whose advent marks the return of the Son in the glory of
the Father, has already appeared, and the signs predicted in
the Gospel have not yet fully been realized. Their complete
fulfilment, however, would mark the beginning of the
recognition of His full station by the peoples of the
world. Then and only then will His appearance be made
completely manifest.
Explaining the Bahá’í View to Christians
It is in the nature of such symbolic terms as "resurrection"
and "return" that differing views concerning their meaning
develop. Indeed, there are differences among Christian scholars
themselves regarding the Resurrection of Christ, as the
"Abingdon
Dictionary
of
Living
Religions"
(Nashville:
Parthenon Press, 1981) points out on page 619: "A number of
Christian theologians today regard resurrection as a metaphor
which expresses the conviction that the whole self has a future
beyond death, but others reaffirm the importance of the
traditional belief that Jesus' body was raised from death."
In light of the ongoing discussion within Christian
theological circles, it would be extremely difficult, if not
impossible, to adduce a "proof" of the Bahá’í understanding of
Christ's resurrection which would be acceptable to all
Christians. The Research Department suggests that it would be

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
more fruitful to focus on such points of agreement as are
outlined by the beloved Guardian on page 109 of "The Promised
Day Is Come", rev. ed. (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1980):
As to the position of Christianity, let it be stated
without any hesitation or equivocation that its divine
origin is unconditionally acknowledged, that the Son ship
and Divinity of Jesus Christ are fearlessly asserted, that
the divine inspiration of the Gospel is fully recognized,
that the reality of the mystery of the Immaculacy of the
Virgin Mary is confessed, and the primacy of Peter, the
Prince of the Apostles, is upheld and defended....

Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í
Faith
14 November 2005
Transmitted by email
To all National Spiritual Assemblies
Dear Bahá’í Friends,
Recently, questions have arisen which have prompted the
Universal House of Justice to comment further on matters
treated in the compilation "Issues Related to the Study of the
Bahá’í Faith".
The Bahá’í principle calling for investigation of reality
encourages an unfettered search for knowledge and truth by
whoever wishes to engage in it. When applied to the Revelation
of Bahá'u’lláh, it inevitably gives rise to a wide range of
responses. Some, attracted to the Message, embrace the Cause
as their own. Some may respond positively to certain precepts
or principles and willingly collaborate toward shared aims. Some
may find it to be an interesting social phenomenon worthy of
study. Still others, content with their own beliefs, may reject its
claims. Bahá’ís are taught to be respectful of the views of
others, believing that conscience should not be coerced.
Upon becoming a Bahá’í, one accepts certain fundamental
beliefs; but invariably one's knowledge of the Teachings is
limited and often mixed with personal ideas. Shoghi Effendi
explains that "an exact and thorough comprehension of so vast
a system, so sublime a revelation, so sacred a trust, is for
obvious reasons beyond the reach and ken of our finite minds."
Over time, through study, prayerful reflection, and an effort to
live a Bahá’í life, immature ideas yield to a more profound
understanding of Bahá'u’lláh's Revelation. Service to the Cause
plays a particular role in the process, for the meaning of the
Text is clarified as one translates insights into effective action.
As a matter of principle, individual understanding or
interpretation should not be suppressed, but valued for
whatever contribution it can make to the discourse of the
Bahá’í community. Nor should it, through dogmatic insistence

Elucidations: Issues


of the individual, be allowed to bring about disputes and
arguments among the friends; personal opinion must always be
distinguished from the explicit Text and its authoritative
interpretation by 'Abdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and from the
elucidations of the Universal House of Justice on "problems
which have caused difference, questions that are obscure and
matters that are not expressly recorded in the Book".
In searching for understanding, Bahá’ís naturally acquaint
themselves with published materials from a variety of sources. A
book written by disinterested non-Bahá’í scholar about the
Faith, even if it reflects certain assumptions and puts forward
conclusions acceptable within a given discipline but which are
at variance with Bahá’í belief, poses no particular problem for
Bahá’ís, who would regard these perceptions as an honest
attempt to explore a religious phenomenon as yet little
understood generally. Any non-biased effort to make the Faith
comprehensible to a thoughtful readership, however inadequate
it might appear, would evoke genuine Bahá’í appreciation for
the perspective offered and research skill invested in the
project. The matter is wholly different, however, when someone
intentionally attacks the Faith. An inescapable duty devolves
upon the friends so to situate themselves in the knowledge of
the Teachings as to be able to respond appropriately to such a
challenge as it arises and thus uphold the integrity of the Faith.
The words of Bahá'u’lláh Himself shed light on the proper
attitude to adopt. He warns the believers "not to view with too
critical an eye the sayings and writings of men". "Let them", He
instructs, "rather approach such sayings and writings in a spirit
of open-mindedness and loving sympathy. Those men, however,
who, in this Day, have been led to assail, in their inflammatory
writings, the tenets of the Cause of God, are to be treated
differently. It is incumbent upon all men, each according to his
ability, to refute the arguments of those that have attacked the
Faith of God."
A different type of challenge arises when an individual or
group, using the privilege of Bahá’í membership, adopts various
means to impose personal views or an ideological agenda on the
Bahá’í community. In one recent instance, for example, an
individual has declared himself a "Bahá'í theologian, writing
from and for a religious community," whose aim is "to criticize,
clarify, purify and strengthen the ideas of the Bahá’í

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
community, to enable Bahá’ís to understand their relatively new
Faith and to see what it can offer the world". Assertions of this
kind go far beyond expressions of personal opinion, which any
Bahá’í is free to voice. As illustrated, here is a claim that lies
well outside the framework of Bahá’í belief and practice.
Bahá'u’lláh has liberated human minds by prohibiting within His
Faith any caste with ecclesiastical prerogatives that seeks to
foist a self-assumed authority upon the thought and behaviour
of the mass of believers. Indeed, He has prescribed a system
that combines democratic practices with the application of
knowledge through consultative processes.
The House of Justice is confident that the principles herein
presented will enable the friends to benefit from diverse
contributions resulting from exploration of the manifold
implications of Bahá'u’lláh's vast Revelation, while remaining
impervious to the efforts of those few who, whether in an
explicit or veiled manner, attempt to divert the Bahá’í
community from essential understandings of the Faith.
With loving Bahá’í greetings,
Department of the Secretariat
cc: International Teaching Centre

Appendix I
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
abbreviations used in this book*
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, Commemorative ed. London, UK:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi. Advent of Divine Justice, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990
ADP
Abdu’l-Bahá. Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy. Comp. Elizabeth Fraser
Chamberlain. Boston, MA: Tudor Press, 1918
BA
Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration: Selected Messages 1922 — 1932,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1984
BP
compilation. Bahá’í Prayers
BW
World Centre Publications. Bahá’í World, The, volumes I (1925) through
XX (1986-92); new series 1993-2007. Haifa: World Centre Publications.
BWF
compilation. Bahá’í World Faith. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
CUHJ
The Constitution of The Universal House of Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1972
CC
Compilation of Compilations volumes I-3. World Centre Publications /
Bahá’í Publications Australia. Vol. 1-2: 1991; Vol. 3: 1993
CF
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith. Messages to America, 1947-1957.
Wilmette: Illinois, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1965.
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, 1st
pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1979
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail. Hidden Words. Numerous editions
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi and the Bahá’í World Centre. Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Kitáb-i-ˆqán, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983
KJV
King James Version, The Bible. Numerous editions
LDG
Shoghi Effendi. Lights of Divine Guidance, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Germany, 1982
LG
compilation. Lights of Guidance. India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
MBW
Shoghi Effendi. Messages to the Bahá’í World: 1950-1957, Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, Wilmette, 1971
MSEI
Messages of Shoghi Effendi to the Indian Subcontinent
MUHJ63 Universal House of Justice, comp. Geoffry W. Marks. Messages from the
Universal House of Justice 1963-86: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996
OCF
Bahá’u’lláh, comp. Research Department of the UHJ. One Common Faith.
Bahá’í World Centre, 2005
PB
Bahá’u’lláh. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, Haifa: Bahá’í World
Center, 1972.
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Prayers and Meditations, 1st pocket ed.

Appendices
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. Ontario: Nine Pines Publishing
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, 2nd ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1982
Q
Qur’án. Numerous editions
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, comp. and trans. Laura Clifford Barney. Some Answered
Questions, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, trans. Marzieh Gail. Secret of Divine Civilization, 1st pocket
ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. World Centre Publications. Summons of the Lord of
Hosts. Australia: Bahá’í Publications Australia,
SV
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, 4th ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust
SWB
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, comp. Research Department of the UHJ, trans. Habib
Taherzadeh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 1st
pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
TDH
Shoghi Effendi. This Decisive Hour, Messages from Shoghi Effendi to
the North American Bahá’ís 1932—1946. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1992
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Traveller’s Narrative, A. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1994
WOB
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters, 1st pocket ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991

* No formal list of abbreviations exists, but semi-formal lists can be derived from
abbreviations used by the Bahá’í World Centre. First, a partial list is in Messages
from the Universal House of Justice 1963-86. Second, the BWC downloads site
has
a
list
of
their
filename
abbreviations
at
library.bahai.or/README/README-TREE.htm.
Those
two
have
been
combined. See more at bahai-library.com/?file=abbreviations

Appendix II
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Eight
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnan

Appendices
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-
baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: An Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád) — A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of
God’s Word
LeRoy Jones

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-
i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge

Appendices
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women
of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne
and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel

Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths

Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb

Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind

Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy

Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance

Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity

Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education

Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship

Appendices

Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá

James B. Thomas
Elucidations
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials
on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey
of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Bábe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: An Exposition on Excerpts from the Persian Bayán

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-
1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz

Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel

Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin

The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen

The Bahá’í Covenant
Ali Nakhjavani

Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie

Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli

The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Elucidations

Appendices
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research
Department; Making the Crooked Straight

Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian

Daniel’s Prophecies

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine
Appendix III
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
English-Language Publications
• Scripture and Revelation, Moojan Momen (ed.),
Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1997
• The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions, Moojan
Momen (ed.), Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 2005.
• The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilation of Papers Presented
at the ‘Irfán Colloquia, Iraj Ayman general ed, Books I-
IX, 2000-08.
• Occasional Papers volume 1: “Images of Christ in the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” by Maryam Afshar.
Persian-Language Publications
• Safini-yi ‘Irfán, Vol. I to Vol. X (Collections of the
papers presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia in Persian),
1998-2007.
All ‘Irfán publications in English and Persian may be ordered
from:
Bahá’í Distribution Service
Bosch Bahá’í School
415 Linden Avenue
500 Comstock Lane
Wilmette, IL 60091-2886
Santa Cruz, CA 95060-9677
Tel: 847-425-7950
Tel: 831-423-3387
Fax: 847-425-7951
Fax: 831-423-7564
Email: bdßusbnc.org
Email: bosch@usbnc.org
Web: bahaibookstore.com

German-Language Publications
• Beiträge des ‘Irfán-Kolloquiums 2003: ‘Irfán-Studien
zum Bahá’í-Schrifttum (Collections of the papers
presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia in German).
Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í-Verlag. Vol. I to Vol. IV,
2004-2007.
‘Irfán publications in German may be ordered from:

Appendices
Bahá’í Verlag
Eppsteiner
Strasse
89,
D-
65719
Hofheim, Germany
Tel: +49-(0)-6192-22921
Fax: +49-(0)-6192-22936
Email: office@bahai-verlag.de
Web: www.bahai-verlag.de