■ -
fell
fe!lI
ml
'i;
,L.1a-?M.
Pd
--, ■> 1

i
Anthony A. Lee, General Editor
Baha’is in the West: Studies in the Bdbi and Baha’i
Religions, Volume Eight, edited by Peter Smith
From Iran East and West: Studies in Bdbi and Baha’i History,
Volume Two, edited by Juan R. Cole and Moojan Momen
In Iran: Studies in Bdbi and Baha’i History, Volume
Three, edited by Peter Smith
Studies in Bdbi and Baha’i History, Volume One, edited by
Moojan Momen
Music, Devotions, and Mashriqu’l-Adhkdr: Studies in Bdbi
and Baha’i History, Volume Four, by R. Jackson
Armstrong-Ingram
Community Histories: Studies in the Bdbi and Baha’i
Religions, Volume Six, edited by Richard Hollinger
Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi: Studies in
the Bdbi and Baha’i Religions, Volume Five, edited by
Moojan Momen
STUDIES IN THE BABI AND BAHA’I RELIGIONS
(formerly Studies in Babt and Baha’i History)
Symbol and Secret: Qur’an Commentary in Bahd’u’lldh’s
Kitab-i tqan: Studies in the Bdbi and Baha’i Religions,
Volume Seven, by Christopher Buck

‘ABDU’L-BAHA WITH THE BAHA’I COMMUNITY OF CHICAGO
in Lincoln Park, Chicago, May 5, 1912.
L. / I'
* J.
! £r ^3
; ■• '.1

VOLUME SIX
COMMUNITY HISTORIES
General Editor
Anthony A. Lee
STUDIES IN THE
BABI AND BAHA’I RELIGIONS
Edited by
Richard Hollinger
Kalimat Press
Los Angeles

First Edition.
Manufactured in the United States of America.
Studes in Babi and Baha’i history.
Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data
(Revised for vol. 6)
Copyright © 1992 by Kalimat Press.
All Rights Reserved.
ISBN 0-933770-16-2 (v. 1)
ISBN 0-933770-76-6 (v. 6)
Vols. 5- have title: Studies in the Babi and Baha’i religions.
(Studies in the Babi and Baha’i religions)
Includes bibliographies and indexes.
Contents: v. 1 [no title]-v. 2. From Iran east and west /
edited by Juan R. Cole and Moojan Momen-[etc.]-v. 5. Studies
in honor of the late Hasan M. Balyuzi / edited by Moojan Momen.
v. 6. Community histories / edited by Richard Hollinger.
1. Baha’i Faith-History. 2. Babism-History.
I. Momen, Moojan. II. Series.
BP330.S78 1982 297’.9'09 83-227

CONTENTS
vii
Index
v
Introduction:
Baha’i Communities in the West, 1897-1992
Richard Hollinger............................................
A History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community, 1897-1980
Roger Dahl.............................................................................
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas, 1897-1947
Duane L. Herrmann................................
The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990
Deb Clark............................................
The Development and Influence of the Baha’i
Administrative Order in Great Britain, 1914-1950
Phillip R. Smith.............................................................
The Development and Decline of an Early Baha’i Community:
Saint John, News Brunswick, Canada, 1910-1925
Will. C. van den Hoonaard
A History of the Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1991
Peggy Caton..............................................................................241

by Richard Hollinger
vii
INTRODUCTION:
BAHAI COMMUNITIES IN THE WEST, 1897-1992
In his ground-breaking work on slavery in South Carolina,
Charles Joyner notes: “All history is local history, somewhere.
And yet how little this obvious fact is reflected in the schol­
arship . . ,”1 A similar observation could be made about the
scholarship on Baha’i history. There is a significant body of
literature on the history of the Baha’i Faith in the West, for
example, but very little has been published on the history of
local Baha’i communities.2 Historians describe the Baha’i
community without having examined in depth any particular
Baha’i community.
This volume is intended as a first effort to fill this gap in
the literature. The essays by Duane Herrmann and Phillip
Smith document the history of the Baha’i Faith in Kansas
and Great Britain, respectively. The articles by Deborah Clark,
Roger Dahl, Peggy Caton, and Will C. van den Hoonaard
focus on specific local communities in the United States and
Canada: Baltimore, Maryland; Kenosha, Wisconsin; Sacra­
mento, California; and St. John, New Brunswick.

Richard Hollinger
viii
These local communities were, of course, affected by na­
tional and international trends in the Baha’i Movement and
their histories should be viewed in that wider context. Three
of the Baha’i communities discussed in this volume—Balti­
more, Kenosha, and Enterprise (Kansas)—date back to 1897-
1898. During this period the Baha’i Faith was being spread
in the West almost exclusively by means of a course of lec­
tures developed by Ibrahim Kheiralla (a Lebanese convert)
which began with metaphysical teachings and ended with
instruction on the Baha’i religion.3 When students had com­
pleted the lessons, they were asked to write a letter to
‘Abdu’l-Baha, the head of the Faith in Palestine, declaring
their belief. If they did so, they were invited to join the Baha’i
community. Beyond this, there appear to have been meet­
ings, in the Chicago Baha’i community at least, that were
intended for Baha’is only.4
The communities that developed during this period, as a
result, seem to have had a fairly clear definition of member­
ship, which probably contributed to the development of Baha’i
identities among the members. Kheiralla’s message, which
interpreted biblical prophecies as having been fulfilled by the
Bab, Baha’u’llah, and ‘Abdu’l-Baha, also provided a powerful
basis of a new identity for at least some members of the new
Baha’i communities. Nevertheless, it is not clear that all the
Baha’is of this period viewed the Baha’i Faith as an indepen­
dent religion. The presentation Kheiralla offered was cen­
tered on interpretation of the Bible and could have given the
impression that the Faith was a movement within Christi­
anity.
Many of Kheiralla’s students were highly individualistic
in their approach to religion and had already been involved
in other alternative religious groups.5 The Baha’i teachings
(however they were understood) were on the fringes of Ameri­
can religious belief, and most active church members would

Introduction
ix
not have been willing to attend Baha’i classes. Kheiralla him­
self observed that most of his students were persons who had
left their churches and were “true seekers . . . always looking
about for some new religion.”6 These individuals were not
subject to the same social constraints as active churchgoers.
Such persons may have been attracted by some aspects of
the Baha’i teachings without accepting the Baha’i scriptures
as a primary source of their religious beliefs.
Even for those who accepted the Baha’i teachings with
fewer reservations, it took some time to develop personal
identities in which the Baha’i Faith was a central element.
During the years 1900 to 1904, this process was facilitated in
the larger Western communities by visits from several Ira­
nian Baha’i teachers, including Mirza Abu’l-Fadl Gulpaygani
and Mirza Asadu’llah Isfahan!. These teachers, especially the
former, taught that the Baha’i Faith was an independent
religion and emphasized its unique laws and rituals.7 The
publication and distribution of Baha’i scriptures and of some
introductory literature also contributed to an independent
conception of the Faith. Some Baha’is who found this diffi­
cult to accept left the community during this time.8 How­
ever, an active core of believers seems to have adopted this
understanding.
While this process of consolidation was taking place in
some of the oldest Western communities, the Baha’i Faith
was also spreading fairly rapidly in new localities elsewhere
in North America and Europe. Consequently, while a small
group of active believers with strong Baha’i identities emerged
within a few years of the founding of the first Baha’i commu­
nities, a significant number of Baha’is at any given time
were new to the community and probably had weak Baha’i
identities.
In 1899, according to a list compiled about the end of that
year, approximately 84% of the Baha’is in the West resided

Richard Hollinger
x
in four cities: New York City; Chicago; Kenosha; and Cincin­
nati, Ohio. These ranged in size from 69 in Cincinnati to 712
members in Chicago. Another 7% resided in seven communi­
ties in the midwestern and eastern regions of the United
States (including Baltimore and Enterprise) ranging in size
from 6 to 23 persons; and a roughly equal number of Baha’is
were isolated or lived in localities with only one or two Baha’is.
There was only one Baha’i group on the West Coast: San
Francisco, with 14 members (1%).9 While most of the Baha’i
communities were relatively small (the median size was 19),
the larger communities may be regarded as more representa­
tive of the Baha’i experience in 1899. (The average commu­
nity size was 113.)
The Baha’i population at the turn of the century was
centered in the midwestern and northeastern regions of the
United States, almost exclusively in urban areas. There were
Baha’is from various social classes, but there were few blacks,
Jews, or Catholics in the Baha’i population then.10 Few Baha’is
lived in rural areas. The movement had not spread signifi­
cantly outside of the networks of Protestants, in urban in­
dustrial centers of the United States, where it had first taken
hold. It was some time before it transcended these networks
and penetrated the social barriers imposed by religion,
ethnicity, and geography.
On the other hand, the geographic dispersion of the Baha’i
population to other urban centers in the West began rather
quickly. According to figures collected by the United States
Census in 1906, there were 24 Baha’i communities in the
United States at that time.11 The average community had a
membership of 53, but the average attendance at Baha’i com­
munity meetings was probably less than 20.12 Most of the
new communities were in the Midwest and Northeast. How­
ever, between 1906 and 1908 several new communities were
established in the Pacific Northwest.13 Between 1900 and

Introduction
xi
1907, Baha’i groups were also formed in Honolulu, Hawaii;
Stuttgart, Germany; London and Manchester, England; Paris,
France; and Montreal, Canada.14 Hence, there was a trend
toward geographic diffusion as well as a trend toward the
development of smaller communities.
This pattern of geographic diffusion without a substan­
tial growth in the Baha’i population appears to have contin­
ued until the 1930s. According to the 1916 census of reli­
gions, there were 2,884 Baha’is in 57 communities in the
United States; thus the average community had 50 mem­
bers.15 The number of persons who signed a petition to ‘Abdu’l-
Baha circulated in 1918 suggests that the average atten­
dance at Baha’i meetings was about 29 and that as many as
30% of the active Baha’is in North America may have then
resided on the West Coast.16 By 1921, there were at least six
times as many Baha’i communities as there were in 1899.17
However, a careful analysis by Robert Stockman suggests
that the number of active Baha’is in the United States had
not increased significantly.18 We can deduce from this that
there was great deal of flux in the membership of the Baha’i
community; a significant number of persons must have drifted
in and out of local communities during this period.
This pattern was particularly distinct in newly formed
Baha’i communities, which tended to exhibit the characteris­
tics of “voluntary associations” popular with the urban middle
class. This essay follows Baha’i usage in referring to these
groups as “communities,” but such social configurations fit
this description only in the broadest sense of the term; they
might more accurately be likened to social clubs or religious
study classes. New communities were usually begun when
one person (or a family) in a locality opened a home for Baha’i
meetings; often these would begin as study classes conducted
by outside teachers. Eventually, one or more local Baha’is
might take responsibility for conducting the meetings. Often

xii Richard Hollinger
when such key individuals left a community, the other mem­
bers did not identify strongly enough with the Baha’i Faith
to take on a leadership role. In such instances, Baha’i com­
munities might become temporarily inactive or disappear al­
together. An example of the latter is provided in Will C. van
den Hoonaard’s essay on the St. John community in this
volume.
The rapid fluctuation in Baha’i membership necessarily
retarded the development of Baha’i community life. This was
exacerbated, for a time, by the lack of a generally accepted
body of Baha’i beliefs and the absence of clear boundaries to
Baha’i community membership. During the 1890s, individu­
als had been obliged to write letters declaring their faith in
Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-Baha before they could become mem­
bers of Baha’i communities. However after 1900, there was
no such requirement in most places. Baha’i meetings, there­
fore, were generally open to anyone.
The major gatherings in most Baha’i communities were
weekly meetings that were usually held on Sundays. In many
communities these were the only Baha’i gatherings. These
meetings typically included prayers, readings from the Baha’i
sacred writings and from the Bible, a prepared talk on some
aspect of Baha’i history or the Baha’i teachings, the reading
of letters from Baha’is in other localities, a discussion of com­
munity business, and sometimes the singing of hymns.19 If
someone unfamiliar with the Baha’i teachings attended, an
introductory talk would be given. The Nineteen-Day Feasts,
social and devotional meetings called for in Baha’i scriptures,
were held in many communities beginning about 1906. But
these, too, were often open meetings. In 1909 (by which time
Feasts were held in most of the larger communities), Charles
Mason Remey, a widely traveled Baha’i, complained that there
were almost no meetings being held just for believers.20
In many communities, anyone who attended Baha’i meet-

Introduction
xiii
ings was regarded as a member of the Baha’i community,
and would have been counted in the census statistics cited
above. However, many of those who attended Baha’i meet­
ings had not accepted Baha’u’llah as a prophet, had little
commitment to the community, and held beliefs that were in
conflict with the Baha’i teachings. For example, between 1904
and 1912 Anna Monroe, who is not known to have ever ex­
pressed a belief in the Baha’u’llah, attended Baha’i meetings
in the San Francisco Bay Area and in Washington, D.C.—
and even held Baha’i meetings in her home in Berkeley.21
Her correspondence shows that she held ‘Abdu’l-Baha in high
esteem, but that there were other spiritual teachers, such as
Emmanuel Swedenborg, from whose writings she also drew
inspiration and whom she may have regarded as equals of
‘Abdu’l-Baha. Near the end of her life, for reasons that are
not clear, she stopped attending Baha’i meetings. Marion
Yazdi, reflecting the standards of membership that devel­
oped later, recalled that Monroe “never became a Baha’i.”22
But Monroe was considered a member of the Baha’i commu­
nity while she was attending Baha’i meetings. 23
The lack of clear community boundaries impeded the de­
velopment of Baha’i identities, especially in the smaller, newly
established communities. However, in the cities with the
greatest number of Baha’is, such as Chicago and New York,
communities appear to have evolved into social configura­
tions that were significantly different from those of smaller
communities. These large communities were characterized
by a wide variety of meetings and activities that drew fami­
lies and individuals into interlocking social networks similar
to those of a small town (or parish) church.24 In some specific
ways, such as the organization of choirs and the development
of philanthropic endeavors, they emulated church activities.
As in many of the small communities, large communities
held Sunday meetings to which non-Baha’fs were allowed (or

xiv Richard Hollinger
even encouraged) to attend. But their presence probably did
not have the same impact on the proceedings that it would
have had in a small community. On the other hand, if some
persons regularly attended a number of different Baha’i func­
tions, they might develop Baha’i identities, and be assimi­
lated into the Baha’i community.
In Chicago, at least, there are indications that the devel­
opment of social networks within the community led to
strong bonds of reciprocal obligation between the members.
One example of this sense of mutual obligation is related by
Roger Dahl in his essay on Kenosha in this volume. He notes
that the Baha’is of Chicago arranged for the housing of a
destitute and elderly Baha’i from Kenosha. Their sense of
obligation does not seem to have stemmed from a personal
relationship with this woman; rather, they felt obliged to
care for her because she was part of the community.
These large communities became centers of Baha’i activ­
ity upon which many smaller communities depended for in­
tellectual, moral, and material support. Even before 1900,
members of the New York and Chicago communities had
begun to support smaller communities in a number of ways.
They conducted classes and meetings in small communities;
corresponded with Baha’is in these places; published Baha’i
literature; and circulated copies of unpublished materials
that illuminated various aspects of the Baha’i teachings. In
1908, New York Baha’is launched the first English-language
Baha’i newsletter, The Bahai Bulletin, noting in the first
issue its importance to small Baha’i communities: “We in the
large cities have no idea what this would mean to more iso­
lated believers in small towns and villages ... To them a
paper coming regularly with news of the Cause would mean
life itself.”25 The function of The Bahai Bulletin was later
assumed by Star of the West, which was published by the
Chicago Baha’is. In 1909, the Baha’is of Chicago organized

Introduction
xv
the first annual Bahai Temple Unity convention, attended by
delegates from various Baha’i communities, to facilitate the
construction of a Baha’i House of Worship in North America.
All of these activities tied the Baha’is of small communities
to a larger movement and, in the process, strengthened the
Baha’i identities of the members.
These activities, because they provided forums for dis­
cussing the Baha’i teachings, also contributed to the emer­
gence of a normative body of belief among the most active
North American Baha’is. Even before ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s visit in
1912, most of the leading Baha’is, though possibly a minor­
ity of those who attended local Baha’i meetings, appear to
have accepted the Baha’i scriptures as their primary source
of spiritual truth. Other religious teachings might be stud­
ied, but they would be interpreted and judged in the light of
the Baha’i teachings. Dreams, visions, and other forms of
inspiration were also important in the culture of the commu­
nity and were sometimes understood to validate certain forms
of artistic expressions. For example, the design for the Baha’i
House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois, was legitimized, in
part, by the architect’s assertion that it was “an inspiration
of the creator ... a copy of a Temple that exist[s] in the spirit
world.”26 Personal inspiration could also provide proof of the
truth of Baha’i teachings, evidence for beliefs that were not
known to have been addressed in Baha’i scriptures and, to a
more limited extent, esoteric meanings of the Baha’i teach­
ings. However, it was not acceptable for such inspiration to
replace Baha’i scripture as the primary source of doctrine for
the community.27
Although there was a degree of agreement among leading
Baha’is concerning these matters, and this consensus was
reflected in most of the published literature and much of the
public discourse of the community, individualism remained
at the heart of the American Baha’i ethos. Because of this,

xvi Richard Hollinger
some Baha’is could defy the norms of the accepted Baha’i
epistemology by, for example, circulating documents that they
claimed were letters received from ‘Abdu’l-Baha through
“spiritual telepathy.”28 Views that were at variance with the
general understanding of the Baha’i teachings continued to
be presented in Baha’i meetings, and such opinions were
occasionally found in Baha’i publications. While Baha’is might
express their personal disagreement with such ideas, they
were reluctant to impose their views on others, even when
there was a widespread consensus on a particular subject.
Thus Marie Watson prefaced her criticism of a Baha’i publi­
cation with the following disclaimer: “No one can dictate to
another . . . but I must insist for myself, to sanction only the
Principles of the Revelation as set forth by Baha’o’llah and
Abdul Baha.” (Emphasis added.)29
One Baha’i, Charles Mason Remey, for years conducted a
campaign to purge Baha’i literature, and presentations at
Baha’i meetings, of ideas that could not be supported by Baha’i
scriptures. These efforts did achieve results, but they are
significant primarily because they were so unusual. Although
other Baha’is may have sympathized with Remey, few were
willing to take such initiatives.
However, attitudes began to change in 1917 and 1918 as
a result of a watershed event that has become known as the
Chicago Reading Room Affair.30 This controversy centered
around the activities held at a Baha’i Reading Room that
had been established in Chicago, apparently as a way of reach­
ing non-Baha’is with the Baha’i message. This was supported
by a number of the leading Baha’is of Chicago, and for a
short time it seems to have been the center of Bahd’i activity
in the city. However by 1917, there was a serious division in
the community between those who supported the Reading
Room and those who opposed the activities there. Separate
meetings were held by the two rival factions, each of which

Introduction
xvii
claimed to be the “Chicago Bahai Assembly” (i.e., commu­
nity). Under normal circumstances, the matter would have
been referred to ‘Abdu’l-Baha for resolution, but World War I
had cut off communication with Palestine, making this im­
possible. Therefore, a committee was appointed, by persons
who had gathered in Chicago to commemorate the one-hun­
dredth anniversary of Baha’u’llah’s birth, to investigate this
division in the Chicago community. The Committee of Inves­
tigation concluded that the activities at the Reading Room
constituted Covenant-breaking and that the participants,
therefore, should be expelled from the Baha’i community and
shunned by the believers. This ruling was ratified by the
delegates at the Bahai Temple Unity Convention of 1918.
Although there were a variety of accusations made against
the Reading Room group and a number of unusual circum­
stances that led to this radical action, the primary argument
for this decision was that the Reading Room group had split
off from the Chicago Baha’i community to form a separate
and rival community, an act expressly forbidden by ‘Abdu’l-
Baha.31 Behind this legalistic argument, however, lay worlds
of meaning.
The dominant view of the relationship of the Baha’i Faith
to other religious teachings, which centered on the concept of
“progressive revelation,” allowed Baha’is at once to validate
and transcend the teachings of the major world religions.
Baha’is could also embrace the teachings of new religious
movements, with some reservations, on the basis that they
were (unknowingly) inspired by the spirit of the new age.
However, the teachings of a few groups, such as Theoso-
phists and Freemasons, were difficult for Baha’is to encom­
pass. Theosophists asserted that their teachings were the
distillation of truths found in all religions, and therefore the
true essence of all religion—a claim that was difficult to fit
into the Baha’i paradigm without ceding the primacy of Baha’i

xviii Richard Hollinger
scripture as the basis for spiritual truth. Beyond this, The­
osophy, because it claimed to have captured the esoteric truth
found in every religion, presented a paradigm into which the
Baha’i Faith could potentially be incorporated.
This potential was realized in the writings of W. W.
Harmon, a Theosophist from the Boston area. He published
books and circulated lessons within the Baha’i community
that offered esoteric interpretations of Baha’i scriptures and
explanations of the stations of Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-Baha
that were influenced by the teachings of Theosophy. He was
careful to note in his writing that the “Bahai Movement” was
not responsible for his conclusions and that he was not “en­
tering into the field of interpretation of the teachings of
Baha’o’llah.” This itself is evidence that explanations that
contradicted or significantly exceeded the obvious meaning of
the scriptures were regarded with some suspicion in certain
Baha’i circles.32 Harmon’s teachings had been a source of
controversy as early as 1912, and they faced increasing criti­
cism as they became more influential.33 The crux of the dis­
pute in Chicago was that the Harmon lessons and other Theo­
sophical teachings were being used in classes given at the
Reading Room.
Many of the other accusations levelled against the Read­
ing Room group—that they spread negative rumors about
prominent Baha’is and sought to take over the leadership of
the Bahai Temple Unity, for example—could have been di­
rected at other contemporary Baha’is, including some of their
most outspoken opponents. It was the theological challenge
to the dominant Baha’i paradigm that imbued these accusa­
tions with special meaning. If there was the possibility that
Theosophy could absorb the Baha’i Faith theologically, there
was a fear that the Bahd’i community could be dominated by
persons sympathetic to Theosophy. In this context, the
“Harmonites” came to be seen as conspirators who sought to

Introduction
xix
usurp or infiltrate the legitimate leadership of the Baha’i
community so that they could contaminate the Baha’i move­
ment with Theosophical doctrines.
The Reading Room Affair, which affected a number of
local Baha’i communities in North America, continued to have
repercussions throughout the 1920s. The incident marked a
significant step towards defining the boundaries of the Baha’i
community. Although they were far from defeated as a force
within the Baha’i community, Baha’is who espoused The­
osophy or other metaphysical teachings were put on the
defensive. After 1918, Baha’i leaders exhibited a greater
willingness to exercise control over Baha’i publications and
presentations.
On the other hand, some prominent Baha’is, such as Roy
Wilhelm and Agnes Parsons, felt that the conduct of the in­
vestigation had been inappropriate and sought to cultivate a
more tolerant attitude in the community.34 While the Read­
ing Room Affair served to discredit metaphysical teachings,
it did not challenge the participation of Baha’is in churches,
other religious groups or movements for social change, which
had also contributed to the ambiguity of community boundaries.
In fact, the involvement of Baha’is with other groups that
promoted teachings similar to those of the Baha’i Faith, ap­
pears to have been increasing at the very time when meta­
physical teachings were coming under attack. About the time
of‘Abdu’l-Baha’s visit to the West (1911-1913), Baha’is began
to place increasing emphasis on the Baha’i social teachings
in their public presentations of the Faith. Individuals might
be attracted to specific Baha’i teachings and could on that
basis be considered Baha’is. This view seemed to be sup­
ported by some of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s public statements. For ex­
ample, he was reported to have said: “To be a Baha’i simply
means to love all the world; to love humanity and try to
serve it; to work for universal peace and universal brother-

Richard Hollinger
xx
hood.”35 Responding to such exhortations, Baha’is became ac­
tive in movements promoting peace, an international lan­
guage, racial equality, and feminism.36 At about this time, a
view developed among some Western Baha’is that the pur­
pose of the Baha’i Faith was to spiritualize and broaden the
perspective of existing organizations and movements. One
such Baha’i argued: “The Bahai Revelation is not to be orga­
nized. It remains an ideal, a force, a principle. Since organi­
zations must be, let the old organizations remain, as many of
them as prove useful. Infused with the Bahai Spirit, they can
no longer conflict, duplicate or contend.”37 Some asserted that
the Baha’i Faith was the “esperanto of religions,” whose pur­
pose was to “coordinate the existing sects and religions but
not attempt to replace them.”38 A number of prominent Baha’is
felt that Baha’is could (and should) be active members of
non-Baha’i religious organizations. In 1911, for example, Tu­
dor Pole encouraged the Baha’is of London not to leave their
churches to form another sect.39
During the 1910s and 1920s, many Baha’is, especially in
the New York and Boston areas, affiliated with churches
that had adopted progressive social programs, and they hired
liberal clergymen to make public presentations on the Baha’i
Faith.40 As early as 1908, Dr. Oliver M. Fisher, an Episcopa­
lian minister, was active in the New York Baha’i Commu­
nity, where he lectured on the Seven Valleys; in 1910 he
offered lectures on the Baha’i Faith in London and held Baha’i
meetings his home there.41 Subsequently, Christian minis­
ters were associated with a number of American Baha’i com­
munities, and as Phillip Smith observes in his essay on Great
Britain, a Unitarian minister was elected to the National
Spiritual Assembly there in 1927. The close association of
Christian ministers with the Bahd’i community suggests that
at least some Baha’is attended their churches. Jackson
Armstrong-Ingram has argued that the affiliation of leading

Introduction
xxi
American Baha’is with churches impeded the development of
distinctive community devotional life in the United States.42
This might also account for the slow development of a dis­
tinct Baha’i identity and practice in Great Britain.
The lack of a clear consensus on the meaning of Baha’i
identity and on the definition of membership in Baha’i com­
munities was partly rooted in the absence of local and na­
tional institutions whose authority was fully accepted by all
Baha’is.43 The Executive Board of the Bahai Temple Unity,
was the first ongoing Western Baha’i institution with more
than a local scope of responsibility. Initially focusing on the
task of establishing a Baha’i Temple (mashriqu’l-adhkdr}. the
body gradually took on broader responsibilities, but it gener­
ally functioned as a board of directors answerable to the del­
egates who elected it. The delegates themselves might achieve
a consensus in a crisis such as the Reading Room Affair, but
there was no regular forum at which they could consult and
vote on the complex web of issues relating to Baha’i identity.
Boards of Counsel (the precursors to Local Spiritual As­
semblies), seem to have exercised more authority at a local
level, but they did not always function with clear mandates
to make decisions on all matters for the community. Some­
times their decisions were ratified by a general vote of the
believers. In any case, most communities did not have
elected consultative bodies; instead they had community
officers who were elected or chosen in an informal manner
by the community. As Mariam Haney, a Baha’i since 1900,
explained: “. . . the affairs of the Cause were administered by
individuals who seemed naturally to have the necessary abil­
ity to function.”44 Thus, at both a national and local level,
Baha’i organization at this time could be described as a par­
ticipatory democracy.
However, in the early 1920s this began to change. Shoghi
Effendi, the grandson and appointed successor to ‘Abdu’l-

xxii Richard Hollinger
Baha, drawing on the principles outlined in the Will and
Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Baha and in other Baha’i scriptures,
began to alter the existing Baha’i community practices in
significant ways. Local Spiritual Assemblies of nine adult
members were to be elected in every community that was
large enough, and they were to have the authority to govern
the affairs of the community. National Spiritual Assemblies
were to have authority independent of the delegates who
elected them. Only persons who had declared their belief in
Baha’u’llah were to attend Nineteen-Day Feasts or vote in
Baha’i elections.45 The dissemination and implementation of
these principles in the North American Baha’i communities
took until about the mid-1980s, and these efforts were not
without opposition.
Baha’is who did not believe that the Baha’i Faith should
be organized, who felt that excluding non-Baha’is from some
Baha’i meetings contradicted the spirit of the Baha’i teach­
ings, or who opposed what they perceived as the dictatorial
tendencies of Baha’i administrators, coalesced around Real­
ity magazine (published from 1919-1929) and the New His­
tory Society (founded in 1929). These organizations promoted
the idea of an inclusive Baha’i movement rather than an
organized Baha’i religion. However, neither of them appear
to have had widespread support among Western Baha’is; both
were able to continue their activities primarily because of
the financial support of wealthy individuals.46
After ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s Will and Testament began to be cir­
culated in 1923, it became more difficult to advocate an
anti-organization position, because this document included
an outline for the development of Baha’i organization. Nev­
ertheless, many Baha’is continued to be troubled by what
they viewed as intrusive aspects of the new Baha’i adminis­
trative practices. When the Local Spiritual Assembly of Los
Angeles sought to control the Baha’i meetings held by Ed-

Introduction xxiii
ward Getsinger, for example, he questioned their right to
intervene in his personal activities and decried the “drift in
the Cause toward sectarianization.”^’
Such tension between older Baha’is and the newly estab­
lished Baha’i institutions was common, but the broader trend
was toward acceptance of institutional authority. By 1925,
support for the concept of a Baha’i movement was so weak
that Reality magazine sought a rapprochement with the Na­
tional Spiritual Assembly.48 Ultimately, however, neither
Reality nor the New History Society was willing to submit to
the authority of Baha’i administrative institutions. Those who
continued to be involved with these groups either distanced
themselves from the Baha’i community or were excommuni­
cated, which effectively ended their influence among Baha’is.
This outcome, which became evident by the end of the
1920s, illustrates the changes that had occurred in the Baha’i
community by this time. Fifteen years earlier, the activities
of Reality magazine and the New History Society probably
would have continued within the community. As there was
then no mechanism for resolving the differing concepts of
Baha’i community and Baha’i identity, it is likely that most
Baha’is would have viewed them not as opposition groups,
but as representatives of different schools of thought within
the Baha’i Faith.
Although they did, in fact, have a profound effect on the
New York Baha’i community, the activities of the New His­
tory Society and Reality magazine were intended to influence
the direction of the Baha’i Faith at a national and interna­
tional level. But the authority of both the Guardian and of
the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United
States and Canada, the legitimacy of which they attempted
to challenge, had been firmly established within the Baha’i
community by the late 1920s. There were still minor dis­
agreements about the jurisdiction of the National Assembly

xxiv Richard Hollinger
in local affairs and its relationship to National Convention
delegates until the mid-1930s.‘19 But by 1930, the National
Spiritual Assembly was able to focus its attention on the
implementation of administrative changes in local communi­
ties.
In 1931, for example, for the first time the National As­
sembly directed that local communities should be confined to
the legal metropolitan boundaries of the town or city; those
who lived outside these boundaries were to form separate
communities.50 The impact of this policy is noted in several of
the essays in this volume.51 The implementation of this new
rule obviously had important consequences for persons who
were cut off from the communities to which they had be­
longed, but the loss of members was also sometimes trau­
matic for the rest of the community. For example, when the
Berkeley Baha’i community broke off from the San Francisco
Baha’i community, which then included all Baha’is in the
San Francisco Bay Area, it was the San Francisco Baha’is
who were upset by the change.52
The National Spiritual Assembly also began to coordi­
nate teaching activities in various parts of the country. Dur­
ing the late 1920s and early 1930s, many new local commu­
nities were established by teachers whose presentations had
been approved by the National Assembly. As a result of the
activities of these teachers, there was also a substantial
change in membership in some of the established communi­
ties. Extended Baha’i study classes were held in many local
communities to insure that community members had a thor­
ough understanding of the Baha’i teachings and the prin­
ciples of Baha’i Administration.
As we can see from the articles on Kansas and Baltimore,
this process of reeducation may have also functioned as a
way of identifying and removing from the membership lists
those individuals who were not Baha’is according to the new

standards. In the 1930s, it became customary in most local
communities in North America for persons to be required to
attend study classes for as long as a year before being al­
lowed to enroll in the Baha’i' community.53 This prevented
the development of the ambiguous boundaries of member­
ship that had existed during earlier years and resulted in
much greater consistency in Baha’i beliefs.
As the Kansas essay illustrates, some persons left Baha’i
communities when the membership requirements changed,
but they were probably outnumbered by new converts. Ac­
cording to the 1936 census of religions, there were then 2,584
Baha’is in the United States in 88 Baha’i communities.54 Al­
though this estimate may be slightly high, and there is some
question about whether the Baha’i population grew signifi­
cantly in the previous decade, there can be little doubt that
were many new converts during this time and that their
presence and involvement in Baha’i activities changed the
nature of Baha’i communities.55
A survey of local communities conducted in 1937 illus­
trates some of the changes that had taken place in Baha’i
community life. The majority of the Baha’is in these commu­
nities were reported to have been enrolled after the “estab­
lishment of the administrative order.”56 Hence the majority
of Baha’is, and the total membership of some communities,
had by then been socialized into a Baha’i culture that placed
great stress on organization. This did not simply entail an
acceptance of the authority of Baha’i institutions. New Baha’is
understood that when they had accepted the Baha’i Faith
they had also joined a community in which they were obliged
to be active workers. In 1937, there was an average of 6.3
committees per community, or one committee for every 4.8
persons.57 Many tasks that had previously been handled by
individuals, such as the planning of the Nineteen-Day Feast
or the maintenance of a Baha’i Library, were now handled
Introduction xxv

xxvi Richard Hollinger
by committees. This came to be viewed as the proper way to
accomplish most tasks; and, as the example of Edward
Getsinger suggests, activities that were not under the control
of an institution were seen as improper. Mariam Haney, writ­
ing in the mid-1940s, observed that in the period prior to the
establishment Local Spiritual Assemblies, “even the commit­
tees did not preclude the friends from serving and teaching
in accordance with their own guidance. Those were the days
when the ‘rugged individualism’ of Americans was greatly in
evidence.”58 We can infer from this statement that such indi­
vidual activities were no longer the norm when she wrote
this. Although, as Deborah Clark observes with regard to
Baltimore, some local committees may have been quite
small, it seems probable that most active Baha’is were on
a committee.
This suggests that, in comparison to earlier periods, there
was a high level of commitment among the membership. The
level of participation in Baha’i meetings also seems to have
grown from earlier decades. Attendance at Feast in 1937, for
example, was estimated to be, on average, 56%; in 1918, it
was probably about 38%.59 Further evidence of this commit­
ment can be seen in the high number of Baha’is who “pio­
neered” to new localities to establish new communities in the
following decade. Between 1937 and 1944, 241 Baha’is—5%
to 10% of the North American Baha’i population—became
Baha’i pioneers.60
Of course, this is evidence not just of high levels of com­
mitment, but also of changing priorities in Baha’i communi­
ties. By the end of the 1930s, North American Baha’i com­
munities had been transformed into an organizational type
that one sociologist has termed a “mission,” an organization
in which a high proportion of resources is directed towards
evangelical activities.61 Beginning in 1937 in North America,
and in 1940 in Great Britain, plans were developed to focus

Introduction
xxvii
the resources of Baha’i's almost exclusively on the recruit­
ment of new members. After World War II, North American
Baha’is began systematically to spread the Baha’i Faith in
Western Europe, establishing a number of new communi­
ties.62 After 1937, the Baha’i population of the United States
doubled roughly every thirteen years until the 1960s, when
growth became more rapid.63 The Baha’i population of Canada
seems to have grown at a faster rate—doubling every five or
six years—but the membership was not measured in the thou­
sands until the 1960s.64 Baha’i evangelical activities in North
America, some of which were attempts to attract specific mi­
norities, began to change the demographic composition of the
Baha’i population. By 1937, about 6% of the North American
Baha’is were former Catholics and about 2% were former
Jews.65 Both groups were underrepresented in the Baha’i com­
munity in comparison with the larger population. This is
probably because both groups had developed cohesive social
networks that were difficult to penetrate; Catholics and Jews
were less like to convert to any other religion than were
Protestants.66 However, several surveys suggest that Catho­
lic and Jewish representation in Baha’i communities did in­
crease. In 1953, for example, 15.6% of the Baha’is of New
York City were from a Jewish background, an increase of
10.7% from 1937.67 In a 1968 survey of new Baha’i converts
in the United States, 15% were former Catholics and 4%
were formerly Jewish.68 Finally, a 1979 study of the member­
ship of the Los Angeles Baha’i community found that 7.6%
of the members were former Catholics and 9.3% had been
Jewish.69
There were significant numbers of African-Americans in
one community—Washington, D.C.—even before ‘Abdu’l-
Baha’s visit there in 1912. In the later 1910s and 1920s,
blacks became members of at least 19 other Baha’i communi­
ties. By 1937, they comprised about 5% of the North Ameri-

xxviii Richard Hollinger
can Bahd’i population and were found in 34 communities,
with the largest number in Chicago.70 Their representation
within the Baha’i community was not equal to their percent­
age of the U.S. population. However, if a comparison is made
just of the populations of the states in which there were
Baha’i communities, African-Americans were overrepresented
in the community.71 By 1950, blacks were estimated by one
observer to comprise 15% of some local communities.72 In the
1968 survey cited above, 13% of the new Baha’is were found
to be black.73 These percentages reflect the composition of
Baha’i communities before a surge of black conversions in
1970 and 1971.
This cultural diversity affected the development of com­
munities in a variety of ways. In some localities, there was
opposition to interracial meetings from groups such as the
Ku Khix Klan,74 and some communities were investigated by
government agencies such as the FBI, presumably because
organizations that sponsored integrated meetings were sus­
pected of being influenced by Communism.75 Such interfer­
ence, when it was overt, may have contributed to a sense of
community solidarity. On the other hand, cultural differences
may have contributed to a diminished intimacy in the social
relationships within communities. In several instances, indi­
vidual members of Baha’i communities openly opposed the
integration of Baha’i meetings. Although such positions were
almost unheard of after the 1950s, subtle forms of cultural
tensions remained in some Baha’i communities, and Baha’is
may have developed more formal social relationships within
communities because this insured a certain distance from
persons with whom they felt uncomfortable.76
In any case, a trend towards greater formality seems to
have been encouraged by the direction focus of Baha’i activi­
ties for several decades. Although this has yet to be adequately
studied, it appears that Baha’i communities in the 1940s and

Introduction xxix
1950s were characterized by high levels of membership com­
mitment to the Baha’i Cause, but rather minimal bonds of
reciprocal obligation between the Baha’is themselves. Baha’is
might provide financial or other forms of assistance to each
other, but this seems usually to have stemmed from an un­
derstanding that the assistance would aid someone in his or
her service to the Faith. In most communities, there was
little development of communal devotional activity, which
might have enhanced community solidarity, and most com­
munities were too small to offer the types of services to be­
lievers that churches could. Because of the changes in the
physical boundaries of communities and the emphasis on “pio­
neering,” Baha’i communities tended to be smaller than in
earlier decades. While the number of Baha’i communities
roughly quadrupled between 1936 and 1947, the average size
of local Baha’i communities in North America went from 30
to 15 during this period.77 Fifteen believers came to be seen
as the ideal size of a Baha’i community; when communities
exceeded this size, Baha’is were encouraged to move else­
where to form new communities. In these small communi­
ties, the basic Baha’i activities of the time—Feasts, commemo­
rations of Baha’i holy days, firesides, Local Spiritual Assem­
bly meetings, and committee meetings—occupied the active
Baha’is to such an extent that little consideration could be
given to other matters.
However, in the 1960s and the 1970s the Western Baha’i
population experienced a series of significant demographic
changes which changed the composition and focus of many
local communities. For one, there was a relatively rapid pro­
cess of suburbanization in the post-war period in North
America, as middle-class families moved out of urban cen­
ters. This migration was reflected in the loss of members in
urban Baha’i communities and contributed to the growth of
new communities in suburban areas, a process that is ob-

served in the essays on Sacramento and Baltimore. However,
a study of the Baha’i population in 1976 shows that the num­
ber of Baha’is living in suburbs was disproportionately low.
It appears that many Baha’is left large cities to establish
new communities in small towns (under 45,000), where the
Baha’i population was disproportionately high.78
The major event that affected Baha’i communities,
however, was the rapid spread of the Baha’i Faith, espe­
cially among youth, which occurred in a number of West­
ern countries in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The Baha’i
population of the continental United States during this
period increased from about 11,000 in 1963 to about 75,000
in 1976; it had reached 110,000 by 1991.79 The rate of growth
appears to have been higher in Canada, where the Baha’i
population went from 554 in 1953 to 17,724 in 1986.80 Simi­
lar growth took place in other Western countries.81
This process received impetus from the growth of the coun­
terculture, which removed social constraints from youth that
might have otherwise impeded their investigation of the Baha’i
Faith and which simultaneously encouraged the study of
nontraditional religious teachings. However, few of the Baha’i
converts seem to have been deeply involved in the counter­
culture. In the continental United States, many of the youth
conversions resulted from activities on college campuses82;
while in Hawaii, the vast majority of the converts were U.S.
military servicemen who were stationed in Honolulu.83 These
persons may have been influenced by the pervasive youth
subculture, but they had not dropped out of society to pursue
alternative lifestyles. Like the youth described in the Sacra­
mento article, many of the new Baha’is expressed their iden­
tities using the symbols and trappings of counterculture, and
they seem to have developed an oral teaching that mediated
those elements of the Baha’i Faith that were most incongru­
ent with that culture. But the message these young Baha’is
conveyed within that subculture may have been far closer to
xxx Richard Hollinger

Introduction xxxi
mainstream Baha’i thought than other Baha’is realized. Most
of the new Baha’is were able to make a transition to a middle­
class lifestyle with little difficulty. Those who did were prob­
ably more likely to remain active in Baha’i communities.
A series of surveys conducted in the 1970s and 1980s
illustrates this point. A 1979 study of Baha’is in Rhode Is­
land found only one Baha’i—a former Hare Krishna mem­
ber—who had been part of any group identified with the
counterculture.84 Surveys of Baha’is in Los Angeles and in
the United Kingdom conducted in the same year found that
5% and 12.1% respectively had been members of non-
traditional religious groups. But most of these persons had
been Christian Scientists, Mormons, or Spiritualists, groups
that were not associated with the 1960s counterculture.85 A
1985 survey of Baha’is who had experiences with non-
traditional religious groups found persons who had been mem­
bers of groups that were associated with the counterculture,
such as a Kundalini Yoga Ashram and the Children of God,
but they were outnumbered by former Jehovah’s Witnesses
and Mormons.86 Although no reliable statistics are available,
it is highly unlikely that persons who had been members of
nontraditional religious groups ever comprised more than 10%
of the Baha’i population.87 Nevertheless, anecdotes that cir­
culate among Baha’is suggest that in the early 1970s a
significant minority of new Baha’is had been involved in
nontraditional religious movements. The surveys seem to in­
dicate that those who were deeply identified with this reli­
gious subculture were less likely than others to remain ac­
tive in the Baha’i community.88 A significant percentage of
all new Baha’is, perhaps one-third of those in North America,
became inactive or withdrew from the Baha’i community by
the late 1970s, but the Baha’i population continues to be
dominated by babyboomers, most of whom converted during
this period.89
The growth of the Baha’i population in the 1960s and

xxxii Richard Hollinger
1970s increased the ethnic diversity of Baha’i communities.
In the United States, a significant percentage of the new
Baha’is were African-Americans. This was true in urban ar­
eas, but the Baha’i Faith also began to spread among blacks
in rural areas of the American South, especially in South
Carolina. About 20,000 persons converted there in 1970 and
1971, but the absence of established communities in these
areas made it difficult to reinforce and sustain the Baha’i
identities of new converts.90 In urban areas, new Baha’is were
gradually socialized into a new identity through association
with a community, both before and after conversion. In some
parts of the South this was not possible, and many Baha’is
there seem to have continued to regard themselves as Chris­
tians. Nevertheless, well-established communities have
emerged in the “mass teaching areas,” and this represents
the first major penetration of the Baha’i Faith into the rural
population of North America.
In the 1960s, the Baha’i Faith also began to spread in
another sector of the rural population: Amerindians in the
United States and Canada. As with rural conversions in the
South and in some other parts of the world, many of these
Baha’is seem to have developed dual religious identities; and
many still practice their traditional religions.91 There have
also been some conversions of Hispanics in rural areas, pri­
marily in the American Southwest. Because many of these
Baha’is are migrant farmworkers, their integration into ex­
isting communities and the development of new communities
among them has been problematic.
Rural conversions have changed the social base of the
Baha’i population, but, because the new converts are geo­
graphically segregated from the majority of the other Baha’is,
this has had a very limited impact on the majority of local
communities. Other demographic changes had a greater im­
pact, especially in the larger urban communities. For example,

Introduction
xxxiii
although their numbers have been relatively small, the con­
version of Hispanics in urban areas of the United States and
of French-speaking persons in Canada has added to the di­
versity of a number of communities. The influx into the Ameri­
can Baha’i population of Southeast Asian refugees—some of
whom converted before they arrived and some after—has dra­
matically changed the demographic composition of a few
Baha’i communities, primarily on the West Coast.
The most dramatic demographic change to affect West­
ern Baha’i communities, however, has been the influx of Per­
sian refugees following the Iranian Revolution of 1978-79.
They spread throughout North America and Europe, and al­
though no reliable statistics are available, it seems probable
that they comprise 15% or more of the Baha’i population in
these areas.92 Both the Iranian and Southeast Asian emigres
tend to be disproportionately represented in certain large
metropolitan areas, where they sometimes comprise the ma­
jority of Baha’is in a community.
The frequency of certain Baha’i activities in these com­
munities—race unity deepenings, cross-cultural workshops,
language and culture classes, and the like—suggests that
there have been some difficulties dealing with cultural differ­
ences among Baha’is. At the same time, such activities also
underscore the commitment of these communities to full in­
tegration. Serious cultural tensions have emerged between
Iranian and local Baha’is, but this phenomenon appears to
have been specific to a few large urban communities. In gen­
eral, Iranian Baha’is seem to have assimilated more easily
into Western societies than non-Baha’i Iranian immigrants,93
and their presence, as Peter Smith and Moojan Momen have
observed, has contributed to “an increased sense of interna­
tional Baha’i solidarity and cohesion.”94
The growth of the Baha’i Faith since the 1960s has
changed the size and character of many local communities.

xxxiv Richard Hollinger
i
Although it is not possible to determine with accuracy the
current average community size, we can observe that in the
United States the average number of Baha’is in a locality
went from 5.1 in 1947 to 14.2 in 1991.95 If Baha’i communi­
ties experienced a similar growth, the average community
would have 41 members. Some of the communities in major
urban centers now number several hundred, while the Baha’i
population of Los Angeles has exceeded one thousand for
more than two decades. The increasing size of communities
has allowed for the development of more diverse and special­
ized Baha’i activities, a trend that became very visible in the
1980s.96 A number of activities that fostered a stronger sense
of community were sponsored by Local Spiritual Assemblies,
including counseling services, women’s support groups, Alco­
holics Anonymous groups, Baha’is in Recovery Programs
(which has chapters in many communities), ESL classes,
dance and drama workshops, programs for single Baha’is (in­
cluding at least one matchmaking service), and Youth for
One World (a youth organization with chapters sponsored by
local communities). These changes seem to have been more
pronounced in the large metropolitan communities.
The 1980s also saw the emergence of activities that drew
together Baha’is from various local communities around a
special interest or profession. For example, the Association
for Baha’is Studies now has a number of special interest
sections that have facilitated the development of networks of
Baha’is with particular areas of expertise, and there are now
organizations or informal networks of Baha’i lawyers, physi­
cians, publishers, computer users, short-wave radio opera­
tors, and academicians. There have also been a number of
new Baha’i journals—mostly short-lived—focusing on special­
ized subjects, such as literature, social issues, parenting,
women’s issues, and the academic study of the Baha’i Faith.97
It is significant that a number of these endeavors were initi-

Introduction
xxxv
ated not by Baha’i institutions but by individual Baha’is.
Corporations owned by individual Baha’is have also been
formed to publish and distribute Baha’i books, audio record­
ings, and other materials; and to initiate philanthropic
projects. This is a marked departure from the Baha’i practice
considered normative for several decades.
Many of these activities, whether begun by individuals or
Baha’i institutions, amount to the formation of voluntary as­
sociations within the Baha’i community. Their impact on lo­
cal communities is not yet clear, but presumably they draw
some resources away from local activities. On the other hand,
although they only involve a minority of Baha’is, they appear
to have fostered greater social cohesion in the Baha’i popula­
tion at an international level.
The way communities were affected by and responded to
the trends described above has varied greatly and has usu­
ally been dependent on the local conditions within and out­
side Baha’i communities. Some of the diversity of the Baha’i
experience in the West is documented in this volume. How­
ever, significant areas of Western Baha’i history, are not rep­
resented here. It is hoped that future volumes in this series
will include articles that, for example, document the experi­
ences of African-Americans in communities in South Caro­
lina and Amerindians on reservations and reserves in the
United States and Canada. It is especially important that
histories be written for Baha’i communities in continental
Europe. The focus of this introduction on North America is
no reflection on the significance of European Baha’i history;
it is a reflection of the state of the existing literature. It is
equally important that histories of communities outside the
West be written and published.
As the study of the Baha’i Faith develops as an academic
field, such detailed histories will become essential. There is a
huge mass of primary source material relating to the history

xxxvi Richard Hollinger
NOTES
Richard Hollinger
North Bergen, New Jersey
July 1992
of the Baha’i Faith, including community records, personal
papers, newsletters, and memoirs. These materials, especially
voluminous for recent decades, are scattered around the world.
No single historian can hope to make use of all of these
sources. Therefore, the development of a secondary litera­
ture, including well-researched local, regional, and national
histories is necessary before reliable broader studies can be
written. This volume is intended as a small contribution to
such a literature.
1. Charles Joyner, Down by the Riverside: A South Carolina Slave
Community (Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1984) p. xvi.
2. The few exceptions to this tend to focus on the very early
years of a community, which does not allow for an examination of
continuity and change over time. See, for example, William P. Collins,
“Kenosha, 1893-1912: History of an Early Bahd’i Community in the
United States,” in Moojan Momen, ed., Studies in Babi and Bahai
History (Los Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1982) pp. 225-254, and the treat­
ment of several early American communities in Robert Stockman,
The Baha’i Faith in America: Origins, 1892-1900 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’f
Publishing Trust, 1985).
3. For a full description of these classes, see Robert Stockman,
The Baha’i Faith, pp. 60-84.
4. The Friday night meetings in Chicago appear to have been
intended for, and primarily attended by Bahd’is. It was at these
meetings that Baha’is were introduced to the “Higher Teachings”—
those based on Baha’i scriptures. These meetings are mentioned in:
Attie Dealy to Maude Lamson (n.d.) and G. S. Dixon to Maude Lamson
July 31, 1899. Maude Lamson Papers. National Bahd’i Archives.
Wilmette, Illinois. Maude Lamson to Ibrahim Kheiralla, July 9, 1899,

Introduction xxxvii
July 15, 1899, and July 29, 1899. Kheiralla/Saleeby Family Papers
(In private hands); and Fannie Lesch to “Brother in Faith,” August
23, 1899. Portland Bahd’i Archives. There is no direct evidence that
non-Bahd’is were kept out of these meetings. But on at least one
occasion persons were prevented from attending a meeting in which
the final lesson (on the Greatest Name) was to be given, because
they had not attended the earlier classes. (See “Only Believers were
Permitted to Hear Address of Dr. Kheiralla Last Night,” Cincinnati
Enquirer, September 22, 1899, p. 2.) It seems unlikely that Kheiralla
would have knowingly permitted non-Bahd’is to attend meetings
where the “Higher Teachings” were presented. The appointment of
“watchmen” for the Kenosha Baha’i meetings suggests that they had
similar concerns. (Kenosha Bahd’i Community minutes, entry for June
22, 1899. Kenosha Bahd’i Community Records.)
5. See Peter Smith, “The American Bahd’i Community, 1894-
1917: A Preliminary Survey,” in Moojan Momen, Studies in Bdbi and
Bahai History, p. 121; and Stockman, The Bahd’i Faith, pp. 101-103.
6. “Kheiralla is Here,” The Commercial Tribune (Cincinnati) Sep­
tember 21, 1899, p.5.
7. See Mirzd Abu’l-Fadl, The Bahd’i Proofs (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’i
Publishing Trust, 1983) pp. 71-78.
8. Thornton Chase, “A Brief History of the American Develop­
ment of the Bahai Movement,” Star of the West, vol. V, no. 17 (Janu­
ary 19, 1915) p. 263.
9. Computed from Bahd’i Membership Lists, United States, 1894-
1900 (Microfilm). National Bahd’i Archives. Wilmette, Illinois. It
should be noted that this list does not include the names of all of the
Bahd’is enrolled during the years covered. More importantly, it is an
enrollment list—not a membership list—so it may include the names
of many persons who were never active in a Bahd’i community.
10. Robert Stockman, “The Bahd’i Faith and American Protes­
tantism, 1894-1921,” (Ph.D. dissertation, Harvard University, 1985)
p. 48. Stockman, The Bahd’i Faith, p. 110.
11. U.S. Bureau of the Census, Religious Bodies: 1936—Separate
Religious Denominations (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing
Office) Part I, Vol. II, p. 75.
12. Ibid. In 1905, a petition was circulated in Bahd’i communi­
ties that was sent to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd. The petition was probably signed
by the vast majority of persons who attended the meetings where it

xxxviii Richard Hollinger
was circulated; thus it can be used as a rough indicator of attendance
at Bahd’i meetings. The names of those who signed the petition,
totalling 422 persons, were listed on the tablet (letter) ‘Abdu’l-Bahd
wrote in response, which was printed in 1906. This is an average of
eighteen persons per community. Although it is probable that the
petition was not circulated in every community, it is also likely that
the attendance at the meetings where it was circulated was higher
than average.
13. Minutes of the Portland Bahd’i community, entry for Novem­
ber 25, 1906. Portland Bahd’i Archives. Membership list of the Se­
attle Bahd’i Assembly, April 15, 1907; minutes for the meeting of
April 15, 1907; “Members of the Spokane Assembly,” August 1908.
Seattle Bahd’i Archives.
14. Peter Smith, The Bdbi and Bahai Religions: From Messianic
Shi'ism to a World Religion (London: Cambridge University Press,
1987) pp. 106-107. More detailed accounts of the establishment of
these communities can be found in the following sources: Agnes
Alexander, Forty Years of the Baha’i Cause in Hawaii, 1902-1942
(Honolulu: National Spiritual Assembly, 1974); Duane Troxel, “A Sur­
vey of the Origin and Development of the Bahd’i Faith in the Hawai­
ian Islands, 1900-1915” (unpublished paper); Charles Mason Remey,
“The First Meetings in Paris” in “Bahd’i Reminiscences, diary, let­
ters, and other documents by Charles Mason Remey” (New York
Public Library) folio 1; “In Memoriam: May Ellis Maxwell,” Bahd’i
World, Volume VIII (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’i Publishing Trust, 1942);
Rainer Flasche, “Der Religion der Einheit Selbstverwirklung der
Menscheit: Geschichte und der Bahd’i in Deutschland,” Zeitschrift
fuer Missionswissenschaft und Religionswisrenschaft, vol. 61, no. 3
(1977) pp. 188-213; the memoirs of Alma Knobloch, Washington, D.C.,
Bahd’i Archives; and E. T. Hall, The Beginning of the Bahd’i Cause
in Manchester (Manchester: Bahd’i Assembly, 1925).
15. Bureau of the Census, Religious Bodies: 1936, p. 75.
16. Star of the West, vol 10, no 8 (August 1, 1919) pp. 156-164.
The number of persons on the list (1,136) has been divided by the
number of localities with two or more Bahd’i's (57), resulting in an
average of 19.9 per community.
17. “List of Bahais of the United States and Canada. Made at the
Request of Shoghi Rabbani, March 1922,” Alfred Lunt Papers. Na­
tional Bahd’i Archives.

Introduction
xxxix
18. Stockman, “American Protestantism,” pp. 33-34.
19. The time and frequency of Bahd’f meetings has been gleaned
from notices and articles about local communities that appeared in
The Bahai Bulletin (New York) and Star of the West between 1908
and 1910 (inclusive). Of 25 communities, 13 met on Sundays; the
remainder either had meetings on weekday evenings or did not specify
the time of their meetings.
The description of the meetings is based largely on instructions
for the conduct of meetings that were given by Isabella Brittingham
to the Portland Bahd’fs, and which she said were “widely observed in
America.” These are found in the minutes of the Portland Bahd’i
community between the entries for March 30, 1907 and April 7, 1907.
(Portland Bahd’i Archives.) As Brittingham was one of the most widely
traveled American Bahd’f teachers, her observations carry consider­
able weight.
20. Circular letter from Charles Mason Remey in Star of the West
vol. 1, no. 9 (August 20, 1910) pp. 2-3.
21. Ramona Allen Brown, Memories of ‘Abdu’l-Bahd.: Recollec­
tions of the Early Days of the Baha’i Faith in California (Wilmette:
Bahd’f Publishing Trust, 1980) pp. 5, 45. Marion Carpenter Yazdi,
Youth in the Vanguard: Memoirs and Letters Collected by the First
Bahai Student at Berkeley and at Stanford University (Wilmette:
Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1982) p. 6. Anna Monroe to Phoebe Hearst,
November 9, 1911 and n.d., Phoebe Hearst Papers. Bancroft Library.
22. Yazdi, Youth in the Vanguard, p. 6.
23. Excerpts from letters of Helen Goodall (TS), June 20, 1904
and January 8, 1905, in private hands.
24. The involvement of entire families in communities, intra­
community marriages, business partnerships between Bahd’is, and
Bahd’is hiring personal and business employees from within the com­
munity can be seen as indicators that these communities transcended
the norms of voluntary associations. This issue has not yet been
systematically studied, and there is only anecdotal evidence to sup­
port this observation. However, it is possible to obtain some crude
statistical evidence on family participation by examining several
Bahd’i lists.
In Kenosha, the names of 86% of those who signed a petition to
‘Abdu’l-Bahd in 1901 (Thornton Chase Papers. National Bahd’i Ar­
chives. Wilmette, Illinois.) appear with the name of at least one other

xl
Richard Hollinger
family member, indicating that they were active as a family. For
those who signed a petition to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd in 1918 the figure is
94%. (Star of the West, vol 10., no. 8, p. 161.)
The names of 34.5% of the Chicago Bahd’i's in 1897 were listed
with another family member. (Bahd’I Membership Book, Chicago
House of Spirituality Records. National Bahd’f Archives.) For the
1918 petition, the figure is 48% for Chicago, and 37% for New York.
(Star of the West vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 157-160.)
The dramatic difference between Kenosha and the other commu­
nities can be explained by the fact that this community emerged
from a working-class population. It was therefore modeled after work­
ing-class social organizations which tended to have more intense so­
cial relationships, while the membership in Chicago and New York
was more middle-class.
Nevertheless, the fact that there were classes for children in
Chicago (Part of the Baha’i History of the Family of Charles and
Maria loas—Epilogue [n.p., n.d] [not paginated]) and a Bahd’f youth
club in New York (Bahai Bulletin, November 1908 [not paginated])
does suggest a significant degree of family orientation. Moreover,
there were well-known Bahd’i families who provided stability and
cohesion to these communities: the Dodge, Harris, MacNutt, and
Kinney families, in New York; the loas, Greenleaf, Lesch, Agnew,
and Bartlett families, in Chicago.
25. [Arthur P. Dodge?], “Editorial Department,” The Bahai Bulle­
tin vol. 1, no. 1 (September 1908) [not paginated].
26. Jackson Armstrong-Ingram, Studies in Babi and Bahai His­
tory, Volume Four: Music, Devotions, and Mashriqu’l-Adhkdr (Los
Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1987) pp. 197.
27. Charles Mason Remey, Reminiscences of The Summer School:
Green Acre—Eliot, Maine (n.p., 1949) pp. 70-71, 73-75. Armstrong-
Ingram, Music, Devotions and Mashriqu’l-Adhkar. pp. 198-202.
28. Remey, Reminiscences, pp. 70-71. Star of the West, vol. 9, no.
5 (June 5, 1918) p. 58.
29. Marie Watson to Mrs. Aseyeh Allen (copy), July 20, 1920,
Aseyeh Allen-Dyar Collection. Washington, D.C., Bahd’i Archives. It
is interesting to note that in this same letter, Watson cited personal
inspiration in defence of a Catholic doctrine: “The Immaculate Con­
ception is a spiritually scientific fact proved to my soul and I know
also the process .. . Beware how you handle these matters. These are
“holy mysteries’ not known to the merely intellectual aspect.”

xli
Introduction
30. For a description of this incident, see Peter Smith, “The
American Bahd’i Community, 1894-1917,” pp. 189-94. Except where
otherwise noted, this is the source for the information on this inci­
dent.
31. Untitled notes on the meetings of the Committee of Investi­
gation (TS), Ella Cooper Papers. San Francisco Bahd’i Archives. Re­
port of the Bahai Committee of Investigation 1917-1918 (Washington
D.C.: n.p., n.d.) p. 4. It is not clear, from the historical evidence, that
the Reading Room group did, in fact, split off from the Chicago com­
munity. They claimed that it was their accusers (Zia Bagdadi and
Corrine True) who had created the division in the community.
32. W. W. Harmon, The Seven Principles of the Microcosm and
the Macrocosm Applied to the disclosures of Baha’o’llah in the Book
of the Seven Valleys (Boston: n.p., 1915) pp. 11-12.
33. Notes on a meeting with ‘Abdu’l-Bahd in San Francisco, Ella
Cooper Papers. San Francisco Bahd’f Archives.
34. Smith, “American Baha’i Community,” p. 190. Interview with
Walter Blakely, conducted by the author on October 25, 1985.
35. John E. Esslemont, Bahd’u’lldh and the New Era (New York:
Baha’i Publishing Committee, 1931) p. 86.
36. For a summary of involvement of Bahd’is in the peace move­
ments, see Richard Hollinger, “Bahd’is and American Peace Move­
ments,” in Anthony Lee, ed., Circle of Peace: Reflections on the Bahd’t
Teachings (Los Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1985) pp. 3-20. On Bahd’fs
and racial issues, see Gayle Morrison, “To Move the World: Promot­
ing Racial Amity, 1920-1927,” World Order (Winter 1980) pp. 9-31;
and Mark Perry, “Pioneering Race Unity: The Chicago Bahd’i's, 1919-
1939,” World Order, vol. 20, no. 2 (Winter 1985-1986) pp. 41-60. On
Bahd’i involvement with the Esperanto movement, see Wendy Heller,
Lidia: The Life of Lidia Zammenhof, Daughter of Esperanto (Oxford:
George Ronald, 1985). No research has yet been published on Bahd’i
involvement in the feminist movement, however, there were feminist
Bahd’fs. Laura Dreyfus-Barney, for example, was a founding mem­
ber of the International Council of Women. I am indebted to Jean L.
Kling, curator of the Alice Pike Barney papers, for this information.
37. Aseyeh Allen Dyar, Short Talks on the Practical Application
of the Bahai Revelation (Washington D.C., 1922) p. 55.
38. Remey, Reminiscences, p. 27-28.
39. Arthur Cuthbert, “London, England, News Notes,” Star of the
West, vol. 2, no. 2 (April 9, 1911) p. 2.

xlii Richard Hollinger
40. Armstrong-Ingram, Music, Devotions and Mashriqu’l-Adhk6.r
pp. 261-273. Interview with Walter Blakely, October 25, 1985. Remey,
Bahii’i Reminiscences, p. 28.
41. Thornton Chase to Ella Cooper, November 14, 1908, Ella
Cooper Papers. San Francisco Bahd’i Archives. “New York,” Bahai
Bulletin (November 1908). Star of the West (June 24, 1910) p. 12; and
(July 13, 1910) p. 16. Fisher’s pilgrimage is reported in the January
1909 issue of the Bahai Bulletin.
42. Armstrong-Ingram, Music, Devotions and Mashriqu’l-Adhkdr
pp. 267-73.
43. For a discussion of this, see Mark Perry, “The Chicago Baha’i
Community, 1921-1939,” (Ph.D. dissertation, University of Chicago,
1986) pp. 11-15.
44. Mariam Haney, “The American Pioneer Period,” World Order
vol. 11, no. 3 (1945) p. 92.
45. Shoghi Effendi, Bahii’i Administration: Selected Messages,
1922-1932 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’f Publishing Trust, 1974) pp. 20, 37,
79-80, 90.
46. Reality began as an effort to attract non-Bahd’fs to the Baha’i
Faith. (Pilgrim’s Notes of Agnes Parsons, Ella Cooper Papers. San
Francisco Bahd’i Archives.) As such it seems to have been supported
by a number of Bahd’is for the first few years. (See Peter Smith,
“Reality Magazine: Editorship and Ownership of An American Bahii’i
Periodical,” in Juan Cole and Moojan Momen, eds. From Iran East
and West: Studies in Bdbi and Bahd’i History, Vol. 2 (Los Angeles:
Kalimdt Press, 1984) pp. 135-144. The founders, Eugene and
Wandeyne Deuth, also started a “Bahii’i Library,” with which a num­
ber of New York Bahd’is were associated. (Wandeyne Deuth to Gov­
ernor Sulzer, January 6, 1920, William Sulzer Papers. Bailey/Howe
Library, University of Vermont.)
Harrison Gray Dyar, who took over the editorship in 1922, took
the magazine in a more radical direction than the original editors.
He was critical of Bahii’i administration, especially of the Guardian­
ship. (See “A Brief History of the Bahai Movement,” Reality, vol. 10,
no. 3, pp. 3-4; “Unjustified Bahai Organization,” Reality, vol. 6, no. 7,
pp. 35-37; and “The Will of Abdul Baha,” Reality, vol. 6, no. 7, pp. 16-
20.) Dyar must have had an independent source of income, because
he worked much his adult life as an unpaid curator at the Smithsonian
Institution. (Biographical Note in the Inventory of the Harrison Gray

Introduction xliii
Dyar Papers, Smithsonian Institution Archives.) Since the publica­
tion of Reality magazine ended with his death in 1929, it seems
probable that he was providing it with financial support. Dyar was
also the proprietor of a journal on entomology.
The activities of the New History Society could not have been
undertaken without the financial support of Julie Chanler. See Ahmad
Sohrab, Broken Silence: The Story of Today’s Struggle for Religious
Freedom (New York: New History Foundation, 1942).
47. E. C. Getsinger to L.A. Bahai Assembly, February 1934. Lo­
cal Spiritual Assembly of Los Angeles Records. Los Angeles BahA’f
Archives.
48. “Editorial—Our Change of Policy,” Reality, vol. 10, no. 3, p. 3.
49. See Mark Perry, “Boundaries and Horizons in the Chicago
Bahd’i Community, 1920-1940,” (unpublished paper); and Dr. Loni
Bramson-Lerche, “Some Aspects of the Development of the Bahd’f
Administrative Order in America, 1922-1936,” in Moojan Momen,
ed., Studies in Babi and Bahd’t History, pp. 267-295.
50. Local Spiritual Assembly of Chicago to the National Spiritual
Assembly, May 20, 1931, National Spiritual Assembly records. Cited
in Mark Perry, “An Overview of the Chicago Bahd’i Community,
1921-1939,” p. 19.
51. For the affect of this on the Denmark Bahd’i Community, see
Margit Warburg, “The Circle, the Brotherhood, and the Ecclesiasti­
cal Body: Bahd’i in Denmark, 1925-1987,” in Armin W. Geertz and
Jeppe Sinding Jensen, eds., Religion, Tradition, and Renewal (Den­
mark: Aarhus University Press, 1991) pp. 201-224.
52. Interview with Anne Stevenson, conducted by the writer on
September 8, 1982. Yazdi, Youth in the Vanguard, pp. 72-74. It should
be noted that the formation of the Berkeley community occurred
before the National Spiritual Assembly’s announcement of this policy.
53. This has been deduced from 49 questionnaires on “Local Bahd’I
History and Records,” circulated in North America in 1937. (National
Bahd’f Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.) According to this survey, 34 com­
munities (69%) had such classes. Most of the communities did not
specify the length of time of these courses but of those that did, the
average length was twenty-seven weeks. Twenty-eight communities
(57%) indicated that Bahd’f Administration was a major focus of the
classes.
54. Bureau of Census, Religious Bodies: 1936, p. 75.

xliv Richard Hollinger
I
55. “Local Bahd’f History and Record” questionnaires. Of the com­
munities who identified their period of most rapid growth, 71% indi­
cated that it was after 1926.
56. “Local Bahd’f History and Record” questionnaires. The ques­
tionnaires usually give a percentage in answer to this question. I
converted these to numbers using the total membership of the local
community, added the figures from all of the communities together,
and computed the percentage (61%) from the total membership in­
cluded in this survey (1,497).
57. Ibid.
58. Haney, “The American Pioneer Period,” p. 92. “Committees”
here refers to Boards of Counsel and the Chicago House of Spiritual­
ity, precursors to Local Spiritual Assemblies.
59. The “Local Bahd’i History and Record” questionnaires, in­
cluded a question about attendance at Feast, which was usually an­
swered with a percentage. I converted these to numbers; added up
the total number who were estimated to attend Feast regularly; and
divided by the total number of Bahd’is listed in these communities,
to arrive at the 56% estimate.
I have used the list of Bahd’is on a petition sent to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd
in 1918 to arrive at the second estimate. The petition circulated in
local Bahd’i communities for a number of weeks (Carl Scheffler, “Out­
line of how Supplication was drafted,” Star of the West, vol. 10, no. 8,
p. 168) and would therefore have been circulated at one or more
Feasts. If anything, this number (1,124 for the United States) would
be a high estimate of Feast attendance, as some could have signed at
other meetings.
Much of the change between 1918 and 1936 may have resulted
from changes in the definition of membership. Many of those counted
on the 1916 census would probably not have been counted in 1936.
60. The Bah&’i Centenary 1844-1944 (Wilmette: Bahd’i Publish­
ing Committee, 1944) p. 175. The number of Bahd’is in North America
in 1943 was 4,578 (Bahd’i News, no. 161, p. 3.). The pioneers would
constitute 5.2% of this number and 9.4% of the figure given by the
1936 census (2,584). Another, possibly more accurate, gauge of the
size of the Bahd’i population in 1936 is the Bahd’i Historical Record
Cards (in the Bahd’i National Archives, Wilmette, Illinois), which
were filled out by North American Bahd’is in 1935-1936. There are
1,813 of these, and the Bahd’f pioneers would comprise 13.2% of this
population.

xlv
Introduction
61. Ross P. Scherer, “A New Typology for Organizations: Market,
Bureaucracy, Clan, and Mission, with Application to American De­
nominations,” Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion, vol. 27, no.
4 (December 1988) pp. 475-498. Scherer notes that “missions” can
also focus their resources on social action, but few can balance both
social action and evangelical activities. The decline in social activism
in the Bahd’f community during this period fits this pattern.
62. Arthur Hampson, “Growth and Spread of the Bahd’i Faith,”
(Ph.D. dissertation, University of Hawaii, 1980) pp. 378-82; Warburg,
“Bahd’f in Denmark”; Karel Dobbelaere and Michel Voisin, ”Sekten
en nieuwe religieuze bewegingen in Belgie,” Tijdschrift voor Sociologie
vol. 7, nos 1-2 (1986) pp. 395-437; Flasche, “Baha’i in Deutschland.”
A useful primary source that documents the activities of Bahd’i “pio­
neers” in Europe during this period is Charles Mason Remey, Jour­
nal-Diary of Baha’i Travels in Europe, 2 volumes (n.p., 1947 and
1949). See also Will C. van den Hoonaard, comp., “An Annotated
Index of the United States European Teaching Committee Minutes.
Sources for the Study of European Bahd’f History” (unpublished ms.).
63. Hampson, “Growth and Spread,” pp. 222, 229. I have used
the figure 11,047 as the number of Bahd’is in 1963 (“Proposed Bud­
get for the First Year of the Nine Year Plan,” copy in my possession)
and the 1936 Census figure of 2,584, to arrive at this estimate.
64. Will C. van den Hoonaard, “Canada,” (draft of article for the
Short Encyclopedia of the Baha’i Faith). Baha’i News (March 1947)
p. 8.
According to these sources, the Bahd’f population of Canada went
from 270 in 1947 to 554 in 1953.
65. Stockman, “The Baha’i Faith and American Protestantism,”
p. 48-49.
66. Frank Newport, “The Religious Switcher in the United States,”
American Sociological Review, vol. 44 (1984) p. 533. Wade C. Roof
and Christopher K. Hadaway, “Denominational Switching in the Sev­
enties: Going Beyond Stark and Glock,” Journal for the Scientific
Study of Religion, vol. 18 (1979) pp. 366-67. Rodney Stark and Charles
Glock, American Piety: The Nature of Religious Commitment (Berke­
ley: University of California Press, 1968) p. 195.
67. Peter Berger, “From Sect to Church: A Sociological Interpre­
tation of the Bahd’i Movement” (Ph.D. dissertation, New School for
Social Research, 1954) p. 133. The Berger survey suggests that the

xlvi Richard Hollinger
number of Bahd’fs from a Catholic background in New York went
down slightly from 9.7% (14) in 1937 to 7.8% (7) in 1953. However,
the Berger survey was conducted at a single Nineteen-Day Feast and
therefore was not a survey of the entire community. The percentages
for 1937 have been computed from figures in Stockman, “The Baha’i
Faith and American Protestantism,” pp. 48-49.
68. Hampson, “Growth and Spread,” p. 357. The percentage of
Catholic converts was still below their representation in the wider
population, which was then 26%. It should be noted that this survey
only included persons who converted in December 1968.
69. Peter Smith, “A Sociological Study of the Babi and Bahd’i
Religions” (Ph.D. dissertation, University of Lancaster, 1982) p. 438.
70. Morrison, To Move the World, pp. 32-34, 204-205. Robert
Stockman, “The Bahd’f Faith and Protestantism,” pp. 45-46.
71. Hampson, “The Growth and Spread of the Baha’i Faith,” p.
340.
72. T. Lane Skelton, “A Sociological Analysis of the Bahd’f Move­
ment” (M.A. Thesis, University of California at Berkeley, 1955) p. 68.
73. Hampson, “Growth and Spread,” p. 347.
74. Morrison, To Move the World, p. 283. Sandra Kahn, “Encoun­
ter of Two Myths: Baha'i and Christian in Rural American South—A
Study in Transmythicization,” (Ph.D. dissertation, University of Cali­
fornia at Santa Barbara, 1977) pp. 261-262. Lucille Buffin, “Fifty-
Three Years with Miami, Florida Bahd'is, 1933-1966,” (unpublished
paper, an earlier version of which is in the National Bahd’i Archives.
Wilmette, Illinois) p. 5.
75. Mary Elizabeth Archer, “Global Community: Case Study of
the Houston Bahd’is,” (M.A. Thesis, University of Houston, 1980) p.
180. Interview with Lois Willows conducted by the writer on January
2, 1985. According to Willows, the FBI agent charged with investi­
gating Bahd’is in Long Beach, California eventually became a Baha’i.
The writer was informed by former employees of the U.S. Baha’i
National Center that this institution was infiltrated by an intelli­
gence unit of the Chicago Police Department in the late 1960s or
early 1970s.
76. This possibility was raised by a series of conversations I had
with Bahd’fs who were active in one U.S. community in the 1950s.
Although these were not formal interviews, I did ask questions that
were intended to uncover what types of relationships Bahd’is had

Introduction xlvii
with each other during this period. Several patterns emerged from
these queries. It appears that the conduct of Bahd’i' meetings was
rather formal and impersonal and did not lead to the development of
friendships among the members. Individual Bahd’fs did develop close
relationships, over time, as a result of personal contact outside Bahd’f
meetings. However, because blacks and whites in the community
rarely met together socially they rarely developed close friendships.
This pattern of relationships may be specific to one community, how­
ever.
77. In 1949, there were 372 Baha’i communities in North America
(Bahai World, Volume XI, pp. 525-531); there were, in 1947, 5,720
Bahd’is {Baha’i News, March 1947, p. 8). Hence the average commu­
nity size was approximately 15. The Baha’i population probably grew
between 1947 and 1949, and therefore this estimate may be slightly
low. According to the figures in the 1936 census, the average Bahd’i
community would have had 29.3 members; the average community
size according to the “Local Bahd’I History and Record” question­
naires was 30.5
78. Hampson, “Growth and Spread,” pp. 308-309.
79. Ibid., p. 229. The “Proposed Budget for the First Year of the
Nine Year Plan,” gives the figure 11,047 for 1963. The 1991 figure
comes from a statistics sheet provided by the U.S. Baha’i Office of
Public Information, dated September 1991.
80. Will C. van den Hoonaard, “Canada.”
81. See Warburg, “Bahd’f in Denmark,” and Margaret J. Ross,
“Some Aspects of the Bahd’i Faith in New Zealand,” (M.A. Thesis,
University of Auckland, 1985) pp. 116-124.
82. This conclusion is based on conversations with Robert Phillips,
Anthony Lee, and Jesse Villagomez, each of whom was a member of
the U.S. Bahd’i National Youth Office during the period of youth
conversions.
83. Interview with Lois Willows, January 2, 1985.
84. Robert Stockman, “A History of the Rhode Island Bahd’f Com­
munity, 1866-1979.” National Bahd’f Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.
85. Smith, “A Sociological Study,” p. 438.
86. Unpublished (and untitled) survey of selected Bahd’is in the
United States conducted by Janet Tanaka in 1985.
87. The Tanaka survey was not a random sample, and therefore
cannot be used to gauge the percentage of Bahd’fs who had been

xlviii Richard Hollinger
involved in non-traditional religions. However, a 1968 survey
(Hampson, “Growth and Spread,” p. 357) indicates that 90% of new
converts stated that they were either Christians, Jews, or had been
raised as Bahd’is.
88. One exception to this might be Bahd’is involved with Tran­
scendental Meditation (TM), some of whom have been able to recon­
cile continued involvement in this movement with their Bahd’f iden­
tities. For example, at a Bahd’i conference in St. Louis in 1974, I met
Bahd’fs from a community the total membership of which was active
in this group. As of the late 1980s, there was a Bahd’i community in
Iowa composed entirely of individuals who were studying these teach­
ings at a TM college.
89. Hampson, “Growth and Spread,” pp. 228-230. Hampson notes
that, in 1976, 31% of the persons on the U.S. Bahd’i membership
lists were “mail returns,” —their addresses were unknown and they
were not known to be active in any Bahd’f community. A similar
pattern can be seen in Canada where the Bahd’i population exceeded
17,000 in 1986, but the number with known addresses was 11,500
(Bahd’i Canada, April 1988, p.3.)—a mail return rate of 32%.
90. Kahn, “Encounter of Two Myths,” pp. 15-16.
91. A Bahd’i pioneer on a Navajo reservation in Arizona, for
example, informed the author that all of the Bahd’fs there continue
to participate in Navajo religious ceremonies.
92. It is estimated that 25,000 Bahd’is fled Iran after the revolu­
tion (“NSA of US Presents Peace Statement to President Reagan,”
Alaska Baha’i News, March 1986, p. 3.) Not all of them settled in the
West, but it would appear that most of them did. In the mid-1980s,
the writer was given an unofficial estimate by an employee of the
U.S. Bahd’i National Center that there were 12,000-14,000 Iranian
Bahd’is in the U.S., which would be slightly more than 10%. Resi­
dent Bahd’is in Canada have informed me that the percentage is
higher in that country. Peter Smith’s survey of the British Bahd’f
community in 1979 found that 31.8% were Iranian. (“A Sociological
Study” p. 439.) As of 1981, Iranians comprised 17% of the Danish
Bahd’i Community. (Warburg, “Bahd’i in Denmark.”)
93. Chantal Saint-Blanat, “Nation et religion chez les immigres
iranien en Italie,” Archives de sciences sociales des religions (July-
September 1988) pp. 27-37.
94. Peter Smith and Moojan Momen, “The Bahd’f Faith 1957-

Introduction xlix
1988: A Survey of Contemporary Developments,” Religion, vol. 19
(1989) p. 85.
95. Computed from information in Bahd’i World, Volume XI, pp.
525-541; Bahd’i News (March 1947) p. 8; and a statistics sheet pro­
vided by the U.S. Bahd’i Office of Public Information, dated Septem­
ber 1991. These figures include localities in which there is only one
Bahd’i; the figures given above for the average community size in­
cluded only localities with two or more Bahd’is.
96. Most of the information discussed below has been gleaned
from a review of bulletins from twenty U.S. Bahd’i District Teaching
Committees and local Bahd’i newsletters from the following commu­
nities: Boston, Chicago, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, Milwaukee, Min­
neapolis, New York Portland, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle,
Toronto. I reviewed publications dating from 1985 to 1990, although
it was not possible to locate copies of every publication for this entire
time period.
97. Among the journals are: Spiritual Mothering, dialogue, Where­
fore, The Green Door, I Read the News Today, The Journal of Bahd’i
Studies, Soundings, and The Bahd’i Studies Bulletin.

J

VOLUME SIX
COMMUNITY HISTORIES
STUDIES IN THE
BABI AND BAHA’I RELIGIONS

BAHA’IS OF KENOSHA, 1897
These are the first eighteen Baha’i's of Kenosha, Wisconsin. Mr. and Mrs. Byron Lane
are seated in the center.
I
II
I
[$•

by Roger M. Dahl
The Baha’i Community of Kenosha, Wisconsin, was one
of the earliest in North America, having been established in
the 1890s. It is of special interest to students of American
Baha’i history because it was probably the only working-class
Baha’i community in America at that time. For several de­
cades, the Kenosha Baha’i community was one of the largest
in the country, and it is still in existence today. The course of
its history reflects the changes that have shaped the national
Baha’i community since its birth and also provides us with a
glimpse of the diversity that characterized that larger com­
munity at the local level.
The city of Kenosha lies on the shores of Lake Michigan
in Wisconsin, forty miles north of Chicago. In 1890, it had a
population of only 6,532 and little industry. But Kenosha
was a growing industrial town. By 1920, it was an important
city of 40,000. Its proximity to Chicago and Milwaukee
allowed it to become a manufacturing center tied to both
neighboring cities.
In the 1890s, immigrants from northern Europe made up
the majority of Kenosha’s new citizens. By 1900, more than
A HISTORY OF THE KENOSHA BAHA’I
COMMUNITY, 1897-1980

Roger M. Dahl
one quarter of the population of Kenosha County was foreign
born, particularly from Germany and Scandinavia. After the
turn of the century, however, a second wave of immigration
from southern and eastern Europe provided for most of the
city’s growth.1
. . . these teachings are private and you are not to mention them
to anyone; they are not secret but private, and we trust to your
honor. We do not ask you to take any obligation or oath. These
teachings are private for many reasons. You will remember that
Jesus talked to the masses in parables. . . . When [the apostles]
attempted to expound the teachings He rebuked them and told
them that they must not cast their pearls before swine. This was
to show them that the truth was only for truth seekers. . . .
So you are not to mention the teachings until you are given
permission.4
Beginnings: The Baha’i Faith was introduced in America by
Ibrahim George Kheiralla ('Khayru’llah'). a Syrian Baha’i of
Christian background. In 1894, he settled in Chicago and
established a successful spiritual healing practice. Corollary
to this practice were his efforts to convert his patients, and
others, to the Baha’i religion.2 He may have visited Kenosha
to spread the Baha’i teachings as early as 1895,3 but the first
success there was achieved in 1897, when a Kenoshan, Byron
Lane, became a Baha’i through his Chicago friend, Paul K.
Dealy. In the fall of 1897, Kheiralla began making weekly
trips to Kenosha to deliver his lessons on the Baha’i Faith, in
Lane’s home, to those who were interested.
These classes, known as lessons for “Truth Seekers,” fol­
lowed a fixed course of study. There were twelve or thirteen
lessons, personally delivered in order by Kheiralla himself.
The students were expected to keep all of the teachings
strictly “private”:

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 3
The classes began with lessons on the mind and soul and
went on to discuss various religious subjects current at the
time. The last three classes dealt with the Baha’i religion,
presenting it as the fulfillment of biblical prophecy. Students
were taught that Baha’u’llah was the incarnation of God the
Father. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, the head of the Faith living in ‘Akka,
Palestine, was presented as the son of God, the return of
Christ. At the end of the classes, students were asked to sign
a confession of faith addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Baha. If they did,
they were eventually given the Greatest Name,5 the culmina­
tion of Kheiralla’s instruction. Those who completed the
classes were known as Truth-knowers.
Thus, the Baha’i Faith was introduced in Kenosha not as
an independent religion, but as a secret society or lodge. Those
who became Baha’is continued to regard themselves as Chris­
tians; they were not expected to withdraw from church mem­
bership; and their faith was centered on the Bible, which
they continued to study in relation to their new beliefs. They
had joined an “Order” with secret teachings, much as one
might join a Masonic lodge or some other fraternal organiza­
tion. As Kheiralla himself explained in his early book, Bab-
ed-Din-.
The instruction is private and the [true] name of the Order is
known only to those who have taken the full course and received
acceptance from the Great Head [i.e., ‘Abdu’l-Bahd] of the head­
quarters of the Order; hence it is that our members are not
publicly known and recognized.6
Fraternal orders were extremely popular in American cit­
ies in the late 1890s. These orders—especially Masonic
lodges—frequently taught metaphysical lessons and provided
an alternative social network to Protestant churches, although
many individuals belonged to both. In Kenosha, in 1899, there
were more than twice as many fraternal organizations as

Roger M. Dahl
■
there were churches.7 It is likely that most of the adults in
Kenosha belonged to at least one of these societies. The rapid
success of the Baha’i Faith in Kenosha should be viewed in
this context.
As the number of those interested in the Baha’i teachings
grew in Chicago, and in other cities around the United States,
Kheiralla could no longer keep up with the demand for his
services. He began to appoint other Baha’i teachers to take
on some of his classes. Paul K. Dealy was assigned to teach
the Kenosha classes.8 Beginning in early April 1898, Dealy
commuted by train to Kenosha every Friday to deliver his
classes in the evening. On April 18, he reported to Kheiralla
that there were eighteen new Baha’is as a result of his work
and that he was about to start a new class immediately, with
seven students.9
Dealy reported that the older Baha’is in Kenosha were
repeating the classes. Therefore, it seems that the meetings
were not only a means of recruiting new members, but also a
point of gathering for those who were already Baha’is.10 With
so many people repeating the classes after having taken them
before, it is likely that Dealy eventually felt the need for
innovation and flexibility with regard to the content of his
lectures, which became in effect the first Baha’i community
meetings.
The Baha’i community of Kenosha grew rapidly, with a
total of one hundred and eighty-five members enrolled by the
end of 1899. (See Table 1.) This was a predominantly work­
ing-class community. While there were a few small business­
men and professionals among the new believers, there were
no Baha’is among the town’s elite. A possible exception was
the Timme family: Ernst G. Timme and his wife, Caroline,
with their two daughters, Elizabeth and Lena, were Baha’is.
Timme acted as the Kenosha assessor, justice of the peace,
and county clerk. He was the Wisconsin state senator for the

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 5
Church Opposition, 1899: Opposition to the Baha’i teachings
from at least one Christian church had developed in Kenosha
by the time that Dealy assumed responsibility for teaching
in Kenosha in 1898. The parents of one of the new Baha’is,
William Heser, were Baptists from Racine, a town nearby.
area, and he was an auditor in several federal departments
in Washington, D.C.11
Most of the Baha’i men in Kenosha were factory workers.
The women were generally full-time homemakers, an indica­
tion of the relative prosperity of Kenosha laborers. In 1900,
60% of those who had become Baha’is were born in the
United States, while 40% were foreign bom.12 Fully 87% of
the foreign-born came from Sweden, Germany, England, or
Denmark.13 (See Tables 2 and 3.) But they were not all
newcomers: John C. Bishop was from a long-time Kenosha
family, his grandfather having settled in the county in 1838.14
By the middle of 1900, there were more Baha’is per capita in
Kenosha than in any other American city, about 2% of the
population of 11,000.15
On May 26, 1899, the Kenosha Baha’i community estab­
lished its first organizational structure by electing commu­
nity officers. Byron Lane was elected as the community’s
president. The other elected officers were: vice-president,
second vice-president, secretary, correspondence secretary,
treasurer, and collector.16 There was no administrative body
elected, and important decisions seem to have been made by
the community as a whole at general meetings.
Even before this, in 1898, the community had collected
funds in a treasury to pay for Dealy’s weekly train fare. His
travel expenses remained a major expense through 1899. No
one contributed regularly to this fund, but the community
could count on sufficient donations when there were bills to
be paid.17

Roger M. Dahl
Learning of their son’s new faith, they pronounced it the
work of the devil. Armed with their Bibles, they visited their
son in Kenosha in an effort to convince him to cut himself off
from the Baha’is. When this did not work, they sent the
deacon of their church. When he too was unsuccessful, they
sent the minister himself to confront Paul Dealy. There was
much quoting from the Bible back and forth. But Dealy
claimed that he won the debate and that the encounter had
helped to confirm the faith of the Kenosha Baha’is and the
new inquirers.18
By late 1899, the Baha’i successes caused the mainstream
churches in Kenosha (Baptist, Methodist, and Congregational)
to take direct, public action to denounce the new religion.
The churches hired a Harvard-educated Bulgarian minister,
Stoyan Vatralsky, to come to Kenosha from Chicago and re­
fute the Baha’i teachings. Vatralsky attended some of the
Baha’i classes in Kenosha and shortly thereafter denounced
the Faith in the local newspapers as “an esoteric Moham­
medan sect,” “the most dangerous cult that has yet made its
appearance on this continent.”19 For several weeks, the
Kenosha newspapers carried articles and letters from
Vatralsky and from various Baha’is who sought to defend
their Faith from attack. Meetings were held in local churches
where Baha’is were challenged to prove that their religion
was not anti-Christian. Some of these debates became quite
loud and rancorous. They received a good deal of newspaper
coverage.
Up to this point, the Baha’i teachings had not been made
public. They were available only to those who attended the
“private” classes given by Baha’i teachers. However, faced
with this public denunciation, the Baha’is were forced to de­
fend themselves by making at least some of their beliefs
known, though they seem to have given out as little as pos­
sible. Their principle line of defense was to reject the charge

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 7
that the Baha’i Faith was a Muhammadan religion; to ex­
press their contempt for Islam, “the most corrupt of all reli­
gions”; and to insist that they were teaching God’s truth from
the Bible.20 Kheiralla himself came to Kenosha, where at the
Rhodes Opera House, he delivered a public talk explaining
some of his teachings and faced Vatralsky in a public debate.
In December 1899, Vatralsky moved on to Milwaukee.
However, the secrecy and anonymity which had surrounded
the Baha’i community in Kenosha had been ripped away.
Despite the Baha’i protestations of Christian credentials, the
churches had made it clear to all that they found the Baha’i
Faith and its teachings unacceptable. No doubt, Baha’is felt
under pressure to either give up their Baha’i activities or
leave their churches.21 Baha’is were now known and publicly
labeled. As a result, they became a more close-knit group
and, as time passed, their community meetings came to re­
place church activities for most members.22 Denounced by
the mainline churches, the Baha’i meetings took on the char­
acter of an alternative church, with many Baha’i activities
being similar to functions in a Protestant congregation.
During the year between May 1899 and May 1900, the
Baha’i community met at least thirty-nine times. The Chris­
tian orientation of the group is made clear by the subjects of
their study. Most of these centered on the Bible: Revelation,
chapters 1-22 (more than once); Ezekiel, chapters 35 and 47;
Chronicles, chapter 30; and Isaiah, chapters 47 and 62. Baha’i
materials read and studied were: Baha’u’llah’s Hidden Words,
his “Tablet of El Hak,” and his Tablets (letters) to Napoleon
III and to the Pope; a Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Baha to the Ameri­
can Baha’is, one of Edward G. Browne’s books on the Faith,
and letters from Baha’i teachers Marion Kheiralla, Anton
Haddad, and Lua Getsinger.23
Many people in nearby Racine, Wisconsin, were also at­
tracted to the Baha’i teachings. Byron Lane introduced the

Roger M. Dahl
Faith to that city in 1899, and he taught the first seven
believers there. In March 1900, he was able to deliver a pub­
lic lecture in Racine to an audience of over one hundred
people. The community elected its first officers on November
8, 1899. By 1901, an additional forty people had been brought
into the Faith by Fred Peterson, a Racine Baha’i.24
Crisis, 1900: At the end of 1898 and during the first several
weeks of 1899, Kheiralla and a number of American Baha’is
were able to travel to ‘Akka, Palestine, to visit ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
This was the first pilgrimage of Western believers to be made.
During this visit, tensions developed between Kheiralla and
the Baha’is traveling with him, and between Kheiralla and
‘Abdu’l-Baha. These tensions were soon to have a profound
effect on the Kenosha Baha’i community.25
Almost immediately upon Kheiralla’s return to America
in May 1899, disagreements broke out among Baha’is in sev­
eral communities—especially New York and Chicago. Deep
divisions developed between those Baha’is who felt that
Kheiralla, their first teacher, should be regarded as the head
of the Baha’i Faith in America, and those who felt that he
had no right to such a position.
Kenosha was pulled into the growing controversy for the
first time on March 8, 1900, when Kheiralla visited the city
and told the Baha’is of Kenosha and Racine that he was not
sure of‘Abdu’l-Baha’s position as the head of the Baha’i Faith.
A second meeting was held on March 9, at which Kheiralla
explained his doubts. At the end of this meeting, Byron Lane
remained unconvinced. He rejected Kheiralla’s arguments and
“announced that he himself will continue to teach that Abbas
Effendi [‘Abdu’l-Baha] is the Master and he has found noth­
ing to convince him otherwise.”26 Lane and his wife worked
to keep the community loyal to ‘Abdu’l-Baha. On March 14,
Mr. and Mrs. Lane presented a paper before the Racine

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 9
Transition, 1900-1904: There is a gap in the minutes of the
Kenosha community between 1900 (after the Lanes’ move)
and 1904. It seems likely, however, that Baha’i meetings
Baha’is giving reasons why Abdu’l-Baha was still the “Mas­
ter” and head of the Baha’i Faith.27
However, it appears to have taken the Baha’is in Kenosha
and Racine several months to make up their minds about the
controversy. There were a few Baha’is who agreed with
Kheiralla, and some who definitely rejected him. But most
fell somewhere in the middle. They maintained relations with
both groups and were reluctant to cut ties with either side.28
In April 1900, the Baha’is of Kenosha were studying
Kheiralla’s new book Beha ‘U’lldh in their meetings. The
Baha’is of Racine began studying the book the next month. It
was not until September of that year that the Baha’is of
Racine decided to replace Kheiralla’s photograph with one of
Abdu’l-Baha.29
Kheiralla retained more support in Kenosha than he did
anywhere else in the country outside of Chicago, where he
lived. Several factors account for this. The Lanes moved out
of Kenosha at about this time, leaving the Baha’is there with­
out strong leadership.30 Kheiralla soon began making regular
trips to Kenosha to organize support for himself there.31
Kheiralla and his followers have indicated that about one
hundred and fifty Baha’is in Kenosha sided with him, but
this number is certainly highly inflated. Some thirty or forty
members of the community remained staunchly loyal to
Abdu’l-Baha. Another thirty or forty repudiated him in favor
of Kheiralla.32 Of the remainder, many may have drifted away
from the Faith or moved away from the area. Although com­
munity records provide no documentation, it appears from a
search of the Kenosha city directories that a number of Baha’is
moved from the city during the next few years.

Roger M. Dahl
continued to be held during this period, even though we have
no record of them. There are 115 blank pages in the minute
book, and most of these have a date written on them in
pencil. This suggests that meetings were held, but that min­
utes were not taken-—or if taken, were never transferred into
the minute book, which was not purchased until 1904.33
It is known that Kenosha formed an all-male Board of
Counsel early in this period, most likely during 1900. This
was a consultative body that eventually developed into the
local Spiritual Assembly of Kenosha. ‘Abdu’l-Baha addressed
a Tablet to the Board of Counsel some time in 1901.34 Racine
had also formed a Board of Counsel by July 1900.35 The
Kenosha Board adopted the practice of rotating the chair­
manship of its meetings, as did Racine. Frank H. Hoffmann
of Chicago had advised the Racine Baha’is in 1900, to elect
their secretary and treasurer for a term of office, but to choose
a different chairman for each meeting, “thereby giving all
members a chance to act and avoiding distinction or criticism
give every body a chance. Chicago has had a severe experi­
ence in this very thing and has suffered for it.”36
In 1900 and 1901, ‘Abdu’l-Baha sent messages of encour­
agement and praise to the Baha’is of Kenosha. He sent Tab­
lets to the Kenosha Board of Counsel, the Baha’i women of
Kenosha (twice),37 and to the community as a whole. In one
of these Tablets, ‘Abdu’l-Baha addressed them in words that
echoed their study of biblical prophecies:
O ye firm, steadfast and faithful Believers! . . . the Tabernacle
hath been elevated upon the Hill of Might, the powers of heaven
have been shaken, the corners of the earth have quaked, the sun
has been darkened, the moon ceased to give light, the stars have
fallen, the nations of the earth have lamented, and the Son of
Man hath come upon the clouds of heaven with power and great
glory, and He hath sent His angels with the sound of the great
trumpet, and no one knows the meaning of these emblems save
the wise and informed.

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 11
Ye are the angels, if your feet be firm, your spirits rejoiced,
your secret thoughts pure, your eyes consoled, your ears opened,
your breasts dilated with joy, and your souls gladdened, and if
you arise to assist the Covenant, to resist dissension and to be
attracted to the Effulgence! Verily, I say unto you that the Word
of God has assuredly been explained and has become an evident
sign and a strong and solid proof, and its traces shall be spread
in the East and West, and to these all heads shall bow and all
souls shall submit and kneel down with their faces to the
ground.”38
In July 1901, Mirza Asadu’llah, one of the Persian Baha’i
teachers that ‘Abdu’l-Baha had sent to America to support
the new community in the wake of Kheiralla’s defection, vis­
ited Kenosha with Anton Haddad, a Lebanese believer resi­
dent in the United States, as his interpreter. Upon returning
to Chicago, Asadu’llah advised the House of Spirituality (the
administrative body there) that Kenosha was in need of a
Baha’i teacher every Sunday who could “impart to them the
true teaching of Baha Ullah and otherwise look after the
flocks.”39 Apparently, this was not done since, in October 1901,
twenty-four Kenosha Baha’is signed a petition addressed to
Chicago saying that they were in need of a teacher. They
asked that Byron Lane be sent.40
Byron Lane was able to visit Kenosha every other week
during 1902,41 but it is certain that the community felt the
lack of a strong resident teacher. This may account for the
decline in membership and the inconsistency of the
community’s records during these years. Though it is not
clear exactly when, the Boards of Counsel in both Kenosha
and Racine stopped holding meetings and became defunct.
This did not leave the Baha’is without organization, how­
ever, since community officers were reelected.
The financial records of the Kenosha Baha’i community
between 1900 and 1904 demonstrate on-going activities but
suggest that the community had grown weaker. The number

BERNARD AND THERESA JACOBSON
with their son.
E
o
I
I
I

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 13
of contributors decreased in 1900, with only 50 Baha’is giv­
ing money to the funds that year.42 In 1900, train fare con­
tinued to be the largest expense of the community, depen­
dent as it was on outside teachers. In 1902, hall rent was a
major item in the budget, but the rents varied considerably
since the community was probably only using halls for spe­
cial occasions. By 1904, most of the money was being spent
on halls, and only a little for train fare.43
In the early 1900s, the Chicago House of Spirituality acted
as a regional center for all Baha’i communities in the Mid­
west. Chicago undertook to instruct Baha’is in the region on
various aspects of Baha’i life. In 1902, the Chicago Baha’is
wrote to Kenosha urging that they celebrate the “Feast of
the Master” on November 26, and Kenosha agreed to com­
memorate the occasion.44 In 1903, Chicago reminded other
communities about the Baha’i nineteen-day fast. Kenosha
replied that those who could would observe the fast.45 The
Chicago community also helped the Kenosha community re­
locate Miss Maud Frazine, an invalid Kenosha Baha’i, to the
home of Isaac H. Doxsey, a Chicago believer. “She would by
this act be saved the humiliation of being placed in the pub­
lic poor house.”46
In 1904, Bernard Jacobsen moved to Kenosha from Chi­
cago and quickly became the center of a reorganized com­
munity. He provided new leadership by delivering weekly
lectures on the Baha’i teachings which were summarized as
being on: “the way we should live, words we should speak,
the attitude we should take towards others, in order to bring
about the most Great Peace, and urging us to be ready at all
times to deliver the message of God’s Kingdom on earth.”47
After Jacobsen’s arrival, the Kenosha Board of Counsel
was reestablished. In 1904, there was a meeting of the male
believers who wanted to form a board. They wrote to the
Chicago House of Spirituality and to the New York Board for

Roger M. Dahl
advice, and to ‘Abdu’l-Baha for his approval. The whole com­
munity was polled to see if it wanted a permanent Board. A
temporary all-male Board was reestablished, with Bernard
Jacobsen as its president and Louis Voelz as secretary. This
Board replaced the community officers who had served since
the collapse of the original Board of Counsel. It also had the
effect of excluding Baha’i women (such as Mrs. Saint
Germain—then the community treasurer) from the adminis­
tration of the community.48
Consolidation, 1904-1910-. During the next several years, the
Kenosha Baha’is were able to establish a regular and distinc­
tive community life, resembling that of a small Protestant
church. Jacobsen had success in activating some of the inac­
tive Baha’is who had entered the Faith during the 1890s. He
was also able to win over some of Kheiralla’s followers in
Kenosha.49 But there were few enrollments. (See Tables 1
and 4.) It does not appear that there was any significant
effort made to spread the Faith among the new immigrant
population from Southern and Eastern Europe. As the Baha’i
teachings were being spread primarily by word of mouth, the
lack of any believers from Italian, Polish, Russian, or Hun­
garian backgrounds meant that the Baha’is would have diffi­
culty reaching the new immigrants. The absence of believers
who had been Roman Catholics also proved to be a formi­
dable barrier.
Isabella Brittingham established the regular observance
of the Nineteen-Day Feast60 in Kenosha, as she did in many
other places. The Feast was a worship service and a social
gathering, rather than a business meeting. There was no
consultation. The meeting was customarily opened by one of
the children, who would recite a verse from the writings of
‘Abdu’l-Baha and anoint all those present with attar of rose.
The first Nineteen-Day Supper, as it was called, was held on

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 15
March 21 (the first day of the Baha’i' calendar), in 1906, with
fifty-three Baha’is present.51 The refreshments served at sub­
sequent Feasts ranged from ice cream and cakes, to sand­
wiches, fruit, and oyster stew. In 1908-1909, the average at­
tendance at the Feast was twenty-four.52
A continual stream of visitors and Baha’i teachers passed
through Kenosha during these years. This was partially due
to the proximity of the community to Chicago, which was the
center for many national Baha’i events. But it also indicates
the dependence of this working-class community on wealthier,
better educated, and more prominent believers from outside.
During seven months of 1909 alone, Kenosha had at least
sixteen Baha’i visitors, including Howard and Mary MacNutt,
Roy Wilhelm, Charles Mason Remey, Edward Struven, Mrs.
A. M. Bryant, Thornton Chase, and Sidney Sprague.53 Ken­
osha also had an early tradition of summer picnics which
drew Baha’is from nearby communities, such as Racine and
Chicago, and later Milwaukee. The first recorded picnic was
in 1905. The Racine Baha’is were invited, and everyone was
to bring his own basket of food.54
In 1907, the Kenosha Board—now calling itself the Board
of Consultation55—began a tradition of corresponding with
other Baha’i communities which continued into the 1920s.
Ameen Ullah Fareed suggested that Kenosha send out a cir­
cular letter with a report of their June 30, 1907 reception for
several Chicago believers recently returned from pilgrimage
to ‘Akka. Later, it was decided to have the report translated
into Persian and sent to Eastern Baha’i communities. It took
over a year to accomplish, but by August 1908, the report
had been mailed to over one hundred communities around
the world. A number of responses were received, including
one from Rangoon, Burma.56
From very early on, Kenosha participated in fund-raising
activities for the Baha’i Temple to be built in Chicago. In

Roger M. Dahl
1907, the Board created a Temple Fund, with Walter Bohanan
as treasurer.57 In 1908, at the request of the Chicago House
of Spirituality, a Temple Committee was appointed, consist­
ing of three men and two women.58 By August 1908, they
had raised about two-hundred dollars and had another two
hundred in pledges.59 When Chicago issued the call for the
first Bahai Temple Unity convention, to be held March 20-
23, 1909, Kenosha elected Bernard Jacobsen as its delegate.
During the convention, Jacobsen was elected to the Execu­
tive Board of the Temple Unity, a national body. He was also
elected its secretary. He served on the national Executive
Board until 1914.60
During the early years of the community, the Kenosha
Baha’is met in each other’s homes or rented halls for special
occasions. However, in May 1907, the community began
renting a hall on a full-time basis. It seems to have been a
second-story room above a store. Most of the money of the
community was now used to pay for rent, utilities, and
furnishings for the new meeting place. Several local drives
were undertaken to pay for wallpaper, paint, chairs, and other
furniture.61
Kenosha was unusual among Baha’i communities in the
United States because of the large number of children who
were included as part of the community. This may, again,
reflect the working-class background of most of the believers.
In 1906, children were included on the Baha’i membership
fist. The community established a Baha’i Sunday school in
the fall of 1907.62 In the summer of 1908, the Board of Con­
sultation announced that “a School of Industry has been or­
ganized that the children may learn some useful work, in
accordance with instructions contained in the Kitab-el-Akdas.63
And a school for all the children to learn the communes and
prayers and simpler teachings of the Religion of GOD is un­
der way.”64 The industrial school for children was a unique

THE BAHA’I CHILDREN OF KENOSHA, WISCONSIN, c. 1909.
I
I
s
CJz
-a
■ + <
■ J
l ■ Ml

Roger M. Dahl
The Behaist group continued holding their meetings in
Kenosha, their only stronghold, until the early 1950s.71
innovation in the American Baha’i community. The year it
was established, the school held a picnic which drew 50 chil­
dren.65 By 1910, the industrial school for girls had grown to
125 students.66 Efforts were made to include children in the
programs of Baha’i meetings, especially Holy Day observances.
In 1909, the children conducted the program for Naw-Ruz
(Baha’i New Year), March 21, and presented a musical pro­
gram and recitations for the Day of the Covenant, November
26.67
The Society of Behaists, the organization established by
the followers of Kheiralla, was also active in Kenosha during
this period. They held regular Sunday meetings in 1909, which
were advertised in the church column of the Kenosha Evening
News.68 This was the only organized group of Kheiralla’s fol­
lowers outside of Chicago, where Behaist meetings were held
in Kheiralla’s home. However, the existence of this rival group
was sometimes discouraging to the Baha’is. In January 1904,
before the community was reorganized by Jacobsen, the com­
munity drafted a letter to ‘Abdu’l-Baha which read in part:
We are a little band of believers in Kenosha, who are trying to
hold together throught [sic] all difficulties caused by the
Nakazeen69 of this town. This is their stronghold in America. We
humble [sic] beg that Thou willt [sic] intercede for us that we
may be strengthened through the confirmations of the Spirit, to
keep our numbers together, to hold to the Center of the Cov­
enant [i.e., ‘Abdu’l-Bahd], and be enabled to draw these deniers
nearer to Thee.70
Gender Tensions, 1910-191T. The establishment of all-male
Baha’i councils in Chicago and Kenosha in 1900, was a mat­
ter which caused some tension at the time. Only days after
the election of the Chicago House of Justice, on May 15,

THE BAHA’I SCHOOL OF INDUSTRY
Unique to Kenosha, Wisconsin, the Baha’i industrial schools were organized in 1908. There
was also a school for boys.
S
I
I
i
I
- 'BAHAI
1 Scliod. OF
J II’DUSTRYl
■ Kenosha |
wts. j|

Roger M. Dahl
.
•
1901, a Ladies Auxiliary Board (later known as the Women’s
Assembly of Teaching) was organized in Chicago at the sug­
gestion of Ella Nash and Corinne True. The Ladies Auxiliary
managed to hold on to the treasury of the Chicago commu­
nity, despite the election of the new all-male board.72
The exclusion of women from some local Baha’i institu­
tions was a development to which some Baha’i women were
never reconciled. In 1909, Corinne True received a Tablet
from ‘Abdu’l-Baha, in response to her questions on this mat­
ter, which she construed to mean that women could now be
elected to the Chicago House of Spirituality, the successor of
the House of Justice.73 However, the House of Spirituality
did not interpret the Tablet to mean any such thing. The
House wrote immediately to ‘Abdu’l-Baha for a clarification,
but they do not seem to have received a reply. True’s inter­
pretation soon opened up a nationwide controversy over the
rights of women to serve on Baha’i institutions.74
In Kenosha, the women raised the issue in the summer
of 1910. On July 4, the Kenosha Board of Consultation wrote
to the Chicago House of Spirituality asking if they had any
Tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Baha that instructed that women should
be elected to local Baha’i institutions. They explained that
two ladies in their community were insisting that such Tab­
lets exist.75 The reply of the Chicago House of Spirituality
quoted three recent Tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Baha. The first Tab­
let, to Corinne True, stated that men and women are equal,
except for the universal (or general) House of Justice.76 The
second Tablet, to Louise Waite, stated that institutions orga­
nized for the sake of teaching could be all men, all women, or
made up of both: . . whether assemblies for men, assem­
blies for women, or mixed assemblies, are all accepted and
are conducive to the spreading of the Fragrances of God.”77
In the third Tablet, to the Baha’is of Cincinnati, ‘Abdu’l-
Baha stated that since it was impossible to organize the House

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 21
of Justice at the present time, a Spiritual Assembly should
be organized in that city, and that it would be preferable if
an Assembly of both men and women should be elected.78
The Chicago House concluded from these Tablets that,
although local boards had originally been intended as all­
male institutions, ‘Abdu’l-Baha now approved of the estab­
lishment of institutions made up of both men and women.
Albert Windust, writing for the House of Spirituality, suggested:
Rather than do this, however, the Kenosha Board of Con­
sultation submitted the question to ‘Abdu’l-Baha. All the men
of the Board signed a “supplication” asking if the Board
should be dissolved, and reelected with women as members.
They pledged that they would dissolve the Board if ‘Abdu’l-
Baha wished, but that their intentions had been pure at the
founding of the institution, since it had been established in
accordance with a Tablet revealed for the Chicago House of
Spirituality some years before.80
‘Abdu’l-Baha, however, would not sanction the idea of dis­
solving the all-male Board. His reply, received March 4, 1911,
explains:
Now Spiritual Assemblies must be organized and that is for Teach­
ing the Cause of God. In that city you have a spiritual Assembly
of men and you can establish a spiritual Assembly for women.
Both Assemblies must be engaged in diffusing the fragrances of
As your Assembly has had a Board of Consultation established
for some years, it seems to me it would be wise to ask for a vote
from them as to whether the majority desire to have a mixed
Board of men and women before making a change. It is evident
from the foregoing extract from a recent Tablet that in organiz­
ing Spiritual Assemblies of Consultation now it is deemed advis­
able by Abdul-Baha to have them composed of both men and
women. The wisdom of this will become evident in due time, no
doubt.79

Roger M. Dahl
God and be occupied with the service of the Kingdom.
The above is the best solution for this problem.81
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s Visit to Kenosha, September 15-16, 1912'. In
May of 1912, ‘Abdu’l-Baha traveled to Chicago to attend the
Bahai Temple Unity convention. His visit to the United States
had received a large amount of newspaper publicity.
Kheiralla’s followers in Kenosha, the Behaists, sought to use
this publicity to gain some attention for their own cause.
Mirza Shua Ullah (Mirza Shu‘a‘u’llah). the son of ‘Abdu’l-
Baha’s half brother, Mirza Muhammad-‘Ali, was also in the
United States at this time. Muhammad-‘Ali and his family
had rejected ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s leadership of the Baha’i commu­
nity. Kheiralla and his followers, after their break with
‘Abdu’l-Baha, had associated themselves with Muhammad-
‘Ali and his faction. On May 4, 1912, Shua Ullah wrote to the
Kenosha Evening News from Pasadena, California. His letter
was published on the front page of that newspaper on May
11. It was an open letter to ‘Abdu’l-Baha which denounced
him for allegedly trying to substitute his own teachings for
those of Baha’u’llah. Shua Ullah claimed that only Muhammad-
It is not known if the Kenosha community elected a spe­
cial women’s Board at this time. Neither do the records of
the community indicate when women first started serving as
members of the Board of Consultation. In Chicago, the change
came in 1912. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, while in New York, during his
journey through America, directed that the Chicago House of
Spirituality should be reorganized and a new institution,
called a “Spiritual Meeting,” composed of both men and
women, be elected. This was accomplished on August 11,
1912.82 Certainly by 1917, women were serving alongside men
on the Kenosha Board. In that year, a new “Committee of 9”
was elected, with Augusta Nelson as the assistant secretary.83

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 23
On the evening of September 12, ‘Abdu’l-Baha returned
to Chicago for a brief visit. The Baha’is of Kenosha invited
him to come to their city, Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Goodale
sent the letter inviting him to stay at their house. Before
leaving Chicago on September 15, ‘Abdu’l-Baha spoke to Dr.
W. Frederick Nutt, who was associated with the Behaists,
about Kheiralla. With great emotion, he said that he knew
that Kheiralla wanted him to arrange a special meeting be­
tween the two of them. But, during his journey to America
many people, great and small, had come on their own accord
to see ‘Abdu’l-Baha, and he had received them all. If
Kheiralla’s intentions were pure, he would come with sincer-
The bats fly away from the rays of the sun and hiding them­
selves in dark and narrow nitches they blame the sun saying
“Why do not the rays of the sun reach our dark corners and
cranies? And why does it not associate and affiliate with us?”
What relation is there between the all glorious sun and the weak-
eyed bats! What friendship exists between the nightingale of the
rose garden of significances and the gloomy crows! The sun trav­
els in its own sphere and is entirely above the fluttering blind­
ness of the bats.86
‘Ali was truly following Baha’u’llah’s teachings. However, Shua
Ullah proposed a peace conference between himself and
‘Abdu’l-Baha to settle their differences. Kheiralla would also
attend this conference.84 ‘Abdu’l-Baha chose to ignore this
letter.
On July 8, Kheiralla himself wrote to the Kenosha Evening
News defending Shua Ullah’s May letter and making new
accusations. His letter made it clear that he supported Mirza
Muhammad-'Ali and his claims.85 The Kenosha Baha’is were
disturbed by these letters, but they made no public rebuttal.
‘Abdu’l-Baha, who had returned to New York, assured the
believers in Kenosha in a Tablet written to them in July
1912, that such attacks would come to nothing:

Roger M. Dahl
religion and the stand
The newspaper announced that ‘Abdu’l-Baha would speak
at the Congregational Church:
ABDUL BAHA COMING
Leader of Bahaists to Visit Kenosha Sunday and Deliver Address
Expect Great Gathering
While the visit of the spiritual leader of the Bahaist to this city
is intended primarily to strengthen and encourage his followers
in this city, the Kenosha public is cordially invited to attend the
lecture and hear the exposition of the new
it is expected to take in this country.88
‘Abdu’l-Baha arrived in Kenosha on Sunday afternoon,
September 15, 1912. He was taken to the Baha’i Hall, where
he had a meeting with the Kenosha Baha’is. He spoke on
Baha’u’llah’s imprisonment and blessed the children. He was
seated in the ceremonial chair which, at Baha’i meetings,
had always been left empty in his honor.
After speaking to a large audience at the Congregational
Church, ‘Abdu’l-Baha remained overnight in Kenosha at the
home of the Goodales. There he received many of the Kenosha
believers in private conversations. On the afternoon of Sep­
tember 16, he returned to Chicago.89 That day the Kenosha
Evening News carried another front-page article describing
the talk at the Congregational Church in enthusiastic terms.90
ity, like everyone else. Dr. Nutt accompanied ‘Abdu’l-Bahd. to
Kenosha.87 The visit there seems to have been primarily in­
tended by ‘Abdu’l-Baha as a means of lifting the spirits of the
Baha’is in Kenosha and raising the public prestige of that
community in the face of opposition by the followers of
Kheiralla.
The Kenosha Evening News highlighted ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
approaching visit with a front-page article. The headlines
read:

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 25
Decline, 1912-1920: The activities of the Kenosha Baha’i com­
munity in the period between 1912 and 1920 are not well
documented. Therefore it is difficult to discuss this history in
any great detail. There are no minutes or treasurer’s ledgers
for the years 1911 to 1917. But it is clear that the commu­
nity was slowly declining in size. There were few enrollments.
Several families moved away, while some older Baha’is died—
including the Goodales. The community maintained a local
institution, called either a Board of Consultation or a “Com­
mittee of Baha’is.” Walter Bohanan acted as its secretary
until 1923.
Around 1916, a period of disunity began. It appears that
this was caused by personality conflicts centered around Ber­
nard Jacobsen, though the individual responsible is not named
in the records. Louis Voelz, a member of the community later
recalled that a certain Baha’i man had “caused dissension by
domineering the community and persecuting some.”91 A con­
temporary document, however, suggests that this division
may also have been linked to disunity in the Chicago Baha’i
community.
Some Baha’is in Chicago had opened a reading room which
offered lessons that mixed the Baha’i teachings with those of
Theosophy. Other Baha’is objected, claiming that this was a
form of Covenant-breaking. In an investigation of the matter
conducted in 1917, Walter Bohanan and Bernard Jacobsen
claimed that a number of Baha’is in Kenosha had been influ­
enced by Luella Kirchner (who had organized the reading
room) and were sympathetic to Covenant-breakers.92 These
Baha’is, it was reported, likened themselves to “Lutherans,”
and referred to other Baha’is as “Catholics.”93 While these
Baha’is are not known to have endorsed the positions of any
Covenant-breakers, it does seem that they felt uncomfortable
with the authoritarianism that was implied by the concept of
the Covenant, at least as it was understood at the time.

Roger M. Dahl
These feelings may have had their roots in a reaction to the
authoritarian style of leadership in the local community re­
ferred to by Voelz.
About half the Baha’is stopped attending meetings. In
1920, the Kenosha House of Spirituality, as the Board was
then calling itself, made an attempt to persuade some of
them to rejoin the community. They asked a committee to
meet with the inactive Baha’is and encourage them to forget
the past. But this attempt was not successful.94
The remnant of the community maintained the regular
activities that had become customary in the Kenosha com­
munity, such as Feasts, Sunday school classes, Sunday
meetings, and summer picnics. Prominent Baha’i teachers
continued to visit the city. The industrial school for girls
continued, and the Baha’i Hall was maintained.
The summer picnics were elaborate affairs. In August 1919,
the picnic was held at the country home of the secretary,
Walter Bohanan. At noon there was a meal, followed by an
afternoon spiritual meeting. There were talks by Adolf P.
Chapman, N. Peterson, and others. Zia and Zenat Bagdadi,
of Chicago, chanted prayers and sang songs in Persian. The
children recited from Baha’i scriptures. Mr. Bagdadi spoke.
And a public meeting was held in the evening.95
Changes in Baha’i Administration, 1920-1929-. After the
passing of ‘Abdu’l-Baha in 1921, Shoghi Effendi, the new
Guardian of the Baha’i Faith, spent much of the next decade
supervising the development of a uniform system of Baha’i
administration—in terms of organization, terminology, and
procedure—in the United States and elsewhere. The local
Baha’i institutions in Kenosha gradually came to conform to
this new system.
In 1920, Kenosha had a House of Spirituality made up of
six men and three women.96 When Jenabe Fazel (Mirza

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 27
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
The House took its duty to look after the sick and poor
seriously. In 1920, the Kenosha community sent a two-hun­
dred-pound box of food and clothing to needy German Baha’is
impoverished by World War I. The Baha’i women also pre­
pared Christmas baskets for the needy in Kenosha.98 The
House regularly sent flowers to those Baha’is who were ill
and to the families of those who passed away. Also in 1920,
August Rudd, a Kenosha Baha’i moved back to Sweden to
become the first Baha’i to reside in that country.99
In January of 1923, Shoghi Effendi wrote a letter in En­
glish directly to the Kenosha community urging them to re­
new their efforts on behalf of the Faith. The style and
members must be firm in the Covenant;
members must be sincere;
members must be polite and humble;
members must have harmony and love;
members should not discuss politics;
the House should spend one half of its time instructing and
teaching;
the children must be educated in spiritual matters;
the House must study the Teachings;
the House should look after the sick and poor;
10. there should be at least nine members on the House;
11. the House should meet at least once a week, depending on
the work to be done;
12. the House should arrange one or two meetings a week where
the Bahai Writings are read and talks given;
13. members should not repeat the secrets of the House outside
its meetings.97
Asadu’llah Mazandarani, known as Jinab-i Fadil), a Persian
Baha’i teacher, visited Kenosha on June 19, 1920, he offered
his advice on the duties of the House. This advice was the
most current understanding of the matter. He listed thirteen
duties of the House of Spirituality:

Roger M. Dahl
I
approach of his writing—direct, literate, and unembellished—
was markedly different from that of Abdu’l-Baha:
I am sure that every one of you, in view of the perilous state of
the world, realizes more than ever before the urgent need for the
full recognition by the peoples and governments of the world of
the new Message of Salvation that the Cause of Bahd’u’lldh brings
in this day to distracted humanity. ... It is our task and privi­
lege to capture gradually and persistently the attention of the
world by the sincerity of our motives, by the breadth of our out­
look and the devotion and tenacity with which we pursue our
work of service to mankind. If only we discharge fully and consci­
entiously our sacred duties, surely the Hand of Divine Power
shall in time come to our aid and shall so shape the affairs and
circumstances of the world as to enable us to win for the Cause
of Bahd’u’lldh the admiration and the allegiance of all mankind.100
Responding to another letter from Shoghi Effendi,101 the
Kenosha Baha’is held their election for their local institution
on April 21, 1923. The body was termed a Spiritual Assem­
bly for the first time. At the election, a new means of voting
was used by which all would write nine names on a piece of
paper, and the nine who received the highest votes would
constitute the Spiritual Assembly for one year.102 There were
also changes in the internal workings of the Assembly. For
the first time, a permanent chairman was elected. Previously,
a new chairman had been chosen for each meeting.103 Philip
Savilles replaced Walter Bohanan as the Assembly’s secretaiy.104
On October 20, 1923, a special meeting of the community
was held at the request of the National Spiritual Assembly.
At the meeting, after reading the Will and Testament of
‘Abdu’l-Baha and the Guardian’s letter of March 12, 1923,
the adult Baha’is of Kenosha formally added their names to
the recently established national membership list. Eighteen
adults were enrolled,105 only a small fraction of Kenosha’s
earlier membership.

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 29
At the elections in 1924, the community elected ten, rather
than nine, members to the Spiritual Assembly. In 1925, on a
motion by Adrian DeBruin, the community unanimously re­
turned the incumbent ten members of the Assembly to office,
by acclamation.106
In 1920, the Kenosha House of Spirituality had appointed
a teaching committee. Efforts to teach the Faith, using vari­
ous techniques were carried on throughout the 1920s, but
they did not result in any significant growth in the size of
the community. The Kenosha Baha’is relied heavily on pub­
lic lectures delivered by prominent outside speakers to
spearhead their teaching efforts. The orientation of teach­
ing efforts seems to have been to reach out to established
organizations in the area and deliver the Baha’i message to
those groups in their own venues. The efforts were inter­
racial. When Annie Parmerton visited in July 1920, there
were blacks as well as whites among the inquirers in the
crowd. Chris Jensen actively taught the Faith to the black
population, attending services at black churches.107 In 1921,
Louis Gregory, a prominent black Baha’i lecturer, visited Ken­
osha and spoke at the Racine African Methodist-Episcopal
Church. Two black people in Racine became Baha’is as a
result of this visit.
During 1922, there was a busy round of Baha’f meetings
in Kenosha. Four weekly meetings were being held: the Sun­
day children’s meeting, the Sunday adult meeting, the Mon­
day evening teaching meeting, and the Thursday evening
study meeting. The women met together every other week on
Thursday afternoon. There were, in addition to the weekly
meetings, the Nineteen-Day Feasts, Holy Day observances,
Assembly meetings, monthly Temple meetings, entertain­
ments and socials, and fund-raising events.108 The annual
summer picnic was also an important event which drew many
Baha’i's from Chicago, Milwaukee, and Racine, as well as
local non-Baha’f friends.

Roger M. Dahl
In September of 1922, at the request of their national
body, the Baha’is of Kenosha sent a letter to the Persian
ambassador in Washington, D.C., signed by all of the believ­
ers, asking his assistance in stopping attacks on Baha’is in
Iran. Kenosha also organized prayers on behalf of the Per­
sian Baha’is, saying one prayer nineteen times at 6:00 a.m.,
for nineteen days.109
Also in 1922, Kenosha established a nineteen-day circu­
lar letter which it sent out to Baha’i communities around the
world. As a result, the community received replies and, for a
number of years, carried on an international correspondence.
In March 1923, the Spiritual Assembly reported that it had
received letters from seventy-one other Baha’i communities.
In one Baha’i month later that year, it received letters from
eight communities in the United States and from Baha’is in
Japan, Egypt, Burma, Iran, Palestine, Germany, and England.110
In May 1923, the Baha’is arranged for Fadil-i Mazan-
darani to speak at the College of Commerce, at a luncheon of
more than one-hundred Jewish ladies, and at the Socialist
Hall.111 Between 1924 and 1927, the community organized
three series of public lectures. The lectures were delivered
every other week, by Baha’i speakers from Chicago and other
communities, for three periods of several months.112
However, the pace of other Baha’i activities slowed down.
By the end of 1925, it seems that the only regular meetings
being carried on were the Sunday meetings, the Feasts, and
the Spiritual Assembly meetings.113 By 1925, circular letters
were no longer being sent out every nineteen days; and by
1928, most of this correspondence had died out. However,
between 1927 and 1929, the community did manage to send
out seven circulars to other communities in an effort to raise
funds for the construction of the Baha’i Temple in Wilmette,
Illinois.
Some effort must have gone into contacting believers who

z
JINAB-I FADL MAZANDARANI
(seated center) with some of the Baha’is in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
s
I
s
i
■ j
g

Roger M. Dahl
had been active in the community in earlier years, but had
not yet formally enrolled as Baha’is under the new adminis­
trative system. Between April 1925 and April 1926, four
former members of the community were added to the mem­
bership list: Eva Russell, Carrie Gates, Rose Harmon, and
Rose Russell.114
Fund raising for the Temple was an important activity in
Kenosha during the 1920s, even though it was not a well-to-
do community. In 1927, the Kenosha Assembly explained to
the National Spiritual Assembly that they could not send
large contributions for the Temple because most of the be­
lievers were not well off and were heavily in debt. The com­
munity had to give up their full-time hall during this year,
since they could now only afford to rent it for Sunday meet­
ings, still the most important feature of community life.115 In
1929, in response to appeals to raise enough to begin work
on the Temple’s superstructure, the Kenosha Baha’is sold
the community’s piano for fifty dollars and gave it all to the
Temple Fund.116
By 1928, the Assembly had three standing committees—
the Sick Committee, the Program Committee, and the Feast
Committee. The Program Committee had primary responsi­
bility for bringing the Baha’i teachings to the public. They
were to “seek openings for public talks at various religious,
social and club centers.”117 The Sick Committee continued to
assist Baha’is who were ill or injured.
Also in 1928, a letter from the National Spiritual Assem­
bly prompted some changes in the way Kenosha conducted
its Feasts. The Spiritual Assembly decided to permit consul­
tation by the believers after the devotional readings, giving
the Feast three parts. The National Assembly suggested that
contributions to the Baha’i Fund be accepted at the Feasts,
and the Assembly agreed to receive contributions to the
national Plan of Unified Action immediately after the con­
sultation.118

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 33
That same year, a youth group—Baha’i Juniors—was
formed. This was one of the few youth groups in the country.
It was formed to accommodate the maturing Baha’i children
of Kenosha. No one could be formally enrolled as a Baha’i
until age twenty-one. But the Assembly agreed to have the
youth arrange monthly social meetings for the entire com­
munity. The first entertainment was a bunco party, for Baha’is
and their friends, with prizes and refreshments. Several more
bunco parties and card parties were organized over the next
year.119
Community Development, 1930-1939: During the 1930s, the
decade of the Great Depression, the Kenosha Baha’i commu­
nity developed considerably. The city was hit hard by the
failure of the economy and many Baha’is were unemployed.120
Nonetheless, Baha’is came to rely a bit less on teachers from
outside, and the community developed more distinct bound­
aries. The activities of the community continued to retain a
Protestant flavor in their style, reflecting the background of
most of the believers.
Two questions concerning Baha’i membership came up
during the 1930s which reflect a shift in the nature of the
community which was taking place nationwide. In 1932, the
Spiritual Assembly of Kenosha inquired of the National Spiri­
tual Assembly whether it was permissible for Baha’is to be­
long to other churches. This suggests that some Baha’is were
still members of churches at this time, and that others were
beginning to feel uncomfortable with this practice. The Na­
tional Assembly assured the Kenosha community, however,
that Baha’is could belong to other churches and still main­
tain their Baha’i membership.121 It was not until 1935, that
the Guardian of the Baha’i Faith definitely ruled that Baha’is
should separate themselves from church membership.122
On June 16, 1932, Kenosha wrote to ask the National
Spiritual Assembly about involvement in politics. In a gen-

Roger M. Dahl
eral letter to the Baha’is of the United States and Canada,
the Guardian had recently stated that all Baha’is should with­
draw from all involvement in political activities and associa­
tion with political parties: “Let them refrain from associating
themselves, whether by word or by deed, with the political
pursuits of their respective nations, with the policies of gov­
ernments and the schemes and programs of parties and fac­
tions. In such controversies they should assign no blame,
take no side, further no design, and identify themselves with
no system . .
One of the Baha’is in Kenosha, Eva Russell, was the
county clerk and stood for office on the Republican ballot.
The Kenosha Assembly wondered if this was no longer to be
allowed. The National Assembly responded that the Guar­
dian’s instructions concerning politics “represented a spiri­
tual ideal which all faithful believers will ponder in their
hearts and not a formal ruling which the National Assembly
can apply in cases such as the one brought to our attention
in your letter.” They indicated that the Kenosha Assembly
should “not exert any undue pressure upon this particular
believer.”123 However, the National Assembly later that same
year came out with a stronger statement on non-involvement
in politics, including holding political office, which was pub­
lished in the December issue of Baha’i News. The Kenosha
Assembly stressed these new instructions in a letter sent to
the entire community.124
The lecture series had always been Kenosha’s primary
means of bringing the Baha’i teachings to the attention of
the public. In 1931, this method was used again. The com­
munity organized 48 lectures and 25 afternoon forums. These
large public meetings were supplemented by smaller study
classes held on Monday and Friday nights. Kenosha had
Baha’is within the community who were able to lead the
small group meetings, but they relied on outside Baha’is to

I
STOREFRONT
set up for the Baha’i lecture series in Kenosha, Wisconsin,
in 1931.
I
S
CQ
I
[aHAI COMMUNITY
STARTING
Z15SOIU1T.LV
I
■
JK
^2^-•• '-fl

Roger M. Dahl
give talks before public audiences.125 In 1931, Ruth Moffett
was the principal speaker. During her stay in Kenosha she
delivered 32 of the lectures and spoke at most of the forums,
in addition to a number to talks given in local churches and
clubs.
The response to Moffett was tremendous. An average of
65 people attended the lectures, and an average of 18 partici­
pated in the forums. This resulted in six new Baha’i's and the
enrollment of nine old Baha’is who had not been active in the
community since 1918.126 The going-away party held for Mof­
fett on November 23, 1931, attracted 50 guests.127 Of course,
these were modest gains compared to the initial growth of
the Baha’i community at the turn of the century (1898-1900),
but they represented the largest enrollment of new believers
since that early period.
Throughout the 1930s, Kenosha continued its tradition of
weekly Sunday meetings, supplemented by special lecture
series whenever prominent Baha’i speakers became avail­
able. By 1932, some Kenosha Baha’is began delivering the
lectures themselves. Up until then, the Kenosha community
had relied entirely on outside speakers to give public talks.
Earl Parker and Louis Voelz were the first to take part in
the Sunday lectures as speakers. However, most public speak­
ers continued to come from outside, including Albert Windust
(1933), Fanny Knobloch (1934), Madame Orlova (twice in
1935), and Lenore Morris (1936).
During this decade, the organization of the local As­
sembly became more complex and the Baha’is became more
concerned with issues of organization and administrative
procedure. For example, the Assembly voted in 1930 to ar­
range the Feast so that the readings would always come first
and the refreshments last, eliminating the previous, less-
structured practice. In 1931, the question was raised with
the National Assembly whether the Feast of ‘Ala’ (Loftiness)

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 37
should be held on February 26 or March 2. The National
Assembly decided to refer the matter to the Guardian, as
“this is a subject that ought to be uniformally [sic] known by
all the friends.”128 In 1933, the Assembly added to the Feast
a short period for an Assembly report and consultation with
the community.129 In 1935, acting on instructions of the Na­
tional Spiritual Assembly, the local Assembly informed the
believers that only the writings of the Bab, Baha’u’llah, and
‘Abdu’l-Baha could be used during the devotional portion of
the Feast. The average attendance at Feasts was high, with
29 out of 48 adult, voting members attending during 1936.130
By the mid-1930s, the Kenosha Baha’i community ap­
pears to have been about evenly divided between working­
class and middle-class members. This was a major shift from
its original composition.131 This was partially due to the fact
that some of the original working-class Baha’is and their
children had achieved some upward mobility, finding better
jobs. But it was at least equally due to an influx of middle­
class individuals into the Baha’i community.132 Another fac­
tor may have been the decline of Kenosha as an industrial
center, which would have forced working-class believers to
move elsewhere to find employment.
It appears that the working-class culture of the old
Kenosha community was, during this period, coming into con­
flict with more middle-class values, which included greater
concern with public image. Open displays of religious emo­
tion were frowned on, non-conformist ritual practices were
eliminated, and a more reserved and genteel manner was
encouraged, at least at public meetings. In 1934, the Kenosha
Assembly voted to “inform the believers not to use vebaly
[sic], the Greatest Name, in our public meetings, as applause,
when visitors are present.” Later, they asked the community
not to turn around to see who was coming in during public
meetings or to use the Greatest Name aloud unnecessarily

Roger M. Dahl
when the public is present.133 The community was also asked
not to hold the Baha’i speakers in conversation when there
were visitors waiting to meet them and ask questions.134
In 1934, the Assembly appointed five committees: Visit­
ing, Publicity, Arrangements, Social, and Teaching. It is sig­
nificant that two of these committees were still primarily
concerned with the pastoral functions of visiting the sick and
arranging social occasions for the community. The Visiting
Committee now also had the task of calling on believers who
were lax in attending meetings.135 In 1935, two more commit­
tees were added, the Program Committee and the Feast Com­
mittee. However, much of the work of the community was
accomplished through individual initiative, usually through
the contributions of goods and personal services. The children’s
Sunday School, which had lapsed, was reestablished, with
Eva Russell and Grace Anderson as teachers. On April 15,
1937, Kenosha became the first local Spiritual Assembly in
Wisconsin to legally incorporate.136
In 1937, it appears that some members of the community
wanted to eliminate the practice of anointing each believer
with attar of rose at the Nineteen-Day Feast. This had been
regular practice since the Feast had been instituted in
Kenosha in 1906. The local Assembly asked the National
Assembly about the custom and also inquired about the prac­
tice of having each believer read a passage from Baha’u’llah’s
Hidden Words at the Feast. The National Assembly replied
that they knew of nothing in the Baha’i teachings which
required either of these practices.137
In 1938, the Kenosha Assembly asked the National Spiri­
tual Assembly whether those Baha’is in the city who never
attended any meetings could be dropped from the voting list,
but kept on the membership list. Here again, the Assembly
was seeking firmer boundaries. The National Asssembly re­
plied that this question had been discussed for many years,

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 39
In the Mainstream, 1940-1949-. In the 1940s, the Kenosha
Baha’i community changed in terms of its occupational
makeup. There were now more professionals and small busi­
nessmen. To a large extent, this was because the women and
the youth were able to find better jobs than their parents’
generation could. Also, some of the men had improved their
positions over the years. Still, the community was fairly poor,
and several new believers came from the working class. Ten­
sions continued between the middle-class values and the work­
ing-class cultural assumptions found in the community.
In 1940, the National Spiritual Assembly informed the
Kenosha Baha’is of the Guardian’s ruling that local Assem­
blies should limit their jurisdictions to the civil city limits of
their localities. This meant that Baha’is living outside the
city limits would have to form separate Baha’i communities.
Five long-time Kenosha Baha’is found themselves suddenly
in a new community.141
Despite this loss of membership, the Kenosha Assembly
continued to elaborate its own administrative structure. That
same year it appointed eleven committees: Teaching, Public-
but that a Baha’i must himself declare that he was no longer
a Baha’i for his status to change. The local Assembly might
periodically ascertain the attitude of a believer, but “the obli­
gation to attend the Nineteen Day Feast is a spiritual one
and not an administrative duty which we can enforce.”138
The singing of hymns had always been a regular part of
Baha’i meetings. As late as 1938, the local Assembly had
encouraged enthusiastic singing at the Sunday meetings and
had arranged for singing practice at the Feasts.139 However,
in 1939, the Assembly received a report from William Schend
that he had learned at the National Convention that the
Guardian did not approve of regular singing at meetings.
After that, music was used only occasionally.140

Roger M. Dahl
ity, Art and Decorating, Welfare, Feasts, Anniversaries, So­
cial, Garden of Light (children’s classes), Hall Custodian,
Music, and Transportation. The practice was for the Assem­
bly to appoint a chairman for each committee, and for the
chairman to then submit suggestions for members of that
committee. The Assembly would then appoint the committee
members from the chairman’s list. Some committees were
large, like the Teaching Committee, with twenty members.
Others were small: the Art and Decorating Committee, the
Publicity Committee, and the Welfare Committee each had
only two members besides the chairman.142
The community’s devotional life remained somewhat un­
conventional by wider American standards, but still Protes­
tant in inspiration. In 1940, the Spiritual Assembly set up a
new prayer campaign. Four groups of believers were orga­
nized that would each offer a prayer for nineteen days. Every
nineteen days the prayer would be changed. The community
prayed for teaching, healing, material needs, and for univer­
sal peace. The Welfare Committee was instructed to inform
the community that they would be prayed for at the prayer
meetings.143
The lecture series continued to be the Baha’is’ principal
means of approach to the public. Regular Sunday meetings
were a fixture of Baha’i community life. The believers made
persistent efforts to reach the black population. Louis Gre­
gory visited the city again in 1941. There were occasional
lectures and programs on the question of racial harmony. In
support of its lecture programs, the Kenosha Assembly would
place ads or articles in local newspapers, and Baha’i radio
programs on the local station, WLIP.144
Music still played a role in community life, though the
Baha’is seemed to be less comfortable with it. In 1944,
Kenosha wrote to the National Assembly to ask that a re­
cording of the Baha’i hymn “Benediction” be produced, using

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 41
a good singer, and be made available to local communities.
Some Baha’is enjoyed singing the “Benediction” at the close
of Sunday meetings, but others were afraid that a lack of
good singers among the Baha’is might give a poor impression
to visitors. Here again was the tension between the working­
class need for congregational singing, on one hand, and the
middle-class desire for good performance, on the other. The
National Assembly replied that it was not in a position to
produce such a record, as it had no music policy or procedure.145
The Kenosha community maintained a local Baha’i Cen­
ter at 5912 22nd Avenue. A great deal of time and labor was
invested in maintaining the building. Two of the eleven com­
mittees appointed in 1940 were exclusively concerned with
the Center. Beyond this, volunteers helped with such tasks
as cleaning, painting, making new curtains, and eliminating
the squeaks in the chairs. Christmas displays were arranged
in the window of the Center in December.
In 1940, the Baha’i children’s classes, the Garden of Light,
included 23 children. The Baha’i youth remained active. That
year they held an International Youth Meeting, inviting non­
Baha’i speakers of different nationalities, and one Baha’i
speaker.146 However, by 1945, the attendance at the children’s
classes was down to 5 (the Voelz children, Marilyn and Ro­
nald; the Johnson children, Jacqueline and Thomas; and Geor­
gia Ann Halberstadt). Nonetheless, the children presented
the Naw-Ruz (Baha’i New Year) program.147 That same year,
the youth organized two programs, a youth symposium and a
banquet.148
On December 17, 1947, the Kenosha community celebrated
its fiftieth anniversary at the local Baha’i Center. Louis Voelz
spoke on the history of the Kenosha Baha’is, Jessie
Halberstadt talked about the present. Horace Holley, secre­
tary of the National Spiritual Assembly, spoke about the fu­
ture. Floral tributes were given to those Bahd’is who had
been members of the original community. Among the refresh-

Roger M. Dahl
merits was a huge golden cake, decorated to honor the
occasion. The National Spiritual Assembly sent a cable of
congratulations and also informed the Guardian of the cel­
ebration. On December 29, Kenosha received the following
cable from the Baha’i World Center:
OCCASION FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY ESTABLISHMENT
FAITH KENOSHA MOVED EXPRESS DEARLY BELOVED
STEADFAST DEVOTED MEMBERS COMMUNITY HEART­
FELT CONGRATULATIONS WARM ADMIRATION SPIRIT
ANIMATING THEIR SERVICE FAITH ARDENT HOPE EXTEN­
SION RANGE MERITORIOUS LABOURS. SHOGHI.149
Continuation, 1950 to the present: The Kenosha Baha’i com­
munity, after its early years, reached a peak in membership
in 1938 (with fifty believers). After that, there was a steady
decline in membership to the 18-25 range, where member­
ship has remained to the present day. (See Table 4.) Between
1946 and 1960, there was a net loss of 20 Baha’is, more than
half the community’s membership. By the 1980s, Kenosha
had the resources and the level of activity of a small Baha’i
community, even though its numbers on paper remained con­
siderable, by Baha’i standards.
Throughout this period the community was aging. Mem­
bers were lost due to death, pioneering, and moves to other
cities. The first generation of Baha’is passed away during
these years, and the next generation moved away. Several
believers left as pioneers for the Faith in Canada and Eu­
rope. The city of Kenosha was itself in economic decline, and
the Baha’i community did not recruit new and active mem­
bers to offset its losses. Only one new believer was enrolled
in the six years between 1964 and 1970, for example. The
Baha’i community has maintained itself since 1950, but it
seems to have gone through cycles—with periods of teaching
and activity alternating with periods of inaction.
From the 1950s to the 1970s, the local Spiritual Assem-

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 43
We need one or two “alive” Bahd’i couples to move into Kenosha.
We are now down to 15, but 5 members never come. One mem-
bly maintained a full committee structure. The usual com­
mittees were Teaching and Holy Days, Welfare, Social, Feast,
Library, Garden of Light, and House.150 The Assembly main­
tained a modest local fund, and generally met its budget
goal—which in 1969 was $35 per month. Contributions were
sent to the National Fund when money was available.151 The
tradition of summer picnics was maintained. The community
kept its local Baha’i Center until October 1979, when it had
to be given up.152
By 1956, decline in Kenosha was already obvious and the
National Spiritual Assembly wrote to the community to ex­
press its concern. The local Assembly’s annual report indi­
cated that very little was happening. The National Assembly’s
chief concern was that there were no firesides153 being held
in the city. The community had always relied on the public
lecture to introduce new people to their religion. The Na­
tional Assembly suggested that fireside meetings be orga­
nized and that the Baha’is in Kenosha study two booklets on
teaching which had recently been published.154 However, there
was little response to this appeal since Kenosha still had no
firesides or deepening classes the next year.
In 1960, the Area Teaching Committee for the Central
United States described the Kenosha community as a place
where “the people are old and need fresh planning and assis­
tance in setting up an active and progressive program.” A
traveling teacher, Thelma Jackson, was sent to the city in
1961, to deepen the community and provide teaching advice.
By March, the community had started firesides and a Thurs­
day-evening study class, which resulted in the enrollment of
two new believers.
But the situation in Kenosha changed very little. In 1970,
the local Assembly summed up its feelings thus:

Roger M. Dahl
During the 1980s, the community recovered a bit, but the
numbers of Baha’is remained small, and the activities of the
community were limited. Kenosha had become a typical small
Baha’i community.
ber is in his 80’s and two have a heart condition. We need more
young workers.166
Summary and Conclusion: There are some conclusions about
the expansion of the Baha’i Faith and the consolidation of its
communities which can be drawn from Kenosha’s Baha’i his­
tory. The first is the important role played by proven, experi­
enced, and talented Baha’i teachers. From Paul K Dealy to
Bernard Jacobsen, from Ruth Moffett to Lenore Morris, the
Baha’i lecturer played a central role in sparking each new
phase of expansion in Kenosha. They were also major figures
in the efforts to deepen the community’s knowledge of the
Baha’i teachings and maintain its unity.
The second conclusion is that one of Kenosha’s major
strengths as an early community was the large number of
families which converted as units. Families added a richness
and stability to community life that Baha’is in most other
areas lacked. The large number of children, and later youth,
strengthened the community and eventually contributed
greatly to its growth in numbers. Families also insured a
variety of Baha’i activities could be organized—for children,
women, youth, and so forth. There are at least ten early
Kenosha families, scattered around the country and around
the world, whose descendants are still Baha’is: the families
of Louis Voelz, George Anderson, Christ Howard, Peter
Nelson, Henry Benning, Alfred Anderson, John Wilcott, Au­
gust Anderson, Adrian DeBruin, and Charles Carson.
Third, the Baha’i community in Kenosha was strength­
ened by opposition—first from the Protestant churches, and
later from the followers of Kheiralla. Although both of these

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 45
episodes resulted in the loss of membership, they also de­
fined the boundaries of the community, strengthened the
Baha’i identities of the remaining believers, and accelerated
their acceptance of the Baha’i teachings as a total and exclu­
sive religious system. One reason that the first generation of
Baha’is in Kenosha developed such a close and cohesive com­
munity, in sharp contrast to most other Baha’i communities
around the country (which usually functioned as voluntary
societies or clubs, rather than as close religious communi­
ties), was that they had vocal opponents.
Fourth, we might note the relatively small role played by
the individual teaching of rank-and-file Baha’is. It appears
that the enrollments during the two decades of greatest
growth, the 1890s and the 1930s, was caused by important
teachers. The efforts of the ordinary believer were more lim­
ited and less effective. If there had been more effective teach­
ing by each individual believer, the growth of the Kenosha
community may have been more consistent.
Fifth, the Kenosha Baha’i community was unable to move
beyond the borders of its ethnic composition to reach new
immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe, especially
during the early 1900s. Even the enrollments during the 1930s
were of people from Northern European or American back­
grounds.166 This inability of the Baha’is to keep pace with the
changing ethnic makeup of the city was probably a major
factor in its limited growth. Kenosha did not focus its teach­
ing activities on any specific ethnic group, except for blacks.
Their proclamation and teaching activities were just aimed
at the general public.
For a time, Kenosha was the second or third largest Baha’i
community in the Western world. The crisis caused by
Kheiralla’s defection caused a sharp decline in numbers, but
the community remained sizeable by Baha’i standards, and
it maintained an active life. Reaching a low point in the

Roger M. Dahl
NOTES
1920s, there was a brief moment of growth in the 1930s. But,
this momentum could not be sustained, and Kenosha again
became a small Baha’i community. Having contributed richly
to Baha’i history, the Baha’is of Kenosha have now taken
their place alongside of hundreds of other Baha’i communi­
ties in the United States, among which Kenosha is now vir­
tually indistinguishable.
1. John D. Buenker, “Immigration and Ethnic Groups” in Kenosha
County in the Twentieth Century: A Topical History, John A.
Neuenschwander, ed. (Kenosha, WI: Kenosha County Bicentennial
Commission, 1976) pp. 2-5, and Richard H. Keehn, “Industry and
Business” in ibid. pp. 175-81.
2. For detailed accounts of the introduction of the Baha’i Faith in
the United States, see Richard Hollinger, “Ibrahim George Kheiralla
and the Bahd’i Faith in America” in Studies in Bdbi and Bahai
History, Vol. 2: From Iran East and West, Juan R. Cole and Moojan
Momen, eds. (Los Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1984); Peter Smith, “The
American Bahd’i Community, 1894-1917: A Preliminary Survey" in
Studies in Babt and Bahd’i History, Vol. 1, Moojan Momen, ed. (Los
Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1982); and Robert H. Stockman, The Baha’i
Faith in America: Origins, 1892-1900 (Wilmette, Ill., Baha’i Publish­
ing Trust, 1985). The summary of Kheiralla’s teachings and early
activities which follows is taken from these sources.
3. Shoghi Effendi indicates that Kheiralla secured “an opening”
for teaching the Faith in Kenosha in 1895 (Shoghi Effendi, God Passes
By [Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’i Publishing Committee, 1944]).
4. From a Truth-knower Lessons manuscript, lesson on “The Soul,”
p. 1. Kenosha, WI, Baha’i Community Records, National Bahd’i Ar­
chives, Wilmette, Illinois. (Hereafter, Kenosha Community Records.)
5. Allah-u Abhd, God the Most Glorious. An invocation used by
Bahd’is.
6. Ibrahim Kheiralla, Bab-ed-Din: The Door of True Religion (Chi­
cago: Charles H. Kerr and Co., 1897) p. 9.

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community
7. Wright’s Kenosha City Directory, 1899-1900, pp. 11-19.
8. Hollinger, “Ibrahim George Kheiralla,” pp. 109-110; Stockman,
The Bahti’i Faith in America, pp. 110; Ibrahim George Kheiralla, O
Christians! Why do Ye Believe Not on Christ'? (Chicago: Goodspeed
Press, 1917) p. 168.
9. Paul K Dealy to Ibrahim Kheiralla, April 18, 1898. Paul K.
Dealy Papers. National Baha’i Archives, Wilmette, Illinois.
10. Ibid.
11. Frank H. Lyman, The City of Kenosha and Kenosha County,
Wisconsin (Chicago: The S. J. Clarke Publishing Co., 1916) vol. 2, pp.
13-14.
12. Based on the 114 (of 219 total) Bahd’is for whom countries of
birth could be identified.
13. Later, 16 of 27 (of 60 total) adults on the 1906 membership
list for whom countries of orgin could be identified were foreign born.
United States Census, 1900: Kenosha County, Wise.; Bahti’i Histori­
cal Record Cards, National Baha’i Archives.
14. Portrait and Biographical Album of Racine and Kenosha Coun­
ties, Wisconsin (Chicago: Lake City Publishing Co., 1892) pp. 393-94
and Commemorative Biographical Record of Prominent and Repre­
sentative Men of Racine and Kenosha Counties, Wisconsin (Chicago:
J. H. Beers & Co., 1906) pp. 323-25.
15. Stockman, Baha’i Faith in America, p. 114.
16. Minutes, May 26, 1899. Kenosha Community Records.
17. Treasurer’s Cash Book, 1898-1911. Kenosha Community
Records.
18. Paul K Dealy to Ibrahim Kheiralla, April 18, 1898. Paul K.
Dealy Papers. National Bahti’i Archives. A draft letter from Ibraham
Kheiralla to ‘Abdu’l-Baha (dated c. 1898) also mentions opposition
from the clergy in Kenosha. Ibrahim Kheiralla papers. In private
hands.
19. Kenosha Kicker, October 19, 1899.
20. Ibid., October 26, 1899.
21. Even decades later this was still a significant issue within
churches in Kenosha. Meg Naysmith, a Bahti’i from Wisconsin, first
heard of the Bahti’i Faith from an anti-Bahti’i sermon delivered by a
minister in a Congregational Church in Kenosha. (Interview with M.
Naysmith, conducted by Richard Hollinger, September 1987.)
22. For a fuller account of the Vatralsky episode, see William P.

Roger M. Dahl
Collins, “Kenosha, 1893-1912: History of an Early American Baha’i
Community in the United States” in Momen, ed., Studies, Vol. 1.
23. Minutes, May 26, 1899 to May 11, 1900. Kenosha Commu­
nity Records. It is not clear from the records which of Browne’s books
were used in Kenosha. Kheiralla had access to four such books. See
Stockman, Bahd’l Faith in America, pp. 43-46.
24. Minutes, November 8, 1899; November 15, 1899 to November
28, 1900; List of enrollments, 1899-1900 in the minute book. Racine,
WI, Bahd’f Community Records. (Hereafter, Racine Community
Records.) National Bahd’f Archives.
25. For detailed accounts of how these events affected Kenosha,
see: Collins, “Kenosha, 1893-1912,” pp. 239-42; Hollinger, “Ibrahim
George Kheiralla,” pp. 112-19; and Stockman, The Bahd’l Faith in
America, pp. 136-93.
26. Voelz, “History of the Kenosha Bahd’f Community from 1897
to November 1933,” p. 2. Kenosha Community Records. National
Bahd’l Archives.
27. Minutes, March 14, 1900. Racine Community Records. Min­
utes, March 2, 1900 and March 9, 1900. Kenosha Community Records.
Collins, “Kenosha, 1893-1912,” p. 239.
28. See Richard Hollinger, “The Origins, Development, and De­
cline of the Behaist Sect, 1894-1955.” Unpublished paper.
29. Minutes, April 6, 1900. Kenosha Community Records. Min­
utes, May 9, 1900 and September 17, 1900. Racine Community
Records.
30. Kenosha Evening News, p. 1, “They Repudiate Him.” Minutes,
May 25,1900. Kenosha Community Records. National Bahd’l Archives.
31. Kenosha Courier, November 15, 1900, “Local Notes.” I am
grateful to Richard Hollinger for this citation.
32. For a fuller discussion of this point, and an account of the
numbers of those loyal to ‘Abdul-Bahd and to Kheiralla, see Hollinger,
“Behaist Sect.”
33. Minutes, July 15, 1904. Kenosha Community Records.
34. The Tablet was translated by Ali Kuli Khan, c. December 30,
1901. The Board members addressed in the Tablet were Robert
Walters, Magnus Norlander, Henry Benning, Edward Thomsen, John
Anderson, Louie Schleimer, Edward Lindstrom, Arthur Lindstrom,
and Charles Redeen. (.Tablets of Abdul Baha, pp. 141-42. The Board
members and translator are listed on the translation in the Commit-

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 49
tee for Editing the Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahd Records, National Bahd’f
Archives.)
35. Racine’s Board originally had seven members, but when it
was reelected in November 1900, two additional members were added.
Soon after that, the Racine Board (at least) adopted the rules and
regulations which had been given to the Chicago Board by ‘Abdul-
Karim Tihrani. (Minutes, July 12, 1900; November 28, 1900; Decem­
ber 3, 1900. Racine Community Records. National Bahd’f Archives.)
36. Behais Supply and Publishing Board to Racine Assembly,
September 12, 1900. Racine Community Records. National Bahd’f
Archives.
37. The women named in the first Tablet were Ida Walters,
Caroline Borkenhagen, Minnie Saint Germain, Elvira Benning, Mrs.
L. Schleimer, Emma Lindstrom, Emma Voelz, Chersti Redeen,
Wilhelmina Norlander, and Jane Parks. This may suggest that there
was a women’s Board of Counsel parallel to the men’s Board, as in
Chicago. (Tablets of Abdul Baha, pp. 143-45. Translations by Ali
Kuli Khan, about December 30, 1901. Committee for Editing the
Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahd Records. National Bahd’i Archives.)
38. Tablets of Abdul Baha, pp. 145-46.
39. Minutes, June 25, 1901. Chicago House of Spirituality Records.
National Bahd’i Archives.
40. Kenosha Council Board to Chicago House of Spirituality, Oc­
tober 13, 1901; Minutes, October 15, 1901. Chicago House of Spiritu­
ality Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
41. Minutes, March 28, 1903. Chicago House of Spirituality
Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
42. Between 1901 and 1910, the number of contributors varied
between 12 and 26 per year, with an average of 16. (1903 is not
included in the figures for contributors as the Treasurer’s records are
incomplete for that year.) Treasurer’s Cash Book, 1898-1911. Kenosha
Community Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
43. Ibid.
44. Now known as the Day of the Covenant, this has become a
Bahd’f Holy Day which is universally observed. Chicago first cel­
ebrated the day in 1901. In 1902, they wrote to twelve other commu­
nities suggesting that they institute celebrations on November 26.
(Minutes, November 15, 1902. Chicago House of Spirituality Records.
National Bahd’f Archives.)

Roger M. Dahl
45. Minutes, February 14, 1903; Kenosha to Chicago House of
Spirituality, February 26, 1903; Minutes, February 28, 1903. Chi­
cago House of Spirituality Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
Bahd’i law requires that all believers between the ages of 15 and
70 abstain from food and drink during daylight hours. Exceptions
include those who are ill, traveling, pregnant, and nursing.
46. Minutes, April 4, 1903. Chicago House of Spirituality Records.
National Bahd’f Archives.
47. Circular letter from Kenosha Assembly to the Different As­
semblies of America, February 21, 1906; Minutes, March 3, 1906.
Chicago House of Spirituality Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
48. Minutes, May 25, 1904; June 8, 1904; June 17, 1904; July 22,
1904; August 2, 1904. Kenosha Community Records. National Baha’i
Archives. Minutes, January 21, 1903. Racine Community Records.
National Bahd’i Archives.
49. See “Kenosha, Wisconsin,” Baha’i Bulletin, vol. 1, no. 1 (Sep­
tember 1908).
50. The Ninteen-Day Feast is a Baha’i community meeting which
is usually held on the first day of each (nineteen-day) Baha’i month.
It appears to have started here as primarily a devotional and social
event. At the instructions of Shoghi Effendi, the Feast eventually
developed (in the United States, at least) as the primary community
gathering, divided into three parts: devotional, administrative, and
social. Despite its name, the Feast was never regarded as an occa­
sion for regular feasting, though refreshments are always served.
51. Nineteen Day Feast Minutes, March 21, 1906. Kenosha Com­
munity Records. National Baha’i Archives.
52. Nineteen Day Feast Minutes, May 17, 1908 through Decem­
ber 31, 1909. Kenosha Community Records. National Baha’i Archives.
53. Minutes, February 2, 1909 to September 14, 1909. Kenosha
Community Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
54. Louis Voelz to Andrew Nelson, August 29, 1905. Racine Com­
munity Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
55. Minutes, May 29, 1907. Kenosha Community Records. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives.
56. Minutes, July 3, 1907; September 11, 1907; January 8, 1908;
June 23, 1908; June 30, 1908; August 4, 1908; August 11, 1908; Novem­
ber 10, 1908. Kenosha Community Records. National Baha’i Archives.
57. Minutes September 18, 1907; September 25, 1907; October 9,
1907. Kenosha Community Records. National Bahd’i Archives.

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 51
58. They were Bernard Jacobsen, Walter Bohanan, John Wilcott,
Tillie Schend, and Emma Goodale. (Minutes, November 3, 1908; No­
vember 17, 1908. Kenosha Community Records. National Bahd’i
Archives.)
59. Bernard M. Jacobsen to Chicago House of Spirituality, Au­
gust 28, 1908. Chicago House of Spirituality Records. National Bahd’f
Archives.
60. Bruce Whitmore, The Dawning Place (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’f
Publishing Trust, 1984) pp. 49-52.
61. Minutes, June 12, 1907; March 3, 1908; September 15, 1908;
October 13, 1908, and Treasurer’s Cash Book, 1898-1911. Kenosha
Community Records. National Bahd’i Center.
62. Minutes, September 11, 1907; September 25, 1907; October
23, 1907. Kenosha Community Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
63. Kitab-i aqdas, (Bahd’u’llah’s) Most Holy Book. This book con­
tains the basic laws of the religion.
64. Circular letter from the Kenosha Board of Consultation, July
25, 1908. Minutes, August 4, 1908. Chicago House of Spirituality
Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
65. Minutes, July 21, 1908. Kenosha Community Records. Na­
tional Baha’i Archives.
66. Baha’i News, vol. 1 (March 21, 1910) no. 1, p. 16.
67. Minutes, November 30, 1909. Kenosha Community Records.
Nineteen Day Feast Minutes, March 21, 1909. Kenosha Community
Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
68. Kenosha Evening News, June 26, 1909; July 3, 1909; July 10,
1909, August 14, 1909.
69. Ndqidin, Covenant-breakers. Here the term refers to the fol­
lowers of Kheiralla.
70. [Kenosha Bahd’fs] to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd (draft), January 23, 1904.
Kenosha Community Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
71. See Hasan M. Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahd: The Centre of the Cov­
enant of Bahd’u’llah (London: George Ronald, 1971) p. 527; Collins,
“Kenosha: 1893-1912,” pp. 239-43; Hollinger, “Behaist Sect.”
72. Minutes of the House of Justice (Chicago), June 28, 1901 and
January 26, 1902. Chicago House of Spirituality Records. National
Bahd’i Archives.
73. ‘Abdu’l-Bahd to Corinne True, July 24, 1909. Microfilm. Na­
tional Bahd’i Archives.
74. Minutes, August 31, 1909 and September 7, 1909. Chicago

Roger M. Dahl
House of Spirituality Records. National Bahd’f Archives. Chase to
Remey, January 19, 1910. Chase to Scheffler, May 10, 1910. Thornton
Chase Papers. National Bahd’i Archives.
75. Bahai Assembly of Kenosha to House of Spirituality, July 4,
1910. Chicago House of Spirituality Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
76. Baytu’l-‘adl-i ‘umumi. Tablet dated July 24, 1909. See note
73.
77. House of Spirituality to Board of Consultation, Kenosha, Wise.,
July 23, 1910. Chicago House of Spirituality Records. National Baha’i
Archives.
78. Ibid.
79. Ibid.
80. Kenosha Assembly to House of Spirituality (Albert Windust),
May 16, 1911. Chicago House of Spirituality Records. National Bahd’f
Archives.
81. ‘Abdu’l-Bahd to the members of the Spiritual Assembly and
Mr. Bernard M. Jacobsen, Kenosha, Wise., May 4, 1911. Chicago
House of Spirituality Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
82. Star of the West, vol. 3, no. 4 (August 20, 1912) p. 16. See
also, ‘Abdu’l-Bahd’s instructions to Howard MacNutt (who accom­
plished the reorganization), August 6, 1912. Microfilm collection. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives.
83. Bernard Jacobsen to Harlan Ober (postcard), February 28,
1917. Alfred Lunt Papers. National Bahd’f Archives. Minutes, Octo­
ber 24, 1917. Kenosha Community Records.
84. Kenosha Evening News, May 11, 1912, p. 1.
85. Kenosha Evening News, July 8, 1912, p. 4.
86. Tablet translated by Ahmad Sohrab, July 1912, at New York
City. Microfilm of Translations of Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahd, National
Bahd’i Archives.
87. Mahmud Zarqdm, Kitdb-i Baddy i‘u’l-Athdr, vol. 2 (Bombay:
Elegant Photo-Litho Press, 1921) pp. 103-104. See also Balyuzi,
‘Abdu’l-Bahd, pp. 271-72.
For a more complete account of ‘ Abdu’l-Bahd’s visit to Kenosha,
see Collins, “Kenosha, 1893-1912,” pp. 243-48.
88. Kenosha Evening News, September 14, 1912, p. 1.
89. Louis Voelz, “History of the Kenosha (Wisconsin) Baha’i Com­
munity, 1897-1947,” p. 3. National Bahd’i Archives. See also, note 85.
90. Kenosha Evening News, September 16, 1912, p. 1.

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 53
91. Voelz, “History, 1897-1933,” p. 4 and Voelz, “History, 1897-
1947,” p. 4. National Bahd’i Archives.
92. Bahd’fs expelled from the community by ‘Abdu’l-Bahh for vari­
ous reasons.
93. Notes of the Committee of Investigation (TS), p. 6. Ella Coo­
per Papers. San Francisco Baha’i Archives. San Francisco, California.
94. Minutes, June 23, 1920. Kenosha Community Records. Na­
tional Baha’i Archives.
95. Star of the West, vol. 10, no. 13 (November 4, 1919) p. 251.
96. Walter Bohanan to Alfred Lunt, December 5, 1920. Alfred
Lunt Papers. National Bahd’f Archives.
97. Minutes, June 19, 1920. Kenosha Community Records. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives. See Smith, “The American Bahd’i Commu­
nity,” p. 134, for Mazandardnfs full name.
98. Minutes, October 20, 1920; November 10, 1920; November
17, 1920; December 15, 1920. Kenosha Community Records. National
Bahd’i Archives.
99. He settled in Boviken, where he taught the Faith to Miss
Anna Gustavssen, the first person to become a Bahd’i in Sweden.
Star of the West, vol. 11 (1920) no. 16, pp. 270 and 276; The Bahd’t
World, vol. 18, pp. 980-82 (Haifa: Bahd’i World Center, 1986; The
Magazine of the Children of the Kingdom, vol. 1 (1920) no. 4, p. 22.
100. Shoghi Effendi to the Kenosha Bahd’is, January 4, 1923.
Microfilm of Original Letters and Cables from Shoghi Effendi Collec­
tion. National Bahd’i Archives.
101. Dated March 12, 1923.
102. Minutes, April 21, 1923. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives.
103. Minutes, May 7, 1928. Kenosha Assembly Records. National
Bahd’i Archives.
104. Minutes, April 25, 1923. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives.
105. Minutes, October 20, 1923. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives.
106. Minutes, April 21, 1924 and April 21, 1925. Kenosha As­
sembly Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
107. Teaching Committee of Nineteen Bulletin, August 19, 1920.
National Bahd’f Reference Library. Wilmette, Illinois. Johnathan W.
Zohpy, “Invisible People: Blacks and Mexican-Americans” in Kenosha
County in the Twentieth Century, pp. 54-55.

Roger M. Dahl
108. Kenosha Assembly circular letter, March 21, 1922. Kenosha
Community Records. National Bahd’i' Archives.
109. In 1925, and again in 1927, the Kenosha Assembly placed
articles in the local newspaper concerning the persecution of Bahd’fs
in Persia. (Minutes, September 24, 1922; May 20, 1925; January 4,
1928. Kenosha Assembly Records. Kenosha Bahd’f community to Per­
sian Ambassador to the United States, September 15, 1922. Kenosha
Community Records. National Bahd’i Archives.)
110. Kenosha Assembly Circular letters, March 2, 1923 and No­
vember 4, 1923. Kenosha Community Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
111. Kenosha Assembly circular letter, May 17, 1923. Kenosha
Assembly Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
112. Kenosha Assembly circular letters, March 21, 1924 and Sep­
tember 27, 1925. Kenosha Assembly Records. Minutes, January 24,
1924; January 12, 1927; February 23, 1927. Kenosha Assembly
Records. Kenosha Spiritual Assembly to Shoghi Effendi, March 12,
1924. Alfred Lund Papers. National Bahd’f Archives.
113. Minutes, December 10, 1924; December 17, 1924; and Octo­
ber 28, 1925. Kenosha Assembly Records. National Baha’i Archives.
114. Minutes, 1925-1926 Membership Lists. Kenosha Assembly
Records. Kenosha Assembly to National Spiritual Assembly, Septem­
ber 27, 1925. Office of the Secretary Records. National Baha’i Archives.
115. Kenosha Assembly to Carl Sheffler, January 19, 1927. Of­
fice of the Treasurer Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
116. Minutes, November 6, 1929; January 29, 1930. Kenosha
Assembly Records. National Bahd’i' Archives.
117. Minutes, June 18, 1928. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’i' Archives.
118. Minutes, May 28, 1928. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives.
119. Minutes, May 7, 1928; June 18, 1928; January 9, 1929; May
9, 1929. Kenosha Assembly Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
120. Kenosha Assembly to National Assembly Treasurer, Janu­
ary 10, 1932. Office of the Treasurer Records. National Baha’i Ar­
chives. Richard H. Keehn, “Industry and Business” in Kenosha County
in the Twentieth Century, p. 187.
121. Minutes July 1, 1932 and July 12, 1932. Kenosha Assembly
Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
122. Shoghi Effendi, Messages to America (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’f
Publishing Committee, 1947) pp. 4-5.

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 55
123. Kenosha Assembly to National Assembly, June 16, 1932;
National Assembly to Kenosha Assembly, September 22, 1932. Office
of the Secretary Records. National Baha’i Archives.
124. Kenosha Assembly to Kenosha Bahd’is, January 12, 1933.
Kenosha Assembly Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
125. Kenosha Assembly to National Teaching Committee, Febru­
ary 25, 1931. Kenosha Assembly Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
126. The new Bahd’i's were: Gertrude Collins, Anna Petersen,
Elinor Beemer, Carl Walline, Daniel Roszelle, and John Wosjecnic.
The nine old Baha’is were: Charles Carlson, Matilda Carlson, Flo­
rence Borge, Molly Anderson, Elsa Meyer, Magnus Norlander,
Wilhelmina Norlander, Clara Nelson, and Joseph Borkenhagen. Pre­
viously, Bernard and Theresa Jacobsen had been added to the mem­
bership list. (Minutes, March 30, 1932; April 27, 1932; 1931 Member­
ship List. Kenosha Assembly Records. National Bahd’i Archives.)
Racine, in the early 1930s, was also having success in its teach­
ing efforts and recorded new enrollments.
127. Minutes, November 9, 1932; November 19, 1932. Kenosha
Assembly Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
128. National Assembly to Kenosha Assembly, April 7, 1931. Of­
fice of the Secretary Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
129. Minutes, September 25, 1933. Kenosha Assembly Records.
National Bahd’i' Archives.
130. Minutes, January 4, 1937. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Baha’i' Archives.
131. I am grateful to Richard Hollinger for this information. Us­
ing the “Feast Attendance Record,” (1936) in the Kenosha Assembly
Records and the 1936 Kenosha city directory, Hollinger has identi­
fied the occupations of nineteen Bahd’fs. Blue-collar workers were as
follows: plasterer, carpenter, sign painter, auto worker, mason, ma­
chinist, driver, brass worker, factory employee, and laborer. The white­
collar occupations were: assistant superintendent (at an insurance
company), librarian, president, secretary-treasurer, investigator,
draftsman, stenographer, beauty operator, and clerk. The occupation
for Walter Bohanan (plasterer) was obtained from his obituary in a
clipping file at the Kenosha Public Library.
This data also seems to indicate that there was a trend from
unskilled to skilled blue-collar positions during the period 1900-1936,
but this may be partly accounted for by the probability that un-

Roger M. Dahl
skilled workers were less frequently listed in the city directories as
the population of the town grew.
132. Of the white-collar workers, two became Bahd’is prior to
1900. (They are on the list kept by Byron Lane. Kenosha Community
Records. National Bahd’i Archives.) Two were second generation
Bahd’is whose parents had become Bahd’fs prior to 1900. (Historical
Record Cards for Eldon Voelz and Lauretta Voelz. National Bahd’f
Archives.) The remaining white-collar Bahd’fs were neither listed on
Lane’s list nor on the membership list composed by 1906 (Kenosha
Community Records. National Bahd’i Archives.) Therefore, they must
have become Bahd’fs between 1906 and 1936.
133. Minutes, February 19, 1934; June 11, 1935. Kenosha As­
sembly Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
134. Minutes, January 8, 1934. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’i Archives.
135. Minutes, May 2, 1934. Kenosha Assembly Records. National
Bahd’i Archives.
136. Minutes, April 20, 1937. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’i Archives. Bahd’i World, vol. 7, pp. 365, 373, 398.
137. Kenosha Assembly to National Assembly, June 24, 1937;
National Assembly to Kenosha Assembly, July 9, 1937. Office of the
Secretary Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
138. Kenosha Assembly to National Assembly, February 19, 1938;
National Assembly to Kenosha Assembly, February 23, 1938. Office
of the Secretary Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
139. Minutes, July 11, 1938. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives.
140. Minutes, May 2, 1939; June 10, 1940. Kenosha Assembly
Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
141. Minutes, September 9, 1940; 1940 membership list (at the
back of the minute book). Kenosha Assembly Records. National Bahd’i
Archives.
142. Minutes, May 6, 1940; May 20, 1940; May 5, 1941. Kenosha
Assembly Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
143. Minutes, January 22, 1940; May 20, 1940. Kenosha Assem­
bly Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
144. Kenosha also provided two international pioneers during
the Seven Year Plan: Flora Hottes, who moved to Bolivia in 1942,
and Lauretta Voelz, who went to Regina, Canada, in 1943.

History of the Kenosha Baha’i Community 57
145. Kenosha Assembly to National Assembly, January 17, 1944;
National Assembly to Kenosha Assembly, March 30, 1944. Office of
the Secretary Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
146. Minutes, March 27, 1945. Kenosha Assembly Records. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives.
147. Minutes, April 15, 1940; March 27, 1945. Kenosha Assem­
bly Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
148. Minutes, July 17, 1945; Kenosha Assembly to Flora Hottes,
September 20, 1945. Kenosha Assembly Records. National Bahd’i
Archives.
149. Bah&’i News, No. 205 (March 1948) p. 4.
150. However, not all of these committees were appointed every
year.
151. Kenosha Assembly Progress Report, November 1, 1968-July
1, 1969; November 1, 1969. Kenosha, Wisconsin, File. National Teach­
ing Committee Records. National Bahd’i Archives.
152. Kenosha Assembly Annual Report, 1979-1980. Assembly
Records. Kenosha Archives.
153. Informal meetings held in the homes of Bahd’fs to introduce
new people to the Bahd’f teachings.
154. National Assembly to Kenosha Assembly, December 28,1956.
Office of the Secretary Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
155. Kenosha Assembly Progress Report. December 1970.
Kenosha, Wisconsin, File. National Teaching Committee Records.
National Bahd’f Archives.
156. Bahd’f Historical Record Cards. National Baha’i Archives.

1894-1900, Kenosha Community
TABLE 1
KENOSHA ENROLLMENT BY YEAR*
1897-1987
Total
Year
Men
Women
Youth
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
* Sources: Membership List,
Records; Kenosha Membership Material, 1899-1900, 1925-1945, Kenosha
Community Records; Kenosha Assembly Annual Reports, Kenosha As­
sembly Records. National Bahd’i Archives. Wilmette, Ill.

TABLE 1 (continued)
NA
NA
NA
Year
Women
NA
NA
NA
Youth
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
Men
NA
NA
NA
[1 adult]
NA
NA
NA

* The occupations are those of the man at the time of enrollment as a Baha’i or the closest year. Some
Enrollment
Year
TABLE 2
OCCUPATIONS OF KENOSHA BAHA’I MEN*
1897-1941
o
Machines!
Factory
Workers!
Professionals?
i
Craftsmen**
Othertt
i
Not Known
of the men changed occupations. These changes were often an improvement in economic standing.
t Tinner, factory fireman, presser, enameler, tool maker, stationary engineer, stockkeeper, wagon maker,
tinsmith, tanner, polisher.
§ Bookkeeper, clerk, druggist, contractor, photographer, office manager, insurance agent.
** Carpenter, printer, sign painter.
tt Ship captain, barber, farmer, servant, teamster, butcher, gardner, foremen, janitor.

Housewifet
Professional
Other
*
Enrollment
Year
Not
Knownt
TABLE 3
OCCUPATIONS OF KENOSHA BAHA’I WOMEN*
1897-1941
The occupations are those of the woman when she enrolled as a
Bahd’f or the closest year. Some of the men changed occupations. These
changes were often an improvement in economic standing.
t As woman is assumed to be a housewife if no occupation is given for
her in the census or city directory.
§ Teacher, bookkeeper, clerk, nurse, librarian.
t Farmer, factory worker, domestic, dressmaker, housekeeper, board­
ing house, waitress.

Year
Adults
Adults
Youth
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
TABLE 4
SIZE OF KENOSHA BAHA’I COMMUNITY BY YEAR*
1906-1987
Youth Year
* <
Kenosha Records. Local Spiritual Assembly Election Forms, Letter from
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Sources: Kenosha Assembly Minutes, 1906 Kenosha Membership List,
Kenosha Assembly to National Spiritual Assembly, Septemeber 27, 1925,
National Spiritual Assembly Records. Membership Lists, 1920, 1922, Alfred
E. Lunt Papers. Kenosha Assembly Annual Reports, Kenosha Assembly
Records. National Bahi’f Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.

Year
Enrollments Transfers In / Out
Deaths
Left Faith
Sources: Kenosha Assembly Minutes, Kenosha Assembly Annual Re-
TABLE 5
CHANGES IN SIZE OF KENOSHA BAHA’I COMMUNITY*, t
1920-1987
*
ports, Kenosha Assembly Progress Reports.
t These statistics are probably not complete as the records for some
years were missing or incomplete. There are discrepancies between Tables
4 and 5 for a few years.

TABLE 5 (continued)
Year
Enrollments Transfers In / Out
Deaths
Left Faith
1959- 60
1960- 61
1961- 62
1962- 63
1963- 64
1964- 65
1965- 66
1966- 67
1967- 68
1968- 69
1969- 70
1970- 71
1971- 72
1973- 74
1974- 75
1975- 76
1976- 77
1977- 78
1978- 79
1979- 80
1980- 81
1981- 82
1982- 83

BAHA’I REGIONAL CONFERENCE
for Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska, October 13, 1946, held in Garfield Park, Topeka, Kansas.
w
<D>
XI
X
Q<
O
a
w. *’ i
Jfv
ly, '^v:'
^wW
- Ji!

THE BAHA’I FAITH IN KANSAS, 1897-1947
by Duane L. Herrmann
About the year 1900, Abraham Keihrella [sic], an Egyptian, came
to Enterprise, Kansas. Mrs. Rose Hilty was residing there at the
time. Mr. Kheihrella brought his wife and son from Chicago to
Enterprise for a vacation. While there, he gave the Baha’i Mes­
sage including ordinances and instructions. And healed some
people while there. He also organized a group of forty members in
Enterprise before leaving.1
The Beginning: The city of Enterprise was the first place in
Kansas where Baha’i activities were organized. Baha’i classes
were held there in 1897, and Baha’is have been in Kansas
continuously ever since. Baha’i communities that were later
formed in Kansas have connections to that first Enterprise
Baha’i community.
At the end of the nineteenth century, Enterprise was much
more important than it is today. A railroad town located on
the Smokey Hill River, it was a commercial and industrial
center for central Kansas. The river provided abundant en­
ergy for the technology of the times. A college was estab­
lished there in 1888, and the first kindergarten in Kansas
was also founded there. Leading national figures, including

BARBARA HILTY EHRSAM
^>1

Susan B. Anthony, Carrie Nation (who “smashed” a saloon
on her visit), and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, visited the town
during these years.
It was among the social elite of Enterprise—among its
founders, in fact—that the Baha’i Faith would be introduced.
The city had been founded by Christian Hoffman, Jacob
Ehrsam, and Michael Senn. All were immigrants from
Switzerland. Hoffman had owned and operated a mill in
Switzerland and wanted to do the same in the new country.
He enlisted the help of Ehrsam to build the mill and forge its
machinery. Barbara, Elizabeth, and Michael Senn had come
to the United States from Switzerland with their parents in
1854 or 1855, and settled in Kansas. Elizabeth Senn married
Christian Hoffman there.2
Barbara Senn had married Joseph Hilty, another Swiss
immigrant, in Kansas in 1860. When he died in 1868, Bar­
bara and her children, Leonard and Josephine Hilty, joined
her sister and brother-in-law (the Hoffmans) who were mov­
ing to Louden Falls to build the grain mill. Barbara’s brother,
Michael Senn, also moved there, and together they opened
the first store in the area. The new town of Enterprise was
platted around the store about a year later. In 1870, Barbara
Hilty married Jacob Ehrsam, who had helped to build the
Hoffman mill and had later opened his own machine shop.
The Ehrsams had six children, plus the two from Barbara’s
previous marriage. In 1890, to house the family, they built a
new home that the newspaper described as the “most elegant
... in town.”3
With the store, the machine shop, and the mill, the
Hoffman-Ehrsam-Senn families prospered and dominated the
economy of Enterprise. In 1885, the newspaper delighted in
the prosperity of the town, reporting that “the J. B. Ehrsam
Machine Company has secured contracts worth nearly $75,000
in a single week.”4 But this material success did not satisfy
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 69

Duane L. Herrmann
of his last acts before leaving his pulpit at
Barbara Ehrsam. Her religious speculations became well
known. She was described as someone who went “from one
church and dogma to another.”5 At different times, she in­
vestigated Christian Science, the Dowieites (followers of John
Alexander Dowie, centered in Zion City, Illinois), and the
teachings of a vegetarian who had walked barefoot from Chi­
cago.6 These activities “so incensed her brother-in-law John
that he publicly read her from membership in the Methodist
Church as one
Enterprise.”7
Ehrsam’s religious interests appear to have been shared
by her daughter, Josephine Hilty (Kimmel). In the 1890s,
she went to Chicago to complete her musical training. There
she met Ibrahim Kheiralla, the famous Baha’i teacher and
accepted his teachings.8 She probably attended Kheiralla’s
classes in Chicago, but she did not receive the Greatest Name
there—the culmination of Kheiralla’s instruction.9 It seems
that Hilty shared her discovery with her mother. Barbara
Ehrsam invited Kheiralla to come to her home and offer his
teachings there. He brought his wife, Marian, and his teen­
age son, George. Marian Browne, Marian Kheiralla’s aunt,
may also have accompanied them. It was the first time that
Kheiralla’s lessons had been delivered outside of Chicago.10
Kheiralla was not the first person or the last to whom
Barbara Ehrsam would turn for spiritual knowledge, but his
visit caused quite a stir in Enterprise and the surrounding
communities. The news of Kheiralla’s new teachings quickly
spread to Abilene (the closest town), to Topeka (the capital
city), and beyond to Lawrence, one hundred miles from En­
terprise. The articles in the newspapers of these cities, in
1897, may have been the first publicity that Baha’i activities
in America ever received.
Kheiralla arrived in Enterprise in early July, 1897. By
the fifteenth of the month, articles about him had appeared

The Baha’i Faith in Kansas
The article reads:
in newspapers across the state. The articles focused on
Kheiralla’s healing techniques, the unusual ideas presented
in his classes, and the secrecy that surrounded them. A de­
tailed examination of these articles is necessary to under­
stand the public reaction to the Baha’i teachings and the
long-term impact of Kheiralla’s visit.
The Abilene Weekly Chronicle of July 16, published at the
county seat ten miles from Enterprise, carried an article un­
der the headline:
TEACHES STRANGE THINGS
Has Wonderful Power to Heal
Considerable interest and a little excitement prevails in Enter­
prise these days over the peculiar religious teaching of one “Dr.”
Ibraham [sic] G. Kheiralla an Arabian, who claims not only to
teach the only true religion but to possess remarkable powers as
a healer of all ills that flesh is heir to.
Dr. Kheiralla has written a book in which he sets forth his
peculiar religious ideas, which are to a considerable extent fa­
natical. By some it is called Neo-Platonism, but others pronounced
a combination of Arabic mysticism, German rationalism, mes­
merism, etc. He believes in the individuality of God, that the
Creator is not the universe or the universe the Creator. The
resultant is a modified form of Pantheism.
He has two systems of teaching, giving public lectures on
Sunday evening and private lessons in which he teaches the mys­
teries of the religion, on Wednesday evenings. There must be no
interruption, no queries and arguments. Last night a number of
Abilene people heard the lecture.
An inner circle, or class formed to take the advanced course
in the Kheiralla religion, already has several members, including
it is said C. V. Topping, Ed Hafner, etc. Miss Josie Hilty, who
knew the “Doctor” in Chicago and through whose influence he
was induced to visit Enterprise, is said to have embraced the
doctrine he teaches. Just what this is no one is able to find out
without acceptance thereof.

Duane L. Herrmann
The book referred to in the article is Kheiralla’s Bab-ed-
Din, and the assessment of his teachings is based on the
lessons published in that booklet. This article provides one of
the fullest descriptions of Kheiralla’s healing methods. This
same article appeared simultaneously in two Topeka news­
papers, one gave credit to the Abilene Chronicle, the other
simply gave it a dateline of “Enterprise.”12
One reason for the wide distribution of this news can be
found in the headline given to this article in a Topeka news­
paper. The Topeka Daily Capital ran the report on the top of
page three with the headline: HOFFMAN’S NEW RELIGION.
The subheader explains: “The people found out what ails
Agricultural College Regent.” C. B. Hoffman was the son of
Christian Hoffman, Barbara Ehrsam’s brother-in-law and the
owner of the Hoffman mills in Enterprise. He was a promi­
nent state figure with high ambitions and later became an
important politician in Kansas. He eventually ran for gover­
nor of the state and narrowly lost. The reports that he was
attending Kheiralla’s classes caused reprints of this article to
appear around the state.
On July 17, the Enterprise weekly paper published an
The alleged performance of one or two remarkable cures, due
to gifts resulting from his religious views, has added somewhat
to Dr. Kheiralla’s power. One of the Ehrsam boys had the colic or
something of the kind and was cured by the laying on of the
“Doctor’s” hands, one being placed back of his head and the other
on his abdomen. Another case, that of a little girl named Hilty,
who has been blind from birth, is reported in which he has so far
benefited her that she can now distinguish light from darkness
and note the difference in colors.
Dr. Kheiralla claims to be able to cure everything and is
credited with a host of remarkable cures of all kinds of chronic
diseases, including consumption, kidney troubles, fevers, etc., by
hypnotic or mesmeric influences, aided by medicines whose se­
cret powers are known to him only.11

J
This description of the classes, both in manner and con­
tent, is accurate and is again partially based on Bab-ed-Din.
Kheiralla did not tell anyone the “name of the order” (the
Baha’i Faith) until they had completed all the classes.
This article, with additional comments at the beginning
and end, was reprinted the following Friday in the Abilene
weekly. The final comment, a disclaimer the Abilene editors
found appropriate, read: “Nobody, however, will take much
stock in a religion which cannot stand the open light of day
article headed: THE BIBLE IS NOT THE TRUTH. This article,
dealing as it did with the town’s most prominent families,
was less critical than the Abilene article:
Dr. I. G. Kheiralla, Chicago, who is spending his vacation with
the family of J. B. Ehrsam, is teaching the people of Enterprise
the religion of his order. Dr. Kheiralla was sent by his Order
from the Orient to this country to teach “the truth” and has a
large following in Chicago where he has resided since coming to
this country from Egypt. He teaches the Oneness and Singleness
of God: also whence we came, why we are here and where we are
going. He gives to his private pupils the key to the sealed books
of the Bible which he uses to verify his teachings. He believes
the truth is in the Bible but that the Bible is not the truth.
One of the strict rules of his order is that no teacher is
allowed to accept any remuneration [sic], directly or indirectly,
for teaching the truth; neither is any one allowed to teach unless
a most thorough investigation has been made and every state­
ment which they make can be proved.
On Sunday evenings there will be public talks given in the
parlors of the Ehrsam residence, to which all are invited. The
private classes which have been held twice, meet Tuesday and
Friday afternoons and evenings. There are twenty-seven people
taking the private teachings and another class will be formed
later. A great interest is manifested by those who have begun
the teachings of this religion of which so little is said, for the
name of the order is only revealed to those who have taken all
the teachings.13
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 73

THE NEW EHRSAM HOUSE
in Enterprise, Kansas, c. 1890.
Si?

and Kheiralla’s ‘religion’ is perhaps as great a fake as his
alleged miraculous cures.”14 This barb, of course, refers to
Kheiralla’s insistence on secrecy.
This sarcastic approach can be seen earlier in a short
quip that appeared in the Reflector, dated July 15, 1897: “It
is reported that C. B. Hoffman is practicing under an Ara­
bian doctor in the art of curing by laying on of hands. Chris
will probably add this new department to the State Agricul­
tural college when he masters it more thoroughly.”15
Hoffman’s prominence and his advocacy of radical changes
at the college (now Kansas State University), located just
thirty miles from his hometown, guaranteed attention for his
activities. The next day, another short feature was printed in
the Daily Reflector, but this time with a dateline of the
Lawrence Journal-. “It is reported from Enterprise, Kansas,
that C. B. Hoffman, the man who has been playing hammer
and eggs with the Agricultural College, is a member of a new
religious sect organized out there by a gentleman by the name
of Ibrahim Kheiralla, late of Arabia. The religion is said to be
a conglomeration of mysticism, rationalism, and mesmerism.
With wheels of that kind in his head it is no wonder Hoffman
wants to grind things up.”16 The last line, no doubt, was
intended as a sarcastic reference to the Hoffman family mill,
as well as to the controversies at the college.
Ironically, there is no clear evidence that Hoffman actu­
ally attended any of Kheiralla’s classes. His name does not
appear on any of the surviving lists of students attending the
classes in Enterprise. If he did attend, it is likely that he
dropped out after the adverse publicity.
With the newspaper articles, it is sufficient to say that
the arrival of the Baha’i Faith in Enterprise did not go unno­
ticed. Kheiralla was interviewed by a newspaper reporter
while in Topeka.17 But in spite of the skeptical reception by
the press in other parts of the state, it appears that Kheiralla
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 75

Duane L. Herrmann
and his family were well received in Enterprise and enjoyed
a peaceful vacation. A few weeks after the initial commotion,
the following lines appeared in the Enterprise paper: “Ed
Hafner, Emmett Hoffman and George Kheiralla are with a
camping party on Lyons Creek, near Woodbine, and will fight
chiggers and misquitoes [sic] for a week.”18 This was a typi­
cal social notice.
The next week the Enterprise paper duly noted: “Dr.
Kheiralla has a large class taking lectures in the new reli­
gion and the meetings are reported to be very interesting.”19
It was now just another part of the summer. Kheiralla and
his family left Enterprise on August 25.
Baha’is in Enterprise: Rose Hilty, one of those who attended
Kheiralla’s classes, recalled many years later that he had left
some forty Baha’is in Enterprise after the summer of 1897.20
This is probably an overstatement, however. The newspapers
had reported only twenty-seven persons attending classes.
Kheiralla himself recalled that twenty-one people became
Baha’is there, while twenty-two names are found on a list of
Enterprise residents who wrote “supplications” to ‘Abdu’l-Baha
declaring their faith in the new religion.21 This list does not
include Josephine Hilty Kimmel, but her name appears on
the list of those who were invited to the classes.22 There is
also a list of people from other towns in Kansas who were
invited to the classes.23 Thus we can account for twenty-four
of the twenty-seven students mentioned in the newspaper
article.
It is likely that some of the twenty-seven students had
dropped out of the Baha’i classes early on. Hoffman, the col­
lege regent, may have been one of these. So it seems clear
that no more than twenty-four or twenty-five people com­
pleted Kheiralla’s course before he left Enterprise, though

The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 77
there may have been others that showed interest in his teach­
ings. That number was soon to diminish, however.
For some reason, Kheiralla did not deliver the Greatest
Name to any of those who had become Baha’is while he was
in Enterprise. This, in itself, was not unusual; he did not
always have his students receive the Greatest Name imme­
diately after their completion of the classes. In Chicago, he
sometimes waited until there was a larger group to receive
it. There is evidence to indicate that some of the students in
Enterprise had not taken all the lessons. Ed Haffner, for
instance, was out of town for a week while the classes were
being given. The newspapers had mentioned that a second
class was to be organized, but if it was started while Kheiralla
was in the town, he certainly did not have time to finish it.
There was just enough time to complete the first class.
At the end of Kheiralla’s classes, he would provide new
believers in his teachings with a form letter, a “supplication”
to ‘Abdu’l-Baha, which was to serve as a model for the letters
they were expected to write prior to joining the community.
This would often result in a fink of correspondence between
‘Abdu’l-Baha and the new Baha’i. This did not happen in
Enterprise. Those who may have sent letters to ‘Abdu’l-Baha
received no reply. It is possible that the letters never reached
the Holy Land.24 In any case, no personal contact with ‘Abdu’l-
Baha was established, and the Baha’is remained dependent
on Kheiralla and other Baha’i teachers.
According to Barbara Ehrsam, Kheiralla had planned to
send Thornton Chase to Enterprise to provide additional in­
struction to the Baha’is and to give them the Greatest Name.25
Chase was unable to go, but he did correspond with one of
the Baha’is there, John J. Abramson, the son of a cousin of
Jacob Ehrsam.26 In a letter dated April 1898, Chase instructed
Abramson on how to give the Baha’i lessons.27 He also re­
sponded to his queries about the Greatest Name, confirming

Duane L. Herrmann
that the Enterprise Baha’is still did not have it. In October of
1898, Elizabeth Rychener, one of those in the original class,
was still looking for someone to deliver the Greatest Name to
her.28
Two letters survive from Barbara Ehrsam, written to
Kheiralla’s secretary, Maud Lamson, nearly two years after
he left Enterprise. On May 3, 1899, she wrote: “This is the
first time I attempted to write to you, although I wished to
have done so many times since I had the teachings which
make a bond of unity between us.” Her health explains the
delay: “I have been very ill for nearly two years but have now
gained much strength the last 3 weeks that I have hopes of
becoming well again.”29
She continues: “We are a little band of believers here but
have no one to instruct us.” She goes on to ask if the
Getsingers might stop in Enterprise on their way back from
pilgrimage in ‘Akka to California. (Her request came too late.)
Then she asks: “What became of Mr. Chase? He used to
write to one of the believers here but no one has heard lately.”
She is also anxious to receive a copy of Kheiralla’s book,
which had not been published in 1897. She greatly desires a
copy of it, something to study from. She concludes her letter
with a gentle reminder: “You promised in the letter to my
daughter to send her, also Mrs. Hilty in Enterprise, a copy of
Mrs. Getsinger’s letter and perhaps some of the Dr’s, but we
have not seen anything of the kind yet and it is nearly 5
weeks ago.”30
Lamson’s reply has not been found. But some of its con­
tents can be inferred from the second letter that Barbara
Ehrsam sent to her later in 1899. She repeated her questions
about the availability of Kheiralla’s book, even offering to
pay in advance. It seems that Lamson had suggested that
Rose Hilty come to Chicago. Ehrsam writes: “It is now im­
possible for Mrs. Hilty to come to Chicago, for she had a very

difficult operation performed.”31 Neither could Ehrsam her­
self travel that distance, being also ill.
It seems that the Enterprise Baha’is were cut off, with
few avenues of contact with other believers in the country.
Her letter closes with a brief description of Baha’i life in the
town in 1899. “We live close and see one another every day.
We talk much about the blessed truth and long to hear and
know more . . . ‘Oh God give me knowledge, faith, and love’ is
the desire of my heart at all times. Hoping to hear from you
soon, I remain yours for the truth, [signed] Mrs. J. B.
Ehrsam.”32 No reply remains extant.
By May of 1899, Barbara Ehrsam had received the Great­
est Name from her daughter Josephine Kimmel.33 Seven other
Enterprise students are listed on a September 1899 list as
having received the Greatest Name, presumably also from
Mrs. Kimmel. Elizabeth Rychener is listed in 1899 as one of
the persons who received the Greatest Name in Enterprise,
but she had actually moved to Ohio by then, providing one of
the community’s few outside contacts.34 John Abramson also
received it, though he is not marked in the book. These were
probably all of the students from Kheiralla’s classes that still
considered themselves Baha’is by this time.
Most of the original students in the Enterprise classes
had been a part of the “upper crust” of local society, and
about half of them were related to Barbara Ehrsam in some
way. This also characterizes the believers who remained as
of 1899. These were: Barbara Ehrsam; her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Rose Hilty; Miss Julie Ehrsam; Mr. E. Ehrsam; Mrs. E.
Rychener; C. B. Harding, railroad agent; his wife, Addie; and
Elizabeth Frey, wife of the postmaster.35 The community had
no formal organization, there was no systematic teaching ac­
tivity, and the Faith did not grow much beyond the students
who had attended the original 1897 classes.
Beyond its isolation from other Baha’i communities, there
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 79

Duane L. Herrmann
were other factors that may have contributed to the lack of
growth in Enterprise. Barbara Ehrsam, especially after the
death of her sister, Elizabeth Hoffman, was the reigning ma­
tron of the city. The Baha’i Faith had been introduced into
an elite social network and could not easily spread to other
sectors of the population. In 1919, one observer described the
position of the Ehrsams and the Hoffmans in Enterprise
society:
These rich people naturally would feel that they were superior to
the average people in Enterprise, and that the town was too
small for them. Thus they would be led to seek new friends of an
equal social status and new amusements in larger cities as they
travelled [sic]. Whatever the explanation may be, these idiosyn­
crasies were bound to destroy any influence for good which these
leaders might have had among the average, church people of the
town, and served to deepen the wide chasm between church and
non-church groups in the town.36
In addition, the crisis of Kheiralla’s defection from the
Baha’i community in 1900, probably added to the confusion
and isolation which the Baha’is in Enterprise felt.37 Yet, we
have clear evidence that two of the women of the early En­
terprise group, Rose Hilty and Elizabeth Frey, continued to
regard themselves as Baha’is for the rest of their lives. There
may have been others, as well, but we have no evidence of
their later activities. Since the Enterprise Baha’is remained
unorganized, the records of the community are minimal.
In addition to these two, one other resident of Enterprise
retained her Baha’i association until her death. Mrs. Mary
M. F. Miller and her husband returned to Enterprise in 1903.
He had been the founding minister of the Methodist church
years before.38 At the time of Kheiralla’s class, they had lived
in Kansas City (Kansas), and her name is found on a list of
individuals from various towns in Kansas (presumably to be
invited to the class). She was listed as a Baha’i in Kansas
City in 1898. She and Frey were among the few Baha’is in

I
the 1897 group not related to the Hoffman-Ehrsam-Senn fam­
ily. She is known to have contributed to the Baha’i Temple
project.39 In 1905, she and Rose Hilty signed a petition to
‘Abdu’l-Baha. They were the only Kansas Baha’is to do so,
and their names appear in a booklet, published with ‘Abdu’l-
Baha’s reply, among those of the 422 Baha’i's who signed the
petition. ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s Tablet encouraged the Baha’i's to spiri­
tualize their lives, be united, teach the Faith, and promote
the unity of mankind.40 Miller’s obituary appeared in the
Baha’i' magazine Star of the West when she died in 1911:
“Word came to us announcing the death of Mrs. Mary M. F.
Miller, Enterprise, Kansas after a stroke of paralysis.”41
A few years before Miller’s death, Rose Hilty had moved
to Topeka (c. 1905-1906), though her husband did not sell
their farms on the edge of Enterprise. With both of these
believers gone, the only remaining Baha’is in Enterprise may
have been Elizabeth Frey and her daughter Elisabeth
Renwanz. In 1912, they witnessed the dedication of the ground
for the future Baha’i House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois.
Renwanz wrote: “In May, 1912, attracted by the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Baha, mother and I went to Chicago to see Him. Here
we partook but for a moment of the great privilege of meet­
ing the Mystery of God. We also saw him place the corner­
stone of the Baha’i Temple.”42 Shortly after the trip, a contri­
bution is recorded from her to the Bahai Temple Unity.43
Renwanz had not attended the 1897 classes because she
was a girl of ten at the time. She seems to have learned of
the Faith through her mother’s teaching efforts. Helen
Erickson, a long-time resident of Enterprise, remembered that
religious meetings were held, when she was a child, at the
home of Mrs. Frey.44 Renwanz described her mother as one
of “only two of this group [the 1897 class] who accepted
Baha’u’llah as the Manifestation and to remain faithful to
the end.”45 The other would have been Rose Hilty.
Hilty returned briefly to Enterprise around 1917, which
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 81

Duane L. Herrmann
Topeka, 1906-1931. Rose Hilty and her family moved from
Enterprise to Topeka in 1905 or 1906. Mrs. Hilty had at­
tended Kheiralla’s classes in Enterprise with her husband,
but only she had received the Greatest Name and become a
Baha’i. She was able to pass on her Baha’i identity to her
daughter, Lovelia, who was blind from birth—the “little girl
named Hilty” mentioned in the 1897 newspaper article as
having been partially cured by Kheiralla’s healing.
These were the first Baha’is to live in Topeka, and Baha’is
have lived in the city continuously since their arrival. Rose
Hilty states in her memoirs that she “helped to organize a
group of about 12 or 14 people in the year 1912,” and that,
“during the years from 1918 to 1925 study classes were held.”
But it seems that “in time the interest lagged and only 2 or 3
loyal believers succeeded in keeping the group alive. They
were Mrs. Hilty, her daughter Lovelia and Miss Bertha Hyde,
who later married Prof. Kirkpatrick . . ,”48
Considering her experience among the Enterprise Baha’is,
it seems unlikely that Rose Hilty would have initiated any
Baha’i activities in Topeka. It is more likely that she sup­
ported the work of Bertha Hyde, the second Baha’i to live in
the city. Hyde came to Topeka in 1908 to keep house for her
may have prompted some Baha’i activity there. Both Frey
and Hilty contributed to the Bahai Temple Unity from En­
terprise that year, as did Barbara Ehrsam.46 Hilty moved
back to Topeka in 1920.
After the death of Frey (April 9, 1930) and the departure
of her daughter, we can conclude that the Baha’i community
of Enterprise ceased to exist. Considering the social distance
between the Baha’is and the rest of society and the lack of
support from Baha’is in other parts of the United States, it is
not surprising that the community was unable to grow after
an initial period of interest and could not sustain itself.47

THE EHRSAM-HOFFMAN-SENN FAMILY, c. 1915.
Standing on stairs: Paul Ehrsam (child), Arnold Ehrsam*. Standing: Arthur Hoffman, Miss Eberhardt, Leonard Hilty*, unknown, Elsbeth
Ehrsam*, Alma Hoffman, Catherine America Hoffman, Elsbeth Hoffman, Edward Kuster, Jessie Wagner, Mabie Cutler Hoffman, Lovelia
Hilty (with glasses), Hattie Grosser, Anna Hoffman, Christian Hoffman, Ralph Hoffman, Jacob B. Ehrsam, William J. Ehrsam*, Vergiline
Mulvane Ehrsam, Rev. Blaney (of Abilene), Michael Senn, Marie Senn Heath*, Josephine Hilty Kimmel (Abramson). Kneeling at left: Senn
Heath (child). Seated: Hortense Ehrsam, Viola Hare Ehrsam, Barbara Senn Hilty Ehrsam* (in black), Iona Senn Moulton*, Barbara
Ehrsam (child), Rose Hilty*, Josephine Senn*. Kneeling left (with infant): Julia Ehrsam Kuster*. Children in front: Catherine Kuster
(infant), Herbert Chase, Josephine Heath (kneeling), Catherine Johntz (in front), John Ehrsam, Hal Heath, James Ehrsam, Herbert
Ehrsam, Chase Ehrsam (with toy trumpet), David Mulvane Ehrsam, John Hoffman Johntz (in front), William J. Ehrsam, Jr. Those marked
with asterisks attended Bahd’i classes in Enterprise in 1897. Josephine Hilty (Kimmel Abramson), Barbara (Senn Hilty) Ehrsam,

Duane L. Herrmann
widowed brother, Dr. Arthur Hyde, and his young son. She
had attended Holyoke College and worked as a school teacher
in the East. She was eventually to return to teaching in
Topeka, finding a job as a science teacher at Central Park
Elementary School.
Bertha Hyde first learned of the Baha’i Faith from her
sister, Mabel Hyde Paine, of Urbana, Illinois. Her sister had
attended classes on the Faith given by Albert Vail, a Uni­
tarian minister in Urbana who was a Baha’i. Paine became a
Baha’i in 1915, and it is likely that her sister followed her
shortly after.49 As was common at that time, when Bertha
Hyde accepted the Faith, she wrote to ‘Abdu’l-Baha to con­
fess her new belief. A Tablet (letter) from him, addressed to
her and to several other individuals, promised “a spiritual
victory.”50 The date of her entry into the Faith is not known,
but in any case Bertha Hyde must have been a believer by
1918, since Rose Hilty states that she was the person who
organized the Baha’i classes in Topeka in that year.51
During those early years, it is known that several Baha’i
teachers visited Topeka. They included Charles Mason Remey,
Mary Hanford Ford, Ida Finch, George Latimer, Albert Vail,
Mabel Paine, and a certain Mr. Powell. A list of these names
was kept, but no other details of their activities were recorded.52
In 1917, Bertha Hyde joined over a thousand other Ameri­
can Baha’is who signed a petition requesting that ‘Abdu’l-
Baha return to the United States. Hyde was the only Baha’i
in Kansas to sign the petition. Rose Hilty was, at the time,
back in Enterprise. Also on the list appears the name “Eliza­
beth Rennwanz,” with the Baha’is of Grand Rapids, Michi­
gan.53 ‘Abdu’l-Baha replied that he was planning his next
teaching trip to India, but this never took place.
In May of 1919, Albert Vail reported to the Second Baha’i
Teaching Convention of the Central States, held in Wilmette,
the news “of the new and joyous groups started this winter

in Keokuk, Kansas City, Topeka and Omaha.”54 For Topeka,
this is, no doubt, a reference to the new study classes. Later
Rose Hilty recalled:
During the years from 1918 to 1925 study classes were held
under the leadership of Mrs. Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick. Meetings
were held at the home of Mrs. Hilty and at times also at the
Universal Truth Center, 504 West 10th Street. Members of this
class during this time were—Mrs. Rose Hilty, Miss Lovelia Hilty,
Miss Bertha Hyde, Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Kraege, H. R. Whittlesey,
Miss Susan Whittlesey, Mrs. Margaret Williams, Mrs. Etta
Trump, Mrs. Nellie Amos, Mrs. Etta Gilmore, Miss Anna Boyd,
Miss Jennie Boyd.55
Also in 1919, a Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Baha addressed to an
individual was received in Kansas. It was translated by Shoghi
Effendi and sent to “Ruth Klos” in Atchison. Ruth Kloster-
meier was a high school student, and her father owned a
hardware store in town.56 ‘Abdu’l-Baha wrote, in part: “Thou
has written that ‘I am not worthy.’ Who is worthier than
thee? Hadst thou not been worthy, thou wouldst not have
turned to God and wouldst not have wished to enter the
Kingdom. Thy worthiness has guided thee until this blessing
and bounty have encompassed thee.”57
The Baha’i community in Topeka that emerged from the
activities of Bertha Hyde and the Hiltys appears to have
been a loose network of individuals interested in the study of
the Baha’i teachings—most of whom also had other meta­
physical interests and pursuits. There was no formal mem­
bership in the community, and many of those involved in
Baha’i activities were also active in churches and other reli­
gious movements, as was normal for the time.58 For example,
Louis M. Kraege, in addition to his job as Secretary of the
Independent Telephone Company, was a prominent member
of the Universal Truth Center in Topeka and served as its
president. Margaret Williams, another Baha’i, was the li-
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 85

Duane L. Herrmann
brarian of the Metaphysical Library. The library was housed
in her home, as was the Universal Truth Center, where the
Bahd’f study classes were sometimes held.59 Rose Hilty, in
time, drifted into involvement with a “Mazdean” (Zoroastrian)
philosophy. She spent many hours copying “Sutras” for the
well-being of the world.60
It seems clear that the Baha’i study group in Topeka,
during the late 1910s and early 1920s, was a part of the
metaphysical culture of the city. This culture promoted an
“inclusivist” approach to all religions. It is apparent that many
of the Baha’is of Topeka did not regard the Baha’i Faith as
an organized, independent religion which required their ex­
clusive commitment. Albert Vail, who helped to organize the
meetings in Topeka,61 was himself a practicing Unitarian
minister.
As a result of these attitudes, there was little attendance
at the Nineteen-Day Feast and Baha’i Holy Day observances
in Topeka. Even though fourteen Baha’is were listed as mem­
bers of the study group, there was not enough interest to
form a local Spiritual Assembly. Even with similar obstacles,
the Urbana (Illinois) Baha’i Assembly was formed in 1920.
Mabie Hyde Paine came to Topeka to help her sister with
the Baha’i work, but they could not do much.62
Some of the tension between the metaphysical approach
and a more orthodox understanding of the Baha’i teachings
surfaced during the visit of Fadl-i Mazandarani (Mirza
Asadu’llah Mazandarani) to Topeka in 1920. ‘Abdu’l-Baha
had sent Jinab-i Fadil (as he was known) to America to
travel to as many Baha’i communities as possible. His mis­
sion was to strengthen ties among the Baha’is, educate them
more fully in the teachings, and proclaim the Baha’i message
to the public. His successful tour was much celebrated in the
Baha’i community.63
The Baha’is had arranged for Fadil to give a number of

The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 87
public lectures in Topeka. The topics included: “Self-Mas­
tery,” “The Ideals of the New Age,” and “The Teachings of All
Religions Are Identical.” There is no hint in any of the titles
of the Baha’i Faith as a religion.64 Indeed, the word Baha’i is
not even mentioned. Nor is it found in the ads that Baha’is
used to publicize these meetings.65 Fadil was scheduled to
speak at Central Congregational Church in the city. The an­
nouncement in the newspaper’s church section read: “CON­
GREGATIONAL—Central, Evening Sermon, The Religion and
Reality of Jesus Christ.’ by Janebie Fazel Masandarani [sic].”66
Fadil arrived in Topeka from Lincoln, Nebraska, on the
evening of December 18, 1920. He left on December 21. He
stayed in the home of Mrs. Matt Weightman. While she was
supportive of the Baha’i Cause and had helped make ar­
rangements for the visit, she could not make a firm commit­
ment to the Faith. She was the wife of a Kansas legislator
and a cousin of George Latimer, a prominent Baha’i—fre­
quently elected member of the Bahai Temple Unity and, later,
of the National Spiritual Assembly. A reception for Fadil was
held in the Weightman home on the evening of his arrival.
The ministers of two important churches in the neighbor­
hood were invited: Rev. Klup of the First Methodist Church
and Rev. Rayhill of Central Congregational.67 It was the lat­
ter in whose church Fadil was to deliver the evening sermon
in his church the next day.
A newspaper article published just after Fadil’s arrival
states: “Professor Fazel, who is a Christian, has two purposes in
his tour, that of lecturing on the doctrines of universal peace,
universal religion, which is the Christian religion . . ”68 The
article contains a number of other details about Fadil which
are accurate and could only have been provided by the Baha’is.
The impression given out that Fadil could be considered
a Christian was soon dispelled by Fadil himself. After the
reception at the Weightman home, his sermon at the church

Duane L. Herrmann
was hastily cancelled. His talk on the reality of Christ was
later delivered at a theater rented by the Baha’is.69 The rea­
son for the cancellation is not recorded, but it seems likely
that Rev. Rayhill, a new and inexperienced minister, had
learned more about the religion of Jinab-i Fadil.
An article published the day after the reception is virtu­
ally identical to the one mentioned above, except that it clearly
states that Fadil is a Baha’i: “Persecution by the Turks was
the lot of Professor Masandarani [sic] when he accepted his
Faith, known as the Baha’i movement.”70
One of Fadil’s talks was given at the Metaphysical Li­
brary, where he was well received. One member of the audi­
ence commented: “I have always felt that too many mission­
aries are sent to the Orient, but am delighted to realize that
now missionaries are coming from the Orient to give us knowl­
edge and wisdom.”71 The president of the organization, also a
member of the Baha’i study group, announced to all that the
“Library contains a full set of Bahai literature and a good
deal for sale; that anyone can borrow or buy or come there
and read their books.”72
Rose Hilty had returned to Topeka in time for Fadil’s
visit. She and her daughter, Lovelia, had helped to organize
it.72 His lectures resulted in more public exposure than the
Baha’i Faith had ever had in Topeka. Bertha Hyde’s report
to the National Teaching Committee, which had organized
the trip, summarized the results: “The meetings I think were
well attended when one considers that they were held just a
week before Christmas. (Sunday, the 19th, three meetings
were held; in the morning at the Metaphysical Library on
the ‘Master Key to Self-Mastery5; in the afternoon at the
Orpheum Theater on The Teachings of all Religions are Iden­
tical’; and in the evening again at the Orpheum on The Reli­
gion and Reality of Jesus Christ’.) . . . Mr. Vail talked per­
sonally with a number and left a list with me whom I shall

consult with the idea of starting our meetings again. That, I
am sure, is very important, and we want prayers for our
success. The Monday meetings were at the Elks Club on "The
Ideals of the New Age’, and at 8 pm in the Library of
Washbum College on ‘Modem Education in Persia.’”73 It is
notable that Baha’i meetings had been discontinued some
time before Fadil’s visit.
If Bertha Hyde succeeded in reestablishing the study
group, it did not last long. In 1921, Dr. John Kirkpatrick was
dismissed from Washbum College for advocating greater de­
mocracy on campus and more power for students and fac­
ulty.74 Arthur Hyde, Bertha’s brother, resigned in protest.
Brother and sister left for Michigan. Although Baha’i classes
may have been held in Topeka until 1925, and Albert Vail
continued his assistance, the Baha’i community was without
leadership. At the National Baha’i Convention in 1926,
Corinne True reported that she had visited the Baha’is of
Topeka. The need for follow-up teaching and consolidation
was emphasized. There is no evidence of any Baha’i activi­
ties in Topeka in the late 1920s, and it was not until the
1930s that such activities were revived.
After leaving Topeka, Arthur and Bertha Hyde kept in
touch with John Kirkpatrick. In 1924, John and Bertha were
married, but religion remained a point of difference between
them. Kirkpatrick was an ordained minister of the Congre­
gational Church. He decided to investigate his wife’s religion,
but the virulent and distorted information he received from
Neale Alter, a missionary colleague in Syria,75 turned him
against the Baha’i Faith for the rest of his life and divided
the family. Still, he could not completely dismiss the Baha’i
religion.
In 1930, Kirkpatrick was dying. He and his wife, Bertha
Hyde Kirkpatrick, returned to Topeka to be near his family
and his doctor. Although confined to bed, he remained men-
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 89

Duane L. Herrmann
tally alert. He and his wife began to add to their reading and
discussion a collection of Baha’i scriptures her sister was
gathering, which was eventually published as The Divine Art
of Living. Through these writings, he began to understand
that his opposition to the Faith was unfounded.
One day, his wife later recounted, “he signified his desire
for pencil and paper. Slowly his weakened hand, unable to
hold the pencil without aid, formed the almost illegible words,
‘one thing only, to be a good . . .’ then for a moment there
seemed a great influx of strength and spirit as with firm
hand he completed the sentence with the word—BAHAI in
large clear letters. . . .Those were my husband’s last words.”76
He died on January 31, 1931, a newborn Baha’i.77
In about late August 1933 a man came to visit our goat dairy as
we were the only ones in town that had an “A” rating. My hus­
band, Paul Brown, had made a nice goat barn, room for cooling
and bottling milk in connection with the milking shed, etc. . . .
This man looked things over and asked a few questions, in
answer to which he made the following proposition: his wife,
Orcella Rexford, would be in town for several days giving lec­
tures on health and if we could furnish them goat milk for the
time they were here, she would give us free tickets and reference
books she had for sale. As we had plenty of goat milk we agreed.
Orcella’s lectures were very interesting and very dramatic ...
After a few nights of lectures Orcella announced that on Sunday
Resurrection: Topeka, 1933. No Baha’i activities resulted from
the Kirkpatricks’ return to Topeka in 1930. However, three
years later the community was reorganized through the ef­
forts of Orcella Rexford and her husband Dr. Gayne Gregory.
Rexford was a professional lecturer who made her living giv­
ing talks on such topics as color, diet, and health. Her travels
provided her with an opportunity to spread the Baha’i teach­
ings throughout the country.
May Brown, who attended her lectures in Topeka, recalled:

she would give a lecture on religion. Well, being faithful mem­
bers of the Seabrook Congregational Church, we did not go to
that lecture. Then the next night when we went again to her
lectures, everyone was telling how shocking her Sunday lecture
was. She even said Christ had returned.78
The Browns attended the next lecture on religion and
became interested in the Baha’i Faith. At the end of the
lectures, they joined twenty-six other people who indicated
that they wanted to start a class on the Baha’i teachings.
Ruth Moffett, a Baha’i from Chicago, came to Topeka for
two weeks as their resident teacher. “She held a series of
meetings at the Herron Studio, 625 Kansas Ave. Three meet­
ings a day were held there until Nov. 5 covering a period of
15 days. Forty-six lectures in all were given covering prayer
services, conferences and luncheons. At the end of these se­
ries twenty-six people made declaration of their intention to
go on with the study of the Baha’i Movement.”79
Moffett returned later in the month and a meeting was
held in the home of Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Kraege. The Kraeges
were long-time Baha’is who had been members of Hyde’s
study class in the 1920s. At this meeting, Moffett organized
new classes under the name “Baha’i Fellowship.”80 She
brought her own “Book of Life” for the new believers to sign,
affirming their belief. She could remain this time for only
two days, but promised to return in the spring.
The Topeka Baha’i Fellowship started a library of Baha’i
books. In February of 1934, a delegation from the group vis­
ited Rose Hilty, now an invalid, to obtain information from
her about the early days of the Faith in Kansas. Shortly
after this, Hilty donated all of her Bahd’i books and maga­
zines to the Bahai Fellowship. These included a complete set
of Star of the West which she had collected and preserved
through the years. Hilty died a few months later.
At this point, the status of the Baha’i Fellowship was
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 91

Duane L. Herrmann
somewhat ambiguous. Those involved clearly regarded them­
selves as Baha’is, and they had signed Moffett’s book, but
their names do not seem to have been on any national Baha’i
membership list. At Ridvan (April 21) of 1934, they elected a
local Spiritual Assembly, at Moffett’s behest. At the meeting,
however, the community first gathered and elected officers.
Then committees were organized. After that, they elected the
Assembly. This was a continuation of some elements of the
Baha’i practices of the early 1920s, which the Kraeges may
have remembered, but it was out of step with the Baha’i
Administration of the 1930s. The Baha’is of Topeka clearly
saw the local Assembly as an instrument of the Baha’i com­
munity, and not its governing body. Notification of the elec­
tion of the Assembly and the election of community officers
was sent to the Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Chicago.
(Chicago had acted as a regional center in the 1920s.) The
Chicago Baha’is replied with their congratulations, but news
of the elections never reached the National Spiritual As­
sembly, so the Local Spiritual Assembly of Topeka was not
recognized.
Some years later, members of the Topeka group explained
how the election of the Assembly had come about: “. . . it is
generally thought that we were prematurely organized. As a
study group, we were given to understand that were we or­
ganized this would sort of put us on the map, so to speak,
and many Baha’is passing through Topeka would most likely
stop over to give us some help, but this has not been the case.”81
During the following year (1934-35), at least two Baha’i
traveling teachers visited Topeka, Mamie Seto and Ali Kuli
Khan. There was some press coverage of Khan’s visit.
In preparation for the Ridvan election of 1935, the Na­
tional Teaching Committee sent a representative to Topeka
to insure that the Assembly was properly formed and recog­
nized. Dr. Morris was in the city from April 9 to April 11.
One of her tasks was to have the members of the Baha’i

RUTH MOFFETT (second from left)
with the Baha’is of Topeka, Kansas, c. 1935.
tn
CJ >
-6
pq
GJ
QJ
ex
o
fe.
t
%
1 r SMF
ir ’ i ■

Duane L. Herrmann
Fellowship Group sign Baha’i declaration cards in order to
establish a definite membership list. May Brown later re­
called that: “We all became Baha’is again.”82 Twenty-one
people were willing to sign the new cards. From this base,
the local Assembly was elected. Moffett returned to oversee
the Assembly election. The elected members were: Mr. Paul
Brown, Mrs. Irena Stevens, Mrs. Mae Minor, Mrs. Irma
Coburn, Mr. Louis Kraege, Miss Ruth Stevens, Mrs. Amos,
Miss Tegart, Mrs. Mae Stone.83
During Moffett’s visit, she had spent much of her time
with individuals who had not signed the declaration cards
offered by Morris a couple of weeks before. She eventually
allowed four of these “undeclared Baha’is” to vote in the elec­
tion. This caused resentment among some of the other mem­
bers of the group, since they felt that these people had no
real commitment to the Faith. One of the four was elected to
the Assembly and became its treasurer, however, which indi­
cates that the resentment was not unyielding or universal.
The conflict on the Assembly was serious enough, however,
that the treasurer had resigned her office by June. She gradu­
ally stopped attending Assembly meetings, and eventually
refused to associate with any of the Baha’is at all.
Those on the other side of the conflict felt that the prob­
lems were all the treasurer’s fault. According to one member
of the community, she “undertook to run everything—until
we were smashed . . .” Most of the Baha’is became inactive
as a result of these problems. By the end of the year, there
were only six or seven believers coming to meetings. The
recording secretary of the Assembly later reported: “After the
hurricane was over, six or seven of the original workers shook
off the debris and quietly began to hold steady—and build . ..
Now for a number of months, since August [1935]—we’ve
been gaining our former peace and harmony and have made
nice progress.”84

The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 95
Despite the optimistic face put on the situation in the
secretary’s report, deep problems remained in the Topeka
community. In April of 1936, shortly before the annual elec­
tion, the community asked a series of questions in a letter to
the National Spiritual Assembly. Some of these were: 1)
Should non-participating Baha’is have the same voice as those
who have been involved all along? 2) Should Baha’is antago­
nistic to the community have the same rights as those who
are working together? 3) What should be done when someone
wants to withdraw from the community? 4) Who is the teacher
for this area, and how do we get her to come here?85 Most of
the questions had to do with the relatively new concept of
Baha’i membership. The issue of the proper boundaries of
the community would continue to be an issue for some time.
In reply to these questions, Horace Holley, the Secretary
of the National Spiritual Assembly, explained that all Baha’i
communities would face tests as they grew, that individuals
could not be arbitrarily removed from the membership list
for non-attendance or disinterest. If the Assembly wanted to
verify its membership, it could gently express that intention
in preparation for the annual election and request that each
member on the rolls indicate his preference for membership
or not.86
Apparently, the advice was taken because a new mem­
bership list appeared for the 1936 election with several names
omitted. Nonetheless, conflict continued among the Baha’is
in Topeka. It appears that the central problem was that some
Baha’is regarded the Baha’i community as primarily a meta­
physical study group and little more, while others—respond­
ing to the guidance of recent Baha’i teachers—had come to
see the Baha’i Faith as a distinct religion with an estab­
lished organization which required their exclusive commit­
ment. And there were Baha’is who fell somewhere in between.
After the election of the Topeka Assembly in 1936,

Duane L. Herrmann
k
Emogene Hoagg was asked by the National Spiritual Assem­
bly to visit the city to help resolve the problems of the Baha’i
community. Hoagg was a longtime Baha’i and an important
Baha’i administrator. She had managed the International
Baha’i Bureau in Switzerland from 1928 to 1935 at the re­
quest of the Guardian of the Baha’i Faith.
On October 7, 1936, Hoagg arrived in town to learn that
the Assembly had not met since its election and her earlier
communications had been ignored. She organized study
classes to “deepen” the community, but they were poorly at­
tended. She remained in Topeka for four weeks, but found
that she could not repair the situation. She reported to the
National Spiritual Assembly that the circumstances “would
be ludicrous, if not so tragic. Just like children quarreling.”
Hoagg decided that the community was hopeless. None of
the Baha’is, she reported, except for Paul and May Brown,
had any understanding of the Revelation. Nor had they given
up earlier pursuits which she found incompatible with the
Baha’i teachings. They were “children so far as understand­
ing the teachings is concerned. Too, so many things have
been taught that have to be unlearned.”87 Clearly Hoagg dis­
approved of the work of some earlier Baha’i teachers. She
felt that the atmosphere was so impossible that the only
solution was to dissolve the Assembly and start over. Accord­
ing to Hoagg, there were several people—including Mrs.
Weightman—who were interested in becoming Baha’is, but
would not join because of the conditions in the community.
Nothing could be accomplished under the present circumstances.88
The chairman of the National Teaching Committee, with
whom Hoagg corresponded, was reluctant to endorse dissolv­
ing the Topeka Assembly. With twenty-one Baha’is on the
rolls, he felt that she should be able to find nine who could
carry on the local body. The complications she found in To­
peka were similar to those that had arisen in other cities
after certain teachers had been sent there.89

The New Baha’i Community, 1938-1947: After the Assembly
was reestablished in 1938, Baha’i activities in the town were
carried on in a steady and organized way. Study classes were
Hoagg finally succeeded in gathering eleven of the Baha’is
in the city together to consult on the situation. (No mean feat
in itself.) The consensus was that the Assembly should be
dissolved. This decision was ratified at the next Nineteen-
Day Feast, and a letter sent to the National Assembly. This
was the beginning of a flurry of correspondence between the
Topeka Baha’is, the National Assembly, Emogene Hoagg, and
the National Teaching Committee. By the end of January
1937, the National Assembly had decided that “the Cause
will best be served by recognizing the dissolution of the Spiri­
tual Assembly of the Baha’is of Topeka.” An updated mem­
bership list was requested.90
Two lists of Baha’is were sent in rapid succession, one
before the final letter was received and one after. The first
list contained only eight names; the second, eleven. Appar­
ently, three members were only willing to be on the list if
there was to be no Assembly. After the second list was re­
ceived, the Topeka Baha’is were advised that they should
reelect their Assembly at Ridvan. They refused. An annual
meeting was held on April 21, 1937, however, and fourteen
Baha’is attended—more than the eleven on the membership
list. The boundaries of community membership were still not
clear. The meeting elected officers for the community for the
next six months. The Baha’i community was now a study
group, as it had been before. In October, officers were elected
again, for six months.91
In April 1938, the Assembly was reelected, with a repre­
sentative of the recently created Regional Teaching Commit­
tee for Kansas and Missouri present. The official member­
ship list now carried thirteen names.92
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 97

Duane L. Herrmann
held each week; Feasts were held regularly; and, the Assem­
bly held its meetings once a month (to study a topic also).
Records were kept of each activity and stored in the infant
archives. All of these meetings were scheduled in advance for
the entire year, and a calendar of events was distributed at
the annual meeting. At that meeting, the community histo­
rian summarized events of the past year.
One former Baha’i, a member of the 1933 study group,
asked to be reinstated to membership, and two new believers
joined the community. All three became active Baha’is.
The son of one of the new members later recalled the
Baha’i study classes that his mother attended. He was too
young to go to school, so he played under the dining room
table which the ladies sat around and would often fall asleep
there.93
In 1940, a letter was received from the National Spiritual
Assembly to all local Assemblies regarding a message re­
cently received from the Guardian. It was time to clarify
Assembly boundaries and jurisdictions. The Guardian ex­
plained that the boundaries of an Assembly’s jurisdiction in
every city must correspond to the legal city limits. Baha’is
living in suburbs and surrounding areas were to be regarded
as living in separate Baha’i communities.94 In Topeka, the
application of this principle caused five members of the As­
sembly to become isolated believers scattered around Shawnee
County (outside the city limits): in North Topeka, Seabrook,
and Wakarusa.95
In 1941, the Baha’is residing within the city limits of
Topeka elected their Assembly without the Shawnee County
Baha’is. That summer, one Assembly member moved to Chi­
cago; and two longtime members who had weathered the
storms of the 1930s found this latest change too much and
withdrew from the Faith. This brought the community down
to nine members. In December, one of the nine died. The

Assembly was lost, the community reverted to “study group”
status, and no election was held the next April.96
During 1942, however, there were six new enrollments
into the Faith: one a youth (a nephew of a Baha’i), three
spouses of Baha’is (two lived in the county), and an entirely
new couple. It looked as if the Assembly could be restored.
But that December, two of the older Baha’is died, which meant
there would not be nine adult members to form an Assembly.
To insure the restoration, the Schulte family of North To­
peka moved inside the city limits on April 15, 1943.97 It was
a sacrifice, but the Assembly was reelected.
Eventually, the city annexed the Seabrook neighborhood,
and the Browns, who lived there, were once again a part of
the Topeka Baha’i community. They were immediately elected
to the Assembly. Most of the community now consisted of
stable families. Many of their children became Baha’is, then
married, and several of their spouses also joined the Faith.
The Baha’is of Topeka gradually began to participate in
regional and national Baha’i activities. From 1944 to 1953, a
Topeka Baha’i was always elected as the Kansas delegate to
the National Baha’i Convention in Wilmette. Several others
attended the National Convention each year, and some served
on the Regional Teaching Committee. Topeka Baha’is regu­
larly attended area conferences. A Baha’i Center was rented
in downtown Topeka for many years, and most Baha’i activi­
ties were held there. This was the site of the early Kansas
State Conventions.
Eventually, Baha’is came to live in other towns and cities
across the state. In 1935, a couple moved to Wichita from
Topeka. Another family moved to nearby Burlingame in 1943.
A Baha’i with no connection to Topeka was living in Elwood,
in the northwest corner of the state, that same year. In 1945,
a Topeka Baha’i married and moved to Fort Leavenworth.
Kingsley received its first Baha’i resident in 1948.
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 99

p
RACE AND WORLD UNITY CONFERENCE
held on April 18, 1945, at the Kansan Hotel in Topeka, Kansas. About half of those
present were Baha’is.
<u
I
CQ
d
CD
CX
o
rd
l®
W'U
i

Just before Ridvan 1945, the Topeka community held its
largest Baha’i teaching effort to date. A “Race and World
Unity” meeting was held on April 18, at the Kansas Hotel.
Over thirty-five people—black and white—attended; only
about half were Baha’is. It was a remarkable event for the
time and place.
The next year, the Regional Teaching Committee spon­
sored the largest all-Baha’i conference ever held in Kansas.
Because of its historic nature, it remained a highlight for
those Topeka Baha’is who attended. Forty adult Baha’is, plus
several Baha’i youth and a number of children attended from
Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.98 The Topeka Baha’is were
impressed and delighted to see so many fellow believers gath­
ered in their hometown. Several of those who attended were
family members of early Baha’is, making the event all the
more special. It was visible evidence that efforts to build a
Baha’i community in Kansas had borne fruit.
To the Present?9 By the end of the 1940s, a conscious, self-
perpetuating, and new Baha’i community had taken shape in
Kansas where there had not been one before. The expansion
of the community continued in the 1950s. The first Baha’i
wedding took place on October 21, 1950. Baha’is established
themselves in Emporia (1953), Scott City (1953), Oakley
(1955), as well as Manhattan, Hope, and Parsons (1956). Over­
land Park, Greenleaf, and Merriam were opened to the Faith
in 1957, along with Kansas City, where no Baha’is had lived
since the turn of the century. Local Spiritual Assemblies were
formed in Wichita (1955) and Kansas City (1958).
During the 1960s, new Baha’i communities spread around
the state, and two more Assemblies were formed. Baha’i mar­
riage was made legal by an act of the state legislature, and a
Summer Institute was established. The next decade witnessed
an explosion in the size of the Kansas Bahd’i community.
The Baha’i Faith in Kansas 101

Duane L. Herrmann
NOTES
New Baha’i communities emerged in dozens of towns, and
Assemblies were formed in nine new cities. The first Kan­
sans were appointed as members of the Auxiliary Board of
the Continental Board of Counsellors.
Growth continued in the 1980s. More towns were opened
to the Faith, and eight new Assemblies formed. Some Assem­
blies have been lost, but progress is evident in restoring some
that have lapsed and stabilizing their membership.
The Baha’i Faith is now well established across the state
of Kansas, in about one hundred localities. Most counties in
the state have resident Baha’is, and nearly every town with
a population of ten thousand or more has a Baha’i commu­
nity. Many Kansas Baha’is have gone as pioneers to foreign
countries and several have been elected to National Spiritual
Assemblies in those countries. Two Kansans have been elected
to the Universal House of Justice, the supreme Baha’i body
in Israel. It is not likely that the Kansas Baha’i community
will ever fade away or return to obscurity.
1. This is the report of an interview of Mrs. Rose Hilty, the first
BahA’i of Topeka, with the Topeka Baha’i Fellowship. At the time of
the interview, in 1934, the fellowship had been recently established,
and Mrs. Hilty was seventy years old. She died within the year. Her
recollections were all that the BahA’fs knew of the beginnings of the
Kansas community for the next fifty years. (“History of the Member­
ship in the Topeka Baha’i Community,” compiled by May Brown
[n.d.] p. 1. Topeka BahA’f Archives.)
2. Christian Hoffman, “A Brief Life-sketch of Christian Hoffman,”
unpublished ms., Enterprise Public Library. Edward G. Nelson, The
Company and the Community (Lawrence, Kan.: Bureau of Business
Research, School of Business, University of Kansas, 1956) p. 193.
3. Enterprise Journal, October 24, 1890.
4. The Anti-Monopolist, May 29, 1885.

The Baha’i Faith in Kansas
5. Nelson, Company, p. 312.
6. F. C. Havinghurst, “The Social Development of Enterprise,
Kansas” (Master’s Thesis. Kansas State University, 1919) p. 39.
7. Nelson, Company, p. 312.
8. Abilene Weekly Chronicle, July 16, 1897, p. 1.
9. Josephine Hilty was given the Greatest Name in Enterprise in
July of 1897. (Membership Book. Chicago House of Spirituality pa­
pers, National Bahd’i Archives.) Since the classes that were given in
Enterprise were not completed until the end of August, and the Great­
est Name was not given to Kheiralla’s students until they had com­
pleted all the lessons, it seems likely that Hilty had finished his
course in Chicago. She is listed in Kheiralla’s “Supplication Book of
Students in Miscellaneous States” as being the first Bahd’f resident
of St. Louis.
On Kheiralla’s use of the Greatest Name (Alldh-u abha), see
Peter Smith, “The American Bahd’i Community, 1894-1917: A Pre­
liminary Survey,” in Studies in Babi and Baha’i History, Volume
One (Los Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1982) pp. 90-91; Richard Hollinger,
“Ibrahim George Kheiralla and the Bahd’f Faith in America,” in From
Iran East and West: Studies in Babi and Bahai History, Volume Two
(Los Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1984) pp. 103-105, 110; and Robert H.
Stockman, The Baha’i Faith in America: Origins, 1892-1900, Volume
One (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’i Publishing Trust, 1985) pp. 9-11.
10. Hollinger, “Ibrahim George Kheiralla,” p. 109. Marian Browne
is listed in the Chicago Membership Book (National Bahd’i Archives)
as having received the Greatest Name in August 1897. Since Kheiralla
was the only one who gave instruction in its use, and he was in
Enterprise until August 25, Browne may have been a part of the
party.
11. Abilene Weekly Chronicle (Abilene, Kansas) July 16, 1897, p. 1.
Rose Hilty, Barbara Ehrsam’s granddaughter, and the mother of the
“little girl named Hilty” referred to in this article, later recalled that
Kheiralla had healed people in Enterprise, but she made no mention
of him treating her daughter. (“Topeka Bahd’i Community,” p. 1.)
12. Topeka Daily Capitol, July 14, 1897, p. 3. The weekly news­
papers in Enterprise and Abilene credited with the article carried a
date two days later (July 16, 1897), but they are the same article. It
may be that the weeklies were distributed earlier in the week than
the dates printed on them, just as some periodicals are today dated a
week or a month before they arrive at the newsstands.

Duane L. Herrmann
13. Enterprise Journal (Enterprise, Kansas) July 15, 1897, p. 1.
14. Abilene Weekly Chronicle, July 23, 1897, p. 1.
15. Abilene Weekly Reflector, July 15, 1897, p. 6.
16. Abilene Daily Reflector, July 16, p. 2.
17. Topeka Daily Capitol, September 3, 1897. Clipping in Ibrahim
G. Kheiralla papers, in private hands. This article makes no refer­
ence to the Bahd’i teachings.
18. Enterprise Journal, August 12, 1897, p. 5.
19. Ibid., August 19, 1897, p. 5.
20. See note 1.
21. Ibrahim Kheiralla, O Christians! Why do Ye Believe Not on
Christ? Chicago: n.p., 1917) p. 169. Supplications lists, National Baha’i
Archives.
22. “Names and Addresses of people to be notified concerning the
classes.” Ibrahim Kheiralla papers, in private hands. A check ap­
pears by her name on this list, which seems to indicate that she had
already taken the course of lessons at the time the list was made up.
23. One name is checked off, Mrs. M. F. Miller of Kansas City.
(Ibid.) Her husband was a former resident of Enterprise, and it seems
likely that she attended the classes there, though it does not appear
that she became a Bahd’f until 1898. {Enterprise Push, March 1,
1911. Supplications lists.)
24. Letters to Ibrahim Kheiralla from ‘Abdu’l-Karim Tihranf, in
Egypt, indicate that hundreds of letters from American Bahd’fs to
‘Abdu’l-Bahh were sent through him. Most of these letters do not
now appear to be in the Bahd’i World Center Archives.
25. Barbara Ehrsam to Maude Lamson, May 3, 1899. Maude
Lamson papers, National Baha’i Archives.
26. Abramson had come to live with the Ehrsam family in 1888,
“after a few years in Palestine with a missionary.” He was a boy of
fifteen at the time, and he spoke German, English, and Arabic flu­
ently. This would have provided Abramson with an opportunity to
converse with Kheiralla and his son George in their native language.
From Enterprise, he went to college in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, return­
ing to Enterprise to work for Ehrsam’s machine factory. By 1902, he
was a stockholder in the company and on the board of directors. He
later married Josephine Hilty, and they moved to California. (Nelson,
Company, p. 293.)
27. Thornton Chase to J. J. Abramson, April 1898. Thornton
Chase Papers. National Bahd’f Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.

The Baha’i Faith in Kansas
28. Elizabeth Rychener to Maude Lamson, October 27, 1898.
Maude Lamson Papers. National Bahd’i Archives.
29. Barbara Ehrsam to Maude Lamson, May 3, 1899. Maude
Lamson papers.
30. Ibid.
31. Barbara Ehrsam to Maude Lamson, n.d. (late 1899). Maude
Lamson papers.
32. Ibid. The phrase “0 God give me knowledge, faith, and love”
is taken from a prayer that Kheiralla gave to his students.
33. Barbara Ehrsam to Maude Lamson, May 3, 1899. Maude
Lampson papers.
34. Supplication lists. National Bahd’i Archives.
35. United States Census, 1900.
36. Havinghurst, “Social Development,” p. 39.
37. On the defection, see Peter Smith, “The American Bahd’i
Community,” pp. 96-99 and Richard Hollinger, “Ibrahim George
Kheiralla,” pp. 116-22.
38. Enterprise Push, March 1, 1911, p. 1. Obituary of Mary M. F.
Miller.
39. Bahai Temple Unity Ledger Book, October 2, 1909
40. Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahd, “To the beloved of God in General in
America (Upon them be Baha Ullah),” translated by Ali Kuli Khan,
January 3, 1906, at Cambridge, Mass. Topeka Bahd’i Archives.
41. Star of the West (April 28, 1911) p. 9.
42. “Elizabeth Frey Renwanz Recollections.” National Bahd’i
Archives.
43. Bahai Temple Unity Ledger Book, dated June 10, 1912.
44. Helen Erikson to Duane L. Herrmann, October 23, 1980. In
possession of the author.
45. “Renwanz Recollections.”
46. Bahai Temple Unity ledger books. National Baha’i Archives.
47. See also, Duane L. Herrmann, “Enterprise: Second Oldest. . .?”
Bahd’i News (March 1987) pp. 6-7.
48. “Topeka Bahd’i Community,” p.l.
49. Garetta H. Busey, “Mabel Hyde Paine,” in Baha’i News (Oc­
tober 1979) p. 7.
50. Tablet of ‘Abdu’l-Bahd addressed to several Bahd’is in the
West, July 24, 1919. Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick papers. National Bahd’i
Archives.
51. “Topeka Bahd’i Community,” p. 1.

Duane L. Herrmann
52. Ibid., pp. 1-2.
53. Star of the West (August 1, 1919) p. 161.
54. Ibid. (July 13, 1919) p. 132.
55. “Topeka Bahd’f Community,” p. 1.
56. Atchison City Directory, 1917.
57. Star of the West (January 19, 1920) p. 319. This is the only
Tablet to an individual Kansas Bahd’i to be published. Other Tablets
were received by Fred Hale of Wichita, Mr. P. Dyer (through Fred
Hale), and Edward Clark of “America [Americus?], Kansas.”
58. It was not until much later, in the mid-1930s, that the Guard­
ian of the Faith asked Bahd’is in the United States to withdraw from
membership in churches and other religious organizations. See Shoghi
Effendi, Messages to America (Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i Publishing Com­
mittee, 1947) pp. 4-5.
59. Topeka City Directory, 1921.
60. Numerous letters to Rose Hilty of various dates in the
1920s from a source that has been obliterated are in possession of
the author. Courtesy of Constance Downs, granddaughter of Rose
Hilty.
61. At the second Bahd’i Teaching Conference for the Central
States in May 1919, he reported a “new and joyous” group started in
Topeka. (Star of the West [July 13, 1919] p. 132.)
62. Interview of Sylvia Parmalee, conducted by the author on
September 2, 1983.
63. The Baha’i Centenary: 1844-1944 (Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i Pub­
lishing Committee, 1944) p. 166.
64. Bulletin “A”, Teaching Committee of Nineteen (January 1921)
p. 4. National Baha’i Archives.
65. Topeka Daily Capital, December 19, 1920.
66. Topeka State Journal, December 20, 1920, p. 2.
67. Bulletin “A”, p. 4.
68. Topeka Daily Capital, December 19, 1920, p. 10c.
69. Bulletin “A”, p. 4.
70. Topeka State Journal, December 20, 1920, p. 4.
71. Bulletin “A”, p. 8.
72. Ibid., p. 8.
73. Ibid., p. 4.
74. James F. Zimmerman, “The Washburn Story,” unpublished
ms. (c.. 1960). Washbum University Archives, Topeka, Kansas.

The Baha’i Faith in Kansas
75. S. Neale Alter to John E. Kirkpatrick, January 28, 1924
(written from Hama, Syria). In private hands, courtesy of Sylvia
Parmalee.
Alter remained a long-time opponent of the Bahd’i Faith. His
antagonistic thesis on the Bahd’f Faith was completed in 1923, at the
University of Edinburgh.
76. Mabel H. Paine, “Tribute to Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick,” un­
published ms., p. 3. In private hands, courtesy of Sylvia Parmalee.
77. Bertha Hyde Kirkpatrick returned to her home in Olivet,
Michigan. There she helped organize Louhelen Baha’i School. For
years she was the secretary of the School Committee. She was a
contributor to, then an editor of, Star of the West magazine, and also
served as an editor for several volumes of The Baha’i World. She
died in 1948, in Michigan. See also, Duane L. Herrmann, “Bertha,”
Herald of the South (July-September, 1991), pp. 46-48.
78. May Brown, “About the Baha’i Faith in Topeka,” unpublished
ms. (1982), p. 1-2. In private hands.
79. “Topeka Baha’i Community,” p. 2.
80. Ibid., p. 2.
81. Maude Tegart, Secretary of the Topeka Baha’is, to Horace
Holley, December 14, 1936. National Bahd’f Archives.
82. Interview with May Brown conducted by the author (1970s).
83. “Topeka Bahd’i Community,” p. 4.
84. Mae Minor to National Spiritual Assembly, April 3, 1936.
National Bahd’f Archives.
85. Ibid.
86. National Spiritual Assembly to Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahd’is of Topeka, Kansas, April 8, 1936. National Bahd’I Archives.
87. Emogene Hoagg to National Teaching Committee, May 7,
1936. National Bahd’i Archives.
88. Emogene Hoagg to National Teaching Committee, December
28, 1936. National Bahd’i Archives.
89. Ibid.
90. National Spiritual Assembly to Maude Tegart, January 15,
1937. National Bahd’I Archives.
91. “Topeka Bahd’i Community,” pp. 5-6.
92. Ibid., p. 7.
93. Interview with Keith Schulte, conducted by the author in
October 1986.

I
Duane L. Herrmann
94. See The Bahd’i World, vol 9, (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’i Publish­
ing Trust, 1945) pp. 28-29.
95. “Topeka Baha’i Community,” pp. 4-10; Topeka City Directory,
1935-1940.
96. “Topeka Baha’i Community,” p. 10.
97. Ibid., p. 11.
98. Bahd’i News (January 1947) p. 16. Conference photo.
99. This section is condensed from Duane L. Herrmann, Ninety
Years in Kansas—The Bahd’i Faith: 1897-1987 (Topeka, Kan.: Buf­
falo Press, 1987).

BAHA’IS OF BALTIMORE
holding a framed copy of the Greatest Name in front, July 1909.
I
I
.1
d z
4'
F
_ 'id
l?v
r I
' ui
, *
ar -
n'■'y

THE BAHA’IS OF BALTIMORE, 1898-1990
by Deb Clark
In 1899, Hazel Clarke was six months old and deathly ill. Her
mother, Kate Kidwell Clarke, had been to the doctors at Johns
Hopkins Hospital, but they were unable to do anything for the
baby. She would not eat. One day, as Kate was returning home
from the doctor’s on the streetcar, a woman sitting next to her saw
her sobbing and said, “You seem to be upset.”
“Yes,” answered Kate. “My baby is dying and nothing can be
done.”
“Have you tried praying?” asked the woman.
Kate Clarke was a devout Christian. “Yes, I have,” she re­
plied. “Nothing helps.”
The woman said, “I know a remarkable woman who may be
able to help you. You must go see her at 895 Park Avenue.” The
woman wrote down the address and handed Kate the piece of
paper.
Kate got off the streetcar near Park Avenue and found 895,
where a sign in the window read “Battee Institute of Self Knowl­
edge.” She went up the front steps and knocked on the door. When
she was let inside, she explained the problem. Pearle Doty held
the baby and prayed for her. When she was finished and had
handed the child back to her mother, Kate thought she saw a
slightly healthier glow in the child. By the time Kate got home,
Hazel wanted to eat.
The next day she was fully recovered.1

Deb Clark
The Beginnings of the Baltimore Community: The early
Baha’is of Baltimore remembered Pearle Doty as the first
Baha’i in the city and the unofficial leader of the community
during its first years. Bom Pearle Battee in Alexandria, Ohio,
in 1868, she moved to Mulberry Street in the Mount Vernon
area of Baltimore, the city where her father, Elisha Battee
had been born in 1835.2 She found work as a professor in
1892, but her calling was as a faith healer.
Pearle Battee began her practice as a phrenologist, treat­
ing people’s infirmities by reading the markings and bumps
on their heads. At the time, this was a fairly common alter­
native form of healing, based on the belief that the mind and
body are a whole entity. This practice opened in about 1893,
at 111 Franklin, where Battee resided during her first year
in Baltimore. It was a neighborhood of artists. The Charcoal
Club on the comer of Howard and Franklin was frequented
by artists, musicians, and writers, who would also meet in
each other’s homes to discuss the events of the day.3
Henry (Harry) Archer Doty, born September 18, 1874, to
Aristippus Doty and Josephine Charlotte Carpenter in
Charleston, South Carolina, was the fifth of eleven children,
and the first son to survive. His father was a military man
and a school principal, a descendant of Edward Doty who
arrived on the Mayflower in 1620.4 At the age of twenty,
Harry Doty moved to Baltimore to work in a laboratory. He
lived on Greenmount Avenue in the Old Town area, which
would have been central to both Mount Vernon and Johns
Hopkins Hospital, where he may have been employed.5
While he may have been planning a career as a physi­
cian, he did not pursue this. After about a year in Baltimore,
he moved to 111 Franklin, the same house—probably a board­
ing house—where Pearle Battee lived, and he was employed
as a bookkeeper. Doty must have been fascinated by Battee,
an older woman with an exotic healing practice; and, appar-

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 113
ently, she by him. In April of 1896, only a year and a half
after Doty came to town, Pearle Battee gave birth to their
son, Henry Battee Doty.6 Harry Doty let his family know, at
that point, that he and Pearle were married and that he was
publishing a magazine called Self Knowledge.’’ By 1897, Hany
was working as a phrenologist along with his wife, and the
two of them had incorporated their business as Doty and
Doty.8
Elisha Battee moved in with Pearle and Henry Doty some­
time during 1897, and the Battee Institute of Self Knowledge
became official. It was located at 895 Park Avenue, a very
fashionable street of brownstone houses with finely worked
dark wood interiors and marble steps.9 Clearly, the Doty fam­
ily was doing well. The neighborhood was inhabited by pro­
fessionals: doctors, judges, and lawyers. There were several
bookstores nearby, including one owned by a poet, and a comer
drugstore where young couples could go to drink a soda.10
Harry Doty managed the Institute, Pearle Doty was the
principal, and Elisha Battee was healer and teacher. The
Institute touted its monthly magazine, Self Knowledge, as a
publication “devoted to the unfolding of the Divinity in hu­
manity.”11 A half-page advertisement for it read: “The aim of
this Institute is to unfold the highest possibilities on all planes
of consciousness. All diseases of mind or body successfully
treated by right understanding of the laws of being and proper
application to individual needs. Phrenology and mental sci­
ence healing taught and practiced.”12
A year after Pearle Doty had healed her baby, Kate Clarke
tried to return to the Institute of Self Knowledge, but it was
no longer there.13 She did not realize that the Dotys had
moved a block away to 808 North Howard Street.14 Sometime
during 1900, both Harry Doty and Elisha Battee either died
or moved out, and the child, Henry Battee Doty, who was
then only five years old, was living with his father’s parents.

Deb Clark
a metaphysician until she died in
Some Early Baha’is of Baltimore: Charlotte Brittingham Dixon
of Princess Anne, Maryland, began a spiritual quest which
took her to Chicago in 1896. She had a feeling that there was
something in that city that she should know about. So when
it was time to return to Maryland in 1897, and she still had
found nothing, she resisted. She later wrote: “I besought God
most earnestly, often lying on my face on the floor, that I
should not be allowed to leave Chicago, without finding some­
one who knew of this Revelation.”20 One day, while she was
praying, a woman rang the doorbell asking for something,
and Dixon let her in. As they talked, the woman suggested
that she seek out a Mrs. Reed, who was teaching the gospel
Pearle Doty continued as
about 1903.15
Pearle Doty may have attended Baha’i classes in New
York delivered by Ibrahim Kheiralla, an important Baha’i
teacher, as early as 1897. Her name appears on a list put
together that year of people who were to be invited (or had
previously attended) these classes.16 Her name and the name
of her father, Elisha Battee, also appear on a list of those
who completed Baha’i lessons in Baltimore in 1898. But the
fact that Doty’s name is on a similar list for New York sug­
gests that she originally took the classes there.17
By 1901, fifty persons had been attracted to the Faith in
Baltimore. The majority of these Baha’is were women, and
most were from a working-class or professional middle-class
background.18 Those who became Baha’is during this period
formed the nucleus of the early Baltimore Baha’i Commu­
nity. However, most of them do not appear to have remained
active in the community for long after Pearle Doty’s death.19
Baha’is moved to Baltimore from other localities, which helped
to sustain the community in its early years.

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 115
in the slums. That afternoon, Dixon tried to find Mrs. Reed,
but was told that she was out of town. She returned the next
day, and the day after, only to be turned away again. On the
third day, a neighbor heard her asking for Mrs. Reed and
said, “Woman, God sent you here; you are not seeking Mrs.
Reed. We have the greatest message since Christ.”21
The neighbor told Charlotte Dixon that she had recently
accepted the Baha’i Revelation and directed her to Ibrahim
Kheiralla, who was giving lessons on the new religion. She
attended his classes in Chicago, accepted the Faith, and re­
turned to Maryland, believing herself to be the first Baha’i
there. She wrote to her brother and sister-in-law in New
Jersey about the Baha’i teachings and convinced them to
travel to New York to take Kheiralla’s classes. She also taught
the Faith to at least six other relatives in Maryland, as well
as her daughter and sister in Philadelphia.22
Dixon’s sister, Evalina Brittingham, lived in Baltimore,
and it may have been through her that the Faith was intro­
duced into that city. Her name appears among the fifteen
Baltimore Baha’is listed in the Supplication Book for the year
1898, while Charlotte Dixon’s name appears in 1897. The
Supplication Book records the names of those who completed
Kheiralla’s classes and who wrote letters of “supplication” to
Abdu’l-Baha confessing their faith. A checkmark placed af­
ter Dixon’s name indicates that she received the Greatest
Name from Kheiralla, his final initiation into Baha’i mem­
bership. However, there are no check marks after the names
of the Baltimoreans whose names appear in 1898.23 Britting­
ham was an active Baha’i in Baltimore during 1900.24
Edward Struven is also listed on the 1898 list. His par­
ents were from Bremen, Germany, a city with close ties to
Baltimore throughout the nineteenth century. Baltimore was
the largest tobacco export harbor in America, and Bremen
was the largest tobacco import harbor in Europe.25 Edward

Deb Clark
lived with his parents, Rosa and Dietrich Struven, on Thames
Street in Fells Point, until he left to study at Cornell Univer­
sity in Ithaca, New York. His younger brother, Howard
Struven, learned to make things with his hands and built a
greenhouse when he was only eleven years old.26 Later, he
worked as a shipbuilder and lost a finger in an accident.27
Edward Struven learned of the Baha’i Faith in Ithaca
from Lua Getsinger, an important Baha’i teacher. He consid­
ered himself to be a Baha’i immediately, and his brother
accepted the Faith in 1899. The Struven brothers remained
active Baha’is for many years.
Baltimore has always been a city of divided neighborhoods,
separated by class, race, or ethnicity. In 1890, with a popula­
tion of about 430,000, Baltimore was more than two-thirds
white and about one-sixth black. About 12,000 foreign immi­
grants arrived between 1879 and 1900. Sixty percent of the
new arrivals were German, between twenty and twenty-five
percent were Irish; and Britons, Russians, Poles, and Austri­
ans made up five percent each.28
The chief industries were canning and the production of
men’s clothing. Trade, transportation, and service industries
were also important.29 Industrialization brought more jobs,
but many of them were in sweatshops full of low-paid work­
ers, mostly recent immigrants and their children—Jews,
Lithuanians, and Bohemians.30 The sweatshops, particularly
the coat tailors, were usually found in houses in East Balti­
more.31
The Baha’i community was comprised of people from a
variety of backgrounds who lived in different parts of town.
Several Baha’is lived in South Baltimore, which was inhab­
ited mostly by working-class blacks and whites. William B.
Stoffel, a railroad inspector, and Charles Lampe, a machin­
ist, lived there. Catherine A. Anderson, also lived in South
Baltimore near the Camden Station.32

Fells Point, in East Baltimore, was a docking area, as
well as a home for the sweatshops, and many new immi­
grants were to be found there. Baha’is in Fells Point in­
cluded Winnifred Watson, and Elizabeth Emmell, who worked
in a lunchroom and was married to a musician. Nellie C.
Babbit, who lived in Mount Clare in southwest Baltimore,
was married to a painter. On the other side of town, in an
area known as Goose Hill in west Baltimore, were Ann E.
Stansbury and Mary E. Powell, the wife of a conductor. Later
on, Howard Struven had a home in this area where he enter­
tained ‘Abdu’l-Baha during his trip to Baltimore.33
Although the Baha’i's of Baltimore were not in favor of
any formal organization at this time, they held meetings and
were in contact with ‘Abdu’l-Baha.34 They were addressed by
‘Abdu’l-Baha in several Tablets (letters) written to America
and mentioned in others. In one Tablet translated around
1900, Abdu’l-Baha praised Mrs. Emmell and Mrs. Powell for
having meetings in their homes.35
Although Baltimore was a large Baha’i community dur­
ing the first few years of the century, nearby Washington,
D.C., appears to have been the center of more Baha’i activ­
ity. Several prominent Baha’i teachers lived there, including
Lua Getsinger, Laura Barney, and Charles Mason Remey.
Abdu’l-Baha wrote often to the Baha’is of Washington and
urged them to assist the Baltimore community. In one Tab­
let, addressed to Remey, he said that “every week, two or
three of the Washington friends should go to Baltimore and
endeavor to help and encourage the friends there.”36
Whether or not such regular contact was established is
unclear, but there is evidence that Baltimore Baha’is received
some support from the Washington believers. When Sarah
Jane Farmer was staying with Washington Baha’is and hold­
ing Baha’i meetings there in 1901, for example, she also met
with the Baha’is of Baltimore.37
The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 117

Deb Clark
At least one Baltimore Baha’i, Frederick Woodward, moved
to Washington, D.C., in 1902. Abdu’l-Baha instructed him to
“receive proofs from Mirza Abul Fazl [Mirza Abu’l-Fadl],” the
famous Baha’i scholar he had sent to America to instruct the
believers in the teachings.38
Abu’l-Fadl’s visit to Baltimore received a great deal of
press coverage. One article, in the Baltimore Sun of Febru­
ary 1, 1902, announced the visit and styled him the “High
Priest of Behaism.” The Sun reporter had visited Abu’l-Fadl
in Washington, where he was living at the time. In Balti­
more, Abu’l-Fadl spoke to over one hundred people at a
public meeting held at 1041 North Eutaw Street, “the head­
quarters of the cult.” Colonel Nathan Ward Fitzgerald, of
Washington, D.C., conducted the evening lesson and quoted
scripture to support the “Beha’i claim that Christ had re­
turned.” The article reported that Mirza Asadu’llah, another
Persian teacher, and his interpreter, Niaz Effendi Kermani,
had held a conference in Baltimore two weeks before. When
the reporter saw them in Washington, they were speaking to
two inquirers from Virginia.39
The article went on: “Washington has recently become a
seat or center of the new religion in this country, and several
prominent believers and teachers are now there. Among these
is Mrs. Lua M. Getsinger, a well known resident of the capi­
tal.” It recounted a short history of the Baha’i Faith, starting
with the Bab, and explained that the Baha’is use a “remark­
able” method of “propaganda.” First they agree with you that
your religion had divine origins, but then they add that “ev­
ery perfect man comes to the point where he is no longer in
complete harmony with the surroundings which his forefa­
thers prepared.” The article reported that there were about
seventy professed believers in Baltimore. However, the cen­
sus reported only twenty-eight Baha’is in 1906, and that fig­
ure may be high.40

Transition and Organization: Pearle Doty, remembered by
the Baha’is as the “leader” of the community in Baltimore in
the early days, died sometime in 1903. ‘Abdu’l-Baha wrote a
consoling Tablet to the Baha’is of Baltimore saying that they
should not sigh in grief over her death: “I hope her noble son
may seek the Path wherein his mother walked and may be­
come better and more illustrious; nay, rather, the lights of
his love may also take effect in his grandparents.” He went
on: “As to ye who are friends of that bird of the meadow of
guidance, ye must, after her, have such unison, love, associa­
tion and unity that it may make things better and more
favorable than they were during her days.”41
Another Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Baha, addressed to Mason
Remey, says: “Thou hast written concerning Baltimore. Con­
vey respectful greetings on my behalf to Miss . . . and say,
‘Exert thyself as much as thou canst in order that thou mayest
illumine Baltimore, lay there an eternal foundation and ig­
nite a lamp whose rays may shine through cycles and ages.’”42
In 1904, much of the city of Baltimore burned down in a
great fire that lasted two days and spread over one hundred
and forty acres. Something caught fire in a dry goods firm
that stood between Hopkins Place and Liberty Street. Most
of the reconstruction of the city was finished by 1906.43 How­
ever, the disruption may have contributed to a decline in
Baha’i activity.
It was Edward Struven who lived in Catonsville in Balti­
more County, outside the city limits, who held the Baha’i
community together after Doty’s passing. The believers con­
tinued to meet in each other’s homes, as before. They re­
ceived correspondence from other Baha’i communities, but
avoided any organization and kept no records. They did, how­
ever, send Struven to Chicago as a representative for the
first Bahai Temple Unity convention held March 22-23, 1909.
That same year Struven reported to the Bahai Bulletin (pub-
The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 119

Deb Clark
lished in New York) that: “Due to this lack of numbers and
the many duties and family cares and ties of our brothers
and sisters, our regular Tuesday meetings average between
6 and 9 in attendance. Then because of our proximity to
Washington and principally for the reason that none of us
have arisen to the actual work of teaching, our progress has
been very slow.”44 In 1906, the Washington Baha’i commu­
nity paid the train fare for Baltimore Baha’is to travel to a
lecture given by Lua Getsinger in Washington.45
When Struven returned from the Chicago convention, he
brought a new spirit with him. It was then that the Balti­
more community decided to “form an organization to help
the Cause along, believing that as a body more work could be
done, and correspondence attended to properly, besides keep­
ing a record of meetings.”45 Acting as temporary chairman of
the newly formed Baltimore “Assembly,” as it was known,
Edward Struven appointed a committee of four: Joseph
Hope, Gertrude Stanwood, Howard Struven, and Maud
Thompson, and Edwin B. Eardley as secretary, to frame a
new constitution and by-laws for the community. The by­
laws were approved on May 4, 1909. It was then decided to
write to ‘Abdu’l-Baha telling him that Baltimore had orga­
nized in this way, and that it was intended as a temporary
organization until the laws of the Kitab-i Aqdas (Baha’u’llah’s
“Most Holy Book”) were adopted. The letter expressed the
community’s appreciation that unity in Baltimore was
achieved through the efforts of the Washington friends, whom
‘Abdu’l-Baha had instructed to support the Baha’is of Balti­
more. They asked ‘Abdu’l-Baha to be Honored Head of their
assembly and to select other honorary members if he so de­
sired. The letter was signed by twenty-five believers.47
The by-laws called for spiritual meetings of the commu­
nity to be opened by the members repeating the Greatest
Name, followed by a prayer read by the chairman of the

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 121
meeting. Unity feasts were to be held every nineteen days,
and other meetings held on Tuesday evenings and Sunday
afternoons. At the end of each meeting, those present would
decide who would lead the next meeting. Parliamentary pro­
cedure was to be followed when business was conducted. Com­
munity officers were to be elected every six months, in March
and September. All the meetings were to close either with
the recitation of a passage from the Hidden Words of
Baha’u’llah or a prayer, or both, and then all should repeat
the Greatest Name. It seems that the community tried hard
to prevent any one person from assuming leadership and
that they adhered to the procedures they had adopted.48
A few weeks after organizing their group, the Baltimore
community wrote to other Baha’i assemblies to inform them
of the names and addresses of their own officers. Believers
from Washington continued to support activities in Baltimore.
For example, Fanny Knobloch was a regular visitor who read
lessons by ‘Abdu’l-Baha at her meetings. Pauline Hannen,
another Washingtonian, frequently attended Holy Day cel­
ebrations and spoke at other Baha’i gatherings. The commu­
nity used booklets on the Baha’i teachings written by Hooper
Harris, Isabella Brittingham, and Paul Dealy.49
In 1909, Baltimore Baha’is included: Edward Struven,
who now worked for the Maryland Viavi Company and lived
in Catonsville; Margaret (Maud) E. Thompson, the wife of a
clerk, who also lived in Catonsville; Estelle Lowndes was the
associate manager of the Maryland Viavi Company. One of
her neighbors, Anna McKhust, was also a Baha’i. Gertrude
Stanwood, an artist, and Sadie C. Ambrose, a dressmaker,
lived only a few blocks from Pearle Doty’s old home, and may
have become Baha’is as a result of her efforts.
Other Baha’is were: Edwin H. Eardley, and his wife
Louisa, and his sister, Beatrice (Eardley), all of whom lived
together. The women ran a hat shop (L & B Eardley Com-

Deb Clark
pany) from their home on O’Donnell Street in Highlandtown.
Edwin Eardley worked as a draftsman and served as the
secretary for the community, recording the minutes in a beau­
tiful script. Charles W. Mann was a clerk living near Patterson
Park, and Joseph W. Grant ran a grocery store in the same
area. Charles L. Lampe was a pipefitter living in South Bal­
timore. Winnifred E. Watson was still in the community,
employed as a buyer and living in fashionable Bolton Hill.
Mary E. Lane lived there also. Joseph Hope, a stenographer,
lived just east of the Jones Falls, near the Old Town Mall,
formerly Jones Town, the oldest settled area of Baltimore.50
The Baha’i community established three funds: The
Kappes Fund, to send to Miss Lillian Kappes, a Baha’i from
northern New Jersey, living in Iran at the request of ‘Abdu’l-
Baha to assist the Baha’is there; the Temple Fund; and a
fund for traveling expenses (railway fare for visiting del­
egates) the disbursement of which was left to the treasurer’s
discretion.51
The Bahai Temple Unity was, at that time, the national
executive committee elected by delegates from local Baha’i
communities. The raising of funds for the construction of the
Temple was the subject of much local discussion. Various
means were devised to raise money, such as the donation of
a quilt made by a Baltimore Baha’i. A room was donated by
Miss Dorr in Washington where visiting Baltimore friends
could pay a contribution, in lieu of rent, to be turned over to
the Temple Fund. Also, Cincinnati sent twenty-five “blessing
boxes” in which money could be put for various blessings “as
they come to mind,” like wishing wells. This money was also
sent to the Temple Fund.52
Howard Struven was twenty-seven years old in 1909 when
‘Abdu’l-Baha asked him to travel around the world with Ma­
son Remey to visit Baha’i communities and teach the Faith.
The Assembly in Baltimore gave him a letter, signed by
twenty-three believers, to deliver to ‘Abdu’l-Baha when he

arrived in ‘Akka. He left on July 20, and the community
invited Washington believers to a farewell gathering for him.
About this trip, Shoghi Effendi later wrote: “Mason Remey
voyaged to Russia and Persia, and later, with Howard
Struven, circled, for the first time in Baha’i history, the globe,
visiting on his way the Hawaiian Islands, Japan, China, In­
dia and Burma.”53
In early September, Howard Struven wrote from Denver
to tell of teaching successes, and from San Francisco to say
he would be sailing on November 17. Both he and Mason
Remey sent letters with news of their trip which were pub­
lished in Star of the West and Bahai News, and which Remey
later compiled into a book. By February 1910, the two had
visited Japan, China, and Singapore, and were teaching in
Burma.54 Struven later told some Baltimore Baha’i's that he
had prayed while Remey lectured, and that when they ar­
rived in the Holy Land, ‘Abdu’l-Baha had embraced him and
praised him for his efforts.55
‘Abdu’l-Baha gave Struven a letter to carry back with
him to Baltimore. It read: “O Ye Merciful Assembly ... He
became the cause of the glory of the believers of Baltimore
and imparted happiness and joy to the friends and maid­
servants of the Merciful. He sacrificed everything in the Path
of the Kingdom and imparted life to many souls.”56
Before leaving on his global trip, Struven had spoken
enthusiastically about the Washington Sunday School, and
urged the Baha’i's to start a similar one in Baltimore. Other
believers took up the task. Grace Mann offered her home at
1920 Orleans Street, and Maud Thompson offered her ser­
vices in gathering children. Pauline Hannen also helped. One
thousand invitation cards were printed up to advertise the
Sunday School, which had its first meeting September 19,
1909. Five children attended, aged five to twelve, as well as
one sixteen-year-old youth.
The community also planned a public meeting for which
The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 123

Deb Clark
a newspaper advertisement was prepared. The ad read: “Can
the religions of the world be united? If so, on what basis?
Free lecture by Howard MacNutt of Brooklyn, New York,
Sunday afternoon, Oct. 24, 1909, 3 P.M., Florist Exchange
Hall, Franklin and St. Paul Streets.” Two hundred invita­
tions were printed for Baha’is to give to friends who “would
be likely to attend.”
Also in 1909, the Assembly noted that Mrs. Carline,
originally from Baltimore but now living in Washington, had
reported on her “successful meeting of colored people held
during the week.”57
Howard Struven returned to Baltimore in September of
1910, and he and Edwin Eardley were elected as delegates to
the Bahai Temple Unity convention held in Chicago. The
Assembly supplied them with letters of credential, and Edwin
left with a number 9 chalked on his suitcase.58
In 1910, the Baha’i funds were again divided into catego­
ries: general use, the Temple Fund, a translator, and for the
convention in Chicago. During the summer, a series of out­
door meetings were planned at the home of Rose Struven,
Howard and Edward’s mother, on Sundays. The speakers
were to be Pauline Hannen, Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, Hooper
Harris, Mons. H. Dreyfus, Joseph Hannen, Lua Getsinger,
Ameen Ullah Fareed, Howard MacNutt, and Mason Remey.59
All except Fareed were members of the Washington or New
York communities.
One day in 1911, Eusibia Day Dorrida and her neighbor
went shopping at a public food market in the city. For Dorrida,
this day was to be a turning point in her life. When she
returned home to unload her purchases, she discovered among
her vegetables a little printed pamphlet, one inch square,
announcing that the Lord of Ages had come and inviting her
to a meeting. She went to the meeting and that same day
accepted the truth of the Baha’i Faith.60

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 125
In 1911, Edwin Eardley was the delegate to the Bahai
Temple Unity convention.61 Howard Struven was the alter­
nate. While in the Chicago area, Eardley visited the Baha’is
in Kenosha, Wisconsin.62 The convention sent greetings to
the Peace Congress which was held in Baltimore on May 6,
1911. In August, Howard Struven was sent as a delegate to
the first annual conference of the Persian-American Educa­
tional Society in Washington, and was on the Hall Commit­
tee. His brother Edward attended also. Perhaps beginning to
demonstrate its independence from Washington, the Assem­
bly told Joseph and Pauline Hannen, who had been asked to
come to Baltimore to conduct Bible studies, that they need
not come any longer.
Both Struven brothers married in 1912. Edward married
Estelle Lowndes, his former coworker, and they moved to her
house on North Avenue. He was now employed as a me­
chanical engineer. Howard married Ruby (Hebe) Moore, Lua
Getsinger’s sister.
Abdu’l-Baha in Baltimore: Although ‘Abdu’l-Baha visited Bal­
timore only briefly, his stay there was extremely important
to the Baha’is there, and anecdotes about his visit became an
important element of the community’s heritage. When the
Baha’is heard of‘Abdu’l-Baha’s planned trip to America, they
began to prepare for his arrival. Five days before his ship
was to arrive in New York, the Baltimore Baha’is were ex­
pecting his imminent visit to their city. The Baltimore Sun
announced: ABDUL BAHA COMING. The article stated that he
would speak on Sunday, April 21, at the First Independent
Christ’s Church (Unitarian).63 They must have been disap­
pointed.
‘Abdu’l-Baha apparently made his plans day by day. When
the believers realized that he would not be coming immedi­
ately to Baltimore, some of them traveled to New York to see

Deb Clark
him. According to an oral tradition in the community, Ed­
ward Struven rode the rails to get there. When he arrived,
he was dishevelled from his trip. ‘Abdu’l-Baha had him sit
down and offered him a bowl of Persian rice. When he fin­
ished eating it, ‘Abdu’l-Baha gave him another one.64
The biggest day in the life of the Baltimore Baha’i com­
munity began at Camden Station on November 11, 1912,
when, accompanied by a party of seven—including two trans­
lators and a secretary, ‘Abdu’l-Baha arrived at 11:00 a.m.
from Washington, D.C. He went to the fashionable Hotel
Rennert at Saratoga and Liberty Streets, where he met the
press and took a short rest.
When he got to the Unitarian Chapel on Hamilton Street
at noon, “the hall had been filled for a while before the hour
set for his address, with followers, Johns Hopkins professors,
and many business and professional men.” ‘Abdu’l-Baha stood
on the platform, “enveloped by a long black robe, with an
oriental cap upon his head.” The interpreter was Dr. Fareed,
a Persian Baha’i.65
The News American account of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s talk included
a three paragraph summary which focused on the parts of
the talk concerned with the unity of religion and the differ­
ence between its essentials and accidental aspects. However,
his remarks in their entirety, as recorded by Jack Solomon, a
stenographer, also specifically referred to the lecture he had
delivered the day before to a largely Jewish audience in a
Washington synogogue.66
The report in the Sun included illustrations depicting
‘Abdu’l-Baha in five different aspects, under the headline:
PERSIAN PHILOSOPHER IN STRIKING POSES. The accompa­
nying article was entitled: WOMEN KISS HIS HAND. Although
the headlines seem rather sardonic, the contents of the ar­
ticle appear to be accurate. ‘Abdu’l-Baha was escorted from
the train station to a waiting automobile by six people, sur-

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 127
The article explained that ‘Abdu’l-Baha was distinguish­
able from his companions in that he wore a white turban,
while they wore black ones.
rounded by a crowd of well-dressed women. He greeted each
of his followers as they were presented to him by his inter­
preter, Dr. Fareed. The article continues:
At the lecture he wore a robe of black with triangular insert of
light tan in front reaching from hem to neck.
A striking-looking man of about 70 years, he’s of average
height, with a strong rugged face covered with a short white
beard. His cheekbones are high, his eyes bright and flashing.
The lecture was delivered in Persian in an impressive manner.
His voice was low-pitched, but at times increased in volume. He
spoke a few minutes before pausing to let the interpreter trans­
late.
He used frequent gestures, the favorite one being an inclu­
sive swing of both arms to show the universality of the doctrine
he propounded. He also frequently leaned over the reading desk
and looked at his hearers.
“God is one, we are his children, submerged in the sea of his
kindness,” was his theme. He said all divine religions had two
parts, the essentials, which dealt with morality and ethical stan­
dards, and the non-essentials which change with time and place.
In proof of this, he compared the teaching of Moses and Christ,
both of whom he styled “His Holiness.” He declared that the
penal code announced by Moses was necessary for the Israelites
travelling through the wilderness, but was repealed by Christ.
Theological dogmas which, he said, had crept into religions were
useless and should be forsaken. Those differences, he declared,
were the cause of the world’s bitterness and strife, and their
elimination would bring about universal peace and love. . . .
After the lecture he declared that the nations of the world
looked to America as the leader in the world-wide movement and
declared the situation of this country not being a rival of any
other power and not considering colonization schemes or con­
quests, made it an ideal country to lead in the movement.

Deb Clark
Yesterday, the 11th he came over to our house in Baltimore and
had dinner with us at our table! Did you ever dream that this
The article reported that there were six thousand Baha’is
in the United States (almost certainly an exaggeration) and
that there were a dozen or so believers in the doctrine in
Baltimore.67
There is a story told by the Baha’is of Baltimore that
relates how two Catholic priests had sneaked into the chapel
during ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s talk. They are supposed to have hid­
den themselves in a doorway behind the stage where he was
speaking. As he lectured, so the story goes, ‘Abdu’l-Baha
walked over and shut the door on the priests.
After the talk, ‘Abdu’l-Baha went to Howard and Hebe
Struven’s home, at 1800 Bentaloo Street in West Baltimore,
a row house facing a courtyard. ‘Abdu’l-Baha stood in the
courtyard with his arms outstretched and said, “Many friends
have I in Baltimore.”68
Maud Thompson missed ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s talk because she
had spent the morning walking out to a farm east of Balti­
more to get a fresh, live chicken to make for lunch. When all
the visitors were at the Struven house, Maud was in the
kitchen busily preparing the meal. ‘Abdu’l-Baha called to her
from the living room. She went into the living room and saw
that everyone was seated, and no chairs were empty. She
thought she saw a twinkle in ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s eye when he
pointed to the floor near his feet and motioned her to sit
down there. Not only was Maud Thompson a stout woman,
but she was tightly laced in a corset, and sitting on the floor
was no small task.69
Ursula Shuman Moore was living with the Struvens in
1912, also serving as community treasurer.70 In a letter to
her sister, Louise Shuman Irani, composed the day after
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s visit, she wrote:

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 129
Consolidation, 1912-1934: Laura L. Drum was Baltimore’s
delegate to the sixth annual Bahai Temple Unity convention
in 1914, although she was a member of the Washington Baha’i
community. She reported at the convention on Baltimore’s
response to the newly inaugurated system of monthly contri­
butions to the Temple Fund.72
In 1919, when the American Baha’is received the Tablets
of the Divine Plan from ‘Abdu’l-Baha, they learned that he
had grouped the various states into regions. These Tablets
charged the American Baha’is with spreading the Baha’i Faith
all over the country, and all over the world. Maryland, being
a southern state, was part of the southern region, whose
headquarters were established in Washington, D.C.73
would come to pass. He came to Baltimore about twelve o’clock
and spoke at the Unitarian Church, and then they came out to
our house and we had dinner for him. Many of the Washington
believers came over too and many of the Baltimore believers
came up. We had about 55 or 54 to feed. Had a grand chicken
dinner, with rice and celery, peas, ice cream and cake, and veg­
etable soup. He said we had given him a good dinner, a fine
dinner, and that he ate much. When I brought in the big platter
of chicken and set it before him at the table he said, “Oh, chicken!”
and seemed to be much pleased with it. He said everything was
cooked well. We had him and the Persians in his party sit down
first, 12 at the table, and served them, and then we had four
relays and every body had something. They all seemed so glad to
be there and enjoyed themselves so much. I was so glad for Mother
could be near him and see him. I introduced Mother to him, and
he took her hand and said, “Oh, your Mother!” and looked at her
very kindly. I told him she had been and was sick, and that we
asked that she might be well. He said “In Shalah.” [God willing.]
So I hope she will get well soon now. They did not stay very long,
as they left on the (3 o’clock) train. It surely was a great privi­
lege to have him in our house, and something that we will al­
ways remember.71

Deb Clark
After the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, the Baltimore commu­
nity wrote to the new Guardian, Shoghi Effendi, on March
31, 1922, expressing love, gratitude, and their willingness to
serve the Faith.74
In 1926, there were thirteen adults and seven “junior”
Baha’is in Baltimore.7'5 They met steadily in one or two of the
believers’ homes until they decided to rent Maccabees Hall at
522 Park Avenue, for ten dollars a month. Their meetings
were open to “strangers” and believers. Among their visitors
was at least one black man, John Chase.76
Louis Gregory, a prominent black Baha’i teacher, spent a
week in Baltimore in 1927, from January 11 to 17. He fin­
ished up his visit at Morgan College, a black institution,
where he spoke to a group of black ministers.77 It was around
this time that Aleen Lock, in Washington, D.C., made it known
that she thought black Baha’is would be happier if they orga­
nized their own separate Nineteen-Day Feasts. There were
some blacks who either withdrew from the Faith or hesitated
to join it because of this. The repercussions were felt years
later in Baltimore. In the 1950s, the president of Morgan
College, which had been established as a school for blacks,
told a friend who was investigating the Baha’i teachings that
his wife had been interested during the 1920s, but had
changed her mind when she heard about these remarks in
the Washington community.78
Several public meetings were held in 1930. On January
26, Albert Vail, a Baha’i teacher who was also a Unitarian
minister, spoke to some two hundred people at the First Uni­
tarian Church on the topic “What is the Kingdom of God?”
On March 19, Ali Kuli Khan, a well-known Persian Baha’i
teacher, visited the Assembly and spoke on the relation of
the Baha’i Faith to other religions. Meetings and study classes
usually featured readings from recent translations of the
Baha’i scriptures, letters from the Guardian, reports of Baha’is

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 131
who had attended conferences, and notes of travelers who
had been to the Holy Land. Sometimes the Baha’i's studied
biblical proofs, or held classes on public speaking techniques.79
The community followed set procedures for all of its meet­
ings, following agendas that were similar to the order of
church services. A “Program for a Public Meeting” and a
“Program for the Spiritual Board Meeting” were kept in the
back of the Baltimore Minute Book, and seem to have been
established in 1929. The public meeting was to open with a
hymn, the Invocation found on page 3 of the blue Baha’i
prayer book, then another hymn. There followed a short his­
tory of the Cause, a prayer for Guidance (page 37 of the blue
prayer book), a lecture, and then questions. After that came
announcements of future public meetings and a healing prayer
(from page 28 of the prayer book). The meetings closed with
the Benediction, a widely used Baha’i song.80
The Spiritual Board meetings were supposed to open with
the prayer on page 99 of the blue Baha’i World volume. Then
the minutes were to be read, followed by committee reports
and the evening prayer on page 23 of the Baha’i prayer book.
This was followed by new business, a prayer for protection
(page 45) and a healing prayer (page 28). During the 1930s,
many of the meetings were held in East Baltimore, perhaps
at the home of the Mann family or of Beatrice Eardley.
In February of 1931, during the Great Depression, the
Baltimore Assembly took an audacious step: They took out a
bank loan in order to pay for Howard Colby Ives to come on a
teaching trip to their community. He conducted “deepening”
classes for the Baha’is and probably was invited to their homes
for private gatherings with friends and relatives.81 Baha’i
classes continued to be held twice a week in 1932, on various
Baha’i books, including Some Answered Questions, Bahd’u’lldh
and the New Era, The Dawn-Breakers, and the Kitab-i-Iqan.
These efforts appear to have been intended to prepare the

I
!
i
I
SIXTH ANNUAL BAHA’I WORLD YOUTH SYMPOSIUM
c. 1930. Standing (1. to r.): Unknown, Hilda Seidman, Bill Dorrida, Birdie Eardley, Lois Revell,
Maude Thompson Amendt, Raymond Rouse, Anne Hatter, Mrs. Rouse, unknown, Harrison Langrell,
Mildred Elmer. Seated (1. to r.): Jessie Mann Stallings, Mildred Hipsley Long.

community for reorganization in accordance with new guide­
lines from the National Spiritual Assembly. This reorganiza­
tion was taking place in a number of Baha’i communities at
about this time.
The new Assembly elected in April of 1932 consisted of
seven women and two men. Local committees, comprised of
one or two Baha’is each, were formed to oversee study classes,
Feasts and publicity, and attendance. On April 28, Ives pre­
pared a report for the National Convention on the progress
the Baltimore community had made since his stay there.82
On May 3, 1932, there were then fifteen Baha’is in the city.
The Assembly began to require that new believers study
the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Baha and Bahd’u’llah and
the New Era and acknowledge their understanding and com­
plete acceptance of the tenets of the Baha’i Faith. This was
in compliance with new procedures suggested by the Na­
tional Spiritual Assembly. For the first time, on February 1,
1933, the local Spiritual Assembly of Baltimore voted on and
recorded the enrollment of a new member: It was Hazel Clarke
Langrall, whose mother had taken her to Pearle Doty for
healing when she was a baby, back in 1898.83
Langrall had serious health problems and had been told
by her doctors that she only had a brief time left to live. This
was the second major health crisis in her life, and it spurred
her on a religious quest that would lead her to the Baha’is
again. She learned of the Faith through Eusibia Dorrida, her
neighbor on the 2800 block of Allendale Street, where Mar­
guerite Dorrida Hipsley also lived.84 At the time she entered
the Faith, she did not know that her mother had taken her
to a Baha’i for healing when she was an infant. When she
learned about the incident, she liked to say that she had
been a Baha’i all her life.85
Marguerite Dorrida Hipsley, whose mother had been a
Baha’i since 1911, had always been a strong-minded person.
The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 133

Deb Clark
She was a women’s suffrage activist and an advocate of
women’s rights. She was a member of the Methodist Church
before becoming a Baha’i, but she was dissatisfied with it.
Besides her mother, her sister and brother were all Baha’is,
and they posed questions to her that she would carry to her
minister. Once she asked him about the return of Christ.
The minister replied, “Oh, he isn’t going to come in our day.”
“But he has to come in somebody’s day! Why not our
day?” Hipsley exclaimed. When the minister could not pro­
vide a satisfactory answer, she left his church and was soon
actively involved in the Baha’i community.86
The diversity of the Baha’i community increased during
the 1930s. Ann Hatter, a descendant of Menno Simon, founder
of the Mennonites, and Paul Sadowitz, a Jewish man who
had been interested in the Faith since the 1920s, became
Baha’is. The community also developed good relations with
the Theosophists and the World Federalists.87
Grace Mann was appointed by the Baltimore Assembly
as a committee of one in March of 1933, to order sixty copies
of The Goal of a New World Order, the Guardian’s recent
letter to the Baha’is of America. The letter was to be made
known to every believer. The number of copies purchased
suggests that there were many persons in Baltimore who
considered themselves Baha’is, or who had at one time been
affiliated with the Faith, but who were not included on the
membership list under the new and stricter standards that
had been adopted in 1932.
The year 1933 was the first for which minutes were re­
corded in Baltimore during the summer months. Previously,
the Assembly had only met from September through spring.
A youth committee was formed during this year. Further,
the Assembly had a stamp made which read: “This is au­
thentic Baha’i literature” which they stamped in all Baha’i
books, including those they donated to libraries. An attempt

was made to have the public library in Baltimore file Baha’i
materials under the heading “Baha’i Faith,” rather than un­
der “Bahaism.”88
Much of the effort of the community was directed towards
the recruitment of new believers. In March 1934, the Baha’i's
rented a regular hall to be used for lectures and as a reading
room. It was located on North Avenue, near St. Paul Street.
The community furnished it with a new leather living-room
suite and lamps. They placed a painted sign in the window
which read: “Baha’i Centre and Reading Room, open from 11
to 4 P.M. excepting Saturday and Sunday” and held public
meetings about every other month in an effort to reach the
public. Visitors were reported at the meetings, some of whom
seemed interested. The official community membership list
was sixteen strong.89
Martha Root, the internationally known Baha’i teacher,
visited Baltimore in 1936, and she stayed at the YMCA. The
title of her lecture at the University Club at 800 Charles
Street was “My World Travels in the Interest of Universal
Peace.”86
Mildred Elmer took a trip to Chicago to visit her relatives
there and attend the World’s Fair in 1936. While there,
she saw the Baha’i Temple under construction in Wilmette.
Returning to Baltimore, she found that her brother was
acquainted with the Baha’is. He took her to a fireside (an
informal introductory meeting) at the home of Hazel Langrail
on a Friday evening. She continued to attend firesides every
Friday for a few years. At last, she wrote a letter to the
Assembly in Baltimore saying that she would like to become
a Baha’i. On the evening that the Assembly met to consider
her enrollment, Mildred nervously waited outside the room,
wondering what the outcome would be. She was accepted
into the community, and two years later she was elected to
the Assembly.91
The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 135

BALTIMORE BAHA’I CENTER
is seen behind Mildred Elmer (1.) and Marguerite Dorrida Hipsley.
f
I
ca
I
9$^
V-A '■

Growth and Diversity, 1934 to the present: Since slavery times,
Baltimore had been a segregated city. Jim Crow laws adopted
after the Civil War excluded blacks from public facilities that
whites used and segregated the schools, jobs, stores, restau-
Hazel Langrall’s son, Clarke, declared his acceptance of
the Baha’i Faith in 1940, at the age of sixteen. He had spent
much time at Green Acre Baha’i School, where he had worked
at Stanwood Cobb’s camp. He was one of only about six Baha’i
youth on the entire East Coast.92
Also in 1940, the Baltimore Assembly decided to find a
larger Baha’i Center in a more central location. Mildred Elmer
and Clarence Percival located a site at 527 North Charles
Street, on the first floor of a fashionable brownstone build­
ing. Volunteers renovated the flat that became the new Center.93
A Jewish woman, Faith Amberg, became a Baha’i in 1942.
She had been a Baha’i for only a year or two when she died,
leaving her estate—two buildings on Gwynn Oak Avenue
and a large sum of money—to the Baha’i community. Gwynn
Oak was a broad, tree-lined street, and the two houses were
only a few blocks from the county line, across which was the
exclusively white Woodlawn area.94 In the 1940s, the area
where Amberg lived was predominantly Jewish.
In order to inherit the estate, the local Spiritual Assem­
bly of Baltimore had to incorporate, and it did so in 1945. As
stipulated in Amberg’s will, a sum of money was sent to the
Guardian of the Faith to be used for the completion of the
Shrine of the Bab in Israel. The Guardian wrote to the com­
munity in his own hand, thanking them. He said: “Your re­
sponsibilities are great as you now are more independent
than most Baha’i communities from a financial point of
view.”95 The Assembly also gave two thousand dollars to the
Green Acre Maintenance Committee, probably from the
Amberg estate.96
The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 137

Deb Clark
rants and neighborhoods. Albert James became a Baha’i in
1934, in Tennessee and moved to Baltimore in 1937, where
he remained the only black Baha’i until after World War II.
Roland Mann, a Baha’i who lived in all-white Highlandtown,
helped James find a job.97
Still it was very difficult for the Baltimore Baha’is to
make contact with the black community. In February of 1936,
they had made an effort to do so by sponsoring an illus­
trated lecture on the Baha’i Temple, entitled “The Temple of
Light,” at Morgan College, and also at the Enoch Pratt Free
Library.98 Fred Amendt and Maud (Thompson) Amendt
made aggressive efforts to teach the Faith to African-Ameri­
can people. They also lived in Highlandtown, on Kenwood
Avenue.99
It was not until after the war, however, that the strict
barriers of race and class began to weaken. More diverse
types of people entered the Baha’i community, which until
then had been fairly homogeneous. The early believers were
a closely knit group, like a family, still “enamoured with
‘Abdu’l-Baha—thrilled with having met him. . . . The Admin­
istration was important, but not as important as later on.”100
During the 1950s, a few Persian Baha’is came to study in
Baltimore, especially at Johns Hopkins University. There were
also some black women, nurses, who came into the Faith. A
women with an orthodox Jewish background, Betty Feldman,
moved into Baltimore County, and she was the only Baha’i
there during this period.101
In the summer of 1958, Eugene Byrd, a dentist who prac­
ticed in Baltimore, started out for Chicago with his wife.
They stopped in Pittsburgh on the way to pick up their sons
who had gone to the YMCA camp there that summer, be­
cause the one in Baltimore was for whites only. When the
family arrived in Chicago, they found that their motel reser­
vations would not be honored because they were black. Even-

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 139
tually, they found accommodations at the Sheridan Hotel in
Evanston. Their Chicago friend, Herbie Nipson, the execu­
tive editor of Ebony magazine, suggested that they drive up
to visit the newly completed Baha’i House of Worship in
Wilmette, not far from where they were staying.102
Back in Baltimore the Byrd family continued to investi­
gate the Faith. They regularly attended Friday night fire­
sides at the home of Alma Heise, who lived in an all-white
neighborhood in Baltimore where blacks might be arrested if
found on the streets after dark. After a year and a half, they
entered the Faith.103
The Friday fireside conducted by Alma Heise and Bill
Burgess resulted in seven enrollments in 1956, four in the
city of Baltimore and three outside. Heise and Burgess were
the only Baha’is present, and conducted the fireside as a
team inviting two or three friends to their gathering every
Friday night. Sometimes seekers heard of the meetings on
their own and asked to be invited. The firesides were very
informal occasions. The Baha’is would prepare in advance
the point that they wanted to cover, but their delivery was
conversational, seemingly spontaneous, and not overly serious.
In 1960, the first functioning Baha’i group was formed in
Baltimore County. Two years later, an Assembly was elected
in the county, with Howard Struven as one of its members.
The county Assembly was active and helped organize Baha’i
events in the city.
In 1963, the Supreme Court overturned state laws that
sanctioned racial discrimination. The Baltimore Sun ran a
series of articles interviewing prominent Americans on their
views on race and prejudice. Taking advantage of the oppor­
tunity, the Baltimore Baha’is organized a proclamation week,
with four public meetings and publicity on radio, on televi­
sion, and in the newspapers. This resulted in much interest
in the Faith.104

Deb Clark
The Byrds attended the National Baha’i Convention in
Wilmette, as delegates in 1963. They were planning to par­
ticipate in Martin Luther King’s march on Selma, Alabama,
in protest of racial segregation. They found a group of Baha’is
at the convention who also intended to join the march, but
they were waiting for the approval of the National Spiritual
Assembly before going ahead. At the last minute, the Na­
tional Assembly gave its blessing, and the Byrds participated
in the march.105
The Baha’is of the county and city of Baltimore jointly
secured the first official proclamation of World Peace Day as
the third Sunday in September, designated by the mayor.
Under the direction of the National Spiritual Assembly, the
communities planned a meeting to commemorate World Peace
Day on September 15, 1963. Nine hundred people attended
the event that evening at the Lyric Opera House in Balti­
more, despite a heavy rainstorm. The audience was both
black and white, with slightly more blacks than whites in
attendance.106
On that same day, in the afternoon, four black children
had been killed in a racially motivated church bombing inci­
dent in Birmingham, Alabama. Robert Quigley, then vice-
chairman of the National Spiritual Assembly, set the tone of
the meeting when he asked the audience to silently remem­
ber the slain children. McHenry Boatwright, an eminent Af­
rican-American baritone, sang the Baha’i prayer “Blessed Is
the Spot,” “prolonging the closing phrases, repeating one sev­
eral times, as he felt the hearts of his listeners drawn to the
prayer.”107 Lerone Bennett, Jr., senior editor of Ebony maga­
zine spoke at the meeting. Although he was not a Baha’i, he
quoted from Shoghi Effendi’s Advent of Divine Justice and
the Baha’i book Race and Man. In an eloquent speech, he
acknowledged that the Baha’i Faith proclaimed the brother­
hood of all races. William Sears, the Baha’i Hand of the Cause,

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 141
told the history of the Faith and the Baha’i teachings of
racial unity. Boatwright returned to the stage and accompa­
nied himself at the piano for the Negro spiritual “He’s Got
the Whole World in His Hands.” The audience was moved to
tears.108 During the week after the program, which attracted
wide media attention, some fifteen hundred phone calls were
received at the Baltimore Baha’i Center.109
The ethnic composition of the Gwynn Oak Avenue area,
where the Baha’i Center was located, changed from predomi­
nantly Jewish to black during the 1960s. Of the two build­
ings left by the Amberg estate, one had to be sold to raise
money to renovate the other which began to serve as the
Baha’i Center. A Baha’i couple, Bill and Martha Dorrida,
lived there as caretakers and acted as the social epicenter of
the community. Martha Dorrida died in 1966, and Bill (later
known to many Baha’is as Uncle Billy) moved in with the
Radpour family in Baltimore County. Some of the other early
Baltimore Baha’is passed away during the 1960s.
Two days after the assassination of Martin Luther King,
on April 6, 1968, riots began in Baltimore that lasted for
three days and resulted in 6 deaths, at least 300 injuries,
420 fires, and 350 looted stores.110 Much of the destruction
took place around Pennsylvania Avenue and Gay Street, and
the riots discouraged suburban shoppers from coming into
the city.
The focus of Baha’i activity in the Baltimore area also
moved outside the city. Fred Lee, a Baha’i in the county,
was much involved with youth activities. In the early 1960s,
he had urged the Baltimore City Assembly to sponsor a Boy
Scout Troop, and in 1964, he hosted a youth conference on
his farm, with 123 youth camping out for the weekend. Dur­
ing the late 1960s, youth began entering the Baha’i Faith in
the Baltimore area in significant numbers.
The Baltimore County Baha’is organized a booth at the

SOME BALTIMORE BAHA’IS
who attended the St. Louis Bahd’i Conference, 1975. Top row, 1. to r.: Kiser
Barnes, Pamela Prosser, Michael King, Gordon Jacky, Debbie King (with
baby). Third row, 1. to r.: Parvis Ighani, Anne Z. Ighani, Barbara Maschal,
Marlene Jacky, Betty S. Feldman. Second row: W. DuBois Johnson, Mabel
L. Byrd, Eugene D. Byrd, Kathym A. Cleveland. Front row: Danny Prosser,
Jacky child (in back), Angela Prosser (in front), Matthew Maschal, Mildred
Elmer, Marguerite D. Hipsley.
* / 71
h " I

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 143
Maryland State Fair in Timonium in September 1968, and
again in 1969. Called “It Works,” the booth was built of acrylic,
with panels and counters. It attracted youth from upper-
middle-class Dulaney High School, who began attending fire­
sides.111 The firesides were so successful that declarations of
faith became a regular feature every Friday evening. Young
people began to enroll in the Faith so regularly that the
Baha’is would consider the fireside a failure if there were no
enrollments one week.112
The county community organized Sunday morning study
classes to teach the new youth more about the Baha’i Faith
and actively worked to get them involved in Baha’i activities.
There were overnight conferences in Baha’i homes, and a
great deal of energy was expended to make sure that all
youth could attend. Many of the youth became pioneers (mis­
sionaries) for the Faith in Mexico, Finland, the Caribbean
Islands, and other places., and some were among the first
mass teachers in the Carolinas.113 A strong Baha’i Club de­
veloped at Towson State University.
The Baltimore County Assembly incorporated in 1970,
and three years later the National Spiritual Assembly autho­
rized the division of the county into east and west communties.
Baltimore County West incorporated in 1974. Later, the Bal­
timore County East community split again, forming the
Cockeysville Baha’i community, which considered itself the
successor of the original Baltimore County Assembly. The
Baltimore County Central Assembly did not incorporate un­
til 1986. The east County split left many believers isolated,
and the two new communities did not agree on their bound­
ary for some time. Both communities experienced a decline
in activities.
The Baha’i community in the city of Baltimore remained
weaker than the communities in the county, and more tran­
sient. Baha’i college students, sometimes four or five at a

Deb Clark
time, would live in Baltimore while going to school. They
were actively involved in the Baha’i community while they
were in the city, but then would move on after their studies
were over.
In 1974, soon after installing cast iron bars on the win­
dows of the Baha’i Center for security, the local Assembly was
held up at gunpoint while conducting a late-night meeting.
After the Islamic Revolution in Iran in 1979, there was
an influx of Persian Baha’is. The first to arrive were high
school and college students. Later, their parents and other
relatives joined them as refugees from the brutal persecution
of Baha’is in Iran. The older generation, unable to pursue
their careers, knew little English and had little money. They
needed the help of the Baha’i community to get settled.
By the end of the 1980s, there were four local Spiritual
Assemblies in the Baltimore metropolitan area. Each of these
Baha’i communities contained a widely diverse ethnic mix.
The local Assembly in Baltimore was made up of four Per­
sians, three blacks, and two whites. There were about sev­
enty believers on the rolls in the city, but most were inactive.
The Baha’is were largely middle class. The Baltimore County
Central Baha’i community had achieved a good level of unity
and participation. Most of the Baha’is were Persian, with
Persians outnumbering Americans on the Assembly. The west
County community had about thirty believers—including
seven Persians and seven African-Americans-—and held con­
sistent proclamation activities. The Cockeysville Assembly
was revived in 1987, with a majority of Persians in the com­
munity, many of whom were refugees.
The Baha’i community of the Baltimore area has a long
history which reaches back to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd’s visit to
America, and before. Originally closely tied to the Wash­
ington, D.C. Baha’i community, it developed its indepen­
dence and gave birth to new Baha’i communities in outly-

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990 145
NOTES
ing areas. It stands today as an example of racial and cul­
tural unity that is unusal in Baltimore.
1. Interview with Clarke Langrall, December 1987, conducted by
the author.
2. Baltimore City Directory, 1893 (Baltimore: R. L. Polk and Co.,
1893). United States Census, Baltimore. Index to the 1860 Federal
Population Census of Ohio, vol. 1, p. 64.
3. Meredith Janvier, Baltimore in the Eighties and Nineties (Bal­
timore: H. G. Roebuck and Son, 1933) pp. 169-71.
4. Ethan Allen Doty, The Doty-Doten Family in America (Brook­
lyn, NY: n.p., 1897) p. 819.
5. Baltimore City Directory, 1894 and 1895.
6. United States Census, 1900.
7. Doty, The Doty-Doten Family, p. 837.
8. Baltimore City Directory, 1898.
9. Baltimore City Directory, 1898.
10. Janvier, Baltimore, pp. 169-171.
11. Baltimore City Directory, 1898, p. 2015.
12. Ibid., p. 2014.
13. Interview with Clarke Langrall.
14. Baltimore City Directory, 1899.
15. Ibid., 1900, 1901, 1902, and 1903.
16. “List of Persons to be Notified Concerning the Classes,”
Ibrahim Kheiralla papers, in private hands.
17. “Supplication Book—Baltimore,” and “Additional Names for
the New York List.” Albert Windust papers. National Bahd’f Archives,
Wilmette, Illinois.
18. I am grateful to Richard Hollinger for providing this informa­
tion. Mr. Hollinger has conducted research on the class origins of the
Bahd’is: A list of persons who signed a petition sent to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd
in 1901 (Thornton Chase Papers, National Bahd’i Archives) includes
the names of 53 from Baltimore. After collating this list, with the
names of Baltimore Bahd’is on the “Supplication Lists—Baltimore,”
it was possible to identify the occupations of eighteen persons using

Deb Clark
the Baltimore City Directory for 1900. The “List of Persons to be
Notified Concerning the Classes” was used to identify the addresses
of some of those on the other lists. In some cases there were no
listings for Bahd’f women, but their husbands were listed. In these
cases, the husband’s occupations were used, because these would
have determined the social status of the women. In several instances,
there was more than one person of the same name listed in the
directory, and no address could be located to identify the specific
person who was the Bahd’f. In these cases, the occupations could not
be used.
The occupations were as follows: bookkeeper, carpenter, clerk,
conductor, confectioner, draftsman, inspector, laborer, machinist,
painter, sailmaker, seamstress, student, teacher (3), teamster, and
waitress. The fact that the names of most of the Bahd’is could not be
found in the city directory, however, suggests that a significant per­
centage may have been unskilled laborers, who would not have been
likely to have a listing.
19. In 1909, a letter sent to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd from Baltimore was
signed by twenty-five believers. This is less than half the number
who signed the petition to him in 1901. (Minutes, April 1909, pp. 2-9.
Baltimore Baha’i Archives.)
20. Robert Stockman, The Baha’i Faith in America: Origins, 1892-
1900 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’i Publishing Trust, 1985) p. 119 quoting
Charlotte E. Brittingham Dixon, “How I Became a Believer and Was
Given the Bahai Revelation by and through Visions,” National Bahd’i
Archives.
21. Ibid.
22. Ibid. p. 129.
23. “Supplication Book—Baltimore.”
24. “Minutes of the Baha’i's of Baltimore City,” March 29, 1910,
p. 23. National Bahd’f Archives. (Hereafter, Minutes, Baltimore)
25. Dieter Cunz, The Maryland Germans (Princeton University
Press, 1948) p. 236.
26. Baltimore News American, April 23, 1974.
27. Interview with Nancy Lee, conducted by the author in Sep­
tember 1987.
28. Carl Bode, Maryland (New York: W. W. Morton and Co.,
1978) p. 152-53.
29. Ibid., p. 153.

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990
30. Ibid., p. 154.
31. Third Annual Report of the Bureau of Industrial Statistics of
Maryland, 1894 (Baltimore: Sun Book and Job Printing Office, 1895)
p. 80.
32. Baltimore City Directory, 1898, 1899, and 1900.
33. Baltimore City Directory, 1898 and 1900.
34. Page one of the Minute Book (April 27, 1909) reads: “Previ­
ous to the organization of the Bahd’fs of Baltimore, it was the custom
to hold meetings at any of the believers’ homes, but since the conven­
tion held in Chicago, March 22-23, 1909, it was thought best to form
an organization, believing that as a body, more work could be done . . .
“In view of the fact that for years, the believers were not in favor
of any order whatever, this decision [i.e. to organize] was reached in
perfect harmony.”
35. Tablets of Abdul Baha Abbas (Chicago: Bahai Publishing So­
ciety, 1915) vol. 2, pp. 444-45. Names from Windust notes.
36. Tablets, vol. 2, p. 459.
37. Sarah Jane Farmer diary, entries for February-March 1901.
Sarah Jane Farmer Papers. National Bahd’f Archives. I am grateful
to Richard Hollinger for this information.
38. Tablets, vol. 2, p. 250.
39. Baltimore Sun, February 1, 1902, p. 7
40. Ibid.
41. Tablets, p. 444 (translated July 9, 1905).
42. Ibid., p. 469.
43. Baltimore Magazine, October 1987, p. 53.
44. Bahai Bulletin, 1909.
45. Financial Statement for December 1906. Records of the Spiri­
tual Assembly of the Bahd’is of Washington, D.C. Washington, D.C.,
Bahd’f Archives. I am grateful to Richard Hollinger for this information.
46. Minutes, Baltimore, April 1909, p. 1.
47. Ibid., May 1909, pp. 2-9.
48. Ibid, pp. 3-5.
49. Ibid.
50. Baltimore City Directory, 1909.
51. Minutes, Baltimore, May 1909, p. 7.
52. Ibid., June 8, 1909, p. 12; July 6, 1909, p. 14.
53. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’i Pub­
lishing Trust, 1944) p. 261.

Deb Clark
54. Star of the West, vol. 1 (1910) no. 2, p. 2.
55. Interview with Fred Lee, conducted by the author in Septem­
ber 1987.
56. Star of the West, vol. 1 (1910) no. 9, p. 1 (translated June 17,
1910).
57. Minutes, Baltimore, October 1909.
58. Minutes, Baltimore, 1911, p. 44.
59. Star of the West, vol. 1 (1910) no. 6, p. 12.
60. Interview with Mildred Elmer, conducted by the author in
September 1987. Minutes, Baltimore, 1911, p. 44.
61. Star of the West, vol. 2 (1911) no. 4, p. 3.
62. Ibid., p. 15.
63. Baltimore Sun, April 6, 1912.
64. Interview with Mildred Elmer, conducted by the author on
January 29, 1988.
65. Baltimore News American, November 12, 1912, p. 13.
66. “Talk of “Abdu’l-Baha” (ms.), Dorrida Library, Baltimore
County.
67. Baltimore Sun, November 12, 1912, p. 9.
68. Interview with Mildred Elmer, conducted by the author in
September 1987.
69. Interview with Albert James, conducted by the author in
February 1988.
70. Star of the West, vol. 4 (1913) no. 3, p. 52.
71. Quoted in Allison Vaccaro and Edward E. Bartlett, “‘Abdu’l-
BahA in Baltimore,” Baha’i News (February 1982) pp. 3-4.
72. Star of the West, vol. 4 (1913) no. 13, p. 52.
73. Ibid., vol. 7 (1916) no. 12, p. 113.
74. Minutes, Baltimore, Baltimore Collection. National BahA’i
Archives.
75. Minute Book, pp. 150-51.
76. Ibid., 1926, p. 56; ibid., 1931.
77. Ibid., January 12, 1930, p. 71.
78. Interview with Eugene Byrd, conducted by the author in
January 1987.
79. This information was gleaned from the Baltimore Minute
Book for the years 1930-32.
80. Baltimore Minute Book, p. 143.
81. Minutes, Baltimore, 1931, pp. 101-102.

The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990
82. Ibid., April 28, 1932, p. 114.
83. Ibid., February 1, 1933, pp. 122-23.
84. Interview with Clarke Langrail, conducted by the author in
December 1987. Baltimore City Directory, 1930-1935.
85. Interview with Mildred Elmer, conducted by the author in
September 1987.
86. Interview with Penny Trusty, conducted by the author in
January 1987.
87. Interview with Albert James, conducted by the author in
January 1988.
88. Minutes, Baltimore, February 1933, pp. 121-22.
89. Ibid., March 1934.
90. Baltimore Sun article, n.d. Interview with Penny Trusty, con­
ducted by the author in January 1987. The Baha’i World, vol. 7, p. 89.
91. Interview with Mildred Elmer, conducted by the author in
September 1987.
92. Interview with Clarke Langrall.
93. Interview with Mildred Elmer.
94. Gwynn Oak Park in Woodlawn was rocked by race riots in
1963.
95. Shoghi Effendi to Baltimore Baha’i community, February 28,
1946, Baltimore Baha’i Archives.
96. Baha’i News (1947) no. 196, p. 1.
97. Interview with Albert James, conducted by the author in
January 1988.
98. Baha’i News, vol. 9 (1936) p. 4. Morgan State College (now
University) was established as part of a system of higher education
in Maryland for African-Americans.
99. Interview with Albert James, conducted by the author in
November 1987.
100. Interview with Mildred Elmer, September 1987.
101. Interview with Betty Feldman, conducted by the author in
September 1987.
102. Interview with Eugene Byrd, conducted by the author in
January 1988.
103. Ibid.
104. Baha’i News (1963) no. 386, p. 12.
105. Interview with Eugene Byrd.
106. Baha’i News (1963) no. 386, p. 12.

Deb Clark
107. Ibid.
108. Ibid.
109. Ibid.
110. Duane Hickman, “One Hot Fourth of July,” Baltimore Maga­
zine (October 1987) p. 106.
111. Interview with Lynn Fremd, conducted by the author in
December 1987.
112. Interview with Fred Lee, conducted by the author in Sep­
tember 1987.
113. Interview with Lynn Fremd.

‘ABDUL-BAHA IN ENGLAND
at the Clifton Guest House, Bristol, September 1911.

by Phillip R. Smith
THE DEVELOPMENT AND INFLUENCE OF
THE BAHA’I ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER IN
GREAT BRITAIN, 1914-1950
As I have argued elsewhere, the Baha’i Faith began in
Great Britain not as an independent religion, but as a
millenarian movement that sought to hasten the approach of
the coming millennium by spreading the ideas of racial, reli­
gious, and global unity that had been proclaimed by
Baha’u’llah.1 The first Baha’i's formed a loose inclusive move­
ment with no requirements for membership, no official orga­
nization, and no distinctive ritual practices. Many remained
practicing and active members of Christian churches or cultic
groups. Often they had little contact with other Baha’i's. What
united these individuals was a belief in the coming millen­
nium and a devotion to the person of ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
The life of millenarian movements is generally short. For
most, the crisis comes when the promised millennium fails to
arrive, or when their leaders die or lose charisma. The Baha’i
Movement in Great Britain managed to avoid dissolution on
the death of its charismatic leader by transforming itself into
a formal religion. The principal instrument of this transfor­
mation was the development of an effective administrative
structure. This structure served the dual function of binding

LADY BLOMFIELD
"1
?
■>
-
• ■
A
J&Ee
■ 1 ifia ■•
‘
»
- •'?■ ¥
i tM

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 155
together the movement’s members, once their charismatic
focus had been removed, and of allowing religious beliefs and
practices to become standardized. The purpose of this essay is
to trace the development of this administrative structure
among the British Baha’is and to show how this structure
enabled the inclusive Baha’i Movement to be transformed
into the exclusive Baha’i Faith.
The Early Years. The first Baha’is in Britain were held to­
gether by their admiration for the teachings and personality
of ‘Abdu’l-Baha. They had no formal organization: they sim­
ply met together as friends to discuss the Baha’i teachings. As
in any social group, there were dominant personalities. These
persons assumed leadership, rather than being given it offi­
cially; and their authority was informal.
The dominant personality and unofficial leader of the Brit­
ish Baha’is throughout the early years was undoubtedly Ethel
Rosenberg. Rosenberg was the first Englishwoman to become
a Baha’i in her native land, but her position did not stem
solely from this fact. She made two visits, in 1901 and 1904,
to the Holy Land. There she conversed at length with ‘Abdu’l-
Baha and with members of his family. She also learned Per­
sian, and so she was able to read and help with the transla­
tion of Baha’i scriptures. This made her an invaluable source
of information to the British Baha’is at a time when very little
Baha’i literature was published. She was also very clearly
trusted by ‘Abdu’l-Baha, who sent her on important teaching
missions to the United States and to France.
There were, of course, other individuals who assumed
prominent positions in the early community. Mary Virginia
Thornburgh-Cropper was the first avowed Baha’i to reside in
the British Isles and the person who had introduced Ethel
Rosenberg to Bahaism.2 When Lady Blomfield became a Baha’i
in 1907, her wealth and social status automatically guaran-

teed her prominence. Eric Hammond, whose book of Baha’i
scripture and history was published in 1909, was probably
the leading Baha’i man of the period.
These leading personalities, along with a few others, re­
lated to one another in an informal way. They met in one
another’s homes to study; and later they hired halls to hold
public meetings. They published books and pamphlets about
the Baha’i Cause. However, these were probably the collective
actions of individuals, rather than the result of corporate
decisions. There is no evidence of any formal organization.
These early Baha’i activities were limited to London.
Eventually, there developed a small group of Baha’is in
Manchester. One of these, Sarah Ann Ridgeway, had become
a Baha’i in the United States in 1899. But most of the group
had been introduced to the Baha’i teachings by Edward Hall,
and he became their unofficial leader. Although Ethel
Rosenberg corresponded with the Baha’is of Manchester, and
visited them in January 1911, there seems to have been little
cooperation between the two groups. There is some evidence
of tensions between them over the next twenty years.
These groups, plus a few isolated individuals like Daniel
Jenkyn of St. Ives, Cornwall, made up the Baha’i Movement
in Britain. We can conclude then that this movement was
organized very informally, and largely dependent on the ac­
tions of a few individuals. While some of them must certainly
have discussed their activities with others, there is no evi­
dence that an individual’s actions needed group approval, or
that there was any formal arrangement for group decision­
making. There were personalities who seemed to have pres­
tige or influence, but their leadership of the community was
based on a variety of factors which never included democratic
elections.
156 Phillip R. Smith

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 157
The Baha’i Councils. As time passed and both the number of
Baha’i's and the range of their activities grew, there developed
the need for a more formal organization. The first evidence
we have of this formal organization is the Baha’i Committee
that met during 1914. This committee gives us clear evidence
of Baha’is working together, making joint decisions, raising
funds, and laying down rules, long before the advent of the
Administrative Order introduced by Shoghi Effendi, the fu­
ture Guardian of the Baha’i Faith.
Although the committee kept and read minutes, no record
of them can now be traced. The only firm evidence that we
have of the committee’s existence and activities are copies of
agendas for three meetings held in 1914, which were sent to
Lotfullah Hakim by the secretary, Arthur Cuthbert.3 These
agendas reveal that the Baha’i's were engaged in a range of
activities and that the committee operated under normal busi­
ness procedures.
One topic on the agendas was the proposed publication of
leaflets and books. Also under consideration was the financ­
ing of meetings and the question of paying the expenses of
speakers at these meetings. The conduct of people who at­
tended such meetings was also a matter of concern. On one
occasion the issue of “clapping at meetings” was discussed,
and at another time the issue of “undesirable persons at pri­
vate meetings” was raised. The appearance of the item “Fi­
nance” or “Encouragement of Financial Support” on all three
agendas clearly shows that, even at this early stage, some
sort of fund for the administration of the Cause had been
established.
As early as 1914, therefore, the British Baha’is were orga­
nizing themselves and their activities in a way that was very
similar to that under which they would later operate as Spiri­
tual Assemblies formed at Shoghi Effendi’s instruction. The
very membership of this Baha’i Committee was similar to

158 Phillip R. Smith
Later that month he referred in another letter to his own
correspondence with Mrs. Holbach:
I am sorry to hear that there is not more unity between Mrs.
Holbach5 and the London Bahd’i's, but I hope that on both sides
prejudices and whatever else keeps them apart may be outgrown.
We are all but babes in Bahaism and must be very charitable to
each other’s weaknesses.6
that of the assemblies to be formed later. All of the known
members of the Baha’i Committee/ with the exception of
Cuthbert and Hakim, were later to serve on Spiritual Assem­
blies. There was, therefore, a continuity of organization in
Britain spanning the periods of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s and Shoghi
Effendi’s leadership, and not a sudden imposition of adminis­
trative structure as some writers have suggested.
The Baha’i Committee of 1914, however, did not itself
span these two eras. It ceased to meet after 1916. Although
no official explanation can be found, it is possible to speculate
on the reasons for its demise. One reason may have been the
problems caused by the war, including lack of communication
with ‘Abdu’l-Baha. However, if this were the only reason, one
might reasonably have expected the committee to resume its
functions once hostilities ceased and normal communications
were restored. This it did not do.
A more likely cause of the committee’s lapse is the dishar­
mony that existed among the members of the British Baha’i
community. As already stated, the Baha’is were dominated by
strong personalities, and none of them had any real authority
over the others. They were accustomed to thinking and acting
independently; and, there is evidence that their personalities
sometimes clashed.
Divisions and disagreements among the Baha’is are often
mentioned by Esslemont in his letters. In December 1915, he
wrote:

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 159
Two years later, he is still concerned about the divisions
among the British Baha’is:
Oh! If only the friends in this country could be more united, could
cultivate the “sin-covering eye,” be less conscious of each other’s
faults, and more conscious of the wonderful Power of the Holy
Spirit.8
These comments suggest that the British Baha’is were
probably not at that time ready to work together, to allow
their individual wishes and opinions to be overruled by the
decisions of the majority. The committee of 1914 does not
appear to have been elected by the Baha’i community, nor
does it appear to have been granted any authority by ‘Abdu’l-
Baha. Unlike the American Baha’is, who had been set the
task of building a Baha’i Temple, the British Baha’is had no
single project to unite them. Therefore, the Baha’is would not
necessarily have felt bound to any decision the committee
made. Whether there was some crisis or dispute that brought
these divisions to a head and resulted in disbanding this
Baha’i council cannot now be determined with any certainty.
Whatever the reason, the Baha’i Committee ceased to
meet, and the community returned to its former state for the
next few years. It was ‘Abdu’l-Baha himself who encouraged
the committee to reform and once again to guide and direct
the activities of the movement in Britain. ‘Abdu’l-Baha clearly
believed that the Baha’i Movement needed to be organized.
The instruction to revive the Baha’i Committee was given
to Esslemont by ‘Abdu’l-Baha during the former’s visit in
Haifa in 1919. Although Esslemont left Haifa in January
1920, it was not until almost a year later that he was able to
report to Hakim that the new council had at last met:
I had a nice letter from Mrs. Holbach enclosing one from Mr. Hall
of Manchester. Mr. Hall seems depressed and feels that the Lon­
don Baha’is have given him the “cold shoulder.”7

160 Phillip R. Smith
I
It seems that this council did manage to meet during
1921, and made several decisions about distributing, approv­
ing, and publishing Baha’i literature. They also maintained
funds for the movement. Having been formed at the direct
request of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, the body seems to have had greater
authority and cohesion than the first committee. By October
1921, Esslemont was able to report that the Council was
beginning to work as a collective body:
We can see then, that towards the end of 1921, a formal
administrative organization was already beginning to emerge
in Britain. The fact that ‘Abdu’l-Baha not only approved of
this organization, but was instrumental in its development, is
an important factor to bear in mind. The process of organizing
the Baha’is had begun, and it was soon to be accelerated
under the influence of the successor to ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Shoghi
Effendi.
I think we are making a little progress towards greater Unity in
the Council itself, although we are a long way from the ideal in
that way yet.10
On Tuesday we had the first regular meeting of the new Baha’i
Council. There were present Miss Rosenberg, Mrs. Thornburgh-
Cropper, Miss Gamble, Mrs. George, Miss Herrick and Mr.
Hammond, of the old members, and the new members were Mrs.
Coles, Miss Grand, Miss Musgrove, Mrs. Crosby, Mr. Simpson
and myself. We met at Miss Grand’s flat, and the meeting was
very harmonious. I think that we all felt that it marked the
beginning of a new era in the history of the Cause in this country.
The meeting was arranged in accordance with the advice given by
Abdul Baha through me that the old members of the council who
were still able to act should add to their number a few new ones
whom the friends approved and they should then work together.
There has been no regular meeting of the council since 1914, I
think, but now we have decided to meet regularly at least 3 times
a year, while a special meeting can be called at any time, when it
is considered advisable.9

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 161
Shoghi Effendi gave to Baha’i a precision of historical under­
standing, doctrinal formulation, and institutional organization
which had not yet been fully achieved in the religion.11
The process of transforming the movement into a religion
was one that Shoghi Effendi began immediately. Until that
time, many Baha’is had remained active within their previ­
ous religious communities, and in contemporary Baha’i litera­
ture one finds references to Christian Baha’is, Muslim Baha’is,
and Zoroastrian Baha’is. ‘Abdu’l-Baha himself continued to
attend Friday prayers at the mosque in ‘Akka right up to the
week that he died. He observed the Muslim, as well as the
Baha’i fast. Indeed, he was accepted by many as an exem­
plary Muslim.13
The behavior of Shoghi Effendi was very different. From
this assumption of office, he refused to attend prayers in the
mosque and observed only the Baha’i fast and prayer rituals.
By his actions, he demonstrated his belief that Bahaism was
already a separate religion. His task over the next fifteen years
was to ensure that all Baha’is came to the same realization.
The first stage of this task was to unite and organize the
Under Shoghi Effendi the Baha’i faith became truly the Baha’i
World Faith.12
The Guardianship of Shoghi Effendi. ‘Abdu’l-Baha died on
November 28, 1921. The Baha’i Movement, centered as it was
on his charismatic authority, was thrown into temporary cri­
sis and confusion. In his Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Bahd
appointed his grandson, Shoghi Effendi Rabbani, as the Guard­
ian of the Baha’i Movement. From that first period of confu­
sion, the new Guardian led the Baha’is into a period of stabil­
ity and growth which resulted in the movement becoming
established as a separate religion in the West. As Vernon
Johnson has observed:

A BAHA’I GATHERING IN LONDON, c. 1925.
i
£
I
£
*
■ "

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 163
Later, he reported that the first meeting of the “new Bahai
Spiritual Assembly” was held in London on June 17, 1922.16
Although he was unable to attend the first meeting, Esslemont
did go to the second meeting in July 1922, and reported that
it was “very harmonious.” He lists the ten members elected
The election of the new Assembly is now in progress. Ten mem­
bers are being elected from the London group and these 10 with
Mr. Hall and myself will constitute the National Assembly for
Great Britain.15
Baha’is themselves. From the very beginning of his Guard­
ianship, Shoghi Effendi began the task of providing for the
Baha’i Movement an efficient, democratically based, adminis­
trative organization. To a large extent, it was this organiza­
tion that transformed the inclusive movement into an exclu­
sive religion.
In his first communication to the Baha’is throughout the
world, Shoghi Effendi urged them to form Spiritual Assem­
blies in every locality where there were nine or more believ­
ers, and wherever possible to elect a National Spiritual As­
sembly. He quoted extensively from both ‘Abdu’l-Baha and
Baha’u’llah to demonstrate that the concept and the duties of
these assemblies were derived from their writings, and not
from himself. However, elaborating the details of this system
was certainly to become the work of the Guardian. He made it
clear to the Baha’is of Britain, even in this first communica­
tion, that the presentation of the Baha’i message to the world
could no longer be left to individual initiative and interpretation.14
Shoghi Effendi requested that the new national bodies
should be established as a matter of urgency. The British
Baha’is seem to have responded to his request, despite the
fact that their activities were at a low ebb. As early as May
1922, Esslemont was able to write of the progress they were
making:

BAHA’I UNITY FEAST
held in London, England, during 1923.
I
I
I
z
_____
' ■■ \ >i, „ i \
C- i
ofc

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 165
from the London group, and it is significant to note that seven
of them had served on the Baha’i Council that had been
formed in 1920. Shoghi Effendi was not imposing a new struc­
ture upon the movement, but merely continuing a process
that had already begun. The main effect of his leadership was
to give the Assembly an authority that it had not had before.
This authority came from the outline of their duties as de­
fined in the writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha and Baha’u’llah, and
from the fact that they were now democratically elected. These
changes were being made not only in Britain but throughout
the world.
This transition was from a time of individual action and
personal interpretation to a period of much more centralized
control over the presentation of the teachings. Leadership of
the community was in the future to be based on democratic
support, and not merely on the strength of personality. Indi­
viduals would not only have to gain the support of their fellow
Baha’is for any teaching initiative, but would be restrained by
the community if they could not gain that support. To effect
these changes in the administrative system would take sev­
eral years, but the British community did attempt to follow
Shoghi Effendi’s instructions.
Local Assemblies were soon established in Manchester,
Bournemouth, and London. The National Assembly was also
reelected each year, with the number of members being fixed
at nine after 1922. However, even in the simple matter of
these elections, there were new rules to follow and simple
mistakes were made.
In 1927, Ethel Rosenberg visited Haifa and discovered
that the delegates at each annual convention had been wrong
to elect the members of the National Assembly only from
among their number. She immediately wrote to the Assembly
in Britain to inform them of the error:

Phillip R. Smith
. . . Shoghi Effendi says, all the 19 delegates must clearly under­
stand that they must select from the whole body of the believers
in Great Britain and Ireland those 9 whom they consider the
most fit and suitable members to constitute the National Assem­
bly. Therefore it will be necessary to supply each of the 19 del­
egates with a complete list of all those believers in Great Britain
and Ireland.17
In the same letter he appears also to be concerned that
the Reverend A. H. Biggs, who was a Unitarian minister from
Altrincham, should have been elected to the National Assem­
bly:
As with all communications from the Guardian, or from
his secretary, the National Spiritual Assembly was quick to
follow his advice. The National Assembly of 1927 was, there­
fore, the first to be elected in accordance with the Guardian’s
new instructions. However, as two people tied for position as
the ninth member of the Assembly, they decided that for that
year the Assembly should consist of ten members. Within a
month, they received another letter from the Guardian:
This instruction began to point the British Baha’is in the
direction of greater exclusivity. At this time, there still re­
mained no initiation, nor even interview, that one had to go
through before being added to the list of those Baha’is eligible
to vote for Assembly members. Indeed, in London anyone who
attended several meetings was automatically added to the list
of London Baha’is.20 Also, most British Baha’is at this time
I trust the choice of the Rev. Biggs signifies his unreserved accep­
tance of the faith in its entirety—a condition that we must in­
creasingly stress in the years to come.19
I feel sure that next year, the number of members should be
strictly confined to nine, and a second ballot is quite proper and
justified.18

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 167
Problems and Difficulties. The main problem that the British
Baha’is had to face was the decline in their numbers. This is
the same problem faced by virtually all millenarian move­
ments when the promised millennium does not arrive or their
charismatic leader is removed. For many, being a Baha’i had
simply meant being a follower of ‘Abdu’l-Baha. On his death,
these Baha’is may have had difficulty finding a focus for their
admiration and devotion. This resulted in an almost immedi-
During the 1920s, the National Spiritual Assembly orga­
nized and coordinated a variety of activities, including public
meetings, the publication of books, and the presentation of
the Cause at the “Conference of Living Religions within the
Empire” that was held in 1924. It also maintained contact,
albeit intermittently, with both the Guardian in Haifa and
other Baha’i's around the world.
However, it would be wrong to infer from this activity that
all was well within the community or that a full transition to
the new Administrative Order had been achieved. There were
problems with this new organization from its very beginning,
and by the end of the 1920s, the Baha’i Movement had all but
disappeared from the British Isles.
seem to have retained the belief that theirs was an inclusive
movement, and not a religion. These beliefs and practices
help to explain how a Christian minister could be elected to
the National Assembly as late as 1927.
Despite the misunderstandings that we have listed above,
the British Baha’is did attempt to carry out the duties that
the Guardian had laid upon the first Assembly in 1922:
I need hardly tell you how grateful and gratified I felt when I
heard the news of the actual formation of a National Council
whose main object is to guide, co-ordinate and harmonise the
various activities of the friends.21

168 Phillip R. Smith
There is little news about the Cause in England. Mrs. George’s
meetings seem to be the largest now. At Lindsay Hall there are
only a very few except on special occasions when people are rounded
up by postcards!22
ate falling away of activity and interest, even as early as May
1922.
There were, undoubtedly, some Baha’is who found it im­
possible to accept the new situation. They had been able to
accept the decisions and authority of ‘Abdu’l-Baha whom they
regarded as a Christ-like figure. However, now they not only
had to accept the authority of his grandson, the twenty-five-
year-old Guardian, but they also had to recognize the author­
ity of an Assembly elected of their equals. Some were never
able to do this, and others took many years to do so. As late as
April 1926, Shoghi Effendi wrote to the British National As­
sembly to express his pleasure that one of the London Baha’is
had “. . . at last complied with my request and written to the
London Assembly acknowledging their authority.”23
In addition to getting ordinary Baha’is to acknowledge the
importance of Assemblies, Shoghi Effendi seems to have had
some difficulty in getting even the members of the National
Spiritual Assembly to do so. One of the persistent problems
the Assembly faced was achieving a quorum. In May 1926, its
members wrote to the Guardian requesting permission for
substitutes to attend Assembly meetings. They received this
reply:
I realise the special and peculiar difficulties that prevail in Lon­
don and the nature of the obstacles with which they [the National
Spiritual Assembly] are confronted. I feel however that an ear­
nest effort should be made to overcome them and that the mem­
bers must arrange their affairs in such a way as to ensure their
prompt attendance at 9 meetings which are held in the course of
the year. This is surely not an insurmountable obstacle.24

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 169
Ruth White later spoke with one of the members of the
Assembly, a prominent Baha’i for over twenty years:
Lady Blomfield, who was present at this meeting, said to me that
there was practically no longer a Bahai Cause in England, and
she had come to the conclusion that the Bahai Cause cannot be
organized.26
Finally, at nearly six o’clock, the members emerged limp and
tired. No sooner were greetings exchanged than Mr. G. P. Simpson
approached each member of the National Assembly and said very
dramatically: “I have finished with you forever! You are not Bahais!
You are not Bahais!” And then he strode from the room beside
himself with rage.25
It was, nevertheless, an obstacle, and it may have been
exacerbated by the continued personality clashes among mem­
bers of the Baha’i community. The difficulties that prevailed
during the previous decade seem to have been overcome for a
while in the early 1920s, partially due to the skillful chair­
manship of both the London and National Spiritual Assem­
blies by George Simpson. However, towards the ends of this
decade the problems began to surface once more.
A glimpse of the conflicts that arose is given by Ruth
White in her account of a visit to London in April 1928. White
was an American Baha’i who believed that ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
Will and Testament was a forged document. She was visiting
Europe to gain support for her opposition to Shoghi Effendi
and his efforts to organize the believers. According to her
account, she met “. . . practically all the Baha’is in London,”
and was invited to meet with members of the National As­
sembly at the home of Florence George. Here, she was kept
waiting for two hours outside the room where the National
Assembly was meeting. She could hear the sound of raised
voices within.

I
I
i
z
BAHA’I GROUP WITH MARTHA ROOT (center)
in Bournemouth, England, July 4, 1926.
sk ■

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 171
Whatever the problems were, they did not result in com­
plete inactivity, and administration never ceased altogether.
In September 1929, a new Baha’i Center was opened in Lon­
don.29 At approximately the same time, a new translation of
Baha’u’Ilah’s Hidden Words was published. It may, however,
be significant that the book was published despite the
Guardian’s advice that its publication be delayed.30 There is
also some indication that the type of activity the British Baha’is
were engaged in did not meet with the full approval of the
Guardian, and that he may have been dissatisfied with the
development of the British community:
He is much hopeful of your new centre in Regent Street or there­
abouts, and he trusts that it will mark a turning point in the
history of the Cause in England — from happy tea-parties at
individual homes, into a group of less personal but eager, active
and thoughtful workers co-operating in a common service.31
Of course, White cannot be regarded as an objective ob­
server. She had vested interests in proving, perhaps provok­
ing, disunity within the British Baha’i community. However,
there are indications from other sources that all was not
harmonious. In the same month that White visited Britain,
April 1928, Shoghi Effendi sent a brief note of encouragement
to the National Assembly in which he said that he would pray
for the guidance of the Beloved to . . help you to remove
misunderstandings and difficulties amongst the friends.”27
During the next eight months only four extremely short tele­
grams were received from Shoghi Effendi; but on the last day
of the year, he again wrote a short letter which referred to
their problems:
Not until harmony and concord are firmly established among the
friends of London and Manchester will the cause advance along
sound and progressive lines.23

It seems, however, that his hopes were to be disappointed.
The ranks of Baha’is continued to dwindle, their numbers and
activities reduced by old-age, illness, and death. While there
were individuals who continued to think of themselves as
Baha’is, the activities of the group almost ceased completely.
From the end of 1930 until early 1934, the minutes of the
National Spiritual Assembly are very brief and indicate that
it held only five or six short meetings a year. There are no
records of any cables or letters received from the Guardian
and, moreover, the minutes contain few references to him. J.
R. Richards, a Christian minister, writing in London about
the Baha’is in 1932, had no doubt that Bahaism in the West
was in decline. However, he did not dismiss it entirely:
But whilst the movement is undoubtedly losing ground its mis­
sionaries continue to be active, and their insidious propaganda
must be fought down.32
Resurgence. In other parts of the world the Administrative
Order was more fully established and the movement was
moving towards greater centralization and more exclusivity.
This was especially true in the United States, which would
provide the model for all Baha’i Administration in the West.
Following a decline in activity there, and a possible drop in
numbers in the years after the death of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, it was
Despite his obvious antipathy, Richards is correct in his
assessment of the Baha’i Movement in Britain. It was cer­
tainly losing ground. In a sense, he was also correct about
their missionaries, as it was Baha’is coming from communi­
ties outside of the British Isles, where the new Administra­
tive Order was more fully established, who were successfully
to bring about the reorganization of the movement and revi­
talize the community.
172 Phillip R. Smith

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 173
during the 1930s that activities and numbers once more
began to increase. In the mid-1930s, the Baha’is of Britain
began to benefit from this resurgence.
In 1934, the Guardian’s communications with the British
National Assembly were fully restored. From that time on­
wards, we can begin to detect a revival in activity among the
Baha’i's. By this time, the number of Baha’i's in Bournemouth
had dropped below the nine required to form a local Spiritual
Assembly, and so there remained only the Assemblies of Lon­
don and Manchester. Also by this time, the personalities who
had dominated the movement since the time of ‘Abdu’l-Baha
had ceased to do so. Esslemont had died in 1925, Ethel Rosen­
berg in 1930, and George Simpson in 1934. Mrs. Thornburgh-
Cropper and several others were in such frail health that they
could no longer be active. The new personalities who came to
lead the community were generally people who had become
Baha’i's during Shoghi Effendi’s Guardianship and who, there­
fore, had no difficulty in accepting the idea of the Administra­
tive Order. Some of them, moreover, had come from other
countries where the administration of the movement was al­
ready established. In 1933, Hasan Balyuzi, from Iran, was
elected to the National Spiritual Assembly and was to remain
a member of it until 1960. Helen Bishop was an American
Baha’i who came to Britain during the 1930s to help teach
and spread the faith. Madame Gita Orlova came to London
simply to help the community and established a theatrical
group for Baha’i youth in the city. All of these people helped
reactivate the British community and introduce new people
to it.
In 1936, David Hofman returned to his native England
having become a Baha’i in Montreal in 1933. He was immedi­
ately elected to the National Assembly. It was during the first
year of his membership that a real resurgence in Baha’i activities
took place. That these two events should have coincided was a

174 Phillip R. Smith
fact that was not overlooked by Shoghi Effendi. He wrote to
Hofman at the very end of the year:
Your splendid collaboration with the English believers is, as I am
gradually and increasingly realising it, infusing new life and de­
termination into individuals and assemblies which will prove of
the utmost benefit to our beloved Cause. Persevere with your
remarkable efforts and historic achievements.33
During 1936, many things of importance had, indeed, been
achieved. In July, a paper on the Baha’i Faith had been read
to the newly established World Congress of Faiths, and two
Baha’is had given short addresses there. In August, the first
official Baha’i Summer School was held.34 In September, the
first issue of the Baha’i Journal, a national newsletter, was
published and sent free to every registered Baha’i. The Jour­
nal was to play a vital role in creating a sense of community
among the British Baha’is and became an important tool for
informing and educating them. In December, the entire Na­
tional Spiritual Assembly met in Manchester for the first
time in an attempt to reduce the dominant influence that
London had held over the British community. This was to
become an annual event, being transformed in later years
into the Teaching Conference. Very early in the following
year, the Baha’i Publishing Company was established and
this too would become an important part of the future community.
Having stopped the decline in numbers, the community
now began to grow. For the new believers, the Baha’i Admin­
istrative Order was an essential part of being a Baha’i. Un­
like earlier Baha’is, they had little difficulty in accepting the
decisions and the authority of the Spiritual Assemblies. There
was now a clearly accepted definition of what it meant to be a
Baha’i. In January 1937, the Baha’i Journal had published
Shoghi Effendi’s guidance about what was necessary for a
person to become registered as a Baha’i:

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 175
Anyone who wished to become a Baha’i had to sign a
“declaration card” that stated that they understood and ac­
cepted all of the above beliefs and conditions. It was the duty
of existing Baha’is to ensure that the new believers did fully
understand and accept all of these terms and conditions be­
fore they accepted their declaration. In this way, a uniformity
of belief (and a degree of exclusivity) was imposed on the
community such as had never existed before. It was also
made clear that a Baha’i could not simply believe in the
Baha’i prophets, but also had to accept the administrative
organization as established by Shoghi Effendi.
In 1939, the National Assembly was to take a further step
towards exclusivity by applying the above restrictions to those
people who had been registered as Baha’is before the new
definition had been formulated. The Baha’i Journal informed
the Baha’is that all believers in Britain were to be issued with
a “. . . registration certificate stating that the bearer is recog­
nized by the N.S.A. as a member of the Baha’i community of
the British Isles.”36 This was ostensibly because Baha’is were
accepted as being exempt from combat service in the armed
forces on religious grounds, and the National Assembly was
anxious to ensure that nobody brought the Faith into disre­
pute by fraudulently claiming to be a Baha’i simply to escape
combat. However, it was also an attempt to ensure that those
believers who had been registered as Baha’is during the 1920s,
or even earlier, now acknowledged the authority of the Na­
tional Spiritual Assembly.
Full recognition of the station of the Forerunner, the Author, and
True Exemplar of the Baha’i Cause, as set forth in ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
Testament; unreserved acceptance of, and submission to, whatso­
ever has been revealed by their Pen; loyal and steadfast adher­
ence to every clause of our Beloved’s sacred Will; and close asso­
ciation with the spirit as well as the form of the present day
Baha’i administration throughout the world.35

Developing the Faith. The earliest Baha’is in the British Isles
did not consider themselves to be members of a new religion.40
Theirs was a movement that existed within existing religions
To obtain one of these registration certificates, the believ­
ers had to send two passport-sized photographs to the Na­
tional Assembly along with their personal details. In April
1940, however, the Assembly announced, in their annual re­
port, that the . friends have been very slow in responding
to this plan.”37 Clearly, some were reluctant to take such a
step. A year later, the National Assembly reported that nearly
all the believers had now registered, despite the fact that a
few felt that the move . . conflicted with the liberal spirit of
the Faith.”38 That the majority had now followed the
Assembly’s instruction may have been due less to its powers
of persuasion than with its threat to withdraw voting rights
from all those who did not register by August 13, 1940. For
the first time, the National Assembly had been able to use the
threat of administrative sanctions to ensure compliance with
its decisions.
Such power was an effective way of imposing coherence
and uniformity of belief and practice on the Baha’i commu­
nity. It is for this reason, among others, that the British
Baha’is still carry registration documents today, despite the
assurance of the National Assembly in 1941, that such a
move was not permanent.39 The issuing of registration docu­
ments completed the transition from an inclusive movement
to an exclusive organization.
The British Baha’is of the 1930s had at last become united
and organized. Their administration could now begin to serve
the function that the Guardian had advocated for it more
than ten years earlier. Now that its authority was generally
accepted, the task of the National Spiritual Assembly was to
transform the exclusive organization into a religion.
176 Phillip R. Smith

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 177
and attempted to build bridges between them. The aim of the
movement was to strip away the rituals and dogmas that
each religion had developed and to return each faith to the
simple truths and practices of its founder. In this way, each
religion would become revived and renewed. Baha’is believed
that it would then become apparent to all that the fundamen­
tal beliefs of all religions were identical.
Because of this view, the earliest British Baha’is had no
religious practices of their own. Those Baha’is who came from
a practicing Christian background were encouraged to return
to their churches, although they would inevitably have a dif­
ferent attitude towards them. It was the sharing of the ideal
that made one a Baha’i, not uniformity of worship. Religious
rituals and liturgies were seen as the creations of men, not of
the founders of religions. They were the outdated forms of
religion which the Baha’is hoped to sweep away, in order to
restore the original spirit of true faith.
Of course, the Baha’is were not the first religious group to
reject liturgical practice in favor of moral behavior. Various
Christian denominations had repeatedly attempted to achieve
just this. Some writers pointed out the similarity between the
Baha’is and the Society of the Friends (Quakers). Harrold
Johnson, writing in 1912, saw at least two similarities be­
tween these groups:
This latter point suggests what several other writers refer
to, namely the importance of prayer to the early Baha’is.
However, far less reference is made to prayer in early Bahd’i
There are also, as in Quakerism, no priests in Bahaism and there
are no ritual observances. The exceeding apprehension of the
danger of mere formalism is very marked in the Bahai writings
.. . . The important place given in Bahaism to silent prayer and to
the workings of the spirit in silence are again suggestive of the
Quakers.41

178 Phillip R. Smith
Tomorrow night at the meeting hall I shall speak on the Unity of
Mankind.44
We had a very nice meeting yesterday afternoon at the Theo­
sophical Society’s Rooms. Mrs. George spoke instead of Mr. Tudor
Pole .... on “Religion should be a cause of love and unity.”45
writings than is made to ethical teachings. Even when refer­
ence is made to prayer, a uniform picture of Baha’i practice
does not emerge.
There can be little doubt that prayer was part of the life of
the early British Baha’is, but it appears to have been a pri­
vate activity, with no fixed form or ritual. Even by 1923, in
Esslemont’s important book, Bahd’u’llah and the New Era,
the author states that prayer is obligatory, but the form that
prayer should take is not. While he includes a translation of
the short obligatory prayer, Esslemont does not refer to it as
such.42
According to Alter and Wilson, the American Baha’is of
this period had developed a ritual form of community wor­
ship. However, judging from the limited amount of evidence
we have available, it would appear that there was no such
development in Britain. During this phase, the period of the
Baha’i Movement, the meetings that were held were gener­
ally more intellectual than devotional.
The early meetings were generally gatherings in private
homes held to discuss the Baha’i teachings or to read the
latest Tablet (letter) received from ‘Abdu’l-Baha. These do not
represent acts of worship as we would normally accept this
term, nor do they seem to have followed a set pattern or
ritual. The one feature that was included in all meetings was
“the delivering of prepared sermons on Baha’i theology.”43
At the first meetings, Miss Rosenberg and others would
explain the teachings and recount their experiences of meet­
ing ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Later, Esslemont rarely refers to a meeting
without stating who gave the prepared talk:

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 179
In 1920, the Manchester Baha’is began to hold weekly
meetings which also featured the reading of a prepared paper:
This seems to have been true of all Baha’i meetings in­
cluding the Nineteen-Day Feasts. Feasts were certainly held,
but not on a regular basis. Those that were held do not sound
like the one attended by Alter in New York. If anything, they
seem to have been less devotional in content than the normal
weekly meetings:
Although we can see that the more explicit forms of wor­
ship had been introduced towards the end of this early period,
the meetings still seem to have remained intellectual rather
than devotional. This was especially obvious to those coming
from a different religious tradition. In 1919, Esslemont took
Colonel and Mrs. Cuthbert, of the Salvation Army, to a meet­
ing and later recorded their impressions:
. . . we had our first “19-day Feast.” We had it in a tea-room in
Boscombe. 17 friends were present. We had tea in the Persian
style with glass cups and saucers which Mrs. Dunsby managed to
borrow for the occasion. After tea I gave a short introductory talk
and read some tablets of the Master’s regarding the conduct of
meetings, and regarding the importance of the 19-day feasts and
These meetings always opened with a prayer. After a few mo­
ments of silence first some letters from friends abroad were read
and then a paper on some aspect of the Cause. This was followed
by happy, stimulating discussion and questions and the meeting
would close with a prayer.47
Mrs. Cuthbert’s impression is that we are not getting into touch
with people as we ought—that the meeting seemed too much of a
meeting of intellectual people for discussion.48
We had a fine meeting on Sunday night. Mr. Kanhere, a Hindoo
Brahmin, and a friend of Mr. Eric Hammond, gave us a very
interesting talk.46

180 Phillip R. Smith
how they ought to be celebrated. Aflatun then gave us a most
interesting talk, mostly about the life of the Beloved during the
last year of the war, when Aflatun was at Haifa. Miss Pinchon
read one of the tablets you sent in your last letter, and Mr. King
gave us a delightful talk about the progress of the Cause in
America, . . . Then we had more tea and fruit.49
We can conclude then that, during this early period, no
fixed congregational form of service had been developed by
the British Baha’is, but the reading of prayers and Tablets
was regularly practiced by some of them.
It also seems unlikely that many of the first British Baha’i's
fasted. Although it is known that Esslemont observed the fast
in 1915, when he first became a Baha’i, because of his chronic
ill-health it seems unlikely that he did so again. Although a
few of the other Baha’i's may have fasted, it is rarely—if
ever—referred to and so was probably not widely observed.
The major Baha’i festivals, on the other hand, were com­
monly celebrated. The gatherings seem to have been prima­
rily social events. The two main festivals that are referred to
are Naw-Riiz and Ridvan. Although the early British Baha’is
did not observe all Baha’i Holy Days, or adopt special reli­
gious practices connected with the ones they did observe, the
recognition of such festivals marked a significant step to­
wards the emergence of the Baha’i Faith as a religion rather
than a movement.
As we have shown earlier, the 1920s and early 1930s were
years of stagnation and decline for the Baha’i Cause in Brit­
ain. It seems unlikely that any changes in religious practices
were adopted during this period. The reluctance to accept the
authority of the Spiritual Assemblies, and perhaps even of
Shoghi Effendi himself, made the acceptance of the change
from movement to religion difficult to achieve. Even after the
historic court decision in Egypt which recognized the inde­
pendent nature of the Baha’i Faith, and the legal moves un-

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 181
dertaken by the Baha’is of the United States, it was possible
for a prominent British Baha’i to insist, during this period,
that “. . . the ‘movement’ must not be called a ‘religion.’ ”50
Although no changes in religious practice took place, the
reduction in overall numbers may have had the effect of con­
centrating the existing practices within the community. In its
loose inclusive stage, the Baha’i Movement had encompassed
a wide range of beliefs and opinions. Its members came from
socialist, New Thought, Theosophist, and Christian Science
backgrounds, as well as the more traditional Quaker and
Anglican. For some of these, Bahaism was only an addition to
their own more central beliefs. For others, the most commit­
ted of Baha’i activists, Bahaism already held a central place.
It was this latter group who were more likely to use Baha’i
prayers and writings in preference to other scriptures. It was
also these persons who were more likely to remain Baha’is in
years to come.
When the move towards formalization and exclusivity be­
gan, it was those whose major allegiance lay elsewhere, who
felt excluded. On the other hand, those who could accept the
Administrative Order, and all that it involved, were also more
likely to accept new religious practices. Thus the decline in
Baha’is, brought about by the death of ‘Abdu’l-Baha and the
rise of the Baha’i Administration, paved the way for a resur­
gence of Bahaism in the 1930s, no longer as a loosely struc­
tured movement but as an organized religion. Numbers, in all
likelihood, declined to the point where there only remained
mainly those who were already observing the limited reli­
gious practice of British Baha’is of that time.
Thus, with the administration established and function­
ing effectively, the majority of Baha’is in Britain had accepted
that they now belonged to a new religion. It is probably also
true, however, that their religious practices were still of the
limited form practiced during the time of‘Abdu’l-Baha. One of

182 Phillip R. Smith
Establishing the Faith. The first real insight we have into
changes in Bahd’f worship comes with the publication of the
Baha’i Journal. It became the primary means whereby Baha’is
were instructed in orthodox Baha’i beliefs, and the primary
publication from which they could learn how Baha’is should,
and should not, behave.
From its very first issue in September 1936, the Journal
refers to the “Faith” rather than the “Movement.” Clearly the
writers of the Journal, that is the members of the National
Spiritual Assembly, saw themselves as the elected leaders of
a religious community. The pages of the Baha’i Journal over
the next few years indicate clearly that they thought it their
task to inform the rest of the community of this fact. They
also attempted, in these pages, to impose a standardized form
of worship on the British Baha’is. To a certain extent, they
tell us when they were successful.
It is clear that one of the first goals that the National
Assembly set out to achieve through the Journal was to es­
tablish the Nineteen-Day Feast as the most important Baha’i
meeting. In the very first issue of the Journal, a large amount
of space is taken up quoting ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s words on the vital
importance of these meetings. Thus, the first stage of the
campaign was to establish a scriptural basis for the Feast. It
was not the Assembly, or the Guardian, who was attempting
to elevate the Feast to some new importance. Rather, they
were trying to give it the stature that Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-
Baha had always intended it should have. Having established
scriptural authority for the central importance of the Feast,
the next issue of the Journal explains how it should now be
observed:
the first tasks of the administration, therefore, was to stan­
dardize religious observance and to instruct its followers in
the full range of Baha’i worship.

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 183
It is interesting to note that ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s description of
the Feast mentions only two parts: the devotional and the
social. However, with the growth of the Administrative Or­
der, there arose a need for the addition of a third part during
which organizational business could be discussed. This three­
fold pattern of the Feast had been fixed by the Guardian, and
was already widely practiced in the United States. However,
to some British Baha’is it may have seemed a radical innova­
tion. For their benefit, it was important to emphasize both the
spiritual benefits obtained by attending the Feasts and the
moral imperative to do so:
It is the source from which the spiritual life of the community is
regularly renewed. By attending the Nineteen Day Feast the
believer integrates himself, not only with the local community,
but with the entire world organism of the Most Great Name. . . .
All believers are expected to attend regularly, only sickness or
absence from the city being good reason for not attending. Baha’is
are expected to adjust their affairs so that they can attend the
Feast.52
The Feast has a threefold function and is conducted in three
stages. The first part is devoted to the reading of passages from
Baha’i Sacred Writings and is the “spiritual feast”. The second
part is the recognised and proper occasion for consultation be­
tween the believers and between the community and local Spiri­
tual Assembly. The third part is the material feast and provides
an opportunity for a social gathering of the friends in the atmo­
sphere engendered by the spiritual meeting.51
This latter point was frequently repeated in the Journal.
Indeed, the National Assembly considered it to be of such
importance that in November 1936, they circularized all the
British Baha’is “urging the observance of two Baha’i laws—
regular attendance at the nineteen day Feast, and regular
subscription to the Fund . . ,”53 In fact, attendance at Feasts is
not obligatory according to Baha’i law. But it is easy to see

184 Phillip R. Smith
The National Spiritual Assembly has requested local Assemblies
to arrange for a review of the current number of the Journal at
each Nineteen-Day Feast.54
If attendance at the Feasts could be ensured, and the
Journal was properly studied during the administrative part
of it, then the National Assembly could be sure that their
communications were getting through.
Such was the importance attached to Feasts that the Jour­
nal carried reports of their observance by the communities.
The fact that they had become “firmly established” in Manches­
ter by April 1937, is presented as evidence that a new and
vigorous spirit was at work in that community.55 At the same
time, the lack of reports about their observance in London can
be taken as an indication that the Baha’is of that city were
less enthusiastic in their support. Mary Balyuzi recounts that
her mother, Kathleen Brown, was in the vanguard of the
movement to establish Nineteen-Day Feasts, but that they
were introduced only gradually, and “somewhat reluctantly.”56
The fact that by May 1938, the London Spiritual Assembly
could only report that its Feasts were receiving “better atten­
dance than before”57 would seem to confirm this.
The people who became Baha’is during this period would
have no difficulty understanding the need to attend the
Feasts. In March 1939, the Journal reported that the new
believers in both Bradford and Torquay were holding the
why the Assembly overstated their case in this matter. They
sought to draw together this scattered group of believers and
to forge them into a community. The Feast was the ideal, and
to them the God-given, occasion on which to do this. By com­
ing together to worship and to mix in a social gathering, this
sense of community identity could be encouraged to develop.
It was also the ideal time to deepen the believers’ knowledge
and understanding of the Faith.

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 185
Nineteen-Day Feasts regularly, even before their Assem­
blies had formed.58
After the successful establishment of Feasts as the devo­
tional focus of the community, the Journal hardly mentions
them again. There remained some Baha’is who were reluc­
tant to attend Feasts regularly, and the National Assembly
seems to have remained rather too anxious to make atten­
dance compulsory. The Guardian pointed this out to them in
June 1943:
Prayer is clearly seen as something positive that a Bahd’f
can do to help spread the Faith. Although great emphasis is
still placed upon putting the teachings into practice, no longer
He feels that Baha’is who, though still considering themselves
believers omit attending the 19-Day Feasts for long periods should
not be deprived of their voting rights; they should, however, be
encouraged to attend these Feasts as often as possible.59
The prayers of all the friends are asked for blessings and confir­
mations on the efforts made in this new outpost of the Faith.60
The majority of British Baha’is did, however, attend the
Feasts and, despite the addition of the administrative section,
its primary purpose had become fixed as religious and devo­
tional. By 1940, they had replaced teaching and discussion
groups as the most important of all Baha’i meetings and were
in essence a form of community worship.
Prayer was always important to the Baha’is. Often it was
not specified what form this prayer should take. But by 1936,
prayer had begun to play an increasingly prominent role in
the Baha’i community. One example of this new role is the
fact that the Journal several times calls on the Baha’is to
pray for the success of a particular venture. For example, in
April 1937, help was requested when a small group of believ­
ers had been formed in Devonshire:

Phillip R. Smith
is religious observance seen as less important than action.
Rather, it is recognized that spiritual exercises are needed to
prepare oneself for material activity:
With the publication of these books, Baha’is were able for
the first time to have a collection of prayers suitable for all
occasions. These books established that there was now a dis­
tinctive Baha’i form of prayer. Just as it was no longer pos­
sible to be both a Baha’i and Christian, there were now prayers
that should only be used by Baha’is. The use of these prayers
reinforced their Baha’i identity.
As we noted above, although some of the early Baha’is
may have observed the Bahd’i fast, it is unlikely that its
The new prayer book is now available. It is printed in two editions
one with a blue cover and one with a beige. The former costs a
shilling and the latter ninepence. The shilling edition contains
obligatory prayers, prayers for the Fast, and the prayer for the
dead; these are omitted from the ninepenny edition, with a view
to making it more suitable to non-Bahd’fs.62
As this increased emphasis was being placed upon the
power of prayer, there came a greater recognition of the spe­
cial significance of prayers that were found in the Baha’i'
scriptures. The National Assembly offered for sale, through
the pages of the Journal, a prayer book that had been pub­
lished in the United States in 1937. They also announced
their intention of printing one or two prayers in each edition
of the Journal, until the new prayer book was published.
In September 1939, the prayer book was finally in print:
We rise to our fullest capacity only through the power of the
Spirit, and now, as never before, do we need its strength and
energising influence. Let us resolve to remain continually in the
clear light of prayer, individually and as a community. If we do
this we know that God will use us to achieve His purpose.61

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 187
It goes on to list, and explain the significance of the nine
most important Baha’i Holy Days. This was an important
step in establishing the Baha’i Faith as a separate religion
that should celebrate its own religious festivals. Although the
The sparsity of references to the Fast in the Journal dur­
ing the period seems to confirm this. One notice that did
appear suggests that Baha’is knew of the Fast, but they felt it
was not appropriate—nor perhaps even possible—for the Brit­
ish believers to observe it.
observance was widespread. This situation does not appear to
have changed very much by the mid-1980s. Mary Balyuzi has
confirmed as much in her recollections of that period:
During the 1930s my mother observed the fast, as no doubt did
some others, but I doubt if it was widely observed.63
We have seen that the early Baha’is had begun to observe
at least some of the Baha’i Holy Days, principally Naw-Ruz
and, to a lesser extent, Ridvan. This practice appears to have
continued, and the Journal makes regular mention of these
two dates in particular. It is also clear that the other Baha’i
festivals were not widely known and certainly were not widely
observed. It was not until the 1940s that the National Assem­
bly made an attempt to change this situation.
An article printed in the Journal in April 1943, points out
that for Jews and Christians, it is the religious festivals that
stand out as milestones in the year. It says that the same
situation should be true of Baha’is:
Our year, with its milestones, should become indelibly engraved
upon our consciousness. . . 65
Not all of us are able to keep the Fast, but we can all unite in
making these days a special time of prayer and meditation.64

article admits that their commemoration was not widespread,
it at least began the process of promoting their observance
within the community.
There are several other matters that can be mentioned as
examples of further developments in the establishment of the
Baha’i religion. In September 1939, the National Spiritual
Assembly advised all Baha’is who were eligible for military
service to register as conscientious objectors. Subsequently,
several Baha’i men were granted exemption from combative
service because they were members of the Baha’i religion.
On April 15, 1940, two Baha’is in Bradford were married.
Hasan Balyuzi officiated at the Baha’i wedding. This was the
first of several Baha’i weddings that were to take place dur­
ing the next few years. In September of the same year, Baha’is
were urged to carry identification with them wherever they
went and “to specify that in the event of death they wish to be
buried according to the manner of the Baha’i Faith.”66 These
events mark an attempt to establish distinctive Baha’i rites of
passage among the British Baha’is.
In addition to these developments, the establishment of
the Baha’i Publishing Trust made compilations of Baha’i
Scripture easier to obtain. In addition to advertising these
compilations, the Journal regularly urged Baha’is to read
some scripture every day. This practice, together with daily
prayer, was to become established as a distinctive Baha’i
form of worship.
All of the above changes in religious practices were urged
on the community by the centralized administration of the
Baha’is. It was only after the authority of the National As­
sembly had been established that religious observances could
be standardized and imposed upon the British Baha’is. It
was, in effect, the organization that created the religion and
turned the Movement into the Faith.
188 Phillip R. Smith

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 189
Spreading the Faith. By 1940, the Baha’i Movement had com­
pleted its transformation into a separate and distinct religion.
Its administration, theology, and religious practices were to
remain largely unchanged from that date forward. However,
further changes still needed to be made before it was to be­
come the Baha’i Faith as it is known today. Those changes
were in the area of spreading the religion.
The British Baha’is during the era of‘Abdu’l-Baha do not
seem to have made serious attempts to gain converts. That, of
course, does not mean that they were not interested in teach­
ing their beliefs. Much of their energy seems to have been
given to this task, but the aim does not appear to have been to
recruit members to the Baha’i Movement.
Their first objective was to inform the world of the life and
station of Baha’u’llah, and of the whereabouts of the living
exemplar of his teachings, his son, ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Secondly,
they sought to make known the main principles of Baha’u’llah’s
teachings, especially those concerning the unity of religions
and races.
Having given their audience these two pieces of informa­
tion, the Baha’is felt that it was then up to the hearer to
decide whether to accept or reject them. The early British
Baha’is were content that their audience might agree with
and accept the principles of Baha’i teaching. They were pro­
claiming Baha’u’llah’s message, not seeking proselytes. If they
spread the ideas of religious and racial unity, which they
believed came from Baha’u’llah, then they were helping to
spread the Baha’i Spirit. If some people also recognized
Baha’u’llah as the source of these ideas, this was an added
bonus. But it was not their primary objective.
In the first edition of Baha’u’llah and the New Era,
Esslemont had written that the only way “.. . the real success
of the Movement can be gauged is, not by the number of its

professed adherents, but by the way in which its principles
are permeating and changing the world.”67
The first Bahd’is used a variety of methods to disseminate
these principles. They published books and pamphlets which
could be sold or given to the public. They wrote articles for
publication in newspapers and journals. They held meetings
in hired halls to which the public was invited. They also tried
to interest their friends and their families in the teachings,
often through informal gatherings in their own homes.
It was perhaps through this last method that they were
most successful in leading people to accept the faith. Many of
the first Baha’i groups were formed in this way. For example,
the Hall and the Craven families, who formed the nucleus of
the Manchester Baha’i community, were related to each other.
The Bournemouth group was mainly comprised of the friends,
former patients, and colleagues of Dr. Esslemont.
In addition to these direct teaching methods, there is some
evidence that the Baha’is were also involved in other organi­
zations, such as Esperanto and pacifist groups. That is not to
imply that Baha’is infiltrated these organizations in an at­
tempt to gain converts. They joined these groups because
their own beliefs required them to work actively for world
peace. In the course of their activities, they might also lead
some of their coworkers to recognize Baha’u’llah as a prophet
of God, but that was an added bonus, not their primary
objective.
However, we cannot be sure how successful this teaching
method was. What we can say with some certainty is that
during the first twenty years of Baha’i activity in Britain,
very few people were moved to openly recognize the claims of
Baha’u’llah. Although no precise figure is available, it was
probably less than a hundred. There was perhaps a larger
number, equally hard to assess, who found the Baha’i teach­
ings interesting and attractive, and whose thinking may have
190 Phillip R. Smith

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 191
been influenced by them, but who stopped short of accepting
the divine station of the Baha’i prophet. During this early
period, people in both of these groups might have been re­
ferred to as Baha’is.
As shown earlier, the ten to fifteen years following the
death of ‘Abdu’l-Baha were ones of reduced activity for the
British Baha’is. This was also a time during which Baha’i
identity became more carefully defined. However, teaching
activities continued. The communities in London and Man­
chester held regular public meetings. Books by Esslemont,
Florence Pinchon, and Elizabeth Herrick were published. A
presentation of the Baha’i Cause was given at the 1924 “Con­
ference of Living Religions within the Empire” that was held
in London.
Despite this activity, the tone of Baha’i teaching during
this period is one of general quiescence. Energy and direction
seem to be missing from their efforts. Indeed, a letter written
on behalf of Shoghi Effendi summed up their activities as
“happy tea parties at individual homes.”68
We can say, therefore, that during this period of transi­
tion of authority to the Guardian and establishment of the
Administrative Order, very little was achieved in the area of
growth. Few new people seem to have declared themselves
Baha’is, in the sense of recognizing the station of Baha’u’llah,
and many who had considered themselves Baha’is ceased to
do so.
This situation appears to have remained unchanged until
the mid-1980s. Once the administrative organization was es­
tablished, and the inclusive movement had transformed into
an exclusive religion, then far more organized efforts were
made to draw new members into the faith. The changes in
teaching methods that the organization introduced, and the
effect they had on the community, can be divided into three
distinct stages.

Phillip R. Smith
1936-1940. During this period we can trace the emergence of
modern Baha’i attitudes and methods of teaching. It was
during this period that it became accepted that the greatest
service one could perform for mankind was to lead people into
accepting the religion of Baha’u’llah.
These three events were to become the highpoints of the
Baha’i year, with the National Convention in London, the
Teaching Conference in Manchester, and Summer School in
There is undoubtedly no higher call than that of bringing the
Message to a world tormented and torn on every side by the forces
of destructive materialism.69
To establish three rallying points during the year for all the
believers; Convention in Spring; Summer School in Summer, and
a midwinter Teaching Conference.71
This message from the Guardian to the British National
Assembly was quoted in the Journal, and became a common
theme of this period. Indeed, the National Assembly went so
far as to declare that “teaching is our most important obliga­
tion.”70 Much of their attention over the next few years was
taken up, not only with developing methods of teaching, but
also with finding ways of getting more of the Baha’is involved
in the process of teaching.
The innovations introduced by the National Assembly to
unite and educate the community were also used to promote
the teaching effort. The Journal was used to urge the friends
to new efforts and advise them of new methods. Baha’i Sum­
mer School and the annual teaching conference were also
used to develop teaching strategies and campaigns.
It was at the first teaching conference in December 1937,
that an important change in activity was suggested to the
National Spiritual Assembly:

The Bahai Administrative Order in Great Britain 193
This emphasis on teaching the Faith reached a peak
at the National Convention of April 1938. It was at this
convention, in its annual report, that the National Spiri­
tual Assembly put forward what must have seemed to some a
remarkable suggestion:
the Midlands whenever possible. These gatherings provided
the opportunity for discussion, decision-making, and plan­
ning. But they also provided “spiritual reinforcement,” through
a sense of being involved, that could never otherwise have
been given to isolated Baha’is or those from small local com­
munities. It was the Baha’is who attended one or all of these
events who would be most likely to become actively involved
in the teaching campaigns.
A feature of the newly established administration was an
increasingly centralized control of teaching. One way this
control was achieved was through the Baha’i Fund. It was the
promotion of teaching campaigns that took the largest part of
the Fund’s resources and since the National Assembly con­
trolled this national fund, it controlled most of the teaching.
Through administration of the Fund, the National Assembly
could promote teaching work in localities as far apart as
Bradford and Devon, and even in areas where no Baha’i yet
resided. Increasingly, it was emphasized that teaching relied
upon a steady income to the Fund, and that this was one way
in which every Baha’i could help with this work:
The response to our appeal for funds to carry on the work until
the end of April, has been most disappointing. The amount re­
quired is £30, and without this the N.S.A. will have to curtail its
programme of teaching. Let every believer ask himself this ques­
tion: Do I want the Faith to progress in England?
If the answer is “yes,” it means you will make sacrifices. . . .
Our support of the Fund is the gauge of the measure of our
Faith.72

194 Phillip R. Smith
We are happy to report that owing to the persistent efforts of the
resident believers, to the work of visiting teachers, to the sacri­
fices of all who have given to the Fund, and the unfailing assis­
tance of the Holy Spirit, Spiritual Assemblies were elected in both
places on April 21st.74
The N.S.A. recommends for consideration the suggestion that the
Faith in England should, for one year, regard itself, and attempt
to function as, a teaching organism. Let all our efforts and ener­
gies be directed to this supreme aim. The work of individuals,
spiritual assemblies, and the national assembly can be co-ordinated
through the methods and institutions of the administration.73
The delegates at the convention accepted the suggestion,
and the Guardian’s support of it was whole-hearted. The pri­
mary purpose of the Faith was no longer to be regarded as the
unification of religions, the reconciliation of races, or even as
offering help to the poor and needy. For that year, the pur­
pose of the Faith—the very reason for its existence—was to
bring more people into the Baha’i community. The Baha’i's
were to become an evangelical organization, actively and openly
seeking proselytes.
Equally significant is the fact that, at the end of that year,
no one suggested that the Faith should now cease to function
as a “teaching organism.” From that time forward, the Baha’i
Faith in Britain was to remain an organization whose main activ­
ity and purpose was to increase the number of its adherents.
This decision resulted in the first attempt at a planned
and coordinated teaching campaign. The new National As­
sembly met in London in May 1938, and decided to concen­
trate its efforts in Bradford and Torquay, with the object of
establishing Spiritual Assemblies in those localities as soon
as possible. Of the £250 that the Assembly believed they
would need during the coming year, £100 was set aside for
the teaching work. At the end of the year, the Assembly was
able to celebrate the success of its campaign:

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 195
A year later all believers were being urged by the National
Spiritual Assembly to adopt this new informal approach:
The Spiritual Assemblies are urged to arrange more meetings to
which the believers can ask their friends. These should be infor­
mal, part of the time being given to teaching and part to social
enjoyment. The isolated believers especially can undertake this
sort of activity.76
Undoubtedly the success was also due to the careful plan­
ning of the National Assembly that preceded and accompa­
nied the teaching work. It was a lesson that would be noted
by the Baha’is when later plans were drawn up.
During the period of 1936-40, teaching achieved a new
priority and was centrally planned, controlled, and funded.
These changes helped to achieve the establishment of the
two new local Spiritual Assemblies. But this success was also
due to the introduction of new teaching strategies that began
to emerge at the very beginning of this period. The Annual
Report for the year April 1936 to April 1937 reported these
new developments:
This style became the normal Baha’i teaching approach
used in Britain. Public lectures and meetings were still used,
but only to make contact with interested persons or “seekers.”
Once this contact had been made, those interested would then
be invited to informal discussions, known as “firesides,” usu­
ally in one of the homes of the Baha’is. Here their questions
could be answered and the teaching focused more appropri­
ately to their individual needs and interests. Moreover, the
In the work of the Spiritual Assemblies there is apparent at this
end of the year, a different and more impressive method than
could be seen at the beginning. In both London and Manchester
the old type of teaching in wide generalisations has been suc­
ceeded by intensive and vital discussion groups.75

Phillip R. Smith
feeling of being part of a warm and friendly community could
be given.
Another development was the establishment of a Library
Committee in 1937, “to be in charge of placing Baha’i books
and literature in libraries.”77 This was a task that had been
undertaken by individuals before, but it too was now to be
organized on a national level.
In November 1938, a monthly newspaper called The New
World Order was issued whose sole aim was to contact people
who might subsequently be drawn into the Faith:
In fact the paper was never very successful and the Jour­
nal regularly carried appeals to the Baha’is to take out more
subscriptions to it. During the next dozen years, its format
was often changed and its frequency of publication altered.
Despite all of this, it never became financially self-sustaining,
and it was of only limited help in the teaching work. For these
reasons its publication was suspended. It reflected, however,
a new maturity in the Baha’i approach, a more sophisticated
attempt to reach a new and wider audience.
The publication of New World Order and the establish­
ment, during 1937, of the Baha’i Publishing Company mark a
more businesslike attitude of the Baha’is in their dealings
with the outside world. Here is further evidence of the in­
creasingly centralized structure of the Faith. These businesses
established by the National Assembly were to be an impor­
tant aid in teaching. By 1939, the publishing company had
The paper is chiefly a means of contact and publicity, and the first
number will be sent free to five thousand people. It will contain
an editorial, short articles, quotations from the Baha’i Writings,
excerpts from current speeches and other material which will
help to create a body of opinion in favour of the universal principles of
Baha’u’llah. It is intended to follow up the contacts which will be
established by those people who respond to the first number.78

1940 to 1944. Other Bahd’i communities around the world
had already organized teaching plans by this time. For ex­
ample, the Baha’is in the United States had adopted a Seven-
been established as the Baha’i Publishing Trust and was the
chief subsidiary of the National Spiritual Assembly, which
had become legally incorporated as an unlimited company.
The Trust distributed all Baha’i literature and also published
whatever the National Assembly required. So important was
its function that the Assembly regarded the Trust as . its
right hand in teaching.”79
All these new developments in teaching, however, although
regarded as successful, did not result in a dramatic influx of
converts. The Annual Reports to the National Convention
each April show a very slow increase in numbers. Nine new
believers in 1937, seven in 1938, and probably about ten in
1939. During this same period, several of the older Baha’is
died, diminishing the overall increase in numbers. The small
number of converts did, nonetheless, have a large effect on
the Baha’i Administration. The increase in overall numbers of
approximately ten percent at the end of 1938-39, allowed for a
one hundred percent increase in the number of Local Assem­
blies. This was because some of those new Baha’is lived in
areas where their presence raised the number of local believ­
ers to, or above, the nine required to form a local Assembly.
And so they raised the number of Assemblies in Britain from
two to four.
Thus, when we come to the end of the period 1936-40,
despite only a slight increase in numbers, we can sense a
feeling of both triumph and expectation within the British
community. Their new teaching methods, centralized admin­
istration and planning, and relative teaching success gave the
Baha’i's the confidence to launch an ambitious teaching plan,
despite the rigors and restrictions of war.
The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 197

198 Phillip R. Smith
Year Plan in 1937. The British community, in effect, had set
themselves a one-year plan in 1938-39, when they aimed to
establish Assemblies in Torquay and Bradford by the end of
the year. It was the successful completion of this plan that
inspired them to set themselves a more difficult task.
The Teaching Conference held in January 1939, made the
following recommendation to the National Assembly:
That a five year plan should be adopted, with the aim of having at
least one believer in every county of England by the end of 1944.50
The Assembly seems to have ignored this suggestion, per­
haps judging it to be a little too ambitious, but the following
year they did accept a recommendation put at the National
Convention:
That the whole Baha’i community should engage in a four year
plan of Teaching, with the object of having nineteen local Spiri­
tual Assemblies established by Rizwan 1944.81
Ultimately, this plan was also to prove too ambitious. To
expect to achieve growth of nearly five hundred percent in
only four years would have been optimistic at any time, but to
expect such growth during wartime was unrealistic. At the
completion of the four years, there were only five local Assem­
blies in Britain, fourteen short of the target. But this was not
regarded or reported as a failure, since the plan had effec­
tively been abandoned in 1942. Although the four-year plan
was rarely mentioned after that date, the period of the plan
did produce some significant and lasting changes in the Baha’i
community.
The first of these changes was administrative. At the very
outset of the plan the National Spiritual Assembly appointed
a separate teaching committee with well defined guidelines.
Originally, all its members were based in London, so that
they could consult freely. This was later changed so that the

From the reports of his activities over the next few months, it
is apparent that a large part of his time was spent in travel­
ing the country, giving talks, and becoming involved in other
teaching activities. In effect, despite the National Assembly’s
protestations to the contrary, he was employed as a full-time
teacher. This was an extension of the established practice of
merely paying the expenses of teachers. Although his ap­
pointment lasted only until his military call-up in 1942, it did
set an important precedent.
However, later on the very same page they go on to men­
tion an important side-effect of the appointment:
committee was comprised of Baha’is from all over the coun­
try. Although the plan was a failure, the idea of a National
Teaching Committee was not. Such a committee has contin­
ued to exist down to the present day and has played a role in
the community second in importance only to the National
Spiritual Assembly itself.
Another important innovation was the employment of
David Hofman as full-time editor of New World Order and
manager of the Baha’i Publishing Trust. These were posts
which he had filled for some time in a voluntary capacity, in
addition to being secretary of the National Assembly. The
Assembly now paid him a salary so that he could devote
himself to full-time Baha’i work, though they seem to have
adopted an unusual attitude to this appointment. On the
front page of the Journal they announced:
Mr. Hofman will be able to spend far more time in teaching, and
will be at the full service of the N.S.A.83
It should be emphasised that Mr. Hofman is not employed as a
teacher, nor as secretary of the N.S.A., but in the capacities
mentioned.82
The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 199

Phillip R. Smith
This could be seen as little more than putting a brave face on
Another minor innovation was the introduction of adver­
tisements in the press. These first appeared during 1942, and
were placed in seemingly obscure papers:
The Annual Report for 1942-43 claimed that these adver­
tisements along with others placed subsequently, had stimu­
lated a significant response:
Again, because of its success, this was an innovation in teach­
ing methods that survived after the demise of the four-year
plan.
Perhaps the most important of the changes that were
introduced during the years 1940-44, came about with the
abandonment of the Four-Year Plan. The Teaching Confer­
ence held in January 1942, when failure already seemed in­
evitable, arrived at some important conclusions about the
nature of teaching:
. . . advertisements have been placed in the following: “The Brit­
ish Esperantist,” in connection with which fourteen enquiries
have been received already, “Opus,” which circulates mainly
amongst young people, “Stand-By,” the paper of the North Re­
gional Fire Service, and “One and All,” the magazine of the Na­
tional Adult School Union.84
So far between seventy and eighty enquiries have been received
. ... In addition to this London alone has had fifty fresh people at
public meetings since Christmas, mainly on account of advertis­
ing.85
The outcome of the conference was to stress the two sides of
teaching: the making-known of the Cause, however slightly, to
more and more of the people of the British Isles, and the gradual
introduction of the more spiritually receptive individuals to a full
understanding of the Revelation of Baha’u’llah.86

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 201
failure. Success in teaching was not to be judged by the number
of converts alone, but also by the number of people who had
learned of the Faith, even if they then rejected it. In this way,
the failure of the Four-Year Plan to increase the number of
Assemblies, could be transformed into the “success” of having
the Faith better known to the general public.
However, it could be argued that the British Baha’is were
facing up to the fact that only a small proportion of the public
was ready to accept their new religion. If they desired large
numbers of converts, then they had to accept that much larger
numbers of people had first to become acquainted with the
Faith. For every hundred people that heard of the Faith,
perhaps only one or two would be “spiritually receptive” enough
to go on to accept it. This being the case, publicity became an
end in itself and could be classed by the Baha’is as teaching.
Later in 1942, this position was to become an official one,
when the National Assembly accepted a recommendation from
convention:
Thus the plan of taking the Faith into new areas was
officially abandoned (except for three specified towns), and for
the first time publicity came to be regarded as a teaching
activity in itself. Later, Baha’is would term this form of pub­
licity-seeking “proclamation.”
The Four-Year Plan had been a failure, but from the at­
tempt the Baha’is of Britain had introduced changes that
became permanent features of the community. They had es­
tablished an efficiently functioning National Teaching Com­
mittee that would plan and coordinate all future teaching
To modify the Four-Year Plan to the extent of combining a public­
ity campaign with intensive teaching in places where there are
existing groups and centres, and that special efforts be made in
three places: Bournemouth, Nottingham and Blackbum, the pub­
licity to be followed by visits from a teacher.87

CENTENARY EXHIBITION
at Bradford, Yorkshire, showing a shop window on one of the
main streets.
I
i
z
' ! / ■
• I
■ :
■"'rrpM
■

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 203
activities. The use of paid officials as an aid to teaching was
introduced. Publicity as an aid to teaching was firmly estab­
lished. Through the activities of the Publicity Committee,
established in 1942, experience was gained not only in adver­
tising but also in successfully getting reports of Baha’i activi­
ties into the newspapers.
All of this was to be of great importance in the next few
years. In 1944, the National Spiritual Assembly adopted a
new teaching plan that was to see the Baha’i Faith at last
firmly established in the British Isles.
WELCOME SPONTANEOUS DECISION ADVISE FORMATION
NINETEEN SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES SPREAD OVER EN­
GLAND WALES SCOTLAND NORTHERN IRELAND AND EIRE
PRAYING SIGNAL VICTORY.88
This was almost precisely the same goal that the commu­
nity had set themselves in 1940, and had abandoned as being
too difficult two years later—except for the added require­
ment that the new Assemblies be spread throughout the
British Isles.
The announcement of the plan followed successful cente­
nary celebrations of the founding of the Faith. The British
community had published a history of the Faith in England,
mounted exhibitions up and down the country, and obtained
a good deal of publicity. This limited success gave them the
confidence to embark upon this new plan, although they were
1944 to 1950. The six years from 1944 to 1950 may arguably
be the most important in the history of the British Baha’i
community. At the Annual Convention held in May 1944, the
delegates decided to adopt a new plan, this time to last six
years. They cabled their decision to the Guardian in Haifa,
asking him to set the goals, and he sent the following telex in
response:

204 Phillip R. Smith
still suffering from the same wartime restrictions and deple­
tion of numbers (due to conscription) that had led them to
abandon their previous plan.
At the beginning of the plan, there were less than one
hundred fifty adult Baha’is in Britain and only five local
Spiritual Assemblies. By the end of the plan, in April 1950,
there were three hundred forty adult Baha’is and twenty-four
local Spiritual Assemblies. All the goals of the Six-Year Plan
had been achieved.
The completion of the Six-Year Plan saw the Baha’i Faith
at last firmly established in the British Isles. Up to this point,
the existence of the Faith in Britain had always been precari­
ous and, as has been shown, had almost ended around 1930.
From 1950 onwards, the Baha’i presence in Britain was as­
sured. From this base of twenty-four Assemblies, the commu­
nity continued to grow. Indeed, it was soon able to send
pioneers (missionaries) abroad to found and support other
communities.
How was this success achieved? One important factor was
that the Baha’is were now reaping the benefit of the changes
the community had undergone and of the experience they had
gained in previous years. Teaching, or the seeking of con­
verts, was now seen as the priority of the community, and the
Baha’i Faith continued, in effect, to function as a teaching
organism. The Summer School program was able to function
normally after the war. From 1946 onwards, it became the
highlight of the year, with approximately half of the Baha’i
community of the British Isles attending. This event, together
with the Teaching Conference and Annual Convention, helped
to establish a feeling of community which facilitated national
planning and action on teaching.
The National Teaching Committee continued to function
and played a vital role in the success of the plan. The now
well-established local Spiritual Assemblies organized local ac-

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 205
The enthusiasm and commitment brought to the community
by new converts helped revitalize its teaching efforts and
increase their success rate. All the new believers were aware
of the plan, and they saw it as a natural part of their faith.
Indeed, many may have declared because of the plan.
In the last month of the Six-Year Plan, when failure seemed
inevitable, twenty-two people made their declarations of faith.
Undoubtedly, many of these would have been people who had
been studying the Baha’i Faith for some time, but who were
It is of interest to note here that of the 76 Baha’i's who had
attended during the Conference, 38 (or 50 per cent) had become
Baha’is during the Plan, and only 18 (or 23.5 per cent) since the
last Teaching Conference. Only 40 per cent of the believers at­
tending were Baha’is in Britain before the Plan started.89
tivities and raised funds for the National Spiritual Assembly.
The Baha’i Journal continued its role of informing the believ­
ers of national decisions, as well as of exhorting the commu­
nity to ever greater participation in the teaching program.
Most of these developments had been initiated in the 1930s,
but their successful operation had been interrupted by the
Second World War. Seen in this light, the growth of the Faith
in the late 1940s was not a new development, but simply the
resumption of a process that had begun before the war. How­
ever, several important changes were introduced during the
Six-Year Plan.
One new feature was the energy that was injected into the
community by new believers. It is a common feature of all
religions that new converts can be more zealous than long­
term adherents. This was true of the Baha’is. Those who
became Baha’is during the plan were often more committed
and active than those who had been Baha’is for far longer.
This can be shown by an analysis that was made of those Baha’is
who attended the Teaching Conference in January 1949:

moved to make their declarations in the knowledge that their
declarations would aid the plan.
Another change in the community was the success of the
technique of “pioneering.” It was Baha’i's moving out from the
larger established communities, particularly London and
Manchester, that brought Baha’i activity to the goal towns.
Once there, the pioneers set about publicizing the Faith, orga­
nizing public meetings, and setting up study classes with any
contacts they made. The hope was, of course, that these people
would eventually become converts.
Some of the pioneers, having established the required
nine believers in one place, would then move on to another
town to begin the process again. Thus, some Baha’i's moved
two or three times during the Six-Year Plan. Any town that
had numbers over the required nine was automatically a
target of the National Teaching Committee, to encourage some
of their number to become pioneers. What was new for the
British community was the response that the committee re­
ceived to their requests. Throughout the Four-Year Plan the
National Spiritual Assembly had called for pioneers, but not
one person had answered the call. During the Six-Year Plan
many of the believers did move their residence.
In fact, it was estimated that during the first four years of
the plan twelve and one-half percent (or one in eight) of the
British Baha’is were pioneers.90 The fact that so many were
willing to move, often leaving jobs and families behind, is further
evidence of the new spirit that was affecting the community.
Another development was a changed view towards the
Guardian of the Faith. Shoghi Effendi at first based his au­
thority on the instructions left in the Will and Testament of
‘Abdu’l-Baha. The establishment of the Administrative Order
had reinforced his position. Even with this support, the Brit­
ish National Assembly had felt able to ignore an instruction
of his in 1929.
206 Phillip R. Smith

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 207
From this point onwards more space in the Journal was
devoted to printing letters and cables from the Guardian in
full. Failure to achieve goals was increasingly described in
terms of the community failing the Guardian. There were few
believers left alive who could remember ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Gradu­
ally, Shoghi Effendi became the focus for the love and adora­
tion of the Baha’i's, in the same way that ‘Abdu’l-Baha had
done for an earlier generation.
This new respect for Shoghi Effendi is one of the factors
that animated the community during the years of the plan. It
paved the way for many later Baha’i's, who now regard him
with awe and veneration, habitually referring to him as “the
beloved Guardian.” Some of the Baha’i's who arose as pioneers
undoubtedly did so out of that love for Shoghi Effendi.
The last change that affected the development of the Baha’i
Faith in Britain is perhaps the most significant. During the
1930s, the major achievement of the National Assembly was
to unite the scattered Baha’is into one national community.
. . . the depth and wonder of his nature, the sharpness and
poignancy of his feelings, the weight of his inconceivable burden,
his sufferings, his sacrifice, the fullness and magnitude of his
dedication.91
However, during the Six-Year Plan we can observe a
change in the way the Baha’is refer to the Guardian. He
seems, as it were, to acquire charisma. In 1947, the Baha’is of
the world commemorated the twenty-fifth anniversary of the
Guardianship, and the Baha’i Journal published an article
about the Guardian by Marion Hofman. In this article, she
states that for the last twenty-five years, most Baha’is have
been blind to the “brilliance and power” of Shoghi Effendi.
She goes on to describe him in words that would previously
have been used only with reference to ‘Abdu’l-Baha or
Baha’u’llah:

During the years of the Six-Year Plan the British Baha’is
finally became part of a world faith.
This event has to be seen as part of a worldwide process.
Now that National Assemblies were established in several
countries, the Guardian was encouraging closer links between
them and assigning them the task of taking the religion to
new territories. His aim was the establishment of a world
community of Baha’is.
This new awareness of being part of a world community
allowed the British Baha’is to see the goals of their national
plan as also being part of a much greater plan:
Is it too much to suppose that through this task, our labours will
also affect the speed and the adequacy with which the Most Great
Peace, the Kingdom of God upon earth, is established.92
This feeling, that the establishment of local Spiritual Assem­
blies was not just some bureaucratic whim, but part of the
unfolding plan of God for bringing peace to the world, helps to
explain why so many British Baha’is were willing to devote
their lives to achieving the goals of the Six-Year Plan. Pio­
neering and teaching were expressions of their religious belief
and commitment.
In addition to these psychological and theological changes,
the emergence of the global community of Baha’is was also to
have important practical implications for Britain. The first of
these was an increase in funds. The Guardian made regular
gifts of money to the British Baha’i Fund. This money had
been donated by the larger, more established communities,
principally by the Baha’is in Iran. Without this money, the
programs of teaching and pioneering carried out in Britain
would not have been possible.
One of the primary benefits of being part of the global
community of Baha’is, therefore, was that it enabled the Brit­
ish community to take on far more ambitious teaching pro-
208 Phillip R. Smith

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 209
grams than would ever have been possible otherwise. While
the British community remained so small, the only way it
could function effectively as a teaching organism was by ac­
cepting funds from Baha’is elsewhere in the world.
Another practical benefit of being part of this developing
worldwide community was the influence of Baha’is abroad.
With the end of the war, Baha’is from overseas could again
visit. Some of these Baha’is were students who remained for
several years. Others were more or less permanent settlers.
In either case, they were registered as part of the British
community and helped to increase its growth. For example,
the list of thirty-six adult additions to the community given in
June 1950, shows that three came from Iran, two from Canada,
and one each from Australia, Denmark, and Holland.93 Many
of these settlers were willing to move to the goal towns and,
therefore, also qualified as pioneers.
Another major benefit from foreign Baha’is was in the
form of “travel teaching.” There were many Baha’is from
abroad who were gifted and experienced teachers. Marion
Hofman, the wife of David Hofman, came from America where
she had served on the National Teaching Committee. She
soon became an active teacher, traveled throughout the coun­
try, and was appointed to the British National Teaching Com­
mittee. There were also Baha’is who visited Britain for short
periods simply to help with the teaching work. Often these
visits were effective:
It has been reported that the Canadian National Assembly sent
John Robarts, its Chairman, at its own expense on a fortnight’s
tour of the British Isles. (He gave up most of his annual holiday to
this trip.) John Robarts was instrumental in bringing about the
final confirmation of about three-quarters of the 22 people who,
after full study of the Faith over a period, made their declaration
of Faith in the last month of the Plan.94

210 Phillip R. Smith
Becoming part of a world faith had a major influence on
the success of the Six-Year Plan. It brought practical benefits
in terms of money and foreign teachers. The immigration of
overseas Baha’is helped to increase and invigorate the com­
munity. Perhaps most importantly, it helped British Baha’is
to believe that their ideals of world peace and world unity
could be achieved, inspiring them to greater efforts to bring
them about.
Conclusion. In the early years of the Baha’i Movement, activi­
ties had been carried out on a very informal basis. The main
aim of the early Baha’is had been “diffusing the fragrances,”
by which they meant informing the world of the life and
teachings of their founders. Although they were pleased if
people chose to declare themselves to be Baha’is, this was not
their primary aim. Many of them continued to practice their
previous religions.
The establishment of the Baha’i Administrative Order,
while it did lead to more formalized activities, did not result
in an increased number of Baha’is. By more narrowly defin­
ing what it meant to be a Baha’i, it may have even resulted in
an initial drop in numbers. As the Baha’is from the era of
‘Abdu’l-Baha grew older and died, there were few young re­
cruits to replace them.
The 1930s saw the emergence of an effective administra­
tive structure and the transformation of the movement into a
religion. This change was accomplished largely through the
addition to the community of Baha’is from abroad. With this
change came the elevation of teaching to the foremost activity
of the community. Deliberate and carefully planned attempts
were made to bring new converts to the Faith. Some progress
had been made when the Second World War intervened.
The period from the end of that war until 1950, saw the
largest growth in the Faith. By the end of this period, Bahd’is

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 211
NOTES
1. Phillip Smith, “What Was a Baha’i? Concerns of British Baha’is,
1900-1920” in Studies in Honor of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi: Studies
in the Bdbi and Bahai Religions, vol. 5 (Los Angeles: Kalimat Press,
1989) pp. 219-251. I have avoided any attempt to define the word
religion in this paper. The definitions that I use here are those given
by the Baha’is themselves, at various times. As shall be seen, the
early British Baha’is described themselves as being members of a
movement, and often insisted that they did not belong to a religion. At
a later date, they were equally insistent that they were members of a
religion, not a movement. The purpose of this paper is to seek to
establish why and how they made this change.
2. The term Bahaism is used here to cover both the period of the
Baha’i Movement (in Britain from 1900 to approximately 1930) and
that of the Baha’i Faith (from approximately 1930 onwards).
3. Written by Arthur Cuthbert, these agendas were circulated in
advance of the meetings. Agendas dated 28/2/14, 25/4/14, and 30/5/14.
Lotfullah Hakim papers. Baha’i World Centre Archives. Haifa, Israel.
could be found throughout the British Isles and their num­
bers and organization were such that the future of the Faith
on these islands was assured. Teaching was now the primary
aim and purpose of Baha’i activities. From a time when it had
been considered impossible for Baha’is to proselytize, the com­
munity had evolved to the point where it seemed equally
impossible for them not to. They were now part of a world­
wide religion whose aim was to draw more and more people
into it, thus uniting the world and establishing the Most
Great Peace, God’s Kingdom upon earth.
From this point on, the form and practice of the Baha’i
Faith in Britain was fixed. Its evolution from movement to
religion was complete. The Baha’is of the 1950s held beliefs,
lived their lives, and practiced their religion in ways that
would be completely familiar to Baha’is of today. The Baha’i
Movement had become the Baha’i Faith.

212 Phillip R. Smith
4. Mrs. Thornburgh-Cropper, Miss Rosenberg, Miss Gamble, Mrs.
George, Miss Herrick, and Eric Hammond.
5. Mrs. Maude Holbach met ‘Abdu’l-Bahd in both New York and
Paris, was acquainted with Lady Blomfield in London from about
1912, and visited ‘Abdu’l-Bahd in Haifa during 1914. She wrote an
article about the Bahd’i Movement in the magazine The Nineteenth
Century (February 1915).
6. John E. Esslemont to Lotfullah Hakim, December 1, 1915.
Lotfullah Hakim papers. Baha’i World Centre Archives.
7. Ibid., December 12, 1915.
8. Ibid., June 20, 1917.
9. Ibid., December 10, 1920.
10. Ibid., October 16, 1921.
11. Vernon Elvin Johnson, “An Historical Analysis of Critical
Transformations in the Evolution of the Baha’i World Faith,” Ph.D.
dissertation (Baylor University, 1974) p. 276.
12. Ibid., p. 279.
13. See Baha’i News, vol. 1 (1910) no. 1, p. 5; ibid., no. 8, p. 5;
ibid., no. 19, p. 10; Star of the West, vol. 2 (1911) no. 3, p. 7; and
Sydney Sprague, A Year With the Baha’is in India and Burma (Lon­
don: The Priory Press, 1908 [Los Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1986]) p. 52
and passim, for references to Christian, Muslim, Zoroastrian, and
Sikh Bahd’fs.
See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’f Pub­
lishing Trust, 1944) p. 311; Myron Phelps, Life and Teachings of
Abbas Effendi (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1903) p. 101 [The
Master in ‘Akkd (Los Angeles: Kalimdt Press, 1985) p. 132]; and
Ruhiyyih Rabbani, The Priceless Pearl (London: Bahd’f Publish­
ing Trust, 1969) p. 55, for references to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd’s Muslim
observances.
14. The Unfolding Destiny of the British Baha’i Community: Mes­
sages from the Guardian of the Baha’i Faith to the Baha’is of the
British Isles (London: Bahd’I Publishing Trust, 1981) p. 5.
15. Esslemont to Hakim, May 30, 1922.
16. Ibid., June 18, 1922. Note that this information conflicts with
that given on p. 9 of Unfolding Destiny, which states that “Dr.
Esslemont and E. T. Hall were ‘chosen’ to represent Bournemouth
and Manchester respectively and they met with seven others repre­
senting The London Groups’ to form the first ‘All-England Bahd’i

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 213
Council’ which met at the London home of Mrs. Thornburgh-Cropper
6 June, 1922.”
17. Unfolding Destiny, p. 63.
18. Ibid., p. 71.
19. Ibid.
20. This information was supplied to me by Mrs. Balyuzi while
recalling her childhood as a Bahd’f in Britain in the 1920s. She was
the daughter of Kathleen Brown (later Lady Hornell), a leading Bahd’f
of that period. (Letter to the author, December 19, 1984.)
21. Unfolding Destiny, p. 11.
22. Esslemont to Hakim, May 30, 1922.
23. Unfolding Destiny, p. 47.
24. Ibid., p. 54.
25. Ruth White, The Baha’i Religion and its Enemy the Baha’i
Organization (Vermont: The Tuttle Co., 1929) p. 98.
26. Ibid., p. 99.
27. Unfolding Destiny, p. 74.
28. Ibid., p. 86.
29. At Walmer House, Regent Street, London.
30. See Unfolding Destiny, pp. 86-87.
31. Ibid., p. 87.
32. John Richard, The Religion of the Baha’is (London: S.P.C.K.,
1932) p. 227.
33. Unfolding Destiny, p. 112.
34. “In 1933 an informal Summer School was held at Shoreham,
Sussex in a bungalow lent to us, and attended by six to ten young
Baha’is with my mother as chaperone and housekeeper.” (From a
letter to the author from Mary Balyuzi, October 13, 1984.)
35. Baha’i Journal, (1937) no. 4, p. 5.
36. Ibid., (1939) no. 18, p. 10.
37. Ibid., (1940) no. 23, p. 6.
38. Ibid., (1941) no. 29, p. 3.
39. Ibid. “It is not permanent, but must be maintained as long as
necessary.”
40. See Smith, “What Was a BahA’f?” Studies, vol. 5, pp. 240-46.
41. Harrold Johnson, “Bahaism: The Birth of a World Religion,”
Contemporary Review, vol. 101 (1912) p. 400.
42. J. E. Esslemont, Baha’u’lldh and the New Era, (London: George
Allen & Unwin Ltd., 1923 [Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’f Publishing Trust,
1950]) pp. 90-91.

214 Phillip R. Smith
Ph.D. dissertation
43. Neale S. Alter, “Studies in Bahaism,”
(Edinburgh University, 1924) p. 61.
44. Esslemont to Hakim, August 4, 1915.
45. Ibid., August 20, 1916.
46. Ibid., August 14, 1917.
47. O. Z. Whitehead, Some Baha’is to Remember (Oxford: George
Ronald, 1983) p. 54.
48. Esslemont to Hakim, July 4, 1919.
49. Ibid., January 3, 1921.
50. J. R. Richards, The Religion of the Bahais, p. 137.
51. Baha’i Journal, vol. 1 (1936) no. 2, p. 4.
52. Ibid.
53. Ibid., (1937) no. 7, p. 2.
54. Ibid., (1937) no. 4, p. 3.
55. Ibid., (1937) no. 7, p. 5.
56. Mary Balyuzi to the author, December 12, 1984.
57. Baha’i Journal, no. 13, (1938), p. 4.
58. Ibid., (1939) no. 17, p. 3.
59. Ibid., (1943) no. 42, p. 1.
60. Ibid., (1937) no. 6, p. 5.
61. Ibid., (1939) no. 16, p. 1.
62. Ibid., (1939) no. 19, p. 6.
63. Mary Balyuzi to the author, December 2, 1984.
64. Baha’i Journal, (1939) no. 17, p. 1.
65. Ibid., (1943) no. 39, p. 4.
66. Ibid., (1940) no. 25, p. 2.
67. Esslemont, New Era,, p. 216.
68. Unfolding Destiny, p. 87.
69. Baha’i Journal, (February 1938) no. 11, p. 1.
70. Ibid., (January 1938) no. 10, p. 2.
71. Ibid., (January 1938) no. 10, p. 1.
72. Ibid., (April 1938) no. 12, p. 1.
73. Ibid., (May 1938) no. 13, p. 5.
74. Ibid., (May 1939) no. 18, p. 2.
75. Ibid., (June 1937) no. 7, p. 5.
76. Ibid., (January 1938) no. 10, p. 3.
77. Ibid., (April 1937) no. 6, p. 4.
78. Ibid., (November 1938) no. 15, p. 3.
79. Ibid., (May 1939) no. 18, p. 4.
80. Ibid., (January 1939) no. 16, p. 3.

The Baha’i Administrative Order in Great Britain 215
81. Ibid., (June 1940) no. 23, p. 1.
82. Ibid., (July 1940) no. 24, p. 1.
83. Ibid.
84. Ibid., (June 1942) no. 34, p. 6.
85. Ibid., (June 1943) no. 40, p. 4.
86. Ibid., (February 1942) no. 32, p. 1.
87. Ibid., (June 1942) no. 34, p. 2.
88. Unfolding Destiny, p. 169.
89. Bahai Journal, (March 1949) no. 71, p. 6.
90. Ibid., (February 1948), no. 65, p. 6.
91. Ibid., (March 1947) no. 60, p. 10.
92. Ibid., (November 1948) no. 69, p. 2.
93. Ibid., (June 1950) no. 79, p. 8.
94. Ibid., p. 5.

PRINCE WILLIAM STREET
St. John, New Brunswick, was the site of most of the banks and shipping offices of the city.
& J
<
Wgd
Si '■ ::
EK

by Will. C. van den Hoonaard
The Baha’i Community of Canada is today gradually
emerging from obscurity with virtually no published records
of its beginnings and early development.1 This paper attempts
to make a beginning at rectifying this situation by exploring
the origins, rise, and decline of an early Baha’i group in
Saint John, New Brunswick, from 1910 to 1925. The Saint
John group was, during its peak years (1917-19), one of the
largest Baha’i communities in Canada, comprising almost
39% of all Baha’is in Canada at that time.2 A study of this
group adds to our stock of knowledge about early Canadian
Baha’is and sheds light on the social dynamics which under­
lie their rise, development and, in some instances, decline.
The first Baha’is settled in Saint John in 1910. Consider­
able Baha’i work took place through the use of itinerant teach­
ers in the late 1910s, in Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia,
and New Brunswick. However, this work lapsed until 1937,
THE DEVELOPMENT AND DECLINE
OF AN EARLY BAHA’I COMMUNITY:
SAINT JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK,
CANADA, 1910-1925*
* Based on a paper presented to the 23rd Annual Meeting of the
Atlantic Association of Sociologists and Anthropologists, St. Mary’s
University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, March 10-13, 1988.

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
when the Baha’is again became organized in this area. They
expanded very gradually, concentrating themselves first in
Moncton, Halifax, and Charlottetown. It was only in the early
1970s that Baha’is could be found in all of the major centers
in the Atlantic Provinces. In 1991, there were 1,100 Baha’is
to be found in nearly 90 localities.3 Therefore, the Saint John
group represents, from a Baha’i perspective, a significant first
beach-head in the area, established in 1910. But one which
met with little success.
Origins of the Saint John Baha’i Group. While a number of
important figures in the early development of the Baha’i Faith
in North America originally came from Saint John, they
played no role in introducing the Baha’i Faith to the city.
Miss Marion Jack (1866-1954), born in Saint John,"1 distin­
guished herself as a Canadian Baha’i settler in Bulgaria from
1931 to 1954. She became a Baha’i in Paris during the early
1900s. She is known to have visited Prince Edward Island in
1917, and that seems to have been connected with a brief
stay in Saint John.5
Another prominent Baha’i from Saint John was Paul K.
Dealy (1848-1937).6 He was one of the first people to have
become a Baha’i in North America while the Baha’i teacher,
Ibrahim Kheiralla, was in Chicago in 1897. Born in Saint
John, Dealy left in 1865, and became a railroad engineer and
inventor. He eventually moved to Fairhope, Alabama.7 There
is, however, no evidence that he played any role in establish­
ing a Baha’i group in Saint John.
The earliest known reference to a Baha’i living in Saint
John is to Mrs. Henry S. (Mary) Culver, in April 1913.8 Her
husband was the American consul to Saint John. The Cul­
vers were already Baha’is when they moved to Saint John on
September 12, 1910.9 Henry had been a prosecuting attorney
in Delaware County, where he was a mayor for four years. In

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 219
October 1897, he joined the State Department and became
consul at London, Ontario, in that same month. The Culvers
had become Baha’is as a result of their contact with the
Magees, Canada’s earliest Baha’i's.10 Henry’s term as U.S.
consul in London was followed by appointments in Cork,
Ireland, in 1906, and in Saint John in June 1910, at the age
of56.u
There were many sides to Mr. Culver. He was an inveter­
ate photographer and world traveller, having circled the globe
four times, even visiting ‘Abdu’l-Baha in Haifa, Palestine. He
composed poems and songs, some of which he sent to Edith
Magee, Canada’s first Baha’i, for her comment.12 He took a
particular interest in the plight of destitute German and Aus­
trian families in a Canadian war camp in Minto, New
Brunswick, during the first World War.13 Culver retired from
his consular post in Saint John on July 1, 192414 and joined
the Eliot, Maine, Baha’i community in 1925.15 He died in
1936, and Mary died the following year. They had seven chil­
dren, but only the two daughters, (Mary) Louise and Dor­
othy, became Baha’is.
The arrival of the Culvers did not immediately lead to
the growth of the Saint John Baha’i group. It was not until
well after ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s visit to Canada in 1912 that the
small group of Baha’is consisting of the Culver family began
to become more active, particularly through the efforts of
Louise Culver who had returned from Paris in early 1911.16
Louise Culver operated the Sign o’ the Lantern Tea Rooms
in Saint John as early as 1914,17 along with Miss Mary
Robinson Warner (also a Baha’i)18 and Mrs. A. Macdonnell.
After 1924, Louise Culver and Mary Warner lived together
and raised two boys, nicknamed “Buzzy” and “Fluffy.” In the
course of the following decades, after her parents’ departure
from Saint John, Louise eventually ceased to regard herself
as a Baha’i.19

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
Louise’s sister, Dorothy (1890-1983), joined her sister in
Paris in 1907, after following her parents to Ireland in 1906.
She arrived in Saint John in 1912 and, except for 1916-17,
lived in that city until 1920.20
By 1917, four more persons joined the Baha’i group in
Saint John. Very little is known about the depth of their
Baha’i commitment, but a great deal has been uncovered
about their general standing in Saint John society. All of
them retained their Anglican church membership until death,
a fact which was noted in their obituaries. Their Baha’i affili­
ations were either not known or not publicly recognized.
Mary Robinson Warner (1876-1957) ran the tearoom with
Louise, and the two were inseparable. She was the daughter
of General D. B. Warner, who had been United States consul
to Saint John for twenty-one years. This might explain her
acquaintance with the Culvers.21 It seems, however, that oth­
ers became acquainted with the small group of Baha’is
through the coffee and tea business.
Tentatively, we suggest that Roy Wilhelm (1875-1951),22
an importer of coffee, may have been responsible for develop­
ing the Saint John Baha’i group after its introduction by the
Culver family in 1910. Wilhelm was one of the most promi­
nent early Baha’is in the United States, setting much of his
coffee fortune aside to promote the interests of the Baha’i
Cause. One couple, William H. and Sophia Humphrey, were
probably his contacts in Saint John.
The Humphreys appear on Baha’i lists from 1917 to 1919.
William (1852-1935) was a coffee and tea merchant who op­
erated a retail coffee store at the foot of King Street.23 He
was a member of one of Saint John’s oldest families.24 His
wife, Sophia (d. 1953) had come to Saint John from England
in 1883, to visit her brother. While there, she had married
William.25 Both Humphreys were, however, well known
through their affiliation with Christian churches.26

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 221
Development (1917-22). The second phase in the development
of a Baha’i group in Saint John is of considerable importance
in the context of the Canadian Baha’i community as a whole.
By April 1917, Saint John had an organized group which,
however weak, was the second in Canada after Montreal.
Two principal ingredients led to the development of this group.
On one hand, the North American Baha’is launched a sys­
tematic campaign of traveling teachers, many of whom made
their way through Saint John. On the other hand, social
conditions in Saint John, especially the influence of the so­
cial gospel movement, made a number of its citizens recep­
tive to the broad ideals of the Baha’i teachings.
The formal existence of a Baha’i group in Saint John,
termed an “Assembly” in those days, was noted by the pres­
ence of its delegates to the ninth annual Convention of the
Bahai Temple Unity at the Hotel Brunswick in Boston, be­
tween April 29 and May 2, 1917.29 The existence of a Saint
John Assembly can also be verified through an exchange of
correspondence in September and October 1917, between its
secretary, Miss Jean E. Nixon, and Mrs. Corinne True, the
Arthur B. M. Hatheway, another Baha’i in the port city,
undertook in 1915, a pilgrimage to visit ‘Abdu’l-Baha in
Haifa.27 Hatheway passed away in late 1920, on which occa­
sion his wife received a Tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Baha dated No­
vember 22, 1920.28
It seems reasonable to assume that the early founders of
the Saint John Baha’i community included the Culvers, the
Humphreys, and Mr. Arthur Hatheway. But apparently mem­
bership in the Baha’i group of Saint John rose quickly during
the summer of 1917. There were, in all, seventeen Baha’is in
Saint John between the summer of 1917 and 1921: though
never more than twelve at any one time, and sometimes as
few as seven.

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
Financial Secretary of the Bahai Temple Unity, then the na­
tional body of the Baha’is of Canada and the United States.30
The increase of membership was particularly strong in
the summer of 1917. May Maxwell, a prominent Baha’i from
Montreal, had already visited Saint John as early as 1916.31
She returned for a more extensive stay in 1917.32 She ad­
dressed the Rotary Club on June 25, 1917, and said that she
felt privileged to have met “such an intelligent, broad-minded
and altruistic body of men.” Maxwell stayed for a few more
days to visit other groups, and then traveled on to Fredericton
and Moncton. She was not a stranger to this part of New
Brunswick. Her husband, William Sutherland, had a “dark
and heavy” summer home in St. Andrews.33
The Baha’i group in Saint John seems to have reached its
peak in 1919. In that year the Baha’is of Saint John, along
with many other American believers, were signatories to an
appeal addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Baha asking him to return to
North America for another tour of the continent.34 This peti­
tion carried the names of twelve Saint John Baha’is, includ­
ing the Nixons.35
The Nixons were, next to the Culvers and Humphreys,
the third major family associated with the Baha’i group in
Saint John.36 George Nixon (d. 1940) was a member of the
International Order of Odd Fellows and, with his wife Agnes
(1864-1940), was a member of the Anglican Church.37 He
was the owner of a well-known wallpaper store on King Street.
Of the four children, a son, Murray (d. 1979),38 and the daugh­
ter, Jean (d. 1972), became Baha’is.
From the Baha’i view, the most important member of the
Nixon family, at that time, was Jean, who was secretary of
the Baha’i Assembly from 1917 to 1923.39 She was taught the
Baha’i Faith by May Maxwell and participated in a number
of notable Baha’i events. She was present at the eleventh
annual national Convention in New York City where ‘Abdu’l-

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 223
Baha’s Tablets of the Divine Plan were unveiled.40 In April
1922, she visited Chicago, the principal Baha’i center in North
America, and attended the annual Convention there.41 Nixon
almost single-handedly kept the Baha’i group of Saint John
together by correspondence with Baha’i communities else­
where, and distribution of vital Baha’i documents and gen­
eral news to other Baha’is in the city. On August 14, 1928,
however, she was admitted to the Provincial Hospital,42 an
institution for mental patients. She died there forty-four years
later, in November 1972.43 No reasons for her admission were
ever given: though some have claimed that her active Baha’i
affiliation had upset members of her family. It should be
clearly stated that there is no evidence to support such an
assertion.
If Maxwell’s visits had brought forth some results, so did
the visits of other well-known Baha’i teachers. The 1,500-
strong Baha’i community of North America picked up on the
interest created by Maxwell and organized other visits to
Saint John: “Mother” Ellen Beecher in 1919, and Martha
Root and Jinab-i Fadi (Mirza Asadu’llah Mazandarani) in
October 1920. Baha’i visitors to Saint John spent time at the
“Culver Camp” up the Saint John River.44
Ellen Beecher’s visit, in November and December 1919,
proved to be an impressive occasion. On Sunday, November
30, she delivered an address in the Art Club Room45 on the
topic of “The Great Day of God.” She had turned seventy-
nine in the summer of the year of her visit. She was told by
one of thousands attending meetings “that you are having a
perfect whirlwind campaign here.”46 Beecher’s report to the
1920 national Convention described her visit in glowing terms.
She also speaks of her visit to several “little towns.” In two of
these she was not to be accepted, “unless I [Beecher] was
thoroughly orthodox.” Neither the YWCA nor the churches
allowed her to speak in these places.47 Even the “church of

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
Social Conditions in Saint John. The late 1910s constitute a
significant stage in the development of what Richard Allen
calls the “social passion.”57 Canadian society was swept by an
enthusiasm for reform which saw Christianity as a social
religion, a phenomenon which hoped to “embed ultimate hu­
man goals in the social, economic, and political order.”58 This
the colored people” refused her request to speak to them.48
Her visit was ignored by the local papers.
Saint John was also visited by Fadl-i Mazandaranf,49
known in America as Jinab-i Fadi, in October 1920.50 His
interpreter Ahmad Sohrab, had forsaken his honeymoon to
be with one of the most prominent Baha’i teachers and schol­
ars. They were accompanied by Mr. W. H. Randall, a Boston
lawyer and Baha’i, and both Jinab-i Fadi and Randall spoke
at the Canadian Club on Tuesday, October 12, 1920.51 On the
same day, they made a presentation at the Art Club, after
which the newspaper reported that they “will be glad to meet
friends interested in all vital movements for the brotherhood
of man, unity in religion, universal peace and a universal
language.52 The Standard53 of Saint John carried a full re­
port of the presentation to the Canadian Club, mentioning
both Baha’u’llah and his son, ‘Abdu’l-Baha. The two traveled
with Marion Jack on the riverboat up the Saint John River
to Gagetown, thirty miles from Saint John.54 Jinab-i Fadi
also traveled to Woodstock, New Brunswick, some 120 miles
from Saint John.55
Numerous other Baha’is visited Saint John, including Kate
Ives in the fall of 1922.56 She was one of the first women to
accept the Baha’i Faith in North America; her parents were
Newfoundlanders. After 1923, however, the visits of such
teachers became less common, and they eventually dwindled.
To what extent did the external society influence the de­
velopment of the Baha’i group in Saint John?

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 225
“passion” for social reform expressed itself in such social move­
ments as unions, prohibition, strikes, the “open pulpit,” and
women’s and agricultural organizations. Saint John, as a city
facing the ravaging consequences of industrial development,
was no exception. For example, the Workmen’s Compensa­
tion Board was formed in 1918 in Saint John.59 A climate to
succor the destitute and the disenfranchised through social
programs prevailed. It was in this context that three leading
women in the city felt impelled to accept the reformist na­
ture of the Baha’i movement as well.
These women, Helen Climo, Kate Sutherland, and Mary
Smith, (along with Mary Culver) belonged to the Women’s
Enfranchisement Association of Saint John60 which was
founded in 1894, as a women’s response to social conditions
brought on by modernization and industrialization. The group
focused61 on advances in education, new occupational oppor­
tunities, and the spread of democratic ideas, in addition to
the improvement of women’s status. The association, which
had a membership of 112 during its life, dissolved after April
1919, when women gained the franchise in New Brunswick.
It might be said that after its dissolution, some of its mem­
bers found the social teachings of the Baha’i Faith in line
with their thoughts on the general spread of education and
the position of women in society. Who were these leading
women?
Miss Kate Sutherland (1854-1932) was one of the first
stenographers in the city. She was bom into an outstanding
New Brunswick family. She used to live on Wellington Row,
where a Miss Hanson lived (who later married an American,
Stenner Phillips), and whose aunt, Miss Phillips, lived in
New York. ‘Abdu’l-Baha gave a talk at Phillips’s studio on
April 12, 1912.62 Kate Sutherland’s obituary states that she
“was especially interested in aiding young people who de­
sired to take up stenography. She was keenly interested in

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
Decline (1921-1925). By 1921, the social reformist movement
began to wane and the Baha’is were experiencing difficulties
organizing their affairs. By January 1921, the Baha’is re-
the welfare of the community, particularly in educational en­
deavors.”63 Widely known as a Presbyterian, the press ig­
nored her Baha’i affiliation.
Mrs. Mary Colby Smith (d. 1936), a noted Saint John
citizen, was a Baha’i in 1921. Her husband, Harry, was a
merchant.64 Her son, Albert Colby Smith, became a member
of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick. Smith’s ac­
tivities extended over so many areas of public life that the
city’s newspaper ran an editorial after her death. She pre­
sided over the YMCA Ladies’ Auxiliary,65 was elected third
vice-president of the Children’s Aid Society,66 commissioner
of the Saint John Free Public Library, and member of the
King’s Daughters, the Women’s Canadian Club, the Seamen’s
Institute, the Red Cross, the Women’s Christian Temperance
Union, and the Protestant Orphanage—a total of at least sev­
enteen societies.
Smith’s acceptance of the Baha’i Faith was probably due
to personal contact with Kate Sutherland, for in 1922, the
Smiths moved to Wellington Row, where Sutherland lived.
Smith’s Baha’i affiliation was virtually unknown outside of
Baha’i circles. Publicly, she was a member of St. David’s
United Church when she lived on the east side of the harbor,
and the Charlotte Street Baptist Church when on the west
side.
Another prominent adherent in those later years was Mrs.
Helen Travis Climo (d. 1940), also of a prominent New
Brunswick family, whose husband, Harold, was a photogra­
pher.67 She was active in the Saint John Art Club, the
Women’s Canadian Club, and the Natural History Society.68
Like Sutherland she was an active Presbyterian.

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 221
ported to Alfred E. Lunt, a member of the national board of
the Baha’is in the United States and Canada, that it was
impossible to organize a House of Spirituality in the city.69
Some Baha’is had become inactive or, as in the case of Mary
and Dorothy Culver who moved to Boston, had left the city.70
Fewer than eight believers71 were then active.
After the passing of ‘Abdu’l-Baha in November 1921, the
Baha’i Assembly of Saint John confirmed the receipt, in March
1922, of the Will and Testament “of the Centre of the Cov­
enant, His Holiness Abdul Baha and [tjhis has been read to
the firm believers and shall be safely guarded.”72 The Baha’is,
in March 1922, also acknowledged receipt of pictures of the
building of the House of Worship in Wilmette, designed by
Louis Bourgeois, an architect who was Acadian through his
mother’s side of the family.73
Star of the West listed Saint John, along with Montreal,
as having a Spiritual Assembly in 1922,74 but within five
months its membership had declined from eight to four. The
group was represented by Jean E. Nixon and Henry S. Cul­
ver at the annual convention.75 In that year, only four names
appear on the membership list: Henry Culver, Louise Cul­
ver, George Nixon, and Jean Nixon.76
The last official reference in Baha’i publications to the
Saint John group was made in 1923. The Guardian of the
Baha’i Faith, Shoghi Effendi, made a reference to the Saint
John Assembly in his letter of January 8, 1923.77 In March
1923, Dorothy Culver,78 Louise Culver’s sister, forwarded pa­
pers related to the Saint John Assembly to her mother, Mary.
In 1923, Saint John’s delegates to the fifteenth annual Con­
vention in Chicago were Culver and Miss Wilkinson, Roy
Wilhelm’s secretary in the coffee business.79 That was the
last Convention to which Saint John sent delegates. The Saint
John Assembly continued until 1923, six years after its in­
ception in 1917.

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
In 1923, the group was not considered large enough to
finance a second visit by Jinab-i Fadi, who had planned a
teaching trip in Canada for the fall of that year.80 There was
also the matter of Baha’i administrative reorganization. New
requirements in 1923, constrained Baha’i communities ev­
erywhere to organize their local Assemblies on stricter crite­
ria. Local governing councils were to consist of nine adult
adherents over twenty-one years of age. The Saint John Baha’i
community was too small to form its Assembly that year.
Thus, the Saint John Baha’is were in no position to exercise
administrative responsibilities. In any event, Henry Culver
retired in 1924. He must have been very happy to leave Saint
John, for he had hoped for a transfer from his post in New
Brunswick within a year of his arrival.81
As late as 1925, the Saint John Baha’i group answered a
questionnaire on its activities and returned it to the Na­
tional Teaching Committee.82 The last known activity was
the placement of an article, or articles, in a local newspaper
regarding the renewed persecution of the Baha’is of Iran.
The fact that there were still Baha’is in Saint John, although
no longer organized as an Assembly, is reflected in the Feb­
ruary 9, 1925 minutes of the Montreal Assembly.83
It was during the 1925 Convention that May Maxwell
reported that “. . . St. John could [not] send delegates as they
must concentrate all their resources upon sending represen­
tatives to the National Convention at Green Acre . . ,”8‘( By
April 1925, Saint John was listed as a “group,” indicating
that there were fewer than nine believers there.85 The name
“Saint John” no longer appeared on a list of participating
local Spiritual Assemblies in the forthcoming National Con­
vention of April 1926.86
After this date, the group virtually ceased to exist, except
for the few remaining (possibly two) individuals, one of whom
was confined in the provincial mental institution in 1928. In

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 229
May 1937, it was reported that New Brunswick had only two
Baha’is, living in Rothesay.87 In 1940, Doris McKay, one of
the earliest Baha’i settlers in Prince Edward Island, tried to
visit five Baha’is whose names she had—all contacts of Roy
Wilhelm—to no avail.
Analysis. In retrospect, one finds several factors led to the
decline of the Saint John Baha’i group: personal factors, over­
whelming traditional religious orthodoxy in the wider soci­
ety, lack of deep commitment on the part of the believers,
location on the geographic Baha’i periphery, and lack of ad­
ministrative experience which could have provided for con­
tinuation of the group. A number of other sociological factors
played a significant role in determining the decline of the
group.
First, some personal factors. By the mid-1920s, two of the
key people were no longer active in the community. The de­
parture of Henry Culver in July 1924, upon his retirement
from office, had a profound impact. Culver stayed for the
remainder of the summer at Crystal Beach,88 an attractive
summer-home area south of Saint John, while his wife had
already left Saint John by 1923. Moreover, Nixon’s confine­
ment to a mental institution in 1928 simply left another
vacuum in the already much-weakened Baha’i group.
A second factor contributing to the further decline of the
group was the climate of non-acceptance by the community
at large, which led to difficulties in finding new converts. In
a series of letters to the Baha’i community of Kenosha, Jean
Nixon spoke increasingly, after 1922, of the reluctant response
of Saint Johners to the Baha’i Faith. She speaks of the
progress of the Baha’i work as being “very slow,” generating
“criticism and a great deal of opposition.” She states, “the
people in this part of the country are conservative and ad­
here closely to the teachings of the different denominations

'Will. C. van den Hoonaard
It was only years later that a Spiritual Assembly was
reconstituted in Saint John, in 1961.
A subsidiary element accounts for the decline of the Saint
John Baha’i group, namely the apparent lack of deep com­
mitment to the new religious movement. The Baha’i Faith
seems to have occupied a peripheral territory in the minds of
its members. More importantly, without a deep commitment
. . . In many cases fear keeps an individual from studying
the literature that we offer.” She explains that, “people here
rather pride themselves in clinging to orthodoxy.”89
One auspicious moment during these difficult days stood
out, however. A new pastor of the black church, Rev. C.
Stewart, had in the winter of 1923, “gladly consented” to
Baha’is speaking to his congregation. Dr. Edna McKinney of
Philadelphia spoke five times and Miss Jack gave an exhibi­
tion of her paintings. This was the first church ever to open
its doors to the Baha’i Faith on Canada’s East coast.90
Nevertheless, the religious traditionalism and conserva­
tism of the Atlantic region has been commented upon by
such observers as Stark and Bainbridge and Bibby.91 Our
observations confirm the view of Nock and Stark and
Bainbridge92 that new religious movements (i.e., “cults”) de­
velop with the greatest difficulty in areas where sects and
churches thrive. The climate of resistance, according to one
Baha’i informant, persisted well into the 1950s:
For instance, Unitarians were very hesitant to assemble or ad­
mit their allegiance at that time. We knew one Theosophist there
[Saint John] who was quite isolated and frustrated. Also a Tech­
nocrat and an Anglican Priest contacted me (through a P.O. Box
number appearing in a Bahd’i ad or radio program) and arranged
via the mails and then by phone (no name given) to meet me at
our apartment on a given evening, where they enquired about
the Faith. They were concerned that I would be both alone and
discreet.93

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 231
the community could not establish boundaries or even com­
mon goals. In the early days of the Baha’i Faith in North
America, it was not uncommon for Baha’is to be simulta­
neously associated with established churches. Membership
in the Baha’i group was informal, requiring no registration,
and the boundaries between the Baha’i community and the
larger community were not clearly demarcated. Present-day
descendants of those early members of the Baha’i group of­
ten express surprise in hearing that their ancestors were
associated with the Baha’i movement. Certainly, the obituar­
ies of the early adherents do not indicate any affiliation with
the Baha’i Faith—on the contrary, a deep commitment to
their conventional denominations is stressed. Members of the
Baha’i group were overwhelmingly of Anglican background,
followed by Presbyterian and United Church affiliation.
Yet a fourth element enters into our explanation of why
the early Saint John Baha’i group declined and, for all pur­
poses, ceased to exist. This group was not only perceived as
peripheral in terms of the conservative religious tradition of
the city and region, it became geographically peripheral to
the extent that Baha’i communities were developing in
Vancouver, Toronto, and Montreal. We can observe this pe­
ripheral interest in the early Baha’i history of Canada. Within
the context of North America as a whole, Canada occupied a
peripheral concern in the Baha’i community. Virtually all of
the recorded Baha’i centers (or places where Baha’is reside)
refer to United States locales. For example, the official Baha’i
organ, Star of the West, did not carry any news of the cel­
ebrated visit of ‘Abdu’l-Baha to Montreal in 1912, until an
incidental reference to the event four and one-half years
later.94 Yet, this visit received extensive non-Baha’i publicity.
The news of this publicity in Canada did not find its way into
Star of the West, however, until 1923, more than ten years
later.95

Will. C. van. den Hoonaard
Within Canada, the rising communities of Vancouver,
Toronto, and Montreal attracted much of the Baha’i atten­
tion. These cities were relatively easy to reach and, as cul­
tural centers, had people who were not just marginally inter­
ested in new religious movements: they maintained an active
involvement. If there was any opposition, it was not as sharp
as that experienced by the Saint John Baha’i group. The
favorable response to the Baha’i teachings elicited consider­
able interest from those Baha’is who were either itinerant
teachers or administrators of this young religious movement.
Finally, the Baha’is in Saint John lacked the necessary
administrative experience to marshal its resources or orga­
nize its affairs. The Baha’i Faith was seen as a spiritual
movement, in which administrative organization was of sec­
ondary importance. The Culvers, the founders of the Saint
John group, became Baha’is in London, a community that
predates any formal Baha’i organization.95 Thus, they had no
conception of any Baha’i administrative structure. To them,
the Faith was a loose association of likeminded people inter­
ested in the teachings of Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
A number of sociological factors highlight the following
historical sketch of this Baha’i group. The Baha’i group was
entirely comprised of members of the merchant class whose
ideas of social reform grew out of the changing attitudes
about women, education, and prison reform. Some of the early
Baha’is were associated with the families of at least two of
the American consuls in Saint John. The Baha’i group in­
volved women, usually unmarried, who were influenced by
the social gospel and suffragette movements and who saw
the Baha’i movement as a complement to their reformist in­
terests.
Given these parameters the informal Baha’i group was
perceived merely as a personal set of ideas, and not one gath­
ered around a collective goal.

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 233
NOTES
1. There is a pronounced absence of historical writing on the
Canadian Bahd’i community. Robert Stockman’s The Bahd’i Faith in
America: Origins, 1892-1900 (Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’i Publishing Trust,
1985) has no substantive references to early Canadian history. Mem­
oirs have either not been written or are just now being put on paper.
Doris McKay, one of the earliest Bahd’i settlers on Prince Edward
Island, completed her account (“Fires in the Heart”) in 1991. Rowland
Estall’s account (“Melodies of the Kingdom”) covering the years 1926
to 1977, is yet unfinished.
There are a few other unpublished accounts: Paula C. Williams,
“Candles of Guidance: The History of the Early Halifax Bahd’i Com­
munity” (Unpublished ms., 1985) 37 pp.; Linda O’Neil, “A Short His­
tory of the Bahd’i Faith in Canada, 1898-1975” (Unpublished ms.,
1975) 44 pp.; Andrew Pemberton-Pigott, “The Formation of the First
Bahd’i Spiritual Assembly in Edmonton, April 1943” (Honors Thesis
in History, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 1988).
There have been few references to Canadian Bahd’i history in
Canadian Bahd’i journals. In fact, one hardly finds any articles delv­
ing into the past. Exceptions are: “1893: The First Canadian Bahd’i,”
Canadian Bahd’i News (Sept. 1966) no. 200 (and reprinted in Bahd’i
Canada [June 1979] p. 12); and Ritchie Rolfe, “They Built Better
than They Knew: A Brief History of the Bahd’i Faith on P.E.I.,”
Bahd’i Canada (June 1987) pp. 5-6. An article on early British Co­
lumbia Bahd’i history was published outside the Bahd’i community:
Roland and Ann McGee, “The Bahd’i Faith and its Development in
British Columbia,” in Charles P. Anderson, et. al., eds., Circle of
Voices (Lantzville: Oolichan Books, 1983) pp. 19-26.
In addition, references to the early history of the Faith in Canada
tend to focus on Montreal, Toronto, and Vancouver—even though
Bahd’i communities have existed in about half a dozen localities in
Canada since before 1921.
2. This figure has been calculated from a list of early Canadian
believers (1893-1944) compiled by the author.
3. The 1981 Canadian census (as reported by David Nock, “Cult,
Sect, and Church in Canada: A Re-examination of Stark and
Bainbridge,” Rev. Can. Soc. and Anthr., vol. 24 [1987] no. 4, pp. 514-
25) gives a figure of 546 Bahd'i's for that year.
4. Marion Jack: Immortal Heroine, (Toronto: National Spiritual

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
Assembly, 1985). Born and raised in Saint John, she left for Europe
in her twenties to take up painting and art. After her enrollment in
the Parisian Bahd’f community, which May Maxwell had founded in
1899, Marion Jack went on pilgrimage in 1908 and met ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
She returned to North America in the Summer of 1914, spent time at
the Bahd’i School of Green Acre, Eliot, Maine, and lived in Montreal
and in Vancouver.
5. Jean E. Nixon, Saint John, to Alfred E. Lunt, Boston, August
26, 1918 (Alfred E. Lunt Papers. National Bahd’i Archives. Wilmette,
Illinois.).
6. Stockman, The Baha’i Faith in America, pp. 86-8; “In Memo-
riam,” Baha’i News (March 1937) no. 106, p. 3.
7. Letter from Robert S. Stockman to the author June 16, 1987,
enclosing copies of exchanges of correspondence between Mrs. Kitty
Dealy and Mr. Robert Stockman (38 pp.). Dr. Stockman gave the
author a copy of Mr. Dealy’s diary to be passed on to the Baha’i
National Archives in Canada.
8. Membership List, dated April 14, 1913, Lunt Papers. National
Baha’i Archives.
9. Consular Papers. National Archives of the United States. Wash­
ington, D.C. Microfilm 123.C 89/33.
10. Taped interview by Rosanne Buzell of Eliot, Maine, with
Dorothy Cress (nee Culver), August 19, 1982. Eliot Baha’i Archives,
Eliot, Maine.
11. Prominent People of the Maritime Provinces, (Saint John,
N.B.: J. & A. McMillan, 1922) p. 46.
12. Henry S. Culver, Queenstown, Ireland, to Edith Magee, March
25, 1908. Copy of letter in possession of author.
13. Consular Papers. National Archives of the United States,
Washington, D.C. Microfilm 342.62/6110.
14. The Telegraph Journal, July 3, 1924, p.7.
15. BahA’f Historical Record Cards. National BahJ’i Archives.
16. Lawrence Culver, “Culver-Sprague Genealogical Summary.”
Mimeographed, 15 pp. In possession of the author.
17. The Telegraph Journal, July 4, 1924, p. 3.
18. St. John City Directory for 1916-17, (Saint John: McAlpine
Directory Co., 1916) p. 664.
19. Notes by Ken and Celia Bolton, Dartmouth, N.S., February
7, 1987. In possession of the author.

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 235
In the early 1950s, Louise was acting as chauffeur and compan­
ion to Lady Hazen who lived in an estate in the vicinity of the Catho­
lic Hospital in central Saint John, and whose husband, Sir Douglas,
was the Chief Justice of New Brunswick. Louise passed away in
Saint John in December 1952.
20. Dorothy later married Adelbert F. Cress in Eliot, Maine. Julia
Culver (1861-1950), who had become a Bahd’I in 1903, does not seem,
however, to have been related to the family.
21. The Evening Times-Globe, December 30, 1957: 18.
22. “In Memoriam,” Baha’i World, vol. 12 (1950-54) pp. 662-64;
O. Z. Whitehead, Some Early Baha’is of the West, (Oxford: George
Ronald, 1976) pp. 87-99.
23. There seems to be some confusion about the identity of W. H.
Humphrey in the minds of some of the later Bahd’fs. Humphrey died
in 1935, but the Bahd’fs still talk about having seen a Humphrey in
the 1950s. For example, they say, “he would, in the 1950s, reminisce
about Roy Wilhelm, the prominent United States Baha’i"” (and coffee
merchant himself). (Notes by Ken and Celia Bolton, February 7, 1987.)
24. “Information on Lot Ownership, Fernhill Cemetery, Saint
John,” supplied to the author
25. The Evening Times-Globe, June 10, 1953; and “Information
on Lot Ownership, Fernhill Cemetery, Saint John,” supplied to the
author.
26. The Evening Times-Globe, January 19331, 5, p. 7.
27. Star of the West, July 13, 1915.
28. Star of the West, March 2, 1922, p. 313. A search through
newspaper accounts, cemetery listings, and biographical reference
works did not reveal an “Arthur” Hatheway, although the Hatheways
were a very prominent New Brunswick family. There has been, however,
an occasional reference to Arthur Hatheway living in Boston.
29. Star of the West, September 8, 1917, p. 130.
30. Jean E. Nixon to Corinne True, September 23, 1917. Lunt
Papers. National Bahd’I Archives. It concerns a request for a receipt
for a six dollar donation to the Bahd’I House of Worship Fund in
Wilmette.
31. Cable from Mrs. May Maxwell, Saint John, to Miss Edna
McKinney, Boston, December 15, 1916. Lunt Papers. National Bahd’I
Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.
32. “In Memoriam,” Baha’i World (1938-40) p. 639; May Max-

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
well, Saint John, to “Beloved Sister” [presumably Corinne True],
June 27, 1917. Albert Windust Papers. National Bahd’i Archives,
Wilmette, Illinois.
33. Interview with Mrs. Willow Walker of St. Andrews, N.B.,
with Erica Ritter on “Day Shift,” CBC, March 30, 1987.
34. Star of the West, August 1, 1919, p. 156.
35. Henry S. Culver; Mary R. Warner; Louise Culver; Sophia
Humphrey; Willliam H. Humphrey; A. B. M. Hatheway; Kate M.
Sutherland; Mary D. Culver; Agnes B. Nixon; George H. Nixon;
Murray E. Nixon; and Jean E. Nixon. This list also appears on a
membership list, dated between 1917-19. (House of Spirituality
Records, National Bahd’i Archives, Wilmette, Illinois, Box 8, Fol­
der 1).
36. Prominent People of the Maritime Provinces, p. 151.
37. The Evening Times-Globe (Saint John), November 23, 1940, p. 3.
38. “Information on Lot Owners, Fernhill Cemetery, Saint John”
supplied to the author.
39. It was a chance discovery of a letter from Jean Nixon to
Corinne True, dated September 23, 1917 in the National Baha’i Ar­
chives, Wilmette, Illinois, (Lunt Papers) which led the author to the
research embodied in this paper.
40. This series of letters from ‘Abdu’LBahd outlined the areas
around the world where Bahd’is were to undertake Bahd’f teaching
activity. Star of the West, vol.. 10 (May 17, 1919) no. 4, p. 63.
41. Postcard to L. J. Voelz, Kenosha, from Jean E. Nixon, Saint
John, postmarked April 2, 1922. Kenosha Records. National Bahd’i
Archives, Wilmette, Illinois.
42. Letter from Centracare Saint John Inc., Saint John, N.B., to
author, July 9, 1987.
43. “Information on Lot Owners, Fernhill Cemetery, Saint John,”
supplied to the author; and “Obituary” in The Evening-Times-Globe,
November 3, 1972, p. 2.
44. Dr. Ellis Cole to Alfred E. Lunt. August 27, 1917. Lunt Pa­
pers. National Baha’i Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.
45. Saint John Globe, November 29, 1919, p. 12.
46. Star of the West, September 27, 1920, pp. 172-3.
47. The YMCA, in 1920, also excluded Jews from membership
(Mortimer Lazar and Sheva Medjuck, “In the Beginning: A Brief
History of the Jews in Atlantic Canada” [mimeographed] p. 5. In
author’s possession.)

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 237
48. Jean E. Nixon, Saint John, to Kenosha Bahd’i' Assembly,
April 7, 1924. Kenosha Records. National Baha’i Archives. Wilmete,
Illinois.
49. See “In Memoriam,” Bahd’i 'World, vol. 14 (1963-68) pp. 334-
36.
50. A good photograph of Jinab-i Fadi can be found in Star of the
West (April 1923) p. 2.
51. Saint John Globe, October 11, 1920, p. 10; October 14, 1920,
p. 5.
52. Saint John Globe, October 12, 1920, p. 10.
53. The Standard, October 14, 1920, p. 12.
54. Ferne Allaby and Gaby Pelletier interviewed some relatives
of Marion Jack in Saint John who remembered Marion Jack going to
Gagetown “with two gentlemen dressed in Eastern clothes.” (Letter
from Feme Allaby, dated July 27, 1986 to the author.)
55. Interview with Anne Chisholm, Saint John, by the author,
Sept. 16, 1986.
56. Jean E. Nixon, Saint John, to Kenosha Bahd’i Assembly.
March 16, 1923. Kenosha Records. National Bahd’f Archives.
57. Richard Allen, The Social Passion: Religion and Social Re­
form in Canada, 1914-28 (Toronto: University of Toronto Press,
1973).
58. Ibid., p. 3.
59. See William Y. Smith, “Axis of Administration: Saint John
Reformers and Bureaucratic Centralization in New Brunswick, 1911-
1925,” (M.A. thesis, Department of History, University of New
Brunswick, 1984.)
60. Mary E. Clarke “The Saint John Women’s Enfranchisement
Association, 1894-1919.” (M.A. thesis, Department of History, Uni­
versity of New Brunswick, Fredericton, 1979) pp. 155, 158-9.
61. Ibid..
62. See notes regarding interview with Anne Chisholm conducted
by the author on September 16, 1986.
63. The Evening-Times Globe, March 17, 1932, p. 5.
64. Obituary information is found in The Evening Times-Globe,
September 24, 1936, pp. 4, 11 and September 25, 1936, p. 9. There is
a discrepancy in the date of death. The Evening Times-Globe indi­
cates September 23, 1936, the Cedar Hill-Greenwood Cemetery records
show September 24, 1936 (Cedar Hill-Greenwood Cemetery Co. to
the author, April 13, 1987).

Will. C. van den Hoonaard
65. Saint John Globe, November 26, 1919, p. 2.
66. The Standard, Nov. 28, 1919.
67. Interview with Anne Chisholm conducted by the author Sep­
tember 16, 1986.
68. “Funerals,” Evening Telegram Globe, February 9, 1940, p. 16.
(Picture should be available from Pridham Studio).
69. It was possible to have an Assembly (i.e., a Baha’i' commu­
nity) without being able to organize a House of Spirituality. Jean E.
Nixon to Alfred E. Lunt, January 14, 1921. Lunt Papers. National
Bahd’I Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.
70. Lawrence Culver, “Culver-Sprague Geneological Summary,”
(1969) 15 pp.
71. Jean E. Nixon, Saint John, to Alfred E. Lunt. Chicago, Ill.,
Jauary. 14, 1921. Lunt Papers. National Bahd’I Archives. Wilmette,
Illinois.
72. Jean E. Nixon to Alfred E. Lunt, March 19, 1922. Lunt Pa­
pers. National Baha’i Archives. Wilmette, Illinois. This historic docu­
ment allowed the Bahd’I group to pass into the stage of administra­
tive development, while ensuring its continuing unity.
73. Jean E. Nixon to Alfred E. Lunt, March 29, 1922. Lunt Pa­
pers. National Bahd’I Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.
74. Star of the West May 17, 1922, p. 94.
75. “Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of Bahai Temple Unity,
Chicago, Ill. April 24-26, 1922”, p. 84. National Baha’i Archives.
Wilmette, Illinois.
76. “List of Bahd’Is in U.S. and Canada,” March 1922. Alfred E.
Lunt Papers. National Bahd’I Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.
77. Star of the West (May 1923) p. 48.
78. Dorothy Culver, Boston, to Ernest V. Harrison, Montreal,
March 18, 1923. Montreal Minutes. National Bahd’I Archives.
Thornhill, Ontario.
79. “Fifteenth Annual Convention of the Bahai Temple Unity,
Chicago, Ill. 30 April-2 May 1923,” p. 61. National Baha’i Archives.
Wilmette, Illinois.
80. Dorothy Culver, Boston, to Ernest V. Harrison, Secretary of
the Montreal Assembly, March 18, 1923; Minutes of the Montreal
Assembly, 1922-1940. National Bahd’I Archives. Thornhill, Ontario.
81. As early as 1911, he had wanted to be posted back to Europe.
Consular Papers, National Archives of the United States. Washing­
ton, D.C. Microfilm 125.7933/9.

Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada 239
Stark and
82. Bahai News (February 1926) p. 5. This document is cur­
rently being researched.
83. Minutes of the Montreal Assembly, 1922-1940. National Bah 4’1
Archives. Thornhill, Ontario.
84. Baha’i News (May/June 1925) p. 7.
85. Baha’i World, vol. 1 (1925-6).
86. Bahai News (February 1926) p. 4.
87. National Teaching Committee, “Annual Report: First Seven
Year Plan, May 1, 1937 to April 30, 1938”; Minutes of the Montreal
Assembly, 1922-1940. National Bahd’i Archives. Thornhill, Ontario.
In 1934-35, Louise was apparently the sole Bahd’I in the prov­
ince. (Baha’i World, vol. 6 [1934-1936] p. 578.)
88. The Telegraph Journal, July 3, 1924, p. 7.
89. Jean E. Nixon, Saint John, to Kenosha Baha’i Assembly,
August 1, 1922; March 16, 1923; and May 2, 1923; Kenosha Records.
National Bahd’I Archives. Wilmette, Illinois.
90. Jean E. Nixon, Saint John, to Kenosha Baha’i Assembly,
April 7, 1924. Kenosha Records. National Baha’i Archives. Wilmette,
Illinois.
C. Stewart organized the first soup kitchen in Saint John. K.
Henry, in Black Politics in Toronto since World War I (Toronto: The
Multicultural Society of Ontario, 1981), speaks of the Jamaican Rev.
Cecil A. Stewart who lived in Nova Scotia, advocating better social
conditions for blacks; his church was critical of the more conservative
churches and congregations. Cecil’s brother, Rev. Claude Stewart,
was apparently less active. It is not known which of the two lived in
Saint John.
91. Rodney Stark and William Sims Bainbridge, The Future of
Religion: Secularization, Revival, and Cult Formation. (Berkeley: Uni­
versity of California Press, 1985) pp. 234-262. These authors rely
also on research by Porter, Chea, and Lipset. Reginald W. Bibby,
Fragmented Gods: The Poverty and Potential of Reliaion in Canada
(Toronto: Irwin, 1987) p. 87
92. Nock, “Cult, Sect, and Church in Canada.”
Bainbridge, The Future of Religion.
93. “Notes by Ken and Celia Bolton, February 7, 1987.”
94. Star of the West, vol. 7 (January 19, 1917) no. 17, pp. 171-2.
95. Star of the West, vol. 13 (February 1923) no. 13, pp. 291-3.
96. Bah 4’1 Historical Record Cards. National Bahd’I Archivces.
Wilmette, Illinois..

THE STATE CAPITOL BUILDING
Sacramento, California. View from the northeast side. ‘Abdu’l-Baha visited here during his stay
in the city in 1912. He is believed to have stood under one of the trees on this side. (California
State Library, California Section.)

by Peggy Caton
A HISTORY OF THE SACRAMENTO BAHA’I
COMMUNITY, 1912-1991
The Sacramento Baha’i community was the first Baha’i group
established in the Sacramento Valley of California and has
played an important role in the development of other Baha’i
communities in that region. It has grown in size from only a
few believers, in the 1920s, to over one hundred Baha’is, in
the 1990s. During this time, it has evolved from a relatively
homogeneous group into a more complex urban community, char­
acterized by demographic diversity and differing perspectives.
These developments in the Sacramento Baha’i commu­
nity have not been unique in American Baha’i history. In
many ways, its history reflects the changes that have taken
place in the wider Baha’i community over the last sixty years.
This essay is an attempt to study this process of continuity
and change at a local level.
‘Abdu’l-Baha visited Sacramento for two days in October
of 1912. Although this visit received considerable attention
from local residents and newspapers, there is no record of
anyone becoming a Baha’i in Sacramento at that time. Nor is
there any evidence of Baha’i activities following his stay there.

Peggy Caton
Nonetheless, his visit to the city later became a symbolic link
to ‘Abdu’l-Baha for the believers and an important part of
the historical identity of the Baha'i community that devel­
oped in Sacramento a few years later.
‘Abdu’l-Bahd’s Visit to Sacramento, October 25-26, 1912: The
turn of the century was a time of religious exploration in
America. In the nineteenth century, many Americans had
begun embracing metaphysics, faith healing, and Eastern re­
ligions and philosophies. Among the new religious movements
was Christian Science, founded by Mary Baker Eddy. Some
of Eddy’s students eventually began their own teaching and
branched off from Christian Science. Emma Curtis Hopkins
and others developed a movement which came to be known
as New Thought.1 This was a Christian-based healing move­
ment that taught that God is All-Good and that human be­
ings share in the Divine Essence of God.2 New Thought ad­
herents eschewed dogma, drew inspiration from many spiri­
tual sources, and were usually open to new spiritual ideas.
Baha’is during this period came into contact with persons
involved in New Thought and were invited many times to
give presentations on the Baha’i Faith at their meetings and
conventions.3
In 1887, Hopkins taught a large number of students in
the San Francisco area. One of these students, Annie Rix
Militz, founded the first Home of Truth in San Francisco.4
Militz was a charismatic leader who taught, toured, and wrote
books.5 She had some correspondence with ‘Abdu’l-Baha. The
Home of Truth became the main form of New Thought on
the Pacific Coast.6 Each Home of Truth was independent,
though all were affiliated with and influenced by Militz
herself.
Among the Homes of Truth was one operated by Chris­
tine Fraser in Sacramento from 1903 to 1921.7 Fraser was

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 243
active in the New Thought movement, spoke at the New
Thought Alliance Convention in Los Angeles in 1912, and
was frequently praised by Militz on her stopovers in Sacra­
mento.8 Although there is little information available on
Fraser’s origin or background, the 1910 census reveals that
she was unmarried, white, a native-born American, and that
she would have been forty-eight years old in 1912. Her occu­
pation is listed as teacher at the Home of Truth.9 The Home
of Truth in Sacramento held services every Sunday and
Wednesday and held healing sessions every afternoon and
evening.10
According to Mirza Mahmud Zarqam, a member of‘Abdu’l-
Baha’s entourage who kept a diary of his travels in America
and in Europe, it was Fraser who invited ‘Abdu’l-Baha to
speak in Sacramento.11 There is no record of how she con­
tacted ‘Abdu’l-Baha, but she may have heard of his visit to
San Francisco and gone there to see him.12
In 1912, Sacramento was the fourth largest city in Cali­
fornia, after San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Oakland.13 It
was an important center of commerce and trade, as well as
the capitol city of the state. The population stood at about
45,000.14 At the center of town was the beautiful, round-
domed capitol building, surrounded by a large park contain­
ing trees from all over the world. Victorian homes lined the
park, and nearby there were a number of large mansions
built by wealthy residents, such as Charles Crocker and
Leland Stanford.
‘Abdu’l-Baha left San Francisco early on the morning of
Friday, October 25, 1912. According to Mahmud’s diary, he
said farewell to the Baha’is in an emotional address and
then boarded his train with a number of believers from the
Bay Area, Portland, and Seattle, who had literally begged to
accompany him to Sacramento.15 Brown notes that ‘Abdu’l-
Baha was seated in a chair car: “As usual He refused the

k
HOTEL SACRAMENTO, c. 1912
The hotel where ‘Abdul-Baha stayed and lectured during his stay in Sacramento, October
25-26, 1912. (California State Library, California Section.)
u3.
ki
c.v

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 245
comfort of a Pullman, saying, We are the army of God.’”16
His entourage included: Mirza Mahmud, his secretary; Dr.
Ameen Ullah Fareed and Ahmad Sohrab, who acted as trans­
lators; Mirza ‘Ali Akbar; and Fugita, a Japanese Baha’i. Also
present were Mrs. Ella Cooper and her mother, Mrs. Helen
Goodall, as well as other American Baha’is.
Mahmud Zarqani records that ‘Abdu’l-Baha spoke to the
Baha’is during the train ride to Sacramento and that they
arrived in the city at about noon.17 ‘Abdu’l-Baha was met at
the Central Pacific Arcade Station by Christine Fraser and
Carrie Yoerk, a Sacramentan from a prominent family who
was also associated with the Home of Truth. They took him,
with his entourage, by car to the Home of Truth18 and in­
vited him to remain for lunch and stay for the night. Goodall
and Cooper, along with the other Americans, went directly
from the train station to the Hotel Sacramento where they
were to be staying and where ‘Abdu’l-Baha was to speak that
night.
Harriet Cline had arrived separately from Los Angeles
and was already at the Home of Truth when ‘Abdu’l-Baha
arrived there at about 11:00 a.m. She later recalled that she
was the only American Baha’i present at the luncheon. How­
ever, there were a number of New Thought people there, and
they were very interested in the Baha’i Faith. ‘Abdu’l-Baha
retired to a private room to rest after lunch. At about 3:20
p.m., Cooper, Goodall, and others arrived from the Hotel Sac­
ramento. It seems that his luncheon at the Home of Truth
had come as a surprise to ‘Abdu’l-Bahd, since Cooper later
related that he called her into his room to scold her for ar­
ranging the meeting without consulting him, and so requir­
ing that he separate himself from the other Baha’is and leave
them waiting at the hotel.19
It seems that Cooper and Goodall were unhappy with the
idea of ‘Abdu’l-Baha remaining overnight at the Home of

Peggy Caton
Regard how negligent these people are! All the insignificant ob­
jects are considered by them as means of happiness. How negli­
gent they are! Like unto animals, they eat, they sleep, they walk,
they sing, they dance, and, according to their belief, they think
they are having a good time.
Truth, even though they had arranged for the luncheon. Be­
cause of their objections, he declined Fraser’s invitation. He
explained that it was his custom to stay in hotels and that he
did not want to separate himself from the rest of his group.20
He invited Fraser to dine with him at the hotel and to share
the platform with him when he spoke that evening. He spoke
again briefly to the assembled guests and then departed for
the hotel.21
At 5:00 p.m., Abdu’l-Baha was interviewed at the Hotel
Sacramento by a reporter from the Sacramento Union. He
spoke to the reporter about universal peace, the basis of di­
vine religions, and the principles of the Baha’i Faith.22 After
the interview, he went for a walk in Capitol Park. Seeing the
trees, he is said to have commented on how like those in the
Holy Land they were.23 The Baha’is of Sacramento, in later
years, kept an oral tradition that Abdu’l-Baha gave a short
talk among the trees and blessed an evergreen tree on the
north side of the old capitol building below the upper tier of
the northeast (or northwest) steps.24
The Hotel Sacramento, newly built in 1909, was the grand­
est of the hotels along K Street. It had a large lobby, and one
newspaper reporter observed that Abdu’l-Baha was mobbed
there by women who literally worshipped at his feet.25 From
the Mezzanine Floor of the hotel Abdu’l-Baha observed people
shopping in the outer boutiques, and he seemed displeased
with the spectacle. He made some informal comments con­
cerning these activities, the difference between human be­
ings and animals, and the need for divine civilization in such
a materially advanced and preoccupied society:

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 247
Nay, rather, the animals are preferred to them, for they en­
joy the expanse of the desert. They graze on the green meadows.
They drink from the cool spring. The flight of birds is higher.
Their enjoyment of objects of life is great, but the blessing and
enjoyment of man are through the Divine benediction, the boun­
ties of God and the love of God.26
At 8:30 p.m. that same evening in the Hotel Assembly
Hall, ‘Abdu’l-Baha talked about the purpose of his mission,
the history of the Baha’i Faith, and its basic teachings. He
emphasized the underlying unity of reality that is the foun­
dation of all religions. Christine Fraser gave a lengthy intro­
duction to his talk and said a Baha’i prayer.27 Later, at 9:30
p.m., ‘Abdu’l-Baha gave another informal talk in the parlor
on the mezzanine. He spoke about materialism and the need
for spiritualization, particularly with reference to America.28
Early the next morning, Saturday, October 26, ‘Abdu’l-
Baha spoke briefly to the chambermaids in his hotel room,
anointed them with violet water and gave them fruit.29 Mrs.
Latimer brought a message to him from some Japanese be­
lievers in Portland, and he conveyed his greetings to them
through her.30 ‘Abdu’l-Baha met again with Harriet Cline
before she took a train for her home in Northern California.
He insisted that she take some fruit as she would be hungry
on the trip. During her train ride, she missed the lunch stop
and ate the fruit, as ‘Abdu’l-Baha had predicted.31
‘Abdu’l-Baha gave a second talk in the hotel Assembly
Hall at 9:30 a.m. He spoke of the need for international peace
and expressed the wish that it would first be established in
California: “May the first flag of international peace be up­
raised in this state.”32 After the talk, he was interviewed by a
reporter from the Sacramento Bee.
Several newspaper articles appeared about ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
visit—in the Sacramento Bee, Sacramento Union, and Sacra­
mento Star.33 It seemed that his stay in the city caused quite

Peggy Caton
Establishment of the Community, 1923-1940. Ali M. Yazdi
may have been the first Baha’i to live in Sacramento.41 Yazdi,
a Baha’i from Iran who had immigrated to the United States,
moved to Sacramento on February 18, 1923, to work for the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company.42 Within several months,
however, he had moved on with his work to live in various
locations in the High Sierra Mountains. He returned to the
San Francisco area in 1925.43
The first Baha’i group was organized in Sacramento
a stir in some circles. One article states: “The novelty of
seeing American women prostrate themselves before the
Baha’i leader, clad in long flowing robe and turban, was a
sensation for the patrons of the hotel. They stood in open-
mouthed amazement at the proceeding.”34
Mr. T. J. O’Kelly, a prominent businessman in Sacra­
mento and a Christian Scientist, took ‘Abdu’l-Baha for a ride
around the city in his car.35 They returned at noon for lunch
at the cafe in the hotel. A meal was prepared for twenty of
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s guests, including the Baha’is from out of town,
his entourage, and three guests from Sacramento (Fraser,
Yoerk, and O’Kelly).36 Mirza Mahmud mentions that the ho­
tel proprietor came in and praised the effect that ‘Abdu’l-
Baha had on Sacramento: “What I have seen of the majesty
of this Being is that although no one knew Him in this city,
yet in the course of twenty-four hours He has created a stir
in the city and attracted its people.”37
After lunch, ‘Abdu’l-Baha spoke briefly to the friends and
left for the train station. His train departed for Denver in the
early afternoon.38 Ramona Brown, Ella Cooper, and a few
others were permitted to accompany him to the train station,
where they waved farewell.39 As he was leaving, ‘Abdu’l-Baha
said: “A spiritual commotion has for the time being been
created in this city. Let us see what God desires.”40

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 249
around September of 1924.44 There is no record of how this
group was established. However, there is some evidence that
it may have come about as a result of the Baha’i teaching
efforts of Orcella Rexford.45 Rexford was a professional lec­
turer who gave talks on such topics as health and healing,
food, diet, and color. It was common for her to give a series of
nine lectures in a particular location. For the first eight, she
would charge an entrance fee. But the ninth lecture, on reli­
gion, would be free. She would deliver the Baha’i message in
the most dramatic way at the last lecture and then gather
those who were interested in further investigation into a study
group or club.
The first group called itself the “Bahai Assembly of Sac­
ramento”46 and consisted of twenty-two members. According
to a newspaper article, the Assembly had for its objects: “the
promotion of world peace and the universal brotherhood of
man together with religious and racial tolerance among the
people of all nations.” There is no suggestion in the article
that the Assembly considered itself to be a religious commu­
nity.47 This group was not recognized by the National Spiri­
tual Assembly of the Baha’is as “an organized Assembly,”
and its status appears to have been somewhat ambiguous.48
Some of the members of the Assembly did not consider them­
selves to be Baha’is until some time later.49
The Bahai Assembly did, however, sponsor three lectures
on the Baha’i Faith delivered by the famous Baha’i teacher,
Fadl-i Mazandarani (Mirza Asadu’llah Mazandarani, often
referred to by American Baha’is as Jenabe Fazel [for, Jinab-i
Fadi]), in February of 1925. Fadi was in the city for three
days and delivered three public lectures, one in a Jewish
synagogue.50 He left Sacramento to continue his teaching tom­
in San Francisco.
It seems that it was some time afterwards, possibly dur­
ing 1925, that Henry Kuphal and his wife, Frances Kuphal,

FRANCES CLINE KUPHAL
■
C/j
o .t
-s
ra
o
s
£
CJ
g
co

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 251
moved to Sacramento. They had lived in Boise, Idaho, from
about 1918 to 1923, and had been active Baha’is there. They
moved to California, and Frances Kuphal was a delegate to
the Second Annual Baha’i Conference and Congress in the
Western States, held in September 1924. She was also a
representative to the Western States Teaching Conference in
October of the same year.51 The Kuphals eventually settled
in Sacramento and remained there for the rest of their lives.
They were important members of the Sacramento Baha’i com­
munity for decades.
Before her marriage, Frances (Cline) Kuphal, a Canadian
citizen, had become a Baha’i in Glendale, California. The
Clines were a well-known Baha’i family in California in the
early part of this century. However, Harriet Cline, Frances’s
sister-in-law, indicates that Frances had not shown any
interest in the Baha’i teachings before 1912. Her conver­
sion to the Faith came as a result of meeting ‘Abdu’l-Baha
during his short visit to the Los Angeles area in 1912. The
Cline family had had an opportunity to meet with ‘Abdu’l-
Baha during his visit to Southern California. At this meet­
ing, ‘Abdu’l-Baha insisted that Frances be brought to a lec­
ture where he was to speak. She was very impressed by the
meeting and became a Baha’i shortly after that.52
From Glendale, Frances moved to Idaho where she met
Henry Kuphal, a German immigrant who had come to Idaho
from Montana. They were married in 1918, and Frances be­
came an American citizen after that. Apparently introduced
to the Baha’i teachings by his wife, Henry Kuphal accepted
the Faith in 1919 in Idaho. The Kuphals moved to California
in 1923 or 1924.53
Through the teaching efforts of Ali Yazdi and the Kuphals
in Sacramento, James and Carmen O’Neill became Baha’is.
Also, Carmen’s son, Elmer Dearborn, and her mother, Mrs.
Emma Dearborn, entered the Faith.54 The O’Neills and Mrs.

Peggy Caton
Dearborn (as well as a Mr. I. Dearborn) had been listed as
members of the Bahai Assembly of Sacramento in 1925. But
this group appears to have died out, and it seems that there
was little continuity between this Assembly and later Baha’i
activities. Like the early Assembly, however, the Baha’is in
Sacramento did not openly pursue their work as an indepen­
dent religion, as illustrated by Frances Kuphal’s report to
the Baha’i News Letter in the summer of 1926. She explained
that one of the Baha’is was teaching the children at the Daily
Vacation Bible School in Sacramento:
Mrs. O’Neil’s [sic] work in the school was to give the talk or
sermon. She taught the children the most important thing was
to live the life. It was most impressive to hear them recite from
our Bahai Big Ben.55
She received an enthusiastic reply from the National Spiri­
tual Assembly.56 The Dearborn and O’Neill families soon
moved to the San Francisco Bay area in 1928.
In 1930, John and Valera Allen moved to Sacramento.57
Valera Allen had become a Baha’i in San Francisco in 1925.
A year after she married John, they came to Sacramento.
When the Kuphals, now the only other Baha’is in the city,
came to call, they simply assumed that John Allen was a
Baha’i, and he joined in all the Baha’i activities.58
Before her marriage, Enola Allen (Leonard), John’s sis­
ter, had attended a religious training school in San Francisco
with Valera, her future sister-in-law. Enola went on to be­
come a Methodist minister and pastor of a church near
Petaluma, California. There she married, and moved to Sac­
ramento in 1932. Through association with her brother and
his wife, as well as with the Kuphals, Enola became a Baha’i
in 1934. Eventually, John and Enola’s sister, Cordelia, also
became a Bahd’f, as did their mother.
The Baha’is of Sacramento in the early 1930s were a
small but active group. They were mainly educated, middle-

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 253
class or upper middle-class, white women. They were all dedi­
cated Baha’is, excited by the new movement. Enola Leonard
later remembered the community at this time as a happy,
unified, loving, and close-knit group of friends. They observed
the Nineteen-Day Feasts, held regular study classes, and or­
ganized public meetings for prominent Baha’i speakers, such
as Marion Holley and Leroy loas.59 They gradually increased
their numbers. Marguerite Mosier became a Baha’i and joined
the community in 1932.
Though there were a number of published Baha’i books
by this time, the Baha’is supplemented this literature with
typed and mimeographed sheets that were circulated in the
community. These sheets contained Tablets (letters) of ‘Abdu’l-
Baha, records of his talks, and other materials that were not
published and were difficult to find. The Sacramento Baha’i
Archives now holds several scrapbooks of such sheets, com­
piled by Frances Kuphal and others.
The Sacramento Baha’is participated in Baha’i activities
in other parts of California. One of the believers, Leota Galla­
gher, was wealthy and owned a large Buick. The Baha’is in
Sacramento would pile into it and travel to the Baha’i Sum­
mer School at Geyserville, to San Francisco, even to Bakers­
field for Baha’i meetings.
In the hot summers of Sacramento, the Baha’is held regu­
lar study classes in Enola Leonard’s backyard, under a black
walnut tree. They might read from Esselmont’s Bahd’u’lldh
and the New Era or discuss various aspects of the Baha’i
teachings. The most controversial issue raised at these meet­
ings was speculation concerning whether or not the Guard­
ian of the Baha’i Faith, Shoghi Effendi (who had no chil­
dren), might be hiding a secret heir and would reveal this
information at some time in the future. Informal gatherings
of this type characterized much of Baha’i community life in
Sacramento before I960.60

L
THE FIRST SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY OF SACRAMENTO
elected on April 21, 1938. Standing (1. to r.): Ada Wells, Mildred Owens, Henry
Kuphal, Margaret Moser. Seated (1 to r.): Leota Gallagher, Myra Bradley, Frances
Kuphal, Enola Leonard, Elizabeth Duffy. The Assembly sat for this photo in front of
the tree under which ‘Abdu’l-Baha had stood in 1912.
a ~
IK
---«
?
■*r A;-'.,
■-
'__________________________ ' ■

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 255
Organization and Reorganization, 1938-1940: In late 1937,
Myra Bradley and Stella Wainscott accepted the Faith, bring­
ing the number of Baha’is in Sacramento up to ten. One
other person was reported to be seriously interested. The
National Teaching Committee informed the Sacramento group
that they now had enough members to form a local Spiritual
Assembly at Ridvan (April 21) and urged them to continue
their study of Baha’i Administration and particularly the by­
laws of the Assembly.61
The first local Assembly was elected at a meeting of the
community in April of 1938, with Prof. N. Forsythe Ward of
Berkeley assisting as a representative of the National Teach­
ing Committee. Sacramento became one of only nine local
Spiritual Assemblies in California.62 The first Assembly, eight
women and one man, posed for its official photograph under
the tree in Capitol Park that they believed had been visited
by ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
After the election of the Assembly, the Sacramento Baha’i
community grew rapidly. Within a year, the number of Baha’is
in the city was raised to fourteen. Two days after the Assem­
bly was reelected in 1939, Sacramento hosted a regional teach­
ing conference attended by eighty believers from various parts
of the state. The conference was held at the Hotel Sacra­
mento, on the same mezzanine where ‘Abdu’l-Baha was known
to have delivered his informal talks in 1912.63
After the conference, the Baha’is and their guests were
invited to a “Baha’i tea” at the State Fair Grounds.64 There
Marzieh Carpenter65 spoke to about two hundred people on
the subject of “What Iran Has Contributed to World Peace.”
In addition, a member of the Sacramento community who
was an organizer of garden clubs had arranged for a Baha’i
exhibit as a part of the Sacramento Annual Flower Show at
the Fair Grounds. The Baha’i display featured a model of the
Wilmette Baha’i Temple in a floral setting and background,

Peggy Caton
I
and with the theme “Flowers of All Nations.” The Baha’i
display was situated in the center of the hall and attracted a
great deal of attention. The teaching conference and tea were
considered an outstanding success. A photograph of the flo­
ral display was sent on to the Guardian by the National
Spiritual Assembly and was published in Baha’i News.66
In January of 1940, the Sacramento Baha’i community
still counted fourteen members, thirteen of them women. But
the community showed the first signs of its future diversity
by including the name of one black youth (marked “colored”
on the membership list) who had “signified his intention to
join our group when he is twenty-one years of age.”67 At that
time, only adults could be considered as registered Baha’is.
During this year, however, the National Spiritual Assem­
bly advised Sacramento of instructions received from the
Guardian which required that all local Spiritual Assemblies
confine their jurisdictions strictly to legal city limits. Only
believers living within the city limits of Sacramento could
officially be considered as part of the community, eligible for
election to the Assembly. The new rule split the community
in half. The number of believers was only brought back up to
nine by the enrollment of two new Baha’is who lived within
the city limits. The Assembly secretary noted that they were
“sincere friends who had been studying for quite a long pe­
riod.” Their declarations of faith “saved” the Assembly.68
After the crisis was over, the Assembly secretary reported
in 1941, that “the believers in this vicinity have met this test
admirably.”69 Two of those left outside eventually returned to
the community by moving inside the city limits: Enola Leonard
in 1944 and Florence Keemer in 1946.70 During this period,
the activities of the Sacramento Baha’i community consisted
of a regular schedule of Feasts and Holy Day observances,
study classes and firesides, punctuated by an occasional pub­
lic meeting with an out-of-town Baha’i speaker.

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 257
i
Community Development, 1940-1960: For many years after
1940, Frances and Henry Kuphal acted as the mainstays of
the Sacramento community. They were affectionately referred
to as “Auntie Frances” and “Uncle Henry.” Frances Kuphal,
in particular, was looked upon by the believers as a kind of
mother figure. She was a considerate and loving person who
acted as the community's link to an earlier generation of
Baha’is, and to ‘Abdu’l-Baha himself.
Also in 1940, another Baha’i woman moved into Sacra­
mento from Spokane, Washington. Her husband would not
become a Baha’i for another twelve or thirteen years, but she
immediately became an active member of the Baha’i commu­
nity. She was a capable, professional woman who worked in
the office of the Western Pacific Railroad. Her husband was
a carpenter at McClellan Air Force Base.71 Another long­
standing Baha’i moved to Sacramento in 1946. She was a
Canadian dress designer. In 1947, she was elected as chair of
the local Spiritual Assembly.
Correspondence with the National Spiritual Assembly dur­
ing the early 1940s shows intense concern over relatively
mundane matters of Baha’i administration: membership, en­
rollment, statistics, address changes, news of local events,
Assembly elections, and annual reports. The minutes of the
Assembly reveal a steady concern with the details of running
its ongoing activities. The Assembly made its decisions con­
cerning study classes and teaching activities, refreshments
at meetings, publicity, the local Baha’i library, official corre­
spondence, and the like. In 1940, the Assembly asked the
National Spiritual Assembly to clarify for them whether a
Bahd’i should be permitted to contribute to her former reli­
gious group.72 In 1944, during World War II, the Assembly
agreed to sponsor a telephone call for a serviceman.73 Issues
of functions and administration dominated the Assembly’s
business. The Baha’is of Sacramento were coming to see their

I
-5
BAHA’IS IN SACRAMENTO
gathered on July 9, 1953 to commemorate the Martyrdom of the
Bab. Hand of the Cause Mr. Musa Banani is seated center, hold­
ing the Greatest Name. Back row (1 to r.): Florence Keemer, Patricia
(Keemer?), Nicki Bourget, Cordie Baker. Next row, standing (1. to
r.): Mrs. Messier, Mr. Wells, Frances Kuphal, Henry Kuphal, Peggy
Springer, Mildred Owens, Josephine Graham, Ada Wells, Fred
Chindahl, (Nollie?) Green, and her daughter. Next row, seated (1.
to r.): Louis Bourget, Amin Banani, Musa Banani, Mrs. Samireh
Banani, Evanne Chindahl. Front row, seated (1. to r.): Maerea
Chindahl, (Denise?) Bourget, (Delan?) Bourget, and the daughter
of Patricia (Keemer?).
I
m
o
s
e
§
cn
' ■ (Ci'”
■
tr- 'A'- g.
<
4 • ’
A. r ’ r- • l

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 259
religion as governed by a set of prescribed procedures. Func­
tioning in accordance with these procedures was given the high­
est importance.
In 1947, a new young couple became Baha’is. The hus­
band was the grandson of Louis Bourgeois, the architect of
the Baha’i House of Worship in Wilmette, who had himself
been a Baha’i. However, the young man did not remember
much about his grandfather. He did know that his mother
had brought the remains of Bourgeois with her when they
had moved to Sacramento.74 He had only become interested
in the Baha’i Faith during World War II, while stationed in
New York. There he attended some Baha’i meetings. Both he
and his wife entered the Faith after his return to Sacramento.76
The couple was somewhat out of place in this community
of older Baha’i women. They recalled later that the commu­
nity had become something of a ladies’ social club. The Baha’is
gathered to drink tea, read from the Baha’i scriptures, talk
about gardening, and say prayers. They were uncomfortable
that the community seemed to be uninterested in expanding
its activities beyond its own boundaries.
The new couple was more interested in social action. They
were not content with the usual round of Baha’i meetings.
At some point, during this period, the wife suggested to the
community that the Baha’is should undertake some kind of
social welfare work. The new chairman at that time gently
put the idea to rest, suggesting that perhaps it would be
better to devote the community’s energies to completing the
Baha’i Temple (still under construction) and to strengthen­
ing their own group.76 There was clearly a difference of per­
spective and approach, perhaps rooted in a difference in
generations.
One incident in particular brought some of these differ­
ences into the open. In 1952,77 the young Baha’i couple ar­
ranged for a Baha’i booth at the State Fair in Sacramento. It

Peggy Caton
was a simple exhibit which made use of a model of the Baha’i
Temple and displayed the Baha’i principles and quotations
about progressive revelation.78 The project was successful.79
However, either the booth had been organized without the
local Assembly’s consent, or else someone disapproved of what
the couple had done. Neither the husband nor the wife fi­
nally understood what the problem was, but they were both
called before the Assembly.80 Though they remained active
Baha’is for some time, the couple eventually withdrew from
the Baha’i Faith, saying that they no longer believed in orga­
nized religion.81
In 1954, Frances Kuphal passed away. Although her hus­
band continued to live in Sacramento until his death in 1965,
the focal point of Baha’i activity moved to another family.
The couple from Spokane, both now Baha’is, became the pil­
lars of the community. In 1958, the Spiritual Assembly of
Sacramento agreed that all Baha’i meetings would be held in
their home, unless someone else asked to host a function.82
The couple gave generously of their time and money in sup­
port of Baha’i work. The wife especially became a strong,
even a dominant, force in the Sacramento Baha’i community.
In 1957, another relatively young person became a Baha’i.
She had learned of the Faith in Fresno, and continued her
study of the Baha’i teachings after moving to Sacramento
with her husband in 1952. After her election to the Spiritual
Assembly, disagreements again came to the surface. As a
new and enthusiastic Baha’i, she felt that the functioning of
the Assembly did not live up to the ideal that she had read
about in the Baha’i books. She was shocked to find that a
single individual held such a dominant position in the local
community. Her concerns resulted in disagreements on the
Assembly.83
Differences of opinion about administration finally came
to a head in 1959, when the Assembly requested assistance

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 261
An assembly is a body of nine “members” all with different back­
grounds therefore with an ability to throw light on a different
part of the picture. All can be inspired, in addition to their back­
log of experience and studies in the writings, with knowledge
from God, through Bahd’u’lldh. Through the Divine Hosts of In­
spiration (pure souls on the other side) by the agency of the Holy
Spirit directly. It seems to me absolutely vital that this point be
brought out and emphasized, otherwise a caste-system is set up
within the Assembly. Otherwise, the members will have a ten­
dency to lean on a member who has been a Baha’i a long time
and/or has had an opportunity to study under well-known Baha’is
at summer school, etc. This discounts the condition of the soul­
mind entirely and brings the members into the straight jacket of
each member’s estimate as to what the other one knows. Again,
we’re back to personalities, to the “older members” and the
“younger members.” We are told that only God can judge the
condition of our souls. Since the “heart” (soul-mind) is the seat of
our reality, of our learning, how then can we be in a position to
judge another man’s true learning/knowledge. Only God can do
this.85
In 1959, the couple that had been at the center of Baha’i
activity in Sacramento became inactive. Although the issues
disrupting the community are not apparent from the Assem­
bly records, the acting secretary referred to “heartaches and
turmoil” in the community in a letter to the Baha’i Area
Teaching Committee.86
from the Area Teaching Committee of the National Assem­
bly. The Assembly requested assistance in resolving a differ­
ence of opinion concerning the correct Baha’i procedures with
regard to committees, but the roots of the problem were much
deeper.84 A Baha’i teacher from Fresno was sent to help. She
visited Sacramento in March and April of 1960, holding
deepenings on administrative procedures and principles. A
letter sent to this teacher by the Assembly secretary explains
her view of the problems on the Assembly:

NAW-RUZ 1964
Poster outside Sacramento Memorial Auditorium announcing the public meeting.
WORLD FAITH
foothill Motors
I
n.
i? ■
ssEfisje* '■■■■”
riuwr/w Cl. 27010
SE£ROU£RMiw
every scwoav
4I»SP.M Channel IS
MCIW VC AO
MAR.2I-2RM.
MEM. AUDITORIUM .
DR DWIGHT ALLEN SPEAKER
URS. U RAUDITSCHEK PIANIST
FREE AIJMISSION
NO COLLECTION
tT'
?*

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 263
Pivotal Baha’i Community, 1961-1968: The early 1960s
was a period of tremendous activity in the Sacramento Baha’i
community. It was also a period of rapid change. A new gen­
eration of Americans was entering the Baha’i Faith in the
United States and changing the way the community viewed
teaching, deepening, procedure, and morality.
In 1960, a black man and a Persian man were elected to
the Sacramento Assembly, greatly increasing its diversity.
At that point, the community numbered about twenty. But
problems with inactivity, personality clashes, and other is­
sues continued. In early 1961, the National Spiritual Assem­
bly sent Florence Mayberry, a prominent Baha’i teacher, to
visit Sacramento and seek to heal the community’s difficul­
ties. Her visit seems to have had the desired effect, for she
was able to report to the National Assembly that there were
signs of improvement.88
During this time, the couple that had become inactive
began to participate in Baha’i activities again and became an
important part of the community. Soon large public meetings
were being organized in Sacramento which drew fifty to one
hundred people, including Baha’is from outlying communi­
ties, from northern and central California, and from as far
away as Reno, Nevada. Sacramento was able to schedule a
number of prominent and popular Baha’i speakers at these
meetings, such as Eulalia Bobo, Marion West, and Dwight
Allen. These speakers would attract Baha’is from far dis­
tances. Sacramento became a hub of Baha’i activity. On March
21, 1964, the community held a large public meeting to com­
memorate the Baha’i New Year (Naw-Ruz) at the Sacramento
The community was further disrupted by the disturbing
behavior and disappearance of one of the members of the
Assembly.87 Eventually, this believer was located and volun­
tarily placed herself in a mental hospital for a time.

Peggy Caton
Memorial Auditorium. This was the largest public hall in the
city, where major concerts and sports events were held. In
addition to the Baha’i speaker, a well-known Bay Area pia­
nist, Marilyn Raubitschek, was the guest performer.89
In 1965, a new couple entered the Faith in Sacramento.
The husband of this couple was an enthusiastic new believer
and he soon brought a friend of his into the Sacramento
Baha’i community.90 Both were black. They began to teach
the Faith vigorously, appealing to young people and others
who were socially conscious. They were an effective teaching
team.
The husband of the older Baha’i couple that had become
active again died in 1966. His wife remained an active Baha’i,
however. The (second) new black believer later recalled that
he met her for the first time the morning after he had be­
come a Baha’i, and very shortly after her husband had passed
away. She greeted him at her door, and said: “Isn’t God won­
derful! He took [my husband] and replaced him already.” He
said that she was smiling and radiant at the funeral.91 Even­
tually, however, after a second marriage, she became inactive
again and moved out of Sacramento.
The new couple held regular firesides in their home from
1967 to 1968. These meetings were very informal and re­
laxed. People were free to come and go during the meeting,
and the firesides were open-ended. The speaker, usually the
friend of the couple who had become a Baha’i, would start
the fireside by going over the Baha’i principles found on the
back of the Baha’i Temple card92 and then would ask for
questions. The firesides attracted from twenty to fifty people,
from Sacramento and the surrounding areas, and it became
customary for them to last all night. Often those who were
left in the morning would go out to breakfast together.93 Those
interested in the Faith were both black and white, although
those who became Baha’is were mostly whites. The firesides

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 265
accelerated growth for the Sacramento Baha’is, with fifteen
enrollments in 1965-1966, and thirty-five in 1966-1967. Among
those new Baha’is were young people who would shortly form
the core of the active Baha’i community of Sacramento and
become the center of youth activities for the Sacramento Valley.94
There was resistance in the community to these new teach­
ing methods. Some Baha’is felt that the new believers were
being allowed to enter the Faith too quickly. A year of study
before enrollment had been common in an earlier period.
The new teaching was unrestrained, and those who were
becoming Baha’is were from new social, economic, and ra­
cial backgrounds, which clashed with the white, middle-class
standards that were the norm in the Baha’i community. For
example, one of the teachers convinced a prostitute whom he
had met at the Greyhound Bus Station in Sacramento to
declare her acceptance of the Faith. However, the Assembly
declined to enroll her in the community, because of her pro­
fession.95 The Assembly became concerned about maintain­
ing control of the teaching activities under its jurisdiction.
Eventually, they asked the teacher to stop teaching at the
bus station.
Interested seekers who came to the all-night firesides
were not deterred from bringing alcoholic beverages. Ru­
mors began circulating in the community about this, and
other issues. When the Assembly wrote to the couple about
the drinking, they withdrew from all activity. The fireside
and the teaching associated with it were discontinued. By
early 1968, the Assembly had agreed that all-night firesides
were no longer necessary, and perhaps had been undesir­
able.96
The fireside incident was really the final event in a series
of growing conflicts between old and new members of the
community concerning such issues as teaching methods, deep­
ening, and sexual morality, caused partially by generational

Peggy Caton
differences and partially by differences of race and social class.
However, this brought matters into the open, causing a good
deal of conflict and confusion. In April of 1968, a petition was
circulated in Sacramento that asked the National Spiritual
Assembly to help resolve the problem of disunity within the
Baha’i community. Later that year, the Assembly made a
number of efforts to deal with the problem of inactivity, both
on the Assembly and in the community. By the end of 1968,
however, the majority of believers were still inactive and the
community was in disarray.
Youth Movement, 1969-1975: In the late 1960s, despite the
serious difficulties that the Baha’i community of Sacramento
was facing, a wave of young, new believers began entering
the Baha’i Faith in the United States. This development would
soon allow the Sacramento community to once again become
a locus of Baha’i activity for the surrounding area. The his­
tory of the community from its beginnings has been charac­
terized by a cycle of intense activity, followed by conflict and
disagreement, the collapse of Baha’i activity, and then re­
birth.
The counterculture of the late 1960s and early 1970s found
its fullest expression in the San Francisco Bay area, not far
from Sacramento. Large numbers of young Americans re­
volted against the values, assumptions, and styles of middle­
class culture. They were idealistic, enthusiastic, and believed
in the need for dramatic and immediate change in the world.
This mood in the country led many young people to accept
the Baha’i Faith. These new converts naturally saw little
contradiction between the ideals of their new religion and
the styles and assumptions of the counterculture they lived
in.
As these youth entered the Sacramento Baha’i commu­
nity, there were almost no active believers left in the city.

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 267
Unguided and unrestrained by older Baha’is, they were free
to reshape the community in the style and image of 1960s
popular culture. Eventually, fifteen or twenty young Baha’is
established themselves as the core of the Sacramento Baha’i
community. They were in their early twenties, with a few in
their late twenties or early thirties, and mostly white. Al­
though many were deeply involved in the counterculture, the
majority were not. Some had become Baha’is locally, while
others moved into Sacramento from the San Francisco Bay
area. Their only link to the earlier Baha’i community was
one strong, black man in his forties who remained active
during this period. This believer was a strong advocate of
Baha’i administration and acted as a mentor and father-fig­
ure for the new believers. He encouraged their activities and
showed restraint and tolerance in his role as leader. He sel­
dom showed disapproval. The youth knew they had pleased
him when he laughed, or displeased him when he brought
out the Baha’i Writings to admonish them, or simply left a
gathering.97
During this period, the Baha’is rented the first Baha’i
Center (meeting place) in the community’s history. One Baha’i
recalled that since there was no home of an active Baha’i
available for meetings, the youth felt the need for a Center.98
It became an important focal point for Baha’i activities. The
youth had decided that it should be located downtown, since
that was the area of the city visited by ‘Abdu’l-Baha. His
visit was a continual source of inspiration to them through­
out this period. In December of 1971, a house was rented
downtown in the commercial zone. It served as the Sacra­
mento Baha’i Center until 1974, when the Baha’is were re­
leased from their contract.
The new center provided a place for the Baha’i youth to
congregate. It operated in typical counterculture style. Even­
tually, there were Baha’i meetings of one kind or another

MUSIC AT THE UNITY FAIR
Sponsored by the Baha’is in Southside Park,
Sacramento, during the early 1970s.
TEACHING BOOTH
at the Sacramento Unity Fair.

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 269
there almost every night—firesides, deepening classes, As­
sembly meetings, and committee meetings. The center was
used by Baha’i communities outside of Sacramento, as well.
Gradually, many of the youth moved downtown to be near
the focus of Baha’i activity. One Baha’i moved into the center
as caretaker. He had once worked as a member of the techni­
cal crew for a touring rock-and-roll band. He had hair down
to his waist, and he owned a waterbed factory in the city."
A local Baha’i who visited the center during this period found
a number of young people there in various costumes and
hairstyles, sitting cross-legged on the floor and praying, with
incense burning.100
The older Baha’is in Sacramento found this style unac­
ceptable. They generally remained inactive, and unhappy with
the state of the community, during this entire period. Some
assumed that the Baha’i youth must be involved with drugs
and sexual immorality, because of their life styles. However,
there is no evidence to indicate that this was the case. The
new Baha’is generally understood the Baha’i teachings, served
on the Assembly, as well as several committees, and kept
meticulous records of their Baha’i activities. The most volu­
minous, complete, and well-kept archival records of commu­
nity activity are found for the period of 1971-1973.
The Baha’is, during this period, faithfully observed com­
munications from the National Spiritual Assembly. Their ap­
proach to most problems was to refer to the Baha’i scrip­
tures. They were apocalyptic in their vision of the future,
feeling that the world was on the brink of dramatic and
earthshaking changes. They supported this view with pas­
sages from Shoghi Effendi’s books Advent of Divine Justice
and The Promised Day Is Come. They were intensely involved
in Baha’i activities and became a close-knit group.
The local Spiritual Assembly at this time sponsored a
number of large events. A spring Unity Fair was especially

Peggy Caton
successful. The fair was a large art and music festival in
Southside Park, including rock-and-roll, country, and folk
bands. The event was attended by hundreds of people, mostly
youth. It was well organized, and Baha’is from several com­
munities participated. In 1971, the community organized an
elaborate display and garden as a part of the State Fair.
They arranged for several people to man the booth at all
times during the nineteen days of the fair. The fair booth
resulted in some people becoming Baha’is. Although Sacra­
mento was the sponsor of several major events that took
place within the city, it was often the case that the majority
of Baha’is who supported these activities came from outlying
communities.
The intense Baha’i activity of this period did not last
long. The youth were mobile and not permanently established
in Sacramento. They began moving out of the city in 1973,
many of them to Baha’i pioneering (missionary) posts in other
countries. They were encouraged to pioneer by the general
Baha’i ethos of the time, by other Baha’i youth, and by the
older Baha’is in the area.101 In addition, there were urgent
calls for pioneers at the end of the nine-year Baha’i teaching
plan. The middle-aged mentor of the youth eventually left
the city for a pioneer post in the Caribbean. The 1960s were
finally over, and the mood of the country was changing. Per­
sonal difficulties began to come to the attention of the As­
sembly more frequently—alcoholism, mental illness, and
sexual difficulties. Hours of Assembly meetings were filled
with the discussion of such problems. The Assembly struggled
with the issues but could offer little help. The usual solution
was to pray for troubled persons, recommend more prayer
and meditation, and encourage them to become more active in
the community.
Sacramento had first experienced an influx of population
into its suburban areas during World War II. In 1940, the

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 271
population was 105,000 in the city, and 65,000 in the rest of
the county. This trend continued, and by 1960 three-fifths of
the population lived in the county. Downtown Sacramento
was falling into decline, and much of it became a slum. Ef­
forts at urban renewal began around the Capitol building in
the early 1960s. Some of the slum areas were cleared and
replaced with modern offices and other buildings. It was not
until the mid-1970s, however, that the restoration of historic
Sacramento began drawing people back into the inner city.102
By late 1973, many of the active Baha’i youth left in
Sacramento were beginning to feel exhausted, and they could
no longer sustain the same level of Baha’i work. The Baha’is
were unable to maintain the rent on the downtown center
and lost it in 1974. The suburban Baha’i communities were
now larger and developing their own independence. Urban
blight had done its work in Sacramento, and the area was no
longer considered a desirable place to live. Middle-class people
had moved to outlying areas.
As the youth era waned, older Baha’is in Sacramento
gradually returned to activity. As had happened so many
times before, there was little continuity—either of member­
ship or perspective—with the earlier period.
Continuation. Following the exodus of Baha’i youth, the Sac­
ramento community was less active. In 1976, it was not un­
common for only five or six Baha’is to be present at the
Nineteen-Day Feast, though there were perhaps ten times
that many believers in the city.103 Seven members of the As­
sembly that year were new to the community. Sacramento
has continued to be characterized by more transience and
less stability than its suburban neighbors. This reflects the
changing nature and urban complexity of the city at large.
The size of the Baha’i community had remained small,
numbering about 20 in 1964. It increased dramatically to 55

Peggy Caton
believers by 1967. Although there was a decrease to 39 in
1969, the membership after that time, in a series of rises and
falls, gradually moved up to over 100 Baha’is in the early
1990s.1M Active participation in the Nineteen-Day Feasts re­
mained the same, regardless of the community’s size, until
the Assembly began renting a hall for the celebration in 1989.
The use of a large facility in a constant location, in combina­
tion with a change in community leadership, the influx of a
number of Baha’is from Southeast Asia (Hmong), and the
enrollment of new Hispanic believers, has increased the av­
erage Feast attendance to twenty-five or thirty adults, plus
eight or ten children.105
During the late 1970s, some interest in mass teaching
developed among the Baha’is of Sacramento. Tens of thou­
sands of rural black people had become Baha’is in the South
of the United States using this new teaching technique. Baha’i
teachers would approach people on the street, or knock on
doors, to invite people to a meeting, or deliver the Baha’i
message and ask for their declaration of faith on the spot.
Such radically new methods were controversial. Some Sacra­
mento Baha’is did not think it was right to teach in this
manner. The method was tried, but the results were gener­
ally discouraging, and such projects were discontinued.
The Sacramento community has seen no large influx of
new believers since the early 1970s. However, it has wit­
nessed a gradual increase in the number of believers. Feasts,
firesides, and deepening classes have continued through the
years. The Assembly has been maintained. Occasionally, large
and unusual activities have been sponsored which have caught
the attention and inspired the participation of surrounding
Baha’i communities.
The Sacramento Assembly sponsored a large, professional
art show for three consecutive years in the early 1980s. The
show drew entries from all over the country. Professional

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 273
NOTES
1. Tom Beebe, Who’s Who in New Thought: Biographical Dictio­
nary of New Thought (Lakemont, Calif.: CSA Press, 1977) p. 104.
Horatio W. Dresser, A History of the New Thought Movement (New
York: Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 1919) pp. 231-32.
judges were used and prizes awarded. Concurrent Baha’i
teaching activities were held, as well as theatrical and musi­
cal performances. The events attracted many people and a
great deal of public attention.
In June of 1987, a Baha’i intercommunity committee or­
ganized a large commemoration of the seventy-fifth anniver­
sary of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s visit to Sacramento. In October of the
same year, the Sacramento community sponsored an even
larger event for the same purpose. A crowd of Baha’i's gath­
ered on the capital steps to say prayers and remember the
visit. A train ride in Old Town was arranged to commemo­
rate ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s train ride into the city. The guest speaker,
Joseph loas, the father of one of the Sacramento Baha’i's,
could still remember meeting ‘Abdu’l-Baha as a child. It was
a moving testimony to the endurance of the community.
The Sacramento Baha’i community was once the child of
the larger Baha’i communities of the San Francisco Bay area.
Later, Sacramento itself became the mother-community to a
number of suburban areas in the Sacramento region, spon­
soring large Baha’i activities which sustained and encour­
aged other Baha’i communities in the area. Now, Sacramento
has become one Baha’i community among many, though its
membership is more culturally and economically diverse than
that of its suburban neighbors. However, it continues to rep­
resent the early history of the Baha’i Faith in the region,
because it was the first Baha’i community there and because
of its connection to ‘Abdu’l-Baha.

Peggy Caton
2. Charles S. Braden, Spirits in Rebellion: The Rise and Develop­
ment of New Thought (Dallas: South Methodist University Press,
1963) p. 315. Dresser, History, p. 233. Rev. James Hutchinson Smylie,
“New Thought,” The New Encyclopedia Britannica, Macropeadia, vol.
13 (Chicago: Helen Hemingway Benton Publisher, 1974) pp. 14-16.
3. In 1906, in response to an invitation, the Chicago House of
Spirituality decided that it was desirable for a Bahd’i to speak at the
New Thought Convention. They did not want the speaker to be iden­
tified as a Bahd’i, however, to avoid any implication that the Bahd’i
Faith was a New Thought group. (Minutes, Chicago House of Spiri­
tuality, March 10, 1906. National Baha’i Archives, Wilmette, Illinois.)
In response to questions from New Thought adherents and oth­
ers involved in the proliferating metaphysical healing movements of
the time, ‘Abdu’l-Baha addressed the subjects of healing and the
nature of man while in the United States. Whereas many of these
people insisted that healing was by spiritual means alone, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahd stated that both spiritual and physical means may have heal­
ing powers. In an interview with Mrs. Pell of the Home of Truth, he
explained that man reflects the attributes of God but does not share
in the Essence of God. (Ellen V. Beecher, “The Difference Between
the Metaphysical Teachings of the Present Day and that of the Baha’i
Revelation,” Star of the West, vol. 2 [1911] no. 5, pp. 14-16; Ramona
Allen Brown, Memories of 'Abdu’l-Baha: Recollections of the Early
Days of the Bahd’t Faith in California [Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i Publish­
ing Trust, 1980] pp. 69-76; “Mrs. Pell Interviews ‘Abdu’l-Bahd,” Ella
Cooper papers, National Baha’i Archives.)
4. Braden, Spirits, p. 313.
5. Ibid., pp. 313-15. Dresser, History, p. 233.
6. Militz founded a periodical called The Master Mind which
published from 1911 to 1924. At one point, the magazine decided to
honor fifty people with a year’s free subscription. These fifty were
chosen from among those whom they felt were in a position to ben­
efit humanity, such as President Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wil­
son, and Jane Addams. ‘Abdu’l-Bahd was included in this group.
When he received his subscription, he sent Militz a gracious reply,
commending the magazine for its efforts. The letter was published in
The Master Mind. (“Fifty Eminent Subscribers,” The Master Mind,
vol. 3 [1913] no. 6, p. 191; ‘Abdu’l-Bahd, “Letter to the Editor,” ibid.,
vol. 3 [1913] p. 116.)

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 275
7. Sacramento City Directory, 1903-1921.
8. The Master Mind, vol 2 (1912) no. 5, p. clxxvi; ibid., vol. 4
(1913) no. 3, p. Ill; ibid., vol. 1 (1911) no. 1, p. xxxix.
9. United States Census, 1910. Sacramento City, California.
10. Sacramento Bee, October 19, 1912, p. 11.
11. Mfrzd Mahmud-i Zarqdnf, Kitdb-i Baddyi'u’l-Athdr, vol. 1
(Bombay: Elegant Photo-Litho Press, 1914) p. 331.
12. Ramona Brown mentions that some believers from Sacra­
mento came to visit ‘Abdu’l-Bahd in the Bay Area. Since there were
no Bahd’Is in Sacramento at the time, this may be a reference to
New Thought sympathizers. (Brown, Recollections, p. 44.)
13. United States Census, 1910. Population General Report and
Analysis. Thirteenth Census of the United States, 1910, vol. 1 (Wash­
ington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1913).
14. Ibid.
15. Zarqdni, Kitab, p. 331. He arrived at the train at either 8:00
or 9:00 a.m. (Cf. Zarqdnf and Ella Cooper, “California Bah&’f His­
tory.” Ella Cooper papers.)
16. Brown, Recollections, p. 85.
17. Zarqdni, Kitab, p. 331. The train schedule for that time shows
train No. 24 leaving San Francisco at 7:20 a.m., arriving at the Oak­
land Pier at 7:47 a.m., and at Sacramento at 11:35 a.m. Train No. 4
left at 9:00 a.m. and arrived at Sacramento at 12:35 p.m. Harriet
Cline mentions that ‘Abdu’l-Bahd arrived around 11:00 a.m. (“A Nar­
ration of the Events Leading up to, and the Meetings with ‘Abdu’l-
Bahd. Ella Cooper papers, National Bahd’f Archives.)
18. At 1235 I Street.
19. Brown, Recollections, pp. 85-86.
20. Zarqdnf, Kitdb, p. 331.
21. There are four distinct accounts of‘Abdu’l-Bahd’s visit to the
Home of Truth in Sacramento. The accounts differ in some details,
but they can be easily reconciled. See Cline, “Narration,” pp. 8-9;
Zarqdnf, Kitdb, p. 331 ff.; Brown, Recollections, pp. 85-86; Bijou
Straun’s transcripts of the talk given at the Home of Truth (Ella
Cooper papers); and Cooper, “California,” p. 6.
22. “Interview with ‘Abdu’l-Baha by F. R. Hinkle, reporter on the
Sacramento Union, Hotel Sacramento, October 25, 5:00 p.m.” Ella
Cooper papers.
23. Cooper, “California,” p. 6; Interview No. 4. Interviews with

Peggy Caton
Bahd’fs who are or have been members of the Sacramento Bahd’f
community were conducted by the author, and they remain in her
possession. They will be referred to by number here to protect the
privacy of those involved.
24. The first local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd’i's of Sacra­
mento, in 1938, had its official photograph taken standing under
that same tree. A row of three evergreen trees near that place is still
standing on the north side of the Capitol. I made many attempts to
locate the exact tree that ‘Abdu’l-Bahd may have blessed, interview­
ing Bahd’fs, viewing old photos, and studying archival records for
Capitol Park. Though I could establish an approximate location, I
have never found the tree. According to one source (Interview No. 4),
this tree may have been removed to make room for the extension of
the Capitol building.
Somehow for the Sacramento Bahd’fs the tree came to symbol­
ize ‘Abdu’l-Bahd’s visit, a tangible link to the person and the spirit of
the Master. All other landmarks associated with the visit have been
torn down: the train station, the Home of Truth, and Hotel Sacra­
mento. But, the trees in Capitol Park remain as a living legacy of his
visit.
25. “Women Grovel to Persian Prophet,” Sacramento Union, Oc­
tober 27, 1912, p. 1.
26. “Talk by ‘Abdu’l-Bahd, Hotel Sacramento, Parlor on Mezza­
nine Floor, October 25, 7:30 p.m.” Ella Cooper papers.
27. ‘Abdu’l-Bahd, The Promulgation of Universal Peace: Talks
Delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahd during His Visit to the United States and
Canada in 1912 (Chicago: Bahai Publishing Committee, 1922-25
[Wilmette, Ill.: Bahd’f Publishing Trust, 1982]) pp. 370-76.
28. “Talk by ‘Abdu’l-Bahd, Hotel Sacramento, Parlor on Mezza­
nine Floor, October 25, 9:15 p.m.” Ella Cooper papers.
29. “Interview given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahd to Ida McCormick, Maud
Sickles, and Myrtle Nerhbass, Maids in Hotel Sacramento, October
26, 8:15 a.m.” Ella Cooper papers.
30. “Message from ‘Abdu’l-Bahd to Japanese Boys, Portland, Or­
egon; Hotel Sacramento, October 26, 8:25 a.m.” Ella Cooper papers.
31. Cline, “Narration,” pp. 9-10.
32. ‘Abdu’l-Bahd, Promulgation, pp. 376-77. Ramona Brown, who
was a teenager at the time of her visit to Sacramento, tells how she
felt when she was present at the signing of the United Nations char­
ter in San Francisco in 1945: “Then, in the most thrilling moment of

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 277
the conference, a flag was brought onto the stage: the flag of the
United Nations. To my great astonishment I saw the fulfillment of
prophecy. The wish of ‘Abdu’l-Bahd had come true; the flag of inter­
national peace was unfurled in California.” (Brown, Recollections,
p. 88.)
33. William Lawson, “Noted Oriental Not a Prophet But a
Teacher,” Sacramento Bee, October 26, 1912, p. 1; “Noted Persian
Teacher Here Pleads for World Peace,” Sacramento Bee, October 26,
1912, p. 1; “Persian Prophet, Leader of Baha Movement, Lectures on
Doctrines,” Sacramento Union, October 26, 1912, p. 5; “Persian Priest
Lectures Here,” Sacramento Star, October 26, 1912, p. 1.
34. “Women Grovel,” Sacramento Union.
35. Cooper, “California,” p. 5.
36. “Notes by B. S. Straun, Cafe, Hotel Sacramento, October 26,
noon.” Ella Cooper papers.
37. Zarqdni, Kitab, p. 331.
38. Possibly the No. 4, at 12:50 p.m., or the No. 2, at 1:40 p.m.,
by the Overland Limited.
39. Brown, Recollections, pp. 106-107.
40. Zarqdni, Kitab, p. 333. Translated by the Research Depart­
ment, Bahd’i World Center.
41. While living there he discovered the O’Neill family, but it is
not clear how or when. They may have been living there first as
Bahd’is, or he may have brought them into the Faith. (Personal com­
munication from Marion Yazdi [Ali M. Yazdi’s wife])
42. Letter from Marion Yazdi to the author, November 25, 1987.
43. Marion Carpenter Yazdi, Youth in the Vanguard: Memoirs
and Letters Collected by the First Baha’i Student at Berkeley and at
Stanford University (Wilmette: Ill., Bahd’i Publishing Trust, 1982)
pp. 49, 115 ff.
44. Sacramento Bee, January 30, 1924, p. 14.
45. Enola Leonard remembered that some of the early Bahd’fs in
Sacramento were taught by Orcella Rexford, though her name does
not appear on a list of traveling teachers who visited the city. The
size of the group and the fact that some of them did not consider
themselves to be Bahd’is at that time, also suggests Rexford’s teach­
ing methods.
46. The term Assembly was commonly used by Bah d’is at this
time to refer to any Bahd’i group or gathering.
47. Sacramento Bee, January 30, 1925, p. 14.

278 Peggy Caton
48. Horace Holley, Secretary, to Frances Kuphal, September 21,
1925. National Bahd’f Archives.
49. Mrs. Emma Dearborn appears to be listed as a member of
the Bahai Assembly of Sacramento in 1925. (The list includes Mr.
and Mrs. I. Dearborn.) She states that she did not accept the Faith
until 1926, in Sacramento. (Bahd’i Historical Record cards.
c.1935.)
50. Sacramento Bee, January 30, 1925, p. 14.
51. Letter to Shoghi Effendi, September 27, 1924. Western States
Teaching Conference to National Spiritual Assembly, October 9, 1924.
(Western States Region Book. San Francisco Bahd’i Archives.)
52. Harriet Cline, “Narration,” p. 7. Sacramento Bahd’i Archives.
(Also, Ella Cooper papers, National Bahd’i Archives.)
53. Bahai Temple Unity Contribution Journal, 1909-1920. Na­
tional Bahd’f Archives. Frances Kuphal to George Latimer, March
23, 1921. George Latimer papers, National Bahd’i Archives. Baha’i
Historical Record Cards, National Bahd’i Archives.
54. Yazdi, Youth, pp. 71-72. Elmer Dearborn was adopted by his
grandmother and used her last name.
55. Frances Kuphal to Bahd’i News Letter, n.d. [1926], National
Bahd’f Archives.
56. Horace Holley, Secretary, to Frances Cline Kuphal, August 3,
1926, National Bahd’f Archives.
57. Interview No. 1 (1987).
58. Dwight Allen, “John William Allen,” In Memoriam section of
The Bahd’t World, vol. 18 (Haifa: Bahd’f World Centre, 1986) p. 725.
59. Interview No. 1.
60. Interview No. 2 (June 27, 1987). Interview No. 3 (July 1987).
Interview No. 4 (June 1987).
61. National Teaching Committee to Elizabeth L. Duffy, January
5, 1938. National Bahd’f Archives.
62. “Minutes of the Meeting Covering the Formation of the First
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahais of Sacramento, California on April
21, 1938,” Sacramento Bahd’i Archives. The Bahd’t World, vol. 8
(Wilmette, Hl.: Bahd’f Publishing Trust, 1942) p. 340.
63. Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd’fs of Sacramento to Shoghi
Effendi, June 12, 1939. Sacramento Bahd’i Archives. Regional Bahd’i
Teaching Committee for Arizona, California and Nevada, circular
letter dated April 13, 1936. Sacramento Bahd’i Archives.

The Sacramento Baha’i Community, 1912-1987 279
L
64. Ibid.
65. Later Marzieh Gail.
66. National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’i's of the United
States and Canada to Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd’fs of Sacra­
mento, July 21, 1939. National Bahd’f Archives.
67. Membership list, dated January 11, 1940. Sacramento Bahd’f
Archives.
68. Annual Report of the Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd’fs of
Sacramento, California, n.d. [April 21, 1941]. Sacramento BahdT
Archives.
69. Ibid.
70. Sacramento Assembly to National Spiritual Assembly, Janu­
ary 26, 1944. National Bahd’f Archives.
71. Interview No. 5 (July 1988).
72. Sacramento Assembly to National Spiritual Assembly, Au­
gust 21, 1940. National Bahd’f Archives.
73. Minutes, August 24, 1944. Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd’fs
of Sacramento. Sacramento Bahd’i Archives.
74. Louis Bourgeois’s ashes are buried in the East Lawn Cem­
etery in Sacramento.
75. Interview No. 2.
76. Minutes, May 20, 1947. Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd’fs of
Sacramento. Sacramento Bahd’f Archives.
77. The date is approximate.
78. The Bahd’f teaching that all religions have come from God,
with the teachings appropriate for their time, in a progressive un-
foldment of one divine plan.
79. The booth received two awards and won a plaque.
80. Interviews No. 2, 3, and 4.
81. Interview No. 3.
82. News from the Bahd’t Community of Sacramento, October
1958.
83. Interview No. 4.
84. Sacramento Assembly to Bahd’f Area Teaching Committee
for the Southwest States, September 7, 1959. Sacramento Bahd’i Ar­
chives.
85. Dated April 4, 1960, pp. 3-4.
86. Sacramento Assembly to Area Teaching Committee, May 25,
1960. Sacramento Bahd’i Archives.

280 Peggy Caton
87. National Spiritual Assembly to Sacramento Assembly, May
12, 1960 and May 15, 1960. Sacramento Bahd’f Archives.
88. National Spiritual Assembly to Sacramento Assembly, March
10, 1961. Sacramento Bahd’f Archives.
89. Sacramento Bahd’f Archive. Personal recollections of the
author.
90. Interview No. 7. Interview No. 6.
91. Interview No. 6.
92. A teaching aid published by the National Spiritual Assembly
which had a color photo of the Wilmette Temple on one side and a
listing of ten Bahd’f social principles on the other.
93. Interview No. 6.
94. Interview No. 10 (July 1988 and September 1991).
95. Ibid.
96. Interview No. 6. Interview No. 8. Minutes, March 5, 1968.
Sacramento Assembly. Sacramento Bahd’i Archives.
97. Interview No. 8.
98. Interview No. 10 (September 1991).
99. He eventually cut his hair in response to pressure to conform
to the laws outlined in the Synopsis and Codification of the Kitdb-i-
Aqdas (Haifa: Bahd’f World Centre, 1973), which became available in
1973. (Interview 10.)
100. Interview No. 4.
101. Interview No. 10.
102. Joseph A. McGowan and Terry R. Willis, Sacramento: Heart
of the Golden State (Woodland Hills, Calif.: Windsor Publications,
Inc., 1983) pp. 85-104.
103. Interview No. 13 (July 1988).
104. There were about 110 adults and 60 children in the commu­
nity in 1991. Interview No. 15 (October 1991).
105. Interview 15.

List of articles:
Cover design by Dan Cook
ISBN 0-933770-76-6
The Baha'i Faith in Kansas. 1897—1947
by Duane L. Herrmann
The Baha’is of Baltimore, 1898-1990
by Deb Clark
Baha’i Communities in the West. 1897-1992
by Richard Hollinger
A History of the Sacramento Baha’i Community.
1912-1991
by Peggy Caton
Cover Photo: The Baltimore Baha'i Community,
July 1909
A History of the Kenosha Baha'i Community.
1897-1980
by Roger Dahl
The Development and Influence of the Baha’i
Administrative Order in Great Britain.
1914-1950
by Phillip R. Smith
KALIMAT PRESS
1600 Sawlelle Boulevard
Suite 34
Los Angeles, CA 90025
1-800-788-4067
The Development and Decline of an Early Baha'i
Community: Saint John. New Brunswick,
Canada. 1910-1925
by Will. C. van den Hoonaard

books in the series:
'OK
IN IRAN
STUDIES IN HONOR OF THE LATE HASAN M. BALYUZI
-V.
•-4; * '
Studies in the Babi anti Baha’i Religions, Volume Five
Edited by Moojan Momen
Five Baha’i scholars explore topics in Baha’i theology and history.
FROM IRAN EAST AND WEST
-
__
K ■■ ■I
I
I
■
Studies in Babi and Baha’i History, Volume Four
by R. Jackson Armstrong-Ingram
A full volume on the development of musical and devotional life in
the American Baha’i community, especially as related to the
Baha’i Temple in Wilmette, Illinois.
Studies in Babi and Baha’i History, Volume Two
Edited by Juan R. Cole and Moojan Momen
Original research on the history of the Baha’is in Iran, India, and
the United States.
If
■ .
MUSIC, DEVOTIONS, AND MASHRIOU’L-ADHKAR
Studies in Babi and Baha’i History, Volume Three
Edited by Peter Smith
Six academic essays on the history-of the Babi and Baha’i religions
in Iran.
Other
Bi®
i£i HOB1 i B4\
Volume One
Edited by Moojan Momen
Five scholarly essays on the history of the Baha’i Faith in Iran and
in America.