THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1972-07-13

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

117.1  The blessings of the Ancient Beauty are being showered upon the followers of the Greatest Name.  Our efforts to serve Him and humanity are being crowned with victories throughout the world.  As we give thanks for these splendid achievements, as the Cause of God spreads in every land, as our institutions become more perfected, as the number of believers increases over the face of the planet, our individual lives must increasingly mirror forth each day the teachings of 171Bahá’u’lláh and we must so live our lives that all will see in us a different people.  The acts we perform, the attitudes we manifest, the very words we speak should be an attraction, a magnet, drawing the sincere to the Divine Teachings.

117.2  Bahá’u’lláh tells us that prejudice in its various forms destroys the edifice of humanity.  We are adjured by the Divine Messenger to eliminate all forms of prejudice from our lives.  Our outer lives must show forth our beliefs.  The world must see that, regardless of each passing whim or current fashion of the generality of mankind, the Bahá’í lives his life according to the tenets of his Faith.  We must not allow the fear of rejection by our friends and neighbors to deter us from our goal:  to live the Bahá’í life.  Let us strive to blot out from our lives every last trace of prejudice—racial, religious, political, economic, national, tribal, class, cultural, and that which is based on differences of education or age.  We shall be distinguished from our non-Bahá’í associates if our lives are adorned with this principle.

117.3  If we allow prejudice of any kind to manifest itself in us, we shall be guilty before God of causing a setback to the progress and real growth of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.  It is incumbent upon every believer to endeavor with a fierce determination to eliminate this defect from his thoughts and acts.  It is the duty of the institutions of the Faith to inculcate this principle in the hearts of the friends through every means at their disposal including summer schools, conferences, institutes and study classes.

117.4  The fundamental purpose of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh is the realization of the organic unity of the entire human race.  Bearing this glorious destiny in mind, and with entire reliance on the promises of the Blessed Beauty, we should follow His exhortation:

117.4a We love to see you at all times consorting in amity and concord within the paradise of My good-pleasure, and to inhale from your acts the fragrance of friendliness and unity, of loving- kindness and fellowship.  … With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

118 Embryonic Nature of Local Spiritual Assemblies

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]