THE CALLING
TAHIRIH OF PERSIA AND HER
AMERICAN CONTEMPORARIES







by
Hussein Ahdieh & Hillary Chapman
Ibex Publishers,
Bethesda, Maryland

Other Books by the Authors

Nedaye Ellahe (The Calling in Persian, forthcoming)
Foreigner , From an Iranian village to New York City ,
A Memoir (Persian, forthcoming)
Foreigner , From an Iranian village to New York City ,
A Memoir (forthcoming)
Awakening: A History of the Bábi and Bahá'í
Faiths in Nayriz (Russian, forthcoming)
Despertar. Historia de la Fe Bábí y de la Fe Bahá í en Nayríz
(Spanish, 2017)
L'Eveil: Histoire de la foi bábíe et de la foi bahá'íe à Nayríz
(French, 2016)
A Way Out of No Way: Harlem Prep: Transforming
Dropouts into Scholars, 1967-1977 (2016)
Awakening: A History of the Bábi and Bahá'í
Faiths in Nayriz (Bulgarian, 2015)
'Abdu'l-Bahá in New York (Persian, 2015)
Awakening: A History of the Bábi and Bahá'í
Faiths in Nayriz (Traditional Chinese, 2015)
Subhi Bidari (Awakening in Persian, 2015)
'Abdu'l Bahá en Nueva York (Spanish, 2014)
Awakening: A History of the Babí and Bahá'í
Faiths in Nayriz (Simplified Chinese, 2013)
Awakening: A History of the Babi and Bahai
Faiths in Nayriz (2013)
'Abdu'l-Bahá in New York (2012)

The Calling
Tahirih of Persia and Her American Contemporaries
by Hussein Ahdieh and Hillary Chapman

Copyright © 2017 Hussein Ahdieh and Hillary Chapman

ISBN: 978-1-58814-145-3

Photograph of Ellen White, Courtesy of the Ellen G. White Estate.

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or retransmitted in any
manner whatsoever except in the form of a review, without permission from the Publisher.

Manufactured in the United States of America

The paper used in this book meets the minimum requirements of the American National
Standard for Information Services—Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials,
ANSI Z39.48–1984

Ibex Publishers strives to create books which are complete and free of error. Please help us
with future editions by reporting any errors or suggestions for improvement to the address
below or: corrections@ibexpub.com

Ibex Publishers, Inc.
Post Office Box 30087
Bethesda, Maryland 20824
Telephone: 301–718–8188
www.ibexpublishers.com




LIBRARY OF CONGRESS CATALOGING-IN-PUBLICATION DATA

Names: Ahdieh, Hussein, author. | Chapman, Hillary, author.
Title: The calling : Tahirih of Persia and her American contemporaries / by
Hussein Ahdieh and Hillary Chapman.
Description: Bethesda, Maryland : Ibex Publishers, 2017. | Includes
bibliographical references.
Identifiers: LCCN 2016041282 | ISBN 9781588141453 (alk. paper)
Subjects: LCSH: Qurrat al-ʻAyn, 1817 or 1818-1852. | Women
mystics—Iran—Biography. | Bahai Faith—Iran—History. |
Women—Iran—History—19th century. | Women—United States—History—19th
century.
Classification: LCC PK6528.U77 Z54 2017 | DDC 297.9/3092 [B] —dc23

I dedicate this book to three wonderful souls
who are illumined by the spirit of the great Qurat-ul-Ain:
Tahereh, my wife, for her patience;
Tatiana, my friend, for her assistance;
Bahiyyih, my grand-daughter, for her commitment;

May God bless them!

Hussein Ahdieh

- 7 -
CONTENTS
Introduction.....................................................................9
Prologue.........................................................................15
One: Preaching women..................................................17
Two:  Tahirih of Persia ..................................................60
Three: Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment.......83
Four:  Tahirih Unloosed ..............................................118
Five:  1848: The Seneca Falls Convention, the
Conference of Badasht.............................................144
Six: The Martyrdom of Tahirih....................................177
Seven:  Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage......................201
Epilogue.......................................................................240
Appendix A:  Tahirih in the West and the East ............242
Appendix B:  Education of Women and Girls in Persia281
Appendix C: Translation..............................................289
Bibliography.................................................................292
Index of Names............................................................315

- 9 -
INTRODUCTION
In the mid-1800s, powerful spiritual movements swept across two
totally dissimilar countries: the United States and Persia. Faith-filled
women helped propel these movements as workers, motivators,
instigators, and leaders. This book seeks to introduce one such ex-
traordinary woman of faith who arose in Persia during that period,
Tahirih of Qazvin, who may be unknown to an American audience as
well as her American female contemporaries, many of whom may have
been forgotten.
In the Shi’a Muslim kingdom of Persia,1 the great spiritual upheaval
began with two distinguished clerics who taught that the day had
arrived when a great redeemer would arise to purify Islam. Many of
their students came to believe that this prophecy was realized in the
figure of Siyyid Ali Muhammad, titled ‘the Bab’, meaning the ‘Gate’, a
Shi’a theological term referring to the chosen intermediary between
the promised redeemer who lived in a state of hiding and the body of
the faithful. The Bab later went far beyond this initial prophecy by
claiming to be both the bringer of a new Divine revelation and the
forerunner of a second Divine messenger who was soon to follow.
News of his claims and knowledge of his teachings spread rapidly
throughout Persia and Iraq, aided greatly by the extraordinarily gifted
mystic, teacher, and poet, Tahirih, from the city of Qazvin.
Tahirih’s orientation was fundamentally mystical. The mystic’s goal
is to be re-united with God, the ‘Beloved’. To draw closer to Him, the
mystic must walk a path on which she engages in specific spiritual
practices and disciplines. She will first feel an intense love for her
Beloved, then a deep awareness of the Divine ordering of all things,
and finally, the ecstasy of reunion with the Divine and becoming
something eternal, far beyond the self.2

1 In 1935, the official name of the Kingdom of Persia was changed to Iran.
2 Hatcher, John and Amrollah Hemmat, The Poetry of Tahirih, Oxford: George
Ronald, 2002, 28.

The Calling

Tahirih felt a strong inner calling which gave her the absolute cer-
tainty and courage necessary to proclaim the Babi faith in the face of
unsparing opposition. Within a short span of time, she emerged as one
of the most gifted of the Babi leaders and the sole woman among
them. Informed by her spiritual intuition and great learning, she
brought a deep understanding of the new teachings to the rapidly
growing number of converts.
The Baha’i Faith succeeded the Babi Faith and, with its emergence as
a world religion, the figure of Tahirih as a symbol of female leadership
and spiritual conviction is recognized across the globe. The Bab had
prophesied that his religion would reach its fruition with the appear-
ance of the second Divinely-ordained Manifestation of God, an
individual who would be the perfect embodiment of all of the Divine
attributes, who would express God’s will in words and deeds, and who
would move entirely by the Holy Spirit. Baha’u’llah, who had also
been one of the principal followers of the Bab and had known Tahirih,
fulfilled that prophecy, and most Babis followed him, and now called
themselves ‘Baha’is’ and their religion, the Baha’i Faith.
Worlds away from Persia in central and western New York State,
people lived in a state of such spiritual intensity that the whole region
came to be known as the ‘Burned-Over district’ and saw the emer-
gence of the Shakers, the Church of Jesus-Christ of the Latter-Day
Saints, the Adventists, the Church of Christ, Scientist, and spiritual-
ism. These were part of a Great Awakening that would energize
important reform movements that fought against slavery, alcoholism,
and limited education, and for the rights for women. What began in
the world of the spirit went on to deeply affect the social realities of
the United States.
Through participation in these movements, American women en-
tered the public sphere in large numbers for the very first time. To the
dismay of many, women now spoke and taught about religion in
public and, in so doing, challenged long-established practices. Among
them were Ellen G. White, a theological thinker who shaped the

Introduction

beliefs of the worldwide Adventist movement; Sojourner Truth, who
came up from slavery to electrify audiences with her salvation preach-
ing; Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton and the women of
the women’s suffrage movement; hundreds of spiritualist female
mediums; and Mary Baker Eddy, the founder of the Church of Christ,
Scientist. These female leaders were prefigured in the 18th century by
‘Mother’ Ann Lee, the founder of the Shakers, and many long forgot-
ten female ‘exhorters’.
American and Persian societies both relegated women to a second-
class status. Women were not allowed to participate in public life—the
world of politics, business, public-speaking, religious teaching—was
the exclusive province of men. A woman’s proper place was in the
private sphere of the home where the mother had the primary respon-
sibility for shaping the moral virtues of the children and, by extension,
the society. The privacy of the world of the home in Persian society,
though, was absolute; the women of the family should not even be
seen. Marriage was a matter in which American and Persian women
had little to no choice as these were arranged according to the broader
considerations of the family; giving birth to children was expected, and
sons were the preferred children. By the 20th-century, though, these
two societies had accepted the importance of the education of girls.
In the 19th century, the United States was undergoing an industrial
revolution that was creating new economic and social possibilities for
women. The young republic codified the idea of human rights in its
Constitution which provided a legal basis for the advancement of
women and other social change.
19th-century Persia was a culturally, economically, and intellectually
stagnant society which had experienced a golden age several centuries
earlier but was now corrupted by a largely ignorant clergy and an
autocratic government that functioned through nepotism. Lacking a
constitution, the Kingdom did not have a legal framework within
which to institute social and economic development. The clerics,
placated by the nobility, dominated society. The much more powerful

The Calling

empires of Britain and Russia preyed on the weak kingdom’s economic
wealth.
Since Persian society was entirely dominated by men, women were
invisible in the public life. As a result, there are few known facts about
Tahirih’s life. We have related these in the context of her family, her
society, the theological issues of the time, and the Babi movement. So
that the reader can hear her authentic, undiluted voice, we have
included the fine translations of her poetry by the Persian literary
scholar, Prof. Amin Banani, and the poet and master translator, Prof.
Jascha Kessler. We have also drawn from the literary analysis of Prof.
Banani and Prof. Kessler as well as that of Prof. John S. Hatcher and
Dr. Amrollah Hemmat from whose three volumes of translations of
her poetry we have also re-printed several pieces.
In our re-telling of the lives of Tahirih and her American contempo-
raries, we hope to convey a sense of the expectation and exhilaration as
well as the suffering and sorrow that these women must have experi-
enced and something of the inner dimension of their lives. As Baha’i
authors, we have given preference to the major Baha’i sources which
interpret the meaning of her life within the context of her own beliefs
and the teachings of the Baha’i Faith; we have also benefitted from
other scholarly histories for accurate background information.
This book would not have been possible without the generous gifts
of time and knowledge from these individuals to whom we are very
grateful:
Dr. Tahereh Ahdieh, Jeff Albert, Naseem Alizadeh, Dr. Iraj Ayman,
Sheila Banani, Talat Bassari, Prof. Dominic Brookshaw, Dr. Christo-
pher Buck, Anita Chapman, Deborah Conow, Donna Denize, Tali
Ferdowsi, Robert Hanevold, Robert Harris, Kathryn Hogenson, Faruq
Izadinia, Tatiana Jordan, Mara Khavari, Dr. Gavin Grant, Prof. Jascha
Kessler, Dr. Tony Lee, Prof. Frank Lewis, Gwyneth Magaditsch, Prof.
Susan Maneck, Dr. Dorothy Marcic, Della Marcus, Maria Milosheva,
Peter Murphy, Bahiyyih Nakhjavani, Judge Dorothy Nelson, Dr.
Moojan Momen, Timothy Moore, Pedram Parvini, Prof. Michael

Introduction

Penn, Dr. Shapour Rasekh, Maliheh Rouhani, Maryam Rouhani, Sana
Rouhani, Dr. Nader Saiedi, Julio Savi, Leila Seradj, Velimir
Tchatchevsky, Vajiheh Teymoorian, Dr. Duane Troxel, Sheila
Vahdati, Prof. Fereydun Vahman, Prof. Christopher White, Prof.
Ehsan Yarshater, Farah Zahedi and Abbas Jannat.
— Dr. Hussein Ahdieh,
Hillary Chapman,
2016 CE/173 BE

- 15 -
PROLOGUE
This story—that of Tahirih of Qazvin, and the numberless American
women who arose in the great awakenings isn’t really one story but
many stories—not even many stories—but numberless dreams and
letters, speeches and beatings, exiles and homes—which made up the
lives of the women—some known, most unknown—who were fired
by a powerful faith and a deep sense of calling, whose lives made up a
journey that revealed new realities and birthed a new world. So, since
this is about a journey, we may as well begin on a boat.

- 17 -
ONE:
PREACHING WOMEN
1.
Because the English mainland had disappeared from the horizon, the
shipmates could no longer drop anchor to stabilize their boat in the
battering storm; to their surprise, the damn woman who had lectured
them regarding the wages of their sins now seemed to be part of their
salvation as she and her band of followers helped them to fight the
high winds and gigantic waves. Fearless of the anger of nature against
them, these religious fanatics were bailing water shoulder to shoulder
with the crew after several planks had come loose. The storm subsided,
and the sailors’ survival gave them a new respect for this curious band
and its odd yet courageous leader, Ann Lee (1736-1784). This ocean
crossing was as her life would be: a strident voice tossed about in a
storm.
She was born one of eight children to a blacksmith and his wife in
Manchester, England, in 1736. Her family lived in just a few rooms
with little money to spare. Because there was no privacy in the
cramped spaces, she was exposed to the physical intimacies of others
and, as a result, she developed a deep dislike for the relations of the
flesh against which she later preached.
Ann had frequent visions as a child. In 1758, she joined a sect known
as the ‘Shaking Quakers’, or ‘Shakers’, a breakaway group of Quakers.
The name came from the charismatic nature of their services during
which the faithful sometimes physically shook and rolled on the floor
and spoke in tongues when the spirit came into them. Of her conver-
sion experience, Ann wrote:
“My soul broke forth to God; which I felt as sensible as ever
a woman did a child, when she was delivered of it. Then I

The Calling


Mother Ann Lee.
felt unspeakable joy in God, and my flesh came upon me,
like the flesh of an infant.”3
Through her visions Ann came to believe that she was the embodi-
ment and return of the Spirit of Christ; her unshakeable sense of
calling—”I saw, and knew what I saw”4—-brought her to the leader-
ship of the Shakers. She based her belief in part on a verse from
chapter twelve of the Book of Revelations:
“And there appeared a
great wonder in heaven;
a woman clothed with
the sun, and the moon
under her feet, and
upon her head a crown
of twelve stars.”5
In 1774, she had a vision
of the ‘new world’, and so
she and other Shaker leaders
decided to move with a band
of believers to the great
unknown of America.
After the eventful sea
crossing, the small band made its way up into the wilderness of New
York and settled in a swampy wooded area near the Hudson River and
the town of Albany. Even under such arduous circumstances, Ann
insisted that the community follow very strict guidelines such as total
sexual abstinence—even between married people—and a complete
confession of sins.

3 Richard Francis, Ann the Word: The Story of Ann Lee, Female Messiah,
Mother of the Shakers (NY, NY: Arcade Publishing, 2000), 44.
4 Ibid.
5 Ibid., 48.

Preaching Women

In 1780, Ann went on a two-year mission trip up the Hudson River
and then to Harvard, Massachusetts, during which she established
Shakerism on a strong foundation. The strength of her personal
conviction exercised great power over people, even inspiring fear.
Followers gave themselves over to her completely and sought salvation
from her directly.
The Shakers acquired a large house in Harvard that had been previ-
ously owned by a mystical cult, much to the anger of many townspeo-
ple who objected to the presence of yet another strange new group.
God was a powerful presence in the everyday lives of the people of
New England. According to different memoirs, Shakers saw an active
and often terrifying God at work in the New England villages through
which they travelled. One Shaker recalls arriving at a home where a
two year old boy ran out into her arms. When he looked into her face,
he began to shake violently which she took to mean that the spirit had
come into him. She brought him back in the house where straightaway
the adults became converts and appeared to her to become bathed in a
white light.
The presence of the Shakers at the Harvard house brought immedi-
ate opposition. Here was a sect led by a woman—one who claimed a
Divine station no less—which taught extreme personal practices and
broke up families. Ann herself was rumored to be a witch and a spy,
made worse by the fact that she was English in the years before the
War of Independence when anti-British feelings ran high. Her fearless
proclamation didn’t help soothe the fears of local people; when asked
what she was doing with the Shakers, she responded that “…we are
the people who turn the world upside down.” The Shakers didn’t
emphasize the written word of the Bible—Ann was illiterate—but
rather Biblical stories, personal spiritual experiences, and living the life
of a true Christian. Believers expressed the spirit within them during
demonstrative and raucous services which were easily heard from the
outside:

The Calling

“They begin by sitting down, and shaking their heads, in a
violent manner, turning their heads half round, so that their
face looks over each shoulder, their eyes being shut; while
they are thus shaking, one will begin to sing some odd tune,
without words or rule;…— Some singing without words,
and some with an unknown tongue or mutter, and some
with a mixture of English; The mother, so called, minds to
strike such notes as make a concord, and so form the
charm…in the best part of their worship every one acts for
himself, and almost every one different from the other, one
will stand with his arms extended, acting over odd postures,
which they call signs; another will be dancing, and some-
times hopping on one leg about the floor; another will fall to
turning round, so swift that if it be a woman, her cloaths will
be so filled with the wind, as they were kept out by a hoop;
another will be prostrate on the floor;…some trembling ex-
tremely; others acting as though their nerves were convulsed;
others swinging their arms, with all vigor, as if they were
turning a wheel, etc….”6
This full-on worship, as well as Calvinist morality, self-discipline,
and hard work were characteristic of the robust Shaker communities
that Mother Ann Lee built. After the passing of her powerful presence,
Shaker membership declined. The exquisite crafts and furniture they
made could not compete with industrially manufactured goods
making it difficult for them to support themselves. In addition, Ann
Lee’s emphasis on sexual abstinence meant that there were no children
to carry on the communities.
Mother Ann Lee was the most outstanding female religious figure of
the First Great Awakening, the tidal wave of religious emotion that
rolled through the colonies in the 1730’s and 40’s during which
Americans rededicated their lives to God and church, including

6 Ibid., 138-9.

Preaching Women

African slaves who converted in large numbers for the first time to
Christianity.
Church services changed from having formal sermons on theology to
fostering the heartfelt experience of personal salvation. People wanted
to be caught up in God; a new generation of ministers sought to revive
authentic piety. This more heart-centered approach combined with an
ecstatic and expressive form of worship may also have resonated with
the cultural heritage of African slaves.7
To some Americans, the world seemed to have been turned on its
head as wives exhorted husbands to piety, children evangelized their
parents, and some women even began speaking out in public. As one
Reverend put it, “…multitudes were seriously, soberly, and solemnly
out of their wits.”8
The earliest Puritan settlers in the United States had held strong
Calvinist beliefs. They valued hard work and community solidarity,
and they abhorred sin. Their destinies, they believed, were in the
hands of a God that did not tolerate moral transgression. As the
colonies emerged, this Puritan consensus began to break apart but the
strong and severe Calvinism carried over into the Awakening. The
quintessential sermonizer of the First Great Awakening was Jonathan
Edwards in Massachusetts who warned the faithful that they were
sinners in the hands of an ‘angry God’. Hell was very real and awaited
those without Christ. God, in His mercy, had given them a respite,
but they must ‘awaken’ to Christ to be saved from Hell. This sermon
provided much of the basic theological outlook that shaped the First
Great Awakening.
Women had no voice in the traditional Calvinist churches, but with
the Awakening, several churches actually allowed women to speak out
during services.

7 Susan Hill Lindley, You Have Stept Out of Your Place (Louisville, KY:
Westminster John Knox Press, 1996), 41.
8 Catherine A. Brekus, Strangers and Pilgrims: Female preaching in America, 1740-
1845 (Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press 1998), 34.

The Calling

Quakers taught that the spirit dwelt in each human being who could
be re-born though experiencing this inner light. Their worship meet-
ings were totally silent until someone was moved by the spirit to rise
up and speak. When seized by the Holy Spirit, a man or woman was
reborn, and old prohibitions such as the requirement that women be
silent in church were washed away. The Quakers had a lay ministry in
which women could participate. Women also were a part of the
church government; they held their own meetings during which they
disciplined female members, judged on the suitability of a woman for
membership in the congregation, and approved women for marriage.9
The “Strict Congregationalist” or “Separate” churches encouraged
testimonials by both men and women who had experienced saving
grace. Nevertheless, Separatists maintained that women were subject to
their husbands and could not be ministers. Similarly, some Baptist
churches—also not a mainstream denomination—permitted female
exhortation as long as it did not transgress the boundaries of the
Biblically-based social order as they understood it.10 Among Method-
ists, there was greater openness towards women leaders because of the
strong influence of Wesley’s outspoken mother on the founder of
Methodism; when she found the curate to be inadequate one day, she
had not hesitated to lead her church in prayer.11
Ann Lee’s preaching voice was the only one to escape the oblivion
into which were consigned all women who attempted public preaching
and teaching during the First Great Awakening.
But if one rummages around deep enough into the past, a few other
voices of ‘female exhorters’—individuals who rose up spontaneously to
call sinners to repentance—can be heard...

9 Ann Braude, Sisters and Saints: Women and American Religion (Oxford, UK:
Oxford University Press 2008), 37.
10 Brekus, 48-51.
11 Lindley, 43.

Preaching Women

Martha Stearns Marshall “melted a whole concourse into tears by her
prayers and exhortations.”12
Margaret Meuse Clay’s piety was of such renown that she was asked
to lead the public prayer in her church. But female exhorters had to be
aware of where the line of social propriety lay: Clay’s exhorting had
such a powerful effect that she was once sentenced to a flogging on the
charge of unlicensed preaching.13
Hannah Cave Graves, a woman of great intelligence and piety, saw
her role as one of being the moral guardian of her church, but “…her
blunt dealings with preachers at times, seemed as if she ran some
hazard of violating a saying of God Himself, ‘touch not mine anointed
and do my prophets no harm.’”14
Other times it was the quality of a woman’s ‘passivity’ that made her
a vessel for the spirit in the eyes of others. Mary Reed, for example,
had visions which she communicated privately to her minister. He,
then, related these to his parishioners while Mary sat quietly in the
pews. Her meekness gave her words great authority over the congrega-
tion.15
Female exhorters were an accepted feature of the First Great Awaken-
ing. They did not have any institutional standing nor were they
permitted to give formal sermons, but their impassioned words
electrified congregations.16
The main purveyors of the First Great Awakening were the itinerant
preachers who evangelized, inspired, and terrified local people into
being reborn in Christ to avoid damnation; some of these itinerants
were women.

12 Brekus, 62.
13 Ibid.
14 Ibid.
15 Thomas S. Kidd. “Daniel Rogers’ Egalitarian Great Awakening.” Medieval
Christianity. Accessed November 2, 2013.
https://medievalchristianityd.wikispaces.com/file/view/DANIEL+ROGERS+EG
ALITARIAN+GREAT+AWAKENING.pdf
16 Brekus, 48.

The Calling

Bathsheba Kingsley, known as the “brawling woman,” climbed onto
her husband’s horse and rode from town to town, evangelizing in
homes, public squares, and churches. She rebuked townspeople for
their sinfulness and warned ministers of a wrath to come.17
Jamima Wilkinson claimed to have died of typhus in October, 1776,
and then to have been literally resurrected. But in this second life, she
was genderless and referred to herself in the third person as the ‘Public
Universal Friend’. She dressed in a robe that covered her entire body.
Her preaching was intensely powerful and dramatic, but her theology
was traditional, so she elicited both excitement and revulsion. People
derided her for her ‘manliness’—she was a woman who had truly
stepped out of her proper place and who emasculated men by making
them kneel before her. It was not her theological claims but her
subversion of femininity that caused the most anger and mockery.
This mix of influence and infamy followed her as she travelled the
countryside attracting passionate followers. In an effort to get away
from the constant criticism, she moved with her group to rural western
New York. But as the years went by, the movement waned, and her
followers gradually left her.18
These preaching women lived, moved, and thought entirely in a
world shaped by personal faith. Their Calvinist-bound teachings were
too conservative for future generations concerned with the women’s
suffrage movement but much too radical for their own time.19
And, so, the early women preachers and exhorters of the First Great
Awakening were forgotten.
2.
The United States underwent important changes in the decades after
the First Great Awakening. The colonies became an independent
republic, and, having cast off British rule, Americans now saw them-

17 Ibid., 23-5, 52.
18 Ibid., 80-97.
19 Ibid, 7-8.

Preaching Women

selves as a people who could enact change through their own efforts.
This way of thinking led to a deism which had confidence in the
individual, a markedly different view from the Calvinism of the
Puritans in which humans were helpless in the hands of a powerful
deity. With the establishment of the Constitution as the country’s legal
framework, the government of the United States could no longer be
connected with a specific church. This ‘disestablishment’ of churches
made church membership voluntary, so new churches and forms of
belief and worship appeared in the American religious landscape.20
Change created tensions within American society. Some Americans
brimmed over with a self-confident individualism which rendered God
remote. They were influenced by the European Enlightenment’s view
that man was intrinsically good and had free will. Others worried that
the changes in society were signs of God’s coming wrath; they held to
the Puritan forefathers’ traditional Calvinist view which stressed man’s
sinfulness and God’s wrath.21 History in the United States was on the
side of the first view: Americans came to see man as having free will
and, with God’s Grace, being able to effect change. Neither adults nor
infants were predestined to damnation; one could choose right or
wrong by a conscious act of free will and, in so doing, determine one’s
personal and spiritual destiny.22 Man could choose salvation by having
a personal relationship with Christ; Christ, in fact, increasingly came
before ‘God’.23 One new group calling themselves the Unitarians, put
particular emphasis on man’s reason and rejected all traditional
doctrines of the past such as the Trinity which it deemed unreason-
able. The appearance of such a completely non-doctrinal church
showed just how much Americans were moving away theologically

20 Lindley, 59.
21 William G, McLoughlin, Revivals, Awakenings, and Reform (Chicago, IL: U. of
Chicago Press, 1978), 99.
22 Ibid., 114, 116.
23 Ibid., 120.

The Calling

from the country’s Puritan Calvinist roots.24 This Enlightenment view
of free will, reason, and God’s Grace, fused with the rapidly growing
nation’s sense of destiny, so much so that, in a real sense, this ‘reason-
able’ Protestantism became a national religion.25
By the late 1700s, a second Great Awakening (c.1790-c.1840) was
underway.26 It was begotten by great preachers such as Charles Finney,
who developed the use of passionate revival meetings to set fire to the
inner lives of people in Western and Central New York—later called
the “Burned Over District”—, and Lyman Beecher, a fervid social
reformer and father to several extraordinary daughters.
In this Awakening, women worked, organized, taught, and preached.
They outnumbered men in both activity and church membership.27
They were the backbone of the churches serving as Sunday school
teachers, organizers of fundraising bake sales and sewing circles, organ
players, preparers of feasts, and educators of children in morals and
faith.28
Women’s societies helped finance and organize the great revivals29
which powered the Second Great Awakening. These large gatherings
could go on for days with men and women having potent personal
experiences of the Holy Spirit.
In the emotionally intense atmosphere of the revival, women were
more likely to overcome their inhibitions and fears, and stand up and
preach.30 To give themselves strength, such women may well have

24 Ibid., 100.
25 Ibid., 106.
26 The exact dates of the Great Awakenings are relative. The usual decade given for
the end of the Second Great Awakening is the 1840s. There was also a Third Great
Awakening usually dated as the second half of the 19th century though these dates are
not firm; so the authors have conflated these two as a ‘Great Awakening’.
27 Lindley, 60.
28 Ann Braude, Women and American Religion (Oxford UK: Oxford U. Press
2000), 11.
29 Braude, Sisters and Saints, 35.
30 Brekus, 142.

Preaching Women

clung to the Apostle Paul’s admonition that there is no male or female
in Christ.31 One woman feared the scorn of her parents, ministers, and
society, but was so uplifted by the revival that she rose up to preach:
“Here my peace became as the river and my consolation like
the waves of the sea. The cause of the Lord prospered, sin-
ners obtained pardon of their past sins, converts crowded the
gates of Zion, and I derived indescribable pleasure in per-
suading my fellow beings to become reconciled to God.”32
Women personally exhorted individuals to salvation in front of the
whole gathering.33 Their raw emotional outpourings about self-doubt
and salvation told in colorful and plain language moved listeners
deeply.34 They warned of sin and held out the hope of salvation, and
they spoke of a God who saved the sincere repentant through His
compassion and punished the unrepentant sinner in His wrath.35 The
most humble of people could preach out in such an environment. One
woman who rose to preach heard, “Some will laugh at thee, some will
scoff at thee, and the dogs will bark at thee, but while thou doest my
will, I will be with thee to the ends of the earth.”36 Black women,
especially, identified themselves closely with Old Testament prophets
and attributed their preaching to a direct link with the Holy Spirit.37
During the first decades of the 1800s, about one hundred American
women dared to preach—not just exhort—in public.38 Numerous
religious journals, newspapers, and memoirs of these years, testify to

31 Ibid., 119.
32 Ibid.,142.
33 Ibid., 206.
34 Ibid., 200.
35 Ibid., 215.
36 Ibid., 145.
37 Ibid., 183-5.
38 Ibid., 119

The Calling

the existence and contributions of preaching by women. The effective-
ness of these women to inspire audiences just could not be denied…39
Elleanor Knight had married a violent alcoholic and lost two children
and then was rebuked by her pastor who told her to “Please your
husband, and keep still.” After she had fled her abusive husband and
began to preach during the assembly, she was thrown out by her
church which condemned her as “deceived” and described her as a
“worthless character” and a “common prostitute”…40
Jarena Lee, a free black woman in Philadelphia, had a vision of a
pulpit with a Bible laying on it. She belonged to Philadelphia’s Bethel
African Methodist Church, founded in 1793 by African-Americans
seeking to assert themselves above their second class status in the
Methodist Church. Her Bishop had told her that the rule of Metho-
dism “did not call for women preachers.” He went on to found the
country’s first ‘African-American’ denomination, the African Method-
ist Episcopal Church, but he did not support this ‘woman preaching’.
So Jarena settled down, had two children, and forgot about preach-
ing.41 But then, her husband died, and God seemed to call her again.
One day in church, seized by the spirit, she burst out in a torrent of
preaching: “God made manifest his power in a manner sufficient to
show the world that I was called to labour according to my ability.”42
Her stunned audience and even her Bishop this time supported her,
acknowledging that she must have been called to preach. Her spiritual
power was undeniable. She knew she heard God’s command, and she
no longer accepted that any restrictions be placed on her. She began
teaching in her home and then left to be an itinerant preacher to both
black and white audiences. Few had this courage, and ministers knew
that few could preach like Jarena Lee…43

39 Lindley, 62.
40 Brekus, 162-6.
41 Braude, Sisters and Saints, 28-9.
42 Ibid, 30.
43 Ibid., 28-30.

Preaching Women

Harriett Livermore, a devout evangelist, had convinced the Speaker
of the House to allow her to preach to the Congress. In January of
1827, she appeared before the whole gathering of representatives
clothed in a simple robe and bonnet. She opened her Bible, looked out
over the packed chamber—listeners cramming the doorways—and
began to preach on the topic: “He that ruleth over men must be just,
ruling in the fear of God.” President John Quincy Adams, who had to
stand on the steps leading up to her lectern because of the crowd,
referred to her as a religious fanatic: “There is permanency in this
woman’s monomania which seems accountable only from the impulse
of vanity and love of fame.” Other male clerics derided her as someone
who sought public glory instead of remembering her female ‘modesty’.
In her many years of travelling, this preaching woman wrote sixteen
books…44
Zilpha Elaw, a free black woman born outside of Philadelphia, had a
vision of Jesus Christ which caused her to leave the Quakers for the
more charismatic Methodist Church. After the death of her husband,
she opened a school for black children in New Jersey. Two years later,
she was preaching throughout Maryland and Virginia and evangelizing
enslaved and free black Americans as well as whites, gathering follow-
ers from both races. In 1840, she left for England where she preached
over a thousand times before the Anglican Church put a stop to this
on the basis of her being female. The location of her grave is un-
known, but she left behind an autobiography, Memoirs of the Life,
Religious Experience, Ministerial Travels, and Labours of Mrs. Zilpha
Elaw, an American Female of Colour…45
Julia Foote was born to former slaves, joined the AME Church, and
later became its first deacon. She felt called to preach but was not
supported by her husband, parents, or her minister. Still she set off as
an itinerant preacher throughout New England, the Mid-Atlantic

44 Brekus, 1-4.
45 Derek Dureka, “Elaw, Zilpha.”
pabook.libraries.psu.edu/palitmap/bios/Elaw_Zilpha.html.

The Calling

states, Michigan, Ohio, and Canada. She, too, left behind an autobi-
ography, A Brand Plucked From the Fire.46
A slave woman known as “Old Elizabeth” traveled the South preach-
ing against slavery...47
There were many other women whose names have disappeared …
In the South, white women preached out in radical new churches.
One woman “would pour forth an exhortation lasting from five to
fifteen minutes, which neither father nor brother could equal, and
which brought tears from every feeling eye.” Some white planter
women such as “Miss Mag” even preached in the slave homes. She
would “come in eb’ry house and hol’ prayer meetin’,” and “go to one
house on Sunday and another house de nex’ Sunday ‘till she go all
roun’ de quarters. And she could pray, too, lemme tell you. Sometime
she git so happy she git to shoutin’.”48
Illiterate slave women preached in Sunday services or out in the fields
and prayed aloud and shouted out their stories of salvation. One
woman could “send up the most powerful prayer of anybody on the
plantation,” another “looked as if she knowed everything just from her
mother wit. She was the only preacher we knowed anything about.”
One slave woman believed that, like unto Jeremiah the prophet, God
was speaking through her as in the verse, “Open your mouth and I will
speak through you.”49
The very appearance of women preaching was, for many, a sign of
the coming End and the return of Christ. When women stepped into a
pulpit, they were stepping out of their proper place and into a position
that had been forbidden to them by Scripture. When they spoke with
intelligence and power, they were being too ‘masculine’, and when
they stood up in front of men, they were accused of arousing men’s

46 Tonya Bolden, Biographies,
digital.nypl.org/schomburg/writers_aa19/biographies.html.
47 Brekus, 4.
48 Ibid., 129.
49 Ibid.

Preaching Women

lusts.50 Even a preacher as radical as Lyman Beecher did not want
“bold women” preaching and being the moral guides of the faithful.51
Much of this woman-preaching happened in new, dissenting Calvin-
ist sects—the Free Will Baptists, Christian Connection, Methodists,
and the African Methodists. Among the Millerites, there were at least
twenty-two women who preached between 1841-5. These religious
groups were more radical and rejected the world as it existed.52 In the
Bible, the Jewish prophet Joel had spoken about ‘daughters’ prophesy-
ing:53
“And afterward, I will pour out my Spirit on all people. Your
sons and daughters will prophesy, your old men will dream
dreams, your young men will see visions.…And everyone
who calls on the name of the LORD will be saved; for on
Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be deliverance, as
the LORD has said, even among the survivors whom the
LORD calls.”54
Despite the great enthusiasm generated by the revival meetings, and
the opportunity they afforded women to stand up and testify in
public, not all women approved of this; in fact, some were downright
opposed.
Mrs. Frances Trollope,55 an English woman, saw the emotionalism of
the revival as having a very negative effect on young women who gave
themselves over to it. She observed that the minister preached a
sermon that “…had considerable eloquence, but of a frightful kind.”
He described “…the last feeble fainting moments of human life, and
then the gradual progress of decay after death….” then changed into
“…the shrill voice of horror…” as he looked down into hell while

50 Ibid., 202-204.
51 Ibid., 153.
52 Ibid., 119-121.
53 Ibid., 159-160.
54 Joel 2: 28-32 (New International Version).
55 The mother of the famous English writer Anthony Trollope.

The Calling

“…perspiration ran in streams…his eyes rolled, his lips were covered
with foam….” Then he changed into a “…coaxing affectionate
tone…” and asked “…Whether they would avoid the hell he had
made them see?” He proffered an invitation for the frightened listeners
to accept Jesus and “…Young girls arose…every limb trem-
bling…They seated themselves on the anxious benches…Violent
hysterics and convulsions seized many of them….” Mrs. Trollope
concluded: “Did the men of America value their women as men ought
to value their wives and daughters, would such scenes be permitted
among them?”56
The preaching women of the Second Great Awakening, though, were
not trying to change the traditional roles of men and women. They
believed it was God who was making them behave this way by ordering
them to stand up and preach. They were victims of God’s Wrath which
aimed at saving sinners and warning the faithful. He pushed them into
preaching. They were pens in His Hands. They were sacrifices just as
Jesus had been a sacrifice.57 These preaching women were not trying to
upset the established role of women in the family. They held very
closely to the literal Biblical teaching and did not seek to change the
traditional roles of mothers and daughters in the family.58
By the 1830-40s, conservative ministers as well as lay women pushed
back against women who tried to preach.59 The tide was turning and
preaching women were booed, jeered, and locked out of churches.
Ministers from traditional churches asserted that women could not
teach men according to the literal interpretation of the Bible; all
congregants had to be taught by trained male ministers, and women
must remain silent and learn.

56 Mrs. Frances Trollope, “from Chapter VIII of Domestic Manners of the
Americans,” American Studies at the University of Virginia, accessed October 2,
2013,
http://xroads.virginia.edu/~HYPER/DETOC/religion/trollrev.html.
57 Brekus, 191.
58 Ibid., 222.
59 Ibid, 271.

Preaching Women

In addition, since the growing country’s dynamic economy was
challenging established values, women should be the ones to protect
the nation’s homes from unhealthy change: “Women are the bonds of
society. The habits of men are too commercial and restrained, too
bustling and noisy, too ambitious and repellent.”60
The role of women was clear to most Americans: they were the
‘mothers of the Republic’ the keepers of the virtues of the nation. The
sphere of a woman was the home in which she trained the citizens of
tomorrow.
4.
In the 19th century, American women’s lives followed a trajectory of
marriage followed by motherhood. Their sphere of activity was the
home. The reform movements stimulated by the Second Great
Awakening drew many women out of this private sphere and into a
more public service.
The typical life of a woman began in the arms of a hearth-loving
mother who taught her to pray. She grew up obeying the rules pro-
nounced by her father, playing with her siblings around the family
farm, completing writing exercises with other children in the one-
room schoolhouse, listening to the minister sermonizing fearsomely on
Sundays from the pulpit of the church, and accompanying her mother
into town to barter and hear the news.
The Calvinist tradition of the church taught that her will had to be
broken, and its evil tendencies curbed so that she did not grow up
wild. A teacher could strike her if she misbehaved; if she didn’t do her
work, she might be made to wear a cap with the word ‘dunce’ written
on it.61 Fear could be induced by locking her in a closet, tying her to a
bed post, or warning her of death. Her parents, her minister, and her

60 Ibid., 272-5.
61 Tim Lambert, Children in the 19th Century,
www.localhistories.org/19thcenturychildren.html.

The Calling

teacher, though, much preferred to use loving and wise counsel—as
long as she did not get too out of line.
Her mother trained her in the home-making skills that were vital to
the family’s survival. By the age of six, she was doing real chores;62 her
brothers could be contracted out as labor as early as eleven years old.63
She was taught amiability, chastity, refinement, and modesty, along
with qualities which boys were also expected to acquire—kindliness
and usefulness. She enjoyed going to school when she was not needed
at home. Her whole town supported her education which prepared her
to carry out her domestic responsibilities and be a good wife. Manag-
ing a home was a complex job that required many skills such as
knitting, soap and candle making, food preparation and preservation,
and the very time consuming task of spinning.64 Being ‘at home’ for a
woman did not mean being ‘at leisure’. A daughter was also the pride
of her father because he could look to her for support in his old age.
From her trips into town, the girl knew of ‘spinsters’—women who
had never married and, instead, stayed at home, took care of their
parents, and spun for a living.65
Having avoided the fatal deadly childhood diseases, the girl grew into
a ruddy, healthy teenager and was ready for marriage. Her father and
mother hoped to have enough land or money to help their daughter
find a good match.66 Her wedding was a simple but joyous affair and a
source of fun for their neighbors and relatives, limited only by the

62 K. Keniston and the Carnegie Council on Children, All our children: the
American family under pressure (NY, NY: Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich 1977).
63 Ted Johnston, “Trends in American Child Rearing Practices to 1950,”
Generation Ministries. accessed October 1, 2013,
http://www.generationsministries.org/uploads/2/5/2/7/25278738/child_rearing_
practices_history. pdf.
64 Nancy F. Cott, The Bonds of Womanhood (New Haven, CT: Yale University
Press 1977), 26.
65 Cott, 27.
66 James M. Volo and Dorothy Denneen Volo, Family Life in Nineteenth-century
America (Greenwich, CT: Greenwood Press 2007), 131.

Preaching Women

financial constraints of the family and the space available in a family
home. The bride wore her very best dress—she usually had only one or
two. The custom of wearing white developed after the grand wedding
of Queen Victoria to Prince Albert of England in 1840, for which the
Queen wore a resplendent white satin wedding gown.67
In her new husband’s home, the young wife immediately began a
demanding schedule of housework which might include laundry on
Monday, ironing and mending on Tuesday, constant cleaning up of
the kitchen, preparing meals, giving hospitality to visitors, and making
clothes, soap, candles, and other necessary household items. She also
had a good deal of work related to the daily maintenance of the farm,
such as growing the family garden and feeding animals. If she and her
husband had to hire an extra hand, she had to look after him as well.
All of these jobs were ongoing when she began the next major stage in
her life: raising children.68
The young wife was expected to bear children, one after the other.
She did not have the luxury of waiting because many childhood
dangers lurked. She knew of women in the farms farther out who had
seven children or more. Young mothers were often sick, and they
might not go for medical attention out of personal modesty or lack of
available doctors.69
She was a concerned young mother and read magazine articles such
as one by Eliza C. Allen, the editor of The Mothers’ Journal, which
stated that it was the responsibility of both parents to model good
behavior for their children:
“To do right, and to do good, should be the grand aim

67 Carol Wallace, All Dressed in White: The Irresistible Rise of the American
Wedding (NY, NY: Penguin Books 2004).
68 Dorothy W. Hartman, “Women’s Roles in the Late 19th Century,” Conner
Prairie, Accessed September 24, 2013,
http://www.connerprairie.org/Learn-And-Do/Indiana-History/America-1860-
1900/Lives-Of-Women.aspx.
69 Ibid.

The Calling

placed before children; –but then they should have continual
proof in their parents’ practice that it is their aim also.”70
Fortunately for her and her husband, there were different institution-
alized educational offerings by mid-century such as Sunday schools in
factories and monitorial schools in which older students taught
younger ones, allowing education to be more inclusive and broad.71 So
the young mother could reasonably look forward to having a loving
home environment in which children developed their characters and
life skills.72
5.
The family itself was affected by the rapid changes in the United
States. Change brought uncertainty, challenging established roles, but
it also brought opportunity. Women found new avenues opening to
them in the areas of education and in the great reform movements of
the times, especially abolition.
In the early 1800s, the United States was still overwhelmingly a rural,
agrarian society. A wife and husband had an interdependent relation-
ship. While the husband was the one to harvest the wheat, she was the
one who turned it into bread.73 Their family functioned as an eco-
nomically productive unit. Work—such as spinning or making
shoes—was done in the home, and homemade goods were either sold
or brought to the general store to barter for other items such as eggs or
milk while the husband worked in the field. Everyone depended on

70 “Eliza C. Allen (1803-1848),” Portraits of American Women in Religion,
accessed September 24, 2013,
http://www.librarycompany.org/women/portraits_religion/allen.htm.
71 J. Hawes and N. Hiner, editors, American childhood, a research guide and
historical handbook, Westport CT: Greenwood Press, 1985.
72 T. Hareven, “Review essay: origins of the “modern family” in the United
States,” Journal of Social History 17 (1983-4): 339-344.
73 K. Keniston and the Carnegie Council on Children, All our children: the
American family under pressure (NY, NY: Harcourt, Brace Jovanovich 1977).

Preaching Women

each other and worked closely together.74 This was a very useful system
for a rural and small town population where little cash was circulating.
A family was embedded in a community of churches, neighbors,
farmers, store owners, merchants, and artisans.75
Prosperous families had their daily items made outside the house, so
a woman could devote herself to ‘female accomplishments’—playing
the piano, embroidery, and religious work.76 For such families, the
house changed from being an economic unit to being thought of as a
‘home’, a place of protection from the rough outside world, a place of
some leisure and nurturing. The word ‘home’, as a result, came to
mean a place of retreat and protection from the rough outside world.
Home was managed by the mother and protected by her from the
decadence of alcohol, the corrosive effects of materialism, the destruc-
tiveness of poverty, and all other vices.
American society was changing rapidly, and these vices seemed to
multiply. By 1840, the population had tripled to seventeen million,
and the country’s tremendous natural resources were fueling a vibrant
market economy. This drew people into a more materialistic way of
life in which God seemed less necessary. Ministers bemoaned this
turning away from God, as well as the social ills brought on by so
much change.
At the same time, the ideas of salvation through Grace and one’s free
will spread by the Awakening meant that the Christian believer should
demonstrate his or her faith by working to alleviate the suffering of his
fellow human beings. As Finney explained:
“…a change from selfishness to benevolence, from having a
supreme regard to one’s own interest to an absorbing and

74 Braude, Sisters and Saints, 51.
75 Cott, The Bonds of Womanhood, 23.
76 Braude, Sisters and Saints, 52.

The Calling

controlling choice of the happiness and glory of God’s King-
dom.”77
The Second Great Awakening brought millions of Americans into a
much more engaged, committed, and passionate religious life that
expressed itself in working for the betterment of society.78 Though
their accepted sphere of activity was in the home, women became very
active in reform movements aimed at addressing the huge challenges
brought on by rapid change—alcoholism, prostitution, slavery,
poverty, the abandonment of children, spiritual deprivation, lack of
education, the treatment of the mentally ill, and working conditions in
factories, among others. This reform work changed the American
consciousness by championing social justice, religious devotion, and
community-mindedness to an increasingly individualistic and materi-
alistic society, and women served alongside men in the movements
and, even, spoke and preached publicly in advocating for them.
Activism for women could be close to home. Such was the case with
the rise in the early 1800s of maternal associations, groups of mothers
who got together for mutual support and purposive prayer. These
associations began in Maine in 1815 with one founded by Ann Louisa
Payton, the wife of a Congregational minister. Soon, others sprang up
throughout New England and New York and on the frontier. These
associations were much more organized than those of the past. By the
1830s they were publishing magazines focusing on the formal Chris-
tian upbringing of children. Sunday schools became another vehicle
through which women could develop teaching, organizational, and
administrative skills.79
A more public form of activism for women was the church-based
benevolent association to serve the less fortunate. For example, the
Female Charitable Society of Rochester, NY, was founded in 1822 to
aid the poor who were sick, and a Female Orphan Asylum was begun

77 McLoughlin, 129.
78 Volo and Volo, 124.
79 Lindley, 63-4.

Preaching Women

by the women of Petersburg, VA, in 1812. These were highly organ-
ized, pro-active efforts by women to apply principles of Christian
charity for the betterment of society. Women came to view the poor as
those who could be both brought to Christ and aided such that they
could eventually lift themselves out of poverty.80 The enthusiasm
generated by the Second Great Awakening gave great impetus to these
types of efforts which proliferated over the decades.
One of the most important reform efforts was in education. The
Second Great Awakening resulted in the founding of important
colleges for the training of ministers: Wesleyan in Connecticut,
founded by the Methodists,81 Amherst College founded for the
“education of indigent young men of piety and talents for the Chris-
tian ministry.”82 Oberlin College, the first college to admit and to
graduate black Americans,83 and Gettysburg College, founded by a
Lutheran abolitionist, among others.84
Educational reform and progress very much included women. By the
1800s, educating girls was a widely accepted idea because women were
thought of as the mothers of the Republic who imparted religious
morals and national ideals to the future sons of the nation. Education
itself, though, came to challenge this very role.
The primary promoter of education for girls was Catherine Beecher,
the daughter of famed preacher and abolitionist Lyman Beecher. She

80 Ibid., 65.
81 “Wesleyan University: A Brief History,” Wesleyan University, accessed October
3, 2013,
http://www.wesleyan.edu/about/history.html.
82 “Amherst’s History,” Amherst College, accessed September 9, 2013,
https://www.amherst.edu/amherst-story/history.
83 Roland M. Baumann, “Constructing Black Education at Oberlin College,”
Ohio University Press, accessed September 10, 2013,
ohioswallow.com/book/Constructing+Black+Education+at+Oberlin+College.
84 “Witness to American History,” Gettysburg College, accessed September 9,
2013,
http://www.gettysburg.edu/about/college_history/.

The Calling

had received a standard education for girls, and because she longed for
more, she taught herself other subjects. After working as a teacher, she
opened the Hartford Female Seminary in May, 1823, which contin-
ued to operate for sixty years.85 Mostly, she advocated for the educa-
tion of girls in writing. While she did not seek to destroy or challenge
women’s traditional roles, she insisted that ‘woman’s work’ such as
teaching and homemaking, be respected as professions:
“Most of the details which are continually discovered and
lamented in present systems of education may be traced, ei-
ther directly or indirectly to the fact, that the formation of
the minds of children has not been made a profession secur-
ing wealth, influence, or honor, to those who enter
it…[Other professions are honored; they have a long period
of training and stiff requirements.] But to form the mind of
man is deemed so simple and easy an affair, that no such
preparation or precautions are required.”86
Abigail Adams wrote:
“much depends…upon the early education of youth, and the
first principles which are instilled take the deepest root…if
we mean to have heroes, statesmen, and philosophers, we
should have learned women.”87
Catherine Beecher was an ardent proponent of this view:

85 “Catherine Beecher,” An American Family: The Beecher Tradition, accessed
November 4, 2013.
http://www.baruch.cuny.edu/library/alumni/online_exhibits/digital/2001/beeche
r/catherine.htm.
86 Lindley, 66.
87 Abigail Adams quoted in Cott, 106.

Preaching Women

“The proper education of a man decides the welfare of an
individual; but educate a woman, and the interests of a
whole family are secured.”88
While this very practical, utilitarian view of the education of girls was
widely held, the idea of a woman pursuing learning for its own sake
was condemned as undermining the useful activity associated with
traditional female roles. In reaction to a proposal to include philoso-
phy in a girls’ school curriculum, one father wrote:
“I had rather my daughters would go to school and sit down
and do nothing, than to study philosophy, etc. These
branches fill young Misses with vanity to the degree that they
are above attending to the more useful parts of an educa-
tion.”89
Learning for its own sake might also hurt a woman’s chances for
marriage. In a play written by a woman on this topic, one female
character tells another:
“How will the young fellows take it if we shine away and
don’t like their humdrum ways—won’t they be as mad as
vengeance—and associate with the girls that don’t go to
school?”90
In fact, many people thought that too much school learning—
especially of the wrong kind—took away from the qualities most
suitable to marriage and domestic life. One publication wrote that
intellectual acumen might:

88 Dorothy W. Hartman, “Women’s Roles in the Late 19th Century,” Conner
Prairie, accessed September 24, 2013.
http://www.connerprairie.org/Learn-And-Do/Indiana-History/America-1860-
1900/Lives-Of-Women.aspx.
89 Cott, 111.
90 Ibid., 110.

The Calling

“…make them regret the station which Providence has as-
signed them, or have recourse to unjustifiable ways to get
from it. The best taste for science only contributes to make
them particular. It takes them away from the simplicity of
their domestic duties, and from general society, of which
they are the loveliest ornament.”91
Nevertheless, the efforts towards the education of girls had a signifi-
cant impact on the lives of women. Emma Willard founded the Troy
seminary in 1821, Troy, NY, with the goal of bringing:
“…its subjects to the perfection of their moral, intellectual
and physical nature: in order that they may be of the greatest
possible use to themselves and others.”92
This school was the first institution in the country created to provide
women with a quality of education similar to that of a college for men.
Most schools for girls at this time instructed students in areas which
were considered useful for them such as conversational French and
embroidery.93
The curriculum at Willard’s all-female academy consisted of religious
and moral instruction, literature, human psychology, philosophy, and
a scientific approach to running a household. Another academy
balanced more intellectual learning with physical exercise and, yet
another included botany, Latin, chemistry, geometry and composi-
tion.94
The Mount Holyoke Seminary, a famous girls’ academy, was
founded by Mary Lyon in 1837. Lyon had been left on her own at the
age of thirteen and was working as a professional teacher by the age of
seventeen earning 75 cents a week, a job at which she excelled and for

91 Ibid., 110.
92 Ibid., 119.
93 “Troy Female Seminar,” Encyclopaedia Britannica, accessed October 10, 2013,
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/606900/Troy-Female-Seminary.
94 Cott, 122.

Preaching Women

which she gained an excellent reputation. She became a master teacher
and sought to continue her education—though she could not afford to
be a full-time student—by travelling, sometimes for several days, to
hear lectures. Her decades of teaching in Massachusetts and New
Hampshire turned her into a leading expert in women’s education. In
1834, she left her job at a seminary to found her own school which
required several years of ceaseless travel and fundraising. Mt. Holyoke
had very innovative guidelines: its curriculum was to be equal in
content to those of the men’s colleges, tuition would be low, the
requirements of the entrance would be high, everyone had to work on
campus to keep costs down and a permanent endowment was built up
to prevent the school from going bankrupt as many others had.95
Another woman who made a very important contribution to the
education of girls and young women and who was at the inception of
the Catholic school system in the United States was Elizabeth Ann
Seton. Unlike most female spiritual leaders in the United States up
until that time, she came from a privileged background; her family
heritage traced back to the earliest colonists of New York. She married
William Seton, a wealthy New York merchant with international
business concerns, whose family worshipped at the Trinity Episcopal
Church on Broadway. But like many of the other women of the
awakenings, Elizabeth was driven by a powerful sense of calling and an
impulse to serve. She and her beloved friend and sister-in-law spent
their time helping those in need in their close circle of family, friends,
and neighbors. Elizabeth helped to found the Society for the Relief of
Poor Widows with Small Children in 1797.
Catastrophe struck her family when her husband’s business went
bankrupt because of a monetary crisis and international piracy, and the
family lost their home and possessions. Soon after her husband showed
signs of tuberculosis. Elizabeth took him to Italy hoping that the dry

95 “History,” MountHolyoke, accessed October 28, 2013,
www.mtholyoke.edu/about/history.

The Calling

warm air there might save him, but he died leaving her alone and
broke at age twenty-nine with young children.
In Italy, she was drawn to and instructed in Roman Catholicism and
returned to the United States in June, 1804, a Catholic at heart. This
posed a great personal challenge to her as the mostly Protestant people
of the United States were very prejudiced towards Catholics. Her
friends and family were completely opposed to her new faith, but she
remained steadfast, guided by a strong feeling of connection to the
Virgin Mary, which is why she chose ‘Mary’ as her confirmation name.
After running a school in Baltimore, MD, she was recruited by an
order of the Church to found and direct a new sisterhood, the first
such institution in the United States. Elizabeth was now ‘Mother
Seton’.
A wealthy convert donated a large tract of land in Maryland to be the
home for her new order, the Sisters of Charity of Saint Joseph’s,
founded officially on July 31st, 1809. The following year the order
opened a free school for girls in need and a regular school for boarding
students who paid tuition; these two schools began what became the
widespread system of Catholic education which, by the 20th century,
was the best alternative school system to the public schools. Her name
was also given to the first diocesan university in the country—Seton
Hall University. Mother Seton struggled on through years of depriva-
tion to bring education to children. She buried eighteen of the sisters
including two of her own daughters. During the Catholic holy year of
1975, Pope Paul VI presided over her canonization, making Mother
Seton the first American Saint. On this occasion, he spoke of her:
“Elizabeth Ann Seton is a Saint! She is the first daughter of the United
States of America to be glorified with this incomparable attribute.
Rejoice for your glorious daughter.”96

96 “Sr. Elizabeth Ann Seton.” The Archdiocese of Baltimore. Accessed January 10,
http://www.archbalt.org/about-us/the-archdiocese/our-history/people/seton.cfm.

Preaching Women

All-female academies provided the most substantive education avail-
able for girls, but there were also many other valuable—though less
academic—opportunities for education such as church run schools,
tutoring, schools that taught the more ‘ornamental’ skills for being a
good wife, and the all-important coeducational, public schools. The
rise and multiplication of public schools over the course of the century
was phenomenal. By mid-century it was as common for a girl as it was
for a boy to be in school.
There were 160 public schools in 1870; by the turn of the century,
there were 6,000. According to the 1880 census, literacy among girls
was higher than among boys.97 In the days of the Revolutionary War
in New England only half of all women could even sign their names
but, by 1840, literacy among the women of New England was nearly
universal.98 Out west, higher education opened to women on farms.
Land grant colleges were founded and taught the science of managing
a household, thus validating ‘women’s work’ and bringing a formal
training to it. At these colleges, farm women learned:
“…liberal and practical education, which should fit them for
their great duties and trusts, making them the equals of their
educated husbands and associates, and enabling them to
bring the aids of science and culture to the all-important la-
bors and vocations of womanhood.”99
6.
The westward movement of the country brought the issue of slavery
to a head. The application of frontier territories for membership as
new states in the union upset the balance of power in the Congress
between the slave and non-slave states. This balance had held the
country together without resolving the deep regional differences

97 Hartman.
98 Kenneth A. Lockridge, Literacy in Colonial New England, (New York: Norton,
1974), 38-42, 57-8.
99 Hartman.

The Calling

between the North and South. The disagreement over slavery was a
moral one for abolitionism, a cause in which women played a crucial
role and which was the most important reform movement of the pre-
war era.
Though abolitionists were a small minority in both the North and
South, they nevertheless began to sway public opinion. William Lloyd
Garrison, the most fervent of the white abolitionists, made an impas-
sioned appeal to end slavery in the first issue of his influential paper,
The Liberator, published in 1831. Two Unitarian women responded.
One, Maria Weston Chapman, helped to organize the Boston Female
Anti-Slavery Society in 1832. The other, Lydia Maria Child, wrote, in
1833, the first anti-slavery book to be published, An Appeal on behalf
of That Class of Americans called Africans. A Quaker woman in Phila-
delphia, Lucretia Mott, who later became instrumental in the fight for
women’s suffrage, founded the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery
Society in 1833. In these abolitionist efforts, women wrote, spoke,
organized, and administered, honing important skills despite not being
allowed to be full public figures.
Few white women showed more courage and were more reviled in
the struggle for abolition than the Grimke sisters, Angelika (1805-
1879) and Sarah (1792-1873). Raised in a wealthy South Carolina
family, the sisters’ abolitionist views drove them North where they
became Quakers and agents of the American Anti-Slavery Society in
New York. They published tracts addressing the women and the clergy
of the South, calling on them to abandon slavery. In 1837, they began
a groundbreaking tour of New England in which they spoke to women
first and then to much larger audiences which included men as well.
This tour raised so much alarm that the Congregational Ministers of
Massachusetts put out a pastoral letter warning parishioners against the
sisters. The ministers cautioned women not to transgress the limits of
propriety and enter the man’s sphere by speaking out publicly. In
response to the letter, the sisters wrote a series of letters of their own.

Preaching Women

Sarah Grimke published Letters on the Equality of the Sexes, in which
she asserted that Jesus made no distinction between the sexes:
“Men and women were CREATED EQUAL; they are both
moral and accountable beings, and whatever is right for man
to do, is right for women.”100
As the Grimke sisters crusaded for abolition, they became increas-
ingly aware of their own lack of rights as women. While women were
very involved in the abolitionist cause, most men did not support the
cause of women’s rights. This issue divided the American Anti-Slavery
Society with many members being uncomfortable with the larger role
being played by women and not wanting to take any focus away from
the slavery issue. Abolitionist and poet John Greenleaf Whittier asked,
“Is it not forgetting the great and dreadful wrongs of the slave in a
selfish crusade against some paltry grievance of [your] own?”101
The person who swayed the general public’s opinion more than
anyone else towards the abolitionist view was a woman, Harriett
Beecher Stowe. She was the sixth of eleven children of preacher Lyman
Beecher, one of the catalysts of the Second Great Awakening and a
leading abolitionist. All of her brothers entered the ministry; her
younger sister, Isabella, founded the National Women's Suffrage
Association; and her other sister, Catherine, promoted the education
of girls and women. Stowe wrote thirty books on a variety of subjects
but one had a huge impact on the history of the nation: Uncle Tom’s
Cabin.102 This book depicted the struggles of slavery through the
nobility of the long-suffering slave Uncle Tom who accepted punish-
ment for others.
Harriett Beecher Stowe had never seen slavery in person but two
factors may have deeply moved her: her minister’s railing in church

100 Lindley, 109.
101 Ibid., 110.
102 “Harriet Beecher Stowe's Life Introduction,” Harriet Beecher Stowe Center,
accessed October 2, 2013, www.harrietbeecherstowecenter.org/hbs/.

The Calling

against the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, which allowed posses of
Southerners to ride into a neighboring free state and recapture escaped
slaves, and her own private pain from the death of her young son to
cholera:
“It was at his dying bed and at his grave that I learned what a
poor slave mother may feel when her child is torn away from
her. In those depths of sorrow which seemed to me immeas-
urable, it was my only prayer to God that such anguish
might not be suffered in vain.”103
Her depiction of slaves—though fanciful—struck a loud chord with
the American public. For the first time, many white people—who
themselves had never seen a slave or the brutal reality of slavery first
hand—began to empathize with the plight of slaves and to conceive of
them as full human beings. This and the fact that Uncle Tom’s Cabin
was the biggest selling book of the 19th-century—second only to the
Bible104—meant that it significantly influenced general public opinion
against slavery in the years prior to the outbreak of the Civil War.
Stowe did not hesitate to speak courageously as well to her Northern
countrymen regarding their role:
“A day of grace isn’t yet held out to us. Both North and
South have been guilty before God, and the Christian Church
has a heavy account to answer.”105
This book also conveyed something which was immediately under-
stood by a broad spectrum of Americans in the wake of the Second
Great Awakening: ‘Christian love’. Stowe’s underlying message was
that through this Christian love shown by Uncle Tom’s sacrifice, the

103 Lindley, 111.
104 Gail K. Smith, “The Sentimental Novel: The Example of Harriet Beecher Stowe.”
The Cambridge Companion to Nineteenth-Century American Women's Writing,
Dale M. Bauer and Philip Gould, Eds. (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press 2001), 221.
105 Lindley, 112.

Preaching Women

hearts of men could be changed even in the wickedest of circum-
stances.
7.
Few women demonstrated more passionate Christian feeling and
personal courage than did the extraordinary preaching woman born
Isabella Baumfree (c. 1797-1883). Out of the violent and oppressive
world of real slavery she arose to preach Jesus, Christian love, and
witness to the horror of slavery and, in this way, embodied much of
the Second Great Awakening and its reforming spirit.
For her, slavery was not a fiction —she had risen from it.
Born into bondage in Ulster County, New York, in the last years of
the 18thcentury, Isabella’s earliest memory was sleeping with all the
other slaves in a cellar under the owner’s large house. A few rays of
light shone into the darkness through small windows. Men, women,
and children spent the nights on loose floorboards covered with straw
and blankets. Her father was tall and called ‘Bomefree’, meaning ‘tree’
in Low Dutch, the language spoken in that area of New York. Low
Dutch was her first language; she did not speak English during the
early part of her life. Her mother was called “Mau-mau Bett” and gave
birth to possibly as many as twelve children, of whom Isabella knew six
as a child. Their owner died when she was nine. Often, she found her
mother in tears, and when Isabella asked her why she was crying, her
mother told her she was thinking about her children who had been
sold from her. Isabella feared that this might be her fate as well.106
When their owner died, Isabella and her whole family were included
in the auction of his belongings. The elderly Baumfree couple was
allowed to live on in the dark cellar, but their children were sent to
work on nearby farms. Neighbors looked out for the elderly couple,
and Isabella was desperate to help them but could only visit occasion-
ally. One evening her elderly father came down into the cellar for

106 Nell Irvin Painter, ed., The Narrative of Sojourner Truth (Penguin Books: NY,
NY 1998), 10-12.

The Calling

dinner and found the body of his wife of many years lying lifeless on
the floor. His new masters—who had not owned slaves before—
continued to look after him, shuttling him from house to house until
they freed an elderly slave couple on the condition that they took the
old Baumfree man with them. He lived the last period of his life
isolated and helpless in a shanty in the woods until an old woman
came upon him, and helped bathe him and clean off the lice that
covered him, and soon thereafter, he passed away. His former owner,
in recognition of his loyal service paid for a coffin and a jug of spir-
its.107
Now the property of the Dumonts, Isabella prided herself on work-
ing hard for her new owner who praised her often. This attracted the
jealousy of other slaves who referred to her as the, “white folks nigger.”
To her, though, obedience and service to her owner was akin to service
to God.
Isabella fell in love with Robert, a slave from a neighboring estate.
When his owners discovered him on the Dumont property, they beat
him so severely—despite Mr. Dumont’s efforts to protect him—that
he was never seen again. After a time Isabella married Thomas, an
older slave, who had already had two wives, both of whom had been
sold away from him. With Thomas, Isabella had five children. When
she had to work in the field, she hung her infants in a cloth hammock
from a tree limb to protect them from snakes.108
Isabella came upon her first religious meeting in 1817. Black people
were not allowed inside houses of worship unless there was a specific
pew set aside for them, so she had no experience whatsoever with
organized religion. Jesus Christ was a very vague figure to her about
whom she knew next to nothing, and the Bible, a largely unknown
world about which she had only heard. She remained illiterate all of
her life so all that she knew of the Scripture, she had memorized
aurally, mostly through song. This first religious meeting was held in a

107 Painter, 13-17.
108 Ibid., 23-25.

Preaching Women

private home; fearing to enter, Isabella stood outside and peered inside
and listened. A circuit rider—preachers, often Methodist, who rode
around a certain region—named Ferriss was preaching on the text:
“Behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me/To give to every
man according as his work shall be.” Then he taught the listeners a
hymn which began “There is a holy city….” which Isabella was able to
commit to memory.109
Isabella expected she would be freed on July 4th following her agree-
ment with her owner; New York State had abolished slavery in 1827.
Mr. Dumont demanded, though, that she stay longer because she had
previously injured her hand and had not had a productive year. She
agreed to stay and spin the remaining wool. Once done, she picked up
her infant and walked away in the predawn hours.
Isabella’s elderly husband chose not to follow her into uncharted
waters; anyway, he had not shown himself to be especially inclined to
helping her. Several of her children had to stay back, because she could
not support them, but she was able to take her youngest with her.
She realized that she had no idea where to go, so she stopped to pray.
She found a home with the Van Wageners who took her in as an
employee. When Mr. Dumont arrived at their home and asked her
why she had run away, she told him that she had not: she had walked
away in the full daylight!110
Once with the Van Wageners, she found out that her little boy,
Peter, had been sold by Mr. Dumont; Peter was supposed to have been
taken to New York City and then freed after a period of service.
Instead, Peter was sold to a man in Alabama—an illegal action.
Horrified that her boy was now in bondage in the South, Isabella set
out on foot to get him back, going to her former master’s house and
confronting his wife who attempted to discourage her search. Isabella
retorted that with God's help she would find her son. Eventually she
was brought to the Quakers, who were early advocates for the rights of

109 Ibid., 27.
110 Ibid., 28-9.

The Calling

slaves. They helped her in bringing a lawsuit to retrieve him. Her son’s
current owner was made to travel to Alabama and bring the boy back.
This was the first time in the history of the United States that a black
person had brought—and won—a suit against a white person. When
the boy was brought back, he was too traumatized to go to his mother.
Later, Isabella examined his body and found bruising and cuts every-
where as a result of beatings he had received in Alabama.111
Now living with the Van Wageners, she experienced relative comfort:
she was safe. Gradually, she began to forget about God. Then, one
day, as she prepared to go to a local festival, she saw in one wrenching
moment how far removed she had become from God and was filled
with a great fear which opened her spiritual eyes and proved to be a
turning point of her life:
“She became instantly conscious of her great sin in forgetting
her almighty Friend and ‘ever-present help in time of trou-
ble’. All her unfulfilled promises arose before her, like a
vexed sea whose waves run mountains high; and her soul,
which seemed but one mass of lies, shrunk back aghast from
the ‘awful look’ of Him whom she had formerly talked to, as
if he had been a being like herself; and she would now fain
have rid herself in the bowels of the earth, to have escaped
his dread presence. But she plainly saw there was no place,
not even in hell, where he was not; and where could she flee?
Another such ‘a look,’ as she expressed it, and she felt that
she must be extinguished forever, even as one, with the
breath of his mouth, ‘blows out a lamp,’ so that no spark re-
mains. A dire dread of annihilation now seized her….”112
Isabella’s most basic belief was that God was real, and that His power
was imminent. God was not an abstraction or an intellectual idol. He
was everywhere, all the time, and His power could be called on

111 Ibid., 30-37.
112 Ibid., 44.

Preaching Women

through faith to fight the battles of each and every day. These battles
might be personal—loneliness, poverty, illness, or social, such as
abolition. God’s power was awesome and before it, people were
helpless. The believer was an empty vessel through which God’s power
could flow by His own will. For many preaching women, this power
could inspire terror, and sin was a futile rebellion against it.
Isabella was seized with fear at the awareness of her own sinfulness,
and then she sensed the presence of a being that she could not recog-
nize but who seemed to stand between her and the Divine wrath, like
a parasol protecting someone from the sun:
“‘Who are you?’ was the cry of her heart, and her whole soul
was in one deep prayer that this heavenly personage might be
revealed to her, and remain with her. At length, after bend-
ing both soul and body with the intensity of this desire, till
breath and strength seemed failing, and she could maintain
her position no longer, an answer came to her, saying dis-
tinctly, ‘It is Jesus.’ ‘Yes,’ she responded, ‘it is Jesus.’”113
For the first time in her life, the Jesus of faith had entered into Isa-
bella’s consciousness. Before that moment Jesus had been a figure like
a “Washington or a La Fayette.”114 Now the Jesus of faith became a
deeply heartfelt reality, one who journeyed by her side and helped her
to escape God’s wrath.
She experienced a new found depth in her prayers. She would need
it. Her elderly husband was emancipated on July 4th, 1828, and died a
few years later in utter poverty. Their hope of one day owning a small
house had been evaporated by the long delay in being freed. Her
children were growing up, but Isabella didn’t know how to steer them
right. She moved with her son Peter to New York City where she
worked in various homes. Much to her chagrin, her son turned out to
be untrustworthy. Isabella found a benefactor who hired Peter as a

113 Ibid., 45.
114 Ibid., 55.

The Calling

sailor on his ship. She received a few letters from him, but he later
disappeared from her life completely.115
In New York City, she was reunited with her sister, Sophia after
seventeen years, and discovered a brother she had not known. Isabella
joined a religious sect headed by a man who titled himself the
‘Prophet’. She put her funds in common with others in the sect but
lost everything when criminal allegations closed the group down.
The unfulfilled promises of her life lay before her. Now, in anticipa-
tion of old age and after having lost her meager savings, she redoubled
her efforts to work and save but found that the money she could save
was insufficient. At this difficult point she had a second spiritual
awakening in which she saw herself as someone who was grasping for
material things instead of giving herself over wholly to the spirit: what
she truly needed was to be free of this material world.116
She placed a few necessities in a pillow case, put two coins in her
pocket, and headed across the river to Brooklyn. She told her landlady
that her name was no longer ‘Isabella’. She would now be a ‘Sojourner’
who lived only for God’s truth—both a truth seeker and a truth teller.
This was her true calling. By this new name, she would become one of
the most powerful voices in American history: Sojourner Truth.
In later years, she explained to Lyman Beecher how she came to be
‘Sojourner Truth’:
“My name was Isabella; but when I left the house of bond-
age, I left everything behind. I wa’n’t goin’ to keep nothin’ of
Egypt on me, an’ so I went to the Lord an’ asked him to give
me a new name. And the Lord gave me Sojourner, because I
was to travel up an’ down the land, showin’ the people their
sins, an’ bein’ a sign unto them. Afterward I told the Lord I
wanted another name, ‘cause everybody else had two names;

115 Ibid., 50-52.
116 Ibid., 54-68.

Preaching Women

and the Lord gave me Truth, because I was to declare the
truth to the people.”117
She wandered now, led by the Spirit, to testify to “the hope that was
in her.”118 and to exhort people “to embrace Jesus, and refrain from
sin.”119 She slept sometimes in empty corners of small houses, some-
times in a lean-to owned by a poor person, sometimes in the house of
a rich family—if they let her in—sometimes she went to over twenty
different places before finding a place to stay. She attended religious
meetings when she heard of one or organized one of her own. When
she needed rest, a home just seemed to open up to her.120
Sojourner Truth knew very little about the Bible because she could
not read and had heard very few sermons, so her understanding of her
faith was personal and idiosyncratic. She took any opportunity to
listen to the words of the Bible but always preferred having children
read to her because she disliked when adults offered their own com-
mentaries. She also took many opportunities to learn from conversa-
tions with ministers. This was the case when she met the Millerites,
the followers of William Miller. She remembered having heard him
once but had understood nothing about the charts he had put up on
the stage regarding the end times. Soon, though, she was preaching
among them.
In her meeting with the great preacher Lyman Beecher, she expressed
an authentic conviction:
“Sojourner, this is Dr. Beecher. He is a very celebrated
preacher.”
“Is he?” she said, offering her hand in a condescending man-
ner and looking down on his white head, “Ye dear lamb, I’m

117 Ibid., 111.
118 Ibid., 68.
119 Ibid.
120 Ibid.

The Calling

glad to see ye! De Lord bless ye! I loves preachers. I’m kind o’
preacher myself.”
“You are?” said Dr. Beecher. “Do you preach from the Bi-
ble?”
“No, honey, can’t preach from de Bible—can’t read a letter.”
“Why, Sojourner what do you preach from, then?”
Her answer was given with a solemn power of voice, peculiar
to herself, that hushed everyone in the room.
“When I preaches, I has jest one text to preach from, an’ I
always preaches from this one. My text is, ‘WHEN I
FOUND JESUS!”
“Well, you couldn’t have a better one,” said one of the min-
isters…
…”Well, now, I’ll jest have to go back an’ tell ye all about it.
Ye see we was all brought over from Africa, father, mother,
an’ I, an’ a lot more of us…”121
The content of Sojourner’s preaching was peculiar to her, untutored
as she was in any formal theology. Nevertheless, she made a great
impression on her audiences. She stood over six-feet tall, wide-eyed
with a very dark complexion, and conveyed her absolute conviction in
a sonorous voice interspersed with heart felt singing. She made an
especially strong impact when she spoke of being a slave.
Harriett Beecher Stowe, author of Uncle Tom’s Cabin, described
meeting her:
“I do not recollect ever to have been conversant with anyone
who had more of that silent and subtle power which we call
personal presence than this woman…Her tall form, as she
rose up before me, is still vivid to my mind. She was dressed
in some stout, grayish stuff, neat and clean, though dusty
from travel…She seemed perfectly self-possessed and at her
ease; in fact, there was almost an unconscious superiority,

121 Ibid.,105.

Preaching Women

Sojourner Truth.
not unmixed with a solemn twinkle of humor, in the odd,
composed manner in which she looked down on me. Her
whole air had at times a gloomy sort of drollery which im-
pressed one strangely.
“So this is you,” she said.
“Yes,” I answered.
“Well, honey, de Lord
bless ye! I jes’ thought I’d
like to come an’ have a
look at ye. You’s heerd o’
me,
I
reckon?”
she
added.”122
Her powerful presence
and
authentic
voice
impressed all kinds of
audiences. At a camp
meeting, a large number
of white louts were
disrupting the services.
Sojourner stood on a
small hill and began to
sing a hymn aloud. The
young men rushed over
to her because they
wanted to hear her and, soon, they were subdued. When she spoke
before a colored regiment at Camp Ward in advance of the civil war,
the colonel made the soldiers stand at attention for her, and afterward,
she met the soldiers individually and engaged them in “motherly
conversations.”123 The next day, when she came to the camp to speak,
a very large crowd of white people were there specifically to hear her.124

122 Ibid., 103.
123 Ibid., 117.
124 Ibid.

The Calling

Her words and presence pierced the hearts of white people. A white
man wrote to her from Missouri:
“Dear Grandmother:—
“As the present is your first visit to Missouri, I want to it on
record in your ‘Book of Life,’ (i.e. Sojourner’s scrapbook)
that there is at least one native Missourian who entertains no
prejudice against colored people, but, on the contrary, values
all alike according to their worthiness. Your noble labors for
the freedom of the colored race are among my earliest re-
membrances, and your beautiful ideas of life, death, and
God, will be among the last things I shall forget.
“W.H. Miller, Journal of Commerce,
“KansasCity, Mo., June 15, 1872.”125
She could also show real grit and toughness. In 1858, she found
herself giving a series of lectures in a church in Indiana, when some
pro-slavery Democrats shouted out that they doubted she was a
woman and that she should have to prove it by showing her breasts to
the women. The women were shocked by this suggestion, and So-
journer’s friends outraged. She told them that her breasts had suckled
many a white child—much to the neglect of her own children—and
that she was ready to suckle them if they wanted. To prove her
truthfulness she began to disrobe in front of all of them, at which
point two men jumped up to cover her.126
She joined the progressive, utopian community named the North-
ampton Association for Education and Industry and settled for many
years in Florence, MA. After that she lived out her days in Michigan.
She spent the better part of thirty years travelling across the northern
states fulfilling her life’s mission. These circuits took her throughout
the northern United States and even all the way to the United States
Senate chambers where she, an old former bondswoman, appeared

125 Ibid., 81.
126 Ibid., 95.

Preaching Women

before the cream of the American political class and received its honor
and respect.127
Though portrayed later as an activist reformer for abolition and
women’s rights, which she was, Sojourner Truth may even more
accurately be thought of as a prophet stepped out from the pages of
the Old Testament and nurtured by the Second Great Awakening.
She was a reformer but her drive to reform was born out of her deep
spiritual convictions. Mostly, she preached Jesus and the imminent
presence of God. God was all-around her in her life. She felt Him
everywhere and all the time.
Half a world away and in another religious universe, a woman lived
contemporaneously to Sojourner Truth who also sensed the real
presence of God in her life and who arose to preach a new Jesus.


127 Ibid., 89.

- 60 -
TWO:
TAHIRIH OF PERSIA
1.
Her legal name was Fatimah, the same as her grandmother, so family
members used the name Umm Salmah out of respect for their older
relative.128
She became a deep thinker in a mass of ignorance, an outspoken
voice in a muzzled gender, a poet calling to God, and a mystic who
would stun and galvanize her Muslim country-folk.
As a little girl, she was affectionately nicknamed Zarrin-Taj, ‘crown
of gold’.
And it was this little girl who caused her learned family to be re-
membered around the world as the family of the mystic, apostle, and
poet Tahirih of Qazvin (c.1817-1852).129
Tahirih grew up in a world bounded by the lattice work on the walls
of the spacious family home, dominated by the presence of powerful
clerics and learned women, and suffused with education and learning.
The women’s wing in which she was born and the quaint second floor
library where she studied, 130 the traditional theology of the men in her
family, and the learning and customs current in her day eventually
became a prison to her.
In time, she transcended them all.
The eldest of the seven daughters of a prominent cleric, Mullah
Salih, who also counted eight sons among his children from several
wives, Tahirih most likely had one full brother and sister. Her mother

128 H. M. Balyuzi, The Bab, (Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1973), 27; Mírzá
Asadu’lláh Fádil-i Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq, Volumes 1–4 (Tihrán, Iran:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1973),  311; Hoseini, 309; Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari,
Shaykhi, Babi.” 327.
129 Mázandarání, 331; Shoghi Effendi, (God Passes By (Wilmette, Il: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1979), 73), gives the birth date as 1233 AH/1817 CE.
130 Martha Root, Táhirih the pure (LA, CA: Kalimat Press, 1981), 49.

Tahirih of Persia

was from a prestigious family who came from a long line of clerics
even more prominent than those in her husband’s family, though she
was not Mullah Salih’s first wife.131 Tahirih had the good fortune to be
able to attend the girls’ section of the large school founded by her
father, which numbered hundreds of students including some from
other parts of the kingdom and as far away as India. She studied
Persian literature and poetry with her mother, religious jurisprudence
and its principles, Islamic traditions, and Qur’anic commentary with
her father, uncle, and brothers, and different branches of philosophy
with two clerics who were her cousins. Because of her ability, she
taught all of her sisters in the woman’s section of the school. Later on
she also educated her sons there as well. Not only did she demonstrate
real intellectual capacity, she also memorized the entire Qur’an and
may well have learned to speak Turkish along with Persian and Arabic.
Her family lived in a Turkic-speaking neighborhood of Qazvin, an
important trading center in northern Persia, and, later in her life, she
may have written some poetry in that language. Given the talent she
exhibited, her father wished she had been born a boy to enhance the
public prestige of the family and to be his successor.132
Several of her male contemporaries attest to her extraordinary intel-
lect and eloquence.133 Her brother confessed that she was by far the
superior sibling:

131 Hoseini, 141. Tahirih’s mother, Amina, was much younger than Mullah Salih,
Tahirih’s father, and was not his first or only wife (Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari,
Shaykhi, Babi: The Tribulations of a Qazvin family.” Iranian Studies, volume 36,
number 3, (September 2003): 327). She was awarded licenses from her father,
brother, and Shaykh Ahmad, by demonstrating her proficiency in certain Islamic
texts and her good moral character (Nosratollah Mohammad Hoseini, Hadrat-i-
Tahirih (Dundas, Ontario, Canada: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian
2000), 143; Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 327).
132 Tahirih’s father’s school was called the Salihiyyah (Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari,
Shaykhi, Babi.” 321, 328).
133 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 326-8 f. 66.

The Calling

Tahirih's home in Qazvin, Persia.
“We were all, her brothers and cousins, fearful to speak in
her presence, so much did her knowledge intimidate us, and
if we hazarded to put forward an opinion on a point of doc-
trine that was in dispute, she would prove to us where we
were going wrong in a manner so clear, precise and magiste-
rial that we were thrown into confusion and withdrew.”134
Nevertheless, her natural ability and her education separated Tahirih
from the mass of Persian women whose early lives were very different.
An ordinary woman would have been expected to follow a carefully
arranged course because her life was completely scripted, her role
having been assigned to her by the chance of her birth. The arc of her
life followed a trajectory determined by tradition.

134 Ibid, 328 f. 66; A. L. M Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed dit le Bab (Paris:
Dujarric and Cie, editeurs, 1905), 273, accessed September 5, 2013;
Nabil-i-Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers: Nabil's Narrative of the Early Days
of theBahá'í Revelation, Translated by Shoghi Effendi (Wilmette, IL: Baha'i
Publishing Trust,1932), 84 f. 1.

Tahirih of Persia

A girl’s unfavorable status began before she was even born. Her
family-to-be visited shrines and made promises in prayer in the hope
of influencing the baby’s gender and seeing a boy emerge from the
mother. The birth took place in the expectant mother’s home. A
midwife arrived. The baby was eased out into a large copper tray filled
with ash to absorb the blood. Prayers were offered, along with songs
and jokes. The baby girl was cleaned and dressed in white cotton. The
mother’s status among the multiple wives in the family might decline
because the baby was a girl.
In honor of the birth of the child, the wife’s family would give a
collection of small gifts—such as earrings, bracelets, and soap—the
value of which depended on the wealth of the families. This kind of
gift-giving in Persian society followed very specific rules of reciprocity
which were determined by economic and social status and had to be
followed for the sake of public honor.
Though most Persians were Shi’a Muslims, they held on to numer-
ous folk beliefs. Some wealthy families, for example, hired astrologers
to foretell the future of the child; other families might pin a written
talisman to the baby girl’s clothing, and invoke the prophets of old,
the Imam Ali, and his wife, Fatimah, for protection against the evil
eye, illness and malevolent spirits.
On the sixth day after the baby’s birth, the midwife returned for a
follow-up visit because it was believed that the newborn was in the
greatest danger from harm by evil spirits on this day. The midwife
performed certain rituals such as the burning of camphor and the
recitation of specific verses to provide protection. In the following
weeks, ceremonial baths were taken, a practice harkening back to the
Iranian goddess of fertility, Anahita, who was associated with water.
The sixth day was also the naming day. The men of the family gath-
ered with the local mullah and decided on a name. Then the cleric
went to see the new mother. Before he entered her room, all clothing
related to the women had to be removed, and the mother fully cov-
ered. The baby was placed in the cleric’s arms, and he recited the

The Calling

Rear View of Friday Mosque, Qazvin.
chosen name several times and prayed. Since a mullah had to be paid
for this service, poor people had the family grandfather fulfill this
function. In cities, all given names were from important Shi’a Islamic
figures, while in rural areas, and especially among nomads, ancient
Persian names were still in use. Once the men left, the women relaxed
and enjoyed themselves by singing, dancing, and playing games to
ward off sleep during which demons could come and take the mother
away.
A little girl’s education was usually minimal. If she was fortunate, she
learned basic reading, writing, and religion at an elementary school
until the age of eight or nine. A few women were blessed with both
talent and the support of their families—like the heroine in our
story—and received excellent educations.135 Most of an average little

135 Afsaneh Najmabadi, “EDUCATION xxv. WOMEN’S EDUCATION IN
THE QAJAR PERIOD,” in the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan
Yarshater, accessed October 18, 2013,

Tahirih of Persia

girl’s learning happened in the home by observing and assisting older
women who taught them home skills.
Because Tahirih had been born into a family that valued education
for both its boys and girls, she was able to acquire the learning current
at the highest levels of Persian society which was not the case for most
other Persian girls who had neither the means nor the opportunity.
But Tahirih did not simply acquire knowledge and then adopt the
conventional views held by other men. She possessed an original mind
and a deeper capacity for spiritual insight than most others. So as she
grew into maturity, she was able to marshal her high-quality education
in service to her highly original ideas which led her down a path
towards direct conflict with powerful men.
2.
The men in Tahirih’s family, her two uncles and her father were all
mujtahids, high-ranking clerics who had the authority to render legal
decisions, which brought them prestige, power, and influence. Such
clerics spent much of their time and effort engaged in theological
disputation and writing essays advancing or defending points of
theology and law as well as arguing these in person. Because being a
mujtahid brought a man wealth from land ownership and fees charged
to petitioners, these theological disputes could easily turn into eco-
nomic and political ones. One such dispute drew in the three
Baraghani brothers, Tahirih’s uncles—Taqi, Ali, and her father, Salih.
The brothers rose from humble beginnings by studying to become
mujtahids in the holy cities of Qum, Isfahan, and Karbila.136 Clerics
received most of their education in these holy cities of Iraq where
several of the Holy Imams of Shi’a Islam were buried. Their study
included the Qur’an, Arabic literature and grammar, the philosophy of
law, and the interpretation of texts. To earn a license to teach could

http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/education-xxv-womens-education-in-the-
qajar-period.
136 Mázandarání, 308.

The Calling

take years and required the presentation and approval of a written
treatise.
Once they had finished their education, the brothers settled in the
city of Qazvin and became deeply involved in the ongoing theological
disputes between the different Islamic schools of thought. Over the
centuries, many schools of philosophical, legal, and mystical thought
and practice had proliferated making the Islamic world rich in intellec-
tual inquiry and speculation. Large fissures, though, had divided the
original sacred community founded by Muhammad in Medina.
The religion begun by the life of Muhammad and the revelation of
the Qur’an had split into two branches early in its history; the vast
majority of Muslims were Sunni and accepted the authority of the
early rulers of Islam and of the caliph who was both a political and
religious figure. The minority were Shi’a who looked for guidance to a
line of Imams, holy men who were believed to be the living presence
of Muhammad’s authority137 and to have access to divine knowledge.
The Shi’a looked to Ali, Muhammad’s son-in-law, as their first Iman.
They also mourned and honored with great emotion the life of the
third Imam, Husayn. The killing of Husayn and his companions at
Karbila at the hands of an unjust ruler was the central drama of their
history, so the idea of rebellion against unjust rule became embedded
in Shi’a consciousness. This ‘rebel consciousness’ was reinforced by the
reality that the Shi’a were a minority in most Muslim Kingdoms.
The line of Imams was believed to have ended with the twelfth Imam
who had gone into a mystical form of hiding, or ‘occultation’, in the
9th century CE. From this hidden place, he guided the Shi’a world
through a series of holy men or ‘gates’. There had been a succession of
four gates, and now all was silent until the return of that hidden
Imam. The Shi’a world lived in a permanent state of expectancy.138

137 Hamid Dabashi, Shi’ism, A religion of Protest (Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press 2011), 44.
138 Dabashi, 86.

Tahirih of Persia

Persia had become Shi’a during the great Safavid period (1501-
1722). In the centuries since the last of the ‘gates’, many schools of
mysticism, law, and philosophy, had flourished and contributed to the
culture of great civilizations, but the Turkish ‘Qajar’ dynasty was not
one of these. The Qajars came to power in an intra-familial bloodbath
in the late 18th century. This line of kings proved mediocre and
incompetent, and England, Russia, and France wasted no time in
restarting their colonial intrusions into Persia.139
By the time of the Qajar dynasty, Persia was a land in decline. Lack
of competent administrators, undeveloped roads and transportation
systems, unused and abandoned lands and irrigation systems due to a
large nomadic population that did not farm, profoundly superstitious
and corrupt clerics, and incompetence at all levels of government with
no stable cadre of trained individuals to effect change kept Persia from
developing into a functioning, modern nation. The stability brought
by the Qajar rulers in the early decades of the 19th century, though,
strengthened the economy. Industrious craftsmen produced goods
which were greatly valued abroad in the Ottoman Empire and Russia
to the north, Afghanistan to the east, India to the south, and Britain,
which was most interested in using Persia for its trade with India.
Though this trade and the Kingdom’s infrastructure continued to
develop during the19th century, foreign involvement in Persia’s
economy was often not to the advantage of its people and, by the
middle of the 19th century, the Kingdom remained weak.140
An ongoing struggle for power between the ruling class and the
clergy also stymied the development of Persia. To help legitimize their
claim to the throne, the Qajar rulers gave over a great deal of power to
the clergy to arbitrate in public matters which, in turn, reinforced the
clergy’s hold over the Persian people. The mass of the Persian popula-

139 Ibid., 165.
140 Hassan Hakimian, “ECONOMY viii. IN THE QAJAR PERIOD.” In the
Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed September21, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/economy-viii-in-the-qajar-period.

The Calling

Sheikh Ahmad Ahsai.
tion was illiterate and received all of its understanding of Shi’a Islam
from its clerics who filled many functions for this illiterate population
as judges, arbiters in disputes, intermediaries between common people
and the ruling class,
instructors of students
and dispensers of var-
ious licenses and ag-
reements, for which
they received fees that
amounted to substantial
amounts of money. The
clerics took advantage
of their enhanced po-
sition
to
fuel
the
people’s animosity to-
wards religious minori-
ties, foreigners, and
Sufis.141
By the 19th century,
the dominant school of
religious interpretation
in Persia was the Usuli
school which stressed
the use of reason in
shaping Islamic law.
The Baraghani brothers
had returned to Qazvin as Usuli adherents. A much more mystical
understanding of Shi’a Islam, was also emerging that challenged the
Usuli school—Shaykhism.
Shaykhism was founded by Shaykh Ahmad al-Ahsa’i, an Islamic
philosopher born in Bahrain. He taught an allegorical reading of
certain parts of the Qur’an, an approach that went against the accepted

141 Dabashi, 171-2.

Tahirih of Persia

literal method prevalent at this time.142 Shaykh Ahmad came to believe
that Islam’s time of fulfillment had arrived which created a great deal
of excitement among his theological students and resulted in a dy-
namic new movement.
He had earned multiple teaching licenses in the holy cities of Iraq. In
addition to the course of study pursued by all high-ranking clerics, he
also took an interest in astronomy, medicine, mathematics, and
music.143 Dissatisfied with the status quo among his fellow clerics, he
began a rigorous practice of meditation. He had powerful dreams of
the Prophet Muhammad and the Imams in which he drank of their
saliva—meaning he received great insights from them and had a strong
connection with them.144 He travelled, taught, and wrote constantly,
attracting many students to him. He took as his source of authority
the Qur’an, authenticated stories of the teachings, deeds, and sayings
of Muhammad known as hadiths, the traditions of the Imams, Mus-
lim spiritual practice, and his own reasoning.145 He wrote some one-
hundred and thirty-two works, including commentaries and replies to
theological questions.
Shaykh Ahmad sought, in part, to synthesize the two great schools of
thought at the time—the Usuli and the Akhbari. The question of
religious authority in the absence of an Imam was central for the Shi’a
clerics. One school, the Akhbari, condemned the corruption of the
mujtahids which made them unworthy of interpreting Islamic law;
only the Qur’an, the accepted hadith, and the Imams could be held up
as having authority. The other major school, the Usuli, upheld the
independent judgment of the mujtahids as authoritative when render-
ing decisions on law and religious teaching. Most clerics of this latter
school were Persian, working in Persia and the holy cities of Iraq,

142 Vahid Rafati, The Development of Shaykhi Thought in Shi’i Islam (PhD
Dissertation, UCLA, 1979, unpublished), 9.
143 Ibid., 41.
144 Ibid., 42.
145 Ibid., 52.

The Calling

whereas those of the former school, were Arab, working in Arab-
speaking areas.146
Most of all, Shaykh Ahmad brought an enormously fresh spiritual
and intellectual energy to the stagnant Shi’ism of the time; most books
and treatises on religious subjects in this period were on minor points
of law. Shaykh Ahmad’s dynamic work harkened back to the earlier,
and culturally richer, Safavid period. His supple and original thinking
attracted many students and much controversy as well.
Shaykh Ahmad taught that God was transcendent and unknowable
and that man was limited to this world. Man could not know God’s
Essence because this implied similarity or likeness with God which was
impossible because man was a dependent creation, and God was
independent; his understanding could not take in God’s Essence.
According to the Qur’an: “Vision comprehends Him not, and He
comprehends (all) vision.” (6:104)
Man could know God’s ‘actional’ attributes—His characteristics as
they act in this world—but these ‘actional’ attributes and the attributes
that Man wishes God to have—are all limited by Man’s station of
existence and in no way describe the attributes of God’s essence.
Man could not come to know God purely by his own effort as the
Sufis taught. Man was part of the finite world while God was infinite.
God made Himself known to Man through His attributes. God was
one in His being, simple not complex. The intermediaries between
God and Man were His prophets who expressed God’s Will.147
One of Shaykh Ahmad’s most controversial views was that reason
should be reconciled with revelation. He interpreted the Qur’anic
verses on the end times allegorically because the literal meaning
conflicted with reason. The resurrection of the dead did not mean that
the physical body would be reconstituted because the body disinte-
grated into its earthly elements. Rather, it was Man’s non-material
body, his ‘subtle’ body, which continued.

146 Ibid., 30.
147 Ibid., chapter III.

Tahirih of Persia

He did not interpret the Day of Judgment according to tradition as
the day the world would end and all would be judged but, instead, as
the day when a ‘rightly-guided one’—the ‘Qa’im in the Shi’a tradi-
tion—would appear to usher in a new time in which old laws and
customs would be abrogated and new ones revealed. People would be
judged, in this interpretation, by whether they recognized God’s
manifestation in His new form. The bridge between Hell and Paradise
from the Qur’an, which many Muslims believed to be a physical
bridge in another realm, was actually the new teaching of this ‘rightly
guided one’ through whom believers could come into the Paradise of
the nearness to God. Shaykh Ahmad taught that the time of the
appearance of the rightly guided one was at hand, and so he wanted to
prepare his students to recognize him.148
The rapid growth of Shaykhism challenged the dominant Usuli
school of thought, which the Baraghani brothers followed.149
The Baraghani brothers had become the most influential family in
Qazvin through their status as mujtahids, their involvement in the
affairs of the city, and their intermarriages with other prominent
families. They settled in the western part of Qazvin and went on to
exercise power over the rest of this important city.150 Once the capital
of Persia under the Safavid dynasty, Qazvin was an ancient settlement,
going back nine thousand years; the oldest paved street in Persia ran
through it. Located on the same high plateau as Tihran over a hundred
miles to the southeast, it had a dry, temperate climate. The brown
Alborz mountains rose up to the north with patches of green valleys in
which had grown small villages. The central mosque—the fifth to be
built in Persia—had been constructed over an ancient Zoroastrian fire
temple; Islam had largely replaced that ancient faith. Qazvin became a
center for mysticism, the study of Islamic philosophy and jurispru-
dence, and the development of calligraphy. Mosques and religious

148 Ibid., 106-122.
149 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 324.
150 Ibid., 322-3.

The Calling

schools multiplied to over fifty; one important mosque and school was
built by the middle Baraghani brother, Salih, Tahirih’s father. Qaz-
vin’s location on a trade route stimulated its economic growth and
attracted a diverse population of Persians, Turks, Jews, and Armeni-
ans.151
This dynamic city was ideal for the talented and energetic Baraghani
brothers.
The eldest brother, Mulla Taqi, had married a sister of the king of
Persia152 while in Tihran. He strengthened his relationship with the
king by issuing an official decree, a fatwa, in support of Persia’s war
with Russia.153 Now back in Qazvin, he demonstrated his interest in
politics by actively consolidating his power. Taqi took advantage of his
high position by charging money to petitioners for providing his legal
decisions in writing. While it was possible for a mujtahid to convey his
decision verbally, this was not useful to petitioners because they
needed a written text to show as proof of the ruling. Taqi took advan-
tage of the latitude the Usuli school gave its clerics by charging a fee to
write down his rulings, contrary to standard practice.154 His other
forms of revenue included adjudicating in financial and business
disputes from which he got a percentage of the settlement money,
collecting alms, pocketing the proceeds from land endowments which
no longer had owners, and participating in business ventures, some of
a dubious nature.155 Though he remained highly respected in the city,
there may well have been resentment towards his practices which
obviously benefitted him financially at the expense of others. In two
decades, Taqi had become one of the richest clerics in the whole
kingdom.156

151 Hoseini, 114.
152 Fath-‘Ali Shah (1772-1834).
153 Ibid, 124.
154 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 320-321.
155 Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, the Making of the Babi Movement in
Iran, 1844-1850 (Ithaca, NY: Cornell U. Press, 1989), 318.
156 Ibid.

Tahirih of Persia


Tahirih's library in her father's house in Qazvin.
He was also willing to shift positions if he could benefit from doing
so. In one case, he overturned his own ruling against congregational
Friday prayers—such prayers should await the return of the Imam of
the Age—when an opportunity came up to lead them at the central
mosque in the absence of the regular cleric. By leading these prayers,
his prestige increased. He certainly coveted the position of head Imam
of the Friday Mosque—the most important mosque in a city—-
because such a position would have given him access to the revenues
from the mosque’s extensive landholdings.157
Taqi did not hesitate to enter into disputes with other clerics if doing
so could increase his social position. He took a strong stance against
Shaykh Ahmad, opposing his allegorical interpretations of passages
from the Qur’an.158 Following a debate with him,159 Taqi issued a

157 Ibid.
158 Hoseini, 129.
159 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 325.

The Calling

decree declaring him an infidel—the first cleric to do so.160 Such an
action was quite shocking because Shaykh Ahmad, though unconven-
tional in his views, was a profoundly learned and respected figure.161
Taqi may have taken a clear stand against Shaykhism to ingratiate
himself with the king and prominent Usuli clerics who were concerned
with the spread of its teachings. Another possible reason may have
been personal. During his visit to Qazvin, Shaykh Ahmad had chosen
to stay with Taqi’s main rival who was the head of a large mosque and
his relative by marriage.162 His area of influence was in the east and
south of the city. Having a mujtahid from another town stay in one’s
home was a sign of great respect, so Taqi must have been insulted by
having his home passed over in favor that of his rival. Shaykh Ahmad
believed that Taqi was concerned about losing a portion of the reve-
nues from religious activities to his rival because of this favor.163
The middle Baraghani brother, Mulla Salih, was not politically
oriented like his older brother. His school attracted hundreds of
students. One of its female graduates even went on to become a
secretary to the king.164
The youngest brother, Mullah Ali, taught at this school and was
interested in mystical philosophy. He engaged in ascetical spiritual
practices165 to the point where he was rumored to chain himself to a

160 D. M. MacEoin, “Baraḡānī, Moḥammad-Taqī,” In the Encyclopaedia Iranica,
edited by Ehsan Yarshater, accessed September 24, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/baragani-molla-mohammad-taqi-qazvini-
sahid-e-ale-an-important-shiite-alem-of-qazvin-d.
161 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 323.
162 The cleric was Mulla ‘Abd al-Wahhab; his sister had married Taqi’s brother
(Moojan Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi: The Tribulations of a Qazvin
family.” Iranian Studies volume 36, number 3 (September, 2003): 321).
163 Ibid, 324.
164 Ibid., 321.
165 Ibid.

Tahirih of Persia

wall to stay awake and study.166 During Shaykh Ahmad’s stay in
Qazvin, Mullah Ali was drawn to his teachings.167
In the theological debates, Taqi took an aggressive anti-Shaykhi
position, Salih attempted to remain neutral and act as a peacekeeper,
and Ali became a Shaykhi.
At the height of his power and influence, Taqi could not have fore-
seen that the greatest challenge to his dominant theological position
and to his religious authority would come from the most unlikely of
people—his younger brother’s extraordinary daughter, Tahirih.
3.
When she became a teenager, Tahirih was expected to marry. Her
family decided that she should marry her paternal first cousin, Mulla
Muhammad, the son of Taqi; her sister married her maternal cousin,
and had one daughter 168 169
A teenage girl was considered ready for marriage. A suitable husband
might have already been chosen by her parents when she was younger.
Her prospects for marriage were linked to her family’s wealth and
position. The groom’s parents asked her father and mother for her
hand in marriage, and then the father negotiated a bride price. By
strict Islamic law, this money was meant for the bride’s needs, but in
practice, it went to her family. The bride and groom spent little if any
time together prior to the wedding day; often, the bride’s face was
revealed to the groom for the first time on that day. The wedding itself
was to be announced publicly and celebrated as elaborately as the
family could afford. Proper etiquette in gift exchanges and visits had to
be followed in all phases of the preparation and performance of the
marriage. This union was not just of a man and a woman but of two

166 Mázandarání, 306.
167 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 324.
168 Mullah Mohammad Ali Qazvini (Nosratollah Mohammad Hoseini, Hadrat-i-
Tahirih (Dundas, Ontario, Canada: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian,
2000), 155).
169 Mázandarání, 311.

The Calling

families mainly for the purpose of producing children, especially sons.
The men and women celebrated in separate quarters. After the wed-
ding, the young couple spent a few nights together and had to produce
evidence of the girl’s virginity to the groom’s family.170
The new bride was then taken into her husband’s home. She was
expected to work with the other women of the household and, if there
were more senior wives, she had to defer to them. The structure of the
household was determined by religious law, and its head was the eldest
male. He made all the important decisions and had to be obeyed by
everyone under his roof. Each person in the household had a pre-
scribed role—the men worked to provide for those in the home, and
women took care of all the household duties. The two sexes were
segregated throughout the day. Men from outside the family could
never see the women of the household nor go into their quarters; poor
families without much living space might just use some kind of curtain
for the separation of the genders.
Tahirih’s marital arrangements may well have followed this tradi-
tional pattern. But this union would be a very limiting one for her
because her cousin was much more conventional and orthodox in his
views than she turned out to be. A wife during this time was expected
to conform to her husband’s ideas and not take an active public role.
Tahirih did just the opposite as she matured.
4.
Tahirih was now a part of her cousin’s household. The couple moved
to the city of Karbila in Iraq so that her husband could pursue his
religious studies.171 There they welcomed three children into the
world.

170 Massoume Price, “Iranian Marriage Ceremony, Its History & Symbolism,”
Iran Chamber Society, accessed September 21, 2013,
www.iranchamber.com/culture/articles/iranian_marriage_ceremony.php.
171 Abbas Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn,” in Tahirih in history: Perspectives on Qurrat
al ‘Ayn from East and West, ed. Sabir Afaqi (Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2004),
115.

Tahirih of Persia

Children stayed around the women and had no designated space of
their own. The most decorated space in the house was the public room
in which the men welcomed male visitors. The family itself gathered in
the main room of the women’s section. Most areas in the house were
used for multiple purposes, and had carpets and pillows instead of
sofas and chairs. A young mother had responsibilities such as organiz-
ing the different foods, cleaning, preparing meals, maintaining cloth-
ing, and educating children in proper manners. An essential aspect of
hospitality was serving tea, so a samovar was always ready to dispense
hot water. Servants and slaves did all of these tasks for wealthy fami-
lies, while the women of the family supervised them.172
One of the most enjoyable activities for women was the trip to the
bathhouse. In Tihran alone, there were over one hundred and forty
bathhouses by the mid-19th century. In a bathhouse, a woman could
relax, discuss her life, share ideas, hear news, tell stories, and get
groomed. Entrance to the public bathhouse was free, so women of
various social classes used them, except for the poorest women who
could not afford to tip the bathhouse attendants. Five days of the week
were reserved for men and two days—mornings only—were for
women; men entered the bathhouse by the main street whereas the
entrance for women was at the end of a lane.173
Women changed from inside to outside clothes for the trip to the
bathhouse. A typical inside outfit consisted of wide trousers, a long
transparent shirt open to the navel with a long-sleeved short jacket
over it, and a bouffant skirt. There were many variations to this basic
combination among urban women in the cities including the use of
jewels, the elaborateness of the floral patterns of the materials, and the

172 Shireen Mahdavi, “THE QAJAR-PERIOD HOUSEHOLD.” In the
Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed November 11, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/qajars-period-household.
173 W. Floor, W. Kleiss, “BATHHOUSES,” in the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited
by Ehsan Yarshater, accessed October 1, 2013,
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/bathhouses#pt1.

The Calling

quality of the fabrics themselves. All women wore some form of head
scarf out of modesty, and, in rural areas, this also kept a woman’s hair
clean. Rural women did not wear the face veil much for practical
reasons—they did almost constant physical work, and a face veil was a
real impediment. Over the course of the 19th century, the black body
covering known as the chador became more common.
The wearing of veils was an ancient practice throughout the near
East, possibly originating in ancient Mesopotamia or with the Assyr-
ians and then picked up by the Persians as their empire extended over
regions where women were veiled. The veil seems to have been used as
a way of distinguishing women of high birth from slave women and
prostitutes. When the Arabs conquered the Byzantine territories in the
Middle East, they came into contact with the face veil and incorpo-
rated it into their own way of life. The veil did not originate with
either Persia or Islam but rather in local tribal customs so there was a
great deal of variation in its use throughout these regions. Though it
became a sign of religious purity, it also served as a means of secluding
and owning women.
Shi’a law and Qajar period practices did not allow women to initiate
divorce, something which was not universally the case in the Muslim
world and for which there was little Qur’anic basis. While some
women did leave their husbands in this period, there were considerable
obstacles to doing so. Women, for the most part, did not have an
independent source of income and could not simply live on their own;
they had to be a part of a household headed by a man to whom they
were related. While women could get trapped in an unhappy marriage,
a man had a religiously-sanctioned way of having relations with
someone other than his wife—he could pay a cleric a fee to get permis-
sion to have a ‘temporary marriage’. This practice was thinly justified
by a particular interpretation of one Qur’anic chapter but actually
predated Islam. ‘Temporary’ marriages were a reflection of women’s
inferior position in Qajar Persian culture and Shi’a law rather than a

Tahirih of Persia

true expression of Qur’anic teaching on the correct moral behavior of
men and women.174
In families of the nobility, the wives lived in harems, meaning as a
group in a specifically designated set of rooms into which men were
not allowed. This institution demonstrated the isolation of women
from the outside world but its inner working showed how a woman
could exercise influence. Several very capable women in the Qajar
royal circles influenced public affairs through their intellectual and
emotional dominance of their sons or husbands all while being
completely isolated from public life.175 At the royal level, a harem
could consist of over a thousand people and had strict rules of eti-
quette and honor. The most important woman in the royal harem was
the king’s mother followed by his first wife. The wives came from a
variety of backgrounds; many marriages were arranged to create
alliances with powerful tribes and aristocratic families. While the wives
could not interact directly with the rest of the palace complex—this
was done through eunuchs—they did use outside connections to
advance their own interests. In this way, the harem could be a center
of political intrigue. This was especially true during the long reign of
Nasir al-Din Shah, the monarch in our story, whose harem of over one
hundred wives affected his reign at its most crucial moments.176 His
mother, most famously, had a great deal of influence over political
affairs with which she sought to protect her son from potential rivals
who might hinder his authority or, even worse, attempt to overthrow
him. She was the best example of how Qajar aristocratic women could

174 Shahla Haeri, “MOTʿA,” in the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan
Yarshater, accessed October 26, 2013,
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/mota.
175 Muhammad Hasan Khan Iʿtimad al-Saltanah, “Khayrat-i hisan,” Women's
Worlds in Qajar Iran, accessed November 7, 2103,
http://www.qajarwomen.org/en/items/901D4.html.
176 Anna Vanzan, “Harem ii. in the Qajar period,” in the Encyclopaedia Iranica,
edited by Ehsan Yarshater, accessed November 11, 2013,
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/harem-ii.

The Calling

wield power behind the scenes.177 In one famous family photo, she is
even seated higher than her son, the King.178
5.
To get to Karbila from Qazvin, Tahirih and her husband, Mulla
Muhammad, crossed under the snowy peaks of the Zagros mountains
which separated Persia from the Ottoman Empire—Iraq was a part of
the Turkish Ottoman Empire at the time—and then down into the
flat and hot Mesopotamian plain where Karbila sat between the
Euphrates River to the east and the lake of salt to the west.
The city of Karbila was a place of profound spiritual importance for
Muslims because the third Imam, Husayn, was buried there. In the
Battle of Karbila, in 680 AD, Husayn and seventy of his companions
were massacred by troops sent by the caliph whose authority he
publicly rejected. Husayn became the most powerful symbol for Shi’a
Muslims of devotion, sacrifice, and defiance against oppression. His
martyrdom is commemorated every year by the Shi’a on the Day of
Ashura with such great devotion that, in certain places, the faithful
flagellate themselves in the street to honor the suffering of the Imam.
This is a day of mourning for the Shi’a but, for the Sunni, it is a day to
celebrate God’s victory over the powers of the world in the form of
Husayn’s sacrifice. So venerated was the third Imam that the city of
Karbila grew up around his golden-domed shrine because of the flocks
of pilgrims who came there over the centuries—including many
elderly people who wanted to die and be buried near his blessed tomb.
Another golden domed shrine rose up in honor of his brother, Abbas,
who also perished in the Battle of Karbila. Pilgrimages and the funeral
business made Karbila a thriving and wealthy city which grew up all

177 Abbas Amanat, Pivot of the Universe (London, UK: I. B. Tauris 2008), 172.
178 Prof. Manoutchehr M. Eskandari-Qajar, “Mahd-e-Olia,” Portraits of Qajar
Women, accessed October 24, 2013, http://www.qajarpages.org/mahdeolia.html.

Tahirih of Persia

around these sacred sites in a maze of one to three story buildings of
about thirty-thousand permanent residents.179
The young couple spent the next thirteen years in Karbila except for
a stint in the holy city of Najaf to the south.180 Tahirih gave birth to
two sons, Ibrahim and Isma’il, in Karbila and a daughter, Zaynab, in
Najaf.181 But the future with her children was one of conflict and loss.
As long as she remained a dutiful wife and did what was expected of
her, there were no problems. Eventually, though, she was separated
from her sons who remained under the influence of her husband. In
time, they turned against their mother, becoming important orthodox
mujtahids in their own right.182 Despite this, when her sons were
mentioned in future Shi’a biographies, they were designated by one of
her titles ‘al-Qurat ul-Ayn’ not that of her husband—evidence of the
great respect in which her learning had been held.183
During this period of her life, Tahirih took her first giant step out-
side of her role of obedient wife when she began reading the writings
of Siyyid Kazim, the leader of the Shaykhis. The founder of the
Shaykhi school, Shaykh Ahmad, had stayed in Qazvin for two years184
back when she was a little girl, but her uncle, Taqi, had opposed him
with such vehemence that there was no more discussion of his teach-
ings within the family.185 She may have first come into direct contact
with Shaykhi writings when she happened on these in her cousin’s

179 Juan Cole and Moojan Momen, “Mafia, Mob and Shiism in Iraq: The
Rebellion of Ottoman Karbala 1824-1843,” Past & Present No 112 (1986): 112-
143.
180 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi,” 328.
181 Hoseini, 312; Mázandarání, 311; A few sources state that she gave birth to a
fourth child, a son, after the couple returned to Qazvin (Momen, “Usuli,
Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 329.)
182 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 148 f. 13.
183 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 329.
184 Ibid 326, f. 51.
185 Ibid., 329.

The Calling

library.186 She studied these new ideas with the guidance of her
paternal uncle, Mulla Ali, her mother, and relatives of her mothers.187
In the years after the young family’s return to Qazvin from Karbila,
Tahirih became a devoted follower of the Shaykhi teaching.
Her marriage now became much more strained. She was willing to
follow her beliefs whether her husband approved of them or not. He
adhered to the orthodoxy of his father, Taqi, and completely opposed
Shaykhism. Finally, Tahirih had to move out of their marital home
and back in with her children into her father’s house.
She decided to go and seek the Shaykhi master, Siyyid Kazim, in
Karbila. She set off for the holy city with her sister, daughter, and
others, while her husband kept their two sons with him in Qazvin.188
Tahirih had now leapt out into unknown territory following what
mattered most to her: the search for truth and the belief that it would
soon make itself manifest.


186 Bahá’í sources don’t state that she ever met Siyyid Kazim, so she may well not
have discovered the Shaykhi writings until after her return from Karbila,
otherwise she would have sought out Siyyid Kazim who was actively teaching in
Karbila (Momen, Usuli, 329).
Several sources (‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i
publishing Trust, 1971), 191; Zarandi, 55 f. 1) indicate she first came into
contact with Shaykh Ahmad’s writings in the library of her cousin, Mulla Javad
Viliyani.
187 According to Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 329, she may have
learned more about Shaykhi teachings from, among others, her maternal uncle,
Mulla ‘Abd al-Wahhab, and her maternal cousin, Mulla Javad Viliyani.
188 Ibid.

- 83 -
THREE:
YEAR OF DISAPPOINTMENT, YEAR OF
FULFILLMENT
1.
On May 24th, 1844, in the chambers of the Supreme Court in Wash-
ington, DC, Samuel F.B. Morse tapped out a question: “What hath
God wrought?” Morse chose this quotation from the Bible because a
woman with whom he was in love suggested it. Soon a reply was
received from forty miles away. The simple, hobbled together machine
had sent and received a message across a long distance in just a few
seconds. The telegraph worked. The communication age had begun.
This was one of those moments in history in which human ingenuity,
opportunity, and means, all converged to open up—in the blink of an
eye—worlds that had been previously inconceivable.
The industrial revolution of the 19th century overthrew the tyranny
of distance with two inventions: the telegraph and the railroad.
The completion of the Transcontinental railroad in 1869 joined
Iowa to California. Now a person could go from Nebraska to Califor-
nia in a matter of days for $65 in a sleeper car which led to the rapid
settlement of the interior of the country.189
The struggling American rural republic of the early 1800s−only
Philadelphia and New York City had populations of more than 25,000
people190—became an industrial superpower during the 1800s. Its
territory increased four-hundred percent from roughly 1,000,000

189 Richard White, Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern
America (NY, NY: W.W. Norton & Company, 2012).
190 J. Ellis, “The Growth of the United States During the 19th Century,” The Free
Resource, accessed September 23, 2013,
http://www.thefreeresource.com/american-history-the-growth-of-the-united-
states-during-the-19th-century/.

The Calling

square miles191 to almost four million,192 and its population grew ten-
fold from seven million people in 1810, to seventy million by 1890.
With industrialization came urbanization: cities grew rapidly. John
D. Rockefeller began life on a farm in rural upstate New York and
wound up living in New York City. He became the richest man in
America after founding and cornering the market of the new oil
industry. Henry Ford was born into the rural world of the family farm
and went on to found the automobile industry. He invented the first
mass marketed car, the Model T, but had intended it for the rural
market, promoting it with the line, “stronger than a horse and easier to
take care of.”
The demographic face of America of 1900 was unrecognizable from
the more uniform and clearly drawn one of a hundred years earlier.
The American social fabric was profoundly changed by the destruction
of the native peoples, the emergence of African-Americans from slavery
into a nominal citizenship, and the arrival, in huge numbers, of
immigrants from Europe in the late part of the century; Polish farmers
came to the steel mills of Pittsburgh, Serbians to the meat-packing
companies in Chicago, and Slovaks to the car assembly plants in
Detroit, among many other ethnic groups.193
The nation’s energetic, even frenetic, pace of growth caused society
to be in a constant state of significant change which brought both
great opportunity and great anxiety. Many Christians came to believe
that they were living close to the end of time when prophecies would
be fulfilled with Jesus returning to judge the living and the dead. The
Shakers, who believed that their Mother Ann Lee had fulfilled the

191 “US Territorial Acquisitions,” United States History, accessed 6, 2013,
http://www.u-s-history.com/pages/h1049.html.
192 Franklin K Van Zandt, “Expansion and growth of the United States,” USGS
Publications Warehouse, accessed October 2, 2013,
http://pubs.usgs.gov/pp/0909/report.pdf.
193 “Growth of Cities,” The First Measured Century, accessed November 1, 2103,
http://www.pbs.org/fmc/timeline/ecities.htm.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

Second Coming, experienced a decade of visions and revival beginning
in 1837.
Joseph Smith founded an indigenous form of Christianity after
having a series of visions by which he came to believe that there had
been an ancient Judeo-Christian civilization in America to which Jesus
had preached after his Resurrection. He claimed to have found tablets
recounting this lost history of Jesus Christ buried in the ground of
upstate New York, in the ‘burned-over’ district, which he published as
the Book of Mormon. The church he founded—which also sought a
purer, ‘restored’ form of Christianity and saw itself as living in the
‘Latter-Day’-—spread rapidly and showed remarkable resilience and
sustainability even in the face of violent persecution. He was killed in a
skirmish in 1844, but the movement survived him—to grow and
prosper under a new leader, Brigham Young.
The year 1844 was also important for a farmer in New York State
who believed the time of the Second Coming had arrived: William
Miller. After his personal conversion during the Great Awakening,
Miller read and studied assiduously the time prophecies in the Bible
for two years. He took the position that the Bible was internally
consistent and, therefore, could be used reliably. Applying passages
from the Book of Numbers and Ezekiel that a Biblical day was a year,
he was thunderstruck by his discovery: Jesus was coming back in
1843-1844. Right then, he knew that he was being called to preach
the coming Return. On the first Sunday of August, 1831, Miller, a
simple farmer, clambered up to the pulpit for the first time, deter-
mined to call people to repentance in anticipation of the coming
return of their Lord.
2.
On March 21st, 1844, William Miller looked out of his window. All
he saw were clouds, trees, and blue spaces. The sky was empty.
March 21st was the Spring Equinox, the last day of the year 1843-44,
during which Miller had predicted the return of the Son of God. Now,
the year had ended, but it was the same old world that kept turn-

The Calling

ing…the wind kept blowing…people continued going about their
business…
A few days later, he wrote:
“I am now seated at my old desk in my east room. Having
obtained help of God until the present time, I am still look-
ing for the Dear Savior…This time, as I have calculated it, is
now filled up; and I expect every moment to see the Savior
descend from heaven. I have now nothing to look for but
this glorious hope…I hope I have cleansed my garments
from the blood of souls. I feel that, as far as it was in my
power, I have freed myself from all guilt in their condemna-
tion…If God has anything more for me to do in his vine-
yard, he will give me strength, open the door, and enable me
to do whatever may be his will, for his glory and the best
good of man.”194
Miller had written a detailed chart of biblical prophecy for use in his
preaching indicating the end times, but he had always been reluctant
to give an exact date for Christ’s return. He and the older Millerites
believed that it was the times which were being revealed not a specific
date or hour. He preferred to describe the time as “about the year
1843.” and qualify all of his statements with “if there were no mistake
in my calculation.”195 Miller was a humble man by nature. His follow-
ers, though, increasingly pushed him to be more specific. At the 1842
annual general Conference of the Millerites, held each year in Boston
since 1840,196 the issue of the exact time of Christ’s return came into
prominence because they agreed that the time prophecies of the Old

194 George R. Knight, Millenial Fever and the End of the World (Boise, Idaho:
Pacific Press Pub. Association, 1993), 162.
195 Knight, 126-7.
196 Ibid., 85.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

Testament clearly had an end point.197 Miller concluded that Christ
would return sometime in the Jewish year, March 21st, 1843-March
21st, 1844,198 and he announced this in the January 1st, 1843, edition
of the Sign of the Times, an Adventist publication.
The year 1843 opened with a great increase in the anticipatory fervor
for the Second Coming.199 The Adventist newsletter, the Midnight
Cry, changed its subscription schedule to three month intervals, “if
time should last”.200 Such was the interest that a talk by William Miller
drew thousands in Washington DC, and another “convulsed” Phila-
delphia.201 A comet crossed the sky in February and grew to its bright-
est degree in March,202 seizing many with wonder about the meaning
of the sign they were seeing in the heavens.
The Adventist leaders tended to have a more rationalist outlook and
did not give too much credence to signs like a comet. Instead, they
began a great push at the general Conference of May, 1843, to take
Adventism west to Ohio, Iowa, and Missouri—the Western frontier of
the United States in 1843 was the Mississippi River—and south. The
South was not as receptive to the Adventist message as its leaders
defended the status quo in the face in all reforms—especially aboli-
tion—and other forms of change. New periodicals were published in
the Western cities. Soon Adventism was known throughout Britain
and reached Norway and the Sandwich Islands by the summer.203

197 Ibid., 128; David L. Rowe, God’s Strange Work, William Miller and the End of
the World (Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdman's Publishing Company, 2008),
176.
198 Rowe, 176.
199 Knight, 126-7.
200 Ibid., 130.
201 Ibid., 131.
202 Donald K. Yeomans, “Great Comets in History,” Jet Propulsion
Laboratory/California Institute of Technology, accessed October 25, 2013,
ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/?great_comets.
203 Knight, 130-137.

The Calling

Joshua Vaughn Himes, pastor of the Chardon Street Chapel in
Boston, turned Adventism into a mass movement. He had been
transformed after hearing Miller’s preaching and asked him about
spreading these teachings. Miller responded: “What can an old farmer
do? I was never used to public speaking; I stand alone….”204 Hines
went into high-gear promoting these millennial teachings, and
through his efforts, Adventism reached large audiences well beyond its
original geographical region and attracted many new converts.205
This gathering excitement brought on a backlash. William Lloyd
Garrison, the great abolitionist, was amazed that an uneducated man
like Miller could convince such large multitudes but concluded that
the “delusion has not long to run…let us rejoice.” In early March,
almost an entire edition of the Tribune of New York, the most influen-
tial paper in the country, published by Horace Greeley, a social
reformer and abolitionist, was given over to refuting the claims of
Miller.206 The Hartford-based Universalist, called Millerites “deluded,”
“ridiculous,” “fanatical,” and “coarse.”207 The great evangelist Charles
Finney reached out to Miller to try to dissuade him from his ideas.
Joseph Smith, the prophet of Mormonism, expressed great surprise
that some of his followers were drawn to Millerism. John Humphrey
Noyes, the famous utopian socialist, described those among his
followers who were attracted to Millerism as weak like “weathercocks”
in a “popular tempest.” Moses Stuart, a leading Biblical scholar, made
fun of Miller by suggesting that April 1st was a day better suited to
Miller’s predictions.208
Mockery of Miller abounded. In a print ad, one of his mottos, “the
time has come,” appeared with angels flying around it, while a prod-
uct, Wild Cherry medicine, was featured below these words. One

204 Rowe, 159.
205 Ibid., 158-165.
206 Knight, 138.
207 Ibid., 142.
208 Ibid., 138-40.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

cartoon showed Miller so busy preaching that he had forgotten to
prepare himself for the end, and he is saying, “I had no idea it would
be so hot.” The use of ‘ascension robes’—clothing owned by some
Millerites to be worn on the day of Christ’s Return—were lampooned
with one article saying that if Adventist predictions were off by a
thousand years, the robes could not be returned. Publications also
described the movement as a folly in which people sold their property,
gave up their wealth and circulated stories of followers wandering in
the rain in their ascension robes, sitting alone in the woods, or stand-
ing on a wood pile looking for the Lord. Adventism was compared to
yellow fever and came to be seen popularly as a form of insanity.209
With every passing day of 1843, the Adventist message became more
strident in its challenge to Christians. A new generation of more
aggressive Adventist preachers saw churches that rejected the imminent
return of Christ as apostates, while hostility toward Adventism caused
churches to distance themselves from Miller or actively reject his
teachings. They stepped up their attacks on Adventist leaders by
accusing them of lining their pockets with the contributions of
believers while showing that they did not truly expect the end by the
conduct of their lives. Miller himself was criticized for building a stone
wall around his house which was unnecessary if the time of the end
was at hand. Churches refused to allow Adventist preaching, dismissed
preachers who had developed Adventist sympathies or, even worse,
declared them to be heretics and threw them out of their congrega-
tions. Ministers who didn’t renounce Adventism were “the few
recalcitrant offenders…[who]…went on from bad to worse, till, like
wandering stars, they disappeared in darkness.” By the summer of
1843, the split between Adventism and established churches was
becoming clear as leading Adventist preachers such as Rev. Fitch
compared the churches which rejected Adventism to the “harlots” and
“antichrists” of the Bible.210

209 Ibid., 140-5.
210 Ibid., 151-8.

The Calling

The mockery, the attacks and criticisms, and, most of all, the con-
demnation from churches hurt Miller deeply. He had always seen
himself as a Bible-centered Christian who wanted Christian fellowship
for all and did not see his teaching as a new movement or the cause of
separation and disunity.211
He grew increasingly ill. Miller preached away from home from
October to March 1843.212 By the summer, though, Miller’s exhaus-
tive efforts to raise the call of Christ’s imminent return had taken their
toll. He was sixty-one, his body shook with palsy and swelled with
fluid, while rashes and boils burst out on his skin. In March, he
collapsed with another attack of skin disease and had to be brought
home in a wagon bed. The solitude and safety of his farm must have
felt good to him. To his joy, his family and he gathered in the home
and sang hymns and, soon, his children accepted his teachings and
even became his travelling companions.
By October of 1843, Miller was well enough to rise up again and
preach the coming end. In public, he appeared as an elderly squat
farmer with a slight shake, and spoke in plain language like “a work-
man who needeth not be ashamed,” ambling easily through the
Scripture to unfold his points, gradually drawing his audience in. His
preaching had become even more powerful with time, and people
longed to hear him. He had become the genuinely-loved patriarch of
the great movement he had launched.213
Looking up at the empty sky on March 21st, 1844, Miller knew he
had done all he could do. God had not made Himself known. Miller’s
habitual self-doubt overcame him. The mainstream churches had
rejected the message. He gave up an anguished cry; his friend tried to
reassure him that God would “manage his own cause in his own
way.”214

211 Rowe, 177-78.
212 Ibid., 169.
213 Ibid., 169-74.
214 Ibid., 185.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

As March disappeared into April, William Miller still held on to his
faith:
“I now am looking every day and hour for Christ to come,
my time is full, the end of days are come, and at the end the
vision shall speak and will not lie.”215
3.
A few weeks after William Miller’s great disappointment at seeing an
empty sky, a young Muslim cleric in faraway Persia with the same
deep spiritual yearning, walked towards the gate of the city of Shiraz.
His spiritual teacher, Siyyid Kazim, the leader of the Shaykhis, a
movement that interpreted Qur’anic prophecy about the end times in
allegorical rather than literal terms, had passed away. Siyyid Kazim had
taught him that God would make himself known through the return
of a ‘rightly guided one’ who would arise to purify Islam and that they,
the Shaykhis, whose allegorical interpretation of the Qur’an told them
that time had come, must go out and seek him.
After his teacher’s passing, this young cleric, Mulla Husayn, had
secluded himself in the Great Mosque at Kufa, south of Baghdad, one
of the oldest mosques in the Islamic world. His teacher had told him
that he had to purify himself before beginning his quest. Though
many of his fellow disciples were ignoring their teacher’s command,
Mulla Husayn was faithful to it. So he had prayed and fasted for forty
days and forty nights, and when he was ready, he arose and went out
on his search.
Mulla Husayn’s prayers led him out of the holy city of Kufa, south
by caravan to the Persian Gulf, east by boat to Persia, and then
overland to his destination—Shiraz, the ancient city of poets and
gardens. To enter Shiraz in those days, one had to pass through a gate,
a beautiful large structure where people met up with one another. He
and his companions carried with them no possessions except the same

215 Ibid.

The Calling

strong faith that drove William Miller forward. These were times of
revelation, and he believed he was about to see God’s will in the world.
Mulla Husayn arrived in Shiraz on a hot and sunny afternoon. He
sent his companions ahead to find lodging. Then a young man walked
up to him and greeted him with great warmth. The gentle manner and
refined appearance of this young man astonished Mulla Husayn. He
wore a green turban which indicated that he was a siyyid, a descendant
of the prophet Muhammad. His name was Siyyid Ali Muhammad.
Mulla Husayn thought to himself that this young man must be one of
his fellow Shaykhis who had come out to greet him. Siyyid Ali Mu-
hammad invited him to his home for dinner. Evening was approach-
ing. He told Mulla Husayn not to worry about his companions who
had gone ahead: “Commit them to the care of God; He will surely
protect and watch over them.”
Mulla Husayn followed the young Siyyid Ali Muhammad to his
house:
“We soon found ourselves standing at the gate of a house of
modest appearance. He knocked at the door, which was soon
opened by an Ethiopian servant. “Enter therein in peace, se-
cure” were His words as He crossed the threshold and mo-
tioned me to follow Him. His invitation, uttered with power
and majesty, penetrated my soul.”
The two stepped into the refreshing little courtyard of the traditional
two-story Persian home and climbed up the stairs to the upper room.
There they prayed and began their discussion. Siyyid Ali Muhammad
asked Mulla Husayn about his quest. Mulla Husayn responded that
his teacher had told him to go forth and seek the Promised One of the
age. When he told the young Siyyid the signs of the person of the
Promised One, Siyyid Ali Muhammad said: “Behold, all these signs
are manifest in Me.”
Shocked by this answer, Mulla Husayn thought about arguments as
to why this was impossible. He presented a theological essay he had
written and used it to test this young man. Siyyid Ali Muhammad

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

briefly looked over Mulla Husayn’s complex and intricate points about
the ‘Promised One’ in scripture. Then the young man revealed the
hidden, deeper meanings which Mulla Husayn had neither seen nor
understood in the sacred text. Siyyid Ali Muhammad’s insights were
completely original, and his words contained great power and author-
ity. Soon, out of the blue, he offered to write a commentary on the
Qur’anic chapter about Joseph, the son of Jacob. Mulla Husayn was
stunned by this offer because his teacher had told him that only the
Promised One would be capable of doing this. The words flowed
effortlessly from Siyyid Ali Muhammad’s mouth and pen:
“The overpowering effect of the manner in which He wrote
was heightened by the gentle intonation of His voice which
accompanied His writing. Not for one moment did He in-
terrupt the flow of the verses which streamed from His
pen.…I sat enraptured by the magic of His voice and the
sweeping force of His revelation.”
Mulla Husayn knew that he had found the object of his quest: the
Promised One of God, the Renewer of the world. Siyyid Ali Muham-
mad proclaimed to him:
“O thou who art the first to believe in Me! Verily I say, I am
the Báb, the Gate of God, and thou art the Bábu’l-Báb, the
gate of that Gate. Eighteen souls must, in the beginning,
spontaneously and of their own accord, accept Me, and rec-
ognize the truth of My Revelation. Unwarned and uninvited,
each of these must seek independently to find Me. And when
their number is complete, one of them must needs be chosen
to accompany Me on My pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina.
There I shall deliver the Message of God to the Sharif of
Mecca. I then shall return to Kúfih, where again, in the Mas-
jid of that holy city, I shall manifest His Cause. It is incum-

The Calling

bent upon you not to divulge, either to your companions or
to any other soul, that which you have seen and heard….”216
Mulla Husayn remembered that the revelation hit him like a “thun-
derbolt”; he was “blinded and overwhelmed”:
“…the knowledge of His Revelation had galvanized my be-
ing. I felt possessed of such courage and power that were the
world, all its peoples and its potentates, to rise against me, I
would, alone and undaunted, withstand their onslaught. The
universe seemed but a handful of dust in my grasp. I seemed
to be the voice of Gabriel personified, calling unto all man-
kind: ‘Awake, for, lo! the morning Light has broken. Arise,
for His Cause is made manifest. The portal of His grace is
open wide; enter therein, O peoples of the world! For He
Who is your Promised One is come!’”217
At dawn, May 23rd, 1844, (1260 AH), two months after William
Miller’s ‘Great Disappointment’, Mulla Husayn stepped back out into
the street, a man transfigured by “a sense of gladness and strength.”
Over the summer of 1844, one seeker after another like him found
Siyyid Ali Muhammad, who came to be called the ‘Bab’, meaning the
‘gate’. Most believed that the Bab was claiming to be the gate to the
Hidden Imam but they came to see over the years that he was claiming
to be both a new Divine manifestation and the precursor of a second
major revelation. He was the ‘gate’ to the Divine world from which
new revelation flowed.
The Bab taught that God made Himself known through His Primal
Will, like the “Word” in the Gospel of John, and the creative Will
described by Shaykh Ahmad, the founder of the Shaykhis. The symbol

216 The above quotations and information are taken from Zarandi, 39-45.
217 Ibid., 65.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

of that Will was a woman, the Maid of Heaven. The Bab wrote: “I am
the Maid of Heaven begotten by the Spirit of Bahá.”218
In the new laws the Bab set forth for his followers, he provided for
greater protections for women than had previously existed. He made
divorce more difficult by requiring a twelve-month delay and ordered
men not to harm women but, rather, to treat them with respect. He
also allowed for greater social interaction between men and women. In
some cases, his laws gave preference to women such as doubling the
penalty for causing grief to a person when that person is a woman, and
exempting women from the obligation of pilgrimage if fulfilling this
required a dangerous journey.219
Now, his message was taken up by the extraordinary woman, Tahirih
of Qazvin, who soon emerged as one of his foremost disciples and
ablest teachers. Her search for truth had led her to the writings of the
Shaykhi masters whose non-literal reading of the Qur’an told them
that the time of the fulfillment of Islam was imminent. Her journey
down this independent path brought her into direct conflict with the
men in her family and the male clerical establishment.
By 1844, Tahirih was living in Karbila; this holy city and others in
Iraq contained the sacred remains of some of the most important
Imams of Shi’a Islam and was a frequent destination for Persian
pilgrims.
She had come there hoping to study with the Shaykhi leader, Siyyid
Kazim, having become convinced from his writings that the appear-
ance of the Promised One of Islam was imminent. Her sister, daugh-
ter, and brother-in-law—who by then was a follower of Siyyid Kazim
as well—, were all with her.220

218 The Bab, quoted in Moojan Momen, “WOMEN iv. in the works of the Bab
and in the Babi Movement,” in the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan
Yarshater, accessed November 13, 2013,
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/women-babi.
219 Momen, “WOMEN”.
220 Mázandarání, 313. According to Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.”
329, her daughter

The Calling

Tahirih’s father had hoped that by going on such a pilgrimage, his
daughter would give up her interest in these Shaykhi ideas which were
causing such divisions within the family. But his visionary daughter
could not be cowed by the men in her family into denying her con-
science or restricting her spirit. In Karbila, she continued to study the
Shaykhi texts, to correspond with Shaykhi leaders, and to teach others.
This last act was most unusual because the teaching of religion had
always been the prerogative of men. Had she been a man, her knowl-
edge would have qualified her to be a mujtahid.221
By this point, her husband, humiliated by having such a strong and
iconoclastic wife, harbored a great anger towards her. But it was her
father-in-law, Mulla Taqi, who was the most venomous critic of the
Shaykhi doctrines and his daughter-in-law’s222 involvement in promot-
ing them. Though her father, Mulla Salih, did not approve of her
behavior, he also objected to Mulla Taqi’s tirades against the Shaykhis.
After all, the Shaykhi leaders were all distinguished Muslim scholars.
With the rift in the family widening, Tahirih moved out of her marital
home and back into her father’s house.223 The cost of this break from
her husband was the loss of a direct relationship with her sons. Her
contact with them would forever be limited, and her husband would
poison them against her.
The proclamation of the new day had become her calling.224 In this
ghazal, a form of lyric poetry traditionally used to express the pain and

was there as well.
221 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 116; Hosseiny, Hadrat-i-Tahirih, 313, states that
she received a license to teach Islam.
222 Tahirih was both Taqi’s niece and his daughter-in-law as she had married his
son and was the daughter of his brother. Because of the primacy of the male in
marriage, we will refer to her as his daughter-in-law.
223 Ibid.
224 Hatcher and Hemmat, 41-2; Amin Banani and Jascha Kessler trans., Anthony
Lee, ed., Tahirih: A portrait in poetry (LA, CA: Kalimat Press, 2004), 124.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

beauty of love and characterized by a melancholic mood, she proclaims
the arrival of the new day instead, in joyous terms:225
“Wake up, sleeper! Your lover’s come for you!
Rouse yourself, brush those cobwebs from your hair

Gentle Love is here, and brings you kindness
Miserable lover, your Love stands near

Comfort awaits at the side of your bed
Sit up, throw off your grief—not one more tear!

Suffering, separate, lying there cold,
embrace your lover, who loves without fear

Wan and wasted, starved to death by the Fall,
Get up! Get up! At last the Spring is here

Our time’s renewed, for life is always new
Rise! Rise up! You corpse of that old, dead year!”226
Siyyid Kazim had passed away at the beginning of 1844, a short time
before Tahirih arrived in Karbila.227 His widow became totally devoted
to her and invited her to stay in their home; the widow’s love for her
aroused the interest of other women.228
Soon she was giving classes in Siyyid Kazim’s widow’s home that
attracted both men and women who wanted to hear the words of this
most extraordinary woman.229 Her reputation as a spiritual visionary
spread through the personal networks of the women who attended her

225 Banani and Kessler, 124.
226 Ibid., 75.
227 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 192; Root, Táhirih the pure, 56.
228 Zarandi, 193.
229 Mázandarání, 313.

The Calling

classes. When men came, she spoke from behind a curtain so as to
conform to the cultural norms of propriety between men and women.
The Shaykhis, though, were divided in their purpose and did not
have Tahirih’s resolve. Shaykhism had begun as a movement which
taught that the day of fulfillment was imminent, but it had now
become a separate ‘school’ of thought among other such schools
within Islam. This had not been the goal of its founders who had told
their disciples to actively seek the Promised One.230 With their passing
the movement foundered as its adherents wavered in this mission.
Tahirih was one of those disciples who actively sought the Promised
One and did not want to spend her time in theological speculation.
The day of God was an imminent reality for her, not an intellectual
idol.
In the wake of Siyyid Kazim’s passing in early 1844, a few of his
disciples obeyed his instructions and began their search. Among these
was Tahirih’s brother-in-law, Mulla Muhammad Ali Qazvini. She gave
him a letter written by her addressed to the Promised One. If her
brother-in-law succeeded in finding him, he should give him the
letter231 and:
“Say to Him, from me, the effulgence of Thy face flashed
forth, and the rays of Thy visage rose high. Then speak the
word, “Am I not your Lord?” and “Thou art, Thou art!” we
will all reply.”232
One night in the summer of 1844, Tahirih had a dream233 in which
she saw a young Siyyid—a male descendant of the Prophet Muham-
mad— dressed in black with a green turban, and his hands raised up
in prayer.234 The words he spoke stayed with her. Around the same
time, her brother-in-law found the goal of his quest. He became a

230 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 192.
231 Balyuzi, The Bab, 26; Hoseini, 314; Mázandarání, 314.
232 Mázandarání, 314; Zarandi, 56.
233 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 190.
234 Ibid.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

believer in the Bab and gave him Tahirih’s letter. The Bab immedi-
ately declared her to be one of his apostles as he did with two of her
brothers-in-law. He gave them the title of “Letters of the Living.”235
meaning his chief disciples who would carry his message out to the
people and of whom there would be eighteen. He was the Primal
Point from which all came into being, and they were the Letters that
originated from that Point. The Bab and the eighteen ‘Letters’ made
nineteen, a ‘vahid’, or unity, signifying the unity of God; it is also the
numerical value of the opening invocation of the Qur’an. This term
was entirely new with the religion of the Bab.236
Though Tahirih never actually met the Bab in person, what con-
firmed her faith was reading a copy of the text revealed by him on the
night of his declaration to Mulla Husayn which was brought to her by
another of the Bab’s Letters of the Living.237 Tahirih recognized
immediately that this commentary on the Qur’anic chapter about
Joseph contained the very same words she had heard in her dream. She
was now certain she had found the object of her spiritual search—the
Promised One of the age as foretold by her Shaykhi spiritual teach-
ers.238

235 Tahirih’s brothers-in-law, Mirza Muhammad Ali Qazvini and Mirza Hadi
Qazvini, sons of Haji Mirza Abdu’l-Vahhab, her father-in-law/uncle, and Taqi’s
main rival in Qazvin, were Letters of the Living (H. M. Balyuzi, The Bab,
(Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1973), 26-7; Nabíl-i-Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers,
Translated by Shoghi Effendi, (London, UK: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1953), 55)
236 The Editors, “Letters of the Living (Huruf-i-Hayy),” in the Baha’i Encyclopedia
Project, edited by L. Bucknell, B. Fisher, F. Kazemzadeh, T. Lawson, H.
Moayyad, G. Morrison, S. Quinn, M. Schweitz, R. Stockman, W. van den
Hoonaard, accessed June 6, 2015
http://www.bahai-encyclopedia-project.org/.
237 Mulla Ali Bastami (Balyuzi, The Bab, 58); the text was the “Ahsanu'l-Qisas”
(“The Best of Stories”) the commentary on the Surih of Joseph revealed by the
Bab (‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i publishing
Trust, 1971), 191)
238 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 193.

The Calling

In this poem, she expresses the deep longing for nearness to God
which drove her to become a seeker.239 On another level of meaning,
the poem below expresses her belief in the oneness of religion. The
unusual form of this poem, a rondo in five stanzas, is uncommon in
Persian poetry and imitative of a famous earlier Persian poem by Hafez
in which a Muslim debates a Christian nun about the Church’s
Doctrine of the Trinity. The Muslim hears great church bells ringing
and the Christians chanting the Islamic profession of faith in God and
Muhammad. He decides that this belief in the absolute unity of
God—not the mysterious division of God into three—is the true path.
Christ and Muhammad’s message is one. The seeker and God are one.
The self is gone.240
“Now from those locks must all my madness hang
Your ruby lips have taught me love’s sweet pang
From head to toe your love about me sang
Cut off from you, how loud my weeping rang
I’m lost. You have destroyed my place

Although you brought me sad adversity
and I drank my cup of calumny,
my soul burns in its frozen cavity,
my heart lives on, that died in misery
Your lips are my Messiah’s grace

You guard the vault where I am its treasure
You keep the mine where I am its silver
I am the seed, and you are the sower
But whose body is this, if you’re its owner?

What’s this soul? You have filled its place


239 Hatcher and Hemmat, The Poetry of Tahirih, 69.
240 Banani and Kessler, Tahirih, A portrait in poetry, 138-9.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

Your love has made of me a speck of dust
One single cup of wine—I’m drunk with lust
Since I have seized and hold your locks in trust:
Myself I praise—You I praise—I praise us!

I lie lost in my arms’ embrace

If my heart is yours, why would you tear it?
And if not yours, why should you impair it?
With each breath you feed the flame in it,
consuming what remains of me in it

Make it your joyful dwelling-place!

When your love’s fire grew incandescent,
Being and Having burnt from my essence
Heathen and Muslim from my heart were sent
Prostrate, I lie beneath your eyebrow’s tent

The very Ka’aba is my place

When the divine feather wrote upon the page
and pen kissed paper in love’s knowledge,
when Nothingness heard not Being’s homage
and His breath blew over Adam’s image,

my heart felt even then love’s trace

When the divine hand molded Adam’s clay,
your love sowed its seed in my breast that day,
your love became my foreknown, fated away
Not hell, not heaven can lead me astray

You alone are whom I embrace

I am eternal, yet destroyed in mind
From this good cup I sip a lordly wine
In the valley of doubt I’m burnt to brine

The Calling

A wanderer, to exile’s wastes confined

What may befall me in disgrace?

Since that day my heart cried out, Behold Me!
and I stepped in that street for all to see,
gadding about, a shameless debauchee,
He was all myself, all myself was he—

His jewel set in my heart’s palace

In the dust of my Ka’aba you now dwell
Your face lights the dark world with its dazzle
The waves of your hair my soul’s manacle
The arch of your eyebrows my heart’s idol

Your locks my cross in sacred space

I’m the captive of his high holiness
I love his lovely heart’s expressiveness
I walk through the valley of my madness
wanting no other but you to caress

Love fills me with your sweet embrace

Then how much longer must I be restrained,
My feigned indifference to you still maintained?
How long must agitation be contained?
A prudish piety, how long ordained?

My wares banned from the marketplace?

I’ll drop my robe, my prayer mat I’ll discard,
drink till I’m drunk, and none of them regard
My passion will fill their house, roof to yard
Mt. Sinai’s flame grows bright, for I’m its bard

By the tavern gate, there’s my place!

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

Love’s flag flies above my devastation
At Love’s gate stands his annunciation
Truth brims my cup with intoxication
Estranged from myself, from every nation

God bids run this noble race

The tavern’s servant served us at the feast
Red wine was poured and poured and never ceased,
until the wine grew drunk and went to yeast
And all were turned to dust, even the least,

Fermented by my wine’s embrace

Night and day have we heard Love’s voice proclaim:
It’s Love that calls each being by its name
Whoever wants to make our way his aim
shall find that suffering’s waves are not tame,

nor will the shore give his foot place

I am the slave on your roof keeping time,
I am the frightened bird snared by your lime,
the nightingale silent in your night-time,
the axis that stands for your name, Sublime
Not I, not we—That agony’s erased!”241
Tahirih set about translating the Bab’s writings from Arabic into
Persian for dissemination.242 She saw it as her duty to teach others
about the Bab’s message and to remove any doubts about his claims.
This poem reflects the belief that God reveals himself over time in ever
greater degrees, and that those with insight must try to help others
develop their inner vision such that they can see God in whatever form
He makes himself manifest.243 It is written in the form of a masnavi, a

241 Ibid., 102-105.
242 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 193.
243 Hatcher and Hemmat, The Poetry of Tahirih, 40.

The Calling

Persian form of poetry in rhyming couplets used to express heroic,
historical, and romantic themes. In this one, she extolls the qualities of
the Bab such as ‘beauty’ and ‘glory’.244 The human presence of God
leads us to His Divine Presence. His Beauty leads us to His Glory.245
“He’s come! He’s here to tear our veils away
He’s here! He’s come to show us God today

Yet masters of the mind refuse to hear
and heaven’s song is wasted on their ear

He’s come to bring us life beyond all praise
He lights this world: his voice is heaven’s blaze

Its fire burns our world with wild delight
Stripped bare we stand we’re made of purest light!

Lift the veil, Tahirih! He’s now exposed!
His hidden mystery has been disclosed!

And say: The Lord in glowing clothes is dressed!
Praised be his beauty, and forever blessed!”246
4.
In October of 1844, a shop owner tacked up this sign on his store in
Philadelphia:
“This shop is closed in honor of the King of kings, who will
appear about the 20th of October. Get ready, friends, to
crown him Lord of all.”247

244 Banani and Kessler, Tahirih, A portrait in poetry, 112-3.
245 Hatcher and Hemmat, The Poetry of Tahirih, 40, 152-3.
246 Banani and Kessler, Tahirih, A portrait in poetry, 51.
247 Knight, Millenial Fever, 208.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

The Bab’s Tablet to the Seventeenth letter of the living.
Six months earlier, in the spring of 1844, when Mulla Husayn and
others found the Bab, and Tahirih was still seeking him, there had
been a great a disappointment among the Millerites because Jesus
Christ had not returned in the way they had expected. But in the early
summer of 1844, Adventist preaching had picked up again because
William Miller and his fellow Millerites remained committed to
preparing souls for the return of Christ despite the spring disappoint-
ment.
By late summer,
1844, eighteen in-
dividuals had be-
come apostles of
the Bab—Letters
of the Living—
while, at the same
time, a powerful
new spirit infused
the
Adventist
movement
with
renewed hope.
At a late summer
Adventist
camp
meeting in Exeter,
New Hampshire,
a preacher was
going over the
traditional
Ad-
ventist teaching,
but the crowd had no energy. It was hearing the same arguments that
had been made before the spring disappointment. Then a woman in
the audience interrupted the preacher and called for Samuel Snow to

The Calling

go up onto the platform to deliver a new message. Snow went up and
claimed that Christ’s actual date of return was October 22, 1844.248
His argument was based on familiar texts, but he had interpreted
them differently. At the core of Adventist Biblical preaching was this
parable of the Ten Virgins from the Gospel of Mathew which Snow
used to make sense of the times they were living through:
“At that time the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins
who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom.
Five of them were foolish and five were wise. The foolish
ones took their lamps but did not take any oil with them.
The wise ones, however, took oil in jars along with their
lamps. The bridegroom was a long time in coming, and they
all became drowsy and fell asleep. At midnight the cry rang
out: ‘Here’s the bridegroom! Come out to meet him!’ Then
all the virgins woke up and trimmed their lamps. The foolish
ones said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil; our lamps
are going out.’ ‘No,’ they replied, ‘there may not be enough
for both us and you. Instead, go to those who sell oil and buy
some for yourselves.’ But while they were on their way to
buy the oil, the bridegroom arrived. The virgins who were
ready went in with him to the wedding banquet. And the
door was shut. Later the others also came. ‘Lord, Lord,’ they
said, ‘open the door for us!’ But he replied, ‘Truly I tell you,
I don’t know you.’ Therefore keep watch, because you do
not know the day or the hour.”249
Snow used this parable to show that they were living in a ‘tarrying
time’, a time of waiting, like the virgins who had fallen asleep. The
tarrying time could last no longer than half a year because a prophetic
day in the Bible counted as a year, and the virgins tarried for half a

248 Rowe, God’s Strange Work, 186.
249 Matthew 25: 1-13 (New International Version).

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

day. This new date of October 20th, 1844, was the “midnight cry” that
woke the virgins up.
Snow and others had arrived at this date by looking at the first cen-
tury Jewish calendar and using it as a comparison to the modern times.
In the traditional Jewish religious calendar, the High Priest blessed the
believers on the Day of Atonement, the 10th day of the 7th month of
the Jewish year, which fell on October 22nd. If Jesus is compared to
the high priest then his appearance—itself a blessing to the faithful—
would be on October 22nd. The year 1844 was the one predicted by
Daniel’s prophecy of the 2,300 days until the cleansing of the Tem-
ple.250
This prediction fired up fresh enthusiasm among the Millerites.
While the older Adventist leaders were not sure about this exact date,
they were delighted to see the renewal of excitement. William Miller,
who preferred not to make specific calendar predictions, wrote an
article in support of this new date only after much urging from his
fellow Millerite leaders.251
Such was the excitement that by October many of the Millerites were
giving away their worldly goods. Stores were closed—one store owner
opened his shop and invited people to take whatever they needed—
children were pulled out of school, debts were forgiven, household
items were sold away, monetary investments were given up, crops were
left to rot. To non-believers, it seemed as though insanity had taken
hold of their Adventist neighbors.
But again, Jesus Christ did not come down from the sky. This time,
the disappointment was crushing and final.
William Miller was roundly ridiculed. A neighbor wrote to him that
“I should be ashamed to have my head seen in Publick had I sayed as
much as you have and have it all prove false…,” that Miller had been
the cause of “…more suicide and more insanity in the last 5 or 6 years
than has been known for 50 or 60 years before…,” and that he was

250 Rowe, God’s Strange Work, 186-7.
251 Ibid., 189.

The Calling

“…one of those Class of things that has crept into houses and led
astray silly wimin with sins….”252 Even his brother in law encouraged
him to leave preaching because “…folks in general will not believe
what you say…” since “…what you believed as you thought the bible
taught has fai[led] to come to pass.”253
Other dates were put forward by different Millerites but none ever
again caused widespread enthusiasm. Some of the Millerites fell away
while others became more extreme in their beliefs and spiritualized all
earthly events. The mainstream Millerite movement became a settled
denomination, the Adventists, keeping intact some of its hopes and
teachings.
The Millerites sang this hymn:
“How long, dear Lord, our Savior
Wilt thou remain away?
Our hearts are growing weary
Of Thy so long delay.”254
5.
While the Millerites experienced bitter disappointment following the
failure of their expectations, the Bab was boarding a boat bound for
Mecca in that same month of October, 1844. This city on the Arabian
Peninsula was the spiritual heart of Islam, and the Bab was going there
to proclaim to the Muslim faithful that the time of fulfillment had
arrived. He crossed the sea from Persia to Arabia with Quddus, one of
the Letters of the Living, who then accompanied him on foot to the
holy city.255 There, next to the Kaba’a, the holiest shrine in Islam, the
Bab proclaimed his message. Quddus gave a text revealed by the Bab
to the ruler of Mecca who, busy with the management of pilgrims,
only realized later the importance of its contents. They then journeyed

252 Ibid., 193.
253 Ibid., 188.
254 Ibid., 196.
255 Zarandi, 40.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

to the tomb of Muhammad where they prayed intensely to the
Prophet of Islam and his saints.
In Karbila, Tahirih seemed to have realized that the Bab was claim-
ing to be the chosen messenger of a new Divine revelation, a greater
claim than being the one who would purify Islam. He was now the
source of authority, and his writings supplanted the Qur’an, the holy
book which had guided the Shi’a for centuries. The instruction and
the rule of the clergy were no longer necessary. This breathtaking
claim was blasphemy to the Shi’a clerics.
She gave expression to these claims in the following poem in which
she challenges readers to see the appearance of the Promised One of
God in human form. In the Persian original, the poem is in the form
of a ghazal, a song form with rhyming couplets, and she uses a poetical
convention in which an author uses the same first line of a previous
well-known poem. In this poem, she borrows a first line from a
famous work by Rumi. The rest of the poem is a bold proclamation of
the Bab’s advent and station and a call for the believers to break from
the clergy:256
“Lovers! Creation veils his face no more!
Lovers, look! He himself is visible!

See! The face of God glows with glory;
Look, lovers! Bright, pure, blinding, beautiful!

Who made the cosmos turns earth green once more.
Rise! Rise from that dark so miserable!

The day of truth is here! Lies have turned to dust!
Order, justice, law are now possible.


256 Banani and Kessler, 127.

The Calling

Smashed, the despot’s fist! God’s hand opens:
grace pours down—not sorrow, pain, and trouble

Minds in darkness now burn light with knowledge
Tell the priest. Shut your books! Lock the temple!

Hatred and doubt once poisoned all the world.
The bloodied cup holds milk now—pure, ample!

Let nations hear who’s come to set them free:
Broken the chain, and smashed the manacle!”257
Tahirih taught the Bab’s message boldly and publicly. She wrote long
letters to all the leading clerics of Karbila in which she explained the
true station of the Bab and exhorted them to abandon the effort to
prevent the spread of his teachings. This was astonishing because not
only was she a woman attempting to teach these prominent men who
viewed women as inferior beings without souls, but she was doing it in
writing. The written word in this time was the province of the highly
educated male whose prerogative it was to instruct, to debate, and to
explicate.258
In this early phase of the Bab’s revelation, the central challenge facing
the Shaykhis and Babis was to understand the true station and claims
of the Bab. Tahirih saw that many of them had not grasped that
revelation unfolded progressively259 because they understood the Bab’s
teachings to be a continuation of the Shi’a tradition.260 She believed,
though, that the Bab was both the redeemer foretold by Shaykh
Ahmad and Siyyid Kazim and the bringer of a new Divine revela-
tion.261 She had come to understand that a divine guide was necessary

257 Ibid., 79.
258 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 73; Zarandi, 194.
259 Mázandarání, v. 3, a1, 488.
260 Conservative Shaykhis led by Gauhar, Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 123.
261 Ibid., 118.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

in every age262 and that God made His will known through him. There
was no cessation of Divine revelation:263
“And day after day the cycle of the universe is in progress
and ‘there is no suspension in his emanation’. Praise be to
God and our prayer and gratitude [to Him] that the Cause is
everlasting.”264
She reasoned that God’s ways of testing the faithful were above the
ways of men, and this knowledge could only be acquired intuitively.
Only through inspiration—not through intellectual debate, human
reasoning, or literal reading of the scripture—could other Shaykhis
come to know the truth.265
Tahirih could let go of Shaykhism now since it had been fulfilled in
her acceptance of the claims of the Bab. She had studied the Bab’s
writings, and so she realized that the Bab had not come to renew Islam
by reviving the old traditions and institutions but by bringing a new
divine revelation to reinvigorate the inner lives of people. Such a
radical claim challenged Shia Muslim belief in the finality of Mu-
hammad’s revelation in God’s plan and was a rupture with centuries-
old traditions.266
Many Babis, though, continued to uphold the sharia, the Islamic law
that had been developed over centuries, while still following the Bab as
a divinely inspired reformer. The leader of these more conservative
Babis in the region of the holy cities of Iraq did not approve at all of
Tahirih’s more radical interpretation267 and of her public teaching,

262 Ibid., 119; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 491.
263 Ibid., 120-1.
264 translated in Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 119-20; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 494.
265 Ibid., 119; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 486-8.
266 Ibid., 122.
267 Mulla Ahmad Hisari was the leader of conservative Babis of the holy cities of
Southern Iraq (Abbas Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn: The Remover of the Veil.” Sabir
Afaqi, ed., Tahirih in history: Perspectives on Qurrat al-‘Ayn from East and West
(Kalimat Press: LA, CA 2004), 123 f. 69); Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fádil-i-Mázandarání,

The Calling

even going so far as to call her, in writing, the “Daughter of evil.”268
Tahirih reached out to him, but he did not reciprocate.269 He was
supported by a disaffected Babi back in Tahirih’s hometown of Qazvin
who actively attacked the authority and smeared the names of Mulla
Husayn and Tahirih. Though she tried to reason with him in writing,
he continued to side with those who opposed her.270 Orthodox Shia
clerics may well have encouraged these disagreements because they
weakened the Shaykhis who were divided among themselves regarding
acceptance of the Bab’s message. They also feared the power of
Tahirih’s charisma to influence the hearts and minds of people. Her
talent and complete conviction regarding the truth of the Bab helped
her face the hostile Shia clerics, the conservative Shaykhis, and the
conservative Babis.271
Despite this opposition which Tahirih faced in Karbila from 1844 to
1847, she gathered many fervent followers around her who, in turn,
spread her teachings throughout the holy cities of southern Iraq. She
spoke to large audiences from behind a curtain in Siyyid Kazim’s
house but was cautious when it came to the general public and in-
volvement in any local squabbles and intrigues because she didn’t want
to invite unnecessary persecution of her followers.272
Her groups of students, called ‘the Qurratiya’, included both male
and female and Persian and Arab. One of the Arab men became the
first martyr for the new religion on Persian soil.273 Women274 were

Zuhúr al-Haqq, Volumes 1–4 (Tihrán, Iran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1973), v. 3,
245, 253, 256)
268 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 124 f. 73; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 256-7.
269 Ibid., 125.
270 His name was Jawad Valiyani (Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 118)
271 Ibid., 117.
272 Ibid.
273 Among these followers were Shaykh Salih Karimi, an Arab, who was the first Babi
martyr on Persian soil; Shaykh Sultan, who went on to teach the Faith actively and
followed Tahirih’s instructions; and Shaykh Muhammad-i-Shibl, father of a high
ranking Arab cleric in Baghdad (Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, 193).

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

attracted to her radical teachings and the possibilities that these
created.275 Her most devoted students carried these new ideas beyond
Karbila.276 The followers in the Qurratiya changed their habits to
conform to Tahirih’s dietary teachings such as abstaining from smok-
ing or drinking coffee and even sought her blessing for their foods.277
These more ascetic practices, though, bothered others in the group
because they departed from the Sharia.278
Tahirih lost an important protector in early 1846, when Siyyid
Kazim’s widow passed away.279 Meanwhile, the prominent conserva-
tive Shaykhi, Babi, and Muslim clerics continued their attacks on her,
so she moved to the nearby town of Kazimayn.280
Once there, she was free again to teach, and she drew large crowds.281
She challenged the prominent mullahs to a public debate but they
declined.282 Instead, conservative clerics spread slanderous rumors
about her which made use of her iconoclastic teachings and behaviors
to try to turn the Babis of Kazimayn against her.283 Other mullas

274 Khurshid Bagum (Shams al-Duha), wife of Mirza Mouhammad Ali Nahri; her
sister, Mulla Husayn’s mother, also a poetess; Mulla Husayn’s sister, Bibi Kuchak;
Siyyid Kazim’s wife and her maid Kafiya. Later, more women would join: in Qazvin
the three daughters of Haji Asadullah Farhadi—Khatun Jan, Shirin, and Sahiba; in
Karbila, Zubayda Khanum—known as Firishtih, daughter of Fath Ali Shah and a
poetess whose pen name was Jahan; the wife of Mahmud Khan; Shams-i-Jahan,
daughter of Muhamad Riza Marzi, a poetess with the pen name of Fitna, who got to
know Tahirih in Tihran when the latter was under house arrest (Martha Root,
“Tahirih, The Pure, Iran’s Greatest Woman,” Bahá’í Library Online, Accessed
October 1, 2013,
http://bahai-library.com/martharoot_tahirih_pure_1938).
275 Mazandarani, v. 3 314-5.
276 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 117.
277 Ibid., 121.
278 Ibid., 118.
279 Ibid., 149 f. 35.
280 Ibid., 118.
281 Ibid.; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 252.
282 Hoseini, 200.
283 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 124; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 257.

The Calling

accused the conservatives of attacking her out of personal ambition.284
Still, Persia was a deeply conservative society, and so these rumors had
their intended effect. The Babis of Kazimayn decided to write to the
Bab about Tahirih’s teachings285 because, as they understood it, “The
Bab has not abrogated the old Shari’a and did not renew any com-
mand but increased observation of the religious injunctions….” 286
By the time the Bab’s reply had arrived in this region, Tahirih had
already left Kazimayn.287 His answer was read to a gathering of seventy
Babis, and, in it, the Bab unequivocally supported Tahirih’s under-
standing of his teachings and approved of her leadership of the Babis
in the holy cities of Iraq. She was “a proof of God” and “none of those
who are my followers repudiate her.”288 He referred to her as “the
Pure,” and “Siddiqih,” the truthful,289 showing his complete disap-
proval of the rumors of her immorality:290
“Concerning what you have inquired about that mirror
which has purified its soul in order to reflect the word by
which all manners would be solved; she is a righteous,
learned, active, and pure woman….”291

284 Ibid.; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 245-59.
285 Siyyid Ali Bishir, the most learned of her opponents there, wrote the letter and
Nawruz-Ali, a former attendant of Siyyid Kazim’s, took it to the Bab in Mahku
(Balyuzi, The Bab, 163; Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq, 317).
286 Baghdadi, Muhammad Mustafa. Ar-Risalah al-Amriyyah. (Treatise on the
Cause). Appended to Ahmad Suhrab. Ar-Risalah at-Tis``Ashariyyih. Cairo:
Matba`at as-Sa`adah, 1919/1338. Pages 102-128. Digitally republished, East
Lansing, Mi.: H-Bahai, 1998. 109-110, quoted in Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.”
124; H. M. Balyuzi, The Bab, 163; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 317.
287 According to Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 151 f. 77, the Bab’s reply came in
mid-1261 AH.
288 The Bab, quoted in Mázandarání, vol. 3, 333.
289 Balyuzi, The Bab, 163; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 317; A Traveller’s Narrative Vol.
2, translation by E. G. Browne (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press,
1891), 311.
290 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 124.
291 Baghdadi, 110, quoted in Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 124-5.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

The Bab's tablet about Tahirih's station.
Some Babis renounced their faith, but most were able to accept the
Bab’s verdict.292 The Bab reached out to the more conservative Babis
and tried to reconcile them.293 An additional test for the Babis of this
region was that the Bab did not come to Karbila as expected after his
pilgrimage to Mecca.
Mulla Ali, the second
Letter of the Living, had
proclaimed the Bab’s
message to great public
interest which aroused
significant
resistance
from the authorities.
When the Bab did not
arrive in Karbila, many
of his followers aban-
doned their faith.294
Through all of these
intense attacks, Ta-
hirih’s love for the Bab
remained constant. Her
unwavering loyalty was
grounded in her desire
for reunion with God
which she expresses in
this, her most famous

292 Siyyid Ali Bishir, Siyyid Taha, and Siyyid Muhammad Ja’far from Kazimayn,
withdrew from the Faith. Most of the seventy stayed faithful (Mázandarání, Zuhúr
al-Haqq, 318, citing Abu Fazl; Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn,” 125; Baghdadi, Ar-Risalah
al-Amriyyah, 109-10).
293 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 125.
294 Mazandarani v. 3 235, 121; Moojan Momen, “Mulla `Ali Bastami, Letter
of the Living.” Wendy and Moojan Momen.
http://www.momen.org/relstud/alibast.htm.

The Calling

poem and the best example of her “bold and passionate”295 poetical
personality. Its authorship was denied in her home country when, as a
part of a general attack on Babi/Baha’i history in the 1940’s, a Persian
scholar questioned its authenticity:296
“If ever I should behold you
face to face,
eye to eye,
I would be bold to recount
My heart’s plaint
point by point,
Verse by verse.

Like Saba the east wind,
I have searched everywhere
for your countenance
from house to house,
door to door,
alley to alley,
from quarter to quarter.

Bereft of your visage,
my two eyes have wept
such bloody tears,
Tigris after Tigris,
stream upon stream,
spring after spring,
brook upon brook.

Your bloom-like mouth,
your face enveloped

295 Banani and Kessler, 22.
296 Ibid., 21-26.

Year of Disappointment, Year of Fulfillment

with ambergris hair,
blossom to blossom,
flower to flower,
tulip to tulip,
fragrance to fragrance;

Your perfect brow,
your eyes, your beauty spot
have preyed on the bird of my heart,
sense to sense
and heart to heart,
feeling to feeling
and mood to mood.

My desperate heart
has knitted your love
to the very fabric of my being,
string by string,
thread by thread,
warp by warp,
and woof by woof.

Táhirih has searched
every layer of her heart
but found only you there,
sheet by sheet,
fold by fold,
cover by cover
over and over again.”297

297 Hatcher and Hemmat, 102-3.

- 118 -
FOUR:
TAHIRIH UNLOOSED
1.
“I plead with you!” Tahirih wrote imploringly to her father, “This
humblest of people is your daughter. You know her, and she has been
brought up and educated under your supervision. If she had, or has, a
worldly love, that could not have remained a secret to you. If you want
to inquire into her affairs, God who holds the scale and is the remover
of veils would testify for her.”298
Tahirih was defending herself against the rumors of her supposed
immorality that had been spread by the mainstream Shia clergy who
wanted to stop the growth of the Shaykhi movement, by her former
fellow Babis who now rejected the Bab’s claims, and by the more
conservative Babis, who preferred a more gradual approach to reveal-
ing the Bab’s claims. Her assertiveness in teaching her unorthodox
views, gave those who opposed her, the material they needed to slander
her.
So it was that around 1846-7, while still living and teaching in the
holy cities of Iraq, she wrote the above refutation to her father. Her
mission was “the declaration of the word of God,” but this had been
met with “accusations of disbelief and paganism.” She reached out to
her father: “Dear Father! So many times when I visit the holy shrine of
the Imam, may peace be upon him, in the flood of my tears I pity you
and pray for you that perhaps you may be saved,” but also admonished
him that “If you fail to recognize the cause, there will be no benefit for
you in all your acts of devotion.”299
She continued to fearlessly proclaim the promise and the power of
the new day of God and concluded this poem by speaking in a divine
voice and finishing with a quotation from the Qur’an:

298 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 126.
299 Ibid., 126, all the quotations in the paragraph.

Tahirih Unloosed

“Hear this! My one and only Cause is true.
The words I speak mean victory for you.

Off with rags of law and pious fashion!
Swim naked in the sea of compassion!

How long will you drift through this world of war,
far from the safety of your native shore?

Sing, Be! Our Cause stands strong, both clear and plain:
“What comes from God returns to God again!”300
An angry mob attacked several of her followers and the house in
which Tahirih was living.
A woman who was mistaken for Tahirih was saved from being mur-
dered when Tahirih wrote to the governor, “I am at your disposal. Do
not harm any other.” The authorities then released the woman when
they heard that Tahirih had been taken prisoner.301 The Ottoman
authorities wanted her released conditioned on a decision from the
government in Baghdad, and, in the meantime, Tahirih was kept
isolated under house arrest.302
Tahirih defended herself to the authorities stating that all she wanted
was an open debate so that the truth of these matters could be estab-
lished.303 She reached out one more time to the leader of the conserva-
tive Babis, telling him she was willing to come to Baghdad to explain
the true nature of the Bab’s station and revelation.304 Finally, she wrote
to the authorities that “No word has come from either Baghdad or

300 Banani and Kessler, 53.
301 The woman’s name was Shamsu’d-Duha (‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the
Faithful, 194). Tahirih was taken to the house of Hajj Mahdi Kamuna (Amanat,
“Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 125).
302 Ibid.
303 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 125-6, f. 86.
304 Ibid., 126.

The Calling

Karbila in the nineteenth century.
Constantinople. Accordingly we will ourselves proceed to Baghdad
and await the answer there,”305 and she left Karbila for Baghdad. On
her way out, angry residents—stoked by clerics—threw stones at
her.306
In this poem, she rejects the clerics as signs of the ignorance that
marked the end of the age. Her husband and her father-in-law had
constantly sought to contain her, and clerics of all persuasions attacked
her in whatever town she taught. This rejection of Tahirih by the
clergy was at every level—personal, social, and theological. While this
poem is in the shape of a Persian love poem, the ghazal, she does not
use any of the traditional imagery associated with this form. Instead
she rebukes the clergy in very strong terms. At the end, though, she
offers the hope of reconciliation in this new day:

305 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 194.
306 Root, Táhirih the pure, 61.

Tahirih Unloosed

“Look! Our guiding dawn breathes even now
The world with all its peoples is aglow

No canting priest now raves from the pulpit
No mosque hawks sanctimony to the crowd

No sheikh, no sham, no holy fraud prevails
The turban knot’s cut to the root below

Freed from the fear of wicked whisperings
Mankind is rid of magic’s foolish show

Ignorance is doomed by the search for truth
Equality’s arm shall bring the tyrant low

Warring ways will be banished from the world
And Justice everywhere its carpet throw

New friendship must from ancient hatred spring
And far and wide the seeds of kindness sow”307
Tahirih arrived in Baghdad sometime in early 1847 and was installed
in a new house.308 She immediately resumed her public teaching in a
space in the house that was provided to her.309 She had translated
important works by the Bab such as the Qayyumu’l Asma, the first
book that he had revealed, and she had received a copy of the Com-
mentary on the Surih of Kawthar and used all of these for her classes.310
Attempts to silence Tahirih multiplied as her influence spread. The
leaders of the conservative Babis communicated their concerns to the

307 Jascha Kessler, Tahereh: A Persian Mystical Poet (Unpublished manuscript:
Santa Monica, CA, 1991), 10.
308 She stayed in the house of Shaykh Muhammad Shibl (Balyuzi, The Bab, 162).
309 Balyuzi, The Bab, 162.
310 Ibid., 163; ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 193.

The Calling

chief judge of Baghdad311 that Tahirih’s teaching and popularity
among the people would lead to unrest.312 The chief judge summoned
Tahirih to an interview but found her to be innocent of heresy.313 He
wanted to be sure of this, though, so he sent her to the home of
Shaykh Alusi, a cleric who had previously tried another of the Bab’s
disciples, Mulla Ali Bastami. Bastami had been one of the earliest of
the Bab’s ‘Letters of the Living’, his apostles. He electrified listeners
with his teaching and had been the one to bring the commentary on
the Surah of Joseph to Tahirih. His trial was the first between a Babi
and the Muslim clergy, and the decision against him was the first time
in modern history that a joint official warning was pronounced by
both Shi’a and Sunni clerics. Subsequently, he was banished to the
Ottoman Empire314 where he died under uncertain circumstances,
becoming the first martyr of the new faith. Tahirih’s case was also
referred to the court of the Ottoman Empire.315 Knowing that Shaykh
Alusi had banished Bastami, the chief judge was probably hoping to
avoid any form of public trial which might cause unrest.
Later in his life, Shaykh Alusi remembered her this way:
“Verily, I saw in her such a degree of merit and accomplish-
ment as I rarely saw in men. She was a wise and decent
woman who was unique in virtue and chastity … there is no
doubt about her knowledge.”316
While he obviously admired her, he may not have clearly understood
the claims she was making about the Bab. He interpreted her teaching
to mean that the Bab was similar to the figure of the ‘Perfect Man’

311 Najib Pasha, a Sunni (Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 127)
312 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 127.
313 Ibid.
314 Baghdad and the other holy cities in Iraq were ruled over at this time by the
Ottoman Empire.
315 Balyuzi, The Bab, ch. 4; Momen, “Mulla `Ali Bastami”.
316 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 127.

Tahirih Unloosed

taught by Islamic mystics.317 The ‘Perfect Man’ was the man in the
beginning of creation who contained within him all the attributes of
God but who had become separated from God because of his fall from
grace. Muslim mystics believed that it was possible for a person to
achieve this state again. The cleric interpreted Tahirih’s claim to be
that the Bab was this ‘Perfect Man’. As the cleric seemed open to some
form of dialogue, a meeting between Sunni clergy and Tahirih was
convened in his home. In later years, the Bab wrote to him and called
on him to recognize his station.318
A Jewish doctor, Hakim Masih, who was accompanying the King of
Persia to the holy cities of Iraq, remembers being in a gathering of
Muslim clerics in Baghdad as they debated with a woman who spoke
from behind a curtain. Her arguments were so logical and expressed
with such force and clarity that he was swayed by them and became a
believer. Since he had never heard of the Bab, he thought that the
woman was herself the Promised One. He was able to hear Tahirih
speak three more times before he had to resume his journey with the
Shah. When he returned to Tihran, he treated a prisoner who was a
Babi and a survivor of Fort Tabarsi who taught him about Tahirih and
the Bab. Through Masih’s subsequent teaching, many Jews became
Babis.319
During this time, Shaykh Alusi told Tahirih of a dream in which he
was at the tomb of the Imam Husayn with other Shi’a mullas. The
tomb opened, revealing the immaculate body of the Imam. The mullas
tried to lift it up, but Alusi threw himself on the body to prevent
them. Tahirih explained that the dream meant that he would free her

317 Ibid, 128.
318 Shaykh Kazim Samandar, Idid.; A.Q. Afnan, ed., “Biography of Tahirih.”
Four historical narratives about Tahirih, Third Conference of Alt and Culture
(Landegg, Switzerland: Landegg University, September, 1991), 348-9.
319 According to Martha Root, Táhirih, the Pure (Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1981),
62: “His son continued his work, and his grandchildren most of whom are physi-
cians, are among the most cultured, capable, faithful Bahá'i workers of Tihrán
today.”

The Calling

from the hands of the Shi’a clerics. Sometime later, Shaykh Alusi
informed her that the Ottoman King had ordered her to be freed on
condition that she leave Baghdad and return to Persia.320
The authorities decided that her teaching, combined with her popu-
larity, constituted a threat to the established order and would exacer-
bate tensions between the different religious groups, especially Sunni,
who were usually Arabs and Turks, and Shi’a Muslims, who were
mostly Persian. Since Tahirih was Persian, they thought she should be
sent back to challenge the clerics in her own homeland. Also, they did
not want to make Tahirih a martyr for the Shi’a Persians who could
then use her in the ongoing Shi’a-Sunni conflict.321
A representative of her family arrived in Baghdad to bring her back
to Qazvin.322 He spoke with the cleric in whose home she was housed
and asked for the “chaste woman” who had been “overwhelmed with
satanic temptations.”323 But he also observed in a letter to Tahirih’s
father that “The entire nobility and the ‘ulama of Baghdad greatly
respect her and confer on her highest praises.”324 In her letters to her
father she had expressed her anger at the false rumors spread by former
Shaykhi colleagues, and the representative assured her father in writing
that “Whatever has been relayed to you and rumored [about her] is
slander and fabrication.”325
Tahirih left Baghdad around March, 1847, accompanied by Otto-
man officials, about thirty of her followers, including Persians and
Arabs—some armed, some on foot—and her female contingent, and

320 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 195.
321 Balyuzi, The Bab, 163.
322 Hajji Mulla Muhammad Hamadani (Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 129).
323 Mázandarání, v. 3, 304.
324 Ibid.
325 Abbud Salihi quoted in Amanat, 129; Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed dit le
Bab, 274-6.

Tahirih Unloosed

one of the chief judge’s officers who had become attracted to the new
teaching.326
The journey took about three months and wound east through the
towns of Karand, Kirmanshah, and Hamadan. All along the way, she
taught fearlessly about the appearance of a new revelation from God
and met with both threatening resistance and enthusiastic accep-
tance.327
In the village of Karand, hundreds of the Turkic-speaking people
gave Tahirih their allegiance and were willing to serve as her personal
army.328 In these villages of Western Iran, many people followed a
religion from the 15th-century CE, called Ahl-e Haqq, which taught
that God made Himself known through successive manifestations, so
her message of a new manifestation of God may have resonated
powerfully with them. Since the faith of these rural people had not
become jaded like that of city dwellers, their hearts were open to the
new teaching.329
Tahirih and her group arrived in Kirmanshah, the capital of the
province with the same name on the Western border of Persia.330
Many of the people in this city were Kurdish and also followed the

326 Muhammad Aqa Yavar (Balyuzi, The Bab, 164). Martha Root gives additional
details about Tahirih’s departure from Baghdad: She left Baghdad with ten soldiers
offered by the mufti for her protection with: “Kurshíd Bagúm, and the mother of
Mirzá Hádíy-i-Nahrí; others were Siyyid Ahmad Yazdí, Siyyid Muhammad-I
Báyigání, Siyyid Muhsin-i-Kázimí, Mullá Ibráhím Mahallatí, among the Persians;
and among the Arabs were Shaykh Muhammad-i Shibl who arranged everything for
her journey, hiring the mules and the places to sit, ordering the food and he paid all
the expenses for the group as far as Kirmánsháh. Others from 'Iráq were his son
Muhammad- Mustafá, Shaykh Sálih-i Karímí, Shaykh Sultán-i Karbilá'í, Darvísh
Makú'í, Javád, 'Abdu'l Hádí-i Zahrawí, Husayn-i Hallawí, Siyyid Jabbáníz and
others.” (Root, Táhirih, the Pure, 62).
327 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 130.
328 According to Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, 194 f.2, 1,200 people volunteered to
follow her.
329 Ibid.
330 Root, Táhirih the pure, 64.

The Calling

Ahl-e Haqq religion; they resented the authority of the Shi’a Persians
from the major cities who ruled over them. Tahirih spent forty days in
Kirmanshah during which she met with the governor, his wife, and
other prominent citizens331 The clerics of the city received her respect-
fully.332 Once again, she challenged their leaders to a public debate.333
Her presence and teaching began to generate excitement among the
people, which worried the chief Usuli mujtahid334 who, as a result,
asked the governor to have her and her followers expulsed. The
governor replied that she had offered to have a public debate or to
undergo an ordeal in which both parties should pray to God that He
show, through His Wrath, which party was in the wrong.335 The chief
mujtahid rejected both of these options, most likely because they were
too risky with a person as talented as Tahirih.
An enemy of the governor—working with the local police chief and
representatives of her family sent from Qazvin—organized an attack
on the house where she and her companions were staying. The
companions were beaten and their goods pilfered,336 while she and a
few close companions were put into a coach and sent out of the city
into the desert without any provisions.337 Tahirih wrote to the gover-
nor describing how they had been treated. He found out that the
ulama were behind all of this and ordered the mayor to return all their
belongings.338 This was done, but she refused to return to the city.339

331 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 130.
332 Zarandi, 194.
333 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 130; Baghdadi, 111-3.
334 Aqa Abdullah i Bihbihani, (Balyuzi, The Bab, 164).
335 This ordeal was called a ‘mubahala’.
336 According to Root, Táhirih, the Pure, 62, it was the Mayor of Kirmanshah who
stirred up the attack against the Babis. Amanat, citing Baghdadi, 114-5, specifies that
there were twenty-five Arab followers who were detained. Balyuzi, 164, specifies that
there were four men from Qazvin and one local officer who carried out this attack.
Also see: Balyuzi, The Bab, 164; Hoseini, 217.
337 Root, Táhirih the Pure, 64.
338 Ibid., 64.
339 Mázandarání, v. 3, 309.

Tahirih Unloosed

Despite her family’s wishes that she return immediately, Tahirih
stopped in the important city of Hamadan, also in a Turkic-speaking
area of the kingdom. There she once again challenged the clerical
establishment. With the aid of women who were part of the local
Turkish elite, she requested that the governor,340 who was also the
Shah’s brother, invite clerics from the different Islamic sects to a
debate. She set certain conditions: the substance of their debate must
be based on prophecy, and the participants must refrain from indecent
language and smoking. At such debates, the smoking of water pipes,
even opium, was common, but she insisted on certain rules of purity
just as the Bab had. In the debate, she explained the basic Babi doc-
trines that divine revelation was ongoing and progressive, that the Bab
was giving a new teaching for a new age, and that the Babis were its
recipients. The clerics chose as their spokesperson a great Sufi mys-
tic.341 Sufis believed that the source of human suffering was disconnec-
tion from the Creator and that all human beings had the potential to
be re-united with Him. In every age there was one Perfect Man who
reflected all the Divine Virtues so Tahirih’s ideas concerning the Bab
may well have both challenged and interested him. While the Sufi
mystic treated her and her ideas respectfully, another mujtahid342
launched a verbal attack against her. He was rebuked by the governor
who then adjourned the debate.343
Tahirih’s stay in Hamadan touched off conversions to the new faith
in the important Jewish community there. By the turn of the century,
Hamadan had the largest group of Baha’is of Jewish background in
Persia.344 In April, 1847, Mulla Lazar, son of the leading rabbi of
Hamadan, hosted Tahirih in his home. His activities drew the anger of

340 Khanlar Mirza Ihtisham al-Daula (Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 131).
341 Haji Mirza Ali Naqi (Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 131).
342 “Possibly Mulla Husayn Razavi Hamadani, son of al-Samad.” (Amanat, “Qurrat
al-‘Ayn.” f. 121, 154).
343 Ibid., v. 3, 310.
344 Mehrdad Amanat, Jewish Identities in Iran: Resistance and Conversion to Islam
and the Baha’i Faith (I.B. Taurus: NY, NY 2011), 105.

The Calling

other Jewish elders who lodged complaints about him to the King.
Later, his writings were found to reflect Babi/Baha’i ideas though he
never publicly identified himself as a Babi.345 His father became
concerned that her presence in a Jewish home might bring on anti-
Jewish violence.346 Zobaydeh Khanum, also known as Fereshteh, the
daughter of the late King, Fath Ali Shah, hosted Tahirih after Mulla
Lazar.347 News of Tahirih’s teaching in Hamadan travelled through the
networks of the relatives of highly educated prominent women. One
of these women, Sakineh Khanum, married the merchant Sayyed
Ahmad Naraqi who became a Baha’i and developed an extensive
knowledge of Babi and Baha’i history and Persian and Arabic litera-
ture.348 Another prominent woman who came to be interested in
Tahirih’s teaching was Hajiyeh Khanum, the wife of the foreign
minister of Persia.349
Later, a treatise written by Tahirih was presented to the chief mujta-
hid who had the messenger—himself a mujtahid—beaten and thrown
out of his presence.350 When the messenger was brought back to her
barely conscious, she reassured him that his suffering—like that of the
apostles of Christ and Muhammad—was a blessing.351 She was moved
to a village owned by the Turkish noblewomen of Hamadan, and then
she left for Qazvin with her relatives.352 She ordered the rest of her
followers to go back to the holy cities of Iraq, though some of them
continued on with her. Among those accompanying her back to

345 Ibid., 175-6.
346 Ibid., 95.
347 Ibid., 235 n. 28.
348 Ibid., 105.
349 Ibid., 235, note 28.
350 The chief mujtahid may have been Sayyid Abd al-Samad Razavi Hamadani
(Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” f. 122, p. 154). The messenger was Mulla Ibrahim
Mahallati (Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 131). Balyuzi, The Bab, 163; Zarandi, 273.
351 The Jewish rabbi was Hakham Ilyahu and his son, Ik’azar (Amanat, “Qurrat al-
‘Ayn.” 132).
352 Ibid., 165.

Tahirih Unloosed

Qazvin were two men who were later martyred for the Bab, and her
brother in law, one of the Bab’s Letters of the Living.353
After three years away, Tahirih arrived back in Qazvin in July, 1847,
to a family deeply divided by the Bab’s claims, to religious communi-
ties in conflict, and to a town in economic distress. Her time in the
holy cities of Iraq had not changed her heart and mind back to the
traditional faith of her father; rather, she was acknowledged, by the
Bab’s own pen, as one of the leading teachers of the Babi Faith.354
Greater conflict with her father-in-law and husband, both powerful
clerics and keepers of the traditional order, was inevitable.
The writings of the Bab had arrived there prior to her return and had
elicited a strong reaction, intensifying tensions between Shaykhis and
Usulis. Some Shaykhis, Babis, and new converts from the merchant
class enthusiastically greeted the reading of the new scripture. One
cleric proclaimed them from the pulpit and called for opposition to
the Usuli clerics led by Taqi.355 The elderly leader of the Shaykhis in
Qazvin, though, had not clearly accepted the claims of the Bab despite
the encouragement of his sons to do so and had passed away in
1847.356 Protection of the Babis and Shaykhis then devolved onto a
prominent merchant family and their son, Muhammad Hadi.357 Taqi
and the conservatives rejected the writings of the Bab completely and
as he stepped up his attacks on Shaykhi and Babi teachings, Muham-
mad Hadi and his family became their defenders.358

353 The martyrs were Shaykh Salih and Mulla Ibrahim Gulpaygani, and her brother
in law was Mulla Muhammada Ali, one of the Letters of the Living, apostles of the
Bab. Siyyid Abdu’l-Hadi went with her as well (Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, 195).
Balyuzi lists Mulla Ibrahim-i-Mahallati and Shaykh Salih al Karimi as companions
who had come from Iraq (Balyuzi, The Bab, 165).
354 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 133; Baghdadi, 117.
355 Ibid., 134.
356 Ibid., 133.
357 The Farhadi family (Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, 349).
358 Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, 350.

The Calling

Hadi and his supporters had gone out to meet the Bab earlier in the
year when he had passed near Qazvin on his forced march to the
prison fortress of Mahku in the north and offered to rescue him which
the Bab refused as he had on previous occasions.359 From another
village, the Bab wrote to Tahirih’s father, father-in-law, and her
maternal uncle.360 His plans to meet the King had been thwarted by
the Prime Minister who wanted to prevent the Bab’s influence from
reaching the royal court. Nevertheless, the Bab wrote to the King from
his imprisonment in the remote fortress in Azerbaijan and boldly
asserted his claim:
“I am the Primal Point, from which have been generated all
created things…I am the Countenance of God Whose
splendor can never be obscured, the light of Go whose radi-
ance can never fade…All the keys of heaven God hath cho-
sen to place on My right hand, and all the keys of hell on My
left…I am one of the sustaining pillars of the Primal Word
of God. Whosoever hath recognized Me, hath known all that
is true and right, and hath attained all that is good and
seemly…The substance wherewith God hath created Me is
not the clay out of which others have been formed. He hath
conferred upon Me that which the worldly-wise can never
comprehend, nor the faithful discover.”361
Cut off from contact with the Bab due to this imprisonment, Hadi
became more radical and believed that violent conflict with the
authorities was inevitable—he had already had to free a sympathetic
cleric who had been beaten by Taqi for his preaching.362 He began to
make weapons in his home.363 Adding great stress to the tensions in

359 Ibid.; Mazandarani, v.3, 95-96.
360 Hoseini, 230.
361 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh: Selected Letters, “The
Dispensation of Bahá'u'lláh.” 126.
362 Mázandarání, vol. 3, 347-8.
363 Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, 350; Mázandarání, vol. 3, 374.

Tahirih Unloosed

Qazvin was the fact that there had been a significant downturn in the
economy which had hit the merchants hard. Land, as a result, became
a greater source of wealth in Qazvin. Since Taqi owned much of the
land in the area, he had conflict with the merchant families against
whom he, as a religious judge, issued unfavorable verdicts.364
As Tahirih approached Qazvin, several of her family members came
out of town to greet her. They wanted her companions to leave, but
she refused. The family members then led her to her father’s house.365
Tahirih’s family held a council on her first night back. Her father
told her that if she had been born a man and declared herself to be the
Bab, he would have believed her, but he couldn’t understand her
devotion to the “Shirazi lad” as he referred to the Bab.366 He wanted to
keep peace in the family by maintaining a middle course between his
daughter’s radical teachings about the Bab and the strong conservative
reaction against them from other family members.367 Some men in the
family were by now Babis,368 including her youngest uncle on her
father’s side, Mulla Ali, although he did not want to acknowledge this
publicly.369 She responded to her father that she had come to her faith
through reasoned consideration. Her uncle Taqi flew into a fury when
she said this. He cursed the Bab and then struck her. She uttered the
prophetic warning that she saw his mouth filled with blood.370
Tahirih spent her days in her father’s house chanting and praying,
while her family pressured her to abandon her Babi beliefs and follow-
ers.371 She moved to her brother’s house where she held classes for

364 Ibid, 348-9.
365 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 197.
366 Root, Táhirih the pure , 69; Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed, 276.
367 Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, 96.
368 Mulla Abd al Wahhab Qazvini, Mulla Hadi, Mulla Muhammad Ali (Amanat,
“Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 133; Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq, vol. 3, 304).
369 Ibid., vol. 3, 309-310.
370 Root, Táhirih the pure, 70; Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed,276.
371 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 134.

The Calling

women.372 She was in constant correspondence with the Bab who
asked his followers to go proclaim his message in the provinces, so she
implored them to do so. By this time, the Bab was imprisoned in the
stone fortress of Mahku in the far northwest of Persia. The Babis
discussed whether his imprisonment was only a prelude to a wide-
spread persecution of Babis and whether the time had come to break
him out of Mahku.373
Tahirih’s estranged husband sent a message to her asking that she
return to their home. She replied that she could have changed his
unbelief into belief had he stood by her, but he hadn’t. Now, because
he had rejected the religion of God, she was casting him out of her life
forever and, in so doing, taking the male prerogative of divorce upon
herself. This angered her husband and his father, Taqi, and added to
their resolve to accuse her of being a heretic. They set out to under-
mine her in every way.374
Taqi resented the calumny whispered in public about the Baraghani
house—his respected and wealthy family—and became even more
aggressive in his attacks.375 Babis were insulted in public and humili-
ated by having their turbans unwound and used to drag them about.376
Her father did not believe these rumors and continued to deny them
and, later that year, he was publicly shamed in a meeting of the top
mullahs in Qazvin when one cleric recited a verse which mocked his
house by saying that the hens in his house crowed like cocks. Many
years later, the humiliation would drive him out of Qazvin; he would
die in the region of the holy cities of Southern Iraq in 1866.377
Taqi denounced the new teachings from his pulpit in the mosque.
He referred to the first Shaykhi teacher, Shaykh Ahmad, as the

372 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 197.
373 Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed, 276-7.
374 Root, Táhirih the pure, 70; Zarandi, 195.
375 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 136; Zarandi, 195-6.
376 Zarandi, 196.
377 Momen, “Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi.” 333.

Tahirih Unloosed

embodiment of “error.”378 This so angered a sincere young Shaykhi
that he resolved to kill Taqi.379 The young man entered the mosque in
the evening and waited until sunrise to stab Taqi while he performed
his dawn prayers.380 He then went up the stairs to the roof of the
mosque leaving Taqi’s bloodied body on the mosque floor in the
semicircular niche in the wall that indicated the direction of Mecca
towards which the faithful prayed. From the rooftop, he watched as
people rushed into the mosque. When they couldn’t find the attacker,
they turned on each other.381 Innocent Babis were subsequently
arrested.382 The attacker was bothered by this and gave himself up to
the governor.383 He confessed to the killing, but he wasn’t believed,
even after an elderly lady who worked in the mosque was brought in
and testified that she had seen him. Finally they brought him to the
death bed of Taqi who identified him.384 Ironically, he escaped prison
and wound up perishing in the armed conflict between the Babis and
the military at Fort Tabarsi.385 Taqi was around eighty years old at the
time of his death.386
The shocking murder of a high ranking cleric like Taqi gave the
enemies of Tahirih the perfect pretext with which to destroy the Babi

378 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 136; Zarandi, 196.
379 Mirza Abdullah Salih Shirazi (Root, Táhirih, The Pure, Iran’s Greatest Woman,
10; Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 136).
380 Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed, 278; Zarandi, 197; description of the killing,
Root, Táhirih the pure, 73.
381 Zarandi, 197.
382 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 198.
383 According to Samandar Qazvini, quoted in Root, Táhirih, the Pure, 74, the killer
burst in while Tahirih was being interrogated to confess; Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.”
137.
384 Zarandi, 197.
385 According to ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 197-9, he was put in chains
and sent to Tihran. Seeing that the innocents were still persecuted, he escaped prison
to the house of Riza Khan, the son of the Master of the Horse to Muhammad Shah.
After some time, he went with Riza Khan to Fort Tabarsi. They were martyred there.
386 Samandar, 131.

The Calling

community of Qazvin, one the largest in Persia at the time.387 Her
husband, Mulla Muhammad, and his associates rounded up promi-
nent Babis. Homes of Babis were raided and ransacked.388 The house
of the merchant family who had become the protectors of the Babis
was pillaged twice.389 Women were also attacked.390 Tahirih and her
maid were forcibly removed391from her father’s house by a mob. The
governor interrogated Tahirih who defended herself eloquently. The
governor then threatened to brand them, and Tahirih’s maid was
about to be tortured when news arrived that the killer had turned
himself in.392 There was no evidence that Tahirih had played any role
in this crime, so she was released into complete confinement in her
father’s house. Her husband and one of her cousins, though, plotted to
poison her food.393 No one was allowed to visit her except a faithful
friend394 who made excuses like washing Tahirih’s clothes so she could
bring her news and food. Tahirih did not eat the household food in
case it had been poisoned.395
Though Tahirih’s innocence made it impossible for her husband to
punish her, he was able to destroy several of the leading Babis of
Qazvin. These were the first public executions of the followers of the
new faith in Persia and included the first Babi—one of Tahirih’s Arab

387 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 137.
388 Haji Siyyid Asad’ullah and his son Mihdi’s house was ransacked; he was a faithful
believer whose daughter was a sister-in-law to Tahirih (Root, Táhirih, the Pure, 75).
Mulla Mushin known as the ‘Babi killer’, and government agents raided the homes
of known Babis (Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih.” 54).
389 Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, 350,
390 Samandar, 54.
391 Katiya (Amanat, Qurrat al-‘Ayn, 137).
392 According to Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq, and Root, (Táhirih, the Pure, 74),
Tahirih’s maid was about to be branded. According to Root, Táhirih, the Pure, 74,
they were saved when Tahirih turned in prayer towards Mahku where the Bab was
imprisoned.
393 Hoseini, 238.
394 Khatun Jan the eldest daughter of Haji Asad’u’llah (Root, Táhirih, the Pure, 75).
395 Samandar quoted in Root, Táhirih the pure, 74-75.

Tahirih Unloosed

followers—to be killed on Persian soil.396 The killings were carried out
with great cruelty by mobs in the streets who were incited by clerics397
while government officials did nothing.398 The future persecutions of
Babis and Baha’is in Persia followed the pattern in Qazvin—the clerics
accused Babis and incited mob violence while the civil authorities
allowed the bloodshed to take place to appease the powerful clergy.
Tahirih challenged the injustices being perpetrated by her estranged
husband, Mulla Muhammad, who had now succeeded his father as the
Imam Jumih of Qazvin. She sent him a message from the Qur’an
which stated that only unbelievers rejected God’s light when it ap-
peared. She wrote that if she was not delivered from him in nine days,
this would be a sign that she had been wrong:
“‘Fain would they put out God’s light with their mouths; but
God only desireth to perfect His light, albeit the infidels ab-
hor it.’ (Qur’an, 9:33). If my Cause be the Cause of Truth, if
the Lord whom I worship be none other than the one true
God, He will, ere nine days have elapsed, deliver me from
the yoke of your tyranny. Should He fail to achieve my de-
liverance, you are free to act as you desire. You will have ir-
revocably established the falsity of my belief.”399
Mulla Muhammad ignored the message.
Mirza Husayn Ali, the prominent Babi leader, was in Tihran and
decided that the time had come to remove Tahirih from the threat of
violence in Qazvin. He summoned the very trusted Muhammad Hadi

396 Balyuzi, The Bab, 166.
397 They were taken before the king of Persia in Tihran. The first Babi to be executed
on Persian soil was one of Tahirih’s Arab followers, Shaykh Salih Karimi, who was
blown out of the mouth of cannon in Tihran (Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, 200;
Mázandarání, Zuhúr al-Haqq, 261; Shaykh Kazim Samandar, A.Q. Afnan, ed.,
“Biography of Tahirih.” Four historical narratives about Tahirih, Third Conference of
Alt and Culture (Landegg, Switzerland: Landegg University, September, 1991, 56).
398 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 138.
399 Zarandi, 203.

The Calling

Farhadi, protector of the Shaykhis and Babis of Qazvin,400 for the
task.401 Hadi was given a sealed letter to be taken by his wife—
disguised as a beggar woman—to the house where Tahirih was being
kept.402 According to the plan, Tahirih was secretly brought to the
home of Sheikh Kazem Samandar and then to that of a carpenter who
was a good friend of Hadi’s.403 Her captors realized she had escaped.
People were searching everywhere for her, going so far as to pillage the
home of one of her faithful followers.404 Several of those loyal to her
went over to throw out the mob.405 Hadi and a trusted servant brought
Tahirih to the city wall, near the gate where an attendant with three
fast horses sent by Mirza Husayn Ali was waiting for them. After going
over the walls, they proceeded to a nearby slaughterhouse where they
mounted the horses.406 The group of the two veiled women—Tahirih,
her servant, and Hadi, —then rode ninety miles to Tihran through the
cold October night, leaving the major road and taking a less-travelled
one through the villages of Kolah Darreh and Isdhtibard to avoid

400 Root, Táhirih the pure, 75; Balyuzi, The Bab, 167.
401 Balyuzi, The Bab, 167. ’Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 199, calls him
“Hadi Qazvini.” husband of Khatun Jan; according to Samandar, quoted in Root,
Táhirih, the Pure, 75, Khatun Jan was the eldest daughter of Haji Asadullah, of the
Farhadi family. She was the one who secretly visited Tahirih. This Hadi had left
Qazvin before the agitation but was sent back there by Baha'u'llah to rescue Tahirih.
402 Samandar, 58; Zarandi, 203; according to Mazandarani, 376, Hadi’s wife was
disguised as a washerwoman.
403 His name was Hasan Najar (Root, Tahirih, The Pure, Iran’s Greatest Woman, 10;
Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih.” 83).
404 His name was Haji Asad’ullah Farhadi, father-in-law of Muhammad Hadi
Farhadi. (Mazandarani, Zuhur’ul-Haqq, vol. 3 373; Root, Táhirih, The Pure, Iran’s
Greatest Woman, 10, 76; Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih.” 58)
405 Shahzade Khanum, daughter of Muhammad Ali Mirza Maqfour, and others went
to Asad’ullah’s house, and with Sadiq Khan Ajudan’s help, kicked out the mob
(Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih,” 58).
406 The trusted servant’s name was Quli, Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed, 278; the
Gate of Shahzade Hossein (Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih.” 58; through a
‘breach in the wall’ (Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed dit le Bab, 287); Samandar
quoted in Root, Táhirih the Pure, 76.

Tahirih Unloosed

detection.407 They stopped at one of the two shrines to holy figures a
couple of miles to the west of the capital.408 Tahirih and her group
were able to rest in the garden, while a messenger went into town to
let Mirza Husayn Ali know they had arrived.409
Tahirih was brought to the home of Mirza Husayn Ali and led into
the upper room.410 Beds had been made for all the tired companions,
though the humble messenger did not want to dirty them with his
shabby clothes. The following day they went to meet Mirza Husayn
Ali in a little village outside of the city.411 She was safe for the time
being. Back in Qazvin, her deliverance made such an impression on
her brother that he came to believe that there was divine power in this
new faith.412
Tahirih’s voice seems to have become more strident by this time,
possibly because, after years of preaching, exhorting, teaching, and
writing, her proclamation of the Bab was still almost constantly
rejected by authorities. One evening in Tihran, Vahid, who had given
up his position as one of Persia’s highest-ranking clerics by becoming a
Babi, was visiting the home of Mirza Husayn Ali in Tihran while
Tahirih was there. She listened to Vahid speaking about signs and
prophecies in the scripture. Suddenly, she interrupted Vahid with a
plea mixed with rebuke:

407 Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih.” 58; Root, Táhirih the Pure, 76; one of
Tahirih’s attendants on her flight, Naib Quli, said that as soon as they were out of
the city, they left the main road and went on the one of Zah’ra of Qazvin,
(Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed, 278).
408 Ibid, 58; according to Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed, 278, they arrived in
Enderman, near the Shazade Abdu’l Azim; Root, Táhirih the Pure, 76.
409 According to Samandar, 58, Tahirih rested while Aqa Hadi went into the city and
told Karbala’i Hasan Tajere Qazvini that Tahirih had arrived. Karbala’i Hasan Tajere
Qazvini came out to the garden of Imam Zadi where she was staying. Quli didn’t
know him and hit him but Tahirih told him to stop. She brought fruits out and
shared the food with him.
410 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 200.
411 Samandar, “Biography of Tahirih,” 58.
412 Zarandi, 204.

The Calling

“Let deeds, not words, testify to thy faith, if thou art a man
of true learning. Cease idly repeating the traditions of the
past, for the day of service, of steadfast action, is come. Now
is the time to show forth the true signs of God, to rend
asunder the veils of idle fancy, to promote the Word of God,
and to sacrifice ourselves in His path. Let deeds, not words,
be our adorning.”413
This strong admonition from Tahirih showed the growing urgency
in the spiritual movement underway in Persia.
2.
During these same years, a movement spontaneously erupted out of
the ‘Burned-Over District’ of New York which brought thousands of
women into the public arena for the first time: spiritualism.
This mass movement began in the unlikeliest of places: the bedroom
of two teenage girls. The Fox sisters lived with their parents in the
village of Hydesville, NY. Their mother, Margaret, an outgoing
woman in her fifties, and her husband John, a very introverted and
serious Methodist, had moved to this region to build a new house and
finish raising their two youngest daughters, the last important task of
their lives. So they found themselves in this small temporary house
near the site of their future home. They had accumulated neither land
nor money and were worried about setting up a life for their girls
which could include marriage.414
One unseasonably cold evening in the late March of 1848, Kate and
Maggie Fox huddled together in their bedroom out of fear. For several
nights they had been hearing the sounds of knocking. The first time
this happened, their parents had gotten up and searched for the source
of the sounds:

413 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 200.
414 Barbara Weisberg, Talking to the Dead, Kate and Maggie Fox and the rise of
spiritualism (NY, NY: HarperCollins, 2004), 12-3.

Tahirih Unloosed

“It sounded like someone knocking in the east bed-room, on
the floor…as if the chair moved on the floor; we could
hardly tell where it was…It was not very loud but it pro-
duced a jar of the bedsteads and chairs, that could be felt by
placing our hands on the chair, or while we were in bed. It
was a feeling of tremulous motion, more than a sudden
jar.”415
The knocks continued every night. On the eve of April 1st, a new
snow blanketed the ground. The girls were sent to bed.
After the girls had climbed into bed that night, they sat up and
snapped and clapped with their hands, and these were followed by a
corresponding number of raps. Then their mother asked questions
aloud such as the age of her daughters, and the raps gave the answer.
The girls were now clinging to their mother. After doing this with
several different questions, their mother went to get her neighbor who
went to get her husband who went to get more neighbors to come
over. Men who were night fishing in a nearby river came up to see
what was going on. A very skeptical man asked the ‘spirit’ about itself.
It had been a peddler who had come through the area years earlier
carrying five-hundred dollars; after the skeptic named many people
from town, the spirit indicated that a Mr. John Bell—who had lived in
that same house—had killed him. The spirit seemed to know intimate
details about all the people in the area.
Night after night, as winter changed to spring, people came to the
house to ask the spirit ‘yes/no’ questions about all kinds of details.
Most of the raps seemed to come from the bedroom on the east side.
The husband responded to the growing local criticism of blasphemy in
his house by saying that he had no idea what caused the raps and
assured skeptics that they had searched every inch and crevasse of the
house.
The local newspaper, The Western Angus wrote on April 12th:

415 Ibid., 17.

The Calling

“The good people of Arcadia, we learn, are in quite a fever,
in consequence of the discovery of an ‘underground’ ghost, or
some unaccountable noise. Picks and bats were at once
brought into requisition, and on digging down about four
feet, a stream of pure water gushed forth and filled up the
‘ghost’ hole.”416
Despite skeptics and mockery, many first hand testimonies about the
strange sounds in the Fox home were given and all of them were
similar. Beliefs in ghosts, spirits, and witchcraft were prevalent
throughout society, especially in this area. The ‘burned over’ district,
bounded by the Finger Lakes and Lake Erie, was the geographical
heart of the Second Great Awakening. Rochester, the largest city in
this area, was becoming a center for social reform movements espe-
cially abolition and the women’s movement.
The Fox phenomenon continued. Efforts were made to separate the
sisters from each other but, even then, the raps seemed to follow them.
They were brought to the home of their older sister in the city of
Rochester. After their arrival, objects seemed to move and doors slam,
and so the terrified girls moved out. A sober Congregationalist minis-
ter came over to investigate these strange occurrences. Several families
had gathered and, when they were all sitting in the parlor, the table
moved, and raps were heard. An explosive scene unfolded including
one in which a mother asked the spirits if her daughter had been
wicked, and she then accused her young daughter of antagonizing the
spirits and demanded that she repent. The girl fell to her knees crying
acknowledging that she had done wrong—though she didn’t know
what she had done—and protesting that she didn’t know how to
repent. The Congregationalist minister could not understand the
nature of these events, though he felt there was a comingling of the
spiritual and material worlds. Throughout the episode, Kate Fox was

416 Ibid., 22.

Tahirih Unloosed

the medium—the delicate person through whom the spirit communi-
cation took place.417
Soon, meetings were being held regularly called séances, spirit circles,
or sittings, with Kate as the medium. Many people came to inquire
about relatives or to test the ‘spirits’; those who had lost children—-a
common occurrence—were especially eager to know about the condi-
tion of their little ones in the next world.
Protestant, especially Calvinist, churches painted terrifying visions of
hell, and preachers threatened ‘fire and brimstone’ to warn sinners
about their impending eternal damnation. From the opposite direc-
tion, science was calling immortality into question. Society itself was
also changing. The sense of a close-knit community was being lost as
individuals and families moved more for work in the dynamic and
changing economy, intensifying grief and the need for reassurance
when a profound loss was suffered. There was also an increased
individualism with each deceased person being thought of as unique
and special. During these years, cemeteries became much more
elaborate as people came to spend time in them and dwell on the lives
of their loved ones.418 The rapid changes in American society shook
the personal faith of many, and spiritualism provided evidence of the
continuation of life after death and the well-being of loved ones who
had passed on.419
News of the Fox sisters’ communication with spirits and spiritualism
went across the North and East like wildfire. Christian churches were
certain that the phenomenon of the Fox sisters was the work of the
devil and his demons.420
Soon Americans in all regions were sitting around their parlors at-
tempting to reach those in the world beyond. Within months, women
emerged who were considered ‘mediums’. This movement was entirely

417 Ibid., 44-54.
418 Ibid., 56.
419 Braude, Radical Spirits, 4.
420 Weisberg, Talking to the Dead, 68.

The Calling

democratic—anyone could be a medium if they could convince others
that they could channel spirits of the dead—, and there were no
restrictive creeds, dogmas, or organization to hold people back. As a
result, its rapid spread was entirely popular—people participated
completely voluntarily and no priests or official missionaries were sent
out. Spiritualism was easily accepted among black Americans who had
held on to their African beliefs in ancestor worship. The role of the
medium came to be seen as feminine—adolescent girls were the most
believable mediums to people—with the primary trait being passivity,
so that the spirit could work through the woman without the me-
dium’s will interfering. So spirit communication became associated
with the “woman’s tongue” and ‘spiritual’ meant ‘feminine’.421
As the demand for mediums increased, professional ones emerged.
The movement was woman-centered and highly individualistic and
stood in contrast to the established churches. As a result it helped
bring focus to the position of women in the country. Spiritualists saw
that, “woman has been so long subject to customs degrading to herself,
that neither she nor the men are sensible where, and to what extent,
they [equal rights] exist!”422 They became committed to working for
the emancipation of women from constraints imposed on them by the
established order such as unjust marriage laws and limited education,
and for women’s advancement in such areas as health and education.
This rejection of the status quo also extended to the abolition of
slavery. Spiritualists connected freedom for women with freedom for
all.
Spiritualism’s practitioners and followers became an important force
for social change in the United States, and women were at its center.423
American women were soon going to hold the first convention in
Seneca Falls, NY, to begin the very long and arduous process of
extending the right to vote to women in the United States.

421 Braude, Radical Spirits, 19-29.
422 Elizabeth Kingsbury quoted in Braude, Radical Spirits, 56.
423 Ibid., 56-7.

Tahirih Unloosed

At the same time, in Persia, the Babi leaders were gathering to discuss
the true nature of the claims of the Bab and what those meant for the
laws of Islam which had guided them for centuries, a gathering in
which Tahirih would help them cast the past away forever.
It was the summer of 1848.

- 144 -
FIVE:
1848: THE SENECA FALLS CONVENTION, THE
CONFERENCE OF BADASHT
1.
In the darkened sitting room of his house in Johnstown, NY,424
Judge Cady sat alone, bent over in grief next to the casket containing
the remains of his son. This son had been the last great hope for the
aging judge’s family. Now no one was left to carry on the family name;
all of his hopes for the future were dashed. His eleven-year old daugh-
ter, Elizabeth, came into the dark parlor. She knew this last brother
had held more of her father’s affection than she and her three sisters
combined. She climbed up on his knee. Her father mechanically put
his arm around her. She rested her head on his chest. She wondered
what she could say or do to make him feel better. A long silence
passed. He heaved a great sigh and said, “O my daughter, I wish you
were boy.” Wanting so much to make her father feel better, the little
girl threw her arms around him and exclaimed, “I will try to be all that
my brother was.”425
Judge Cady, on this morning in 1826, was unconscious of the fact
that he was wrapped in the arms of a young daughter who would
become one half of a duo that would effect deep, widespread, and
permanent social change in American society.
Judge Cady was a highly educated and well-respected judge who
upheld the institutions of his society and a conservative man who
accepted the social roles assigned to men and women but also fair–
minded enough to realize that his daughter had real ability and should

424 Sally McMillen, Seneca Falls and the Origins of the Women's Rights Movement
(Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2008), 9.
425 Not For Ourselves Alone – The Story of Elizabeth Cady Stanton & Susan B.
Anthony, directed by Paul Barnes and Ken Burns, 1999, USA: Florentine Films,
WETA.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

Elizabeth Stanton.
be given a quality education. So Judge Stanton sent Elizabeth to the
Troy Female Seminary in Troy, NY, run by Emma Willard. Elizabeth
spent much of her time there at the home of her cousin, an enthusias-
tic supporter of the social reform movements of the time, especially
abolitionism. In his home, she participated in all the discussions and
met, for the first time, escaped slaves. Soon she fell in love with Henry
Stanton, a tall, handsome abolitionist who championed the rights of
slaves even in front of pro-slavery crowds. They married over her
father’s
objections.
Elizabeth changed one
aspect of the marriage
vow—the word “obey”
was dropped. She did
not take her husband’s
first name, “Mrs. Harry
Stanton,” as was the
custom but kept her
own original family
name instead, the name
by which she would go
down
in
history:
Elizabeth Cady Stanton
(1815-1902).426
By
the
mid-19th
century,
American
women
were
being
pulled in two direc-
tions—one
towards
rights and freedoms
and a public role for
women as exemplified in the reform movements, spiritualism, and the
revivals, and the other—and by far the most prevalent—towards the

426 Ibid.

The Calling

ideal of true womanhood which held that a woman was the guardian
and caretaker of the home, the place where all of the nation’s morals
were shaped.
Reformers themselves were deeply divided about the proper extent of
women’s roles in public. Even Rev. Lyman Beecher, who preached
forcefully for years against slavery, did not believe in a public role for
women.427 His daughter, Harriet Beecher Stowe, wrote the most
popular American novel of the 19th century, Uncle Tom’s Cabin, which
was largely responsible for turning mainstream public sentiment
against slavery. The novel popularized the idea that the most powerful
moral educator of society was a loving Christian mother who created a
Christian home environment.428 So virtue was always in the context of
the home.429 Women shouldn’t get too ‘out there’; as Rev. Lyman
Beecher stated:
“There is generally, and should be always, in the female char-
acter, a softness and delicacy of feeling which shrinks from
the notoriety of a public performance. No well-educated fe-
male can put herself up, or be put up, to the point of public

427 Ellen Beecher, a descendant through marriage of the Beechers, became a Bahá’í,
and her granddaughter, Dorothy Baker, was an important teacher of the Bahá’í Faith
in the 20th century. According to a book on the Bahá’í Faith and Christianity: “Ellen
Tucher Beecher, affectionately known as “Mother Beecher.” was another
distinguished early Bahá’í.…Her husband was a relative of Harriett Beecher Stowe,
and Ellen was an early advocate of women’s rights in the Christian church. When
she heard about the Bahá’í Faith, she immediately embraced it, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
began corresponding with her in 1897….She raised her granddaughter, Dorothy
Baker, to become an outstanding Bahá’í leader. Dorothy met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when she
was thirteen years old, and she eventually became the first woman to chair the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States.” (Brian Lepard, In
the Glory of the Father (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 2008), 58).
428 Braude, Sisters and Saints, 48-52.
429 Brekus, 153.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

prayer, without the loss of some portion at least of that fe-
male delicacy, which is above all price.”430
The home was the sphere where women could play that role. The
public sphere—politics, business, public-speaking and preaching—was
for men who only had to point to the rough and tumble of public life
with its violence, aggression, and drinking, to prove this. Voting, for
example, often took place in saloons.431
So by tradition, law, and the standard interpretation of Scripture,
women in mid-19th century America were in an inferior position. They
had little access to education, few if any career paths, no right to own
property in a marriage, no right over their bodies in marriage, no right
to speak in traditional public forums, and no right to change any of
this by the exercise of the most basic right of a citizen—the right to
vote.
Free black women in the northern United States lived with all of
these restrictions as well as a racial segregation which resulted in most
women working as domestic servants and living in poverty as single
mothers. Enslaved black women in the South lived with all of these
deprivations and the brutality of slavery which made them completely
vulnerable to their masters. Harriet Jacobs, for example, went into
hiding out of fear of her master and escaped slavery in 1842. She had
been a slave in the land of the free, black in a white society, and a
woman in a world ruled by men.432
Social restrictions placed on American women had some similarities
with those for women in Persia, the most limiting one being that men
made all the important decisions in a woman’s life. But in the United
States, American women had a greater degree of public freedom in
moving about and the legal framework of the United States contained
the concept of individual rights such that a woman could even con-
ceive of a day when she might have the ‘right’ to vote. The American

430 Ibid.
431 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 24.
432 Ibid., 11.

The Calling

economy was also undergoing an industrial revolution which greatly
impacted the very ideas of work and family while Persia remained an
agrarian based economy ruled by a king and priests invested in keeping
the populace uneducated.
By the mid-19th century, changes were underway in the area of
women’s rights in the United States. Cumbersome divorce laws that
were disadvantageous towards women were easing as divorces were
moved from the overburdened legislatures to the court system where
cases proceeded much more quickly. Property rights for married
women remained a very contentious issue as they were closely related
to the right to participate in government.433 More women worked in
textile and shoe factories as the nation industrialized though they were
paid less than their male counterparts.434 Women were the backbone
of many volunteer efforts in churches and, by mid-century, were
participating and playing important roles in all the major social reform
movements: the American Society for the Promotion of Temperance
(1826), the American Peace Society (1828), the American Anti-Slavery
Society (1833), and the American Female Reform Society (1834)435
which fought rampant prostitution—there were an estimated ten
thousand prostitutes in New York City alone and thousands of
Chinese women were virtually enslaved having been brought from
China for use by the men out West.436
There were two events which helped to galvanize women reformers
into focusing on the specific issue of gaining the right to vote: the
Council of Congregational Ministers of Massachusetts’ Pastoral letter
of 1837, and the London Anti-Slavery Convention of 1840. The
unintended result of both of these was to motivate several women to

433 Ibid., 28-9.
434 Ibid., 30.
435 Virginia Bernhard (Editor), Elizabeth Fox-Genovese (Editor), The Birth of
American Feminism: The Seneca Falls Woman's Convention of 1848 (St. James,
New York: Brandywine Press, 1995), 3.
436 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 44.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

organize the first ever women’s suffrage convention in the United
States in Seneca Falls, NY, in the summer of 1848.
The Congregational Church’s Pastoral letter of 1837 was written as a
reaction to the most controversial speaking duo of the American
reform era—the Grimke sisters. That year, the sisters were on a
speaking tour of New England advocating forcefully for abolition as
they always did. Their powerful presentations elicited vehement
negative reactions. On this tour, they not only attacked slave-owners
and their supporters, they also went after the many Northern business
interests that benefitted from slave labor. This was all too much for the
Congregational ministers in Massachusetts who issued a Pastoral letter
in July, 1837, to steer their flock clear of the Grimke sisters and “the
dangers which at present seem to threaten the female character with
wide spread and permanent injury”. It went on to clarify that “the
power of woman is her dependence,” and that “God had ordained her
weakness and need of protection”. When women stepped out of their
appropriate place by doing things like speaking in public, “her charac-
ter becomes unnatural.”437
The pastoral letter infuriated women like Lucy Stone (1818-1893).
While she listened in church to it being read aloud, she poked her
sister every time she heard something that offended her so much so
that by the end, her sister’s side was sore. Stone had been born into the
Congregational church, but this pastoral letter began her separation
from it and the start of her own trailblazing journey of self-discovery.
She became the first woman in Massachusetts to hold a Bachelor’s
Degree, having earned it from Oberlin College, the first institution of
higher learning in American history to admit women and African-
Americans;438 even Oberlin, though, did not allow her to give the
Commencement address.!439 There, she discovered that she had real

437 Ibid., 63.
438 “Oberlin College and Conservatory,” About Oberlin, accessed October 1,
2013, http://new.oberlin.edu/about/.
439 Braude, Radical Spirits, 91.

The Calling

oratorical skills, and she put these to use by speaking out for women’s
rights and against slavery, her parents having nurtured in her strong
abolitionist views. She gave her first talk on women’s rights in 1847, in
her brother’s Massachusetts church. She was then hired by William
Lloyd Garrison’s Massachusetts Anti-Slavery society as one of its
advocates; Garrison remembered her “conversational tone…She is
always earnest, but never boisterous, and her manner no less than her
speech is marked by a gentleness and refinement which puts prejudice
to flight”.440
The Congregational church’s pastoral letter of 1837 showed the
resistance that mainstream churches had towards women teaching and
preaching. The principal leaders of the emerging women’s movement
saw these churches as major impediments, the strongest opposition
coming from clerics whose “readings of the Bible are intensely inimical
to the equality of women with men.”441
The second event which caused the convocation of a woman’s rights
convention in the U.S. was, unintentionally, the 1840 London Anti-
Slavery Convention. Organized by a Quaker, this Convention’s
purpose was to fight slavery on a worldwide scale—the British had
already outlawed it in general. Eight American women went as repre-
sentatives of their anti-slavery societies, including Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, who was the new bride of Harry Stanton, an active abolition-
ist. Women in Europe, though, did not participate in such gatherings.
The American delegation also included one of the most respected
and well-known women of the time, Lucretia Mott (1793-1880), who
had founded the first female anti-slavery society in the world. Meeting
her created a completely new consciousness in Stanton.442 Mott had
been born into a Quaker family on Nantucket Island, MA, and

440 Carol Lasser, “American National Biography Online: Stone, Lucy,” American
National Biography Online, accessed September 24, 2014,
http://www.anb.org/articles/15/15-00663.html.
441 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 64.
442 Burns and Barnes, Not For Ourselves Alone.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

learned of the horrors of slavery from the stories told about it in her
home. The equality of men and women was also practiced within her
own family. Her sea captain father was often away for his trading
business so her mother, who also ran a small shop, made the decisions
for the household. Lucretia attended the coeducational Nine Partners
School when the family moved to Boston and went on to teach there
and to marry the school superintendent’s grandson, James Mott. Their
Quaker marriage vows included the promise to be loving partners and
made no mention of female obedience. So strict were they in their
commitment to abolition that they refused to use any products made
from slave labor such as cotton and sugar. James Mott even changed
his business from cotton to wool, a very courageous act when the
norm among northerners was still to be involved in businesses which
were tied into the slave system. They had six children, five of whom
survived into adulthood, and their marriage lasted 57 years.443 Over
the years, Lucretia spoke at Quaker meetings and became a Quaker
minister.444 Frederick Douglass remembered her oratorical skills:
“In a few moments after she began to speak I saw before me
no more a woman, but a glorified presence, bearing a mes-
sage of light and love. Whenever and wherever I have lis-
tened to her my heart has always been made better and my
spirit raised by her words.”445
Encountering the strength of Lucretia Mott’s convictions was a
turning point for Elizabeth Stanton. They forged a strong and long-
lasting work relationship, despite their differences. By the time they
had their first in-depth discussions while strolling on the streets of
Boston, Mott was Stanton’s senior at forty-seven years of age to
Stanton’s twenty-five. Mott had a serious disposition, dressed plainly

443 Bernhard and Genovese, 6.
444 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 35-36.
445 Ibid., 37.

The Calling

Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony.
and had graying hair, while Stanton had a youthful appearance and
wore her hair in ringlets.446
The London Convention would not allow any women to take the
floor. Ninety percent of the male delegates voted against seating
women despite the best efforts of Wendell Philips, an American
delegate who gave much of his life to the advancement of women’s
rights.447 Instead, the women were relegated to sitting in the galleries
behind a curtain. And so it was there, while walking the streets of

446 Bernhard and Genovese, 7; McMillen, Seneca Falls, 82.
447 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 73-5.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

London together and discussing the affairs of women, that Mott and
Stanton decided to hold a convention for the rights of women when
they returned to the United States.448
The holding of a convention would be long delayed because the
Motts lived in Philadelphia with their six children while Stanton
moved with her husband and children to the small town of Seneca
Falls, NY, to have greater financial stability. When Stanton lived in
Boston, she had been in regular association with the leading reformers
of the day, so the small town pettiness and isolation of Seneca Falls
was difficult for her. In addition, she found the day-to-day chores of
managing a household with three small boys suffocating. This made
her far more empathetic to what she saw as the drudgery of the lives of
ordinary women. Stanton and Mott corresponded with each other but
were not able to realize their plans.449
In the intervening years, there were some important intellectual
contributions in the United States on the subject of women’s rights. In
1845, Women in the Nineteenth Century, by Margaret Fuller (1810-
1850), was published. Fuller was one of the most well-known women
in America. Her father had actively encouraged her education such
that by the age of nine she could read Latin and wrote him letters in
that language. She edited an important magazine for the Transcenden-
talist movement, associating freely with famous literary figures of the
time. She became the country’s first female journalist when the New
York Times hired her in 1844. Her essay, while not advocating for
giving the right to vote to women, introduced bold ideas to the
American public such as the elimination of public and private spheres
of activity for men and women, female self-reliance, women’s educa-
tion that went beyond training on how to be good wife, and the
rejection of what she saw as a self-indulgent ideal of the ‘female at
home’ promoted in books for women. Her contributions to the
women’s movement were cut short by her death in a shipwreck off the

448 Bernhard and Genovese, 7.
449 Ibid.

The Calling

coast of Long Island. In the same year as Fuller’s essay, Elisha Powell
Hurlbut’s Essays on Human Rights and their Guaranties came out. As a
judge, Hurlbut concentrated his arguments on the legal rights and
protections denied to women and asked the question, “Hath not a
woman a right to be regarded as a free moral agent?” Later, in Novem-
ber of 1845, Samuel J. May Jr., a Unitarian minister, became the first
minister of a mainstream denomination to publish a sermon in
support of a woman’s right to vote, “The Rights and Condition of
woman.” In this sermon, he acutely observed: “Women are coaxed,
flattered, courted, but they are not respected by many men as they
should be; neither do they respect themselves as they should…These
circumstances operate powerfully to depress, and oppress women—to
make them too dependent—to leave them at the mercy of men.” To
May, the solution was equal justice for all.450
A few years after these important public contributions to the ad-
vancement of women, Lucretia Mott and her family went for a visit to
Waterloo, NY, located only a few miles from Seneca Falls, NY.451 On
the afternoon of July 13, 1848, five women had tea together including
Stanton, Mott, and Mary Ann McClintock, and, moved by Stanton’s
impassioned words on the lives of women, decided to follow the call
and hold their convention. That day they convinced a local Methodist
minister to allow them to use his church, the Wesleyan Methodist
Chapel of Seneca Falls.
The town of Seneca Falls was benefiting from its proximity to the
newly built Erie Canal on which goods could be shipped to the
Atlantic seaboard and to a railroad which connected the town to the
cities of Syracuse and Rochester. These were both part of the rapid
development of transportation going on all over the United State.
There were now twenty-four small factories, six churches, four hotels,
and a newspaper in Seneca Falls.452 In addition, the town was in the

450 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 77-9.
451 Bernhard and Genovese, 7.
452 Ibid., 9.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

middle of the area of New York State which was a center of reform
activity and was home to famous reformers. Seneca Falls and its region
reflected the changing times both economically and morally.
The day after the tea party, July 14, 1848, the Seneca County Courier
ran this announcement:
“WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION - A Convention to
discuss the social, civil and religious condition and rights of
women, will be held in the Wesleyan Chapel at Seneca Fall,
N.Y., on Wednesday and Thursday, the 19th and 20th of
July, current, commencing at 10 O'clock A.M.”
During the first day, the meeting will be exclusively for
women, who are earnestly invited to attend. The public gen-
erally are invited to be present the second day, when Lucretia
Mott of Philadelphia, and other ladies and gentlemen, will
address the Convention.”453
Lucretia Mott was the principal organizer of the Convention, while
Elizabeth Cady Stanton was its driving intellect. It took place five days
after this announcement ran.
On the morning of July 19, 1848, the bumpy country roads around
Seneca Falls, NY, were crowded with carts and horses coming to the
Wesleyan Church. But when the organizers arrived, they found the
church locked. The minister could not be found, so Stanton’s young
nephew was hoisted into the dusty church to open it from the inside.
The Seneca Falls Convention began at eleven a.m.. This gathering,
which began the journey of American women towards getting the right
to vote, was opened by a man, James Mott, Lucretia Mott’s husband,
so as not to offend public sensibility. He took turns presiding with
Thomas McClintock, Mary Ann McClintock’s husband. Stanton’s

453 “Report of the Woman's Rights Convention,” Women’s Rights, accessed
January 1, 2014.
http://www.nps.gov/wori/historyculture/report-of-the-womans-rights-
convention.htm.

The Calling

Lucretia Mott.
husband, Harry, while generally supportive, objected vehemently to
the inclusion of the demand for the right to vote in the Convention’s
proceedings, so he left for Albany on the pretext of business. He was
also worried that the Convention would become a cause for mockery
of his wife. Stanton’s father, Judge Cady, travelled to Seneca Falls
fearing his daughter had gone insane, while his eldest daughter wept
over her sister’s in-
volvement in such a
gathering.454
Only women were
supposed to have been
in attendance that first
day, but forty men
showed up anyway.
There were attendees
from
the
various
mainstream denomina-
tions, the largest single
block being Quakers.
Stanton and Mott were
the first two to address
the
Convention,
though this was a time
when
women
were
usually denied the right
to speak to “promiscu-
ous assemblies”—meaning ones which included both men and
women.455 Stanton had never even spoken in front of an audience
before, and still she spoke courageously:

454 Bernhard and Genovese, 10.
455 Braude, Radical Spirits, 90.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

“… we are assembled to protest against a form of govern-
ment existing without the consent of the governed - to de-
clare our right to be free as man is free, to be represented in
the government which we are taxed to support, to have such
disgraceful laws as give man the power to chastise and im-
prison his wife, to take the wages which she earns, the prop-
erty which she inherits, and, in case of separation, the chil-
dren of her love; laws which make her the mere dependent
on his bounty … And, strange as it may seem to many, we
now demand our right to vote according to the declaration
of the government under which we live …
All white men in this country have the same rights, however
they may differ in mind, body, or estate …
The right is ours. Have it, we must. Use it, we will. …
… Verily, the world waits the coming of some new element,
some purifying power, some spirit of mercy and love. The
voice of woman has been silenced in the state, the church,
and the home, but man cannot fulfill his destiny alone, he
cannot redeem his race unaided. There are deep and tender
chords of sympathy and love in the hearts of the downfallen
and oppressed that woman can touch more skillfully than
man …
The world has never yet seen a truly great and virtuous na-
tion, because in the degradation of woman the very fountains
of life are poisoned at their source….”456
After Stanton and Mott had spoken, the draft of the Declaration of
Rights and Sentiments was read aloud. This document had been
prepared by the organizers in advance of the Convention and written
by Stanton. It followed the format of the Declaration of Independ-
ence, with an introduction that began “We hold these truths to be self-

456 Elizabeth Cady Stanton, “Elizabeth Cady Stanton: Seneca Falls Keynote
Address,” Great American Documents, accessed July 5, 2013,
http://www.greatamericandocuments.com/speeches/stanton-seneca-falls.html.

The Calling

evident,” but then made the bold assertion “that men and women are
created equal.” This was followed by a list of grievances about the
position of women in society which included the unjust status of
women in property, marriage, and divorce laws, their limited access to
college educations or professional opportunities, the passing of laws
into which women had had no input, and the denial of the right to
vote, among others. These injustices, according to the Declaration,
caused women “to lessen her self-respect, and to make her lead a
dependent and abject life.”457
The afternoon session began with Stanton reading a series of eleven
resolutions which expressed the specific changes that needed to be
made to improve the status of women. These resolutions made the
point that all laws which prevent the full equality of women to men
and inhibit the development of the potential in women were against
“the great precept of nature.” That evening, Lucretia Mott placed
these demands in the larger context of reform in general and encour-
aged men to become partners in this effort.458
The following day, the audience had grown considerably as word
spread of the exciting and bold ideas being discussed at the conven-
tion. The morning began with a reading of the previous day’s minutes
including the eleven resolutions. The only resolution to encounter
opposition was the following:
“Resolved, that it is the duty of the women of this country to
secure to themselves their sacred right to the elective fran-
chise.”459
Stanton argued passionately for the right to vote, pointing out that
“drunkards, idiots, horseracing rum-selling rowdies, ignorant foreign-
ers, and silly boys.”460 all could vote—but not women. Other partici-

457 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 91.
458 Ibid., 92.
459 Ibid., 93.
460 Bernhard and Genovese, 11.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

pants, including Lucretia Mott, found this a difficult resolution to
adopt.461 Quakers like her sought to avoid the partisanship of politics
and to exercise moral authority in the spheres of life other than the
public sphere of politics. This way was seen as the truer, more spiritual
and peace-oriented way rather than the divisive world of partisan
politics. Women’s moral superiority in the private sphere should not
be given up or sullied by politics. Some attendees thought that the
husbands and fathers could adequately represent the interests of their
families at the ballot box and that the right to vote, therefore, was
unnecessary. Frederick Douglass, who had been born into slavery and
escaped its horrors, rose up to speak on behalf of the resolution:
“In this denial of the right to participate in government, not
merely the degradation of woman and the perpetuation of a
great injustice happens, but the maiming and repudiation of
one-half of the moral and intellectual power of the govern-
ment of the world.”462
The moral weight that Douglass’ life and work gave to his words
helped the resolution to pass. Douglass would always remember his
contribution to the Seneca Falls Convention proudly. All the resolu-
tions of the Declaration had been passed by the convention.463
That evening, the last issue for the convention was the signing of the
Declaration. The question arose as to whether both men and women
should sign it. The convention decided that both would sign but on
separate sheets of paper; sixty-eight women and thirty-two men
committed their names in ink. A quarter of them were Quaker, most
lived in the general area.
But only one of these signatories lived to see the right to vote for
women become part of the United States Constitution in 1920. At the

461 Ibid.
462 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 93-4.
463 Ibid., 94.

The Calling

close of the Seneca Falls Convention on July 20, 1848, the long
struggle for women’s suffrage was just beginning.
2.
By the summer of 1847, a year before the Seneca Falls Convention,
the Bab’s influence had spread throughout Persia, and this brought a
backlash from the clergy and the government, both of whom had
vested interests in not allowing this powerful new religious movement
to upset the established order. In the United States, a person could
make religious claims without direct interference from the govern-
ment, but, in Persia, religious claims could bring on the accusation of
heresy, and heresy was a crime. In addition, this was a time of political
unrest with the government having to put down a large revolt in the
important eastern province of Khurasan.464 The Prime Minister gave
the order to banish the Bab to a remote part of northwestern Persia
near the border with Russia, where he was incarcerated in the fortress
of Mahku, a stone structure with four towers that sat like a grim
lookout on the top of a mountain. A lone path connected its front gate
to the town of Mahku at the foot of the mountain. The Araxes River,
which marked the border between Persia and Russia, flowed below.
From this remote stone castle, the Persians could watch the border
with the Russian Empire.465
The people of this area were Kurds who followed the Sunni form of
Islam and were at odds with their Shi’a Persian rulers. As the local
farmers went to their fields, they often stopped to look up at the stone
fortress hoping to receive a blessing from the holy man being kept
within. Soon, the Prime Minister, through local spies, was reading of
the effect of the Bab’s presence on the warden and others around
him.466 After seeing the Bab in a vision walking outside the castle, the
warden relaxed all the rules pertaining to the prisoner and allowed the

464 Zarandi, 177.
465 Ibid., 170-1.
466 Ibid., 181.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

growing stream of visitors to come in and meet him.467 Mahku was
becoming a center of attraction, and the Bab saw his imprisonment in
the path of God as the essence of freedom—and himself as the incar-
nation of God’s will:
“All that belongs to the Chosen One is in heaven. This soli-
tary room (wherein I am) which has not even a door, is today
the greatest of the gardens of Paradise, for the Tree of Truth
is planted herein. All the atoms of which it is composed cry
out, ‘In truth, there is no other God but God, and there is
no other God beside me, the Lord of the Universe.”468
A bitterly cold winter took hold of this remote and mountainous
region. From his dark and cold stone room,469 the Bab began to reveal
his Holy book, the Bayan (the ‘Utterance’).
The Bab was also preparing the way for a second manifestation of
God. He was “only the foreshadowing of Him whom God shall make
manifest,” and his followers “must realize what should be done for
Him whom God shall make manifest, when he will appear, so that he
will be spared what is happening to me on this day.”470
The Prime Minister read a letter from the Russian Minister express-
ing his concern about the presence of a person as influential as the Bab
on the border with Russia and his desire to see the Bab removed
further away from the Russian border.471 In April, 1848, the Prime
Minister had the Bab moved south to the prison fortress of Chihriq
located in an even more remote Kurdish region. This confinement was
supposed to have been stricter—the Bab referred to Chihriq as the
“Grievous Mountain”—but soon the officer in charge was moved by
the Bab’s holiness as were the local people. Important clerics in the
region became his followers. After having seen the Bab in a dream, a

467 Ibid., 173-4.
468 Ibid., 172.
469 Ibid., 176.
470 Ibid., 172.
471 Balyuzi, The Bab, 132.

The Calling

seeker travelled all the way from India, greatly impressing the local
people with the strength of his convictions.472
The authorities in Tihran decided that the time had come to put the
Bab on trial in the city of Tabriz, the regional capital. All along the
road to Tabriz, the Bab’s presence generated excitement as stories of
his miraculous deeds were spread among the people.473 The city of
Tabriz was in a state of anticipation about the upcoming trial which
was being attended by the most prominent clerics of the area and the
future king. Without being asked, the Bab sat in the seat of honor.
When questioned about his claim, he answered:
“I am, I am, I am, the Promised One! I am the One whose
name you have for a thousand years invoked, at whose men-
tion you have risen, whose advent you have longed to wit-
ness, and the hour of whose Revelation you have prayed God
to hasten.”474
This extraordinary statement astonished the clerics who then re-
sponded with a series of very specific questions on obscure issues not
related to the Bab’s claim but meant to trip him up and embarrass
him. When asked about his proofs, the Bab answered that his own
word was the “…most convincing truth of the Mission of the Prophet
of God.”475 Then a cleric asked that he describe the trial in Qur’anic
language, and just as the Bab began to do so, he was cut off by his
questioner who mocked him for a mistake he had made in Arabic
grammar—the Bab wrote and spoke his own highly unconventional
Arabic. At that point the Bab uttered the Qur’anic verse, “Far be the
glory of thy Lord, the Lord of all greatness, from what they impute to
Him, and peace be upon His Apostles!”476

472 Zarandi, 219-221.
473 Ibid., 226-7.
474 Ibid., 229.
475 Ibid., 230.
476 Ibid., 231.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

He then got up and walked out of the trial which descended into an
argument among the clerics. Some of the prominent clerics thought
the Bab had been treated disrespectfully. The only outcome of this
episode was that the Bab was later whipped like a criminal. News of
the trial’s proceedings spread throughout Tabriz, and the reputation of
the Bab grew. The authorities took him away and isolated him back in
the mountain fortress of Chihriq.477
During the days when the Bab was incarcerated in the castle of
Mahku, Tahirih had been spirited away from the persecutions in
Qazvin that had been unleashed against Babis following the murder of
her father-in-law. Though she had been cleared of any involvement,
she was still very vulnerable, and so the most prominent Babi in
Tihran, Mirza Husayn Ali, sent his men to extricate her from danger.
For several years now, Tahirih felt intuitively that Mirza Husayn Ali
had a high spiritual station and would play a great role in the future.478
She was fully aware that the Bab had written that he was preparing the
way for a second Divine manifestation that would follow him. Mirza
Husayn Ali had been born into a wealthy noble family but had shown
from an early age great sensitivity towards the poor which was very
unusual in that society. As he grew to manhood, he turned down all
offers of high political and social rank, and instead, adopted a life
oriented towards service. He had unreservedly accepted the claims of
the Bab and developed a great reputation for spirituality and integrity.
In some of her poems she may have been referring to Mirza Husayn
Ali and his station when she used the word ‘Baha’, meaning ‘glory’, the
title by which he would later be known. In this poem, she expresses
her devotion to the manifestations of God—she makes reference to the
Bayan, the Bab’s Holy book, and uses symbolism related to Moses and
Muhammad—and she also uses the name ‘Baha’ as a personal name
thereby indicating the spiritual station of Mirza Husayn Ali:

477 Ibid., 232-233.
478 Ibid., 204-5.

The Calling

“His Bayan’s words erased my fantasy
And no else but him do I now see

A’la’s name stands firmly in his name
Just as God’s light shone from the sleeve-like flame

Greatest of masters, O, most lordly of lords
His garden is a heaven beyond words

Thrones in heaven called Baha, ranked so high
Their seats exalted far beyond the sky

God, O God! Who are, and always were
Almighty, Eternal, Grace without peer

Cast a kind glance on one who is alone
And grant new life to this decaying bone

That I may freely tell your mysteries here
And make your deepest, inmost meanings clear

I can think of no other goal but you
I will adore and praise no one but you

You spoke the secret: oneness is always one
Must I keep circling heaven like the sun?

Baha’s loved one loves, and is loved, O Lover
Draw to yourself this slave, this sufferer

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

Harmony stands on this rug of power
Let gentle kindness now forever flower”479
In another passage, she refers to Baha’u’llah as the “Abha Beauty”—a
variation of the name ‘Baha’—who had “pierced the veil of night,” and
that the “souls of his lovers” were dancing in the light that had
“flashed from his face.”480
Protected by Mirza Husayn Ali, Tahirih spent some time in hiding
in and out of his home in Tihran.481 In the home’s beautiful main
room, with its multicolored windows and vibrant carpets, she may
have been able to teach classes to seekers. Because she could not stay
indefinitely in this one home, she was transferred to the residence of
the minister of war. He had been deported out of the capital after
having fallen out of favor with the King—though he later became
Prime Minister—and his sister, a supporter of Mirza Husayn Ali’s, was
living in their mansion.482
In early 1848, the Babi leaders were making preparations to go east
in response to the Bab’s call that his followers go to the province of
Khurasan. Mirza Husayn Ali sent a message asking them to gather at
the village of Badasht near a main road in that province.483 This
province had special significance in terms of the Shi’a Muslim belief in
a figure known as the ‘Mahdi’. This tradition in Islam taught that a
messianic figure, the Mahdi, would emerge at the end of time to signal
the day of judgement, but he does not appear in the Qur’an, and the
beliefs about him changed over the centuries. ‘Mahdi’ seems to have
originally meant a liberator who would bring the Arab tribes of

479 Kessler, 14-5.
480 Zarandi, 205.
481 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 138, states that she was in and out of Tihran for
several months; Zarandi, 205, states that Baha’u’llah had decided to send her to
Khurasan after “a few days”.
482 David S. Ruhe, Robe of Light, the Prophetic Years of the Supreme Prophet
Baha’u’llah 1917-1852 (Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1994), 82.
483 Ruhe, Robe of Light, 83.

The Calling

Southern Arabia back to their ancient glory, like the idea of a ‘Messiah’
for Jews, a king who would liberate the Holy Land. This idea then
merged with beliefs about righteousness against corrupt rulers, the
resurrection of the dead, the day of judgement, and, in Shi’a Islam, the
occultation of the last Imam as well. Over the centuries, there were
many claimants to being the ‘Mahdi’—from rebels, to founders of
dynasties and Sufi mystics, who emerged in Persia, Central Asia, and
the Sudan, among other places.484 In the Sunni tradition, the ‘Mahdi’
seems to have been thought of more as a ruler in this world; in the
Shi’a tradition the Mahdi is the return from occultation of the twelfth
Imam who would then redeem Islam. The Babis understood the
station of the Bab generally in this way, though it became clearer with
time that the Bab was claiming much more—that he was the bringer
of new Divine Revelation and the forerunner of a second Manifesta-
tion of God, referred to as “the One Whom God will make manifest.”
One of the prophetic traditions regarding the Mahdi is that he would
appear in the Eastern province of Khurasan riding in front of an army
that had a black flag as its standard.485
In addition to the turmoil in Khurasan caused by the revolt, Mulla
Husayn and Quddus, two of the Bab’s most important apostles, had
been spreading the new teachings there, and this was beginning to
upset the established order. Such large numbers of people were coming
to meet the two in Mashhad, the capital of the province, that the local
police chief had become alarmed. Government troops were still
stationed right outside of the city because of the recent rebellion. The
prince in charge of the army invited Mulla Husayn to his camp as a
way of quieting the tensions in the city. Before going out, Mulla
Husayn met with Quddus who told him that he was leaving for the
province of Mazindaran in the west and that he would look for Mulla

484 Said Amir Arjomand, “Islam in Iran vi., the Concept of Mahdi in Sunni
Islam,” Encyclopaedia Iranica XIV (Fasc. 2), Dec. 2007, 134–136.
485 Zarandi, 253.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

Site of the historic meeting at Badasht.
Husayn to appear later carrying a black standard at the head of an
army of the faithful.486
The Bab instructed Mulla Husayn to initiate this episode by raising
the black standard in Khurasan and journeying westward. The Bab
moreover issued a general call to his disciples to rally to the black
standard.487
On the road to Mashhad lay the village of Badasht where the Babi
leaders finally met up.488
Tahirih travelled there with the aid of Mirza Husayn Ali’s brother.489
She and her personal servant490 rode through Tihran’s northern gate.
This had to be done cautiously because the city’s gatekeepers were on
the alert for any woman without a pass. Seven or eight miles outside of
the city, they came to a large house in the middle of an orchard at the
foot of the mountains whose owner had vacated it after a dispute. Its

486 Ibid., 208-10.
487 Moojan Momen, The Social Basis of the Babi Upheavals in Iran (1848-1853): A
Preliminary Analysis (United States of America: Int. J. Middle East Stud. 15,
1983, 157-183), 161.
488 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn,” 138.
489 Mirza Musa.
490 Her name was Qanitih (Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, 205).

The Calling

elderly caretaker was there and agreed to look after the two women as
they made preparations for the long journey east. Tahirih set out for
Khurasan with a group that included her personal servant and Hadi,
the Babi who had rescued her and now served as her protector, along
with several others. They took the main east-west highway that
followed the southern foothills of the Alborz Mountains and was just
above the arid region to the south with its vast expanse of salt. With
no trees, dust from all the other travelers riding donkeys, horses, and
camels filled the air.491
To avoid suspicion, Mirza Husayn Ali followed a few days later. He
rode with several other Babis and the supplies needed for the gather-
ing. On such an overland journey one could cover fifteen to twenty
miles a day. Mirza Husayn Ali made good time so as to reach the place
of provisioning and find a suitable spot for the gathering. By late June,
1848, he had covered the four-hundred kilometers to Shah-rud, the
town midway between Tihran and Mashhad, the capital of Khurasan.
This town was at the juncture of the roads which went east to Mash-
had and north to the sea and was used as a place of assembly for
groups of travelers who wanted to band together for protection against
Turkmen tribesmen. Mirza Husayn Ali rented three gardens to the
south492 in Badasht, a small rural village. The area had been a resort for
the nobility. There were several small gardens with a large open area in
the middle where the Babis could gather to meet.493 One was for
himself, another for Quddus, and a third for Tahirih;494 other believers

491 Ruhe, Robe of Light, 83-4.
492 Ibid., 84.
493 Root, Táhirih the pure, 81.
494 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 200; Zarandi, 211; according to
‘Abdu’l-Baha, (Tablets of Abdu'l-Baha Abbas v. 4 16 and 20), there were two
gardens and the tent of Baha’u’llah was pitched in the square with the tents of
other Babis.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

pitched their tents near them.495 Each garden had a large tent with
mats and carpets; Tahirih’s was protected by Hadi who had accompa-
nied her out of Tihran. There was a stream which ran through the
great open field.496 Summer had come and, with it, the flowering of
fruit trees with the majestic mountains as a backdrop.497
Eighty-one Babis eventually gathered at Badasht in the beginning of
the summer of 1848.498 Quddus, the 18th Letter of the Living of the
Bab, arrived after hearing about the location of the gathering from
Babis whom he had met on the road.499 Mirza Husayn Ali had brought
him over in secret from Shah-rud after his long ride from Mashhad.
Mulla Husayn, the first Letter of the Living, had been detained by the
authorities in Mashhad, and Vahid, one of the most prominent clerics
in the kingdom to become a Babi, was unable to attend. Several other
Letters of the Living stayed in smaller tents on the property.500 Most
Babis at Badasht were from Khurasan, Mazandaran, and Qazvin.501
With the Bab now imprisoned and largely cut off from them, the
Babis had come together as a result of the Bab’s command and Mirza
Husayn Ali’s efforts. There had been extensive correspondence be-
tween the Bab and Mirza Husayn Ali regarding preparations for this
gathering.502 Its main purpose was to determine the true nature of the
Bab’s revelation. The contents of the Bab’s holy book, the Bayan, were
not widely known as it had just been revealed during his imprison-
ment in Mahku that previous winter of 1847-48. Babis may also have

495 According to Balyuzi, The Bab, 168, the area in which the generality of
believers stayed faced the three gardens. The believers pitched their tents in the
middle court (‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 200).
496 Ibid.
497 Ruhe, Robe of Light, 84.
498 Mázandarání, 111; according to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 211.
499 Zarandi, 207.
500 Ruhe, Robe of Light, 85.
501 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn,” 138.
502 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 31.

The Calling

wanted to consult on what should be done about the Bab’s imprison-
ment.503
The Babis did not have unity of understanding about the Bab’s
station and mission, and his claims relative to Islam and the traditions
of the past. Was he announcing a new Revelation or was he the
promised reformer of Islam? If this was a new Revelation, what were its
teachings and who were its leaders? Quddus was seen as the exponent
of the more conservative view, while Tahirih expressed a more icono-
clastic view.
Tahirih had already challenged the Babis in the holy cities of Iraq
with her understanding of the station and teachings of the Bab. She
clearly believed this was a new revelation, and that they were living in
an ‘in-between’ time; the Shari’a and the law of prayer were now
replaced by the new law. One day, Quddus and other believers were
meeting in the tent of Mirza Husayn Ali, who was ill, when Tahirih
entered their gathering without her veil and proclaimed that “the
Trumpet is sounding! The great Trump is blown! The universal
Advent is now proclaimed!”504 These were words from the Qur’an and
the Book of Isaiah. She, Tahirih, a woman, was that trumpet blast.505
The Babis were shocked by this display because they regarded Ta-
hirih as the holy Fatimih, Muhammad’s daughter, and to look upon
her face was blasphemous. Some may have remembered the Islamic
tradition in which Fatimih appears unveiled on the Day of Judgement
and were thus shaken by the realization that the time had come.506
Quddus sat with a furious expression on his face. One Babi even cut

503 Ibid..
504 The Qur’an, Surah 74:8 and 6:73, quoted in ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the
Faithful, 201.
505 According to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 213; ‘Abdu’l-Baha,
Memorials of the Faithful, 201; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 33-4.
506 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 32.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

his own throat as a gesture of atonement for having looked on the face
of such a holy person.507
They looked to Mirza Husayn Ali for guidance in this moment of
crisis, and he told them to read the Surih of the Inevitable from the
Qur’an:
“When the Day that must come shall have come sud-
denly…Day that shall abase! Day that shall exalt….”508
In the poem below, Tahirih uses the image of the veil—which she
did often—to symbolize that which comes between the seeker and the
beloved, depicted here as the famous lovers from Persian literature,
Layli and Majnun. In this poem, the veil is burned away.
“His drunken eyes have wasted all the land!
Whoever gazes at him cannot stand!

He turns his head, and one glance from his eyes
will turn to sand the wisdom of the wise

Madder than Majnum, Layli’s tent he flees
to throw his heart at any opened hand

The goldsmith’s tent glows bright from his fire-brand
All veils now burn away at his demand

He holds the flame Moses could not withstand
It’s not that bush—so why fear his command?


507 According to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 213. According to
Zarandi, 213, the Babi who cut his throat was ‘Abdu’l-Khaliq-i-Isfahani. ‘Abdu’l-
Baha calls him ‘Ismael’, Tablets of Abdul Baha, v. 4 17 and 21.
508 The Qur’an, Surah 56, quoted in ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 201;
Balyuzi, The Bab, 168.

The Calling

So come, and fill my cup! That’s my demand!
I’ll spill his secrets—I know them first-hand

Open your eyes! Gaze at us if you can,
and see the face of God! Do you understand?

Naked glory fills our universe and
like the sun sheds light on every land.”509
Tahirih appeared radiant and peaceful despite the hostile reaction of
some of the Babis. She spoke about this new time using Qur’anic
language. She concluded by looking at Mirza Husayn Ali and Quddus
and saying:
“‘Verily, amid gardens and rivers shall the pious dwell in the
seat of truth, in the presence of the potent King.”510
She then declared herself to be the word of this revelation:
“I am the word that the Qa’im will utter, the word that shall
put to flight the chiefs and nobles of the earth.”511
And she encouraged those assembled to celebrate this day:
“This day is the day of festivity and universal rejoicing, the
day on which the fetters of the past are burst asunder. Let
those who have shared in this great achievement arise and
embrace each other.”512
Tahirih’s actions divided the Babis. Some now doubted the truth of
the Bab, and a few even left the Faith.513 Some saw her as the source of
authority, while others believed Quddus to be the true representative
of the Bab and still others saw the whole episode as a Divine test.

509 Kessler and Banani, 77.
510 Quran 54:54, 55, quoted in Zarandi, 213.
511 Ibid, 213; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 32-33.
512 Ibid., 214.
513 Ibid., 215; ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 201.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

Tahirih challenged Quddus by referring to him as a “pupil” whom she
had to instruct.514 During a debate with him, she tried to show the
weaknesses of the more conservative view. Her followers, inflamed
with the idea of the end of the old order and the beginning of a new
one, discarded their prayer rugs and broke their prayer seals as idols.
She told the more conservative Babis that if they thought she was a
heretic, they should try to bring her back to the true path.515
But it was Mirza Husayn Ali’s wisdom which held the Babis together
and guided them to a new understanding of the Bab’s revelation.
Though no written record survives of the proceedings, the Babis came
to understand that the Bab’s revelation was a new Revelation. Now,
every day of the gathering, another law of Islam was abrogated.516 Each
abrogation was followed by a vigorous discussion among the Babis.
Mirza Husayn Ali steered the course of these events.517 He was able to

514 Ibid., 214.
515 In one version based on an eyewitness account, she interrupted Quddus’s
prayers, waving a sword, and called on him to stand up to the important clerics
who had opposed him in his hometown because it was the time for martyrdom
(Mázandarání, vol. 3, 325-6).
516 According to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 211; Mázandarání, vol. 3,
111.
517 Shoghi Effendi in God Passes By, 31-2, writes that this public conflict between
these two Letters of the Living of the Bab was pre-arranged to lessen the shock of
the coming break with Islam: “Quddús, regarded as the exponent of the
conservative element within it, affected, in pursuance of a pre-conceived plan
designed to mitigate the alarm and consternation which such a conference was
sure to arouse, to oppose the seemingly extremist views advocated by the
impetuous Táhirih.” Zarandi, quoting Shaykh Abu-Turab gives a very dramatic
account of the conflict between the two and adds this footnote (f, 1, 212):
“According to the “Kashfu’l-Ghitá,” a decision had been previously arrived at
between Quddús and Táhirih, in accordance with which the latter was to
proclaim publicly the independent character of the Revelation of the Báb, and to
emphasise the abrogation of the laws and ordinances of the previous
Dispensation.
Quddús, on the other hand, was expected to oppose her contention and
strenuously to reject her views. This arrangement was made for the purpose of

The Calling

create unity among the Babis. He revealed one tablet on each of the
twenty-two days which was then chanted aloud by a Babi hailing from
his home district of Nur and which gave new names to individual
Babis; he didn’t tell anyone he was the author. He was now Jinab-i-
‘Baha’, meaning ‘Glory’ or ‘Glorious One’; there was no objection to
him having this title because of the respect in which he was held by the
other Babis. Tahirih was now known by this name which meant the
“Pure One”; prior to that she had been known by other names,
including the descriptive phrase “Qurratu’l-Ayn.” meaning the ‘solace
of the eyes’, used by Siyyid Kazim to indicate her status as a favored
disciple, and by her father.518 From this day forth, the Babis called
each other by these new names. The Bab, at his trial in Tabriz which
was happening at the same time as the conference of Badasht, declared
that this was indeed a new revelation and a break with the past.519 In
tablets to his followers, he used the new names they had been given at
Badasht.520
The conference at Badasht and Tahirih’s role in it were given this
tribute in the history of the early Baha’i Faith, God Passes By, by
Shoghi Effendi, head of the Baha’i Faith (1921-1957):
“A little over four years had elapsed since the birth of the
Báb's Revelation when the trumpet-blast announcing the
formal extinction of the old, and the inauguration of the new
Dispensation was sounded. No pomp, no pageantry marked
so great a turning-point in the world's religious history. Nor
was its modest setting commensurate with such a sudden,

mitigating the effects of such a challenging and far-reaching proclamation, and of
averting the dangers and perils which such a startling innovation was sure to
produce. (211.) Bahá’u’lláh appears to have taken a neutral attitude in this
controversy, though actually He was the prime mover and the controlling and
directing influence throughout the different stages of that memorable episode.”
518 Hoseini, 176.
519 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 33; Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed, 280; Ruhe,
Robe of Light, 85.
520 Ibid., 32; according to Shaykh Abu Turab quoted in Zarandi, 211.

1848: Seneca Falls, Conference of Badasht

startling, complete emancipation from the dark and embat-
tled forces of fanaticism, of priestcraft, of religious orthodoxy
and superstition. The assembled host consisted of no more
than a single woman and a handful of men, mostly recruited
from the very ranks they were attacking, and devoid, with
few exceptions, of wealth, prestige and power. The Captain
of the host was Himself an absentee, a captive in the grip of
His foes. The arena was a tiny hamlet in the plain of Badasht
on the border of Mazindarán. The trumpeter was a lone
woman, the noblest of her sex in that Dispensation, whom
even some of her co-religionists pronounced a heretic. The
call she sounded was the death-knell of the twelve hundred
year old law of Islám.”521
After Badasht, the Babis went back out into the world greatly
changed, having let go of many of their old religious habits which had
guided their families for centuries522 such as the law of prayer.523 Many
of the Babis were mullas with beliefs shaped by their Shaykhi under-
standing of Shi’a Islam. They tended to be more open-minded than
other clerics and had to be very courageous even to be associated with
the Bab’s heretical spiritual message. By breaking with the past at
Badasht, they were leaping into the unknown. They would have to be
educated in the precepts of the new faith, which would be accom-
plished through the study of the Bab's writings and the teaching by
prominent Babis such as Jinab-i-Baha, Tahirih, and others.524
At Badasht, Tahirih had stepped well outside the boundaries of
female propriety, compelled by the powerful spiritual forces which she
believed to have been released into the world because of the Bab’s
revelation. Her gender was not a limitation, but rather, according to
this poem, a source of power. In it, she uses traditional imagery found

521 Ibid., 33-34.
522 Zarandi, 215.
523 Mázandarání, vol. 3, 111.
524 Ruhe, Robe of Light, 90.

The Calling

in Persian poetry of perfumed hair, gazelles, and dawn, in an unex-
pected way—to celebrate her own strength as a woman:
“Just let the wind untie my perfumed hair,
my net would capture every wild gazelle.

Just let me paint my flashing eyes with black,
and I would turn the day as dark as hell.

Yearning, each dawn, to see my dazzling face,
the heaven lifts its golden looking-glass.

If I should pass a church by chance today,
Christ’s own virgins would rush to my gospel.”525


540 Banani and Kessler, 49.

- 177 -
SIX:
THE MARTYRDOM OF TAHIRIH
1.
The Conference of Badasht made it clear that the Bab was claiming
to be the bringer of a new revelation with a new Divine law. The Bab
was the manifestation of God’s will, the Bayan was his holy book, the
Babis were the new sacred community—and all of this was to prepare
the people for a second Divine outpouring by a figure prophesied by
the Bab as ‘Him whom God shall make manifest’.
Such a claim went far beyond any prophetic expectations in Shi’ism
and marked the fulfillment and end of the Islamic age. This was heresy
and significantly increased the danger from the clergy for Babis,
especially as news of the gathering at Badasht spread.
The Bab was kept isolated in the northern province of Azerbaijan.
He was moved from the stone fortress of Mahku to Chihriq farther
away from the Russian border out of concern for the effect his pres-
ence was having in that sensitive region. Chihriq was another stone
citadel that sat atop a gloomy rock mountain.
After the conclusion of the conference of Badasht, Tahirih and
Quddus headed north with Jinab-i-Baha and others. They stayed away
from the main east-west highway, possibly to avoid detection. The
northerly route wound along the Mojen River through a high moun-
tain pass into the Nika River valley which went all the way to the
Caspian Sea. Tahirih and Quddus were now completely reconciled, so
much so that they rode together in a howdah, a carriage strapped on
the back of a camel. Tahirih composed and chanted poems aloud in
praise of the new day; the sound of her voice echoing in the valley may
have helped inspire her fellow believers.526
The group came to the village of Niyala where local villagers attacked
the band of Babis. Jinab-i-Baha later recalled the unexpected assault:

526 Ruhe, Robe of Light, 91.

The Calling

“We were all gathered in the village of Niyala and were rest-
ing at the foot of a mountain, when, at the hour of dawn, we
were suddenly awakened by the stones which the people of
the neighbourhood were hurling upon us from the top of the
mountain. The fierceness of their attack induced our com-
panions to flee in terror and consternation. I clothed Quddus
in my own garments and dispatched him to a place of safety,
where I intended to join him. When I arrived, I found that
he had gone. None of our companions had remained in Ni-
yala except Tahirih and a young man from Shiraz, Mirza
Abdu'llah. The violence with which we were assailed had
brought desolation into our camp. I found no one into
whose custody I could deliver Tahirih except that young
man, who displayed on that occasion a courage and determi-
nation that were truly surprising. Sword in hand, undaunted
by the savage assault of the inhabitants of the village, who
had rushed to plunder our property, he sprang forward to
stay the hand of the assailants. Though himself wounded in
several parts of his body, he risked his life to protect our
property. I bade him desist from his act. When the tumult
had subsided, I approached a number of the inhabitants of
the village and was able to convince them of the cruelty and
shamefulness of their behaviour. I subsequently succeeded in
restoring a part of our plundered property.”527
Jinab-i-Baha’s courageous leadership helped extricate the Babis from
this attack. He had sent Quddus in disguise to the apostle’s hometown
of Barforush and put Tahirih and her servant under the protection of
another Babi. Tahirih then went to Barforush in September, 1848,
and stayed in the home of a mullah who supported the Bab, even
preaching in his mosque.528

527 Zarandi, 215-6; ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 202.
528 Mázandarání, 326-7; Amanat, “Qurrat al ‘Ayn.” 143. The mulla was Mulla
Muhammad Hamza Shari‘atmandar.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

Tahirih began a long period of wandering now, a homeless apostle.
In this poem, she becomes a pure heart who goes from complete
destruction to restoration through her attraction to the Beloved. The
heart is freed from death through the Beloved and consumed in the
fire of love for him:
“This heart, this heart, it thinks of only you.
This heart, I swear, it sings for only you.

Wounded and bleeding, enchanted, undone:
this heart, I swear, it sings for only you.

The musk in your hair, the spell of your face:
this heart, I swear, delights in only you.

And just to be in heaven standing there,
this heart finds its rightful place in glory.

The moonlight of your eyes, and drenched in fire:
dark clouds now flee from this heart’s ecstasy.

Be kind, generous! Take pity, take care!
End this heart’s pathetic agitation.

Driven from everything, drawn just to you:
freed from death in tasting your affliction.

Let sparks fly! This heart’s father is the fire.
This joyful heart will burn hot with desire.”529
Tahirih spent the remainder of 1848 and all of 1849 under the
protection of Jinab-i-Baha in the province of Mazindaran where his
family owned land and homes in the district of Nur.

529 Banani and Kessler, 95.

The Calling

The province of Mazindaran was called the “verdant isle” by the Bab
because of its greenery and flowers, the result of having numerous
rivers and mountain torrents running through it into the Caspian Sea.
The Alborz Mountains rose up in the southern part of the province
and dropped dramatically into the coastal plain of the Caspian Sea in
the north. This plain was so fertile it could grow sugar cane; during
Roman times tigers used for the coliseum shows roamed the lush
ground. The Caspian Sea was filled with valuable sturgeon. The
overall climate of Mazindaran was moderate.
Jinab-i-Baha’s father was a former governor of Luristan province and
quite wealthy. He owned several villages and homes in the mountain
district of Nur, an estate in the foothills north of Tihran, and a large
multi-home complex in the northern section of the capital. He had
built a large mansion in the village of Takur located in the province of
Nur. The villagers had seen Jinab-i-Baha grow up there as a boy and
respected the whole family as owners who treated them justly. The
village had been exempted from taxation by the King as a sign of the
honor in which he held Jinab-i-Baha’s father.
Jinab-i-Baha eventually made his way back to his ancestral village
from where he guided the affairs of the dynamic new religion. Takur
sat in a dramatic setting. Mountain peaks soared north of the village
and the Nur river valley opened to the south; the river flowed east to
the Haraz River through a canyon with a sheer rock cliff which had a
sloping mass of rock fragments at the foot of the cliff. The village of
forty to sixty families sat next to a stream which roared to life when
snow melt ran down from the mountain peaks when the weather
warmed; such a torrent once destroyed the family home. The stream
plunged into the Nur river valley. This typical mountain village was
made up of simple stone and brick buildings, all built at different
angles from each other, with rocky lanes meandering between them.
Mirza Buzurg’s large house dominated the village, sitting on the site
where the brook came into the river valley. The two story rectangular
mansion of brick and stone had a large central hall with stained glass

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

windows and gardens behind its walled enclosure. The arch above the
gateway had an inscription: “When thou enterest the sacred abode of
the Beloved, say: “I am at thy command. This is the home of Love;
enter with reverence. This is holy ground; remove thy shoes when thou
enterest here.”530
While Jinab-i-Baha, Tahirih, and Quddus were travelling north after
Badasht, other Babis went east to join Mulla Husayn in the province
of Khurasan. In July, 1848, Mulla Husayn rode west out of Mashhad
holding up a black standard in fulfillment of the Bab’s wishes and the
well-known prophecy drawn from Islamic tradition that the Mahdi
would ride out of Khurasan under the Black Standard.531
Mulla Husayn wore on his head a turban that the Bab had sent him
befitting his role as the representative of the Promised One. He
proclaimed the message of the Bab at every stop. He chose a few
converts each time to join his large and growing group of companions

530 Ruhe, Robe of Light, 40-1.
531 Momen, The Social Basis, 161.
Rasht Rudkan Fortress.

The Calling

on their journey but warned them of the sacrifices they would have to
make which scared some away.532 Crossing over into the next province
of Mazindaran, he had over three-hundred people with him.533 They
were from all walks of life and came from over ten different provinces
of Persia; most were minor village clerics mixed in with urban workers,
merchants, peasants, and over a dozen high-ranking clerics.534
As they neared the town of Barfurush, a very large and angry crowd
confronted them after having been incited by the local mujtahid who
warned that these Babis had come to destroy Islam and had to be
stopped. There was a brief skirmish in which Mulla Husayn’s reputa-
tion as a fierce warrior grew. The intensity of his faith seems to have
transformed Mulla Husayn from a religious scholar into a warrior.
Once in town, Mulla Husayn reprimanded the people for their
mistreatment of the Babis, and the local leaders came to offer their
acquiescence, but as they were leaving, the Babis were treacherously
attacked by soldiers on the orders of a leading cleric. Mulla Husayn led
the Babis to a local shrine dedicated to the saint named Shaykh

532 Zarandi, 235-7.
533 Momen, The Social Basis, 161.
534 Ibid., 162-6.
Baha'u'llah's residence in Takur.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

Tabarsi, one of the transmitters of the Islamic traditions. There, the
Babis built a simple fort and set up camp.535
The Babis were frequently attacked by local people while they built
the fort. One day, Jinab-i-Baha arrived at the site of the shrine and
greeted the Babis, spoke at some length with Mulla Husayn, offered
them his encouragement and blessing, and asked that they go and
bring Quddus to this site because his presence would make the group
complete and inspire the other Babis. He then set off back to Tihran.
Quddus had been under house arrest in another town, and his arrival
some days later brought great joy to the Babis. He was greatly revered
by them; Mulla Husayn called himself Quddus’ “lowly servant.” Then
the Babis gathered together to chant the writings of the Bab and
passages from the Qur’an which they believed referred to them as the
spiritual heroes of the end times.536
With the fort complete, the leading cleric in the region wrote a letter
of alarm to the newly enthroned King of Persia, Nasir al-din Shah,
warning him that there was a rebellion brewing in the region and that
troops were needed. The untrained but determined Babis, though,

535 Zarandi, 237-48.
536 Ibid., 250-257.
Rud Fortress, Mazindaran.

The Calling

were able to repulse the attacks of the professional soldiers. Mean-
while, Jinab-i-Baha attempted to reach Tabarsi but was turned back
and beaten at the town of Amul. Army reinforcements arrived, and the
fort was ringed by barricades. Despite the overwhelming odds in favor
of the army, the standoff continued through the winter of 1848-9 with
Mulla Husayn leading four different sorties which routed and terrified
the soldiers. The fourth time, on February 2nd, 1849, he was killed.
The grieving Babis managed to continue their struggle with inspiration
from Quddus. Despite their dwindling food supplies, the onset of
hunger, cold, and the constant cannon fire, the Babi resistance did not
give way. Finally, officials lured the Babis out by swearing on a Qur’an
that they were guaranteed their safe passage. Quddus responded
faithfully to the oath. A few of the Babis were taken as slaves; the
remainder, save for Quddus, were massacred. He was brought to his
hometown of Barfurush where he suffered an appallingly cruel martyr-
dom at the hands of a street mob. In his dying moments he asked for
forgiveness for his tormentors.537

537 Ibid., 259-298.
The village of Vaz in Mazindaran where Tahirih was arrested.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

After hearing about the Babis gathering at Tabarsi, Tahirih had
wanted to disguise herself as a man and join Mulla Husayn and the
others—she even gave away a ring to one of the ladies of Nur538—, but
Jinab-i-Baha discouraged her from going.539 She spent 1849 under his
protection living in various towns and villages in Mazindaran. She may
have spent much of the year in one farmhouse near the village of Vaz,
south of the town of Amul.540 The Prime Minister of Persia considered
Tahirih a wanted Babi rebel, so government agents were on the
lookout for her. Near the year’s end, she was found by government
agents who killed her host on the spot.541
In January, 1850, Tahirih was brought to Tihran as a prisoner. This
sprawling capital city of over one hundred thousand people lay over a
flat plain. The foothills of the Alborz Mountains rose up in the north.
Long paths connected it to the villages and countryside. The new king
had taken down the old walls which measured four miles around. He
had the main palace compound, government buildings, and the major
bazaars built north of the city. The wealthy also constructed their
mansions with private gardens up in the foothills where the weather
was mild and where they were in closer proximity to the royal family.
Jinab-i-Baha’s father had an estate there named ‘the abode of the
birds’. Their main family home was a compound of seven mansions
near the Shimiran gate. The vast majority of people lived in the south
part of Tihran which was a jumble of one to three story buildings of
brick and stone cut by uneven and mostly unpaved streets and alleys.
This section of the city was poor and crowded with streets filled with

538 Mázandarání, 327.
539 Root, Táhirih the pure, 88; according to Mazandarani, 327, Tahirih did
attempt to get to Tabarsi but was arrested and taken to Tihran. The authors
believe that the sequence of events as described in this narrative are more likely
because they fit clearly into the overall timeline whereas the Mazandarani version
does not.
540 Mázandarání, 327; Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 143. According to these sources
she was the guest of Aqa Nasrullah Gilardi.
541 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 157 f. 179.

The Calling

the stench of animal and human waste and was especially noxious
during the dry, hot, and dusty summer months. The lives of people in
these areas could be quite short. Though Jinab-i-Baha began his own
family in a rented house near the Shimiran gate, he and his new wife
spent much time serving the poor in south Tihran.542
Tahirih’s arrival in Tihran began the last phase of her life. She was a
high profile prisoner who came from a very prominent family of
clerics. After Jinab-i-Baha, she was the most prominent and influential
of the Bab’s followers at a time when the faith of the Bab was spread-
ing rapidly and violent persecutions had begun. She was soon sum-
moned to an interview with the highest authorities in the kingdom—
the Prime Minister and the King.543
Tahirih may have received an offer of marriage from the king and, in
response, she penned a rejection in the form of a poem. In the first
part of this poem, she writes of the joy experienced by the followers of
the Bab in giving up their lives for him; then, she lays bare her own
willingness to be a sacrifice to him. Infidels, symbolized here as
Chinese and Turkmen cities, cannot draw the Muslim faithful away,
but he, the Beloved, can. He draws Tahirih towards him.544 She then
contrasts the Bab’s mystical power with the king’s lust for ‘empires’.
She is content with sacrifice on the spiritual path:
“The raptures of yearning for you have constrained with the
chains of sorrow and calamity
All the broken-hearted lovers,
who gladly give up their lives in the path of your love.
And if out of caprice or cruelty
my Beloved be intent on slaying me, stainless though I be,

542 Ruhe, Robe of Light, 24, 50-2; Homa Irani Behbahani, Ph. D; Fakhri
Khosravi, M. Sc, Iranian Garden: A Place of Coexistence: City-Nature-Landscape
Case Study: Tehran Gardens in 19th Century, http://www.academia.edu/, 82.
543 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn,” 143; Qazvini, Samandar, 368; Hoseini, 315; Root,
Táhirih the pure, 95-96.
544 Hatcher and Hemmat, f. 287, 184.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

I will be patient under his sword,
And indeed I will content myself with whatsoever contents him.
At dawn that cruel charmer of mine
Deigned to approach my bed,
And when I saw his face,
it was as if the morning itself had dawned.
No musky scent in all Khotan
can match the fragrance of his tresses!
No infidel in all Khatá possesses
such seditious eyes as those of my beloved!
But you, O King, ignorant of wine’s ecstasy and love’s longing,
can but pace behind the pious ones, the ascetics.
And what can I do when you doubt or disdain
the holy motives of the sanctified ones?
You desire only a woman’s dangling ringlets,
the well-bred steed, the silver studded saddle.
Your entire life you have been ungrateful to the poor,
have abhorred the destitute in your midst.
For you there exist empires only—Alexander’s pomp and glory;
for me, the ways and the habit of the dervish suffice.
You adore kingdoms? Take them.
As for me, this chastisement is bounty enough.
So pass beyond this interlude—this notion of ‘I’ and ‘we’,
dwell in your kingdom of nothingness.
When you enter therein,
you will indeed have attained your heart’s desire.”545
She was placed under house arrest in the home of the mayor of
Tihran, Mahmoud Khan.546 Because of her connection to Jinab-i-Baha
whose family had links to the highest levels of government, and her
own personal fame, and, possibly, because of the king of Persia’s

545 Ibid., 108-9.
546 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 74; Zarandi, 455.

The Calling

favorable opinion of her, Tahirih was able to visit certain other homes
with permission.547 She may even have been visited by the Prime
Minister. He was deposed in July, 1851, banished, and executed,
possibly a victim of the constant palace intrigue that surrounded the
Queen mother.548
The wife of the Mayor became an enthusiastic devotee of Tahirih.
Many women of high social rank in Tihran came to listen to the
learned guest.549 Tahirih most likely explained the Bab’s claims to
them. If she also had showed them how the Babi Faith could greatly
improve the position of women in society, this may have had repercus-
sions in their homes.550

547 Ruhe, Robe of Light, footnote, 111; Balyuzi, Bahá'u'lláh: The King of Glory,
63-4.
548 Samandar, 368.
549 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 202; Zarandi, 455.
550 Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed, 446.
House of the Mayor in Tihran, in which Tahirih was under house arrest at the
end of her life.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

Among the women who were attracted to Tahirih and her message
was a prominent poet, Shams-i-Jahan, the grand-daughter of the
second king of the Qajar dynasty, Fath Ali-Shah.551 She had been able
to make a pilgrimage to Mecca. Once she heard of Tahirih’s presence
in Tihran, she was determined to meet her. In a series of poems
written later, she described their first encounter. She set out one day
with her servant for the home of the mayor without telling anyone.
Arriving at the mayor’s compound, she stepped into the inner court-
yard and crossed over to the building where Tahirih was being held on
the second floor. As she got close, she said a prayer beseeching God
that if Tahirih’s teachings were true, she would be allowed to see her.
A second floor window opened in which Tahirih appeared “like a
brilliant sun” and called down to her. Overcome with emotion, the
princess began to cry while Tahirih smiled. The princess asked her
about her imprisonment, and Tahirih answered that it was because she
proclaimed the truth. The princess came to understand that the ‘truth’
spoken of had to do with the teachings of the young Siyyid from
Shiraz. Abruptly, though, their exchange was cut off by men who were
meant to be guarding Tahirih, and the princess went home longing to
resume their conversation on these spiritual questions.552
The high esteem in which Tahirih was held by the prominent
women of Tihran and the excitement she generated among them were
evident on the evening of the wedding feast held for the mayor’s son.
The house was festooned with decorations, and singers and musicians
were brought in for the celebratory occasion. The women, who
included princesses and wives of important government officials, came
dressed in all of their finery. The celebration got under way with music
playing and food being served. The women sent a message to the
mayor—men and women were segregated from one another—asking
that he allow Tahirih to come and speak to them. Shams-i-Jahan
remembered Tahirih entering with great dignity and speaking with

551 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 143 f. 179.
552 Jinab-i-Avarih, Star of the West vol. 14, No 12 (1924): 359-360.

The Calling

such power that the women forgot the wedding. She moved them to
tears with expressions of her trials and tribulations and then comforted
them with humorous stories. She finished by walking among them
chanting her poems. After this night, even the maids and helpers in the
home became deeply attached to Tahirih.553
The clerical order of Persia, though, had determined by now to
destroy the Babi faith. After the heartbreaking loss of many of his
apostles, the Letters of the Living, and other devout followers at Fort
Tabarsi and other places, the Bab may well have known that his own
days were now approaching their end. He sent letters of instruction to
important disciples calling on them to carry out specific missions. In
early June of 1850, the Bab sent a special locked coffer to his most
important disciple, Jinab-i-Baha, containing letters, seals, pens and
pen-cases, and rings. He wrote one message on a scroll of delicate blue
paper in calligraphy so refined that it appeared not only completely
free from error but also to have been written in one stroke in the form
of a pentacle with five hundred verses containing three-hundred and
sixty derivations of the word ‘Baha’.554
The Prime Minister555 stoked the effort to destroy the insurgent
faith. The time had come to kill it at its head, and so he signed the
Bab’s death warrant. On July 9th, 1850, in a public square in the
northeastern city of Tabriz, the Bab, the former young merchant who
had caused a spiritual revolution by proclaiming to be the revealer of a
new holy book and a manifestation of God and the forerunner of
another manifestation of God, was shot to death by firing squad along
with a young believer who had begged to ascend with him.
The Bab had described himself once in majestic yet mystical lan-
guage:

553 Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 202; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By,
74.
554 Effendi, God Passes By, 69.
555 Mirza Taqi Khan.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

“I am the Mystic Fane, which the Hand of Omnipotence
hath reared. I am the Lamp which the Finger of God hath lit
within its niche and caused to shine with deathless splendor.
I am the Flame of that supernal Light that glowed upon Si-
nai in the gladsome Spot, and lay concealed in the midst of
the Burning Bush.”556
The Bab had made his claims known gradually; only with time did
Babis come to realize their breadth. Shoghi Effendi, the future head of
the Baha’i Faith, explained that, from the later Baha’i perspective, the
Bab was “…one of the self-sufficient Manifestations of God, that He
has been invested with sovereign power and authority, and exercises all
the rights and prerogatives of independent Prophethood…,” and
“…That He is not to be regarded merely as an inspired Precursor of
the Bahá’í Revelation, that in His person,…the object of all the
Prophets gone before Him has been fulfilled….”557
This poem may give us an idea of Tahirih’s emotions during this
painful period. Here, she returns to a theme often expressed with great
power in her poetry—separation from the Beloved:
“I am lost in the heartland of your love,
and yet you do not even seem to care

Look down in pity at this foreigner,
you truest ruler of the kingdoms here,

and tell me, love, how have I sinned, and where?
And why, my idol, does your love prepare

with each breath banish me, strip me bare
like some murderer exiled to nowhere?

556 The Bab, Selections from the Writings of the Bab, (Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1982) 74.
557 Shoghi Effendi, Dispensation, 121.

The Calling


I have waited for you day after day.
I’m weary now. I’m wasted, worn away

to bone, a flute that sighs away my care—
sorrows sung to the wind, and lost in air.

Is there a mind that knows your perfection?
A passion to utter your perfection?

A path that leads me to your perfection?
Beyond you, nothing, and no direction

And when the wandering wind reaches you,
it carries our tormented words to you

Look at these tear-filled eyes, this pallid face—
Can you refuse them? Whom would it disgrace?

Will you not come at daybreak to my bed,
with kindness ravish me, and end my dread?

Lift me, love, on the wings of my desire
Lift me to you, to safety in your fire

Only take me up, away from this place
Set me down in the place that is no place

Yet keep me close to you, far from strife,
since in this empty world, I have no life “558

558 Banani and Kessler, 92-93.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

2.
During his stay in the holy cities of Iraq in 1851, Jinab-i-Baha con-
tinued to actively and fearlessly proclaim the teachings, station, and
claims of the Bab, despite the execution and the terrible persecutions
which had descended on the Babi faithful. He searched for those
individuals who were open to hearing the message and continued to
encourage and uplift his fellow Babis. The time of the fulfillment of
the Bab’s revelation was approaching when the Bab had promised a
second divine outpouring soon after his own.559
In late 1851, Mirza Aqa Khan-i-Nuri, a neighbor of Jinab-i-Baha
from the province of Nur with whom he had stayed many times in his
mansion in the mountains, was appointed the new Prime Minister. He
was able to invite Jinab-i-Baha to return to Persia and expressed the
hope for reconciliation with the Babis. Jinab-i-Baha spent that summer
directing the affairs of the faith from the foothills near Tihran.
Then disaster struck: several Babis, acting out of a desire to avenge
the execution of the Bab and against the expressed warning made to
them by Jinab-i-Baha not to engage in any such action, attempted to
kill the King of Persia on August 15th, 1852. In their deranged grief
they followed through with their half-formed plan which included
defective weapons. The King was traumatized by the attack and
unleashed a brutal persecution of the Babis on a far greater scale than
ever before, greatly encouraged by his mother who carried a deep fear
of the Babis and especially Jinab-i-Baha.
Having forsaken any form of protection, Jinab-i-Baha was taken on
foot and in chains down to the capital under a broiling sun and past
the shouts and jeers of people on the road. Tihran was in a frenzy.
Troops were sent up into the mountains around this time to attack his
village of Takur and destroy his home to prevent a feared Babi upris-
ing there.560

559 Ruhe, Robe, 128.
560 Ibid, 146-7.

The Calling

The authorities also turned on Tahirih who had been under house
arrest in Tihran. She had continued to actively teach the message of
the Bab both in person and in writing. Because of the conditions of
her arrest, she had to sneak out notes and letters to others. Lacking a
pen, she dipped strands of a broom in vegetable juice and wrote them
on paper grocery bags.561
Two important clerics charged with ascertaining her beliefs sum-
moned her to a series of interviews.562 They concluded that her views
were heretical and that she should be put to death, even though killing
a female heretic was contrary to Islamic tradition. This sealed her
death sentence.563 She may also have received this sentence because of
her influence among the noblewomen of Tihran, who, in showing
interest in Tahirih’s teachings, may have created a liability for their
husbands in this period of intensified persecutions of the Babis. Even
the Prime Minister—against whom the queen mother plotted for
influence and power—would have wanted to distance himself from
anything related to Babis, especially if women in his household had
become interested in the radical teachings.564
This poem may have been written at the time of her interrogations
by the two clerics in Tihran and takes the form of a riddle, something

561 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 143; Mázandarání, 328.
562 Ruhe, Robe 150; according to Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 74, there were
seven interviews; Root, Táhirih the pure, 145 f. 39, recorded: “The grandson of
Táhirih who lives in Tihrán told me in March, 1930: “I heard from my own
father that Nasiri'd-Din Shah asked three important Mullás to come and speak
with Táhirih. At this discussion they asked her, 'what are the proofs of your
Faith?' From the Qu'ran she proved it. The mullás tried their best to go against
her, but they were not able to answer her. The Sháh wished a second discussion
to be arranged, but in the second meeting the Mullás did not permit Táhirih to
come. Rather with great haste they begged the government to have her put to
death. Nasiri'd-Din Sháh did not wish Táhirih to be persecuted”.
563 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 74, describes the clerics as the “deputies of the
Grand Vizier”; the clerics were Mulla Ali Kani and Mulla Muhammad
Andarmani.
564 Amanat, “Qurrat al-‘Ayn.” 143, 158, f. 185.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

very uncommon in Persian poetry. In the second couplet she may well
be referring to her interrogators when she writes of the “moralist and
the priest.” The riddle is full of contradictions with complex clues and
surprising turns and includes some of her concepts of union and
separation—”You betray while you promise the union of love -/How
can there be one man who swears two vows?”; and, unity and dual-
ity—”…one man who swears two vows …,” “…one slave with two
names….” In the use of a riddle and these surprising turns, Tahirih
seems almost playful in tone:565
“That mole on your lip, those two curls above:
One seed, two springs—and my poor heart is snared!

A priest, a judge, and I—we talk of love,
but what is there that I can teach two fools?

Your face, your curls, turn day to night, my dove:
One day that is night—two nights in a day?

The grape-vat swells with the vintner’s child of
the vine. The bastard—one dad, and two moms!

Cupbearer! Where’s your wine? Up, Moonface! Move!
Bill them for two—I’ll pay for mine in cash!

Two eyes, and I’m drunk. I’ve lost my heart’s trove:
lost in the Turk’s two cups—yet why one wine?

Your eyebrows’ sword slew thousands, then you drove
whole nations mad—like me—just with your eyes!
You broke your promise, the union of love!
Can any man who swears two vows be good?

565 Banani and Kessler, 120-1.

The Calling


Call me your watchdog, but still I won’t move.
I am your servant: one slave with two names!”566
The attempted killing of the King allowed him,567 his Prime Minis-
ter, and clerics to finally eliminate this woman who had stood up to
them for so long. So in the week after the attempted assassination, the
violence unleashed by authorities finally found Tahirih.
One day, the wife of the mayor came up to her room to see her. The
room was redolent with perfume. Tahirih turned to her and told her
that she was going to meet her beloved—the time of her martyrdom
was coming soon. When that time came, she wished her body to be
placed in the ground and covered over. The wife of the mayor became
filled with anxiety upon hearing this; she had grown to truly love her
guest. Tahirih then gave her a package, and said that a woman would
arrive three days after her death and that she was to give it to her. She
instructed her not to allow anyone else into her room because she
wanted to fast and pray now while waiting for the appointed hour.
The wife of the mayor, in fear over the loss of the woman she loved,
went repeatedly up to her room to listen for sounds. She could hear
Tahirih chanting.
Tahirih’s execution took place in the middle of the night less than
one week after the attempted assassination of the king. Three hours
after sunset, soldiers cleared the streets in the area around the mayor’s
house. No one must witness this movement, so they created a corridor
through the streets between the house of the mayor to the gardens
where the execution was about to take place. They were ordered to fire
on anyone who approached. Such orders reflected the sordid nature of
the act they were carrying out.
At four hours after sunset, soldiers arrived at the door of the mayor’s
house and demanded that Tahirih come with them. The frightened

566 Ibid., 69.
567 Hoseini, 315.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

mayor’s wife approached her room trembling. Tahirih emerged
dressed in her finest clothes, veiled and perfumed as though she were
going to an event of the greatest importance.
Before going downstairs, she gave the mayor’s wife the key to a chest
of her belongings and told her that these objects were to help her to
remember her gladness at the hour of martyrdom. Tahirih asked that
the son of the mayor accompany her to make sure that the soldiers did
not handle her body or remove her clothing after her death, and to act
as a go-between for her.
Downstairs, the soldiers waited with a horse for the prisoner. A cloak
was put over her for a disguise should anyone still be out in the streets
or looking through a window.
Though heavily armed, the soldiers feared attack from Babis as they
rode through the dark streets. They reached the Ilkhani garden outside
the gate of the city. There, an army officer and his soldiers were
drinking. The son approached the officer who ordered that Tahirih be
executed. The son went with two men and gave them her handkerchief
to be used for this purpose. Among her last public words, she issued
this powerful prediction: “You can kill me as soon as you like, but you
cannot stop the emancipation of women.”
After the men had strangled her, the mayor’s son and several others
lowered her body into an empty well and covered it with stones and
dirt. The men then all dispersed.568
Behind them, they left the body of one of the most extraordinary
women in the spiritual and cultural history of Persia. The shame of
their act that night and her sacrifice reverberated down through time.
The Baha’i history, God Passes By, remembered her influence:
“Many and divers are her ardent admirers who, throughout
the five continents, are eager to know more about her. Many
are those whose conduct has been ennobled by her inspiring

568 ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Memorials of the Faithful, 203-204; Shoghi Effendi, God Passes
By, 75; Zarandi, 455-459.

The Calling

Garden of Ilkhani, Tihran, where Tahirih was murdered.
example, who have committed to her memory odes, or set to
music her poems, before whose eyes glows the vision of her
indomitable spirit, in whose hearts is enshrined a love and
admiration that time can never dim, and in whose souls
burns the determination to tread as dauntlessly, and with
that same fidelity, the path she chose for herself, and from
which she never swerved from the moment of her conversion
to the hour of her death.”569
Back at the mayor’s mansion, his wife leaned over the chest contain-
ing the few items Tahirih had left behind in this world:
“As I gazed upon her earthly belongings, I mused over the
circumstances of her eventful life, and recalled, with a throb
of wonder, her intrepid courage, her zeal, her high sense of
duty and unquestioning devotion. I was reminded of her lit-
erary attainments, and brooded over the imprisonments, the
shame, and the calumny which she had faced with a fortitude
such as no other woman in her land could manifest. I pic-
tured to myself that winsome face which now, alas, lay bur-

569 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 76-7.

The Martyrdom of Tahirih

ied beneath a mass of earth and stones. The memory of her
passionate eloquence warmed my heart, as I repeated to my-
self the words that had so often dropped from her lips. The
consciousness of the vastness of her knowledge and her mas-
tery of the sacred scriptures of Islam, flashed through my
mind with a suddenness that disconcerted me. Above all, her
passionate loyalty to the Faith she had embraced, her fervor
as she pleaded its cause, the services she rendered it, the woes
and tribulations she endured for its sake, the example she
had given to its followers, the impetus she had lent to its ad-
vancement, the name she had carved for herself in the hearts
of her fellow-countrymen, all these I remembered as I stood
beside her chest, wondering what could have induced so
great a woman to forsake all the riches and honours with
which she had been surrounded and to identify herself with
the cause of an obscure youth from Shiraz. What could have
been the secret, I thought to myself, of the power that tore
her away from her home and kindred, that sustained her
throughout her stormy career, end eventually carried her to
her grave? Could that force, I pondered, be of God? Could
the hand of the Almighty have guided her destiny and
steered her course amidst the perils of her life?”570
But, to Tahirih, this death was life itself, separation from her Beloved
was the real death. Her Beloved’s words had been her salvation and
now her death meant reunion with him. Martyrdom was the last gift
she could give to express her love for the Bab:
“I will lay my head in the dust before your face.
My idol, this is the holy law I embrace.
You are the Ka’aba that I long to circle ‘round.
A river of tears falls from my eyes to the ground.
So don’t ask me why I’m drunk. Just look at your eyes!

570 Zarandi, 458-9.

The Calling

Don’t tell me that I’ve lost my mind. Look at your face!
O Lord of the worlds! Bend his heart, so unbending!
Or else, release me from this grief where I am drowned.
No life flows from my soul, my tomb brings no ending.
To be with you is life, and separation death.
As I lay dying, your lips moved to speak a word
Of care, and that is the one thing that gives me breath.”571

571 Banani and Kessler, 73.

- 201 -
SEVEN:
SPIRIT, SPIRITUALISM, AND SUFFRAGE
1.
At a Sunday service in 1833, the minister invited anyone who
wanted to be united with the church to come forward. A nine year-old
girl, Antoinette Brown (1825–1921), walked up. Astonished at seeing
someone so young come forward, the minister asked her two simple
questions, and the church voted to accept her. She remembered later
that deep sense of knowing her calling: “I was as deeply and truly
religious at that time, though but nine years of age, as I have ever been
at any age.”572
The Brown family had settled on the frontier in Western New York,
the ‘Burned-Over District’ where new religious movements such as the
Millerites, the Latter Day Saints, and the Shakers were thriving, and
passionate revivals were a regular feature of the spiritual landscape.
They attended a liberal Congregational church where God was
presented as a loving presence that was both near and accessible.573
Antoinette was both spiritually oriented and fortunate enough to
have a father who gave her an education. He sent her to the Monroe
Academy where she was taught a more rigorous curriculum than most
girls received which included mathematics, French, composition, and
rhetoric. At fifteen, she was hired to be a teacher in a small district
school. A farmer came to pick-up ‘Ms. Brown’ on her first day, having
torn out the old planks from his old farm wagon and replaced them
with a carriage seat. Her real ambition, though, was to become a
minister. To do this, she knew she needed more education but did not
want to go to a school which taught only home-making skills.574

572 Elizabeth Cazden, Antoinette Brown Blackwell, A Biography (Old Westbury,
NY: The Feminist Press, 1983), 3.
573 Ibid., 7-9.
574 Ibid., 13-16.

The Calling

She set her sights on Oberlin College, run by the great preacher
Charles Finney, a family friend; its catalogue announced that the
college educated “the female character by bringing within the reach of
the misjudged and neglected sex all the instructive privileges which
hitherto have unreasonably distinguished the leading sex from
theirs.”575 Her childhood then came to an abrupt end with the passing
of her sister and brother from tuberculosis and her mother from a
serious illness due to physical exhaustion from having given birth so
many times in a row.576
After an arduous journey by canal and wagon, she arrived in the flat,
swampy land where Oberlin stood. The college was infused with
Finney’s sense of moral urgency, and the school was aflame with the
abolitionist cause. There were several African-American students and
ten percent of the town’s population was African-American—some
escaped slaves, some free persons. Though female students were
allowed to take demanding academic courses, they were not allowed to
speak in public settings. Even the school’s Ladies Board did not
approve of this and so were very displeased when Lucy Stone spoke at
a public celebration. Inspired by Stone, some female students started
their own Ladies Literary Society and met clandestinely in the home of
a black woman to practice their public speaking skills on topics such as
“Egotism” and “The Qualifications to be a Minister’s Wife.”577
Brown’s road to the ministry was to be a difficult one even in a place
like Oberlin; a professor there wrote that it was “improper” for women
to become lawyers and ministers.578 Even Mrs. Finney and the Ladies
Board discouraged Brown in her study of theology because she could
never be wise enough to compare to the “great men of the past.”579

575 Ibid., 16.
576 Ibid., 17-18.
577 Ibid., 21-32.
578 Ibid., 35.
579 Ibid., 36.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

Brown continued with her theological studies and applied to Oberlin
for a license to preach. Though she was refused official sanction, the
college did not try to stop her public speaking, and she organized
lectures on popular topics like ‘Temperance’ in nearby churches aided
by the support of other students. As her days at Oberlin drew to a
close, she was unsure about her next steps. She did not apply for
ordination from the College because she knew this would be very
difficult and preferred to be ordained by a church congregation who
wanted her as its pastor. When she graduated at age twenty-five, her
name was not included on the list of graduates because a woman was
not supposed to study theology in any official capacity. Still, Brown
was looking forward towards the future.580
Soon after graduation and encouraged by her good friend Lucy
Stone, Brown presented a refutation of the Biblical foundation for the
prohibition of women speaking in public at the National Women’s
Rights Convention. Her talents were validated by the Convention, so
Brown decided to try to make her living as a public speaker. In those
times, lectures were a source of evening activity for people as there
were no radios, televisions, or movies. Soon, with the help of friends
from the Convention, Brown was lecturing throughout New England,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York.581
On a speaking trip through central New York State, the village of
South Butler offered her a position as pastor in its church. They had
been unable to hire a minister and had even taken on a black preacher
for a while. After considering the offer for several months, Brown
agreed to take the position. She rented rooms in a physician’s home
and enthusiastically set to work giving two sermons on Sundays and
carrying out her pastoral duties. Antoinette Brown had become the
first woman to be ordained a minister in the history of the United
States.582

580 Ibid., 50-52.
581 Ibid., 57-62.
582 Ibid., 73-82.

The Calling


Olympia Brown.
Ironically, some of her important female friends in the women’s
rights movement did not support her religious avocation because they
thought of religion as a
mighty barrier; this
caused
her
much
distress, and she began
to doubt some of her
own religious convic-
tions.583
While
she
participated in reform
meetings, she found the
squabbling
between
factions discouraging;
once, she was drowned
out by hecklers at a
women’s rights conven-
tion.584
Olympia
Brown
(1835-1926) idolized
Antoinette Brown and
also sought ordination. She had been strongly encouraged by her
mother to pursue her education. After enrolling in Mount Holyoke,
she found that there were low expectations for female students from
the professors.585 Eventually she changed to another progressive school,
Antioch College. Even there, less was expected of women; women
were not invited there as lecturers. As a reaction to this, she asked her
idol, Antoinette Brown, to come and speak.586

583 Ibid., 86.
584 Ibid., 80-82.
585 Charlotte Cote, Olympia Brown: The Battle for Equality (Racine, WI: Mother
Courage Press 1988), 34.
586 “Biography,” Olympia Brown Papers, ca.1849-1963; item description, dates. A-
69, folder #. Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

Antioch’s president at the time was the legendary American educator
Horace Mann. Olympia Brown received an excellent education there,
despite the restrictions on women, so much so that her entire family
moved to Antioch to enable all of her siblings to attend the school.587
Olympia pursued the goal of becoming a minister. Theological
schools such as the Unitarian Theological School in Meadville,
Pennsylvania, did not admit women because the trustees thought this
was “too great an innovation.”588 She chose St. Lawrence University in
Canton, New York,589 a regularly established theological school whose
president “did not think women were called to the ministry. But I
leave that between you and the Great Head of the Church,”590 and
became its first female graduate.591
She achieved this distinction in 1863, ten years after Antoinette
Brown. Whereas, Antoinette Brown was ordained by a single congre-
gation, Olympia Brown was ordained by a whole denomination, the
Universalists—the one in which she had been raised.592 She preached
for forty-eight years593 and also pastored churches in Massachusetts,
Connecticut, and Wisconsin.594 On the subject of women in the
ministry, she asserted that “…no profession is so well suited to women
in their various relations of wife, mother, or housekeeper as the
ministry.”595

http://oasis.lib.harvard.edu/oasis/deliver/~sch00054
587 Noble, Laurie Varter, “Olympia Brown,” Dictionary of Unitarian and
Universalist Biography. Unitarian Universalist History and Heritage Society,
accessed May 5, 2013,
http://uudb.org/articles/olympiabrown.html.
588 Olympia Brown, Acquaintances, Old and New (Milwaukee: S.E. Tate, 1911),
27.
589 Ibid.
590 Noble.
591 Ibid.
592 Ibid.
593 Brown, Acquaintances, Old and New, 31.
594 “Brown, Olympia, 1835-1926. Papers, ca. 1849-1963: A Finding A”.
595 Brown, Acquaintances, Old and New, 31.

The Calling

Olympia Brown lived a long and productive life, speaking at
women’s conventions, writing books, working for the equal rights for
women, and laboring for reform. She lived well past 1880, when there
were one-hundred and sixty-five ordained female ministers with
parishes.596
The time of the preaching women had arrived.
2.
By the mid-1800s, American women were making themselves felt as
movers in public life through their participation in reform movements
and spiritualism. Even more remarkable was the appearance of a few
women who had a broad impact through their personal teaching,
speaking, and formulation of new ideas which caught on with the
general public. Their struggles and successes reflected the powerful
changes wrought by the great awakenings.
One such woman was Ellen G. White (1827–1915) whose thought
and writings shaped an entire Christian denomination, the Seventh-
Day Adventists, which had its historical roots in the preaching farmer
from New York, William Miller.
1863 was an important year for White.
Born into a farming family of eight children, she grew up in the
small city of Portland, Maine. She was severely injured on her way to
school when a classmate threw a rock at her which hit her in the head.
Three years later, in precarious health, she entered the Methodist
church at a revival during which she asked to be baptized by immer-
sion. Around this time, the family became convinced by the teachings
of William Miller on the Second Coming. While worshipping with a
small Adventist group, she had a vision of Adventists entering the City
of God. She then travelled to the small scattered groups of Advent-
ists—who were by now quite divided and discouraged—to tell them of

596 Cazden, 227.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

her visions. Some took this as a teaching sent from God through
Ellen.597
Ellen married James White, an Adventist preacher, in 1846. The
young couple struggled economically, and James had to work multiple
jobs. She continued to have visions which showed her new com-
mandments regarding the keeping of the Sabbath. Ellen bore a son but
soon began travelling and preaching again to Adventist groups, feeling
compelled to do so by a powerful sense of calling. James began print-
ing a semi-monthly paper, The Present Truth, which gave an outlet for
Ellen’s writings. Her articles offered guidance, admonitions, and
prophecy regarding the church and its future. Her first book, A Sketch
of the Christian Experience and Views of Ellen G. White, came out in
1851.
After some years of great struggle, the Whites moved to Battle Creek,
Michigan, where the Adventists built them a home. The community
spread the Adventist teachings using Ellen’s writings. She and her
husband covered many miles in all kinds of weather to serve their
faith. By 1860, the White family had grown by six children, and their
Adventist work begat an administrative structure, the General Confer-
ence, in 1863.
In June of that year, White had a powerful vision which led her to
teach the importance of health and health reform, including the
founding of an institute to care for the sick. She advocated new ideas
about healthy eating and a balanced diet in a time when a good meal
meant meat and gravy, and she eschewed the use of tobacco. She wrote
three books on this important topic when almost no one paid any
attention to it. People, she believed, lived frenetic lives supported by

597 Arthur L. White, “Ellen G. White: A Brief Biography,” The Ellen G. White
Estate, Inc., accessed November 4, 2013.
http://www.whiteestate.org/about/egwbio.asp.

The Calling

Ellen White and Family.
stimulants, whereas “sleep and repose” were “nature's great restor-
ers.”598
In addition, White wrote important works on education in which
she stressed that children had to be educated to rule their passions by
being engaged as thoughtful beings and not by being trained by
rote.599 They must not be taught in an oppressive way because this
prevented them from developing inner-directed self-discipline.600 Also,
parents and teachers themselves must demonstrate the moral capacity
to be successful in this important work.601
White wrote on many subjects including music, theology, the end
times, and the nature of salvation. Her influence in shaping the
teachings and organization of the church came primarily from her

598 Ellen G. White, “Proper Education,” The Health Reformer v. 7, # 9 (1872):
284-6.
599 Ibid., 284.
600 Ibid., 284.
601 Ibid., 284.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

prodigious written outpouring which, though not considered Scrip-
ture, was greatly valued by Adventists. During her lifetime, she wrote
some five-thousand articles and forty books; she may well be the most
translated female writer in history due to the worldwide missionary
work of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church.
In this period, there arose another American woman who was very
interested in the relationship between faith and health, who wrote
prolifically, who lived through deep pain in near constant uncertainty
and poverty to finally find her calling—to develop and teach a ‘spiri-
tual science’ of health. She became the only woman ever in history to
found a major Christian denomination, the Church of Christ, Scien-
tist: Mary Baker Eddy (1821–1910).
As a little girl, Mary remembered going through her grandmother’s
trunk in 1820s-30s rural New Hampshire and taking out an old rusty
sword, a yellowing news article on the death of George Washington,
sonnets written by a female relative and accounts of the doomed
Covenanters, a Presbyterian Scottish sect. Her grandmother was a
living link to New Hampshire’s frontier past and she loved to read−too
much so for her husband’s liking. Mary’s memory of sitting in an old
rocking chair with her, reliving the frontier days, remained a constant
one throughout her life, so much so that she always tried to keep a
rocking chair in her possession.602
Mary was the last of six children whose mother maintained a warm
and loving home and whose father was very severe. In her teens, he
moved the family to the prospering town of Sanbornton Bridge near
Concord, New Hampshire, which had a growing textile industry. She
retained fond memories of her early childhood and wrote down four
stories from it that later elicited considerable reaction. In one story, she
took a pin and poked her father with it as he led family prayer in his
usual declamatory manner, prefiguring how she would later stand up
to men in her adult life and seek to get out from under her father’s
domination. Mary was the bookish one in the family and was always

602 Gillian Gill, Mary Baker Eddy, (Cam bridge, MS: Perseus Books 1998) 5.

The Calling

willing to debate her father in theology. He may even have tried to
hide books from her when he became concerned that she preferred
reading more than playing outside with other children.603
In another episode, Mary remembers being eight years old and hear-
ing a voice calling her but it wasn’t her mother’s. Her mother then
read to her a Bible story in which the child Samuel hears a voice and
exclaims “Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth”—the words of com-
mitment to God. When Mary answered the voice with the words of
Samuel, it went quiet. She later told a related story of being twelve
years old and at her church confirmation, when she came down with a
fever because of the repulsion she felt for the doctrine of predestina-
tion. Her mother urged her to pray, and, after doing so, Mary emerged
fully cured, much to the doctor’s amazement. These two stories
showed to her later followers that she had a mystical connection with
God even as a child.604
The fourth important story from her childhood was a conversation
with her mother in which she asked if her mother believed in eternal
punishment. Her mother, who had taught her daughter to say, “I am
sorry and will not do so again,” answered that she supposed this
teaching was true.605 Mary responded:
“What if we repent and tell God ‘we are sorry and will not
do so again’—will God punish us? Then He is not as good as
my mother and He will find me a hard case.”606
Mary loved her mother dearly, and her mother’s devotion formed in
her mind a concept of God that had female attributes as well as the
traditional male ones. Her concept of the Divine would always have a
strong female principle.

603 Gill, 36.
604 Ibid., 9-11.
605 Ibid., 13.
606 Ibid.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

She also adored her other brothers George and Albert but saw little
of her eldest brother, Samuel, because he had moved to Boston.
George never lived up to his talents because of his excessive use of
alcohol and tobacco. Mary’s passionate teaching against these two
substances may well have had an emotional connection to the loss of
the promise of George’s life. Her second brother, Albert, also left the
religious path and put himself through law school. He made his way
into politics, patronized by the Pierce family which later produced a
president. Just as his star was rising, and he was poised to enter
Congress, he died of a kidney ailment. Still only a teenager, Mary
grieved deeply for her beloved brother and in some profound way,
may have determined to follow him in public achievement.607
Mary’s father was very stern, hard-working, and frugal, and had a
very strong Protestant work ethic which may have made life hard for
his three sons. Even as the family prospered materially after its move,
the father still drove his daughters to church in the old work wagon
instead of a new chaise much to his teenage daughters’ embarrassment.
He did not allow his daughters to attend dances, but he did support
his daughters’ education. He was very involved in local school matters,
including planning the school itself, and sent his daughters to an
excellent local school after the family moved.608
One of the main challenges of Mary’s life was sickliness, which ran in
the family but hit her the hardest. While there is no evidence of
hysteria in her youth—a common criticism by her detractors—she did
suffer a broad range of back pains, colds, and indigestions, which were
not unusual for that time. Some have posited that these constant
illnesses were a way of her skirting around her father’s rules; suspi-
ciously, in letters between the sisters, complaints about being ill were
followed by an account of some pleasurable activity they were able to
engage in as a result of not having to work due to illness. The romantic
and fashionable ideal of a young woman at the time was that of a

607 Ibid., 17-21.
608 Ibid., 31.

The Calling

passive and sickly creature with a pale countenance. There is evidence
that she and her sisters vied for being the sickest. Mary’s constant state
of illness seems to have been a pattern among American women;
Catherine Beecher noted that most of the women she knew were
invalids. Physical illnesses of various kinds remained a constant in her
life making her increasingly despairing of medicine.609
After her sisters left home, Mary may have been kept back to help
her mother. Her sickliness did not really allow her to be a teacher, so
she turned to writing. In the 1840s, journalism was a possible—
though very difficult—professional path for women. Fortunately, her
family supported this aspiration and soon her poems were being
published. She had also become a physically attractive young woman.
A description based on her neighbor’s account was published much
later:
“As a young woman she was slim, alert, and graceful. Of me-
dium height, she had a well-formed figure which she has not
lost even in her old age. Her feet and hands were exquisitely
fashioned. Her features were regular and refined—a delicate
aquiline nose, a rather long and pointed chin, a firm mouth,
and a high, broad forehead. Her most striking feature was
her big, grey eyes. Deep-set and overhung by dark lashes,
they had the gift of emotional expression. “When she was
angry,” says an old neighbor, “they became fairly black.” All
her life, those eyes have had such an effect upon their be-
holders that they may justly be called an important factor in
her career. Her skin was clear red and white, and her hair was
wavy brown.”610
Many young men were interested in her because of her beauty and
her family’s improved social position. In 1843, she accepted the
marriage proposal of George Glover; his sister was married to Mary’s

609 Ibid., 40-45.
610 Ibid., 52.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

eldest brother, and Glover also physically resembled her brother
George. Mary was in love—following the usual romantic conventions
of the day—but her father found George’s character suspect and did
not like him. George was involved in a variety of business ventures that
depended on slave labor, but he did not tell this to his young bride.
She moved down to Charleston, SC, where she seems to have enjoyed
a happy life and became pregnant. George, though, was stricken ill and
died after just two weeks.
After giving birth to a son in September, Mary found herself in the
extremely difficult position of being a young widow with a child. Her
husband died without leaving much money, and she didn’t have her
own source of income. She first attempted journalism as a source of
income but was too isolated in New Hampshire from major urban
centers, and so she started a school for preschoolers, but it soon failed
because of financial pressures; very few independent schools were
sustainable in those days, and widows were seldom employed by other
schools. She now had few options, and for seven years, from 1844-
1853, she lived near poverty, dependent on her relatives.611
Mary was now almost constantly ill. In 1849, her beloved mother
died. While her death deeply affected Mary, her father’s quick remar-
riage to a widow may have hit her even harder. She saw how easily and
quickly her gifted and dutiful mother had been replaced. She struggled
on as a widow, but the problem of caring for her boy now over-
whelmed her, so she placed him in the care of their family nurse.
Unbeknownst to Mary, the nurse’s husband would treat him cruelly.
She desperately needed a husband for support. Because of her severe
dental problems, she went to see a dentist, Daniel Patterson, who soon
declared his love for her and became her second husband. Patterson
was both handsome, clean, and orderly—something that was very
important to Mary who remembers not being able to sleep as a child
unless her shoes were straightened.612

611 Ibid., 69-79.
612 Ibid., 85-101.

The Calling

But Patterson turned out to be a poor provider and a philanderer;
still, the two seemed to have genuinely cared for one another. The
couple was soon mired in poverty. Mary now began to exhibit symp-
toms that were very
much like hysteria; she
may well have turned
her emotions inward—
as many women did—
which, in turn, pre-
sented themselves as
back pain and indiges-
tion. In one remarkable
story
showing
the
possibly psycho-somatic
nature of her illnesses,
Mary jumped out of
her bed—despite being
‘sick’—to protect her
husband who was being
assaulted by a father
and his axe-wielding
son.613 Stories like this
caused
snickering
among
townspeople
who saw Mary’s illness
as faked and were unsympathetic to any woman who did not work as
hard as they did. Others, though, remembered her having a powerful
presence and great kindness which attracted children.614
The couple moved from one set of rooms to another, town to town,
but still their financial situation did not improve. When her niece

613 Ibid., 107.
614 Robert Peel, Mary Baker Eddy: The Years of Discovery 1821-1875, (Boston,
MA: The Christian Science Publishing Society, 1966) 122.
Mary Baker Eddy.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

passed away, she was unable to join her family in mourning. She also
could not repay a debt that she owed to her sister who then suffered as
a result. Worst of all, her husband refused to allow her son George to
visit her because he was concerned that the boy’s wild behavior would
make Mary’s health worse.615 George’s surrogate family then moved to
Minnesota, taking him far from his troubled mother. This was a final
blow, and she began a slow turning away from the world.616
During the late 1850s, she spent much time going over the homeo-
pathic materials belonging to her husband. When she saw several
patients use homeopathic remedies, Mary began to consider a ‘mental’
approach to illness617 and took her first steps towards an entirely new
life in the person of Dr. Phineas P. Quimby.
Phineas Quimby, a charismatic clockmaker with a lively mind but
little formal education, became interested in various new ‘sciences’ of
healing: mesmerism, a form of hypnotism with clairvoyance; spiritual-
ism, in which he acted as a medium; and ‘rubbing’, a form of laying
on of hands and manipulation.618 Mary came to him exasperated by
current medicine and open to new ways of treating her persistent
ailments. Quimby had come to believe in a ‘mind’ orientation towards
healing in which mind meant ‘spiritual’.619
Mary had tremendous faith in Quimby, and after her first visit to
him in 1862, she felt better. One of the later accusations against Mary
was that she accepted the use of mesmerism from Quimby, but in her
later writings, she repudiated both the popular mesmerism and
spiritualism of the day, and there is no evidence that these formed any
part of her own approaches to treatment. Though she always remained
grateful to Quimby and stayed under the spell of his powerful person-
ality for several years—even if only through letter writing—her good

615 Ibid., 116.
616 Ibid., 118.
617 Ibid., 136.
618 Ibid., 164.
619 Ibid., 153.

The Calling

health did not last. She also developed some distinctively different
ideas from him. To Mary, God was at the center: “…that God is the
only healer and healing principle, and that Principle is divine not
human.”620
The God of the Bible seemed different to her from Quimby’s con-
cept of ‘mind’ and ‘thought’. To Mary, God, was transcendent and
not merely part of the body’s ‘energy’. God was not ‘in man’, rather,
she asked, “Is not our comforter always from outside and above
ourselves?”621 She came to rely on a God beyond human comprehen-
sion whereas, for Quimby, God was present, and ‘thought’ was to be
used by man for his own healing. She would always remember
Quimby fondly, but his system did not allow sufficiently for the
healing power of a transcendent God’s grace.622
Another frequent accusation against Mary was that her ideas ex-
pressed later in her life were plagiarized from Quimby, but he did not
write down his theories and practices; it was his assistant who did so.
The relationship between Mary and Quimby was very dialogical which
helped both of them develop their ideas further.623
Since Mary’s husband was still unable to provide for her, she had to
rely on her sister’s generosity to supplement her meager income. She
was coming into her own ideas. In early 1864, she gave a well-received
public talk regarding the metaphysical dimensions of healing.624 In
these months she began to think that there must be a ‘science’ of
Christianity:
“…when I found that Quimbyism was too short, and would
not answer the cry of the human heart for succor, for real

620 Ibid., 205.
621 Ibid., 170.
622 Ibid., 159-160.
623 The assistant’s name was Sarah Ware (Gill, 138-146).
624 Peel, 178.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

aid, I went, being driven thence by my extremity, to the Bi-
ble, and there I discovered Christian Science.”625
God was revealing Himself through his holy laws even in this in-
creasingly scientific age, and knowledge of these laws was an eternal
science.626
In the small town of Warren, Massachusetts, Mary gave two more
public lectures to counter the view that she was a spiritualist. The most
important event of those two months in Warren was her successful
treatment of a patient’s ills because it gave her confidence in her own
skills. She moved in again with her husband who was by now a known
philanderer and an embarrassment to her. She became socially active as
the presiding officer of the local temperance organization by which she
gained valuable administrative experience. Then personal loss struck
again. In the fall of 1865, her father, the towering figure of her
childhood, passed away; he left most of his estate to his grandson and
one dollar to Mary. A few months later, Quimby, who was playing
such a large role in her new life, died as well.627
Her life now turned the corner. On Thursday evening of February
1st, 1866, Mary slipped on the ice, badly injuring herself. During the
next few days, the doctor visited her at her bedside. He was very
concerned about her condition. Helpless in bed that Sunday after-
noon, she asked that a Bible be brought to her, and she read from it.
Soon, she felt flooded with the presence of Jesus and rose out of her
bed. The doctor came the next day and to his amazement—and
concern—she was up and about.628 She remembered later:
“That short experience included a glimpse of the great fact
that I have since tried to make plain to others, namely, Life

625 Ibid., 183.
626 Ibid., 179.
627 Ibid., 184-192.
628 Ibid., 195-7.

The Calling

in and of Spirit; this Life being the sole reality of exis-
tence.”629
Later, she called this the beginning of Christian Science: “It was in
Massachusetts, in February, 1866,…that I discovered the Science of
divine metaphysical healing which I afterwards named Christian
Science.”630 Mary was now convinced that healing could happen when
an individual was open to it as it flowed from God through the
Bible.631
A new life had begun for her.
By the end of 1866, she was sure of her own ideas. She divorced her
husband. Age forty-five, poor, but certain of her powerful vision, she
concentrated on her theological writing. Her first work was a com-
mentary on the Book of Genesis. In her interpretation of the phrase,
“In the beginning,” from Genesis meant God and Spirit. Man was in
the image of God, wholly good.632
Mary continued to live as a poor wanderer; from 1866 to 1870, she
moved nine times. She gathered a group of students around her to
whom she imparted her theology and healing. In Lynn, MA, she built
a successful practice with the help of a talented student. Some students
were loyal to her, others took the knowledge they had acquired from
her and went off on their own, and some even turned against her,
leveling criticisms that her healing was essentially ‘mesmerism’. This
kind of criticism by students who had been her close friends was
personally painful to her,633 but her group of students continued to
grow because she had a great deal of personal charisma, and her
influence spread.634

629 Ibid., 197.
630 Gill, 162.
631 Ibid, 168.
632 Peel, 205-207.
633 Gill, 203.
634 Ibid, 172.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

The foundational text of Mary’s Christian Science, Science and
Health, was published in 1875. This text went through numerous
revisions until 1907, when it reached the mature form and was read in
Christian Science churches everywhere. The original book was an
audacious attempt for the time—by a woman no less—to deal with
major theological questions. Mary was also not a person with a
classical education, and therefore, it took great courage for her to put
her ideas out in public in a printed form. The flow of her ideas was
decidedly non-linear and suffered from a disorganization which was
corrected in later revisions.635
The first edition of Science and Health began with Mary going to
great lengths to distinguish Christian Science from Spiritualism. She
reinterpreted the origins of the world in Genesis and the Virgin birth
of Jesus and presented a new way of looking at Jesus’s life, death, and
resurrection. She then explained her very particular ideas on prayer,
atonement, marriage, and physiology and closed with her views on
healing.
The natural state of human beings was wellness. Sickness could be
eliminated by following the laws and examples of Jesus. The soul was
more powerful than the body and could rule it:636
“When we possess a true sense of our oneness with God, and
learn we are spirit alone, and not matter, we shall have no
such opinins as these, but will triumph over all sickness, sin,
and death, thus proving our God-being.”637
By following in the footsteps of Christ and living by the holy law we,
too, could perform the miracles attributed to Jesus which, from this
point of view, were demonstrations that Spirit ruled over matter. Such
teachings were shocking to her fellow Christians. The many rewrites to

635 Ibid., 217.
636 Ibid., 222.
637 Ibid., 221.

The Calling

come tried to make them more palatable for a public possibly unready
for a naked expression of her thoughts.638
The next years were ones of intense activity with the publication of
Science and Health, the acquisition of her first home, the founding of
the Christian Science Association, and her marriage to Mr. Asa Eddy.
She engaged in ill-advised lawsuits—encouraged by a student—and
suffered betrayals by former students. Still, the movement grew, and in
1879, the Association formed the Church of Christ, Scientist. She
became its pastor in 1881. The construction of a Mother Church was
completed in Boston by 1894.639 Though there were many attacks on
Mary Baker Eddy and the movement, both from within and without,
the most important attack was a series of articles put out by the ‘yellow
journalist’ Joseph Pulitzer that hammered away at some of the criti-
cisms and rumors which had always followed Eddy and included,
among others that she had taken her teachings from Quimby, that she
had known more men in her life than was appropriate, and that she
had been a hysteric as a child. She was also ridiculed by prominent
Americans such as Mark Twain, who described Eddy as a, “sordid and
ignorant old purloiner of that gospel.”640
Mary Baker Eddy’s extraordinarily rocky ride from a sickly farm girl
to being the only female founder of a major Christian denomination,
as well as a deep theological thinker, charismatic teacher, administrator
and leader, was bound to attract much criticism. While such attacks
from men could be expected, her main challenge in later years came
from another unorthodox belief system, spiritualism.
3.
During her career as a religious leader, Eddy argued forcefully against
spiritualism in her effort to distinguish it from her teachings. Spiritual-

638 Ibid., 222.
639 Ibid., xxxi-xxxxv.
640 Mark Twain, Autobiography of Mark Twain, Volume 1: The Complete and
Authoritative Edition (NY, NY: Harper Collins 1990) 136.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

ism had spread very rapidly. Eddy accused most spiritualist mediums
of being frauds, and that spiritualist beliefs lessened personal moral
responsibility by allowing for continued contact after death. She asked
why a soul, once freed from the struggles of this world, would want to
keep in such close touch, like a butterfly wanting to remain a caterpil-
lar.641 The practical reason she spent so many pages attempting to
refute spiritualism may have been, in part, because spiritualism had
become enormously popular in the United States, and Christian
Science, in a sense, was its ‘competitor’. Strange as it may have ap-
peared and spontaneously as it may have arisen, spiritualism hit a
nerve among many thousands of Americans and brought women into
public-speaking roles in substantial numbers for the first time.
From its beginnings in 1848 when the Fox girls were thought to be
communicating with the spirit world, spiritualism spread rapidly. This
movement had no formal organization—no ‘church’ nor clergy;
rather, it spread through public presentations during which a medium
spoke in a ‘trance’ state like an empty vessel through which the spirit
world communicated to the audience. Most mediums were women;
people tended to trust the communications of younger women who
were seen as more innocent than older women. In fact, medium-ship
advantaged all the qualities which were more valued in women of the
19th century such as passivity, emotionality, and physical weakness.
The very qualities which made women dependent in society made
them religious leaders in the spiritualist movement. Female mediums
saw themselves as having been chosen for this role because of their
passivity and meekness.642 They were helpless before the spiritual
power which moved through them. One such medium recalled:
“…that I, a woman and moreover, “a lady by birth,” and
English, above all, that I would go out, like “strong minded
woman,” and hector the world, on public platform! Oh,

641 Gill, 220-1.
642 Braude, Radical Spirits, 82.

The Calling

shocking! I vowed rebellion—to give up Spirits, Spiritualism,
and America; to return to England and live “a feminine exis-
tence” once again. With these magnanimous resolves upon
me one week, the next saw me on a public platform, fairly be-
fore the world as a trance speaker.”643
To most people, women standing up to speak in public with little
preparation was itself evidence that they were being controlled from
the spirit world, and in some sense, ‘unconscious’. As one reporter
observed:
“…lady trance speakers have never been able, nor even at-
tempted, as far as we know, to give such lectures in the nor-
mal state.”644
An experienced trance speaker, Lizzie Doten, wrote of the spiritual
connection women had:
“Woman does not need to cultivate her intellect in order to
perceive spiritual truths. Let her live, only, true to her Divine
nature and her spiritual perceptions.” “Make a home in your
heart for God and His angels shall come, and all that is
needed for spiritual perception and development comes in
with that inspiration…But God does not wait for this [edu-
cation]. He has made woman a religious teacher….”645
Young, innocent, and untrained girls like Cora Hatch and Fanny
Burbank, who were trance speakers when still teenagers, were evidence
for many people of the existence of a capacity in women to make a
direct connection with the spirit world through their unconscious.646
By the late 1850s, trance mediums quickly outnumbered all other
speakers. In early 1860, a spiritualist paper listed twenty-three women

643 Ibid, 84.
644 Ibid., 85.
645 Ibid., 85-6.
646 Ibid., 86-87.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

speakers, and by the end of the year, the list had doubled; by compari-
son, in the whole pre-Civil War period there had been roughly twenty-
five female reform speakers.647
Mrs. Bushnell spoke in a trance in several states in 1850, soon after
the beginning of the movement. Mrs. Herrick gave radical trance
lectures in Chicago in the early 1850s. Mrs. Britt did this every
Sunday in St. Louis. By the mid-1850s, weekly trance lectures in
spiritualist meetings took place in many cities, and some women had
permanent positions doing this such as Cora Hatch in Buffalo, NY,
Achsa Sprague in South Reading, VT, and Charlotte Beebe in Mil-
waukee, WI. A female speaker as well-known as Antoinette Brown
Blackwell could not secure a regular speaking position in one city
while the medium, Ms. Gibson, sold out a concert hall in Augusta,
Maine, for six nights in a row.648
Trance speaking provided a transitional phase from women having to
be silent in public life to women lecturing and preaching openly. The
trance state itself helped women overcome their normal fears of public
speaking. Believing themselves to be spiritually guided, trance medi-
ums felt a special calm come over them whereas many reform speakers
continued to feel great trepidation. Even as fervent a reformer as Susan
B. Anthony hesitated about speaking in public.649 Also, women, being
the ‘weaker’ vessel, were not supposed to speak loudly, so just being
heard could be an issue; as one female reformer who opposed public
speaking by women herself noted: “…ladies did not come there to
screech; they came to behave like ladies and to speak like ladies.”650
Whether people believed the content of the trance talks or not,
simply seeing women speaking publicly went a long way towards
making audiences more comfortable with conceiving of women in a
public role. One very skeptical male reporter noted that the trance

647 Ibid., 90-92.
648 Ibid., 92.
649 Ibid., 96-7.
650 Ibid., 97.

The Calling

speaker was eloquent and moving and that he’d “…never heard so
beautiful and touching an exhortation.”651
Spiritualism affected the rise of the women’s rights movement. The
two groups shared many leaders in common and flowed through the
same social networks—initially that of the Quakers. Both movements
challenged standard beliefs and practices among Americans. The most
radical members of the women’s movement tended to be spiritual-
ists.652
Elizabeth Lowe Watson was an example of a woman who was very
active locally in the spiritualist movement and a supporter of the
struggle for women’s rights. Born in Ohio, she grew up to become a
travelling speaker and wrote inspirational poems and essays. Her
husband and she gave generously of their personal wealth and were
constantly engaged in humanitarian efforts. As their health declined
and they experienced financial reversal, the couple moved to California
where Elizabeth became the regular pastor of the First Spiritual Union
of San Francisco. Soon, she was a regular speaker at the Golden Gate
Religious and Philosophical Society of San Francisco where she drew
increasingly large and devoted audiences. She made two lengthy trips,
one to Australia and another to the East Coast, and on both trips
spoke extensively and was much sought after. After the turn of the
century, she served for two years as the President of the California
Equal Suffrage Association.653 She understood spiritualism to mean
that the spirit world existed within and around the world of nature.654

651 Ibid., 95.
652 Ibid., 60.
653 Julia Schlesinger, “J. J. Morse,” Psypioneer Journal, Volume 8, No 10 (October
2012): f. 23, 342; Mae Silver, “Elizabeth Lowe Watson,”
DigitalArchive@Foundsf, accessed October 26, 2013,
http://www.foundsf.org/index.php?title=Elizabeth_Lowe_Watson.
654 Elizabeth Lowe Watson, Song and Sermon (The Thicks Judd Company: San
Fransisco, CA, 1905), 148.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

Through wisdom both the individual and the infinite were linked.655
She saw a ‘new woman’ coming:
“The Coming Woman”: Yes! She is swiftly coming, and be-
hold! within her hands/She bears a precious passport to all
Life's Treasure-lands; / A Title Deed of Self-hood and full
freedom to pursue / All the highways and byways to the
Beautiful and True.”656
In keeping with the reforming spirit that change was possible, she
wrote of progress: “The evils under which humanity groans are not a
necessity. Ignorance and selfishness are curable.”657
Spiritualism tended to encourage a very individualistic stance in its
rejection of many gender roles including those taught in mainstream
churches. This emphasis on individualism tended to attract like-
minded people such as radical abolitionists and ardent proponents of
other reform efforts like the temperance, Indian rights, and anti-capital
punishment movements. The more radical reformers tended to be very
‘religious’, but they rejected the church’s association with things which
they deemed evil such as slavery. Spiritualism provided such people
with some form of spiritual life without the dogmas and institutions of
established churches. The fast growing network of spiritualists was able
to marshal large groups of reform-minded individuals from different
causes. One large gathering in Rhode Island stated that, “all depart-
ments of human improvement and practical reform come legitimately
within the scope of a broad Spiritualism.”658 The Spiritualists joined
themselves to various reform movements because, “spiritual growth
and welfare depends on [one’s] physical health and surroundings.”659
There were many famous reformers like William Lloyd Garrison, the

655 Watson 23.
656 Ibid., 25.
657 Ibid., 48.
658 Braude, Radical Spirits, 69.
659 Ibid., 69.

The Calling

Grimke sisters, and Thomas Wentworth Higginson, among others,
who believed in spiritualism but did not identify themselves as such.660
Though often overlooked in the historical record, spiritualists con-
tributed significantly to the efforts to gain the right to vote for women
with their iconoclastic beliefs and practices and their fearlessness.
Although not all women’s rights activists were spiritualists, all female
spiritualists were women’s rights activists.
4.
The women’s rights advocates were originally a movement within
other reform movements such as abolitionism.661 Their push to make
women’s suffrage the ultimate goal brought down on them the
opprobrium of society, other reformers, and, most painfully, other
women.
After the Civil War, most female reformers were asked to concentrate
on gaining complete rights for the men newly freed from slavery and
to set aside the women’s rights agenda. The spiritualist women,
though, continued to push for women’s rights after the Civil War with
female mediums speaking out consistently on this topic. At a large
spiritualist convention in Chicago, 1865, women’s rights continued to
be in the forefront. The first speaker advocated for woman’s suffrage
and the second speaker spoke in favor of easier clothing for women to
protect their health—the current state of formal dress being not only
uncomfortable but damaging to a woman’s body. Using the spiritualist
network, women’s rights advocates lectured and published newspapers
and books, ran organizations, and held conventions for several dec-
ades. Though spiritualists were mostly left out of the historical re-
cord—possibly due to the unusual nature of their beliefs—spiritualism

660 Ibid., 60-73.
661 Robert H. Abzug, Cosmos Crumbling: American reform and the religious
imagination (Oxford U. Press: Oxford, UK, 1994), 184.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

created a huge audience for those who doggedly pushed for the
advancement of women’s rights.662
For those reformers, the 1850s had begun as a promising decade.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton saw a change after the Seneca Falls Conven-
tion of 1848:
“Now you seldom take up a paper that has not something
about woman; but the tone is changing—ridicule is giving
way to reason. Our papers begin to see that this is no subject
for mirth, but one for serious consideration…We have every
reason to look hopefully into the future.”663
The movement did not have a formal organization as most promi-
nent reformers thought this would create division and stifle their
creative initiative. The main organizing vehicles were the local, re-
gional, and national conventions which brought like-minded people
together to discuss the challenges facing women and what actions to
take. The blueprint was the first National Women’s Rights Conven-
tion held in Worcester, Massachusetts, on October 23rd and 24th,
1850. Paula Wright Davis, the wife of a successful merchant who
supported her activities, organized the Convention. Her husband’s
early death left her a wealthy widow, so she studied physiology and
then went on the lecture circuit where she shocked audiences by using
life-size mannequins from Europe to demonstrate her points. For the
Convention, she invited prominent reformers in this field: Lucretia
Mott; Lucy Stone; William Ellery Channing, one of the most influen-
tial Unitarian ministers and theologians of the time; William A.
Alcott, an educational reformer and physician who wrote over one
hundred books; Wendell Phillips, an abolitionist who also worked for
Indian causes; Harriot Hunt, a female physician who was the first to

662 Braude, Radical Spirits, 79-81.
663 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 104.

The Calling

apply to Harvard Medical School but was denied entrance;664 Stephen
Foster, the famous songwriter who wrote “O, Susanna” but died
young with thirty-seven cents to his name and his wife, Abbey;665
William Lloyd Garrison; Sojourner Truth; Ernestine Rose, a Prussian
born Jewish woman who became an atheist and abolitionist and was
an important intellectual force in the women’s movement;666 and
Frederick Douglass, among others.667 Around one-thousand people—
the majority of them men—filled Worcester’s Brinley Hall, and heard
Davis open the convention by framing the importance of the drive for
equal rights:
“…the emancipation of a class, the redemption of half the
world, and a conforming re-organization of all social, politi-
cal, and industrial interests and institutions.”668
Davis also encouraged everyone to maintain a civil and courteous
tone, but this was soon ignored by Abbey Foster, an avid abolitionist,
who was used to confrontation. Over the next two days, a variety of
related issues were raised: access to higher education, greater employ-
ment opportunities for women, reorganizing duties in the home, and
opening trades and profession to women. The convention also passed a
resolution regarding slave women stating that these women were “the
most grossly wronged and foully outraged of all women”669 and were
due all the rights given to other people.670

664 Harriot Hunt, Glances and Glimpses; Or, Fifty Years' Social, Including Twenty
Years' Professional Life (Boston: J.P. Jewett and Company, 1856).
665 W. Tomaschewski, “The Last Chapter,” Stephen Collins Foster, accessed August
4 2012.
http://www.stephen-foster-songs.de/end.htm.
666 Yuri Suhl, Ernestine L. Rose: Women's Rights Pioneer (New York: Biblio Press,
1990).
667 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 105-108.
668 Ibid., 108.
669 Ibid.
670 Ibid.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

This was the first large public appearance for the gifted orator Lucy
Stone. She arrived exhausted; she had travelled a long distance to nurse
her brother who soon died of cholera in front of her, then she settled
his estate, left with her very pregnant sister-in-law who gave birth
prematurely to a still born child, and while Lucy was nursing her back
to health, she contracted typhoid fever, causing her to drift in and out
of consciousness for days. She survived and made it to the Convention.
The huge success of the gathering buoyed her spirits as it did for all the
attendees who felt keenly the success of their event and the importance
of their cause.671
A few months after the convention, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who
had not been able to attend because of her advanced pregnancy, met
the woman with whom she made history: Susan B. Anthony. The two
women were very different and complemented each other well.
Stanton was passionate and exuberant while Anthony was tireless and
self-disciplined. Their working relationship was a prime moving factor
in raising the status of women to full citizenship.672
Anthony (1820-1906), the second of eight children, developed early
on an orientation towards social justice from growing up in a family
with firm Quaker beliefs. In the Quaker Meeting House, she experi-
enced both men and women speaking out in public, but once out in
the larger world, she saw that equality between the genders did not
exist. Her father sent her to Quaker schools for her education. After
her father’s mill failed, the family moved to a farm in Rochester which
became a hub of abolitionism; Frederick Douglass was a regular guest
there. She went into teaching to help her family financially and by the
time she met Stanton, she was working for social causes, chiefly
abolitionism and temperance. During her life as a reformer, Anthony
was often reviled and ridiculed in the press. She turned her attention
to the cause of women’s suffrage after being denied speaking time at a
temperance convention because she was a woman and became a

671 Ibid., 109.
672 Ibid.

The Calling

confirmed supporter after reading the words that Lucy Stone had
spoken at the 1850 Convention:673
“We want to be something more than the appendages of So-
ciety; we want that Woman should be the coequal and help-
meet of Man in all the interest and perils and enjoyments of
human life. We want that she should attain to the develop-
ment of her nature and womanhood; we want that when she
dies, it may not be written on her gravestone that she was the
“relict” of somebody.”674
The working partnership of Anthony and Stanton stretched out over
half a century. Soon after meeting they founded the Women's New
York State Temperance Society in 1852 and then the New York State
Woman's Rights Committee. Despite being publicly ridiculed early
on, Anthony was very active in speaking and organizing public peti-
tion drives. In one memorable moment, she showed up to vote for
President in the elections of 1872. She was subsequently arrested,
tried, and fined $100—which she never paid—but the trial brought
her and her message to greater prominence.675
Until the outbreak of the Civil War in 1860, women’s rights activists
held annual meetings in different cities such as Syracuse, Cincinnati,
Cleveland, Worcester, and New York City, to bring publicity for this
issue to different parts of the country and to reach the media. A
frequent topic was the opening of higher education to women. This
view countered the idea that intellectual life was for men and was
fundamentally ‘unwomanly’. Controversial topics were brought up as
well. In 1850, prostitution was discussed; it came to be the sole focus

673 Elinor Rice Hays, Morning Star: A Biography of Lucy Stone 1818–1893, (NY,
NY: Harcourt, Brace & World, 1961).
674 Andrea Moore Kerr, Lucy Stone: Speaking Out for Equality (Rutgers, NJ:
Rutgers University Press, 1992), 60.
675 Linder, Soug, “The Trial of Susan B. Anthony for Illegal Voting,” University of
Missouri-Kansas City, accessed May 5, 2013,
http://law2.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/anthony/sbaaccount.html

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

of an entire reform movement. In 1858, birth control, a taboo subject,
was brought up by Stephen Pearl Andrews.676 At these conventions,
there were also speeches on more abstract topics such as the idea of
separate spheres for the activity of men and women and how men and
were different or similar.
Because of their efforts at inclusiveness, the conventions could get
unruly. The two day convention in 1853 in New York City was
announced in the paper with the heading, “Strong-minded Women
are Getting up their Pluck.” From the platform Garrison described
those who opposed women’s rights as “malignant, desperate, and
satanic.” By the time Lucy Stone stood to speak, there was so much
shouting and booing that the meeting broke down in chaos. The
second day began civilly but then descended into shouting as argu-
ments broke out over the correct interpretation of the Bible’s teachings
on women. The 1860 convention was the most divisive due to dis-
agreements between the female leaders. Stanton, attending her first
national women’s rights convention, wanted to raise issues regarding
the marriage laws in New York State that disadvantaged women.
Others told her privately not to bring up marriage issues because the
more religious women in attendance upheld marriage values. Stanton,
who did not speak often in public, preferred to shock audiences
because this generated controversy, and, therefore, press coverage. So
when it was her time to speak, Stanton spoke fervently against the
subjugation of women in marriage and asserted the need for freer

676 Andrews, who was an abolitionist from New Hampshire and almost killed in
Texas for speaking against slavery, was a leader among the spiritualists, and a radical
individualist, brought up this incendiary topic. A brilliant linguist, he had invented
his own language and was said to be able to write thirty-two languages by the time of
his passing. He believed in the absolute sovereignty of the individual so advocating
for a woman’s rights to determine their own pregnancies was a natural fit for him
(Jeff Riggenbach, “Stephen Pearl Andrews's Fleeting Contribution to Anarchist
Thought,” Miles Institute, accessed November 12, 2013,
mises.org/daily/5161/Stephen-Pearl-Andrewss-Fleeting-Contribution-to-Anarchist-
Thought).

The Calling

divorce laws. Many of the more religious women, such as Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, spoke just as strongly against these propositions,
arguing that marriage should be strengthened by elevating both men
and women.677
Throughout the decade of the 1850s, women such as Lucy Stone and
Susan B. Anthony travelled the lecture circuit expounding on the
needs for women’s rights. Stone was especially gifted. An editor hostile
to women’s rights heard her speak at the Syracuse Convention of 1855
and was so taken by her talk that he said, “Whether we like it or not,
little woman, God made you an orator!” But life on the road for these
women was very arduous in every way. They faced hostile crowds and
could be pelted with eggs, rotten fruit, and stones. Overland travel
could be brutal; Anthony rode through a New York winter night on
an open sleigh which got stuck in fifteen foot drifts. ‘Sleeping accom-
modations’ often meant sharing rooms with strangers in beds which
had fleas. Most women lecturers became ill and exhausted.678
Newspapers varied in their coverage of these conventions and lec-
tures. Stanton was friends with Horace Greely, the editor of the
influential New York Tribune, and, so, he reported women’s rights
events in positive terms. On the other hand, the New York Herald
described the Worcester convention as a “motley mingling of aboli-
tionists, socialists, and infidels of all sexes and colors.”679 and gave the
titles of “Hens Convention” and “Insurrection in Petticoats” to the
second annual meeting.680 Anthony was a popular target. The Utica
Evening Telegraph wrote of her speech and appearance:
“We were inexpressibly disgusted with the impudence and
impiety evidenced n her lecture. Personally repulsive, she

677 McMillen, Seneca Falls, 111-119.
678 Ibid., 120-1.
679 Ibid., 125.
680 Ibid.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

seems to be laboring under feelings of strong hatred towards
male men, the effect we presume, of jealousy and neglect.”681
The only real political power the women came through petition
drives. There were many such drives throughout the 1850s usually
coinciding with state constitutional conventions during which laws
were framed. Stanton oversaw a petition drive for the right to vote in
upstate New York after the Worcester Convention and had her
husband, then a legislator himself, submit the petition with all the
signatures. The legislators ridiculed it. During the winter of 1854-5,
Anthony travelled alone through fifty-four counties collecting signa-
tures for a petition demanding fairer marriage property laws.682
Petitions, though, did not result in much change despite the exten-
sive efforts made by their organizers. Some women resorted to differ-
ent forms of civil disobedience. Stone refused to pay her property taxes
in 1857 because, she wrote, she had no say in the government. The
city government did not agree and sold all of her household goods at
auction, which a sympathetic neighbor bought and gave back to her.
Clothing was also a very visible way to protest. An upper or middle
class woman’s clothing could weigh up to twelve pounds and include
very restrictive corsets and undergarments, tight lacing, and hoop
skirts. This could affect a woman’s internal organs and her overall
health. Women such as Catherine Beecher and Sarah Grimke cam-
paigned against such styles, pointing out that men did not have to
carry the same weight. Amelia Bloomer’s newspaper The Lily advo-
cated for the wearing of loose fitting pantaloons which became known
as ‘bloomers’. Stanton and Stone adopted the new style. Other
women’s rights activists felt that the focus on clothes—and the shock
it could cause—detracted from more important issues. The public was,
in fact, shocked and disliked what was seen as a ‘loss of femininity’.
Before the bloomer ran its course, it was ridiculed in publications and

681 Ibid., 126.
682 Ibid., 127.

The Calling

among the general population and was not fully supported by reform-
ers, though a Dress Reform Association was eventually founded.683
As the equal rights movement spread, opposition became more
active. Ministers were generally unsupportive of the drive for the right
to vote. One minister wrote an article typical of the mainstream view
titled, “The Woman Question,” in which he expressed sympathy for
women’s economic situations and offered that they should receive
more education to better their minds which could translate into more
economic opportunity and better pay. But a woman, he wrote, should
not go beyond her sphere into public life by speaking from platforms
or pulpits or engaging in the world of politics. Her most important
work was to keep a harmonious household and marital happiness both
of which could be harmed by any kind of ambition.684
What was more surprising to reformers was the opposition and
indifference from other women. Anthony wrote: “Woman is the
greatest enemy of her own sex. She spurns the betrayed but feels
flattered by the betrayer.”685
Many female reformers thought that women were so downtrodden
that they didn’t even realize it. It may also have been the case that
many average women had daily cares which precluded attendance at
anything—much less conventions—and had little time or education to
read radical papers.686
Relationships between reformers began to fray as differences and
jealousies surfaced. Paulina Davis thought Lucretia Mott was past her
prime, while others found Davis overbearing. Douglass gave a lengthy
criticism in public of Lucy Stone because she lectured in a whites-only
building. He also had a falling out with William Lloyd Garrison, and
some women found his interpersonal manners too rough. Stanton did
not think that Amelia Bloomer was a true reformer and so undermined

683 Ibid., 128-133.
684 Ibid., 136.
685 Ibid., 138.
686 Ibid., 138-9.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

her. These types of conflicts were compounded by personal struggles
and losses in the lives of the reformers. Motherhood affected the
female reformers as well, especially Stanton, who bore seven children
and both loved motherhood and the full household and missed her
public life.687
During the 1850s, the cause of women’s rights made discernible
advances. About twenty-four states expanded the property rights of
women in marriage. Michigan and Kentucky allowed women to vote
in school board elections. In some states, divorce laws were liberalized.
A medical college for women was founded in Philadelphia, and design
schools for women were opened in Boston and Philadelphia.688
But the 1850s was also a decade of increasing turmoil and violence
throughout the United States as the country careened into a Civil
War. With its outbreak in April of 1861, the work for the advance-
ment of women took a back seat to the needs of the conflict. Northern
women threw themselves into relief work; the Women’s Central
Association, the largest women’s relief organization, was founded.
With so many men away at the front, women in the North and in the
South filled in for jobs they had never done—or had never been
previously permitted to do—before, becoming factory workers, clerks,
scribes, and even spies and soldiers. But the most important new line
of work into which women entered in large numbers was nursing.
Previously, this work had been considered too rough for women, but
now, in places where female nurses worked, mortality dropped by fifty
percent due to the concerns of women for cleanliness, ventilation, and
nutrition. Dorothea Dix, famous for her reform on behalf of prisoners
and the mentally ill, supervised the Union Army’s entire nursing corps.
Another profession into which women entered in unprecedented
numbers was teaching. In addition to filling vacancies in schools
throughout the north, women from the north also ventured south to
educate newly freed slaves; this began in the Sea Islands of Georgia

687 Ibid., 140-144.
688 Ibid., 148.

The Calling

which were held by Union troops. Families of reformers were also
affected by the war. Two of Stanton’s sons, one of Sojourner Truth’s
grandsons, two of Douglass’ sons, and Thomas Higginson all went to
war for the Union army.689
After the end of the Civil War, in April 1865, the work of abolition-
ists now focused on gaining basic freedoms for the men newly freed
from slavery, and so, the fight for equal rights for women was put
second. Stanton consistently spoke and wrote against this view,
believing that the hour had come to implement both reforms together.
She saw subjugation to black men as being no different than domina-
tion of women by white men but many reformers and members of
Lincoln’s Republican Party disagreed and saw suffrage and rights for
the newly freedmen as the central issue. Some reformers were also
discouraged by the indifference of many women towards the struggle
for women’s rights.690
The Congress was now debating changes to the Constitution and
including the word ‘male’ in the proposed amendment. Stanton,
Stone, and Anthony wrote a passionate appeal against passage of the
amendment to the Congress as it excluded all women. The 11th
Annual Women’s Rights Convention met in May 1866, at the same
time as the New York legislature was re-writing its State Constitution.
The Convention decided to found an organization dedicated solely to
the agenda of ‘universal suffrage’ called the American Equal Rights
Association. Even so, divisions arose again on the issue of priorities
and even whether there should be any priorities at all.691
The Congress passed the Fourteenth Amendment enfranchising
black men but not women. Stanton and others were very discouraged
by this and lost hope in the political parties. In protest, Stanton ran for
public office in New York State in 1866 on the platform “free speech,
free press, free man and free trade” saying that educated, propertied

689 Ibid., 149-153.
690 Ibid., 161-2.
691 Ibid., 162-3.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

women were far better for the nation than uneducated, landless black
men in the South. She garnered twenty-four votes out of twenty-
thousand cast but continued to speak out, accusing men of being
responsible for the nation’s ills. A writer and editor, George Curtis,
wrote that women’s suffrage would not drag women down into the
dirty world of politics; rather, it would lift men out of it. There was
more promise of success in Massachusetts and Kansas, but these efforts
also failed to get women the right to vote. After Kansas, Stone said,
“the Negroes are all against us.”692 Sojourner Truth spoke twice at
AERA conventions:
“There is a great stir about colored men getting their rights,
but not a word about the colored women, and if colored
men get their rights, and not colored women get theirs there
will be a bad time about it.”693
She pointed out what may have been obvious about women’s enfran-
chisement: “I know that it is hard for one who has held the reins for so
long to give up.”694
In the late 1860s, divisions deepened between the women’s rights
reformers. The Thirteenth Amendment abolishing slavery and the
Fourteenth Amendment enfranchising black men had been passed,
and now the Fifteenth Amendment, stating the right to vote could not
be abridged by any state on the basis of race, came up. Stanton and
Anthony argued against supporting the amendment because it did not
include women. Stone, Douglass, and others supported it with Doug-
lass arguing against Stanton pointing out that the suffering of slaves
had been enormous. He was asked if black women had not suffered as
well, and he answered that their suffering had been based on race not
gender and that with the vote, black men would be better able to
protect black women. Anthony argued against him saying that women

692 Ibid., 166.
693 Ibid., 167.
694 Ibid.

The Calling

could not just stand aside while black men got the right to vote but
not women. As the argument continued, Douglass saw the convention
as being about women’s rights not universal equal rights.695 In a sense,
both sides brought their own biases: Stanton and Anthony in favor of
educated women, whom they saw as the better citizens because of their
education, and Douglass with his bias towards the suffering of male
slaves. Anthony and Stanton withdrew from the AERA and formed
the National Women’s Suffrage Association. Angered at not having
been invited to join, Stone and Henry Blackwell founded the Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association which supported women’s rights and
the passage of the Fifteenth Amendment. The two organizations had
different approaches—the AWSA sought to gain suffrage for women at
the state level and admitted all members, while the NWSA lobbied for
a Constitutional Amendment guaranteeing woman’s suffrage and
admitted only woman members. In addition to this rivalry, there
continued to be opposition to the very concepts of equal rights for
women; many ministers still spoke of it as un-Biblical, un-feminine
and un-natural. The only real success for these reformers in the late
1860s was securing suffrage in the Western territories of Wyoming
and Utah; in these frontier areas, women tended to have greater
equality because of the interdependence between men and women
necessary for survival, and, in these new territories, it was much easier
legislatively for such laws to pass.696
The road to guaranteeing the right to vote for women would be a
long one. Anthony and Stanton first proposed such an amendment to
the Constitution in 1878. It was defeated in the Congress in 1887 and
in 1915 by a smaller margin, while activists worked to gain such
voting rights at the state level.
American women would have to wait for decades for this amend-
ment to be incorporated into the country’s legal framework. This long
struggle for women’s suffrage culminated in victory with the passing of

695 Ibid., 173.
696 Ibid., 177-184.

Spirit, Spiritualism, and Suffrage

a Constitutional Amendment guaranteeing women the right to vote in
1920, seventy-two years after the Seneca Falls convention.
The Amendment read: “The right of citizens of the United States to
vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any
state on account of sex. Congress shall have power to enforce this
article by appropriate legislation.”
Originally the Amendment had been called the “Anthony amend-
ment” but Susan B. Anthony did not live to see the legal fruition of
her life’s work. Neither did Stanton. She passed away in 1906, four
years after her long-time sister in the trenches.

- 240 -
EPILOGUE
In January, 1930, an American Baha’i journalist, Martha Root,
stepped into the room of the home in Qazvin in which Tahirih had
been born and knelt down and kissed the floor over which the great
mystic had walked. At that moment, Martha Root was a pilgrim
enthralled with the figure of Tahirih.697
The attempt to wipe away the traces of Tahirih by destroying her
personal records after her execution had failed.
Descendants from Tahirih’s family watched this woman from the
west paying deep homage to their relative.698 The owner of the hotel
where Martha Root was staying had reprimanded one of Tahirih’s
relatives by saying that the family should be ashamed for not having
done more with her memory while an American had come from so far
to pay homage to her. This rebuke resulted in the relative—a Mus-
lim—bringing the American pilgrim to Tahirih’s family’s home which
still retained its appearance as a beautiful old palace with delicate
lattice work. Martha Root was shown the women’s quarters in which
Tahirih was born and the “quaint” library on the second floor where
she had become a young scholar. The relative met Martha Root later
and confessed: “I have known for twenty years that I should be a
Baha’i, but I have never had the courage to do it.”699
The memory of Tahirih travelled east and west through the arteries
of the Baha’i Faith,700 the fruition of the Bab’s revelation. Jinab-i-
Baha, who had guided the Babi community through the Conference of
Badasht and its break with the Islamic past, was Baha’u’llah, the
manifestation of God for whom the Bab had been preparing the way.
The Bab had been the first Divine outpouring, and Baha’u’llah, the

697 Root, Táhirih the pure, 49.
698 Mabel R. Garis, Martha Root: Lioness at the Threshold (Wilmette IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1983), 341.
699 Ibid.
700 Her great grandson, Varta, became a Baha’i (Hoseini, Hadrat-i-Tahirih, 164).

Epilogue

second. The Babis became Baha’is, and the Baha’i Faith spread beyond
the borders of Persia, out of the Islamic world, and all the way to the
West, where it was discovered by thousands including Martha Root,
who came to know about this great apostle of the Bab.
In the great Baha’i chronicle, Dawnbreakers, and the foundational
history of the Baha’i Faith, God Passes By, Tahirih was memorialized as
a woman who completely renounced the world for reunion with God
through her love of the Bab. Her awareness of God’s presence in the
world compelled her into action whatever the social costs to herself.
She set aside with no hesitation the restrictions on public teaching and
social muteness placed on women. In the West, this is the aspect of
Tahirih which was brought to the fore. She was cast as a champion of
women’s rights as understood by the new century’s context of the
struggle for women’s suffrage in the West. In the Indian subcontinent,
it was her poetry, expressive of her courage, that continued to speak
throughout the decades, while in Persia, her verses—those which had
not been expunged by persecution—lived on in song. All over the
world, Tahirih’s life and sacrifice continue to inspire the Baha’i faithful
towards renunciation, and through that, the finding of a new power
beyond gender.
So even by the time trees had grown out of the ground in which
Tahirih’s body had been placed decades earlier before Martha Root’s
visit and completely unbeknownst to her relatives, her resurrection had
already begun.

- 242 -
APPENDIX A:
TAHIRIH IN THE WEST AND THE EAST
Tahirih had been a passionate apostle and witness for the Bab’s
faith—a religion which along with its successor, the Baha’i Faith—was
characterized as heretical by the Shi’a clerical establishment and
severely persecuted throughout the country. Baha’is were often
shunned, their children humiliated, their businesses plundered, and
their homes targeted. Being a Baha’i in late 19th century Persia could
also be fatal. So to identify oneself as a believer was an act of faith
expressed in courage. In such an atmosphere, there was little chance
that a Babi poet would be publicly celebrated or that family members
would want to promote a relative whose heretical beliefs might
endanger the whole family. Some of her poems, nevertheless, survived
in anthologies of women poets, and her most famous poem became
part of the standard vocal repertoire.701
Tahirih’s name travelled westward almost immediately after her
execution.
Sir Justin Sheil, a British general and diplomat who served as Queen
Victoria's representative to the court of the King of Persia, sent the
first known mention of the execution of Tahirih in this dispatch dated
August 22nd, 1852:
“Among those who have suffered death was a young woman,
the daughter of a Teacher of the Law in Mazanderan of great
celebrity who has been three years in confinement in Tehran.
She was venerated as a prophetess by the Babees, and her
designation among them was ‘Koorat ool ain’ – ‘Pupil of the
eye.’ She has been strangled by the Shah’s order. The Sedr
Azim has opposed some of these acts, but the Shah’s anger

701 Prof. Dominic Brookshaw, September 15th, 2013.

Tahirih in the West and the East

and vindictiveness have not allowed him to pay attention to
advice.”702
The next day, Prince Dolgorukov, the Russian ambassador to Persia
sent this dispatch:
“…For a long time there has been imprisoned in Tihran un-
der the surveillance of Mahmud Khan, Chief of Police, a
Babi woman (Tahirih). In spite of this she apparently found
means daily to gather around herself many members of her
sect. She was strangled in a garden in the presence of Aju-
dan-Bashi….”703
Russia, more than any other foreign country, was involved in the
internal affairs of Persia because of their long common border and its
competition with England over Persia’s resources. Prince Dolgorukov,
who came from a Russian noble family that had almost become Czars,
became the subject of a slanderous hoax meant to discredit Russia. A
fictional memoir supposedly written by him was published which
claimed that he was collaborating with the Bab to overthrow the Qajar
dynasty. There was no basis to this claim as these were not the aims of
the Bab. Prince Dolgorukov knew little about him, and he was not in
Persia during the years indicated by the memoir.704
Soon her execution was the subject of a whole newspaper article in
the October 13th, 1852, edition of the Times of London titled “How
they punish treason in Persia”:
“We mentioned a few days since the attempt against the
Shah of Persia. We now learn that Hajee Suleiman Khan, ac-

702 Moojan Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 1844-1944, Some
Contemporary Western Accounts (Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1981), 135.
703 Ibid., 143.
704 Masumian, Adib, “Debunking the Myths: Conspiracy Theories on the Genesis
and Mission of the Bahá'í Faith,” Academia, accessed October 3, 2013,
http://www.academia.edu/343383/Debunking_the_Myths_Conspiracy_Theories
_on_the_Genesis_and_Mission_of_the_Bahai_Faith.

The Calling

cused as the instigator of the crime, was seized, his body care-
fully drilled with a knife in parts which would not at the
moment cause death: pieces of lighted candles were then in-
troduced into the holes, and, thus illuminated, carried in
procession through the bazaar, and finally conveyed to the
town gates, and there cleft in twain like a fat ram. The Kur-
ret-il-Ain, better known as Bab's Lieutenant, or the fair
Prophetess of Kazoeen [Qazvin], who since the late religions
outbreak had been kept a close prisoner at the capital, has
been executed with some dozen others. His Majesty, received
three slug wounds in the shoulders, but all of a very slight
nature.”705
In the coming two and a half decades, there were several important
first mentions of Tahirih in the West.
The first woman to publish a mention of Tahirih was in Lady Mary
Sheil’s, “Glimpses of Life and Manners in Persia.” published in 1856:
“There was still another victim. This was a young woman,
the daughter of a moolla in Mazenderan, who, as well as her
father, had adopted the tenets of the Bab. The Babees vener-
ated her as a prophetess; and she was styled Khooret-ool-eyn,
which Arabic words are said to mean, Pupil of the eye. After
the Babee insurrection had been subdued in the above prov-
ince, she was brought to Tehran and imprisoned, but was
well treated. When these executions took place she was
strangled. This was a cruel and useless deed.”706
A British diplomat, Robert Grant Watson, wrote a history of Persia
covering the first half of the 19th century, A History of Persia, which

705 The Times, October 13, 1852, cited in Momen, The Babi and Bahá’í
Religions, 132.
706 Lady Mary Sheil, Glimpses of life and manners in Persia, quoted in Farzaneh
Milani, Veils and Words, The emerging voices of Iranian women writers (Syracuse,
NY: Syracuse University Press, 1992), 97.

Tahirih in the West and the East

was published in 1866. In this book, Watson made a brief mention of
Tahirih, “…the daughter of a celebrated teacher of the law, and who
was considered by the Babis to be a prophetess….”707
The first book about the history of the Bab and his followers in a
Western language was The Báb and the Bábis: Religious and Political
Unrest in Persia in 1848-1852, written in Russian by Aleksandr
Kazem-Bek,708 and published in 1865. Kazem-Bek was a philologist
who straddled the Russian and Persian worlds; he was born in Persia,
died in St. Petersburg and was of Azerbaijani origin. He wrote his first
book—-on the subject of Arabic grammar—at age 17 and later
converted to Christianity.709
In 1865, an Austrian doctor, Dr Jakob Polak, claimed to have been
present at her execution—a claim which has never been verified:
“I was witness to the execution of Qurret el ayn, who was
executed by the war minister and his adjutants; the beautiful
woman endured her slow death with superhuman
strength.”710
The book which introduced the Bab to a broad generation of Euro-
pean intellectuals was “Religions et philosophies dans l'Asie central”
(Religions and philosophies of Central Asia), by Joseph Arthur,
Compte de Gobineau (1816-1882), published in 1865. Gobineau was
a French writer and diplomat who had been posted in Persia during
the time of the Bab. He wrote an account of his impressions and
understanding of the religious beliefs of the people in that part of the
world which contained the first extensive account of the Babi religion

707 Robert Grant Watson, A History of Persia (London, UK: Smith, Elder and
Co., 1866), 409.
708 Jan T. Jasion, “Tahirih on the Russian stage,” Sabir Afaqi, Ed., Tahirih in
History (LA, CA: Kalimat Press, LA, 2004), 232.
709 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 26-7; “Alexander Kazembek (Russian
Orientalist),” World Public Library, accessed 9 October 2013,
http://netlibrary.net/articles/Alexander_Kazembek_(Russian_orientalist).
710 Ibid., 144.

The Calling

and early history of the faith. He had come into possession of the only
manuscript of a history of the Babi faith which had been written by
Haji Mirza Jani, a Babi who was killed during the persecutions of
1852. Gobineau wrote a description of Tahirih which conveys the
degree of her talent and capacity and the high regard in which she was
held:
“Not only did she have a rare command of Arabic, but she
became outstanding in her understanding of the interpreta-
tion of the Qur’an, the Islamic traditions (hadiths), and great
Islamic thinkers. In Qazvin, she came to be regarded as a
prodigy.”711
“…she was not content with passive belief; she spoke publi-
cally about the teachings of her master; she stood up not only
against polygamy but also against the use of the veil, and
showed her face in public places to the great shock and scan-
dal of her family and all sincere Muslims, but also to the ap-
plause of the numerous people who shared her enthusiasm
and whose public preaching greatly added to the circle of be-
lievers.”712
“…she consecrated herself fully to her Apostleship of the Bab
to which he had given all the rights and entrusted her with
many responsibilities. Her knowledge of theology became
immense…I never heard any Muslim put in doubt the virtue
of such a unique person.”713
Gobineau imagines a scene at Badasht at which Tahirih is seated
cross-legged on a throne built for her from which she preaches that the
time had come to spread the Bab’s religion all over the earth, and also
that women must work along with men in making their contribution.
According to Gobineau’s Persian sources, Tahirih’s speech was simple

711 Gobineau, Religions and Philosophies, 168.
712 Ibid.
713 Ibid., 169.

Tahirih in the West and the East

yet very effective in moving the hearts of people. He describes simple
country people at Badasht as being transformed after hearing her
speak.714
Gobineau’s book was reviewed and cited many times. The Journal des
Savants in France published a review of Gobineau’s book which
included a whole paragraph on Tahirih, stressing how she stood up for
the women of the Orient and called on them to rise up out of the
seclusion in which they had been kept.715 In August of 1868, Le Temps
of Paris published a series of three articles with two paragraphs on
Tahirih which made the point that the very presence of a woman of
this capacity showed that the Bab’s faith was intent on real social
change.716
Some very prominent French thinkers and scholars also used Go-
bineau in their descriptions of the Babi movement and Tahirih. Joseph
Ernest Renan, an eminent French religious thinker and political
philosopher, made mention of the Babis over several pages in his book,
Les Apotres (‘The Apostles’),717 dwelling on the physical cruelty they
suffered and their single-mindedness of purpose which he describes as
a characteristic of people from ‘that part of the world’.718
A second French scholar, André-Ursule Casse de Bellecombe, wrote
an entire article on Tahirih—for whom he used the title ‘Qurratu’l-
Ayn’—in the historical journal of the Institute of France,
“L’Investigateur,” in 1870.719 Bellecombe served as the Director the
Institut Historique of France. He wrote on a very wide variety of
subjects—Italian, Chinese, Mexican, and Central American History,
Tahirih and the Bab, and the Amazon—he even wrote a four volume

714 Ibid., 182.
715 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 23-24; Adolphe Franck, “Deuxième et
Dernier Article,” Le Journal des Savants, December (1865): 776-777.
716 Ibid., 24; Michel Nicolas, “Le Babysme,” Le Temps August 14, 19, 20 (1868):
3, 3, 3.
717 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 22-3.
718 Joseph Renan, Les Apotres (Paris, France: Michel Levy Freres, 1866), 377.
719 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 27.

The Calling

history of the world which included the history of science. He was in
constant contact with the most prominent literary and scientific minds
of the day in France. A humble and learned man, he believed in the
value of the diversity of races.720 In this article, he described the Bab as
a “poor cloth merchant” with a very ascetical and mystical orientation
who attracted thousands of followers and promoted the advancement
of women, the unity of all Muslims, and religious tolerance. He
praised Tahirih’s courage in standing up to doubters and social
conventions while remaining unafraid in the face of physical threats.
He accused the Shi’a clerics of trying to discredit her through the use
of their own fanciful interpretations of Islamic Doctrine. According to
Bellecombe, Tahirih taught the equality of men and women, marriage
rights for women, the prohibition against divorce, and unity between a
husband and wife. She was accused, he wrote, of encouraging a
communal ownership of property, but she actually taught love and
unity between the Babis as they awaited the coming Kingdom; until
then, the Babis could follow the Shari’a Law or their own conscience.
Bellecombe defends her by writing that the difference between Tai-
hirih’s teaching and the accusations of communalism would be like
comparing the sharing between the early apostles of Christ to social-
ism.721 By way of summary, he calls Tahirih the emancipator of
Muslim women and compared her to women in the West who
advanced the cause of woman; specifically he mentioned Elisabeth
Blackwell, the first woman in the United States to receive a medical
degree—which was in 1849—and Amelia Bloomer, the passionate

720 “Dictionnaire biographie de Lot-et-Garonne,” C.H.G.H.47, accessed October
1, 2013.
genealogie-en-47.fr/Articles/Dossiers/Dictionnaire_biographique_01.html.
721 Andre-Ursule de Bellecombe, “La belle Kourret ou l’Hain reformatrice
persanne,” L’Investigateur Tome X, 1870 (L’Institut Historique de France: Paris,
France, 1870): 161.

Tahirih in the West and the East

advocate for the ‘bloomer’, and to the demand for political rights by
English and French women.722
A third French scholar, Clement Huart, wrote a short book, “La
Religion du Bab,” in 1889, which included Tahirih.723 Huart began
learning Arabic at the age of fourteen and went on to study the
languages and literatures of the Arabic, Turkish, and Persian worlds.
In addition, he had an excellent knowledge of English, Italian, and
German.724 In this book, Huart praises Tahirih’s great knowledge and
her independent spirit, citing her going about unveiled. Because of his
great linguistic talents, Huart devotes many pages to his own transla-
tions from Persian and Arabic into French of passages from the Bab’s
Writings and explicates some of his teachings.725
England’s Contemporary Review, published a whole article, “Story of
the Bab,” in December of 1885,726 with a description of Tahirih based
on Gobineau “as a woman who, had she been born in Europe, would
have ranked with our most honored heroines of this or any age” and
who had a courage “as indomitable as that of her master.”727
Kazem-Bek and Gobineau’s works became the main source for
knowledge of the Babi faith in the West.
Marie von Najmájer, an Austrian writer and activist for the ad-
vancement of women, wrote the first literary work or poem to use
Tahirih as a character,728 “Gurret-ül-Eyn. (A picture from the Persian

722 “Elizabeth Blackwell Counterslip 1821-Schottland 1910,” Art Directory,
accessed November 4, 2013, www.elizabeth-blackwell.com/.
723 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 40.
724 Jean Calmard, “HUART, CLÉMENT,” in the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited
by Ehsan Yarshater, accessed October 23, 2013,
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/huart-clment.
725 Clement Huart, La Religion du Bab (Ernest Leroux Editeur: Paris, France
1889).
726 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 25.
727 Mary Wilson, “Story of the Bab,” The Library, Jan-April 1886, v. 7 (NY, NY:
John B. Alden Publisher 1886), 813.
728 Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 47.

The Calling

modern times in 6 Songs),” published in 1874.729 She used Kazem-Bek
and Gobineau for her basic information. Many decades later,
Marianna Hainisch, mother of a President of Austria, heard of Tahirih
from Martha Root, and professed: “I shall try to do for the women of
Austria what Tahirih gave her life to do for the women of Persia.”730
In December, 1880, Michele Lessona, a prominent Italian scientist
specializing in amphibians, who had translated Darwin and went on to
influence generations of Italian scientists,731 organized two conferences
on the Babi movement. The proceedings were published as a book, I
Babi, in 1881.732 He went to Persia on behalf of the King of Italy in
1862, to be a physician for the delegation going to establish relations
between the two Kingdoms. There in Tabriz he met Daud Khan who
told him all about the Bab. He tried to visit the places associated with
the Bab and met often with Gobineau who was then the French
Ambassador. Most of his information on the Babi faith came from
these two sources, especially Gobineau. He found it difficult, though,
to get any first-hand information about the Babis:
“…In Persia, it is impossible to speak of the Babis or to learn
something of their affairs. The terror which this name awak-
ens is such that no one dares to speak, or even think, of it.”733

729 Marie von Najmájer, “Gurret-ül-Eyn. (A picture from the Persian modern times
in 6 Songs),” Originalausg. ersch Vienna 1874 Photomechan Nachdr. d
Originalausg, ext, erg and with biography, FWD and hist demolition. [With
portraits. fig u]). - Vienna: National Spiritual Assembly of Bahá’ís in Austria,
1981. ANL-1202994 B. Neu Mag.
730 Marzieh Gail, “With Martha.” in Root, Táhirih the pure, 6.
731 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 27; Ugo R. Giachery, “An Italian
Scientist Extols the Bab.” The Bahá’í World, Vol 12, 1950-1952 (Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1956), 900.
732 Julio Savi. “Italy: History of the Baha'i Faith,” Bahá’í Library Online, accessed
October 2, 2013.
http://bahai-library.com/savi_encyclopedia_italy.
733 Giachery, “An Italian Scientist Extols the Bab,” 902.

Tahirih in the West and the East

Another Italian, Belgian-born Carla Serrana, travelled through Persia
and wrote a travelogue, “Men and objects in Persia,” which was pub-
lished in 1883734 and then translated into nine languages. Her account
included a chapter, “Formation of the Babi sect,” based entirely on
information from Gobineau in which she described Tahirih as an
extraordinary talent.735 Serrana was the first European woman to travel
to the Caucasus through which she travelled alone in her fifties. When
she returned, she was invited to speak at conferences in Rome about
her travels, but she declined because, “women in Italy don't speak in
public.” In 1873, she was sent by a newspaper to Vienna, and this
began a trip east which lasted six years. Unlike other European travel-
ers who came before her, Serrana was particularly attentive to the daily
life of the country people whom she met.736
One of the most learned expositions of the Bab’s teachings, his life,
and the history of his followers was written by Edward Sell, an Angli-
can churchman who was a missionary in India for years, authored over
fifty scholarly works and could read Persian, Arabic and Hindi, among
other languages.737 Though he was able to read the sources directly, he
did make use of the histories by Kazem-Bek and Gobineau. He wrote
three treatises about the Babis/Baha'is: “The Babis,” in 1896,738 “The
Bab and the Babis,” a missionary view, in 1901,739 and “Bahaism,” an

734 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 28.
735 Carla Serena, Hommes et choses en Perse (Paris, France: Charpentier et Co,
1883).
736 Monica Di Barbora, “Carla Serena,” Encyclopedia delle donne, accessed October
29, 2013,
http://www.enciclopediadelledonne.it/biografie/carla-serena/.
737 C. E. Buckland, Dictionary of Indian Biography (London: Swan Sonnenschein
& Co. Lim., 1906), 382.
738 Edward Sell, “The Babis,” The Church Missionary Intelligencer 47:21 (1896):
324-335.
739 Edward Sell, “The Bab and the Babis,” in Essays on Islam (London: Simpkin,
Marshall, Hamilton, Kent &. Co., 1901) 46-98.

The Calling

early book-length overview for a missionary audience, in 1912.740 His
pieces contained lengthy explanations of the Islamic context of Babi
history, theological details and issues, the connection between
Shaykhis and Babis and the history of the Babi faith itself. He was able
to include direct quotations from the Bab’s scripture because of his
knowledge of Persian. His praise of Tahirih was reinforced by his
ability to read her in the original Persian:
“Some of her poems breathe the spirit of Ṣúfísm and show
how deeply her mind was imbued with mystic lore. This is
far more apparent in the original than in any translation of
them. The following lines are from a translation by Mr.
Browne.”741
Another insightful and generally well-informed account of the Bab’s
life which included the story of Tahirih was, “The Reconciliation of
races and religions,” a compilation of talks given by Prof. Thomas
Kelly Cheyne, an English Christian minister, Biblical scholar, and
Oxford Professor, and published in 1914. Possibly as a result of his
study, he became a Baha’i.742 He wrote in his chapter on Tahirih that
she had an exalted position:
“Indeed, the only difference in human beings is that some
realize more, and some less, or even not at all, the fact of the
divine spark in their composition. Ḳurratu'l 'Ayn certainly
did realize her divinity.”743
He gives a generally accurate account of the story of her life in broad
strokes, noting the close association of Tahirih with Baha’u’llah. The

740 Edward Sell, “Bahaism,” (London, UK: Christian Literature Society for India,
1912).
741 Sell, “The Bab and the Babis,” 66.
742 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 52.
743 Thomas Kelly Cheyne, D.D. The Reconciliation of Races and Religions. PDF e-
book.
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/7995/pg7995.html.

Tahirih in the West and the East

unveiling of her face was a “…bold act of Ḳurratu'l 'Ayn which shook
the foundations of a literal belief in Islamic doctrines among the
Persians.”
He finished this chapter by recounting an interesting episode about
suffragettes from Turkey who were banished to Akka:
“The poetess (i.e. Tahirih) was a true Bahaite. More than
this; the harvest sown in Islamic lands by Ḳurratu'l 'Ayn is
now beginning to appear. A letter addressed to the Christian
Commonwealth last June informs us that forty Turkish suf-
fragettes are being deported from Constantinople to Akka
(so long the prison of Baha-'ullah): '“During the last few
years suffrage ideas have been spreading quietly behind in the
harems. The men were ignorant of it; everybody was igno-
rant of it; and now suddenly the floodgate is opened and the
men of Constantinople have thought it necessary to resort to
drastic measures. Suffrage clubs have been organized, intelli-
gent memorials incorporating the women's demands have
been drafted and circulated; women's journals and magazines
have sprung up, publishing excellent articles; and public
meetings were held. Then one day the members of these
clubs—four hundred of them—cast away their veils. The
staid, fossilized class of society were shocked, the good Mus-
sulmans were alarmed, and the Government forced into ac-
tion. These four hundred liberty-loving women were divided
into several groups. One group composed of forty have been ex-
iled to Akka, and will arrive in a few days. (italics added here)
Everybody is talking about it, and it is really surprising to see
how numerous are those in favour of removing the veils from
the faces of the women. Many men with whom I have talked
think the custom not only archaic, but thought-stifling. The
Turkish authorities, thinking to extinguish this light of lib-
erty, have greatly added to its flame, and their high-handed
action has materially assisted the creation of a wider public

The Calling

opinion and a better understanding of this crucial prob-
lem.”744
While the exact sources to verify this story of Turkish women suffra-
gettes in Akka have not been found, there was, in 1913, a great rise in
activism for the advancement of women in Turkey. There were many
women’s associations founded there during the late Ottoman pe-
riod/early 1900s. The first women’s organization, Cemiyet-i İmdadiye,
was founded in 1908, by Fatma Aliye, to provide winter clothing for
the soldiers on the frontier by selling handcrafts. Another organization
founded that same year to help orphaned girls and boys was opened to
women regardless of their religion.745 The Union and Progress Voca-
tional School for Girls and its many branch offices were begun.746
Political parties set up charity unions for women and field offices to
engage women in political support; one even had the slogan, “in order
to free the country from collapse, it is essential to mind girls firstly.”747
There was a proliferation of associations to defend the rights of
women, to open hospitals and schools, to assert the rights of women
without disregarding traditional values,748 to participate in working life
and begin businesses for women,749 to found a university for women,
to advocate for women’s suffrage, and to publish women’s periodicals
which called for a Constitutional form of government.750 At the core of
these associations were two ideas: the importance of educating women
because it was, “the keystone of social progress,”751 and crucial to the

744 Ibid.
745 Aygül, Ceren, Change in the status of turkish women during the ottoman
modernization and self-evaluation of women in kadinlar dünyasi of 1913, Ankara,
Turkey: Middle East Technical University, Dept. of History 2010, 51,
http://etd.lib.metu.edu.tr/upload/12612331/index.pdf.
746 Ibid., 52.
747 Ibid., 54.
748 Ibid., 56.
749 Ibid., 55, 57-8.
750 Ibid., 57-8.
751 Ibid., 84.

Tahirih in the West and the East

development of Turkey as a modern nation,752 and the assertion and
defense of the rights of women within the family753 and in public life.
One year after the publication of Gobineau’s book, the first account
of the religion of the Bab appeared in North America, “A New Relig-
ion,” in The Nation June, 1866.754 Wendell Phillips Garrison, son of
the most famous white abolitionist, William Lloyd Garrison, was the
literary editor of The Nation. In this account, the Bab was described as
“addicted to religious thought and novel ideas,” as having “great
physical beauty, great simplicity of manners, and sweetness of charac-
ter,” and that he “resolved upon the destruction of Islam.”755 His
account followed the basic outline of the life of the Bab but most of
the details related to him were not accurate. Tahirih was described as
an apostle who was one of, “the most striking apparitions to shed
lustre on Babism.” She had “extraordinary beauty,” “eloquence,” and
“purity of manners,” and she “preached the abolition of veiling and
polygamy.”756 The end of the article contains some musings regarding
the “oriental” nature of the Bab’s teachings as being progressive by
Persian standards:
“The re-birth in this system of the mystical fancies and many
of the puerile superstitions of Oriental superstitions of Ori-
ental antiquity, in combination with some of the most mod-
ern and most advanced ideas of the Western mind, is a very
curious spectacle.”757
He wonders whether Babis will join the growing nationalist move-
ment and call for an armed uprising or become obsolete. There is no
mention of the role of the Bab’s role as forerunner of Baha’u’llah.”758

752 Ibid., 87.
753 Ibid., 71-2.
754 Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 24.
755 Wendell Phillips Garrison, ed., “A New Religion.” The Nation, (1866): 793.
756 Ibid, 794.
757 Ibid., 795.
758 Ibid., 795.

The Calling

Numerous newspaper accounts of the Bab and Tahirih appeared in
American newspapers: The Methodist Quarterly Review, July, 1866,
included a paragraph in, “Foreign Intelligence… France”; William
Hepworth Dixon published a travel book in 1867, with a history and
commentary which mentions the Bab and Babis twice; Evans, E.P.
wrote, “Bab and Babism,” for Hours at Home, in January, 1869;
Edwin Bliss also wrote a similarly titled article, “Bab and Babism,” for
the Missionary Herald, May, 1869; “A New Religion,” appeared in the
July 17, 1869, issue of All the Year Round; the Brooklyn Eagle, and The
Hawaiian Gazette, carried stories on the new religion in their August
and September, 1869, issues respectively; Robert Arbuthnot wrote a
lengthy history of Faith titled, “The Bab and Babeeism,” which in-
cluded some of its theology, teachings and a paragraph on Tahirih, for
the August, 1869, issue of Contemporary Review; the August, 1869,
issue of Saturday Review of Politics, Literature, Science and Art, pub-
lished an article, “Reviews: The Philosophical Year and the Bábys,”
which mentioned Gobineau’s version of her martyrdom; the article,
“The Bábys,” in The Church Missionary Intelligencer, June, 1872,
included a long introduction that showed how Muhammad got his
teachings on the progressive nature and continuity of religion from
Christianity and Judaism and how the Bab’s teachings were also
influenced by Christianity, and it described Tahirih as eloquent and
beautiful.759
Another lengthy summary of the Babi Faith, “Babysme,” appeared in
the 1868 version of the French Encyclopedia, L'Annuaire ency-
clopédique. The entry attempted to explain the Bab’s teachings such as
the common divine origin of all religions, the brotherhood of man, the
new social laws, though it also described the Bab as a “hypochondriac”
for his religious intensity. A substantial paragraph on Tahirih gave
some of her biographical details, emphasized her physical beauty—
saying her charms and seductiveness helped the Bab’s faith as “only a
woman could do,” and stating that she was called ‘Solace of the Eyes’

759 Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 24-5.

Tahirih in the West and the East

because of her beauty, which was inaccurate. She was one of the pillars
of the new faith with the courage to break with the past.760
One of the more unusual mentions of Tahirih was made during a
series of lectures by William Rossetti, brother of the famous 19th-
century English poet, Christina Rossetti, which was published in The
Dublin University Magazine, March, 1878. He was lecturing on the
poem, “The Revolt of Islam,” by Percy Bysshe Shelley. The poem has
no actual basis in Islam nor does it seek to depict it, but its male
character is a spiritual reformer seeking to reestablish virtue. He is
aided by his influential female companion. Rossetti wrote of the
connection between the poem and the story of the Bab:
“…the very singular and striking resemblance which the in-
vented story of the “Revolt of Islam,” written in 1817, bears
to some historical events of much more recent date in Persia.
I refer to the career of the sect named the Babys, founded by
a young man, a native of Shiraz—Mirza-Ali-Muhamad, who
in 1843, was a student in a theological school.”761
Rossetti writes that Tahirih had an “almost magical influence over
large masses of the population.”762 To Rossetti, Shelley’s characters
seem to prefigure both the lives of the Bab and Tahirih and the great
changes of the 19th century following the French Revolution. Shelley
wrote that the poem:

760 A. Bonneau, “Babysme,” L'Annuaire encyclopédique VIII (Paris: Bureau de
L’Encyclopedie,
1869), 255. Several of these sources were found from the following page:
“Travelers and Scholars on the Bábí/Baha’i Faiths,” in the Bahaikipedia, accessed
September 10, 2013,
https://bahaikipedia.org/Travelers_and_Scholars_on_the_Bábí/Baha'i_Faiths.
The list on this encyclopedia page was compiled from lists by Collins, McEoin,
and Momen,
761 William Michael Rossetti, “Shelley's Life and Writings, Two Lectures,” The
University, A Literary and Philosophic Review vol. 1 (1878): 264.
762 Ibid..

The Calling

“…is, in fact, a tale illustrative of such a revolution as might
be supposed to take place in an European nation, acted upon
by the opinions of what has been called (erroneously, as I
think) the modern philosophy, and contending with ancient
notions and the supposed advantage derived from them to
those who support them. It is a Revolution of this kind that
is the beau idéal, as it were, of the French Revolution, but
produced by the influence of individual genius and out of
general knowledge.”763
Knowledge of Tahirih’s life and love for her poetry went east and
south to the Indian subcontinent where her memory has been cele-
brated ever since. The first mention of Tahirih made on the Indian
subcontinent was in 1870. A steady stream of Babi and Baha’i teachers
came to India to spread the new teachings, including one of the Bab’s
Letters of the Living, Shaykh Sa’id-i Hindi, who hailed from the city
of Multan, a center of Islamic mystical practice.764
Sa’id-i-Hindi, who, like Tahirih, had been part of the Shaykhi school
and then became a follower of the Bab, was sent to the Indian subcon-
tinent to announce the good news of the advent of the Bab. He
reached Multan—in today’s Pakistan—in 1844, where he carried out
his mission to his fellow countrymen. One of those who converted to
the new faith was Basir-i-Hindi, a blind man of the Multan area who
had great spiritual and intellectual qualities.765
Members of the Bab’s family, also, had settled in India. The Bab had
worked in his uncle Siyyid Ali’s cloth trade, and business contacts had
been made in India. The family business had offices in Shiraz,
Bushihr, and Bombay (Mumbai). It was probably in 1870 that, Haji
Siyyid Mahmood Afnan and Haji Siyyid Mirza Mahdi Afnan, estab-
lished in Bombay a business by the name of “Haji Siyyid Mirza

763 Filiz Turhan, The Other Empire: British Romantic Writings about the Ottoman
Empire (New York: Routledge, 2003), 82.
764 Afaqi, “Qurratu’l-‘Ayn Tahirih in Urdu literature,” Tahirih in History, 29.
765 Mazandarani, Zuhur’ul-Haqq, vol. 3, 454.

Tahirih in the West and the East

Mahmood Afnan & Co.,” and, later, a printing press, the Nasiri
Printing Press, to publish the Babi and Baha’i holy writings. These
maternal relatives and other followers could spread the new teachings
from Bombay to the rest of India and Burma, and it became the first
major center of Baha’i activity in the Indian subcontinent.766
The first written mention of Tahirih in India came thirty-seven years
after her execution, in a compilation of Persian poetry edited by
‘Abdulghafur Nassakh, and published in Calcutta. The first researcher
to write about her from an academic perspective was Prof. M Hidayat
Hossein who was the secretary of the Royal Asiatic Society in Cal-
cutta.767
In 1902, a Baha’i came to Lahore to spread the Baha’i teachings. In
the neighborhood in which he was staying, he met and befriended one
of the most influential Indians of the early 20th century, Muhammad
Iqbal.768 Iqbal was a much admired poet who wrote in both Urdu and
Persian and a philosopher-activist who laid the intellectual ground-
work for the formation of a separate Muslim state to be carved out of
northwestern India. As a Muslim Indian, he was concerned that the
Muslim population of India would be at the mercy of the Hindu
majority and so proposed a two-state solution. Educated in England,
he was eventually knighted. In death he was memorialized as one of
the founders of Pakistan with his birthday becoming a national holiday
and many institutions named after him.
In 1930, Iqbal met Martha Root twice. In the intervening years since
he had first heard of Tahirih, a booklet about her had appeared in
Urdu, and, in 1930, a collection of some of her poems was published
in Karachi which was then presented to Iqbal at his first meeting with
Martha Root. At their second meeting in June of 1930, Iqbal spoke
with reverence to Martha Root and expressed his deep interest in the

766 Ibid.
767 Afaqi, “Qurratu’l-‘Ayn Tahirih in Urdu Literature.” 29.
768 Ibid., 29-30.

The Calling

figure of Tahirih. He said that he was including the Persian mystic in
his long poem about the spiritual journey.769
On his journey through the skies, Iqbal meets three important holy
figures, one of whom is Tahirih. In the first section of the “Song of
Tahira,” he is deeply moved by their spiritual ardor, and it appeals to
his own inner longings:
“If ever confronting face to face my glance should alight on you
I will describe to you my sorrow for you in the minutest detail
That I may behold your cheek, like the zephyr I have visited
house by house, door by door, lane by lane, street by street.
Through separation from you my heart’s blood is flowing
From my eyes
river by river, sea by sea, fountain by fountain, stream by stream,
My sorrowful heart wove your love into the fabric of my soul
thread by thread, thrum by thrum, warp by warp, woof by woof.
Tahira repaired to her own heart, and saw none but you
page by page, fold by fold, veil by veil, curtain by curtain.
The ardour and passion of these anguished lovers
cast fresh commotions into my soul;
ancient problems reared their heads
and made assault upon my mind.
The ocean of my thought was wholly agitated;
its shore was devastated by the might of the tempest.
Rumi said, “Do not lose any time,
you who desire the resolution of every knot;
for long you have been a prisoner in your own thoughts,
now pour this tumult out of your breast!’”770
In another section of “Song of Tahira,” he marvels at how spiritual
passion can bring new life into being and break through the old ways.

769 Ibid., 30-31.
770 Ibid., 47-8.

Tahirih in the West and the East

Iqbal was a poet and thinker who was very interested in the relation-
ship between sacrifice and progress:771
“From the sin of a frenzied servant of God
new creatures come into being;
unbounded passion rends veils apart,
removes from the vision the old and the stale,
and in the end meets its portion in rope and gallows
neither turns back living from the Beloved’s street
Behold Love’s glory in city and fields,
lest you suppose it has passed away from the world;
it lies concealed in the breast of its own time—
how could it be contained in such a closet as this?”772
Martha Root continued with her journey meeting other known
leaders and writers who may have included the Nobel Prize winner for
Literature, Rabindranath Tagore.773 She wrote it seemed that many
people could recite verses from Tahirih. On her third trip through
India in 1936-7, she brought with her the short biography of Tahirih
which she had written. Using information from her 1930 trip to Iran
where she met Tahirih’s family, she was able to begin a short biogra-
phy, Tahirih, The Pure. In early March, 1938, she stayed at the home
of the first Baha’i of Hindu background, and while she looked out
over the ocean, she finished this book.774 Then she had 3,000 copies of
it printed in Karachi and mailed many to prominent Indians as well as
giving them away to those whom she met. The book was soon being

771 Ibid., 31.
772 Ibid., 48-9.
773 According to Mabel R. Garis, (Martha Root: Lioness at the Threshold, Wilmette IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983), 453), the two were supposed to have met at the
Second Indian Cultural Conference in Calcutta, December, 1937, but he took ill
and there is no further mention of the meeting. According to Sabir Afaqi,
(“Qurratu’l-‘Ayn Tahirih in Urdu literature.” Tahirih in History (LA, CA: Kalimat
Press, 2004), 31; Tagore was one of the distinguished people whom she met.
774 The first Bahá’í of Hindu background was N.R. Vakil (Garis, Martha Root, 458).

The Calling

translated into Persian, Czech, Urdu, and Japanese.775 In Urdu, it went
through at least three editions, being reprinted for the third time in
Karachi, in 1974.776 Martha Root had hoped that Tahirih and the
Baha’i teachings would become better known this way and wrote that
she hoped friends would speak about Tahirih in all possible venues so
that Tahirih would go on a, “…teaching tour around the world….”777
In the following decades of the 20th century, there were over one-
hundred authors, most working in Urdu, who made mention of
Tahirih, translated her poems, included them in compilations, wrote
books, short stories and articles about her, and held symposiums in
celebration of her life.
A number of these were due to her having been one of the subjects of
poems and essays by Iqbal. At the University of Punjab—the oldest
university in a majority Muslim area of the Indian subcontinent778—
two dissertations and a paper on Iqbal’s thought included Tahirih.
Prof. Jagannath Azad, a prolific writer who wrote over seventy works
and who was also an expert in the writings of Iqbal, travelled to the
United States from India and wrote a book about his travels, In the
land of Columbus, in which he remembered:
“When I reached the Mashriqu’l-Adhkar (Baha’i Temple) of
Chicago, I was charmed by the atmosphere and freshness of
its gardens. My friend Iftekhar Nasim chanted for me the
poem of Qurratu’l-Ayn Tahirih “Gar bat u Uftadam
Nazar…” and I lose myself in its melody and felt the same
feeling that she cherished for the founder of the Baha’i
Faith.”779

775 Garis, Martha Root, 462, 464.
776 Afaqi, “Qurratu’l-‘Ayn Tahirih in Urdu literature,” 32.
777 Garis, Martha Root, 464.
778 “University of the Punjab,” University of the Punjab, accessed November 1,
2013. http://pu.edu.pk/page.
779 Prof. Jagannath Azad cited in Afaqi, “Qurratu’l-‘Ayn Tahirih in Urdu
literature,” 36.

Tahirih in the West and the East

An entire book published in Peshawar, Iqbal Aur Qurratu’l-Ayn, by
another scholar, Dr. Syed Chiragh Hussain Shah, was devoted to the
relationship between Iqbal and Tahirih.780
Independent of the connection with Iqbal, much was written in the
Indian subcontinent about Tahirih’s poetry. She was one of the poets
included in the 1905 compilation by Prof. Mohammad Ishaque,
published in Calcutta, titled, Four Eminent Poetesses of Iran. Abr
Ahsani Ginnauri Badayuni, a Baha’i poet who had a very wide circle of
influence among poets wrote a piece on Tahirih for the Baha’i Maga-
zine, published in Lahore. A famous poet writing in Urdu, Ra’is
Amrahvi, who had founded an institute for self-improvement in
Karachi, wrote poems regularly for a daily paper, and one of these was
in a style imitating a poem by Tahirih which was re-published in a
compilation.781 Over the decades, many other poets imitated her work
as well as reprinting and compiling it, so much so that a renowned
critic and journalist, Dr. Mohammad Ali Si, asserted in a Karachi
newspaper article: “There would seldom be any poet of the Urdu
language who would not have said a poem following the style of
Tahirih.”782
Her work was also studied. At a 1933 academic conference in La-
hore, Prof. M. Hidayat Hossein, a Muslim professor from Calcutta
presented a paper on, “The female martyr of the Babi Faith”. Her
worthiness to be studied was confirmed by her inclusion in an Urdu
Encyclopedia of Islam published in 1964, which included a summary
of her life, and another Urdu encyclopedia in 1984, in which the
compilers noted: “To summarize, she was matchless in the art of
poetry.”783
Tahirih was also the subject of short stories. A story bearing her
home name, “Zarrin Taj,” written by Prof. Aziz Ahmad, a much

780 Afaqi, “Qurratu’l-‘Ayn Tahirih in Urdu literature,” 34.
781 Ibid., 32-34.
782 Ibid., 38-9.
783 Ibid., 35-6.

The Calling

respected writer whose short stories were especially notable, was
published in a monthly literary magazine in Lahore. It was given a
dramatic reading on Radio Pakistan in Rawalpindi, in 1963.784 Sheikh
Manzoor Elahi, another well-respected short story writer produced a
piece titled, “Qurratu’l-Ayn,” which appeared in print in Lahore in
1965.785
Book length works about Tahirih also appeared such as a short
biography put out by the Baha’is of Lahore in 1974, and Jamilah
Hashmi, a novelist who imagined her storied life in his work, Chihra
bachihrah rubaru. An English-language, fictionalized rendering of
Tahirih’s life by Clara A. Edge was translated into Urdu, published in
a monthly journal in its entirety in 1998, and sold to its readership
and in bookshops, creating a much greater awareness of her.786
Back in the West, in 1885, a convert to the Unitarian ministry, John
Tunis,787 made extraordinary use of Tahirih as a symbol in his article,
“Woman in the Ministry: An Appeal to Fact,” in Unity, May 9,
1885.788 He wanted to advance the view that women should be
permitted to preach in churches and wanted to base his argument on
reason and fact; his model for his argument was Tahirih:
“It is needful to repeat again and again, that the right and
fitness of a woman to preach, depends solely on an appeal to
fact. Moreover, the fact must be a fact from our own cen-
tury…a woman who must remain the crown of her sex in the
present age. It is on this woman…renamed with the beauti-
ful name of “Consolation of the Eyes” that I propose to base

784 Ibid., 37.
785 Ibid., 33.
786 Ibid., 35, 40-1.
787 “History of First Parish of Norwell Unitarian Universalist,” First Parish
Norwell History,
accessed November 26, 2013, www.firstparishnorwell.org/history.htm#tunis
788 Tunis, John. “Woman in the Ministry: An Appeal to Fact.” Unity, Vol XV,
No 6, (1885):92-94.

Tahirih in the West and the East

an appeal to fact in the question, ought women to
preach?”789
Tunis praised the power of Tahirih’s faith:
“A passive sympathy was too little for her ardent spirit…She
threw off the veil, she denounced polygamy and…began
openly to preach and make converts…The uncle, the father,
the husband, ransacked their erudite brains for arguments to
reduce her to the old state of subordination. In vain, she an-
swered by the unanswerable argument of faith wearied of the
old commonplace. In the end, she left her home and conse-
crated herself to the Apostolic mission which the new relig-
ion conferred on her.”790
Tunis told how Tahirih had courageously called for emanci-
pation of women from age old customs:
“She began of telling of her great truth, that the time had
come for the new religion of the Bab to cover all the surface
of the earth, and that in obedience to this new faith God
must be worshipped henceforth in the spirit and in
truth…Therefore it was high time that woman should rouse
herself, should share the toil of her father, her husband,
should brave equally with them the dangers. It was no longer
time for them to be shut up in the inner women’s courts,
waiting in listless indolence while men wrought for
them…let them be companions of the men, follow them, die
with them, even on the field of battle.”791
He concluded by holding Tahirih up as a model and a challenge for
Western peoples:

789 Ibid., 92.
790 Ibid., 93.
791 Ibid., 93.

The Calling

“Such is my appeal to fact. The question of the propriety of
women in the ministry is a pressing one…the real value of
our consideration of this Eastern woman is that we remain in
the neighborhood of the question.”792
Jane Dieulafoy, a French archaeologist who considered herself an
absolute equal to men, wrote about Tahirih. She was best known for
her excavations of Susa, a settlement in southeastern Iran dating back
millennia, with her husband.793 Dieulafoy’s 1887 book, La Perse, La
Chaldee et La Susiane, included a short mention of Tahirih. While
Dieulafoy asserted the rights of all women, she opposed divorce as
harmful to women and remained loyal to her husband. She worked for
greater participation by women in the war effort of World War I.794
E.G. Browne was one of the most important scholars to first bridge
the distance between the Western and Persian worlds. Though he
came from a wealthy family of shipbuilders and was put on a track to
become a doctor, the outbreak of the Russo-Turkish war aroused a
lifelong interest in the near East because he sympathized with the
underdog Turks.795 Browne had a humanistic outlook on life with
concerns for human liberty, internationalism, constitutional govern-
ment, and the brotherhood of man. He may have become attracted to
the story and teachings of the Bab and Baha’u’llah, because these were
similar to his own views. He read about Babism in Gobineau’s book
and came to admire the Bab’s high-minded morals, courageous
behavior and universal teachings. By 1887 he had become deeply
interested in Persian language, culture, and history, and so he under-
took a year-long trip through Persia in 1887-8. A main reason for this

792 Ibid., 94.
793 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 499; “Jane Henriette Magre
Dieulafoy,” in the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater, accessed
October 19, 2013.
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/dieulafoy-1.
794 Ibid., 28.
795 Ibid., 34.

Tahirih in the West and the East

trip was to research Babi origins by meeting believers and finding
original manuscripts. By this time, though, most Babis had become
Baha’is.796
One of the results of this trip was the travel book, A Year Amongst the
Persians, in which Browne described Persian society with both great
learning and sympathy. He described the Baha’i gatherings:
“The memory of those assemblies can never fade from my
mind; the recollection of those faces and those tones no time
can efface. I have gazed with awe on the workings of a
mighty Spirit, and I marvel whereunto it tends.”797
Though it took several attempts to find a publisher, and although it
did not receive much attention during Browne’s life, A Year Among the
Persians came be seen as a classic of English travel literature.798
Another important piece of work from this trip was Browne’s transla-
tion of a history of the Babi and Baha’i Faiths, A Traveller’s Narrative,
written by the son of the prophet founder of the Baha’i Faith, ‘Abdu’l-
Baha. He had acquired the text in the original Persian while in Pales-
tine and then translated and annotated it.799 He praised and made this
definitive assessment of Tahirih:
“the appearance of such a woman as Qurratu'l-'Ayn is in any
country and any age a rare phenomenon, but in such a coun-
try as Persia it is a prodigy—nay, almost a miracle. Alike in
virtue of her marvelous beauty, her rare intellectual gifts, her
fervid eloquence, her fearless devotion and her glorious mar-

796 Moojan Momen, “Browne, Edward Granville,” Baha’i Library Online, (1995),
http://bahai-library.com/momen_encyclopedia_browne.
797 Nicholas James Bridgewater, “A Year Amongst the Persians,” accessed
September 10, 2013,
librivox.org/a-year-amongst-the-persians-by-edward-granville-brown/.
798 G. Michael Wickens, “Browne’s Life and Academic Career,” in the
Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater, accessed November 24, 2013,
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/browne-edward-granville.
799 Momen, “Browne, Edward Granville”.

The Calling

tyrdom, she stands forth incomparable and immortal amidst
her country-women. Had the Bábí religion no other claim to
greatness, this were sufficient—that it produced a heroine
like Qurratu'l-'Ayn.”800
Browne wrote several well-informed articles in the 1890s about the
new religion for the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain.
In one he describes the difficulty of finding information and docu-
ments related to Tahirih, echoing Lessona’s earlier and similar com-
plaint:
“Anxious as I was to obtain some of her poems, I only met
with a very limited amount of success. None of the Babis at
Shiraz whom I conversed with had any in their possession,
and they said that Kazvin and Hamadan, where Kurratu’l-
Ayn had preached, and Teheran, where she had suffered
martyrdom, would be the most likely places to obtain them.
However, at Yazd, I saw copies of two short poems (ghazals)
attributed to her authorship…I wrote to one of my friends at
Shiraz, and asked his opinion on their authenticity. He re-
plied that one of them…was not by Kurratu’l- ‘Ayn, but by a
Sufi poet called Suhbat, of Lar…it must be borne in mind
that the odium which attaches to the name of Babi amongst
Persian Muhamadans would render impossible the recitation
by them of verses confessedly composed by her. If, therefore,
she were actually the authoress of poems, the grace and
beauty of which compelled an involuntary admiration even
from her enemies, it would seem extremely probable that
they should seek to justify their right to admire them by at-
tributing them to some other writer, and this view is sup-
ported by an assertion which I have heard made by a learned
Persian with whom I was acquainted in Teheran, and who,

800 E.G Browne, Tr., Abdu'l-Bahá, A Traveller’s Narrative (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press 1891), 309.

Tahirih in the West and the East

though not actually a Babi, did not lack a certain amount of
sympathy for those who were such, to the effect that many
poems written by Kurratu’l-‘Ayn were amongst the favorite
songs of the people, who were for the most part unaware of
their authorship. Open allusions to the Bab had, of course,
been cut out or altered, so that no one could tell the source
from whence they came.”801
In later years, Browne channeled his energy towards working for the
Constitutional movement in Persia and assembling his massive
compilations on the history of Persian literature, which included some
of the writings of the Bab and Baha’u’llah. His interest in the study of
the Babi and Baha’i Faiths receded in part because of attacks by fellow
academics that he was wasting his great talent and knowledge on an
obscure Persian religious movement.802
Another important book about Persia written by a Westerner, Persia
and the Persian Question, was published in 1892. Its author, Lord
Curzon, would travel widely throughout his life, going so far as Korea,
and eventually serve as Viceroy of India. In this book, he wrote an
excellent and insightful summary of the Babi movement,803 including
this passage about Tahirih:
“Beauty and the female sex also lent their consecration to the
new creed, and the heroism of the lovely but ill-fated poetess
of Kazvin, Zerin Taj (Crown of Gold), or Kurrat-el-Ain
(Solace of the Eyes), who, throwing off the veil, carried the

801 Edward Granville Browne, “Art. XII.—The Bábís of Persia. II. Their
Literature and Doctrines.” Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain v.
21, Issue 4 (October, 1889): 54-6.
802 Momen, “Browne, Edward Granville”.
803 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 45-7.

The Calling

missionary torch far and wide, is one of the most affecting
episodes in modern history.”804
In a New York Times review of an article written by Coutts Trotter
for the Scottish Review, April 1892 edition, “A New religion.” Tahirih
was described as the Bab’s “most effective recruit” and that her “influ-
ence” was “much assisted by her beauty.” She had such “unconven-
tional behavior” like her “ardor of speaking” that “her veil would
sometimes fall off.”805
Sir Francis Edward Younghusband (1863-1942), an English ex-
plorer, diplomat, and military man who made extensive expeditions
throughout China, India, and Tibet’s remote and mountainous
regions, came to the United States in 1893 to give a presentation at
the world religious conference in 1893.806 In a later book, he described
Tahirih as “Almost the most remarkable figure in the whole move-
ment….” who “…was known for her virtue, piety” and that, for her
faith, “…she gave up wealth, child, name and position for her Master’s
service.”807
A British journalist, Sir Ignatius Valentine Chirol, wrote a book on
British interests in the Middle East, The Middle Eastern Question,
published in 1903.808 In his retelling of the story of the Bab, he praised
Tahirih as standing in contrast to orthodoxy’s dim view of women:

804 George Curzon, Persia and the Persian question, (London UK: Longmans,
Green and Co, 1892), 497.
805 “A New Religion,” New York Times (New York: NY), June 5, 1892.
806 “Sir Francis Younghusband (1863-1942).” Baha’i Tributes, accessed June 25,
2013,
https://bahaitributes.wordpress.com/category/bab/.;
“Sir Francis Younghusband, British Army Officer,” Encyclopaedia Britannica,
accessed June 25, 2013,
http://www.britannica.com/biography/Francis-Edward-Younghusband.
807 Sir Francis Younghusband, The Gleam (London, UK: John Murray 1923),
202-3.
808 Momen, The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 57-8.

Tahirih in the West and the East

“Socially one of the most interesting features of Babiism…is the
raising of women to a much higher plane than she is usually admitted
to in the East. The Bab himself had no more devoted a disciple than
the beautiful and gifted lady, known as Kurrat-el-Ain, the “Consola-
tion of the Eyes,” who, having shared all the dangers of the first
apostolic missions in the north, challenged and suffered death with
virile fortitude, as one of the Seven Martyrs of Teheran. No memory is
more deeply venerated or kindles greater enthusiasm than hers, and
the influence which she wielded in her lifetime still ensures to her sex.
That women, whom orthodox Islam barely credits with the possession
of a soul, are freely admitted to the meetings of Babis, gives their
enemies, the Mullas, ample occasion to blaspheme. But they have
never produced a tittle of evidence in support of the vague charges of
immorality they are wont to bring against the followers of the new
creed. Communism and socialism are also often imputed to them, and
some of them appear to have borrowed from the West the terminology
of advanced democracy. Probably Babiism is still in a state of flux, and
represents, apart from its doctrinal aspects, an association of many
heterogeneous elements loosely bound together by a common spirit of
revolt against the scandalous depravity of the Court, the corruption of
the ruling classes, and the intolerance and greed of the orthodox
clergy.”809
The next year, 1904, Tahirih was the subject of a play put on in
Saint Petersburg, Russia. Written by Isabella Grinesvkaya, the pen
name of the Jewish writer Berta Friedberg, who may have heard of the
story of the Bab from the great Russian novelist, Ivan Turgenev,
who—according to Benjamin Jowett—a distinguished Oxford profes-
sor, often spoke of the Bab.810 She was a member of the Philosophic
society, the Oriental Society, and the Bibliographical Society, as well as

809 “Ignatius Valentine Chirol (1852-1929),” accessed June 25, 2015,
https://bahaitributes.wordpress.com/category/bab/.
810 Jan T. Jasion and Sabir Afaqi, editors, “Tahirih on the Russian stage,” Tahirih
in History (LA, CA: Kalimat Press, LA, 2004), 232.

The Calling

literary groups and unions. The play, “The Bab,” was published in
1903, and was performed in one of the principal theaters of St.
Petersburg in 1904. Leo Tolstoy, the great Russian novelist, read it.
He wrote the author expressing his admiration for the Baha’i teach-
ings, and the letter was published in a newspaper. Her play was the
first introduction of the Bab and Baha’u’llah to Russians—she wrote a
play on Baha’u’llah as well. She thought that the Faith had disap-
peared until after her play appeared in 1903, and she received a letter
from a Baha’i in Baku, Azerbaijan, requesting a copy of it. The
subsequent correspondence showed her that there were active Baha’is
in the world.811 She eventually became a Baha’i after moving to
Constantinople812 which had a large Baha’i community.813
The five-act play is a fanciful account of certain events from the life
of the Bab as seen through the eyes of Tahirih. It opens after Tahirih’s
mother has died, and Tahirih is looking for the Bab who, in this play,
is her childhood friend with whom she has a deep relationship; her
father, though, wants her to stay away from him. The Bab re-appears
in a scene in the bazaar before a crowd in which he proclaims himself
to be the Bab, a ‘new man’, and speaks forcefully on the position of
women in the Qur’an. In the scene of his execution, Tahirih and he
say to each other that they are already together in the spiritual worlds;
the Bab appears Christ-like. In the final scene, Tahirih rallies women
to raise up their positions in society, and they all remove their veils.
While not historical in any sense, Grinesvkaya’s play was celebrated
in the press as a source of spiritual inspiration. A second edition was

811 Martha L. Root, “Russia’s cultural contribution to the Bahá’í Faith,” Bahá’í
World VI (Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1937), 708.
812 John Walbridge, “Chapter Four - The Baha’i Faith in Turkey,” Occasional
Papers in Shaykhi,Babi and Baha'i Studies, accessed 21, 2013,
www.h-net.org/~bahai/bhpapers.htm.
813 William P. Collins and Jan T. Jasion, “Lev Tolstoi and the Bábí and Bahá’í
Faiths a Bibliography,” Journal of Bahá’í Studies Vol. 3, number 3 (1991),
http://bahai-library.com/pdf/c/collins_jasion_lev_tolstoy.pdf.

Tahirih in the West and the East

published in 1916 and put onstage again in 1917 with many foreign
dignitaries in attendance, including the Ambassador of China.814
On the other side of Europe in France, in 1905, the first full-length
history of the Bab was published, Siyyid Ali Muhammad dit le Bab, by
the French Consular official who served in Persia, A.L.M. Nicolas.
Nicolas first came to know about the Bab because his father’s diplo-
matic service in Tihran overlapped with that of Gobineau. His father
and Gobineau had gotten into a dispute over the nature of a manu-
script acquired by the former. Nicolas found in his father’s papers a
critique of Gobineau’s book on the religions of Central Asia, so he
decided to research the subjects in the book, and, in this way, came
into contact with the writings of the Bab.815 As he worked on under-
standing the Bab’s text, The Seven Proofs, he became so moved that he
became a believer:
“My reflections on the strange book [The Seven Proofs by
the Báb] that I had translated, filled me with a kind of in-
toxication and I became, little by little, profoundly and
uniquely a Bábí. The more I immersed myself in these reflec-
tions, the more I admired the greatness of the genius of him
who, born in Shíraz, had dreamt of uplifting the Muslim
world….”816
Nicolas wrote a thorough account based on Persian sources and
observation of the history of the Bab and the Babi movement as well as
translated three of the Bab’s major works. One appreciation by a later
scholar stated:
“No European scholar has contributed so much to our
knowledge of the life and teachings of the Bab as Nicolas.

814 Martha L. Root, Russia’s cultural contribution, 708.
815 Momen, The Babi and Bahá’í Religions, 36-40.
816 Ibid., 37.

The Calling

His study of the life of the Bab and his translations…remain
of unsurpassed value.”817
In his book, Nicolas devoted many pages to Tahirih. He pointed out
that Tahirih had responded immediately to the Bab’s teachings and
did not allow petty literal interpretations of the Qur’an to interfere.818
The whole of chapter twelve describes Tahirih’s execution. She is
described as having attracted many women to the Bab by telling them
of the liberty promised in the new Revelation and then having been
subject to seven interviews about her beliefs and teachings by two
prominent Mullas.819 She criticized the clerics for their literal interpre-
tation of prophecy. The clerics declared her a heretic and left. Nicolas
tells the story of her martyrdom in which, after sunset, the streets were
emptied, and she was taken to the Il-Khani gardens, and there, one of
the captain’s soldiers was ordered to strangle her.
In 1910, a second play on the Bab was put on, this time, in the
English speaking world by Laura Barney, God’s Heroes. Laura Barney
was the daughter of a socially prominent artist in Washington DC,
was educated by private tutors, and attended a boarding school in
France founded to educate girls. She continued her studies in Paris
where she first heard about the Baha’i Faith and became a believer; she
married the first Frenchman to convert to the Baha’i Faith, Hippolyte
Dreyfus. She went on to use her wealth to finance the travels of Baha’i
teachers and to make repeated visits to Palestine, where she compiled a
long set of answers given by ‘Abdu’l-Baha to questions on the Baha’i
teachings later published as a book, Some Answered Questions, which
became one of the most important sources for the explication of Baha’i

817 Ibid., 36.
818 Nicolas, Seyyed Ali Mohammed dit le Bab, 210-1.
819 Ibid., 446.

Tahirih in the West and the East

teaching. She went on to be very active in international affairs using
her rare skill of fluency in Persian.820
Laura Barney wrote God's Heroes in Paris, 1909. During these first
decades, Paris attracted a number of very talented artists. For poets,
the city gave them an opportunity to have their far more experimental
work published; and for artists, the city had many potential art dealers
and, as one artist put it, “If I was going to starve, I might as well starve
where the food was good….”821 As this bustling collective was breaking
the molds of the past, it also advocated lifestyles free of conventional
morality. Hearing that a known actress wanted to bring Tahirih to the
stage, Barney feared that such a presentation might not reflect the
dignity of a saintly figure like Tahirih. She, therefore, decided to write
this play, knowing that if other writers knew she was tackling the
subject, they would, out of professional courtesy, not attempt to write
about it themselves. In this way, the figure of Tahirih and the story of
the Bab would be spared the indignities of an inappropriate stage
play.822
The first act opens with Tahirih giving an exposition on the continu-
ity of Divine revelation and followed by her arguments against her
husband and a dream in which she predicts seeing a man’s mouth
filled with blood; the act finishes with the murder of her father-in-law
in an alley. In the second act, the emancipation of women is the focus
beginning with a female character observing that a woman’s life has
two masters—men and death; the claims of the Bab are then discussed,
including those related to women. Babis gather together at the Confer-
ence of Badasht, and the Qur’anic Revelation is once again the topic of
debate with the Qur’an being characterized as having been for a

820 Mona Khademi, “A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Clifford-Barney,” Irfan
Colloquia, accessed November 11, 2013,
http://irfancolloquia.org/pdf/lights10_khademi.pdf.
821 Perry Miller Adato, dir.. Paris: The Luminous Years. PBS, December 15, 2010,
video, 31 sec.,
http://video.pbs.org/video/1691415260/.
822 Khademi, “Life of Laura Clifford-Barney,” 85.

The Calling

“wilder” people who had not been informed by the teachings of the
“Nazarine” and that converts must now be won through love and not
force. The Babis also disagree on the finality of the Qur’an and discuss
the constancy of the inner reality of religion while its forms change,
and Tahirih asserts the existence of a new revelation marking the Day
of Judgment. They discuss the fuller teachings of Baha’u’llah and the
Houses of Justice, described as ‘councils’. The act ends with Tahirih
appearing unveiled, shocking the men. Act IV centers on marriage
with Tahirih receiving proclamations of love from the Kalantar’s son,
dispensing love advice to a young woman and presenting the teachings
of the Bab to women who have come for a wedding. In the final act,
she challenges the Mullas who, at first, are impressed by her courage
and knowledge but then demand that she recant her faith, which she
refuses. Later the son of the Kalantar bursts in to rescue her but is too
late, as soldiers emerge with her lifeless body. He weeps for her while
the Mullas go off to pray.
A few years after the publishing of this play, Charlotte Despard, an
English women’s rights advocate who served the poor in Dublin,
wrote several substantial pieces on Tahirih.823 She was the editor of a
weekly newspaper in England, The Vote, which had as its mission
statement:
“To secure for Women the Parliamentary vote as it is or may
be granted to men; to use the power thus obtained to estab-
lish equality of rights and opportunities between the sexes,
and to promote the social and industrial well-being of the
community.”824
In three editions of The Vote during September and October of
1911, she wrote a biographical account of Tahirih. In her account,

823 Selena M. Crosson, “Shaping Women’s Role in Early Baha’i Culture 1898-
1940,” (A thesis submitted to the Department of History, University of
Saskatchewan, Canada, June, 2013), 59.
824 Charlotte Despard, “An Eastern Prophet’s Message.” The Vote Vol. VII, n. 168
(January 10, 1913): 181.

Tahirih in the West and the East

entitled, “A woman apostle in Persia,” she re-imagines Tahirih as a
rebel against the religious subjugation of women. Despard imagines
Tahirih as saying:
“I have always rebelled,” so her thoughts ran. “I have felt it
was an ill thing to be a woman, and worse to rail against the
decree of Allah in making woman subject. And I have fought
against my free mind as evil in a woman.”825
She characterized the Bab as a prophet of peace who empowered
women:
“The Master we follow teaches peace and tolerance…the
Master is right. Women must go out; women must preach
the gospel of peace.”826
“His voice was very calm and sweet, and yet there was that in
it which inflamed the soul. That the world changed; that
customs and conventions and ideas, good for one generation
were as cruel fetters for another; that every man and every
woman—how she, Quarratu’l’ Ain, and her sister trembled
behind their curtain! –had a right to freedom; that all relig-
ions were good, and that brotherly love and toleration would
hold families and nations together….”827
Charlotte Despard’s description of Tahirih is really a description of
herself: a peace activist, a pacifist, a suffragette, an advocate for purity,
and a deeply spiritual person. What she knew of Tahirih’s life must
have resonated deeply with her own concerns for improving the
standing of women in her society and advancing the cause of peace in
the pre-World War I years. She no doubt was thinking of her own
life’s work when she attributed these words to Baha’u’llah as he
commands Tahirih to tear off her veil:

825 Charlotte Despard, “A woman apostle in Persia.” The Vote Vol. IV, no. 101
(September 30, 1911): 280-1.
826 Ibid.
827 Ibid.

The Calling

“Not for thyself, my daughter, for the iron will enter into thy
soul; but for the sake of the others—of the women who are
in prison and who dare not move until one shall show them
the way.”828
‘Abdu’l-Baha spoke to the Women’s Freedom League on January 2nd,
1913, on, “The Equality of Women,” in which he spoke of Tahirih,
the first time anyone had done so publicly in England. A version of his
talk appeared in the Friday, January 10th, 1913, edition of The Vote:
“Amongst the women of our time there is Qu’urat’ul Ain,
the daughter of a Mohammedan priest; at the time of the
appearance of the Bab she showed such tremendous courage
and power, that all who heard her were astonished. She
threw aside her veil, despite the immemorial custom of the
Persians, and although it is considered impolite to speak with
men, this heroic woman carried on controversies with the
wisest men, and in every meeting she vanquished them. The
Persian government took her prisoner, she was stoned in the
streets, anathematized, exiled from town to town, threatened
with death, but she never failed in her determination to work
for the freedom of her sisters. She bore persecution and suf-
fering with the greatest heroism; even in prison she gained
converts. To a Persian Minister, in whose house she was im-
prisoned, she said: “You may kill me as soon as you like, but
you cannot stop the emancipation of women.” At last the
end of her tragic life came; she was carried into a garden and
strangled. She put on, however, the choicest robes as if she
were going to join a bridal party. With such magnanimity
and courage she gave her life, startling and thrilling all who
saw her. She was truly a great heroine. To-day in Persia
among the Baha’is, there are women who also show un-
flinching courage, and are endowed with great poetic insight;

828 Despard, “A woman apostle in Persia,” 291.

Tahirih in the West and the East

they are most eloquent, and speak before large gatherings of
people.”829
Another English woman, Elizabeth Maud Constance, had a great
interest in the woman’s suffrage movement which she explored in her
1911 novel, No Surrender. She met the son of Baha’u’llah during his
visit to England and wrote an article about him.830 Another of her
articles, “The first Persian Feminist,” was published in The Fortnightly
Review. In the article, she describes Tahirih as a “martyr” for the “great
Awakening” of women to their terrible plights. She singles out Tahirih
as one who, “no name deserves to stand higher,” that she had a
“quality of mind that refused to be bent and moulded by external
circumstances,” that, “the spiritual force of her personality,” was able
to break down the barriers of her “barred window,” the “high walls” of
her garden, the “impassable barriers of religion and custom.” She was
transformed by the new spiritual message that there was “one universal
brotherhood” and “one centre” to all religions which was God, and the
“equality of the sexes.” This new belief, “stirred her soul,” and she
“shook off the old bonds.” She goes on to write a short bio of Tahirih
emphasizing her independence born of her firm belief that God was
calling her. The account is mostly accurate, though she relates that
Tahirih was eventually put in prison, and there, even, “hardened
criminals,” who were sent to her cell to torture her, came out saying
they could never do such a thing to a saint.831
A defining description—from a Baha’i perspective—of Tahirih and
account of her life was given in the Baha’i chronicle, The Dawnbreak-
ers, by Nabil-i-Zarandi, a follower of the Bab and Baha’u’llah, and was
translated into English and then published in 1932. Nabil character-
izes Tahirih by her union with God and the Bab, her intuitive spiritual

829 Despard, “An Eastern Prophet’s Message,” 181.
830 Constance Elizabeth Maud, “Abdul Baha (Servant of the Glory),” The
Fortnightly Review vol. 97, April (1912).
831 Maud, Constance Elizabeth Maud, “The First Persian Feminist,” The
Fortnightly Review No. DLVIII, June (1913): 1175-1182.

The Calling

knowledge, her courage and her faithfulness. God had “…kindled the
light in Táhirih, a light that was destined to shed its radiance upon the
whole of Persia.”832 Almost immediately she “…perceived the dawning
light of the promised Revelation breaking upon the city of Shíráz, and
was prompted to pen her message and plead her fidelity to Him who
was the Revealer of that light.”833 The depth of her conviction gave her
great focus: “The innate fearlessness and the strength of her character
were reinforced a hundredfold by her immovable conviction of the
ultimate victory of the Cause she had embraced….”834 and “…few
could escape the contagion of her belief.”835 In the dramatic rendering
of the end of Tahirih’s life, she appeared ready for martyrdom,
“…fully adorned, dressed in a gown of snow-white silk. Her room was
redolent with the choicest perfume….”836 She tells the wife of the
Kalantar, “I am preparing to meet my Beloved,”837 and that, now, she
would be re-united with God: “This day I intend to fast—a fast which
I shall not break until I am brought face to face with my Beloved.”838


832 Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, 191.
833 Ibid., 192.
834 Ibid.
835 Ibid.
836 Ibid., 455.
837 Ibid.
838 Nabíl-i-A‘zam, The Dawn-Breakers, 455-6.

- 281 -
APPENDIX B:
EDUCATION OF WOMEN AND GIRLS IN PERSIA
By the beginning 20th century, modernism and the Baha’i Faith
impacted Persia in one area in particular that Tahirih would have
much appreciated: education. The efforts to educate the people of
Persia, including its women, were well underway despite the deep
concerns regarding its overall effect.
Persian men and many women had the same concerns regarding the
education of girls: too much schooling would make them unmarriage-
able or poor spouses. The experience of a Persian noblewoman, the
daughter of the Persian Ambassador to the Ottoman Court, reflects
this concern:
“…she…learned French and Istanbul Turkish like an expert;
she was also total versed in the Persian language and knew
the arts and crafts of Istanbul ladies…She had pulled herself
out of the world of women and reached the level of learned
men. She was a learned person and did not bother looking
after her husband and trying to please him. She paid little at-
tention to her husband and was not attached to him. Because
of these tendencies, the relationship between her and her
husband went cold. They didn’t get along.”839
In the late 19th century, the education of girls became part of the
general debate on education. A Persian general840 who was a tutor to a
prince and an advocate of women’s education wrote:
“Teach your children, sons and daughters, science and obe-
dience.”841

839 Afsaneh Najmabadi, Women with Mustaches and Men without Beards (U. of
California Press: Berkeley CA, 2005), 181.
840 Mirza Taqi Khan Kashani (Najmabadi, Women with Moustaches, 189).
841 Ibid., 189.

The Calling

Another prominent Persian man842 who took an interest in education
asserted:
“…the more we work for education and learning of women,
the more we would serve the uplifting, progress and perfec-
tion of our nation.”843
Comparisons were made with Europe and even India, bemoaning the
advances made in those places to educate women.844 Women’s educa-
tion came to national attention in 1900 with the publication of a
book, The Liberation of Women, which pointed out that thinkers in
Europe advocated for women’s rights including education.845 The
author846 contended that:
“…the evidence of history confirms and demonstrates that
the status of women is inseparably tied to the status of the
nation.”847
A female school principal challenged Persian women:
“At least we should follow our Asian sisters, the Japanese…in
pursuit of sciences and industries. It must be emphasized
that educating women is more important than educating
men, since the education of men is dependent on education
of women…Therefore, you respected women must seriously
and with great effort seek sciences and spread knowledge…so
that liberty, equality and fraternity could be established in
our homeland and we too could acquire that civilization and
life that the Europeans have.”848

842 Mahumad Afshar (Ibid., 189).
843 Ibid.
844 Ibid., 191.
845 Ibid., 193.
846 Qasim Amin (Ibid., 193).
847 Ibid.
848 Ibid., 194.

Education of Women and Girls in Persia

Women’s roles were changing, and they were becoming much more
the household managers than simply dependents on the male head of
household. Educating women was primarily to make women more
effective as household managers and mothers, similar to the American
concept of the ‘Republican mother’—the mother who raised the
future of the nation.849 A female student wrote at graduation:
“Because of the duties of a woman to mother and educate
humanity, the harms of ignorance are a hundredfold worse
for them and the advantages of learning a thousand times
greater. A learned woman will keep her house clean and or-
derly, thus making her spouse happy. A learned woman will
educate her child according to rules of health and hygiene
and wisdom…A learned woman will protect her family rela-
tionship and will prevent discord and difference which is the
greatest cause of destruction of family and nation….”850
Women raised the male citizenry; a woman had to govern the home
with all the skill that a man had to administer the lands and country.851
Westward looking intellectuals who saw the positive results of Euro-
pean schools in Persia supported female education as integral to the
overall development of the nation. Conservative clerics were opposed
to modern schools, and even more, to educating girls. When a school
for girls was opened in Tihran in 1903-4, clerics issued a formal decree
calling it “against the principles of Shi’i Islam.”852 Three years later, a
similar school was begun only to be threatened by locals with the
destruction of the building, so the Ministry of Education advised the
school founder to close the school for its own protection.853 Opening

849 Ibid.
850 Ibid., 194-5.
851 Ibid., 196-7.
852 Soli Shahvar, The Forgotten Schools: The Baha’is and Modern Education in Iran,
1899-1934 (NY, NY: IB Tauris and Co Ltd, 2009), 56.
853 Ibid.

The Calling

schools for girls became possible in 1909 when a coup overthrew the
conservative elements in government. The second school for girls to be
opened by a Persian—all others had previously been foreign schools—
was opened by a Baha’i.854
By the time of the new Constitutional government in 1911, initia-
tives were underway for the establishment of schools for girls as well as
modern schools. In 1917-8, the first ten state schools were started and
secondary schools started a few years later. The purpose of state schools
was to raise good citizens. Private schools proliferated and expanded
beyond elementary education.855
Baha’is built the first modern Baha’i school in 1899—the Baha’i
Boys’ School, the Tarbiyat School, in Tihran. Building schools was a
natural extension of the social mission of the Baha’i religion because of
its emphasis on the importance of education; over the next thirty-five
years more than forty more Baha’i schools were built. The Constitu-
tional Period gave them a big material boost; a wave of school-building
went over Persia in the 1910s. Like the state schools whose curriculum
they followed,856 Baha’i schools taught citizenship, but what was
distinctive about them was the inculcation of a piety based on the
Baha’i Writings which reinforced what the students experienced at
home. The Ministry of Education may well have allowed such Baha’i
schools to be started out of its support for reform and modernization.
There were also a number of Baha’is in senior positions in the country
to help support and protect them.857
Baha’i schools were supervised by the Baha’i National Spiritual
Assembly and greatly aided by Americans who offered professional
service as teachers, administrators and developers of curricula. While

The two schools here were the Parvarish Girls’ School in Tihran founded by Tuba
Rushdiyyih and the Dushizihgan begun by Bibi Khanum Vaziruv Astarabadi.
854 Munirih Ayadi, founder of the Ta’yidiyyih-yi Dushizigan-i-Vatan (Ibid., 57).
855 Najmabadi, Women with Mustaches, 200-1.
856 Shahvar, The Forgotten Schools, 60.
857 Ibid., 63-65.

Education of Women and Girls in Persia

these schools were local, they were connected to the wider world
through assistance from ‘Abdu’l-Baha, the son of the founder of the
Baha’i Faith, the Baha’is in the United States, and the sizable Persian
diaspora, which was spread over much of the world. Baha’is all over
the world saw these schools in Iran as an expression of the highest
values of their faith being put into action to help society. For years,
there was an active correspondence between American Baha’i women
and the Persian educational efforts.858 The American women took a
particular interest in the situation of their counterparts in Persia and
lent much expertise to the Baha’is in Iran.859
By 1913 the Tarbiyat Baha’i School for girls was educating four
percent of the girls going to school in Tihran. ‘Abdu’l-Baha actively
recruited teachers and aid—in the form of textbooks and much-valued
paper—and the Baha’is in Iran provided most of the financing. The
Tarbiyat School began in a private home, and after overcoming
financial and administrative struggles, grew to the point where it and
other Baha’i schools came to be recognized by the ministry of educa-
tion for their excellence. Their graduates had a far greater rate of
passing national exams than students from other schools; they were
also distinguished by having higher moral standards of behavior. In the
1920s one minister reflected the continuing religious prejudice when
he bemoaned the fact that these excellent schools were run by
Baha’is.860
Baha’i schools opened up in at least ten more locations throughout
the country. This brought modern education to areas of Persia that
had never had it. In these more rural areas, the population also tended
to associate ‘Baha’ism’ erroneously with the Constitutional reform
movement and encroaching modernism, so mobs vented their anger at
these schools. Because the Baha’i schools were based on spiritual

858 Kaveh Hemmat, “Bahá’í Schools in Iran” (presentation, Iranian Constitutional
Revolution Centennial Conference, Oxford, U.K., 2006), 3
859 Ibid., 7-8.
860 Ibid., 2-4.

The Calling

teachings and were private, corporal punishment was not used and a
greater degree of care and kindness was shown by teachers for students.
This gave the schools a positive atmosphere. In addition, the school
grounds and facilities were maintained with great care, bringing beauty
to the educational experience of the students.861
At the Baha’i schools, Persian girls were taught a rigorous curriculum
that included science, basic hygiene, math, Persian literature, Arabic,
the Qur’an, grammar, and even sewing. These schools were also
among the first to have actual ‘physical’ education. Girls enjoyed
reading women’s magazines which came from the United States. In
the mornings, the girls stood in the yard while one prayed aloud. At
these schools, girls were given opportunities for growth which they
could get nowhere else in Persia. Even so, like in America, most girls
were destined to work as wives and mothers, so the Baha’i schools also
taught home-making skills such as health care and sewing.862
The Ministry of Education ranked the two Tarbiyat schools at or
near the top of all the schools in the country, and as a result, its
graduates had an opportunity for great professional advancement. The
Tarbiyat School for Girls also came to be valued by reformers as
promoting the emancipation of Persian women.863 The two Baha’i
schools in Hamadan boasted a library of four-thousand books, a
substantial number at that time, and the Baha’i school in Yazd saw the
first girls ever to graduate from a sixth-grade, and the Baha’i boys’
school reached one-hundred percent pass rate in the nationwide
exams.864 More and more Muslim, Zoroastrian, and Jewish families
sent their children to these schools because of their reputation, until
something like six and a half percent of the total school population in
the country attended a Baha’i school; prominent families even sent

861 Ibid., 4-6.
862 Ibid., 11.
863 Shahvar, The Forgotten Schools, 95.
864 Ibid., 88.

Education of Women and Girls in Persia

their children to them despite the anti-Baha’i feeling among many
people and clerics.865
The opposition to Baha’i schools was always most vigorous from the
clerics who opposed modernization, westernization—which included
female education—and local clerics who lost paying students for their
own schools to the Baha’i schools. The cleric who ran the Ministry of
Education in Kashan and referred to himself as the “light” was able to
get the Baha’i school closed down based on rumors. Then ‘Abdu’l-
Baha intervened at a higher level, and it was re-opened, showing the
high regard in which he was held in certain sections of Persian soci-
ety.866 Such regular harassments by the clergy went on for decades as a
part of the larger struggle between reform and traditionalism. Opposi-
tion was mitigated by the Baha’is who were in high positions, by the
respect with which people held ‘Abdu’l-Baha even in high governmen-
tal circles in Persia, by the excellence of the schools—and the related
drive for reform—and by the fact that the Baha’i schools did not teach
the Baha’i religion; rather, this was done at Friday schools.867
With the next dynasty, the Pahlavis, Reza Shah’s increasing authori-
tarian drive to have complete control over the state may have led
ultimately to the closing down of Baha’i schools. Just as the Shah
sought to impose his will in all areas of Persian administration, the
Baha’is of Iran were becoming more organized and established, having
elected a national governing body for the first time in 1934. In
addition, Shoghi Effendi, the head of the Baha’i Faith, encouraged all
Baha’i institutions and individuals to obey their conscience in matters
of faith while obeying their respective governments. Baha’i schools,
following his guidance, were closed on Baha’i Holy Days in obedience
to Baha’i law. The Shah, who worked incessantly, had an office across
from the courtyard of the Tarbiyat School. He enjoyed hearing the
prayers sung in the courtyard. One day all was quiet. He asked why

865 Ibid., 93-96.
866 Ibid., 99.
867 Ibid., 106.

The Calling

there were no prayers being sung and his assistants told him it was a
Baha’i Holy Day. This conflict between a need for an absolutist kind
of national unity on the part of the Shah, the establishment of the
Baha’i institutions in Persia, and persistent opposition may well have
condemned the Baha’i schools to closure.868

868 Ibid., 108-116.

- 289 -
APPENDIX C:
TRANSLATION
Most of the translations in this book were done by two distinguished
professors from UCLA, Prof. Amin Banani and Prof. Jascha Kessler.
Prof. Banani was the founder of the Iranian Studies Program at
UCLA having been invited to UCLA by Prof. Gustave von Grune-
baum for this purpose. He taught history and Persian literature and
helped launch the western world’s first Bachelor of Arts program in
Iranian studies. His many publications include: The Modernization of
Iran; Islam and Its Cultural Divergence; Iran Faces the Seventies; and
Individualism and Conformity in Classical Islam. He also edited and
contributed to The Epic of Kings among many other works.
Prof. Kessler also taught at UCLA, as a Professor of English and
Modern Literature which included poetry, fiction, and playwriting. He
has published eight books of his poetry and fiction. His most recent
titles include Siren Songs & Classical Illusions: 60 Fables, Revised with a
Preface (McPherson & Company, 2013) and King Solomon's Seal: 75+
fables (Xlibris, 2013). A distinguished translator, he has completed six
volumes of translations of poetry and fiction from Hungarian, Persian,
and Bulgarian, several of which have won major prizes including the
Finnish Literary Translation Center Award and the Translation Award
from the National Translation Center (Marlboro Press) for his 1989
translation of Sándor Rákos’ Catullan Games. His other awards and
grants for writing including an NEA Fellowship, two Senior Fulbright
Awards, and a Rockefeller Fellowship. He had collaborated previously
with Prof. Amin Banani on a translation of the works of the Persian
poet Forough Farrokhzad, Bride of Acacias: the Poetry of Forugh
Farrokhzad.
Prof. Kessler described his effort to bring Tahirih alive in our world
while retaining aspects of the original context of her life:
“My decision was therefore to carry over into our vernacular
in both form and content, deliberately risking an exotic,

The Calling

sometimes anachronistic, effect. I see nothing to be gained
by removing her altogether from the forms of her nine-
teenth-century Persian world, which most assuredly would
have occurred in any free-verse translation. Tahirih, it should
be remembered, was first and foremost writing poems. She
was writing song, meditation, prayer, exordium, ecstatic out-
pouring—in formal verses. In short, she crafted her utter-
ance. And that is why I have tried to show her as a poet, not
as the purveyor of a passionate and esoteric religiosity, al-
though the work obviously and naturally contains material
wholly expressive of just that.
If the reader can believe that it is Tahirih who is speaking in
these poems, Tahirih as she stands in the Persian, then I have
succeeded in my aim to represent her—again, as she is, and
not as she would look garbed in the casual American dress of
fashion today. Underlying my judgment that in practice this
was the best course to follow lies a premise I hope is shared
by my collaborator, Amin Banani, who proposed the project
and prepared the texts for me, as well as by those of Tahirih’s
co-religionists unable to read her work except in this English-
ing. The premise cannot be over-emphasized. Her poetry
remains rooted absolutely in her time and place—and her
tradition. She is seen best by her own light.”869
Prof. Kessler goes on to explain the actual steps taken to go from the
Persian to the English:
“…the lines of her poems were marked for me by Amin Ba-
nani as to meter, and set down in Persian written in the Ro-
man alphabet. The lines were paralleled through metaphrase
into English lines, that is, they followed the original word
order and syntax. The act of “translating” the Persian takes

869 Banani and Kessler, 36-7.

Translation

place in the next step, in which I seek to paraphrase those
texts into what is, I hope, poetry in our language.”870
Here is an example of these steps, the first being writing and arrang-
ing the original lines in Persian spelled out in Roman letters:
“Agar be bád daham zoff-e anbar ásá rá
Aseer-e khish konam áhuán-e sahrá rá”871
This line comes out like this in a literal English translation:
“if / to / wind / I give / hair of / amber / scent
Captive of / mine/ I would make / deer of / wilderness”872
Then the final step is to take this literal version and turn it into
poetry in the English language which attempts to convey the emotions
expressed in the original Persian:
“Just let the wind untie my perfumed hair,
My net would capture every wild gazelle.
Just let me paint my flashing eyes with black,
And I would turn the day as dark as hell.”873

870 Ibid., 38.
871 Ibid., 41.
872 Ibid.
873 Ibid.

- 292 -
BIBLIOGRAPHY
“A New Religion.” New York Times (New York: NY), June 5, 1892.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. Memorials of the Faithful. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i
publishing Trust, 1971.
—A Traveller’s Narrative. Translated by E.G Browne. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1891.
Abzug, Robert H.. Cosmos Crumbling: American reform and the
religious imagination. Oxford: Oxford U. Press, 1994.
Adato, Perry Miller dir.. Paris: The Luminous Years. PBS, December
15, 2010, video. 31 sec. Accessed November 1, 2013.
http://video.pbs.org/video/1691415260/.
Afaqi, Sabir. “Qurratu’l-‘Ayn Tahirih in Urdu literature.” In Tahirih
in History, edited by Safir Afaqi, 23-44. Los Angeles: Kalimat
Press, 2004.
Ahlstrom, Sydney E.. A Religious History of the American People.
New Haven: Yale U. Press, 2004.
al-Saltanah, Muhammad Hasan Khan Iʿtimad. “Khayrat-i hisan.”
Women's Worlds in Qajar Iran. Accessed November 7, 2103.
http://www.qajarwomen.org/en/items/901D4.html.
“Alexander Kazembek (Russian Orientalist),” World Public Library,
accessed 9 October 2013.
http://netlibrary.net/articles/Alexander_Kazembek_(Russian_orientalist).
Amanat, Abbas. Resurrection and Renewal, the making of the Babi
Movement in Iran, 1844-1850..Ithaca, NY: Cornell U. Press,
1989.
—“Qurrat al-‘Ayn: The Remover of the Veil.” In Tahirih in history:
Perspectives on Qurrat al-‘Ayn from East and West, edited by Sabir
Afaqi, 113-158. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2004.

Bibliography

—Pivot of the Universe. London: I. B. Tauris, 2008.
Amanat, Mehrdad. Jewish Identities in Iran: Resistance and
Conversion to Islam and the Baha’i Faith. New York: I.B.
Taurus, 2011.
“Amherst’s History.” Amherst College. Accessed September 9, 2013.
https://www.amherst.edu/amherst-story/history.
Arjomand, Said Amir. “Islam in Iran VI., the Concept of Mahdi in
Sunni Islam.” In the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan
Yarshater, XIV (Fasc. 2) (2007): 134–136. Accessed June 7,
2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/pages/editors.
Arnold, Mathew. Essays on Criticism. Oxford: MacMillan and Co,
1875.
Avarih, Jinab-i-. Star of the West vol. 14, No 12 (1924): 359-360.
Aygül, Ceren. Change in the status of turkish women during the ottoman
modernization and self-evaluation of women in kadinlar dünyasi of
1913. Ankara, Turkey: Middle East Technical University, Dept.
of History 2010. Accessed November 3, 2013.
http://etd.lib.metu.edu.tr/upload/12612331/index.pdf.
The Bab. ‘Qayyum al-asmā.’ ms. dated 1261, in Afnan Library,
Tonbridge, UK.
—Selections from the Writings of the Bab. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1982.
Baghdadi, Muhammad Mustafa. Ar-Risalah al-Amriyyah. (Treatise on
the Cause). Appended to Ahmad Suhrab. Ar-Risalah at-Tis`
`Ashariyyih. Cairo: Matba`at as-Sa`adah, 1919/1338. Digitally
republished, East Lansing, Mi.: H-Bahai, 1998.
Baha’u’llah. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette IL: Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 1988.
—Kitab Iqan. Wilmette IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1989.

The Calling

—Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1988.
Balyuzi, H. M.. The Bab. Oxford: George Ronald, 1973.
—Bahá'u'lláh: The King of Glory. Oxford: George Ronald, 1980.
—Khadijih Bagum. Oxford: George Ronald, 1981.
Banani, Amin and Jascha Kessler. A portrait in poetry. Edited by
Anthony Lee. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2004.
—Táheréh: A Persian Mystical Poet. Santa Monica, CA: Unpublished
manuscript, 1991.
Baumann, Roland M.. “Constructing Black Education at Oberlin
College.” Ohio University Press. Accessed September 10, 2013.
ohioswallow.com/book/Constructing+Black+Education+at+Oberlin+College.
Bausani, Alessandro. Religion in Iran. New York: Bibliotheica Persica
Press, 2000.
de Bellecombe, Andre-Ursule.”La belle Kourret ou l’Hain reformatrice
persanne.” L’Investigateur Tome X (1870).
Bednarowski, Mary Farrell. “Outside the mainstream: Women’s
Religion and Women Religious Leaders in Nineteenth-Century
America.” Journal of the American Academy of Religion XLV111/2
(1980): 207-231.
Bernhard, Virginia, and Fox-Genovese, editors. The Birth of American
Feminism: The Seneca Falls Woman's Convention of 1848. St.
James, NY: Brandywine Press, 1995.
The Bible: New International Version. Biblica Inc, 2011.
Birkett, Dea. Spinsters Abroad: Victorian Lady Explorers. Oxford: Basil
Blackwell, 1989.
Bogdanov, L.. “The Home and Life in Persia.” Islamic Culture 5
(1931): 407-21; 6 (1932): 290- 306, 468-85.

Bibliography

Bolden, Tonya. “Biographies.” Digital Schomburg African American
Women Writers of the 19th Century. Accessed November 1, 2013.
ohioswallow.com/book/Constructing+Black+Education+at+Oberlin+College.
Bonneau, A.. “Babysme.” L'Annuaire encyclopédique VIII. Paris:
Bureau de L’Encyclopedie (1869): 255.
Braude, Ann. Radical Spirits. Boston: Beacon Press, 1989.
—Sisters and Saints: Women and American Religion. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2008.
—Women and American Religion. Oxford: Oxford U. Press, 2000.
Brekus, Catherine A.. Strangers and Pilgrims: Female preaching in
America, 1740-1845. Chapel Hill, NC: U. Of North Carolina
Press, 1998.
“Bridal Traditions.” Oklahoma Woman (Oklahoma City: ProQuest).
Accessed November 9, 2013.
http://search.proquest.com/docview/196655798.
Bridgewater, Nicholas James. “A Year Amongst the Persians.” Accessed
September 10, 2013.
librivox.org/a-year-amongst-the-persians-by-edward-granville-brown/.
Brown, Olympia. Acquaintances, Old and New. Milwaukee: S.E. Tate,
1911.
—“Brown, Olympia, 1835-1926. Papers, ca. 1849-1963: A Finding
Aid.” Harvard Library OASIS. Accessed October 9, 2013.
oasis.lib.harvard.edu//oasis/deliver/deepLink?_collection=oasis&uniqueId=sch0005
4.
—“Biography.” Olympia Brown Papers, ca.1849-1963; item
description, dates. A-69, folder #. Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe
Institute, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
http://oasis.lib.harvard.edu/oasis/deliver/~sch00054.

The Calling

Browne, Edward Granville. “Art. XII.—The Bábís of Persia. II. Their
Literature and Doctrines.” Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of
Great Britain v. 21, Issue 4, (October, 1889): 881-1009.
Buckland, C. E.. Dictionary of Indian Biography. London: Swan
Sonnenschein & Co. Lim., 1906.
Cahill, Susan, editor. Wise Women, Over 2000 years of spiritual writing
by women. New York: WW Norton and Co, 1996.
Calmard, Jean. “HUART, CLÉMENT.” In the Encyclopaedia Iranica,
edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed October 23, 2013.
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/huart-clment.
—“Jane Henriette Magre Dieulafoy.” In the Encyclopaedia Iranica,
edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed October 19, 2013.
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/dieulafoy-1.
“Catherine Beecher.” An American Family: The Beecher Tradition.
Accessed November 4, 2013.
http://www.baruch.cuny.edu/library/alumni/online_exhibits/digital/2001/beecher/c
atherine.htm.
Cazden, Elizabeth. Antoinette Brown Blackwell, A Biography. Old
Westbury, NY: The Feminist Press, 1983.
“Childbirth and birth control in the 19th century.” Kate Chopin.
Accessed 20, 2013.
http://www.loyno.edu/~kchopin/new/women/bcabortion.html.
Cheyne, Thomas Kelly D.Litt., D.D. The Reconciliation of Races and
Religions. PDF e-book.
http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/7995/pg7995.html.
Chodas, Paul W., and Zdenek Sekanina. “A New Orbit
Determination for Bright Sungrazing Comet of 1843.” The
Astrophysical Journal 687 (2008): 1415–1422.
Cobb, Stanwood. The Worldwide Influence of Qurratu'i-Ayn.
Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1980.

Bibliography

Cole, Juan. “ii. Browne on Babism and Bahaism.” In the Encylcopedia
Iranonica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater, (1989): 483-488. Accessed
June 7, 2013.
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/browne-edward-granville.
Cole, Juan, and Moojan Momen. “Mafia, Mob and Shiism in Iraq:
The Rebellion of Ottoman Karbala 1824-1843.” Past & Present
No 112 (1986): 112-143.
Collins, William P., and Jan T. Jasion. “Lev Tolstoi and the Bábí and
Bahá’í Faiths A Bibliography.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies Vol. 3,
number 3 (1991): 1-9.
http://bahai-library.com/pdf/c/collins_jasion_lev_tolstoy.pdf.
Cote, Charlotte. Olympia Brown: The Battle for Equality. Racine, WI:
Mother Courage Press, 1988.
Cott, Nancy F.. The Bonds of Womanhood. New Haven: Yale
University Press, 1977.
Crosson, Selena M.. “Shaping Women’s Role in Early Baha’i Culture
1898-1940.” A thesis submitted to the Department of History,
University of Saskatchewan, Canada, June, 2013.
Curzon, George. Persia and the Persian Question. London: Longmans,
Green and Co., 1892.
Dabashi, Hamid. Shi’ism, A Religion of Protest. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 2011.
de Bellecombe, Andre-Ursule. “La belle Kourret ou l’Hain
reformatrice persanne.” L’Investigateur, Tome X, (1870): 161
DeMause, L., editor. The history of childhood. New York: Harper &
Row, 1974.
Despard, Charlotte. “A woman apostle in Persia.” The Vote vol. IV,
Nos. 101-103 (1911); “A woman apostle in Persia.” The Vote
Vol. IV, n. 102 (1911); “An Eastern Prophet’s Message,” The
Vote vol. VII, n. 168 (1913).

The Calling

Di Barbora, Monica. “Carla Serena.” Encyclopedia delle donne.
Accessed October 29, 2013.
http://www.enciclopediadelledonne.it/biografie/carla-serena/.
Diba, Layla S.. “CLOTHING x. In the Safavid and Qajar periods.” In
the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed
October 4, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/clothing-x.
“Dictionnaire biographie de Lot-et-Garonne.” C.H.G.H.47. Accessed
October 1, 2013.
genealogie-en-47.fr/Articles/Dossiers/Dictionnaire_biographique_01.html.
Douglas, Ann. The Feminization, of American Culture. New York:
Farrar, Strauss, and Giroux, 1977.
Dureka, Derek. “Elaw, Zilpha.” Pennsylvania Center for the book.
Accessed June 20, 2013.
http://pabook2.libraries.psu.edu/palitmap/bios/Elaw_Zilpha.html.
Eastwick, Edward B.. Journal of a Diplomat's Three Years Residence in
Persia Vol I. London: Kessinger Publishing, LLC, 2007.
Edge, Clara. Tahirih. self-published, 1964.
The Editors. “Letters of the Living (Huruf-i-Hayy).” In the Baha’i
Encyclopedia Project, edited by L. Bucknell, B. Fisher, F.
Kazemzadeh, T. Lawson, H. Moayyad, G. Morrison, S. Quinn,
M. Schweitz, R. Stockman, W. van den Hoonaard
Accessed June 6, 2015.
http://www.bahai-encyclopedia-project. org/.
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica. “Sir Francis Younghusband,
British army officer.” Encyclopaedia Britannica. Accessed June 25,
2013.
http://www.britannica.com/biography/Francis-Edward-Younghusband.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1979.

Bibliography

—Citadel of Faith. Wilmette, IL: US Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.
—The Dispensation of Baha’u’llah. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1983.
“Eliza C. Allen (1803-1848).” Portraits of American Women in
Religion. Accessed September 24, 2013.
http://www.librarycompany.org/women/portraits_religion/allen.htm.
“Elizabeth Blackwell Counterslip 1821-Schottland 1910.” Art
Directory. Accessed November 4, 2013.
www.elizabeth-blackwell.com.
Ellis, J. “The Growth of the United States During the 19th Century.”
The Free Resource. Accessed September 23, 2013.
http://www.thefreeresource.com/american-history-the-growth-of-the-united-states-
during -the-19th-century/.
Eskandari-Qajar, Prof. Manoutchehr M. “Mahd-e-Olia.” Portraits of
Qajar Women. Accessed October 24, 2013.
http://www.qajarpages.org/mahdeolia.html.
Fathi, Asghar. “Women and the Family in Iran.” Boston, MA: Brill
Publishing, 1997.
Ferrier, Joseph P.. “Situation de la Perse en 1851.” Revue Orientale et
Algeriennce vol 1, Paris (1852): 141-59.
Fisher, William Bayne; Avery, Peter; Hambly, Gavin and Melville, C.
P., editors. The Cambridge History of Iran: From Nadir Shah to the
Islamic Republic. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge U. Press, 1991.
Flinders, Carol Lee. Enduring Grace, Living portraits of seven women
mystics. San Fransisco, CA: Harper, 1993.
Floor, W. and W. Kleiss. “BATHHOUSES.” In the Encyclopaedia
Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed October 1, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/bathhouses#pt1.
Francis, Richard. Ann the Word: The Story of Ann Lee, Female Messiah,
Mother of the Shakers. New York: Arcade Publishing, 2000.

The Calling

Franck, Adolphe. “Deuxième et Dernier Article.” Le Journal des
Savants. December (1865): 776-777.
Gail, Marzieh. “Stanza from Tahirih.” The journal of Baha'i Studies,
vol.7, (1980).
—“The White Silk Dress.” In Baha'i World, v. 9, 814-21. Wilmette,
IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 1980.
—The Sheltering Branch. Oxford: George Ronald, 1959.
—Dawn over Mount Hira. Oxford: George Ronald, 1976.
Garis, Mabel R.. Martha Root: Lioness at the Threshold. Wilmette IL:
Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1983.
Garrison, Wendell Phillips. “A New Religion.” The Nation (1866).
Giachery, Ugo R.. “An Italian Scientist Extols the Bab.” In The Baha'i
World, v. 12, 1950-1952, Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1956.
Gill, Gillian. Mary Baker Eddy. Cambridge: MS: Perseus Books, 1998.
de Gobineau, Artur. Religions and Philosophies of Central Asia. Paris:
Didier and Co, 1865.
—Essai sur l’inegalite des Races Humaines. Paris: Librairie de Firmin
Didot Freres, 1853.
Grove, Cornelius N. Ed.D. “Evolving Notions of Child-Rearing in
Pre-Civil War America.” The Aptitude Myth. Accessed November
11, 2013.
http://www.theaptitudemyth.info/Recall-11.pdf.
“Growth of Cities.” The First Measured Century. Accessed November
1, 2103.
http://www.pbs.org/fmc/timeline/ecities.htm.
Haeri, Shahla. “MOTʿA.” In the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by
Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed October 26, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/mota.

Bibliography

Hakimian, Hassan. “ECONOMY viii. IN THE QAJAR PERIOD.”
In the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed
September 21, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/economy-viii-in-the-qajar-period.
Hareven, T.. “Review essay: origins of the “modern family” in the
United States.” Journal of Social History 17 (1983-4): 339-344.
Harper, Ida Husted. The Life and Work of Susan B. Anthony.
Indianapolis, IN: Bowen-Merrill Company, 1898.
“Harriet Beecher Stowe's Life Introduction.” Harriet Beecher Stowe
Center. Accessed October 2, 2013.
www.harrietbeecherstowecenter.org/hbs/.
Hartman, Dorothy W.. “Women’s Roles in the Late 19th Century.”
Conner Prairie. Accessed September 24, 2013.
http://www.connerprairie.org/Learn-And-Do/Indiana-History/America-1860-
1900/Lives- Of-Women.aspx.
Hatcher, John, and Hemmat, Amrollah. Adam’s Wish, Unknown
Poetry of Tahirih. Oxford: George Ronald, 2008.
—The Poetry of Tahirih. Oxford: George Ronald, 2002.
Hawes, J., and Hiner, N., Editors. American childhood, a research guide
and historical handbook. Westport CT: Greenwood Press, 1985.
Hays, Elinor Rice. Morning Star: A Biography of Lucy Stone 1818–
1893. New York: Harcourt, Brace & World, 1961.
Hemmat, Kaveh. “Bahá’í Schools in Iran.” Presentation, Iranian
Constitutional Revolution Centennial Conference, Oxford, 2006.
“Here Comes the Bride: A History of the American Wedding.”
Random History and Word Origins for the Curious Minds. Accessed
1, 2013.
http://www.randomhistory.com/1-50/009wedding.html.
Heschel, Susannah. The Aryan Jesus: Christian theologians and the Bible
in Nazi Germany. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2008.

The Calling

“History.” Mount Holyoke. Accessed October 28, 2013.
www.mtholyoke.edu/about/history.
“History of First Parish of Norwell Unitarian Universalist.” First
Parish Norwell History. Accessed November 26, 2013.
www.firstparishnorwell.org/history.htm#tunis.
Homa Irani Behbahani, Ph.D; Fakhri Khosravi, M.Sc.. “Iranian
Garden: A Place of Coexistence: City-Nature-Landscape Case
study: Tehran Gardens in 19th Century.” Academia. Accessed
October 1, 2013.
https://www.academia.edu/710119/Iranian_Garden_A_Place_of_Coexistence_City-
Nature landscape_Case_study_Tehran_Gardens_in_19th_Century.
Htoo, Naw Diana. “Persian Dress through the Ages.” Iran Dokht.
Accessed November 22, 2013.
http://www.irandokht.com/editorial/index4.php?area=per&sectionID=3&editorialID
=958.
Huart, Clement. La Religion du Bab. Paris, France: Ernest Leroux
Editeur, 1889.
Hume-Griffith, M. E.. Behind the Veil in Persia and Turkish Arabia.
Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott and Co., 1909.
Hunt, Harriot. Glances and Glimpses; Or, Fifty Years' Social, Including
Twenty Years' Professional Life. Boston: J.P. Jewett and Company,
1856.
Hoseini, Nosratollah Mohammad. Hadrat-i-Tahirih. Dundas,
Ontario, Canada: Association for Baha'i Studies in Persian, 2000.
“Ignatius Valentine Chirol (1852-1929).” Accessed June 25, 2015.
https://bahaitributes.wordpress.com/category/bab/.
Ishaque, M.. Four Eminent Poetesses of Iran. The Rian Society:
Calcutta, 1950.
Ishraq-Khavari, Abdu'l-Hamid. Kitab Muhadhirat. Germany: Baha'i -
Verlag, 142BE/1987.

Bibliography

Jasion, Jan T. “Tahirih on the Russian stage.” In Tahirih in History,
edited by Sabir Afaqi, 231-8. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, LA,
2004.
Johnston, Ted. “Trends in American Child Rearing Practices to
1950.” Generation Ministries. Accessed October 1, 2013.
http://www.generationsministries.org/uploads/2/5/2/7/25278738/child_rearing_prac
tices _history.pdf.
Keniston, K., and the Carnegie Council on Children. All our children:
the American family under pressure. New York: Harcourt, Brace
Jovanovich, 1977.
Kerr, Andrea Moore. Lucy Stone: Speaking Out for Equality. Rutgers.
NJ: Rutgers University Press, 1992.
Khademi, Mona. “A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Clifford-Barney.”
Irfan Colloquia. Accessed November 11, 2013.
http://irfancolloquia.org/pdf/lights10_khademi.pdf.
Khan, Sadat A.. “Unveiling the Veil: Garment of Modesty – In
different ages and cultures.” New Age Islam. Accessed October 20,
2013.
http://www.newageislam.com/islam,-women-and-feminism/unveiling-the-veil--
garment-of-modesty-in-different-ages-and-cultures/d/4363.
Kidd, Thomas S.. “Daniel Rogers’ Egalitarian Great Awakening.”
Medieval Christianity. Accessed November 2, 2013.
https://medievalchristianityd.wikispaces.com/file/view/DANIEL+ROGERS+EGALITA
RIAN+GREAT+AWAKENING.pdf
Knight, George R.. Millenial Fever and the End of the World. Boise,
Idaho: Pacific Press Pub. Association, 1993.
Kriwaczek, Paul. In Search of Zarathustra. New York: Vintage Books,
2002.
Lambert, Tim. “Children in the 19th Century.” A World History
Encyclopedia. Accessed September 24, 2013.
http://www.localhistories.org/19thcenturychildren.html.

The Calling

Lasser, Carol. “American National Biography Online: Stone, Lucy.”
American National Biography Online. Accessed September 24,
2014.
http://www.anb.org/articles/15/15-00663.html.
Lawson, Dr. Todd. “The Authority of the Feminine and Fatima's
Place in an Early Work by the Bab.” OJBS: Online Journal of
Baha’i Studies Volume 1 (2007)I: 137-170. Accessed September 5,
2013.
http://oj.bahaistudies.net/OJBS_1_Lawson_Fatima.pdf.
Lepard, Brian. In the Glory of the Father. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 2008.
Linder, Soug. “The Trial of Susan B. Anthony for Illegal Voting.”
University of Missouri-Kansas City. Accessed May 5, 2013.
http://law2.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/anthony/sbaaccount.html.
Lindley, Susan Hill. You Have Stept Out of Your Place. Louisville:
Westminster John Knox Press, 1996.
Lloyd, Ivan. Tahirih, A poetic vision. Eloy, AZ: Desert Rose
Publishing, 1999.
Lockridge ,Kenneth A.. Literacy in Colonial New England. New York:
Norton, 1974.
Ma'ani, Baharieh Rouhani. Leaves Of The Twin Divine Trees.
London: George Ronald Pub Ltd, 2008.
Mabro, Judy. Veiled Half-Truths: Western Travellers’ Perceptions of
Middle Eastern Women. London: I.B. Tauris, 1991.
MacEoin, Denis. From Shaykhism to Babism: a study in charismatic
renewal in Shī‘ī Islam. Indiana University: King's College, 1979.
—”Baraḡānī, Moḥammad-Taqī.” In the Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited
by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed September 24, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/baragani-molla-mohammad-taqi-qazvini-
sahid-e-ale-an-important-shiite-alem-of-qazvin-d.

Bibliography

Mahdavi, Shireen. “The Qajar-Period Household.” In the Encyclopaedia
Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed November 11, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/qajars-period-household.
Maneck, Susan Stiles. “Táhirih: A Religious Paradigm of
Womanhood.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies Vol. 2, number 2 (1989).
Accessed July 3, 2013.
https://bahai-studies.ca/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/2.2-Maneck.pdf.
Masumian, Adib. “Debunking the Myths: Conspiracy Theories on the
Genesis and Mission of the Bahá'í Faith.” Academia. Accessed
October 3, 2013.
http://www.academia.edu/343383/Debunking_the_Myths_Conspiracy_Theories_on
_the_Genesis_and_Mission_of_the_Bahai_Faith.
—”A Brief History Of Women's Movements In Iran 1850 – 2000.”
Iran Chamber. Accessed September 23, 2013.
http://www.iranchamber.com/society/articles/history_women_movements.php.
Maud, Constance Elizabeth. “Abdul Baha (Servant of the Glory).” The
Fortnightly Review, vol. 97, April (1912);
—”The First Persian Feminist.” The Fortnightly Review No. DLVIII,
June (1913): 1175-1182.
Mázandarání, Mírzá Asadu’lláh Fádil-i. Zuhúr al-Haqq, Volumes 1–4.
Tihrán, Iran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1973.
McLoughlin, William G.. Revivals, Awakenings, and Reform. Chicago:
U. of Chicago Press, 1978.
McMillen, Sally. Seneca Falls and the Origins of the Women's Rights
Movement. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2008.
Milani, Farzaneh. Veils and Words, The emerging voices of Iranian
women writers. Syracuse, NY: Syracuse University Press, 1992.
Momen, Moojan. The Babi and Baha’i Religions, 1844-1944, Some
Contemporary Western Accounts. Oxford: George Ronald, 1981.

The Calling

—Browne, Edward Granville.” Baha’i Library Online (1995). Accessed
June 1, 2013.
http://bahai-library.com/momen_encyclopedia_browne
—”The Social Basis of the Babi Upheavals in Iran (1848-1853): A
Preliminary Analysis.” Int. J. Middle East Studies 15 (1983): 157-
183. Momen, Moojan. “Mulla `Ali Bastami, Letter of the
Living.” Wendy and Moojan Momen. Accessed August 1, 2013.
http://www.momen.org/relstud/alibast.htm.
—”Usuli, Akhbari, Shaykhi, Babi: The Tribulations of a Qazvin
family.” Iranian Studies volume 36, # 3 (2003): 317-337.
—“WOMEN iv. in the works of the Bab and in the Babi Movement.”
In Iranica Online edited by Ehsan Yarshater, (2011). Accessed
July 23 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/women-babi.
Najmabadi, Afsaneh. Women with Mustaches and Men without Beards.
Berkeley: U. of California Press, 2005.
—“Education XXV. Women’s Education in the Qajar Period.” in
Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed
October 18, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/education-xxv- womens-education-in-the-
qajar-period.
Najmájer, Marie von. “Gurret-ül-Eyn. (A picture from the Persian
modern times in 6 Songs).” Originalausg. ersch Vienna 1874
Photomechan Nachdr. d Originalausg, ext, erg and with
biography, FWD and hist demolition. [With portraits. fig u]). -
Vienna: National Spiritual Assembly of Baha'is d in Austria,
1981. ANL-1202994 B. Neu Mag.
Nakhjavani, Bahiyyih. La femme qui lisait trop. France: Actes Sud,
2007.
Nichol, Francis D.. Ellen White and Her Critics. Hagerstown, MD:
Review and Herald,1951.

Bibliography

Nicolas, A. L. M. Seyyed Ali Mohammed dit le Bab. Paris: Dujarric and
Cie, Editeurs, 1905.
Nicolas, Michel. “Le Babysme.” Le Temps August 14, 19, 20 (1868):
3, 3, 3.
Noble, Laurie Varter. “Olympia Brown.” Dictionary of Unitarian and
Universalist Biography. Unitarian Universalist History and
Heritage Society. Accessed May 5, 2013.
http://uudb.org/articles/olympiabrown.html.
Not For Ourselves Alone – The Story of Elizabeth Cady Stanton & Susan
B. Anthony. Directed by Paul Barnes and Ken Burns. 1999. USA:
Florentine Films, WETA.
“Oberlin College and Conservatory.” About Oberlin. Accessed
October 1, 2013.
http://new.oberlin.edu/about/.
Older, Julia. Tahirih Unveiled, Turning Point. Cincinnati: Word Tech
Communications, 2007.
Painter, Nell Irvin, editor. The Narrative of Sojourner Truth. New
York: Penguin Books, 1998.
Peel, Robert. Mary Baker Eddy: The Years of Discovery 1821-1875.
Boston, MA: The Christian Science Publishing Society, 1966.
—Mary Baker Eddy: The Years of Trial. Boston: The Christian Science
Publishing Society, 1971.
Price, Massoume. “Iranian Birthdays and Rituals of Birth: A Brief
History.” Culture of Iran. Accessed September 21, 2013.
www.cultureofiran.com/iranian_birthday.html.
—”Iranian Marriage Ceremony, Its History & Symbolism.” Iran
Chamber Society. Accessed September 21, 2013.
Rafati, Vahid. The Development of Shaykhi Thought in Shi’i Islam.
UCLA: PhD Dissertation, unpublished, 1979.

The Calling

Renan, Joseph. Les Apotres. Paris: Michel Levy Freres, 1866.
“Report of the Woman's Rights Convention.” Women’s Rights.
Accessed January 1, 2014.
http://www.nps.gov/wori/historyculture/report-of-the-womans-rights-
convention.htm.
Riggenbach, Jeff. “Stephen Pearl Andrews's Fleeting Contribution to
Anarchist Thought.” Miles Institute. Accessed November 12,
2013.
mises.org/daily/5161/Stephen-Pearl-Andrewss-Fleeting-Contribution-to-Anarchist-
Thought.
Root, Martha. Táhirih, the Pure. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1981.
—“Russia’s cultural contribution to the Baha’i Faith.” In Baha’i World
VI, 707-28. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1937.
—“Tahirih, The Pure, Iran’s Greatest Woman.” Bahá’í Library
Online. Accessed October 1, 2013.
http://bahai-library.com/martharoot_tahirih_pure_1938.
Rossetti, William Michael. “Shelley's Life and Writings, Two
Lectures.” The University, A Literary and Philosophic Review vol. 1
(1878): 264.
Rowe, David L.. God’s Strange Work, William Miller and the end of the
world. Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdman's Publishing
Company, 2008.
Ruhe, David S.. Robe of Light, the Prophetic Years of the Supreme
Prophet Baha’u’llah 1917-1852. Oxford UK: George Ronald,
1994.
Saiedi, Nader. Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the Bāb.
Waterloo, Ontario: Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2008.

Bibliography

Samandar, Shaykh Kazim. “Biography of Tahirih.” In Four historical
narratives about Tahirih, edited by A.Q. Afnan. Third Conference
of Alt and Culture. Landegg, Switzerland: Landegg University,
September, 1991.
Savi, Julio. “Italy: History of the Baha'i Faith.” Bahá’í Library Online.
Accessed October 2, 2013.
http://bahai-library.com/savi_encyclopedia_italy.
Silver, Mae. “Elizabeth Lowe Watson.” DigitalArchive@Foundsf.
Accessed October 26, 2013.
http://www.foundsf.org/index.php?title=Elizabeth_Lowe_Watson.
Ruhe-Schoen, Janet. Rejoice in my gladness, the Life of Tahirih.
Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 2011.
Schlesinger, Julia. “J. J. Morse.” Psypioneer Journal Vol. 8, No 10
(2012): f. 23, 342.
Schwartz, Benjamin, editor. Letters from Persia written by Charles and
Edward Burgess, 1828-1855. New York: The New York Public
Library, 1942.
Sell, Edward. “The Babis.” The Church Missionary Intelligencer 47:21
(1896): 324-335.
—“The Bab and the Babis.” In Essays on Islam, 46-98. London:
Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent &. Co., 1901.
—Bahaism. London: Christian Literature Society for India, 1912.
Serena, Carla. Hommes et choses en Perse. Paris, France: Charpentier et
Co, 1883.
Shahvar, Soli. The Forgotten Schools: The Baha’is and Modern
Education in Iran, 1899-1934. New York: IB Tauris and Co Ltd,
2009.
Sheil, Lady Mary. Glimpses of life and manners in Persia. London: John
Murray, Albemarle Street, 1856.

The Calling

Singh, Nagendra Kr, and Abdul Mabud Khan, editors. Encyclopaedia
of the World Muslims: Tribes, Castes and Communities. Delhi,
India: Global Vision Publishing House, 2004.
“Sir Francis Younghusband (1863-1942).” Baha’i Tributes. Accessed
June 25, 2013.
https://bahaitributes.wordpress.com/category/bab/.
Smith, Gail K. “The Sentimental Novel: The Example of Harriet
Beecher Stowe.” In The Cambridge Companion to Nineteenth-
Century American Women's Writing, edited by Dale M. Bauer and
Philip Gould. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press,
2001, 221-243.
Smith, Timothy L.. Revivalism and Social Reform. New York: Harper
and Row Publishers, 1957.
“Sr. Elizabeth Ann Seton.” The Archdiocese of Baltimore. Accessed
January 10, 2014.
http://www.archbalt.org/about-us/the-archdiocese/our-history/people/seton.cfm.
Stange, Mary Zeiss, Carol K. Oyster, and Jane E. Sloan editors.
Encyclopedia of Women in Today's World, Volume 1. Los Angeles:
Sage Pub., 2011.
Stanton, Elizabeth Cady. “Elizabeth Cady Stanton: Seneca Falls
Keynote Address.” Great American Documents. Accessed July 5,
2013.
http://www.greatamericandocuments.com/speeches/stanton-seneca-falls.html.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Baha’u’llah, vol. 4, vol. 8. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1987.
Taylor, Babara. Eve and the New Jerusalem: Socialism and Feminism.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard U. Press, 1993.
Tomaschewski, W. “The Last Chapter.” Stephen Collins Foster.
Accessed August 4, 2012.
http://www.stephen-foster-songs.de/end.htm.

Bibliography

“Travelers and Scholars on the Bábí/Baha’i Faiths.” In the
Bahaikipedia.
Accessed
September
10,
2013.
https://bahaikipedia.org/.
“Troy Female Seminary.” Encyclopedia Britannica Online. Accessed
October 10, 2013.
https://www.britannica.com/topic/Troy-Female-Seminary.
Trollope, Mrs. Frances. “from Chapter VIII of Domestic Manners of
the Americans.” American Studies at the University of Virginia.
Accessed October 2, 2013.
http://xroads.virginia.edu/~HYPER/DETOC/religion/trollrev.html.
Tunis, John. “Woman in the Ministry: An Appeal to Fact.” Unity, Vol
XV, No 6, (1885):92-94.
Turhan, Filiz. The Other Empire: British Romantic Writings about the
Ottoman Empire. New York: Routledge, 2003.
Twain, Mark. Autobiography of Mark Twain, Volume 1: The
Complete and Authoritative Edition. New York: Harper Collins,
1990.
“University of the Punjab.” University of the Punjab. Accessed
November 1, 2013.
http://pu.edu.pk/page.
“US Territorial Acquisitions.” United States History. Accessed 6, 2013.
http://www.u-s-history.com/pages/h1049.html.
Van Zandt, Franklin K. “Expansion and growth of the United States.”
USGS Publications Warehouse. Accessed October 2, 2013.
http://pubs.usgs.gov/pp/0909/report.pdf.
Vanzan, Anna. “Harem ii. in the Qajar period.” In the Encyclopaedia
Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed November 11, 2013.
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/harem-ii.

The Calling

Volo, Dorothy Denneed, and James M. Volo, and. Family Life in
Nineteenth-century America. Greenwhich, CT: Greenwood Press,
2007.
Walbridge, John. “Chapter Four—The Baha’i Faith in Turkey.”
Occasional Papers in Shaykhi, Babi and Baha'i Studies. Accessed
21, 2013.
http://www.h-net.org/~bahai/bhpapers.htm.
Wallace, Carol. All Dressed in White: The Irresistible Rise of the
American Wedding. New York: Penguin Books, 2004.
Watson, Elizabeth Lowe. Song and Sermon. San Fransisco: The Thicks
Judd Company, 1905.
Watson, Robert Grant. A History of Persia. London: Smith, Elder and
Co., 1866.
Weisberg, Barbara. Talking to the Dead, Kate and Maggie Fox and
the Rise of SPiritualism. New York: Harper Collins, 2004.
Werner, Christoph, “POLAK, Jakob Eduard, (1818-1891).” In the
Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed
October 1, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/polak-jakob-eduard.
“Wesleyan University: A Brief History.” Wesleyan University. Accessed
October 3, 2013.
http://www.wesleyan.edu/about/history.html.
White, Arthur L. “Ellen G. White: A Brief Biography.” The Ellen G.
White Estate, Inc.. Accessed November 4, 2013.
http://www.whiteestate.org/about/egwbio.asp.
White, Ellen G.. “Proper Education.” The Health Reformer v. 7, # 9
(1872): 284-6.
White, Richard. Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of
Modern America. New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 2012.

Bibliography

Wickens, G. Michael. “Browne’s Life and Academic Career.” In the
Encyclopaedia Iranica, edited by Ehsan Yarshater. Accessed
November 24, 2013.
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/browne-edward-granville.
Wills, C. J. MD. In the Land of the Lion and the Sun. London:
MacMillan and Co., 1883.
Wilson, Mary. “Story of the Bab.” The Library v. 7 (Jan-April 1886):
137-148.
“Witness to American History.” Gettysburg College. Accessed
September 9, 2013.
http://www.gettysburg.edu/about/college_history/.
Yeomans, Donald K.. “Great Comets in History.” Jet Propulsion
Laboratory/California Institute of Technology. Accessed October
25, 2013. ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/?great_comets.
Younghusband, Sir Francis. The Gleam. London: John Murray, 1923.
Yuri, Suhl. Ernestine L. Rose: Women's Rights Pioneer. New York:
Biblio Press, 1990.
Zarandi, Nabíl. The Dawn-Breakers, Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1953.

- 315 -
INDEX OF NAMES
‘Abd al-Wahhab, Mulla, 74, 82
Abdu’l-Hadi, Siyyid, 129
Abdu’l-Vahhab, Haji Mirza, 99
Adams, Abigail, 40
Adventism, 87-89
Afnan, Haji Siyyid Mahmood, 259
Afnan, Haji Siyyid Mirza Mahdi,
African Methodists, 31
Ahl-e Haqq, 125-126
Ahmad, Aziz, 264
Ahsa’i, Shaykh Ahmad, 61, 68-75,
81-82, 94, 110, 132
Akhbari, 60, 61, 69, 71, 72, 73, 74,
75, 81, 82, 95, 132, 306
Alcott, William A., 227
Ali ibn Abi Talib, 63
Ali Naqi, Haji Mirza, 127
Ali, Mirza Husayn, 135, 137, 163,
165-173
Ali, Mulla, 74, 82, 99, 115, 122,
131, 194
Ali, Siyyid (uncle of Tahirih), 9, 92-
94, 114-115, 258, 273
Aliye, Fatma, 254
Allen, Eliza C., 35-36, 299
Alusi, Shaykh, 122-123
American Anti-Slavery Society, 46-
47, 148
American Equal Rights Association,
American Female Reform Society,
American Peace Society, 148
American Society for the Promotion
of Temperance, 148
American Woman Suffrage
Association, 238
Amherst College, 39, 293
Andrews, Stephen Pearl, 231, 308
Annual Women’s Rights
Convention, 236
Anthony, Susan B., 11, 144, 223,
229-232, 239, 301, 304, 307
Antioch College, 204
Aqa Abdullah i Bihbihani, 126
Arbuthnot, Robert, 256
Asad’ullah, Haji, Siyyid, 134
Astarabadi, Bibi Khanum Vaziruv,
Ayadi, Munirih, 284
Azad, Jagannath, 262-263
Azerbaijan, 130, 177, 272
Bab, Siyyid `Alí Muḥammad
Shírází, 9-10, 60, 62, 94-95, 98-
99, 103, 105, 108-111, 114-
115, 118-119, 121-137, 143,
160-194, 199, 240-252, 255-
258, 265-279, 293-294, 300-
309, 313
Badasht, 7, 144, 165-169, 174-175,
177, 181, 240, 246, 275
Badayuni, Abr Ahsani Ginnauri,
Baghdad, 91, 112, 119-125
Baha, Jinab-i, 175, 177-190, 193,
Baker, Dorothy, 146
Banani, Amin, 12, 96-97, 100, 104,
109, 116, 119, 172, 176, 179,
192, 195, 200, 289-290, 294
Baptists, 22
Baraghani brothers, Taqi and Ali,
65, 68, 71, 72, 74, 132
Barfurush (town), 178, 182, 184
Barney, Laura, 274-275, 303

The Calling

Basir-i-Hindi, 258
Bastami, Mulla Ali, 99, 122
Baumfree, Isabella (Sojourner
Truth), 11, 49, 54-55, 59, 228,
236, 237, 307
Bayan, 161, 163-164, 169, 177
Beebe, Charlotte, 223
Beecher, Catherine, 39, 40, 212,
233, 296
Beecher, Ellen, 146
Beecher, Lyman, 26, 31, 39, 47, 54,
55, 146
Bellecombe, André-Ursule Casse de,
Bishir, Siyyid Ali, 114-115
Black Standard, 181
Blackwell, Antoinette Brown, 201,
223, 232, 296
Blackwell, Elisabeth, 248
Bliss, Edwin, 256
Bloomer, Amelia, 233-234, 248
Bombay, 259
Boston Female Anti-Slavery
Society, 46
Britain, 12, 67-87, 268-269, 296
Britt, Mrs., 223
Brooklyn, 54, 256
Brown, Antoinette, 201, 203, 204-
205, 223, 232, 296
Brown, Olympia, 204-206, 295,
297, 307
Browne, Edward G., 266
Burbank, Fanny, 222
Burma, 259
Bushihr, 259
Bushnell, Mrs., 223
Calcutta, 259, 261, 263, 302
Calvinists, 20-21, 24-25, 31, 33,
Canada, 30, 61, 75, 276, 297, 302
Cemiyet-i İmdadiye, 254
Channing, William Ellery, 227
Chapman, Maria Weston, 46
Chardon Street Chapel, 88
Cheyne, Thomas Kelly, 252, 296
Chicago, 25, 84, 223, 226, 262,
Chihriq, 161, 163, 177
Child, Lydia Maria, 46
Chirol, Sir Ignatius Valentine, 270,
271, 302
Church of Christ, Scientist, 10-11,
209, 214, 217-221, 307
Church of Jesus-Christ of the
Latter-Day Saints, 10
Civil War (U.S.), 48, 223, 226,
230, 235-236, 300
Clay, Margaret Meuse, 23
Constance, Elizabeth Maud
Constance, 279
Contemporary Review, 249, 256
Council of Congregational
Ministers of Massachusetts’
Pastoral letter of 1837, 148
Curzon, Lord George, 269-270,
Davis, Paula Wright, 227
Declaration of Rights and
Sentiments, 157
Despard, Charlotte, 276-279, 297
Dieulafoy, Jane, 266
Dix, Dorothea, 235
Dixon, William Hepworth, 256
Dolgorukov, Prince Vasily
Alexandrovich, 243
Doten, Lizzie, 222
Douglass, Frederick, 151, 159, 228,
Dress Reform Association, 234
Dreyfus, Hippolyte, 274

Index of Names

Dushizihgan, 284
Eddy, Mary Baker, 11, 209, 214,
220, 300, 307
Edwards, Jonathan, 21
Elaw, Zilpha, 29
Farhadi, Haji Asadullah, 113
Farhadi, Muhammad Hadi, 136
Fatimah, 60, 63
Female Charitable Society of
Rochester, NY, 38
Finney, Charles, 26, 37, 88, 202
First Spiritual Union of San
Francisco, 224
Foote, Julia, 29
Ford, Henry, 84
Fort Tabarsi, 123, 133, 190
Foster, Abbey, 228
Foster, Stephen, 228
Fox sisters, 138, 141
Free Will Baptists, 31
French Encyclopedia, 256
Fuller, Margaret, 153
Garrison, Wendell Phillips, 255
Garrison, William Lloyd, 46, 88,
150, 225, 228, 234, 255
Gettysburg College, 39, 313
Gobineau, Comte Joseph Arthur
de, 245-247, 249-251, 255-266,
273, 300
Graves, Hannah Cave, 23
Greeley, Horace, 88
Grimke sisters, 46, 47, 149, 226
Grinesvkaya, Isabella, 271, 272
Gulpaygani, Mulla Ibrahim, 129
Hadi, Muhammad, 129, 135-136
Hadi, Mulla, 131
Hafez (poet), 100
Hainisch, Marianna, 250
Hajiyeh Khanum, 128
Hakham Ilyahu, 128
Hamadan, 125, 127-128, 268, 286
Hamadani, Mulla Husayn Razavi,
Hamadani, Sayyid Abd al-Samad
Razavi, 128
Hartford Female Seminary, 40
Hashmi, Jamilah, 264
Hatch, Cora, 222, 223
Hatcher, John S., 12
Hemmat, Amrollah, 9, 12, 96, 100,
103-104, 117, 186, 285, 301
Herrick, Mrs., 223
Higginson, Thomas Wentworth,
226, 236
Himes, Joshua Vaughn, 88
Hindi, Shaykh Sa’id-i, 258
Hisari, Mulla Ahmad, 111
Hossein, M. Hidayat, 259, 263
Huart, Clement, 249
Hunt, Harriot, 227, 228
Hurlbut, Elisha Powell, 154
Husayn ibn Ali, 123
Ilkhani garden, 197
Indian subcontinent, 61, 67, 162,
241, 251, 252, 258-259, 261-
263, 269-270, 282, 309-310
Iqbal, Muhammad, 259-263
Iraq, 9, 65, 69, 76, 80-81, 95, 111-
112, 114, 118, 122-123, 128-
129, 132, 170, 193, 297
Isfahan, 65
Ishaque, Mohammad, 263
Itinerant preachers, 23
Ja’far, Siyyid Muhammad, 115
Jacobs, Harriet, 147
Jani, Haji Mirza, 246
Jews, 72, 123, 166
Jowett, Benjamin, 271
Kafiya, 113
Karachi, 260, 262, 263

The Calling

Karand, 125
Karbila, 65-66, 76, 80-82, 95-97,
109-113, 115, 120
Kashan, 287
Katiya, 134
Kazim, Siyyid, 81-82, 91, 95, 97-
98, 110-114, 174
Kazimayn, 113-115
Kessler, Jascha, 12, 96, 121, 289,
Khanlar Mirza Ihtisham al-Daula,
Khatun Jan, 113, 134, 136
Khurasan, 160, 165-169, 181
Kingsley, Bathsheba, 24
Kirmanshah, 125-126
Knight, Elleanor, 28
Kuchak, Bibi, 113
Kufa, 91
Lahore, 259, 263-264
Land grant colleges, 45
Laura Barney, 274, 275
Lazar, Mulla, 127
Le Temps, 247, 307
Lee, Jarena, 28
Lessona, Michele, 250, 268
Livermore, Harriett, 29
London Anti-Slavery Convention,
148, 150
Luristan, 180
Lyon, Mary, 42
Mahallati, Mulla Ibrahim, 128
Mahdi, 119, 165, 166, 181, 293
Mahku, Mazindaran, 114, 130,
132, 134, 160-161, 163, 169-
Mahmud Khan, 113, 243
Mahumad Afshar, 282
Mann, Horace, 205
Maqfour, Muhammad Ali Mirza,
Marshall, Martha Stearns, 23
Mashhad, 166-169, 181
Masih, Hakim Masih, 123
Massachusetts Anti-Slavery society,
May, Samuel J. Jr., 154
Mazindaran, 166, 179, 180, 182,
McClintock, Mary Ann, 154, 155
Mecca, 93, 108, 115, 133, 189
Mediums (spiritual), 11, 141-142,
221-223, 226
Methodists, 22, 31, 39
Miller, William, 55, 85, 87, 91, 92,
94, 105, 107, 206, 308
Millerites, 31, 55, 86, 88, 89, 105,
107, 108, 201
Mirza, Muhamad Riza, 113
Morse, Samuel F.B., 83
Mott, James, 151, 155
Mott, Lucretia, 46, 150, 151, 154,
155, 158, 159, 227, 234
Mount Holyoke, 42, 204, 302
Mount Holyoke Seminary, 42
Muhammad Ali, Mulla, 98, 131
Muhammad, Mulla, 75, 80, 98,
124, 129, 131, 134-135, 178,
Musa, Mirza, 167
Mushin, Mulla, 134
Nahri, Mirza Mouhammad Ali, 113
Najar, Hasan, 136
Najib Pasha, 122
Najmájer, Marie von, 249, 250
Naraqi, Sayyed Ahmad, 128
Nasiri Printing Press, 259
National Women’s Rights
Convention, 203, 227

Index of Names

National Women's Suffrage
Association, 47
Nawruz-Ali, 114
New England, 19, 29, 38, 45, 46,
149, 203, 304
New Hampshire, 43, 105, 209,
213, 231
New York State Woman's Rights
Committee, 230
Nicolas, A.L.M., 273
Nine Partners School, 151
Niyala, 177, 178
Noyes, John Humphrey, 88
Nur, 174, 179, 180, 185, 193
Nuri, Mirza Aqa Khan, 193
Oberlin College, 39, 149, 202, 294,
Ohio, 30, 39, 87, 203, 224, 294
Old Testament, 27, 59, 87
Ottoman, 67, 80, 81, 119, 122,
124, 254, 258, 281, 297, 311
Pahlavi, Reza Shah, 287
Parvarish Girls’ School, 284
Patterson, Daniel, 213, 214
Payton, Ann Louisa, 38
Peshawar, 263
Philadelphia, 28, 29, 46, 83, 87,
104, 153, 155, 235, 302
Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery
Society, 46
Phillips, Wendell, 227, 255, 300
Polak, Jakob, 245
President of the California Equal
Suffrage Association, 224
Puritans, 25
Qajar, 67, 78, 79, 80, 189, 243,
292, 298, 299, 305, 306, 311
Qajar, Fath Ali Shah, 113, 128
Qajar, Muhammad Shah, 133
Qajar, Nasir al-din Shah, 183
Qanitih, 167
Qasim Amin, 282
Qazvin, 9, 15, 60-61, 66, 68, 71-
72, 74-75, 80-82, 95, 99, 112,
113, 124, 126-137, 163, 169,
240, 244, 246, 306
Qazvini, Mirza Hadi, 99
Qazvini, Mirza Muhammad Ali, 99
Qazvini, Mulla Abd al Wahhab,
Qazvini, Mulla Muhammad Ali,
75, 98
Quakers, 17, 22, 29, 46, 51, 156,
159, 224
Quddus, 108, 166-173, 177, 178,
181, 183-184
Quimby, Phineas, 215, 216, 217,
Qum, 65
Qurratiya (Tahirih’s students), 112
Rawalpindi, 264
Reed, Mary, 23
Renan, Joseph Ernest, 247, 308
Revival meetings, 26, 31
Riza Khan (Qajar official), 133
Rockefeller, John D., 84, 289
Root, Martha, 60, 113, 123, 125,
240-241, 250, 259, 261, 262,
Rose, Ernestine, 228
Rossetti, William, 257
Russia, 12, 67, 72, 160-161, 243,
271-273, 308
Sadiq Khan Ajudan, 136
Safavid, 67, 70-71, 298
Sakineh Khanum, 128
Sali, Mulla, 74, 96
Samandar Qazvini, 133
Samandar, Shaykh Kazim, 123, 135

The Calling

Second Great Awakening, 26, 32,
33, 38, 39, 47, 48, 49, 59, 140
Sell, Edward, 251, 252
Seneca Falls, 7, 142, 144, 147-160,
227-228, 232, 239, 294, 305,
Serrana, Carla, 251
Seton Hall University, 44
Seton, Elizabeth Ann, 43, 44, 310
Seventh-Day Adventist Church,
Shah, Syed Chiragh Hussain, 263
Shahzade Khanum, 136
Shakerism, 18, 19, 20
Shams al-Duha, 113
Shams-i-Jahan, 113, 189
Shaykh Sultan, 112
Shaykh Tabarsi, 183
Shaykhism, 68, 71, 74, 81, 82, 91,
92, 94, 96, 98, 110-112, 129,
136, 252, 304
Sheikh Manzoor Elahi, 264
Sheil, Lady Mary, 244
Sheil, Sir Justin, 242
Shibl, Shaykh Muhammad, 121
Shiraz, 91, 92, 178, 189, 199, 257,
259, 268
Shoghi Effendi, 60, 62, 99, 110,
130, 169-174, 187, 190, 191,
194, 197, 198, 287, 298, 313
Si, Mohammad Ali, 263
Sisters of Charity of Saint Joseph’s,
Smith, Joseph, 85, 88
Snow, Samuel, 105
Society for the Relief of Poor
Widows with Small Children, 43
Spiritualism, 7, 142, 201, 219, 221,
222, 224, 225
Sprague, Achsa, 223
St. Lawrence University, 205
Stanton, Elizabeth Cady, 11, 144,
145, 150, 155, 157, 227, 229,
307, 310
Stanton, Harry, 145, 150
Stone, Lucy, 149, 202-203, 227,
229, 230-232, 234, 301, 303
Stowe, Harriet Beecher, 47, 48,
146, 301, 310
Strict Congregationalist, 22
Stuart, Moses, 88
Sunday schools, 36, 38
Sunni, 66, 80, 122-124, 160, 166,
Surih of Joseph, 99
Tabriz, 162, 163, 174, 190, 250
Tagore, Rabindranath, 261
Taha, Siyyid, 115
Takur, 180, 193
Taqi, Mulla, 72, 96
Tarbiyat School, 284-287
Temperance, 203, 230
Tihran, 71-72, 77, 113, 123, 133,
135, 137, 162-163, 165, 167-
168, 180, 183, 185-189, 193,
194, 243, 273, 283-285
Tolstoy, Leo, 272
Trollope, Frances, 31, 32
Trotter, Coutts, 270
Troy Female Seminary, 145, 311
Tunis, John, 264
Turgenev, Ivan, 271
Turks, 72, 124, 266
Union and Progress Vocational
School for Girls, 254
Unitarians, 25
University of Punjab, 262
Urdu, 258-259, 261-264, 292
Usuli, 60-61, 68-69, 71-75, 81-82,
95, 126, 129, 132, 306

Index of Names

Vahid, 69, 137, 169, 307
Vakil, N.R., 261
Valiyani, Jawad, 112
Varta (Baha’i convert), 240
Victoria, Queen, 35, 242
Watson, Elizabeth Lowe, 224, 309
Watson, Robert Grant, 244, 245
Wesleyan, 39, 154, 155, 312
White, Ellen G., 4, 10, 206-208,
Whittier, John Greenleaf, 47
Wilkinson, Jamima, 24
Willard, Emma, 42, 145
Yavar, Muhammad Aqa, 125
Young, Brigham, 85
Younghusband, Sir Francis Edward,
270, 298, 310, 313
Zubayda Khanum (Fereshteh), 113,

ЗАЯВКА ЗА РЕГИСТРАЦИЯ НА ДОМЕЙНИ В ОБЛАСТТА .BG И ПОДОБЛАСТИТЕ
No. 151700 от 10/11/2016 10:10:45 EET, създадена от Регистър.БГ
ЗАЯВЕНИ ДОМЕЙНИ ЗА РЕГИСТРАЦИЯ:
Домейн
Основание за ползване на името
hitachiaircon.bg
- Няма да предоставя
ИНФОРМАЦИЯ ЗА РЕГИСТРАНТА:
Име и фамилия (бълг.):
Вeлимир Чачевски
Име и фамилия (лат.):
Velimir Chachevski
ЕИК:
ЕГН:
9006057123
Адрес по регистрация (и за кореспонденция):
Държава (бълг.):
БЪЛГАРИЯ
Държава (лат.):
BULGARIA
Селище (бълг.):
СОФИЯ/СТОЛИЧНА/гр.СОФИЯ
Селище (лат.):
SOFIA
Пощенски код:
Адрес (бълг.):
София
Адрес (лат.):
Sofiya
Телефон:
088 96511172
Факс:
E-mail:
velichach@gmail.com
ЛИЦЕ ЗА АДМИНИСТРАТИВНИ КОНТАКТИ:
Организация (бълг.):
Организация (лат.):
Име и фамилия
(бълг.):
Велимир Чачевски
Име и фамилия
(лат.):
Velimir Chachevski
ЕИК:
ЕГН:
9006057123
Държава (бълг.):
БЪЛГАРИЯ
Държава (лат.):
BULGARIA
Селище (бълг.):
СОФИЯ/СТОЛИЧНА/гр.СОФИЯ
Селище (лат.):
SOFIA
Пощенски код:
Адрес (бълг.):
София
Адрес (лат.):
Sofiya
Телефон:
088 96511172
Факс:
E-mail:
velichach@gmail.com
СЪРВЪРИ НА ИМЕНА:
Име на сървър (IP адрес): ns2.panelboxmanager.com
Име на сървър (IP адрес): ns1.panelboxmanager.com
ЛИЦЕ ЗА ФИНАНСОВИ КОНТАКТИ:
Данните на лицето са идентични с тези на регистранта.
ЛИЦА ЗА ТЕХНИЧЕСКИ КОНТАКТИ:
1.
Данните на лицето са идентични с тези на лицето за административни контакти.
ДЕКЛАРАЦИИ НА РЕГИСТРАНТА:
1. Желая да извършвам промени в данните на домейните, свързани със сървъри на имена, лица за финансови и
технически контакти чрез:
официална кореспонденция и/или сертификат за електронен подпис
потребителско име, парола и ГИН (Групов Идентификационен Номер), свързани с e-mail за електронна
актуализация
E-mail за електронна актуализация: velichach@gmail.com
2. Декларирам, че съм запознат и приемам Общите условия на Регистър.БГ ООД за регистрация и поддръжка
на домейни в областта .bg и подобластите.
3. Декларирам, че давам изрично своето съгласие Регистър.БГ ООД да получава, съхранява, обработва и
предоставя на трети лица при условията на ЗЗЛД личните данни на РЕГИСТРАНТА - физическо лице, както и
на ЛИЦАТА ЗА АДМИНИСТРАТИВНИ, ТЕХНИЧЕСКИ и ФИНАНСОВИ КОНТАКТИ (когато е физическо лице), за
осъществяване на дейността по регистриране и поддръжка на домейни в областта .bg и подобластите.
4. Декларирам, че съм получил изричното съгласие от физическите лица, натоварени от мен да изпълняват
функциите на ЛИЦА ЗА АДМИНИСТРАТИВНИ, ТЕХНИЧЕСКИ И ФИНАНСОВИ КОНТАКТИ за това техните
лични данни да бъдат съхранявани, обработвани и предоставяни на трети лица от Регистър.БГ ООД при
условията на ЗЗЛД за целите на регистрирането и поддръжката на домейни в областта .bg и подобластите.
5. Декларирам, че съм съгласен регистрацията на домейните да бъде арбитрирана от Арбитражна комисия
съгласно Общите условия на Регистър.БГ ООД за регистрация и поддръжка на домейни в областта .bg и
подобластите.