BAHA’I FAITH
WORLD RELIGIONS
THIRD EDITION

WORLD RELIGIONS
African Traditional Religion
Baha’i Faith
Buddhism
Catholicism & Orthodox Christianity
Confucianism
Daoism
Hinduism
Islam
Judaism
Native American Religions
Protestantism
Shinto
Sikhism
Zoroastrianism

by
Paula Hartz
Series Editors: Joanne O’Brien and Martin Palmer
BAHA’I FAITH
WORLD RELIGIONS
THIRD EDITION

Baha’i Faith, Third Edition
Copyright © 2009, 2006, 2002 by Infobase Publishing


All rights reserved.  No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic
or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage or retrieval systems, without
permission in writing from the publisher.  For information contact:



Chelsea House
An imprint of Infobase Publishing
132 West 31st Street
New York NY 10001
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Hartz, Paula.
Baha’i Faith / by Paula Hartz. — 3rd ed.
p. cm. — (World religions)
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-1-60413-104-8 (alk. paper)
1.  Bahai Faith.  I. Title. II. Series.
BP365.H323 2009
297.9’3—dc22

2008043045
Chelsea House books are available at special discounts when purchased in bulk quantities for businesses,
associations, institutions, or sales promotions.  Please call our Special Sales Department in New York at
(212) 967-8800 or (800) 322-8755.
You can find Chelsea House on the World Wide Web at http://www.chelseahouse.com
This book was produced for Chelsea House by Bender Richardson White, Uxbridge, U.K.
Project Editor: Lionel Bender
Text Editor: Ronne Randall
Designer: Ben White
Picture Researchers: Joanne O’Brien and Kim Richardson
Maps and symbols: Stefan Chabluk


Printed in China
CP BRW 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
This book is printed on acid-free paper.
All links and Web addresses were checked and verified to be correct at the time of publication. Because of the
dynamic nature of the Web, some addresses and links may have changed since publication and may no longer
be valid.

CONTENTS

Preface
CHAPTER 1
Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People
CHAPTER 2
Foundations of the Baha’i Faith
CHAPTER 3
Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith
CHAPTER 4
The Baha’i Scriptures
CHAPTER 5
The Spread of the Baha’i Faith
CHAPTER 6
Baha’i Belief and Worship
CHAPTER 7
The Baha’i Community
CHAPTER 8
The Baha’i Faith Today

Fact File

Bibliography and Web Sites

Further Reading

Glossary

Index

About the Author and Series Editors

Picture Credits

BAHA’I FAITH
Preface
Almost from the start of civilization, more
than 10,000 years ago, religion has shaped
human history. Today more than half the
world’s population practice a major reli-
gion or indigenous spiritual tradition. In
many 21st-century societies, including
the United States, religion still shapes peo-
ple’s lives and plays a key role in politics
and culture. And in societies throughout
the world increasing ethnic and cultural
diversity has led to a variety of religions
being practiced side by side. This makes
it vital that we understand as much as we
can about the world’s religions.
The World Religions series, of which
this book is a part, sets out to achieve this
aim. It is written and designed to appeal
to both students and general readers. The
books offer clear, accessible overviews of
the major religious traditions and insti-
tutions of our time. Each volume in the
series describes where a particular religion
is practiced, its origins and history, its cen-
tral beliefs and important rituals, and its
contributions to world civilization. Care-
fully chosen photographs complement
the text, and sidebars, a map, fact file, glos-
sary, bibliography, and index are included
to help readers gain a more complete
understanding of the subject at hand.
These books will help clarify what
religion is all about and reveal both the
similarities and differences in the great
spiritual traditions practiced around the
world today.
Countries in Which the Baha’i Faith
Has Established a Presence
1–3.5%
0.1–0.9%
less than 0.1%

© Infobase Publishing
Preface

CHAPTER 1
BAHA’I FAITH
INTRODUCTION:
THE BAHA’I FAITH
AND ITS PEOPLE
The Baha’i house of worship in New Delhi, India, built in 1986.
It is known as the Lotus Temple because of its striking design.
It is one of the most visited tourist attractions in the world.
T
he Baha’i Faith is the youngest of all independent world reli-
gions. It began as a small, local religious movement in Per-
sia (now Iran) less than 200 years ago. Today the Baha’i Faith has
some 5 million followers. It is one of the world’s fastest-grow-
ing religions. It is also probably the most diverse. It has members
from every religion, race, ethnic background, nationality, and
creed in the world.
DisTriBuTion
Compared with world religions such as Christianity and Islam,
each of which has more than a billion followers, the Baha’i Faith
is relatively small. However, according to the Baha’i World Center
(the spiritual and administrative center in northern Israel), Baha’is
have established communities in virtually every country and ter-
ritory around the world, making it the world’s second most wide-
spread religion after Christianity. It represents more than 2,100
ethnic, racial, and tribal groups. Baha’is live in more than 100,000
localities. There are organized Baha’i communities with elected
local councils, called spiritual assemblies, in more than 10,000

Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People

BAHA’I FAITH
towns or localities There are national or regional elected bodies
in 182 countries.
The Baha’i Faith spread to North America in the last years of
the 19th century. In the past hundred years it has spread to nearly
every country and territory in the world. The largest Baha’i com-
munities are in South Asia, Africa, and Latin America, as well
as in some Pacifi c islands, but India has the largest single Baha’i
community. That country has more than 1 million Baha’i follow-
ers, although that is still a small proportion of the total Indian
population. In the United States there are approximately 165,000
members of the Baha’i Faith.
ThE MiDDLE EasT ToDay
A
t the time of the foundation of the Baha’i Faith in Persia (the area
that became modern Iran in 1925), the Arabian Peninsula, the
Middle East, and surrounding areas were part of the Ottoman Empire.
This was undergoing a period of great upheaval and change.
A map of the birthplace of the Baha’i Faith as it is today.
SAUDIA ARABIA
KUWAIT
IRAQ
SYRIA
TURKEY
ARMENIA
AZERBAIJAN
GEORGIA
RUSSIA
KAZAKHSTAN
UZBEKISTAN
TURKMENISTAN
AFGHANISTAN
PAKISTAN
OMAN
U.A.E.
QATAR
BAHRAIN
IRAN
Black Sea
Persian
Gulf
Arabian Sea
Gulf of Oman
Aral Sea
Caspian
Sea
JORDAN

Baha’is in ThE uniTED sTaTEs
Number of Baha’i followers
about 165,000
Number of localities where Baha’is reside
about 10,000
Number of local spiritual assemblies
about 1,200
Baha’i schools and institutions
Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People
Baha’is arounD ThE worLD
T
his piechart shows the distrubution of the followers of the Baha’i
Faith by continents of the world.
Asia has the largest Baha’i population.
Americas
27%
Europe
8%
Australia
7%
Asia
33%
Africa
25%
CEnTraL figurEs of ThE Baha’i faiTh
The Baha’i Faith traces its beginnings in Persia to a religious leader
called the Bab [“the Gate”] (1819–50). In 1844 the Bab announced
that he had had a revelation from God and that he was a bearer
of divine truth. People began to follow him. The Muslim religious
leaders of Persia felt threatened by this new movement and its
ability to attract followers. They persecuted the Bab and his fol-
lowers. They had him arrested, beaten, and imprisoned. Finally
he was executed by a fi ring squad for the crime of heresy since
the Bab’s followers presented his words as the newly revealed
words of God. Many of his followers we also killed.

BAHA’I FAITH
Shoghi Effendi Rabbani
as a child. As Guardian of
the Faith, Shoghi Effendi
(1897–1957) translated
Baha’i writings and created
special plans to spread the
faith to many different
continents.

The person who gave the Baha’i Faith its special character and
shaped its spiritual and moral values is known as Baha’u’llah
(1817–92). He was one of the Bab’s early followers, but his impor-
tance is so great that in Baha’i tradition the Bab is often considered
his precursor. While Baha’u’llah was in prison for participating
in the Babi movement, he had a vision. He understood that God
had called on him to be a divine messenger of God’s word. He
took the name Baha’u’llah, which means “Glory of God.” After
the Bab’s death, Baha’u’llah rallied the Bab’s followers. They gave
themselves the name Baha’i—“followers of Baha.”
Because Baha’u’llah was born a nobleman and had connec-
tions to the court of the shah, the Persian king, he escaped the
Bab’s fate, not least because the Babi massacres had provoked
vigorous protests from the British and Russian embassies. How-
ever he was banished from Persia and spent most of the rest of his
life in exile and many years in prison.
When Baha’u’llah died in 1892 his will appointed his son
‘Abdu’l-Baha (1844–1921) leader of the faith. He continued his
father’s work, strengthening and organizing the young religion.
On ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s death in 1921 he left a will naming his grand-
son, Shoghi Effendi Rabbani (1897–1957), to succeed him as
Guardian of the Faith. Shoghi Effendi created special plans that
spread the faith to many different countries. He also translated
and interpreted many of his grandfather’s and great-grandfa-
ther’s writings.
Shoghi Effendi died in 1957 without leaving an heir. The lead-
ership of the faith passed to the Hands of the Cause of God, a
group of Baha’i leaders Shoghi Effendi had named earlier to help
him in his work. In 1963 this interim arrangement ended when
Baha’is elected the Universal House of Justice, an institution that
was originally planned and described by Baha’u’llah, to lead the
faith in the future.
ProgrEssivE rEvELaTion
Baha’is believe in one God and creator but they understand that
they cannot fully know God. God is infinite and the human mind
Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People

BAHA’I FAITH
is fi nite. People know God because throughout history God has
sent divine messengers to the world to teach people God’s will for
them. These divine teachers are part of God’s plan for humanity.
They came to teach people about God and to move the human
race toward greater spiritual, moral, and intellectual truth.
mEssEngERs of THE onE god
Among the divine messengers are Abraham and Moses of Juda-
ism, Krishna of Hinduism, Zarathushtra of Zoroastrianism,
Gautama Buddha of Buddhism, Jesus of Christianity, and the
prophet Muhammad of Islam. Baha’is believe that all the lead-
ers and founders of the great religions are equally messengers
of the one God. The Baha’i position is best summed up in this
statement from the Universal House of Justice published in “One
Common Faith” in 2005: “God is one and, beyond all diversity of
cultural expression and human interpretation, religion is likewise
one . . . . Religion is religion as science is science. Baha’is believe
ninE-PoinTED sTar
A
nine-pointed star is the symbol of the Baha’i Faith. The number
9 is signiﬁ cant to Baha’is. Baha’u’llah received his revelation
nine years after the Bab received his. As the highest single-digit
number, 9 symbolizes completeness. Baha’i temples are nine-sided,
in recognition of that completeness.

Children at a school run
by Baha’is. Education of
children is a religious duty
in the Baha’i Faith. Many
schools have children from a
wide range of backgrounds
and nationalities, reflecting
Baha’u’llah’s teachings that
all humanity is one race.
that each of the divine messengers throughout history brought
truth and understanding that was right for a particular place and
time in the world. The moral and spiritual values they taught
helped civilization to advance. The continuing advancement of
humanity is part of God’s great plan.”
THE TimE foR WoRldWidE UniTy
Today we live in a very different world from that of leaders like the
Buddha, Jesus, or the prophet Muhammad. Although their teach-
ings are still valid, we have reached a new, broader understanding
of the world. The world is coming of age. We can see that we all
live on one planet and that its future depends on global actions.
Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People

BAHA’I FAITH
Political, environmental, and social problems in one place are no
longer isolated events; they affect the whole world. Baha’u’llah
taught that this is the era for a single, unifi ed faith with a global
viewpoint. Baha’is see Baha’u’llah as the divine messenger for the
modern age.
Baha’is do not worship Baha’u’llah as a divine being, but they
revere him as a great teacher. His writings are considered divine
revelation given by the one God. Baha’is also understand that
in time God will send yet more messengers to guide humanity.
Baha’u’llah will not be the last. He promised that another mes-
senger would come after him, after 1,000 years. Baha’u’llah’s
message to the world is simple and straightforward: Now is the
time for worldwide unity. People must learn to get along with
one another. They must begin to think globally. “The world is but
one country, and mankind its citizens,” he says.
sPiriTuaL BELiEfs
Baha’is believe that all people are spiritual in nature. Each person
has a rational and everlasting soul. The soul is the real “self” of
each individual. Each person’s soul can be seen in his or her char-
acter; it shows in love and compassion, in faith and courage, in
kindness and understanding.
According to Baha’i belief, the human soul needs spiritu-
al nourishment in order to be fulfi lled. The food of the soul is
prayer, scripture, love of God, high moral
values, and service to humanity. Time on
earth should be devoted to developing the
qualities that bring people nearer to God.
a worLD CoMMuniTy
One thing that sets the Baha’i Faith apart
from other world religions is its uniting
perspective. Baha’is are especially diverse
and comprise a widespread organization
across the world, yet Baha’u’llah taught
that as there is only one God, there is only
The Soul Returns to God
Baha’is believe that the soul lives on
after death. When the human body
dies the soul is released into the world
of the spirit, which has neither time
nor place. The exact nature of life
after death cannot be known, but
Baha’u’llah says that death should
be a time of great joy, for the soul
returns to God.

a suMMary of virTuE
Be generous in prosperity and thankful in adversity.
Be worthy of the trust of thy neighbor, and look upon him
with a bright and friendly face.
Be a treasure to the poor,

an admonisher to the rich,

an answerer of the cry of the needy,

a preserver of the sanctity of thy pledge.
Be fair in thy judgment, and guarded in thy speech.
Be unjust to no man, and show all meekness to all men.
Be as a lamp unto them that walk in darkness,

a joy to the sorrowful,

a sea for the thirsty,

a haven for the distressed,

an upholder and defender of the victim of oppression.
Let integrity and uprightness distinguish all thine acts.
Be a home for the stranger,

a balm to the suffering,

a tower of strength for the fugitive.
Be eyes to the blind, and a guiding light unto the feet
of the erring.
Be an ornament to the countenance of truth,

a crown to the brow of ﬁ delity,

a pillar to the temple of righteousness,

a breath of life to the body of mankind,

an ensign of the hosts of justice,

a luminary above the horizon of virtue,

a dew to the soil of the human heart,

an ark on the ocean of knowledge,

a sun in the heaven of bounty,

a gem on the diadem of wisdom,

a shining light in the ﬁ rmament of thy generation,

a fruit on the tree of humility.
(Baha’u’llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah.)
The Invocation symbol
is another symbol that
appears in Baha’i homes and
buildings. It is the phrase
Ya Baha’u’l–Ahba, or “O
Glory of the All–Glorious” in
Arabic.
Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People

BAHA’I FAITH
A member of the Baha’i
community in Nepal
praying. Baha’is read and
meditate on their scriptures
every day.

one race—the human race. The time has come, he preached, for
uniting all people into one society under one faith.
A large number of Baha’is have converted from other faiths.
They come from many different, and sometimes confl icting,
backgrounds. Formerly, they may have been Christians or Jews,
Buddhists, Muslims, Sikhs, Zoroastrians, or Hindus. Others
come from African or Native American tribal religions. Some
did not previously belong to any religion. Baha’is are not required
to renounce their previous beliefs, but to accept a new unfolding
of religious understanding that incorporates them. They under-
stand that there is only one religion, and that is faith in God. All
religions are therefore expressions of a single divine plan. For
Baha’is, their faith fulfi lls the promises of all earlier beliefs.
Baha’is come from all races and ethnic groups and from differ-
ent economic and social classes. Their faith forbids prejudice of
any kind. They work together to break down barriers of prejudice
and to build a global society in which all people live in harmony.
ThE Baha’i faiTh anD ThE inDiviDuaL
The Baha’i Faith places a great deal of responsibility on the indi-
vidual. Unlike most other religions, it has no clergy. People are
expected to read the Baha’i scriptures for
themselves and apply the lessons they fi nd
there to actions in their own lives. There
are no sermons and no liturgy, or set order
of worship. Instead Baha’is meet on a reg-
ular basis to read scripture, discuss Baha’i
issues and projects, and share fellowship.
Depending on the size of the community
they generally gather in Baha’i centers or in
private homes. The Baha’i Faith does have
places of worship in more countries in
the world than any other religion, except
Christianity. One special feature is that on
each continent there is a central temple for
that continent, often of startlingly beauti-
Prayer for Serenity
Oh God! Refresh and gladden my spirit.
Purify my heart. Illumine my powers. I
lay all my affairs in Thy hand. Thou art
my Guide and Refuge. I will no longer be
full of anxiety, nor will I let trouble harass
me. I will not dwell on the unpleasant
things of life.
O God! Thou art more friend to me than
I am to myself. I dedicate myself to Thee,
O Lord.
(‘Abdu’l-Baha, Baha’i Prayers.)
Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People

BAHA’I FAITH
ful design, such as a lotus fl ower in Delhi. The local places of wor-
ship and the continental temples are open to people of all faiths
for meditation.
The Baha’i Faith emphasizes personal development. All peo-
ple have both a spiritual and a physical nature. While people
must satisfy basic physical needs for such things as shelter and
food, they must recognize that the only way to be truly happy
is to develop their spiritual side. This emphasis on spirit is what
makes people truly human. Prayer and meditation open the soul
to new possibilities. Being part of a diverse group breaks down
prejudice. Baha’is abstain from alcohol and drugs, because these
substances deaden the mind and the spirit.
Baha’i uniTy
Although Baha’is celebrate their diversity, they understand that
they must be fi rmly united in order to achieve their goals. The
writings of Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-Baha clearly establish the
rules for holding the community together. There is one institu-
tion that is the fi nal authority on any disagreements within the
faith. That is the Universal House of Justice at the World Center
of the Baha’i Faith in Haifa, Israel. This is an elected body that
decides all Baha’i issues.
No individual is permitted to claim special understanding
of the faith and start a sect. The Baha’i community is unifi ed.
As part of their covenant of faith all Baha’is agree to accept the
fi nal authority established in the Baha’i scriptures. Compared to
other religious texts, the scriptures of the Baha’i Faith are fairly
modern. They were personally written or
dictated  by Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-Baha
in the 19th and 20th centuries.  Being so
recent, the language is relatively clear and
easy to follow. Moreover, both Baha’u’llah
and ‘Abdu’l-Baha devoted many pages of
writings explaining doctrine that their fol-
lowers did not understand. So although
Baha’is read the scriptures independently
Baha
The Greatest Name symbol is the
word baha, or “glory,” written in
Arabic script. It appears on Baha’i
temples and buildings. Baha’is may
also wear jewelry engraved with
this symbol.
The Greatest Name symbol.

Baha’i PrinCiPLEs
B
aha’u’llah left many writings that included the principles by
which all humanity should live. His son ‘Abdu’l-Baha, who led
the faith after his father’s death, broadened them. The principles
‘Abdu’l-Baha used to introduce the Baha’i Faith to people around the
world remain the guidelines for living as a Baha’i:
Each person must independently seek truth for him- or herself.
All divine religions are one. Everyone worships the same God.
Human progress does not occur through material things alone.
Genuine progress comes from spirituality.
Science and reason are in harmony with religion.
The whole human race is one. All human beings are equally the
children of God. People must wipe out all prejudices: religious,
racial, political, national, and class.
Extremes of wealth and poverty must be abolished.
Women are the equals of men and are to have equality of rights,
particlarly of educational opportunity.
All children must receive a basic education.
There should be a single world federation with a single economy
and a single language.
and fi nd their own meanings, they abide by the authoritative
interpretation of the elected body that is the head of the faith.
Baha’is anD soCiaL PoLiCy
Baha’is learn that one of the most important ways of develop-
ing the spirit is through service to others. Helping other people
Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People

BAHA’I FAITH
is a characteristic of true humanity. Baha’is freely volunteer their
time and talents to help others. Work also is a form of worship,
because it profits both the community and the worker.
An important goal of the Baha’i Faith is promoting the well-
being of humankind. Therefore Baha’is are engaged in a wide
variety of social and developmental projects around the world.
Wherever they go they establish beneficial programs. These
programs reflect the particular needs of the local communi-
ties. They may be tutorial schools, after-school projects, health
clinics, classes in health care, agricultural projects, orphanages,
environmental centers and tree-planting programs, vocational
programs, women’s centers, and many other programs to ben-
efit society. Often a program starts in a Baha’i living room with
a Baha’i volunteer and two or three students. All Baha’is under-
stand that teaching and helping others is a fundamental part of
practicing their religion in the same way that attending worship
might be for someone of another faith.
Baha’is finance these projects on their own. They volunteer
their time and resources. Members also support the faith’s social
efforts with voluntary contributions. The Baha’i Faith does not
accept contributions from outside its own membership. It is
entirely self-supporting.
ThE uniquEnEss of ThE Baha’i faiTh
The Baha’i Faith is the only world religion to emerge during the
modern age. Most other world religions are many hundreds
or even thousands of years old. Judaism dates back more than
5,000 years, and Zoroastrianism more than 3,000 years. Native
American and African belief systems are older than recorded
time. Buddhism dates back about 2,500 years. Christianity began
more than 2,000 years ago, and Islam more than 1,400 years ago.
The earliest recorded works in Shinto are well over 1,000 years
old. Even Sikhism, the next youngest world religion, is about 500
years old.
The Baha’i Faith’s founders lived in modern times. ‘Abdu’l-
Baha, Baha’u’llah’s son, lived to see such things as railroads, the

telegraph and the telephone, automobiles, even airplanes. All the
Baha’i founders were literate. They produced volumes of writing,
most of which survives. Unlike religions such as Christianity and
Judaism, whose scriptures were written perhaps scores or even
hundreds of years after the events they describe, Baha’i scripture
is composed of the actual words of its founders, most often in
their own handwriting.
There are more firsthand accounts of the Baha’i Faith’s early
years and its struggles, as well as of the people who brought it
into existence, than of any other world religion. The Baha’i Faith
thus presents a unique opportunity to see and understand how a
new religion begins and how it grows and spreads.
Training in the Barli
Development Institute
for Rural Women in
Indore, India. Baha’is run
development programs
around the world, including
women’s programs, health
clinics, youth programs, and
environmental centers.
Introduction: The Baha’i Faith and Its People

BAHA’I FAITH
FOUNDATIONS
OF THE BAHA’I
FAITH
CHAPTER 2
The Arc gardens in Haifa, Israel. The buildings
shown are the Seat of the Universal House
of Justice, the International Teaching Center
Building, the Center for the Study of the Texts,
and the International Baha’i Archives.
T
he Baha’i Faith grew out of religious influences and ideals
in 19th-century Persia. Baha’u’llah, the founder of the Baha’i
Faith, was born a Muslim. While one important influence on the
Baha’i Faith is Islam, both Islamic scholars and Baha’is themselves
have rejected the idea that the Baha’i Faith is a branch of Islam.
The Baha’i Faith is a separate religion, distinct and different from
Islam. However the Baha’i Faith incorporates many Islamic ideals
and practices, such as required daily prayer, giving to the poor,
pilgrimage, and fasting.
Even more directly, the Baha’i Faith grew out of a religious
movement that came immediately before it. This was the Babi
Faith, or Babism. Babis were followers of the Bab, a religious
leader in Persia from 1844 until 1850. The Baha’i Faith’s religious
foundations rest on many of the teachings of the Bab, particu-
larly his vision of a new social order and his promise that a new
divine messenger was coming soon.

Foundations of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
To understand the Baha’i Faith it helps to know a little bit about
the background from which it came: Islam and Babism.
isLaM CoMEs To PErsia
Islam began in Arabia in the mid-seventh century C.E. About the
same time Arab armies conquered Persia, and by 652 a Muslim
ruler sat on the Persian throne. Islam swept the Persian populace.
By the ninth century Persia was predominately Islamic.
Early in its history Islam divided into two major sects. These
were the Sunnis and the Shia, which remain the two major
branches of Islam today. In Persia, the birthplace of Baha’u’llah,
the most important branch of Islam was Shia. Persian, or Iranian,
Islam is known as “Twelver Shia” because of the tradition of the
12 imams, divinely guided leaders and direct descendants of the
prophet Muhammad.
In the Shii tradition, when prophet Muhammad died he
selected his son-in-law, Ali, to lead the faithful. Ali in turn passed
the leadership down to his descendants. These chosen leaders
were known as imams. Early Persian converts to Islam believed
strongly that the prophet’s chosen leaders
provided a direct line back to the prophet
himself and therefore to the will of God.
ThE TwELfTh iMaM
The line of imams lasted through 12 gen-
erations. The Twelfth Imam was only a
child when he became imam. Accord-
ing to tradition in the year 873 (the year
260 on the Islamic calendar) the Twelfth
Imam withdrew from the world and was
never seen again. People believed that he
would come again to lead them into a new
world of justice and harmony. Over time
he became known as the Hidden Imam,
or the Mahdi, a title that meant “The One
Who Would Arise.”
waiTing for ThE hiDDEn iMaM
T
he Shia believed that although he
had disappeared from the world, for
a time the last imam still spoke to his fol-
lowers. His words reached them through
leaders they called bab, a word that means
“gate.” There were four babs until, in the
year 941, the last bab died without nam-
ing a successor. Believers no longer had a
direct link to the Hidden Imam, but they
understood that one day a messenger
would appear. This One would once again
provide a direct line to the divine will of
God for humanity. For the next thousand
years devout Persian Muslims waited for
the return of the Hidden Imam.

ThE BaB aPPEars
In the mid-19th century many people believed that the One prom-
ised in the Quran would soon come. In Persia believers began to
gather around a religious leader named Siyyid Ali Muhammad.
Siyyid is a title of respect for descendants of the prophet Muham-
mad. Siyyid Ali Muhammad was descended from the prophet
on both his mother’s side and his father’s side. His relationship
to the prophet gave him credibility. To his followers Siyyid Ali
Muhammad was the promised messenger of God. They believed
that through him they would receive truth and enlightenment.
They began to call him the Bab. They called themselves Babis, or
“followers of the Bab.”
Siyyid Ali Muhammad was born on October 20, 1819, in Shi-
raz, Persia. Ali Muhammad was very young when his father died.
He had little education but he was exceptionally bright. Even as
a child he impressed adults with his understanding of scripture
and of spiritual matters.
At 15 he became a merchant like his father before him. By all
accounts he was a good businessman. He became known not
only for his business ability but also for his honesty and fairness.
After several years, when he was in his early 20s, he closed his
business and traveled for a year to Iraq. He visited the holy cities
of Islam and met Muslim leaders. On his return to Persia in 1842
he married the daughter of another merchant. The couple’s only
child died as an infant the following year.
Among those who knew him Ali Muhammad became known
for extreme piety and his great interest in religion. People began
to remark on his holiness and some even described him as a
saint. Around this time he began to have dreams in which holy
figures of Islamic history appeared to him. He took these dreams
as a sign that the spirit of God had come into his soul. He began
to write down his thoughts on religious matters. As a rule only
trained religious scholars did such writing, and Ali Muhammad
had no such training. However he felt divinely inspired. At first
his reputation and beliefs were limited to his locality, but gradu-
ally they spread far and wide across Persia.
Foundations of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
The room in the Bab’s house
in Shiraz where he declared
his mission on May 23,
1844.
ThE BaB’s DECLaraTion
On May 23, 1844, Siyyid Ali Muhammad announced that he was
the bearer of divine truth. People attached great importance to
the fact that this was the year 1260 on the Islamic calendar—
exactly 1,000 years after the disappearance of the Hidden Imam.
At first his followers understood him to be saying that he was the
new gateway to the Hidden Imam, for whom they had been wait-
ing. Later they interpreted his words to be a claim that he was the
Mahdi himself. Either way, he set in motion a religious upheaval
that was to have lasting effects.
BEginnings of ThE BaBi MovEMEnT
A man of great personal charm, the Bab had already begun
gathering followers. One of these was a young religious stu-

dent named Mulla Husayn. Mulla Husayn’s studies had led him
to believe that the Promised One of the scriptures would soon
arrive. When he heard from Siyyid Ali Muhammad’s own lips
that Siyyid Ali Muhammad was the promised one awaited by all
faiths, he immediately declared his faith. Within several weeks 17
others had joined him.
Other early followers included a young man named Muham-
mad Ali-i-Barfurush, whom the Bab called Quddus, or “Most
Holy,” and a young woman with whom the Bab was correspond-
ing, later known as Tahirih, “The Pure One.” The Bab called these
first 18 followers the “Letters of the Living.” He told them to go
throughout Persia spreading the good news that the Promised
One was coming.
ThE BaB’s MEssagE
Many things about the Bab worked to convince his followers that
he was a divine leader. He had a remarkable ability to explain pas-
sages from the Quran. Scholars had puzzled over these passages
for centuries. Highly spiritual, the Bab had a strong effect on his
listeners, who believed that his speech was divinely inspired. He
revealed more than 100,000 new verses in the style and spirit
of the Quran, which his followers firmly believed to have come
directly from God.
Even more striking than his discussions of religious matters
and spiritual revelations was his view for society. His vision was
broad in scope. In his most important book, the Bayan, he wrote
that a time was coming when new forms of learning and science
would appear. He called on people to embrace learning and to
help bring about a new society. He provided the principles for
a Babi society. These included a system of laws for society to
live by. They also laid down rules for matters such as marriage,
divorce, and inheritance. Another section gives rules for the rela-
tionship between the Babi state and other nations. Above all the
Bab’s vision was a peaceful one. He rejected the idea that converts
could be won by the sword. He urged his followers to be gentle
and cause no sorrow to others.
Foundations of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
Babi disciples traveled to all the cities of Persia with the good
news of the Bab’s coming. It was news that people had been wait-
ing for and many accepted it eagerly.
TrouBLE for ThE BaBis
Although the belief in the return of the Hidden Imam persisted
among the Persian people, the clergy was less receptive to the
idea. Indeed the actions of the Bab’s followers infuriated and out-
raged them.
In Islam the prophet Muhammad is the final prophet. His
word as recorded in the Quran is perfect in understanding and
revealing God’s purpose. The Bab’s followers were presenting his
words as the newly revealed word of God. The Shii clergy, there-
fore, saw the Bab’s claim as heresy. Furthermore it was a threat to
their power. If people accepted the Bab as the true speaker for the
Hidden Imam, he would become the highest authority in Islam,
and they would have to take their orders from him. The clergy
immediately rose up against him.
RUlings of REligioUs CoURTs
The Shii clergy held great power in 19th-century Persia. The
country’s ruler, the shah, supported the rulings of their religious
courts. Their decrees therefore had the force of law, which the
Persian army could enforce. Clergy also used the power of the
pulpit. When they preached that someone was a heretic, they
could easily turn the minds of their congregations against him. It
was a small step to rioting and civil unrest.
In spite of being labeled an infidel and a heretic, the Bab
attracted followers across Persia. The Bab even began to attract
some members of the clergy. This disturbed and angered Muslim
leaders even more. Anyone who attracted followers was a threat
to them. They had the Bab placed under house arrest in Shiraz.
However even though the Bab’s movements were restricted, his
followers in distant cities were persuading more and more people
of the truth of the Bab’s claims. Also, people who came to visit
him went away persuaded. The movement continued to grow.

A cabinet containing
photographs of the Bab
and Baha’u’llah.
Winning HEARTs And minds
One of the early converts was a man called Vahid, a religious
scholar with a sharp theological mind. Vahid had connections to
the court and may have been sent by the shah to find out more
about this “Shirazi saint” who was attracting so much attention.
The Bab converted Vahid as well. Winning members of the cler-
gy to his side was an important step for the Bab in winning the
minds and hearts of the people. The number of Babis swelled.
iMPrisonMEnT anD TriaL
In September 1846 the Bab was able to escape house arrest and
leave Shiraz. He had hopes of traveling to Tehran to meet with
Foundations of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
the shah. Instead the shah’s prime minister had him arrested,
taken to Azerbaijan, and imprisoned there. Azerbaijan, although
part of Iran at the time, was far from the shah’s court. The prime
minister hoped that the Azerbaijanis would ignore the Bab’s mes-
sage. The opposite proved true. The new faith took root there. So
the prime minister moved the Bab to a Kurdish area of Iran and
threw him into the prison at Chihriq. This tactic too was a failure,
as the Kurd leaders became admirers of the Bab.
During this time the traditional clergy continued to preach
against the Bab. His followers came under increasing attacks from
mobs that the clergy had aroused to violence. The mobs believed
that they were waging a jihad, a Muslim holy war against unbe-
lievers. The Bab’s followers turned to him, hoping that he would
bless their own fi ght against the people who were persecuting
them. The Bab, however, rejected the notion of a counter-jihad.
Babis could defend themselves if their lives were threatened, but
they were otherwise not to fi ght on behalf of the faith. The sur-
vival of the faith, the Bab decreed, was in the hands of God.
ThE ConfErEnCE aT BaDashT
With the Bab in prison leaders of the Babi
Faith met in the village of Badasht to the
northeast of Tehran. One of their goals
was to come up with a plan to free the Bab.
Another was to share their understanding
of the Bab’s teachings so they could go on
leading in his absence. Among the lead-
ers of the conference was the woman poet
Tahirih. She electrifi ed the conference
when she announced that the Bab was not
just a reformer; he was the Imam Mahdi,
the Promised One. She went on to say
that this meant that Babis were no longer
bound by the requirements of Muslim law.
As followers of the Bab they must look to
him for guidance.
“ThE PurE onE”
O
ne of the converts was a woman
known as Tahirih, “The Pure One,”
who attracted attention and became one
of the most remarkable leaders of the
Babi movement.  Encouraged by a family
of scholars, Tahirih was able to study the
Quran with her brothers in a time when
few women learned to read or write.  She
mastered its ideas easily, and also became
a gifted poet. The young woman was much
taken with the Bab’s ideas and began cor-
responding with him. He quickly named
her one of the Letters of the Living. She
never met the Bab face to face, but their
vigorous correspondence made her an
important teacher of the emerging faith.

She began by casting off her veil and
head covering. Her action caused an
immediate stir. Many of the more con-
servative Babis were shocked. They had
never seen a woman unveiled in public.
Even more, it caused the Muslim clerics
to brand the Babis as atheists and their
women as immodest and impure. How-
ever the Bab’s doctrines clearly indicated
that women were equal participants with
men in the new religion.
BaBis unDEr siEgE
The shah of Persia died in 1848, throwing
the country into a state of political unrest.
The Babis found themselves under even
greater pressure from the Muslim clergy,
who were trying to stamp them out. A
group of Babis under Mulla Husayn had
been traveling around the country pro-
claiming the Bab as the Promised One.
They called on the people to follow him.
The Shii clergy preached vigorously from
the pulpit that they were heretics. Rioting
followed. The Babis withdrew to the shrine of a Muslim saint,
Shaykh Tabarsi, and hoped it would be a safe place. They quickly
put up a fort for protection.
However their troubles were not over. The clergy accused
them of causing the riots. This time the government decided that
the Babi movement must be wiped out. Offi cials sent a band of
armed soldiers to add to the clergy and rioters already crying for
Babi blood.
ThE siEgE aT shayKh TaBarsi
Over the next year more and more troops came and attacked
the fort. They built a series of barricades around it, so the Babis
ThE BaB is PunishED
M
uslim clergy called for the Bab to
be tried before a panel of religious
scholars. In the summer of 1848 the trial
took place. The Bab was sentenced to a
cruel and painful form of physical punish-
ment, the bastinado, in which the soles of
his feet were beaten with sticks. During
this torture one of the men beating the
Bab accidentally struck him in the face. The
leaders called for a doctor. Dr. William Cor-
mick, an Englishman, responded. He was
deeply impressed with the Bab, whom he
found to be mild and uncomplaining.
(He) was a very mild and delicate-looking
man, rather small in stature and very fair
for a Persian, with a melodious soft voice,
which struck me much . . . In fact his
whole look and deportment went far to
dispose one in his favor . . .
(From the memoirs of Dr. William
Cormick.)
Foundations of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
were effectively trapped inside. Led by Mulla Husayn, the Babis
had been able to beat back their attackers for a time. However
eventually a few hundred Babis inside the fort were defending
themselves against a large army, which was camped outside. The
Babis were also running out of water. They managed to dig a well
but it was clear that their situation was becoming desperate. Mul-
la Husayn decided to charge the barricades. He knew he would
probably die. He called on his companions “to partake of the cup
of martyrdom” with him.
That day Mulla Husayn bathed in the water from the well,
dressed in clean clothes, and prepared himself for battle. Before
dawn he led his band of Babi fi ghters out of the fort. They broke
through fi rst one and then another set of barricades until they
were fi nally outside. However their success was costly and short-
lived. A sniper who had climbed a tree shot Mulla Husayn in the
chest. His companions carried him back to the fort, where he
died a few hours later.
ThE EnD of ThE siEgE
At last the remaining Babis gave up the struggle and agreed to
surrender. The army swore on the Quran that the Babis would be
permitted to leave safely. However as soon as they left the fort the
army set on them again. Those who were not killed outright were
tortured to death or sold into slavery.
This horrible scene played itself out in
other towns as well. In Nayriz in the south
of Persia and in Zanjan in the northwest
the Shii clergy aroused their followers to
riot and then blamed the Babis. The gov-
ernment’s troops joined in. People hunted
the Babis down, seized their property, and
killed them.
Vahid, another respected Babi leader,
died at Nayriz. At Zanjan, as at Shaykh
Tabarsi, offi cials offered a pledge of peace
signed on the Quran. As soon as the Babis
The Bab’s Final Statement
Oh wayward generation! Had you
believed in me every one of you would
have followed the example of this youth,
who stood in rank above most of you, and
would have willingly sacriﬁ ced himself in
my path. The day will come when you will
have recognized me; that day
I shall have ceased to be with you.

came out they were slaughtered. A large
number of Babis were arrested and pub-
licly executed when they refused to reject
their new faith. A few, however, survived
to tell what had happened.
ThE DEaTh of ThE BaB
While all of this unrest was going on the
prime minister ordered the Bab’s execu-
tion. The Bab had done nothing that was
against civil law, however. So the prime
minister had the Bab taken to Tabriz, a
city in northwestern Iran, where the cler-
gy signed the death sentence for a crime
against Islam.
Eyewitness
accounts
record
the
remarkable events surrounding the execu-
tion of the Bab. The army jailers suspend-
ed the Bab and one of his young followers
by ropes from the top of a wall. A fi ring squad of 750 Armenian
Christian soldiers lined up facing them. The order to fi re was giv-
en. The rifl es made a deafening roar and black smoke fi lled the
entire area. When the smoke cleared the Bab’s companion stood
by the wall, unhurt. The Bab had disappeared.
Searchers found him in his room calmly dictating to his sec-
retary. The original fi ring squad was so shaken by what had hap-
pened that they refused to continue. Many believed that they had
attempted to kill a holy man and now feared the wrath of God.
Offi cials quickly brought together a squad of Muslim marksmen
to carry out the execution. This time the soldiers did not miss and
the Bab was killed.
The story of the Bab’s death spread throughout Persia like the
wind. It had a profound impact not only on the Persian people
but also on the many Europeans who lived in Persia at the time.
It aroused new interest in his message—not just within his native
country but also from the outside world.
A Western Reaction to the
Bab’s Martyrdom
This is one of the most magniﬁ cent
examples of courage which mankind has
ever been able to witness, and it is also
an admirable proof of the love which our
hero had for his fellow countrymen. He
sacriﬁ ced himself for mankind; he gave for
it his body and his soul, he suffered for it
hardships, insults, indignities, torture and
martyrdom. He sealed with his blood the
pact of universal brotherhood, and like
Jesus he gave his life in order to herald
the reign of concord, justice, and
love for one’s fellow men.
(A. L. M. Nicholas, a French
consular offi cial, 1850.)
Foundations of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
Shoghi Effendi’s Portrait of
The Bab’s Death
Thus ended a life which posterity will
recognize as standing at the conﬂ uence
of two universal prophetic cycles, the
Adamic Cycle stretching back as far as
the ﬁ rst dawnings of the world’s recorded
religious history and the Baha’i Cycle
destined to propel itself across the unborn
reaches of time for a period of no less
than ﬁ ve thousand centuries . . . It can,
moreover, be regarded in no other light
except as the most dramatic, the most
tragic event transpiring within the entire
range of the ﬁ rst Baha’i century. Indeed it
can be rightly acclaimed as unparalleled
in the annals of the lives of
all the Founders of the world’s
existing religious systems.
(In Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By.)
The shrine of Mirza Husayn
Ali Nuri , or Baha’u’llah,
in Akko, Israel, as
photographed around 1910.
Baha’u’llah established the
Baha’i Faith following the
death of the Bab.
ThE CoLLaPsE of BaBisM
For the surviving Babis, however, the Bab’s
death was a disaster. In a few months they
had lost not only the Bab but also most
of the Letters of the Living. Mulla Husayn
had died in the siege at Shaykh Tabarsi,
and Vahid at Nayriz. Quddus, the gentle
young man and Letter of the Living whom
the Bab called “Most Holy,” was dragged
through the streets in chains and fi nally
tortured to death.
In despair two young Babis attempted
to kill the shah. They did not seriously
harm him but the attempt aroused a new
wave of violence against people who had
done nothing but declare their faith in a
man of peace and love. Babis were round-
ed up and tortured in unimaginable ways.
Tahirih, the Pure One, although she had
not been involved in the plot to kill the
shah, was put to death. Defi ant to the end,

she is said to have looked her execution-
ers in the eye and said, “You can kill me as
soon as you like, but you cannot stop the
emancipation of women.”
The massacre of several thousand of
the Bab’s followers, and the Bab’s own
death, left the Babis leaderless and disor-
ganized. By 1852 it appeared that the new
faith, begun in such hope, would vanish in
complete failure.
The Bab’s followers had found in him
a messenger of God in the line of Moses,
Jesus, and Muhammad, all founders and
leaders of great religions. However his
writings showed that the Bab did not see
himself as the fi nal prophet. The door was
open for yet another leader—“He Whom
God Will Make Manifest.” The spiritual
needs that had led people to follow the
Bab remained strong. The seeds of a new
religion had been planted, and in time they
would grow again with renewed strength
as the Baha’i Faith.
The Death of Quddus
. . . how, barefooted, bareheaded, and
loaded with chains, he was paraded
through the streets, followed and scorned
by the entire population of the town;
how he was execrated and spat upon by
the howling mob; how he was assailed
with the knives and axes of the scum
of its female inhabitants; how his body
was pierced and mutilated, and how
eventually it was delivered to the ﬂ ames!
Amidst his torments, Quddus was
heard whispering forgiveness to his foes.
“Forgive, O my God,” he cried, “the
trespasses of this people. Deal with them
in Thy mercy, for they know not what we
already have discovered and cherish”.
(In Nabil, The Dawn-Breakers,
translated by Shoghi Effendi.)
Foundations of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
Path leading to the shrine of Baha’u’llah at
Bhaji, outside Akko (formerly Acre), Israel.
This is considered the most holy place in the
Baha’i world.
O
ne important follower of the Bab escaped the fatal end of so
many others. His name was Mirza Husayn Ali Nuri. Mirza
Husayn Ali Nuri was born on November 12, 1817, in Tehran,
Persia (now Iran). His family was Persian nobility. His father was
a landowner and a government official. The family was well-to-
do and socially prominent, and the boy’s father held a high posi-
tion in the Persian court. Young Mirza Husayn Ali had no formal
education; he was homeschooled. He read widely, however, and
learned quickly. From an early age he was devoutly religious.
Mirza Husayn Ali was 22 years old when his father died.
Although he was young, officials offered him his father’s govern-
ment position; he turned it down. He preferred instead to stay at
home, managing the family property and looking after the edu-
cation of his younger family members. He also donated time and
money to many charities in the region. In spite of his youth he
quickly came to be called “Father of the Poor” by the people in the
region where he lived. He also gained a reputation for integrity
and honesty at a time when many wealthy and important people
were corrupt and dishonest.
BAHA’U’LLAH,
FOUNDER OF THE
BAHA’I FAITH
CHAPTER 3

Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
One of the many letters
dictated by Baha’u’llah to
his secretary. Baha’u’llah
would dictate so quickly that
his secretary could barely
keep up with the
flow of his words.
Mirza husayn aLi ConvErTs To BaBisM
In 1844 Mirza Husayn Ali received a visit from Mulla Husayn,
one of the Bab’s early disciples. At the age of 27 Mirza Husayn Ali
was already known for his good works and religious devotion.
The Bab sent Mulla Husayn to Tehran to deliver a letter to Mirza
Husayn Ali. As a result of receiving that letter Mirza Husayn Ali
became a follower of the Bab, along with four of his brothers and
half brothers. His conversion was important to the Bab and to
the Babi movement. Most early converts were religious students
like Mulla Husayn, or came from merchant or peasant classes.
Mirza Husayn Ali’s family were landowners with ties to the gov-
ernment. They were an important addition to the Babi cause.
PREACHing THE mEssAgE of THE BAB
From the time of his conversion onward, Mirza Husayn Ali
Nuri worked energetically at spreading the Babi Faith. He trav-
eled across Persia to preach the Bab’s
message. Because of his wealth and high
social standing he had access to others in
his social class, and he converted a signifi-
cant number of people, including other
members of his own family. He used his
personal wealth to finance the teaching
of Babism in other regions. His social
position also helped to protect him from
the persecution that Babi followers were
beginning to experience.
Soon after Mirza Husayn Ali became
a Babi he began writing letters to the Bab,
who was then imprisoned in Chihriq
prison. The Bab responded with letters of
his own, and Mirza Husayn Ali gained an
impressive knowledge of the Bab’s think-
ing and outlook. Other Babi leaders such
as Vahid, Quddus, Mulla Husayn, and
Tahirih drew him into their inner circle.

They began to look upon Mirza Husayn Ali as an important
interpreter of the Bab’s teachings.
BAHA’U’llAH—”gloRy of god”
In 1848 Mirza Husayn Ali organized and helped to direct the gath-
ering of Babis in the village of Badasht; this conference at Badasht
gave Babism a new and more revolutionary direction. It was also
at the Badasht Conference that Mirza Husayn Ali gave each of the
Babis gathered there a new name, one that reflected their spiri-
tual qualities. For himself he chose the name Baha, which means
“Splendor” or “Glory.”
After the conference the Bab wrote to each of the participants
using the new name that Mirza Husayn Ali had given them. To
the newly named Baha the Bab sent a rare and wonderful work
of calligraphy, or handwriting, that he had done himself, in the
shape of a star. It included the title Baha’u’llah, or “Glory of God,”
the name by which Mirza Husayn Ali Nuri soon came to be
known among his followers.
Map showing the route
of Baha’u’llah’s exile. The
regions and place names are
those of the time.
Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith
BULGARIA
RUSSIA
EGYPT
ARABIA
PERSIA (IRAN)
IRAQ
SYRIA
TURKEY
OTTOMAN EMPIRE
Tehran
Baghdad
Kirkut
Irbil
Mosul
Mardin
Diyarbakir
Kilarfut
Sivas
Amasya
Turat
Samsun
Sinop
Constantinople
Adrianople
Gallipoli
Mytilene
Smyrna
Port Said
Jaffa
Acre
Mediterranean Sea
Black Sea
Red
Sea
Persian Gulf
Caspian Sea

BAHA’I FAITH
PErsECuTion inCrEasEs
The conference at Badasht drew atten-
tion to the Babis. The new movement was
growing so fast that it became a threat
to the existing order. Its members came
under attack. It was at this time that offi -
cials arrested Tahirih and threw her into
jail. Baha’u’llah tried to help her, but was
himself imprisoned and tortured by hav-
ing the soles of his feet beaten with bam-
boo rods.
Free again, Baha’u’llah tried to con-
vince his friends in the government that
the Babis were peace-loving and would do
no harm. In turn his friends tried to per-
suade him to stop his work on behalf of
the Bab, but he refused. He warned them
that if the attacks did not stop there would
be trouble.
The attacks against the Babis contin-
ued, and trouble did indeed follow with
the attempt on the shah’s life in 1852. Feel-
ings against the Babis were now so strong
that Baha’u’llah’s connections to govern-
ment and power could no longer help
him. He was arrested again, and taken to
Tehran, where he was locked up for four
months in a prison so foul and terrible that
it was known as the Siyah-Chal, or “Black
Pit.” Deep underground, cold, dark, and
damp, it had once been a reservoir for one
of Tehran’s public baths. As Baha’u’llah
described it, “The dungeon was wrapped
in thick darkness, and our fellow prison-
ers numbered nearly a hundred and fi fty
souls: thieves, assassins, and highwaymen
hE whoM goD wiLL MaKE ManifEsT
A
s Baha’u’llah lay in chains in the dun-
geon he heard a voice speaking to
him. The voice, which seemed to come
from all sides, said:
Verily (truly) we shall render thee
victorious by thyself and by thy pen.
Grieve thou not for that which has
befallen thee, neither be thou afraid,
for thou art in safety. Ere long will God
raise up the treasures of the earth—men
who will aid thee through thyself and thy
name, wherewith God hath revived the
hearts of such as have recognized him . . .
In spite of the ﬁ lth and suﬀ ering that sur-
rounded him Baha’u’llah felt new power
and strength. He understood that he was
the person whom the Bab had promised,
the one who was ordained by God to lead
his people into a new understanding and
faith.
Carved seals used to stamp letters
verifying Baha’u’llah as the author
of written papers. Baha’u’llah wrote
thousands of letters teaching, advising,
and supporting the Baha’i community.

. . . Most of these men had neither clothes nor bedding to lie on.
God alone knoweth what befell us in that most foul-smelling and
gloomy place!” It was here that Baha’u’llah realized he was des-
tined to become a spiritual leader.
All over Persia Babis were being persecuted and attacked. The
Babi prisoners in the Siyah-Chal were chained together so they
could hardly move. The stench was so awful that they could bare-
ly breathe. They were under constant threat of torture and death.
Each day their jailers descended into the pit, chose one man, and
executed him.
BanishMEnT
Somehow Baha’u’llah survived his imprisonment. Because of his
family’s influence, officials knew that they could not execute him
without a trial. They also knew he had done no wrong and there
was no evidence against him. Their hesitancy was also partly due
to the vigorous protests against the Babi massacres registered by
both the Russian and British embassies.
A view of the city of Tehran,
where Baha’u’llah was
imprisoned in 1852. The
photograph was taken in
1930, but the city would
have looked very similar 80
years earlier.
Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
However officials were reluctant to let Baha’u’llah go. They
knew that he would immediately attract followers to the Bab’s
cause. Finally the prime minister, who was a relative of Baha’u’llah,
persuaded the court that Baha’u’llah should be banished from
Persia. As part of his banishment the government confiscated his
property. They destroyed or seized all his books and works of art.
They looted and burned his home. His possessions and property
gone, still suffering from the beatings he had received, and weak
from his four months in prison, he was released without a trial
in 1852.
Baha’u’llah came out of prison weaker in body but even stron-
ger in spirit than when he was arrested. Under the conditions of
A father and his son (left)
and members of the Baha’i
community in chains
after being arrested. This
photograph was taken
around 1896. The founders
and members of the Baha’i
Faith endured many years of
persecution and banishment
for their beliefs.

his release from prison, Baha’u’llah had to leave Persia. He no
longer had any possessions, but his family and followers could go
with him if they wished. In 1852 chose to go to Baghdad in Iraq.
At first Baha’u’llah said nothing about the voice he had heard
and its message. He settled in Baghdad and lived quietly with
his family. Over the next three years other Babis joined him and
formed a small community.
Mirza yahya
One member of the community was Baha’u’llah’s half brother,
Mirza Yahya, or Subh-i-Azal. He was 13 years younger than
Baha’u’llah and had followed him into the Babi Faith. After the
conference at Badasht the Bab had named
Mirza Yahya as the one to be the head of
the Babi Faith if the Bab were to die. At
the time the Bab was in prison, and he
and Baha’u’llah both felt that Baha’u’llah
could do the most good for the faith from
behind the scenes. Since Baha’u’llah was
both older and wiser than his brother, they
believed that Mirza Yahya would continue
to take his advice.
Mirza Yahya was easily swayed. After
the Bab’s death he fell under the influ-
ence of a Muslim cleric named Siyyid
Muhammad. Siyyid Muhammad remind-
ed Yahya that the Bab had chosen him,
not Baha’u’llah. He persuaded Yahya to
renounce his brother and proclaim him-
self the Babi authority.
Baha’u’llah realized that if he were to
fight with his brother over the leadership
of the community, the community would
be weakened even further. He withdrew to
the mountains, where he remained alone
for two years. He later wrote of this time:
Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
“Alone, we communed with Our spirit, oblivious of the world
and all that is therein.” Baha’u’llah spent the time fruitfully by
meditating and writing.
Baha’u’LLah rETurns
Meanwhile the Babi community in Baghdad was going through
difficult times. Mirza Yahya proved to be a poor leader. Moreover,
he could not answer theological questions as his brother had
done. Would-be leaders fought for power, throwing the commu-
nity into turmoil.
Faithful Babis began searching for Baha’u’llah. Finally they
found him in his mountain hideaway and persuaded him to
return with them. By that time things were so bad that even
Mirza Yahya joined in calling for Baha’u’llah’s return. Baha’u’llah
returned to Baghdad in March 1856 and assumed control over
the Babi community there.
During the next seven years Babism experienced a rebirth.
Baha’u’llah’s reputation as a spiritual leader spread, and he
attracted many new followers. He composed the Kitab-i-Iqan, or
“Book of Certitude,” which describes God’s plan for humanity
and explains Baha’u’llah’s mission.
Baha’u’llah’s growing reputation did not please everyone.
Back in Persia the shah once again felt that his power and author-
ity were being threatened. He persuaded the government in
Baghdad to move Baha’u’llah and his group farther away from
the Persian border. This time they chose to move the group to
Constantinople, which is now Istanbul, Turkey.
ThE riDvan DECLaraTion
Before moving to Constantinople Baha’u’llah went to stay on an
island in the Tigris River. In a garden there, which he called the
Garden of Ridvan (Paradise), he gathered his closest followers
around him and told them of the revelation he had received in
prison. He was, he explained, “He Whom God Will Make Mani-
fest,” the divine messenger that the Bab and the scriptures of
other religions had promised. Today Baha’is worldwide celebrate

The sea gate where
Baha’u’llah and his
companions entered
Acre. On August 21, 1868,
Baha’u’llah, his family, and
his followers were rounded
up in Adrianople (now
Edirne) in western Turkey.
They were put on a boat to
be taken to prison in Acre,
Palestine (now Akko, Israel).
the Ridvan Festival, as it is called, for 12 days every year, from
April 21 to May 2.
For the time being, however, Baha’u’llah’s followers kept his
revelation a secret among themselves. The group arrived in Con-
stantinople in August, but they were not permitted to stay long.
Constantinople was the capital of the Ottoman Empire, which
was experiencing unrest. Playing on the fears of the Ottoman rul-
ers, the Persian shah represented the Babis as a threat. He pressed
to have them moved again. Wanting no more trouble, the Turks
agreed. So in December 1863, Baha’u’llah, his family, and his
companions were sent to Adrianople (now Edirne) in European
Turkey, still farther from Persian borders.
a nEw rELigion arisEs
If the shah had hoped to silence Baha’u’llah, he failed. Visitors
from all over Persia continued to flock to wherever Baha’u’llah
settled. The widely scattered Babi followers knew that Baha’u’llah
had drawn the Baghdad community back together when it was
Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
on the verge of collapse. They turned to him as their spiritual
leader. Baha’u’llah decided that it was time to announce his rev-
elation to all the Babis.
Mirza Yahya was still the offi cial head of the Babi Faith.
Although he had wanted Baha’u’llah to come back to Bagh-
dad and help him out when things were bad, he had never fully
accepted his own loss of status. When the group moved to Adri-
anople, Mirza Yahya, still under the infl uence of Siyyid Muham-
mad, began plotting to get his power back. When this failed he
twice tried to have Baha’u’llah killed, but
the attempts failed.
Baha’u’llah in turn sent Mirza Yahya
an announcement in which he pressed
his claim to be He Whom God Will Make
Manifest and asked for Mirza Yahya’s sup-
port. Instead Mirza Yahya claimed that he,
rather than Baha’u’llah, was the one whose
coming the Bab had promised. Instead of
the results Mirza Yahya wanted, however,
his announcement clarifi ed the differences
between him and his brother and showed
who was the true leader. Almost all the
Babis deserted Mirza Yahya and accepted
Baha’u’llah as the head of the faith.
The followers of Baha’u’llah now began
to describe themselves as Baha’is, and the
Baha’i Faith began to emerge as a separate
religion.
ThE ProCLaMaTion of Baha’u’LLah
The former followers of the Bab had
accepted Baha’u’llah as their unquestioned
leader. He now needed to establish himself
and the new religion on the world stage.
In 1867 he began writing letters to world
political and religious leaders. In these let-
Shoghi Effendi’s Summary of
Baha’u’llah’s Achievement
God’s new-born Faith, the cynosure of all
past Dispensations, had been fully and
unreservedly proclaimed. The prophecies
announcing its advent had been
remarkably fulﬁ lled. Its fundamental
laws and cardinal principles, the warp
and woof of the fabric of its future World
Order, had been clearly enunciated.
Its organic relation to, and its attitude
towards, the religious systems which
preceded it had been unmistakably
deﬁ ned. The primary institutions, within
which an embryonic World Order was
destined to mature, had been unassailably
established. The Covenant designed
to safeguard the unity and integrity of
its world-embracing system had been
irrevocably bequeathed to posterity. The
promise of the uniﬁ cation of the whole
human race, of the inauguration of the
Most Great Peace, of the unfoldment of a
world civilization, had been
incontestably given.
(In Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By.)

On their way to their
imprisonment in Acre,
Baha’u’llah and a group of
80 followers, including his
family, spent three nights
in Gallipoli on the Turkish
coast.
ters he proclaimed himself to be the One whose return had been
promised in the Torah, the New Testament, and the Quran.
Baha’u’llah told of the coming of a new world order. Its out-
come would be a world civilization that recognized the oneness
of the human race. “The earth,” he wrote, “is but one country,
and mankind its citizens.” He explained that governments were
meant to serve the causes of international peace, social justice,
and world unity. Governments that did not work for these goals
would bring disaster on themselves.
In many parts of the world Baha’u’llah’s letters had little effect.
However in Iran, where the shah felt insecure in his seat of power,
they set off a strong reaction. Mirza Yahya, still angry from his
loss of prestige and power in the Babi community, saw the let-
ters as a way to play on the shah’s fears. He and others such as
Siyyid Muhammad wrote letters accusing Baha’u’llah of trying to
overthrow the Ottoman government in Constantinople, which
was already weak from years of fighting. The Persian ambassador
Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
to Constantinople pointed to the letters as proof. He pointed to
the steady stream of visitors that Baha’u’llah attracted and hinted
that these people were conspiring against the shah. Finally the
ruler in Constantinople ordered that the group in Adrianople be
imprisoned in the fortress at Acre.
The interior of the prison in Acre (Akko) in which Baha’u’llah
and his family were kept.

On August 21, 1868, soldiers rounded
up Baha’u’llah and his family and follow-
ers, about 80 total, and put them on a boat
to Acre. After a miserable 10 days on a
stormy Mediterranean Sea they reached
land and were taken to prison under heavy
guard. Ironically one of those deported to
Acre along with Baha’u’llah was Siyyid
Muhammad, who had plotted against
him.
iMPrisonMEnT aT aCrE
The penal colony at Acre was a grim and
terrible place. It was a prison city where the
worst criminals from all over the Ottoman
Empire were sent. It lay on the shores of
the Mediterranean Sea and was constantly
awash in its tides. Its buildings were damp and crumbling; rot-
ting refuse washed into it. The offi cials who sent Baha’u’llah there
frankly hoped he would not survive. A number of the group did
die, including Baha’u’llah’s second son.
A small group of Babis remained loyal to Yahya and called
themselves Azalis. They continued to harass the Baha’is and
they tried to convince the Ottoman authorities that the Baha’is
were plotting against them. A group of angry Baha’is fi nally rose
up and killed their tormentors, an event that caused Baha’u’llah
great distress. He rejected all violence no matter what the cir-
cumstances. Its use by his followers brought him deep and long-
lasting grief.
ThE LasT yEars of Baha’u’LLah
By 1877 prison offi cials were no longer bothering to enforce the
orders that had kept the Baha’is behind bars. Baha’u’llah was free
to come and go. He moved to a mansion his followers bought
for him at Bahji, outside the city. There he lived quietly, writing,
meditating, and enjoying his gardens.
MosT hoLy BooK
I
n spite of the dreadful conditions
Baha’u’llah continued to preach good-
ness and to live according to his beliefs.
He lived in the Acre prison for nine years,
ﬁ rst inside the prison walls and then
under house arrest within the city of Acre.
Nevertheless he managed to establish
contact with the Baha’is in Iran. And it was
at this time that he also wrote one of the
great works of Baha’i scripture, the Kitab-
i-Aqdas, or Most Holy Book. Gradually his
profound goodness and faith began to
win over his jailers, and the prisoners’ situ-
ation improved.
Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
Baha’u’llah lived until 1892. He died
at the age of 74. For more than 40 years
of his life he had been a prisoner and an
exile from his home. Born to luxury and
wealth, he experienced poverty, hunger,
grief, injustice, and suffering fi rsthand. He
had been chained and beaten. He had even
watched his children die in the brutal con-
ditions of imprisonment. The religion that
began with him refl ects his deep identifi -
cation with the poor and the suffering of
the world.
During Baha’u’llah’s last years the
young Baha’i Faith continued to spread.
It now reached into Egypt, Russia, Turkey,
The entrance to the door of
the shrine where Baha’u’llah
is buried in Haifa, Israel.
A Subject of Devotion and Love
While living at Bahji Baha’u’llah
received visitors from the many
places to which the Baha’i Faith had
begun to spread. One visitor was an
English scholar, Edward Granville
Browne, whom Baha’u’llah
impressed deeply. Browne wrote:
No need to ask in whose presence I stood.
I bowed myself before the one who is
the object of a devotion and love which
kings might envy and emperors sigh for
in vain . . . Those piercing eyes seemed to
read one’s very soul; power and authority
sat on that ample brow; while the deep
lines on the forehead and face implied
an age which the jet-black hair and
beard ﬂ owing down in indistinguishable
luxuriance almost to the waist
seemed to belie . . .
(In Moojan Momen, A Short
Introduction to the Baha’i Faith.)

KEy DaTEs in ThE LifE
of Baha’u’LLah
1817 Born November 12
1844 Converts to Babism
1848 Attends conference at Badasht
1852 Imprisoned at Siyah-Chal; receives

revelation from God freed from

prison; banished to Baghdad
1854 Withdraws to the mountains
1856 Returns to Baghdad, takes control

of Babi community completes

Hidden Words
1862 Completes Kitab-i-Iqan

(“Book of Certitude”)
1863 Banished to Constantinople, makes

Ridvan Declaration; banished to

Adrianople (Edirne)
1868 Imprisoned in Acre (Akko)
1873 Completes Kitab-i-Aqdas

(“Most Holy Book”)
1877 Allowed to leave Acre
1879 Moves to Bahji
1892 Dies May 29
Baha’u’llah, Founder of the Baha’i Faith
Central Asia, and even India. It continued
to grow in Persia, its birthplace. In spite of
everything that governments and a pow-
erful clergy could throw at it—persecu-
tion, angry mobs, and offi cial injustice—it
would not be stamped out.
In his will Baha’u’llah named his oldest
surviving son, ‘Abdu’l-Baha, to be leader
of the faith after him. He also left instruc-
tions for taking the developing religion
into the 20th century, which was fast
approaching.

BAHA’I FAITH
THE BAHA’I
SCRIPTURES
CHAPTER 4
The International Baha’i Archives in Haifa, Israel
was built by Shoghi Effendi to house important
Baha’i relics and scriptures associated with the
lives of the Bab, Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
T
he Baha’i scriptures include the writings of the faith’s three
central figures: Baha’u’llah, his son ‘Abdu’l-Baha, and the Bab.
ThE wriTings of Baha’u’LLah
For Baha’i believers the writings of Baha’u’llah are the divine word
of God. Baha’u’llah’s books include Kalimat-i-Maknunih (which
means “The Hidden Words,” written around 1858); Kitab-i-Iqan,
(“The Book of Certitude,” 1862); and Kitab-i-Aqdas (“Most Holy
Book,” 1873). He also wrote many “tablets” or letters. He himself
estimated that a collection of his letters would make over 100 vol-
umes. All of these works and others convey Baha’u’llah’s message
and lay down rules for leading the Baha’i life.
One important source of scripture for the Baha’i Faith is
Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah. This is a collection of
Baha’ullah’s writings. It was compiled and translated into English
by his great-grandson, Shoghi Effendi. From the more than 15,000
tablets Baha’u’llah produced in his lifetime Shoghi Effendi chose
passages that he felt would show the spirit of Baha’i teachings.

The Baha’i Scriptures

BAHA’I FAITH
ThE TransLaTions
Shoghi Effendi was Baha’u’llah’s principal translator. He spoke
fl uent English as well as Persian and Arabic. After ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
death, Shoghi Effendi became Guardian of the Faith, as his grand-
father’s will stated. As Guardian, he was the only person with the
authority to interpret Baha’u’llah’s message.
It was Shoghi Effendi who set the style for the Baha’i scrip-
tures. He chose a formal and older style of writing as he believed
this style more closely refl ected the stately Persian and Arabic that
Baha’u’llah used. Shoghi Effendi also chose to use the word man-
kind to refer to all humanity and the masculine pronouns he and
him to refer to God. He may have done so because the masculine
form was considered the proper formal usage in written English
when he was writing. Baha’u’llah’s teachings specifi cally do not
attach any gender to the creator. Baha’i readers understand and
accept that words like men and mankind refer to all humanity, not
just men.
Shoghi Effendi’s translations into English are the highest
authority for interpreting Baha’u’llah’s writings. Translators use
them, not the original Persian or Arabic works, when they trans-
late Baha’u’llah’s writings into other languages.
ThE hiDDEn worDs
In the Kalimat-i-Maknunih, or Hidden
Words, Baha’u’llah restates the essen-
tial spiritual truths and ethical teachings
that founders of all world religions have
taught. The Hidden Words is quite short.
It has only 52 pages. There are two sec-
tions: Words from the Arabic, with 71
numbered passages, and Words from the
Persian, with 82 passages. Each passage
is only a few lines long. As in the scrip-
tures of other faiths, the passages take the
form of the voice of God speaking to the
reader.
ThE TEaChings of Baha’u’LLah
B
aha’u’llah’s message reaches the
whole world. His vision is of a global
religion that embraces all peoples of the
earth. All people, whatever their country
of origin, their race, or their ethnic back-
ground, are basically the same. Baha’u’llah
recognizes only one race—the human
race. He asks his followers to act in the
best interests of all humankind. There are
Baha’i communities on all continents and
the Baha’i scriptures have been translated
into 802 languages.

In the Arabic Hidden Words, God advises his children. “My
fi rst counsel is this: Possess a pure, kindly and radiant heart.” His
words urge believers to love him and only him. The words also
remind human beings of the great love God has for them.
The Persian Hidden Words carry a similar message. In this sec-
tion Baha’u’llah often uses metaphors of nature. He compares the
word of God to seeds of divine wisdom and asks believers to let
these words grow in their hearts. In this way beautiful fl owers of
knowledge and wisdom will grow in the hearts of humankind.
ThE BooK of CErTiTuDE
The Kitab-i-Iqan, or Book of Certitude, presents one of the most
important themes of Baha’u’llah’s teachings. This is the theme of
the progressive nature of religion. Many Baha’i scriptures enlarge
on this teaching. The book also deals with great religious ques-
tions such as the nature of God, the nature of humanity, and the
purpose of life.
REvElATion of god’s Will
According to the message of the Iqan there is one eternal God, the
creator. The essence of God is unknowable. However, through-
out time God has revealed God’s will and purpose for humanity
through a chosen individual or messenger. Each messenger has
founded a great religion. For example, through Abraham the Jews
came to understand the oneness of God. Moses revealed God’s
law in the Ten Commandments. Jesus taught the love of God
and the love of humankind. Each messen-
ger has perfectly refl ected the energy and
power of God that is God’s love.
A sHAREd PURPosE
According to Baha’u’llah every divine mes-
senger has come at a time that was right
for a particular point in history. Although
they have appeared in different times and
places, they had a shared purpose. Each
The Message
My ﬁ rst counsel is this: Possess a pure,
kindly and radiant heart, that thine may
be a sovereignty ancient, imperishable,
and everlasting.
(In Baha’u’llah, The Hidden Words of
Baha’u’llah, Part I, 1.)
The Baha’i Scriptures

BAHA’I FAITH
of these chosen leaders was right for his time and place and led
people to a new understanding of God’s will for humanity.
Many people have believed that the messenger of God will
return, yet each messenger of God has been rejected in his time.
All have undergone hardship and suffering. Baha’u’llah points out
that many prophets of God have had to suffer because of what
they preached. Jesus suffered and died on the cross. The prophet
Muhammad of Islam cried, “No prophet of God hath suffered
such harm as I have suffered.” To the messengers such as Moses,
Jesus, and Muhammad, Baha’u’llah adds the Bab, who died for his
teachings. Such persecutions have led people of their own time
to doubt that the messengers were from God. Yet throughout
history people believed that they were.
TimE foR A nEW mEssEngER
In the Iqan Baha’u’llah writes that 1,280
years have passed since the last messen-
ger, the prophet Muhammad, offered his
teachings. The time for a new messenger
has come. He sees in people a yearning for
the truth and the need for a new leader.
The spiritual aspects of the human rela-
tionship to God do not change. However,
the conditions of life change from age to
age. As time moves on God sends new
messengers with lessons that are appro-
priate to each new age. In this way religion
evolves, moving forward with time.
ThE MosT hoLy BooK
The Kitab-i-Aqdas is Baha’u’llah’s book of
holy law. He produced it during his prison
years in Acre, probably the darkest and
most diffi cult time of his life. For Baha’is
it is his most important work. The Aqdas
lays out the rules for building a new world
How the Words of Baha’u’llah
Were Recorded
From a contemporary account:
Mirza Aqa Jan [Baha’u’llah’s secretary]
had a large ink-pot the size of a small
bowl. He also had available about ten to
twelve pens and large sheets of paper in
stacks . . . He would bring [letters] into
the presence of Baha’u’llah and, having
obtained permission, would read them.
Afterwards [Baha’u’llah] would direct
him to take up his pen . . .
Such was the speed with which he used to
write the revealed Word that the ink of the
ﬁ rst word was scarcely yet dry when the
whole page was ﬁ nished. It seemed as if
someone had dipped a lock of hair in the
ink and applied it over the whole page . .
Then the letters were transcribed
and approved by Baha’u’llah.

In November 1992 more than 27,000 Baha’is from some 170 countries assembled in New York
City for the Second Baha’i World Congress. The Baha’i Faith that began in Iran in the middle of
the 19th century has now spread to 236 countries and territories throughout the world.
The Baha’i Scriptures

BAHA’I FAITH
order in which all humanity will come together under the law of
God. It names and describes the institutions that will make the
new world order possible. It is the guidebook for the future world
society that Baha’u’llah came to establish. The main part of the
Aqdas is only 190 paragraphs long, yet it covers many topics.
rELigious oBLigaTions
The Aqdas commands humanity to recognize Baha’u’llah as the
messenger of God for this time and to obey the laws that God
has given. The laws are designed to further the cause of bringing
together the whole world under the Baha’i Faith.
From earlier religions Baha’u’llah retains practices such as
fasting and prayer that serve a spiritual purpose. He provides
specifi c rules for prayer, including washing the hands and face
before praying, the times when prayers are to be said, and which
prayers are obligatory. He forbids congregational prayer, except
for the dead.
soCiaL Laws
Social laws cover marriage, divorce, and inheritance. The Aqdas
establishes the huququ’llah, the voluntary wealth tax that all Baha’is
pay to the faith. Baha’u’llah calls this tax “the Right of God.” It
supports the work of the faith.
Like the Ten Commandments of the Jewish Torah, the Aqdas
forbids killing, stealing, lying, and adultery.
In addition it prohibits arson, gambling,
alcoholic beverages, drug abuse, and gos-
sip; his followers are not permitted to talk
about people behind their backs. Other
prohibited activities are laziness, striking
or wounding anyone, and creating con-
fl ict. Baha’is are to repent of their sins, but
the mostly Christian practice of confes-
sion to another is prohibited. Baha’u’llah
says, “(L)et repentance be between your-
selves and God.”
The Baha’i Calendar
Baha’u’llah establishes the Baha’i
calendar and its holy days and makes
fasting obligatory during the 19-day
month before the New Year. However,
he creates exemptions from the
fast for people who are ill, children,
old people, pregnant and nursing
women, and those doing heavy labor.

Student assembly at the
City Montessori School in
India. The school teaches
the essential principles of
all religions to children from
preschool to college. The
school stresses academic
excellence, globalism, and
interfaith harmony.
ruLEs for Living ThE Baha’i LifE
The Aqdas exhorts believers to welcome followers of all religions
in fellowship. They are to honor their parents, to study and to
teach the faith, and not to wish for others what they would not
wish for themselves. Parents are to educate their children in read-
ing and writing and especially in the rules of the Baha’i Faith.
Each individual is to have a trade or a craft. People are to use
their skills in a way that will profit both themselves and others.
They are not to be lazy or idle. Work is considered a form of wor-
ship. Baha’is are to care for their health and to be personally clean.
They are to bathe regularly and to wear only clean clothes.
ThE insTiTuTions of ThE Baha’i faiTh
In the Aqdas Baha’u’llah also sets down practical rules for the
internal structure of the Baha’i Faith. He describes the establish-
ment of Houses of Justice in each city and a worldwide Universal
The Baha’i Scriptures

BAHA’I FAITH
House of Justice that would rule on mat-
ters of faith not specifi cally addressed in
Baha’i scriptures. He describes the institu-
tion of guardianship to lead the faith after
him. The Aqdas thus anticipated many of
the institutions that the young religion
would need as it grew and spread under
new leadership.
ThE MEssagE of ThE aqDas
The Aqdas is the guide for the new world
order that Baha’u’llah has come to estab-
lish: If humanity will follow its command-
ments the world will be united as one
country; war, famine, and suffering will
end; and peace will rule the earth. The
laws of the Aqdas are not Baha’u’llah’s
but God’s. Baha’u’llah calls these laws “the
Counsel of God”; they are God’s word,
God’s bounty, and God’s treasure for those
who will listen and take them to heart.
Baha’u’llah writes that the Aqdas is the
beginning of divine knowledge, the lamp
that will lead all the people of the human
race in the path of truth.
suPPLEMEnTary TEXTs
The Aqdas also includes supplementary materials that Baha’u’llah
revealed after the Aqdas was completed. The fi rst of these is the
Tablet of Ishraqat, which instructs Baha’is to obey the rulings
of the House of Justice and to act according to the rules in the
Aqdas. All are to come together, as God wishes, for “Ye are all the
leaves of one tree and the drops of one ocean.”
Also included are the texts of the Obligatory Prayers. These
are the Long Obligatory Prayer, the Medium Obligatory Prayer,
the Short Obligatory Prayer, and the Prayer for the Dead.
soME ruLEs for Living
ThE Baha’i LifE
To be truthful
To be trustworthy
To be faithful
To be righteous and fear God
To be just and fair
To be tactful and wise
To be courteous
To be hospitable
To be persevering
To be detached
To be absolutely submissive to

the will of God
Not to stir up mischief
Not to be hypocritical
Not to be proud
Not to be fanatical
Not to prefer one’s self to one’s neighbor
Not to contend with one’s neighbor
Not to indulge one’s passions
Not to lament in adversity
Not to contend with those in authority
Not to lose one’s temper
Not to anger one’s neighbor

Finally there is a section of questions
and answers. Here Baha’u’llah clarifi es fi ne
points of the laws in the Aqdas, so there
can be no misunderstandings or argu-
ments about interpreting their message.
ThE sEvEn vaLLEys
The Seven Valleys is an essay that trac-
es the journey of the soul toward the
Divine Being. The Seven Valleys reveals
Baha’u’llah’s mystical side. He wrote it fol-
lowing his two years alone in the moun-
tains. In this book Baha’u’llah quotes from
the Quran and also from the Sufi s, Per-
sian poets of the 13th century. Sufi s were
Islamic mystics who believed that they
could reach the presence of God directly through repeated medi-
tation and prayer.
In his essay Baha’u’llah traces the journey of the soul through
seven valleys. These are the Valleys of Search, Love, Knowledge,
Unity, Contentment, Wonderment, and fi nally the Valley of True
Poverty and Absolute Nothingness. This is the Valley of “dying
from self and living in God, of the being poor in self and rich in
the Desired One.” This is the goal and the end of the spiritual
journey. At last the seeker will see the Beloved. Having taken the
right path, the seeker fi nds peace.
ThE worKs of ‘aBDu’L-Baha
In addition to the works of Baha’u’llah, his son ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
writings are also an important and often cited part of the Baha’i
scriptures. More than 27,000 of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s letters survive.
Many of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s works explain and enlarge on Baha’u’llah’s
writings and echo his themes. “Man is, in reality, a spiritual being,
and only when he lives in the spirit is he truly happy,” he writes.
However many of his writings reveal focus on the Baha’i social
message.
The Mantle of a
Saintly Character
The purpose of the one true God in
manifesting Himself is to summon all
mankind to truthfulness and sincerity, to
piety and trustworthiness, to resignation
and submissiveness to the will of
God, to forbearance and kindliness, to
uprightness and wisdom. His object is
to array every man with the mantle of a
saintly character, and to adorn him with
the ornament of holy and goodly deeds.
(In Baha’u’llah, Gleanings from the
Writings of Baha’u’llah.)
The Baha’i Scriptures

BAHA’I FAITH
School of the Nations,
Macao, China. Baha’is run
or help fund schools open
to children of all races and
ethnic backgrounds. This
approach reflects the Baha’i
belief that humanity is
one race.
The Baha’i Faith teaches that all of God’s children are equal in
God’s sight. God does not favor one nation over another. There-
fore divisions that separate nations, races, and ethnic groups are
artificial barriers. They are nothing but superstition and tradi-
tion. They bring discord and hatred among people who must
learn that they are one.
Rather than racial and ethnic division Baha’is should be aware
of the beauty of diversity. They should think of humankind as
being like a beautiful garden full of flowers, trees, and shrubs.
Each flower has its own beauty, perfume, and color. Each tree is
different as well, with different leaves, flowers, and fruits. How-

Words into Action
One of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s themes is
that good ideas must be carried into
action. People all over the world
admire beautiful sayings and noble
thoughts, ‘Abdu’l-Baha says, but
few of these ideas get carried into
action. He goes on to say:
But Baha’is must not be thus; they must
rise above this condition. Actions must be
more to them than words. By their actions
they must be merciful and not merely by
their words.
Let your actions cry aloud to the world
that you are indeed Baha’is, for it is
actions that speak to the world and are
the cause of the progress of humanity.
ever they all come from the same earth.
They all share the same sun and rain.
EquaLiTy of woMEn
‘Abdu’l-Baha also champions the equal-
ity of the sexes; men and women are both
created by God, and “in the estimation
of God, there is no distinction as to male
and female.” The only thing that matters
is a pure heart. God judges people by their
actions, not by whether they are male or
female. Any differences in the capabilities
of women and men, says ‘Abdu’l-Baha,
are due entirely to a lack of opportunity
and education. Equality of women is nec-
essary and desirable for the progress of
humanity.
EConoMiC MaTTErs
‘Abdu’l-Baha writes that wealth and mate-
rial possessions are not the ways to happi-
ness. Economic policies that bring wealth
to one person or nation at the expense
of another harm everyone. The funda-
mentals of economics are ruled by divine
principles. They arise out of the hearts
and minds of people and are spiritual in
nature.
The Baha’i scriptures advocate volun-
tary sharing of wealth. People come closer
to God through voluntary good deeds.
The rich should help the poor of their
own free will because it is the right thing
to do, not because they are forced to do it.
Freely choosing to give to others leads to
the peace and comfort of society.
Racial Equality
Another of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s themes
is racial equality. He sees racial
prejudice as an illusion and a
superstition. It is the cause of
much discord and war. He calls on
Baha’is to reject all racial and ethnic
prejudice absolutely:
All men are servants of the One God.
One God reigns over all the nations of
the world and has pleasure in all His
children. All men are of one family; the
crown of humanity rests on the head of
every human being.
The Baha’i Scriptures

BAHA’I FAITH
Baha’i PrayEr for PEaCE
Be generous in prosperity, and thankful in adversity.
Be worthy of the trust of thy neighbor, and look upon him with a bright and friendly face.
Be a treasure to the poor, and admonisher to the rich,
an answerer of the cry of the needy, a preserver of the sanctity of thy pledge.
Be fair in thy judgment, and guarded in thy speech.
Be unjust to no man, and show all meekness to all men.
Be a lamp unto them that walk in darkness, a joy to the sorrowful, a sea for the thirsty,
a haven for the distressed, an upholder and defender of the victim of oppression.
Let integrity and uprightness distinguish all thine acts.
Be a home for the stranger, a balm to the suffering, a tower of strength for the fugitive.
Be eyes to the blind, a guiding light to the feet of the erring.
Be an ornament to the countenance of truth, a crown to the brow of ﬁ delity,
a pillar of the temple of righteousness, a breath of life to the body of mankind.
‘Abdu’l-Baha (in the center of the group), eldest son of Baha’u’llah, standing under the Eiff el Tower
on his visit to Paris in 1912. This was part of a journey lasting 28 months that ‘Abdu’l-Baba took
through the Western world, visiting communities and speaking about the Baha’i Faith.

wriTings of ThE BaB
Because Baha’is consider their religion to
have begun with the Bab, his writings too
are part of Baha’i scripture. His principal
work, the Bayan, is a book of holy laws. In
setting down these laws the Bab replaces
the laws in the Quran. His is clearly a new
revelation. The Bab offered new forms of
ritual prayer, fasting, and pilgrimage, as
well as new forms of tithing, or paying
part of one’s income to the faith. He also
created the 19-month solar calendar, later
adapted by Baha’u’llah.
Baha’u’llah based parts of the Aqdas on
the Bayan. Much of the Bab’s other work was destroyed during
the persecution of the Babis. However portions remain, particu-
larly prayers. These are included in Baha’i Prayers.
The Wings of a Bird
In his writings ‘Abdu’l-Baha
compares humankind to a bird:
The world of humanity has two wings—
one is women and the other men. Not
until both wings are equally developed
can the bird ﬂ y. Should one wing remain
weak, ﬂ ight is impossible. Not until
the world of women becomes equal to
the world of men in the acquisition of
virtues and perfections, can success and
prosperity be attained as they ought to be.
The Baha’i Scriptures

BAHA’I FAITH
THE SPREAD OF
THE BAHA’I FAITH
CHAPTER 5
A view of the mansion at Bahji outside the city of Acre (Akko)
where Baha’u’llah lived after the order to keep him in prison
was no longer enforced by officials. The Baha’i community has
spent many decades beautifying the buildings and grounds
where Baha’u’llah spent his final years.
F
rom the time Babism was reborn as the Baha’i Faith in 1863,
Baha’is actively taught people about the faith. Its leaders sent
out believers to spread the word. In its early years most of the
growth of the Baha’i Faith took place in Persia, or Iran, where the
faith began. However there were early followers in other coun-
tries as well. Parts of the Ottoman Empire, Russia, Egypt, India,
and Turkmenistan had Baha’i followers. By the 1880s, still with-
in Baha’u’llah’s lifetime, the religion had rebounded from a few
hundred Babi survivors to many thousands of followers.
ThE Baha’i faiTh in ThE oTToMan EMPirE anD EgyPT
Almost from its beginnings the Baha’i Faith had small groups
of followers in parts of the Ottoman Empire, such as Baghdad,
where Baha’u’llah spent part of his exile. There was also a com-
munity in Egypt. Mostly these communities were made up of
Persians who had moved out of Iran. These groups remained
small. They were constantly under threat of arrest and exile. So

The Spread of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
they did little to spread the faith. In the 1890s in Egypt, however,
some native Egyptians converted to the Baha’i Faith, creating a
small but devoted community.
BriTish inDia anD BurMa
By the 1870s there was a small network of Baha’is in northern
India. At first it was made up of Indians who had been educated
in Persia and had come into contact with the Baha’i Faith there.
Later the Baha’i teacher Sulayman Kahn traveled widely in the
area and the number of converts grew. He then moved to Burma
(present-day Myanmar) and established a community of Baha’is
in that country.
ThE Baha’i faiTh in russian TErriTory
The Baha’i Faith established itself early in the Russian territo-
ries that shared a border with Persia. The first was Azerbaijan.
Babism had taken root in the Persian-controlled area of Azer-
baijan when the Bab was in prison there. Beginning in the 1860s
the Babi groups became Baha’is. The religion spread outward
into the Russian territories in Azerbaijan and into Ashkhabad,
Turkmenistan. Persian immigrants added to its numbers. Then
in 1889 some Shii extremists planned and carried out an attack
against the Ashkhabad community. To the surprise of the Baha’is
the Russian authorities caught the extremists and put them on
trial. They were convicted and put in jail for their crime. This was
the first time in Baha’i history that a government had not tolerated
persecution directed at Baha’is. The Russian territories became a
popular place for Baha’i resettlement and the community grew.
True to their social mission the Baha’is in Ashkhabad estab-
lished schools, a public bath, a hostel (which offers inexpensive
rooms to travelers), a clinic, and a hospital. In 1907 they built the
first Baha’i house of worship. They were probably the first Baha’i
community to elect a council. In so doing they became the model
for Baha’i communities to come. The Turkmenistan community
flourished until the coming of the communists, who outlawed all
religious practice.

ThE Baha’i faiTh in iTs hoMELanD
Persia was the cradle of Babism and later of the Baha’i Faith.
From the 1880s on more and more people there began joining
the Baha’i Faith. Many of these new converts were prominent in
society. They included Muslim clergy, government offi cials, and
even members of the royal family. They also included members
of the Jewish and Zoroastrian faiths. Around this time the reli-
gion began to encourage women to become active participants.
Wives and daughters joined husbands and fathers. Families began
to bring up their children as Baha’is.
From prison in Acre Baha’u’llah kept up a lively correspon-
dence with his followers. To help in administering the grow-
ing faith he named four leading Baha’is “Hands of the Cause of
God.” They helped to organize what was becoming an important
national movement.
Baha’is in Persia still suffered persecution at the hands of the
Muslim clergy and the Persian government. However they fol-
lowed Baha’u’llah’s teachings and deliberately did not fi ght back.
Baha’u’llah urged his followers to avoid politics but to be loyal
citizens of their country. Their steadfast-
ness in the face of persecution won them
sympathy and more converts.
‘aBDu’L-Baha
When Baha’u’llah died in 1892 his eldest
son, ‘Abdu’l-Baha, became the head of
the Baha’i Faith. ‘Abdu’l-Baha was born
in 1844, the same year the Bab declared
his mission. His birth name was Abbas
Effendi, but early in life he took the name
‘Abdu’l-Baha, meaning “Servant of Baha.”
From an early age he worked as his
father’s assistant. As a young man in
Adrianople (Edirne) he was responsible
for Baha’u’llah’s large household, which
included not only his mother and sister
The Secret of Divine
Civilization
When Baha’u’llah moved out of
Acre ‘Abdu’l-Baha stayed behind. He
attended the local mosque, gave to
the poor, and prayed regularly. He
fi tted in well with the local Muslim
society. However he was constantly
thinking about the faith and how
it might develop in the future. In
1875 he wrote The Secret of Divine
Civilization, which discussed the
modernizing of Iran. In 1886 he
wrote A Traveler’s Narrative, a short
history of the Baha’i Faith.
The Spread of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
A photograph of ‘Abdu’l-Baha as a young man. Like his father before him, ‘Abdu’l-Baha never
attended school. However he read widely and the Ottoman leaders in Acre respected his
scholarship. He married the daughter of a Baha’i merchant in 1873. Together they had seven
children, of whom four daughters survived to adulthood. Against the usual Muslim tradition
of the time of taking a number of wives, Baha’u’llah had stated that taking only one wife was
preferred. Under ‘Abdu’l-Baha monogamy became the Baha’i standard.

but also his three half brothers and two half sisters, as well as dis-
ciples and other family members. He also served as one of his
father’s secretaries. His father came to rely heavily on him and
referred to him as “the Master.”
DiffiCuLTiEs of suCCEssion
Most Baha’is accepted ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s authority without question.
However, he immediately faced problems within his own family.
His half brother Muhammad-Ali felt that he himself should have
been named leader. In a move that echoed the actions of Mirza
Yahya against Baha’u’llah years earlier, he began a campaign to
discredit his older brother.
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s sister, wife, and daughters remained loyal to
him, along with an uncle and the uncle’s family. However other
members of the family sided with Muhammad-Ali. The family
infighting did little damage to the loyalty of most followers but it
drew the attention of the Turkish authorities to the Baha’is. They
reinstated the order of confinement and ‘Abdu’l-Baha was once
again a prisoner in Acre.
Muhammad-Ali’s opposition—which moved from initial
acceptance of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s leadership, through obstruction,
to outright rejection of his authority—only made ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
own position clearer. ‘Abdu’l-Baha continued with the idea that
Baha’i followers should remain loyal to the sacred covenant, or
agreement, that protected Baha’i unity. This covenant required
them to be obedient to their appointed leaders. He denounced
Muhammad-Ali and his family as “covenant-breakers” for their
disloyalty and ousted them from the faith.
The Baha’i Faith has weathered a number of attempts by indi-
viduals to usurp the leadership of the faith, all of which have
failed. The Baha’i Faith remains to this day an undivided faith,
unlike so many other religions.
ThE Baha’i faiTh sPrEaDs To ThE wEsT
Americans first heard of Baha’u’llah at the Parliament of the
World’s Religions, a world religion conference held in Chicago in
The Spread of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
1893. At about the same time a Syrian merchant named Ibrahim
Kheiralla immigrated to the United States. A recent convert to
the Baha’i Faith, he offered classes in the Baha’i Faith for anyone
who was interested. By 1894 a small Baha’i group organized in
Chicago, and the group grew quickly.
One early American convert was Phoebe Randolph Hearst,
mother of the millionaire publisher William Randolph Hearst. In
1898 she gathered a group of Baha’i pilgrims, including Kheiralla,
and they traveled to Acre to meet ‘Abdu’l-Baha.
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s personality had a great impact on the Ameri-
cans. His brilliant mind, his charm, and his spiritual understand-
ing led them to compare him to Jesus Christ of Christianity. Mrs.
Hearst in particular thought that ‘Abdu’l-Baha might be the Mes-
siah. ‘Abdu’l-Baha denied this. “No name, no title, no mention,
no commendation have I, nor will ever have, except ‘Abdu’l-
Baha. This is my greatest yearning. This is my eternal life. This is
my everlasting glory.”
The Hearst party returned to America full of excitement.
Their joy and enthusiasm were contagious. In the next few years
a steady stream of visitors poured into Acre. By 1900 there were
more Baha’i groups, probably numbering around 1,500 people in
all, in the West, with groups located in the United States, Canada,
Paris, France, and London, England.
ThE LEaDErshiP of ‘aBDu’L-Baha
From Acre ‘Abdu’l-Baha continued to direct the faith by letters
and through followers across the region. He was an inspired lead-
er. He spoke with great authority about the spiritual and theo-
logical aspects of the religion, and his words drew many people
to him. He also had a gift for organization. He worked to cre-
ate the internal structure that would govern the Baha’i Faith. He
encouraged Baha’is in different parts of the world to elect local
councils.
In 1908 a revolution freed all political prisoners of the Otto-
man Empire. ‘Abdu’l-Baha was free to leave Acre. He first went to
Haifa, where he oversaw the burial of the Bab’s remains in a shrine

The Spread of the Baha’i Faith
The Shrine of the Bab on the slopes of Mount Carmel, Israel,
set among the terraced gardens and completed in 2001.

BAHA’I FAITH
on the slope of Mount Carmel. This was the place Baha’u’llah
himself had chosen. It was also the place where the world center
of the faith would be established.
‘Abdu’l-Baha was in his 60s and his health was not good. How-
ever for the first time since his childhood he was not a prisoner.
Finally able to travel freely, he began his active ministry. Under
his leadership the faith grew and spread and many of its doctrines
became established.
‘Abdu’l-Baha also wrote his will. It would not be made pub-
lic until after his death, but it was the blueprint for the growth
and spread of the Baha’i Faith. In it he appointed his grandson,
Shoghi Effendi, to be the Guardian of the Faith after him. Shoghi
Effendi was then only a child. However in him ‘Abdu’l-Baha saw
the future of the young religion.
‘aBDu’L-Baha’s TravELs
‘Abdu’l-Baha left Palestine in 1910 bound for Egypt. He was still
suffering the effects of his long imprisonment. He stayed in Egypt
for several months, resting and recuperating. Then in August
1911 he sailed for France. This was the beginning of a journey that
took him throughout the Western world. In the next 28 months,
he visited London, England; Paris, France; Stuttgart, Germany;
and other European towns and cities as well. Then he sailed for
North America.
‘Abdu’l-Baha arrived in New York City on April 11, 1912. He
traveled the country from coast to coast, visiting more than 40
cities and towns. In Wilmette, Illinois, he laid the cornerstone for
the first Baha’i temple in North America. He visited Eliot, Maine,
where the Baha’i Faith was presented at the Green Acre retreat.
He traveled to Canada and spent time in Montreal.
A nEW WAvE of BAHA’i BEliEvERs
American and European newspapers gave ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s trav-
els wide coverage. ‘Abdu’l-Baha spoke in churches, universities,
peace societies, union halls, and living rooms. It was the first time
many Westerners had heard of the Baha’i Faith. For the young

Baha’i communities in Europe, Canada, and the United States it
was a wonderful opportunity to meet their leader, listen to his
words, and deepen their understanding of both the spiritual and
social aspects of the faith. By the end of his tour there was a whole
new wave of Baha’i believers.
imPACT of THE AmERiCAn CommUniTy
The American Baha’i community, small as it was, had a great
impact on the growth of the faith. The group moved to trans-
late Baha’i literature into English. They wrote brochures explain-
ing the faith directed at Christian readers. They began to set up
local councils and to plan for a yearly national convention. Some
members traveled to Persia to help with medical and educational
work. Others became missionary teachers. They visited existing
communities in such places as Hawaii and Germany. In the next
few years they visited Japan, Australia, and Brazil, and established
communities there.
The Spread of the Baha’i Faith
On his visit to the United
States in 1912, ‘Abdu’l-Baha
atrracted Baha’i followers
and their families to
meetings, discussions, and
social gatherings.

BAHA’I FAITH
RETURn To HAifA
‘Abdu’l-Baha returned to Haifa shortly before the beginning of
World War I (1914–18), after more than two years of constant
travel. The world situation soon made travel impossible. He
turned again to writing letters to his followers. He wrote the
Tablets of the Divine Plan (1917–18) to Baha’is in North America.
In these letters, he urged his followers to begin a campaign to
spread the faith not only in the United States and Canada, but
also throughout the world.
‘aBDu’L-Baha’s finaL yEars
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s travels had made him a world figure. He was recog-
nized as the leader of an important religious movement. Follow-
ing the war he was able to use his influence to help Palestine when
it faced a famine. The British, who had recently taken control of
Palestine, made him a knight of the British Empire in 1920.
‘Abdu’l-Baha died on November 28, 1921. His funeral brought
together an estimated 10,000 people. They included representa-
tives from the Muslim, Roman Catholic, Greek Orthodox, and
Jewish communities of Palestine; also in attendance were the
British high commissioner and the governor of Jerusalem. In the
13 years between the end of his confinement as a political pris-
oner in Acre and his death, he had given the Baha’i Faith world
recognition. He had clarified its goals, both spiritual and social.
And he had given it an organizational structure that would carry
it into the next phase of its existence.
sHogHi EffEndi
The terms of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s will, which made his grandson
Shoghi Effendi the Guardian of the Faith after him, were clear.
It named Shoghi Effendi the “sign of God” on earth and directed
Baha’is to be obedient to his direction.
Shoghi Effendi Rabbani was born in 1897. He was the son of
‘Abdu’l-Baha’s daughter and the oldest of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s 13 grand-
children. As a teenager he spent his summers as his grandfather’s
assistant. He graduated from college in Beirut, Lebanon, in 1918

DirECTing ThE Baha’i faiTh
F
or the last years of his life, ‘Abdu’l-Baha
lived in Haifa, directing the work of the
Baha’i Faith and corresponding with Baha’i
faithful. The faith was now established in
many countries around the world and its fol-
lowers numbered around 100,000. An active
student of world aﬀ airs, he warned that the
peace accords that had ended World War
I would not end conﬂ ict, and that the Bal-
kan nations would continue to be unstable.
Many of his predictions proved to be true. He
insisted, however, that they were not divine
revelation but simply rational thinking.
‘Adbu’l-Baha returning to his home on Haparsim Street in
Haifa, Israel.
The Spread of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
and became his grandfather’s chief secretary. In 1920 he went to
study at Oxford University in England. He wanted to improve
his English so that he could translate Baha’i scriptures. He was at
Oxford when his grandfather died.
sHogHi EffEndi AssUmEs lEAdERsHiP
Shoghi Effendi was 24 years old when he became leader of the
Baha’i Faith. Most Baha’is accepted him gladly as his grandfa-
ther’s true heir. The young man faced a huge task. ‘Abdu’l-Baha
had grown old serving the religion. He had seemed like a father to
his followers. Shoghi Effendi was young with modern ideas and a
Western education. His leadership would be quite different.
It took several years for Shoghi Effendi to take control of his
many new duties. At fi rst he worked day and night, almost to the
verge of collapse. Over the course of his 36 years as Guardian he
sent more than 17,500 letters. He kept up with the progress of all
the existing Baha’i communities. The situation in the Middle East,
where the religion was still under attack, required his response.
During this time he translated a great many of Baha’u’llah’s writ-
ings into English.
A ClEAR vision foR THE fAiTH
Shoghi Effendi had a clear vision for
the progression of the faith.  They were
handed down to him from ‘Abdu’l-Baha
and founded upon the original writings
of Baha’u’llah, especially in the Kitab-
i-Aqdas. Two aspects of his leadership
were especially important to him in this
context. From the beginning of his time
as its leader he focused on developing its
administration and on spreading the faith
worldwide.
Shoghi Effendi dedicated his life almost
entirely to achieving the goals he had been
given for the Baha’i Faith. Unlike his grand-
ThE sCriPTuraL Canon
O
ne of Shoghi Eﬀ endi’s greatest con-
tributions to the faith was his inter-
pretation and translation of the works of
Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-Baha. His grandfa-
ther’s will had named him the sole author-
ity for interpreting Baha’i works. Shoghi
Eﬀ endi was ﬂ uent in Persian and Arabic as
well as English. His ability to translate the
scriptures into English was a major factor
in the growth of the American Baha’i com-
munity. Over the years of his guardianship
he was the principal translator of most
of the Baha’i scriptures. He also wrote an
important history of the ﬁ rst 100 years of
the Baha’i Faith, God Passes By.

Shoghi Eff endi became leader
of the Baha’i Faith at the age of
24. He worked for 36 years as
Guardian until his unexpected
death in London in 1957.
The Spread of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
father he did not attend the local mosque. He sent representatives
to local affairs rather than going himself. Also unlike his grandfa-
ther he did not visit Baha’i communities in other countries. In his
many letters he referred to his position as Guardian rather than
to himself personally.
THE AdminisTRATivE PlAn
Among Shoghi Effendi’s many accomplishments as Guardian
was his development of a systematic administration based upon
the writings of both Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-Baha. The faith had
grown too large to be administered by just one person or even
one group. He therefore introduced an organizational system. To
aid the spiritual assemblies that made up the faith he introduced
requirements for voting, membership rolls, and national centers
to administer such matters as translating and publishing. A better
network of Baha’i communities emerged.
Shoghi Effendi created an International Baha’i Council to help
him in his work. He extended the Hands of the Cause of God by
adding a group of devoted believers to this directing council.
Their job was to help the national spiritual assemblies achieve
their goals and to advance and protect the faith. Finally he estab-
lished support boards to assist the Hands.
THE TEACHing PlAn
Once the assemblies were functioning smoothly Shoghi Effen-
di turned his attention to teaching. This was to be the princi-
pal means for spreading the faith around the world. Under his
direction a seven-year plan (1937–44) was produced. It called on
Baha’is to settle in all the American states, Canadian provinces,
and Latin American countries where there were no Baha’is. The
Baha’is who undertook this challenge were known as “pioneers.”
American Baha’is were also to work toward finishing the Baha’i
temple at Wilmette, Illinois (near Chicago).
A second seven-year plan (1946–53) directed Baha’is in North
America to continue their work in the Americas. They were also
to help Europe recover after World War II (1939–45) and to re-

‘Abdu’l-Baha laid the cornerstone for the house of worship in
Wilmette, Illinois, in 1912 during his visit to America. It was
the first Baha’i temple built in the West.
The Spread of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
establish the faith there. Other national assemblies received
attainment targets as well.
In 1953 Shoghi Effendi launched a 10-year global crusade. Its
purpose was to establish the faith throughout the world in all the
countries where it was not yet established.
ThE Baha’i worLD CEnTEr anD shoghi EffEnDi’s LEgaCy
Under Shoghi Effendi the Baha’i World Center in Haifa, Israel,
became a reality. First he purchased the mansion at Bahji, near
Akko (formerly Acre), where Baha’u’llah had lived at the end of
his life. Later he purchased more land and created gardens. He
did the same with land around the Shrine of the Bab and directed
the erection of a golden-domed building over the shrine. Shoghi
Effendi saw to the construction of an international archives build-
ing nearby. In it are kept Baha’i scriptures and relics. He approved
a master plan for the development of a center that would even-
tually be a complex of buildings, gardens,
and shrines. It would be the place that
Baha’is from all over the world could iden-
tify as the center of their religion.
THE HAnds of THE CAUsE of god
In 1957 Shoghi Effendi died unexpectedly
of natural causes in London. He had not left
a will. ‘Abdu’l-Baha had obviously meant
the institution of Guardian to be handed
down within the family, but Shoghi Effen-
di and his wife had no children. He had
not named a successor. There would be no
more guardians. Nor had he left specific
instructions for the direction of the faith
after his death. The 10-year plan was only
half completed. Shoghi Effendi’s death was
a serious loss to Baha’is worldwide.
Shortly before his death, however,
Shoghi Effendi had named the Hands of
Shoghi Effendi died in
London in 1957 and is
buried there in the Great
Northern Cemetery.
According to Baha’i laws
Baha’is are buried within
one hour’s traveling of the
place where they died.

the Cause of God “Chief Stewards” of the faith. He had given
them the authority to see that plans for the future were carried
out. They therefore took on the responsibility of carrying the
faith forward.
Under their stewardship the faith continued to grow and
spread, and Shoghi Effendi’s blueprint for a global religion took
on substance. The 10-year plan moved forward on schedule,
eventually achieving its goals. The Hands of the Cause of God
also took steps toward establishing the Universal House of Jus-
tice, to which they handed over their authority in 1963.
ConTinUEd gRoWTH
Shoghi Effendi worked all his life to spread the faith throughout
the world. To a large extent he succeeded. The plans he initiated
exceeded their goals. In 1935, before the first plan, there were
139 spiritual assemblies worldwide and Baha’is lived in 1,034
localities. By 1953 those numbers had increased to 670 spiritual
assemblies and 2,700 localities.
Shoghi Effendi did not live to see the completion of his 10-year
crusade. However his plan vastly increased the Baha’i Faith’s geo-
graphical presence in the world. By 1963 Baha’i had 4,437 spiritual
assemblies and was established in 14,437 localities. The number
of national assemblies increased from 10 in 1935 to 56 in 1963.
During Shoghi Effendi’s time as Guardian the number of people
professing the Baha’i Faith had reached more than 400,000. In the
next half century it would grow even more.
The Spread of the Baha’i Faith

BAHA’I FAITH
The establishment of the Baha’i World Center was the
‘Fulfillment of the Tablet of Carmel’. The building of the
Center confirmed Baha’u’llah’s vision for the slopes of
Mount Carmel in Haifa, Israel.
BAHA’I BELIEF
AND WORSHIP
CHAPTER 6
B
aha’i worship has few formal structures. There are no priests,
ministers, mullahs, or rabbis. There is no liturgy and there
are no rituals. As in most other areas of the religion a great deal
is left up to the individual. Baha’is guide themselves along the
path that leads them to spiritual truth. The whole of Baha’i life is
a spiritual quest.
ThE sPiriTuaL JournEy
Baha’u’llah writes that all creation reflects divine attributes. Yet of
all creation, human beings are particularly special. Only humans
can reflect all of the attributes of God. “Alone of all created
things, man hath been singled out for so great a favor, so endur-
ing a bounty,” says Baha’u’llah. Human lives have two aspects,
he says—the material or animal side, and the spiritual side; what
makes a person truly human is his or her spiritual nature.
According to Baha’u’llah people cannot find true happiness
in worldly things: “The world is but a show, vain and empty, a
mere nothing, bearing the semblance of reality.” He tells his fol-
lowers that instead of grasping at material things they must try to

Baha’i Belief and Worship

BAHA’I FAITH
form the divine power within them. At the
same time people are not to deny them-
selves the good things of the world in the
name of religion. The goal is moderation
and thankfulness, not extreme self-denial.
DivinE aTTriBuTEs
Certain attributes give humans spiritual
power. According to Baha’u’llah these
include justice, love, trustworthiness and
truthfulness, purity and chastity, actions,
and service to others. People who seek to
develop these qualities within themselves
are following a spiritual path.
JUsTiCE And lovE
Baha’u’llah particularly stresses the impor-
tance of justice. Baha’is must always be fair
in their treatment of others and respect
the rights of all. They should also show the
same consideration to themselves. “Be fair
to yourselves and to others, that the evi-
dences of justice may be revealed, through
your deeds, among Our faithful servants,”
he says.
TRUE sPiRiTUAl lovE
Love is also very important. ‘Abdu’l-Baha
points out that there are many kinds of
love: love of family, of country, of insti-
tutions, of one’s own race. However, all
of these are imperfect. In loving their
own country, for example, some people
may fi nd fault with other countries. True
spiritual love is universal and unlimited. It
reaches out to everyone. Baha’u’llah also
God’s Wondrous Bounties
In Gleanings Baha’u’llah writes:
Should a man wish to adorn himself
with the ornaments of the earth, to wear
its apparels, or partake of the beneﬁ ts it
can bestow, no harm can befall him, if he
alloweth nothing whatever to intervene
between him and God, for God hath
ordained every good thing, whether
created in the heavens or in the earth, for
such of his servants as truly believe in
Him. Eat ye, O people, of the good things
which God hath allowed you, and deprive
not yourself from his wondrous bounties.
Render thanks and praise unto him, and
be of them that are truly thankful.
Best Beloved of All Things
The best beloved of all things in My sight
is Justice; turn not away there from if
thou desirest Me, and neglect it not that I
may conﬁ de in thee. By its aid thou shalt
see with thine own eyes and not through
the eyes of others, and shalt know of
thine own knowledge and not through
the knowledge of thy neighbor. Ponder
this in thy heart: how it behooveth thee to
be. Verily [truly] justice is my gift to thee
and the sign of my loving-kindness. Set it
then before thine eyes.
(In Baha’u’llah, Hidden Words, 2.)

Baha’is in Zambia singing
and clapping during a
period of devotion before
their study circle begins
in the home of a local
community member.
praises other qualities that grow out of love for humanity. These
qualities include kindness, friendliness, compassion, consider-
ation, patience, and generosity.
TRUsTWoRTHinEss
According to Baha’i scripture trustworthiness is the basis of all
human interaction. Without trustworthiness people cannot tru-
ly conduct the business of life. Prosperity is built on trust. Along
with this goes truthfulness, which ‘Abdu’l-Baha calls “the foun-
Baha’i Belief and Worship

BAHA’I FAITH
dation of all human virtues.” A truthful person is always sincere
and deals honestly with others.
PURiTy And CHAsTiTy
Purity and chastity are required of all Baha’is. However, they are
warned not to become puritanical or self-denying. They should
strive for moderation in matters of dress, language, and amuse-
ments. They should be modest, pure, and temperate, and should
keep their thoughts pure. They are to be chaste, but not to an
extreme. And they should develop healthy lifestyles: Baha’is are
discouraged from smoking, and are forbidden to use alcohol or
mind-altering drugs unless prescribed by a physician for a medi-
cal condition.
WoRK And sERviCE
“Let deeds, not words, be your adorning,” Baha’u’llah writes. “The
essence of faith is fewness of words and abundance of deeds.”
One way that Baha’is show their faith is in service to others.
Baha’is donate their time to teaching or community projects. In
the Baha’i Faith it is a duty to have a trade or profession. Baha’is
are asked to use their skills to enrich both their own lives and
the lives of those around them. Work is a
form of worship.
Baha’i Laws anD oBLigaTions
To Baha’is discipline is an essential and
integral part of reaching any goal, and
spiritual progress requires spiritual disci-
pline at all times. Baha’u’llah offered his
followers a number of laws to help them
work toward unity and harmony. Among
these laws are social laws, such as the laws
for marriage, and obligations for achiev-
ing spiritual growth. These include prayer,
reading of scriptures, meditation, and
fasting.
shorT oBLigaTory PrayEr
T
here are three obligatory prayers. A
Baha’i may choose any one of them.
The Short Obligatory Prayer is one such
prayer; it is to be said sometime between
noon and sunset:
I bear witness, O my God, that Thou has
created me to know Thee and to worship
Thee. I testify, at this moment, to my
powerlessness and to Thy might, to my
poverty and to Thy wealth.
There is none other God but Thee, the
Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.

PRAyER
Prayer is one of the most important obligations of a Baha’i. Every
Baha’i is expected to pray daily and to meditate. Baha’is may cre-
ate their own prayers, or they may use any of the many prayers
written by the Bab, Baha’u’llah, and ‘Abdu’l-Baha, which have
been translated into many languages. The only requirement
is that one of the daily prayers must come from the obligatory
prayers of Baha’u’llah.
mUsiC, sCRiPTURE, And mEdiTATion
Prayers may be spoken, chanted, or sung. Baha’u’llah approved of
music, and according to ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “The art of music is divine
and effective. It is the food of the soul and spirit.” Baha’i hymns are
words from the scriptures set to music.Baha’u’llah also instructs
his followers to read scripture and to meditate. This duty requires
them to read from the scriptures twice a day, morning and eve-
ning, and to think about the essential meaning. The act of medi-
tating helps to turn the individual’s mind away from the world
and toward spiritual things. According to ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “When
you meditate you are speaking with your own spirit. In that state
of mind you put certain questions to your spirit and the spirit
answers: the light breaks forth and the reality is revealed.”
fAsTing
Another Baha’i obligation is fasting. During the Baha’i month of
Ala, from March 2 to March 20, Baha’is fast from sunrise to sun-
set, as Muslims do during the holy month of Ramadan. This is
a time of spiritual preparation for the New Year, which begins
on March 21. According to Shoghi Effendi the fast is a period of
meditation and prayer that leads to spiritual renewal. The Baha’i
fast symbolizes their need to turn away from the materialistic
world and toward God.
MarriagE
In the Baha’i Faith marriage is recommended but not required.
According to ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “Baha’i marriage is the commit-
Baha’i Belief and Worship

BAHA’I FAITH
Loving Companions
and Comrades
The Baha’i Faith requires that both
the man and the woman consent
freely to the marriage and that they
have each obtained the consent of
their respective parents. ‘Abdu’l-
Baha emphasizes the importance
of the couple’s knowing each other
well. They should “exercise the
utmost care to become thoroughly
acquainted with the character of the
other . . . Their purpose must be this:
to become loving companions and
comrades and at one with each other
for time and eternity.”
Three newlywed couples having their wedding photos taken at the
entrance plaza of the Baha’i Terraces on Mount Carmel, Haifa.
ment of the two parties one to the other,
and their mutual attachment of mind and
heart.” The Baha’i Faith recognizes the
importance of the physical bond of mar-
riage but stresses that the spiritual side is
more important. Since the time of ‘Abdu’l-
Baha’s leadership, monogamy between
a man and a woman is the only form of
marriage permitted. Baha’is consider the
institution of marriage to be God-given
and vital to society.
The marriage ceremony has no set
form. Couples may write their own ser-
vice. They may incorporate any local
customs they wish. The only set part of
the ceremony is that they must exchange
a vow before witnesses. That vow is, “We

will all, verily, abide by the Will of God.” Divorce is strongly dis-
couraged. However, it may be permitted as a last resort after a
year of separation and attempts to reconcile. If the couple still
cannot agree, permission to divorce is granted.
faMiLy LifE anD ChiLDrEn
Baha’is place great importance on family. The family is the source
of spiritual growth for the individual. It is also the foundation
of society. The family provides a spiri-
tual atmosphere for children to grow and
learn. The education of children is central
to Baha’i belief.
The Baha’i Faith teaches that the most
important social function of marriage is
that of raising children. Parents are to cre-
ate an atmosphere of love and harmony
in their home. In such an atmosphere
all members of the family can fl ourish.
Parents must set the example for their
children. They must be truthful, free of
prejudice, and just. In their relationship
with each other they must demonstrate
the equality of men and women.
THREE Kinds of EdUCATion
Baha’is recognize three kinds of educa-
tion. Physical education provides the skills
that enable people to survive. Education
in reading and writing, arts and sciences,
allows people to participate in the world
and to enjoy the benefi ts of knowledge.
Spiritual education and respect for all liv-
ing things makes individuals complete
human beings.
Education of children is a religious duty
in the Baha’i Faith. Education begins at,
Children’s Prayer
O God! Educate these children. These
children are the plants of Thine orchard,
the ﬂ owers of Thy meadow, the roses of
Thy garden. Let Thy rain fall upon them;
let the Sun of Reality shine upon them
with Thy love. Let Thy breeze refresh them
in order that they may be trained, grow
and develop, and appear in the utmost
beauty. Thou art the Giver. Thou
art the Compassionate.
(In ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Baha’i Prayers.)
Kindness to Animals
The physical sensibilities and instincts are
common to animal and man . . . the poor
animals cannot speak . . . therefore one
must be very considerate toward animals
and show greater kindness towards them
than to man. Educate the children in
their infancy in such a way that they may
become increasingly kind and merciful to
the animals.
(In ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Tablets
of ‘Abdu’l-Baha.)
Baha’i Belief and Worship

BAHA’I FAITH
A moral education class for
children in a Baha’i school
in Columbia. Baha’i children
learn about the meaning
and teachings of their faith
from an early age.
or even before, birth, as parents prepare themselves to bring up
their children according to Baha’i teachings. A child’s early years
are the most important in developing good character. “While the
branch is green and tender, it can easily be made straight,” writes
‘Abdu’l-Baha. When children are old enough, they should go to
school. Baha’i writings stress the importance of educating girls,
because they will be the first teachers of the next generation.
gRoWing sTRong in fAiTH
‘Abdu’l-Baha says that parents must tend their children as a gar-
dener tends tender young plants, seeing that they grow strong
in faith. Parents should applaud and praise their good deeds and
qualities, and dispense discipline if necessary.  However, pun-

ishment is to be based on reason. It is never permitted to strike
or belittle a child, as these actions damage the child’s character.
Children are the future and hope of the world. They must always
be treated with respect and dignity.
ThE CovEnanT
The Baha’i Faith does not ask its members to follow any specific
creed or doctrine. Every Baha’i is free to understand the scriptures
for him- or herself. However all Baha’is live by a single unifying
principle. This is the covenant, or Baha’i spiritual agreement.
The covenant is the unifying force that holds the Baha’i Faith
together. “The power of the Covenant will protect the Cause of
Baha’u’llah from the doubts of the people of error,” wrote ‘Abdu’l-
Baha. “It is the fortified fortress of the cause of God and the firm
pillar of the religion of God. Today no power can conserve the
oneness of the Baha’i world save the Covenant of God.”
The covenant leaves each follower of the Baha’i Faith free to
interpret the scriptures. At the same time it prohibits any individ-
ual from claiming that his or her interpretation is the only cor-
rect one. Only the writings of Baha’u’llah and the interpretations
of ‘Abdu’l-Baha and Shoghi Effendi are authoritative.
People become Baha’is by agreeing to abide by the covenant.
There is no conversion ceremony for those joining from another
faith, and no other requirement. Similarly there is no confirma-
tion ceremony. When young people reach the age of 15, which
is considered the age of consent, they may choose to join the fel-
lowship. They simply agree to abide by Baha’i laws and are admit-
ted to the community.
DEaTh anD BuriaL
In the Baha’i Faith death marks the point at which the soul passes
to the next world. As such, it is “the bearer of gladness” for the
believer, according to Baha’u’llah. There is no way to prove that
there is life after death. However, Baha’is believe that life does
not end with death; the soul is eternal. ‘Abdu’l-Baha writes, “To
consider that after the death of the body the spirit perishes is
Baha’i Belief and Worship

BAHA’I FAITH
Prayer of Intercession
for the Dead
O my God! Thou forgiver of sins,
bestower of gifts, dispeller of afﬂ ictions!
Verily, I beseech Thee to forgive the sins
of such as have abandoned the physical
garment and have ascended to the
spiritual world. O my Lord! Purify them
from trespasses, dispel their sorrows, and
change their darkness into light. Cause
them to enter the garden of happiness,
cleanse them with the most pure water,
and grant them to behold Thy splendors
on the loftiest mount.
(In ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Baha’i Prayers.)
like imagining that a bird in a cage will be
destroyed if the cage is broken, though the
bird has nothing to fear from the destruc-
tion of the cage.”
As the vessel that has housed the soul
during life, the body is treated with respect.
Funeral ceremonies are dignifi ed. There is
a specifi c prayer for funerals. Otherwise,
the ceremony may be as simple or elabo-
rate as the family wishes. Cremation is for-
bidden. Bodies are buried so that they may
naturally become part of the earth. Baha’i
laws require that Baha’is be buried within
an hour’s journey of the place of death.
The Baha’i Faith teaches that in this
world believers can help, in the next world,
those who have died by performing good
deeds in their name or through prayer.

Dr. Rodney Clarken (on the
left), a Baha’i and one of the
original signatories of the
Earth Keeper Covenant, helping
to collect “e-waste” from
offi  ces and homes. The Baha’i
community is committed to
environmental policies in their
training and programs.
Baha’i Belief and Worship

BAHA’I FAITH
MonThs of ThE Baha’i yEar
T
he Baha’i year begins with the spring equinox, March 21, which
was the traditional New Year’s Day in Iran. The months are
named after spiritual or divine qualities.
Each year has 19 months of 19 days. In order to bring the number
of days to 365, four additional days are inserted before the last month
of the year. These days are called Ayyam-i-Ha. Baha’is celebrate this
time by inviting others to their homes for Ayyam-i-Ha parties and by
giving gifts, visiting the sick, and performing community service.
ThE Baha’i CaLEnDar
All of the world’s calendars are associated in some way with reli-
gion. The calendar the secular world uses is actually the Christian
calendar, which begins with the birth of Jesus Christ. However
there are also Jewish and Islamic calendars that date from impor-
tant events in those religions. Baha’i religious life is organized
Baha’i Month
Translation
Begins
Baha
Splendor
March 21
Jalal
Glory
April 9
Jamal
Beauty
April 28
Azamaat
Grandeur
May 17
Nur
Light
June 5
Rahmat
Mercy
June 24
Kalimat
Words
July 13
Kamal
Perfection
August 1
Asma
Names
August 20
Izzat
Might
September 8
Mashiyyat
Will
September 27
Ilm
Knowledge
October 16
Qudrat
Power
November 4
Qawl
Speech
November 23
Masa’il
Questions
December 12
Sharaf
Honor
December 31
Sultan
Sovereignty
January 19
Mulk
Dominion
February 7
Ala
Loftiness
March 2

A reflection meeting at
a local Baha’i center in
Ntambo, Zambia. Baha’is
regularly meet for prayers
and scripture readings.
The second part of these
gatherings is a discussion
on the administration and
progress of their work in the
local area.
around a solar calendar originally developed by the Bab and
adapted by Baha’u’llah.
ThE 19-Day fEasT
Every 19 days, at the beginning of each Baha’i month, is a 19-Day
Feast. If possible all Baha’is attend. The feast is the cornerstone of
each local Baha’i community activity.
The feast is actually a meeting with three parts. The first part
of the meeting is devoted to prayers and the reading of scripture.
This is the Baha’i worship service. The second part is an admin-
istrative session. People give reports on Baha’i activities in the
area. Individuals raise issues that are important to them and
the members of the community discuss them. Finally there are
refreshments. In smaller communities the 19-Day Feast is held
in someone’s home. In larger areas the feast may be held in the
Baha’i centers.
In some places Baha’is meet weekly for devotions and fel-
lowship. They usually meet on Sundays, when most people do
Baha’i Belief and Worship

BAHA’I FAITH
not have to work. Weekly devotions consist of reading from the
works of Baha’u’llah or other founders and reciting prayers.
Baha’i hoLy Days
Baha’is observe nine holy days, which commemorate events in
Baha’i history. Feasts such as Navruz and Ridvan are celebra-
tions. Baha’is gather to read scripture, consult, and share fellow-
ship. During Ridvan, the “Most Great Festival,” they also elect
new leaders. The Passing of Baha’u’llah and the Bab’s martyrdom
are solemn occasions when Baha’is pray and read scriptures. If
possible they abstain from work on their holy days.
housEs of worshiP
Most Baha’i services take place in homes or in Baha’i centers.
However, Baha’i houses of worship are a very important part of
the Baha’i Faith. Houses of worship are called Mashriqu’l-Adh-
kar, or “Dawning Place of the Praises of God.” At the present time
there are seven houses of worship worldwide—one for each con-
tinent. They are in Wilmette, Illinois, as well as New Delhi, India;
Kampala, Uganda; Sydney, Australia; Frankfurt, Germany; Pan-
ama City, Panama; and Apia, Samoa. Currently there are plans to
build a Baha’i house of worship in Tehran, Iran; Santiago, Chile;
and Haifa, Israel. Specifi c sites have been chosen in these cities
but no signifi cant building work has taken place.
Houses of worship are open for devo-
tional services that people of all reli-
gions—or no religious background—may
attend. Services are nondenominational.
They consist only of readings and prayers
from all of the world’s religions. Some of
these have been set to music and may be
sung by a choir. There are no sermons.
All Baha’i houses of worship have nine
sides and a dome. These architectural fea-
tures are symbols that the Baha’i Faith is
open to all religious traditions. They show
Baha’i hoLy Days
Navruz (New Year)
March 21
Ridvan —ﬁ rst day
April 21
Ridvan—ninth day
April 29
Ridvan—12th day
May 2
The Bab’s Declaration
May 23
Passing of Baha’u’llah
May 29
Martyrdom of the Bab July 9
Birth of the Bab
October 20
Birth of Baha’u’llah
November 12

that people may come from many direc-
tions and through many doors, but gather
in recognition of one God.
In addition to the existing houses of
worship, the Baha’i Faith owns property in
other countries around the world, where it
will eventually build other houses of wor-
ship. More than 100 locations have been
designated as suitable. In time Baha’is
envision that the Mashriqu’l-Adhkars will
be the centers of community life. Around
them they will build administrative cen-
ters, schools, colleges, clinics, homes for
the elderly, and other community servic-
es. In this way the house of worship will
be the central focus of communities that
come together in peace and harmony and
service to God.
Baha’i Belief and Worship
The Baha’i house of worship outside Sydney, Australia, is the
first Baha’i temple built in the South Pacific. It was dedicated
in September 1961.

BAHA’I FAITH
THE BAHA’I
COMMUNITY
CHAPTER 7
The Universal House of Justice at  the Baha’i
World Center in Haifa, Israel. Its members,
elected by all the national assemblies, are the
highest authority in the Baha’i world.
T
he Baha’i Faith is organized around the Baha’i community. In
the community Baha’is put their faith into practical action.
Through the community Baha’is implement the social, educa-
tional, and spiritual goals of their religion.
ThE Baha’i aDMinisTraTivE orDEr
The laws and rules of the Baha’i Faith and Baha’i institutions
together form the Baha’i Administrative Order. The Administra-
tive Order is the way that the Baha’i Faith is organized. To Baha’is,
however, it is much more than a system of organization. Its foun-
dations and guiding principles were laid down by its founders;
it is therefore sacred. Baha’is understand that the institutional
framework of their faith puts words into actions, a central aim of
the faith. Moreover, Baha’is believe that their model of commu-
nity will eventually provide a working model for the construc-
tion by humankind of a global society. Baha’is therefore work
diligently to support it and follow its rules as the best hope for
bringing peace and prosperity to all humanity.

The Baha’i Community

BAHA’I FAITH
Baha’i insTiTuTions
Unlike most other organized religions such as Judaism, Christi-
anity, and Islam, the Baha’i Faith has no priests or clergy. It has
no professional religious scholars who interpret the scriptures
for believers. Baha’u’llah taught that a priesthood or clergy was
not necessary. In earlier times, when few people could read and
write, they needed a professional priesthood. They needed some-
one who could tell them what the Bible or the Quran said and
help them to understand scripture. However the Baha’i Faith is
a religion for the modern age. Modern society can give every-
one the opportunity to read and write. This means that people
can read and understand the scriptures for themselves; a mature
humanity does not need a professional clergy.
However, in most organized religions religious professionals
have another important function. They administer the business
of the religious body. They coordinate its local, regional, national,
and international activities. They serve as a resource for religious
matters. Many have publishing houses that produce literature for
and about the religion. Others have business offices that oversee
mission efforts or schools. In the Baha’i Faith the administrative
structure performs these functions.
ThE sPiriTuaL assEMBLiEs
Whenever an area has at least nine adult Baha’i members, those
nine or more people hold an annual election for the local spiri-
tual assembly, the governing body for the faith in that area. It is
responsible for supervising the activities of the faith. Its duties
include spreading the word about the Baha’i Faith, running its
educational programs, local publicity and publishing, holding
devotional services and meetings, finances, and counseling on
matters of faith.
A country with a sufficient number of local spiritual assem-
blies may form a national spiritual assembly. Elected delegates
attend an annual convention at which the national spiritual
assembly is elected. National spiritual assemblies oversee and
coordinate the activities of the local assemblies.

Tamun Kosep (in the
center), a traditional chief
and treasurer of the first
Local Spiritual Assembly of
Madina, Papua New Guinea,
flanked by other Baha’is at
a community celebration
in 2004.
Baha’is hold yearly elections in April during the festival of Rid-
van. All voting is by secret ballot. Baha’i rules prohibit nomina-
tions or campaigning. Each member simply lists nine names on
his or her ballot. When the ballots are counted the nine individu-
als with the highest number of votes are elected to the assembly.
Their term begins immediately after the election and they serve
for one full year.
The teachings of Baha’u’llah ask Baha’is to consider the quali-
ties of the people they elect and to choose “only those who can
best combine the necessary qualities of unquestioned loyalty, of
selfless devotion, of a well-trained mind, of recognized ability
and mature experience.” However, Baha’u’llah encouraged his
followers to give preference to minority members.
The Baha’i Community

BAHA’I FAITH
Voting in 1998 to elect the
Universal House of Justice,
the Supreme Governing
Council. Members of the
Universal House of Justice
are elected for five-year
terms by the members of all
the national assemblies.
ThE univErsaL housE of JusTiCE
The Universal House of Justice is the international governing
body of the Baha’i Faith and the highest authority in the Baha’i
world. It has authority for guarding and developing the faith, and
according to the Baha’i texts, is explicitly described as “protect-
ed from error.” This authority was handed down directly from

goaLs of ThE PLans
A
n important function of the Univer-
sal House of Justice is the growth and
development of the faith around the world.
Since it began it has produced several plans
for spreading the faith. These have been the
Nine-Year Plan (1964–73); the Five-Year Plan
(1974–79); the Seven-Year Plan (1979–86); the
Six-Year Plan (1986–92); the Three-Year Plan
(1993–96); the Four-Year Plan (1996–2000);
the Twelve-Month Plan (2000–01); and the
Five-Year Plan (2001–06). The plans are crucial
to Baha’i administration because they set the
goals for the spreading of the faith. The goals
of the diﬀ erent plans have included:
Spreading the faith around the world and increasing its membership.
Establishing and improving the functioning of the Baha’i administrative order in all

parts of the world and helping local communities to take on more responsibility

for reaching Baha’i goals.
Encouraging the individual spiritual development of all Baha’is as well as their

participation in all aspects of the Baha’i community.
Improving the quality of Baha’i community and family life, especially education.
Increasing the involvement of Baha’is in society, particularly with regard to

social and economic development.
Increasing the translation, production, distribution, and use of Baha’i literature.
Spreading the message of Baha’u’llah to all parts of society and all minority groups.
Developing the Baha’i World Center.
Building new houses of worship.
Working with international organizations such as the United Nations and its divisions.
Baha’u’llah. It has the power to set up rules for the Baha’i
community and to rule on religious matters not covered
in the writings of Baha’u’llah, ‘Abdu’l-Baha, or Shoghi
Effendi. It is located in Haifa, Israel.
The Baha’i Community

BAHA’I FAITH
imPlEmEnTing THE CovEnAnT
In the Kitab-i-Aqdas and related writings Baha’u’llah spelled out
the system of institutions through which the covenant he had
created would be implemented. First, authority to interpret the
sacred texts was vested solely in ‘Abdu’l-Baha, who was desig-
nated the Center of Covenant. Second, ‘Abdu’l-Baha was further
charged with the responsibility for the affairs of the Baha’i com-
munity; and third, in due course, as circumstances permitted, a
three-level system of Houses of Justice would assume full author-
ity for the administration of any disputes.
The instructions that Baha’u’llah himself had left for creating
the Universal House of Justice were later developed by ‘Abdu’l-
Baha and Shoghi Effendi. The Universal House of Justice finally
came into being during the Baha’i World Congress in 1963, when
the first members were elected. All Baha’is must follow the deci-
sions of the Universal House of Justice. However, any decision
may be amended at a later time by another ruling. In this way the
faith can grow and change with new times and circumstances.
REsPonsiBiliTiEs of THE UnivERsAl HoUsE of JUsTiCE
The tasks of the Universal House of Justice are similar to those of
the local and national spiritual assemblies but it also works to:
• promote peace among nations
• ensure that no organization within the Baha’i community
abuses its privileges
• safeguard the rights of individuals within the Baha’i Faith
• develop the Baha’i World Center and its administrative
processes
• resolve disputes within the Baha’i World Center
• preserve the Baha’i Faith’s sacred texts
ThE Baha’i worLD CEnTEr
The Baha’i World Center is in Haifa, Israel. It contains one of the
holiest shrines of the Baha’i Faith, the Shrine of the Bab, and also
its important administrative buildings. These include:

The International Archives Building containing relics and
scriptures is part of the administrative buildings that form the
Baha’i World Center in Haifa, Israel.
The Baha’i Community

BAHA’I FAITH
• The Seat of the Universal House of Justice
• The International Teaching Center
• The International Baha’i Archives
• The Center for the Study of the Texts
The Shrine of the Bab houses the Bab’s remains. Baha’u’llah
himself chose the site of the shrine on the slope of Mount Car-
mel, which he called the “mountain of God.” ‘Abdu’l-Baha is also
buried there. The houses and grounds where the central figures
of the Baha’i Faith lived are nearby. They have been restored and
are open to Baha’i pilgrims. Baha’i holy places also include the
Shrine of Baha’u’llah at Bahji, just outside Akko, and the mansion
where Baha’u’llah spent his last years. The Shrine of the Bab, the
mansion at Bahji, and the complex of administrative buildings
are surrounded by carefully tended gardens. The World Center
complex has luxuriant gardens, streams,
and fountains on 19 terraces. The World
Center is a place of pilgrimage for Baha’is
from around the world.
The World Center continues to devel-
op in the 21st century. In 2001 new gar-
dens opened at the Shrine of the Bab and
became a major tourist attraction. A Baha’i
library is also planned.
aPPoinTED insTiTuTions
Besides the Baha’i Faith’s elected institu-
tions, there are appointed positions. These
mostly operate out of the International
Teaching Center in Haifa.
Because no further Hands of the Cause
of God could be appointed after Shoghi
Effendi’s death, the Universal House of
Justice created the International Teach-
ing Center in 1973. The job of the Inter-
national Teaching Center is to coordinate
A community health worker
nurse in Zambia. Health
programs are an important
part of Baha’i commitment
to the community at large
and their work is often
combined with United
Nations’ health projects.

the Continental Boards of Counselors in
promoting and protecting the faith. It also
assists the Universal House of Justice in
creating its long-term plans. Members are
appointed for fi ve-year terms.
ThE righTs of MinoriTiEs
In the words of ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “In the esti-
mation of God, all men are equal. There is
no distinction of preference for any soul, in
the realm of His justice and equity . . . This
variety in forms and coloring, which is
manifest in all the kingdoms, is according
to creative wisdom and hath a divine pur-
pose.” All forms of prejudice are expressly
forbidden.
As an article of their faith Baha’is work
to see that the rights of all minorities are
protected. Shoghi Effendi wrote, “Every
organized community enlisted under the
banner of Baha’u’llah should feel it to be
its fi rst and inescapable obligation to nur-
Searching Out the Truth
When Baha’is come together for
consultation they must do so in
the spirit of love and harmony,
according to the writings of
‘Abdu’l-Baha. He continues:
They must then proceed with the utmost
devotion, courtesy, dignity, care and
moderation to express their views. They
must in every matter search out the truth
and not insist upon their own opinion,
for stubbornness and persistence in one’s
views will lead ultimately to discord and
wrangling and the truth will remain
hidden. The honored members must with
all freedom express their own thoughts,
and it is in no wise permitted for one to
belittle the thought of another, nay, he
must with moderation set forth the truth,
and should differences of opinion arise,
a majority of voices must prevail, and all
must obey and submit to the majority.
The Baha’i Community
Elected institutions
appointed institutions
ThE Baha’i aDMinisTraTivE insTiTuTions
Universal House of Justice
National Spiritual Assemblies
Regional Baha’i Councils
Local Spiritual Assemblies
International Teaching Center
Continental Boards of Counselors
Auxillary Board Members

BAHA’I FAITH
ture, encourage, and safeguard every minority belonging to any
faith, race, class, or nation within it.”
ConsuLTaTion
Key to carrying out the Baha’i Administrative Order is the pro-
cess of consultation. Consultation involves a frank and honest
but loving exchange of opinions by members of a group. The
goal of consultation is to achieve complete agreement. The result
is the fruit of the group’s collective wisdom. All decisions in the
Baha’i Faith are made by consultation.
As Baha’is carry out consultation, the goal is not to find a
majority opinion. It is to find a unanimous one. If there is no
unanimous decision the majority opinion must be respected.
The idea of consensus carries over into all aspects of Baha’i life. It
is a tool not only within the Baha’i community but also in school,
the family, and the workplace.
Two girls work together at a
Bahá’í agricultural school in
Tanzania.

PowEr anD auThoriTy
In the Baha’i Faith institutions, not indi-
viduals, receive power and authority. An
individual who is elected to a position in
a local or national spiritual assembly does
not have any special power and does not
consider him- or herself to be a “leader of
the Baha’i community.” The institution is
the leader. It, not the individuals in it, hold
the power.
As much as possible Baha’i institutions
pass authority down to the next level,
toward the local assemblies, rather than keeping control them-
selves. For example it is the responsibility of the Universal House
of Justice to see that the faith advances and expands. However, as
soon as a national assembly has enough experience, it takes over
that responsibility in its area. When a local assembly is strong
enough the national assembly encourages it to take over that
function. In this way all individual Baha’is share the power and
authority of the faith. Baha’is rely on the Administrative Order
and the institutions of the Baha’i Faith to give form and structure
to their communities and their daily lives.
Baha’is anD ThEir CoMMuniTy
The institutions of the Baha’i Faith support and sustain the Baha’i
community as a whole. Worship, service, teaching, and fellow-
ship all take place within the structure of the Administrative
Order. Baha’is understand that in becoming members of the
Baha’i Faith they have joined a community, not merely a congre-
gation. As members of a community they have an obligation to
work together, to support one another, and to do all that they can
to help the community not only survive but thrive. No matter
how small their local communities may be, Baha’is also under-
stand that they are part of a worldwide community of believers
that stretches around the globe, held together by the sacred laws
and institutions of their faith.
The National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha’is
in Cuba meeting for
consultation at the National
Baha’i Center in Havana.
The goal of consultation
is to achieve complete
agreement through an
honest and thoughtful
exchange of opinions.
The Baha’i Community

BAHA’I FAITH
THE BAHA’I FAITH
TODAY
CHAPTER 8
I
n 1992, 100 years after the passing of Baha’u’llah, Baha’is from
around the world met for the Second Baha’i World Congress.
An estimated 30,000 Baha’is gathered in New York City for four
days. New York, “the City of the Covenant,” was where West-
ern audiences first heard ‘Abdu’l-Baha proclaim the covenant of
Baha’u’llah on his North American tour in 1912. The Baha’is who
gathered there in 1992 were among the largest and most diverse
group ever to come together in one place.
Satellite links broadcast the conference to groups meeting in
Buenos Aires, Argentina; Sydney, Australia; New Delhi, India;
Nairobi, Kenya; Panama City, Panama; Bucharest, Romania;
Moscow, Russia; Singapore; and Western Samoa. A highlight of
the conference was the participation of the Russian Baha’is. After
decades of suppression the Russian Baha’i community, one of the
earliest, has been rebounding since the fall of the Soviet Union.
The members of the Universal House of Justice spoke to the
wide-flung conferences from their center in Haifa, Israel. The
conference celebrated the growth of the faith and the unity in
diversity made possible by the Baha’i covenant.
One of the entrances to
the Shrine of the Bab in
Haifa, Israel.

The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
sPrEaDing ThE faiTh
The Baha’i Faith began in Iran in the middle of the 19th century
and has spread to 236 countries and territories throughout the
world. The largest Baha’i communities now exist in Africa, south-
ern Asia, and Latin America. These communities, wherever they
have formed, have followed the educational programs appropri-
ate to the Baha’i way of life. Baha’is acknowledge both the animal
and spiritual character of man. Although they consider man’s
spiritual nature to be superior to his animal character the Baha’is
are far from neglecting man’s animal needs. They do not practice
rigorous asceticism. Their religious message in regard to the body
and external things is one of moderation and grateful enjoyment.
They see material realities as gifts from God and enjoy them as
divine blessings. So part of their overall teaching is enjoyment of
and gratitude for the wonderful things of life.
BRinging foRTH A RiCH HARvEsT
Many of life’s blessings, Baha’is realize, are the result of human
effort. Part of their teaching mission is to instruct people on how
to work effectively.  They want to show people how their own
growTh in ThE insTiTuTions of ThE Baha’i faiTh


National Spiritual
Assemblies
Local Spiritual

Assemblies
3,379
5,902
17,037
19,486* 17,780* 11,740*
10,000*
Localities where

Baha’is Reside
3,117 11,092
31,883
69,541 112,137 119,276 127,381 100,000*


*The drop in the number of localities and local spiritual assemblies, which started in 1979, is

due to reorganizations in which local assemblies have been consolidated to take

in more than one town or village.

efforts can help themselves and their neighbors. Baha’is spread
their faith not by preaching, but by example. They show their
appreciation for the material world by teaching people how to
function better within it: Teaching better farm methods or train-
ing them in technical trades.
REsPECT, EqUAliTy, And sEnsiTiviTy
The Baha’i way of educating is also spiritual. Baha’is show their
concern for others by fostering proper social behavior: treating
others with respect, showing fairness in business practices, pro-
moting equality of races, and cultivating sensitivity for other reli-
gions. There is also a great respect for those who maintain their
own beliefs; there are no professional missionaries attempting to
convert others to this particular religious way of life. It is through
A Baha’i study circle in
Canada. Baha’is spread their
faith through example,
drawing in others who
begin to appreciate their
way of life.
The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
the example of how they live, the positive attitudes of their judg-
ments, and their openness to others that Baha’is believe they
spread their faith. They simply move into a new area and “pio-
neer” through positive example, encouraging those who become
interested their way of living. Instead of appointed missionaries
who attempt to gain new followers by preaching, Baha’is draw
others to their faith by showing the appeal of their way.
“firEsiDE” gaThErings
B
aha’is do not attempt to draw people
to their religion by showing them
impressive churches or promoting elabo-
rate ceremonies and rituals. Their approach
is simple and informal. Baha’is might invite
friends or neighbors who show interest in
the Baha’i Faith to a “ﬁ reside.” This simple
event, if it may be called an event at all, is
a small study group that discusses the fun-
damental Baha’i beliefs. At such gather-
ings Baha’is share the basics of their faith
and recount their personal journeys of
spiritual growth. They are convinced that
this ordinary, uncomplicated, approach is
successful, since most Baha’is have come
to their religion through such “ﬁ resides.”
A Bahá’í teaching a scripture
class at a public school in
Australia in November 2002.

TEaChing
Baha’is have not created elaborate religious rituals. Nor have they
developed a detailed legal code of conduct. The emphasis of their
religion is placed on teaching and learning. Baha’is who have
matured in their spiritual journeys are most competent to teach
others. Yet this has not tempted Baha’is to develop elaborate
school systems for training in their Baha’i Faith. Their education-
The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
Women training at the Barli Development Institute in Indore, India. The project offers
agricultural training as well as health and nutrition programs. Development centers such as
these encourage sustainable livelihoods for local people.

al program follows simple down-to-earth learning procedures.
Most young people receive their early learning from their par-
ents. In communities where mothers provide the principal care
for their children, mothers will also be the fi rst teachers. They are
generally the ones who teach fundamental values and attitudes
of mind. Mothers show their children the value of fairness, con-
sideration, truthfulness, respect, compassion, and other basic
Baha’i virtues.
Baha’is want believers to learn how to meet different challeng-
es, to develop effective working abilities, and to improve their
homes and communities by helping their neighbors. Believers
should contribute to the vitality of the places where they live by
helping their neighbors and their communities, and they should
also develop schools or training centers in these areas. The effec-
tiveness of such centers for training workers in job-related skills
and in social concern has often been noted in communities
throughout the world.
At the celebration of the 100th anniversary of their presence
in Germany in September 2005, for example, the mayor of Stutt-
gart praised the Baha’is for “the respect you pay to other world
religions, your openness for people who have different opinions,
your message of peace for the world we live in.” These are some
of the values that are taught by Baha’is by example, through sim-
ple accounts of the spiritual journeys of its members at ordinary
community gatherings, and in the train-
ing schools that in reality teach more than
workers’ trades and how to adjust to new
ways of living.
DEvELoPMEnT EfforTs
Today Baha’i communities run more than
1,714 local development projects around
the world. These include schools, adult
literacy programs, health clinics, environ-
mental centers, youth programs, women’s
programs, agriculture, and vocational
Health Care in Africa
In Africa Baha’is have established
a network of health-care centers,
training villagers in simple techniques
of fi rst aid and treatment of common
illnesses such as malaria and infant
diarrhea, which are often fatal if
untreated. The centers enable people
to improve the health and well-being
of their communities.
The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
ConsuLTaTion anD CooPEraTion
T
he Universal House of Justice encour-
ages Baha’i support of United Nations’
projects. In 1967 Baha’is established a per-
manent oﬃ  ce at the United Nations in New
York City. They consult on the United Nations
Economic and Social Council and the United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). They also
work with the World Health Organization
(WHO) and the United Nations’ Environment
Program (UNEP). To help in these joint eﬀ orts
the Baha’i International Community (BIC) is
oﬃ  cially registered with the United Nations
as an accredited nongovernmental organiza-
tion. The BIC has representatives throughout
the world who guide the cooperative eﬀ orts
to ﬁ nd solutions for health, environmental,
economic, racial, religious, and cultural prob-
lems throughout the world. These represen-
tatives call on the national and local Baha’i
communities to assist in these joint eﬀ orts.
The Baha’i International Community’s principal representative
to the United Nations addresses the United Nations
Millennium Summit in November 2000.

training centers. Most of these projects are undertaken in devel-
oping countries.
Baha’is see their social programs as a way to put their faith into
action. They believe that social action arises from the best part of
the human spirit, and so it is really a spiritual activity. They also
see many problems as interconnected. For example they believe
that poverty cannot be eliminated until women have full equal-
ity, since most of the world’s poor are women and children.
In Baha’i-run programs in rural India women in vocational
training programs learn marketable skills such as sewing. They
also receive instruction in literacy and hygiene. In parts of South
America some poor farmers learn modern methods of farming,
and others plant trees to restore forests. Others benefit from day-
care centers, orphanages, and literacy programs. In a city setting
a new vocational institute offers courses in business manage-
ment, environmental technology, and nutrition.
However Baha’is never teach only skills; they teach Baha’i
principles as well. They teach consultation techniques so people
can arrive at group decisions that benefit the whole community.
Students come to understand the oneness of humanity, giving
and sharing, honesty, trustworthiness, and service. They see that
education is knowledge and that knowledge is power. Students
go home with new ideas that make a difference to the entire
community. They may or may not become Baha’is, but the Baha’i
principles they learn help them to make their communities a bet-
ter place to live.
ThE Baha’i faiTh anD ThE uniTED naTions
Many of the world’s chief religions have had difficulties with poli-
cies of the United Nations. Many Jewish people judge that in the
United Nations there is too much influence from Muslim nations
on policies dealing with the state of Israel. Many Muslims view
the establishment of the state of Israel as a violation of the ter-
ritorial rights of Palestinian Muslims. Certain Christian denomi-
nations view the United Nations’ efforts to control population
or to deal with the AIDS crisis as employing immoral methods
The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
to find solutions. Often, then, the major religions try to separate
themselves from many endeavors of this influential worldwide
organization. The Baha’i Faith, in contrast, sees itself as bring-
ing a spiritual foundation to the work of the United Nations that
might otherwise, for the sake of not offending a particular reli-
gion, declare itself to be independent of all religion.
The Baha’is, influenced by the teachings of Shoghi Effendi,
view themselves as adherents of a religion that shares many
of the goals of the United Nations. The message of the Baha’i
Faith, like that of the United Nations, accentuates the equality of
nations and persons, fostering peace and understanding among
all people. Its teachings on respect for the body incline Baha’is to
be dedicated to improving health care in all parts of the world,
and to promote agricultural and technical education that raises
the level of life for the unskilled and uneducated everywhere. By
its programs, often combined with United Nations’ projects, it
favors human rights, women’s equality, and care for the environ-
ment. Its message of respect for other religions likewise tempers
religious conflicts in all lands.
PErsECuTion in rECEnT TiMEs
Baha’is have often suffered persecution. Sometimes the cause
has been their teachings. Their doctrine concerning the unity of
humankind, the equality of men and women, and the equality
of races, for example, has brought strong criticism from those
who view some races as inferior to others. The declaration of the
superiority of the Aryan race under Hitler’s Nazi regime not only
brought persecution and death upon millions of Jews but also
persecution of those who, like the Baha’is, defended the equality
of all people. Baha’i activities were officially banned from 1937
to 1945. Baha’i communities were dissolved and their literature
defending the equality of races was confiscated and destroyed.
Even after World War II (1939–45) Baha’is had trouble gaining
official recognition in West Germany. Many Christian churches,
both Catholic and Protestant, protested the building of a Baha’i
house of worship.  They also opposed the declaration of local

communities of Baha’is as corporations, which was a require-
ment by German law for all religious bodies. The German high
court has only lately upheld the judgment that the Baha’i Faith
is indeed an independent religion and put an end to these anti-
Baha’i efforts.
Similar persecutions took place in Russia after the Commu-
nist Revolution. Like all other religious groups the Baha’i Faith as
a distinct religion was condemned by the atheistic government,
and its gatherings were forbidden. In the 1930s the Stalinist gov-
ernment exiled a number of Baha’i officers, especially those who
were members of the Hand of the Cause of God. It is only since
the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe in the late 1980s that
Baha’i communities have been restored to life.
PErsECuTion in iran
The most ferocious persecutions of the Baha’is, however, have
taken place in the very birthplace of the Baha’i Faith: Iran. The
persecutions began in the 1840s, actions taken by those who
considered the Baha’is to be a group of heretical Muslims. This
judgment to a great extent explains the Baha’i insistence that the
Baha’i Faith is an independent religion.
Certainly the Baha’i Faith grew out of a Muslim context, but
the very attitude of Baha’is affirms the positive nature of their
religion. They are not critical of other religions. They believe
that divine revelation is progressive. The Baha’is believe that they
have moved on to a new stage in religion. Theirs is a religion that
attempts to see the good in all religions, including the Muslim
faith. They do not criticize other faiths, which they believe were
products of the time.
Baha’is believe we live in a new era, and particular religious
approaches must be open to the more universal context of the
world. Baha’is have asked that, in a sense of fairness, the treat-
ment of their religion be equal to the favorable treatment given in
societies to any recognized religion. In the context of Iran, then,
they seek the respect that is accorded to the other main minority
religion of Iran, Zoroastrianism.
The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
sUPPREssion in iRAn
Unlike Zoroastrians, who also follow a
religion that began in Iran and who are
a protected minority under Iranian law,
Baha’is have no civil rights there. Shortly
after the Islamic Republic took control
of Iran in 1979, the government began
a severe crackdown on Baha’i activi-
ties. They seized Baha’i properties and
destroyed shrines and cemeteries. Baha’is
in jobs under government control were
fired, their pensions canceled, and their
savings seized. Baha’is were banned from
attending Iranian schools and universities.
Baha’i schools were banned as well. The
authorities arrested prominent members
of the 350,000 Iranian adherents to the
Baha’i Faith.
In 1983 Iranian authorities arrested
10 Baha’i women and girls. They were
accused of teaching the Baha’i Faith to
Muslim children. In Iran teaching the
Baha’i Faith to Muslims is punishable by
death. The authorities offered the women
the opportunity to renounce the Baha’i Faith and accept Islam.
The women refused and were executed. In all, during this time
more than 200 Baha’is were executed as “unprotected infidels,”
and hundreds more were imprisoned for the “crime” of being
members of the Baha’i Faith.
UniTEd nATions’ REsolUTions
Many Baha’is fled Iran to escape such persecutions and sought
refuge in countries such as Canada and Australia. Outcries from
these countries did bring some relief. Since 1985 the United
Nations General Assembly has passed resolutions that con-
demned human rights violations in Iran, some of which spe-
Simin Sabiri, one of 10
Baha’i women executed in
Shiraz on June 18, 1983.

cifi cally mention members of the Baha’i
Faith. Australia, for example, where
Baha’is, numbering 12,000, have come
from Iran and 90 other countries, has con-
sistently supported these United Nations’
resolutions, as well as passing national
resolutions in 1981, 1997, 1998, and 2000
condemning the Iranian persecutions of
Baha’is. Canada, the European Parliament,
and the U.S. Congress have also denounced
Iran’s actions. Discrimination against the
Baha’is still continues in Iran particularly
in relation to religious freedoms and fair
access to education, housing and jobs.
ChaLLEngEs for ThE fuTurE
The kind of growth that the Baha’i Faith has experienced in the
last century brings with it new challenges. One challenge is that
of maintaining a unifi ed community. Once a religion composed
almost entirely of Muslims of Iranian descent, it now encompasses
cultures and peoples of all backgrounds, nationalities, and races.
Its followers come from both highly literate and technologically
advanced countries and from countries
where few people read and write. Baha’i
philosophy states that all people are equal
in the sight of God, but it recognizes vast
differences in opportunity. Still it will be
a challenge for the faith, with its limited
membership, to encourage a skeptical
world that seems torn apart by ethnic,
national, and religious strife.
Another challenge is that of participa-
tion. With no professional clergy or mis-
sionaries and no funding from outside
sources, the Baha’i Faith depends entire-
ly on its members to do the work of the
ConTinuing DisCriMinaTion
T
he United Nations, through its
Human Rights Council, has pres-
sured Iran to stop its oﬃ  cial persecution
of Baha’is. Much of the violent persecution
had stopped by the 1990s. However, as
recently as 1997 a Baha’i was executed for
allegedly converting a Muslim to the Baha’i
Faith. Even if the executions of Baha’is in
Iran has slowed down, more than 10 years
later Baha’is still experience discrimination
in education, jobs, housing, travel, and the
practice of religion.
A Source of Power and Vitality
The Universal House of Justice
has said that:
(T)he participation of every believer
is of the utmost importance, and is a
source of power and vitality . . . If every
believer will carry out these sacred duties,
we shall be astonished at the accession
of power which will result to the whole
body, and which in turn will give rise to
further growth and a showering of greater
blessings on all of us.
The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
faith. One of the strongest features of the faith is that everyone
is expected to contribute to the community. Its goal is to build a
society that will eventually be global in scope.
Most Baha’i communities around the world have begun with
the work of pioneers. Over the last few years these new commu-
nities have become self-governing and self-sustaining; but there
is much work to be done. The young communities are charged
not only with governing themselves but also with establishing
schools, community centers, and economic development proj-
ects as well as continuing to spread the Baha’i message. If the faith
is to succeed in its social and spiritual goals it needs the active
participation of every member.
Another major challenge is that of dealing with oppression,
as problems in Iran have shown. Westerners mostly accept the
notion of freedom of religion, but many countries where Baha’i
has a presence have established religions and do not welcome
other faiths.
TowarD a nEw worLD orDEr
More than 100 years ago Baha’u’llah spoke of a “New World
Order.” Baha’is understand that a time of tremendous upheaval
is here. The traditional political, social, and religious solutions
seem not to be working; in fact they seem to be pulling society
apart. Baha’is believe that out of this time of turmoil will come a
time when all humanity is united in love and brotherhood among
all peoples. National rivalries will end. Global institutions will be
formed. These will help to bring about harmony throughout the
world. All war will end. There will be universal peace.
The New World Order will not come into being quickly. How-
ever the world is changing. Racial and gender equality is slowly
becoming a reality in some parts of the world. Nations are begin-
ning to realize that they are dependent on one another for secu-
rity and for economic strength. These are all things Baha’u’llah
foresaw more than a century ago.
The New World Order of Baha’u’llah covers the entire range
of human activity. It is not only a change in the political life of

The 100th anniversary
commemoration of the
Portsmouth Peace Treaty of
1905 was held at the Baha’i
Center in Eliot, Maine. The
treaty ended the Russian-
Japanese war of the early
1900s. Representatives
were present from the
three governments that
participated in the treaty
signing—Japan, the United
States, and Russia.
the world, but a revolution in its social, cultural, spiritual, and
economic life as well. Baha’is believe that the New World Order is
the will of God, and that God wants humanity to be united. They
work toward bringing the New World Order about.
Baha’is anD worLD PEaCE
Baha’is believe that peace is the result of determination and atti-
tude. Before there can be world peace there must be a will among
all nations to have peace on earth. This will comes from spiritual
and moral resources.
War continues to be a terrible feature of modern times. All
nations speak of the longing for peace, but they seem unable to
The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
achieve it. Baha’is identify the barriers to world peace as nation-
alism, racism, poverty, and religious strife. They believe that the
Baha’i Faith offers a practical model for breaking down these
barriers.
ThE Baha’i faiTh as a MoDEL for worLD soCiETy
Baha’u’llah teaches that all of humanity is one people. He wrote
that the time had come to unify all the people in the world into one
global society. Barriers of race, creed, class, worship, and nation-
alism will fall. They will give way to a single, unified civilization.
In order for this new world civilization to come into being,
say Baha’is, people must follow the principles Baha’u’llah laid
out. They must recognize that humankind is one and eliminate
Baha’i youth dance
workshops held in
Malaysia. The participants
were invited to wear the
traditional dress of their
ethnic background to reflect
the unity of all races.

all forms of prejudice. They must bring about full equality for
women. They must recognize the essential oneness of all reli-
gions. They must eliminate extremes of poverty and of wealth.
People must see that science and religion are both forces for
good and reconcile the two; they must achieve a balance between
technology and nature. There must be universal education. Peo-
ple must maintain a high standard of personal conduct, with ser-
vice, generosity, kindness, and goodwill toward others. Finally,
there should be a world federal system, governing all. To many
such goals sound impossible. Yet every day Baha’is put them into
practice.
In the 21st century the Baha’i world continues to grow and
spread. Since the 1950s, when there were about 200,000 Baha’is
worldwide, adherence to the faith has increased 25-fold to more
than 5 million people. In the Baha’i Faith people of all racial, eth-
nic, and national backgrounds come together in cooperation to
pursue the goals of their faith. In creating harmony within diver-
sity, Baha’is believe that they stand as a model for the world.
The Baha’i Faith Today

BAHA’I FAITH
Africa
Algeria
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Democratic Republic
of the Congo
Djibouti
Egypt
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Ivory Coast
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Republic of the Congo
Reunion
Rwanda
Saint Helena
Sao Tome and Príncipe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Africa
Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania
Togo
Tunisia
Uganda
Western Sahara
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Americas
Anguilla
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Aruba
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bolivia
Brazil
Canada
Cayman Islands
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Cuba
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Falkland Islands
French Guiana
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Martinique
Mexico
Montserrat
Netherlands Antilles
Nicaragua
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Puerto Rico
Saint Kitts–Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint-Pierre and
Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines
Suriname
CoUnTRiEs And TERRiToRiEs WHERE
THE BAHA’i WoRld CommUniTy HAs A PREsEnCE

Trinidad and Tobago
Turks and Caicos
United States
U.S. Virgin Islands
Uruguay
Venezuela
Asia
Afghanistan
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Cambodia
China
India
Indonesia
Japan
Laos
Malaysia
Maldives
Mongolia
Nepal
Myanmar (Burma)
Pakistan
Philippines
Singapore
South Korea
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Turkmenistan
Uzbekistan
Vietnam
Australasia
American Samoa
Australia
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Cook Islands
Fiji
French Polynesia
Guam
Kiribati
Marshall Islands
Micronesia
Nauru
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Niue
Northern Mariana Islands
Palau
Papua New Guinea
Samoa
Solomon Islands
Tokelau Islands
Tonga
Tuvalu
Vanuatu
Wallis and Futuna Islands
Europe
Albania
Andorra
Armenia
Austria
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia and Hertzegovina
Bulgaria
Channel Islands
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Faeroe Islands
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Isle of Man
Italy
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Monaco
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
San Marino
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
CoUnTRiEs And TERRiToRiEs WHERE
THE BAHA’i WoRld CommUniTy HAs A PREsEnCE (continued)
The Baha’i Faith Today

Ukraine
United Kingdom
Yugoslavia
Middle East
Bahrain
Brunei
Gaza Strip
Iran
Iraq
Israel
Jordan
Kuwait
Lebanon
Oman
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Syria
Turkey
United Arab Emirates
West Bank
Yemen
(data from Baha’i
Organization,
2008.)
CoUnTRiEs And TERRiToRiEs WHERE
THE BAHA’i WoRld CommUniTy HAs A PREsEnCE (continued)
An international conference at the Bahá’í House of Worship
in Apia, Samoa.
BAHA’I FAITH

FACT FILE
worldwide numbers
The Baha’i Faith consists of around 5 million followers in
236 different countries and territories.
holy symbol
This nine-pointed, three interlocking triangle symbol
represents the completeness and unity of humankind.
holy writings
The writings of the Bab and Baha’u’llah are seen as divine
revelations and form the backbone of the faith.
holy Places
These are the tomb of Baha’u’llah and the shrine of the
Bab, which are both situated in Haifa, Israel.
founders
It was founded in 1863 by Mirza Husayn Ali Nuri or
Baha’u’llah. It grew out of the Shii branch of the Muslim
faith. The followers believe that Baha’u’llah is the most
recent in the line of messengers from God. The main
message is that the time has come for all of humanity to
unite.
festivals
Baha’is observe nine holy days, which commemorate
events in Baha’i history. They include: Navruz, the spring
equinox and the traditional New Year’s Day in Iran (March
21);  Ridvan, which marks the time that Baha’u’llah spent
in the garden of Ridvan and his announcement that he
was the prophet spoken of by the Bab  (April 21–May 2);
the feast of the ascension of Baha’u’llah (May 29); the
birth of the Bab (October 20); and the birth of Baha’u’llah
(November 12).
BAHA’I FAITH

BAHA’I FAITH
‘Abdu’l-Baha, Baha’i Prayers. London: Baha’i Publishing
Trust, 1979.
‘Abdu’l-Baha, Paris Talks. London: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1979.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas. Chicago :
Bahai Publishing Society [1909-19]. Ann Arbor, Mich.:
University Microfilms International, 1980.
Baha’u’llah. Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah.
Translated by Shoghi Effendi.  Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 1976.
Baha’u’llah, Kitab-i-Iqan. Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1950.
Baha’u’llah. The Hidden Words of Baha’u’llah. Translated
by Shoghi Effendi.  Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i Publishing
Trust, 1985.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Browne, Edward Granville. Materials for the Study of
the Babi Religion. Cambridge, England: Cambridge
University Press, 1918.
H. M. Balyuzi, The Bab. Oxford UK: George Ronald, 1973.
Momen, Moojan.  A Short Introduction to the Baha’i Faith.
Oxford: Oneworld Publications, 1997.
Nabil, The Dawn-Breakers. Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1996.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 3rd edition.  Wilmette, Ill.:
Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1973.
The Baha’i Organization. Available online. URL http://
news.bahai.org/media-information/statistics/
Accessed on December 8, 2008. Population facts and
figures for the Baha’i community.
Further facts and figures, history, and current status of
the religion can be found on the following Web sites:
www.bahai.org
The official presence of the Baha’i Faith on the Internet.
It is a comprehensive body of  authentic material
presented by the Baha’i International Community.
www.bahai.us
The official Web site of the Baha’is of the United States
of America.
www.planetbahai.org
A broad-based resource on the Baha’i Faith.
www.bbc.co.uk/religion/religions/bahai
A guide to the Baha’i Faith, including its history, beliefs,
holy days, and family values.
www.mediabahai.org
A free interactive online service operated and owned by
the Bahá’í International Community.
WEB SITES

FURTHER READING
Baha’is, The. New York: Office of Public Information, Baha’i
International Community, 2002.
Baha’u’llah. The Hidden Words of Baha’u’llah. Translated
by Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, Ill.: Baha’i Publishing
Trust, 1932, 1985.
Baha’u’llah: The Central Figures, Vol. I.  New York:  Baha’i
International Community, Office of Public Information,
2001.
Baha’u’llah, and Frederick Glaysher. The Universal
Principles of the Reform Bahai Faith. Rochester, Mi.:
Reform Bahai Press, 2008.
Breuilly, Elizabeth, Joanne O’Brien, Martin Palmer, and
Martin E. Marty. Religions of the World: The Illustrated
Guide to Origins, Beliefs, Traditions & Festivals. New
York: Checkmark Books/Facts On File, 2005.
Buck, Christopher. Paradise and Paradigm: Key Symbols
in Persian Christianity and the Baha’i Faith. [Studies in
the Bab and Baha’i religions, v. 10]. Albany, N.Y.: State
University of New York, 1999.
Danesh, John, Seena Fazel, and Paul Slaughter. The Baha’i
Faith in Words and Images. Oxford: Oneworld, 2007.
Faizi, Gloria. The Baha’i Faith: An Introduction. New Delhi:
Baha’i Pub. Trust, 1990.
Garlington, William. The Baha’i Faith in America. Lanham,
Md.: Rowman & Littlefield, 2008.
Gouvion, Colette, and Philippe Jouvion. The Gardeners of
God: An Encounter with Five Million Bahai’s. Oxford:
Oneworld, 1993.
Hain, Robin and Juliet Mabey. Treasury of Baha’i Prayers,
Selections from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, the Bab,
and ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Oxford: Oneworld Publications,
1999.
Hatcher, William S., and J. Douglas Martin. The Baha’i
Faith: The Emerging Global Religion. Wilmette, Ill.:
Baha’i Pub, 2002.
Holley, Horace. Baha’i: The Spirit Of The Age. Eastbourne,
UK: Gardners Books, 2007.
Momen, Moojan, and Moojan Momen. The Baha’i Faith: A
Beginner’s Guide. Oneworld beginners’ guides. Oxford:
Oneworld, 2008.
O’Brien, Joanne, Martin Palmer, and Joanne O’Brien. The
Atlas of Religion. Berkeley: University of California
Press, 2007.
Smith, Peter. A Short History of the Baha’i Faith. Oxford,
England: Oneworld, 1997.
Vickers, Patrick. The Baha’i Faith. Oxford: Eastbourne, UK:
Oneworld, 1994.
Warburg, Margit. Baha’i. Studies in contemporary
religions. Salt Lake City, Utah: Signature Books, 2003.
BAHA’I FAITH

BAHA’I FAITH
GLOSSARY
Bayan—The name of the book of rules written by
the Bab.
Book of Certitude—The book in which
Baha’u’llah describes divine progression (see
kitab-i-iqan).
calligraphy—A kind of stylized handwriting.
Chihriq—The name of the prison in which the
Bab was kept.
clergy—Ministers, priests, or rabbis of a faith.
convert—Someone who leaves one religion and
joins another; to change religions.
covenant—The Baha’i spiritual agreement and
pledge taken by all Baha’is.
covenant-breakers—Those expelled from the
faith for failing to accept the covenant of Baha’i
unity.
divine messenger—A person sent by God to
teach humanity. In the Baha’i Faith divine
messengers include all founders of the world’s
great religions and the Bab.
Edirne—Formerly Adrianople. The city in Europe-
an Turkey to which Baha’u’llah was banished.
exile—To force someone to live away from his or
her country.
Festival of Ridvan—The 12-day celebration of
Baha’u’llah’s declaration.
fireside—The name for a Baha’i gathering in
which the religion is taught.
Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah—A
collection of works by Baha’u’llah, read as
scripture.
Guardian of the Faith, guardianship—Term for
a leader of the Baha’i Faith; the position held
by Shoghi Effendi.
Haifa—The city in Israel where the Baha’i World
Center is located.
Hands of the Cause of God—Group of leaders
appointed to assist in Baha’i administration.
heresy—A religious belief that goes against estab-
lished church doctrines.
heretic—Someone denounced by the church
for holding beliefs contrary to established
faith.
‘Abdu’l-Baha—The Baha’i name of Abbas Effen-
di, son of Baha’u’llah and leader of the Baha’i
Faith, 1892–1921.
Acre—A prison city in Palestine where Baha’u’llah
was imprisoned; now the city of Akko in Israel.
Administrative Order—Rules that govern the
Baha’i Faith.
Adrianople—The former name of Edirne, the city
in European Turkey to which Baha’u’llah was
banished.
Aqdas—The Kitab-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book.
atheists—People who do not believe in God.
Ayyam-i-Ha—The name for the days added to the
Baha’i calendar to bring the total to 365 or 366
(leap year).
Azalis—Supporters of Mirza Yahya (Subh-i-Azal)
against Baha’u’llah for leadership of the Baha’i
Faith.
Azerbaijan—An area of northwestern Iran where
the Bab was imprisoned; now an independent
country.
Bab, the—Ali Muhammad, a religious leader in
Iran who founded the Babi Faith. His religious
name means “gate.”
Babi Faith—Or Babism. The religious movement
founded by the Bab.
Badasht—A town in Iran; the scene of an impor-
tant Babi conference.
baha—An Arabic word meaning “glory.”
Baha’i International Community—The Baha’i
organization that works with the United
Nations.
Baha’i World Center—The center of the Baha’i
Faith, located in Haifa, Israel.
Baha’u’llah—The Baha’i name for Mirza Husayn
Ali Nuri, founder of the Baha’i Faith. It means
“Glory of God.”
Bahji—The last home of Baha’u’llah, and a place of
Baha’i pilgrimage.
banishment—Sending someone away from his or
her home country as a punishment.
bastinado—A beating on the soles of the feet with
sticks or rods, used as punishment or torture.

Hidden Imam—In Shii Islam, the 12th religious
leader in a line established by the prophet
Muhammad. The Hidden Imam is expected to
come again to lead the Muslim people.
Hidden Words, The—A book of instruction writ-
ten by Baha’u’llah (see Kalimat-i-Maknunih).
huququ’llah—“Right of God”; the voluntary wealth
tax paid by Baha’is to support the faith.
imam—Term used by Muslims for a religious
leader.
infidel—An unbeliever; someone who does not
believe in the predominating religion.
intercession—Prayer offered on behalf of
another.
Iqan—The Kitab-i-Iqan, the Book of Certitude.
Islam—The religion begun by the prophet
Muhammad and widely practiced in the Mid-
dle East.
jihad—“Striving” for one’s religion. Often trans-
lated as “holy war.”
Kalimat-i-Maknunih—The Hidden Words, a
book written by Baha’u’llah.
Kitab-i-Aqdas—Most Holy Book, a book of rules
for the Baha’i Faith written by Baha’u’llah.
Kitab-i-Iqan—Book of Certitude, a book written
by Baha’u’llah.
Letters of the Living—The name for the first 18
converts to the Babi Faith, so named by the
Bab.
Mahdi—Arabic name for the Hidden Imam.
Maku—Fortress in Azerbaijan where the Bab was
imprisoned.
martyrdom—Death or suffering because of one’s
beliefs.
Mashriqu’l-Adhkar—A Baha’i house of worship.
Mirza Yahya—Half brother of Baha’u’llah who
plotted against him (see subh-i-azal).
monogamy—The practice of having only one
wife.
mosque—Muslim house of worship.
Most Holy Book—The Aqdas, or Baha’i book of
divine rules (see kitab-i-aqdas).
Muhammad—The name of the prophet who pro-
claimed Islam.
Muhammad, Siyyid—Supporter of Mirza Yahya
against Baha’u’llah.
Mulla Husayn—An early follower of the Bab; one
of the Letters of the Living.
mullah—A Muslim trained in religious law.
New World Order—A coming time of universal
peace and unity under Baha’i principles.
19-Day Feast—The first day of each Baha’i
month when Baha’is gather as a community
to read scripture, discuss issues, and share
refreshments.
obligatory—Required, as a prayer or a fast.
Ottoman Empire—The empire of the Turks, ca.
1300–1918, encompassing parts of Europe,
Asia, and Africa.
penal colony—A place in which people who have
committed crimes are confined.
Persia—The former name of Iran.
pioneers, pioneering—In the Baha’i Faith, the
tradition of moving to other localities or coun-
tries to establish the faith there.
progressive revelation—The unfolding of God’s
plan for humanity through the teachings of
different religious leaders over the ages.
Quddus—A follower of the Bab; one of the Letters
of the Living.
Quran—The holy book of Islam.
Ridvan—An Arabic word meaning “paradise”; the
garden on an island in the Tigris River where
Baha’u’llah addressed his followers.
Ridvan Declaration—Baha’u’llah’s sharing with
his followers the revelation that he is a divine
messenger.
shah—The name for the ruler of Persia (Iran).
Shaykh Tabarsi—A shrine used as a fortress by
Babis when they were attacked.
Shia—A Muslim sect, dominant in Persia/Iran.
Shoghi Effendi—The grandson of ‘Abdu’l-Baha;
Guardian of the Baha’i Faith, 1921–57.
Siyah-Chal—The Black Pit, a prison where
Baha’u’llah was held.
Siyyid—The title of respect used by Muslims
who trace their ancestry back to the prophet
Muhammad.
spiritual assembly—The name for an organized
group of Baha’is.
Subh-i-Azal—Mirza Yahya, half brother of
Baha’u’llah.
BAHA’I FAITH

BAHA’I FAITH
Twelver Shia—A form of Islam with the belief
that the 12th Imam will return.
Universal House of Justice—The highest gov-
erning body in the Baha’i Faith.
Vahid—An early follower of Babism.
Sufis—Islamic mystics.
Tablet of Ishraqat—Part of the Aqdas; letter of
instruction from Baha’u’llah to the Baha’i
faithful.
Tahirih—A woman poet and follower of the Bab;
one of the Letters of the Living.
12th Imam—In Twelver Shia, the One Who
Would Arise; the Hidden Imam or Mahdi.

BAHA’I FAITH
INDEX
A
‘Abdu’l-Baha (1844−1921)
13, 53, 71–73, 111; on
the covenant 95; on
death 95–96; death of 78;
on education 94; in Haifa
78, 79; his travels 76–77;
the leadership of 74–75;
on love 88; on marriage
91–92; on music and
meditation 91; principles
of the Baha’i Faith 21; on
racial equality 111–112;
on truthfulness 89–90;
the writings of 20, 63–65
Abraham 14, 57
Acre, Baha’u’llah’s imprison-
ment at 51, 58, 71
administration of the faith 82
Administrative Order
102–113
Ali-i-Barfurush, Muhammad
animals, kindness to 93
Azalis 51
B
Bab, the [“the Gate”]
(1819−50) 11, 14, 24;
the Bab appears 27; and
Baha’u’llah 40–41; death
of 35; declaration of
28; imprisonment and
trial 31–32, 33; and the
“Letters of the Living”
28–29, 32; the message
of 29–30; under house
arrest 30–31; writings of
66–67
Babism 24, 28–37, 40–48
Badasht conference 32–33,
41, 42
baha (Greatest Name symbol)
Baha’i Administrative Order
102–113
Baha’i calendar 60, 98–99
Baha’i International Commu-
nity (BIC) 122
Baha’i World Center, Haifa 8,
20, 84, 108–110
Baha’u’llah (1817−92) 13,
14, 16, 24, 38, 86–88;
banishment of 43–44;
conversion to Babism
40–41; death of 51–53;
God’s revelation to 16,
42, 46–47; imprison-
ment at Acre 51, 58, 71;
persecution 42–43; the
proclamation of 48–51;
withdrawal to the moun-
tains 45–46; writings of
20, 46, 51, 54–63
Bayan, the 66–67
“Book of Certitude” (Kitab-i-
Iqan) 46, 54, 57–58
Browne, Edward Granville 52
Buddha 14
burial 95–96
Burma, the Baha’i Faith in 70
C
chastity 90
children in the Baha’i Faith
93–95, 121
cleanliness 61
communism 70, 125
community: organization of
102–113; service to oth-
ers 90; unity in 20–21
confession, prohibition of
consultation 112
conversions 19
Cormick, Dr. William 33
covenant, the 73, 95, 108
D
death 95–96
development projects
121–123
divine attributes 88–90
divine messengers 14–15, 16,
57–58
divorce 60
E
economic matters, ‘Abdu’l-
Baha on 65
education 61, 93–94,
119–121
Egypt, the Baha’i Faith in
68–70
equality: racial 19, 20, 64–65,
111–112; sexual 33, 65,
Europe, the Baha’i Faith in
74, 76–77, 78, 82–84,
124–125
F
family life 93–95, 121
fasting 60, 91
festivals: holy days 100;
19-Day Feast 99–100;
Navruz 100: Ridvan Fes-
tival 46–47, 100, 105
“fireside” gatherings or study
groups 118

BAHA’I FAITH
G
Garden of Ridvan (Paradise)
Gleanings from the Writings of
Baha’u’llah 54–56
God 13–14; God’s laws 62;
God’s will 57–58; revela-
tion to Baha’u’llah 16, 42,
46–47; revelation to the
Bab 1111
God Passes By 80
H
Hands of the Cause of God
13, 71, 82, 84–85
health-care centers, Africa 121
Hearst, Phoebe Randolph 74
Hidden Imam, the 26, 28, 30
holy days 100
houses of worship 100–101
Husayn, Mulla 29, 33, 34, 36,
I
imams 26, 28, 30
India, the Baha’i Faith in 70
inheritance laws 60
International Teaching Cen-
ter, Haifa 110–111
Iran, persecution in 125–127
Islam 24, 26–27, 33–35, 63,
70, 125–127
J
Jesus 14, 57, 58
jihad 32
justice 88
K
Kahn, Sulayman 70
Kalimat-i-Maknunih (“The
Hidden Words”) 54,
56–57
Kheiralla, Ibrahim 74
Kitab-i-Aqdas (“Most Holy
Book”) 51, 54, 58–63,
Kitab-i-Iqan (“Book of Certi-
tude”) 46, 54, 57–58
Krishna 14
L
laws of the Baha’i Faith
58–63, 66, 90–93
“Letters of the Living” 29, 32
love 88–89
M
marriage 60, 91–93
Mashriqu’l-Adhkars 100–101
meditation 20, 91
Moses 14, 57, 58
“Most Holy Book” (Kitab-i-
Aqdas) 51, 54, 58–63,
Muhammad, prophet 14, 58
Muhammad, Siyyid Ali See
Bab, the [“the Gate”]
(1819−50)
Muhammad-Ali 73
music 91
N
Navruz Festival 100
New World Order
128–129
nine-pointed star 14
19-Day Feast 99–100
Nuri, Mirza Husayn Ali See
Baha’u’llah (1817−92)
O
Obligatory Prayers, texts of
62, 90
Ottoman Empire, the Baha’i
Faith in 68–70
P
peace See world unity, impor-
tance of
persecution 11, 32, 36,
42–45, 70, 71, 124–127
Persia, the Baha’i Faith in
71; persecution in Iran
125–127
personal development 20
pilgrimages 110
“pioneers” 82
power and authority, in insti-
tutions 113
prayers 20, 60, 91; Children’s
Prayer 93; the Obligatory
Prayers 62, 90; Prayer
for Peace 67; Prayer for
Serenity 19; Prayer of
Intercession for the Dead
prejudice 19, 20, 64–65,
111–112, 131
principles of the Baha’i Faith
purity 90
Q
Quddus, “Most Holy” 36, 37,
Quran, the 29, 30, 63, 66–67
R
racial equality 19, 20, 64–65,
111–112
repentance 60
respect 117–118, 121
Ridvan Festival 46–47, 100,
rites of passage: death and
burial 95–96; marriage
60, 91–93
rituals: fasting 60, 91; medi-
tation 20, 91; for prayers

60; reading from the
scriptures 91
Russian territories, the Baha’i
Faith in 70, 125
S
sacred covenant 73, 95, 108
scriptures 19, 20, 23, 91;
Kalimat-i-Maknunih
(“The Hidden Words”)
54, 56–57; Kitab-i-Aqdas
(“Most Holy Book”) 51,
58–63, 108; Kitab-i-Iqan
(“Book of Certitude”)
46, 57–58; the writings
of ‘Abdu’l-Baha 63–65;
the writings of the Bab
66–67
Secret of Divine Civilization, The
service to others 90
Seven Valleys, The 63
Shaykh Tabarsi, siege at
33–35
Shia muslims 26, 30, 33–35,
70, 125–127
Shoghi Effendi Rabbani
(1897−1957) 13, 36, 48,
54–56, 76, 78–79, 85;
administrative plan 82;
assumes leadership 80;
death of 84; his vision for
the faith 80–82; on racial
equality 111–112; teach-
ing plan 82–84
shrines 110
Siyah-Chal (“Black Pit”)
42–43
social laws 60, 90–93
social policy 21–22, 70
soul, the 16, 63, 95–96
spiritual assemblies 104–105
Sufis, the 63
Sunni muslims 26
symbols of the Baha’i Faith
14, 20
T
Tablet of Ishraqat 62
Tablets of the Divine Plan
(1917−18) 78
Tahirih, “The Pure One” 29,
32–33, 36–37, 40
teaching See education
temples 19–20, 82,
100–101
“The Hidden Words” (Kali-
mat-i-Maknunih) 54,
56–57
tithing 66
Traveler’s Narrative, A 71
trustworthiness 89–90
truthfulness 89–90
Twelver Shia 26
U
United Nations 122, 123–
124, 126–127
United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF) 122
United States, the Baha’i
Faith in 73–74, 76–77, 82
unity, importance of 16–18,
20–21, 56, 60, 64–65,
129–131
Universal House of Justice
13, 14, 20, 61–62, 85,
106–108, 114, 122, 127
V
Vahid 31, 34, 36, 40
virtue 17
vocational training programs
voluntary wealth tax 60
volunteer work 22
W
wealth, sharing of 65, 131
women in the Baha’i Faith,
equality of 33, 65, 93, 123
work, as a form of worship
61, 90
World Health Organization
(WHO) 122
world unity, importance of
16–18, 56, 60, 64–65,
129–131
World War II (1939−45) 124
Y
Yahya, Mirza 45–46, 48,
49–50
Z
Zarathushtra 14
Zoroastrianism 125, 126
BAHA’I FAITH

BAHA’I FAITH
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
The late Paula R. Hartz was a teacher and a textbook editor, and specialized in
writing nonfiction and educational materials for elementary and secondary school
students. She is the author of Daoism, Native American Religions, Shinto, Taoism, and
Zoroastrianism, all from Chelsea House’s World Religions series.
PICTURE CREDITS
Title Page: © Bahá’í International Community; Table of Contents: © Bahá’í International Community; Pages 8–9: © Bahá’í International Community; 12: ©
Bahá’í International Community; 15: © Bahá’í International Community; 18: © Bahá’í International Community ; 23: © Bahá’í International Community;
24–25: © Bahá’í International Community; 28: © Bahá’í International Community; 31: © Bahá’í International Community; 36: © Bahá’í International
Community; 38–39: © Bahá’í International Community; 40: © Bahá’í International Community; 42: © Bahá’í International Community; 43: © Bahá’í
International Community; 44–45: © Bahá’í International Community; 47: © Bahá’í International Community; 49: © iStockphoto.com/Mario Savoia;
50: © Bahá’í International Community; 52: © Bahá’í International Community; 54–55: © Bahá’í International Community; 59: © Bahá’í International
Community; 61: © Bahá’í International Community; 64: © Bahá’í International Community; 66: © Bahá’í International Community; 68–69: © Bahá’í
International Community; 73: © Bahá’í International Community; 75: © Bahá’í International Community; 77: © Bahá’í International Community; 79: ©
Bahá’í International Community; 81: © Bahá’í International Community; 83: © Bahá’í International Community; 84: © Bahá’í International Community;
86–87: © iStockphoto.com/Bogdan Lazar; 89: © Bahá’í International Community; 92: © Bahá’í International Community; 94: © Bahá’í International
Community; 96–97: © Bahá’í International Community; 99: © Bahá’í International Community; 101: © Bahá’í International Community; 103: © Bahá’í
International Community; 105: © Bahá’í International Community; 106: © Bahá’í International Community; 109: © Bahá’í International Community;
110: © Bahá’í International Community; 112: © Bahá’í International Community; 113: © Bahá’í International Community; 120: © iStockphoto.com/
Joseph Calev; 117: © Bahá’í International Community; 118–199: © Bahá’í International Community; 120: © Bahá’í International Community; 122:
© Bahá’í International Community; 126: © Bahá’í International Community; 129: © Bahá’í International Community; 130: © Bahá’í International
Community; 132: © Bahá’í International Community; 133: © Bahá’í International Community.
ABOUT THE SERIES EDITORS
Martin Palmer is the founder of ICOREC (International Consultancy on Reli-
gion, Education, and Culture) in 1983 and is the secretary-general of the Alliance
of Religions and Conservation (ARC). He is the author of many books on world
religions.
Joanne O’Brien has an M.A. degree in theology and has written a range of edu-
cational and general reference books on religion and contemporary culture. She is
co-author, with Martin Palmer and Elizabeth Breuilly, of Religions of the World and
Festivals of the World published by Facts On File Inc.