AZZ riphfs (inoktdk? thou of ~arrrhtion)
w
a
d
ks the Author.
First Edition
- , -
Second Edition -
-
Printed in Great Britain by KING & J A n m s n ,  LTD.,
Blackfriars. London, 8.E.

PAGE
16. RELIGION
AND SCIENCE
IN ACCORD
WITH
REASON . .
. .
20. THE SPIRIT OF INVESTIGATION.
2 1. UNIVERSAL IIARNONY
.
22. UNITY TRIUMP~ZANT .
23. UNITY MEETINGS .
24. SPIRITUAL
SPRING I~MES.
25. NEED OFYERSONAL~MANIFESTATION.
. . 147
26. THE SUN
OF TRUTH

27. THE FEAST
OF R ~ V A N  .
1. . PICTURE
OF 'ABDU'L-Bd .
28.- CHILDHOOD
OF BAH/L'u'LLAE .
2. PICTURE
OF MASJEIRIQU'L-ADHICAR . .
29. OUTSTANDING
EVENT
I N  THE WORLD'S
3. LE~F
FROM A CALENDAR
IN CONSTANTI-
HISTORY
- .
30. TABLET
OF BAHA'U'LLAH. . ~.
31. A CHRISTIAIV
MISSIONARY
AND BAHU
MARTYRDOMS : ~.
32. BAHA'~
PRECEPTS
.
33. KINDNESS
TO ANIMALS .
OF THE MOST R.ZERCIFUL
.
35. WORDS OF BAHA'u'LLAH AND 'ABDU'L-
36. HISTORIC
NOTE .
NATIONS .
38. B A ~ ' u ' L L ~ H ,
THE NEW NAME .
vi.

PRAYER OF JESUS.
"And all Mine are Thine, and Thine are
Mine, and I am glorified in them.
" Holy Father keep through thine own Name
those whom Thou hast given Me, that they all .
may be One, as we are. . . .
.
" N?ither pray I for these alone, but for them
also which shall believe on Me through their
word:
" That they all may be One; as Thou Father,
art in Me, and I in Thee, that they also may
be One in us."
(John, Chap. xvii., verso 10, 11, 20.)
". FOREWORD.
testimony and intrOOuction is written
under the impelling power of the Spirit,
'. to bear-witness to the Truth of the Reve~
olBaha 'u 'llAh.
the desire to spread a knowledge of His '
_ ... ~/";" in the world, it is published as a thank-
in accordance with the directions of
and the kindly help and encourage-
ment~f confirmed believers in the Baha'i Cause.
:;Inasmuch as it is an introduction, the Sacred
-_ •. '.
-' of the Baha'i Revelation are quoted With
reference to those of previous . Revelations
.
'
. In order that readers may ,search for themselves·'
-'1'OInthose sources, and fonn their own conclu-
sions. Those who do not wish to refer to Prophecy
'are asked, for their own sake, and for the sake of
the world, to consider the righteousness of the
Baha'i 'Teachings, and decide after just investiga-
. . ,tion, whether they do not meet the extreme need
of the present day, morally, intellectually, and
..• spiritually.
'
'·:"Whom say Y e that I am? " was the question
. . which the Spirit put to the individual, throUgh
Jesus. And some were able to say: "Thou art
th~ Spirit of the living Goa."
Likewise, the Spirit puts that question to us,
to-day, through Bahil'u'llah. It is the same ques-

be asked : " ~ h e n
what more is there to
with power to cast out evil spirits, which are not of
It. It knocks at the door of the heart of every in;
me had not come for them to be
dividual; and each one who 'is. wise will answer his
own door to the Spirit, and not leave that to
~ any
other. It is only the spirit within which can
answer the Visitation of the Spirit. For only
not depend on acquired. cumbersome knowledge
which becomes rusty with age, and which is often
used as a blind to veil the Truth.
That lesser
. knowledge which only serves Time, should -never
' be allowed to obscure the greatest of all know-
ledge, which is the Knowledge of God. That is
the eternal Well of everlasting Life. Whatever
their outward privations-mqy be, those who drink
Twenty thousand martyrs, in o w  own day, for-
from it sever thirst. It - has power to quench the
" fires of animosity" ; for the hatred and animosity
which crucified Jesus are to-day quenched. H e  is
And some are even yet, in 1923, joyhlly making
9z
to-day honoured in every language, and in all
the same reply, because some elders think they can
regions of the world. Enthroned in all hearts is
-
.
extol themselves by putting God out of the Courts
He. His 'Teachings are a Standard of ~ u d ~ m e n t .
of His own world.
If they believe they can, why
His Life inspires the resurrection of the individual.
are not all the history books burnt? Nay, they
H e  reigns in hearts the world over, and will ever
cannot, for all that the Spirit saith is confirmed,
reign in His own Station, the Well-Beloved Son of
-
from everlasting to everlasting.
And if history
books do not teach that; what is the use of them?
many brethren. "
Spirit ever stands for Reality.

Many have testified, and are testifying, their
hith in the Revelation of BahA'u'lla.
And it
will be readily seen that no one person, wkbver
his or her qualifications or worldly station may be,
The obligation to propagate the Teaebines of
will ever be able to deal exhaustively, or a&-
* J-
rested on His disciples, Wbt, we may &,
quately, with so great a subject.
That is some-
J i B d d  be *
state of the world, if instead of
thing for which the world may be grateful, and it
Q a howledge of them, they had carefully con-
is mentioned in order to convey the understanding
cded, hidden, and idolised them? It is not the
that this present endeavour, inasmuch as it is a
lack of knowledge concerning His Teachings, but
testimony, is a testimony of faith, that the writer,
&e failure
practise them, which has brought
after examining the Teachings of BahA'u'llAh, and
calamities upon the world.
after investigating to some extent, by no means ex-
what its conditions would have been had they
haudively, the Prophecies relating to it, and after
never been known is unimaginable.
Those who
bringing the Teaching to bear upon the problems,
havc practised them have been the salt of the earth-
spifitual, moral, intellectual, and social, which to-
ms is Imndeniable. Jesus revealed the Fatherhood
day exercise her own mind and the mind of the
, oi ~~d ; and throughout His lik, which is from all
world generally, has come to the joyful conclusion
eternity, has prayed, and has taught men
pray,
that Bahh'u'lIbh has brought Divine Light to the
*
for the coming of the Father's Kingdom on earth
world, and in This D a y  is H e  Whom God bath
sent, a Personal Manifestation of His Spirit, even
as Jesus was. The pen fails to define the Signs-
m e  slab3ect; dealt with, being of vital h p o h n c e
came of His Appearance.
In brief, then, this
-
to the happiness of the whole world, should in-
testimony acknowledges Him to be what He
terest all people, whatever their Religion, or Race,
claimed to be ; as Jesus to-day is acknowledged to
or Nation.
And as this becomes evident, readers
he what H e  claimed to be.
Whereas, in the begin.
will know, that apology for not presenting it would
ning, His claim was not openly acknowledged, save
be more in place than any explanation for doing so-
by a few.
A Revelation comprehending a11 previous 33,eve-
It is hoped that this contribution, made by one
latjons is given to the world by BahA'u'llAh.
The
without claim to any special ability, may, perhaps
quintffsence of ~ h i c h  is : that all Revelations of
for that reason, reach others, who believing, will
the Tnlth, past and present, are in Hamony-

Although many persecutions were heaped upon
been revealed by the Prophets and
Him by worldly despots, Bahti'u'llhh has, during 40
tions of God, in accordance with the =Pa-
yeam of Exile and 'confinement, recorded the ut-
e Age, at different stages of the world's
terance of the Holy Spirit in the rich and melodious
languages of Persia and Arabia. In face of aU
opposition H e  has bequeathed to the world .the
Treasury of the Divine Will for this New Age.
And it is very necessary that those within and with-
of ancient rulers and their kingdoms
out the Churches, of every Religion, should know
eir failure to heed the Prophets and
what the Spirit saith unto them To-day.
The Divine Will for To-day is revealed in the
Sacred Writings of BahA9u'11Ah, and expounded in
the Tablets of the Greatest Branch. Those Writ-
ings are gradually being translated into English
and other languages, and will be translated into
the universal auxiliary language; and whed the
course of time have obscured the Light given
world becomes fully aware of them, they will be
successive Revelations, Religion, through mis-
as eagerly read as the Holy Books preceding them ;
dehnding, has often been the cause of divi-
for they prescribe the Divine Remedy for the Re-
ligious, Social, and Industrial troubles of our day.
which stands so clearly for the promotion of Unity
There are many in the world to-day who, while
'and Brotherhood, some, as already mentioned, are
perceiving the need of Unity, are frankly confew
sacrificing their lives, because opposers in their
ing the lack of spiritual power so essential to it.
1 biind desire to suppress it, instead of proving them-
To bring about TJnity, even in any one Religion
* ~ l v e s
to be temples of the living God, have l ~ ~ o m e
or Nation, seems to them a .stupendous and imps-
:
as " whited
even as Jesus found in
sible task. Whereas, the reason for their depres.
His Day, when through lack of spiritual insight,
sion and failure is that their aim is not great
those who should have welcomed, crucified Him.
enough. It is incomplete. For the Oneness of all
The world is largely unconscious of the Divine
is the Truth of the matter, and knowledge of fiat
Drama which has been witnessed since the appear-
Truth, the only Key to Harmony : glimpses of
ance of the BBb, and is still being witnessed by
Ci

angels in heaven and on earth, yet " H e  that
watcheth over Israel slumbereth not, nor sleeps,"
while to these things, many in the world, and of
it,. are heedless, or rushing to and fro after
ephemeral things.
There are millions of Jews, Christians, and Mu-
bmmadans in the world, and it is not possible,
either by argument, persuasion, or the sword,
to get them to reject one Religion for another.
But it is possible for them all to arrive at the under-
standing that the aim of the Founders of all these
Religions is One and the same ; and that they each
serve specifically an Age in the progressive order
of the Divine Plan to create Harmony in the world.
They are the Supreme Concourse, moved by the
Spirit, to promote Unity. How pitiful, then, are
the misunderstandings which have blinded their
followers to such an extent that they have perse-
cuted each other most cruelly, believing it to be in
their Names ! Since each has given Light in
accordance with the capacity of the Age, and has
pointed to further Revelation in the hlness of time
to come; surely it is the disposition to idolatry
which has blinded the world to the simple truth of
the continuity of revelation. When it is seen and
understood, all will cease to worship the Lamp,
and abolishing prejudices, be able to walk in the
Light of Oneness, and glorify God by " consorting
with each other with fragrance," as to-day Bahb'u'
llbh exhorts them to do.

CHRIST'S ENTRANCE INTO
JERUSALEM :
'"nd
when H e  was come nigh even now at the
Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the a&-
ciples began
voice for all t
saying :
" Blessed is the King that cometh in the Name
of the Lord. Peace in heaven, and glory in the
highest. "
And some of the Pharisees from among the
FAHA'U*LLAH TO CHRISTIANS :
;'~tProcloim : surely the Father hath come and
Bth fulfilled that whereunto you were promised in
be Kingdom of God. Thisis the word which the
m veiled when H e  said to those around Him that
ki" $hey could not bear it ; but when the stated tine
"iL u r s ~
ended and the Hour arrived, the Word shone
l@
forth from the Horizon of the Will . . . .
k,
ad " Beware, 0 Concourse of the Son, cast it not
' Behind Y e ,  but hold thereunto! . . . . This
[ Light hath appeared from the Orient and h t h
i
journeyed toward the Occident until it came unto
thee in these Latter Daus."
-
said unto Him : "Muster, rebuke Thy
;: . verily, H e  the Son beareth witness to Me, and
disciples."
" I bear witness to H i m  . . . .
,And He answered, and said unto them:
fi 7 f  these should hold their peace, the stones
" Then tell Me : D o  the children know the
Father and confess Him? Or do they contradict
would immediate1 y cry out."
Him as the people contradicted Him before?
Jesus to Jerusalem :
" In this Day it behoveth you to proclaim in
Q Jerusalem, Jerwalerm, which kinest the
this Greatest Name among the Nations. Do you
Prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto
~hoose to be silent whilst trees and stones are call-
thee ; how often would I have gathered thy children
ing out,in the loudest voice :
together, as a hen doth gather her chickens, under
" Surely the Lord hat?& come, the posses so^ oj
her wings, and Y e  would not !
Great Glory !
" Behold your house is left desolate : and verily
verily, W e  have opened unto you the Gates of
I sag unto ?IOU, Y e  shall not see Me, until the time
the Kingdom ;
come when Y e  shall say,
Are
closing the door of your houses before
" Blessed is Me that cometh in the Name of the
My Pace ? "
Lord. "
(The Gospel according to Luke.)
'
(" Lawh-el-Aqdas,"
Bahci'z~'lZ6~h's
Message to Christians.)

THE LORD OF HOSTS.
'' THUS
S P ~ K E T H
THE LORD
OF HOSTS,
SAYING,
BEHOLD
TAR MAN WHOSE NAME IS TBE BRANCH :
AND HE SHALL GROW UP OUT OF HIS PLACE, AND BE
SHALL BUILD THE TEMPLE
OF THE LORD :
EVEN
HE SEIALL B
~
D

THE TEMPLE
OF THE
LORD ; AND HE SHALT, BEAR THE GLORY,
AND SHALL
SIT AND RULE UPON HIS THRONE : AND THE COUNSEL
OF PEACE
SHALL RE BETWEEN THEM BOTH."
(Zechariah, Chap. 6, ver. 11.)
THE GREATEST BRANCH.
I
'ABDU'L-BAHA
THE GREATEST BRANCH
CENTRE OF THE COVENANT
AMONG THE NATIONS.

PROCLAMATION
'ARnllTPT
R
A
~
;

THE ~ O R I Z O N S  OF THE
THE WORLD WILL B
IT IS THE HOUR
OF THE,UNITY
OF THE SONS OF
MEN, AND THE DRAWING TOGETHER OF ALL CLASSES.
THE LIGHT
OF KNOWLEDGE
HATH APPEARED
BEFORE WHICH THE DARKNESS OF EVERY SUPERSTI-
TIOUS FANCY WILL BE ANNIHILATED.
1%
SHALL CEASE BETWEEN NATIONS,
AND BY
THE WILL
OF GOD
THE MOST GREAT PEACE
SHALL COME.

THE UNIVERSAL B A H ~ I
TEMPLE
THE
FIRST MAS-EQQU'L
AP_HKAR
WAS BUILT AT
I--ABAD
(CALLED BY THE RUSSIANS
ASKHABAD),
IX RUSSIA. ON THE PAGE FOLLOWING IS A PICTURE
OF
THE SECOND B d ' f  TEMPLE,
OR MAS*
RIQU'L-ADII~R,
TO BE BUILT ON THE SHORES OF
LAKE
MICHIGAN, CHICAGO, ILL.,
U.S.A. DESIGN
BY LOUIS J. BOURGEOIS.
" IN FORM THE TEMPLE
IS NINE-SIDED.
FROM
DOME TO FOUNDATION I T  IS A UNIQUE CREATION. IT
IS SAID BY EXPERT ARCHITECTS TO REPRESENT THE
FIRST ORIGINAL IDEA IN ARCHITECTURE SINCE T H E
1 3 T H  CENTURY. IN
GEOMETRIC ORNAMENTATION I T
IS SAID TO CONTAIN ALL THE KELIGIOUS SYMBOLS O F
THE WORLD. BUT MORE THAN ALL THIS, THE NOBLE
SYMBOL OF TEE SPIRITUAL
ORB, OR SUN
BEHLND THE
SAVIOUR
OF MANKIND.
THE WONDERFUL NINE-
POINTED ST.4R, FIGURING IN THE STRUCTURE O F  T H E
TEMPLE
ITSELF, AND APPEARING AGAIN AND AGAIN IN
ITS ORNAMENTATION, AS SIGYIFICANT O F  THE SPLRI-
TUAL GLORY
IN THE WORLD TO-DAY.
'' THE TEMPLE
WILL BE A PLACE OF WORSHIP FOR
ALL MANKIND.
ITS
DOORS WILL NEVER BE CLOSED.
NO PRIESTETOOD W I L L  EVER OFFICIATE WITHIN I T S
WALLS.
ABOUT
IT WILL BE GARDENS AND FOUN-
TAINS.
BEYOND
THESE, A SERLES OF BUILDINGS
DEVOTED TO TITE APPLICATIOY
OF TRUE RELIGION
TO LIFE. OXLY WORSHIP AND PR-IISE
CAN BE
VOICED IN THE TEMPTS
ITSELF."
(Literary Digest, Aug. 1920.)
THE FIRST MASHRIQU'L-A-AR
TO BE BUILT IN AMERICA,
WILLMETTE, CHICAGO, ILL.
FOUNDATION STONE LAID
BY 'ABDU'L-BAHA, MAY 1st. 1912.

WITH THE MOST MELODIOUS VOICES IN THE GAL-
LERIES BUILT IN THE TEMPLE
OF THE MACERIQU'L
.
AKKAR. THE PRAYERS
OF THE LORD
SHALL BE
2- '
CHANTED
IN A MANNER TO ATTRACT HEARTS AND
SOULS. "
"BLESSED IS HE WHO LISTENS TO THE
RIVER OF LIFE ! "

ALLAH'U'ABHA !
" He who invi&th the people in My Name,
he is of Me."
(BahA'uyW.)
a
"You &all put crowns on their heads : crowns
set with brilliant jewels which shine like stars :
cram of everlasting brightness that will not
fall off."
('~bdu'l-B&&.)
REVELATION OF BAH~U'LLAH
IS UNITY TRIUMPHANT
e
SATISFACTION.
t
k W T may be assumed that in the Merent schools
a:
% spiritual s8tisfrction : and in our travels we have
found at times that we have hrd to let some things
%
go in order to receive the satisfaction which belongs
to fuller pastures. Probably, in all fields of search
:*%A
: we have found something we could not let go,
+
perceive it leads to Unity : for the things we have
.
to let go are merely our prejudices---or the preju-
a -  :
dices of other people-against
a further knowledge
of it.
: .
Tmth is a280 satisfaction : And the utmost satis-
faction is to be found in the Teachings of
- i
i '

Bahi'u'llih.
They are a Lighthouse of Spiritual
Guidance to those of all Religions, who are crying
out for that promised Light, w5ich is the special
need of this Age : for many know, and confess,
they have it not.
The Revelation of Bahb'u'llirh
is not exclusive. Coming to those who worship
God under different Names, and to those who
accept no Religion, it fulfils the Prophecies of God,
and meets the highest social aspirations of Humani-
tarianism. Securing all that is of the highest sight,
Bahi'u'lllh saves ,Religion from drowning in the
Sea of Names : and elevates the Host by distin-
guishing the Light from the lamp which holds it,
calling upon all to worship God only.
" There is no God, but God," says M&ammad,
and all the Prophets with one accord have ex-
claimed : " Glory be to God !" So the First Com-
mandment of Moses is confirmed in every New
Dispensation of Ehe Spirit, to keep mankind in the
straight Path of accomplishment, away from the
ruts of fruitless idolatry.
In this Day of the Lord, Bahii'u'llih brings
essential Laws to establish the Kingdom of God,
on Earth, in order that the Glory of God may be-
come manifest before all eyes.
The Name of
BahH'u'llih stands for the Glory of God.
For this Jesus lived, and He suffered crucifixion,
because religious men took offence at His claim to
hethe Son of His Heavenly Father.
'&&&'i Revelation is the Qiblih* of Salva-
whole world, did the world but know it :
rstanding; as friends and lovers, " of one
n a house. "
have no greater Scriptural proof than that
,-#I be found in " Hidden Words " (Bahh'u'llih),
agr Creator bespeaks joy and gladness, for all who
~
~
nature of things, have been expounded by His
!;.- Prophets, and are written in the Sacred Scriptures
of all Religions, and all the " free thought " in
the world cannot change those Laws.
The Truth
&: -
FY
cannot be overthrown, and nobody is wise who
thinks contrary to it. Bahi'u'llHh assures each
individual of God's Love, and of the ecstatic joy
of life, which enables those who keep His Laws to
rise triumphantly glorious, even over death itself.
For fulness of life in' Gad's Kingdom, on earth,
and throughout eternity, is the prophecy of the
Religion of God.
*"&iblih,"
the Point to which devoted ones turn in
reverence, as Christians to the East.

d -
In an elementary Persian text book, used in
o the fairminded
schools, it is written, " Justice half Religion is."
k in God and in
The same little book states as a proof of God's
m h  other, is in all things provided, and
Love to individuals, that He gives to each " a
be 'met with recognifion, responsive generosity,
Mother." This proof none can misunderstmd, for
and true thankfulness on our part-
it is not a mere matter of words. It is written in
Satisfaction, joy, and gladness will become i d -
many Scriptures that " God is Love," and by the
vidud and universal experience, when all arise from
power of His Spirit, many have sacrificed their
the bed of indifference, and by the power of the
lives to prove that Faith.
Spirit of God, decide to take and to offer to
If then, Justice is half Religion, the other half
the overflowing Cup of Generosity which
must be Mercy and Generosity : for it is God the
Bahi'u'llith offers to Humanity, to-day.
Merciful, the Generous, the Giver, Who through
The Day of Grace inaugurated by Jesus, has
Bahi'u'llith addresses each one of His children with
had a long spell of centuries and has suffered con-
the utmost Divine Love and Courtesy :
siderable abuse. And it will be remembered that
He was aware it would be so; for when it was
" 0 SON
OF SPIRIT
!
suggested by His disciples that the goodly disposed
Justice h loved above all. Neglect it not if thou
should be separated from the evil doers, H e  re-
desirest Me. By It thou zsilt be strengthened
ether until the
to perceive things with thine own eyes and not
with the eyes of men, to know them by thine
This Day is the Harvest of the seed-sowing of
own knowledge, and not by the knowledge of
Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, and of all the Mani-
any in the world, Meditate on this-how
thou
efore them, when
oughtest to be.
Justice is of M y  Bounty to
*
the wheat will be gathered into the barn of reality,
thee, and of My Providence over thee; therefore
anJ the chaff scattered by the winds of circum-
keep it ever before thy sight."
stance, or discarded as stubble. All that is not of
-
reality will perish in the realms of forgetfulness,
Seeing then, God's Love in the nature of things,
or God willing, become purified in the fires of
hearing of it through His Moly Prophets, and each
remorse.
experiencing it through a Mother's love, should
we be i~elvonsive to the wonderful bounty of
The Call of the Kingdom is Now ! Now is the
God ? Since Justice enables ~u to see things with
accepted time !
P -
L3

DIVINE PRINCIPLES THE FOUNDATION
AND TRUTH OF BEING.
T is now over fifteen years since the writer
of this grateful testimony was attracted by
the
- Holy Fragrances ' of
BrthB'u'llivh,
through a handful of His followers, who at that
time met at the Higher Thought Centre, in
London. A room had been engaged there for the
purpose of expounding the Bahb'i Teachings, and
many were the questions put by earnest students to
Miss Ethel J. Rosenberg, to110 had made the pil-
grimage to Acca, and having sojourned in the
home of the Master, had many beautiful stories to
tell of His constant kindness to all arouna Him,
as well as much important Teaching to impart,
which she herself had received direct from Him.
The beautiful and indefinable spiri'i peculiar to the
Bahd'i Dispensation was always evident in those
gatherings, and through our persistent questioning
some of us sought, and found, intellectual satisfac-
tion, as well.
Most of the Teaching given at the. Higher
Thought Centre was of the nature of practical
modern metaphysics, pertaining to healing, and
individuil and general welfare. It was based on
the hypothesis of Divine Principles as the origin,
foundation, permanence, and Truth of Being, and
as aid to individual perception of Truth.
1 perception; for it i s a  Divine out-pouring
. Spiet to meet the needs of Humanity, and
rs its own sacrificial proof to demonstrate its
of-both ancient and modern Seers.
= .
~ It was natural that this magnanimous claim
should excite persistent questions, for some were
present who thought they had found Truth in a
measure deliglitfully entrancing in one or other
, we of' the different presentations of Metaphysical
* ( I r  Truth of Being."
Grace Western).

ideas which had too long hamped our spirit in
the name of theology. So being set h e  from aU
that, and believing the Truth had set us free, we
rejoiced in a study of Divine Principles, with the
understanding that t h y  were b r  current e x p r e
sion-in
all personalities.
There was no mere " divine immanence," or
" spark " of divinity within us, not in our concep
tion of ourselves, such as is now conceded by
theology, but potentially, the complete " image
and likeness " as stated in Scripture, which is
natural and common between Father and Son, just
waiting to be discovered and demonstrated, as bit
by bit we unwrapped ourselves from the mental
" swaddling clothes " which bound us; so it was
with a " reverent recognition of our Divine birth-
right, that we claimed our kinship with the
~lmighty . " *
The study of Divine Principles had sef us free
from the meshes of theology, and given us a deeper
insight into the Teachings of Jesus. W e  took Him
to be the Word, t%e Light, the Truth, and the
Way of Life, expressed Personally, to lighten the
Path of His followers throughout the Christian
Era ; sufficient, until the further Light which He
promised in the fulness of Time, sfiould Come.
For the " Spirit within us " bore testimony to the
fact, that He had demonstrated Ris Divine quali-
ties to the utmost; and since we per-ceived, and
con-ceived ourselves to be the children of the
(" The Builder and the Plan." Urrola N. Gestefeld).
&~uld not grow in grace, " to the measure of the
My Father's House are many mansions : I go, to
pkpare a place for you."
How lovable and tender this assurance concern-
ing the Heavenly Kingdom, into which, through
His own mind, Jesus so graciously permitted His
our sake, and for the sake of righteousness, because
the tree of God's planting must bear fruit, and
the Manifestations of God in each Visitation are
ante, and sustainea by food some " know not of."
: They always bear the fruits of reality, and they
- never mock one by unacceptable propositions.
' SO the children of the Kingdom have now a
C

right.
we find that in the heart of God there is
a place for every one, and Glory be to Him ! The
Call to His Kingdom, is Now !
The prpohe of this endeavour is that some
who may read will become interested in that Call.
For it is to those who know not of it these words
e
written, in the hope that their keen interest
will be aroused in the Sacred Writings of their
own Day, and in the Divine Laws revealed through
the Supreme Pen of Bahi'u'llHh.
His Call to the Kingdom, is Now! Have we
heard it? What is our reply? Do we pass it on,
or remain deaf and dumb?
The Kingdom of
Heaven cannot be controlled by selfish seekers
after their own glory.
The most honourable
places are filled-by those who can drink the Cup
of Sacrifice.
Lqt us take a time of reverent
silence, alone, sometimes, in remembrance of those
who have drunk that Cup for us, if we cannot do
so in the fellowship Remembrance, to which their
Sacred Hearts invited us.
W e  may not abase ourselves before Them.
That is not what They came for. Such abase-
ment has been in the past one of the greatest
religious mistakes, and contrary to the spirit of
resurrection : for They bave ever called us to
fellowship with the Highest.
There has never
been any discourtesy from Them, to us. Quite
the contrary. They are blind imitators who feign-
ing obeisance, teach others to abase themselves ;
but the holy, loving, and devoted reverence which
i?of understanding, and is real, cannot be
w-
*-&we brothers and sisters in the Heavenly
md Jesus has been named our Elder
her+, because He consciously demonstrated the
h of Being, and as far as is generally known,
LefScst to be called the Son of God. At the
walked this earth H e  was known as the
!&gotten Son of God, and men gnashed their
at such a claim.
It mas accounted blas-
kny in those dark days, but now, it is taken as
b t t e r  of course.
For the fin+ wnrJ ;n +he
-ed
ear
- --
all tl
~enly
--- .,"
and n
,ther,
.."ill
LOW we
is real
U
W

kno
bla
mat there should be children of the Spirit, was
4 hard for men to understand. Hence theologi-
k4bbrications and the interminable discussions
keen those who affirm, and those who deny,
t Divinity of Christ !
The immaculate conception takes place in the
ind, when we are born of the Spirit, and is the
lception which we have of ourselves and each
othep. There is a little clarifying verse which nlns :
.% 66 Though Christ in Bethlehem a thousand times
be born.
g
If He's not born in you, your hope is all for-
$
lorn. y 9
P
1.
3 The example of Jesus is naturally and essen-
tially the judgment, the resurrection, and the life
IL

-
of us all. For by His life H e  brought us into con-
scious active communion with the Father, proved
the resurrection of His Spirit, and thus gave us
everlasting Life.
Early acquaintance with the Bahh'i Teachings,
will naturally, in a Christian country, find many so
entranced by the beatific vision of Jesus, which
makes clear such hossibilities for the children of
men, that they may hesitate to examine their own
Scriptures concerning the present-day Revelation,
which in them, is promised.
But it is hoped, that
when they remember Jesus promised it, they can-
not refrain from examining the matter.
For
surely, all must soon become aware that the Light
of Divine Intelligence illumines the path of
humanity with resplendent beauty, in our own
day.
To turn aside from it is to court disaster, and to
become lost i s  the labyrinths and cross-currents
of mental confusion; for it is the Re-appearance
of that Spiritual Light, which lighteth the whole
world. It awakens the individual consciousness to
a knowledge of divine origin, and so con-
fims the claim of Jesus, I'lato, and Socrates;
and is the Divine response in the nature of things--
to the need of this bewildered world.
i i
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM.
:Am
!.
HROUGHOUT the 19th century " Free-
* U dom " was the parrot cry of the unthink-
ing majority, and the constant watchword
-
Notwithstanding the many blessings of freedom,
which last century has bequeathed to this, the abuse
g4.d high-minded men : yet this corxmon cry did
mt uf itself bring about political freedom to
;+. women.
Women had to claim it.
With many, freedom becam; little more than a
fetish, or a licence, a sort of beautiful doll which
. grown-up people liked to play with, and which
often led them into chains ; as idolatry of any kind
C.: alysys does.
W e  know some statesmen have
*
k
actually gone so far as to say, they would rather
P
see England " free " than " sober " ! Though
[ it is clear there will not be much freedom worth
' having for any country which does not get free
7 %  from the ravages of strong drink.
And good
&:
patriots of every land who have worked in the face
F-";
of ignominy to set humanity free from it, will re-
joice to know that it is a Bahh'i Precept that
ac
" alcoholic liquor shall not be used as a beverage" ;
g
for it has blighted many a brilliant career, and
wrecked the happiness of millions of homes.
Ft
&a
of it has left us with such an undesirable c r o ~
of
conditions, that the special work of this 20th cen-

Harmony, is exceedingly difficult : so difficult,
that without clear Spintuul Guidance, such a task
could not be accomplished.
There are many organisations on foot to-day,
which, representing only partial good, gather their
armies together to attain supremacy and prefer-
ence over organisations representing other partial
good. The natural result being that there is chaos
and unnecessary hardship for many good people in
their efforts for religious, political, social and in-
dustrial reform. Though as St. Paul told us, " all
things work together for good to those that love
God."
And Bahi'u'llih looking out on such a
world of confusion, has declared in the Name of
God, that Religious, Political, Social, and Indus-
trial prejudices must be abolished.
'This will
mean the abolition of much futile slavery on the
part of those who wish to save the world from
destruction by inadequate means. For those who
advocate them have often in the past been known
to be cynical concerning the efforts of other people,
not knowing that all good is One.
Temperance
societies, for instance, have ignored Industrial
questions.
Socialism has scorned Religion as
fraudulent, and Religion repudiated Socialism as
materialistic. And it cannot be denied that each
has had a measure of truth in its objections. This
only proves the impartiality of Truth, which can-
not be seen with a biassed mind.
When belong-
ing to more than one organisation for reform,
many a time have the hearts of some been stabbed
icism of perso
bejudice have
nal friend
renderel
Is, wb
d co
LO showi
nversati
, '' You are no child of mine," have fathers been
b w n  to say to their children, " if you do not be-
eve " this, or that. Or, '< out of my house you
go, if you refuse to fetch my beer." And children
who would have refused to go for beer, have had to
to the tap room for their father, because their
$
- i mother's heart was breaking.
Such episodes do
not help children to keep the Fifth Commandment
E. of Moses.
.,
Alas ! the hopes of many fathers even to-day are
,- centred on the turf, and their minds concentrated
k on the beer glass; because, as the late Venerable
@ Dean of Peterborough (one time Vicar of St.
Matthews, Leicester,") used then so clearly to ex-
plain with emphasis : " .- Gambling
- - -
- & a d e s i ~ e t ~
profit bzanothefs loss."
How can anybody keep the Commandments of
God who claims the right of freedom in un-
-
brotherly indulgences?
Those who try can only
supply instances of the folly of making a god of
C C  Freedom," which, like some other things, is
good for good purposes and bad for bad ones.
Many to-day regard the honour of the turf as in-
ld d
'are
-
ismiss God as
of their dut~
- - - - - - - - -
fictitious,
i' to their
---- --
and cl
own
- - - - - - -.
re there
childrei
or to the nloth~r
nf them- I t  i q  nmnnino that c ~ l f -
-
&
respecting persons can t u n  away from that which

is really hono&able, and belittle their own inWli
gence by extolling honour which is a fictitious
affair, and, with the enemies of society, dismiss all
consideration of their solemn obligations made in
the presence of' witnesses, to their own chosen
partners in life.
It is a pity there are both men
and women who so delude themselves. May the
spirit of understanding open the eyes of any who
have not seen the truth in such matters.
" A man's only bondage is his word," says the
Prophet Jeremiah, and it is for each to decide to
whom he gives his word.
H e  can give it to the
truest and best of Friends, or to the Tempter. His
Creator is benign, and it is ordained in the nature
of things that Man has, for s test, the freedom of
-
choice.
$HERE has been in times past, and very
) properly, a great outcry against the fierce-
ness of industrial competition. ' Often it
US ask : " Are we on earth, or
bell? " And Kingsley, who was not him-
@ tortured in the mills of industry, has wondered
behalf of his fellows, " if there will be any com-
%tition in heaven ? "
PZ Gmnting, of course, that heaven is a condition of
%cart and mind, that it is essentially communal
h d  not individualistic, the reality within should
&ow evidences without, and it would not then
could have any
that work don€
. ---
place.
: faithfully
a spirit of service is acceptable as an act of worship,
f seems to dispose of the spirit of competition, and
P
$ by giving a benevolent incentive to heavenlier
i- '
:, graces, it suggests not only industrial harmony, but
the 2ossibility
ssed benedictio
- .
of bringil
In: "Pea
-- on earth, and Goodwill towards men."
What-
ever one's religious, social, or political views may
' be, no one would object to that most desirable state
'r d things.
How much stranger, how much more
B
* b capable we are, when happy in our work ! Surely

such practicable demonstration of Religion would
win the adherence of all men, and very soon make
atheism, anarchy and rebellion obsolete; for we
are raised by our ideals, and such thoughts would
then have no place in the common mind ; therefore
honest lovers of humacity should not scoff at
idealists, for " High aims overleap the bounds of
low successes."
W e  are brothers and sistersi and
if we have not attained perfection, we shall inci-
dently help each other by aiming at it. There are
worlds of endeavour to conquer, which would give
men a rest from conquering each other.
Competition lets loose the wolf spirit, and
though " all the ways of man are right, in his own
eyes ; the Lord meigheth the spirits."
The spirit
of envy, jealousy, and selfishness is engendered by
competition ; yet these are forbidden and despised,
and incompatible with peace.
Spiritually, emo-
tionally and psychically, conlpetition is unmercihl,
unjust, vainglorious and unsound : a satanic de-
vice to oppress the so& of men. It has resulted
in riches being heaped up superfluously upon the
few, and too often left many deprived of the bare
means of existence.
Even the young, in some
countries, have been known to commit suicide, be-
cause failure to pass examinations in " the
clumsy dust of ancient knowledges " has doomed
them to military service and despair. They have
preferred not to live, rather than to live under such
cnlel and insane conditions.
To do one's utmost
in the way of service and attainment should satisfy
1 reasonable beings-but
to be always wanting to
&la,-, n t h ~ r  npnnle is to rob life of its courtesies
-- ----
'
Jndustrial competition savows too much of corn-
L1~it-m-
takes the ~oetrv out of life, and robs in-
F- --
part in making the very universe ring with joy.
The iov of satisfaction-to
be experienced by all :
,,break away refusing to be sharpened; and no
k b t s  and shoes which cripple us.
Pure food and
F nn alhct;tl~tpa - hpnlltifirl fnlit: nuts. and other
tbat"' all things which we need, will be added unto
Z" W, in measure pressed down and running over, be-
yond anything which n-e can think, or speak."
- That, we know, is the generous promise of God.
But alas ! The ravages of competition have not
, only been evident in industry. I n  Science, Art,
Literature, and even in Religion itself, the desire
F: of the false to attain glory, and to dominate the
.
true, has also been known. It is unnecessary to
,I
dwell upon it. But in this time of re-construction
we should see to it that the true, in all lines of

tion of the Religion of God is One. Therefore all
h u g h  which one passes from Washington
effort, whether it be religious, political, social, in-
muare, into Fifth Avenue, New York.
There
dustrial, or humanitarianshould be directed with
&e rich have repaired. And it is hoped that the
due appreciation and regard to that Divine
gich in this world's goods will hasten to b m e  the
Economy which has made all things One.
Other-
wisest and most honest of people, that they may
wise, heavenly zeal is consumed.
Competitive
achieve the feat which the Lord Christ said : " is
effort is selfish, separative, unsatisfactory, and is
more difficult than the passing of a camel through
not in accord with the Divine Policy which cares
a needle's eye."
There are rich in all lands, even
for all, provides for all, and comprehends all.
the poorest of lands. And when so many are in
Far Truth being One and indivisible, spiritual
extreme need, this requires csp'lanation.
values cannot be used in a spirit of rivalry and in-
dependence under separate banners, through failure
to appreciate their relation to each other and to
the Source from which they spring ; any more than
fractions can be used without regard to their rela-.
\%%en the rich cease to oppress the poor because
tive value to each other and to the Whole Number
- all, have inscribed George Washington's standard
which governs them.
But it is not all, we gratefully remember, who
on heart and mind, we shall see the endeavour for
would trifle with the Oneness of natural and
one Financial standard throughout the world.
spiritual Law.
Some there are who agonise even
Then, neither the dollar, nor the pound, the
franc, the mark, or the rupee, will have advan-
now in conflicting organizations which cry out
-
tage or disadvantage.
For Life is One, and in
like locusts for sustenance : while many are broken
in the endeavour to support them.
And this is
their relation to each other they all represent life
bound to happen when that which is partly true
values.
The unfortunate will not always be sub-
does not relate itself with the wliole.
The wise
ject to further misfortune, by becoming the slaves
.
of the money market as they are to-day.
There
and the honest relate themselves with the whole
are different sorts of slavery which need to be
Truth. George Washington must have felt this,
when he exclaimed : " Let us raise a Standard to
which the wise and the honest can repair.
The
Event is in the hands of God."
If memory serves
correctly those words are inscribed on the Arch
-
standards in finance, morals, industry, religion,
4 1

and in an human relationships.
But it is not
enough to aspire separately. It is necessary for
individuals and natio~is to aspire together, in order
to secure the refreshing fairriess in these matters,
which is their heart's desire.
Melodious individual voices have reverberated
through the centuries', and are now blended into
One Voice, which is calling all to Unity.
Jesus yearned in prayer for Unity. The Bahh'i
Teachings come in answer to that prayer, calling
all to gather in that ,which is the ripe Harvest of
His seed-sowing.
The Principles of BahbYu'lliH are Pillars of
Strength, in establishing Unity.
They enable us
to see that to be free, is not enough; because
Humanity is One Family, and an all-comprehend-
ing glance should enlist the practical help of every
one, in establishing Unity and Harmony the world
over.
The Human Ideal, should be Hannony and
Oneness. Then will all see with God's Sight, and
the effort for Unity, will incidentally set indi-
viduals free from the greatest of all bondage-the
bondage of self.
'ABDU LBAHA
ON INDUSTRIAL UNREST.
BDU'I
said ' You have
u-
tioxied me about strikes. This question
is and will be the subject of great diffi-
-
culties.
Strikes are due to two causes.
One is
the extreme sharpness and rapacity of the capi-
talists and manufacturers : the ,other, the excesses,
the avidities, and ill-will of the workmen and arti-
sans. It is therefore necessary to remedy these
two causes. "
F
" But the principal cause of these difficulties lies
in the I.aws of the present civilization : for they
,-*
i-
lead to a small number accu~nulating incomparable
fortunes, beyond their needs, whilst the greater
number remains destitute, stripped, and in the
greatest misery. This is contrary to justice, to
4.:
humanity, to equity; it is the height of iniquity,
the opposite to what causes divine satisfaction.
!t
" This contrast is peculiar to the world of man :
V i t h  other creatures, that is to say with nearly all
e
., .
animals, there is a kind of justice and equality.
Thus in a shepherd's flock of sheep, inva troop oE
deer in the country, among the birds of the prairie,
of the hill, or the orchard, almost every animal

receives a just share based on equality.
With
munity would be quite destroyed.
Thus, there is
them such difference in the means of existence is
a great wisdom in the fact that equality is not
not to be found : so they live in the most complete
imposed by law; it is therefore preferable for
peace and joy. ".
- moderation to do the work.
The main point is, by
" It is quite otherwise with the human species,
means of laws and regulations to hinder the con-
which persists in the greatest error, and in absolute
stitution of excessive fortunes of certain indi-
iniquity.
Consider an indindual who has amassed
viduals, and to protect the essential needs of the
treasures by colonising a country for his ~rofit. He
masses.
For instance the manufacturers and the
has obtained an incomparable fortune, and has
industrials heap up a treasure each day, and the
secured profits and incomes which flow like a river,
poor artisans do not gain their daily sustenance;
whilst a hundred thousand unfortunate people,
weak and powerless, are in need of a mouthful of
accept it. Therefore laws and regulations should
bread. There is neither equality nor brotherhood.
be established which would permit the workmen
So you see that general peace and joy are
to receive from the factory owners their wages and
destroyed, the welfare of humanity is partly anni-
a share in the fourth or the fifth part of the profits,
hilated, arid that collective life is fruitless.
In-
according to the wants of the factory, and the
deed, fortune, honours, commerce, industry, are
in the hands of some individuals, while other people
In other words the workmen should receive wages
are subject to quite a series of difficulties and to
which assure them adequate support, and when
limitless troubles ; they have neither advantages,
nor profits, nor comfort, nor peace."
" Then rules and laws should be established to
regulate the excessive fortunes of certain private
to satisfy the workmen with the amount they
individuals and to limit the misery of millions of
receive, so that they may be able to put a little
the poor masses ; thus a certain moderation would
aside for days of want and helplessness."
be obtained. However, absolute equality is just as
" When matters are thus fixed, the owner of a
impossible, for absolute equality in fortunes,
factory will no longer put aside daily a treasure
honours, commerce, agriculture, industry, would
which he has absolutely no need of; and, the work-
end in a want of comfort, in discouragement, in
men and artisans will no longer be in the greatest
disorganisation of the means of existence, and in
misery and want, and will not be subjected to the
llniversal disappointment : the order of the com-
greatest privations at the end of their life."
4 1
D

(G Without taking into consideration that the
longer rebel and revolt, nor demand beyond their
fortune is disproportionate, the capitalist succumbs
rights : they should no longer go out on strike, they
under formidable burdens, and gets into the
should be obedient and submissive, and not ask for
greatest difficulties and troubles ; the administra-
impossible wqes. Bct the mutual rights of both
tion of an excessive fortune is very difficult and
associated parties will be fixed and established
exhausts man's strength. ")
according to custom by just and impartial laws. In
~t is then clear and evident that the repdition
case one of the two parties should transgress, the
of excessive fortunes amongst a small number of
courts of justice would have to give judgment and
individuals, while the masses are in misery is an
by an efficacious fine put an end to the transgres-
iniquity and an injustice. In the same way abw-
sion ; thus order will be reestablished, and the diffi-
lute equality would be an obstacle to life, to wel-
culties settled. The interference of courts of justice
fare, to order, and to the peace of humanity. In
and of the Government in difficulties pending be-
such a
a just medium is prefernble. I t
,
tween manufacturers and workmen is legal, for the
lies in the capitalists being moderate in the ac-
reason that current affairs between workmen and
qisition of their profits, and in their having 3
manufacturers cannot be compared with ordinary
for the poor and needy; that is to
affairs between private persons, which do not con-
say, the workmen and artisans should receive a
tern the public, and with which the Government
fixed and established daily wage, and have a share
should not occupy itself. I n  reality, although they
in the general profits of the fac.tor~."
appear to be matters between private persons,
c c  It would be wen, with regard to the social
these difficulties between employers and workmen
rights of manufactulrers, workmen and artisans,
produce geneml detriment : for commerce, in-
that laws be established, giving moderate profits to
dustry, agriculture and general affairs of the
manufacturers, and to workmen the necessary
country are all intimately linked together.
If
means of existence and security for the future.
one of these suffers an abuse, the detriment affects
Thus, when they become feeble and cease working,
the mass. Thus the difficulties between workmen
get old and helpless, and die leaving children under
and nlanufacturers become a cause of general
age, these children will not be annihilated by excess
detriment. "
of poverty.
And it is from the income of the
"The Court of Justice and the Government have
factory itself, to which they have a right to derive
therefore the right of interference. m e n  a diffi-
the means of existence."
occurs between two individuals with refer-
" In the same way, the workmen should no
ence to private rights, it is necessary for a third to

- ?
settle the question ; this is the part of the Govern-
Laura Cliflord Barney.
I t  is contained in t b
ment; then the question of strikes-which
causes
A?'nel.ican edition of 1918, but
inamtrial
trouble to the country and is often connected
ttVubh are wor1d-roide, it zs given here fm t b
with the excessive vexations of Ehe workmen, as
benefit of those who might not othe4ae know of'
well as with the rapacity of manufacturers-how
the Solution portmyed by 'Abdu'l-Bahd,
the
could it remain neglected? "
Semant of God.
" Good God ! Is it possible, that seeing one of
his fellow creatures starving, destitute of every-
thing, a man can rest and live comfortably in his
luxurious mansion?
H e  who meets another in
the greatest misery, can he enjoy his fortune?
Therefore, in the Religion of God, it is prescribed
and estaBIished that wealthy men each year give
a certain part of their fortune for the main-
tenance of the poor and unfortunate.
This is the
foundation of the Religion of God, and the most
essential of the Commandments. "
" While man is not forced by the Government,
whenever by the natural tendency of his good
heart, and with the greatest spirituality, he makes
provision for the poor, it is most praiseworthy, and
well pleasing to God and man."
" Such is the meaning of the good works in the
Divine Books and Tablets."-
The above dhcourse on " Strikes,'' is taken from
an " Appendix," to the London 1908 edition of
" Some Answered Questions,"
Collected and
Translated from the Persian of 'Abdu'l-Bahh, by

To bring mirthfulness to every weeping one ;
To become salubrious water to every thirsty
one ;
THE -BEWARE TABLET.
To be the cause of glory to every fallen one;
And to be charitable to all the p r .
HE Friends of God and Handmaidens of
Beware ! Beware ! Lest ye offend any heart !
(3 the Merciful must render service to the
Beware ! Beware ! Lest ye hurt any soul !
Oneness of the Human world, and
13eware ! Beware ! Lest ye deal unkindly to-
show love and a 5 i t y  to all the children of men.
ward any person !
They must deal with the utmost devotion, good-
Beware ! Beware ! Lest ye be the cause of
will, love, and kindness, towards all Humanity."
hopelessness to any creature !
His Highness, Bahi'u'llih,
addressing the
Should any soul become the cause of grief to any
World says :
one heart, or of despondency to any one soul, it
" Ye are all the leaves of One Tree, the fruits of
were better for him to hide himself in the lowest
One Branch."
Therefore the law of relationship,
strata of the Earth, than to walk upon the Earth.
brotherhood, kinship, fatherhood and motherhood,
Should any soul desire the abasement of his Kind,
is established and proven amongst all the families
undoubtedly nonentity were better for him : his
of the Human Race.
nonexistence better than his existence, and his
Endeavour Ye, with a11 your heart and soul, so
death better than his life."
that you may live and act in accordance with the
" Therefore my advice to you is : Endeavour as
Teachings of Bahir'u'llih.
much as you can to show kindness to all men, to
To become a shelter and an asylum to every
deal with perfect love, affection and devotion with
oppressed one ;
all the individuals of Humanity.
Remove from
To assist and uplift every vanquished one ;
amongst yourselves, racial, patriotic, religious,
To be a skilled physician to every sick one ;
sectional, political, commercial, industrial, and
To bestow a swjfi healing antidote to every
agricultural prejudices ; so that ye may become
wounded one ;
the founders of the structures of the Oneness of
To inspire with confidence every fearful one ;
Humanity.
All countries are One country; all
To grant tranquillity and composure to every
nations are the children of One Father.
The
agitated one ;
struggle for existence among the ferocious wolves
To gladden the heart of every depressed one ;
has become the cause of all these differences, and

strifes; otherwise the expanse of the World is
and be assured of it, by evidences in the lives of
spacious, and the Table of the Bounties of the
Almighty is spread in all regions.""
Then, indeed, will the Glory of dod ';cover
Upon Ye, be Baha El Abha !
the earth."
Have not the Prophets, of every
(Signed) 'ABDU'L-BQHA
ABBAS.
Age proclaimed that " these things shall be ? "
God's Will is good-will to all mankind, and
One can scarcely read this Tablet of Bahb'u9-
this knowledge should incline all to attune their
llbh with concentrated attention without being
hearts to the countless melodies of the Divine
conscious that the Voice of God is calling, or
Message for To-day, and to recognize that the
without experiencing a baptism of the Holy
Spirit.
Some Bahais have called it "The
Beware Tablet," not only for obvious reasons to
THE LORD OF HOSTS
be found in the Tablet itself, but perhaps also
with an inner knowledge of the necessity of
has been manifested in accordance with the ful-
exercising constantly that divine kindness to
filment of Prophecy, and is calling all men to
which we have ever been called by the Messengers
unite under the Banner of Universal Harmony.
of God, in every Age.
Divine kindness has been made manifest to the
To-day, that Call is again made clear by
world through Baha'u'llah and ‘ Abdu'l-&ha,
Bahb'u'llbh,
the Nightingale of SignXcances.
the Greatest Branch, even as in former Time,
Divine kindness has been manifested by Him, and
it has, been manifested by Jesus, the Christ,
has been exemplified in the life of 'Abdu'l-BahA,
Whose teaching and the teaching of the Prophets
the Greatest Branch.
anticipated the appearance of Bahh'u'llah and
When that kindness which blends the human
'Abdu'l-Bahit in the world.
with the divine is manifested the world over,
It remains for each and all of us to manifest
from each to all, in accordance with the Divine
good-will to each other by the power of the
Exhortation, all will become conscious of the
Spirit which gives life to us all, in order that the
presence of the living God, for we shall in each
Kingdom of God may be realized on Earth.
other, see glimpses of God-likeness, face to face,
* Translated by Mirsa Ahmad Sohrab, Washington, D.C.
Nor. 11, 1910.

ance with the necessities of the Time it has become
due, and the inclination to dismiss Prophecy with
its broader scope as something belonging to the
THE UNIVERSALITY
realms of uncertainty, has hidden the all-em brac-
OF ETERNAL TRUTH.
ing Purpose of Religion from view.
So we may not forget, that Truth is indivisible.
OWARDS the end of His time on Earth,
W e  must know that it is the Spirit of Truth which
(3 Jesus clearly said there were " other
moves the Prophets and Saviours of the world to
things " which He had to say unto His
deliver the ITniversal Messages of God.
They
disciples, which then, they could not bear : but
always invite individual co-operation : therefore
that at a time when no man knoweth, " Another
Prophecy cannot be dismissed, for it is laden with
would come in the Spirit of Truth, and guide them
just and righteous Purpose for the whole of
into all Truth."
H e  also said when offering the
Cup at the Feast of His own Passover, " I will
The recognition of Divine Universal Principles
not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until
. is necessary to the happiness of individuals and
that day when I drink it new with you in My
Nations.
This
knowledge
will
incidentally
Father's Kingdom."
(Matt., Chap. 26, ver. 29.)
bridge that painful difference of opinion between
Nearly 2,000 years have passed since those words
Christians of some denominations concerning
were spoken with a meaning which covered the
whether they should take an interest in the right-
Passing of the Son on the cross of rejection, and
eous government of the world ; for application ot
the coming of the Father's Kingdom to establish
the principles of Righteousness to national and
the Glory of God on Earth.
international affairs will naturally make it easier
Yet, free as we have believed ourselves to be,
for every one to live up to their Religion. Where-
Christians, in common with those of other Reli-
as unjust social relationship between individuals
gions, have confined themselves to the habit of not
or nations deprives many of hope, either in this
looking beyond the Teaching of the Founder of
life or the life to come. Righteous Principles are
their own Religion-as
that Teaching relates to
all-comprehending and will put party politics out
individual salvation.
This tendency, together
of court.
with the disposition to idolatry and place-seeking
To-Day, the comnlanding Voice of God speaks
rather than to obedience, creates a difficulty in
through BahA'u'llAh, and we know it to be the
accepting further Revelstion now, when in accord-
same Volce of Righteousness which has spoken

through all the Manifestations of God Who have
appeared under different Names : from 'Moses,
Abraham, Jesus, or Mlgemmd, who all saw afore-
time that Divine Event which has come to pass
through the travail of their Soul-the
rising of the
Sun of Righteousness in the world of Humanity
to make all men One-the
establishing of the
Kingdom of God, on Earth.
Bahi9u'll& comes in the Spirit of the Father,
therefore all we hold dear for the individual in the
Name of
Jesus, He gives in overwhelming
measure; but His Teachings, fulfilling Prophecy,
contain also further Revelation of God's Will con-
cerning Universal affairs, and the Divine Will is
clearly expressed in the Principles given to the
world by Him. They are the Ropes of God given
for the world's salvation in this time of difficulty
and transition, and to which all who desire the
protection of God should cling.
For they are
essential to establish on Earth, the Most Great
Peace.
Being Principles of Righteousness, tbey
are easy to understand, and should readily find n
home in every heart.
UNIVERSAL
PRINCIPLES OF B A H ~ U ~ L L A H .
HICH are Rays from the Sun of Right-
eousness now penetrating the mind of
Mankind, for they represent important
Measures of Justice, now over-due, and are essen-
tial to the establishing on Earth, of
THE MOST GREAT PEACE.
GOTTEN.
PO. SOLUTION
OF THE ECONOMIC
PROBLEM.

i
/
I
A list of BahB'i publications will be appended
Handmaidens of the Merciful are moved by
for those interested in further study of the Bahb'i
the
power
of
the Spirit
coming through
Faith, and in the Sacred Writings of Bahb'u'l-
~~hb'u'llih; (the same Christ Spirit which filled
1Ah and cAbdu'l-BahB, seekers after Tmth may
Jesus) to spread the knowledge of the Oneness of
find that which is more prccious than rubies, be-
God and the Oneness of Mankind.
cause it pertains to eternal life.
This is to be found through the Holy Books of
As Jems, an earnest student of the Scriptures,
God's Revelation which have been given in the
recognising Himself in them was undoubtedly the
past, is found in the present Revelation of Bahi-
best exponent of them, in His Day, so Bahh'u'llbh
'u'llbh, and will be found in as many more Revela-
in accepting Him, makes clear that the same Spirit
tions as may be necessary to bring Mankind into
is evident in all the Manifestations of God-that
complete rapport with the Laws of God, which
being one and the same Spirit, It proceeds from
pertain to general resurrection from the deadness
the only Source of Majesty.
So H e  delivers to
of trespasses and error.
us His Message, containing the greatest of all
The mines of wealth contained in God's Revela-
= Knowledge, the Knowledge of God. It is obvious
tions to Mankind are now opened up to us afresh,
therefore, to those who see with the eye of the
and more than they have ever been, through the
Spirit, that Bahh'u'llhh is the very Sunrise of
penetrating Sight of Bahb'u'llih, who, seeing
their Inner Meaning to be One Harmonious Whole,
H e  expounds God's Laws for to-day, in clear
courteo~lsly invites us to investigate and consider
and pristine purity, in order that His Covenant
it for ourselves, that we may participate in His
with God amongst the Nations may be fulfilled.
Vision of Eternal Truth which the all-compre-
and that Heavenly Kingdom, which Jesus  earned
hending Generosity of our God has provided for
for, be established on Earth.
us.
Clearly, H e  shows, we are the inheritors
Bahi'u'llbh, manifesting the Spirit of the Father,
of the Kingdom of Heaven. In Unity, we are
left, in accordance with Prophecy, His own Be-
rich indeed, but by separations and divisions we
loved Son, 'Abdu'l-RahB, to be the Centre of His
have made ourselves poor.
Covenant amongst the Nations, to establish the
The Inner Meaning of God's Revelation is the
Kingdoni of God on Earth. And by His hard and
Cup of Oneness which Bahd'u'llih offers. And
loving labour of delight, 'Abdu'l-Bahb has be-
those who accept it with understanding are im-
queathed to the world wisdom and guidance, neces-
pelled to offer it to others ; for the Friends of God
sary to protect the Cause of God from error.

In the lives, and through the Sacred Tablets and
They have made sincere attempts, but without
Holy Writings of BahH'u'llih and 'Abdu'l-Bahi,
' the Guidance which comes from God, Man cannot
the Spirit earnestly 'says to all : " Come !" And
bring Peace to the world.
H e  has been trying
unless the world heeds this Divine Invitation, it
ever since the world began, and has miserably
is inevitable that great calamities will overtake it.
Jesus was the clear exponent of the Sacred
It will be seen by all who consider them that
Writings before Him, and it will be seen that
the Principles of Bahd'u'llAh contain the very
Bahit'uYll& and 'Abdu'l-Bahb are clear exponents
essence of Peace : individual and universal. They
of the Divine Scriptures given before their appear-
are absolutely without prejudice.
No se&h in-
ance. Their own Sacred Writings are therefore
terest can be conserved when they are established.
as precious as the records concerning Jesus; for
And with these Pillars of uprightness and guiding
they make His sayings perfectly plain-and
fulfil
lines of construction-with
Christ Jesus the magni-
the promise of further Divine Guidance. Jesus
ficent Corner Stone, the rich gift of our Generous
gave us a New Commandment,
W e  have not
God-we
can with perfect confidence proceed to
kept it very well.
He was the Corner Stone,
establish the Kingdom of
God on Earth.
wbich the builders of His Day refused.
H e
BahH'u'llih has Covenanted with God, for this.
prayed for the Kingdom of God to come.
Gathering up the desires and aspirations of the
Bahi'u'llhh brings Laws and Principles of Guid-
Heavenly Messengers TVho have appeared before
ance, of universal importance-which
are essential
Him, H e  has made His Covenant with sacrifice,
to it. He, therefore, coming to proclaim the Glory
in order to establish the Most Great Peace.
of God, is the Desire of Nations to-day, and God's
Therefore, in this Day, a New Dispensation of
own Answer to the prayer of Jesus-"
Thy King-
the Spirit of God has come to us through
dom come, Thy Will be done, on Earth, as it is
Bahi'u'lldh, and leaves from the Tree of Life are
in Heaven. "
given for the Healing of suffering Nations.
Statesmen of many lands are assembling, and
not knowing that H e  Who is the " Desire of
Nations " has come to declare Universal Princi-
ples which are the Will of God, they are acting
on behalf of the Nations in a way which has not
yet brought Peace.
A brief historic note will be given on another
page, indicative of the outline of this most thrilling
Event of all Time-the
Coming of the Kingdom
of God on Earth. I t  will be seen that the Rib,
blessed be His Name, the Door ! through which
Light came, bears the same relation to Bahb'u'lldh

,
as John the Baptist bore to the Conling of Jesus-
~~h~ fllffered martyrdom for that reason, and like-
wise madyrdorn happened to the Bhb. But every
calamity which has occurred in the history of the
A UNIVERSAL
B&A'i Cause, has proved to be a great blessing
AUXILIARY LANGUAGE.
fraught with benign consequence.
T is written of men and nations that " a
What, for instance, could have seemed a greater
little child shall lead them."
Yes ; and
misfortune to the English people, the French, the
German, the Italian, or those of any country, than
to have a Divine Revelation coming to the world
in a tongue unknown to then1 ! How much trouble
" They shall not hurt or destroy in all my Holy
has arisen to Christians, because they have been
Mountain :
unable to read exactly what Jesus said in the langu-
For the Earth shall be filled with the knowledge
age in which H e  spoke, or in which His sayings
of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea."
were first recorded ! It is not impossible that some
meanings have crept in which mere not exactly
And we know it is the word which the Lord
His. So great is the power of His Spirit however,
bath spoken, for it is coming to pass.
Even at the
that it would have been impossible for any recorder
time when men repudiate simplicity for leader-
to conceal It. It is recognisable by the simple
ship it is significant that this is so, for ''although
minded, and is something we can each know and
the leaders of the people cause them to err,"-
be sure of, in spite of diiliculties. Yet, neverthe-
" the zeal of the Lord of Hosts doth accomplish
less, it would have been joyous to have been able
to read His meanings in the tongue in which He
When Bahir'u'llhh in the zenith of His Man-
spoke to His disciples, or even for all the Nations
hood, was confined with His companions in prison,
to be able to read them in one and the same
by despotic governments, and religious fanaticism,
language.
And indeed, we have the means for
with the heavy chains of persecution around their
this at hand.
How true it is, that " there is
pecks-for
teaching in God's Name that the
nothing which we may think or speak, which the
" bonds of affection and Unity between the song
Spirit has not power to accomplish ! "
of m,en should be strengthened; that diverJity of .
religions should cease, and differences of race be
0nnulled ; and proclaiming that fruitless strife and

ruinous wars should pass away-that
all men should
live as brothers," and that the " most Great Peace
shall come," God was preparing a little child (who
listened at his mother's knee, in another part of
the world)--to
do a mighty work in furthering one
of the Principles which the Divine Mind through
Bah6'uYllAh was promulgating as essential to usher
in, and secure, Universal Peace. That child after-
wards became Dr. Zamenof, who is now renowned
for presenting to the world the International Auxi-
liary language, known as Esperanto.
" Dr. Zamenof was born in 1859, at Bielestock,
in Poland.
The inhabitants there consisted of
four different elements : Russians, Poles, Ger-
mans, and J ews : all speaking different languages,
and living at enmity with each other. The young
boy was strongly impressed with the fact that an
alien language is a primary cause of international
hatred, and at an early age he pondered over the
strange dierence between the creed his mother
taught him, " the brotherhood of man," and the
actual opposite of this, which he saw on all sides.
Child as he then was, he acutely sorrowed for the
world, and gradually became filled with an un-
faltering ambition to change all this.
From this
determination he never swerved, although of
course, he found as he grew up, that the boy's
idea of unlimited power was exaggerated. Neter-
theless, while at school and at college, he still
persevered in his endeavour to unite all men in a
common tongue . . . . " " I n  1879, when he
was 19 years of age, the language was more or less
ready, and Zamenof and his colleagues celebrated
its birth in a college festival; but the author was
still too young to pubfish his work, and decided to
wait five or six years. While attending the univer-
sity he gave all his spare time in those most precious
years of youth to the study and perfection of his
invention. After many disappointments, he suc-
- -
ceeded in publishing it at his own cost, in 1887."
q,
" Thus we see Esperanto is the outcome of years
-
of patient perseverance on the part of a man of
genius. Now, it can be learned at the cost of a
few hours pleasant study per week, during a period
of six months. Of what national language can
this be said? "*
How good it is to have, in the face of such
apparently overwhelming difficulties, this practical
assurance that there is, as Shakespeare wrote, " ,4
Divinity which shapes our ends."
And without
doubt many could point to other events, events
which have contributed to '' The One far-off
Divine Event," of which Tennyson sang, and to
which " the whole Creation," has now moved :
For, even in the darkness of the night which the
world has known, it has approached us so nearly as
to have taken place in our own Dag !
f r
Now He, Bahh'u'llhh, the Desire of Nations, has
j
Come, of necessity bringing with Him Divine
* (Margaret L. Jones.
Esperanto Manual.")

Laws and Principles which-will make all men One.
Is not this that to which all Ages have aspired?
.
Let us read'how His Beloved. Son, 'Abdu'l-
Bahh, be*q set free from the bonds of oppression,
ABDU L-BAHA IN PARIS.
laboured throughout the world to promulgate those
DDRESSING the Paris Esperanto Group,
Principles of salvation, and decide, when we
February 12th, 1913, at a banquet given
have read, what we are going to do, now H e  has left
in his honour at the Hotel Modern in that
us, toward spreading a knowledge of them, and
city, after a brief introduction by M. Bourlet, the
what part we shall take in getting them established,
President of the Paris Esperanto Society,
and what support and encouragement we shall give
'Abdu'l-Bahh said :
to those who are bent on this great Purpose?
" One of the revealed Principles of the Universal
We know we can do nothing of ourselves. It is,
Religion is the establishing of
a Universal
as BahA'u'lldh
has taught us, " the Executive
Rwer of God's Spirit, which enables His servants
to perform His orders."
undertakings are divided into two kinds-universal
and specific. The result of every universal effort
is infinite, and the outcome of every specific effort
" I n  this age, those human problems which
create a general interest are universal ; their r e d t s
are likewise universal, for humanity has become
interdependent.
The international laws of to-day
are of vast importance since international politics
are bringing nations nearer to one another. It is
a general axiom that in the world of human endea-
vour, every universal affair commands attention
and its results and benefits are limitless. There-
fore let us say that every universal cause is divine,
and every specific matter is human.
The universal
light for this planet is from the sun ; and the special
light here to-night, which is electric, illumines

this banquet hall through the invention of man.
In like manner the activities which endeavour to
establish solidarity between nations and to infuse
the spirit of universalism in the hearts of the chil-
dren of men'are like unto divine rays from the Sun
of Reality, and the brightest ray is the coming of
the Eniversal Language. Its achievement is the
greatest virtue of the age, for such an instrument
will remove misunderstandings from amongst the
peoples of the earth and unite their hearts. This
mediunl will enable each individual member of the
human fanlily to be informed of the scientific
accomplishments of all his fellow men.
" The basis of knowledge and the excellencies of
endeavour in this world are to teach and to be
taught.
To acquire sciences and to teach them in
turn depends upon language, and when the inter-
national auxiliary language becomes universal, it
is easily conceivable that the acquirement of know-
ledge and
s instruction will likewise become
universal.
'
" NO doubt you are aware that in the past ages
a common language shared by various nations
created a spirit of solidarity amongst them. For
instance 1300 years ago, there were many diver-
gent nationalities in the Orient.
There were
Copts in Egypt, Syrians in Syria, Assyrians and
Babylonians in
Baghdad arid
Mesopotamia.
There
existed
among
these
peoples
rank
hatred but as they were gradually brought nearer
through common protection and common interests,
the Arabic language grew to be the means of
inter-communication. and thev became as one
>
nation.
They all speak the Arabic language to
this day. In Syria if you ask any one of them he
-
-
bringing about Unity and Harmony amongst the
will say, ' I am an Amb,' thoUgh in reality he
is not.
Some are Greeks, others Jews, etc. W e
say, ' This man is a German, the other an Italian,
a Frenchman, an Englishman, etc.
All belong
S
C.
%
to the great human family, yet language is a barrier
&I
between them.
The greatest working basis for
nations is the teaching of a universal tongue.
Writing on this subject, 50 (now 60) years ago,
His Holiness Bahi'u'llh said that complete union
-
hetween the various sections of the world would be
an unrealised dream as long as an international
language was not established."
m -
" Misunderstandings keep people from mutual
association and these misunderstandings will not
be dispelled except through the medium of a
comnlon ground of communication. Every intel-
ligent man will bear testimony to this."
" The people of the Orient are not Eully in-
formed of the events in the West, and the West
cannot put itself into sympathetic touch with the
East. Their thoughts are enclosed in a casket.
The Universal language will be the key to open it.
Western books will be translated into that
language and the people of the East will be in-
formed of the contents : likewise Eastern lore will
become the property of the West. Thus also will
k

i
X
*
those misunderstandings which exist between the
the future conferences and congresses will be car-
different Religions be dispersed. Religious preju-
ried on in Esperanto. I n  the future two languages
dices play havoc among the peoples and bring
-
will be taught in the schools, one the native tongue,
about warfare and strife, and it is impossible to
and the other the International Auxiliary
remove,them without a language in common."
"I am an Oriental and on this account I am shut
"Consider to-day how difficult is human commu-
out from your thoughts and you likewise from
nication. One may study fifty languages and yet
mine.
A mutual language will become the
travel through a country and be at a loss.
I
mightiest means of universal progress towards the
myself know several of the Oriental languages
union of East and West. It will make the earth
but know no Western tongue.
Had this Univer-
one home, and become the divine impulse for
sal language pervaded the globe, I should have
human advancement. It will upraise the Standard
studied it, and you would have been directly in-
of Oneness of the world of Humanity and make
formed of my thoughts, and I of yours, and a
the earth a universal commonwealth. I t  will be
special friendship would have been established
the cause of love between the children of men and
. between us.
create good fellowship between the various creeds."
" Please send some Teachers to Persia, if you
" Praise be to God that Dr. Zamenof has con-
can, so that they may teach Esperanto to the young
structed the Esperanto language. It has all the
people. I have written asking some of them to
potential qualities of universal adoption. All of
come here to study it.
us must be grateful to him that in his noble efforts
"I hope that it will be promulgated very rapidly,
in this matter he has served his fellow men well.
then the world of humanity will find peace. AU
H e  has constructed a language which will confer
the nations will associate with each other like
divine benefits on all peoples.
with untiring
mothers and sisters, fathers and brothers, and
effort and self-sacrifice on the part of its devotees
each member of the body politic will be fully in-
it gives promise of universal acceptance.
formed of the thoughts of all.
" Therefore every one of us should study this
"I am extremely grateful to you, and thank you
language and make every effort to spread it, so
for these lofty efforts, for you have gathered at
that each day it may receive a wider recognition,
ihis banquet to further this language. Your hope
be accepted by all nations and Governments of the
is to render a mighty service to Humanity and for
world, and become a part of the curriculum in all
this great aim, I congratulate you from the bottom
the public schools. I hope that the business of
of my heart."

THE HEALING OF THE NATIONS.
WORLD made up of contending factions
is a world diseased and suffering ; because,
" a house divided against itself cannot
stand."
Physically, this round globe is " One
Home " for Mankind ; a generous gift of the
Creator, containing wonder upon wonder, and
bounty upon bounty, yet to be discovered.
All
the Designs of God are generous above the con-
ception of men, and His Ideal Man, who reflects
His Glory, the most glorious gift of all.
The reader now knows the Principles of Bahb'
u'llih, which come as God's gift To-day for the
Healing of the Nations, and we are all aware of
the unrest in the world, and ~f the need for re-con-
struction, even in our o m  country. But there
are other countries suffering more, and bearing
things which have long been too unbearable-
through religious, political, racial, social, agricul-
tural, industrial, commercial, and other prejudices.
Therefore, every Nation would, if aware of it,
welcome with a '' loud voice," and with " glad
hosannas," Hiin U'ho comes, in the Name of God,
to tell us that in this Day, f c  Prejudices of all kinds
must be forgotten."
When we hear that whole nations are from time
to time well nigh massacred, or occasionally some
" 150 villages demolished," because of prejudices
AnPIAlOC
AVRIL
-
Jeudi
. .
UnlP bL - f bL't.Zlll+lr
Lever du !3oleil: 5.17
t IL~urg bc. qKf. B/rz. flrtur-
Coucher
6. 42
yrtudd?: U~bn.
U. UbbGh.. I/ 12 h .  & &I
Tttrouc: 6.48

of one kind or another, we clearly see that nothing
and the large figure below tells us it is the 7th.
short of the abolition of prejudices could remedy
The right section gives the name of the month as
such unhappy conditions ; conditions which were
Rebi-ul-Akir, and the date as the 21st.
These
more familiar to Bahi9u'll&, and others who live
indicate respectively the official year and the
in the East, than they are to us, to whom they
ordinary M+ammadan year.
W e  also learn that
only become known through those who have
the month of Nisan has 30 days, and Rebi-ul-Akir
travelled and sojourned in those regions. Let us
29.
The small characters beneath the large 21 tell
take note of some of the differences which tend
us that it is the 164th day of Ksssim. This is the
to perpetuate them, bearing in mind while we do
reckoning of the Turkish peasant, who knows
SO that " Order is Heaven's first law."
nothing of months. The year for him has two
" A striking instance of the confusion arising
divisions, Kassim, which begins on the 8th of
from conflicting chronologies and modes of reckon-
November, and Hidrelis, on the 8th of May. The
ing time appears on the previous page. It is the
Hebrew characters at the foot of the page inform
replica of a leaf taken in 1911 from an ordinary
us that it is Thursday 22 Nisan 5671.
Thus our
" tear off " calendar in every-day use in business
indicator has four dates for the year, four names
houses at Constantinople."
for the month, and six numberings of the day for
" A glance will suffice to show that it is not the
this particular Thursday.
But we have not pene-
simple affair to which we are accustomed at home ;
trated all its mysteries. In the French section
but a closer examination reveals complexities to
we meet with the startling assertion that noon is
which the six languages in which it is printed are
' 11 minutes past 5 to the Turks, and that 12 o'clock
but the threshold. "
Turkish time is 49 minutes past 6 with us.
This
''At the top of the page we are living in the year
'
is accounted for by the fact that the Turkish day
1329 ; half-way down in 1911 ; and at the foot in
begins at sunset, and is divided, like ours, into
5671. This bewildering anachronism is followed
two periods of 12 hours each.
Hence on the 30th
by another. In the section printed in French it
of June, noon and midnight are 24 minutes past
is the 20th of April, and in the Greek section on
4, whilst on the 10th of December they are 29
the left it is the 7th, for the Greeks adhere to the
minutes past 7."
" All this may look like an ingenious puzzle, but
Old Style. The narrow strip across ihe middle
of the leaf is Bulgarian. Turning to the Turkish
it is a serious necessity to the man of business. In
section at the top, the confusion increases, for
transactions with the Government on this ~arti-
on the left hand we find that the month is Nisan,
cular Thursday, 20% of April, 1911, he has to be

- .
A
-

i
i
-
careful that documents were dated 7th of Nisan,
. but Judzo-Spanish.
This is, perhaps, the acme of
1327. I n  those with a Turkish merchant, a bill
lingual confusion. ""
of exchange or cheque had to be dated 21st Rebi-
If we who know and speak only one tongue do
d-Akir, 1329. In buying produce from a farmer
- not always understand each other, we may well
his receipt or order was 164th Krrssim.
I n  deal-
believe that the suspicions 2nd hatreds and mur-
ings with a Greek firm it was important to remem-
derous outbreaks we read of from time to time
ber that it was the 7th, not the 21st, whilst in
must, in a great measure, be due to misunderstand-
W n g  an appointment with a Turk for 1 o'clock
ings consequent on such confusion; and not alto-
in the afternoon it was necessary to write 1.1
gether because the hearts of those who live in those
minutes past 6.
As the time of sunset varies every
regions are less human than our own, as we have
day, clocks and watclies must be altered constantly.
been prone to believe.
Some people carry two watches, one marking
What, then, is the Divine Remedy? W e  have
European, the other Turkish time ; but many use
seen, from a perusal of the Principles of Bahb'u'-
one watch with two dials."
llbh, that a Universal Auxiliary Language is part
" We have not exhausted the information con-
of it.
And a mere glance d the leaf of this
tained in the leaflet. For the Greeks the day is
calendar would make it impossible for anyone to
Great Thursday (Mega16 Pempt6), for the
ignore such merciful remedy.
How could a
Armenians it is the Annunciation of the Holy
Universal Teacher be understood without it ? Only
Mother of Jesus (Avedis Soorp Asvadzazin), and
with great difficulty. Some would die before they
the Washing of the disciples' feet (Vndnaluvaeen).
knew Him, for it takes devoted men of learning
'Therefore, the man of business must remember
and enthusiasm to translate a Message into every
that Greek and Armenian establishments are
tongue.
The Message of BahA'u'llAh
inspires
closed. "
many to undertake this difficult service. Other-
" There are newspapers at Constantinople in
wise we should not be able to read of it in English.
Turkish, Greek, Armenian, Arabic, and Persian.
The conditions of the world and the Time in
One constantly hears in the streets Skipetar and
which we live undoubtedly require a Universal
Vlach, the forn:er the speech of the Albanians, the
Auxiliary Language.
A nd, equally, t6e appli-
latter of the \Vai!achians.
The babel is increased
cation of all the Principles of BahA'u'llBh is essen-
by vario~is European tongues, with an occasional
tin1 for the Healing of the Nations.
dash of Kurdish or Georgian. Among the news-
I
p
As already remarked, there could be no
papers is one in Hebrew characters, not in Hebrew,
* (See " Turkey and the Turks," !?y Z. Duckett Ferriman. 191 1
Mills & Boon).
/ I

greater trial to those who are earnestly waiting for
a Divine Message whatever language they speak,
or to whatever couxi'try they belong, than for it to
be given in a tongue unknown to them. Yet so it
is ; for the Heavenly Fragrances from the Ridvin
(Garden of Paradise) find Utterance in this Day,
in the rich and melodious languages of Persia and
Arabia.
This seems strange at first, yet the Wisdom
of it clearly coincides with the Divine Purpose. I t
will test the sincerity of seekers after Truth, serve
to abolish prejudice, and incline all to a Universal
tongue more quickly and more easily learned, and
remain a Sacred Treasury for all time, which em-
braces and is complementary to earlier Sacred
Utterances.
*The Bahh'i Teachings advocate the adoption of
a universal calendar in which the year is divided
into 19 months of 19 days each, with 4 or 5 '' inter-
calary " days between the 18th and 19th months,
the New Year commencing at the Vernal Equinox,
and the years being numbered from the date of the
Proclamation of the Bhb in A.D. 1844.
'Abdu'l-Bahh
interpreted
the
1,335 days
spoken of at the end of the Book of Daniel as

meaning 1,335 solar years after the Hegira, i.e.,
'
A.D. 1957. Andsaid:
"
<
" By that time the Bahb'i Teachings will be
Universally spread;
a
IJniversal
Language
I
adopted;
I
" And the MOST GREAT PEACE
inaugurated."
\
* Given through Dr. Esslemont on his visit to Acca
'- -
Jan.-Feb., 1920.
'ABDU'L-BAHA IN LONDON
AT THE CITY TEMPLE.
After enduring, in company with His Father
Bahh'u'llAh, persecution, confinement, and Exile,
I-.
under the Pekian and Turkish Governments for a
period of forty years, when the Turkish Constitu-
tion was formed-'Abdu'l-Bahh,
being regarded as
a political prisoner-was
set free.
In 1911 He visited England, coming first to
London, where He addressed large audiences of
different denominations through Kis interpreters.
He afterwards visited Paris, Stuttgart, Switzer-
land, and Buda-Pest.
" On September llth, the first Sunday after His
arrival in England, He spoke from the City
Temple pulpit to the evening congregation at the
special desire of the Pastor, the Rev. R. J.
Campbell.
" Though 'Abdu'l-Bahb's coming had not been
advertised, the Church was filled )to its utmost
capacity. Few who were there will ever forget
the sight of that venerable figure clad in His
kc
Eastern garb, ascending the pulpit stairs to address
a public gathering for the first time in His life.
I
That this should be a Christian place of worship
in the West has its deep significance.
" Mr. Campbell introduced the visitor with a
few simple words, in the course of which he said :
" We as followers of the Lord Jesus Christ,

I
n
f
Who is to us, and will always be, the Light of the
greatest welfare of Mankind. Enmity is now the
World, view with sympathy and respect every
result of prejudice only.
movement of the Spirit of God in the experience
" In the ' Hidden Words,' Bahd'u'llhh -says :
of mankind; and therefore we give greeting to
' Justice is to be loved above all.'
Praise be to
'Abdu'l-BahB in the name of all who share the
God, in this country the Standard of Justice has
Spirit of our Master and are t ~ i n g
to live their
been raised. A great effort is being made to give
lives in that Spirit.
all souls a true place.
This is the desire of all
" The Bahi'i Movement is very closely akin to,
I think I might say identical with, the spiritual
purpose of Christianity. "
" 'Abdu'l'BahA said :
" O Noble Friends, seekers after God ! Praise
be to God ! To-day the Light of Truth is shining
upon the world in its abundance. The breezes of
the Heavenly Garden are blowing throughout all
regions.
The Call of the Kingdom is heard in aH
lands, and the breath of the Holy Spirit is felt in
all hearts that are faithful.
The Spirit of God is
giving Eternal Life. In this wonderful Age, the
East is enlightened, the West is fragrant, and
everywhere the soul inhales the holy perfume.
" The Sea of the Unity of Mankind is lifting up
f
its waves with joy, for there is real communication
.
between the hearts and ininds of men.
The
Banner of the Holy Spirit is uplifted, and men
see it, and are assured with the knowledge that
this is a New Day. . . .
" In the days of old an instinct for warfare was
developed in the struggle with wild animals. This
i
i
is no longer necessary. Nay, rather co-operation
and mutual understanding are seen to produce the
-
noble natures.
This is to-day the Teaching for
the East and for the West. Therefore the East
and the West will understand and reverence each
other, and embrace like long parted friends who
have found each other.
'' There is One God. Mankind is One. Let us
worship Him, and give praise for all His great
Prophets and Messengers, who have manifested
His brightness and glory."
" INSCRIPTION
I N  THE OLD BIBLE."
" This is the Holy -Book of God, of Celestial in-
spiration.
I t  is the Bible of Salvation, the noble
Gospel. It is the mystery of the Kingdom and
its Light. It is the Divine Bounty. The sign
of the Guidance of God."
'ABDU'L-BAHA
ABBAS .
(" 'Abdzc'l-Bahci in London," pp. 3-5.)

'ABDU'L-BAHA
AT ST. JOHN'S, WESTMINSTER.
" On September the 17th' 'Abduyl-Bahh, at the
request of the Venerable Archdeacon of West-
minster addressed the congregation of St. John
the Divine after the evening Service.
" With a few warm words characteristic of his
whole attitude Archdeacon Wilberforce i n t w
duced the revered Messenger from the East, who
had crossed seas and countries on His Mission of
Peace and Unity for which He had suffered forty
years of captivity and persecution.
" The Archdeacon had the Bishop's chair placed
for his Guest on the Chancel steps, and standing
beside Him read the translation of 'Abdu'EBahh's
address himself.
" 'Abdu'l-Bahi said :
" 0 Noble Friends ! -0
Seekers after the King-
dom of God!
Man all over the world is seeking
for God. All that exists is God : but the Reality
of Divinity is Holy above all understanding.
" The pictures of divinity which come to our
mind are the product of our fancy; they exist in
the realm of our imagination. They are not ade-
quate to the Truth. Truth in its essence cannot
be put into words.
" Divinity cannot be comprehended because it is
comprehending.
" Man, who has also a real existence, is compre-
hended by God : therefore the Divinity which man
can understand is partial. It is not complete.
Divinity is actual Truth and Real existence, and
not any representation of it. Divinity itsel£ con-
tains all, and is not contained.
" Although the mineral, vegetable, animal and
man all have actual being, yet the mineral has no
knowledge of the vegetable. It cannot apprehend
it. It c a m t  imagine or understand it.
" It is the same with the vegetable. Any pro-
gress it may make, however highly it may become
developed, it will never apprehend the animal nor
understand it.
" It is the same with the animal.
However
much it may progress in its own kingdom, how-
-
ever refined its feelings may become, it will have
no real notion of the world of man or of his special
intellectual faculties.
" The animal cannot understand the roundness
of the earth, nor its motion in space, nor the cen-
tral position of the sun, nor the power of eledri-
city; nor can it imagine such a thing as the all-
pervading ether. "
" Although the mineral, vegetable, animal, and
man himself are actual beings, the difference be-
tween their Kingdoms prevents members of the
lower degree from comprehending the essence and
nature of those of superior degree.
This being so,
how can the temporal and phenomenal compre-
hend the Lord of Hosts?
" I t  is clear that this is impossible !
" But the essence of Divinity, the Sun of Truth,

shines forth upon all horizons and is spreading its
rays upon all things.
Each creature is the re-
cipient of some portion 'of that power, and man,
who contains the perfection of the mineral, the
vegetable, and the animal, as well as his own dis-
tinctive qualities, has become the noblest of created
beings. It stands written that he is made in the
image of God.
Mysteries that were hidden he
discovers.
And secrets that were concealed he
brings into the light.
By Science and by Art he
brings hidden powers into the region of the visible
world. Man perceives the hidden law in created
things and co-operates with it.
" Lastly, the perfect man, the Prophet, is one
who is transfigured, one who has the purity and
clearness of a perfect mirror--one who reflects the
Sun of Truth.
Of such a one-of
such a Prophet
and Messenger-we
can say that the Light of
Divinity with the heavenly perfections dwells in
him. " If we claim that the Sun is seen in the mirror,
we do not mean that the Sun itself has descended
from the holy heights of his heaven and entered
into the mirror ! This is impossible.
" The Divine Nature is seen in the Manifesta-
tions and its Light and Splendour are visible in
extreme glory.
" Therefore men have always been taught by
the Prophets of God.
The Prophets of God are
the Mediators of God.
All the Holy Prophets
snd Messengers have come horn one Holy Spirit
and bear the Message of God, fitted to the Age in
which they appear.
The One Light is in them
all, and they are One with each other.
But the
Eternal does not become phenomenal : neither can
the phenomenal become Eternal.
" Saint Paul, the great Apostle, said : ' W e  all
with open face, beholding as: in a mirror the glory
of Cdd, are changed into the same image from
glory to glory, as by the spirit of the Lord.' "
PRAYER.
" 0 God the Forgiver!
0 Heavenly Educa-
tor! This assembly is adorned with the mention
of Thy Holy Name. Thy children turn their face
towards Thy Heavenly Kingdom, hearts are made
happy, and souls are comforted.
" Merciful God!
Cause us to repent of our
shortcomings ! Accept us in Thy \Heavenly King-
dom and give unto us an abode where there shall
be no error.
Give us Peace.
Give us Know-
ledge.
And open unto us the gates of Thy
Heaven.
" Thou art the Giver of all !
Thou art the
Forgiver ! Thou art the ixerciful. Amen."
" The congregation was profoundly moved, and
following the Archdeacon's example knelt to re-
ceive the Blessing of the Servant of God-Who
stood with extended arms-His
wonderful voice
%
rising and falling in the silence with the power of
His invocation.

" AS the Archdeacon said : ' T ~ l y
the East
and the West have met in this sacred plWe to-
night-'
The hjrmn ' 0 God our help in Ages
Past ' was sung by the entire congregation stand-
ing, as ' ~ b d u ' l - ~ a h i
and the Amhdeacon p
d

'ABDUL-BAHA IN LIVERPOOL-
down the aisle to the vestry hand in hand.
In 1912 'Abdu'l-BbiL toured the United States
" Outside the Church, Salvationists were hold-
of America, addressing assemblies of everg ReE-
ing their Meeting and 'Abdu'l-Bahi was deeply
gious denomination, Ethical Societies, Socialists,
impressed and touched at the sight of the men,
and Agnostics.
And after that most successful
lvomen and children, gathered together in the
tour, meeting with welcome everywhere, on ~ ~ r i
night, at the street corner praying and singing.¶'
ing in Liverpool, found also, in that city, assem-
('A bdu'l-Bahh in London.)
blies awaiting Him, eager to give ear to the ma-
sage of Peace He had to deliver to the world.
Engagements in London, Edinburgh, Bristol, and
-
elsewhere, made it impossible for Him to stay long
in Liverpool.
H e  addressed the Theosophists
there, and also the Baptists at Pembroke Chapel.
On Sunday evening, December 15th, 1912, after
being
introduced
by
the
Minister,
Rev.
Donald B. Fraser, he made courteous reply,
saying how delighted he was to meet sueh
a large congregation, in a Church so re-
nowned for its high social endeavour, and faith
in God.
Many had arrived from surrounding dis-
tricts and Manchester, long before the gates were
opened.
On that happy occasion, speaking in
Persian, Ahmad Sohrab interpreting,
Abdu'l-Bahi said :
" The greatest prize this world holds is the con-
summation of the Oneness of Humanity. All are
the children of God. God is the Creator, the Pro-

vider, the Protector of all. H e  educates all of us,
and is compassionate towards men.
His grace en-
compasses all Mankind. The Sun of God, shines
upon all Mankind. The rain of God falis for all.
The gentle breeze of God wafts for all. Bumanity
at large is sitting around the Divine Table of the
Almighty.
Why should we engage in strife?
Why should we ever engage on the battlefield to
kill each other? God is kind is He not? Why
should we be unkind? What is the reason? How
are we benefited by being unkind? To-day, the
chief means of dissension amongst the Nations is
Religion ; while in Reality, the Religion of God,
is One. Differences lie in blind imitations which
have crept into Religion after its foundation. Reli-
gion is Reality, and Reality is One. It does not
permit of multiplicity.
His Holiness Abraham
was the Herald of Reality. His Holiness Moses
was the Spreader of Reality. His Holiness Jesus
was the Founder of Reality.
His Holiness
Muhammad was the Spreader and Promulgator of
Reality. The Reality of Religion, is One. Funda-
mentally there is no difference.
The Reality of
Religion consists in the Love of God, in the Faith
of God, in the virtue of Humanity, and in the
means of communication between the hearts of
men. The Reality of Religion is the Oneness of
the Whole of Humanity.
" What is the IVisdom of Religion may we ask?
There is no doubt whatever that the Wisdom of
Religion is love and amity amongst the people;
that it establishes fellowship between the various
organizations of man. f he-~eli~ion of God is for
Peace not for War. Why should we ever make it
a cause of separation and alienation? It is a remedy
to bestow health and recovery. Why should we
ever make it a cause of disease and sickness?
W e  are all the children of God, all are His ser-
vants. The glances of His Mercy, encircle us all.
-
He has bestowed Religion that it may be the
-
means of bringing together the various members
of His Family. Yet in the Orient such a means
of illumination has become the cause of rancour
between the people of various Religions.
They
shed the blood of one another. They pillaged each
. other's property, they sacrificed each other's chil-
dren. There was great commotion and constant
warfare going on. Darkness had encircled the
Radiance of Religion. The Horizon of Reality was
hidden by clouds of imitations and dogmas, and no
rays of the Sun could penetrate these clouds."
" A t  such a time His Holiness Rahh'u'll&h
appeared in Persia. H e  summoned the people of
various Religions to love and friendship. At this
time in Persia, the Jews, the Christians, the Mus-
lims, the Zoroastrians, the Buddhists, all of con-
tending Religions, were ever fighting each othe~ .
Having heard the words of Bahh'u'llhh, many are
now living in the utmost unity. What harm can
accrue if such amity becomes permanent through-
out the civilised and uncivilised world?
" Bahj'u'llAh declared International Peace. I n

Persia, many years ago, He declared International
Peace, amongst - ~ e l i ~ i o n s
and Nations, and be-
tween the Races of every clime. With.the greatest
power and penetration did He arise to spread prin-
ciples of Peace.
For this, H e  was thro-m into
prison, and suffered great hardships. His proper-
ties were pillaged.
His friends were martyred.
More than 20,000 souls sacrificed their lives, so that
the Oneness of the World of Humaniity might be
realized.
" All His life Bah&'uYUAh endured great calami-
ties and hardships.
0-ften H e  was in chains.
Sometimes H e  was living in Exile. Often H e  was
incarcerated in barracks.
Notwithstanding these
stumbling blocks, ever He strove, ever H e  worked,
so that H e  became able to establish amity among
the people of contending Religions.
Religion
must become the cause of Love.
If it becomes
the cause of enmity, what use is there for it?
Religion must become the cause of prosperity.
Alas ! &4 thousand times alas ! that it should have
become the cause of rancour ! Consider, ignorance
has reached such a degree of folly, that it is the
duty of Humanity to investigate Reality. No one
must be satisfied with mere traditions. Traditions
differ, and cause misunderstandings to remain.
I'hese misunderstandings have created direful
eonditions. "
~ABDU~L-BAHA
TO THE JEWS.
ONTINUING,
at Pembroke
Chapel,
'Abdu'l-Bahi said :
'' While in America I spoke in a Taber-
nacle of the Jews, I said in that Synagogue, that
the misunderstandings which exist between the
Jews and Christians have been the cause of their
separation and their hatred of each other.
If the
Israelite investigates Reality there is no doubt that
he will come to the conclusion that he must associ-
ate with, and love his brother Christian. Hatred
.
must not linger any longer because the Jews to-day
imagine, and in former times imagined, that Christ
was the opposer, or enemy of Moses, that His Holi-
ness Christ was against Moses.
To the Jews,
I further said : You think Christ destroyed the
foundation of Moses; but let us be fair, let us be
just, and investigate Reality. The Cause of Moses,
the Religion of Moses, for 1,500 years was circum-
scribed within the boundary of Jerusalem.
The
Bible was only found in that small locality. Other
parts of the world never heard the name of Moses.
Even the people of Persia never heard the name of
Moses. They had never seen the Book of Moses
until His Holiness Christ appeared.
H e  raised
the Name of Moses.
His Holiness Christ Pro-
mulgated the Old Testament throughout the
Orient and the Occident.
During the Mosaic Dis-

pensation, the Bible was only translated into one
is dissension between Religions. For instance, in
language. But through the blessing of Christian-
the Book of the Qmn, His Holiness Maammad
ity, the Bible was translated into many la~guages
mentions the Name of His Holiness the Christ.
and spread throughout the world. Consider what
It is from the text of the Quran, that Christ is
love Christ had for Moses.
His Holiness Christ
called the Word of God, the Spirit of God. It is
promulgated the fundamental Principles of Moses.
tlie record of the Qm
that Mary the mother of
The Ten Commandments He spread throughout
Christ was living in the Holy of 'Holies, that she
the world.
H e  made famous all the Israelitish
had the fellowship of the Almighty, and that food
Prophets.
were it not for the appearance of
descended from Heaven for her. It is written in
Christ, how could the people of America ever have
the Quran that the Holy Spirit, addressing Mary,
heard the name of Moses? Bow could the Bible
said : ' Oh, Mary ! be faithful to God, for H e  hath
have become a household Book? All these ser-
created thee pure and sanctified, and hath made
vices were rendered by Jesus Christ. Now let us
thee superior over all the women of the world.'
find out, after these statements, whether Christ
And again, it is written in the Quran that ' Christ
was the enemy of &loses, or His best Friend? Be
ascended into Heaven, and that H e  will again
just. His Holiness Christ was the spreader of the
return from Heaven.'
Again, that' ' Christ is
Mosaic Movement.
He spread the Old Testa-
Pure, and Unique.'
So most of the praises and
ment. Notwithstanding this, you are thinking He
Commands of Christ are recorded in the Book
was the enemy of Moses. Why not abandon these
which is considered Sacred by 300 millions of
prejudices?
The Christians believe that Moses
Muslims.
Just think of the present misunder-
was the Prophet of God, that the Bible is the Book
standing between these two Religions! The pre-
of God, and that all the Israelibtish Prophets were
sence of misunderstanding has caused the warfare
the mouthpieces of God. What harm would there
of the last 1,300 pears between Christians and Mus-
be, if you came out and said : ' Christ is the Word
lims.
Think of one Crusade which lasted 200
of God,' so that this dissension may cease? And
years ! Yet Religious warfare continues ! There
so that fellowship may be established eternally be-
are more than 260 million Muhammadans through-
tween the Jews and the Christians? If you just
out the world. You cannot destroy this colossaI
say these words : ' Christ is the Word,' it will show
number.
Therefore if there is love and fellowship
that you have investigated Reality, and dissension
p
among the Jews, the Christians, and the Muham-
will be left behind.
R ;
madans, the Orient and the Occident will find the
" When we are not investigating Reality there
greatest composure and Peace."
I

Referring to the Balkan War, 'Abdu'l-Bahd
said :
" God is not pleased with.the horrible events
which have been transpiring in the Balkans. They
are hated by Him. Every lover of Humanity is
displeased with them.
There, people are killing
each other like so many wolves. They tear each
other to pieces.
They shed each other's blood.
They kill each other's innocent children.
Just
consider, the ferocious beasts do not treat their
kith and kin like this.
The wolf may tear to
pieces one animal, for food, which it does. But
wolves never tear each other in thousands ! Are
men more ferocious than wolves? Are they not
more u ~ j ~ s t
than birds of prey?
I n a t  are the
causes of all this strife? The Foundation of the
World of God, is Love. But Nations say,
we
want to increase our dominions.'
" I will make one more statement, and close,
and I want your careful- attention. What is this
land, this earth? Is it not this : That for a short
time we live on this earth; then it becomes our
grave, our cemetery? Now is it beneficial to en-
gage in War, and in strife?
Many generations
have come, have lived for a short time on this
Earth, and have gone under it. It is the Universal
Graveyard of Humanity. Is it praiseworthy that
we engage in warfare, shedding blood, destroying
houses, pillaging the wealth of Nations and killing
little children beneath the hoofs of horses? Is it
worthy that we sacrifice eternal Me, a d  the ever-
lasting soul of man, for the sake of a little dust?
Justice and Equity do not pennit it. I hope that
you will strive with all your might to raise the
Standard of the Onen& of Humanity, and unfurl
the flag of International Peace, over all regions of
the earth."
Alas ! since those words were spoken, w e  have
been engaged in the fiercest Warfare the world
has ever known. Is Mankind to be subject to such
folly for ever?
Divine Wisdom has decreed
through RahA'u'llith,
that Religion must be in
accord with Science and Reason. Therefore, since
individuals, by Divine Iisdom, as we have seen,
can do great things, without Divine Guidance
they can go astray in& actions of diabolical fool-
ishness and insanity.
It is necessary that merciful
guidance should protect humanity against insane
onslaughts. Bahh'u'llAh brings to the World that
Merciful Guidance.

SCIENCE AND REASON.
" W H E R E  is no opposition between Religion
(3 and Science.
They are the two wings
upon which man's Intelligence can soar
into the heights ;
rn-th which the Human Soul can
progress.
I t  h impossible to fly with one m-ng
alone."
"If Religion were contrary to logical Reason
tlren it would cease to be a Religion and be merely
u tradition."
" There is no contradiction between True Reli-
gion and Scien.ce. When Religion is opposed to
Science it becomes mere Superstition; that which
is contrary to Knowledge is Ignorance."
" How can a man believe to be a fact, that which
Scien.ce has proved to be impossible? I f  he be-
lieves in spite of his reason, it is rather superstition
than faith. The True Principles of all Religions
are in conformity with the teachings of Science."
" The Unity of God is logical, and this is not
nntngonistic to the conclusions arrived at by scien-
tific study."
" Religion hm Croo main parts.
The Spirit&
and the Practical.
The Spiritml part never
changes. All the Manifestations of God and His
Prophets have taught the same Truth d
given
the same Spiritual Law. There is no divisiorr in
the Truth. The Sun of Tmth has sent forth maw
r q s  to illumine Human Intelligence. The Ligirt
is always the same.''
" W e  are familiar weth the phrases ' Light a d
Darkness', ' Religion and Science.'
But the Reti-
gion which does not walk hand in hand with Science
is itself in the Darkness of Superstition and ignor-
ance. " (' Abdu'l-Bahh in " Paris Talks. ")
One of the charms of Creation is individdality.
Without it there could be no freedom, no unity,
and no life.
Whatever theories from time t o
time have been prevalent, concerning the origin.
nature, shape, size, duration, or position of this
planet, both -Religion and Science have been
responsible for error concerning i t :  error due to
partial knowledge, sometimes, and sometimes to
an unkindly and dominating disposition.
It is, however, obvious to all of us, that the
World of IIumanity is made u p  of individuals.
Therefore individuals must have been in the Mind
of the Creator before they became visible t o  each
oJher. The fact that we are visible to each other,
should incline us to revere the Intelligence
of our Creator; the All-Wise, Bountiful, and
Supreme Intelligence.

If we do not think a beautiful picture an acci-
dent, or a consequence of blind nature, why
should anyone presume to suppose, we ourselves,
are created without any special purpose or design?
The highest ambition of artists, is to portray
truthfully what is visible already-with
such power,
that not only the outer view is portrayed-but
the
inner meaning revealed. To whom the Glory?
From whence do they derive their capacity? They
inherit it truly, but do they inherit it from flesh,
or from Spirit? Suppose we say both. It is even
then Spirit which gives the capacity to perse-
vere.
The capacity for what the world calls genius
is inherited from the One Supreme Spiritual Power
we name God because the Manifestations of that
Power are Good.
W e  are assured by the Founder of Christianity,
Who is supported in that assurance by all the
Prophets and Messengers of God who heralded
Him, that the care of Our Heavenly Father is such,
tEat not one sparrow falls to the ground without
His knowledge, and that His care for us is such,
" that even the hairs of our head are numbered."
If He, Whom we all love and honour, could give
such assurance, we may reasonably question by
what authority, and at what point in the 'History
of Religion, did Christianity get so into the hands
oi a dominating power, that in the past, indi-
viduals have been put to death and cruelly tor-
tured for exercising their reasoning faculties? Or,
because their exploring nature prompted them to
lace the greatest dangers, and endure unspeakable
sderings (even rejoicing in them when they have
been testimony to the Truth)-in
order to dis-
cover more about this fascinating planet, which a
bountiful
Creator
has
designed
to be
a
Paradise for Mankind !
Even atheists want
Paradise.
Science and Reason bespeak it.
Humanitarianism demands it. And we may be
sure the Creator likes to hear that demand. I t  is
in harmony with the assurance, and the Loving
Kindness of Jesus. And, before any branch of
human knb~vledge had become sufficiently mature
to echo the Truth of such possibility-the
opening
Chapters of Genesis stated it. Truth is echoed
to-day, from all branches and fields of knowledge
to be One, to be reasonable, to be scientific, and
satisfactory. Abraham called Mankind to recog-
nise, and worship the One True God. The first
point of view is the last. For the last was first.
I t  is the Eternal ; the Divine ; the Revealed Tm&,
" My Etern.ity is M y  Creatioz. I have created
I t  for thee. 1
%

Oneness is iMy Design. I have
Designed I t  for thee" says our Creator, through
His Messenger, Bah~'u'1lAh. (" Hidden Words. ")
One does not point to past errors and limitations
for the purpose of condemnation. W e  have all
erred; yet the Spirit of God beckons, and gives
us wings, beyond our human limitations.
" I
came not into the world to condemn the world,

but that ye might have life, and have it more
abundantly; and to the end that he that believeth
on Me (the Christ Spirit in Jesus) might have
life everlasting."
" The Primal Word of the Almighty is some-
times called the water of Life, for it quickens the
dead souls in the desert of ignorance with the
spring of intelligence." . . . '' The seen and
the unseen fail to attam the measure of His Under-
standing. The world of being and whatever has
issued from it bears witness t o  this utterance."
" To-day, the best fruit of Science and Know-
ledge is that which benefits mankind and improves
his condition. "
" The pulse of the universe is in the hands of the
skil£ul Physician. He diagnoses the ilhiess and
wisely prescribes the remedy. Every day has its
own secret and every tongue a melody. The ill-
ness of to-day has one cure and that of to-morrow
another.
Look ye, upon This Day.
Consider,
and discuss its needs. One sees that existence is
afflicted with innumerable diseases compel!ing it to
lie upon the bed of suffering.
Men who are in-
toxicated with the wine of self-contemplation pre
vent the wise Physician from reaching it. Thus
have they made the world and themselves to suffer.
They know not the ailment nor recognise the cure.
They take the wrong for the right, the crooked for
the straight, the enemy for the Friend."
'' he' Heavenly Wise One proclaimeth :
"A harsh word is like a sword, but gentle speech
is like unto milk. - The children of the world attain
to betterment through this."
" The Tongue of Wisdom says :
" Whosoever possesses Me not, has nothing.
Pass by whatever exists in this world and find Me.
I am the Sun of Perception and the Ocean of
Science. I revive the withered ones and quicken
the dead.
I am that Light which illumines the
' Path of Insight.
I a m  the Falcon of the Al-
mighty.
I bear healing in My wings and teach
the Knowledge of soaring to the Heaven of
Truth.""
" How often has God proven the weakness of
human strength and the feebleness and impotence
of the material' and phenomenal against the
Heavenly power of His Prophets, a manifest sign
of His Chosen Ones, a clear standing light of His
Road and Pathway and an accurate standard
for recognising the proof and argument of His
Truth.
The people of the world long resisted
it ; but were finally dismayed ; nations both of the
East and West wrestled with it, but were
overthrown.
" This power was opposed, at the appearance of
Moses, by the Pharaohs; at the manifestation of
Christ, by the Jews and emperors; at the rise of
Muhammad by the Persian kings and Arabs. It
bas also been opposed by false prophets, who have
* See "Tablet of Bah~'u'1l~h." p. 161

5.
=
iQ-
attempted to found a religion without the permis-
growth, existence and heredity from h e  race of
of God ; falsely and presumptuously laying
o~ang-outangs? They have regarded apes as their
claim to prophethood, as is testified and recorded
ancestors, but have not considered the Power,
in history. The histories of Mazdak, in the days
which alone has conquered the world and mbdued
of King Robad ; of the Jew, 'Sad Dawlah ; of Ar-
nations, as being a proof of the fact that b
goon-Khan, the Mongol, in Persia; 'Ala'adin E]
festations and Damning-places of this Power have
Khaledge, in India ; and the French Philosophers
been Divine and heavenly personages.
Could
during the revolution of 1792, are all warnings and
the .habit of smoking, evinced by a single ourang-
admonitions to the prudent. These philosophers,
outang, and its likeness in body to some of the
wise men, kings and statesmen attempted,
African savages, prove its homogeneity with man-
through their great ingenuity and the
,
kind? Apes differ widely from savages in numer-
of their science and learning, to institute a religion
ous things, such as intelligence, comprehension of
of simpler laws, regulations, doctrines and princi-
general subjects, capacity of attaining perfedion.
~ l e s
within the range of average capacities and
etc.
Shall all this be admitted as proof, while
minds7 suitable to all tastes and conformable to
the sub jugation of Pharaohs, domination of kings
the time and circumstances.
Conditions proved
and tyrants by the rise of a single individual, with-
favourable to their desires, and the
and rnili-
out assistance or encouragement of any ruler, is
taw leaders submitted to their opinionr and plans.
not considered evidence that a man is assisted by
" But God frustrated their ideas, &sappointed
an Invisible, Divine Power ?
their hopes, dispersed their congregations, and
Indeed7 this is strange philosophy-amaz-
showed the folly of their imaginations, until their
ing wisdom and discernment! HOW
true is the
hktories remain as warnings to men of honour and
wilmin,o of the great Apostle Paul : ' B~ware
as admnitions to people of discernment and
lest any man spoil you through philosophy and
perception.
vain deceit.' ' The stability of the Word and con-
" For what reason have the doctors of Darwin-
tinuance of a religion is the strongest ~.nd firmest
ism taken the resemblance of some hllman bones
as to the truth of a mission and the
to those of ourang-outangs as a decisive proof of
founder of a Faith. . . .' This proof is named the
the fact that mankind has descended from
proof of continuance or stability ; because the con-
apes? Why have they considered this evidence,
tinuance of a religion and the stability of the Word
notwithstanding its shallowness and invalidity,
establishes the truth of God, and is a testimony to
being a final certificate that man has gained his
its reality. It is absurd to think of God as being

incapable of annulling falsehood. H e  has not for-
to-day to destroy Humanity-and
demand its ser-
gotten His promises to suppress false claimants.
uice : not in the interest of a few individuals who
. . . This is confirmed by Sacred Writings,
claim large portions of this earth, and the natural.
and preserved in the utterances of the Prophets."*
wealth it contains, for their own special benefit-
In the light of history we may judge, fhough
and who try to silence complaint by doles of
it is not ours to condemn, because all are judged
charity ; for that which God gave aria designed for
by their deeds. So inasmuch as time has thrown
all,-must
be for the benefit of all.
And Lo!
light upon past error-we
may judge. any matter,
The means of obtaining it for all, God has also
with profit.
provided in This, Our Day ! I t  is to be ~btained
There is not the danger to-day, as in the past,
in an orderly way, through the friendliness of
inventive power, or the spirit of exploration,
Nations, by means of an International Tribund,
being suppressed by Religion, or Science. Pre-
and the Parliament of Man. This was a Divine
sent-day dangers are of a different kind.
For
Decree, issued through Bahh'u'llith on behalf of
such is the result of making a god of Freedom, that
Humanity, before some of us were born.
And
what Mankind to-day requires at the hand of
.
if the Nations would turn to God for His Clear
Science and Religion is : that all bmnches
Guidance given through His Messenger, instead
of holvledge, and manifestations of inventive
of arguing about which should have the biggest
power-shall
be arrested from destructive, and
Navy, or the chief right to heap :lp destructive
turned to constructive uses. Humanity, whatever
amaments (which competitive spirit itself in-
its colour, whatever its theories concerning the
clines them to doubt the possibility of an effective
Government of the World, should agree in this.
League of Nations ")-they would find all argu-
And not only agree passively, and record its vote
merits silenced, and come face to face with the
for it, but, since wrong direction is initiated by
Divine Command, given to the world of
individuals, SO all individuals should accept the
Humanity through Bahb'u'llbh over 60 years ago !
Divine invitation issued through Bahi'u'llAh to
why will the people turn aside from such protee-
becolne ' ' S ~ ~ T S  of God's Omnipresence," and
tive care, and turn to mortal leaders, the blind
watch, and pray, and act unitedly, with all their
leaders of the blind !
might, in accordance with Divine Guidance-to
In past days, when disputes concerning the
capture the scientific and inventive power on foot
shape of the Earth were silenced, the whole u70rld
was thrilled with wonder.
It is good to
(See " Bahl'i Proofs." Abul Fad. pp. I 88, 189.)
recount the fact that the matter was set-

tled beyond
the realms of
dispute,
"by
course proceeding in Manchester at a distance of
the circumnavigating spirit of
three sailors,
200 miles; or sit at home in London and enjoy a
Columbus, Da ~ a m a ,  and finally 'Magellan,
concert being given in America ! W e  can travel
the latter being aided by an Expedition sent out
under or over the earth or the ocean quite comfort-
in the commercial interests of Spain.
After a
ably, while '&ting a meal, reading a book, or writ-
voyage of over a year, Magellan arrived at the
ing a letter, or settling matters concerning the
strait now bearing his name, and, it is related by
League of Nations ! Are these a few of the
Pigafetti, an Italian who was with him, Magellan
" greater things " referred to by Jesus, which He
wept for joy, when he found it had pleased God
said we should do? Even so, a still greater thing
to bring him where he might grapple with the un-
than all these, is to put into operation through an
known dangers'of the South Sea, " The Great and
International Tribunal rand Parliament of Man,
Pacific Ocean. "
the International and Divine Lam-that
all
" Magellan was murdered, either by savages, or
by his own men, but, taking command of his ship,
.
his lieutenant, Sebastian dYElanco, brought it, the
San Vittoria, after a voyage of over three years, to
anchor in the port of St. Lucar, near Seville, on
September 7th, 1522.""
Since those days, and in our own lifetime, we
have had wonder upon wonder to thrill us.
W e
can now fly across the Atlantic.
By touching a
switch we can light up a room, or a large hall, or
a city. We can speak, and recognise each other's
voice, at long distances; make our meanings
clear through Telegraphy, and the Marconi
System, without speaking. From a small coastal
town we can pick up a wireless message sent from
a vessel a hundred miles out at sea ; listen to a dis-
f " History of the Conflict between Religion and Science."
J W. Draper, M.D., LL.D.
things, and all Powers, and the means of exercising
them-shall
be for pacific and bountiful purposes ;
. not for the special benefit of those who want to
ride over, rule, and deprive others of their heri-
tage, and this, in order that they themselves may
be glorified ! Glorified for robbing their fellows,
they woidd also rob God of the Glory which be-
longs to Him alone!
Great honour is due to all
who exercise their capacity to enrich, and serve
Mankind.
None are deprived by God of the joy
of service. Nay, H e  gives to all- the capacity to
sen7e. All honour to those who serve faithfully.
13ut Glory is to God, the Divine Protector, the
Generous Giver of all things.
" When the French occupied Offenburg re-
cently they cannot fail to have been attracted by
E
a monument-the
only one in the town-standing
conspicuously in the market place. It is a statue,
a gallant figure of the 16th century, with peaked

beard, and doublet and hose of that period. The
fame rests in the blessings of millions of men who
anchor and coil of cable on which the figure leans,
till the earth.'
the globe at his feet, and the unrolled chart in his
c c  For seventy years the children of Offenburg
left hand, bespeak a mariner; and the stranger
who play round the monument have hewn the
wonders what connection he can have with a town
name of Drake, not as the bold sea rover, the
so far away from the sea. His astonishment in-
destroyer of Spanish might, but as ( the man who
creases when, on closer inspection, he perceives
brouglbt us the potato ! '
the very singular trophy in the right hand-an
u p
6 c  Production, not destruction, is honoured by
rooted potato plant ! Round the pedestal runs a
the statue of this Englishman. What a lesson to
border, in high relief, consisting of the flowers,
militants of later days, comes from these humble
foliage and tubers of the potato, worked into a
folk, to fieir own, and to all nations! It is, we
graceful design. Seeking in the inscription for
see, in accordance with True Religion, andthere-
an explanation of the mystery, the stranger, if he
fore in accord with Science and Reason."
(BY
is an Englishman, learns to his amazement, that
the courtesy of Mr. Z. Duckett Femiman, those
the statue is that of his great countryman Sir
of us who have not seen this interesting statue,
I'hncis Drake. H e  learns moreover that it was
enjoy the benefit of his visit to Offenburg, July,
erecixd in 1853, thirty years before Drake w s
similarly honoured at Tavistock and Plymouth, in
Surely, it is reasonable that Science
his native land.
should become the Hand-Maid of Religion; in
" But what can this population of farmers and
order that Humanity may be saved from the fears
vine-growers have had in common ~ i t h  the
which oppress it To-Day : that Peace and Plenty,
Admiral whose exploits on the other side of the
praise and thanksgiving, may take the place of
globe brought him fame? What can have induced
lamentation the world over, and all Creation burst
-
them to commemorate this foreign sailor?
into a " New Song," Psalm xcviii., as found in the
-
" The reason is carved in deep letters in the red
Book of Common Prayer. It calls upon all
stone out of which the monument is hewn : ' me
Creation to join in a Chorus of Praise, in a true
bringer of the potato to Europe.'
and reasonable spirit of thanksgiving : For a " new
" It is not the navigator, not the warrior, which
heaven, and a new earth," appear.
appealed to the inhabitants of the old Black Forest
town. It is the act by which he prolrided a ' re-
0 sing unto the Lord a New Song : for H e  hath
fuge for the poor from bitter want,' and ' whme
done marvellous things.
10s
H

With His OWB right hand, and with His Holy
arm r hath H e  gotten Himself the victory.
The Lord hath declared His Salvation : His
righteousness hath H e  openly shewed in the
sight of the heathen.
H e  hath remenhered His Mercy and Truth
toward the house of Israel : and all the ends of
the earth have seen the salvation of our God,
Shew yourselves joyful unto the Lord, all ye
lands : sing, rejoice, and give thanks.
Praise the Lord upon the harp : sing to the
harp with a psalm of thanksgiving.
With trumpets also and psalms: 0 shew your-
selves joyful before the Lord the King.
Let the sea make a noise, and all that therein
is : the round world and they that dwell therein.
Let the floods clap their hands, and let the
hills rejoice together before the Lord : for H e
conleth to judge the earth.
With righteousness shall IIe judge the world:
and the people with equity.
Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to
the Holy Spirit. As it was in the Beginning, is
Now, and ever shall be : World without end.
Amen.
For God has not only shown Mercy a.nd Truth
towards the House of Israel-but
to the whole
World of Hum.anity.
CHRISTMAS IN LONDON WITH
ABDU 'L-BAHA.
" 'Abdu'l-Bahh, in 1912, spent Christmas amid
t,
' fie holly and chimes of old England-the
Christ-
L +1 i
mas of cheer, gift-giving, and mutual well-wishing.
-
a
"To have seen the world's greatest prisoner amid
these surroundings was a never-to-be-forgotten
g?
, picture, but one hard to reproduce in words. Many
beautiful and touching incidents could be related
of that Christmas had we the records of the hun-
.dreds that thronged Do see him. Some he met in
little groups in the dining room of Eis flat in
Chelsea, and on request he would, at intervals,
address a larger gathering in the drawing room,
as people kept coming and going all day. Anon, -
some distressed soul wished lor a conference alone,
or a peace advocate sought his advice on an im-
portant issue.
" Many came bearing gifts-the
mighty and the
lowly, the rich and the poor in this world's goods.
A detailed account of the mere happenings of the
day would mean nothing.
'fie trivial details of
i
life, even on a Chridmas day, are seldom regarded
in the light of a spiritual unfoldment, but it is
through these seemingly small incidents that this
I
Master spirit brings out into the court of objec-
tivity those principles which he teaches.
Thus the

very essence of his existence is vested with the
penetration of the spirit-so
much so, that, save as
his life manifests those principles for which he
stands, he wishes to be forgotten as a personality.
" To each who came to him on that Christmas
Day, he gave a spiritual present-compatible
with
the capacity of each; for 'Abdu'l-Bahi's method
of teaching the people so that they become moved
with conviction, is through the heart.
' Someone brought him an expensive gift. He
accepted it graciously. Holding it lovingly for a
moment, he told the wealthy giver of his own
simple life.
" And now," he said, smilingly,
" you see I have accepted your beautiful present,
and it has made me very happy. I thank you for
it. And now I am going to give it back to you.
Sell it, and give the money to the poor. The rich
in England are too rich, and the poor are too
poor.''
" The man was at first astonished, but when,
after further conversation, he arose and took his de-
parture, one felt from his attitude toward the great
master, that a new impulse or seed had been
planted.
" Often 'Abdu'l-Bah6 would laugh outright at
some little gift that showed ingenuity, and many a
compliment he wafted back to America, the land
of his then recent sojourns.
" One American girl was much amused at his re-
hearsal of American experience. H e  concluded
by saying, " I learned much from my travels and
hardships.
Among other things, I learned to
wash my handkerchiefs when occasion demanded,
and to sew."
" On an impulse, she ran out to a shop near by
and bought the tiniest leather sewing box, and on
-
her return, laughingly presented it, saying that it
was impossible for her to imagine a prophet sewing
on his buttons.
'" will accept the sewing case with gratitude,
and will keep it," he said, as he put it among his
things, and then added, " I am not a prophet. I
am a man-like
yourself.",
H e  laughed, and we
all laughed, for she was a well-known suffragette.
. " H e  accepted it !" she exclaimed at the door,
and so extremely ove joyed was she, that one felt
I
that some deeper message or awakening beyond
that which we had witnessed had been accom-
i
plished through the simple transaction.
1.t
' T r o m  laughter, 'Abdu'l-Bahh's face would
1-
become stem or expressive of a great weight of
I
impersonal sorrow, the suffering induced by the
I
realisation of the hunger of humanity for spiritual
rest.
it
I
The Real Meaning of the Advent of Christ on
I
This Earth.
I
I !
"Christ's birthday is a glorious day," He said.
" It is necessary that these anniversary celebra-
I
I
tions be observed, else man in his negligence would
I

*
forget all about his Creator; but we should seek to
deer to graze in one pasture ; the vulture and part-
penetrate the dark veils of custom and imitation
ridge live in one nest.'
of ancestors, perchance we may discover the reality
" The people could not see that these things
of the meaning.
were taking place.
The Reality of Christ was
from heaven, though His physical body was from
" The advent of Christ on this earth was a
Mary.
The sword was the tongue of Christ,
blessed day, for it was the day on which the Sun
which cut right from wrong.
Many had swords,
of Beality dawned; the day on which all beings
I
but his sword conquered the world.
were revivified. In the world's calendar, it was
f
5 c  The Kingdom of Christ was Heavenly and
the beginning of a Heavenly Spring.
I
not like the kingdom of hnaparte; it was the
" To-day the mention of Christ is on a thousand
reality of the ancient law Christ spread, not the
tongues, but when H e  was on earth, H e  was not
1 :
words.
I3e conquered East and West by the
thought much of, notwithstanding they were
P
Holy Spirit, not by force.
Sects which were in
awaiting his corning with great impatience. They
I
the utmost animosity drank from the one fountain
thought that they would be his intimate friends.
-that
is, the Fountain of Love."
Some there were who used to cry day and night,
i
saying, 0 God, hasten the day when the Promised
'A bdu'l-~ahd Visits the Poor on Chriitmas Night.
One will manifest himself on this earth.'
When
On Christmas night cAbdu'l-BahS visited the
He came, they knew Him not; they persecuted
poor of the Salvation A m y  Shelter, Westminster;
Him and finally killed Him, for they said : ' This is
i
where each year a Christmas dinner is provided for
not the true Messiah whose coming is to be under
i
I
those who have no homes and no friends, and, but
special conditions. How is it that H e  claims to be
for the slielter, would have no lodgings.
There
from Nazareth, the son of Mary? He was to come
were about 1,000 present on this occasion.
I
with a sword; this man does not possess even a
i
A supreme test of attention transpired when
staff. He was to sit on the throne of David ; this
I
many of the hungry men forgot to eat and listened
man does not possess a mat to sit on. H e  must
y I
intently.
In conformity with the wonderful tact
conquer the East and the West; this man does
'Abdu'1'-BahB displayed on all occasions, his mes-
not possess a shelter. He was to teach the law of
sage to the homeless was simple, direct and short.
I
&loses; this man is abolishing it.
Jn His day,
" I feel to-night," H e  said, " great joy and hap-
justice was to encircle the world, the wolf and the
I
piness to be in this place, because hitherto my
sheep drink from one fountain; the lion and the
I
meetings and visits have been mostly with the

poor, and I think ss one of them.
My lot has
ever been with those who have not the goods of
this world.
The world consists of brothers.
The
poor have ever been the cause of the freedom of
the world of humanity; have ever been the cause
of the up-building of the country, and have ever
laboured for the world's production. The morals
of the poor have ever been above those of the rich ;
the poor are ever nearer to the threshold of God ;
the humanitarianism of the poor has ever been
more acceptable to God.
" Consider His Holiness Christ. H e  appeared
in the world as one of the poor.
H e  was born of
a lowly family; all the apostles of Christ were of
humble origin and his followers were of the very
poorest of the community. This is what Christ
states in the gospels, ' It is easier £or a camel to
go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man
to enter the kingdom of God.'
This testimony of
Christ to the exalted state of the poor ones is suffl-
cient. I t  is easy, very easy, for the poor to enter
into the kingdom of the Almighty.
" The poor have capacity, and are favoured at
the threshold of God. If wealth was a necessity,
Christ would have wished it for Himself. He lived
a simple life, and one of the titles of RahH'u911Ah
was ' the poor one.'
In Persian His title was
darvish,' and that means one who has not n slave.
All the prophets of Cod were poor. His Holiness
Moses mas a mere shepherd. This mill show you
that in the estimation of God poverty is greater
than the accumulation of wealth-thak
the poor
-
are more acceptable than the lazy rich. A rich
man who spends his wealth for the poor is praise-
worthy. Consider that the poor are not born in
a state of solvency ; they are not naturally tyran-
nous.
All the tyrannv and injustice in this world
comes from accumulation.
The poor have ever
been humble and lowly.
Their hearts are tender.
The rich are not so ! Sorrow not, grieve not ! Be
not unhappy! You are brothers of Jesus Christ.
Christ was one of you.
Bah&'u911Ah was poor.
For forty years he was imprisoned and in dire
poverty. The great ones of the world have come
from a lowly station. Be ever happy on account
of your kingly associates, and if in this world you
undergo dire vicissitudes, I hope tht in the king-
dom of God you will have the utmost happiness."
" In generous conformity with Bahh'u'llhh's
teachings that " our words should not exceed our
deeds," 'Abdu'l-Bahh left twenty sovereigns and
many hand£uIs of silver with Colonel Spencer, of
the Salvation
Shelter, so that the poor
might enjoy a similar dinner on New Year's night.
-
" Rapping for silence, Colonel Spencer mounted
the rostrum and informed the men that they were
i
to have this New Pear's dinner in ',4bdu'l-Bah'8's
honour. H e  was just leaving the hall when this
announcement was made. With one accord the
rnen jumped up and, waving thcir knives and forks,
gave a rousing farewell cheer, after which there

i
a
was a moment of deep silence, before 'Abdu'l-
Bah& in answer to Colonel Spencer, said : " May
God prosper you !" and then to the men : " May
'ABDU'L BAHA
you all be under the protection of the Almighty !"
(Isabel Fraser, in Everywoman,
WITH THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS.
Dee.-Jan., 1915-16.)
T the Westminster Meeting of tbe G i e t y  of
Friends, January 12th, 1918, 'Abdu9l-
" About 6,000 years ago a Society was formed
in Persia called the ' Society of Friends,' who
gathered together for Silent Communion with the
" They divided Divine Philosophy into two
parts.
That which can be acquired through lec-
- tures and study in schirols and colleges : and the
philosophy of the Illuminati, or Followers of the
Inner Light. The schools of this philosophy are
held in Silence and meditation, and by tuning
to the Source of Light.
From that Cen-
tral Light the mysteries of the Kingdom were re-
flected in their hearts.
A11 the Divine problems
mere solved by this power of illumination.
" Among the great questions unfolding through
the rays of Divine Reality upon the mind of man,
is the question of the reality of the spirit of man;
of the birth of the Spirit; of his birth from this
world into the world of God; the question of the
inner life of the Spirit ; and of the fate of the Spirit
after its ascension from the body.
" They likewise meditate upon the scientific
questions of the day, and these al-so are solved.

' Followers of the Inner Light,' they attain to a
superlative degree of power, and are entirely freed
from blind dogmas and imitations. Men rely on
their statements.
By themselves, within them-
selves, they solve all mysteries.
" If they find a solution by the assistance of
the Inner Eight, they accept it, and afterwards de-
clare it; otherwise they would consider it a matkr
of blind imitation.
" They go so far as to reflect upon the essential
nature of Divinity, Divine Revelation, and the
Manifestation of
God in this world.
All
philosophical, divine, and scientific questions are
solved by them through the power of the Spirit.
" BahH'u911Hh says there is a sign from God in
every phenomenon. The sign of the intellwt. .
silence ; because it is impossible for man to
*- -
do two
le time. H e  cannot both meak
-
" It is an axiomatic fact that while you medi,
tate vou are speaking with your own Spirit. Jn-
that state of mind you put certain auestions to
your S~irit, the Spirit answers, the Light break
forth, and Reality is revealed.
< ?  --
" YOU canaot apply thi name of ' man ' to
any being devoid of the faculty of meditation.
Without it, he would be a mere animal.
" Through the faculty of
tains to eternal life; throu
----
Breath of the Holy Spirit. The bestowal of the
Spirit is given in reflection and meditation.
Though it, the Spirit of man is informed and
strengthened,
Through it, affairs of which man
knows nothing are unfolded before his view.
Through it, one receives Divirre inspiration;
through it, one partakes of Heavenly Food.
" Meditation is the key for opening the doors of
myst=n
thathat subjective mood, withdrawing
himself from all outside objects, man can unfold
the secrets of things within himself; because he is
immersed in the ocean of spiritual life.
" Through the power of meditation man frees
himself from the animal nature, discerns the real-
ity of things, and is put in touch with God. This
faculty brings forth from the invisible plane the
sciences and arts. Through the meditative faculty
inventions are made possible, and colossal under-
takings are carried out. Through it governments
can be run smoothly. Through this faculty man
enters into the very Kingdom of God.
'' Nevertheless, some thoughts are useless to
man. They are like waves ebbing to and fro in the
sea without result.
'' But if the faculty of meditation is bathed in
the Inner Light, and characterised with Divine
attributes, then the results will be wonderful.
" The meditative faculty is akin to the mirror.
If you put before it earthly objects it will reflect
them. Therefore, if the spirit of man is contempla-
ting earthly subjects, he will be informed of these.
But if the mirror of the Spirit be turned heaven-
't:

%ads, the heavenly constellations and the rays of
the Sun of Reality will be reflected in the heart,
and the virtues of the Kingdom will be attained.
" Let us, therefore, keep this faculty rightly
directed, turning it to the Heavenly Sun and not to
earthly objects, so that we may discover the secrets
of the Kingdom, comprehend the allegories of
the Bible, and the mysteries of the Spirit. May we
indeed become mirrors reflecting Heavenly Reali-
ties, and may we become so pure as to reflect the
Constellations of Heaven. "
THE RADIANCE
a- * -
e
OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY.
Fe<
PEAKING in London, at the Studio o
Mr. Felix Moscheles, on Sunday after-
&
noon, Jan. lgth, 1913, 'Abdu'I-Bah& wa
asked by him to make allusion to the Hague Con
ference and to the beneficence of a Universa
Language. H e  said :
" For every Age there is destined a great Move
ment, which is the sum total or Expression of tha
Age.
In the 19th Century, Freedom, and Liberty, and
Human Brotherhood was proclaimed.
But the Radiance of the 20th Century, into
which we have entered, is Unity and Harmony
The Eight we declare is :
The Oneness of Humanity :
That the Foundation of the Religions of God i
One :
And the Fellowship of all Races.
In this Century Human progress and perfections
will ever be advanced from the Table of the One
ness of >Humanity.
All the Prophets of God have been sent for this
That they may usher in the Era of Peace.
His IXoliness Christ embraced the Cross.
His Holiness John gave up his head.
BahA'u'llAh endured the pillory.

" H e  suffered 50 years' exile and imprisonment.
" Reconciliation is at hand.
But, as long as the
All through His Life H e  was exiled, imprisoned in
nations will not abstain from these blind dogmas
dark drmgeons, or incarcerated in a barrack. All
it is impossible.
these renunciations and sacrifices mere for the sake
" I t  is very difficult for the Sun, to penetrate the
of Humanity and the fundamental Unity of alt
clo~~ds
of superstition and dogma. Therefore, if
we dispel these clouds, me shall have the efficient
"At a time when the Orient was wrapped in con-
rays of the Sun of Reality.
tention, and encompassed in foul clouds and dark-
" One of the Teachings of Bahi9u'llAh is that a
ness : Lo, and behold ! The Sun of Reality shone
Universal Language should be established-so
that
.
forth and flooded these regions with its rays. The
everyone may study two languages : One his
first effulgent ray from this illumined sun emanat-
native, and one auxiliary. Then, all people will
ing from the fact that God is the One Shepherd,
be enabled to associate amicably and do away with
misunderstandings.
Who ever provides for, cares for, and protects a11
Humanity, and is ever kind to all.
"All enmity between Religions comes from lack
of understanding.
The Auxiliary language will
" The second ray appears through the investiga-
serve to sweep away misunderstanding.
This was
tion of Reality. we have to abandon all hearsays,
proclaimed 50 years ago by Bahh'u9llBh.
H e  laid
and investigate realities.
Everything must be
down this law in the Holy Books,
seen with our own eyes, heard with our o m  ears,
'"nother
Teaching of Bahh'n'llAh is : There
and demonstrated with our own minds-so
that
must be a Universal Court of Justice, so that all
we may free ourselves from blind dogmas and
International disputes may be arbitrated by the
superstitions.
Parliament of Man.
" These decayed and superannuated dogmas and
*" Bahb'u'llhh 50 years ago, in the Book of Aq-
tales of the past, not being based upon Reality,
das, commanded the people to establish a Universal
have ever been the cause of contention.
They
Court of Arbitration, and surnrnoned all nations
have been causative of the laying waste of Man-
to the Divine Banquet of International Peace.
kind.
" For this the whole Rlrman Race must be con-
"These blind dogmas have made sons inimical to
their fathers, and caused them to shun their
mothers.
I
sulted through their representatives, whose con-
clusions when ratified by the people of every
* (Now more than 60 years xgcj).

country, will latterly be signed by their Ring, or
can positively say the nature of the time demands
President if the Country is Republic.
" These representatives will gather together in a
" In the closed Century the demand was for
place accepted by all the people.
That place will
Freedom.
Whoever tried to quell it failed. "
be under the protection of Humanity, and no
" Likewise, the International Court of Arbitnr-
doubt of God.
tion is requisite to this Age.
I t  is impossible for
" Then, all the disputes between nations will be
any Bower to postpone it, and the World of
referred to that Court for A~bitration.
Humanity will assuredly rest in the cradPe of
" But, if one rise in rebellion not desiring to
Peace.
This is one of the bounties of this Cycle.
follow this Council, then all the individuals of the
Its miracles are multitudinous. Its discoveries are
wonderful. ' '
World will rise up against that nation.
" There is no doubt when this Council is brought
" 'Therefore, let us all arise to serve Mankind,
and bring International Peace into being-spend-
into being the Peace of the World of Humanity
will he established. "
ing all our endeavours to that end. Let us go to the
utmost sacrifice : 20,000 Bahais have given up life
Referring, as requested, to the Hague Confer-
itsel£ for this end : That the Divine commands
ence 'Abdu'l-Bahb said : "The Hague Conference
may be realized throughout the Globe.
So that
- is good but insacient. Its sphere of discussion
all the children of men may live in the ut~nost
is narrow.
It is not representative of the elec-
torate of the World.
" The members of this Conference were obliged
to follow the inclinations of the Governments
which supported them, and could not deviate one
hair's breadth fronl their instructions. Mad they
been free and untramnielled you would have real-
ized what could have been accomplished."
" 'The Council outlined by RahA'u'llih will be
the lad resort. It is confirmed by God : And under
the protection of God. Rest as,mred this Inter-
P
national Court of Arbitration will come into
I,
existence--for it is the demand of the time. W e
*
ki
B

a speech he delivered before an assembly of learned
\ ._ -.--
-
----
--
THE SPIRIT OF INVESTIGATION.
men m Pans, -
dur&
A
-
the ~ x ~ o s i t i o n
oflg01:-
" When the BahAis wishto make a convert to
their Religion, they endeavour from the very first
to confirm him in his own Religion, thus enabling
calls conflicting armies to marshal thern-
him to become cognizant of the principal proofs
selves into lines with the main purpose of Religion,
whereby the Divine Religions are demonstrated,
namely, to create Harmony in the world, and to
and to distinguish a Prophet from an impostor.
establish on earth the Most Great Peace; one
Consequently, the Old Testeament of the Bahitis
would always repeat the assurance of the exalted
consists of all the Heavenly Books revealed through
place ascribed to ~hrist,
by the Bahb'i community.
the former Prophets, while their New Testament
For the Aim, and the Voice, and the Pen of
comprises the Tablets of Bahb'u'llhh, which in fact'
Bahh'u'llhh and 'AbduYl'Bah& have been clear in
reconcile these books and contain the interpreta-
showing that Christ is enthroned in every heart.
tion and explanation of them ! "*
In the Light of Oneness, Bahtiis accept all the
. The Fifth Principle of Bahi'u'llhh points out :
Prophets and Manifestations of God. 'Therefore,
" Religion must be in accord with Science and
no Jew, no Muslim, or Buddhist, or those of other
Reason."
And Solomon says : " Above all thy
Religions, can become a Bahb'i without accepting
getting, get understanding. "
Christ.
I t  would be well if Missionaries would
Bahir'u'llhh invites the peoples of all Religions
assure themselves of this, for their own comfort.
to be fair, to investigate, and to recognise from
And may God bless them with this understanding.
their own Scriptures, that the Founders of Reli-
For it is high time that the peoples of different
gion, honour each other. Why, then, dare their
Religions left off proselytising each other, merely
followers slay each other? Let them give their
in the partial interest of Truth : when by a different
answer to the God Who created them, and to the
outlook all can see it together, more fully revealed,
Prophets who come to the world. in His Name.
in the Teachings of Bahb'u'llbh.
For 'Truth being
One, and indivisible, Religion was never sent into
the world to create confusion, or to justify the
abuse of intelligence, but to establish it.
" One of the noble Christians of -
Cairo, M.
~ a b i i e l
- - - -  de ~ a & ,
. -de
.
t s  following statement in
" " ah;; Proofs." Abul Fazl.
pp. 70, 71.

tice ; because they are the Principles of Righteous-
UNIVERSAL HARMONY.
ness, of 'Truth, of Justice and Generosity. The
'&spirit within" every individual who studies them,
T was necessary, as we have seen, to have free-
will testify to this.
dom from religious superstition, in order
to attain individual resurrection. This has
-
Unity is the natural sequence of all preceding
come to countless millions through the Teachings
Revelation ahd attainment.
Its Principles will
of Jesus, as a necessary precedent to the realisation
triumph over an opposition. It is evident there
of Universal Harmony, and the conscious Unity
has been great attainment, in all spheres. Great
of Mankind, wZch comes to us through Bah6'-
Manifestation of Human Power.
Man ought
uYLlAh. It was this Universal consciousness which
therefore now, to brace himself up with Faith, to
Jesus yearned for, when H e  prayed : " That they
match all this Power, which has been manifested,
all may be One, as Thou Father art in Me,
and garner in all the blessings, which may accrue
and 9: in Thee, that they also may be One in Us."
to Humanity, through a wise direction of it.
He also taught His disciples to pray for Unity,
when He taught them, " Our Father. ''
Unity holds out the fruitful Basket
of
The Lord's Prayer was the Key-note to Unity,
Fragrances to Mankind, which can soothe and heal
which Jesus gave.
a suffering world. Its riches are unfathomable :
Bahi'u'llhh re-echoes, re-iterates, and gives
Even as the riches of Man's inheritance on Earth,
Volume to the Harmony it contains : " Consort
and in the Iseavens of LTnderstanding, are count-
with the peoples of all Religions with fragrance.
Follow that which tends to Harmony," will be His
Bugle Call, through the coming centuries. And
following it, will alone save Humanity fmm the
calamities which threaten it To-Day.
eousness make it possible.
Otherwise, it is im-
,;
The Principles of Bahh'u'llbh are Divine Guid-
/
ante meeting the peculiar needs of this Age. And
there will be no unity between individuals, or
The Aim of all the Prophets throughout the
Nations; no social, political, industrial, or reli-
A!losaic and Christian Dispensations of the Spirit,
gious Unity, however much we talk about it,
points to Unity.
And it should he the greatest
unless these Principles of Unity are put into prac-
joy in life, for the Friends of God and Humanity

to assist these Heavenly Hosts, in spreading a
knowledge of the Principles which make it possible.
The Teachings of Bahh'u'llhh m
o

was known
as "The Father of the Poor," are fraught witb
such Blessing, that they offer interest, upon inter-
est, and Glory upon Glory, for all. They sumanon
all, to that for which they are created-to
become
the conscious children of the Most Glorious.
Therefore a knowledge of them is of the utmost
importance. For they give that very Guidance
for To-Day, which many, in religious, political,
social, and industrial circles, are seeking, and
which, in its fullness, they cannot find elsewhere.
;-:,
cc
NE Dav telleth another," and " a thou-
(U sandyears in Thy sight are but as yes-
terday."
4:
To-day is the Day of all Days !
It gathers up the Meaning of Days.
Each Day fuller than the Last must be.
And this Last overflows with the effulgence
..
Of all the Days of God which have been.
Far Bahh'u'llhh
opens the sealed Books of
Prophecy in all Religions, revealing the Habony
of the Divine Plan in them all, and declares to the
world with the Pen of Power, that in this Day is
the Scripture of them all fulfilled.
Surely it is the Holy Spirit which reminds us
of the Day, when Jesus, standing in the Syna-
gogue, opened the Book of Isaiah, and reading,
said : " This Day, is this Scripture fulfilled in your
earsH-for another fuEllment has taken place.
Shoilld one not be eager to understand, when
coming in touch with some beautiful spiritual
power and on hearing that the Sun of Truth has
again arisen with great brilliance to enlighten the
world, be willingly open to conviction concerning
n New Spiritual Dispensation?
Did not J c ~ s
Hinlself Soretell it, when %3e
spoke of One who should eonlc '' in the Spirit sf

Truth, to guide us into all Truth " ?
Then surely,,
all who are interested in what He said should ask
themselves after
full investigation,
whether
Bahd'u'lldh is not that One. This is His claim.
And the Scriptures of Religion known by diffeqnt
Names, tedify to the truth of it. The least anyone
cin do is to investigate in the light of the Scripture
they believe in, and consider well its meaning,
before dismissing the matter. And if it be found
that Bahb'u'llih fulfils other Scriptures as well :
surely that should increase and universalize interest
in the Revelation of Truth which H e  brings? It
is eminently satisfactory, in that it is all-compre-
hending.
That of course is the secret of its power
to unite.
When first told that the Bahb'i Faith has power
to unite the people of all Religions, many say :
" Impossible !" And their amazement at such a
proposition shows how far they are astray from the
true meaning of Religion.
For it always has been
difficult to accept the idea that some nations should
be left out of the Divine Plan; we should not
think this right.
Some have repudiated Religion
altogether because of the superstition of those who
would be satisfied if their own race and nation
could be saved, whatever might happen to the
others. But BahA'u'UAh tells us that " Justice
enables us to see things with our own eyes, and
not by the eyes of any in the world."It
is also
recorded that the Faith of Abraham impelled IIim
to exclaim : " Surely the Cod of all the Earth,
mu.st do right ! " Here we have the Spirit which
God had " placed within " Abraham voicing itself.
And such faith and such voicing of it, would
gladden the heart of any earthly father.
W h y
should we not have confidence that it delights the
Heavenly Father ?
Bah&'u'llbh, by declaring the Oneness of Mau-
kind and the Oneness of Religion, does not con-
tradict the Faith of Abraham, but substantiates
it. The " Signs of the Times," which should
accompany His appearance have been all around us
on every side. W e  have already noticed, that in
EIis Day, Jesus rebuked as hypocrites those who
did not understand the "Signs of their own times,"
. and therefore denied Him.
BahA'u'llAh has certainly made the Teachings OF
Jesus, in this, and in other respects, especially
clear, and surely there is to-day universal need for
-
the Guidance of the Sun of Truth. It is difficult
to imagine the state of mind of those who have not
found the Teachings of BahB'u'llbh in this time
of calamities ; for are they not just what Jesus said
would take place at the time when another should
come in the same Spirit, to give further Guidance
than He could give at the time He left this earth?
I t  is clear that the BahBi Revelation is the
natural and spiritual sequence, due at this time, in
furtherance of the Teachings which Jesus gave ; for
it makes sayings of His intelligible, which have
hilherto seemed obscure; and it is certainly in
accord with the Divine utterances of Jesus.

There are those to-day who are asking constantly,
" Where does all the modern Teaching place
Jesus ?"
Much of ' it does not take Him into
account, but it will be found that the BahA'i Teach-
ing does.
For it takes of that which H e  gave,
" shows It, to us,"* and confirms us in it. And
nbt only does it confirm our Faith in Jesus : but
the Bahb'i Revelation introduces us to all God's
- Messengers, even to those of other Names, not
acknowledged in the Hebrew, or Christian Reli-
gion, and thus brings to our remembrance the
saying of Jesus, when His disciples complained
that others were casting out devils who were not
with them : " Rebuke them not, for those who
are not against us, are on our side."
Surely that
answer holds good to-day !
Christians cannot deny that Maammad has on
His own ground, dealt more ably with the liquor
traffic than they in some countries have yet done.
For there are many members of different Churches
who hold shares in brewery companies, and think
it quite right to do so. There is not unanimity in
this matter amongst Christians, but amongst
Muslims there is. Drunkenness is allied with
other vices, and we cannot have heaven on earth,
unless all agree to banish them all. The day is
fast vanishing, in which it was considered by some
manly to conserve practices contrary to the highest
good of the Human Family.
Universal Religion which stands for Reality,
must be allied to Science and Reason, and when
* See John, Chap. xvi., Vers. 19-15.
this becomes generally known-there
will be no
atheists. M&amrnad (though it is the last thing
on earth which many Christians suppose) honoured
Christ, and Abraham, and Moses. This fact is
made known to the world through the Teachings
of BahA'u' llhh.
Those who are enveloped in prejudice must in-
evitably spend ,their lives in trying to escape the
truth about many things. It is however a little
tragic d e n  large numbers take their friends to
be enemies, and slay each other. To eliminate
the pain of such misunderstanding, it is mueh
better to have a mind ready to investigate Reality.
Nobody can discover anything while locked up in
-
. boxes of mental prejudice.
It has never been the Messengers of God, but
their disciples, who in their mistaken zeal, are
ready to " eat God up " by engendering prejudice
and enmity.
BahB'u'lllhh coines to put an end to religious
strife, proving from the Sacred Scriptures of all
Religions that God's Messengers Irave, in every
instance, been bent upon the same Purpose of
creating Unity in the world. So we see that the
very essence of that which they all give is in accord
with the all-embracing Unity, revealed in these
Latter Days through the Bahi'i Teachings. They
afford abundant satisfaction in awakening a true
knowledge of the Divine origin of every individual
(a matter whicll theology has largely left to the
perception of Mystics)-and
this should silence

the question-"
Divine, or not divine ?"-which
has been the bone of
contention
between
Unitarians and Trinitarians, for centuries.
One
party practically denying their own divinity, and
the other denying the Divinity of Christ ! What-
ever have theologians imagined divinity to be?
Mrs. Eddy, thanks be to her, settled that matter
for Christian Scientists, by claiming Divinity for
all God's children, dismissing all arguments to the
-
contrary-as
emanations of ' ' mortal mind. "
All mean conceptions of the nature of Man have
arisen through clinging io remnants of Truth, and
trying to make them cover erroneous ideas ; each
adhering to that which takes his fancy most, and
with it veiling the Divine beneficent Whole.
BahB'u'llAh gives rich assurance of divine birth-
right, through the power of the I I o k  Spirit,
for every individual; and so delivers us from
mere self-satisfaction, by enlightening all concern-
ing the Oneness of the Human Family.
Such
unanimity of the universal consciousness, must, it
is suggested, be the At-Onement of those Great
Ones, who have laboured with such divine passion,
even pouring out their precious life blood on
crosses, that perchance by such unquestionable
sincerity some might believe in their Mission to
es'tahlish universal Love and Harmony; and if it
were possible, to convince the world of their Love,
which is one with God's Love for Mankind. Man-
kind I-~as indeed been lost to reason find c:ornnlon
sense, in supposing that Cod wanted His own
beloved Son crucified-in
order that H e  might be
enabled to forgive sinners ! From such error and
gross superstition, 0 our Heavenly Father deliver
us ! No simple child could or would have invented
such an idea. It is enough to alienate the whole
world from Religion; and it is quite enough to
account for the lovable straightforwardness of some
truthful children, who have been known to say :
they " loved Jesus Christ, but hated God ! "
To love a lovable personality is perfectly natural
and reasonable, but to ignore example and fall
flat on one's face in worship, is not desired. Jesus
did not want to be enthroned as a God, or to be
'
called " Lord, Lord," though the manifestation
.of His Divine qualities proved Him to be Lord
of Mankind, or, in other words, made God, in
Man, Manifest.
To worship Him, He clearly
said, did not qualify anyonr for the Kingdom of
Heaven-but
to do the Will of the Father, did*
This is in accordance with His own Words, and
with the Words of all Divine Messengers. They
come, always, to seek Nan's understanding.
And, coming divinely, to speak to that which
is divine, though dormant, in Man; usually Man
has slain them.
This time however, though
Martyrs have testified their Faith by joyfully giv-
ing up their lives to prove it, God's Manifestation
has not been slain. Many s~ifferings mere heaped
upon Rim ; but IIe overcame all difficulties ; doing
the great work committed to I s m ,  radiantly.
Through the clouds of moral, mental, and

The following extracts from the Supreme Pen
of Bahb'u'llHh bear witness to the Oneness of
Human and Divine relationship.
" 0 SON OF THE HIGHEST
SIGHT !
I have placed zoithin thee, a spirit from Me,
that thou mightest be My Lover : W h y  hast
thou forsaken Me, and
sought to love
another? "
veiled :
Thou art M y  Garment, and My
Garment shall never be outworn. Therefore
abide in thv love to Me, that thou rnayest find
Me in th-e Highest Horizon !"
6 6  0 SON OF SPIRIT !
I have created thee sublim,e ! But thou hast
degraded thyself : therefore ascend to that for
which. thou recast created."
(" Hidden Words."
Bahb'u'llAh.)

What generous love in a Creator ! How refresh-
ing after the mere " Thou God see-est me," which
has so often been used to terrify the children of
men, and has left no encouragement for the indi-
vidual consciousness to rise to a state of Oneness
with the Heavenly Father.
W e  read, " God sent not His Son into the world
to condemn the world, but that the world through
Him, might have life."
And always One with
the Father, Jesus Himself said : '' I came not into
the world to condemn the world, but that ye might
have life, and have it more abundantly ; and to the
end that he that believeth on Me, might have Life
Everlasting."
How beautifully these words of Jesus accord
with those of Rahi'u'llLh when Me speaks to the
individual for God :
" 7 have placed within thee, a spirit from Me,
that thou nzightest be My Lover!"
And how much more satisfying it is to know
that our Creator is seeking our individual under-
standing, in order that me may be both lavers and
helpers !
This opens out a new vista, and suggests bound-
less possibilities for the children of men.
No
wonder
that
with
His
penetrating
Sight
RahA'u'lIBh has made Courtesy the Cardinal Virtue
for this New Age. And how the world needs it !
There could, of course, be no Kingdom of Heaven,
without it.
UNITY MEETINGS.
-
X
N the Generosity of the Bahi'i Dispensation
BahiL'u911iLh has made sure provision for the
social life of the Bahd'i Community. For,
" This is the Hoar of the Unity of the sons of men,
And the drawing together of all classes."
En 1911, when 'Abdu'l-Bahi mas in London,
H e  gave the following discourse at a Unity Meet-
ing held at the home of Miss Marion Jack and
the writer.
The International Races Congres,
in which Bahdis had taken special interest, many
coming from other lands to take part in it in 1910,
made that Unity Meeting specially interesting and
iepresentative, since a number had remained in
the hope that 'Abdu'l-Bahi
would come to
London, and on September 22nd, 1911, the hope
and expectation was rewarded by the following
discourse :
0 Ye Friends and 'Handmaidens of the Merciful !
God is all Glorious !
I t  is a cold and miserable day but as I was
anxious to see you I came here.
For a man who
has love, effort is rest. He will travel any distance
to visit his friends.
Thank God I see you spiritually at rest. I give
- you this message from God : that ye may ever turn
toward E r n .
Praise God that you are near Him ! The un-
worthy things of this world have not deterred you

from seeking the world of the Spirit.
WThile in
harmony with the world you care not for' the
things which perish. Your desire is for that which
never dies, and the Kingdom lies before you. I
hope that the Teaching of God will spread through-
out the world, and will cause all to be united.,
In the time of Jesus Christ there mas an out-
pouring of Light from East to West which
brought the people under a Heavenly Banner, and
illumined them with Divine insight.
Western lands have been kindled by the Light
of Christ. I pray earnestly that the Light in this
advanced '
~
~
e

will so iuumine the world that all
may rally under the Banner of Unity and receive
Spiritual education.
Then those problems which cause merenee
among the peoples of the earth will be seen no
more, for verily they are not.
You are all waves
of one sea, mirrors of one reflection.
To-day the countries of Europe are at rest;
Ed~xcation is widespread. The light of liberty is
the light of the West, and the intention of govern-
ment is to work for truth arid justice in Western
countries.
But ever the Light of spirituality
shines out from the East. In this Age that Light
-
-
has become dimmed ; Religion has become a matter
of form and ceremony and the desire for God's
Love has been lost.
I
In every Age of great spiritual darkness, a Eight
is kindled in the East.
So once again the Light
of the Teachings of God has come to you.
Even
I
as education and progress travel from West to
East, so does the Spiritual fire travel from East to
West.
I hope that the people of the West may be
illumined by the Light of God, that the Kingdom
may come to them, that; they may find eternal1
Life, that the Spirit of God may spread like a fire
among them, that they may be baptised with the
water of Life and may find a new birth.
This is my desire. I hope by the will of God
He will cause you to receive it, and will make you
happy.
In the same way that you have education and
material progress, so may the Light of God be
your portion.
God keep all of you in safety.
(" 'Abdu'l-Bahci in London," p. 39.)

,-
SPIRITUAL SPRING TIMES.
N examination of the records will show,
that those Who have been fitted and ap-
pointed by God to inaugurate the
NEED OF PERSONAL
Spiritual Spring Times of the world, have always
6een fully conscious of their Mission. They can
say, as Jesus said : " My Father worketh until
-
now, and I work."
Because of necessity, they
are conscious that the Father worketh through
them, and th,zt the work is His.
It would be difficult to imagine the beauty of the
physical Spring Times, without the physical sun.
And it would be more difficult to imagine the state
of the world, if the Spiritual Sun of Truth, had
never, in times of " gross darkness," burst forth
from the Heavens of Enlightenment on the mind
and spirit of Mankind : with re-creative ener-
gies, and with such Power, that fullillkg Pro-
phecy, It has " Made all things New," and in Its
own mysterious way, set the seal of its Power on
Chronologi pal calculations.
There is no mystery in the fact that such epoch-
making Events, have been marked by the appear-
ance of ~ i v i n e  Manifestations; it is history.
Only the future is enveloped in mystery-the
present is as clear as noon-day, for those who will
see with the eye of the Spirit. And it would be
foolish to deny the re-creative power of the Spirit
to mark the present epoch even more convinc-
ingly, because of its gathered volumes : and v e y
difficult to imagine it, unrelated to Prophecy !
r.
MANIFESTATION.
N both ancient and modern metaphysics,
Divine Principle is recognised to be the
origin, foundation, and truth of individual
being. And this immaculate conception renders
valuable service to IIumimity. For it sets each
one up with a noble outlook in life, in contradis-
tinction to the " born in sin," and " miserable
worm," notions, which have been a ridiculous
travesty of 'Truth, and have oppressed' Mankind,
through long and weary centuries; and we are
grateful for this charter of freedom from ideas
which have hindered individual resurrection.
However, though freedom has its merits, we
need, and the world needs, whether the world will
I
have them or no (and it is not in the nature of
things that They could come, if we did not need
Them)-those
great Personal Manifestations, Who
I
come revealing, and declaring from the Dawning
Place of Command-God"
sTil1 for the Era de-
noted by their appearance.
So, because we need
them, they have always r~gpeared, as History and
I
Chronology show, at the inauguration of a New
Era,. And, as in the Past, some accepted, and
some rejected their Guidance, so it is To-day.

. .
But, nevertheless, the Guidance so greatly needed,
is evident to us in the Revelation of Bahb'u'llih.
without
some
unifging,
and
revivifying
THE SUN OF TRUI"I'.
Spiritual Power, mere individual freedom is apt to
breed chaos. In looking around, what do we see?
-HE
Sun of Truth is the Word of God. It
Shameless, supercilious egotism, at war with itself ;
(3 illumines the Path to the Most Great
and its offspring-abounding
chaos.
Peace.
Contrary winds in the mefital atmosphere create
a The Reality of the Divine Religions is One.
whirlwinds, and a Guiding Spirit is necessary, to
All the Prophets are united in their Message, and
lead all into the channels of blessing which Unity
unshaken.
They are like the Sun; in different
affords. And what the world needs in this respect,
seasons they ascend from different points on the
is precisely what is always sent for its illumination.
horizon.
Therefore, every ancient Prophet gave
If Humanity fails to see this, it must be looking
the glad tidings of the future, and evew future has
in the wrong direction, or is afraid to acknowledge
accepted the past.
-
It, because of a tendency to cling to Guidance
given in the Past.
W e  know it would have been far far better for
the world, if it had listened to God's Prophets in
their own Day and Time, instead of waiting for
centuries after it has stoned them before affording
recognition; for such procrastination engenders
a disposition to stone the New Ones.
W e  know that Light is always Light, in what-
ever Age it appears : and individuals are so con-
stituted, that " the Spirit which God has placed
within them," enables them to see it. If this were
not so, life would be a very unfair thing to them.
" Religions are like the branches of one Tree.
0Le branch is high, one is low, and one in the
centre ; yet all draw their life from one stem. One
branch bears fruit and others are not laden 50
abundantly.
All the Prophets are Tights, they
only differ in degree; they shine like heavenly
bodies, each having their appointed place and time
of ascension. Some are like lamps, some are like
the moon, some like distant stars, and a few are
like the Sun, shining from one end of the earth
to the other. All have the same ~ i ~ h t
to give,
yet they are different in degree. If we accept the
Light in one, we must accept it in all."
(" 'Abdu'l-BahB in London," pp. 17, 57.)
" If men followed the IToly Counsels and Teach-
ings of the Prophets ; if Divine Light shone in the

hearts and men were really religious, we should
soon see Peace on earth and the Kingdom of God
among men. 'lie Laws of G d  may be likened
unto the sod and material progress unto the body.
If the body was not animated by the soul, it would
cease to exist."
(" Talks of 'Abdu91-BAA, given
in Paris," p. 98.)
" The \TTord sf God is the storehouse of all good,
all power, and a11 wisdom. The illiterate fishers
and savage Arabs were thereby enabled to solve
such problems as were puzzles to eminent sages.
I t  awakens within us that brilliant intuition which
makes us independent of all tuition, and endows
us with an all-embracing power of understanding.
Many a soul in the ask of philosophy, after fruit-
less struggles has been drowned in the sen of con-
flicting theories of cause and effect, while those on
board the craft of simplicity have reached the shore
of the Universal Cause by the help of favourable
winds blowing from the point of Divine Know-
ledge.
" When man is associated with that transeend-
ent Power emanating from the \Vord of God, the
tree of his existence becomes so well rooted in the
soil of assurance that it remains fimm amid the
violent hurricanes of scepticism and doubt which
attempt his destruction.
" For this association of the part with the whole
endow.: him ~i'idih the -Whole, and this unison
of the particular vcith the Universal makes hiin all
in a .  ' ('Ahdu'l_-BahA B bbas.)
-EXIS
Feast is kept by Bahkis all over the
(3 world, to celebrate that most auspicious
Event in the world's History : Bah&'uY-
Ilkh's Declaration of Himself as the Expected One,
Whoni the BAb had Proclaimed.
It was in the Garden of Ricjvhn, outside Bagdad,
towards the end of April, 1868, that Bahh'u'llAh
Declared Himsel£ to be that One for Whom the
people of all Ages, in accordance with the Prophe-
cies of the Hebrew, Christian, M&ammadan, and
other great Religions, have waited-the
Hope of
Israel-
and the Desire of all Nations.
Therefore, 'this Feast is kept during the last
twelve days of April by Bahhis in commemoration
of the time when, being Exiled and driven from
place to place under despotic Governments, be-
cause His Teaching was gaining such hold on the
people wherever He went, BahA'u'llhh was about
to be taken from Bagdad to Adrimople.
This Holy Feast was kept in London, at the
home of the writer, on April 24th, 1920, on which
occasion the following Tablet was received from
'Abdu'l-13ahh to be read to the Friends assembled :
f -
" O Friends and Handmaidens of God !
" To-day is the Day in which the Sun of Reality
has dawned from the I-Iorizon of existence.
Its
Daybreak is clear, and its Sunshine is bright with
such Power that obscuring clouds are dissipated,

" With the utmost brilliance It is luminous, and
shining from the horizon of the world. This is that
which causes created beings new exaltation.
CHILDHOOD OF BAH~UZLAH.
" Consider ye, how much in this Cycle, Science
T was the custom of 'Abdu'l-Bahh to g$ve out
and Art are extended.
to the guests who met around His hospit-
How strange Arts, and New things have
able Table both spiritual and material food,
appeared !
sewing the latter to His guests withHisownhands.
How the power of Thought has increased !
From all parts of the world, from all religions
And strange inventions have become ap-
and races, and for many years they met around
parent.
His Table of Oneness in the utmost joy and har-
" This Cycle contains in itself, the Wisdom of a
mony. Now, through the countless Tablets and
hundred Cycles : and if you gather the Wisdom
Talks which were given by Him, for them to give
of this one, the results will be seen to be far greater
than the results of a hundred Cycles before it.
For instance, if you collect the books, which were
Speaking one day at Table on the childhood of
compiled in former Cycles, and all the books and
Bahh'u'llhh, H e  said :
epistles which are compiled in this : Those of this
Cycle are more than double those of past Ages.
" I n  the childhood of the blessed Beauty*
Consider Ye the brilliance of the Sun. And re-
his
father
realised
the remarkable
powers
flect upon the effect which the brilliance of the
latent in his boy, and used to treat him with the
Sun of Truth has made upon the Human Creation.
utmost consideration and respect. For his other
" But a thousand times alas !
That eyes are
children he had but little regard, d l  his attention
blind, and ears deaf, and the minds and hearts are
being devoted to the Blessed Perfection. The signs
neglectful of this great Bounty !
of majesty arid greatness were apparent in him
"Then strive Ye with heart and soul, that sleepy
from childhood. One day when he was quite a little
ones may become awake! The blind have sight,
child he happened to walk near his father and
and the dead ones become alive ! "*
mother who were sitting together. His father re-
Upon Ye, be BahA el Abha !
marked :
(Signed) ‘ABDU'L-BAHA
ABBAS .
" ' This son of ours is peerless and unequalled,
'
Translated by Lotfullah S. Hakim

'. and is not to be compared with any other children,
not in any way.'
" The mother said : ' He is just a little lacking
in height-a
trifle short.'
" The father replied : ' What does that matter?
'He is perfect in every way. If his height is not
great it is only that his brain is nearer his heart.'
"From childhood he had an extraordinary power
of attraction which was felt by all. Everybody
loved Him, and people were 'so fond of Him that
they always crowded around Him. He was ex-
ceedingly generous, and a lover of outdoor
life. Most of His time was spent in the garden
or the fields. Me was very fond of talking with
people.
"Another incident occurred when he was seven
years old---just entering His eighth year. It was
customary in those days of autocratic government,
just as in the Middle Ages, for the Shah ta make a
demand on any person, when he wanted money,
for a sum (it might be %50,000). H e  would tor-
ment the person until it' was paid.
I%e Shah
several times cut pieces of the ear off those un-
fortunate victims. Every time the Shah became
angry he would cut a piece off. Even one of the
Viziers of Persia had pieces of his ear cut off.
"One day the Shah said again, 'Cut his ear!'
T'he Vizier cried : ' Wait; this is not grass that
grows again when it is cut. Nothing will be left
of my ear.'
"Once the Shah made such a demand on the
father of BahA'u'llhh.
H e  said after that a second * '
demand was made and also paid.
Then a third
demand was made, this time quch larger than he
could possibly pay. On such occasions the Shah
sent collectors to the house who took possession and
sold the furniture, etc., by auction. A thing worth
ten pounds would often be sold for one pound.
The colIectors came and pressed Mirzs Abbas
(Bahh'u'llhh's father) for payment. The Blessed
Beauty, then a boy of seven years, said : ' I will
see this matter through.'
6'The Shah was away at the time at a place ten
days journey on horseback from Tihrbn.
The
weather was cold and there had been a heavy snow-
fall.
The father did not wish him to go, but
BahA'u'llAh said, ' I will go,' and the boy of seven
went. He saw the Prime Minister and talked with
him.
The Prime Minister took him to tPle Shah.
H e  talked to the Shah as though he were a man of
thirty or forty and did not leave him until the Shah
had written a firman (decree) granting His request.
The ground was covered with snow. A man called
Assodullah Bagi, a private servant, rode with the
Blessed Beauty to Tihrin, keeping the child in
front of him on a special saddle used for children,
and they rode the ten-days' trip in two-and-a-half
days, for ITis father was in distress. And at that
time there was no telegraph.
" On arrival he turned the collectors out of the
I
house.
"'All the Ministers and people of the court would

surround the Blessed Beauty. The children were
very fond of Him. When he was only thirteen or
fourteen Me became known for His learning. Me
conversed on many subjects, and solved many
THE OUTSTANDING EVENT IN
problems.
In large gatherings H e  would &s-
cuss matters with the mama (leading Mullahs),
THE WORLD'S HISTORY.
and would explain intricate religious questions.
0 the three wise men of the East who came
Some questions pertaining to the Mu$ammadan
to worship Him, to %fary His mother,
Religion had never been clearly explained which
and a few others, the birth of Jesus was
were expounded by IBahi'u'IlAh.
the greatest event in history up to that time.
To
" When H e  was tweniy-tw~ yea5 old his father
the majority it was a matter of insignificance.
died, and the Governnient wished Him to succeed
Now, we all know that it had the greatest spiritual
to His father's office, as was customary in Persia.
Bahh'm'llAh did not accept the offer.
Then the
Every age has its Prophets send Seers, and every
Prime Minister said : ' Leave him to himself. H e
New Era has been denoted by the appearance of a
will not descend to such a position. It is impos-
Dsvine Teacher who utters prophetic warnings
sibIe that He demean Himself thus.
I cannot
to the rulers of the earth. And though not de-
understand Him 3 he has some greater purpose in
sired by them, He is in reality the " Desire of
view. IIe has other thoughts ; leave Him alone.* )'+
Nations," and brings Divine Laws to lift oppres-
sion from the heart of Mankind.
To-day, the
Bounty given through Bahi'u'llBh is great, because
the need wbich calls for it never was greater. And
we are better equipped to make it known to the
*Ta.ble talk at Haifa, Dec. 1Fth, 1919, translated by Lotfullah
S. Wakim.
world than ever before.
Quite naturally, the greatest Event in our own
time is the appearance of the Spiritual 'Teacher
who was promised by Jesus in whom the world be-
lieves, but Who was lifted up on the Cross of Re-
jection in His Day.
Many are still expecting the
Promised One to " lead them into all Truth,"
withorit knowing that He has come and gone

"like a thief in the night," as was prophesied of
Him. But it is not too late for "every eye to see
Him," in spirit and in truth. For we, now, see
Jesus, though His chosen friends slept around
Him in His darkest hour.
"The Root of alI Knowledge is the Knowledge
" Upon reading the Tablee sent to her, Queen
Victoria said : ' If this is of God, it will stand.' "
"The Czar sent one of his nobility to investigate
the source of the Tablet received by him, and this
messenger returned with such impressive accounts
- of his mission that the Czar became stirred with
of God : Glory be to Him ! And this Knowledge
is impossible, save through TIis Manifestations."
" Above the din of many voices Bahir'u'llhh re-
.
veals the Will of God for this Age. Wherefore
when He appeared, the foundations of the world
trembled.
The learned ones were bewildered, and
wise men confounded, save those who came near
unto Thee, and took from the Vine of Favour,
'I'he pure Wine of Thy Inspiration, and drank in
Thy Name, saying :
'' Praise be unto Thee, 0 Desire of Nations !
Praise be unto Thee, 0 Beloved of the hearts
of yearning ! "
Had the Message of Bahit'u'llhh been heeded by
the rulers of the earth, the world would have been
spared the agonies it has since experienced. And
prosperity would have reached a greater height
the world over than it has yet dreamed of, or than
it can now hope for, for a long time to come.
In the Na'me of God, Bahi'u'llih sent Tablets
to the Czar, to the Pope, to the Emperor of Ger-
many, to Napoleon the Third, to the Shah of Per-
sia, to Queen Victoria, and others, urging all
monarchs to prepare for Peace.
visions of the ' Most Great Peace.' "
" Bahbk'llbh revealed in a Tablet to the King
in Berlin the following concerning his rule : ' 0
banks of the river Rhine!
W e  have seen ye
drenched in gore, because the swords of retribu-
tion were drawn against ye : and ye shall have
another trouble.
And we hear the lamentations
of Berlin, though it be io-day in manifest glory. "
, " H e  revealed to a prominent Turk (named
Rais) the following Tablet : ' The Land of Mystery
(Adrianople) and what is beside it will be changed,
and shall pass out of the bands of Turkey, and com-
motions shall appear, and lamentations arise, and
trouble become manifest on all sides. "
" ,Re also uttered the following judgment upon
Turkey (personified in Constantinople) : '0
Point !
which liest between two seas; the throne of in-
justice hsth been fixed in thee. . . . Thou shalt
perish-and
%hose people that are within thee shall
lament. "
" The messengers who conveyed the Tablet to
Egypt were made prisoners and sent into exile and
the Tablet ignored."
" Bah6'u'llBh predicted the downfall of the Mhe-
dive (Ismail Pasha), and that these messengers, in

s short while, would be released, and would stand
travelling on foot to TihrJan, and gave it to the
in the presence of their beloved Master."
Shah as the latter rode through the streets.
H e
" General  ord din soon after, in his political
gave it, not as a petition, but as a command sent
campaign in Egypt, released those men and gave
to him, saying : ' A Command from one whose
them permission to return Lome, and the events
authority is higher &an yours.'
The Shah learned
connected with the downfall of the Khedive at that
the conteats and authorship of the letter. but the
time are the property of history-"
young messenger Badi (the Wonderful) was
" Napoleon received the Tnbllet addressed to him
branded to death with red-hot bricks ! When the
with scorn and threw it away, saying : ' If he is
executioners were lifting these u-ith iron tongues to
God, I am two gads.'
BahSt9u'llAh addressed a
put them on his body, he declared that he wel-
second Tablet to him containing tEe followirag :
corned this martyrdom, seized them with his own
' Because of what thou h ~ s t
done, affairs shall be
changed in thy kingdom, and thy Empire &a12
hands, and applied them to his bosom. This ~ o u t h ,
knowing that his life would be sacrificed, had
depart from thine hands as a punishment for thy
sought the privilege of being the bearer of this
actions. Then shalt tbatr find thyself in manifest
loss, and commotion shall seize the people there,
Tablet from his Beloved."
"' Tihrhn, Bah&'u"ll&h blessed, and promised
unless thou arisest to assist in this matter, and-
that justice should reign therein."*
follswest the Spirit in this straight way. Thy glory
hath made thee proud.
By My Life, verily, it
shall not endure, but shall pass away, unless thsu
takest hold of this firm Rope.
W e  have seen
humiliation hastening after thee while thou art of
those that sleep."
" That Tablet is sufficient proof. It was re-
vealed when Napoleon was so powerful that he
said: ' On this globe I am the one God.'
In
such a time was this Tablet written.
The world
knows the downfall of Napoleon IBI., of &is exile,
and his death."
" BahA'u'llHh sent a Tablet to the Shall of Per-
sia at s later perid (from Acre). A youth bore it,
*" The Revelation a f ~ ~ h d ' u ' l l ~ . "
Isabe~la D. Brithingham ,
~ahA'l Publishing S o c i e t y ; - C l i i Z ,
-

TABLET OF BAHA'U,LLAW.
"f3
TABLET by Bahb'u'llAh to the Persian
Zoroastrian Bahais.
Revealed in
the purest old Persian language,
without an Arabic word in it. "
-
" Glory is due unto God, the Discoverer, Who,
throughtone shower of the ocean of His Generosity,
expanded the firmament of existence, begemmed
it with the stars of knowledge, and summoned the
people to the most high court of perception and
understanding ! "
" This shower, which is the Primal Word of the
Almighty, is sometimes called the Water of Life,
for it quickens the dead souls in the desert of ignor-
ance with the spring of intelligence. Sometimes
it is called the First Emanation which appears from
the Sun of Wisdom, and when it began to shine,
the first movement became manifest and known,
then phenomena stepped into the arena of exist-
ence and these appearances were through the
generosity of the Incomparable, the Wise One.
" H e  is the Knower, the Giver! H e  is sancti-
fied and holy above every statement and attribute !
'The seen and the unseen fail to attain the measure
of His understanding.
The world of being and
whatever has issued from it bears witness to this
utterance.
" Therefore it has become known that the first
bestowal of the Almighty, is the Word. The re-
ceiver and the acceptor of it is the understanding.
It is the First Instructor in the University of Ex-
istence and it is the Primal Emanation of God.
Whatever has happened is through the reflection
of its Light and whatever is manifested is the ap-
pearance of its Wisdom. All the names orighate
in His Name, and the beginnings and endings of
all affairs are in His Rand.
" Your letter came to this Captive of the world
in this prison. It brought happiness and increased
friendship ; it renewed the remembrance of former
times.
Thanks belong to the Possessor of the
universe, ,Who permitted
.
us to meet in the land
of Persia.
We met, we conversed, and we
listened. It is hoped that no forgetfulness shall
follow that meeting, that the revolving of the
wheel of time shall not take away its remembrance
from the heart, and that the plants of love shall
grow out of that which is sown and become green,
verdant, and imperishable."
" You have asked regarding the heavenly Books.
The pulse of the universe is in the hand of the skil-
ful Physician. H e  diagnoses the illness and wisely
prescribes the remedy.
Every day has its own
secret and every tongue a melody.
The illness of
to-day has one cure, and that of to-morrow
another.
Look ye upon this day; consider and

discuss its needs.
One .sees that existence is
afflicted with innukefable diseases compelling it
to lie on the bed of suffering.
Men who are in-.
toxicated with the wine of self-contemplation pre-
vent the wise Physician from reaching it.
Thus
have t h y  made the world and themselves to suffer.
They know not the ailment nor recognise the cure.
They take the wrong for the right, the crooked for
the striight, the enemy for the friend."
" Hearken ye to the melody of this ~Asoner ! -
Stand up and proclaim. Perchance those who are
asleep may awaken ! Say, 0 ye dead ones ! The
generous Hand of the Almighty is passing round
the Water of Eternal Life.
Hasten ye, and
drink ! Whosoever shall become-alive in this day,
shall never die, and whosoever dies in this day can
-
never find Life. "
" Ye have written regarding the language :
Both Persian and Arabic are good, for that which
one desires to gain from language is to attain to
the meaning of the speaker and this can be accom-
plished in both.
Bs in this day the Sm of TVis-
dom has appeared nrld shone from the horizon of
Persia, the more you respect that language the
better it is. ''
" 0 Friend!
When the Primal Word ap-
peared in these latter days s number of the
heavenly souls heard the Bfelody of the Beloved
and hastened toward it, while others, finding t h d
the deeds of some did not correspond with their
words, were prevented from the Splendours of the
Sun of Knowledge. '"
" Say, 0 ye sons of earth ! The Pure God pro-
claims that which in this glorious day shall purify
ye from the stains of desire and enable ye to attain
to tranquillity in My straight path, and My mani-
fest road. To be severed from attachment means
to be separated from those things which occasion
loss and lessen the grandeur of man.
If the people
of the world should attain
the Heavenly Utter-
ances they would never be prevented from the
ocean of Divine Generosity. "
" The Heaven of Righteousness has no star,
and never shall have one, brighter than this.
The
" first Utterance of the Wise One is this : 8 ye sons
of earth ! Turn from the night of foreignness and
turn to the Sun of Unity.
This is that which shall
benefit the people more than aught else."
" 0 Friend !
The tree of the  word has no
better Blossom and the ocean of Wisdom shall
-never have a brighter Pearl than this : 0 ye sons of
intelligence !
The thin eyelid prevents the eye
from seeing the world and what is contained there-
in. Then think of the result when the curtain of
greed covers the heart."
" Say, 0 People !
The darkness of greed and
envy obscures the light of the soul as the cloud pre-
vents the penetration of the sun's rays.
" Sklould one listen with the ear of intelligence to
this Utterance, he shall spread the wings of free-

dom and soar with great jay towards the Heaven of
Understm&g."
-
" When the world was environed with darkness,
the Sea of Generosity was set in motion and Divine
Illuniination appeared so that the deeds were dis-
closed.
This is the same Illumination which is
promised in the heavenly books. Should the Al-
mighty aesire the hearts of the people in the world,
He will punfy and sanctify them with the power
af the Word, and will pour forth the Light of the
Sun of Unity upon the souls to regenerate the
world. "
" 0 People ! The word must be demonstrated
by the deed, for the righteous witness of the word
is action. The former without the latter shall not
allay the thirst of the needy nor open the doors of
sight to the blind. "
" a'he Heavenly Wise One proclaimeth : A
harsh word is like a sword, but gentle speech is like
unto milk.
The children of the world attain to
knowledge and better themselves through this.
The tongue of Wisdom says : WThosoever possesses
Me not has nothing.
Pass by whatever exists in
this world and find Me. 1 am the Sun of Percep-
tion and the Ocean of Science.
I revive the
withered ones and quicken the dead. I am that
Light which illumines the path of Insight. I am
the Falcon of the Hand of the Almighty; I bear
healing in my wings and teach the knowledge of
soaring +to the Heaven of Truth."
" The Peerless Beloved says; The way of free-
dom is opened ! Hasten ye ! The fountain of
knowledge is gushing !
Drink ye!
Say, 0
Friends ! 'P'he Tabernacle of Oneness is raised ;
look not upon each other with the eye of strange-
ness. Ye are a11 the fruits of One Tree, and the
leaves of one Branch.
Truly, I say, whatever
lessens ignorance and increases knowledge, that
has been, is, and shall be accepted by the Creator."
" Say, 0 people ! \Talk ye under the shade of
the Tree of Righteousness ; enter ye under the pro-
tection of the Tent of Unity.
Say, 0
thou Posses-
sor of Sight ! The past is the mirror of the Rrture ;
look and perceive.
Perchance, after the acquire-
ment of knowledge, ye may know the friend and
attain to his good pleasure. To-day the best fruit
of the tree of Science and Knowledge is that which
benefits mankind and improves his condition. "
" Say the tongue is the witness of My Truth;
do not pollute it with untruthfulness.
T6e spirit
is the treasury of My mystery; do not deliver it
into the hand of greed.
It is hoped that in this
Dawn the universe shall become illumined ~ 4 t h
the
rays of the Sun of Understanding and Knowledge,
so that we may attain t o  the g o d  pleasure of the
Belo~ea and drink from the Ocean of Divine
Recognition.
" 0 Friend ! As there were few ears to hear,
so for some tirne the Pen hath been silent in its own
chamber and to such a degree that silence bas pre-
ceded utterance.
Say, 0 People ! Words are
revealed according to capacity, so that the begin-

ners may make progress. The milk must be given
r~ccording to the mewre, so that the childhood of
the world may enter into the realm of grandeur
and be established in the Court of Unity."
" 0 Friend ! W e  have seen the pure ground
and cast the seed of knowledge. Now it depends
upon the rays of the Sun whether it is burned up
or is caused to grow.
Say to-day through the
greatness of the Peerless Wise One, The Sun of
Knowledge has appeared from behind the ueil of
the Spirit and all the birds of the meadow of one-
ness are intoxicated with the wine of Understand-
ing and are commemorating the Name of the Be-
loved.
Happy is the one who finds this and
becomes immortal. "
(Translated by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, Chicago,
Ill., Sept. 8th, 1909, and taken from " Bahk'i
News,'' 1910-1921.-cc Star of the West," Vol. 1.)
There are few persons now living who saw
Bahb'u'llkh.
Professor Edward G. Browne,
farnous for his knowledge of the Orient, describing
his visit (Wednesday, April 15th, 1898) as the
culminating event of his journey, says :
" No need to ask in whose presence I stood, as
I bowed myself before One who is the object of a
devotion and love which kings might envy and
emperors sigh for in vain. A mild dignified voice
bade me be seated, and then continued : ' Praise
be to God that thou hast attained! . . . . Thou
bast come to see a prisoner and an exile. . . . .
W e  desire the good of the world and the happiness
of the nations: yet they deem m a stirrer-up of
strife and sedition worthy of banishment. . . .
That aB nations should become one in faith and
a12 men brothers; that the bonds of affection and
unity between the sons of men should be strength-
ened : that diversity of Religion should cease, and
diflerence of race be annulled-what h a m  is there
in this? . . . . Yet so it shall be : these fruitless
strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass awag, and the
" MOST GREAT PEACE " shall come. . . .
Do you not in Europe need this also? Is not this
that which Christ foretold? . . . . yet do we see
. your kings and rulers lavishing their treasures more
freely on means for the destruction of the human
race than on that which would conduce to the
happiness of mankind. . . .
These strifes and
this bloodshed and discord must cease and all men
be as one kindred and family. . . . Let no man
glory in this, that he loves his country; let him
rather glory in this, that he loves his kind. . . .
9 9 9
Two years after this visit of Professor Browne
which he describes in the Introdudion to " A
Traveller's
Narrative " (Cambridge : 1891),
BahA7u'1lbh passed to a higher plane, and many
years before 13s ascension H e  appointed His eldest
son,
" The Greatest Branch "-' Abdu'l-Bahb
Abbas, as " the Centre of the Covenant " and the
only Commentator of His Divine Teachings.

A CHRISTIAN MISSIONARY
AND B A H ~ ~
MARTYRDOMS.
HE hordes of darkness have always imag-
ined they could extinguish the Light of
the World, by killing the Lamp Bearers,
but even a slight glance at History should make
plain the futility of such a course. Yet, alas! it
is not plain, to many, who should be pointing it
out.
W e  know that although the body of Jesus was
crucified, H e  has proved the Resurrection of His
Spirit which no man can kill. And so it is again,
in the Present-Day Visitation of the Spirit. The
evidences given later are sufficient to show this,
though they deal only with the Martyrdoms
which occurred during a few years ; but if given in
full, from the time of the Declaration of the Bbb,
until now, they would fill volumes.
It is, however, suggested by a Persian friend,
that it would be in place to corroborate Bahh'i
statistics by the recorded impressions of one who
was not a Bahd'i, but a Christian Missionary.
I n  his book, " Five Years in a Persian Town,
- -
--
-
-
-
Y_ed," the-Rev. --- Napier
- ~ a l c o G ,  C.M.S., al-
-- -
though he found Bahh'i ~ a h ~ r d o r n s
_
too revolting
--- -
fo
- record, gilr_es - details
- --
of OK~&
horribk for
- -
repetition here, and in his endeavour to analyse
the difficulties in which he found himseif, could not
.
.
help recording his general impression of others;
and he acknowledges
- .. .
there were Yigm that PeGa
..
might become wholly
~.~
- Bahk'i,
-
and
~ that
--
such
~ .. . an idea
-
is-not confined -
to
- --
Missionayy_
- --
circIe_s.
In the Western Hemisphere, we had flabtered
ourselves that the world had seen the last of re-
ligious martyrdoms, but if on; only glances at the
index to Mr. Malcolm's book, it will be =day
seen that although he tried hard to restrain it,
his mind reverted again and again to the BahiL'i
Faith, because he was puzzled by the Power which
strengthened weak mortals to testify of It in Mar-
tyrdom.
The index to " Five Yea& in a Persian Town "
shows that -the pages on which the BahB'i Faith
and its martyrs are mentioned, far outnumber the
indexed particulars on other matters.
The reality of Mr. Malcolm's Christian Spirit
is evident throughout in his endeavours and per-
severance in the town of Yezd; for he seems to
have left no stone unturned in his heroic efforts to
make Christian converts. And looking on (through
his own story) from the outside, what with the
racial, religious, political, industrial and social
difficulties which surrounded him, these, increased
by language difficulties, made it well nigh impos-
sible for him to cope with his situation.
Without the key, how can one unlock the doors
which mystify the mind! Does not prejudice

MHA'~ PRECEPTS.
(even though uncsnscious, when born of preferen-
tial habit) bolt the doors of understanding ? There-
fore, Bah&'u'll&h has decreed " the abolition of
world in perfect harmony.
racial, religious, political, induskrial, and social
Warfare must be abolished, and i n m t i o n a l
prejudices. "
~ c u l t i e s
are to be settled by a Coucil of Arbi-
Mr. Malcolm records only one instance of con-
.-----
--
---
-
A

verting a BahAYi to Christianity ; and thus proves,
- --
It is commanded thae everyone should practise
that although he triedso hard to find it, he had not
- some trade, ad, or profession.
Work done in a
-
tb- K i ~ l o
the 'situation.
A knowledge of &e
--
faithful spirit of service is accepted as an act of
Truth of the matter would have revealed the fact,
that no BahB'i can he converted to accept Chist.
For all Bahhis accept Christ ! The difference be-
tween himself and his supposed convert would be
There is to be no priesthood apart from the
that Bahiis recognise the Christ Spirit in all God's
Messengers. It is the Spirit of the Eternal Crea-
The practice of Asceticism, living the hermit,
tive " I AM."
Therefore IT must, as declared
life or in secluded communities is discouraged.
by the Prophets, Manifest Itself when necessary
Monogamy is enjoined.
and natural, in the Order of Time.
Education for all, boys and girls equally, is com-
Unlike those of less Catholic Faith, Bahhis are
manded as a religious duty-the
childless should
forbidden to proselytise. WTe recogsise that
edixcate a child.
Truth is One, for G d  does not speak once only
The equality of men and women is 81sertea.
to the world ! A na speaking more than once,
A universal ianguage ss a means of international
does not contradict Himselj.
communication is to be formed.
Gambling, the use of alcoholic liquors as a bever-
age, the taking of opium, cruelty to animals and
slavery are forbidden.
Some portion of one's income must be devoted
*
to charity. T21e administration of
charitable
funds, the provision for widows and f o ~
the sick
and disabled, the education and care of orphans,
will be arranged and managed by elected
Co~mcils.~
*(&mpiled by E J. ~osenkrg.)

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.
and groans when he receives an injury, and com-
n
UES'TIONED on kindness to animals,
'Abdu'l-Bahir said :
0 Ye Friends of Ood !
GUAA
A A b A I , U L
appeal to t
The foundation of the Kingdom of God is laid
cnnd time6
on justice, fairness, mercy, sympathy and kind-
ness to everv soul. Then strive Ye, with heart
" -
and soul to practise love and kindness to the world
of humanity at large, except to those souls who
are selfish and insincere. I t  is not advisable to
show sympathy to a person who is a tyrant, a
traitor or a thief, because kindness encourages him
to become worse and does not awaken him.
The
more kindness you show to a liar the more he is
apt to lie, for he thinks that you know not while
you do know and extreme kindness keeps you from
revealing your knowledge.
Then 0 Ye Friends of God ! Ye must not only
have kind and merciful feelings for mankind, but
you should also exercise the utmost kindness to
every living creature.
The physical sensibilities
and instincts are common to animal and man.
Man is, however, negligent of this reality and
imagines that sensibility is peculiar to mankind;
therefore he practises cruelty to animals.
I n
reality, what difference is there in physical sensa-
tions? Sensibility is the same whether you harm
man or animal: : there is no difference.
Nay
rather, cruelty to the animal is more painful
because man has a tongue and he sighs, complains
to the Government, and is protected from
cruelty.
But the poor a n i d  cannot speak, it
-:+her
show its suffering, nor is it able to
he Government. If it is harmed a thou-
-,--
.,-----.
3 by man, it is not able to defend itself
in words, nor can it seek justice, or retaliate.
Therefore one must be very considerate towards
~ n i n i n l c  and show greater dndness to them than
U r n l l . " L U ,
u
to man.
Educate .the children in their infancy in such a
way that they may become exceedingly kind and
merciful to the animals. If an animal is sick,
they should endeavour to cure it. If it is hungry,
they should feed it.
If it is thirsty, they should
satisfy its thirst.
If it is tired, they should give
it rest.
Man is generally sinful and the animal is
innocent : Unquestionably one must be more kind
-and merciful to the innocent.
The harmM
animals, such as the bloodthirsty wolf, the poison-
ous snake and other injurious animals are excepted,
because mercy towards these is cruelty to man and
other animals. For instance, if you show kind-
ness to a wolf, this becomes a tyranny to the sheep,
for it may destroy a whole ihck of sheep. If you
give an opportunity to a mad dog it may be the
cause of the destruction of a thousand animals and
man. Therefore sympathy to the ferocious animal
is cruelty to the peaceful animal, so ferocious
animals should be done away with.
To the blessed animals, however, the utmost
I

PILICIIIbUIJ Uvvuru --. -.---- ---- -
it will be.
This sympathy and kindness is one
'rp-
of the fundamental principles of the Divine King-
d ~ m .
PURITY AND CLEANLINBGS.
DIVINE LAWS OF THE MOST
'
You should pay great attention to this question.
Upon Ye be the Glory of A b b  !
MERCIFUL*
(Signed) "BDU'L-BAHA ABBAS .
c <
HIE forcible way in which B&iL'u'U&
has stated the necessity of cleanly
Translated by A zizullah S. Bahbdur , Novemkr
virtues and the eloquent manner in
lath, 1920. Hsifa, Palestine.
which he has demonstrated their properties and
benefits, has never before been equalled in the
heavenly books of other Religions. . . .
9 9
" In regard to cleanliness, notwith-ding
the
. manifest advancement of some refined nations, it
is evident that this praiseworthy quality is still im-
perfect among the masses."
" In books of the Muslims, Jews, Zoroastrians
and Hindoos, although the laws d cleanliness and
ordinances concerning clean and unclean tbgs
are minutely recorded, get there are very few who
are really cleanly. There are many who pretend
and affect cleanliness and purity by shunning those
outside their Religion and abstaining from touch-
ing certain animals, who appear in the most impure
clothing and bodies.
Even carrying at times the
artificial idea of cleanliness to the extremes of
melancholy.
Stories and romances illustrating
this subject furnish extraordinary records of a kind
of acq~~ired
insanity which is amazing to people of
intelligence. ' '

" Although the American
and Eraropean
regions, and reach the bighest zenith of perfection
Christians, more particularly the i&abita,nts of
among all nations. "
Holland, France, England and Germany, are far
. " Thus it is revealed in the book of Aqdas :
more advanced than other nations in the cleanliness
of their persons, clothing, residences, mads and
streets, yet they do not deem it necessary 'to
cleanse the soil of impurities, unless they cause
visible dirt. In the New Testament no command
is definitely given to avoid that which is filthy and
impure.
Consequently, one who has a concep-
tion of real cleanliness would not hesitate to eon-
clude that perfect cleanliness as a practice is in its
infancy, even amongst the most refined nations
of the world, awaiting the time when God the
Exalted, shall bring it to the highest pitch of per-
fection. f'
" Now, in order to show forth the abundant and
perfect benefits of God in this Dispensation, to
protect people from the melancholic imaginations
current among some nations and deliver more than
one half of the population sf %e earth from an
acquired insanity, the Blessed Perfection has pro-
nounced an things clean. At the same time He
has emphatically commanded a11 to avoid every-
thing filthy and to cleanse dresses, bodies, and
household furniture, etc., from every pollution.
H e  has revealed these ordinances in the book of
Aqdas and numerous Tablets, so that real cleanli-
ness and perfect purity, which are high attributes
of heavenly souls, may shine forth throughout all
" Cleanse every impure thing with a water
which will not change by the ' three ' (colour,
taste, smell,)-beware
not .to use a water which is
infected by stagnant air or by any other thing.
Be the essence of cleanliness among Mankind."
" This is that which your Master, the Mighty,
the Wise, has desired for you. Thus, God hath
removed the decree of uncleanliness, from all
things, and from other nations, as a gift from God.
Verily, H e  is the Forgiving, the Beneficent.
. . . All things are being submerged in the
Sea of pureness. . . . This is through My
Favour. which surrounds all the creatures, so that
they may consort with all religions, and deliver the
Cause of your Lord the Clement. Verily, this is
the Crown of all deeds, were ye of those who
know ! Likewise forsake foul tanks in the houses
and be of those who are pure. Verily, we have
desired to see you the manifestations of Paradise
on earth, so that there may emanate from you
that whereat the hearts of near ones may rejoice."
" I t  is necessary to explain these points, so that
the inhabitants of America,, and Europe, who
owing to the universal spread of civilization during
the last century, enjoy all the benefits of cleanli-
ness, neatness, and protection from fatal epidemic
diseases resulting from l~ncleanliness may become

cognisant of the dimsters of the Orient, and be in-
these ponds the inhabitants perform their ablu-
formed of the reason why these ordinances have
tions, while at the same time they wash their feet
been revealed. For except one is informed sf the
and handkerchiefs therein.
The decaying leaves
foulness of the baths of Persia, the putrid tanks
of the surrounding trees fall into them, (this same
of their houses and mosques, the impurity of the
water is used by the inhabitants for drinking and
drinking water of Rokara and 'Tartary : and under-
cooking.) It is called ' pure water ' by the law
stands how cleanliness and neatness are neglected
so the inhabitants believe it allowable to use-
by those two great nations, it is impossible to
Therefore many of the inhabitants of B0kal.a are
realise the Bounty of God th\e Exalted, Who has
with ' Filiaria medinensis,' and the
revealed such ordinances ; or to thoroughly under-
people of Kookand with goitre.
When men of
stand the necessity of these laws. For it is cus-
discernment ponder over the facts here briefly in&-
tomary with the Persian people to have but one
cated, they will be able to realise t6e Mercy of God
p11blic bath for every district which contains from
in instituting ordinances for the  resewa at ion of a
one thousand to fifteen hundred houses, and their
community numbering over three hundred mil-
means of bathing and cleanliness is cozafined t~ this
lions. For it is impossible to change by the corn-
one bath. It consists of two houses, built of stone,
plsion of kings or advice of'wise men, certain
brick and cement : one for disrobing, the other
rooted pradices of a people who believe these prac-
containing the hot bath, for bathing and cleansing:
tices to be commanded by their religion- These
their bodies. They are frequently shaved and dye
customs and habits can only be removed by new
their hair in the same place.
Then wmhing them-
lams instituted by manifestations of the command
selves with soap, they take a final plunge into the
God. For instance the traditional C U S ~ O ~ ~
of
same reservoir, the water of which is the foulest
the Jews, extracted from the book of Meshna, and
and most impure thing imaginable ; and then leave
which are not enacted in the original Bible, could
the bath.
Such are the baths used by fifty millions
not be changed by the power of any mighty kin€!
of Shi'ites who inhabit Persia, Turkestan, and
or philosopher.
'I'his is the case with the corrupt
India.
The reservoirs of 13okara and Tartary
practices of the Hindoos and Magians. 'To sum
which contain the drinking water of the inhabi-
up; a nllmber of moral ordinances which secure
tants, are also used for bathing and cleansing, like
the perfecting of human virtues have been revealed
the Persian baths.
In these countries a pond is
from the Supreme Pen, but to explain their bene-
built at different places in ecery town and village
fits Is not possible in the limits of a short treatise."
and surrounded with ~nulberry trees, etc,
rn
" A~ hllman minds are discordant, and as it is

usually impossible for men of sound mindv to agme
~ g ~ p t ,
the Pagan Ceeuvs of Rome, and Ke~a-
upon that which" will secure the pmtection and
kings of Persia, the Yemen Princes of Ancient
development of peoples, tlierefore God the
Arabia, and the kings and descendants of Gn&
Exalt&, has assigned the enactment of such laws
Khan the 3longd."
to the Manifestations of 13is own command,
6 6  xut whatever nation acknowledges the Holy
These Holy Souls, through their divine perception,
~ ~ u i f ~ ~ t a t i o n
and obeys ihe H o b  Law* will be-
enact rules and regulations by which the support
come a living nation, and enjoy victow, Permaa-
and Progress of society is accomplishd and ad-
ence, inffuence, and fame ; even though it may
vanced for about one thousand years.
Then, in
seem at the beginning, weak, oppressed, and few
mcordance with the law of progression and decline,
in number.
p i n t  Was
illustrated in
which is one of the essential decrees of the world of
the Israelites at the appearance of Moses; in the
Nature, the same Divine Spirit will be manifested
Christians at the Advent of Christ ; and in the
in another Manifestation Who renews these laws
9 Y
Arabs at the Rise of Muhamad."
and regulations. . . .
The passages above quoted are taken from
"The life and sustained vitality of nations can
6. BahA'i Proofs," writLen by Ahul Fad,
fie
only be assured by appreciating this great gi&ift.
of the BahA'i Teachings, ho~oured for his
Mere faith in religion, without observing its laws
learning and his saintly devotion to the Religion of
and ordinances, can by no means secure our salva-
~
~
d
,

and are given here in order that the reader
tion and emancipation. Even love for God with-
may benefit by his able instruction and seek fur-
out compliance with His laws and Commanhents,
ther colafirlnation in the reasons he gives for accept-
which form the corner stone of all refigious or&-
ing the Manifestation of God, in our Own Day*
aeces, will be considered as mere imagination and
~
b
~
l

Faz]
for the consideration of his
sheer pride.
Fmm id is also understood that any
nation which ignores and disobeys these holy laws,
readers that " greater laws ~ ~ n c e m i n g
eveW point
or
referring to the preservation of society
refusing to acknowledge the D a ~ n i n ~ - ~ l ~ ~ ~
there-
and the perfecting of human virtues Could not be
of, is a dead nation and will be finally extinkmished
a d  destroyed ; even though it may have prevailed
found, than the Divine Commands from the
over the dominions of East and West, and be
Supreme
Pen of
the
Blessed
Perfection,
honoured by brilliant learning, glorious influence
13ah&'u911Ah. ' '*
and powerful annies.
This is made clear by re-
(+see r r  ~ ~ h l ~ i
proofs.- nbul Fazl.
Cllapter on His Holiness
fleeting upon the rise and fall of the PIlarmhs of
~~hA'~'ll'h.)

I t  should be recognised that Christians will
naturally feel anxiQus about some social solutions.
And particularly that concerning marriage. In
that matter Christians have been ahead of Muslims.
I n  the matter of strong drink they are behind ;
destroyed.
Be thou straightfornard before God
- and the problems relating to family life are not
at every instant, then praise Him by the morn and
merely concerned with marriage.
merefore,
Divine Wisdom solves difficulties from more than
one point of view, as we shall find in the laws and
WORDS OF .ABDU'GBAH~
regulations given through Bahh'u'llBh in the
" The Bah&'i Temple at IAq-hbhd has nine
KitBbu'l-Aqdas (Book of Laws).
avenues, nine gardens, and nine fountains. So it
It is not at all certain that the great multitudes
is nine on nine, all nines.
It is like a beautiful
who pray for the Kingdom of God to come on
-buquet. Imagine an edifice of this beauty in the
earth, are really expecting it to come through the
centre of the city, very lofty, surrounded by gm-
perfecting of human virtues. In other Religions,
dens with variegated flowers, and nine avenues in-
besides the Christian, what the individual beiieues,
terlacing
gardens, nine pools and nine faun-
or confesses verbally, has too often been taken to
tains, and think how delightful it must be ! Tbt is
certify salvation.
the way it should be. It is matchless, most beauti-
But in this day, Bahb'u'llbh says :
ful ! Such is the design. "
" Decorate yourselves with the garment of
b 6  The Temple of I&¶-&Ad is unique in that
is
deeds; whosoever attains God's good pleasure by
the first Temple of the kind that has been erected.
deeds is of the people of Bahi, and he will be
Many such temples shall be constructed in the
spoken of before the Throne. Assist ye the King
future, but this one will ever enjoy this unique
of Creation, first by deeds, then by Wisdom and
privilege.
When its accessories are completed and
utterances.
Thus ye have been commanded in
its full nlachinery starts running, when the melody
most of the Holy Tablets from the Presence of
of instrumental and vocal music arises and bursts
the Clement One.
upon the air with its joyous trends, when the
" 1)ecorate your heads with the crown of tnlst-
prayen and supplications addressed at dawn and at
worthiness and faithfulness; your hearts with the
sunrise ascend to the Throne of the Almighty, then
robe of piety, your tongues with pure truthfulness,
will the effect of the Mahriqu'l-A&k&r be evident
and your temples with the mantles of courtesy."
and manifest. "

" Temples are symbols of the reality and divinity
of God, the Collective Centre.
Consider how,
within a Temple, evkry race and people are seen
and represented-all
in the presence of the Lord,
covenanting together in a covenant of love and
fellowship, all offering the same melody, prayer
-
and supplications to God. It is evident that the
church is a collective centre for Mankind.
For
this reason there have been churches and teniples
in all the Divine Religions.
But the real Col-
lective Centres are the Manifestations of God, of
whom the church or Temple is a symbol and ex-
pression. That is to say, The Manifestation of
God is the real divine Temple and Collective
Centre, of which the church is but a spibol."
" It is proved that the Manifestations of God-
the great Mouth-pieces of God-are
the Collective
Centres of God.
The prophets of God are these
Collective Centres, for they are the real shepherds.
The real shepherd unites the scattered sheep, as
they have done iq the past. The Collective Centre
has ever appeared from the Orient.
His Holiness
Abraham was a Collective Centre and R e  appeared
in the East. His Holiness Moses was a Collective
i
Centre and He appeared in the East. His Hculi-
I
ness Jesus Christ was a Collective Centre and I3e
i
appeared in the Exst. 13s Holiness Muhaulmad
,
was a Collective Centre appearing among the
nomadic tribes of the Arabian peninsula."
" To-day, His Holiness Bahh'u'llhh is the Col-
lective Centre for all Humanity, and He has come
from the East."
THE MASHRIQU~L-ADHRAR
ASKHABAD, RUSSIA.
FOUNDATION STONE LAID
NOVEMBER 12th, 1902.

THE ~ T A S ~ I R ~ Q U ' ~ ~ - . ~ ~ ~ ~ I K ~ ~ K
AT ASKHABAD
HISTORIG NOTE.
"I
AM Alpha ! and Omega ! " The Begin-
ning, and the Ending, saith the Lod.
Therefore in His Sight all things which
appear are seen from the Beginning.
The De-
sign is His. That Eternal " I " which to Phari-
sees, Sadducees, and Greeks, was but " foolish-
ness " wEen the Christ said : " Before Abraham
was, I AM," is the Cause of all appearances in the
visible world, and of the Manifestation, and
Return, of the Spirit incarnate.*
when it has been pointed out that egotism
.is rampant through the inability of worldly
servitors to see God's Point of
Guidance;
and this because of the disposition to which we dl
are prone, to see self only-it
has not been inten-
ded that any should belittle, or abase themselves,
either in the sight of God, or Man, but that all
should rise to that for which they were created.
Through the Power of His Holy Spirit, we can
rise to the embrace of God, Our Father, Who
ever waits to embrace His own.
The Martyrs
all knew this, and a more adequate study of the
History of the Bahh'i Cause will make it quite
clear : For in this Latter Day Movement to pro-
mote Harmony in the world-Martyrs
have taken
a prominent part, in furtherance of it.
* " By ' Return,' is meant the Return of the Manifestation
of the Sacred Reality." See "Bahi'i Proofs." Abul Fm1. p. 255.

Only a note can here be given indicative of the
connection This Day has with those other Days
of God, without which, This Day could not be.
A " Thousand years," in God's Sight, are but as
yesterday. " One Day telleth another, and the
firmament showeth His handiwork."
So sang
David, and so we sing. But if everybody who
sings it understood it, there would be no need of
martyrs to prove it.
In This Day, the Bib, or Gate, was born in
Shirhz, Persia, 1819, A.D.
H e  prepared the way
-
for, and Announced 'cHim Whom God would
Manifest. " As John the Baptist prepared the
way for Jesus : So the Btib prepared the way for
Bahi'u'llbh.
Six years after the Bib had declared
His Mission, H e  was shot for His Faith, at Tabriz ;
1850. His earthly father was a merchant of wool-
len goods.
" Bahb'uYllAh was born in Tihrhn, Nov. 1817,
A.D.
As a child He was distinguished for re-
markable sagacity and spirihal discernment, al-
though H e  was not taught by anybody. Appar-
ently, H e  had acquired the elements of Persian
reading and writing from His father and other near
kinsmen. I n  His youth, His father, who was one
of the ministers of State, died, and the charge of
his brothers and sisters, who were all younger than
Himself, fell upon Him. He did not care to enter
any of the Government services, but provided sus-
tenance for the whole family through the manage-
ment of His inherited lands and pro~erties. When
the Bib appeared in Shirk, Bahi'u'lliih, Who was
about twenty-seven years of age, publicly accepted
His Claim, and endeavoured to the utmost, to p r 6
mote the word of the B&b, both in Tihr&n and
Mazanderan, especially among the religious doctors
at Noori, so that the renown of His knowledge and
+e power of His reasoning raised an excitement
among the leading rnen of those districts. By this,
many were led to embrace the Religion, and others
were stirred to jealousy and insolence.''
" After H e  had resided and travelled in the dif-
ferent districts of Mazanderan, H e  returned to
Tihrin, where H e  continued to spread the prin-
ciples of the religion and spiritual teachings,
alpporting and encouraging the Bhbis, until the
attempt against the life of Nasiri'd-din Shih
happened.
The substance of this great event is as
follows :
" A young man of Tabriz, Muhamn~ed Sadck by
name, who was a servant of one of the prominent
Bibis, and devotedly attached to his master, be-
came oppressed and bereft of reason on account of
the martyrdom of the latter.
Having made up his
mind to blood revenge, he divulged his secret to
one of his confidential friends whom he knew to be
one of the staunch believers of the Bbb.
These
two went to TihrAn, concealing their intention
from all their friends, and even from the Bhbis.
As the &Ah
went out of the city, sojourning
among his country resorts at Shamiran, they
directed their steps toward the village of Niavaran.

Qn Sunday, 15th August, 1852 (1288 A.H.),
they were in the vicipity gf the village, near the
%yal Palace, with &e intention of carrying oul;
their plot.
When the =Ah went out to ride,
Muhammed Sadek adv~ced,
and fired a pistol shot
at bini,
The shot missed its mark, as the horse
bolted, and the .&Ah being much agitated, fell off
his horse and fainted.
The attendants ,mshed
forth, picked up the a&,
and slew Muhammed
Sadek on the spot. As he was killed instantly, hq
could aot be questioned as to what led him to c m -
mit this abominable act, asd as to who had been
his associate. But as he had been a servant of one
of the prominent Bhbis, that community was ua-
justly accused of the deed, and notwithstanding
they knew nothing whatever of this plot, they were
arrested and fell victim t~ the wrath of the
revengeful Shh.
Eighty of them were seized in
Tihrhn, and given up separately to a different
class of people to be executed. The administra-
tors deemed it advisable to have each one of thew
victims murdered by one section of the citizens,
and thus show hatred and enmity between the dif-
ferent classes of Shi'ites and the Blbis. By thiq
means they sought to prevent the spread of the
BAb's Religion. Consequently they distributed
the helpless Bhbis to various parties of people ; one
to the book-keepers, one to the soldiers, one to the
learned doctors, one to the merchants, carpenterg,
blacksmiths, drapers; even the shoe-makers, cob-
blers, rice merchants, etc.
Each one of thew
classes slew its victim as t&y chose, Some wero
cut lengthwise alive; some were blown fro&
mortars, and s m e  h p p e d
pieces.
The Badjja~
youths of Astrabad, in order to try the strength of
their arms, cut their unforhlnate mpiives intq
halves with their swor&, Among them, one who
died in an incredibly horrible m a k ,  was S&y7
man-Khan, the son of Ysya-Khan of Tqbriz, who
was a most devoted fo4ower of the Bkb. When
the order was issued for execution, they fist
stripped him, and made holes in bis body with
knives. In these holes they placed light4 wax
candles, put a halter through his nose and paraded
him around the markets of Tihrhn.
When tq
candle burned down to his flesh and was consumed,
they would put another in its place.
Bystanders
were watching the scene and following in great
crowds ; while he was silent and patient, not evinc-
ing the least trace of agitation; nor did he groan
or plead for mercy, which is the natural tendency
of man under such circumstances.
Nay, he ex-
pressed great joy and cheerfulness, with a shining
face, while singing and chanting verses of yearn-
ing, so that the hard hearts of the bystanders mere
affected with emotion, and all the inhabitants of
Tihrhn, both old and young, were astonished.
Finally, after this torture, they cut him in half
lengthwise, and hung the two parts on either side
of the old city gate of Abdul-Azim.
" It is said that when the matter waxed so fright-
ful, the Iman Joma (chief leader of prayer) of

Tihrdn, conferred with the
and blamed him
for these outrages.,
Some state that one of the
foreign Ambassadors warned the %Ah that should
another Bhbi victim show forth such steadfastness
at the time of his execution, half the people would
embrace Bkbism, after which checking the matter
would be extremely difficult. The %Ah therefore
prohibited the taking of any action against tbe
Bibis without investigation; but since that time,
the justice awarded to these devoted people has
been similar to that given by the Council of the
Inquisition to the heretics of Rome.
I n  fact a
man's acknowledgement of Bhbisnl before the
Governnent was considered as confessing the
greatest crime, which should be punished with
death, no matter how high a character, or what
qualifications of virtue and sanctity he possessed,
Very often the finding of a BAbi Book in a person'q
possession, his conversing or dealing with the
BAbis, or pleading for one" accused of Bibism,
\v0uld be considered as a crime by the clergy.
Many a time if they found in the pocket of an
accused one a tom piece of paper bearing the
words : ' Allah'u'Abha ! ' (' God is Glorious '),
or the name of Beha or Bhb, they needed no fur-
ther witness to prove his infidelity.
'Wne of the men arrested and imprisoned was
the blessed person of Bahb'u'llAh,
I3e was in the
village of Afcha, one of the surrounding districts
of I
When the report .of the attempt
upon the &Ah's life came to Him,He, knowing
that the prominent Bbbis had no connection with
the matter, rode forth with perfect composure to
Nivavaran, where he was imprisoned, and chained
for about four months in the gaol of TihrAn.
After strict examination and enquiry, it was finally
proven that Me had no connection whatever with
the criminals, and that H e  knew nothing of the
mattes.
The &Ah
therefore ordered that H e
should depart to Irak Arabi, and abide in the holy
sanctuaries of the Shi'ite Imams (Kerbela, Nejef,
and Bagdad), which are places of exile for the men
sf distinction of Persia.
Accordingly in the year
1269 A.H. (1852 A.D.) he departed to Irak,
escorted by some of the delegates of the Persian
Government, and took up his residence at Bag-
dad."-("
Bahd'i Proofs."
Abul Fazl.
Trans-
lated by Ali K d i  Khan.)
Among the earlier Martyrs was Qurratu'l-'Ayn,
named by BahB'u'llAh, T a k a ,  the Pure One.
Her spirit had for some time sought the Corning
One with such longing, that being well acquainted
with Divine Prophecy she at once recognised the
BBb, through His Teachings, and set out to meet
Him. But religious hatred and persecution was
at that time rife in Persia, and having been driven
from place to place, H e  was tfien in prison, only
to be released in Rlartyrdorn. So she never saw
I
.
But, with the swiftness of her keen
spiritual l)crception, she soon came to recognise
Balrh'u'llAh as the One, Wbom, according to the
Declaration of the BBb, " God would Manifest."

)
I n  the story of her search, her Eke, devotion,
be, under the pa*lpshg i&Wiice of st-
ddflk*
pefsecution, and cruel Martyrdom, we have some
Readers will do well to e
d
€I&
Wer d c m t s
id the most brilliant and thrilling episodes of any
of her life and love for the Cause of Godj WM
ardent soul in Sacred History.
For she at all
are being written, abd those which
are
times fose with rapture above every trial which
written more fully than herd.*
From '' an abbreviated accomt of the soHoWd
beset her, astonishing and charming friends and
strangefs alike by her eloquence and spiritual
bul events concerning the Martyrdoms in Y a d  and
grandeur, and by the grace and beauty of her
Isfain, in 1903," it is difficult to quote, for we
personality.
Though she knew, by her clear
have not known such fierce religious persecutioh
vision, aforetime, what would befall her, and pre-
in the Occident ; especially in our own lifetime we
paring herself in prayer and meditation, after
have been free from persecution, though not from
bathing and robing in white, she went with
blindness, superstition, or oppression. The follow-
wonderful fortitude to the end which awaited her.
ing passages show that religious hatred was so fierce
After being taken to a garden, she was strangled
in Persia at that time that the Government in that
with a silken handkerchief, and while still uncon-
. country could not cope with it.
scious, thrown into a well by a hired murderer,
.t " There were two pure women, who, while
who was first made drunken, lest he should refuse
mourning for their martyred dead, were attacked
to carry out this evil deed; as the first one ap-
by cruel men, who first beat and tortured them,
pointed to do it, on seeing and speaking with her
and then dragged them, still alive, out of their
had refused, at all costs to himself, for it became
houses, after which they stabbed them and chopped
clear that death was certain for him, in any case,
them to pieces in the presence of the bloodthirsty
and he preferred not to befoul his soul with murder
kro~vd. When the audacity of the rabble reached
at the time of its nearness ; for in the few minutes'
this point, the Governor, finding himself powerless
speech he had with QurratuYl'Ayn, he became
to stand against the rioters, fled from the city and
convinced of the truth and sincerity of the Cause
r\etired to the citadel for self-preservation."
for which she was then giving up her life. Such
'' It is reported that a baker was captured, and
was the power of her eloquence, that she could
that his body was chopped to pieces with meat axes,
convert a hired murderer, who was not under the
and that during the time of his torture, he prayed
influence of strong drink. Oh! look to her, and
read of her faith and devotion, all ye who may
be in danger of becoming that which ye would not
(S&e " ~ o d ' s  Heroes," Laufti Clifford Brirney, Kegan Paul.)
t ("
i M i f t v d r n j
Ptrsis, 1903." Bahl'i Publishing
Society, chicago.)

that God would forgive his murderers, joyfully
resistance to the bloodthirsty wolves, who, stretch-
giving lip his life in the Path of God, rather than
ing out their claws of tyranny, killed seventeen per-
deny his Faith."
sons with such cruelty that the pen cannot descrik
" It is reported that the number of those killed,
it. Among the victims was a little child, who fell
up to that day, is more than one hundred and fifty
persons within the walled city of Yezd.
I n  the
surrounding small villages many people were mar-
tyred in each place.
A telegram was received in
TihrAn to the effect that the Governor, being
pressed by the rioters, was compelled to blow one
of the friends of God from the mouth of a cannon,
and to behead another in the circle of the city.
The mob put a woman in a sugar sack, over which
they poured petroleum, and burned her alive.
They tied and nailed another believer to a tree,
poured naphtha and oil over him and burned the
tree and the nian together."
" In a village near the city there lived Jenabe
Sadre, Jenabe Nutamed-u-Shariah, Jenabe Nezam-
u-S hariah , Jenabe Zia5-u-Shariah, with all their
families and kinsmen. They were venerable Ulla-
mas and Seyids, and had all received titles from
the &Ah ; yet the Mullahs sanctioned the massacre
of all these honourable and revered souls. The
mob, excited by the clergy, attacked them wit11
guns, swords, etc. Though these noble souls were
sufficient in number to stand against them, and
were provided with ample means of defence, yet
*
in accordance with the co~nrnand of the Blessed
Perfection, BahA'u'llAh, "Ilet yourselves be killed,
rather than to kill," they yielded their lives without
into a well, and being rescued, was the only sur-
viving soul left of those noble people."
" The number of martyrs in that place was &e
teen.
I n  the village of Taft the number was
twenty-eight.
I n  Rlanshad there were ten. In
Delbala they threw a believer, alive, into a baker's
oven, and roasted him to death. Up to that date,
six women have been martyred and many have
been captured and wounded."
" I n  a letter from the , B&'i
Assembly at
Mashed, Persia, dated October 19,1909, news was
received that ' in two villages called Hasser and
Namsg, in the Province of Khorassan, five sancti-
fied souls were martyred, and four of our spiritual
sisters assaulted and wounded, and the ears of one
of the believers cut off, while other Bahbis were
the subjects of persecution and pillage.' "*
" 'His Holiness Jesus Christ (may the souls of
all creatures he his ransom !) has clearly pointed out
the pathway to the Kingdom of God, showing
plainly the shortest road to be that of sacrifice.
Therefore these sanctified souls have but followed
Christ, Who was the Dawn of Sacrificial Lights,
and through this path have they proceeded to .the
Kingdom of Mysteries. For the sake of such as
these He said :
+ (" BahA'l News," March 41st, 1910, Chicago.)
- :

'' Blessed are they which are persecut&i for
the Divine Manifestatioh of God id dl tfmd9 b t h
ri8hteousness sakit, for their's is the kingdom of
aheient and mbdern. "*
hhven." " Blessed are the pure in heart, fat.
&any more before these, and since, hiivt! given
&ey shall s& God."
" Blessed are ye when men
hp their lives in this Cause to establish U n i v e d
d h a ~  ~evile you, and persecute you, and speak aU
manner of evil against you falsely for My sake,
Rejoice ! and be exceeding glad, for great is your
Eveliy Day, God has tried to get a courk~us
reward in heaven ; for so persecuted they the Pro.
hearing from the World of Humaniw, ahd has
phets before you."
therefore expressed Himself, at the Beginniner df
'"n
the Tablet of Aqdas, Bahii'u'llih says :
each Day of Generosity, or Cycle, b u g h  a
" Blessed is the sleeper who is awakened by My
human £om, in order to be known and understood
Breezes !
by Mankind. God expressed Himself through the
Blessed are the dead who are vivified by my
personality of Jesus Christ, but the world was
Breaths !
offended.
It
objected
to
natural
means.
Blessed is the eye which is enlightened by My
. It sought after some less familiar way which
would create
B great sensation, and which
Blessed is the ear which heareth My Melodies !
would controvert all that is known of the
Blessed is the affrighted one who hastens to the
natural and spiritual Lsws of the Universe.
Sa
shelter of My Name !
Humanity crucified Jesus and beheaded John the
Blessed is he who hath heard of My afflictions,
Baptist, because it disapproved of the Way God
and has arisen to assist Me among My
spoke to it. It could not, however, kill the Spirit,
which ascended to the Heavenly Father.
Blessed is he who is convinced by My Word !
Jesus was known as the son of a carpenter,
Blessed is He who entereth My Kingdom !
and in the World's view it was presump-
Verily he is from lMe, and upon him he My
tion for Him to teach the Elders. Nevertheless,
Mercy, My Bomty, My Favour, and My
"
H e  opened the Rook, and expounded it in the
Benediction ! "
Synngogue, as "One having authority."
As s
*' This is the ransom for the Blood of the Mar-
child it held his attention so completely, that He
tprs ! This is the utmost desire of the chosen ones !
became lost to His earthly parents.
And what
This is the eternal life of the spiritual ones ! This is
wonder, when he saw Himself in the Book, that
the p~thway of Jesus Christ! This is the way of
He could speak " with authority, and not as the
* (Lawh-el-Aqdas," I3ah;'u7ll~h's Mesvrge to Christians-)

Scribes? " He was born in the wrong place to
indifferent now, as' it was then; and has not yet
please the people of His Day. H e  was not im-
found God's Lawgiver of the Present Day. It is
portant enough to rn'eet their views.
H e  spoke
busy quarrelling over who shall make its laws ; but
in the vernacular, and not in the G~eek ! To them
as we have seen, they are made and given, in
His claim was unbearable presumption.
Besides,
accordance with the necessity of the Tkes, by
how dare He announce Himself to be the Son of
God, and are Declared by Bahi'u'llAh.
And
God !
I t  was Blasphemy !
Such a thing had
though the world heeds them not, they are being
never been heard of.
Away with Him ! And so
written in receptive hearts.
So the History of
has the world received God's Messengers at the
This Cause is bound to be written,
Chistian
Dawn of every New Day ; His Spiritual Manifests-
History is written, in those hearts which enthrone
tions come to " make all things New," but the
world to its own hurt has rejected Them.
It
Bahb'u'll&h, and the Bhb, Who announced Him,
prefers to manage its own afhirs without God's aid.
and 'Abdu'l-BahL, the Centre of His Covenant,
yet thousands of years after they, His enemies,
like Jesus, all had earthly birth places, just as
@re forgotten, throughout Eternity Christ will be
Moses,
Abraham,
M4ammad,
Buddha,
enthroned in every heart. That is God's doing,
~oroaster, Confucius, and we all have.
for His Word accomplishes that whereunto H e
some nineteen years elapsed, between the
bath sent It, in every Time of
V&&ation.
Annolmcement, in 1844, and the time when, with
The History of the Bahi'i Dispensation is the
~i~ followers in Exile, in the Garden of Ridvhn,
History of the Present Day Visitation of the word
outside Bagdad, 2863, Bahh'u'llAh to a few of His
of God, to Mankind.
As He said something
disciples, declared Himself to be the Expected
through Jesus inspiring John the Baptist to an-
one, Whom the BAb Declared : "God would
nounce Him at the Beginnirmg of the Christian
Manifest."
And so great was the power of the
Era: so, to-day, H e  speaks through another
Spirit in Him, that during long Exile and confine-
Manifestation of His Power and Glory :  hi'^'-
merit under the Persian and Turkish Governments
Ilih, T h o  comes by the Power of the same spirit
at the instigation of the Mullahs, his influence car-
under another Name (to protect the world from
ried to distant parts of the earth, and drew many on
mere imitators-against
whom Jesus warned His
long pilgrimage in search of the Divine Know-
disciples before His Ascension, see Matt. Ch, 24,
ledge H e  had to impart.
versa 5-24)-and
He comes to demonstrate the
In many Sacred and Holy Writings, by His
Glow of God.
The world is just as worldly and
Supreme pen, Bah&'u'llhh has made plain the Will

~f God for this Age, And sn earnest study of
$ h q  wi4 give awrance of t&
veliditv of Mi5
clGnn. ~t'will be ieeq that the WiU of God,
expressed in His Principles apd Precepts, rqeetg
~mes.
*T
need of these disastrous t'
Before ascending from the wrorld of visibility,
THB CENTRE OF W E
WVENAWT
irr $892, Bahi'u'llih appointed '&du'l-B&6.
Wis
AMONGST THE NATIONS.
&loved Son and companion in Exile, to be the
@mtre of His Covenarlt;, to establish on &ark& by
In a Tablet establishing the Centre of the COW
the Will of God,
enant, 'Abdu91-Bahh Abbm, Bahh'uu'll$h nevmks
the folbwing :-
THE
MOST GREAT PEACE.
" In His Name, Who Shines from the Horizon
4'Vekily &he Tongue of the Ancient gives Glad
. Ti4irags to those who are in the world conemiwig
the appearance of &e Greatest Name who take
Uis Covenant amongst the M~tions."
"Verily He is Myself : the Sbning-Place .of My
Identityf the East Of M y  Cause, the Hesven &
My Bounty, the Sea of Ny Will, the Lamp of My
Guidance, the P A  of My Jestice, de Standard
of My Lam."
" The one who hath tunred to Him hath turned
eo My Face, and is illurnid by the G@ of My
hath scbwledged @y Daeness and con"
b e d  M y  Singleness."
'The one who hath denid Him hath been d e

* "This is the Branch that hath extended from
the Power of Thy Oneness, and from the Tree of
Thy Unity. Thou beholdest Him, My God, gazing
unto Thee, and holding fast to Thy Mercy."
"Thou knowest OM?, God, that I have chosen
Him only because Thou hast chosen Him; I have
elected Him only because Thou hast elected Him.
Therefore assist Him by the hosts of Thy Heaven
and Thy earth."
'cWelp Thou 0 God whosoever may help Him,
strengthen whosoever may advance towards Him,
and reject whosoever may reject Him and desire
Him not."
"O My Lord, Thou beholdest My pen moving
and my limbs trembling in this moment of Revela-
tion, I beg of Thee by My craving in Thy Eove,
and My yearning for Declaration in Thy Com-
mand, to ordain for Him, and His Lovers, that
which Thou hast ordained for Thy Messengers, and
the Trusted ones of Thy Salvation."
" ?Verily, Thou art the Powerful and the
Mighty. "
cAbdu'l-BahA, born on the 23rd of May, 1844
(the day the BAb made His Proclamation), has now
by His most arduous and self-sacrificing Labour of
Love, accomplished the great work to which He
was Divinely appointed.
Not only after 40 years' exile with His father
on account of their fih faith to establish the Most
* (Translated by Mirm Valiolah Khan Vargha ,?f
~ihrLn,
Dec. llth, 1918.)
?(Compare with Zec. Ch. 6. ver. 12. Isaiah Ch. 11. vers. 1-10.)
Great Peace amongst the Nations and enduring a
lifetime of persecution, did H e  then travel through-
out the world in His advanced age.
For many
years ;EZe has also radiated Divine Counsel from
His own Table in the Holy Land, through count-
less Tablets, Epistles, and Talks given personally to
Pilgrinis who have journeyed from distant parts of
the earth, in order that they might give again to
the world, that which they had received; also, H e
has ever been a living example to all around Him,
sf the kindly Wisdom, Grace, and Eove which it
was His work to impart.
After appointing His grandson, Shoghi Effendi,
to be the Guardian of the Bahh'i Cause, on Novem-
'ber the f~zth, 1921, His Spirit ascended to the
Heavenly Father.
There is-no doubt to hear the
glad Welcome :
" Well done! Thou Good and Faithful Ser-
vant ! Enter into the Rest prepared for Thee, be-
fore the foundations of the world."
On Tuesday, November the 29th, 1921, the
temple of His Holy Spirit was laid aside.
From 9.1.5 to 11 a.m., great multitudes of many
tongues and faiths and nations walked in the long
funeral Procession which wended its way up
Carmel, the Sacred Mountain, where His earthly
garment was reverently laid to Rest, in the Tomb
of the Bib. Eastern papers said that "A11 Haifa
was present ."

*" The High Commissioner sf Palestine, Sir
And so we see the fuElling of the Prophecy :
Herbert Samuel, the Governor of Jerusalem, the
" They shall not hurt or destroy in all My Holy
Governor of Phoenicia, the Chief CJBcials of the
- Mountain, for the earth shall be full of the know-
-
Government, the Consuls of the various countries,
ledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea."
resident in Haifa, the heads of the various religious
(Isaiah, Chap. 11, vers. 9-12.)
communities, the notables of Palestine, Jews,
Christians, MosIems, Druses, Egyptians, Greeks,
'Abdu'l-Bahit, the Servant of God, had accom-
Turks, Kurds, and a host of his American, Euro-
plished that whereunto He mas sent. The testi-
pean and native friends, men, women and children,
mony of the Leaders and Representatives of all
both of high and low degree, all, about ten thou-
the great Religions was clear evidence of this, as
sand in number, mourning the loss of their beloved
a e y  assembled to nlourn with those who wept the
Departure of their Beloved, for all were one in
" This impressive, triumphal procession was
their sorrow a d  One in Faith, and Unity.
headed by a guard of honour, consisting of the
City Constabulary Force, followed by the Boy
.
There is growing evidence that the unifying
Scouts of the Moslem and Christian communities
Faith of the Religion of God is spreading in all
holding aloft their banners, a company of Moslem
parts of the world, through the activities of those
choristers chanting their verses from the Quran,
who, like the disciples of .Jesus have no worldly
the chiefs of the Moslem community headed by
q~ialification or ambition, but, as the living fruits of
the Mufti, a number of Christian priests, Latin,
His example are busily engaged " about their
Greek and Anglican, all preceding the sacred
Father's business."
coffin, upraised on the shoulders of his loved ones.
May all in the world hecorne aware of the Great
Immediately behind it came the members of his
Day in which they live, and not remain un-
family, next Io them walked the British High
acquainted with this further Revelation of God's
Commissioner, the Governor of Jerusalem, and
Will, lest they wander in the " gross darkness "
the Governor of Phoenicia.
After them came the
which obscures the Light of Jesus given in the
Consuls and the notables: of the land, followed by
Past, and failing to see the Point of Guidance for
the vast multitude of those who reverenced and
To-Day, labour in vain for that Unity without
loved him. "
which,.they know, Religion does but reveal to the
* (See '' ~ 1 1 e
Passing of '~bdu'l- ~ a l d , "  by Lady Blomfield
world, its shame.
and Shoghi Effendi.)
If they had not forgotten, or failed to interpret

correctly, certain things which Jesus said, they
BAH ~'U'LLAH
would not be trying to put "New Wine, into Old
Bottles."
They would be looking for that One,
THE New Name, BahA'u'lliLh,
stands for the
Who in these Latter Days, is due, as the troublous
Glory of God. The Jews made s mistake in re-
state of the world proclaims-to
come in the Spirit
-
jecting Christ. Christians would make a greater
of Truth, and "Guide us into all Truth."
mistake in rejecting the One Whom R e  Pro-
They would not remain apart because of His
mised should Come.
The Psalmist sang : " The
New Name.
For they teo~lld remember that
Glory of the Ilord shall he Revealed."
And
Jesus said : '6 Many will come in Bly N9me with
Christians sharing Israel's hope until now, sing
such power as to deceive the very elect : but believe
glad Hallelujahs to welcome the Lord of Hosts :
thern not."
And also in His Revelation through
'' Lift up your Meads, O Ye Gates,
St. John the Divine : "To him that overcometh,
And be Ye lift up, Ye Everlasting Doors ;
And the King of Mary shall come in.
I WILL WRITE UPON HIAM,
MY NEW NAh/lE."*
*Rev., chap. iii. ver. 12; Rev,, chap. xiv. ver. 1;
Isaiah, chap. Ixii. ver. 2.
D
f
Who is the King of Glory 7
T h e  Lord of Hosts !
He is the King of Glory."
Psalm 24th, 7-10.
" The Root of- all Knowledge is the Knowledge
of God.
Glory be to Him!
And this Knsw-
ledge is impossible, save though His Manifesta-
tions.
'Wherefore when H e  (BahB'u'llAh) ap-
peared, the Foundations of Nations trembled.
'The learned ones were bewildered, and wise men
confounded, save those who came near unto Thee,
-
O Beloved of the hearts of yearning! "
The Holy Spirit through RahA'~1'1lAh summons
the IIosts of
all Religions, and addresses
Christians : " 0 Ye Concourse of the Son ! "
ARE YE HIDDEN FROM MY SELF,
BECAUSE OF MY NAME !

As God was made manifest through the Christ
member, the most learned doctors of His country,
Spirit in Jesus, the Son ; so also, in this n a y  of
in His Age, condemned Him to be killed, whilst
Visitation, by the power of the same Spirit, is God
one who was a catcher of fishes believed in Him.
the Father made manifest through BahA'u'llAh.
Be astonished thereat and be of those who re-
And in these Latter Days, H e  summons the
member ! "
peoples of all Religions to the Heavenly Banquet
"Likewise, look at this time. How many monks
of Divine Unity, to "consort with each other with
were abiding in churches and calling for the Spirit,
fragrance. " Addressing Christians, in the same
and when H e  came in Truth, they approached Him
spirit of love with which Jesus yearned over Jeru-
not and were of those who are afar! Blessed is
salem, He says :
whosoever abanaoned them, and approached the
"What maketh you to doubt? Ye have called
Ainl of all that is in the heavens and eal.th. n e y
for your Lord the Self-Dependent, night and day,
read the Gospel and confess not the Glorious Lord9
and when H e  hath come from the Heaven of Pre-
after He has come in His Holy, Mighty, and G h i -
Existence in His 'Greatest Glory, Ye have not ap-
proached Him, and were of the heedless."
6 6  DO you suppose that H e  hath desired His Life
"Then consider those who turned away from
after being at every instant under the S W O ~ ~ S
of
the Spirit (Christ) when H e  came to them, in rnani-
the enemy? Or that H e  hath desired the world
fat power. HOW many of the Pharisees were
after being imprisoned in the most ruined of cities?
abiding in the Temples of His Name, and were
Open the doors of your minds ; for verily,
entreating because of separation from Him ! But
Spirit standeth behind them."
when the Gate of Union was opened and the Light
shone forth from the Day-spring of Beauty, they
disbelieved in God, the Exalted, the Great, and
did not attain to His Visitation, after having been
promised thereto in the Book of Isaiah, as well
as in the Books of the Prophets and the Apostles.
No one of them approached tihe Dayspring of
Favour except those who were of no account
among the people, but in wnose names all the lords
of evident honour boast to the present day. Re-
' What maketh you to keep afar from Him who
hath come from Heaven as H e  came from it the
first time? Beware lest ye contradict that which
He saith, as the nations before you contradicted
that which Christ said. Thus do I make known to
you the Truth, if you are of those that I know. . .
"Proclaim : Surely th.e Father hath come and
hath fulfilled that whereunto you were promised in
the Kingdom of God. This is the Word the Son

veiled when He said to those around Him that at
is H e  who approacheth Him, and woe to all de-
that time they could not bear it; but when the
niers and doubters ! "
stated time was ended and the hour arrived, the
Word shone forth from the Horizon of the Will.
"Say unto the Priest that the Chief hath surely
Beware, 0 Concourse of the Son, cast it not behind
come. Then emerge, from behind the veil, in the
Name of thy Lord, and proclaim to the people this
Greatest and Exalted Manifestation. Verily, the
"Verily, He, the Son beareth witness to Me,
Spirit of Truth hath come to guide you into all
and I bear witness to Rim; verily, H e  desired
Truth : Verily H e  speaketh not unto you from
naught but ,My Person, whereunto bear witness
Himself, nay, but rather from the All-Knowing
all those just ones who know. Verily, in the
and Wise."
midst of afflictions we are inviting you to God the
Lord of the Names.
Say : Continue in that
"Proclaim : Me is the One Whom the Son hath
which is promised unto you in the Books of God,
glorified, and whose Command He hath upraised.
and walk not in the path of the ignorant. "
Abandon that which is before you, 0 people of
.the earth, and take that which is commanded you
" Surely my body is imprisoned for the salvation
by the Powerful, the Faithful: Purify your ears
of your souls; then draw nigh to the Face, and
and turn your minds to hear the sweet Call which
follow not all the obstinate proud ones. Verily,
hath arisen from the direction of Sinai, the abode
H e  bath accepted the greatest abasement for your
of your Most Gracious (Abha) Lord. Verily, H e
honour, and ye are diverting yourselves in the
attracts you unto a station wherein yon will behold
valley of heedlessness. Verily, R e  is in the most
the Lights of the Face, which hath shone forth
ruined of houses for your sakes, and ye are sitting
from this brilliant Seclusion."
'' He who inviteth the people in My Name, he is
"Say : Have ye not heard the sound of the voice
of Me, and from him will appear that which will
of Him (the BAb) who is crying in the wilderness
be beyond the power of all that is in the earth.
of the Beyan, proclaiming to you your merciful
Then follow the path of the Lord, and follow not
Lord? Know that surely He hath come in the
the heedless. Blessed is the sleeper who is awak-
Truth, in the shadow of I>emonstration, with
ened by these Powers, and will stand up amongst
Proof, and Argument, and the Unitarians are be-
the dead, directing himself in the path of the
holding the Icingdom before their faces. Blessed
Lord; verily he is of the essence of the creatures

Derore tne lrue vne, verrly ne 1s or tnose who
have attained. "
'"ay
: Verily, H e  hath shone from the direction
of the Orient,' and His Signs have appeared in the
Occident. Think thereupon, 0 people, and be not
like unto those who neglected the Remembrancer
when EIe came unto them from before the Mighty,
the Laudable. "
"Be awakened by the Breezes of God ! Verily
they have blown in the world. Blessing to whom-
soever hath found their fragrance and is of the,
assured. "
"Say : The Body of the Beloved is yearning
after the Cross, and His Head desireth the spear
in the Path of the Merciful.
Verily, the assault
of the oppressors keepeth Him not from that which
H e  desireth.
Surely W e  have abandoned all
things to the meeting of thy Lord, the Possessor
of Names.
Blessed are they who draw nigh to
God, the Lord of the Day of Judgment."
The above is quoted from the "'Eawh-el-Akdas"
Bahb'u'll&h's Message to Christians, which con-
,. --
Blessed is the seeker who sought the tent of My
Majesty and My Greatness !
Blessed is the affrighted one who took refuge
under My Domes !
Blessed is the thirsty one who hastened to the
TV-ell-Spring of My Favour !
Blessed is the hungry one who has forsaken his
desire because of My Passion, and was pre-
sent at the Table that descended from the
Heaven of My grace for My elect !
Blessed is the lowly who held to the Rope of
My Might, and the poor who took shelter
under the shadow ~f the Canopy of My
Wealth !
Blessed is the ignorant one who desired the
Kawther of My Knowledge, and the heed-
less ones who held to the Rope of My Re-
membrance !
Blessed is the spirit who rvas stirred by My
Breath and entered My Kingdom !
Blessed is the soul whom the fragrance of 'My
IJnion attracted to the Day-Spring of My
Command !
tinues as follows :-
Blessed is the ear which heard, and the eye which
" Blessed is the sleeper who is awakened by My
beheld and knew the Spirit of the Lord, the
Breezes !
Possessor of Glory and dominion, and the
Blessed is the dead who is quickened by My
Lord of Maiestv and Miabt !
Breaths !
Blessed is the eye that is enlightened by My
Beauty !
Blessed a
Blessed is
M v '
"
"
-
re they who have attained !
; whosoever is illumined by the Sun of
- J Word !

,
Blessed is whosoever adorned his head with the
Blessed is he who heard My grief and rose up for
My assistance among My people !
Blessed is he who was assured in My Word and
stood up among the dead for My Remem-
Blessed is he who performed My Covenant and
was not prevented by the world from enter-
ing the Court of My Holiness !
Blessed is he who cut himself off from all other
than Me, soared in the ether of My Love,
entered My
Kingdom, perceived the
dominions of My Might, drank the Kawther
of My Favour and the Salsabil of My Grace,
and was informed of My Command and of
whatsoever mas hidden in the Treasuries of
My Words, and shone forth from the Hori-
zon of Inner Significance in My Corn-
memoration and My Praise !
Verily, he is
of Mine. May My Mercy, Grace, Favour
and Glory be unto him !"
ALLAH'U' ABHA !
I
This Thank-offering is acknowledged in the in-
terests of the Baha'i Cause, and unanimously ap-
proved by the London Bahk'i Spiritual Assembly.
1928.

BAHA'I PUBLLCATIONS.
(EPGLAND).
" SOME ANSWERED
QUESTIONS.
" Table Talks of
'Abdu'l-Baha in answer to questions put by
the Compiler and Others.
Translated by
Laura Clifford Barney. (Kegan, Paul.)
" HIDDEN
WORDS.
'' Translations from the Per-
sian and Arabic of Bahs'u'llah.
1/6.
" 'ABDu'I,-BAEA IN LONDON." Addresses given
by 'Abdu'l-Baha.
116.
" TALKS
BY 'ABDU'L-BAHA
GIVEN
IN PARIS."
(London : G. Bell & Son).
a/-.
" THE MYSTERIOUS FORCES
OW CIVILIZATION.
"
"bdu'l-Baha.
Translated
by
Johanna
. Dawud.
" THE BAHAI DAWN
;
(Sec. : E. T. Hall, 1, Norton Street, Higher
Broughton, Manchester).
BOOKS ABOUT THE BAMA'I MOVEMENT.
" BRIEF ACCOUNT
OF THE BAHAL MOVEMENT."
Ethel J. Rosenberg.
(Burnside, Ltd.)
2d.
'' TEE SPLENDOUR
OF GOD."
Eric Mamn~ond.
(London : John Murray.)
3/6.
" THE UNIVERSAL
RELIGION
: REIAISM.
" Hippo-
lyte Dreyfus.
fl TEE MODERN
SOCIAL
RELIGION." Horace Holly.
(IAondon and Toronto : Sidgwick & Jackson.)
" BAW'U'LLAH
AND THE NEW ERA. " Dr. E. J.
Esslemont.
(London : George Allen &
Unwin, Ltd.)
816.
" THE LIFE AND TEACHINC~S
OF ABBAS EFFENDI."
Myron H. Phelps.
(London: Putnam &
Son.) (Temp. O.P.)
" A TRAVELLER'S
NARRATIVE." Professor E. G.
Browne, M.A., F.B.A., M.R.A.S.,
etc.
(Cambridge University Press.)
"THE RECONCILIATION
OF RACES
RELIGIONS. "
Thos. Kelly .Cheyne, Dr. Litt., D.B.
" WHAT
IS A BAHAI? " Dr. E. J. Esslernont.
(Burnside, Ltd.)
7d.
" '.THE BAHAI FAITH. ' G. Palgrave Simpson. 6d.
" THE PASSING
OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA."
By Lady BloIllfleld and Shoghi Effendi.
(Apply 21, West Side, London, S. W.4.)
" GOD'S HEROES.
" Laura Clifford Barney.
(London : Kegan Paul.)
12/6.
" BMAI : THF, SPIRIT OF THE AGE.
" Horace Holly.
(London : Kegan Paul.)
7/6.
' UNITY TRIUMPITAXT.
"
Elizabeth
Herrick.
Illustrated.
(London : Kegan, Paul.)
7/6. Second Edition 316.

BAHA'I PUBLICATIONS.
" TABLETS
OF 'ABL)u'L-BA~." VOI[S. I., II., and
(AMERICA)
111.
1016 each Vol.
" DIVEYE
PHILOSOPHY."
Talks of 'Abdu'l-Baha
TRANSLATIONS
OF WORKS
OF BAHA'U'LLAH.
delivered in Europe.
Compiled by Isobel
" TABLETS
OF BAHA'U'LLAB." Comprising Tablet
of Tarazat, Tablet of the World, Words of
Paradise, Tajallayat,
The Glad Tidings,
Tablet of Ishrakat.
9/3.
" THREE TABLETS
OF BAHA'U'LLAN." Comprising
'Tablet of the Branch.
Kitab-el-Ahd (The
?Vill and Testament of Bahb'u'llbh),
and
Lawh-el-Aqdas (A Message to Christians).
116.
" TWE SEVEN VALLEYS."
1/6.
" SOME
ANSWERED
QUESTIONS." Table Talks of
'Abdu'l-Baba in answer to questions put by
the Compiler and Others.
'Translated by
Laura. Clifford Barney.
11 13.
" THE LIFE AND TEACNIWGS
OF A.BBAS EFFENDI."
Myron Phelps.
9/3.
Fraser-Cham berlain.
4/6.
'WIVINE
COMMON
SENSE." The World's Greatest
Prisoner to His Prison Friends.
Compiled
by Isobel Fraser-Chamberlain.
' ' TEE PROMULGATION
OF UNIVERSAL
PEACE.
" 'The
First TTolume of American Addresses of
'Abdu'l-Baha, with Introduction by Howard
b9cNutt.
1316.
'' BEFORE ABR.~A-M
WAS I AM." Thornton Chase.
9d.
BOOKS ABOUT THE B ~ m l
MOVEMENT,
'THE
BAHAI MOVEMENT." C h .  Mason Remey.
3 / 6.
'' OBS~XVATIONS
OF A BAHAI TRAVELLER."
Chas.
I
3f ason Rerney .
41 6.
" THE BAI~AI
PROOFS.
Mirza Abul Fazl.
7/ 6.
" THE BRILLIANT PROOF."
Mirza Abul Fazl. 1 /6.
" MARTYRDOMS
IN PERSIA. 1903."
Wsdji Mirza
Hayder Ali.
9d
" THE BAHAI REVELATION.'?
Thornton Chase. 416,
'' MY VISI'I'S TO ABBAS EFFEVDI
('XBDU'L-BAHA)
IN 1899. " Margaret B. Peeke.
I/-.

" GOD'S HEROES."
Laura Clifford Barney. (Lip-
pincott . Philadelphia.)
'' BAHAI: THE SPIRIT OF THE AGE."
Horace
Holly.
(Brentano's.)
" THE ORIENTAL
ROSE." Mary Hanford Ford.
(New York : Broadway Publishing Society.)
" LECTURES
OF JENABE
FAZL. Five Addresses
given by Jenabe Fazl, of Mazandaran, in
Seattle, U.S.A., in 1921.
" CONSTRUCTIVE
PR~CIPLES
OF THE BAHAI MOVE-
l
~
~
~
.

" Chas. Mason Remey .
216.
" THE DREAM
OF GOD." Albert Durrant Watson.
A Poem.
ACCOUNTS
OF VISWS TO ACCA.
" IN GALILEE." Thornton Chase. ,
1/9.
".FLOWERS
FROM THE ROSE GARDEN
OF ACCA."
Alma Knobloch.
' 116.
" DAILY
LESSONS
RECEIVED AT ACCA.
" Helen S.
Goodall.
119.
'' TEN DAYS
IN TIIE LIGHT
OF AccA.'? Julia M.
Grundy .,
1/9.
'' GLLMPSES OF
'ABDU'L-BAHA." Roy
and
M. J. M.
" TABLE TALKS
WITH 'ABDU'L-BAHA." ,Mr. and
Mrs. George 'I'.
Winterburn.
116.
'% BRIEF ACCOUNT
OF MY VISIT TO Acc.~." Mrs.
Finch and Misses Knobloch.
" TABLE TALKS
LV THE PRISON
IN ACCA." Arthur
S. Agnew.
316.
" AN EARLY
PILGRIMAGE-"
Mary Maxwell. - 116.
" UNITY
THROUGH LOVE." Howard McNutt. 116.
Where the Publisher's name is not mentioned
,
the above books are obtainable from the Bahai
Publishing Society, 508, South Dearborn Street,
Chicago, U.S.A.; or from Burnside, Ltd., 9,
Beaconsfield Terrace Road, Blythe Road, London,
w.14.
BAHA'I PUBLICATIONS.
(FRANCE)
,
" LES LECONS
DE ST. JEAN-D'ACRE."
French Ver-
sion of " Some Answered Questions."
Hip-
polyte Dreyfus.
" LE LIVRE DE LA CERTITUDE." Kihb'l-Iqan.
Trad. Francaise par Hippolyte Dreyfus.
(Paris : Ernest Leroux.
1909.)
" LE EPITRE
AU FILS
DU LOUP." Trad. Francaise
par Hippolyte Dreyfus.
(Paris : Libraire
Honore Champion. 1913.)
" L'OUVRE
DE BAHAOU'LI,AH.
" Tome Premier.
Traduction francaise par Hippolyte Dreyfus.
(Paris : Ernest Leroux.
1923.)
Prix 8 francs.

.I
*
b
1: -
*
, *
$:?&
$
ill
*
*
1.
A H A Y I  PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS.
d
" STAR
OF TBE WEST." I n  English and Persian.
Now in the 13th year. The back numbers of
-
this Magazine, which can be had bound in
annual volumes, conhin a wealth of informa-
tion about the History and Teachings of the
Movement.
Published 12 times a year by the
Publications Committee of the Bahai Temple
Unity. Address : Bahai News Service, P.O.
Box 283, Chicago, Ill., U.S.A.
" MAGAZINE
OF TI& CHILDREN
OF TKE KINGDOM."
Issued Quarterly.
Editor and Publisher :
Ella M. Robarts, 75, Revere Street, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
" BAIIAI
NEWS." I n  English and Persian. Edited
and Published every month in the interests of
the Bahai Movement from India, by Mr.
Shirazi, 1059, Elphinstone Street, Camp
Hamehi.
" SQXNE
DEE WARREIT." Organ of the German
Bahai Bund.
Published monthly.
Verlag
des Deutchen, Bshai Bundes, Stuttgart,
~Iolderlinstrasse, 85.
" THE DAW-N." In English, Burmese, and Per-
sian.
Syed Mustapha Roumie, No. 2-13,
41st Street, Rangoon, (Burma).