THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1965-02-08

To the National Spiritual Assemblies of Australia

Persia and the United States Dear Bahá’í Friends, 22.1 To intensify the prosecution of the Nine Year Plan we call upon your Assemblies to appoint Pioneer  Committees respectively for Australasia, Africa, Europe, Asia and the Americas for raising up and deploying the huge army of pioneers necessary to win the goals of the Plan. 22.2 The importance of this step is emphasized by the need, during the coming Bahá’í year, to settle no less than four hundred and two pioneers in teaching and consolidation areas—twenty- eight for Australasia, seventy-one for Africa, sixty-seven for Europe, one hundred and sixty- eight for Asia, and sixty-eight for the Americas.

22.3 These Pioneer Committees, to be appointed by and be responsible to your respective National Assemblies, will have functions set forth in the enclosed outline. Since they are essentially service committees, a membership of three will suffice.  The secretary should be a competent and knowledgeable Bahá’í having time, ability and facilities for carrying on a volume of correspondence.  All members of the committee should have organizing ability as well as an aptitude for dealing with problems in a warm and loving Bahá’í way.

22.4 The Pioneer Committees will in no way infringe upon or substitute for existing committees which your Assemblies may have already appointed to deal with the teaching and pioneer requirements of either internal or external goals assigned to your Assembly.  Rather they will supplement the work of existing committees of all National Assemblies in the respective continental areas, provide an effective means of exchange of vital information, and assist in the processing of pioneer applications and the transfer of pioneers to goal areas. 22.5 The Pioneer Committees should be appointed immediately, and, as soon as acceptances have been received and the committees organized, you should send us the names of the committee members and the address of the committee for inclusion in a dossier to be sent to all National Assemblies as an addendum to the Ri ḍván message.

22.6 The Pioneer Committees should be prepared to assume their full responsibilities and functions at Ri ḍván so that no time will be lost in the rapid transfer of pioneers to their posts, thus avoiding any possible dampening of their spirits.

22.7 In the meantime, we will be forwarding additional information and instructions which will enable the committees to swing into action at Convention time.  Since announcement of the 35appointment of these committees will be a part of the Ri ḍván message, your Assembly should wait until the Convention to inform the friends of these plans.

22.8 Time is of the essence.  It is imperative that we have the names of Pioneer Committee members and  the address of the committee within thirty days of your receipt of these instructions .

22.9 Assuring you of prayers at the Holy Shrines.

Deepest love,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

Pioneer Committees Responsibilities and Functions 22.10 I.To assist National Spiritual Assemblies and their relevant committees in the following respects:

a.Information on availability and qualifications of pioneers.

b.Act as a clearing house for information both continentally and intercontinentally. c.Determine travel and subsistence budgets needed.

d.Supply information on needs for pioneers in various localities within their respective continental areas, this information to be furnished initially by the Universal House of

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]