Messages
of the
Universal
House
of Justice
The
Five
Year
Plan
2006-2011
3rd edition

V
Palabra Publications
The Five Year Plan
2006-2011
Messages of the Universal House of Justice
The elements required for a concerted effort to infuse
the diverse regions of the world with the spirit of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation have crystallized into a frame-
work for action that now needs only to be exploited.
—The Universal House of Justice

VI
First Edition January 2006.
Second Edition April 2006.
Third Edition May 2010.
Palabra Publications
7369 Westport Place
West Palm Beach, Florida 33413
U.S.A.
1-561-697-9823
1-561-697-9815  (fax)
books@palabrapublications.info
www.palabrapublications.com

i
Contents
Preface to the Third Edition
iii
Preface to the First Edition
iv
1. 	 27 December 2005,

To the Conference of the

Continental Boards of Counsellors
2. 	 28 December 2005,

To all National Spiritual Assemblies
3. 	 31 December 2005,

To the Bahá’ís of the World
4. 	 Rid. ván 2006

To the Bahá’ís of the World
5. 	 Rid. ván 2007

To the Bahá’ís of the World
6. 	 Rid. ván 2008

To the Bahá’ís of the World
7. 	 20 October 2008

To the Bahá’ís of the World
8. 	 Rid. ván 2009

To the Bahá’ís of the World
9. 	 Rid. ván 2010

To the Bahá’ís of the World

iii
Preface to the Third Edition
In order to provide convenient access to the major
messages of the Five Year Plan 2006-2011, the third
edition has combined in chronological order the
documents introducing the Plan and the Rid.ván mes-
sages for the years 2006-2010. Also included is the
October 20, 2008 message announcing the ­convocation
of 41 regional conferences.
Palabra Publications

v
Preface to the First Edition
In the new Five Year Plan which will stretch from
2006 to 2011, the Bahá’ís of the world will enter the
midpoint of that series of Plans, beginning in 1996 and
continuing for a quarter century until the year 2021,
which all focus on a single aim—advancing the process
of entry by troops. Much has been learned in the previ-
ous decade. Much remains to be achieved in the coming
decade and a half.
The process of entry by troops began in Africa and
the Pacific region during the ministry of Shoghi Effendi
and gradually spread to most parts of the world.
Receptive peoples in country after country embraced
the Faith by the hundreds, the thousands, and even by
the tens of thousands. For some forty years, however,
the community struggled to balance the process of
expansion with an equally strong process of consolida-
tion. Large-scale enrollments would be achieved, but
there was no way to deepen so many new believers, no
way to educate their children, no way to build commu-
nities or to strengthen fledgling institutions. Chapter 9
of ­Century of Light analyzes the challenge of growth
during that period:
The burst of enrolments brought with it, how-
ever, equally great problems. At the immediate
level, the resources of Bahá’í communities engaged
in the work were soon overwhelmed by the task of
providing the sustained deepening the masses of
new believers needed and the consolidation of the
resulting communities and Spiritual Assemblies.

vi
In the previous Five Year Plan covering the period
from 2001 to 2006, the Bahá’í world learned how to
bring together the various elements needed to suc-
cessfully maintain intensive programs of growth at the
cluster level. In clusters where receptivity was high, as
many as one thousand believers were brought into the
Faith in a single year, while, at the same time, the pat-
tern of community life was established and a sufficient
percentage of the new believers were helped through
the institute process to become active servants of the
Cause who could, in turn, teach and consolidate ­others.
Significant growth, therefore, could not only be initi-
ated, but sustained. Even in clusters where the popu-
lations were considered less receptive, new patterns of
action gave rise to rejuvenated communities, increased
the participation of individuals from the wider soci-
ety in community life, and raised the tempo of teach-
ing, resulting in a fresh infusion of new ­believers—in
some clusters, as many as 30 to 50 in a single year.
From Thiruvannamalai, India, to Broward County,
Florida, in the United States, from Mulanje in Malawi
to London in the United Kingdom, from Karkar, Papua
New Guinea, to Norte de Cauca in Colombia, cluster
after cluster experienced a change. “So consistent has
been the experience with intensive programmes of
growth, implemented on the basis of this understand-
ing in divers clusters,” the Universal House of Justice
explains, “that no cause for equivocation remains.”
The learning that occurred over the past five
years to effect this change is summarized in the 27
December 2005 message from the Universal House of
Justice to the Conference of the Continental Boards of
Counsellors, which also lays out the features of the
next Plan. Among the main challenges of the coming
five years are to extend the “edifying influence” of the
training institute to hundreds of thousands more souls

vii
and to accelerate the movement of clusters so that no
less than 1,500 become the focus of intensive programs
of growth. Only if the hard-earned lessons of the past
ten years are applied through the persistent, sacrificial,
and universal participation of the believers in all parts
of the world will these pressing objectives be met.
By compiling in this small volume the messages of
the Universal House of Justice relevant to the next Plan,
we hope to make them more readily accessible to the
friends everywhere.
Palabra Publications



27 December 2005
To the Conference of the
Continental Boards of Counsellors
Dearly loved Friends,

1.1
1.1
Over the past four and a half years, as the believers
throughout the world have striven to pursue the aim of
advancing the process of entry by troops, it has become
increasingly clear that the close of the present Five Year
Plan will mark a decisive moment in the unfoldment of
the historical enterprise on which the community of the
Greatest Name is embarked. The elements required for
a concerted effort to infuse the diverse regions of the
world with the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation have
crystallized into a framework for action that now needs
only to be exploited.

1.2
1.2
Our 26 December 1995 message, which focused
the Bahá’í world on a path of intense learning about
the sustained, rapid growth of the Faith, described in
general terms the nature of the work that would have
to be undertaken in meeting the challenges ahead. As
a first step, Bahá’í communities were urged to system-
atize their efforts to develop the human resources of the
Cause through a network of training institutes. While
every national community took measures to create insti-
tutional capacity to perform this essential function, it
was not until the outset of the Five Year Plan that the
significance of a well-conceived programme of training
became widely appreciated. The introduction of the
concept of the cluster made it possible for the friends to
think about the accelerated growth of the community

on a manageable scale and to conceive of it in terms of
two complementary, reinforcing movements: the steady
flow of individuals through the sequence of institute
courses and the movement of clusters from one stage
of development to the next. This image helped the
believers to analyse the lessons being learned in the
field and to employ a common vocabulary to articulate
their findings. Never before have the means for estab-
lishing a pattern of activity that places equal emphasis
on the twin processes of expansion and consolidation
been better understood. Indeed, so consistent has been
the experience with intensive programmes of growth,
implemented on the basis of this understanding in
­divers clusters, that no cause for equivocation remains.
The way forward is clear, and at Rid. ván 2006 we will
call upon the believers to steel their resolve and to
­proceed with the full force of their energies on the
course that has been so decidedly set.

1.3
1.3
In presenting to you the features of the coming
Five Year Plan, the subject of your deliberations in this
conference, we will review the record of recent accom-
plishments of the Bahá’í world and indicate how cur-
rent approaches, methods and instruments should be
carried to this next stage. What the analysis will make
evident is that the wholehearted response of the indi-
vidual believer, the community and the institutions to
the guidance they received five years ago has raised
their capacity to new levels. The continued develop-
ment of this capacity will remain essential to the aim
of advancing the process of entry by troops—the focus
of the Bahá’í world through the final years of the first
century of the Formative Age.

The Individual

1.4
1.4
There is little need to describe in detail the achieve-
ments of the individual believer, for we have already
noted these in our message of 17 January 2003 to the
Bahá’ís of the world. In that message we highlighted
the growing sense of initiative and resourcefulness, as
well as the courage and audacity, that have come to
characterize believers everywhere. Qualities such as
consecration, zeal, confidence and tenacity attest to the
enhanced vitality of their faith. We have also acknowl-
edged the role played by the training institute in evok-
ing the spirit of enterprise underlying the rise in activity
observed around the world—the concrete expression of
that vitality.

1.5
1.5
Developments since then have served only to
­demonstrate further the efficacy of a sequence of courses
that seeks to build capacity for service by concentrat-
ing on the application of the spiritual insights gained
through profound study of the Writings. Participants
are exposed to a body of knowledge that fosters a set of
related habits, attitudes and qualities and are assisted
in sharpening certain skills and abilities needed to carry
out acts of service. Discussions that revolve around the
Creative Word, in the serious and uplifting atmosphere
of a study circle, raise the level of consciousness about
one’s duties to the Cause and create an awareness of
the joy one derives from teaching the Faith and serv-
ing its interests. The spiritual context in which specific
deeds are addressed endows them with significance.
Confidence is patiently built as the friends engage in
progressively more complex and demanding acts of
service. Yet, above all, it is reliance on God that sustains
them in their endeavours. How abundant the accounts
of believers who enter the teaching field with trepida-
tion only to find themselves bolstered by confirmations

on all sides. Seeing the possibilities and opportunities
before them with new eyes, they witness first hand the
power of Divine assistance, as they strive to put into
practice what they are learning and achieve results far
exceeding their expectations. That the spirit of faith
born out of intimate contact with the Word of God has
such an effect on souls is by no means a new phenom-
enon. What is heartening is that the institute process
is helping such large numbers experience the trans-
forming potency of the Faith. To extend this edifying
influence to hundreds of thousands more should be the
object of intense effort over the next five years.

1.6
1.6
A discernible outcome of the emphasis on capac-
ity building has been a steady increase in the exercise
of individual initiative—initiative that is disciplined
by an understanding of the requirements of system-
atic action in advancing the process of entry by troops.
Endeavours are pursued in a humble posture of learn-
ing within the framework defined by the Plan. As a
result, activities that give expression to a diversity of
talents become harmonized into one forward move-
ment, and the stagnation caused by endless debate
over personal preferences about approach is avoided.
Commitment to long-term action grows, putting in con-
text the initiatives undertaken by the believers at any
particular moment.

1.7
1.7
Nowhere has the rise in individual initiative been
more clearly demonstrated than in the field of teach-
ing. Whether in the form of firesides or study circles,
individual efforts to teach the Faith are indisputably
on the increase. Equipped with skills and methods,
effective and accessible to all, and encouraged by the
response their actions elicit, the believers are entering
into closer association with people of many walks of
life, engaging them in earnest conversation on themes

of spiritual import. With greater and greater spiritual
perception, they are able to sense receptivity and recog-
nize thirst for the vivifying waters of Bahá’u’lláh’s mes-
sage. From among all those they encounter—parents of
neighbourhood children, peers at school, colleagues at
work, casual acquaintances—they seek out souls with
whom they can share a portion of that which He has so
graciously bestowed on humanity. Increased experience
enables them to adapt their presentation to the seeker’s
needs, employing direct teaching methods that draw
on the Writings to offer the message in a manner both
forthcoming and inviting.

1.8
1.8
Most noteworthy in this regard is the spirit of initia-
tive shown by believers who extend the range of their
endeavours to assist others also striving to tread a path
of service. Having acquired the capacity to serve as
tutors of institute courses, they take up the challenge
of accompanying participants in their initial attempts
to perform acts of service until they, too, are ready to
start their own study circles and help others do the
same, widening in this way the scope of the institute’s
influence and bringing eager souls into contact with
the Word of God. This particular aspect of the institute
process, which serves to multiply the number of active
supporters of the Faith in a self-perpetuating manner,
holds much promise, and we hope that its potential will
be realized in the coming Plan. “Let him not be content”,
are the words of the Guardian referring to every teacher
of the Cause, “until he has infused into his spiritual
child so deep a longing as to impel him to arise inde-
pendently, in his turn, and devote his energies to the
quickening of other souls, and the upholding of the laws
and principles laid down by his newly adopted Faith.”

The Community

1.9
1.9
The enhanced vitality that distinguishes the life of
the individual believer is equally evident in Bahá’í com-
munity life. The degree to which this vitality manifests
itself depends, of course, on the stage of development
of the cluster. A cluster in an advanced stage of growth
offers far greater insight into what can be achieved than
one in an earlier stage, where the friends are still strug-
gling to translate the provisions of the Plan into action.
It is to these more advanced clusters, then, that we must
look in analysing the accomplishments of the commu-
nity, convinced that their experience will be emulated
by others as they continue to progress.

1.10
1.10
On several occasions we have made reference to
the coherence that is brought to the process of growth
through the establishment of study circles, devotional
meetings and children’s classes. The steady multiplica-
tion of core activities, propelled by the training insti-
tute, creates a sustainable pattern of expansion and
consolidation that is at once structured and organic.
As seekers join these activities and declare their faith,
individual and collective teaching endeavours gather
momentum. Through the effort made to ensure that a
percentage of the new believers enrol in the institute
courses, the pool of human resources required to carry
out the work of the Faith swells. When strenuously pur-
sued in a cluster, all of this activity eventually brings
about conditions favourable for launching an intensive
programme of growth.

1.11
1.11
What a close examination of clusters at this thresh-
old confirms is that the coherence thus achieved extends
to various aspects of community life. The study and
application of the teachings become a pervasive habit,
and the spirit of communal worship generated by

­devotional meetings begins to permeate the commu-
nity’s collective endeavours. A graceful integration
of the arts into diverse activities enhances the surge
of energy that mobilizes the believers. Classes for the
spiritual education of children and junior youth serve to
strengthen the roots of the Faith in the local population.
Even an act of service as simple as visiting the home
of a new believer, whether in a village in the Pacific
Islands or in a vast metropolitan area like London, rein-
forces ties of fellowship that bind the members of the
community together. Conceived as a means for expos-
ing believers to the fundamentals of the Faith, “home
visits” are giving rise to an array of deepening efforts,
both individual and collective, in which the friends are
delving into the Writings and exploring their implica-
tions for their lives.

1.12
1.12
As the spiritual foundations of the community are
fortified in this way, the level of collective discourse is
raised, social relations among the friends take on new
meaning, and a sense of common purpose inspires their
interactions. Little wonder, then, that a study carried
out by the International Teaching Centre shows that,
in some fifty advanced clusters surveyed, the quality
of the Nineteen Day Feast has improved. Other reports
indicate that contributions to the Fund have increased
as consciousness of its spiritual significance expands
and the need for material means is better understood.
Reflection meetings at the cluster level are becoming a
forum for the discussion of needs and plans, creating
a collective identity and strengthening the collective
will. Where such advanced clusters are flourishing, the
influence they exert begins to spread beyond their own
borders to enrich regional events, such as summer and
winter schools.


1.13
1.13
As in the case of the individual, learning is the
hallmark of this phase of the development of the com-
munity. You and your auxiliaries are urged to exert
every effort in the coming years to ensure that, in clus-
ter after cluster, learning is woven into the fabric of
decision-making.

1.14
1.14
One of your primary concerns will be to strengthen
appreciation for systematic action, already heightened
by the successes it has brought. To arrive at a unified
vision of growth based on a realistic assessment of
possibilities and resources, to develop strategies that
lend structure to it, to devise and implement plans of
action commensurate with capacity, to make necessary
adjustments while maintaining continuity, to build on
accomplishments—these are some of the requisites of
systematization that every community must learn and
internalize.

1.15
1.15
By the same token, desire and willingness to open
certain aspects of community life to the wider pub-
lic should be integrated into a pattern of behaviour
that attracts souls and confirms them. Much has been
achieved in this respect as the friends have adopted
new ways of thinking and acting at a collective level. In
welcoming large numbers into its embrace, the commu-
nity is learning to see more readily the latent potential-
ity in people and to avoid setting artificial barriers for
them based on preconceived notions. A nurturing envi-
ronment is being cultivated in which each individual is
encouraged to progress at his or her own pace without
the pressure of unreasonable expectations. At the heart
of such developments is a growing awareness of the
implications of the universality and comprehensiveness
of the Faith. Collective action is governed more and
more by the principle that Bahá’u’lláh’s message should
be given liberally and unconditionally to humanity.

Most gratifying are the endeavours being made to reach
receptive populations with the teachings of the Faith.
As unrelenting social and political forces continue to
uproot people from their homelands and sweep them
across continents, an uncompromising appreciation for
a diversity of backgrounds and for the strength it con-
fers on the whole will prove crucial to the expansion
and consolidation of the community.

1.16
1.16
Perhaps the task that will occupy the attention of
you and your auxiliaries above all others is to assist the
community in its effort to maintain focus. This ability,
slowly acquired through successive Plans, represents
one of its most valuable assets, hard won through dis-
cipline, commitment and foresight as the friends and
their institutions have learned to pursue the single aim
of advancing the process of entry by troops. On the one
hand, you will find it necessary to discourage the ten-
dency to confuse focus with uniformity or exclusivity.
To maintain focus does not imply that special needs
and interests are neglected, much less that essential
activities are dropped in order to accommodate oth-
ers. Clearly, there are a host of elements that comprise
Bahá’í community life, shaped over the decades, which
must be further refined and developed. On the other
hand, you will want to take every opportunity to rein-
force the disposition to prioritize—one which recog-
nizes that not all activities have the same importance
at a given stage of growth, that some must necessarily
take precedence over others, that even the most well-­
intentioned proposals can cause distraction, dissipate
energy or impede progress. What should be plainly
acknowledged is that the time available for the friends
to serve the Faith in every community is not without
limits. It is only natural to expect that the preponderat-
ing share of this limited resource would be expended in
meeting the provisions of the Plan.

The Institutions

1.17
1.17
None of the accomplishments of the individual or
the community could be sustained without the guid-
ance, encouragement and support of the third par-
ticipant in the Plan—the institutions of the Faith. It is
heartening to see to what extent the institutions are pro-
moting individual initiative, channelling energies into
the teaching field, underscoring the value of ­systematic
action, fostering the spiritual life of the community
and nurturing a welcoming environment. In helping
the community to remain focused on the aim of the
Plan, they are learning in practical terms what it means
to maintain unity of vision among the friends, to put
mechanisms in place that facilitate their endeavours
and to allocate resources in accordance with priorities
wisely set. These priorities include, of course, areas of
activity that require the specialized skills of individu-
als. Worthy of particular mention in this category are
the work of external affairs, which National ­Spiritual
Assemblies are following diligently, and ventures of
social and economic development, as, for example,
undertaken by Bahá’í-inspired organizations. While
tending to needs of this kind, the institutions find them-
selves increasingly capable of directing the thrust of the
effort exerted by the generality of the believers towards
the prosecution of the central tasks of the Plan.

1.18
1.18
Encouraging, too, are the determined steps being
taken by National Spiritual Assemblies, in collabora-
tion with the Counsellors, to respond to the admin-
istrative challenges brought by large-scale growth at
the cluster level. Schemes that are emerging tend to
call for one or more individuals named by the training
institute to coordinate the delivery of courses in the
main sequence, as well as programmes for children and
junior youth. An Area Teaching Committee appointed

by the Regional Council, or by the National Assembly
itself, is also required to administer other aspects of
systematic effort to achieve accelerated expansion and
consolidation. Auxiliary Board members work on both
fronts to ensure that the two movements which have
come to characterize the process of growth proceed
unhampered. While these various components are
being established in cluster after cluster, there is still
much to be learned about the functions each is to per-
form and about the relationships among them. What is
important is that the current degree of flexibility, which
allows for the creation of new instruments as needed,
not be compromised so that the scheme of coordination
represents a response to the demands of growth itself.
We count on you and National Assemblies to guide this
learning process.

1.19
1.19
Throughout the Plan, we have watched with the
keenest interest the effects of these developments on
the functioning of Local Spiritual Assemblies. It gives
us pleasure to note that two types of progress are being
made in this respect. In those clusters where most of the
Local Assemblies have been extremely weak, a grow-
ing number are gradually assuming their responsibili-
ties as they learn to guide specific activities of the Plan
in the areas under their jurisdiction. At the same time,
long-standing Local Spiritual Assemblies are exhibiting
signs of added strength as they have come to embrace
a vision of systematic growth—this, often following a
period of adjustment in which some struggled to under-
stand the new realities being created at the cluster level.

1.20
1.20
What has brought us particular joy is to see that the
process of growth unfolding around the world is gath-
ering momentum in urban centres as well as rural areas.
An important step taken in many large cities early in
the current Plan was to divide them into sectors. This

proved crucial to planning for sustained growth. As
communities expand, however, it is not unreasonable
to expect that cities will need to be divided into smaller
areas—perhaps ultimately into neighbourhoods—in
each of which the Nineteen Day Feast is conducted.
Maintaining a vision of the potential size of future
communities is essential for the further development
of Local Assemblies. To administer the affairs of com-
munities whose membership will swell into the thou-
sands, and to fulfil their purpose as the “trusted ones of
the Merciful among men”, those who serve on Spiritual
Assemblies will necessarily undergo intense periods of
learning in the years ahead. We intend to monitor the
development of Local Spiritual Assemblies closely dur-
ing the coming Plan and, as the size of the Bahá’í popu-
lation and other circumstances in a locality demand,
authorize a two-stage electoral process on a case-by-
case basis, following the pattern developed in T. ihrán
during the ministry of the Guardian.
Intensive Programmes of Growth

1.21
1.21
Sustained endeavour on the part of the individual,
the community and the institutions to accelerate the
institute process in a cluster, while contributing to its
movement from one stage of development to another
through well-proven means, culminates in the launch-
ing of an intensive programme of growth. Indeed, the
most significant advances in learning during the pres-
ent Plan resulted from efforts in some two hundred
clusters to implement such programmes. We are con-
vinced that this learning can now be systematically
propagated in every continent, and at Rid. ván 2006 we
will call upon Bahá’ís worldwide to establish, during
the next Plan, intensive programmes of growth in no
less than 1,500 clusters.


1.22
1.22
As currently conceived, an intensive programme
of growth is straightforward, simple and effective, but
implies a level of exertion that tests the resolve of the
friends. Conforming well to the vision we presented
five years ago, it employs a few measures that have
proven to be indispensable to large-scale expansion
and consolidation. It consists of cycles of activity, in
general of three months’ duration each, which proceed
according to distinct phases of expansion, consolida-
tion, reflection and planning.

1.23
1.23
The expansion phase, often a period of two weeks,
demands the highest level of intensity. Its objective is
to widen the circle of those interested in the Faith, to
find receptive souls and to teach them. Although this
phase might include some element of proclamation, it
should not be seen as a time to hold a few events for this
purpose or to undertake a set of activities that merely
convey information. Experience suggests that the more
closely teaching approaches and methods are aligned
with the capacity acquired from the study of the insti-
tute courses the more rewarding the results.

1.24
1.24
Plans being devised for this phase invariably involve
the implementation of carefully designed teaching proj-
ects and campaigns of home visits and firesides, often
through the mobilization of teaching teams. The pattern
of expansion that unfolds, however, varies from clus-
ter to cluster. Where the population has traditionally
shown a high degree of receptivity to the Faith, a rapid
influx of new believers is to be expected. In one cluster
of this kind, for example, the goal of enrolling fifty souls
over a three-week period in a locality was surpassed
by the second day, and the team wisely decided to end
the expansion phase in anticipation of activities related
to consolidation. One of the primary objectives of this
next phase is to bring a percentage of the new believers

into the institute process so that an adequate pool of
human resources will be available in future cycles to
sustain growth. Those not participating in study circles
are nurtured through a series of home visits, and all are
invited to devotional meetings, to the celebration of the
Nineteen Day Feast and to Holy Day observances and
are gradually introduced to the patterns of community
life. Not infrequently, the consolidation phase gives rise
to further enrolments as the family members and friends
of new declarants accept the Faith.

1.25
1.25
In other clusters, enrolments during the expansion
phase may not be high, especially in the first few cycles,
and the goal is to augment the number of those will-
ing to participate in core activities. This, then, defines
the nature of the consolidation phase, which largely
involves nurturing the interest of seekers and accom-
panying them in their spiritual search until they are
confirmed in their faith. To the extent that these mea-
sures are vigorously followed, this phase can generate a
considerable number of enrolments. It should be noted,
however, that as learning advances and experience is
gained, the ability not only to teach responsive souls,
but also to identify segments of the general population
with heightened receptivity, develops, and the totality
of new believers increases from cycle to cycle.

1.26
1.26
Whatever the nature of the cluster, it is impera-
tive to pay close attention to children and junior youth
everywhere. Concern for the moral and spiritual educa-
tion of young people is asserting itself forcefully on the
consciousness of humanity, and no attempt at commu-
nity building can afford to ignore it. What has become
especially apparent during the current Five Year Plan
is the efficacy of educational programmes aimed at
the spiritual empowerment of junior youth. When
accompanied for three years through a programme that

enhances their spiritual perception, and encouraged
to enter the main sequence of institute courses at the
age of fifteen, they represent a vast reservoir of energy
and talent that can be devoted to the advancement of
spiritual and material civilization. So impressed are
we by the results already achieved, and so compelling
is the need, that we will urge all National Assemblies
to consider the junior youth groups formed through
programmes implemented by their training institutes a
fourth core activity in its own right and to promote its
wide-scale multiplication.

1.27
1.27
Key to the progress of an intensive programme of
growth is the phase dedicated to reflection, in which
the lessons learned in action are articulated and incor-
porated into plans for the next cycle of activity. Its prin-
cipal feature is the reflection meeting—as much a time
of joyous celebration as it is of serious consultation.
Careful analysis of experience, through participatory
discussions rather than overly complex and ­elaborate
presentations, serves to maintain unity of vision,
sharpen clarity of thought and heighten enthusiasm.
Central to such an analysis is the review of vital sta-
tistics that suggest the next set of goals to be adopted.
Plans are made that take into account increased capacity
in terms of the human resources available at the end of
the cycle to perform various tasks, on the one hand, and
accumulated knowledge about the receptivity of the
population and the dynamics of teaching, on the other.
When human resources increase in a manner propor-
tionate to the rise in the overall Bahá’í population from
cycle to cycle, it is possible not only to sustain but to
accelerate growth.

1.28
1.28
To meet the ambitious goal of establishing 1,500
such intensive programmes, the Bahá’í world will have
to draw fully upon the experience gained and capacity

built over the past ten years. Following your departure
from the Holy Land, you will need to enter into thor-
ough consultation with National Spiritual Assemblies
and Regional Councils and together carefully assess
conditions in each national community in order to iden-
tify the clusters that will receive focused attention and
to map out strategic plans.

1.29
1.29
Implementation of these plans should begin as soon
as possible after Rid. ván 2006. Experience in advancing
the movement of clusters from one stage to the next is
now so widespread that the methods and instruments
are well understood. The institute process must be
strengthened so that a sizeable number of friends pro-
ceed through the main sequence of courses. Intensive
institute campaigns that pay adequate attention to the
practice component will be essential in this respect.
The number of core activities should be steadily mul-
tiplied, and outreach to the wider community sys-
tematically extended. Meetings of reflection will have
to be held periodically in order to monitor progress,
maintain unity of thought and mobilize the energies of
the friends. And schemes for administering the growth
process should gradually be put in place, as circum-
stances demand. While capacity at the level of the clus-
ter to sustain growth will remain the most compelling
concern in the coming years, the ongoing development
of regional and national structures to facilitate the flow
of information and resources to and from the field of
action cannot be neglected.

1.30
1.30
Equally important will be the support lent to a clus-
ter through an influx of pioneers. The desire to pioneer
arises naturally from deep within the heart of the indi-
vidual believer as a response to the Divine summons.
Whosoever forsakes his or her home for the purpose of
teaching the Cause joins the ranks of those noble souls

whose achievements down the decades have ­illumined
the annals of Bahá’í pioneering. We cherish the hope
that many will be moved to render this meritorious
service during the next Plan, whether on the home
front or in the international field—an act that, in itself,
attracts untold blessings. The institutions, in turn, will
have to exercise sound judgement to ensure that such
friends are strategically placed. Priority should be
given to settling short-term and long-term pioneers
in those clusters that are the focus of systematic atten-
tion, whether as a means of reinforcing endeavours to
lay the groundwork for accelerated growth or stabiliz-
ing cycles of activity under way. It is not unreasonable
to assume that a concerted effort to build on strength
will result in the eventual outflow of pioneers from
such clusters to areas destined to become the theatre
of future conquests.

1.31
1.31
Dear Friends: In the weeks and months ahead and
over the course of the Plan, you and your auxiliaries
will be a constant source of encouragement to the
believers as they rise to the challenge being presented to
them. We ask that you take every opportunity to convey
to them our confidence in their capacity to overcome the
obstacles that will inevitably appear in their path. They
should not fail to recognize the scope of what they have
achieved through the sustaining grace of Bahá’u’lláh
over the past decade. In the course of the first four
years, they created the institutional capacity throughout
the planet to impart spiritual education to growing con-
tingents of believers. Building on this accomplishment,
they engaged in a rigorous process of learning that
opened before their eyes vistas of great yet attainable
possibilities. That the Bahá’í world has succeeded in
multiplying the number of devotional meetings sixfold
over the past five years, that classes for children and
junior youth have increased more than threefold during

the same period, that the number of study ­circles world-
wide has surpassed eleven thousand—these provide a
measure of the extraordinary strength the believers can
draw upon in shouldering the responsibility entrusted
to them.

1.32
1.32
Above all, the friends need to remain ever conscious
of the magnitude of the spiritual forces that are at their
disposition. They are members of a community “whose
world-embracing, continually consolidating activities
constitute the one integrating process in a world whose
institutions, secular as well as religious, are for the most
part dissolving”. Of all the peoples of the world, “they
alone can recognize, amidst the welter of a tempestuous
age, the Hand of the Divine Redeemer that traces its
course and controls its destinies. They alone are aware
of the silent growth of that orderly world polity whose
fabric they themselves are weaving.” It is their institu-
tions that “will come to be regarded as the hallmark and
glory of the age” they have been called upon to estab-
lish. The “building process,” to which they are conse-
crated, is “the one hope of a stricken society.” For, it is
“actuated by the generating influence of God’s change-
less Purpose, and is evolving within the framework of
the Administrative Order of His Faith.” And remind
them that they are the illumined souls envisioned by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in His prayer: “Heroes are they, O my
Lord, lead them to the field of battle. Guides are they,
make them to speak out with arguments and proofs.
Ministering servants are they, cause them to pass round
the cup that brimmeth with the wine of certitude. O my
God, make them to be songsters that carol in fair gar-
dens, make them lions that couch in the thickets, whales
that plunge in the vasty deep.”
The Universal House of Justice



28 December 2005
To all National Spiritual Assemblies
Dear Bahá’í Friends,

2.1
2.1
In the coming weeks you will be engaged in con-
sultations on the features of the next Five Year Plan as
described in our message dated 27 December 2005 to the
Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors.
We feel that these deliberations will benefit from the
following comments regarding the curriculum of the
training institute.

2.2
2.2
When in our message dated 26 December 1995
we underscored the need for a formal programme of
training, we were aware that certain elements of a cur-
riculum meeting the necessary requirements existed in
the materials of the Ruhi Institute. It was our convic-
tion, however, that the accumulated experience at that
point did not justify our recommending a specific set
of materials to be used by training institutes through-
out the world. Therefore, the messages written by us
and on our behalf in the early part of the Four Year
Plan encouraged National Spiritual Assemblies and
the Counsellors to open the way for training institutes
to follow whatever curriculum they deemed appropri-
ate. Yet, conscious of the inherent difficulty in creating
comprehensive programmes, we repeatedly expressed
the view that the execution of plans should not await
protracted decisions on the question of curriculum and
that materials readily available should be used. The
availability of such materials was limited worldwide,
and National Spiritual Assemblies and institute boards

began to adopt the books of the Ruhi Institute as they
became aware of them, often through the Counsellors.
By the time the Four Year Plan came to a close, it was
all too apparent that national communities which had
vigorously set out to implement the sequence of courses
designed by the Ruhi Institute were far ahead of those
who had attempted to develop their own programme.

2.3
2.3
It was the Five Year Plan, however, that served to
convince Counsellors, National Assemblies and boards
everywhere of the merits of the Ruhi Institute cur-
riculum. The introduction of the seventh book in the
Institute’s main sequence at the start of the Plan enabled
many to appreciate more the intimate connection
between the flow of individuals through a sequence of
courses and the movement of clusters from one stage of
growth to the next. Indeed, as progress was achieved in
hundreds of clusters, it became clear to institutions at all
levels that the content and order of the main sequence
prepared the friends to carry out those acts of service
required by the pattern of growth being established in
a cluster. We have, in fact, described the dynamics of
this relationship in our message of 27 December 2005.

2.4
2.4
We have now familiarized ourselves with the Ruhi
Institute’s present plans for curriculum development,
which increasingly draw on experience worldwide in
sustaining large-scale expansion and consolidation. We
welcome the decision of the Institute, for example, to
move the book currently occupying the fifth position
in the sequence to a set of courses branching out from
Book 3 for preparing Bahá’í children’s class teachers
and to insert in the fifth place a new book for raising
up animators of junior youth groups. That the eighth
book in the main sequence, initiating a series concerned
with the institutional aspects of service to the Cause,
will address the all-important question of the Covenant

is noted with equal pleasure. With these thoughts in
mind, we have reached the conclusion that the books of
the Ruhi Institute should constitute the main sequence
of courses for institutes everywhere, at least through
the final years of the first century of the Formative Age
when the Bahá’í community will be focused on advanc-
ing the process of entry by troops within the framework
for action set forth in our 27 December message.

2.5
2.5
To select one curriculum to be used by training
­institutes worldwide for a certain period of time is not
to ignore the variety of needs and interests of the friends
as they endeavour to better equip themselves to under-
stand and apply the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh. Nor does
it in any way diminish the value of the efforts made to
develop courses and materials to respond to these needs.
It is not intended to suggest, either, that one curriculum
should necessarily appeal to everyone. What this deci-
sion does imply, however, is that the present demands
of the growth of the Faith are such that, for some years
to come, training institutes should not attempt to meet
all of the needs and interests of the friends.

2.6
2.6
The institutions of the Faith will continue to respect
the wishes of those who, for whatever reason, do not
feel inclined to participate in the study of the books of
the Ruhi Institute. Those not so disposed should rec-
ognize that there are many avenues of service open to
them, including, above all, individual teaching which
is the paramount duty of every Bahá’í. Local deepen-
ing classes and summer and winter schools, which
remain an important feature of Bahá’í community life,
will provide ample opportunities for them to deepen
their knowledge of the teachings. What we ask of such
friends, as we have in the past, is that they not allow
their personal preferences to hamper in any way the
unfoldment of an educational process that has shown

the potential to embrace millions of souls from divers
backgrounds. Regarding the materials that have been
developed in other contexts over the years, and which
will continue to emerge, these surely have their proper
place in the Bahá’í community. Some, for example, form
the basis for deepening classes at the grassroots, while
others, with the necessary modifications, can be situ-
ated along one of the branches of courses stemming out
from the Ruhi Institute’s main sequence.

2.7
2.7
In this connection, we feel that the subject of branch
courses deserves a few words of explanation. In our
message dated 9 January 2001 to the Conference of the
Continental Boards of Counsellors, we indicated that
the main sequence could be likened to the trunk of a
tree, which supports other courses branching out from
it, each branch addressing some specific area of action. A
set of health materials being developed in Africa offers
a good illustration of a few features of such courses.
Following years of training community health workers
in the late 1980s and early 1990s, several Bahá’í agen-
cies decided to elaborate a series of modules aimed at
preparing individuals to deal with progressively more
complex health issues at the local level. By the time the
first module began to be used in its initial form, the
institute process had gained in strength, and it became
evident that those who had studied Books 1 and 2 of the
Ruhi Institute were better prepared to visit members
of their extended families and friends and speak on
health-related subjects. The design of the modules was
modified so that they could constitute a branch after
Book 2, which participants study while they continue
along in the main sequence. Efforts in this direction
have met with definite success. This example illustrates
that branch courses are not a disconnected collection of
materials randomly placed at various points. Rather,
they must emerge out of actual experience and adhere

to a certain logic, both internally and in the context of
the overall institute programme, if they are to be peda-
gogically sound. Further, the very concept of a branch
course suggests that it provides training for an area of
service which will interest only some of those who are
studying the books of the main sequence. We hope that
the development of such courses to address specific
needs, defined by action on the ground, will be a natural
consequence of the endeavours of burgeoning commu-
nities which are avidly striving to translate into reality
the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh and to use training mate-
rials as a means of systematizing their experience and
sharing with increasing numbers the insights they gain.
The Universal House of Justice



31 December 2005
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,

3.1
3.1
As the gathering of the Continental Counsellors in
the Holy Land draws to a close, we are moved to share
with you the feelings of joy, triumph and confidence
which have characterized several days of focused delib-
eration on the present Five Year Plan and on the global
enterprise that will succeed it.

3.2
3.2
The Hand of the Cause of God ‘Alí-Muh.ammad
Varqá opened the conference with a stirring appeal for
resolute action, infusing the proceedings with a spirit of
unwavering determination. Stories poured forth of the
inspiring activities of the friends and the longing and
responsiveness of the peoples of the world, conveying
assurances that the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh is blossoming
more abundantly in all parts of the globe. Persistent
questions of how to sustain the process of growth, of
how to achieve a balance between expansion and con-
solidation, that have engaged the Bahá’í community
for nearly half a century found clear answers in the
experiences shared from diverse clusters on all conti-
nents. Accounts of obstacles surmounted, fresh learn-
ing acquired, and creative insights discovered made it
evident that the Army of Light is prepared to advance
towards new horizons.

3.3
3.3
There can be no doubt that the Plan soon to end
marks an upturn in the fortunes of the Faith. We look
to the next decade and a half, the final years of the first
century of the Formative Age, with great expectations

of what will be accomplished. From this vantage point,
the Bahá’í world can readily appreciate the signifi-
cant extent to which the International Teaching Centre
provided the impetus so indispensable to blazing the
course set over these past few years and can, as well,
discern the rich possibilities that its consecrated endea-
vours portend for the future.

3.4
3.4
Our message of 27 December addressed to the
conference, which has already been transmitted to
National Spiritual Assemblies, summarizes the learn-
ing about growth to date and delineates the priorities
for the next Plan. Careful study of the message by all
believers and institutions will be an essential requisite
for the upcoming consultations that will take place at
every level of the community upon the return home of
the Counsellors.
The Universal House of Justice



Rid.ván 2006
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,

4.1
4.1
Rid.ván 2006 is a moment charged with a spirit of
triumph and anticipation. The followers of Bahá’u’lláh
everywhere can take rightful pride in the magnitude of
their accomplishments during the Five Year Plan now
drawing to a close. And towards the future they can
look with a confidence that is conferred only on those
whose resolve is steeled through experience. The entire
Bahá’í world is stirred at contemplating the scope of the
five-year enterprise that lies ahead, the depth of conse-
cration it will demand, and the results it is destined to
achieve. Our prayers join yours as you turn in gratitude
to Bahá’u’lláh for the privilege of witnessing the unfold-
ment of His purpose for humanity.

4.2
4.2
In our message of 27 December 2005 to the
Counsellors gathered in the Holy Land, transmitted on
that same day to all National Spiritual Assemblies, we
delineated the features of the Five Year Plan that will
stretch from 2006 to 2011. The friends and their institu-
tions were urged to study the message thoroughly, and
its content is no doubt well familiar to you. We now call
upon each and every one of you to bend your energies
towards ensuring that the goal of establishing over the
next five years intensive programmes of growth in no
less than 1,500 clusters worldwide is successfully met.
That in the months following the Counsellors’ depar-
ture from the World Centre the groundwork for the
Plan’s launch was laid so rapidly and systematically in

country after country is an indication of the eagerness
with which the Bahá’í community is taking up the chal-
lenge presented to it. While there is no need for us to
elaborate further on the requirements of the Plan here,
we feel compelled to offer for your reflection a few com-
ments on the global context in which your individual
and collective efforts will be pursued.

4.3
4.3
More than seventy years ago Shoghi Effendi penned
his World Order letters in which he provided a pen-
etrating analysis of the forces operating in the world.
With an eloquence that was his alone, he described
two great processes that have been set in motion by
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation, one destructive and the other
integrative, both of which are propelling humanity
towards the World Order He conceived. We were cau-
tioned by the Guardian not to be “misled by the painful
slowness characterizing the unfoldment of the civiliza-
tion” being laboriously established or to be “deluded
by the ephemeral manifestations of returning prosper-
ity which at times appear to be capable of checking the
disruptive influence of the chronic ills afflicting the
institutions of a decaying age.” No review of the course
of events in recent decades can fail to acknowledge the
gathering momentum of the processes he analysed then
with such precision.

4.4
4.4
One need only consider the deepening moral crisis
engulfing humanity to appreciate the extent to which
the forces of disintegration have rent the fabric of soci-
ety. Have not the evidences of selfishness, of suspicion,
of fear and of fraud, which the Guardian perceived
with such clarity, become so widespread as to be read-
ily apparent to even the casual observer? Does not the
threat of terrorism of which he spoke loom so large on
the international scene as to preoccupy the minds of
young and old alike in every corner of the globe? Have

not the unquenchable thirst for, and the feverish pursuit
after, earthly vanities, riches and pleasures so consoli-
dated their power and influence as to assume author-
ity over such human values as happiness, fidelity and
love? Have not the weakening of family solidarity and
the irresponsible attitude towards marriage reached
such proportions as to endanger the existence of this
fundamental unit of society? “The perversion of human
nature, the degradation of human conduct, the cor-
ruption and dissolution of human institutions,” about
which Shoghi Effendi forewarned, are sadly revealing
themselves “in their worst and most revolting aspects.”

4.5
4.5
The Guardian lays the greatest share of the blame for
humanity’s moral downfall on the decline of religion as
a social force. “Should the lamp of religion be obscured,”
he draws our attention to the words of Bahá’u’lláh,
“chaos and confusion will ensue, and the lights of fair-
ness, of justice, of tranquillity and peace cease to shine.”
The decades that followed the writing of his letters have
seen not only a continued deterioration in the ability of
religion to exercise moral influence, but also the betrayal
of the masses through the unseemly conduct of religious
institutions. Attempts at reinvigorating it have only
given rise to a fanaticism that, if left unchecked, could
destroy the foundation of civilized relationships among
people. The persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran, recently
intensified, is ample evidence alone of the determina-
tion of the forces of darkness to quench the flame of
faith wherever it burns brightly. Though confident in
the ultimate triumph of the Cause, we dare not forget
the warning of the Guardian that the Faith will have to
contend with enemies more powerful and more insidi-
ous than those who have afflicted it in the past.

4.6
4.6
There is no need to comment extensively on the
impotence of statesmanship, another theme treated so

masterfully by the Guardian in his World Order letters.
The widening economic divide between the rich and
the poor, the persistence of age-old animosities among
nations, the swelling numbers of the displaced, the
extraordinary rise in organized crime and violence, the
pervasive sense of insecurity, the breakdown of basic
services in so many regions, the indiscriminate exploi-
tation of natural resources—these are but a few of the
signs of the inability of world leaders to devise viable
schemes to alleviate humanity’s ills. This is not to say
that sincere efforts have not been exerted, in fact, have
not multiplied decade after decade. Yet these efforts,
no matter how ingenious, fall well short of removing
“the root cause of the evil that has so rudely upset the
equilibrium of present-day society.” “Not even,” the
Guardian asserted, “would the very act of devising
the machinery required for the political and economic
unification of the world … provide in itself the antidote
against the poison that is steadily undermining the
vigour of organized peoples and nations.” “What else,”
he confidently affirmed, “but the unreserved acceptance
of the Divine Programme” enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh,
“embodying in its essentials God’s divinely appointed
scheme for the unification of mankind in this age, cou-
pled with an indomitable conviction in the unfailing
efficacy of each and all of its provisions, is eventually
capable of withstanding the forces of internal disinte-
gration which, if unchecked, must needs continue to eat
into the vitals of a despairing society.”

4.7
4.7
Penetrating, indeed, is Shoghi Effendi’s depiction of
the process of disintegration accelerating in the world.
Equally striking is the accuracy with which he analysed
the forces associated with the process of integration. He
spoke of a “gradual diffusion of the spirit of world soli-
darity which is spontaneously arising out of the welter
of a disorganized society” as an indirect ­manifestation

of Bahá’u’lláh’s conception of the principle of the one-
ness of humankind. This spirit of solidarity has contin-
ued to spread over the decades, and today its effect is
apparent in a range of developments, from the rejection
of deeply ingrained racial prejudices to the dawning
consciousness of world citizenship, from heightened
environmental awareness to collaborative efforts in
the promotion of public health, from the concern for
human rights to the systematic pursuit of universal
education, from the establishment of interfaith activi-
ties to the efflorescence of hundreds of thousands of
local, national and international organizations engaged
in some form of social action.

4.8
4.8
Yet for the followers of Bahá’u’lláh the most sig-
nificant developments in the process of integration
are those directly related to the Faith, many of which
were nurtured by the Guardian himself and which
have advanced tremendously since their modest begin-
nings. From the small nucleus of believers to whom he
imparted his first teaching plans has grown a worldwide
community with a presence in thousands of localities,
each following a well-established pattern of activity that
embodies the Faith’s principles and aspirations. Upon
the foundation of the Administrative Order he so pains-
takingly laid during the early decades of his ministry
has been raised a large, closely knit network of National
and Local Spiritual Assemblies diligently administering
the affairs of the Cause in more than one hundred and
eighty countries. From the first contingents of Auxiliary
Board members for the Protection and Propagation of
the Faith brought into being by him has arisen a legion
of nearly one thousand stalwart workers serving in
the field under the direction of eighty-one Counsellors
ably guided by the International Teaching Centre. The
evolution of the World Administrative Centre of the
Faith, within the ­precincts of its World Spiritual Centre,

a ­process to which the Guardian consecrated so much
energy, has crossed a crucial threshold with the occu-
pation by the Universal House of Justice of its Seat on
Mount ­Carmel and the subsequent completion of the
International Teaching Centre Building and the Centre
for the Study of the Texts. The Institution of H. uqúqu’lláh
has steadily progressed under the stewardship of the
Hand of the Cause of God Dr. ‘Alí-Muh. ammad Varqá,
appointed Trustee by Shoghi Effendi fifty years ago, cul-
minating in the establishment in 2005 of an international
board designed to promote the continued widespread
application of this mighty law, a source of inestimable
blessings for all humanity. The efforts of the Guardian to
raise the profile of the Faith in international circles have
developed into an extensive external affairs system,
capable of both defending the interests of the Faith and
proclaiming its universal message. The respect the Faith
enjoys in international fora, whenever its representa-
tives speak, is a most noteworthy accomplishment. The
loyalty and devotion that the members of a community
reflecting the diversity of the entire human race evince
towards the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh constitute a store-
house of strength the like of which no other organized
group can claim.

4.9
4.9
The Guardian foresaw that, in succeeding epochs
of the Formative Age, the Universal House of Justice
would launch a series of worldwide enterprises which
would “symbolize the unity and coordinate and unify
the activities” of National Spiritual Assemblies. Over
the course of three successive epochs now, the Bahá’í
community has laboured assiduously within the frame-
work of the global Plans issued by the House of Justice
and has succeeded in establishing a pattern of Bahá’í life
that promotes the spiritual development of the individ-
ual and channels the collective energies of its members
towards the spiritual revival of society. It has acquired

the capacity to reach large numbers of receptive souls
with the message, to confirm them, and to deepen their
understanding of the essentials of the Faith they have
embraced. It has learned to translate the principle of
consultation enunciated by its Founder into an effective
tool for collective decision-making and to educate its
members in its use. It has devised programmes for the
spiritual and moral education of its younger members
and has extended them not only to its own children and
junior youth but also to those of the wider community.
With the pool of talent at its disposition, it has created a
rich body of literature which includes volumes in scores
of languages that address both its own needs and the
interest of the general public. It has become increasingly
involved in the affairs of society at large, undertaking
a host of projects of social and economic development.
Particularly since the opening of the fifth epoch in 2001,
it has made significant strides in multiplying its human
resources through a programme of training that reaches
the grassroots of the community and has discovered
methods and instruments for establishing a sustainable
pattern of growth.

4.10
4.10
It is in the context of the interplay of the forces
described here that the imperative of advancing the
process of entry by troops must be viewed. The Five
Year Plan now opening requires that you concentrate
your energies on this process and ensure that the two
complementary movements at its heart are acceler-
ated. This should be your dominant concern. As your
efforts bear fruit and the dynamics of growth reach a
new level of complexity, there will be challenges and
opportunities for the World Centre itself to address in
the coming five years in fields such as external affairs,
social and economic development, administration, and
the application of Bahá’í law. The growth of the com-
munity has already necessitated that new arrangements

be put in place to double the number of pilgrims to
four ­hundred in each group beginning in October 2007.
There are several other projects that will also have to be
pursued. Among these are the further development of
the gardens surrounding the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, as
well as the Rid. van Garden and Mazra‘ih; the restora-
tion of the International Archives Building; structural
repairs to the Shrine of the Báb, the full extent of which
are not yet clear; and the construction of the House of
­Worship in Chile as envisioned by the Guardian, the
last of the continental Mashriqu’l-Adhkárs. As these
endeavours advance, we will call on you from time to
time for assistance, both in the form of financial sup-
port and specialized talents, mindful that the resources
of the Faith should, to the greatest measure possible, be
channelled to the requirements of the Plan.

4.11
4.11
Dear friends: That the forces of disintegration are
gaining in range and power cannot be ignored. It is
equally clear that the community of the Greatest Name
has been guided from strength to strength by the Hand
of Providence and must now increase in size and aug-
ment its resources. The course set by the Five Year Plan
is straightforward. How can those of us aware of the
plight of humanity, and conscious of the direction in
which history is unfolding, not arise to the fullest of
our capacity and dedicate ourselves to its aim? Do not
the words of the Guardian that “the stage is set” hold as
true for us today as they did when he wrote them dur-
ing the first Seven Year Plan? Let his words ring in your
ears: “There is no time to lose.” “There is no room left
for vacillation.” “Such an opportunity is irreplaceable.”
“To try, to persevere, is to insure ultimate and complete
victory.” Be assured of our continued prayers at the
Sacred Threshold for your guidance and protection.
The Universal House of Justice



Rid.ván 2007
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,

5.1
5.1
The first year of the Five Year Plan bears ­eloquent
testimony to the spirit of devotion with which
Bahá’u’lláh’s followers have embraced the frame-
work for action presented in our message of
27 December 2005 and their commitment to advanc-
ing the process of entry by troops. Where this frame-
work has been applied coherently in all its dimensions
in a cluster, steady progress is being achieved, both in
terms of the participation of the believers and their
friends in community life and in terms of numerical
growth, with some clusters reporting enrolments in
the hundreds every few months and others in scores.
Vital to this development has been a heightened
awareness of the spiritual nature of the enterprise,
together with an increased understanding of those
decision-making instruments that are defined by the
principal features of the Plan.

5.2
5.2
Prior to our launching the current series of global
Plans focused on the single aim of advancing the
process of entry by troops, the Bahá’í community
had passed through a stage of rapid, large-scale
expansion in many parts of the world—an expansion
which ultimately was impossible to sustain. The chal-
lenge, then, lay not so much in swelling the ranks of
the Cause with new adherents, at least from popu-
lations of proven receptivity, but in incorporating
them into the life of the community and raising up

from among them adequate numbers dedicated to its
further expansion. So crucial was it for the Bahá’í world
to address this challenge that we made it a central fea-
ture of the Four Year Plan and called upon National
Spiritual Assemblies to spend the greater part of their
energies creating institutional capacity, in the form
of the training institute, to develop human resources.
Ever-increasing contingents of believers, we indicated,
would need to benefit from a formal programme of
training designed to endow them with the knowledge
and spiritual insights, with the skills and abilities,
required to carry out the acts of service that would sus-
tain large-scale expansion and consolidation.

5.3
5.3
Today as we observe the workings of those clus-
ters which are in a robust state of growth, we note
that in every one of them the friends have continued
to strengthen the institute process, while learning to
mobilize their expanding nucleus of active support-
ers of the Faith, to establish an efficient scheme for the
coordination of their efforts, to weave their individual
initiatives and collective endeavours into an effective
pattern of unified action, and to draw on the analysis
of pertinent information in planning the cycles of their
activities. That they have found the means for carrying
forward the work of expansion and consolidation hand
in hand—the key to sustained growth—is demonstra-
ble. Such evidence will surely inspire every devoted
believer to remain resolute on the path of systematic
learning that has been set.

5.4
5.4
The accomplishments of these years of prodigious
effort have not been confined to those clusters where
the work of large-scale expansion and consolidation is
being thus revitalized. The approach taken during the
Four Year Plan, followed by the Twelve Month Plan
and the previous Five Year Plan, proved instrumental

in creating conditions for the believers to extend their
endeavours to a wide circle of people, engaging them
in various aspects of community life. The benefits of
the decade-long process of capacity building in the
three participants of the global Plans are now broadly
apparent. Everywhere there was a need to gain an
understanding of the dynamics of human resource
development. Everywhere the friends had to learn the
requirements of steady growth—to promote system-
atic action and to avoid distractions, to bring certain
elements of collective decision-making close to the
grassroots and to create communities with a sense of
mission, to encourage universal participation and to
accommodate different segments of society in their
activities, particularly children and junior youth, the
future champions of the Cause of God and builders of
His civilization.

5.5
5.5
With so firm a foundation in place, the foremost
thought in the mind of each and every believer should
be teaching. Whether in their personal efforts they teach
their friends in firesides and then involve them in the
core activities or use these activities as their primary
instrument for teaching, whether as a community they
make their work with children and junior youth the ini-
tial thrust in a cluster or focus first on the older genera-
tions, whether in their collective endeavours they visit
families in teams as part of an intensive campaign or
call on seekers in their homes periodically over time—
these are decisions that can only be made according to
the circumstances and possibilities of the friends and
the nature of the populations with whom they interact.
What all must acknowledge, irrespective of circum-
stance, are both the crying need of a humanity that,
bereft of spiritual sustenance, is sinking deeper into
despair and the urgency of the responsibility to teach

with which we each have been entrusted as members of
the community of the Greatest Name.

5.6
5.6
Bahá’u’lláh has commanded His followers to teach
the Cause. Already thousands upon thousands are
energetically applying the provisions of the Plan to
open up avenues for them to guide souls to the Ocean
of His Revelation. We look with expectant eyes to the
day when teaching is the dominating passion in the
life of every believer and when the unity of the com-
munity is so strong as to enable this state of enkindle-
ment to express itself in unremitting action in the field
of service. This, then, is our ardent hope for you and
the object of our most fervent prayers at the Sacred
Threshold.
The Universal House of Justice



Rid.ván 2008
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,

6.1
6.1
Thousands upon thousands, embracing the diver-
sity of the entire human family, are engaged in system-
atic study of the Creative Word in an environment that
is at once serious and uplifting. As they strive to apply
through a process of action, reflection and consultation
the insights thus gained, they see their capacity to serve
the Cause rise to new levels. Responding to the inmost
longing of every heart to commune with its Maker, they
carry out acts of collective worship in diverse settings,
uniting with others in prayer, awakening spiritual sus-
ceptibilities, and shaping a pattern of life distinguished
for its devotional character. As they call on one another
in their homes and pay visits to families, friends and
acquaintances, they enter into purposeful discussion
on themes of spiritual import, deepen their knowledge
of the Faith, share Bahá’u’lláh’s message, and welcome
increasing numbers to join them in a mighty spiritual
enterprise. Aware of the aspirations of the children of
the world and their need for spiritual education, they
extend their efforts widely to involve ever-growing
contingents of participants in classes that become
centres of attraction for the young and strengthen the
roots of the Faith in society. They assist junior youth to
navigate through a crucial stage of their lives and to
become empowered to direct their energies toward the
advancement of civilization. And with the advantage of
a greater abundance of human resources, an increasing
number of them are able to express their faith through

a rising tide of endeavours that address the needs of
humanity in both their spiritual and material dimen-
sions. Such is the panorama before us as we pause this
Rid.ván to observe the progress of the worldwide Bahá’í
community.

6.2
6.2
On several occasions we have indicated that the
aim of the series of global Plans that will carry the
Bahá’í world to the celebration of the centenary of the
Faith’s Formative Age in 2021 will be achieved through
marked progress in the activity and development of
the individual believer, of the institutions, and of the
community. At this, the midway point of what will be a
quarter of a century of consistent, focused exertion, the
evidences of increased capacity are everywhere appar-
ent. Of particular significance is the widening impact of
the dynamism flowing from the interactions between
the three participants in the Plan. Institutions, from the
national to the local level, see with ever greater clarity
how to create conditions conducive to the expression of
the spiritual energies of a growing number of believers
in pursuit of a common goal. The community is serving
more and more as that environment in which individual
effort and collective action, mediated by the institute,
can complement each other in order to achieve prog-
ress. The vibrancy it manifests and the unity of purpose
that animates its endeavours are drawing into its swell-
ing ranks those from every walk of life eager to dedicate
their time and energies to the welfare of humanity. That
the doors of the community are more widely open for
any receptive soul to enter and receive sustenance from
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is clear. No greater testament is
there to the efficacy of the interactions among the Plan’s
three participants than the dramatic acceleration in the
tempo of teaching that was witnessed this past year.
The advance made in the process of entry by troops was
significant indeed.


6.3
6.3
Within the sphere of these enhanced interactions,
individual initiative is becoming increasingly effective.
In previous messages we have referred to the impetus
that the institute process imparts to the exercise of ini-
tiative by the individual believer. The friends in every
continent are engaged in study of the Writings for the
explicit purpose of learning to apply the teachings to
the growth of the Faith. Remarkable numbers are now
shouldering responsibility for the spiritual vitality
of their communities; energetically, they are carrying
out those acts of service befitting a healthy pattern of
growth. As they have persevered in the field of service
to the Cause, maintaining a humble posture of learn-
ing, their courage and wisdom, zeal and acuity, fervour
and circumspection, determination and trust in God
have combined all the more to reinforce one another.
In their presentation of the message of Bahá’u’lláh and
the exposition of its verities, they have taken to heart
the words of Shoghi Effendi that they must neither
“hesitate” nor “falter”, neither “overstress” nor “whittle
down”the truth which they champion. Neither are they
“fanatical” nor “excessively liberal”. Through their
constancy in teaching, they have increased their ability
to determine whether the receptivity of their listener
requires them to be “wary” or “bold”, to “act swiftly”
or to “mark time”, to be “direct” or “indirect”in the
methods they employ.

6.4
6.4
What we continue to find encouraging is how well
disciplined is this individual initiative. Communities
everywhere are gradually internalizing the lessons
being learned from systematization, and the framework
defined by the current series of Plans lends consistency
and flexibility to the endeavours of the friends. Far from
restricting them, this framework enables them to seize
opportunities, to build relationships, and to translate

into reality a vision of systematic growth. In a word, it
gives shape to their collective powers.

6.5
6.5
As we survey what has been accomplished around
the world, our hearts are filled with particular admi-
ration for the believers in Iran, who, under the most
arduous conditions, have arisen boldly to serve their
country and are bending their energies toward its revi-
talization, though the avenues open to them are limited.
And given the restrictions placed on the administration
of the Faith, they have set out on an individual basis
to acquaint their fellow citizens with the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh, directly engaging them in conversations
about His redeeming message. Not only have they
received unprecedented support from enlightened souls
as they have begun to do so, but they have encountered
a receptivity far beyond anything they would have
imagined possible.

6.6
6.6
Every follower of Bahá’u’lláh conscious of the forces
of integration and disintegration operating in society
today sees the relationship between the rise in recep-
tivity to the Faith in all parts of the globe and the fail-
ings of the world’s systems. That such receptivity will
increase as the agonies of humanity deepen is certain.
Let there be no mistake: The capacity building that has
been set in motion to respond to mounting receptivity is
still in its earliest stages. The magnitude of the demands
of a world in disarray will test this capacity to its lim-
its in the years ahead. Humanity is battered by forces
of oppression, whether generated from the depths of
religious prejudice or the pinnacles of rampant materi-
alism. Bahá’ís are able to discern the causes of this afflic-
tion. “What ‘oppression’ is more grievous”, Bahá’u’lláh
asks, “than that a soul seeking the truth, and wishing
to attain unto the knowledge of God, should know not
where to go for it and from whom to seek it?”There is

no time to lose. Continued progress must be achieved in
the activity and development of the three participants
in the Plan.

6.7
6.7
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has extolled “two calls” to “success
and prosperity” that can be heard from the “heights of
the happiness of mankind”.One is the call of “civiliza-
tion”, of “progress of the material world”. It comprises
the “laws”, “regulations”, “arts and sciences”through
which humanity develops. The other is the “soul-stir-
ring call of God”, on which depends the eternal hap-
piness of humanity. “This second call”, the Master has
explained, “is founded upon the instructions and exhor-
tations of the Lord and the admonitions and altruistic
emotions belonging to the realm of morality which,
like unto a brilliant light, brighten and illumine the
lamp of the realities of mankind. Its penetrative power
is the Word of God.”As you continue to labour in your
clusters, you will be drawn further and further into the
life of the society around you and will be challenged to
extend the process of systematic learning in which you
are engaged to encompass a growing range of human
endeavours. In the approaches you take, the methods
you adopt, and the instruments you employ, you will
need to achieve the same degree of coherence that char-
acterizes the pattern of growth presently under way.

6.8
6.8
Sustaining growth in cluster after cluster will
depend on the qualities that distinguish your service to
the peoples of the world. So free must be your thoughts
and actions of any trace of prejudice—racial, religious,
economic, national, tribal, class, or cultural—that even
the stranger sees in you loving friends. So high must
be your standard of excellence and so pure and chaste
your lives that the moral influence you exert penetrates
the consciousness of the wider community. Only if
you demonstrate the rectitude of conduct to which the

writings of the Faith call every soul will you be able to
struggle against the myriad forms of corruption, overt
and subtle, eating at the vitals of society. Only if you
perceive honour and nobility in every human being—
this independent of wealth or poverty—will you be able
to champion the cause of justice. And to the extent that
administrative processes of your institutions are gov-
erned by the principles of Bahá’í consultation will the
great masses of humanity be able to take refuge in the
Bahá’í community.

6.9
6.9
As you press ahead, be confident that the Concourse
on high is marshalling its forces and stands ready to
come to your aid. Our continued prayers will surround
you.
The Universal House of Justice



20 October 2008
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,

7.1
7.1
Today, the anniversary of the Birth of the Báb, marks
the midway point of the five-year enterprise that will
engage the Bahá’í world until Rid.ván 2011. We bow
our heads in humble gratitude to Bahá’u’lláh for the
favours and confirmations He has vouchsafed unto
those labouring so diligently and sacrificially in the
forefront of the teaching work. Since the conclusion of
the Tenth International Bahá’í Convention a few months
ago, there has been a rise in awareness of the efficacy
of the framework governing the operation of the Five
Year Plan as insights gained by the delegates have been
widely diffused throughout the Bahá’í community.
Scores of clusters around the globe are being primed
for systematic expansion, and we expect to see a wave
of intensive programmes of growth launched in the
months leading up to Rid.ván next year.

7.2
7.2
The challenge facing the friends in these and all
clusters continues to be twofold in character. While
learning to identify receptive segments of society and
share with responsive souls the message of the Faith—
an aspiration generally not difficult to fulfil—they are
striving to understand in practice how the diverse ele-
ments of a healthy pattern of growth, particularly the
development of human resources, are to be integrated
into a cohesive whole. How heartening it is to see that
the moment the friends in a cluster begin to meet this
dual challenge, immediate progress is achieved; the

goal of launching an intensive programme of growth
becomes imminently attainable.

7.3
7.3
That the continued strengthening of the community
should be matched by a further decline in the old world
order comes as no surprise. Indeed, the friends should
be on their guard, lest the development of capacity in
the community not keep pace with the rise in receptiv-
ity of a disillusioned humanity. Behold how even in
the short span of time since we raised this warning in
our Rid.ván message, financial structures once thought
to be impregnable have tottered and world leaders
have shown their inability to devise more than tem-
porary solutions, a failing to which they increasingly
confess. Whatever expedient measures are adopted,
confidence has been shaken and a sense of security lost.
Surely such developments have caused the believers
in every land to reflect on the lamentable condition of
the present order and have reinforced in them the con-
viction that material and spiritual civilization must be
advanced together.

7.4
7.4
It is with these thoughts in mind that we turn our
hearts in frequent prayer to Bahá’u’lláh and beseech
Him to strengthen His followers through His unfailing
grace. In such moments, we implore Him to illumine
their souls with the light of knowledge and faith. Let
them not underestimate the power inherent in the sys-
tem they are putting in place for the propagation of
His Faith, nor mistake the true purpose of the global
enterprise on which they have embarked. Let them not
deviate from the path of learning on which they are set,
nor be distracted by the ephemeral pursuits of a bewil-
dered society. Let them not fail to appreciate the value
of the culture now taken root in the community that
promotes the systematic study of the Creative Word in
small groups in order to build capacity for service. Let

them never forget the imperative to tend to the needs
of the children of the world and offer them lessons that
develop their spiritual faculties and lay the foundations
of a noble and upright character. Let them come to real-
ize the full significance of their efforts to help young
people form a strong moral identity in their early ado-
lescent years and empower them to contribute to the
well-being of their communities. And let them rejoice
at having learned through consistent, systematic action
how to establish a rhythm of growth that pays due
attention to the essential elements of expansion, consoli-
dation, reflection and planning. May they one and all be
endowed with constancy and fidelity and be granted
the courage to make whatever sacrifices are needed to
ensure the resounding success of the Plan. By the recti-
tude of their conduct, the sincerity of their love for their
fellow human beings, and the ardour of their desire to
serve the peoples of the world, may they vindicate the
truth proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh that humanity is one.
May they be diligent in their efforts to establish ties of
friendship that show no regard for prevalent social bar-
riers and ceaselessly endeavour to bind hearts together
in the love of God. That they may recognize the pro-
found implications of their mission is our fervent hope.
That they may not falter in accomplishing their ambi-
tious goals, no matter how severe the crises engulfing
the world around them, is our most heartfelt prayer at
the Sacred Threshold.

7.5
7.5
To provide the opportunity for the friends to gather
together, as much to celebrate the feats already achieved
during the Plan as to deliberate on its current exigen-
cies, we announce the convocation of a series of regional
conferences, forty-one in number, to be held in the fol-
lowing cities between November and March: Abidjan,
Accra, Almaty, Antofagasta, Atlanta, Auckland, Baku,
Bangalore, Bangui, Battambang, Bologna, Bukavu,

Chicago, Dallas, Frankfurt, Guadalajara, Istanbul,
Johannesburg, Kiev, Kolkata, Kuala Lumpur, Kuching,
Lae, London, Los Angeles, Lubumbashi, Lusaka,
Madrid, Managua, Manila, Nakuru, New Delhi,
Portland, Quito, São Paulo, Stamford, Sydney, Toronto,
Ulaanbaatar, Vancouver, Yaoundé. To each of these con-
ferences, two members of the International Teaching
Centre will be sent as our representatives. National
Spiritual Assemblies in hosting countries will have fur-
ther details available regarding participation. We urge
the believers, both those fully engaged in executing the
provisions of the Plan and those whose circumstances
have prevented them from fulfilling their desire to do so
until now, to avail themselves of this opportunity and
attend the conference to be held in their area.
The Universal House of Justice



Rid.ván 2009
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,

8.1
8.1
A mere three years ago we set before the Bahá’í
world the challenge of exploiting the framework for
action that had emerged with such clarity at the con-
clusion of the last global Plan. The response, as we had
hoped, was immediate. With great vigour the friends
everywhere began to pursue the goal of establish-
ing intensive programmes of growth in no less than
1,500 clusters worldwide, and the number of such pro-
grammes soon started to climb. But no one could have
imagined then how profoundly the Lord of Hosts, in
His inscrutable wisdom, intended to transform His
community in so short a span of time. What a purpose-
ful and confident community it was that celebrated its
accomplishments at the midway point of the current
Plan in forty-one regional conferences across the globe!
What an extraordinary contrast did its coherence and
energy provide to the bewilderment and confusion of
a world caught in a spiral of crisis! This, indeed, was
the community of the blissful to which the Guardian
had referred. This was a community aware of the vast
potentialities with which it has been endowed and
conscious of the role it is destined to play in rebuild-
ing a broken world. This was a community in the
ascendant, subject to severe repression in one part of
the globe, yet rising up undeterred and undismayed
as a united whole and strengthening its capacity to
achieve Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose to liberate humankind
from the yoke of the most grievous oppression. And in

the nearly eighty-thousand participants who attended
the conferences we saw the emergence on the historical
scene of an individual believer supremely confident in
the efficacy of the Plan’s methods and instruments and
remarkably deft at wielding them. Each and every soul
of this mighty sea stood as testimony to the transform-
ing potency of the Faith. Each and every one was evi-
dence of Bahá’u’lláh’s promise to assist all those who
arise with detachment and sincerity to serve Him. Each
and every one offered a glimpse of that race of beings,
consecrated and courageous, pure and sanctified, des-
tined to evolve over generations under the direct influ-
ence of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. In them we saw the
first signs of the fulfilment of our hope expressed at the
outset of the Plan that the edifying influence of the Faith
would be extended to hundreds of thousands through
the institute process. There is every indication that, by
the end of the Rid.ván period, the number of intensive
programmes of growth around the world will have
crossed the 1,000 mark. What more can we do at the
opening of this most joyous Festival than to bow our
heads in humility before God and offer Him thanksgiv-
ing for His unbounded generosity to the community of
the Greatest Name.
The Universal House of Justice



Rid.ván 2010
To the Bahá’ís of the World
Dearly loved Friends,

9.1
9.1
With hearts filled with admiration for the follow-
ers of Bahá’u’lláh, we are pleased to announce that, as
this most joyous Rid.ván season opens, there is in every
continent of the globe a fresh complement of intensive
programmes of growth under way, raising the total
number worldwide over the 1,500 mark and securing
the goal of the Five Year Plan, one year in advance of
its conclusion. We bow our heads in gratitude to God
for this astounding achievement, this signal victory.
All who have laboured in the field will appreciate the
bounty He has bestowed on His community in granting
it a full year to strengthen the pattern of expansion and
consolidation now everywhere established, in prepara-
tion for the tasks it will be called upon to undertake in
its next global enterprise—a plan of five years’ dura-
tion, the fifth in a series with the explicit aim of advanc-
ing the process of entry by troops.

9.2
9.2
We feel moved, as we take pause on this festive
occasion, to make clear that what evokes such a deep
sense of pride and gratitude in our hearts is not so
much the numerical feat you have achieved, remarkable
as it is, but a combination of developments at the more
profound level of culture, to which this accomplishment
attests. Chief among them is the rise we have observed
in the capacity of the friends to converse with others
on spiritual matters and to speak with ease about the
Person of Bahá’u’lláh and His Revelation. They have

understood well that teaching is a basic requirement of
a life of generous giving.

9.3
9.3
In recent messages we have expressed joy at wit-
nessing the steady increase in the tempo of teaching
across the globe. The discharge of this fundamental
spiritual obligation by the individual believer has
always been, and continues to be, an indispensable
feature of Bahá’í life. What the establishment of 1,500
intensive programmes of growth has made evident is
how courageous and deliberate the rank and file of the
believers have become in stepping outside their imme-
diate circle of family members and friends, ready to be
led by the guiding Hand of the All-Merciful to recep-
tive souls in whatever quarter they may reside. Even
the most modest estimates suggest that there are now
tens of thousands who participate in periodic cam-
paigns to establish ties of friendship, on the basis of
shared understanding, with those previously regarded
as strangers.

9.4
9.4
In their efforts to present the essentials of the Faith
plainly and unequivocally, the believers have ben-
efited greatly from the illustrative example in Book 6
of the Ruhi Institute. Where the logic underlying that
presentation is appreciated, and the urge to convert it
into a formula overcome, it gives rise to a conversation
between two souls—a conversation distinguished by
the depth of understanding achieved and the nature of
the relationship established. To the extent that the con-
versation continues beyond the initial encounter and
veritable friendships are formed, a direct teaching effort
of this kind can become a catalyst for an enduring pro-
cess of spiritual transformation. Whether the first con-
tact with such newly found friends elicits an invitation
for them to enrol in the Bahá’í community or to par-
ticipate in one of its activities is not an overwhelming

concern. More important is that every soul feel welcome
to join the community in contributing to the betterment
of society, commencing a path of service to humanity on
which, at the outset or further along, formal enrolment
can occur.

9.5
9.5
The significance of this development should not
be underestimated. In every cluster, once a consistent
pattern of action is in place, attention needs to be given
to extending it more broadly through a network of co-
workers and acquaintances, while energies are, at the
same time, focused on smaller pockets of the popula-
tion, each of which should become a centre of intense
activity. In an urban cluster, such a centre of activity
might best be defined by the boundaries of a neighbour-
hood; in a cluster that is primarily rural in character, a
small village would offer a suitable social space for this
purpose. Those who serve in these settings, both local
inhabitants and visiting teachers, would rightly view
their work in terms of community building. To assign
to their teaching efforts such labels as “door-to-door”,
even though the first contact may involve calling upon
the residents of a home without prior notice, would
not do justice to a process that seeks to raise capacity
within a population to take charge of its own spiritual,
social and intellectual development. The activities that
drive this process, and in which newly found friends
are invited to engage—meetings that strengthen the
devotional character of the community; classes that
nurture the tender hearts and minds of children; groups
that channel the surging energies of junior youth; cir-
cles of study, open to all, that enable people of varied
backgrounds to advance on equal footing and explore
the application of the teachings to their individual and
collective lives—may well need to be maintained with
assistance from outside the local population for a time.
It is to be expected, however, that the multiplication of

these core activities would soon be sustained by human
resources indigenous to the neighbourhood or village
itself—by men and women eager to improve mate-
rial and spiritual conditions in their surroundings. A
rhythm of community life should gradually emerge,
then, commensurate with the capacity of an expand-
ing nucleus of individuals committed to Bahá’u’lláh’s
vision of a new World Order.

9.6
9.6
Within this context, receptivity manifests itself in a
willingness to participate in the process of community
building set in motion by the core activities. In cluster
after cluster where an intensive programme of growth
is now in operation, the task before the friends this
coming year is to teach within one or more receptive
populations, employing a direct method in their expo-
sition of the fundamentals of their Faith, and find those
souls longing to shed the lethargy imposed on them by
society and work alongside one another in their neigh-
bourhoods and villages to begin a process of collective
transformation. If the friends persist in their efforts to
learn the ways and methods of community building in
small settings in this way, the long-cherished goal of
universal participation in the affairs of the Faith will,
we are certain, move by several orders of magnitude
within grasp.

9.7
9.7
To meet this challenge, the believers and the insti-
tutions that serve them will have to strengthen the
institute process in the cluster, increasing significantly
within its borders the number of those capable of act-
ing as tutors of study circles; for it should be recognized
that the opportunity now open to the friends to foster
a vibrant community life in neighbourhoods and vil-
lages, characterized by such a keen sense of purpose,
was only made possible by crucial developments that

occurred over the past decade in that aspect of Bahá’í
culture which pertains to deepening.

9.8
9.8
When in December 1995 we called for the estab-
lishment of training institutes worldwide, the pattern
most prevalent in the Bahá’í community for helping
individual believers to deepen their knowledge of the
Faith consisted principally of occasional courses and
classes, of varying durations, addressing a variety of
subjects. That pattern had satisfied well the needs of
an emerging worldwide Bahá’í community, still rela-
tively few in number and concerned chiefly with its
geographic spread across the globe. We made clear at
the time, however, that another approach to the study of
the writings would have to take shape, one that would
spur large numbers into the field of action, if the process
of entry by troops was to accelerate appreciably. In this
connection, we asked that training institutes assist ever-
growing contingents of believers in serving the Cause
through the provision of courses that would impart the
knowledge, insights and skills required to carry out the
many tasks associated with accelerated expansion and
consolidation.

9.9
9.9
To read the writings of the Faith and to strive to
obtain a more adequate understanding of the sig-
nificance of Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation are
obligations laid on every one of His followers. All are
enjoined to delve into the ocean of His Revelation and
to partake, in keeping with their capacities and incli-
nations, of the pearls of wisdom that lie therein. In
this light, local deepening classes, winter and summer
schools, and specially arranged gatherings in which
individual believers knowledgeable in the writings
were able to share with others insights into specific
subjects emerged naturally as prominent features of
Bahá’í life. Just as the habit of daily reading will remain

an integral part of Bahá’í identity, so will these forms
of study continue to hold a place in the collective life
of the community. But understanding the implications
of the Revelation, both in terms of individual growth
and social progress, increases manifold when study and
service are joined and carried out concurrently. There,
in the field of service, knowledge is tested, questions
arise out of practice, and new levels of understanding
are achieved. In the system of distance education that
has now been established in country after country—the
principal elements of which include the study circle,
the tutor and the curriculum of the Ruhi Institute—the
worldwide Bahá’í community has acquired the capacity
to enable thousands, nay millions, to study the writings
in small groups with the explicit purpose of translating
the Bahá’í teachings into reality, carrying the work of
the Faith forward into its next stage: sustained large-
scale expansion and consolidation.

9.10
9.10
Let no one fail to appreciate the possibilities thus
created. Passivity is bred by the forces of society today.
A desire to be entertained is nurtured from childhood,
with increasing efficiency, cultivating generations will-
ing to be led by whoever proves skilful at appealing to
superficial emotions. Even in many educational sys-
tems students are treated as though they were recep-
tacles designed to receive information. That the Bahá’í
world has succeeded in developing a culture which
promotes a way of thinking, studying, and acting, in
which all consider themselves as treading a common
path of ­service—supporting one another and advancing
together, respectful of the knowledge that each one pos-
sesses at any given moment and avoiding the tendency
to divide the believers into categories such as deepened
and uninformed—is an accomplishment of enormous
proportions. And therein lie the dynamics of an irre-
pressible movement.


9.11
9.11
What is imperative is that the quality of the educa-
tional process fostered at the level of the study circle
rise markedly over the next year so that the potential
of local populations to create such dynamics is real-
ized. Much will fall on those who serve as tutors in
this respect. Theirs will be the challenge to provide the
environment that is envisioned in the institute courses,
an environment conducive to the spiritual empower-
ment of individuals, who will come to see themselves as
active agents of their own learning, as protagonists of a
constant effort to apply knowledge to effect individual
and collective transformation. Failing this, no matter
how many study circles are formed in a cluster, the
force necessary to propel change will not be generated.

9.12
9.12
If the work of the tutor is to reach higher and higher
degrees of excellence, it must be remembered that pri-
mary responsibility for the development of human
resources in a region or country rests with the train-
ing institute. While striving to increase the number
of its participants, the institute as a structure—from
the board, to the coordinators at different levels, to
the tutors at the grassroots—must lay equal stress on
the effectiveness of the system in its entirety, for, in
the final analysis, sustained quantitative gains will
be contingent on qualitative progress. At the level of
the cluster, the coordinator must bring both practi-
cal experience and dynamism to his or her efforts to
accompany those who serve as tutors. He or she should
arrange periodic gatherings for them to reflect on their
endeavours. Events organized to repeat the study of
segments selected from the institute material may occa-
sionally prove helpful, provided they do not inculcate
a need for perpetual training. The capabilities of a tutor
develop progressively as an individual enters the field
of action and assists others in contributing to the aim of
the present series of global Plans, through study of the

sequence of courses and implementation of their practi-
cal component. And as men and women of various ages
move along the sequence and complete their study of
each course with the help of tutors, others must stand
ready to accompany them in acts of service undertaken
according to their strengths and interests—particularly
the coordinators responsible for children’s classes, for
junior youth groups and for study circles, acts of ser-
vice crucial to the perpetuation of the system itself. To
ensure that the proper measure of vitality is pulsating
through this system should continue to be the object of
intense learning in every country over the course of the
next twelve months.

9.13
9.13
Concern for the spiritual education of children has
long been an element of the culture of the Bahá’í com-
munity, a concern that resulted in two, coexisting reali-
ties. One, emulating the achievements of the Bahá’ís of
Iran, was characterized by the capacity to offer system-
atic classes, from grade to grade, to children from Bahá’í
families, generally with the aim of imparting basic
knowledge of the history and teachings of the Faith
to rising generations. In most parts of the world, the
number who benefited from such classes has been rela-
tively small. The other reality emerged in areas where
large-scale enrolments took place, both rural and urban.
A more inclusive attitude dominated that experience.
Yet while children from households of all kinds were
at once eager and welcome to attend Bahá’í classes,
various factors prevented lessons from being conducted
with the required degree of regularity, year after year.
How pleased we are to see this duality, a consequence
of historical circumstances, begin to fall away as friends
trained by institutes everywhere strive to offer classes,
open to all, on a systematic basis.


9.14
9.14
Such promising beginnings have now to be vigor-
ously pursued. In every cluster with an intensive pro-
gramme of growth in operation, efforts need to be made
to systematize further the provision of spiritual educa-
tion to increasing numbers of children, from families
of many backgrounds—a requisite of the community-
building process gathering momentum in neighbour-
hoods and villages. This will be a demanding task, one
that calls for patience and cooperation on the part of
parents and institutions alike. The Ruhi Institute has
already been requested to expedite plans to complete
its courses for training children’s class teachers at differ-
ent levels including the corresponding lessons, starting
with youngsters aged 5 or 6 and proceeding to those
aged 10 or 11, in order to close the present gap between
existing lessons and its textbooks for junior youth, such
as Spirit of Faith and the forthcoming Power of the Holy
Spirit, which provide a distinctly Bahá’í component
to the programme for that age group. As these addi-
tional courses and lessons become available, institutes
in every country will be able to prepare the teachers
and the coordinators required to put in place, grade by
grade, the core of a programme for the spiritual educa-
tion of children, around which secondary elements can
be organized. Meanwhile, institutes should do their
best to provide teachers with suitable materials, from
among others currently in existence, for use in their
classes with children of various ages, as necessary.

9.15
9.15
The International Teaching Centre has earned our
abiding gratitude for the vital impetus it lent to the
efforts to secure the early attainment of the goal of the
Five Year Plan. To see the degree of energy it brought
to this worldwide enterprise, following so tenaciously
the progress in every continent and collaborating so
closely with the Continental Counsellors, was to catch
a glimpse of the tremendous power inherent in the

Administrative Order. As the Teaching Centre now
turns its attention with equal vigour to questions related
to the efficacy of activities at the cluster level, it will no
doubt give special consideration to the implementation
of Bahá’í children’s classes. We are confident that its
analysis of the experience gained in a few selected clus-
ters this coming year, representative of diverse social
realities, will shed light on practical issues which will
make possible the establishment of regular classes, for
children of every age, in neighbourhoods and villages.

9.16
9.16
The rapid spread of the programme for the spiritual
empowerment of junior youth is yet another expression
of cultural advance in the Bahá’í community. While
global trends project an image of this age group as prob-
lematic, lost in the throes of tumultuous physical and
emotional change, unresponsive and self-consumed,
the Bahá’í community—in the language it employs and
the approaches it adopts—is moving decidedly in the
opposite direction, seeing in junior youth instead altru-
ism, an acute sense of justice, eagerness to learn about
the universe and a desire to contribute to the construc-
tion of a better world. Account after account, in which
junior youth in countries all over the planet give voice
to their thoughts as participants in the programme,
testifies to the validity of this vision. There is every
indication that the programme engages their expand-
ing consciousness in an exploration of reality that helps
them to analyse the constructive and destructive forces
operating in society and to recognize the influence these
forces exert on their thoughts and actions, sharpening
their spiritual perception, enhancing their powers of
expression and reinforcing moral structures that will
serve them throughout their lives. At an age when
burgeoning intellectual, spiritual and physical powers
become accessible to them, they are being given the
tools needed to combat the forces that would rob them

of their true identity as noble beings and to work for the
common good.

9.17
9.17
That the major component of the programme
explores themes from a Bahá’í perspective, but not in
the mode of religious instruction, has opened the way
for its extension to junior youth in a variety of settings
and circumstances. In many such instances, then, those
who implement the programme enter confidently into
the area of social action, encountering a range of ques-
tions and possibilities, which are being followed and
organized in a global process of learning by the Office
of Social and Economic Development in the Holy
Land. Already the accumulating body of knowledge
and experience has given rise to the capacity in several
clusters scattered across the globe to each sustain over
one thousand junior youth in the programme. To help
others advance swiftly in this direction, the Office is
establishing a network of sites in all continents, with
the assistance of a corps of believers, that can be used
to provide training to coordinators from scores upon
scores of clusters. These resource persons continue to
support coordinators upon their return to their respec-
tive clusters, enabling them to create a spiritually
charged environment in which the junior youth pro-
gramme can take root.

9.18
9.18
Further knowledge is sure to accrue in this area
of endeavour, although a pattern of action is already
clear. Only the capacity of the Bahá’í community limits
the extent of its response to the demand for the pro-
gramme by schools and civic groups. Within the clus-
ters that today are the focus of an intensive programme
of growth, there is a wide array of circumstances, from
those with a few sporadic junior youth groups to those
maintaining a number sufficient to require the services
of a dedicated coordinator, who could receive ongoing

support from a site for the dissemination of learning.
To ensure that this capacity increases across the entire
spectrum of these clusters, we are calling for 32 learning
sites, each serving some twenty clusters with full-time
coordinators, to be in operation by the end of the cur-
rent Plan. In all other such clusters, priority should be
given to creating the capacity over the coming year to
offer the programme, multiplying the number of groups
systematically.
*

9.19
9.19
The developments we have mentioned thus far—
the rise in capacity to teach the Faith directly and to
enter into purposeful discussion on themes of spiritual
import with people from every walk of life, the efflo-
rescence of an approach to study of the writings that
is wedded to action, the renewal of commitment to
provide spiritual education to the young in neighbour-
hoods and villages on a regular basis, and the spread
in influence of a programme that instils in junior youth
the sense of a twofold moral purpose, to develop their
inherent potentialities and to contribute to the transfor-
mation of society—are all reinforced, in no small mea-
sure, by yet another advance at the level of culture, the
implications of which are far-reaching indeed. This evo-
lution in collective consciousness is discernable in the
growing frequency with which the word “accompany”
appears in conversations among the friends, a word that
is being endowed with new meaning as it is integrated
into the common vocabulary of the Bahá’í community.
It signals the significant strengthening of a culture in
which learning is the mode of operation, a mode that
fosters the informed participation of more and more
people in a united effort to apply Bahá’u’lláh’s teach-
ings to the construction of a divine civilization, which
the Guardian states is the primary mission of the Faith.

Such an approach offers a striking contrast to the spiri-
tually bankrupt and moribund ways of an old social
order that so often seeks to harness human energy
through domination, through greed, through guilt or
through manipulation.

9.20
9.20
In relationships among the friends, then, this devel-
opment in culture finds expression in the quality of
their interactions. Learning as a mode of operation
requires that all assume a posture of humility, a con-
dition in which one becomes forgetful of self, placing
complete trust in God, reliant on His all-sustaining
power and confident in His unfailing assistance, know-
ing that He, and He alone, can change the gnat into
an eagle, the drop into a boundless sea. And in such a
state souls labour together ceaselessly, delighting not
so much in their own accomplishments but in the prog-
ress and services of others. So it is that their thoughts
are centred at all times on helping one another scale the
heights of service to His Cause and soar in the heaven
of His knowledge. This is what we see in the present
pattern of activity unfolding across the globe, propa-
gated by young and old, by veteran and newly enrolled,
working side by side.

9.21
9.21
Not only does this advance in culture influence rela-
tions among individuals, but its effects can also be felt
in the conduct of the administrative affairs of the Faith.
As learning has come to distinguish the community’s
mode of operation, certain aspects of decision mak-
ing related to expansion and consolidation have been
assigned to the body of the believers, enabling plan-
ning and implementation to become more responsive
to circumstances on the ground. Specifically, a space
has been created, in the agency of the reflection meet-
ing, for those engaged in activities at the cluster level to
assemble from time to time in order to reach consensus

on the current status of their situation, in light of expe-
rience and guidance from the institutions, and to deter-
mine their immediate steps forward. A similar space
is opened by the institute, which makes provision for
those serving as tutors, children’s class teachers, and
animators of junior youth groups in a cluster to meet
severally and consult on their experience. Intimately
connected to this grassroots consultative process are the
agencies of the training institute and the Area Teaching
Committee, together with the Auxiliary Board mem-
bers, whose joint interactions provide another space in
which decisions pertaining to growth are taken, in this
case with a higher degree of formality. The workings of
this cluster-level system, born of exigencies, point to an
important characteristic of Bahá’í administration: Even
as a living organism, it has coded within it the capacity
to accommodate higher and higher degrees of complex-
ity, in terms of structures and processes, relationships
and activities, as it evolves under the guidance of the
Universal House of Justice.

9.22
9.22
That the institutions of the Faith at all levels—from
the local and the regional, to the national and the con-
tinental—are able to manage such growing complexity
with greater and greater dexterity is both a sign and a
necessity of their steady maturation. Evolving relation-
ships among administrative structures have brought the
Local Spiritual Assembly to the threshold of a new stage
in the exercise of its responsibilities to diffuse the Word
of God, to mobilize the energies of the believers, and
to forge an environment that is spiritually edifying. On
previous occasions we have explained that the matu-
rity of a Spiritual Assembly cannot be assessed by the
regularity of its meetings and the efficiency of its func-
tioning alone. Rather its strength must be measured, to
a large extent, by the vitality of the spiritual and social
life of the community it serves—a growing community

that welcomes the constructive contributions of both
those who are formally enrolled and those who are not.
It is gratifying to see that current approaches, methods
and instruments are providing the means for Local
Spiritual Assemblies, even those newly formed, to ful-
fil these responsibilities as they set about to ensure that
the requirements of the Five Year Plan are adequately
met in their localities. Indeed, the Assembly’s proper
involvement with the Plan becomes crucial to every
attempt to embrace large numbers—itself a requisite
for the manifestation of the full range of its powers and
capacities.

9.23
9.23
The development that we are sure to witness in
Local Spiritual Assemblies over the next several years
is made possible by the growing strength of National
Spiritual Assemblies, whose ability to think and act
strategically has risen perceptibly, especially as they
have learned to analyse the community-building
process at the grassroots with increasing acuity and
effectiveness and to inject into it, as needed, assis-
tance, resources, encouragement, and loving guidance.
In countries where conditions demand it, they have
devolved a number of their responsibilities in this
respect to Regional Councils, decentralizing certain
administrative functions, enhancing institutional capac-
ity in areas under their jurisdiction, and fostering more
sophisticated sets of interactions. It is no exaggeration
to say that the full engagement of National Assemblies
was instrumental in creating the final thrust required
to attain the goal of the current Plan, and we expect to
see further developments in this direction as, in con-
cert with the Counsellors, they exert in the course of
the critical, fleeting months ahead a supreme effort to
ready their communities to embark on the next five-
year enterprise.


9.24
9.24
Without question, the evolution of the institution
of the Counsellors constitutes one of the most sig-
nificant advances in the Bahá’í Administrative Order
during the past decade. That institution had already
made extraordinary leaps in its development when, in
January 2001, the Counsellors and the Auxiliary Board
members gathered in the Holy Land for the conference
marking the occupation by the International Teaching
Centre of its permanent seat on Mount Carmel. There is
no doubt that the energies released by that event have
propelled the institution rapidly forward. The degree
of influence the Counsellors and their auxiliaries have
exerted on the progress of the Plan demonstrates that
they have assumed their natural place in the forefront
of the teaching field. We are confident that the coming
year will bind the institutions of the Administrative
Order further together in collaboration, as all strive to
reinforce, each in accordance with its evolving func-
tions and responsibilities, the mode of learning that has
become a prominent feature of the community’s func-
tioning—this, most urgently in those clusters experienc-
ing intensive programmes of growth.
*

9.25
9.25
Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is vast. It calls for profound
change not only at the level of the individual but also
in the structure of society. “Is not the object of every
Revelation”, He Himself proclaims, “to effect a trans-
formation in the whole character of mankind, a trans-
formation that shall manifest itself, both outwardly and
inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and external
conditions?” The work advancing in every corner of the
globe today represents the latest stage of the ongoing
Bahá’í endeavour to create the nucleus of the glorious
civilization enshrined in His teachings, the building of
which is an enterprise of infinite complexity and scale,

one that will demand centuries of exertion by humanity
to bring to fruition. There are no shortcuts, no formu-
las. Only as effort is made to draw on insights from His
Revelation, to tap into the accumulating knowledge of
the human race, to apply His teachings intelligently to
the life of humanity, and to consult on the questions that
arise will the necessary learning occur and capacity be
developed.

9.26
9.26
In this long-term process of capacity building, the
Bahá’í community has devoted nearly a decade and
a half to systematizing its experience in the teaching
field, learning to open certain activities to more and
more people and to sustain its expansion and consolida-
tion. All are welcome to enter the community’s warm
embrace and receive sustenance from Bahá’u’lláh’s
life-giving message. No greater joy is there, to be sure,
than for a soul, yearning for the Truth, to find shelter
in the stronghold of the Cause and draw strength from
the unifying power of the Covenant. Yet every human
being and every group of individuals, irrespective of
whether they are counted among His followers, can
take inspiration from His teachings, benefiting from
whatever gems of wisdom and knowledge will aid
them in addressing the challenges they face. Indeed, the
civilization that beckons humanity will not be attained
through the efforts of the Bahá’í community alone.
Numerous groups and organizations, animated by the
spirit of world solidarity that is an indirect manifesta-
tion of Bahá’u’lláh’s conception of the principle of the
oneness of humankind, will contribute to the civiliza-
tion destined to emerge out of the welter and chaos of
present-day society. It should be clear to everyone that
the capacity created in the Bahá’í community over suc-
cessive global Plans renders it increasingly able to lend
assistance in the manifold and diverse dimensions of

civilization building, opening to it new frontiers of
learning.

9.27
9.27
In our Rid.ván 2008 message we indicated that, as
the friends continued to labour at the level of the clus-
ter, they would find themselves drawn further and
further into the life of society and would be challenged
to extend the process of systematic learning in which
they are engaged to encompass a widening range of
human endeavours. A rich tapestry of community life
begins to emerge in every cluster as acts of communal
worship, interspersed with discussions undertaken in
the intimate setting of the home, are woven together
with activities that provide spiritual education to all
members of the population—adults, youth and chil-
dren. Social consciousness is heightened naturally as,
for example, lively conversations proliferate among
parents regarding the aspirations of their children and
service projects spring up at the initiative of junior
youth. Once human resources in a cluster are in suf-
ficient abundance, and the pattern of growth firmly
established, the community’s engagement with society
can, and indeed must, increase. At this crucial point
in the unfoldment of the Plan, when so many clusters
are nearing such a stage, it seems appropriate that the
friends everywhere would reflect on the nature of the
contributions which their growing, vibrant communi-
ties will make to the material and spiritual progress of
society. In this respect, it will prove fruitful to think in
terms of two interconnected, mutually reinforcing areas
of activity: involvement in social action and participa-
tion in the prevalent discourses of society.

9.28
9.28
Over the decades, the Bahá’í community has gained
much experience in these two areas of endeavour. There
are, of course, a great many Bahá’ís who are engaged
as individuals in social action and public discourse

through their occupations. A number of non-govern-
mental organizations, inspired by the teachings of the
Faith and operating at the regional and national levels,
are working in the field of social and economic devel-
opment for the betterment of their people. Agencies of
National Spiritual Assemblies are contributing through
various avenues to the promotion of ideas conducive to
public welfare. At the international level, agencies such
as the United Nations Office of the Bahá’í International
Community are performing a similar function. To the
extent necessary and desirable, the friends working
at the grassroots of the community will draw on this
experience and capacity as they strive to address the
concerns of the society around them.

9.29
9.29
Most appropriately conceived in terms of a spec-
trum, social action can range from fairly informal
efforts of limited duration undertaken by individuals
or small groups of friends to programmes of social and
economic development with a high level of complex-
ity and sophistication implemented by Bahá’í-inspired
organizations. Irrespective of its scope and scale, all
social action seeks to apply the teachings and prin-
ciples of the Faith to improve some aspect of the social
or economic life of a population, however modestly.
Such endeavours are distinguished, then, by their
stated purpose to promote the material well-being of
the population, in addition to its spiritual welfare. That
the world civilization now on humanity’s horizon must
achieve a dynamic coherence between the material and
spiritual requirements of life is central to the Bahá’í
teachings. Clearly this ideal has profound implications
for the nature of any social action pursued by Bahá’ís,
whatever its scope and range of influence. Though
conditions will vary from country to country, and per-
haps from cluster to cluster, eliciting from the friends
a variety of endeavours, there are certain fundamental

concepts that all should bear in mind. One is the cen-
trality of knowledge to social existence. The perpetua-
tion of ignorance is a most grievous form of oppression;
it reinforces the many walls of prejudice that stand as
barriers to the realization of the oneness of humankind,
at once the goal and operating principle of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Revelation. Access to knowledge is the right of every
human being, and participation in its generation, appli-
cation and diffusion a responsibility that all must shoul-
der in the great enterprise of building a prosperous
world civilization—each individual according to his
or her talents and abilities. Justice demands universal
participation. Thus, while social action may involve the
provision of goods and services in some form, its pri-
mary concern must be to build capacity within a given
population to participate in creating a better world.
Social change is not a project that one group of people
carries out for the benefit of another. The scope and
complexity of social action must be commensurate with
the human resources available in a village or neigh-
bourhood to carry it forward. Efforts best begin, then,
on a modest scale and grow organically as capacity
within the population develops. Capacity rises to new
levels, of course, as the protagonists of social change
learn to apply with increasing effectiveness elements
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation, together with the contents
and methods of science, to their social reality. This real-
ity they must strive to read in a manner consistent with
His teachings—seeing in their fellow human beings
gems of inestimable value and recognizing the effects
of the dual process of integration and disintegration on
both hearts and minds, as well as on social structures.

9.30
9.30
Effective social action serves to enrich participation
in the discourses of society, just as the insights gained
from engaging in certain discourses can help to clarify
the concepts that shape social action. At the level of

the cluster, involvement in public discourse can range
from an act as simple as introducing Bahá’í ideas into
everyday conversation to more formal activities such
as the preparation of articles and attendance at gather-
ings, dedicated to themes of social concern—climate
change and the environment, governance and human
rights, to mention a few. It entails, as well, meaningful
interactions with civic groups and local organizations
in villages and neighbourhoods.

9.31
9.31
In this connection, we feel compelled to raise a
warning: It will be important for all to recognize that the
value of engaging in social action and public discourse
is not to be judged by the ability to bring enrolments.
Though endeavours in these two areas of activity may
well effect an increase in the size of the Bahá’í commu-
nity, they are not undertaken for this purpose. Sincerity
in this respect is an imperative. Moreover, care should
be exercised to avoid overstating the Bahá’í experience
or drawing undue attention to fledgling efforts, such as
the junior youth spiritual empowerment programme,
which are best left to mature at their own pace. The
watchword in all cases is humility. While convey-
ing enthusiasm about their beliefs, the friends should
guard against projecting an air of triumphalism, hardly
appropriate among themselves, much less in other
circumstances.

9.32
9.32
In describing for you these new opportunities now
opening at the level of the cluster, we are not ask-
ing you to alter in any way your current course. Nor
should it be imagined that such opportunities repre-
sent an alternative arena of service, competing with
the expansion and consolidation work for the commu-
nity’s limited resources and energies. Over the coming
year, the institute process and the pattern of activity
that it engenders should continue to be strengthened,

and teaching should remain uppermost in the mind of
every believer. Further involvement in the life of soci-
ety should not be sought prematurely. It will proceed
naturally as the friends in every cluster persevere in
applying the provisions of the Plan through a process
of action, reflection, consultation and study, and learn
as a result. Involvement in the life of society will flour-
ish as the capacity of the community to promote its own
growth and to maintain its vitality is gradually raised. It
will achieve coherence with efforts to expand and con-
solidate the community to the extent that it draws on
elements of the conceptual framework which governs
the current series of global Plans. And it will contribute
to the movement of populations towards Bahá’u’lláh’s
vision of a prosperous and peaceful world civilization
to the degree that it employs these elements creatively
in new areas of learning.
*

9.33
9.33
Dear Friends: How often did the Beloved Master
express the hope that the hearts of the believers would
overflow with love for one another, that they would
abide no lines of separation but would regard all of
humanity even as one family. “See ye no strangers,”
is His exhortation; “rather see all men as friends, for
love and unity come hard when ye fix your gaze on
otherness.” All of the developments examined in the
preceding pages are, at the most profound level, but
an expression of universal love achieved through the
power of the Holy Spirit. For is it not love for God that
burns away all veils of estrangement and division and
binds hearts together in perfect unity? Is it not His love
that spurs you on in the field of service and enables you
to see in every soul the capacity to know Him and to
worship Him? Are you not galvanized by the knowl-
edge that His Manifestation gladly endured a life of

suffering out of His love for humanity? Look within
your own ranks, at your dear Bahá’í brothers and sis-
ters in Iran. Do they not exemplify fortitude born of
the love of God and the desire to serve Him? Does not
their capacity to transcend the cruelest and most bit-
ter persecution bespeak the capacity of millions upon
millions of oppressed people of the world to arise and
take a decisive part in building the Kingdom of God on
earth? Undeterred by divisive social constructs, press
on and bring Bahá’u’lláh’s message to waiting souls in
every urban neighbourhood, in every rural hamlet, in
every corner of the globe, drawing them to His com-
munity, the community of the Greatest Name. Never
do you leave our thoughts and prayers, and we will
continue to implore the Almighty to reinforce you with
His wondrous grace.
The Universal House of Justice