AMELIA E. COLLINS
MILLY
A Tribute
to
The Hand of the Cause of God
Amelia E. Collins
by
Abu'l-Qasim Faizi
GEORGE RONALD
OXFORD

First published by
George Ronald
46 High Street, Kidlington, Oxford, OX5 2DN
© A. Q. FAIZI 1977
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
This book is copyright under the Berne Conven-
tion. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part,
in any form (except for fair dealing for the purposes
of private study, research, criticism or review as
permitted under the Copyright Act, 1956) without
written permission from the publisher.
ISBN 0 85398 074 8
Set in 12 on 13 Bembo
Printed in Great Britain by Burgess & Son (Abingdon) Ltd.,
Station Road, Abingdon, Oxfordshire
•

No better name
could be chosen for this tribute
than that
by which she was known
to all who loved her
MILLY
Vll
•

FOREWORD
Amelia Collins, the subject of this moving personal
tribute, accepted the Faith of Baha'u'llah in 1919 and
for over four decades gave to it her energetic and
single-hearted devotion. The great love she bore for
its Guardian, Shoghi Effendi, her loyalty to him and
passionate desire to render him any assistance within
her power and to lighten, however slightly, the heavy
burden that rested on his shoulders, not only endeared
her to him but to all her fellow-believers. For many
years she was a member of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha'is of the United States and
Canada.·
On January 9th, 1951, Shoghi Effendi took what he
termed an 'epoch-making decision', namely, the for-
mation of the first International Baha'i Council. This
body - whose members were nominated by the Guar-
dian himself and which, he said, was the forerunner of
the supreme legislative organ of the world-encircling
Baha'i Administrative Order, namely, the Universal
House of Justice - had its seat in Haifa and to it was
summoned, as one of its officers, Amelia Collins,
wloiom Shoghi Effendi referred to as its 'highly es-
teemed Vice-President'. This great and unexpected
honour was followed, on December 23rd of that same
• In 1948 a separate National Spiritual Assembly was established
in Canada.
lX
I

year, by a cable to Mrs. Collins informing her that he
was 'moved convey glad-tidings your elevation rank
Hand Cause', and the following day his official
announcement to the Baha'i world of her new
position, and the similar rank conferred upon eleven
to her distinguished Baha'is, was made public.
The Hand of the Cause, Abu'l-Qasim Faizi, has
~ade no attempt in these pages to give a biographical
hIstory ~f Amelia Collins. But it is against the setting
of her hIgh rank and her distinction as a Baha'i that
this moving tribute to her, as Mr. Faizi came to know
her in Haifa, must be read.
x
You are so pretia/IS to us all and . .. a ul1ique
asset to the Faith YOll love so dearly and have
served so valiantly for so many years . ..
Shoghi Effendi
The friends who have had the honour and privilege
of pilgrimage to the Holy Shrines may remember a
slender, white-haired, very upright, elderly.lady who
lived in one of the rooms of the Master's House. Her
great joy, after the passing of the Guardian, was to go
to the Pilgrim House. She often said that such visits to
the dear pilgrims were her spiritual intoxication that
kept her warm, made her soul happy and her heart
strong. She longed to visit the Cradle of the Baha'i
Faith .• Whatever was brought to her from Persia she
would treasure. To her these tangible objects were
spiritual ties to the Faith she so much loved. She
wanted to smell the roses in the Persian gardens and to
hear the nightingales at dawn. She often mentioned
that it was the desire of her life to go to Mah-Ku and
see with her own eyes the fortress where the Bab was
left all alone, at night without even the light of a candle.
Time and circumstances did not permit her to do
this; therefore, with an endless love, she would come
to see the pilgrims. First she would be settled in her
seat. For a long time she would gaze into their faces,
smile and, as if rejuvenated by their presence, at their
request she would give them glimpses into her illus-
trious life. What you will read in the following pages
is largely the record of these beautiful gatherings .
• Persia, where the Baha'i Faith was born.
•

MILLY
The candle of her faith, ignited by the Hand of God
in 1919, stood firm and steadfast; it burned, but did not
last to close the first day of the year 1962. In the after-
noon of that day the last flame flickered, to be re-ignited
in the Kingdom of God.
Milly - as she was called by the beloved Guardian
and by all her friends - began her Baha'i life with a
degree of faithfulness, love and enthusiasm that never
lessened to her last breath.
Her first Baha'i friends in America had told her that
she must write a letter to 'Abdu'l-Baha and beg for
confirmation and strength. The night she heard this,
she could hardly sleep. Till morning she was contem-
plating how one should write to such an immensely
great Personage. At last she scribbled something, and
at dawn when she opened the curtains of her room, as
if for the first time she saw the sun shining in all its
splendour and glory, giving light and life to all living
things in the universe. She thought to herself, the sun
shines on the world and all that is therein with such
grandeur and liberality; does it need a letter? Does He
expect us to appeal to Him? The sun shines in the solar
system and never needs any such superficial means of
communication. Then she tore up her letter, and in her
heart she was certain that the spirit of the beloved
Master, 'Abdu'l-Baha, also would shine upon the
world of human beings and grant them faith and love.
Like the sun, He had all under His care and protection.
l I I
x
i
MILLY
There was no need to bother Him with inadequate
words and supplications.
She said that days passed. Then, 10 and behold, she
received a Tablet from the Master. She never showed
me that Tablet. She did not at first show it to anyone.
It was a secret between the Lover and the loved one,
and was sanctified from any kind of pretension. The
only part she revealed to us was this, that the Master
addressed her as 'lady of the Kingdom'. But we now
know that in that Tablet He stated His 'hope' that she
would be confirmed to 'erect a structure that shall
eternally remain firm and unshakeable'.
Milly first sought the presence of the Guardian· in
192 3. Her husband, Thomas H. Collins, though not a
Baha'i, accompanied her. They went to a hotel, but the
Guardian invited them to live in the Pilgrim House.
There were several important incidents during her
sojourn in the Holy Land; the most significant were
the following:
(I) One evening the beloved Guardian gave Milly
some papers and asked her to study them.
As she related this incident to us, she explained that
before attaining the presence of the beloved Guardian
her sole aim was to learn from him some truths about
prayer, and purification of the soul and heart. She said:
'To me he was a door to the world beyond, and
through him I longed to have a glimpse of that won-
drous world. Therefore, with great eagerness and
• Shoghi Effendi. Guardian of the Baha.'f Faith. from 1921 to 1957·
•

MILLY
anticipation I hurried to my room, opcned the papers,
and read and read.
'The next day when I saw him, his first question
was, "What did you think of the papers I gave you to
read?" ,
At this point dearest Milly always used to stop, to
tell us the following:
'1 started my spiritual life on a basis of truth and
frankness. Whatever I felt in my heart, whether right
or wrong, I would say without fear of consequence.
N ow I was standing before the person who could read
thc innermost recesses of my heart and soul. How
could I speak anything but the simple truth? Those
papers contained nothing but explanations and eluci-
dations of the World Order of Baha'u'llah and how it
should be established in the world. And I desired only
to know about prayer and glimpses of the world be-
yond. Therefore, I could only answer the Guardian's
question with these words, "What shall I say? I did
not understand anything!" ,
Here again, she would pause and look deeply into
the faces of the friends, and say:
'Do you think he reproved me for this? Never. On
the same day, in the afternoon, he told me that the
Master had walked often in these lanes and streets near
His House, and the Guardian invited me to go walking
with him. As we were walking together he spoke of
nothing except the same subjects he had written about
in the papers he had given me to read. But with what a
voice and with what sweetness! Words cannot describe
them. He explained the details with such patience, as a
MILLY
father would to a child. But my idea was still lurking
in my mind, and I was constantly thinking to myself
that soon he would speak the words that would, each
one, open a door into the mysteries of prayer and the
world of the spirit which I longed so much to know
more about. How can we, insigniftcant and weak as
we are, understand the plans of God? Weare confined
to our humble and limited circumstances, unaware of
what He may have in store for us. The Guardian, who
was beginning to delineate the spiritual foundations ?f
the Kingdom of God on earth, began to educate me 111
the administrative principles of the Faith in spite of my
own desires.
'When I returned to America I went directly to the
National Convention and arrived during the reading
of that very message from the beloved Guardian which
he had given me to read in Haifa. I found myself called
to the front and the words that I spoke came from
some deep 'well of consciousness. That afternoon's
walk with Shoghi Effendi and those exalted statements
heard from no less a person than 'Abdu'l-Baha's suc-
cessor, were like seeds that that dear teacher had
implanted in my mind and heart, and now eacl~ one
was bursting forth into expression of these new tdeas.
'And later, wherever I went, I found that the friends
had received that same letter, * and that they, and the
members of the Spiritual Assemblies, were busily
engaged in discussing it. Sometimes there were clashes
* The letter, dated March 12, 1923, was subsequently published
in Baha'{ Administration, pp. 34-43 (Baha'i Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Illinois, rev. edn. 1974).

MILLY
of thought and misunderstandino- and these I found
b'
,
,
I had been prepared by the beloved Guardian to
explain and throw light upon. I had been given by
him that which was necessary for the service and
advancement of the Cause, and not that which would
satisfy only my own selfish desires.
(2) 'Many members of my family were Christian
clergymen. My father himself was a Lutheran minister.
It is a custom among Christians that when a member of
the family passes away, he is laid to rest in his coffin
and, before the lid is closed, those attending the funeral
and the members of the family are allowed to have a
last look at their deceased loved one and pay their final
homage.
'I remember that I was a small child when my father
passed away and I was taken to the coffin to have a
last look at him. I stood there and peeped into the
coffin, and this incident remains vivid in my mind.
'During my first pilgrimage, one night I dreamt that
I was in the very same position, but that my father
arose in his coffin as if awakened. This frightened me
so much that I woke up very perplexed. The next day
I was to meet the Greatest Holy Leaf,· and no one can
ima.gine the condition I was in at the prospect. It was
no Joke for a humble, insignificant creature like my-
self to enter the presence of the daughter of the King
of Heaven and earth. She, immediately, with her
loving. and keen insight, understood the great agitation
I was In. She very gently asked me how I was; did I
• The daughter of Baha'u'IIah and sister of 'Abdu'l-Baha.
I
I .
MILLY
sleep well? But not once did I think of my dream. Tea
was served, and what a delicious feast, but I was still in
the same disturbed state. As I was drinking my tea,
she asked me, "Did you have a dream?" She asked me
a second time, and suddenly I remembered my dream,
and told her about it. She smiled and said, "Of course,
your faith in this Cause has brought your father back
to life again."
(3) 'My husband was not a Baha'i, but after two or
three days of my pilgrimage he became so enthralled
with love for the Guardian that one day, while looking
at the new and uncompleted building of the Western
Pilgrim House, he became angry and exclaimed,
"How can the Baha'is see an unfinished building every
day in front of the Guardian's eyes? You will see that
the building is brought to completion."*
'Mr. Collins was also honoured by being able to
meet the Greatest Holy Leaf and other members of the
household. He was a very sociable man. He would take
part in any discussion with perfect freedom and ease.
But before entering the Master's House he was so
excited that he arranged his tie and smoothed his
clothes and repeatedly asked me what he should do
when we arrived there. I replied, "Nothing! In the
family of' Abdu'l-Baha simplicity reigns, and nothing
but love is ever accepted."
'When we entered the room we found the Greatest
• Milly, joined by seven other Baha'ls, contributed the funds
needed to complete the Western Pilgrim House, for which, in
December 1925, the Guardian expressed his 'heartfelt and abiding
gratitude'.

MILLY
Holy Leaf sitting in a chair and all the ladies of the
household standing reverently and politely around her.
We both sat in front of her. Tea was served. Conversa-
tion was short and simple. The dignity, the simplicity
of the Greatest Holy Leaf, and the atmosphere created
by her spiritual station so overwhelmed Tom that he
was tongue-tied. Even after we were outside the
House, he was absolutely quiet for a long time, and
when he did open his mouth, he spoke only words in
praise of her, and concerning his own astonishment
and wonder.
(4) 'The beloved Guardian had advised me always to
be as kind and loving to my husband as possible. I tried
always to follow this advice. Nor did I ever disobey
Tom. For his sake I stopped having meetings in my
home and even going to meetings. As time passed,
gradually his heart changed and he allowed me to
attend meetings and to hold Nineteen Day Feasts· in
our own home. But he never became a Baha'i in this
world.
'On one of our trips to Europe, in 1937, he passed
away on board ship. I had to take his body back to the
United States. At this bitter moment of my life I
received such a bounty from the Guardian that all my
sorrow came to an end.'
Here is the message which the Guardian sent to
Milly at this sad time:
'Greatly distressed sudden passing beloved husband.
Heart overflowing tenderest sympathy. Offering
• Gatherings of the Baha'is at the commencement of each Baha'{
month.
, ,.
"."
I
MILLY
special prayers. Advising Geyserville summer school
hold befitting memorial gathering recognition gener-
ous support their institution. May Beloved aid him
attain goal he was steadily approaching closing years
of his life.'
Not long after, when Milly again visited Haifa, the
beloved Guardian told her, 'Your husband is in the
presence of the Master and is proud of your services.'
The Guardian reiterated the same thought a few years
later, with even greater emphasis:
'How pleased the Beloved must be: how proud He
must feel of your truly great achievements! The soul
of dear Mr. Collins must exult and rejoice in the Abha
Kingdom. Persevere and be happy.'
He also wrote to her:
'The days you spent under the shadow of the holy
Shrines will long be remembered with joy and grati-
tude . . .'
After returning from this trip, Milly was not the
same person as before. Though encircled by a great
many family problems, she was confirmed to perform
such great and distinguished services that the beloved
Guardian not only called her an 'outstanding benefac-
tress of the Faith', but addressed her: 'Dearly-beloved
sister', and 'Dear and prized co-worker'.
Over the years, in the many letters he wrote to
Milly, Shoghi Effendi prepared her to fulfil her destiny,
assured her of her spiritual progress and forecast her
elevation to the high rank she would attain. For

MILLY
example, in the early years of his Guardianship he
appended, in his own hand, such precious sentiments
as these:
'My Spiritual Sister:
'1 never cease praying for you from the bottom of
my heart and wish you success in the glorious work
that lies before you. It is our duty and privilege to
translate the love and devotion we have for our beloved
Cause into deeds and actions that will be conducive to
the highest good of mankind .... Shoghi'
In the year 1926 he wrote:
'My dear and precious fellow-worker:
'Your steadfastness in service, your selflessness and
devotion to the work you are engaged in greatly
encourage me and inspire me in my work. Your many
services, past and present, will ever be remembered
with praise, gladness, and gratitude. Continue in your
magnificent endeavours for the propagation of the
Baha'i Faith and remember always that in me you have
a grateful, loving and admiring brother who will never
cease to pray for you from the bottom of his heart.
Shoghi'
Again, in that same year:
'My dearly-beloved Sister in the Cause:
'I am inexpressibly touched by this further evidence
of your spontaneous and self-sacrificing devotion. 1
will devote your generous donation to promote such
interests of the Cause as are most vital and nearest and
dearest to my heart .... Your bright and shining ex-
ample is I am certain acclaimed and glorified by the
Supreme Concourse in the Abha Kingdom and in this
MILLY
II
world below you have undoubtedly earned the affec-
tion and the admiration of us all. With deepest and
truest love to my unforgettable friend and brother
Mr. Collins. Your grateful brother, Shoghi'
In 1940:
'Dear and prized co-worker:
'I cannot refrain from adding a few words in person
as a further token of my true and abiding appreciation
of the ceaseless and most touching evidences of your
wonderful devotion to the Cause of God, and of the
immense support you have extended, and are still
extending, to its divers and evolving institutions,
locally, nationally and internationally. How pleased
the Beloved must be. . . . Your true and grateful
brother, Shoghi'
And in another letter that same year:
'Dearly-beloved co-worker:
'I was deeply touched by your letter and by the
assurances you have so lovingly and spontaneously
given me of your eagerness to demonstrate your great
love for our beloved Cause. For my part 1 can un-
hesitatingly assure you that you have amply and nobly,
and in different fields and over a long period of time
revealed the true character of your faith and the depth
of your devotion to the Cause and its manifold insti-
tutions. You should rest assured and, with radiant
happiness and reverent gratitude, persevere, in the path
you are treading with such zeal, determination and
loyalty. I will pray for you with redoubled fervour.
Your true and grateful brother, Shoghi'
In 1942:
•

MILLY
'Dear and prized co-worker:
'Your journey to South America, in these days of
stress, of uncertainty and peril, in order to lend further
assistance to the sacred, the vital, and manifold interests
of our beloved Faith, is a fresh and compelling demon-
stration of the devotion and zeal that characterize your
activities in its service. Your extremely generous con-
tribution on my behalf to the teaching Fund, at this
critical hour, is a still further evidence of your unfailing
solicitude for its extension and development. I am
deeply touched and profoundly grateful. My constant
and fervent prayers surround you, in your historic and
arduous journey, and I pray that the Beloved may
guide every step you take and fulfil every hope you
cherish for the advancement of the Cause and the
glory and consolidation of its institutions. Your true
and grateful brother, Shoghi'
In 1945 he wrote:
'Dear and valued co-worker:
'The work you have achieved in recent years is truly
highly meritorious. The reports sent by the believers
eloquently testify to its character and significance. I feel
truly proud of what you are achieving in so many
fields, and with such remarkable results. You should
feel so happy, assured, and thankful, for the Beloved
is well pleased with you. Persevere in your labours.
Your true and grateful brother, Shoghi'
And in 1946 came these words of encouragement:
'Dear and valued co-worker:
'I am deeply grateful to you as I witness on every
side and on an ever increasing scale, the evidences of
MILLY
your solid achievements, your exemplary spirit, your
marvellous activity, your beneficent influence, and
magnificent labours for the propagation and consolida-
tion of our glorious Faith. My admiration for you
grows every day, and I supplicate continually our
Beloved to bless, sustain and guide you always, and aid
you to win still mightier victories. Your true and
grateful brother, Shoghi'
From these letters it is evident that our precious
Milly was very close to the beloved Guardian's heart.
Wherever the Guardian was, she would write letters
to Amatu'l-Baha R~yyih Khanum,* and answers
would come in accordance with his instructions. Often
Milly desired to know only whether or not he was in
good health.
Sometimes special missions were given to Milly by
the Guardian and she, without any ostentation, with
great humility and single-hearted devotion, would
attend to the work he had entrusted to her and report
to him confidentially.
From some of the Guardian's letters written in the
1940's, we can understand that she accomplished great
services, of a unique and exalted character. She was
indeed a heroine because of such services, her achieve-
ments being due to her great love for and complete
obedience to the beloved Guardian, her vigilance and
immediate response to do what was his heart's desire.
Thus she received honours attained by no one else.
* The wife of the Guardian.

MILLY
She preserved all these signs of bounty and grace in the
treasure-house of her heart and did not reveal them to
anyone. After the bitter grief of the Guardian's passing,
these pearls filled her whole existence with light and
assurance.
Let us ponder the following letter from the Guardian
to Milly, written in I947:
'Dear and prized co-worker:
'With a heart overflowing with profound gratitude
I am now writing you these few lines to reaffirm the
sentiments, expressed lately on several occasions and in
a n~mb.er of telegrams, of heartfelt and unqualified
adnuratlon for your magnificent services, rendered in
circumstances so exceptional and difficult as to make
them doubly meritorious in the sight of God. You
?ave acquitted yo:rrself of the task I felt prompted to
Impose upon you 111 a manner that deserves the praise
of the Concourse on high. The high rank you now
occupy and w~ich no Baha'i since the Master's passing
has ever held 111 his own lifetime has been conferred
solely in recognition of the manifold services you have
already rendered, and is, by no means, intended to be a
stimulus or encouragement in the path of service.
Ind~ed the character of this latest and highly significant
servIce you have rendered places you in the category of
the Chosen Nine who, unlike the other Hands of the
Cause, are to be associated directly and intimately with
the cares and responsibilities of the Guardian of the
Faith. I feel truly proud of you, am drawn closer to
you, and admire more deeply than ever before the
spirit that animates you. May the Beloved reward you,
,.
J
MILLY
both in this world and the next for your truly exem-
plary achievements. Gratefully and affectionately,
Shoghi'
And later in that same year:
'Dear and prized co-worker:
'The memory of the services, assistance and support
you extended to me in my hour of anxiety and stress a
year ago at this time, is still vivid, and evokes my
deepest admiration and gratitude. Your services in
other fields, and in the course of many years, have,
moreover, served to deepen my feelings of affection
and gratitude for so distinguished a handmaid of
Baha'u'llah and Hand of His Cause .... Gratefully and
affectionately, Shoghi'
In I949 the Guardian addressed Milly:
'Dear and prized co-worker:
'I greatly welcome the splendid opportunity you
now have of contributing your share - substantial and
abiding I am confident it will be - to the progress of
the Faith and the edification of the believers in Great
Britain, Poland, Switzerland and Germany. I have
already informed the German and British National
assemblies, and I am sure the friends will be delighted
to meet you, and will be greatly stimulated by the news
you will impart to them, as a result of your wide
experience, and particularly by the spirit which so
powerfully animates you in the service of our beloved
Faith. This latest journey you undertake for the spread
and consolidation of the Faith at such important Euro-
pean Centres constitutes another chapter of the truly
remarkable and outstanding record of your eminent

MILLY
international services to the Cause of God. The inter-
national Centre of the Faith and its subsidiary institu-
tions are greatly indebted to you for your superb
accomplishments. May the Beloved, Whom you serve
so diligently, so devotedly and with such distinction,
abundantly bless your high endeavours and enable you
to realize in whatever field you labour and at every
stage of your journeys the dearest wish of your heart.
Your true and grateful brother, Shoghi'
In a letter the following year he wrote:
'Dear and valued co-worker:
'I am deeply touched by the repeated evidences of
your self-sacrificing labours, exertions and services to
our beloved Faith during these momentous days, at so
critical an hour in the fortunes of mankind and at so
significant a stage in its world-wide evolution and
unfoldment of the Cause of God. Your share in con-
solidating its divers institutions at its world centre, in
the North American continent, in Latin America, and
in Europe, is indeed memorable and outstanding. I will
associate your very generous contribution for the
Shrine of the Rib with the memory of dear Mr.
Collins, whose soul will no doubt rejoice and in-
creasingly progress as a direct result of the historic
services you have rendered, for so long and so de-
votedly to the Cause of Baha'u'IIah. He surely must
feel proud of you, the Beloved is highly pleased with
the standard of your achievements, and I am pro-
foundly grateful for all that you have accomplished
for the spread and establishment of His Cause. You
should be extremely happy for having been so abun-
MILLY
dandy blessed in your high and meritorious endeavours.
Your true and grateful brother, Shoghi'
In 1956 Shoghi Effendi wrote:
'Dear and prized co-worker:
'I will devote a part of your very generous contribu-
tion to the purchase of a few Chinese and Japanese
Cabinets, panels and ornaments for the International
archives now nearing completion, the exterior and
interior of which will, to a very marked extent, be
associated, for all time, with your munificent support
of the rising institutions of the Faith at its world
Centre. I am sure you will be highly pleased, and the
spirit of dear Mr. Collins will rejoice in the Abh<i
Kingdom. Your true and grateful brother, Shoghi'
'Dear and prized co-worker:
'I am deeply touched by these repeated evidences of
your great devotion, your unfailing solicitude, and,
above all, of the shining spirit of self-sacrifice that
prompts you to make these munificent donations for
the promotion of the Faith at its world Centre. I am
anxiously waiting for the removal of obstacles that
prevent you from attaining your heart's desire. I am
looking forward very eagerly to the time when we
will be able to meet again in the Master's Home.
Affectionately and gratefully, Shoghi'
Milly often said that she knew very little about the
Writings, but loved to listen to the Tablets and prayers
and to hear the stories of the early days of the Cause.

MILLY
'Out of the immense treasury of all the Writings,'
she said, 'I memorized one sentence and did my utmost
to follow that one injunction. It served as a lamp of
guidance, shedding light on the dark and obscure paths
of my life. That phrase is from the Will and Testament
of the Master, where He says that the friends should
make Shoghi Effendi happy. Whatever step I took in
my life, any vote cast in the Assemblies, any trip taken,
even any thought, I would first ask myself whether my
vote, words, trip or thought would make him happy.
When I was sure, then I would take action without
fear.'
When, in 1925, for the first time she became a
member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha'is of the United States and Canada, she found
herself, very young in the Cause, sitting with old,
accomplished and learned friends. But her initial fears
were soon overcome, and for many years she contri-
buted greatly to the consultations of that important
body. A letter from the beloved Guardian in 1941,
through his secretary, no doubt had reference to this
and her many other administrative services:
'It comforts him greatly to know that you are in a
position to help watch over and safeguard the interests
of the Cause and the believers. Your calm sanity, your
great faith, and devotion, are assets of outstanding
value to the Faith, especially at present.'
She was a member of the National Spiritual Assem-
bly for twenty years, and was always vigilant to tread
a path guided by the pleasure and wishes of the
Guardian.
MILLY
If we look around the Baha'i world, we shall be
amazed to note her achievements; her contributions
made possible the purchase of Temple sites, I:Ia~iratu'l­
Quds, * endowment lands; the translation and publica-
tion of books, the support of pioneers in America, the
Hawaiian Islands, the islands of the South Pacific,
Europe, Africa - all were sustained by her generous,
yet unknown gifts. Many a pioneer received her
support without knowing it, the fact only to be
revealed after her passing. These services were rendered
either directly or completely by Milly, or by sharing
contributions with others.
It is to be noted with something of awe that this
handmaiden of the Lord, in her latter years aching
with arthritis, endeavoured so earnestly and perpetu-
ally to participate in laying the foundations of so many
pillars of the divine institutions raised in the name of
Baha'u'llah throughout the world. All these services
were performed with complete love and detachment,
sanctified from any ostentation, and in perfect order to
the last moment of her life.
Here we must emphasize two points.
First, Milly herself never mentioned anything about
her generous contributions to the Faith, many of them
made directly to the beloved Guardian. Even after his
passing many of these activities were continued, as she
had arranged for them to be, and they were kept
confidential, as was her wish. The Hands of the Cause
in Haifa came to know about some of them through
receiving the minutes of the National Spiritual
* The headquarters of Bahff administrative activity.

MILLY
Assemblies sent to them from all over the world. When-
ever Milly would offer a contribution at a meeting of
the Hands of the Cause, she would urge us to keep it
confidential. 'Just send the money,' she would say;
'don't mention my name.'
Secondly, Milly's eyes were wide open and always
bright with longing to see where in the Baha'i world
the friends were confronted with insurmountable
difficulties in teaching, pioneering or any other field
of activity. At such moments she would say, 'If the
Guardian were alive, he would never like to see these
tasks unfinished. I am ready to help. But please don't
mention my name.'
We need more souls like Milly, dedicated, sensitive
and pure. Is there any better way to serve the Cause
than to have one's own will, desires and wishes wholly
dissolved in the Will of God?
Can we find anywhere a soul purer than hers and a
heart more brim-full with divine love? She submerged
herself in the ocean of the Guardian's love. She was
both generous and shrewd. She never plunged her
hands in her pocket to pour out money at random.
She was never moved to take any step until she was
sure that every penny would be passed along in the
channels advised by the Guardian. She did not spend
money to please herself That was not Milly. Her
whole aim and purpose was to see her beloved happy
and relieved of cares. And when she took a step, she
never expected, or wanted, to receive acknowledge-
ment and praise, much less any public announcement.
In her personal habits she was thrifty. She would,
MILLY
every now and then, go to her clothes-cupboard and
choose a dress that had been set aside for some reason,
and this she would shorten or adjust to make it more in
fashion. When I knew her in Haifa she lived in one
small room - which had previously been occupied by
Mr. Maxwell, the father ofRul).iyyih Khanum - in the
utmost contentment and joy, because it was a room in
the Master's House, under the same roof as her beloved
Shoghi Effendi.
Once she said that the very first time she saw that
divine countenance and beheld those beautiful and
expressive eyes, so full of eagerness and expectation,
she realized that that divine youth was surrounded by
many insurmountable hardships and sorrows. His
sorrows dwelt in the very depths of his youthful and
loving heart, and he trod the path of suffering, as did
Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha before him, in quietude
and patience. In his look she could clearly discern his
need for love and co-operation from those who
claimed to love him. And, she said, having sensed these
heavenly traces in his gracious manner, his expectant
eyes and his selfless tone of voice, she felt a poignant
ache in her heart in response to this need.
This pain grew into something that changed her life
and her attitude towards him. It was so strong and
mysterious, she said, that she could never presume to
mention it to the Guardian. One day, after his passing,
she said to us, 'You know, I had never had the joy of
having a child. Therefore in my heart and soul I
adopted him as my own son, and in the world of faith
and spirit enthroned him on the throne of certitude

MILLY
where he reigned as the sole sovereign of my soul, the
ruler of my destiny and the fashioner of my life. In
whatever direction he willed, I would go, with the
utmost joy and assurance.'
In her daily life, dearest Milly demonstrated this love
and faith. Everyone could feel it in the increasing
momentum and power of her services, and in her
integrity. In the light of this love she remained radiant
and glowing. In its consuming flame she stood stead-
fast with a courageous heart that beat with unprece-
dented acquiescence. After the passing of the beloved
Guardian this love became ever more intense. It was as
if she could no longer remain alone in this world. We
could almost hear the sorrowful songs of separation as
she spoke with words of intense longing for reunion
with him. We could behold the fire of her love burning
brighter day by day.
The friends should never for a moment misunder-
stand or think that the cause of such a close and loving
relationship was ever due to the large and numerous
contributions that she regularly offered at the threshold
of his love. That which made her unique was the self-
lessness and purity of soul and sincere intention with
which she offered her wealth to her beloved, to assist
him in accomplishing what was dearest to his heart -
the progress of the Faith.
There is a large and beautiful wrought-iron gilded
gate at the beginning of the path leading to the Shrine
of Baha'u'llah. The symbol of the Greatest Name
MILLY
surmounts it and it is called the 'Collins Gate'. When
the pilgrims approach the Shrine of the Supreme
Manifestation of God, they pass through this main gate,
which silently stands as a loving remembrance of the
one who adored the Guardian of the Faith - Shoghi
Effendi, grandson of'Abdu'I-Baha, and great-grandson
of Baha'u'llah.
This gate has a touching story connected with it
that goes back to the years of Milly's childhood. This
is what she told us:
'As I have said, ~ometimes I would make a humble
offering to Shoghi Effendi. One time I sent him a sum
of money and begged that it not be used for the
institutions of the Faith or for teaching or pioneering
but in some way for himself. This humble request was
expressed frankly and lovingly, with, one might ven-
ture to say, the yearning of a mother's heart.'
To such requests, the Guardian would usually reply
with a message to the effect that his personal needs
were few and limited. This message would be con-
veyed with such tenderness that Milly never found
words to express the feelings that overwhelmed her.
But let us go back to the story of the gate:
'Ever since my childhood I had wanted a gate. Even
when I was very small and used to build little houses
for my dolls, I would try to make a gate for the doll's
house. I used little bars of iron and other scraps, but
none satisfied my longing.
'When we built a home in New England, Tom
asked me about a gate. I said to him, "Tom, I do not

MILLY
want to put the money into a gate now." But nothing
could satisfy that deep longing of mine.
'About this time I embraced the Faith and forgot
about this desire of mine. I had no thought any more
for worldly things.
'After my husband died and I had been called to
Haifa to serve, I offered the beloved Guardian a contri-
bution and expressed the hope that the sum be used
for his personal needs.
'Time passed and one day I received a letter from
Shoghi Effendi. It contained a photograph of a gigantic
and very beautiful gate and a note asking me how I
liked it, and informing me it had been purchased with
the money I had offered him! Immediately I sent a
message to him, saying, "Exceedingly beautiful".
'One night when some pilgrims were present at the
table in the Western Pilgrim House, William Foster
was among them. In his love for the Guardian he
expressed the wish to be of some service while he was
on pilgrimage; he was a builder and contractor by
profession. The beloved asked him if he could build a
gate, and Bill replied, with the greatest delight, that he
most certainly could.
'The Guardian then said he planned to erect the
Collins Gate in the J:Iaram-i-Aqdas.'*
This was the first time that Milly heard this expres-
sion. At that tender moment as she gazed at the
beloved Guardian, the Sign of God on earth, who
knew her inmost longing, Milly told us:
'He knew that my life had no worth except to offer
* The Shrine of Bah:i'u'llah and the surrounding area.
MILLY
it at his bidding at any moment. He responded to my
look with a heavenly smile.'
The Baha'is know that in the last years of His life
Baha'u'llah made several visits to Haifa. On one of
these He went to the extreme western end of Mt.
Carmel. It is the head of the mountain, in whose heart
rests the Shrine of the Bab. The head is indeed beauti-
fully situated. It is a promontory jutting north-
westwards into the blue Mediterranean, and the sun
rising on one side of it sets on the other. It was while
Baha'u'llah was visiting this part of the mountain that
He revealed the Tablet of Carmel in the vicinity of
one of the famous caves where, it is claimed, the
Prophet Elijah lived. It is interesting, in view of later
events, that the Guardian sent Milly and her husband
to visit this historic site during her first pilgrimage.
Many years later Shoghi Effendi very much wished
to purchase a piece of land, the highest spot on this
promontory, lest it be irretrievably lost to the Faith.
His intention was that the future House of Worship
in the Holy Land should be erected there. Milly never
took any action unless and until she knew definitely
that it was the Guardian's desire. As soon as she knew
this was his plan, she begged him to allow her to
donate the money for its purchase. This request was
granted. She said that if she had ever received any
reward in this transient life, this was it. On the day that
the transactions for the purchase of this land were
completed, she was in her room in the Master's House,
when suddenly someone knocked on her door and
informed her that the Guardian was waiting for her in

MILLY
his car in front of the House. The purpose of that
unprecedented drive was the explanation bountifully
given to her about the Temple site by the Guardian
himself
Whatever Milly had offered, in whatever way and
for whatever institution, her acts had all been from
sheer love; never did she expect, or wish, that what
she did should be proclaimed. However, when the
Guardian announced her gift of land for the Temple
site, she explained to us, 'Who was I to say a word, or
to wish otherwise!'
The main purpose in relating these unique and
beautiful stories about Milly is to awaken in ourselves
an awareness, and to cause us to ponder this point:
How many opportunities have we, as individual
Baha'is, had to make the Guardian happy, but in how
many cascs have we becn heedless and passed them by?
Milly was wide awake and alert. Even a word breathed
by the Guardian would convey many things to her.
She had no desire, no will, no intention other than to
fulfil his wishes. She knew very well that if he were
happy, he could do more for our great and beloved
Cause.
When the Guardian announced to the Baha'i world
his decision to erect the superstructure of the Bab's
Shrine, thus fulfilling the wistful desire of the Master,
Milly sent a sum of money for this purpose and re-
ceived the following acknowledgement, written on
his behalf by his secretary:
MILLY
'I am enclosing a receipt, at the instruction of our
beloved Guardian, for the sum you so spontaneously
and generously sent to him to be used for the construc-
tion of the superstructure of the Bab's Holy Tomb on
Mt. Carmel.
'He wants you to know that this is the first contri-
bution he has received for this glorious undertaking,
and he is not surprised that it should come from you!
You lead the way, in devotion, loyalty and self-
sacrifice, in many fields of Baha'i service, and your
spirit of dedication to our beloved Faith and its
interests greatly endears you to him.'
In another instance, when the Guardian's contribu-
tion for a specific purpose and her own were received
simultaneously, the Guardian cabled her: 'Our recent
contributions teaching campaign synchronized evi-
dence our hearts attuned noble Cause'.
On one occasion the Guardian had said that the
Baha'is should endeavour to purchase as many houses
around the Temple in Wilmette as possible. Milly said
later that when the Guardian had expressed this wish,
it was as if she had not heard him. She had not even
grasped the significance of such an instruction. Years
passed and one day when, as a member of the National
Spiritual Assembly, she was hurrying to the Assembly
session - for she always tried to be punctual - she
noticed a sign on the property across the street from
the Temple which read: (For Sale'. At that moment
Milly remembered the words of the Guardian spoken
so many years before, and she immediately telephoned
the real estate agent and purchased the property

MILLY
without the least thought of whether or not the price
was right. When she reached the session, a little late, the
friends could not possibly guess the reason for this
delay of one who was always so punctual.
On one occasion it happened that the Guardian did
not meet with the friends for a few days and they came
to know that he was not feeling well. This saddened all
hearts and Milly's sorrow had no bounds. The very
first night after that, when the Guardian came to dine
with the friends in the Western Pilgrim House and all
eyes were fixed on him, he announced for the first
time the opening of that great 'Spiritual Crusade',
I953-I963. While listening, Milly remembered being
told that the Greatest Holy Leaf had often said the
Guardian's hands resembled those ofBaha'u'llah. That
night when he unrolled his map and showed them all
the goals of the World Crusade, Milly's gaze con-
stantly followed the rhythmic movement of his
beautiful hands and fingers. She was so overwhelmed
by the beauty, power and dexterity of his hands that
she was in an ecstasy, and waves of joy and astonish-
ment surged in all hearts, at the magnitude of the
Guardian's vision. Each one present longed to partici-
pate in the fulfilment of the newly-revealed plan.
Though old, frail in body and broken in health, Milly
could not control the upsurge of her desire to serve,
and the words burst out, 'Where can I go?'
The beloved Guardian replied, 'Your place is here.'
As the months passed, following the inauguration of
the World Crusade, every night whenever the Guar-
dian came to dinner to meet the friends they could
MIllY
detect by an extra light in his eyes that he had received
good news. With those beautiful hands he would
unfold the cablegrams that had come to him and read
out their contents. The news of the pioneers and of the
Knights of Baha'u'llah* arriving at their posts in the
first year of the plan poured in to the World Centre
regularly. One time the Guardian said:
'The night I explained the details of the Crusade,
some of you thought that the goals were unattainable,
but now you can all see how the confirmations have
descended, and how individuals have been raised up
to conquer these goals through the resuscitating power
of God.'
When the friends entered the dining-room to meet
the Guardian, he would usually ask, 'How are you,
Milly?' She would counter this question by saying
'My condition is not important. How is the Guardian?'
Whenever the Guardian passed through the hall of
'Abdu'l-Baha's House to go to the Shrine, or returned
and was on his way to his own room, Milly might
have stood in the hall to have a glimpse of him and
receive a word from him. But this was not Milly. Her
attitude was utterly different from that of many others.
Whenever the Guardian was going to or from his
room, she would immediately withdraw to her own
room, lest a minute of his precious time should be
spent in asking how she was. She kept herself out of
* The title bestowed by Shoghi Effendi upon those Baha'i pioneers
who would first open to the Faith the 131 cOllltries, territories
and islands which, in 1953, had no resident Baha'is.

MILLY
sight, never in the way, always self-effacing, courteous
and considerate.
The Guardian would say of her, 'Day by day she
becomes nearer and dearer.'
Never did Milly fail to attend the meetings of the
Hands of the Cause in Haifa.· The terrible pain she
suffered because of arthritis would have put anyone
else in bed, but Milly's conscience was extremely
powerful and awake. When the pain was too severe to
permit her to sit in a chair, she would ask her nurse to
give her an injection to appease it, so that she could
come to the meetings.
Sometimes when we heard her footsteps on the stairs
we would hasten to reach out a hand to help her. We
always noticed that she held her hands together as if
holding something between her palms. Coming into
the room, with a beautiful and radiant smile she would
say, 'The imps are asleep'.
Her presence was a great help. Every word she
uttered welled up from a fowltain-head oflove deep in
her pure heart. Her eyes grew wider, bluer and more
penetrating when ways and means were found to open
up paths towards the fulfilment of one of the goals of
the Guardian's Ten Year Plan. Not only her prayers
* After the Guardian's passing, in 1957, until the election of the
Universal House of Justice in 1963, the Faith was administered by
the Hands of the Cause, whom Shoghi Effendi had appointed in
his lifetime, and designated as the 'Chief Stewards ofBaha'u'lIah's
embryonic World Commonwealth'.
MILLY
3I
and her wisdom but also her generous contributions
helped to keep such paths open and paved the way to
victory.
For several nights one winter, Milly could not
attend dinner with the Guardian at the Pilgrim House
because of illness. One night, on crossing the street to
his home, Shoghi Effendi, accompanied by Rul;iyyih
Khanum, went directly to Milly's room. It was very
cold, and he was wearing a delicate light woollen scarf
made in Kashmir. After speaking some words of
strength and hope to Milly, he removed the scarf from
his own neck and wrapped it around hers; then he left,
saying he hoped she would soon be all right. Milly said
that the scarf carried with it the warmth of his blessed
body. It became one of her most treasured possessions.
The beloved Guardian, having been forsaken by all
the members of his family, had no intimate com-
panions except his wife, Amatu'l-Baha Rul;iyyih
Khanum, who he said served as his 'shield' against the
Covenant-breakers, and her father, Sutherland Max-
well, as well as a few old and trusted servants to whom
he would sometimes open his heart. To such as these
Milly was added, becoming often the privileged
recipient of the Guardian's confidences, one to whom
he could open his heart and reveal his sorrows, and
many a sleepless night such confidences brought to
Milly's loving heart!
One night, Milly said, he came to her room with
Rul;iyyih Khanum and explained to her the infamous
acts of his relatives. Milly could not bear to see the
distress and sorrow in his beautiful face. She was heart-

MILLY
broken and could not suppress her tears. The Guardian,
with the greatest tenderness, told her not to weep.
The day came when the beloved Guardian would
leave the Holy Land for ever. While bidding farewell
to Milly, he looked deep into her eyes and said, 'Do
not be sad, Milly'.
Every summer Milly left the Holy Land for Arizona,
where the climate is hot and dry and enabled her to
ease the arthritic pains from which she suffered a great
deal. She would always arrange her affairs, however,
in such a way as to be back in Haifa before the
Guardian returned. This would give her the great joy
of welcoming her beloved.
Therefore, in early November 1957, she reached
Haifa and had hardly begun to unpack when she
received the news of that fateful fourth of November. *
She left immediately for London.
When I first saw her in London, she was like a
comforting shadow as she followed Amatu'l-Baha in
her sorrowful tasks, unbelievably calm and serene.
That terrible test which shook the foundations of the
world of existence could not destroy Milly. Old and
heart-broken though she was, she stood firm as a
mountain. She was true to her love and, as ever,
obedient. The Guardian's words, 'Don't be sad, Milly',
rang in her ears.
During the years after the passing of the Guardian,
when I had the privilege of being very near to Milly,
I received many lessons oflove from her. Many a night
she and I would sit in the presence of Amatu'I-Baha.
• The date of the passing of the Guardian.
MILLY
On those memorable nights I would chant Tablets and
poems in Persian and we would reminisce about the
days of our beloved Guardian. The poems and prayers
would be translated and, although we had so much to
attend to during those eventful days, we never felt
fatigued or exhausted even though we sometimes sat
until the early hours of the morning.
Gradually our precious Milly became acquainted
with many Tablets in Arabic and Persian, and also with
some of the Persian poets. Sometimes Amatu'l-Baha
would graciously ask her, 'Now, Milly, what do you
want?' - Tahirih, Ustad Muhammad-'Ali the Barber,
I:Ia£i~, or Sa'di. When the title of an ode was men-
tioned, Milly could follow the subject matter. While
the Tablets were chanted or the poems sung, she
would close her eyes and go into a world of her own,
a world where perhaps she could have a vision of her
beloved.
One time I asked her the following question. 'Milly,'
I said, 'you are not accustomed to the Arabic or
Persian tones of singing or chanting. How is it that
you so much want to hear them and are rapt in such
ecstasy?'
She replied: 'First of all, for the broken heart of our
precious Amatu'l-Baha, and second, I close my eyes,
follow the thoughts and visualize that these songs and
prayers and poems had been chanted in almost the
same tones in the presence of the Master or the
Guardian and even Baha'u'llah Himself This thought
gladdens my heart.'
In times of distress and sorrow, Milly would often

MILLY
repeat, 'Why? Why?' And when one day she was
asked what she meant by that question, she said, 'Why
am I alive? I am ill, weak and not able to travel and
teach. What is the use of my life?'
It was a winter's day when this conversation took
place, in the office of the Hands of the Cause, where a
small kerosene stove was burning. I said to her, 'Milly
dear, isn't the weather very cold now?'
'Yes,' she replied.
'How is it that we can sit here, hold meetings, read
letters, send messages to the Baha'i world, in such
comfort and ease? It is because of that little stove that
is burning. It doesn't say anything. Does it make
speeches? Does it travel? Never! The stove burns as
long as it has kerosene. It gives its heat to us very
generously and in that warmth we work. This is true
of our physical comfort; then how much more do we
need spiritual heat to give us energy and power to go
on and carry the load to the year sixty-three, when we
shall surrender all into the hands of the Supreme Body.
Now dearest, you are our spiritual stove. You burn
and we speak, write, travel.'
A beautiful smile lighted her lovely face and she
reached up her hands to me to signify that I should
help her up and accompany her to her room.
On Saturday afternoons Milly and I would meet in
her room to review her personal letters and prepare
answers. During one of these times she told me of the
beginning of her deep relationship with Rul.Uyyih
Khanum.
-Milly was an old friend of Mrs. May Maxwell, the
MILLY
mother of Amatu'l-Baha RUl.Uyyih Khanum; she came
to Haifa as a pilgrim in November 1937, after the
marriage of the Guardian to Ru~iyyih Khanum, and
this was the beginning of their truly historic relation-
ship to each other as their mutual love for Mrs.
Maxwell drew them together. Milly told me that
when, on one occasion, she saw Mrs. Maxwell in New
York, RUl.Uyyih Khanum's mother embraced her and
said 'Take care of Rul.Uyyih Khanum. Take care of
RUJ.llyyih Khanum. Take care of her for me.' Shortly
after this Mrs. Maxwell left for South America and
died in Argentina.
Milly told me that Mrs. Maxwell's words had sur-
prised her very much. How could she take care of the
one who had been chosen by the beloved Guardian
and was living under his care and protection?
'But destiny,' said Milly, 'proved that the heart of
her mother had indeed been inspired. Now you see, in
this great House of the Master, where all the rooms are
left empty and dark, I now live so close to Rul.Uyyih
Khanum. My hope and desire is to be with her in these
bitter hours ofloneliness and separation.'
Milly did her utmost. Whenever Rul.Uyyih Khanum
went on a journey, Milly would utter words of en-
couragement that gushed forth from the very dephts
of her heart.
'Rest assured, my darling,' she would say. 'Rest
assured that wherever you go, Shoghi Effendi will be
standing next to you, and whatever step you take, he
will hold your hand and will guide your steps ... '
In those eventful days and years after the ascension

MILLY
of our Guardian, Milly's will, determination and
absolute certainty of the ultimate victory of the Cause
were a great comfort, support and guiding light to her
co-workers. Her true comprehension of the greatness
of the hour and the exalted significance of the oppor-
tunities given to a small group of feeble persons to
serve His Cause, inspired us all. She expressed herself
very clearly and was extremely frank. Whatever she
said had the light and power of conviction.
The passing of the one for whose sake she breathed
never changed her love for the Faith, nor her spirit of
self-sacrifice and thoughtfulness. In many instances she
contributed even more generously than during the
lifetime of the Guardian, towards the purchase of
Baha'i centres, the publication of books, sustaining
pioneers and supporting the National Spiritual Assem-
bly of the Baha'is of the United States, and, especially,
the new National Spiritual Assemblies established
according to the plan of the Guardian after his passing.
Her financial gifts to them were, in her own words.
'for the sole purpose of pleasing Shoghi Effendi in the
presence of Baha' u'llah'.
Milly's suffering from arthritis had no end, but she
suffered in silence. The arthritis became gradually
worse; she felt excruciating pains in her feet and joints
and her fingers grew increasingly worse. As the
Guardian had instructed her to do, she went every
summer to Arizona to take advantage of the dry, warm
climate. Before leaving Haifa she would visit the
Shrines, and I could see in her beautiful eyes the
shadow of sorrow and could sense her thought, that
MILLY
dus nlight be the last time she would gaze at the resting-
place of the Supreme Manifestation of God. On the
way to the airport she would watch the waves of the
Mediterranean Sea washing the shore at the foot of
the Mountain of God. She would gaze at the moun-
tains and hills of the Holy Land and suddenly exclaim,
'Won't you sing poems for me?'
Every year she would write from Arizona or
Wilmette that her health had improved, but there
came a year when she wrote that there was no change.
It was during this year that she fell down the stairs in
her home in Wilmette. We were all very sad, tlunking
that our precious Milly would not be able to attend the
annual meeting of the Hands of the Cause. But there
was nothlng in the world that could keep her from
fulfilling her duties towards the Guardian. She reached
Haifa on time, and the joint message sent out by the
Hands received her signature.
Milly was now so frail that she could not walk
properly and, when she arrived from the airport.
ascending the steps of the Master's House was im-
possible for her. Some of the friends helped her and
almost carried her up the steps. Though she was ex-
hausted and in acute pain, her face shone with the light
of love, her beautiful blue eyes glowed with joy that
she was in the Master's House again and with a motion
of her aching hands she sent kisses to those who had
come to greet her.
She attended the meeting of the Hands held in the
Mansion at Bahji, even though she had to be carried
to the upper floor in a chair, and spoke with great

.MILLY
conviction and strength, showering her abounding
love upon all her co-workers. At the end of the meet-
ing we all entered the Shrine of Baha' u'IIah for praise
and thanksgiving. She recited a prayer, every word of
which took wings to the Abha Kingdom.
It was very evident that this was the last act in her
heroic and dramatic life. On returning to the Master's
House, her home, she was confined to bed, and her
physician would not permit visitors, leaving all of us
in acute anguish and deprivation. No more of the
frequent visits to the suffering patient were permitted.
Some of her fellow Hands, whose love for Milly
was profound, were permitted to go to her bed-side
to give her the good news of the progress of our dis-
cussions and meetings. Though bed-ridden she was
always expectant to hear the news, and to see how she
could serve. She shone like a brilliant star from the
horizon of that House. She read all the letters written
by the Hands, and signed them.
The last letter taken to her to sign was about the
deputization fund. With trembling and aching fingers
she held the pen and wrote 'Am .. .', and could do no
more. This unfinished signature carries with it the
pathos of an unfinished melody - the melody of love
to the last breath.
One day, towards evening, Amatu'l-Baha asked me,
'Do you wish to see Milly?' I longed to see her. God
knows with what bitter tears in my eyes and strong
feelings I entered her room. I remembered that at one
time Milly and I had had a little meeting there together
once a week, when I used to show her pictures of the
MILLY
martyrs, of outstanding teachers of the Cause, and of
true and faithful servants of Baha'u'llah; and would
read her private letters and prepare answers. All these
beautiful recollections made my heart very heavy, as I
stood there looking at her face which was more
beautiful than ever. She opened her generous arms and
embraced this humble admirer, as I washed her face
with my tears.
At this touching moment, in a very faint voice, she
said, 'You used to chant and sing. Won't you do it
now?' She placed her hands on her breast, ready to
listen. When the prayer was fmished, she sighed and,
smiling faintly, said, 'You used to translate these for
,
me.
'It was one of the prayers of the Master,' I said, 'in
which He recommends that we open our eyes and
behold the grandeur and beauty of the Abha King-
dom . . . When man's soul spreads its wings and gets
ready for the eternal flight, he sees some signs of the
majesty of God's creation and the immensity of the
world beyond.'
I could sense that moment when her frail body
would no longer contain the sublime soul that for so
long had been yearning to take its flight.
This was my last visit with that lady whose life
proved her worthiness to be the 'lady of the Kingdom',
as 'Abdu'l-Baha Himself had addressed her.
During all these years Amatu'l-Baha RuIpyyih
Khanum and Milly were inseparable, and in the last

MILLY
weeks she remained always with Milly, even to the
very end when Milly died in her arms. The first day
of January 1962 was drawing to a close when Amatu'l-
Baha informed all the friends of the passing of our
precious Milly. 'Ali Nakhjavani and I hastened imme-
diately to the Master's House to be with Rlll?-iyyih
Khanum. We were there until midnight, when the
three of us went to Milly's room. She was lying on her
bed. A heavenly smile adorned her very beautiful face.
All the ailments, distress and suffering had gone. With
that lovely smile she was able to tell us more clearly
than with any words that she had found her lost
beloved. The hours of separation had taken her to the
banquet of reunion with the Guardian, as was clearly
evident in the light of her dear face, so full of confi-
dence, assurance and serenity. We chanted prayers and
left her alone with her beloved.
Coming out of the room, Amatu'l-Baha said, 'Now
this corner of the House is dark also.' With these
words she showed her loneliness more than she ever
had before. She felt the history of that House in which
'Abdu'l-Baha and the Greatest Holy Leaf had passed
away, and now wherever she turned, upstairs or down,
she found the occupant gone, the door closed and the
room dark.
'How beautiful our precious Milly is on her bed,' I
said.
To which Rulfiyyih Khanum replied, 'Of course,
death is beautiful and makes every one beautiful.'
I had witnessed many times when about midnight
Rlll?-iyyih Khanum and Milly had said good-night to
MILLY
each other. How they embraced! What loving words
of comfort they exchanged, and what assurances of
prayers were given!
As we sat there, the three of us, I thought of
Amatu'l-Baha, who had lost the last person dear to her
in this world, and who, from that night on, would
have no Milly to embrace her on saying good-night,
assure her of prayers, give her confidence and a
motherly love.
'Ali and I suggested that we stay in the House for
the night, but Ru~iyyih Khanum said, 'Milly is asleep
and I will sleep too. You go home. Please take a little
rest. Tomorrow we have much to do.'
The next day our dearest Milly was laid to rest in
the Baha'i cemetery, in a spot adjacent to the Afnan,
chief builder of the Ishqabad Temple.