* * *
* * *
* * *
* * *The Kitáb-i-Íqán
The Book of Certitude
By Bahá’u’lláh
Translated by Shoghi Effendi
Part One
Part Two
This is the Day in which the testimony of the Lord hath been fulﬁlled, the Day in which the Word
of God hath been made manifest, and His evidence ﬁrmly established. His voice is calling you unto
that which shall proﬁt you, and enjoineth you to observe that which shall draw you nigh unto
God, the Lord of Revelation.
—Bahá’u’lláh
F o r e w o r d
This is one more attempt to introduce to the West, in language however inadequate, this book of
unsurpassed preeminence among the writings of the Author of the Bahá’í Revelation. The hope is
that it may assist others in their efforts to approach what must always be regarded as the
unattainable goal—a beﬁtting rendering of Bahá’u’lláh’s matchless utterance.
—Shoghi

Part One
IN THE NAME OF OUR LORD, THE EXALTED, THE MOST HIGH.
No man shall attain the shores of the ocean of true understanding except he be detached from all
that is in heaven and on earth. Sanctify your souls, O ye peoples of the world, that haply ye may
attain that station which God hath destined for you and enter thus the tabernacle which, according
to the dispensations of Providence, hath been raised in the ﬁrmament of the Bayán.
THE essence of these words is this: they that tread the path of faith, they that thirst for the wine
of certitude, must cleanse themselves of all that is earthly—their ears from idle talk, their minds
from vain imaginings, their hearts from worldly affections, their eyes from that which perisheth.
They should put their trust in God, and, holding fast unto Him, follow in His way. Then will they
be made worthy of the effulgent glories of the sun of divine knowledge and understanding, and
become the recipients of a grace that is inﬁnite and unseen, inasmuch as man can never hope to
attain unto the knowledge of the All-Glorious, can never quaff from the stream of divine
knowledge and wisdom, can never enter the abode of immortality, nor partake of the cup of divine
nearness and favor, unless and until he ceases to regard the words and deeds of mortal men as a
standard for the true understanding and recognition of God and His Prophets.
Consider the past. How many, both high and low, have, at all times, yearningly awaited the
advent of the Manifestations of God in the sanctiﬁed persons of His chosen Ones. How often have
they expected His coming, how frequently have they prayed that the breeze of divine mercy
might blow, and the promised Beauty step forth from behind the veil of concealment, and be made
manifest to all the world. And whensoever the portals of grace did open, and the clouds of divine
bounty did rain upon mankind, and the light of the Unseen did shine above the horizon of celestial
might, they all denied Him, and turned away from His face—the face of God Himself. Refer ye, to
verify this truth, to that which hath been recorded in every sacred Book.
Ponder for a moment, and reﬂect upon that which hath been the cause of such denial on the
part of those who have searched with such earnestness and longing. Their attack hath been more
ﬁerce than tongue or pen can describe. Not one single Manifestation of Holiness hath appeared
but He was afﬂicted by the denials, the repudiation, and the vehement opposition of the people
around Him. Thus it hath been revealed: “O the misery of men! No Messenger cometh unto them
but they laugh Him to scorn.”1 Again He saith: “Each nation hath plotted darkly against their
Messenger to lay violent hold on Him, and disputed with vain words to invalidate the truth.”2
In like manner, those words that have streamed forth from the source of power and descended
from the heaven of glory are innumerable and beyond the ordinary comprehension of man. To
them that are possessed of true understanding and insight the Súrah of Húd surely sufﬁceth.
Ponder a while those holy words in your heart, and, with utter detachment, strive to grasp their
meaning. Examine the wondrous behavior of the Prophets, and recall the defamations and denials
uttered by the children of negation and falsehood, perchance you may cause the bird of the human
heart to wing its ﬂight away from the abodes of heedlessness and doubt unto the nest of faith and
certainty, and drink deep from the pure waters of ancient wisdom, and partake of the fruit of the
tree of divine knowledge. Such is the share of the pure in heart of the bread that hath descended
from the realms of eternity and holiness.
Shouldst thou acquaint thyself with the indignities heaped upon the Prophets of God, and
apprehend the true causes of the objections voiced by their oppressors, thou wilt surely appreciate
the signiﬁcance of their position. Moreover, the more closely thou observest the denials of those
who have opposed the Manifestations of the divine attributes, the ﬁrmer will be thy faith in the
Cause of God. Accordingly, a brief mention will be made in this Tablet of divers accounts relative
to the Prophets of God, that they may demonstrate the truth that throughout all ages and
centuries the Manifestations of power and glory have been subjected to such heinous cruelties
that no pen dare describe them. Perchance this may enable a few to cease to be perturbed by the

clamor and protestations of the divines and the foolish of this age, and cause them to strengthen
their conﬁdence and certainty.
Among the Prophets was Noah. For nine hundred and ﬁfty years He prayerfully exhorted His
people and summoned them to the haven of security and peace. None, however, heeded His call.
Each day they inﬂicted on His blessed person such pain and suffering that no one believed He
could survive. How frequently they denied Him, how malevolently they hinted their suspicion
against Him! Thus it hath been revealed: “And as often as a company of His people passed by
Him, they derided Him. To them He said: ‘Though ye scoff at us now, we will scoff at you
hereafter even as ye scoff at us. In the end ye shall know.’”3 Long afterward, He several times
promised victory to His companions and ﬁxed the hour thereof. But when the hour struck, the
divine promise was not fulﬁlled. This caused a few among the small number of His followers to
turn away from Him, and to this testify the records of the best-known books. These you must
certainly have perused; if not, undoubtedly you will. Finally, as stated in books and traditions,
there remained with Him only forty or seventy-two of His followers. At last from the depth of His
being He cried aloud: “Lord! Leave not upon the land a single dweller from among the
unbelievers.”4
And now, consider and reﬂect a moment upon the waywardness of this people. What could
have been the reason for such denial and avoidance on their part? What could have induced them
to refuse to put off the garment of denial, and to adorn themselves with the robe of acceptance?
Moreover, what could have caused the nonfulﬁllment of the divine promise which led the seekers
to reject that which they had accepted? Meditate profoundly, that the secret of things unseen may
be revealed unto you, that you may inhale the sweetness of a spiritual and imperishable
fragrance, and that you may acknowledge the truth that from time immemorial even unto
eternity the Almighty hath tried, and will continue to try, His servants, so that light may be
distinguished from darkness, truth from falsehood, right from wrong, guidance from error,
happiness from misery, and roses from thorns. Even as He hath revealed: “Do men think when
they say ‘We believe’ they shall be let alone and not be put to proof?”5
And after Noah the light of the countenance of Húd shone forth above the horizon of creation.
For well-nigh seven hundred years, according to the sayings of men, He exhorted the people to
turn their faces and draw nearer unto the Riḍván of the divine presence. What showers of
afﬂictions rained upon Him, until at last His adjurations bore the fruit of increased rebelliousness,
and His assiduous endeavors resulted in the willful blindness of His people. “And their unbelief
shall only increase for the unbelievers their own perdition.”6
And after Him there appeared from the Riḍván of the Eternal, the Invisible, the holy person of
Ṣáliḥ, Who again summoned the people to the river of everlasting life. For over a hundred years
He admonished them to hold fast unto the commandments of God and eschew that which is
forbidden. His admonitions, however, yielded no fruit, and His pleading proved of no avail. Several
times He retired and lived in seclusion. All this, although that eternal Beauty was summoning the
people to no other than the city of God. Even as it is revealed: “And unto the tribe of Thamúd We
sent their brother Ṣáliḥ. ‘O my people,’ said He, ‘Worship God, ye have none other God beside
Him.…’ They made reply: ‘O Ṣáliḥ, our hopes were ﬁxed on thee until now; forbiddest thou us to
worship that which our fathers worshipped? Truly we misdoubt that whereunto thou callest us as
suspicious.’”7 All this proved fruitless, until at last there went up a great cry, and all fell into utter
perdition.
Later, the beauty of the countenance of the Friend of God8 appeared from behind the veil, and
another standard of divine guidance was hoisted. He invited the people of the earth to the light of
righteousness. The more passionately He exhorted them, the ﬁercer waxed the envy and
waywardness of the people, except those who wholly detached themselves from all save God, and
ascended on the wings of certainty to the station which God hath exalted beyond the
comprehension of men. It is well known what a host of enemies besieged Him, until at last the
ﬁres of envy and rebellion were kindled against Him. And after the episode of the ﬁre came to
pass, He, the lamp of God amongst men, was, as recorded in all books and chronicles, expelled
from His city.

And when His day was ended, there came the turn of Moses. Armed with the rod of celestial
dominion, adorned with the white hand of divine knowledge, and proceeding from the Párán of the
love of God, and wielding the serpent of power and everlasting majesty, He shone forth from the
Sinai of light upon the world. He summoned all the peoples and kindreds of the earth to the
kingdom of eternity, and invited them to partake of the fruit of the tree of faithfulness. Surely you
are aware of the ﬁerce opposition of Pharaoh and his people, and of the stones of idle fancy which
the hands of inﬁdels cast upon that blessed Tree. So much so that Pharaoh and his people ﬁnally
arose and exerted their utmost endeavor to extinguish with the waters of falsehood and denial the
ﬁre of that sacred Tree, oblivious of the truth that no earthly water can quench the ﬂame of divine
wisdom, nor mortal blasts extinguish the lamp of everlasting dominion. Nay, rather, such water
cannot but intensify the burning of the ﬂame, and such blasts cannot but ensure the preservation
of the lamp, were ye to observe with the eye of discernment, and walk in the way of God’s holy
will and pleasure. How well hath a believer of the kindred of Pharaoh, whose story is recounted by
the All-Glorious in His Book revealed unto His beloved One, observed: “And a man of the family of
Pharaoh who was a believer and concealed his faith said: ‘Will ye slay a man because he saith my
Lord is God, when He hath already come to you with signs from your Lord? If he be a liar, on him
will be his lie, but if he be a man of truth, part of what he threateneth will fall upon you. In truth
God guideth not him who is a transgressor, a liar.’”9 Finally, so great was their iniquity that this
selfsame believer was put to a shameful death. “The curse of God be upon the people of
tyranny.”10
And now, ponder upon these things. What could have caused such contention and conﬂict?
Why is it that the advent of every true Manifestation of God hath been accompanied by such
strife and tumult, by such tyranny and upheaval? This notwithstanding the fact that all the
Prophets of God, whenever made manifest unto the peoples of the world, have invariably foretold
the coming of yet another Prophet after them, and have established such signs as would herald
the advent of the future Dispensation. To this the records of all sacred books bear witness. Why
then is it that despite the expectation of men in their quest of the Manifestations of Holiness, and
in spite of the signs recorded in the sacred books, such acts of violence, of oppression and cruelty,
should have been perpetrated in every age and cycle against all the Prophets and chosen Ones of
God? Even as He hath revealed: “As oft as an Apostle cometh unto you with that which your souls
desire not, ye swell with pride, accusing some of being impostors and slaying others.”11
Reﬂect, what could have been the motive for such deeds? What could have prompted such
behavior towards the Revealers of the beauty of the All-Glorious? Whatever in days gone by hath
been the cause of the denial and opposition of those people hath now led to the perversity of the
people of this age. To maintain that the testimony of Providence was incomplete, that it hath
therefore been the cause of the denial of the people, is but open blasphemy. How far from the
grace of the All-Bountiful and from His loving providence and tender mercies it is to single out a
soul from amongst all men for the guidance of His creatures, and, on one hand, to withhold from
Him the full measure of His divine testimony, and, on the other, inﬂict severe retribution on His
people for having turned away from His chosen One! Nay, the manifold bounties of the Lord of all
beings have, at all times, through the Manifestations of His divine Essence, encompassed the earth
and all that dwell therein. Not for a moment hath His grace been withheld, nor have the showers
of His loving-kindness ceased to rain upon mankind. Consequently, such behavior can be
attributed to naught save the petty-mindedness of such souls as tread the valley of arrogance and
pride, are lost in the wilds of remoteness, walk in the ways of their idle fancy, and follow the
dictates of the leaders of their faith. Their chief concern is mere opposition; their sole desire is to
ignore the truth. Unto every discerning observer it is evident and manifest that had these people
in the days of each of the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth sanctiﬁed their eyes, their ears, and
their hearts from whatever they had seen, heard, and felt, they surely would not have been
deprived of beholding the beauty of God, nor strayed far from the habitations of glory. But having
weighed the testimony of God by the standard of their own knowledge, gleaned from the
teachings of the leaders of their faith, and found it at variance with their limited understanding,
they arose to perpetrate such unseemly acts.

Leaders of religion, in every age, have hindered their people from attaining the shores of
eternal salvation, inasmuch as they held the reins of authority in their mighty grasp. Some for the
lust of leadership, others through want of knowledge and understanding, have been the cause of
the deprivation of the people. By their sanction and authority, every Prophet of God hath drunk
from the chalice of sacriﬁce, and winged His ﬂight unto the heights of glory. What unspeakable
cruelties they that have occupied the seats of authority and learning have inﬂicted upon the true
Monarchs of the world, those Gems of divine virtue! Content with a transitory dominion, they
have deprived themselves of an everlasting sovereignty. Thus, their eyes beheld not the light of
the countenance of the Well-Beloved, nor did their ears hearken unto the sweet melodies of the
Bird of Desire. For this reason, in all sacred books mention hath been made of the divines of every
age. Thus He saith: “O people of the Book! Why disbelieve the signs of God to which ye
yourselves have been witnesses?”12 And also He saith: “O people of the Book! Why clothe ye the
truth with falsehood? Why wittingly hide the truth?”13 Again, He saith: “Say, O people of the
Book! Why repel believers from the way of God?”14 It is evident that by the “people of the Book,”
who have repelled their fellowmen from the straight path of God, is meant none other than the
divines of that age, whose names and character have been revealed in the sacred books, and
alluded to in the verses and traditions recorded therein, were ye to observe with the eye of God.
With ﬁxed and steady gaze, born of the unerring eye of God, scan for a while the horizon of
divine knowledge, and contemplate those words of perfection which the Eternal hath revealed,
that haply the mysteries of divine wisdom, hidden ere now beneath the veil of glory and treasured
within the tabernacle of His grace, may be made manifest unto you. The denials and protestations
of these leaders of religion have, in the main, been due to their lack of knowledge and
understanding. Those words uttered by the Revealers of the beauty of the one true God, setting
forth the signs that should herald the advent of the Manifestation to come, they never understood
nor fathomed. Hence they raised the standard of revolt, and stirred up mischief and sedition. It is
obvious and manifest that the true meaning of the utterances of the Birds of Eternity is revealed
to none except those that manifest the Eternal Being, and the melodies of the Nightingale of
Holiness can reach no ear save that of the denizens of the everlasting realm. The Copt of tyranny
can never partake of the cup touched by the lips of the Sept of justice, and the Pharaoh of
unbelief can never hope to recognize the hand of the Moses of truth. Even as He saith: “None
knoweth the meaning thereof except God and them that are well-grounded in knowledge.”15 And
yet, they have sought the interpretation of the Book from those that are wrapt in veils, and have
refused to seek enlightenment from the fountainhead of knowledge.
And when the days of Moses were ended, and the light of Jesus, shining forth from the
dayspring of the Spirit, encompassed the world, all the people of Israel arose in protest against
Him. They clamored that He Whose advent the Bible had foretold must needs promulgate and
fulﬁll the laws of Moses, whereas this youthful Nazarene, who laid claim to the station of the
divine Messiah, had annulled the law of divorce and of the sabbath day—the most weighty of all
the laws of Moses. Moreover, what of the signs of the Manifestation yet to come? These people of
Israel are even unto the present day still expecting that Manifestation which the Bible hath
foretold! How many Manifestations of Holiness, how many Revealers of the light everlasting,
have appeared since the time of Moses, and yet Israel, wrapt in the densest veils of satanic fancy
and false imaginings, is still expectant that the idol of her own handiwork will appear with such
signs as she herself hath conceived! Thus hath God laid hold of them for their sins, hath
extinguished in them the spirit of faith, and tormented them with the ﬂames of the nethermost
ﬁre. And this for no other reason except that Israel refused to apprehend the meaning of such
words as have been revealed in the Bible concerning the signs of the coming Revelation. As she
never grasped their true signiﬁcance, and, to outward seeming, such events never came to pass,
she, therefore, remained deprived of recognizing the beauty of Jesus and of beholding the face of
God. And they still await His coming! From time immemorial even unto this day, all the kindreds
and peoples of the earth have clung to such fanciful and unseemly thoughts, and thus have
deprived themselves of the clear waters streaming from the springs of purity and holiness.

In unfolding these mysteries, We have, in Our former Tablets which were addressed to a
friend in the melodious language of Ḥijáz, cited a few of the verses revealed unto the Prophets of
old. And now, responding to your request, We again shall cite, in these pages, those same verses,
uttered this time in the wondrous accents of ‘Iráq, that haply the sore athirst in the wilds of
remoteness may attain unto the ocean of the divine presence, and they that languish in the
wastes of separation be led unto the home of eternal reunion. Thus the mists of error may be
dispelled, and the all-resplendent light of divine guidance dawn forth above the horizon of human
hearts. In God We put Our trust, and to Him We cry for help, that haply there may ﬂow from this
pen that which shall quicken the souls of men, that they may all arise from their beds of
heedlessness and hearken unto the rustling of the leaves of Paradise, from the tree which the
hand of divine power hath, by the permission of God, planted in the Riḍván of the All-Glorious.
To them that are endowed with understanding, it is clear and manifest that when the ﬁre of
the love of Jesus consumed the veils of Jewish limitations, and His authority was made apparent
and partially enforced, He, the Revealer of the unseen Beauty, addressing one day His disciples,
referred unto His passing, and, kindling in their hearts the ﬁre of bereavement, said unto them: “I
go away and come again unto you.” And in another place He said: “I go and another will come
Who will tell you all that I have not told you, and will fulﬁll all that I have said.” Both these
sayings have but one meaning, were you to ponder upon the Manifestations of the Unity of God
with divine insight.
Every discerning observer will recognize that in the Dispensation of the Qur’án both the Book
and the Cause of Jesus were conﬁrmed. As to the matter of names, Muḥammad, Himself, declared:
“I am Jesus.” He recognized the truth of the signs, prophecies, and words of Jesus, and testiﬁed
that they were all of God. In this sense, neither the person of Jesus nor His writings hath differed
from that of Muḥammad and of His holy Book, inasmuch as both have championed the Cause of
God, uttered His praise, and revealed His commandments. Thus it is that Jesus, Himself, declared:
“I go away and come again unto you.” Consider the sun. Were it to say now, “I am the sun of
yesterday,” it would speak the truth. And should it, bearing the sequence of time in mind, claim to
be other than that sun, it still would speak the truth. In like manner, if it be said that all the days
are but one and the same, it is correct and true. And if it be said, with respect to their particular
names and designations, that they differ, that again is true. For though they are the same, yet one
doth recognize in each a separate designation, a speciﬁc attribute, a particular character. Conceive
accordingly the distinction, variation, and unity characteristic of the various Manifestations of
holiness, that thou mayest comprehend the allusions made by the Creator of all names and
attributes to the mysteries of distinction and unity, and discover the answer to thy question as to
why that everlasting Beauty should have, at sundry times, called Himself by different names and
titles.
Afterwards, the companions and disciples of Jesus asked Him concerning those signs that
must needs signalize the return of His manifestation. When, they asked, shall these things be?
Several times they questioned that peerless Beauty, and, every time He made reply, He set forth a
special sign that should herald the advent of the promised Dispensation. To this testify the records
of the four Gospels.
This wronged One will cite but one of these instances, thus conferring upon mankind, for the
sake of God, such bounties as are yet concealed within the treasury of the hidden and sacred Tree,
that haply mortal men may not remain deprived of their share of the immortal fruit, and attain to
a dewdrop of the waters of everlasting life which, from Baghdád, the “Abode of Peace,” are being
vouchsafed unto all mankind. We ask for neither meed nor reward. “We nourish your souls for the
sake of God; we seek from you neither recompense nor thanks.”16 This is the food that conferreth
everlasting life upon the pure in heart and the illumined in spirit. This is the bread of which it is
said: “Lord, send down upon us Thy bread from heaven.”17 This bread shall never be withheld from
them that deserve it, nor can it ever be exhausted. It groweth everlastingly from the tree of grace;
it descendeth at all seasons from the heavens of justice and mercy. Even as He saith: “Seest thou
not to what God likeneth a good word? To a good tree; its root ﬁrmly ﬁxed, and its branches
reaching unto heaven: yielding its fruit in all seasons.”18

O the pity! that man should deprive himself of this goodly gift, this imperishable bounty, this
everlasting life. It behooveth him to prize this food that cometh from heaven, that perchance,
through the wondrous favors of the Sun of Truth, the dead may be brought to life, and withered
souls be quickened by the inﬁnite Spirit. Make haste, O my brother, that while there is yet time
our lips may taste of the immortal draft, for the breeze of life, now blowing from the city of the
Well-Beloved, cannot last, and the streaming river of holy utterance must needs be stilled, and the
portals of the Riḍván cannot forever remain open. The day will surely come when the Nightingale
of Paradise will have winged its ﬂight away from its earthly abode unto its heavenly nest. Then
will its melody be heard no more, and the beauty of the rose cease to shine. Seize the time,
therefore, ere the glory of the divine springtime hath spent itself, and the Bird of Eternity ceased
to warble its melody, that thy inner hearing may not be deprived of hearkening unto its call. This
is My counsel unto thee and unto the beloved of God. Whosoever wisheth, let him turn thereunto;
whosoever wisheth, let him turn away. God, verily, is independent of him and of that which he
may see and witness.
These are the melodies, sung by Jesus, Son of Mary, in accents of majestic power in the
Riḍván of the Gospel, revealing those signs that must needs herald the advent of the
Manifestation after Him. In the ﬁrst Gospel according to Matthew it is recorded: And when they
asked Jesus concerning the signs of His coming, He said unto them: “Immediately after the
oppression19 of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and
the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the earth shall be shaken: and then shall
appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and
they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he
shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet.”20 Rendered into the Persian tongue,21 the
purport of these words is as follows: When the oppression and afﬂictions that are to befall
mankind will have come to pass, then shall the sun be withheld from shining, the moon from
giving light, the stars of heaven shall fall upon the earth, and the pillars of the earth shall quake.
At that time, the signs of the Son of man shall appear in heaven, that is, the promised Beauty and
Substance of life shall, when these signs have appeared, step forth out of the realm of the
invisible into the visible world. And He saith: at that time, all the peoples and kindreds that dwell
on earth shall bewail and lament, and they shall see that divine Beauty coming from heaven,
riding upon the clouds with power, grandeur, and magniﬁcence, sending His angels with a great
sound of a trumpet. Similarly, in the three other Gospels, according to Luke, Mark, and John, the
same statements are recorded. As We have referred at length to these in Our Tablets revealed in
the Arabic tongue, We have made no mention of them in these pages, and have conﬁned
Ourselves to but one reference.
Inasmuch as the Christian divines have failed to apprehend the meaning of these words, and
did not recognize their object and purpose, and have clung to the literal interpretation of the words
of Jesus, they therefore became deprived of the streaming grace of the Muḥammadan Revelation
and its showering bounties. The ignorant among the Christian community, following the example
of the leaders of their faith, were likewise prevented from beholding the beauty of the King of
glory, inasmuch as those signs which were to accompany the dawn of the sun of the
Muḥammadan Dispensation did not actually come to pass. Thus, ages have passed and centuries
rolled away, and that most pure Spirit hath repaired unto the retreats of its ancient sovereignty.
Once more hath the eternal Spirit breathed into the mystic trumpet, and caused the dead to speed
out of their sepulchers of heedlessness and error unto the realm of guidance and grace. And yet,
that expectant community still crieth out: When shall these things be? When shall the promised
One, the object of our expectation, be made manifest, that we may arise for the triumph of His
Cause, that we may sacriﬁce our substance for His sake, that we may offer up our lives in His
path? In like manner, have such false imaginings caused other communities to stray from the
Kawthar of the inﬁnite mercy of Providence, and to be busied with their own idle thoughts.
Beside this passage, there is yet another verse in the Gospel wherein He saith: “Heaven and
earth shall pass away: but My words shall not pass away.”22 Thus it is that the adherents of Jesus
maintained that the law of the Gospel shall never be annulled, and that whensoever the promised

Beauty is made manifest and all the signs are revealed, He must needs reafﬁrm and establish the
law proclaimed in the Gospel, so that there may remain in the world no faith but His faith. This is
their fundamental belief. And their conviction is such that were a person to be made manifest
with all the promised signs and to promulgate that which is contrary to the letter of the law of the
Gospel, they must assuredly renounce him, refuse to submit to his law, declare him an inﬁdel, and
laugh him to scorn. This is proved by that which came to pass when the sun of the Muḥammadan
Revelation was revealed. Had they sought with a humble mind from the Manifestations of God in
every Dispensation the true meaning of these words revealed in the sacred books—words the
misapprehension of which hath caused men to be deprived of the recognition of the Sadratu’l-
Muntahá, the ultimate Purpose—they surely would have been guided to the light of the Sun of
Truth, and would have discovered the mysteries of divine knowledge and wisdom.
This servant will now share with thee a dewdrop out of the fathomless ocean of the truths
treasured in these holy words, that haply discerning hearts may comprehend all the allusions and
the implications of the utterances of the Manifestations of Holiness, so that the overpowering
majesty of the Word of God may not prevent them from attaining unto the ocean of His names
and attributes, nor deprive them of recognizing the Lamp of God which is the seat of the
revelation of His gloriﬁed Essence.
As to the words—“Immediately after the oppression of those days”—they refer to the time
when men shall become oppressed and afﬂicted, the time when the lingering traces of the Sun of
Truth and the fruit of the Tree of knowledge and wisdom will have vanished from the midst of
men, when the reins of mankind will have fallen into the grasp of the foolish and ignorant, when
the portals of divine unity and understanding—the essential and highest purpose in creation—will
have been closed, when certain knowledge will have given way to idle fancy, and corruption will
have usurped the station of righteousness. Such a condition as this is witnessed in this day when
the reins of every community have fallen into the grasp of foolish leaders, who lead after their
own whims and desire. On their tongue the mention of God hath become an empty name; in their
midst His holy Word a dead letter. Such is the sway of their desires, that the lamp of conscience
and reason hath been quenched in their hearts, and this although the ﬁngers of divine power have
unlocked the portals of the knowledge of God, and the light of divine knowledge and heavenly
grace hath illumined and inspired the essence of all created things, in such wise that in each and
every thing a door of knowledge hath been opened, and within every atom traces of the sun have
been made manifest. And yet, in spite of all these manifold revelations of divine knowledge,
which have encompassed the world, they still vainly imagine the door of knowledge to be closed,
and the showers of mercy to be stilled. Clinging unto idle fancy, they have strayed far from the
‘Urvatu’l-Vuthqá of divine knowledge. Their hearts seem not to be inclined to knowledge and the
door thereof, neither think they of its manifestations, inasmuch as in idle fancy they have found
the door that leadeth unto earthly riches, whereas in the manifestation of the Revealer of
knowledge they ﬁnd naught but the call to self-sacriﬁce. They therefore naturally hold fast unto
the former, and ﬂee from the latter. Though they recognize in their hearts the Law of God to be
one and the same, yet from every direction they issue a new command, and in every season
proclaim a fresh decree. No two are found to agree on one and the same law, for they seek no God
but their own desire, and tread no path but the path of error. In leadership they have recognized
the ultimate object of their endeavor, and account pride and haughtiness as the highest
attainments of their heart’s desire. They have placed their sordid machinations above the divine
decree, have renounced resignation unto the will of God, busied themselves with selﬁsh
calculation, and walked in the way of the hypocrite. With all their power and strength they strive
to secure themselves in their petty pursuits, fearful lest the least discredit undermine their
authority or blemish the display of their magniﬁcence. Were the eye to be anointed and illumined
with the collyrium of the knowledge of God, it would surely discover that a number of voracious
beasts have gathered and preyed upon the carrion of the souls of men.
What “oppression” is greater than that which hath been recounted? What “oppression” is
more grievous than that a soul seeking the truth, and wishing to attain unto the knowledge of
God, should know not where to go for it and from whom to seek it? For opinions have sorely

differed, and the ways unto the attainment of God have multiplied. This “oppression” is the
essential feature of every Revelation. Unless it cometh to pass, the Sun of Truth will not be made
manifest. For the break of the morn of divine guidance must needs follow the darkness of the
night of error. For this reason, in all chronicles and traditions reference hath been made unto these
things, namely that iniquity shall cover the surface of the earth and darkness shall envelop
mankind. As the traditions referred to are well known, and as the purpose of this servant is to be
brief, He will refrain from quoting the text of these traditions.
Were this “oppression” (which literally meaneth pressure) to be interpreted that the earth is
to become contracted, or were men’s idle fancy to conceive similar calamities to befall mankind, it
is clear and manifest that no such happenings can ever come to pass. They will assuredly protest
that this prerequisite of divine revelation hath not been made manifest. Such hath been and still is
their contention. Whereas, by “oppression” is meant the want of capacity to acquire spiritual
knowledge and apprehend the Word of God. By it is meant that when the Daystar of Truth hath
set, and the mirrors that reﬂect His light have departed, mankind will become afﬂicted with
“oppression” and hardship, knowing not whither to turn for guidance. Thus We instruct thee in
the interpretation of the traditions, and reveal unto thee the mysteries of divine wisdom, that
haply thou mayest comprehend the meaning thereof, and be of them that have quaffed the cup of
divine knowledge and understanding.
And now, concerning His words—“The sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give
light, and the stars shall fall from heaven.” By the terms “sun” and “moon,” mentioned in the
writings of the Prophets of God, is not meant solely the sun and moon of the visible universe. Nay
rather, manifold are the meanings they have intended for these terms. In every instance they have
attached to them a particular signiﬁcance. Thus, by the “sun” in one sense is meant those Suns of
Truth Who rise from the dayspring of ancient glory, and ﬁll the world with a liberal effusion of
grace from on high. These Suns of Truth are the universal Manifestations of God in the worlds of
His attributes and names. Even as the visible sun that assisteth, as decreed by God, the true One,
the Adored, in the development of all earthly things, such as the trees, the fruits, and colors
thereof, the minerals of the earth, and all that may be witnessed in the world of creation, so do the
divine Luminaries, by their loving care and educative inﬂuence, cause the trees of divine unity, the
fruits of His oneness, the leaves of detachment, the blossoms of knowledge and certitude, and the
myrtles of wisdom and utterance, to exist and be made manifest. Thus it is that through the rise
of these Luminaries of God the world is made new, the waters of everlasting life stream forth, the
billows of loving-kindness surge, the clouds of grace are gathered, and the breeze of bounty
bloweth upon all created things. It is the warmth that these Luminaries of God generate, and the
undying ﬁres they kindle, which cause the light of the love of God to burn ﬁercely in the heart of
humanity. It is through the abundant grace of these Symbols of Detachment that the Spirit of life
everlasting is breathed into the bodies of the dead. Assuredly the visible sun is but a sign of the
splendor of that Daystar of Truth, that Sun Which can never have a peer, a likeness, or rival.
Through Him all things live, move, and have their being. Through His grace they are made
manifest, and unto Him they all return. From Him all things have sprung, and unto the treasuries
of His revelation they all have repaired. From Him all created things did proceed, and to the
depositories of His law they did revert.
That these divine Luminaries seem to be conﬁned at times to speciﬁc designations and
attributes, as you have observed and are now observing, is due solely to the imperfect and limited
comprehension of certain minds. Otherwise, they have been at all times, and will through eternity
continue to be, exalted above every praising name, and sanctiﬁed from every descriptive attribute.
The quintessence of every name can hope for no access unto their court of holiness, and the
highest and purest of all attributes can never approach their kingdom of glory. Immeasurably high
are the Prophets of God exalted above the comprehension of men, who can never know them
except by their own Selves. Far be it from His glory that His chosen Ones should be magniﬁed by
any other than their own persons. Gloriﬁed are they above the praise of men; exalted are they
above human understanding!

The term “suns” hath many a time been applied in the writings of the “immaculate Souls”
unto the Prophets of God, those luminous Emblems of Detachment. Among those writings are the
following words recorded in the “Prayer of Nudbih”:23 “Whither are gone the resplendent Suns?
Whereunto have departed those shining Moons and sparkling Stars?” Thus, it hath become evident
that the terms “sun,” “moon,” and “stars” primarily signify the Prophets of God, the saints, and
their companions, those Luminaries, the light of Whose knowledge hath shed illumination upon
the worlds of the visible and the invisible.
In another sense, by these terms is intended the divines of the former Dispensation, who live
in the days of the subsequent Revelations, and who hold the reins of religion in their grasp. If
these divines be illumined by the light of the latter Revelation, they will be acceptable unto God,
and will shine with a light everlasting. Otherwise, they will be declared as darkened, even though
to outward seeming they be leaders of men, inasmuch as belief and unbelief, guidance and error,
felicity and misery, light and darkness, are all dependent upon the sanction of Him Who is the
Daystar of Truth. Whosoever among the divines of every age receiveth, in the Day of Reckoning,
the testimony of faith from the Source of true knowledge, he verily becometh the recipient of
learning, of divine favor, and of the light of true understanding. Otherwise, he is branded as guilty
of folly, denial, blasphemy, and oppression.
It is evident and manifest unto every discerning observer that even as the light of the star
fadeth before the effulgent splendor of the sun, so doth the luminary of earthly knowledge, of
wisdom, and understanding vanish into nothingness when brought face to face with the
resplendent glories of the Sun of Truth, the Daystar of divine enlightenment.
That the term “sun” hath been applied to the leaders of religion is due to their lofty position,
their fame, and renown. Such are the universally recognized divines of every age, who speak with
authority, and whose fame is securely established. If they be in the likeness of the Sun of Truth,
they will surely be accounted as the most exalted of all luminaries; otherwise, they are to be
recognized as the focal centers of hellish ﬁre. Even as He saith: “Verily, the sun and the moon are
both condemned to the torment of infernal ﬁre.”24 You are no doubt familiar with the
interpretation of the term “sun” and “moon” mentioned in this verse; no need therefore to refer
unto it. And whosoever is of the element of this “sun” and “moon,” that is, followeth the example
of these leaders in setting his face towards falsehood and in turning away from the truth, he
undoubtedly cometh out of infernal gloom and returneth thereunto.
And now, O seeker, it behooveth us ﬁrmly to cling unto the ‘Urvatu’l-Vuthqá, that perchance
we may leave behind the darksome night of error, and embrace the dawning light of divine
guidance. Shall we not ﬂee from the face of denial, and seek the sheltering shadow of certitude?
Shall we not free ourselves from the horror of satanic gloom, and hasten towards the rising light of
the heavenly Beauty? In such wise, we bestow upon you the fruit of the Tree of divine
knowledge, that ye may gladly and joyously abide in the Riḍván of divine wisdom.
In another sense, by the terms “sun,” “moon,” and “stars” are meant such laws and teachings
as have been established and proclaimed in every Dispensation, such as the laws of prayer and
fasting. These have, according to the law of the Qur’án, been regarded, when the beauty of the
Prophet Muḥammad had passed beyond the veil, as the most fundamental and binding laws of His
dispensation. To this testify the texts of the traditions and chronicles, which, on account of their
being widely known, need not be referred to here. Nay rather, in every Dispensation the law
concerning prayer hath been emphasized and universally enforced. To this testify the recorded
traditions ascribed to the lights that have emanated from the Daystar of Truth, the essence of the
Prophet Muḥammad.
The traditions established the fact that in all Dispensations the law of prayer hath constituted
a fundamental element of the Revelation of all the Prophets of God—a law the form and the
manner of which hath been adapted to the varying requirements of every age. Inasmuch as every
subsequent Revelation hath abolished the manners, habits, and teachings that have been clearly,
speciﬁcally, and ﬁrmly established by the former Dispensation, these have accordingly been
symbolically expressed in terms of “sun” and “moon.” “That He might prove you, which of you
excel in deeds.”25

Moreover, in the traditions the terms “sun” and “moon” have been applied to prayer and
fasting, even as it is said: “Fasting is illumination, prayer is light.” One day, a well-known divine
came to visit Us. While We were conversing with him, he referred to the above-quoted tradition.
He said: “Inasmuch as fasting causeth the heat of the body to increase, it hath therefore been
likened unto the light of the sun; and as the prayer of the night-season refresheth man, it hath
been compared unto the radiance of the moon.” Thereupon We realized that that poor man had not
been favored with a single drop of the ocean of true understanding, and had strayed far from the
Burning Bush of divine wisdom. We then politely observed to him saying: “The interpretation
your honor hath given to this tradition is the one current amongst the people. Could it not be
interpreted differently?” He asked Us: “What could it be?” We made reply: “Muḥammad, the Seal
of the Prophets, and the most distinguished of God’s chosen Ones, hath likened the Dispensation
of the Qur’án unto heaven, by reason of its loftiness, its paramount inﬂuence, its majesty, and the
fact that it comprehendeth all religions. And as the sun and moon constitute the brightest and
most prominent luminaries in the heavens, similarly in the heaven of the religion of God two
shining orbs have been ordained—fasting and prayer. ‘Islám is heaven; fasting is its sun, prayer, its
moon.’”
This is the purpose underlying the symbolic words of the Manifestations of God.
Consequently, the application of the terms “sun” and “moon” to the things already mentioned
hath been demonstrated and justiﬁed by the text of the sacred verses and the recorded traditions.
Hence, it is clear and manifest that by the words “the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall
not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven” is intended the waywardness of the
divines, and the annulment of laws ﬁrmly established by divine Revelation, all of which, in
symbolic language, have been foreshadowed by the Manifestation of God. None except the
righteous shall partake of this cup, none but the godly can share therein. “The righteous shall
drink of a cup tempered at the camphor fountain.”26
It is unquestionable that in every succeeding Revelation the “sun” and “moon” of the
teachings, laws, commandments, and prohibitions which have been established in the preceding
Dispensation, and which have overshadowed the people of that age, become darkened, that is, are
exhausted, and cease to exert their inﬂuence. Consider now, had the people of the Gospel
recognized the meaning of the symbolic terms “sun” and “moon,” had they sought, unlike the
froward and perverse, enlightenment from Him Who is the Revealer of divine knowledge, they
would have surely comprehended the purpose of these terms, and would not have become afﬂicted
and oppressed by the darkness of their selﬁsh desires. Yea, but since they have failed to acquire
true knowledge from its very Source, they have perished in the perilous vale of waywardness and
misbelief. They still have not awakened to perceive that all the signs foretold have been made
manifest, that the promised Sun hath risen above the horizon of divine Revelation, and that the
“sun” and “moon” of the teachings, the laws, and learning of a former Dispensation have darkened
and set.
And now, with ﬁxed gaze and steady wings enter thou the way of certitude and truth. “Say: It
is God; then leave them to entertain themselves with their cavilings.”27 Thus, wilt thou be
accounted of those companions of whom He saith: “They that say ‘Our Lord is God,’ and continue
steadfast in His way, upon them, verily, shall the angels descend.”28 Then shalt thou witness all
these mysteries with thine own eyes.
O my brother! Take thou the step of the spirit, so that, swift as the twinkling of an eye, thou
mayest ﬂash through the wilds of remoteness and bereavement, attain the Riḍván of everlasting
reunion, and in one breath commune with the heavenly Spirits. For with human feet thou canst
never hope to traverse these immeasurable distances, nor attain thy goal. Peace be upon him
whom the light of truth guideth unto all truth, and who, in the name of God, standeth in the path
of His Cause, upon the shore of true understanding.
This is the meaning of the sacred verse: “But nay! I swear by the Lord of the Easts and the
Wests,”29 inasmuch as the “Suns” referred to have each their own particular rising and setting
place. And as the commentators of the Qur’án have failed to grasp the symbolic meaning of these
“Suns,” they therefore were at pains to interpret the above-quoted verse. Some of them

maintained that owing to the fact that the sun each day rises from a different point, the terms
“easts” and “wests” have been mentioned in the plural. Others have written that by this verse the
four seasons of the year are intended, inasmuch as the dawning and setting points of the sun vary
with the change of the seasons. Such is the depth of their understanding! Nonetheless, they
persist in imputing error and folly to those Gems of knowledge, those irreproachable and purest
Symbols of wisdom.
In like manner, strive thou to comprehend from these lucid, these powerful, conclusive, and
unequivocal statements the meaning of the “cleaving of the heaven”—one of the signs that must
needs herald the coming of the last Hour, the Day of Resurrection. As He hath said: “When the
heaven shall be cloven asunder.”30 By “heaven” is meant the heaven of divine Revelation, which is
elevated with every Manifestation, and rent asunder with every subsequent one. By “cloven
asunder” is meant that the former Dispensation is superseded and annulled. I swear by God! That
this heaven being cloven asunder is, to the discerning, an act mightier than the cleaving of the
skies! Ponder a while. That a divine Revelation which for years hath been securely established;
beneath whose shadow all who have embraced it have been reared and nurtured; by the light of
whose law generations of men have been disciplined; the excellency of whose word men have
heard recounted by their fathers; in such wise that human eye hath beheld naught but the
pervading inﬂuence of its grace, and mortal ear hath heard naught but the resounding majesty of
its command—what act is mightier than that such a Revelation should, by the power of God, be
“cloven asunder” and be abolished at the appearance of one soul? Reﬂect, is this a mightier act
than that which these abject and foolish men have imagined the “cleaving of the heaven” to
mean?
Moreover, consider the hardships and the bitterness of the lives of those Revealers of the
divine Beauty. Reﬂect, how single-handed and alone they faced the world and all its peoples, and
promulgated the Law of God! No matter how severe the persecutions inﬂicted upon those holy,
those precious, and tender Souls, they still remained, in the plenitude of their power, patient, and,
despite their ascendancy, they suffered and endured.
In like manner, endeavor to comprehend the meaning of the “changing of the earth.” Know
thou, that upon whatever hearts the bountiful showers of mercy, raining from the “heaven” of
divine Revelation, have fallen, the earth of those hearts hath verily been changed into the earth of
divine knowledge and wisdom. What myrtles of unity hath the soil of their hearts produced! What
blossoms of true knowledge and wisdom hath their illumined bosoms yielded! Were the earth of
their hearts to remain unchanged, how could such souls who have not been taught one letter, have
seen no teacher, and entered no school, utter such words and display such knowledge as none can
apprehend? Methinks they have been molded from the clay of inﬁnite knowledge, and kneaded
with the water of divine wisdom. Therefore, hath it been said: “Knowledge is a light which God
casteth into the heart of whomsoever He willeth.” It is this kind of knowledge which is and hath
ever been praiseworthy, and not the limited knowledge that hath sprung forth from veiled and
obscured minds. This limited knowledge they even stealthily borrow one from the other, and
vainly pride themselves therein!
Would that the hearts of men could be cleansed from these manmade limitations and obscure
thoughts imposed upon them! haply they may be illumined by the light of the Sun of true
knowledge, and comprehend the mysteries of divine wisdom. Consider now, were the parched and
barren soil of these hearts to remain unchanged, how could they ever become the recipients of the
revelation of the mysteries of God, and the revealers of the divine Essence? Thus hath He said:
“On the day when the earth shall be changed into another earth.”31
The breeze of the bounty of the King of creation hath caused even the physical earth to be
changed, were ye to ponder in your hearts the mysteries of divine Revelation.
And now, comprehend the meaning of this verse: “The whole earth shall on the Resurrection
Day be but His handful, and in His right hand shall the heavens be folded together. Praise be to
Him! and high be He uplifted above the partners they join with him!”32 And now, be fair in thy
judgment. Were this verse to have the meaning which men suppose it to have, of what proﬁt, one
may ask, could it be to man? Moreover, it is evident and manifest that no such hand as could be

seen by human eye could accomplish such deeds, or could possibly be ascribed to the exalted
Essence of the one true God. Nay, to acknowledge such a thing is naught but sheer blasphemy, an
utter perversion of the truth. And should it be supposed that by this verse are meant the
Manifestations of God, Who will be called upon, on the Day of Judgment, to perform such deeds,
this too seemeth far from the truth, and is surely of no proﬁt. On the contrary, by the term “earth”
is meant the earth of understanding and knowledge, and by “heavens” the heavens of divine
Revelation. Reﬂect thou, how, in one hand, He hath, by His mighty grasp, turned the earth of
knowledge and understanding, previously unfolded, into a mere handful, and, on the other, spread
out a new and highly exalted earth in the hearts of men, thus causing the freshest and loveliest
blossoms, and the mightiest and loftiest trees to spring forth from the illumined bosom of man.
In like manner, reﬂect how the elevated heavens of the Dispensations of the past have, in the
right hand of power, been folded together, how the heavens of divine Revelation have been raised
by the command of God, and been adorned by the sun, the moon, and stars of His wondrous
commandments. Such are the mysteries of the Word of God, which have been unveiled and made
manifest, that haply thou mayest apprehend the morning light of divine guidance, mayest quench,
by the power of reliance and renunciation, the lamp of idle fancy, of vain imaginings, of hesitation,
and doubt, and mayest kindle, in the inmost chamber of thine heart, the newborn light of divine
knowledge and certitude.
Know verily that the purpose underlying all these symbolic terms and abstruse allusions,
which emanate from the Revealers of God’s holy Cause, hath been to test and prove the peoples
of the world; that thereby the earth of the pure and illuminated hearts may be known from the
perishable and barren soil. From time immemorial such hath been the way of God amidst His
creatures, and to this testify the records of the sacred books.
And likewise, reﬂect upon the revealed verse concerning the “Qiblih.”33 When Muḥammad,
the Sun of Prophethood, had ﬂed from the dayspring of Baṭḥá34 unto Yathrib,35 He continued to
turn His face, while praying, unto Jerusalem, the holy city, until the time when the Jews began to
utter unseemly words against Him—words which if mentioned would ill beﬁt these pages and
would weary the reader. Muḥammad strongly resented these words. Whilst, wrapt in meditation
and wonder, He was gazing toward heaven, He heard the kindly Voice of Gabriel, saying: “We
behold Thee from above, turning Thy face to heaven; but We will have Thee turn to a Qiblih
which shall please Thee.” 36 On a subsequent day, when the Prophet, together with His
companions, was offering the noontide prayer, and had already performed two of the prescribed
Rak‘ats, 37 the Voice of Gabriel was heard again: “Turn Thou Thy face towards the sacred
Mosque.”38 , 39 In the midst of that same prayer, Muḥammad suddenly turned His face away from
Jerusalem and faced the Ka‘bih. Whereupon, a profound dismay seized suddenly the companions
of the Prophet. Their faith was shaken severely. So great was their alarm, that many of them,
discontinuing their prayer, apostatized their faith. Verily, God caused not this turmoil but to test
and prove His servants. Otherwise, He, the ideal King, could easily have left the Qiblih unchanged,
and could have caused Jerusalem to remain the Point of Adoration unto His Dispensation, thereby
withholding not from that holy city the distinction of acceptance which had been conferred upon
it.
None of the many Prophets sent down, since Moses was made manifest, as Messengers of the
Word of God, such as David, Jesus, and others among the more exalted Manifestations who have
appeared during the intervening period between the Revelations of Moses and Muḥammad, ever
altered the law of the Qiblih. These Messengers of the Lord of creation have, one and all, directed
their peoples to turn unto the same direction. In the eyes of God, the ideal King, all the places of
the earth are one and the same, excepting that place which, in the days of His Manifestations, He
doth appoint for a particular purpose. Even as He hath revealed: “The East and West are God’s:
therefore whichever way ye turn, there is the face of God.”40 Notwithstanding the truth of these
facts, why should the Qiblih have been changed, thus casting such dismay amongst the people,
causing the companions of the Prophet to waver, and throwing so great a confusion into their
midst? Yea, such things as throw consternation into the hearts of all men come to pass only that
each soul may be tested by the touchstone of God, that the true may be known and distinguished

from the false. Thus hath He revealed after the breach amongst the people: “We did not appoint
that which Thou wouldst have to be the Qiblih, but that We might know him who followeth the
Apostle from him who turneth on his heels.”41 “Affrighted asses ﬂeeing from a lion.”42
Wert thou to ponder, but for a while, these utterances in thy heart, thou wouldst surely ﬁnd
the portals of understanding unlocked before thy face, and wouldst behold all knowledge and the
mysteries thereof unveiled before thine eyes. Such things take place only that the souls of men
may develop and be delivered from the prison-cage of self and desire. Otherwise, that ideal King
hath, throughout eternity, been in His Essence independent of the comprehension of all beings,
and will continue, forever, in His own Being to be exalted above the adoration of every soul. A
single breeze of His afﬂuence doth sufﬁce to adorn all mankind with the robe of wealth; and one
drop out of the ocean of His bountiful grace is enough to confer upon all beings the glory of
everlasting life. But inasmuch as the divine Purpose hath decreed that the true should be known
from the false, and the sun from the shadow, He hath, therefore, in every season sent down upon
mankind the showers of tests from His realm of glory.
Were men to meditate upon the lives of the Prophets of old, so easily would they come to
know and understand the ways of these Prophets that they would cease to be veiled by such
deeds and words as are contrary to their own worldly desires, and thus consume every intervening
veil with the ﬁre burning in the Bush of divine knowledge, and abide secure upon the throne of
peace and certitude. For instance, consider Moses, son of ‘Imrán, one of the exalted Prophets and
Author of a divinely revealed Book. Whilst passing, one day, through the market, in His early
days, ere His ministry was proclaimed, He saw two men engaged in ﬁghting. One of them asked
the help of Moses against his opponent. Whereupon, Moses intervened and slew him. To this
testiﬁeth the record of the sacred Book. Should the details be cited, they will lengthen and
interrupt the course of the argument. The report of this incident spread throughout the city, and
Moses was full of fear, as is witnessed by the text of the Book. And when the warning: “O Moses!
of a truth, the chiefs take counsel to slay Thee”43 reached His ears, He went forth from the city,
and sojourned in Midian in the service of Shoeb. While returning, Moses entered the holy vale,
situate in the wilderness of Sinai, and there beheld the vision of the King of glory from the “Tree
that belongeth neither to the East nor to the West.”44 There He heard the soul-stirring Voice of the
Spirit speaking from out of the kindled Fire, bidding Him to shed upon Pharaonic souls the light of
divine guidance; so that, liberating them from the shadows of the valley of self and desire, He
might enable them to attain the meads of heavenly delight, and delivering them, through the
Salsabíl of renunciation, from the bewilderment of remoteness, cause them to enter the peaceful
city of the divine presence. When Moses came unto Pharaoh and delivered unto him, as bidden by
God, the divine Message, Pharaoh spoke insultingly saying: “Art thou not he that committed
murder, and became an inﬁdel?” Thus recounted the Lord of majesty as having been said by
Pharaoh unto Moses: “What a deed is that which Thou hast done! Thou art one of the ungrateful.
He said: ‘I did it indeed, and I was one of those who erred. And I ﬂed from you when I feared you,
but My Lord hath given Me wisdom, and hath made Me one of His Apostles.’”45
And now ponder in thy heart the commotion which God stirreth up. Reﬂect upon the strange
and manifold trials with which He doth test His servants. Consider how He hath suddenly chosen
from among His servants, and entrusted with the exalted mission of divine guidance Him Who
was known as guilty of homicide, Who, Himself, had acknowledged His cruelty, and Who for well-
nigh thirty years had, in the eyes of the world, been reared in the home of Pharaoh and been
nourished at his table. Was not God, the omnipotent King, able to withhold the hand of Moses
from murder, so that manslaughter should not be attributed unto Him, causing bewilderment and
aversion among the people?
Likewise, reﬂect upon the state and condition of Mary. So deep was the perplexity of that
most beauteous countenance, so grievous her case, that she bitterly regretted she had ever been
born. To this beareth witness the text of the sacred verse wherein it is mentioned that after Mary
had given birth to Jesus, she bemoaned her plight and cried out: “O would that I had died ere this,
and been a thing forgotten, forgotten quite!”46 I swear by God! Such lamenting consumeth the
heart and shaketh the being. Such consternation of soul, such despondency, could have been

caused by no other than the censure of the enemy and the cavilings of the inﬁdel and perverse.
Reﬂect, what answer could Mary have given to the people around her? How could she claim that a
Babe Whose father was unknown had been conceived of the Holy Ghost? Therefore did Mary, that
veiled and immortal Countenance, take up her Child and return unto her home. No sooner had the
eyes of the people fallen upon her than they raised their voice saying: “O sister of Aaron! Thy
father was not a man of wickedness, nor unchaste thy mother.”47
And now, meditate upon this most great convulsion, this grievous test. Notwithstanding all
these things, God conferred upon that essence of the Spirit, Who was known amongst the people
as fatherless, the glory of Prophethood, and made Him His testimony unto all that are in heaven
and on earth.
Behold how contrary are the ways of the Manifestations of God, as ordained by the King of
creation, to the ways and desires of men! As thou comest to comprehend the essence of these
divine mysteries, thou wilt grasp the purpose of God, the divine Charmer, the Best-Beloved. Thou
wilt regard the words and the deeds of that almighty Sovereign as one and the same; in such wise
that whatsoever thou dost behold in His deeds, the same wilt thou ﬁnd in His sayings, and
whatsoever thou dost read in His sayings, that wilt thou recognize in His deeds. Thus it is that
outwardly such deeds and words are the ﬁre of vengeance unto the wicked, and inwardly the
waters of mercy unto the righteous. Were the eye of the heart to open, it would surely perceive
that the words revealed from the heaven of the will of God are at one with, and the same as, the
deeds that have emanated from the Kingdom of divine power.
And now, take heed, O brother! If such things be revealed in this Dispensation, and such
incidents come to pass, at the present time, what would the people do? I swear by Him Who is the
true Educator of mankind and the Revealer of the Word of God that the people would instantly
and unquestionably pronounce Him an inﬁdel and would sentence Him to death. How far are they
from hearkening unto the voice that declareth: Lo! a Jesus hath appeared out of the breath of the
Holy Ghost, and a Moses summoned to a divinely appointed task! Were a myriad voices to be
raised, no ear would listen if We said that upon a fatherless Child hath been conferred the mission
of Prophethood, or that a murderer hath brought from the ﬂame of the Burning Bush the message
of “Verily, verily, I am God!”
If the eye of justice be opened, it will readily recognize, in the light of that which hath been
mentioned, that He, Who is the Cause and ultimate Purpose of all these things, is made manifest
in this day. Though similar events have not occurred in this Dispensation, yet the people still cling
to such vain imaginings as are cherished by the reprobate. How grievous the charges brought
against Him! How severe the persecutions inﬂicted upon Him—charges and persecutions the like
of which men have neither seen nor heard!
Great God! When the stream of utterance reached this stage, We beheld, and lo! the sweet
savors of God were being wafted from the dayspring of Revelation, and the morning breeze was
blowing out of the Sheba of the Eternal. Its tidings rejoiced anew the heart, and imparted
immeasurable gladness to the soul. It made all things new, and brought unnumbered and
inestimable gifts from the unknowable Friend. The robe of human praise can never hope to match
Its noble stature, and Its shining ﬁgure the mantle of utterance can never ﬁt. Without word It
unfoldeth the inner mysteries, and without speech It revealeth the secrets of the divine sayings. It
teacheth lamentation and moaning to the nightingales warbling upon the bough of remoteness
and bereavement, instructeth them in the art of love’s ways, and showeth them the secret of
heart-surrender. To the ﬂowers of the Riḍván of heavenly reunion It revealeth the endearments of
the impassioned lover, and unveileth the charm of the fair. Upon the anemones of the garden of
love It bestoweth the mysteries of truth, and within the breasts of lovers It entrusteth the symbols
of the innermost subtleties. At this hour, so liberal is the outpouring of Its grace that the holy
Spirit itself is envious! It hath imparted to the drop the waves of the sea, and endowed the mote
with the splendor of the sun. So great are the overﬂowings of Its bounty that the foulest beetle
hath sought the perfume of the musk, and the bat the light of the sun. It hath quickened the dead
with the breath of life, and caused them to speed out of the sepulchers of their mortal bodies. It

hath established the ignorant upon the seats of learning, and elevated the oppressor to the throne
of justice.
The universe is pregnant with these manifold bounties, awaiting the hour when the effects of
Its unseen gifts will be made manifest in this world, when the languishing and sore athirst will
attain the living Kawthar of their Well-Beloved, and the erring wanderer, lost in the wilds of
remoteness and nothingness, will enter the tabernacle of life, and attain reunion with his heart’s
desire. In the soil of whose heart will these holy seeds germinate? From the garden of whose soul
will the blossoms of the invisible realities spring forth? Verily, I say, so ﬁerce is the blaze of the
Bush of love, burning in the Sinai of the heart, that the streaming waters of holy utterance can
never quench its ﬂame. Oceans can never allay this Leviathan’s burning thirst, and this Phoenix of
the undying ﬁre can abide nowhere save in the glow of the countenance of the Well-Beloved.
Therefore, O brother! kindle with the oil of wisdom the lamp of the spirit within the innermost
chamber of thy heart, and guard it with the globe of understanding, that the breath of the inﬁdel
may extinguish not its ﬂame nor dim its brightness. Thus have We illuminated the heavens of
utterance with the splendors of the Sun of divine wisdom and understanding, that thy heart may
ﬁnd peace, that thou mayest be of those who, on the wings of certitude, have soared unto the
heaven of the love of their Lord, the All-Merciful.
And now, concerning His words: “And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven.”
By these words it is meant that when the sun of the heavenly teachings hath been eclipsed, the
stars of the divinely established laws have fallen, and the moon of true knowledge—the educator
of mankind—hath been obscured; when the standards of guidance and felicity have been reversed,
and the morn of truth and righteousness hath sunk in night, then shall the sign of the Son of man
appear in heaven. By “heaven” is meant the visible heaven, inasmuch as when the hour draweth
nigh on which the Daystar of the heaven of justice shall be made manifest, and the Ark of divine
guidance shall sail upon the sea of glory, a star will appear in the heaven, heralding unto its
people the advent of that most great light. In like manner, in the invisible heaven a star shall be
made manifest who, unto the peoples of the earth, shall act as a harbinger of the break of that
true and exalted Morn. These twofold signs, in the visible and the invisible heaven, have
announced the Revelation of each of the Prophets of God, as is commonly believed.
Among the Prophets was Abraham, the Friend of God. Ere He manifested Himself, Nimrod
dreamed a dream. Thereupon, he summoned the soothsayers, who informed him of the rise of a
star in the heaven. Likewise, there appeared a herald who announced throughout the land the
coming of Abraham.
After Him came Moses, He Who held converse with God. The soothsayers of His time warned
Pharaoh in these terms: “A star hath risen in the heaven, and lo! it foreshadoweth the conception
of a Child Who holdeth your fate and the fate of your people in His hand.” In like manner, there
appeared a sage who, in the darkness of the night, brought tidings of joy unto the people of Israel,
imparting consolation to their souls, and assurance to their hearts. To this testify the records of
the sacred books. Were the details to be mentioned, this epistle would swell into a book. Moreover,
it is not Our wish to relate the stories of the days that are past. God is Our witness that what We
even now mention is due solely to Our tender affection for thee, that haply the poor of the earth
may attain the shores of the sea of wealth, the ignorant be led unto the ocean of divine
knowledge, and they that thirst for understanding partake of the Salsabíl of divine wisdom.
Otherwise, this servant regardeth the consideration of such records a grave mistake and a grievous
transgression.
In like manner, when the hour of the Revelation of Jesus drew nigh, a few of the Magi, aware
that the star of Jesus had appeared in heaven, sought and followed it, till they came unto the city
which was the seat of the Kingdom of Herod. The sway of his sovereignty in those days embraced
the whole of that land.
These Magi said: “Where is He that is born King of the Jews? for we have seen His star in the
east and are come to worship Him!”48 When they had searched, they found out that in Bethlehem,
in the land of Judea, the Child had been born. This was the sign that was manifested in the visible
heaven. As to the sign in the invisible heaven—the heaven of divine knowledge and understanding

—it was Yaḥyá, son of Zachariah, who gave unto the people the tidings of the Manifestation of
Jesus. Even as He hath revealed: “God announceth Yaḥyá to thee, who shall bear witness unto the
Word from God, and a great one and chaste.”49 By the term “Word” is meant Jesus, Whose coming
Yaḥyá foretold. Moreover, in the heavenly Scriptures it is written: “John the Baptist was preaching
in the wilderness of Judea, and saying, Repent ye: for the Kingdom of heaven is at hand.”50 By
John is meant Yaḥyá.
Likewise, ere the beauty of Muḥammad was unveiled, the signs of the visible heaven were
made manifest. As to the signs of the invisible heaven, there appeared four men who successively
announced unto the people the joyful tidings of the rise of that divine Luminary. Rúz-bih, later
named Salmán, was honored by being in their service. As the end of one of these approached, he
would send Rúz-bih unto the other, until the fourth who, feeling his death to be nigh, addressed
Rúz-bih saying: “O Rúz-bih! when thou hast taken up my body and buried it, go to Ḥijáz for there
the Daystar of Muḥammad will arise. Happy art thou, for thou shalt behold His face!”
And now concerning this wondrous and most exalted Cause. Know thou verily that many an
astronomer hath announced the appearance of its star in the visible heaven. Likewise, there
appeared on earth Aḥmad and Káẓim,51 those twin resplendent lights—may God sanctify their
resting-place!
From all that We have stated it hath become clear and manifest that before the revelation of
each of the Mirrors reﬂecting the divine Essence, the signs heralding their advent must needs be
revealed in the visible heaven as well as in the invisible, wherein is the seat of the sun of
knowledge, of the moon of wisdom, and of the stars of understanding and utterance. The sign of
the invisible heaven must needs be revealed in the person of that perfect man who, before each
Manifestation appeareth, educateth, and prepareth the souls of men for the advent of the divine
Luminary, the Light of the unity of God amongst men.
And now, with reference to His words: “And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and
they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.” These
words signify that in those days men will lament the loss of the Sun of the divine beauty, of the
Moon of knowledge, and of the Stars of divine wisdom. Thereupon, they will behold the
countenance of the promised One, the adored Beauty, descending from heaven and riding upon the
clouds. By this is meant that the divine Beauty will be made manifest from the heaven of the will
of God, and will appear in the form of the human temple. The term “heaven” denoteth loftiness
and exaltation, inasmuch as it is the seat of the revelation of those Manifestations of Holiness, the
Daysprings of ancient glory. These ancient Beings, though delivered from the womb of their
mother, have in reality descended from the heaven of the will of God. Though they be dwelling on
this earth, yet their true habitations are the retreats of glory in the realms above. Whilst walking
amongst mortals, they soar in the heaven of the divine presence. Without feet they tread the path
of the spirit, and without wings they rise unto the exalted heights of divine unity. With every
ﬂeeting breath they cover the immensity of space, and at every moment traverse the kingdoms of
the visible and the invisible. Upon their thrones is written: “Nothing whatsoever keepeth Him
from being occupied with any other thing”; and on their seats is inscribed: “Verily, His ways differ
every day.”52 They are sent forth through the transcendent power of the Ancient of Days, and are
raised up by the exalted will of God, the most mighty King. This is what is meant by the words:
“coming in the clouds of heaven.”
In the utterances of the divine Luminaries the term “heaven” hath been applied to many and
divers things; such as the “heaven of Command,” the “heaven of Will,” the “heaven of the divine
Purpose,” the “heaven of divine Knowledge,” the “heaven of Certitude,” the “heaven of Utterance,”
the “heaven of Revelation,” the “heaven of Concealment,” and the like. In every instance, He hath
given the term “heaven” a special meaning, the signiﬁcance of which is revealed to none save
those that have been initiated into the divine mysteries, and have drunk from the chalice of
immortal life. For example, He saith: “The heaven hath sustenance for you, and it containeth that
which you are promised”;53 whereas it is the earth that yieldeth such sustenance. Likewise, it
hath been said: “The names come down from heaven”; whereas they proceed out of the mouth of
men. Wert thou to cleanse the mirror of thy heart from the dust of malice, thou wouldst

apprehend the meaning of the symbolic terms revealed by the all-embracing Word of God made
manifest in every Dispensation, and wouldst discover the mysteries of divine knowledge. Not,
however, until thou consumest with the ﬂame of utter detachment those veils of idle learning that
are current amongst men, canst thou behold the resplendent morn of true knowledge.
Know verily that Knowledge is of two kinds: Divine and Satanic. The one welleth out from the
fountain of divine inspiration; the other is but a reﬂection of vain and obscure thoughts. The
source of the former is God Himself; the motive-force of the latter the whisperings of selﬁsh
desire. The one is guided by the principle: “Fear ye God; God will teach you”;54 the other is but a
conﬁrmation of the truth: “Knowledge is the most grievous veil between man and his Creator.” The
former bringeth forth the fruit of patience, of longing desire, of true understanding, and love;
whilst the latter can yield naught but arrogance, vainglory and conceit. From the sayings of those
Masters of holy utterance, Who have expounded the meaning of true knowledge, the odor of these
dark teachings, which have obscured the world, can in no wise be detected. The tree of such
teachings can yield no result except iniquity and rebellion, and beareth no fruit but hatred and
envy. Its fruit is deadly poison; its shadow a consuming ﬁre. How well hath it been said: “Cling
unto the robe of the Desire of thy heart, and put thou away all shame; bid the worldly wise be
gone, however great their name.”
The heart must needs therefore be cleansed from the idle sayings of men, and sanctiﬁed from
every earthly affection, so that it may discover the hidden meaning of divine inspiration, and
become the treasury of the mysteries of divine knowledge. Thus hath it been said: “He that
treadeth the snow-white Path, and followeth in the footsteps of the Crimson Pillar, shall never
attain unto his abode unless his hands are empty of those worldly things cherished by men.” This
is the prime requisite of whosoever treadeth this path. Ponder thereon, that, with eyes unveiled,
thou mayest perceive the truth of these words.
We have digressed from the purpose of Our argument, although whatsoever is mentioned
serveth only to conﬁrm Our purpose. By God! however great Our desire to be brief, yet We feel We
cannot restrain Our pen. Notwithstanding all that We have mentioned, how innumerable are the
pearls which have remained unpierced in the shell of Our heart! How many the ḥúrís of inner
meaning that are as yet concealed within the chambers of divine wisdom! None hath yet
approached them;—ḥúrís, “whom no man nor spirit hath touched before.”55 Notwithstanding all
that hath been said, it seemeth as if not one letter of Our purpose hath been uttered, nor a single
sign divulged concerning Our object. When will a faithful seeker be found who will don the garb of
pilgrimage, attain the Ka‘bih of the heart’s desire, and, without ear or tongue, discover the
mysteries of divine utterance?
By these luminous, these conclusive, and lucid statements, the meaning of “heaven” in the
aforementioned verse hath thus been made clear and evident. And now regarding His words, that
the Son of man shall “come in the clouds of heaven.” By the term “clouds” is meant those things
that are contrary to the ways and desires of men. Even as He hath revealed in the verse already
quoted: “As oft as an Apostle cometh unto you with that which your souls desire not, ye swell
with pride, accusing some of being impostors and slaying others.”56 These “clouds” signify, in one
sense, the annulment of laws, the abrogation of former Dispensations, the repeal of rituals and
customs current amongst men, the exalting of the illiterate faithful above the learned opposers of
the Faith. In another sense, they mean the appearance of that immortal Beauty in the image of
mortal man, with such human limitations as eating and drinking, poverty and riches, glory and
abasement, sleeping and waking, and such other things as cast doubt in the minds of men, and
cause them to turn away. All such veils are symbolically referred to as “clouds.”
These are the “clouds” that cause the heavens of the knowledge and understanding of all that
dwell on earth to be cloven asunder. Even as He hath revealed: “On that day shall the heaven be
cloven by the clouds.”57 Even as the clouds prevent the eyes of men from beholding the sun, so do
these things hinder the souls of men from recognizing the light of the divine Luminary. To this
beareth witness that which hath proceeded out of the mouth of the unbelievers as revealed in the
sacred Book: “And they have said: ‘What manner of apostle is this? He eateth food, and walketh
the streets. Unless an angel be sent down and take part in His warnings, we will not believe.’”58

Other Prophets, similarly, have been subject to poverty and afﬂictions, to hunger, and to the ills
and chances of this world. As these holy Persons were subject to such needs and wants, the people
were, consequently, lost in the wilds of misgivings and doubts, and were afﬂicted with
bewilderment and perplexity. How, they wondered, could such a person be sent down from God,
assert His ascendancy over all the peoples and kindreds of the earth, and claim Himself to be the
goal of all creation—even as He hath said: “But for Thee, I would not have created all that are in
heaven and on earth”—and yet be subject to such trivial things? You must undoubtedly have been
informed of the tribulations, the poverty, the ills, and the degradation that have befallen every
Prophet of God and His companions. You must have heard how the heads of their followers were
sent as presents unto different cities, how grievously they were hindered from that whereunto
they were commanded. Each and every one of them fell a prey to the hands of the enemies of His
Cause, and had to suffer whatsoever they decreed.
It is evident that the changes brought about in every Dispensation constitute the dark clouds
that intervene between the eye of man’s understanding and the divine Luminary which shineth
forth from the dayspring of the divine Essence. Consider how men for generations have been
blindly imitating their fathers, and have been trained according to such ways and manners as have
been laid down by the dictates of their Faith. Were these men, therefore, to discover suddenly that
a Man, Who hath been living in their midst, Who, with respect to every human limitation, hath
been their equal, had risen to abolish every established principle imposed by their Faith—
principles by which for centuries they have been disciplined, and every opposer and denier of
which they have come to regard as inﬁdel, proﬂigate and wicked—they would of a certainty be
veiled and hindered from acknowledging His truth. Such things are as “clouds” that veil the eyes
of those whose inner being hath not tasted the Salsabíl of detachment, nor drunk from the
Kawthar of the knowledge of God. Such men, when acquainted with these circumstances, become
so veiled that without the least question, they pronounce the Manifestation of God an inﬁdel, and
sentence Him to death. You must have heard of such things taking place all down the ages, and
are now observing them in these days.
It behooveth us, therefore, to make the utmost endeavor, that, by God’s invisible assistance,
these dark veils, these clouds of Heaven-sent trials, may not hinder us from beholding the beauty
of His shining Countenance, and that we may recognize Him only by His own Self. And should we
ask for a testimony of His truth, we should content ourselves with one, and only one, that thereby
we may attain unto Him Who is the Fountainhead of inﬁnite grace, and in Whose presence all the
world’s abundance fadeth into nothingness, that we may cease to cavil at Him every day and to
cleave unto our own idle fancy.
Gracious God! Notwithstanding the warning which, in marvelously symbolic language and
subtle allusions, hath been uttered in days past, and which was intended to awaken the peoples of
the world and to prevent them from being deprived of their share of the billowing ocean of God’s
grace, yet such things as have already been witnessed have come to pass! Reference to these
things hath also been made in the Qur’án, as witnessed by this verse: “What can such expect but
that God should come down to them overshadowed with clouds?”59 A number of the divines, who
hold ﬁrmly to the letter of the Word of God, have come to regard this verse as one of the signs of
that expected resurrection which is born of their idle fancy. This, notwithstanding the fact that
similar references have been made in most of the heavenly Books, and have been recorded in all
the passages connected with the signs of the coming Manifestation.
Likewise, He saith: “On the day when the heaven shall give out a palpable smoke, which
shall enshroud mankind: this will be an afﬂictive torment.”60 The All-Glorious hath decreed these
very things that are contrary to the desires of wicked men to be the touchstone and standard
whereby He proveth His servants, that the just may be known from the wicked, and the faithful
distinguished from the inﬁdel. The symbolic term “smoke” denotes grave dissensions, the
abrogation and demolition of recognized standards, and the utter destruction of their narrow-
minded exponents. What smoke more dense and overpowering than the one which hath now
enshrouded all the peoples of the world, which hath become a torment unto them, and from which
they hopelessly fail to deliver themselves, however much they strive? So ﬁerce is this ﬁre of self

burning within them, that at every moment they seem to be afﬂicted with fresh torments. The
more they are told that this wondrous Cause of God, this Revelation from the Most High, hath
been made manifest to all mankind, and is waxing greater and stronger every day, the ﬁercer
groweth the blaze of the ﬁre in their hearts. The more they observe the indomitable strength, the
sublime renunciation, the unwavering constancy of God’s holy companions, who, by the aid of
God, are growing nobler and more glorious every day, the deeper the dismay which ravageth their
souls. In these days, praise be to God, the power of His Word hath obtained such ascendancy over
men, that they dare breathe no word. Were they to encounter one of the companions of God who,
if he could, would, freely and joyously, offer up ten thousand lives as a sacriﬁce for his Beloved, so
great would be their fear, that they forthwith would profess their faith in Him, whilst privily they
would vilify and execrate His name! Even as He hath revealed: “And when they meet you, they
say, ‘We believe’; but when they are apart, they bite their ﬁngers’ ends at you, out of wrath. Say:
‘Die in your wrath!’ God truly knoweth the very recesses of your breasts.”61
Ere long, thine eyes will behold the standards of divine power unfurled throughout all regions,
and the signs of His triumphant might and sovereignty manifest in every land. As most of the
divines have failed to apprehend the meaning of these verses, and have not grasped the
signiﬁcance of the Day of Resurrection, they therefore have foolishly interpreted these verses
according to their idle and faulty conception. The one true God is My witness! Little perception is
required to enable them to gather from the symbolic language of these two verses all that We
have purposed to propound, and thus to attain, through the grace of the All-Merciful, the
resplendent morn of certitude. Such are the strains of celestial melody which the immortal Bird of
Heaven, warbling upon the Sadrih of Bahá, poureth out upon thee, that, by the permission of God,
thou mayest tread the path of divine knowledge and wisdom.
And now, concerning His words: “And He shall send His angels.…” By “angels” is meant those
who, reinforced by the power of the spirit, have consumed, with the ﬁre of the love of God, all
human traits and limitations, and have clothed themselves with the attributes of the most exalted
Beings and of the Cherubim. That holy man, Ṣádiq,62 in his eulogy of the Cherubim, saith: “There
stand a company of our fellow-Shí‘ihs behind the Throne.” Divers and manifold are the
interpretations of the words “behind the Throne.” In one sense, they indicate that no true Shí‘ihs
exist. Even as he hath said in another passage: “A true believer is likened unto the philosopher’s
stone.” Addressing subsequently his listener, he saith: “Hast thou ever seen the philosopher’s
stone?” Reﬂect, how this symbolic language, more eloquent than any speech, however direct,
testiﬁeth to the nonexistence of a true believer. Such is the testimony of Ṣádiq. And now consider,
how unfair and numerous are those who, although they themselves have failed to inhale the
fragrance of belief, have condemned as inﬁdels those by whose word belief itself is recognized and
established.
And now, inasmuch as these holy beings have sanctiﬁed themselves from every human
limitation, have become endowed with the attributes of the spiritual, and have been adorned with
the noble traits of the blessed, they therefore have been designated as “angels.” Such is the
meaning of these verses, every word of which hath been expounded by the aid of the most lucid
texts, the most convincing arguments, and the best established evidences.
As the adherents of Jesus have never understood the hidden meaning of these words, and as
the signs which they and the leaders of their Faith have expected have failed to appear, they
therefore refused to acknowledge, even until now, the truth of those Manifestations of Holiness
that have since the days of Jesus been made manifest. They have thus deprived themselves of the
outpourings of God’s holy grace, and of the wonders of His divine utterance. Such is their low
estate in this, the Day of Resurrection! They have even failed to perceive that were the signs of
the Manifestation of God in every age to appear in the visible realm in accordance with the text of
established traditions, none could possibly deny or turn away, nor would the blessed be
distinguished from the miserable, and the transgressor from the God-fearing. Judge fairly: Were
the prophecies recorded in the Gospel to be literally fulﬁlled; were Jesus, Son of Mary,
accompanied by angels, to descend from the visible heaven upon the clouds; who would dare to
disbelieve, who would dare to reject the truth, and wax disdainful? Nay, such consternation would

immediately seize all the dwellers of the earth that no soul would feel able to utter a word, much
less to reject or accept the truth. It was owing to their misunderstanding of these truths that many
a Christian divine hath objected to Muḥammad, and voiced his protest in such words: “If Thou art
in truth the promised Prophet, why then art Thou not accompanied by those angels our sacred
Books foretold, and which must needs descend with the promised Beauty to assist Him in His
Revelation and act as warners unto His people?” Even as the All-Glorious hath recorded their
statement: “Why hath not an angel been sent down to Him, so that he should have been a warner
with Him?”63
Such objections and differences have persisted in every age and century. The people have
always busied themselves with such specious discourses, vainly protesting: “Wherefore hath not
this or that sign appeared?” Such ills befell them only because they have clung to the ways of the
divines of the age in which they lived, and blindly imitated them in accepting or denying these
Essences of Detachment, these holy and divine Beings. These leaders, owing to their immersion in
selﬁsh desires, and their pursuit of transitory and sordid things, have regarded these divine
Luminaries as being opposed to the standards of their knowledge and understanding, and the
opponents of their ways and judgments. As they have literally interpreted the Word of God, and
the sayings and traditions of the Letters of Unity, and expounded them according to their own
deﬁcient understanding, they have therefore deprived themselves and all their people of the
bountiful showers of the grace and mercies of God. And yet they bear witness to this well-known
tradition: “Verily Our Word is abstruse, bewilderingly abstruse.” In another instance, it is said: “Our
Cause is sorely trying, highly perplexing; none can bear it except a favorite of heaven, or an
inspired Prophet, or he whose faith God hath tested.” These leaders of religion admit that none of
these three speciﬁed conditions is applicable to them. The ﬁrst two conditions are manifestly
beyond their reach; as to the third, it is evident that at no time have they been proof against those
tests that have been sent by God, and that when the divine Touchstone appeared, they have
shown themselves to be naught but dross.
Great God! Notwithstanding their acceptance of the truth of this tradition, these divines who
are still doubtful of, and dispute about, the theological obscurities of their faith, yet claim to be the
exponents of the subtleties of the law of God, and the expounders of the essential mysteries of
His holy Word. They conﬁdently assert that such traditions as indicate the advent of the expected
Qá’im have not yet been fulﬁlled, whilst they themselves have failed to inhale the fragrance of
the meaning of these traditions, and are still oblivious of the fact that all the signs foretold have
come to pass, that the way of God’s holy Cause hath been revealed, and the concourse of the
faithful, swift as lightning, are, even now, passing upon that way, whilst these foolish divines wait
expecting to witness the signs foretold. Say, O ye foolish ones! Wait ye even as those before you
are waiting!
Were they to be questioned concerning those signs that must needs herald the revelation and
rise of the sun of the Muḥammadan Dispensation, to which We have already referred, none of
which have been literally fulﬁlled, and were it to be said to them: “Wherefore have ye rejected the
claims advanced by Christians and the peoples of other faiths and regard them as inﬁdels,”
knowing not what answer to give, they will reply: “These Books have been corrupted and are not,
and never have been, of God.” Reﬂect: the words of the verses themselves eloquently testify to the
truth that they are of God. A similar verse hath been also revealed in the Qur’án, were ye of them
that comprehend. Verily I say, throughout all this period they have utterly failed to comprehend
what is meant by corrupting the text.
Yea, in the writings and utterances of the Mirrors reﬂecting the sun of the Muḥammadan
Dispensation mention hath been made of “Modiﬁcation by the exalted beings” and “alteration by
the disdainful.” Such passages, however, refer only to particular cases. Among them is the story of
Ibn-i-Ṣúríyá. When the people of Khaybar asked the focal center of the Muḥammadan Revelation
concerning the penalty of adultery committed between a married man and a married woman,
Muḥammad answered and said: “The law of God is death by stoning.” Whereupon they protested
saying: “No such law hath been revealed in the Pentateuch.” Muḥammad answered and said:
“Whom do ye regard among your rabbis as being a recognized authority and having a sure

knowledge of the truth?” They agreed upon Ibn-i-Súríyá. Thereupon Muḥammad summoned him
and said: “I adjure thee by God Who clove the sea for you, caused manna to descend upon you, and
the cloud to overshadow you, Who delivered you from Pharaoh and his people, and exalted you
above all human beings, to tell us what Moses hath decreed concerning adultery between a
married man and a married woman.” He made reply: “O Muḥammad! death by stoning is the law.”
Muḥammad observed: “Why is it then that this law is annulled and hath ceased to operate among
the Jews?” He answered and said: “When Nebuchadnezzar delivered Jerusalem to the ﬂames, and
put the Jews to death, only a few survived. The divines of that age, considering the extremely
limited number of the Jews, and the multitude of the Amalekites, took counsel together, and came
to the conclusion that were they to enforce the law of the Pentateuch, every survivor who hath
been delivered from the hand of Nebuchadnezzar would have to be put to death according to the
verdict of the Book. Owing to such considerations, they totally repealed the penalty of death.”
Meanwhile Gabriel inspired Muḥammad’s illumined heart with these words: “They pervert the
text of the Word of God.”64
This is one of the instances that have been referred to. Verily by “perverting” the text is not
meant that which these foolish and abject souls have fancied, even as some maintain that Jewish
and Christian divines have effaced from the Book such verses as extol and magnify the
countenance of Muḥammad, and instead thereof have inserted the contrary. How utterly vain and
false are these words! Can a man who believeth in a book, and deemeth it to be inspired by God,
mutilate it? Moreover, the Pentateuch had been spread over the surface of the earth, and was not
conﬁned to Mecca and Medina, so that they could privily corrupt and pervert its text. Nay, rather,
by corruption of the text is meant that in which all Muslim divines are engaged today, that is the
interpretation of God’s holy Book in accordance with their idle imaginings and vain desires. And as
the Jews, in the time of Muḥammad, interpreted those verses of the Pentateuch that referred to
His Manifestation after their own fancy, and refused to be satisﬁed with His holy utterance, the
charge of “perverting” the text was therefore pronounced against them. Likewise, it is clear, how
in this day, the people of the Qur’án have perverted the text of God’s holy Book, concerning the
signs of the expected Manifestation, and interpreted it according to their inclination and desires.
In yet another instance, He saith: “A part of them heard the Word of God, and then, after they
had understood it, distorted it, and knew that they did so.”65 This verse, too, doth indicate that the
meaning of the Word of God hath been perverted, not that the actual words have been effaced. To
the truth of this testify they that are sound of mind.
Again in another instance, He saith: “Woe unto those who, with their own hands, transcribe
the Book corruptly, and then say: ‘This is from God,’ that they may sell it for some mean price.”66
This verse was revealed with reference to the divines and leaders of the Jewish Faith. These
divines, in order to please the rich, acquire worldly emoluments, and give vent to their envy and
misbelief, wrote a number of treatises, refuting the claims of Muḥammad, supporting their
arguments with such evidences as it would be improper to mention, and claimed that these
arguments were derived from the text of the Pentateuch.
The same may be witnessed today. Consider how abundant are the denunciations written by
the foolish divines of this age against this most wondrous Cause! How vain their imaginings that
these calumnies are in conformity with the verses of God’s sacred Book, and in consonance with
the utterances of men of discernment!
Our purpose in relating these things is to warn you that were they to maintain that those
verses wherein the signs referred to in the Gospel are mentioned have been perverted, were they
to reject them, and cling instead to other verses and traditions, you should know that their words
were utter falsehood and sheer calumny. Yea “corruption” of the text, in the sense We have
referred to, hath been actually effected in particular instances. A few of these We have mentioned,
that it may become manifest to every discerning observer that unto a few untutored holy Men
hath been given the mastery of human learning, so that the malevolent opposer may cease to
contend that a certain verse doth indicate “corruption” of the text, and insinuate that We, through
lack of knowledge, have made mention of such things. Moreover, most of the verses that indicate

“corruption” of the text have been revealed with reference to the Jewish people, were ye to
explore the isles of Qur’ánic Revelation.
We have also heard a number of the foolish of the earth assert that the genuine text of the
heavenly Gospel doth not exist amongst the Christians, that it hath ascended unto heaven. How
grievously they have erred! How oblivious of the fact that such a statement imputeth the gravest
injustice and tyranny to a gracious and loving Providence! How could God, when once the Daystar
of the beauty of Jesus had disappeared from the sight of His people, and ascended unto the fourth
heaven, cause His holy Book, His most great testimony amongst His creatures, to disappear also?
What would be left to that people to cling to from the setting of the daystar of Jesus until the rise
of the sun of the Muḥammadan Dispensation? What law could be their stay and guide? How could
such people be made the victims of the avenging wrath of God, the omnipotent Avenger? How
could they be afﬂicted with the scourge of chastisement by the heavenly King? Above all, how
could the ﬂow of the grace of the All-Bountiful be stayed? How could the ocean of His tender
mercies be stilled? We take refuge with God, from that which His creatures have fancied about
Him! Exalted is He above their comprehension!
Dear friend! Now when the light of God’s everlasting Morn is breaking; when the radiance of
His holy words: “God is the light of the heavens and of the earth”67 is shedding illumination upon
all mankind; when the inviolability of His tabernacle is being proclaimed by His sacred utterance:
“God hath willed to perfect His light”;68 and the Hand of omnipotence, bearing His testimony: “In
His grasp He holdeth the kingdom of all things,” is being outstretched unto all the peoples and
kindreds of the earth; it behooveth us to gird up the loins of endeavor, that haply, by the grace and
bounty of God, we may enter the celestial City: “Verily, we are God’s,” and abide within the
exalted habitation: “And unto Him we do return.” It is incumbent upon thee, by the permission of
God, to cleanse the eye of thine heart from the things of the world, that thou mayest realize the
inﬁnitude of divine knowledge, and mayest behold Truth so clearly that thou wilt need no proof to
demonstrate His reality, nor any evidence to bear witness unto His testimony.
O affectionate seeker! Shouldst thou soar in the holy realm of the spirit, thou wouldst
recognize God manifest and exalted above all things, in such wise that thine eyes would behold
none else but Him. “God was alone; there was none else besides Him.” So lofty is this station that
no testimony can bear it witness, neither evidence do justice to its truth. Wert thou to explore the
sacred domain of truth, thou wilt ﬁnd that all things are known only by the light of His
recognition, that He hath ever been, and will continue forever to be, known through Himself. And
if thou dwellest in the land of testimony, content thyself with that which He, Himself, hath
revealed: “Is it not enough for them that We have sent down unto Thee the Book?”69 This is the
testimony which He, Himself, hath ordained; greater proof than this there is none, nor ever will
be: “This proof is His Word; His own Self, the testimony of His truth.”
And now, We beseech the people of the Bayán, all the learned, the sages, the divines, and
witnesses amongst them, not to forget the wishes and admonitions revealed in their Book. Let
them, at all times, ﬁx their gaze upon the essentials of His Cause, lest when He, Who is the
Quintessence of truth, the inmost Reality of all things, the Source of all light, is made manifest,
they cling unto certain passages of the Book, and inﬂict upon Him that which was inﬂicted in the
Dispensation of the Qur’án. For, verily, powerful is He, the King of divine might, to extinguish
with one letter of His wondrous words, the breath of life in the whole of the Bayán and the people
thereof, and with one letter bestow upon them a new and everlasting life, and cause them to arise
and speed out of the sepulchers of their vain and selﬁsh desires. Take heed, and be watchful; and
remember that all things have their consummation in belief in Him, in attainment unto His day,
and in the realization of His divine presence. “There is no piety in turning your faces toward the
east or toward the west, but he is pious who believeth in God and the Last Day.”70 Give ear, O
people of the Bayán, unto the truth whereunto We have admonished you, that haply ye may seek
the shelter of the shadow extended, in the Day of God, upon all mankind.
END OF PART ONE

Part Two
Verily He Who is the Daystar of Truth and Revealer of the Supreme Being holdeth, for all time,
undisputed sovereignty over all that is in heaven and on earth, though no man be found on earth
to obey Him. He verily is independent of all earthly dominion, though He be utterly destitute.
Thus We reveal unto thee the mysteries of the Cause of God, and bestow upon thee the gems of
divine wisdom, that haply thou mayest soar on the wings of renunciation to those heights that are
veiled from the eyes of men.
THE signiﬁcance and essential purpose underlying these words is to reveal and demonstrate unto
the pure in heart and the sanctiﬁed in spirit that they Who are the Luminaries of truth and the
Mirrors reﬂecting the light of divine Unity, in whatever age and cycle they are sent down from
their invisible habitations of ancient glory unto this world, to educate the souls of men and endue
with grace all created things, are invariably endowed with an all-compelling power, and invested
with invincible sovereignty. For these hidden Gems, these concealed and invisible Treasures, in
themselves manifest and vindicate the reality of these holy words: “Verily God doeth whatsoever
He willeth, and ordaineth whatsoever He pleaseth.”
To every discerning and illumined heart it is evident that God, the unknowable Essence, the
divine Being, is immensely exalted beyond every human attribute, such as corporeal existence,
ascent and descent, egress and regress. Far be it from His glory that human tongue should
adequately recount His praise, or that human heart comprehend His fathomless mystery. He is
and hath ever been veiled in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and will remain in His Reality
everlastingly hidden from the sight of men. “No vision taketh in Him, but He taketh in all vision;
He is the Subtile, the All-Perceiving.”71 No tie of direct intercourse can possibly bind Him to His
creatures. He standeth exalted beyond and above all separation and union, all proximity and
remoteness. No sign can indicate His presence or His absence; inasmuch as by a word of His
command all that are in heaven and on earth have come to exist, and by His wish, which is the
Primal Will itself, all have stepped out of utter nothingness into the realm of being, the world of
the visible.
Gracious God! How could there be conceived any existing relationship or possible connection
between His Word and they that are created of it? The verse: “God would have you beware of
Himself”72 unmistakably beareth witness to the reality of Our argument, and the words: “God was
alone; there was none else besides Him” are a sure testimony of its truth. All the Prophets of God
and their chosen Ones, all the divines, the sages, and the wise of every generation, unanimously
recognize their inability to attain unto the comprehension of that Quintessence of all truth, and
confess their incapacity to grasp Him, Who is the inmost Reality of all things.
The door of the knowledge of the Ancient of Days being thus closed in the face of all beings,
the Source of inﬁnite grace, according to His saying: “His grace hath transcended all things; My
grace hath encompassed them all” hath caused those luminous Gems of Holiness to appear out of
the realm of the spirit, in the noble form of the human temple, and be made manifest unto all
men, that they may impart unto the world the mysteries of the unchangeable Being, and tell of
the subtleties of His imperishable Essence. These sanctiﬁed Mirrors, these Daysprings of ancient
glory are one and all the Exponents on earth of Him Who is the central Orb of the universe, its
Essence and ultimate Purpose. From Him proceed their knowledge and power; from Him is derived
their sovereignty. The beauty of their countenance is but a reﬂection of His image, and their
revelation a sign of His deathless glory. They are the Treasuries of divine knowledge, and the
Repositories of celestial wisdom. Through them is transmitted a grace that is inﬁnite, and by them
is revealed the light that can never fade. Even as He hath said: “There is no distinction whatsoever
between Thee and them; except that they are Thy servants, and are created of Thee.” This is the
signiﬁcance of the tradition: “I am He, Himself, and He is I, myself.”
The traditions and sayings that bear direct reference to Our theme are divers and manifold;
We have refrained from quoting them for the sake of brevity. Nay, whatever is in the heavens and
whatever is on the earth is a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the attributes and

names of God, inasmuch as within every atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent
testimony to the revelation of that most great Light. Methinks, but for the potency of that
revelation, no being could ever exist. How resplendent the luminaries of knowledge that shine in
an atom, and how vast the oceans of wisdom that surge within a drop! To a supreme degree is this
true of man, who, among all created things, hath been invested with the robe of such gifts, and
hath been singled out for the glory of such distinction. For in him are potentially revealed all the
attributes and names of God to a degree that no other created being hath excelled or surpassed. All
these names and attributes are applicable to him. Even as He hath said: “Man is My mystery, and I
am his mystery.” Manifold are the verses that have been repeatedly revealed in all the heavenly
Books and the holy Scriptures, expressive of this most subtle and lofty theme. Even as He hath
revealed: “We will surely show them Our signs in the world and within themselves.”73 Again He
saith: “And also in your own selves: will ye not then behold the signs of God?”74 And yet again He
revealeth: “And be ye not like those who forget God, and whom He hath therefore caused to forget
their own selves.”75 In this connection, He Who is the eternal King—may the souls of all that dwell
within the mystic Tabernacle be a sacriﬁce unto Him—hath spoken: “He hath known God who
hath known himself.”
I swear by God, O esteemed and honored friend! Shouldst thou ponder these words in thine
heart, thou wilt of a certainty ﬁnd the doors of divine wisdom and inﬁnite knowledge ﬂung open
before thy face.
From that which hath been said it becometh evident that all things, in their inmost reality,
testify to the revelation of the names and attributes of God within them. Each according to its
capacity, indicateth, and is expressive of, the knowledge of God. So potent and universal is this
revelation, that it hath encompassed all things, visible and invisible. Thus hath He revealed: “Hath
aught else save Thee a power of revelation which is not possessed by Thee, that it could have
manifested Thee? Blind is the eye which doth not perceive Thee.” Likewise, hath the eternal King
spoken: “No thing have I perceived, except that I perceived God within it, God before it, or God
after it.” Also in the tradition of Kumayl it is written: “Behold, a light hath shone forth out of the
Morn of eternity, and lo! its waves have penetrated the inmost reality of all men.” Man, the
noblest and most perfect of all created things, excelleth them all in the intensity of this revelation,
and is a fuller expression of its glory. And of all men, the most accomplished, the most
distinguished and the most excellent are the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth. Nay, all else
besides these Manifestations live by the operation of their Will, and move and have their being
through the outpourings of their grace. “But for Thee, I would have not created the heavens.” Nay,
all in their holy presence fade into utter nothingness, and are a thing forgotten. Human tongue
can never beﬁttingly sing their praise, and human speech can never unfold their mystery. These
Tabernacles of holiness, these primal Mirrors which reﬂect the light of unfading glory, are but
expressions of Him Who is the Invisible of the Invisibles. By the revelation of these gems of divine
virtue all the names and attributes of God, such as knowledge and power, sovereignty and
dominion, mercy and wisdom, glory, bounty and grace, are made manifest.
These attributes of God are not and have never been vouchsafed specially unto certain
Prophets, and withheld from others. Nay, all the Prophets of God, His well-favored, His holy, and
chosen Messengers, are, without exception, the bearers of His names, and the embodiments of His
attributes. They only differ in the intensity of their revelation, and the comparative potency of
their light. Even as He hath revealed: “Some of the Apostles We have caused to excel the others.”76
It hath therefore become manifest and evident that within the tabernacles of these Prophets and
chosen Ones of God the light of His inﬁnite names and exalted attributes hath been reﬂected, even
though the light of some of these attributes may or may not be outwardly revealed from these
luminous Temples to the eyes of men. That a certain attribute of God hath not been outwardly
manifested by these Essences of Detachment doth in no wise imply that they Who are the
Daysprings of God’s attributes and the Treasuries of His holy names did not actually possess it.
Therefore, these illuminated Souls, these beauteous Countenances have, each and every one of
them, been endowed with all the attributes of God, such as sovereignty, dominion, and the like,

even though to outward seeming they be shorn of all earthly majesty. To every discerning eye this
is evident and manifest; it requireth neither proof nor evidence.
Yea, inasmuch as the peoples of the world have failed to seek from the luminous and crystal
Springs of divine knowledge the inner meaning of God’s holy words, they therefore have
languished, stricken and sore athirst, in the vale of idle fancy and waywardness. They have
strayed far from the fresh and thirst-subduing waters, and gathered round the salt that burneth
bitterly. Concerning them, the Dove of Eternity hath spoken: “And if they see the path of
righteousness, they will not take it for their path; but if they see the path of error, for their path
will they take it. This, because they treated Our signs as lies, and were heedless of them.”77
To this testiﬁeth that which hath been witnessed in this wondrous and exalted Dispensation.
Myriads of holy verses have descended from the heaven of might and grace, yet no one hath
turned thereunto, nor ceased to cling to those words of men, not one letter of which they that
have spoken them comprehend. For this reason the people have doubted incontestable truths, such
as these, and caused themselves to be deprived of the Riḍván of divine knowledge, and the eternal
meads of celestial wisdom.
And now, to resume Our argument concerning the question: Why is it that the sovereignty of
the Qá’im, afﬁrmed in the text of recorded traditions, and handed down by the shining stars of the
Muḥammadan Dispensation, hath not in the least been made manifest? Nay, the contrary hath
come to pass. Have not His disciples and companions been afﬂicted of men? Are they not still the
victims of the ﬁerce opposition of their enemies? Are they not today leading the life of abased and
impotent mortals? Yea, the sovereignty attributed to the Qá’im and spoken of in the scriptures is a
reality, the truth of which none can doubt. This sovereignty, however, is not the sovereignty which
the minds of men have falsely imagined. Moreover, the Prophets of old, each and every one,
whenever announcing to the people of their day the advent of the coming Revelation, have
invariably and speciﬁcally referred to that sovereignty with which the promised Manifestation
must needs be invested. This is attested by the records of the scriptures of the past. This
sovereignty hath not been solely and exclusively attributed to the Qá’im. Nay rather, the attribute
of sovereignty and all other names and attributes of God have been and will ever be vouchsafed
unto all the Manifestations of God, before and after Him, inasmuch as these Manifestations, as it
hath already been explained, are the Embodiments of the attributes of God, the Invisible, and the
Revealers of the divine mysteries.
Furthermore, by sovereignty is meant the all-encompassing, all-pervading power which is
inherently exercised by the Qá’im whether or not He appear to the world clothed in the majesty
of earthly dominion. This is solely dependent upon the will and pleasure of the Qá’im Himself.
You will readily recognize that the terms sovereignty, wealth, life, death, judgment and
resurrection, spoken of by the scriptures of old, are not what this generation hath conceived and
vainly imagined. Nay, by sovereignty is meant that sovereignty which in every dispensation
resideth within, and is exercised by, the person of the Manifestation, the Daystar of Truth. That
sovereignty is the spiritual ascendancy which He exerciseth to the fullest degree over all that is in
heaven and on earth, and which in due time revealeth itself to the world in direct proportion to its
capacity and spiritual receptiveness, even as the sovereignty of Muḥammad, the Messenger of
God, is today apparent and manifest amongst the people. You are well aware of what befell His
Faith in the early days of His dispensation. What woeful sufferings did the hand of the inﬁdel and
erring, the divines of that age and their associates, inﬂict upon that spiritual Essence, that most
pure and holy Being! How abundant the thorns and briars which they have strewn over His path!
It is evident that wretched generation, in their wicked and satanic fancy, regarded every injury to
that immortal Being as a means to the attainment of an abiding felicity; inasmuch as the
recognized divines of that age, such as ‘Abdu’lláh-i-Ubayy, Abú-‘Ámir, the hermit, Ka‘b-Ibn-i-
Ashraf, and Naḍr-Ibn-i-Ḥárith, all treated Him as an impostor, and pronounced Him a lunatic and a
calumniator. Such sore accusations they brought against Him that in recounting them God
forbiddeth the ink to ﬂow, Our pen to move, or the page to bear them. These malicious
imputations provoked the people to arise and torment Him. And how ﬁerce that torment if the
divines of the age be its chief instigators, if they denounce Him to their followers, cast Him out

from their midst, and declare Him a miscreant! Hath not the same befallen this Servant, and been
witnessed by all?
For this reason did Muḥammad cry out: “No Prophet of God hath suffered such harm as I have
suffered.” And in the Qur’án are recorded all the calumnies and reproaches uttered against Him, as
well as all the afﬂictions which He suffered. Refer ye thereunto, that haply ye may be informed of
that which hath befallen His Revelation. So grievous was His plight, that for a time all ceased to
hold intercourse with Him and His companions. Whoever associated with Him fell a victim to the
relentless cruelty of His enemies.
We shall cite in this connection only one verse of that Book. Shouldst thou observe it with a
discerning eye, thou wilt, all the remaining days of thy life, lament and bewail the injury of
Muḥammad, that wronged and oppressed Messenger of God. That verse was revealed at a time
when Muḥammad languished weary and sorrowful beneath the weight of the opposition of the
people, and of their unceasing torture. In the midst of His agony, the Voice of Gabriel, calling from
the Sadratu’l-Muntahá, was heard saying: “But if their opposition be grievous to Thee—if Thou
canst, seek out an opening into the earth or a ladder into heaven.”78 The implication of this
utterance is that His case had no remedy, that they would not withhold their hands from Him
unless He should hide Himself beneath the depths of the earth, or take His ﬂight unto heaven.
Consider, how great is the change today! Behold, how many are the Sovereigns who bow the
knee before His name! How numerous the nations and kingdoms who have sought the shelter of
His shadow, who bear allegiance to His Faith, and pride themselves therein! From the pulpit-top
there ascendeth today the words of praise which, in utter lowliness, glorify His blessed name; and
from the heights of minarets there resoundeth the call that summoneth the concourse of His
people to adore Him. Even those Kings of the earth who have refused to embrace His Faith and to
put off the garment of unbelief, nonetheless confess and acknowledge the greatness and
overpowering majesty of that Daystar of loving-kindness. Such is His earthly sovereignty, the
evidences of which thou dost on every side behold. This sovereignty must needs be revealed and
established either in the lifetime of every Manifestation of God or after His ascension unto His
true habitation in the realms above. What thou dost witness today is but a conﬁrmation of this
truth. That spiritual ascendancy, however, which is primarily intended, resideth within, and
revolveth around Them from eternity even unto eternity. It can never for a moment be divorced
from Them. Its dominion hath encompassed all that is in heaven and on earth.
The following is an evidence of the sovereignty exercised by Muḥammad, the Daystar of
Truth. Hast thou not heard how with one single verse He hath sundered light from darkness, the
righteous from the ungodly, and the believing from the inﬁdel? All the signs and allusions
concerning the Day of Judgment, which thou hast heard, such as the raising of the dead, the Day
of Reckoning, the Last Judgment, and others have been made manifest through the revelation of
that verse. These revealed words were a blessing to the righteous who on hearing them exclaimed:
“O God our Lord, we have heard, and obeyed.” They were a curse to the people of iniquity who, on
hearing them, afﬁrmed: “We have heard and rebelled.” Those words, sharp as the sword of God,
have separated the faithful from the inﬁdel, and severed father from son. Thou hast surely
witnessed how they that have confessed their faith in Him and they that rejected Him have
warred against each other, and sought one another’s property. How many fathers have turned
away from their sons; how many lovers have shunned their beloved! So mercilessly trenchant was
this wondrous sword of God that it cleft asunder every relationship! On the other hand, consider
the welding power of His Word. Observe, how those in whose midst the Satan of self had for years
sown the seeds of malice and hate became so fused and blended through their allegiance to this
wondrous and transcendent Revelation that it seemed as if they had sprung from the same loins.
Such is the binding force of the Word of God, which uniteth the hearts of them that have
renounced all else but Him, who have believed in His signs, and quaffed from the Hand of glory
the Kawthar of God’s holy grace. Furthermore, how numerous are those peoples of divers beliefs,
of conﬂicting creeds, and opposing temperaments, who, through the reviving fragrance of the
Divine springtime, breathing from the Riḍván of God, have been arrayed with the new robe of
divine Unity, and have drunk from the cup of His singleness!

This is the signiﬁcance of the well-known words: “The wolf and the lamb shall feed
together.”79 Behold the ignorance and folly of those who, like the nations of old, are still expecting
to witness the time when these beasts will feed together in one pasture! Such is their low estate.
Methinks, never have their lips touched the cup of understanding, neither have their feet trodden
the path of justice. Besides, of what proﬁt would it be to the world were such a thing to take
place? How well hath He spoken concerning them: “Hearts have they, with which they
understand not, and eyes have they with which they see not!”80
Consider how with this one verse which hath descended from the heaven of the Will of God,
the world and all that is therein have been brought to a reckoning with Him. Whosoever
acknowledged His truth and turned unto Him, his good works outweighed his misdeeds, and all his
sins were remitted and forgiven. Thereby is the truth of these words concerning Him made
manifest: “Swift is He in reckoning.” Thus God turneth iniquity into righteousness, were ye to
explore the realms of divine knowledge, and fathom the mysteries of His wisdom. In like manner,
whosoever partook of the cup of love, obtained his portion of the ocean of eternal grace and of the
showers of everlasting mercy, and entered into the life of faith—the heavenly and everlasting life.
But he that turned away from that cup was condemned to eternal death. By the terms “life” and
“death,” spoken of in the scriptures, is intended the life of faith and the death of unbelief. The
generality of the people, owing to their failure to grasp the meaning of these words, rejected and
despised the person of the Manifestation, deprived themselves of the light of His divine guidance,
and refused to follow the example of that immortal Beauty.
When the light of Qur’ánic Revelation was kindled within the chamber of Muḥammad’s holy
heart, He passed upon the people the verdict of the Last Day, the verdict of resurrection, of
judgment, of life, and of death. Thereupon the standards of revolt were hoisted, and the doors of
derision opened. Thus hath He, the Spirit of God, recorded, as spoken by the inﬁdels: “And if thou
shouldst say, ‘After death ye shall surely be raised again,’ the inﬁdels will certainly exclaim, ‘This
is nothing but manifest sorcery.’”81 Again He speaketh: “If ever thou dost marvel, marvelous
surely is their saying, ‘What! When we have become dust, shall we be restored in a new
creation?’”82 Thus, in another passage, He wrathfully exclaimeth: “Are We wearied out with the
ﬁrst creation? Yet are they in doubt with regard to a new creation!”83
As the commentators of the Qur’án and they that follow the letter thereof misapprehended
the inner meaning of the words of God and failed to grasp their essential purpose, they sought to
demonstrate that, according to the rules of grammar, whenever the term “idhá” (meaning “if” or
“when”) precedeth the past tense, it invariably hath reference to the future. Later, they were sore
perplexed in attempting to explain those verses of the Book wherein that term did not actually
occur. Even as He hath revealed: “And there was a blast on the trumpet—lo! it is the threatened
Day! And every soul is summoned to a reckoning—with him an impeller and a witness.”84 In
explaining this and similar verses, they have in some cases argued that the term “idhá” is implied.
In other instances, they have idly contended that whereas the Day of Judgment is inevitable, it
hath therefore been referred to as an event not of the future but of the past. How vain their
sophistry! How grievous their blindness! They refuse to recognize the trumpet-blast which so
explicitly in this text was sounded through the revelation of Muḥammad. They deprive
themselves of the regenerating Spirit of God that breathed into it, and foolishly expect to hear the
trumpet-sound of the Seraph of God who is but one of His servants! Hath not the Seraph himself,
the angel of the Judgment Day, and his like been ordained by Muḥammad’s own utterance? Say:
What! Will ye give that which is for your good in exchange for that which is evil? Wretched is that
which ye have falsely exchanged! Surely ye are a people, evil, in grievous loss.
Nay, by “trumpet” is meant the trumpet-call of Muḥammad’s Revelation, which was sounded
in the heart of the universe, and by “resurrection” is meant His own rise to proclaim the Cause of
God. He bade the erring and wayward arise and speed out of the sepulchers of their bodies,
arrayed them with the beauteous robe of faith, and quickened them with the breath of a new and
wondrous life. Thus at the hour when Muḥammad, that divine Beauty, purposed to unveil one of
the mysteries hidden in the symbolic terms “resurrection,” “judgment,” “paradise,” and “hell,”
Gabriel, the Voice of Inspiration, was heard saying: “Erelong will they wag their heads at Thee,

and say, ‘When shall this be?’ Say: ‘Perchance it is nigh.’”85 The implications of this verse alone
sufﬁce the peoples of the world, were they to ponder it in their hearts.
Gracious God! How far have that people strayed from the way of God! Although the Day of
Resurrection was ushered in through the Revelation of Muḥammad, although His light and tokens
had encompassed the earth and all that is therein, yet that people derided Him, gave themselves
up to those idols which the divines of that age, in their vain and idle fancy, had conceived, and
deprived themselves of the light of heavenly grace and of the showers of divine mercy. Yea, the
abject beetle can never scent the fragrance of holiness, and the bat of darkness can never face the
splendor of the sun.
Such things have come to pass in the days of every Manifestation of God. Even as Jesus said:
“Ye must be born again.”86 Again He saith: “Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he
cannot enter into the Kingdom of God. That which is born of the ﬂesh is ﬂesh; and that which is
born of the Spirit is spirit.”87 The purport of these words is that whosoever in every dispensation is
born of the Spirit and is quickened by the breath of the Manifestation of Holiness, he verily is of
those that have attained unto “life” and “resurrection” and have entered into the “paradise” of the
love of God. And whosoever is not of them, is condemned to “death” and “deprivation,” to the “ﬁre”
of unbelief, and to the “wrath” of God. In all the scriptures, the books and chronicles, the sentence
of death, of ﬁre, of blindness, of want of understanding and hearing, hath been pronounced against
those whose lips have tasted not the ethereal cup of true knowledge, and whose hearts have been
deprived of the grace of the holy Spirit in their day. Even as it hath been previously recorded:
“Hearts have they with which they understand not.”88
In another passage of the Gospel it is written: “And it came to pass that on a certain day the
father of one of the disciples of Jesus had died.” That disciple reporting the death of his father
unto Jesus, asked for leave to go and bury him. Whereupon, Jesus, that Essence of Detachment,
answered and said: “Let the dead bury their dead.”89
In like manner, two of the people of Kúﬁh went to ‘Alí, the Commander of the Faithful. One
owned a house and wished to sell it; the other was to be the purchaser. They had agreed that this
transaction should be effected and the contract be written with the knowledge of ‘Alí. He, the
exponent of the law of God, addressing the scribe, said: “Write thou: ‘A dead man hath bought
from another dead man a house. That house is bounded by four limits. One extendeth toward the
tomb, the other to the vault of the grave, the third to the Ṣiráṭ, the fourth to either Paradise or
hell.’” Reﬂect, had these two souls been quickened by the trumpet-call of ‘Alí, had they risen from
the grave of error by the power of his love, the judgment of death would certainly not have been
pronounced against them.
In every age and century, the purpose of the Prophets of God and their chosen ones hath been
no other but to afﬁrm the spiritual signiﬁcance of the terms “life,” “resurrection,” and “judgment.”
If one will ponder but for a while this utterance of ‘Alí in his heart, one will surely discover all
mysteries hidden in the terms “grave,” “tomb,” “ṣiráṭ,” “paradise” and “hell.” But oh! how strange
and pitiful! Behold, all the people are imprisoned within the tomb of self, and lie buried beneath
the nethermost depths of worldly desire! Wert thou to attain to but a dewdrop of the crystal
waters of divine knowledge, thou wouldst readily realize that true life is not the life of the ﬂesh
but the life of the spirit. For the life of the ﬂesh is common to both men and animals, whereas the
life of the spirit is possessed only by the pure in heart who have quaffed from the ocean of faith
and partaken of the fruit of certitude. This life knoweth no death, and this existence is crowned by
immortality. Even as it hath been said: “He who is a true believer liveth both in this world and in
the world to come.” If by “life” be meant this earthly life, it is evident that death must needs
overtake it.
Similarly, the records of all the scriptures bear witness to this lofty truth and this most
exalted word. Moreover, this verse of the Qur’án, revealed concerning Ḥamzih, the “Prince of
Martyrs,”90 and Abú-Jahl, is a luminous evidence and sure testimony of the truth of Our saying:
“Shall the dead, whom We have quickened, and for whom We have ordained a light whereby he
may walk among men, be like him, whose likeness is in the darkness, whence he will not come
forth?”91 This verse descended from the heaven of the Primal Will at a time when Ḥamzih had

already been invested with the sacred mantle of faith, and Abú-Jahl had waxed relentless in his
opposition and unbelief. From the Wellspring of omnipotence and the Source of eternal holiness,
there came the judgment that conferred everlasting life upon Ḥamzih, and condemned Abú-Jahl to
eternal damnation. This was the signal that caused the ﬁres of unbelief to glow with the hottest
ﬂame in the heart of the inﬁdels, and provoked them openly to repudiate His truth. They loudly
clamored: “When did Ḥamzih die? When was he risen? At what hour was such a life conferred
upon him?” As they understood not the signiﬁcance of these noble sayings, nor sought
enlightenment from the recognized expounders of the Faith, that these might confer a sprinkling
of the Kawthar of divine knowledge upon them, therefore such ﬁres of mischief were kindled
amongst men.
Thou dost witness today how, notwithstanding the radiant splendor of the Sun of divine
knowledge, all the people, whether high or low, have clung to the ways of those abject
manifestations of the Prince of Darkness. They continually appeal to them for aid in unraveling
the intricacies of their Faith, and, owing to lack of knowledge, they make such replies as can in no
wise damage their fame and fortune. It is evident that these souls, vile and miserable as the beetle
itself, have had no portion of the musk-laden breeze of eternity, and have never entered the
Riḍván of heavenly delight. How, therefore, can they impart unto others the imperishable
fragrance of holiness? Such is their way, and such will it remain forever. Only those will attain to
the knowledge of the Word of God that have turned unto Him, and repudiated the manifestations
of Satan. Thus God hath reafﬁrmed the law of the day of His Revelation, and inscribed it with the
pen of power upon the mystic Tablet hidden beneath the veil of celestial glory. Wert thou to heed
these words, wert thou to ponder their outward and inner meaning in thy heart, thou wouldst
seize the signiﬁcance of all the abstruse problems which, in this day, have become insuperable
barriers between men and the knowledge of the Day of Judgment. Then wilt thou have no more
questions to perplex thee. We fain would hope that, God willing, thou wilt not return, deprived
and still athirst, from the shores of the ocean of divine mercy, nor come back destitute from the
imperishable Sanctuary of thy heart’s desire. Let it now be seen what thy search and endeavors
will achieve.
To resume: Our purpose in setting forth these truths hath been to demonstrate the
sovereignty of Him Who is the King of kings. Be fair: Is this sovereignty which, through the
utterance of one Word, hath manifested such pervading inﬂuence, ascendancy, and awful majesty,
is this sovereignty superior, or is the worldly dominion of these kings of the earth who, despite
their solicitude for their subjects and their help of the poor, are assured only of an outward and
ﬂeeting allegiance, while in the hearts of men they inspire neither affection nor respect? Hath not
that sovereignty, through the potency of one word, subdued, quickened, and revitalized the whole
world? What! Can the lowly dust compare with Him Who is the Lord of Lords? What tongue dare
utter the immensity of difference that lieth between them? Nay, all comparison falleth short in
attaining the hallowed sanctuary of His sovereignty. Were man to reﬂect, he would surely
perceive that even the servant of His threshold ruleth over all created things! This hath already
been witnessed, and will in future be made manifest.
This is but one of the meanings of the spiritual sovereignty which We have set forth in
accordance with the capacity and receptiveness of the people. For He, the Mover of all beings, that
gloriﬁed Countenance, is the source of such potencies as neither this wronged One can reveal, nor
this unworthy people comprehend. Immensely exalted is He above men’s praise of His
sovereignty; gloriﬁed is He beyond that which they attribute unto Him!
And now, ponder this in thine heart: Were sovereignty to mean earthly sovereignty and
worldly dominion, were it to imply the subjection and external allegiance of all the peoples and
kindreds of the earth—whereby His loved ones should be exalted and be made to live in peace, and
His enemies be abased and tormented—such form of sovereignty would not be true of God
Himself, the Source of all dominion, Whose majesty and power all things testify. For, dost thou not
witness how the generality of mankind is under the sway of His enemies? Have they not all
turned away from the path of His good-pleasure? Have they not done that which He hath
forbidden, and left undone, nay repudiated and opposed, those things which He hath commanded?

Have not His friends ever been the victims of the tyranny of His foes? All these things are more
obvious than even the splendor of the noontide sun.
Know, therefore, O questioning seeker, that earthly sovereignty is of no worth, nor will it ever
be, in the eyes of God and His chosen Ones. Moreover, if ascendancy and dominion be interpreted
to mean earthly supremacy and temporal power, how impossible will it be for thee to explain
these verses: “And verily Our host shall conquer.”92 “Fain would they put out God’s light with their
mouths: But God hath willed to perfect His light, albeit the inﬁdels abhor it.”93 “He is the
Dominant, above all things.” Similarly, most of the Qur’án testiﬁeth to this truth.
Were the idle contention of these foolish and despicable souls to be true, they would have
none other alternative than to reject all these holy utterances and heavenly allusions. For no
warrior could be found on earth more excellent and nearer to God than Ḥusayn, son of ‘Alí, so
peerless and incomparable was he. “There was none to equal or to match him in the world.” Yet,
thou must have heard what befell him. “God’s malison on the head of the people of tyranny!”94
Were the verse “And verily Our host shall conquer” to be literally interpreted, it is evident
that it would in no wise be applicable to the chosen Ones of God and His hosts, inasmuch as
Ḥusayn, whose heroism was manifest as the sun, crushed and subjugated, quaffed at last the cup
of martyrdom in Karbilá, the land of Ṭaff. Similarly, the sacred verse “Fain would they put out
God’s light with their mouths: But God hath willed to perfect His light, albeit the inﬁdels abhor it.”
Were it to be literally interpreted it would never correspond with the truth. For in every age the
light of God hath, to outward seeming, been quenched by the peoples of the earth, and the Lamps
of God extinguished by them. How then could the ascendancy of the sovereignty of these Lamps
be explained? What could the potency of God’s will to “perfect His light” signify? As hath already
been witnessed, so great was the enmity of the inﬁdels, that none of these divine Luminaries ever
found a place for shelter, or tasted of the cup of tranquillity. So heavily were they oppressed, that
the least of men inﬂicted upon these Essences of being whatsoever he listed. These sufferings
have been observed and measured by the people. How, therefore, can such people be capable of
understanding and expounding these words of God, these verses of everlasting glory?
But the purpose of these verses is not what they have imagined. Nay, the terms “ascendancy,”
“power,” and “authority” imply a totally different station and meaning. For instance, consider the
pervading power of those drops of the blood of Ḥusayn which besprinkled the earth. What
ascendancy and inﬂuence hath the dust itself, through the sacredness and potency of that blood,
exercised over the bodies and souls of men! So much so, that he who sought deliverance from his
ills, was healed by touching the dust of that holy ground, and whosoever, wishing to protect his
property, treasured with absolute faith and understanding, a little of that holy earth within his
house, safeguarded all his possessions. These are the outward manifestations of its potency. And
were We to recount its hidden virtues they would assuredly say: “He verily hath considered the
dust to be the Lord of Lords, and hath utterly forsaken the Faith of God.”
Furthermore, call to mind the shameful circumstances that have attended the martyrdom of
Ḥusayn. Reﬂect upon his loneliness, how, to outer seeming, none could be found to aid him, none
to take up his body and bury it. And yet, behold how numerous, in this day, are those who from
the uttermost corners of the earth don the garb of pilgrimage, seeking the site of his martyrdom,
that there they may lay their heads upon the threshold of his shrine! Such is the ascendancy and
power of God! Such is the glory of His dominion and majesty!
Think not that because these things have come to pass after Ḥusayn’s martyrdom, therefore
all this glory hath been of no proﬁt unto him. For that holy soul is immortal, liveth the life of God,
and abideth within the retreats of celestial glory upon the Sadrih of heavenly reunion. These
Essences of being are the shining Exemplars of sacriﬁce. They have offered, and will continue to
offer up their lives, their substance, their souls, their spirit, their all, in the path of the Well-
Beloved. By them, no station, however exalted, could be more dearly cherished. For lovers have no
desire but the good-pleasure of their Beloved, and have no aim except reunion with Him.
Should We wish to impart unto thee a glimmer of the mysteries of Ḥusayn’s martyrdom, and
reveal unto thee the fruits thereof, these pages could never sufﬁce, nor exhaust their meaning.
Our hope is that, God willing, the breeze of mercy may blow, and the divine Springtime clothe the

tree of being with the robe of a new life; so that we may discover the mysteries of divine Wisdom,
and, through His providence, be made independent of the knowledge of all things. We have, as yet,
descried none but a handful of souls, destitute of all renown, who have attained unto this station.
Let the future disclose what the Judgment of God will ordain, and the Tabernacle of His decree
reveal. In such wise We recount unto thee the wonders of the Cause of God, and pour out into
thine ears the strains of heavenly melody, that haply thou mayest attain unto the station of true
knowledge, and partake of the fruit thereof. Therefore, know thou of a certainty that these
Luminaries of heavenly majesty, though their dwelling be in the dust, yet their true habitation is
the seat of glory in the realms above. Though bereft of all earthly possessions, yet they soar in the
realms of immeasurable riches. And whilst sore tried in the grip of the enemy, they are seated on
the right hand of power and celestial dominion. Amidst the darkness of their abasement there
shineth upon them the light of unfading glory, and upon their helplessness are showered the
tokens of an invincible sovereignty.
Thus Jesus, Son of Mary, whilst seated one day and speaking in the strain of the Holy Spirit,
uttered words such as these: “O people! My food is the grass of the ﬁeld, wherewith I satisfy my
hunger. My bed is the dust, my lamp in the night the light of the moon, and my steed my own
feet. Behold, who on earth is richer than I?” By the righteousness of God! Thousands of treasures
circle round this poverty, and a myriad kingdoms of glory yearn for such abasement! Shouldst thou
attain to a drop of the ocean of the inner meaning of these words, thou wouldst surely forsake the
world and all that is therein, and, as the Phoenix, wouldst consume thyself in the ﬂames of the
undying Fire.
In like manner, it is related that on a certain day, one of the companions of Ṣádiq complained
of his poverty before him. Whereupon, Ṣádiq, that immortal beauty, made reply: “Verily thou art
rich, and hast drunk the draft of wealth.” That poverty-stricken soul was perplexed at the words
uttered by that luminous countenance, and said: “Where are my riches, I who stand in need of a
single coin?” Ṣádiq thereupon observed: “Dost thou not possess our love?” He replied: “Yea, I
possess it, O thou scion of the Prophet of God!” And Ṣádiq asked him saying: “Exchangest thou
this love for one thousand dinars?” He answered: “Nay, never will I exchange it, though the world
and all that is therein be given me!” Then Ṣádiq remarked: “How can he who possesses such a
treasure be called poor?”
This poverty and these riches, this abasement and glory, this dominion, power, and the like,
upon which the eyes and hearts of these vain and foolish souls are set—all these things fade into
utter nothingness in that Court! Even as He hath said: “O men! Ye are but paupers in need of God;
but God is the Rich, the Self-Sufﬁcing.”95 By “riches” therefore is meant independence of all else
but God, and by “poverty” the lack of things that are of God.
Similarly, call thou to mind the day when the Jews, who had surrounded Jesus, Son of Mary,
were pressing Him to confess His claim of being the Messiah and Prophet of God, so that they
might declare Him an inﬁdel and sentence Him to death. Then they led Him away, He Who was
the Daystar of the heaven of divine Revelation, unto Pilate and Caiaphas, who was the leading
divine of that age. The chief priests were all assembled in the palace, also a multitude of people
who had gathered to witness His sufferings, to deride and injure Him. Though they repeatedly
questioned Him, hoping that He would confess His claim, yet Jesus held His peace and spake not.
Finally, an accursed of God arose and, approaching Jesus, adjured Him saying: “Didst thou not
claim to be the Divine Messiah? Didst thou not say, ‘I am the King of Kings, My word is the Word
of God, and I am the breaker of the Sabbath day’?” Thereupon Jesus lifted up His head and said:
“Beholdest thou not the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and might?” These were
His words, and yet consider how to outward seeming He was devoid of all power except that inner
power which was of God and which had encompassed all that is in heaven and on earth. How can
I relate all that befell Him after He spoke these words? How shall I describe their heinous
behavior towards Him? They at last heaped on His blessed Person such woes that He took His
ﬂight unto the fourth Heaven.
It is also recorded in the Gospel according to St. Luke, that on a certain day Jesus passed by a
Jew who was sick of the palsy, and lay upon a couch. When the Jew saw Him, he recognized Him,

and cried out for His help. Jesus said unto him: “Arise from thy bed; thy sins are forgiven thee.”
Certain of the Jews, standing by, protested saying: “Who can forgive sins, but God alone?” And
immediately He perceived their thoughts, Jesus answering said unto them: “Whether is it easier to
say to the sick of the palsy, arise, and take up thy bed, and walk; or to say, thy sins are forgiven
thee? that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins.”96 This is the
real sovereignty, and such is the power of God’s chosen Ones! All these things which We have
repeatedly mentioned, and the details which We have cited from divers sources, have no other
purpose but to enable thee to grasp the meaning of the allusions in the utterances of the chosen
Ones of God, lest certain of these utterances cause thy feet to falter and thy heart to be dismayed.
Thus with steadfast steps we may tread the Path of certitude, that perchance the breeze that
bloweth from the meads of the good-pleasure of God may waft upon us the sweet savors of divine
acceptance, and cause us, vanishing mortals that we are, to attain unto the Kingdom of everlasting
glory. Then wilt thou comprehend the inner meaning of sovereignty and the like, spoken of in the
traditions and scriptures. Furthermore, it is already evident and known unto thee that those things
to which the Jews and the Christians have clung, and the cavilings which they heaped upon the
Beauty of Muḥammad, the same have in this day been upheld by the people of the Qur’án, and
been witnessed in their denunciations of the “Point of the Bayán”—may the souls of all that dwell
within the kingdom of divine Revelations be a sacriﬁce unto Him! Behold their folly: they utter
the selfsame words, uttered by the Jews of old, and know it not! How well and true are His words
concerning them: “Leave them to entertain themselves with their cavilings!”97 “As Thou livest, O
Muḥammad! they are seized by the frenzy of their vain fancies.”98
When the Unseen, the Eternal, the divine Essence, caused the Daystar of Muḥammad to rise
above the horizon of knowledge, among the cavils which the Jewish divines raised against Him
was that after Moses no Prophet should be sent of God. Yea, mention hath been made in the
scriptures of a Soul Who must needs be made manifest and Who will advance the Faith, and
promote the interests of the people, of Moses, so that the Law of the Mosaic Dispensation may
encompass the whole earth. Thus hath the King of eternal glory referred in His Book to the words
uttered by those wanderers in the vale of remoteness and error: “‘The hand of God,’ say the Jews,
‘is chained up.’ Chained up be their own hands! And for that which they have said, they were
accursed. Nay, outstretched are both His hands!”99 “The hand of God is above their hands.”100
Although the commentators of the Qur’án have related in divers manners the circumstances
attending the revelation of this verse, yet thou shouldst endeavor to apprehend the purpose
thereof. He saith: How false is that which the Jews have imagined! How can the hand of Him
Who is the King in truth, Who caused the countenance of Moses to be made manifest, and
conferred upon Him the robe of Prophethood—how can the hand of such a One be chained and
fettered? How can He be conceived as powerless to raise up yet another Messenger after Moses?
Behold the absurdity of their saying; how far it hath strayed from the path of knowledge and
understanding! Observe how in this day also, all these people have occupied themselves with such
foolish absurdities. For over a thousand years they have been reciting this verse, and unwittingly
pronouncing their censure against the Jews, utterly unaware that they themselves, openly and
privily, are voicing the sentiments and belief of the Jewish people! Thou art surely aware of their
idle contention, that all Revelation is ended, that the portals of Divine mercy are closed, that from
the daysprings of eternal holiness no sun shall rise again, that the Ocean of everlasting bounty is
forever stilled, and that out of the Tabernacle of ancient glory the Messengers of God have ceased
to be made manifest. Such is the measure of the understanding of these small-minded,
contemptible people. These people have imagined that the ﬂow of God’s all-encompassing grace
and plenteous mercies, the cessation of which no mind can contemplate, has been halted. From
every side they have risen and girded up the loins of tyranny, and exerted the utmost endeavor to
quench with the bitter waters of their vain fancy the ﬂame of God’s Burning Bush, oblivious that
the globe of power shall within its own mighty stronghold protect the Lamp of God. The utter
destitution into which this people have fallen doth surely sufﬁce them, inasmuch as they have
been deprived of the recognition of the essential Purpose and the knowledge of the Mystery and
Substance of the Cause of God. For the highest and most excelling grace bestowed upon men is the

grace of “attaining unto the Presence of God” and of His recognition, which has been promised
unto all people. This is the utmost degree of grace vouchsafed unto man by the All-Bountiful, the
Ancient of Days, and the fullness of His absolute bounty upon His creatures. Of this grace and
bounty none of this people hath partaken, neither have they been honored with this most exalted
distinction. How numerous are those revealed verses which explicitly bear witness unto this most
weighty truth and exalted Theme! And yet they have rejected it, and, after their own desire,
misconstrued its meaning. Even as He hath revealed: “As for those who believe not in the signs of
God, or that they shall ever meet Him, these of My mercy shall despair, and for them doth a
grievous chastisement await.”101 Also He saith: “They who bear in mind that they shall attain
unto the Presence of their Lord, and that unto Him shall they return.”102 Also in another instance
He saith: “They who held it as certain that they must meet God, said, ‘How oft, by God’s will,
hath a small host vanquished a numerous host!’”103 In yet another instance He revealeth: “Let
him then who hopeth to attain the presence of his Lord work a righteous work.”104 And also He
saith: “He ordereth all things. He maketh His signs clear, that ye may have ﬁrm faith in attaining
the presence of your Lord.”105
This people have repudiated all these verses, that unmistakably testify to the reality of
“attainment unto the Divine Presence.” No theme hath been more emphatically asserted in the
holy scriptures. Notwithstanding, they have deprived themselves of this lofty and most exalted
rank, this supreme and glorious station. Some have contended that by “attainment unto the Divine
Presence” is meant the “Revelation” of God in the Day of Resurrection. Should they assert that
the “Revelation” of God signiﬁeth a “Universal Revelation,” it is clear and evident that such
revelation already existeth in all things. The truth of this We have already established, inasmuch
as We have demonstrated that all things are the recipients and revealers of the splendors of that
ideal King, and that the signs of the revelation of that Sun, the Source of all splendor, exist and are
manifest in the mirrors of beings. Nay, were man to gaze with the eye of divine and spiritual
discernment, he will readily recognize that nothing whatsoever can exist without the revelation of
the splendor of God, the ideal King. Consider how all created things eloquently testify to the
revelation of that inner Light within them. Behold how within all things the portals of the Riḍván
of God are opened, that seekers may attain the cities of understanding and wisdom, and enter the
gardens of knowledge and power. Within every garden they will behold the mystic bride of inner
meaning enshrined within the chambers of utterance in the utmost grace and fullest adornment.
Most of the verses of the Qur’án indicate, and bear witness to, this spiritual theme. The verse:
“Neither is there aught which doth not celebrate His praise”106 is eloquent testimony thereto; and
“We noted all things and wrote them down,”107 a faithful witness thereof. Now, if by “attainment
unto the Presence of God” is meant attainment unto the knowledge of such revelation, it is
evident that all men have already attained unto the presence of the unchangeable Countenance of
that peerless King. Why, then, restrict such revelation to the Day of Resurrection?
And were they to maintain that by “divine Presence” is meant the “Speciﬁc Revelation of
God,” expressed by certain Ṣúfís as the “Most Holy Outpouring,” if this be in the Essence Itself, it
is evident that it hath been eternally in the divine Knowledge. Assuming the truth of this
hypothesis, “attainment unto the divine Presence” is in this sense obviously possible to no one,
inasmuch as this revelation is conﬁned to the innermost Essence, unto which no man can attain.
“The way is barred, and all seeking rejected.” The minds of the favorites of heaven, however high
they soar, can never attain this station, how much less the understanding of obscured and limited
minds.
And were they to say that by “divine Presence” is meant the “Secondary Revelation of God,”
interpreted as the “Holy Outpouring,” this is admittedly applicable to the world of creation, that is,
in the realm of the primal and original manifestation of God. Such revelation is conﬁned to His
Prophets and chosen Ones, inasmuch as none mightier than they hath come to exist in the world
of being. This truth all recognize, and bear witness thereto. These Prophets and chosen Ones of
God are the recipients and revealers of all the unchangeable attributes and names of God. They
are the mirrors that truly and faithfully reﬂect the light of God. Whatsoever is applicable to them
is in reality applicable to God, Himself, Who is both the Visible and the Invisible. The knowledge

of Him, Who is the Origin of all things, and attainment unto Him, are impossible save through
knowledge of, and attainment unto, these luminous Beings who proceed from the Sun of Truth.
By attaining, therefore, to the presence of these holy Luminaries, the “Presence of God” Himself
is attained. From their knowledge, the knowledge of God is revealed, and from the light of their
countenance, the splendor of the Face of God is made manifest. Through the manifold attributes of
these Essences of Detachment, Who are both the ﬁrst and the last, the seen and the hidden, it is
made evident that He Who is the Sun of Truth is “the First and the Last, the Seen, and the
Hidden.”108 Likewise the other lofty names and exalted attributes of God. Therefore, whosoever,
and in whatever Dispensation, hath recognized and attained unto the presence of these glorious,
these resplendent and most excellent Luminaries, hath verily attained unto the “Presence of God”
Himself, and entered the city of eternal and immortal life. Attainment unto such presence is
possible only in the Day of Resurrection, which is the Day of the rise of God Himself through His
all-embracing Revelation.
This is the meaning of the “Day of Resurrection,” spoken of in all the scriptures, and
announced unto all people. Reﬂect, can a more precious, a mightier, and more glorious day than
this be conceived, so that man should willingly forego its grace, and deprive himself of its
bounties, which like unto vernal showers are raining from the heaven of mercy upon all mankind?
Having thus conclusively demonstrated that no day is greater than this Day, and no revelation
more glorious than this Revelation, and having set forth all these weighty and infallible proofs
which no understanding mind can question, and no man of learning overlook, how can man
possibly, through the idle contention of the people of doubt and fancy, deprive himself of such a
bountiful grace? Have they not heard the well-known tradition: “When the Qá’im riseth, that day
is the Day of Resurrection”? In like manner, the Imáms, those unquenchable lights of divine
guidance, have interpreted the verse: “What can such expect but that God should come down to
them overshadowed with clouds,”109—a sign which they have unquestionably regarded as one of
the features of the Day of Resurrection—as referring to the Qá’im and His manifestation.
Strive, therefore, O my brother, to grasp the meaning of “Resurrection,” and cleanse thine ears
from the idle sayings of these rejected people. Shouldst thou step into the realm of complete
detachment, thou wilt readily testify that no day is mightier than this Day, and that no
resurrection more awful than this Resurrection can ever be conceived. One righteous work
performed in this Day, equaleth all the virtuous acts which for myriads of centuries men have
practiced—nay, We ask forgiveness of God for such a comparison! For verily the reward which such
a deed deserveth is immensely beyond and above the estimate of men. Inasmuch as these
undiscerning and wretched souls have failed to apprehend the true meaning of “Resurrection” and
of the “attainment unto the divine Presence,” they therefore have remained utterly deprived of the
grace thereof. Although the sole and fundamental purpose of all learning, and the toil and labor
thereof, is attainment unto, and the recognition of, this station, yet they are all immersed in the
pursuit of their material studies. They deny themselves every moment of leisure, and utterly
ignore Him, Who is the Essence of all learning, and the one Object of their quest! Methinks, their
lips have never touched the cup of divine Knowledge, nor do they seem to have attained even a
dewdrop of the showers of heavenly grace.
Consider, how can he that faileth in the day of God’s Revelation to attain unto the grace of
the “Divine Presence” and to recognize His Manifestation, be justly called learned, though he may
have spent aeons in the pursuit of knowledge, and acquired all the limited and material learning
of men? It is surely evident that he can in no wise be regarded as possessed of true knowledge.
Whereas, the most unlettered of all men, if he be honored with this supreme distinction, he verily
is accounted as one of those divinely learned men whose knowledge is of God; for such a man
hath attained the acme of knowledge, and hath reached the furthermost summit of learning.
This station is also one of the signs of the Day of Revelation; even as it is said: “The abased
amongst you, He shall exalt; and they that are exalted, He shall abase.” And likewise, He hath
revealed in the Qur’án: “And We desire to show favor to those who were brought low in the land,
and to make them spiritual leaders among men, and to make of them Our heirs.”110 It hath been
witnessed in this day how many of the divines, owing to their rejection of the Truth, have fallen

into, and abide within, the uttermost depths of ignorance, and whose names have been effaced
from the scroll of the glorious and learned. And how many of the ignorant who, by reason of their
acceptance of the Faith, have soared aloft and attained the high summit of knowledge, and whose
names have been inscribed by the Pen of Power upon the Tablet of divine Knowledge. Thus,
“What He pleaseth will God abrogate or conﬁrm: for with Him is the Source of Revelation.”111
Therefore, it hath been said: “To seek evidence, when the Proof hath been established is but an
unseemly act, and to be busied with the pursuit of knowledge when the Object of all learning hath
been attained is truly blameworthy.” Say: O people of the earth! Behold this ﬂamelike Youth that
speedeth across the limitless profound of the Spirit, heralding unto you the tidings: “Lo: the Lamp
of God is shining,” and summoning you to heed His Cause which, though hidden beneath the veils
of ancient splendor, shineth in the land of ‘Iráq above the dayspring of eternal holiness.
O my friend, were the bird of thy mind to explore the heavens of the Revelation of the
Qur’án, were it to contemplate the realm of divine knowledge unfolded therein, thou wouldst
assuredly ﬁnd unnumbered doors of knowledge set open before thee. Thou wouldst certainly
recognize that all these things which have in this day hindered this people from attaining the
shores of the ocean of eternal grace, the same things in the Muḥammadan Dispensation prevented
the people of that age from recognizing that divine Luminary, and from testifying to His truth.
Thou wilt also apprehend the mysteries of “return” and “revelation,” and wilt securely abide
within the loftiest chambers of certitude and assurance.
And it came to pass that on a certain day a number of the opponents of that peerless Beauty,
those that had strayed far from God’s imperishable Sanctuary, scornfully spoke these words unto
Muḥammad: “Verily, God hath entered into a covenant with us that we are not to credit an apostle
until he present us a sacriﬁce which ﬁre out of heaven shall devour.”112 The purport of this verse is
that God hath covenanted with them that they should not believe in any messenger unless he
work the miracle of Abel and Cain, that is, offer a sacriﬁce, and the ﬁre from heaven consume it;
even as they had heard it recounted in the story of Abel, which story is recorded in the scriptures.
To this, Muḥammad, answering, said: “Already have Apostles before me come to you with sure
testimonies, and with that of which ye speak. Wherefore slew ye them? Tell me, if ye are men of
truth.”113 And now, be fair; How could those people living in the days of Muḥammad have existed,
thousands of years before, in the age of Adam or other Prophets? Why should Muḥammad, that
Essence of truthfulness, have charged the people of His day with the murder of Abel or other
Prophets? Thou hast none other alternative except to regard Muḥammad as an impostor or a fool—
which God forbid!—or to maintain that those people of wickedness were the selfsame people who
in every age opposed and caviled at the Prophets and Messengers of God, till they ﬁnally caused
them all to suffer martyrdom.
Ponder this in thine heart, that the sweet gales of divine knowledge, blowing from the meads
of mercy, may waft upon thee the fragrance of the Beloved’s utterance, and cause thy soul to
attain the Riḍván of understanding. As the wayward of every age have failed to fathom the deeper
import of these weighty and pregnant utterances, and imagined the answer of the Prophets of God
to be irrelevant to the questions they asked them, they therefore have attributed ignorance and
folly to those Essences of knowledge and understanding.
Likewise, Muḥammad, in another verse, uttereth His protest against the people of that age.
He saith: “Although they had before prayed for victory over those who believed not, yet when
there came unto them He of Whom they had knowledge, they disbelieved in Him. The curse of
God on the inﬁdels!”114 Reﬂect how this verse also implieth that the people living in the days of
Muḥammad were the same people who in the days of the Prophets of old contended and fought in
order to promote the Faith, and teach the Cause, of God. And yet, how could the generations living
at the time of Jesus and Moses, and those who lived in the days of Muḥammad, be regarded as
being actually one and the same people? Moreover, those whom they had formerly known were
Moses, the Revealer of the Pentateuch, and Jesus, the Author of the Gospel. Notwithstanding, why
did Muḥammad say: “When He of Whom they had knowledge came unto them”—that is Jesus or
Moses—“they disbelieved in Him”? Was not Muḥammad to outward seeming called by a different
name? Did He not come forth out of a different city? Did He not speak a different language, and

reveal a different Law? How then can the truth of this verse be established, and its meaning be
made clear?
Strive therefore to comprehend the meaning of “return” which hath been so explicitly
revealed in the Qur’án itself, and which none hath as yet understood. What sayest thou? If thou
sayest that Muḥammad was the “return” of the Prophets of old, as is witnessed by this verse, His
Companions must likewise be the “return” of the bygone Companions, even as the “return” of the
former people is clearly attested by the text of the above-mentioned verses. And if thou deniest
this, thou hast surely repudiated the truth of the Qur’án, the surest testimony of God unto men. In
like manner, endeavor to grasp the signiﬁcance of “return,” “revelation,” and “resurrection,” as
witnessed in the days of the Manifestations of the divine Essence, that thou mayest behold with
thine own eyes the “return” of the holy souls into sanctiﬁed and illumined bodies, and mayest
wash away the dust of ignorance, and cleanse the darkened self with the waters of mercy ﬂowing
from the Source of divine Knowledge; that perchance thou mayest, through the power of God and
the light of divine guidance, distinguish the Morn of everlasting splendor from the darksome night
of error.
Furthermore, it is evident to thee that the Bearers of the trust of God are made manifest unto
the peoples of the earth as the Exponents of a new Cause and the Bearers of a new Message.
Inasmuch as these Birds of the Celestial Throne are all sent down from the heaven of the Will of
God, and as they all arise to proclaim His irresistible Faith, they therefore are regarded as one soul
and the same person. For they all drink from the one Cup of the love of God, and all partake of the
fruit of the same Tree of Oneness. These Manifestations of God have each a twofold station. One
is the station of pure abstraction and essential unity. In this respect, if thou callest them all by one
name, and dost ascribe to them the same attribute, thou hast not erred from the truth. Even as He
hath revealed: “No distinction do We make between any of His Messengers!”115 For they one and
all summon the people of the earth to acknowledge the Unity of God, and herald unto them the
Kawthar of an inﬁnite grace and bounty. They are all invested with the robe of Prophethood, and
honored with the mantle of glory. Thus hath Muḥammad, the Point of the Qur’án, revealed: “I am
all the Prophets.” Likewise, He saith: “I am the ﬁrst Adam, Noah, Moses, and Jesus.” Similar
statements have been made by ‘Alí. Sayings such as this, which indicate the essential unity of
those Exponents of Oneness, have also emanated from the Channels of God’s immortal utterance,
and the Treasuries of the gems of divine knowledge, and have been recorded in the scriptures.
These Countenances are the recipients of the Divine Command, and the daysprings of His
Revelation. This Revelation is exalted above the veils of plurality and the exigencies of number.
Thus He saith: “Our Cause is but one.”116 Inasmuch as the Cause is one and the same, the
Exponents thereof also must needs be one and the same. Likewise, the Imáms of the
Muḥammadan Faith, those lamps of certitude, have said: “Muḥammad is our ﬁrst, Muḥammad our
last, Muḥammad our all.”
It is clear and evident to thee that all the Prophets are the Temples of the Cause of God, Who
have appeared clothed in divers attire. If thou wilt observe with discriminating eyes, thou wilt
behold them all abiding in the same tabernacle, soaring in the same heaven, seated upon the same
throne, uttering the same speech, and proclaiming the same Faith. Such is the unity of those
Essences of being, those Luminaries of inﬁnite and immeasurable splendor. Wherefore, should one
of these Manifestations of Holiness proclaim saying: “I am the return of all the Prophets,” He
verily speaketh the truth. In like manner, in every subsequent Revelation, the return of the former
Revelation is a fact, the truth of which is ﬁrmly established. Inasmuch as the return of the
Prophets of God, as attested by verses and traditions, hath been conclusively demonstrated, the
return of their chosen ones also is therefore deﬁnitely proven. This return is too manifest in itself
to require any evidence or proof. For instance, consider that among the Prophets was Noah. When
He was invested with the robe of Prophethood, and was moved by the Spirit of God to arise and
proclaim His Cause, whoever believed in Him and acknowledged His Faith was endowed with the
grace of a new life. Of him it could be truly said that he was reborn and revived, inasmuch as
previous to his belief in God and his acceptance of His Manifestation, he had set his affections on
the things of the world, such as attachment to earthly goods, to wife, children, food, drink, and the

like, so much so that in the daytime and in the night-season his one concern had been to amass
riches and procure for himself the means of enjoyment and pleasure. Aside from these things,
before his partaking of the reviving waters of faith, he had been so wedded to the traditions of his
forefathers, and so passionately devoted to the observance of their customs and laws, that he
would have preferred to suffer death rather than violate one letter of those superstitious forms
and manners current amongst his people. Even as the people have cried: “Verily we found our
fathers with a faith, and verily, in their footsteps we follow.”117
These same people, though wrapt in all these veils of limitation, and despite the restraint of
such observances, as soon as they drank the immortal draft of faith, from the cup of certitude, at
the hand of the Manifestation of the All-Glorious, were so transformed that they would renounce
for His sake their kindred, their substance, their lives, their beliefs, yea, all else save God! So
overpowering was their yearning for God, so uplifting their transports of ecstatic delight, that the
world and all that is therein faded before their eyes into nothingness. Have not this people
exempliﬁed the mysteries of “rebirth” and “return”? Hath it not been witnessed that these same
people, ere they were endued with the new and wondrous grace of God, sought through
innumerable devices to ensure the protection of their lives against destruction? Would not a thorn
ﬁll them with terror, and the sight of a fox put them to ﬂight? But once having been honored with
God’s supreme distinction, and having been vouchsafed His bountiful grace, they would, if they
were able, have freely offered up ten thousand lives in His path! Nay, their blessed souls,
contemptuous of the cage of their bodies, would yearn for deliverance. A single warrior of that
host would face and ﬁght a multitude! And yet, how could they, but for the transformation
wrought in their lives, be capable of manifesting such deeds which are contrary to the ways of
men and incompatible with their worldly desires?
It is evident that nothing short of this mystic transformation could cause such spirit and
behavior, so utterly unlike their previous habits and manners, to be made manifest in the world of
being. For their agitation was turned into peace, their doubt into certitude, their timidity into
courage. Such is the potency of the Divine Elixir, which, swift as the twinkling of an eye,
transmuteth the souls of men!
For instance, consider the substance of copper. Were it to be protected in its own mine from
becoming solidiﬁed, it would, within the space of seventy years, attain to the state of gold. There
are some, however, who maintain that copper itself is gold, which by becoming solidiﬁed is in a
diseased condition, and hath not therefore reached its own state.
Be that as it may, the real elixir will, in one instant, cause the substance of copper to attain
the state of gold, and will traverse the seventy-year stages in a single moment. Could this gold be
called copper? Could it be claimed that it hath not attained the state of gold, whilst the touchstone
is at hand to assay it and distinguish it from copper?
Likewise, these souls, through the potency of the Divine Elixir, traverse, in the twinkling of
an eye, the world of dust and advance into the realm of holiness; and with one step cover the
earth of limitations and reach the domain of the Placeless. It behooveth thee to exert thine utmost
to attain unto this Elixir which, in one ﬂeeting breath, causeth the west of ignorance to reach the
east of knowledge, illuminateth the darkness of night with the resplendence of the morn, guideth
the wanderer in the wilderness of doubt to the wellspring of the Divine Presence and Fount of
certitude, and conferreth upon mortal souls the honor of acceptance into the Riḍván of
immortality. Now, could this gold be thought to be copper, these people could likewise be thought
to be the same as before they were endowed with faith.
O brother, behold how the inner mysteries of “rebirth,” of “return,” and of “resurrection” have
each, through these all-sufﬁcing, these unanswerable, and conclusive utterances, been unveiled
and unraveled before thine eyes. God grant that through His gracious and invisible assistance,
thou mayest divest thy body and soul of the old garment, and array thyself with the new and
imperishable attire.
Therefore, those who in every subsequent Dispensation preceded the rest of mankind in
embracing the Faith of God, who quaffed the clear waters of knowledge at the hand of the divine
Beauty, and attained the loftiest summits of faith and certitude, these can be regarded, in name, in

reality, in deeds, in words, and in rank, as the “return” of those who in a former Dispensation had
achieved similar distinctions. For whatsoever the people of a former Dispensation have
manifested, the same hath been shown by the people of this latter generation. Consider the rose:
whether it blossometh in the East or in the West, it is nonetheless a rose. For what mattereth in
this respect is not the outward shape and form of the rose, but rather the smell and fragrance
which it doth impart.
Purge thy sight, therefore, from all earthly limitations, that thou mayest behold them all as
the bearers of one Name, the exponents of one Cause, the manifestations of one Self, and the
revealers of one Truth, and that thou mayest apprehend the mystic “return” of the Words of God
as unfolded by these utterances. Reﬂect for a while upon the behavior of the companions of the
Muḥammadan Dispensation. Consider how, through the reviving breath of Muḥammad, they were
cleansed from the deﬁlements of earthly vanities, were delivered from selﬁsh desires, and were
detached from all else but Him. Behold how they preceded all the peoples of the earth in attaining
unto His holy Presence—the Presence of God Himself—how they renounced the world and all that
is therein, and sacriﬁced freely and joyously their lives at the feet of that Manifestation of the All-
Glorious. And now, observe the “return” of the selfsame determination, the selfsame constancy
and renunciation, manifested by the companions of the Point of the Bayán.118 Thou hast
witnessed how these companions have, through the wonders of the grace of the Lord of Lords,
hoisted the standards of sublime renunciation upon the inaccessible heights of glory. These Lights
have proceeded from but one Source, and these fruits are the fruits of one Tree. Thou canst discern
neither difference nor distinction among them. All this is by the grace of God! On whom He will,
He bestoweth His grace. Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and advance into the ocean
of acceptance, so that we may perceive, with an eye purged from all conﬂicting elements, the
worlds of unity and diversity, of variation and oneness, of limitation and detachment, and wing our
ﬂight unto the highest and innermost sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of God.
From these statements therefore it hath been made evident and manifest that should a Soul
in the “End that knoweth no end” be made manifest, and arise to proclaim and uphold a Cause
which in “the Beginning that hath no beginning” another Soul had proclaimed and upheld, it can
be truly declared of Him Who is the Last and of Him Who was the First that they are one and the
same, inasmuch as both are the Exponents of one and the same Cause. For this reason, hath the
Point of the Bayán—may the life of all else but Him be His sacriﬁce!—likened the Manifestations
of God unto the sun which, though it rise from the “Beginning that hath no beginning” until the
“End that knoweth no end,” is nonetheless the same sun. Now, wert thou to say that this sun is
the former sun, thou speakest the truth; and if thou sayest that this sun is the “return” of that
sun, thou also speakest the truth. Likewise, from this statement it is made evident that the term
“last” is applicable to the “ﬁrst,” and the term “ﬁrst” applicable to the “last”; inasmuch as both the
“ﬁrst” and the “last” have risen to proclaim one and the same Faith.
Notwithstanding the obviousness of this theme, in the eyes of those that have quaffed the
wine of knowledge and certitude, yet how many are those who, through failure to understand its
meaning, have allowed the term “Seal of the Prophets” to obscure their understanding, and deprive
them of the grace of all His manifold bounties! Hath not Muḥammad, Himself, declared: “I am all
the Prophets”? Hath He not said as We have already mentioned: “I am Adam, Noah, Moses, and
Jesus”? Why should Muḥammad, that immortal Beauty, Who hath said: “I am the ﬁrst Adam” be
incapable of saying also: “I am the last Adam”? For even as He regarded Himself to be the “First of
the Prophets”—that is Adam—in like manner, the “Seal of the Prophets” is also applicable unto
that Divine Beauty. It is admittedly obvious that being the “First of the Prophets,” He likewise is
their “Seal.”
The mystery of this theme hath, in this Dispensation, been a sore test unto all mankind.
Behold, how many are those who, clinging unto these words, have disbelieved Him Who is their
true Revealer. What, We ask, could this people presume the terms “ﬁrst” and “last”—when
referring to God—gloriﬁed be His Name!—to mean? If they maintain that these terms bear
reference to this material universe, how could it be possible, when the visible order of things is

still manifestly existing? Nay, in this instance, by “ﬁrst” is meant no other than the “last” and by
“last” no other than the “ﬁrst.”
Even as in the “Beginning that hath no beginnings” the term “last” is truly applicable unto
Him who is the Educator of the visible and of the invisible, in like manner, are the terms “ﬁrst”
and “last” applicable unto His Manifestations. They are at the same time the Exponents of both
the “ﬁrst” and the “last.” Whilst established upon the seat of the “ﬁrst,” they occupy the throne of
the “last.” Were a discerning eye to be found, it will readily perceive that the exponents of the
“ﬁrst” and the “last,” of the “manifest” and the “hidden,” of the “beginning” and the “seal” are
none other than these holy Beings, these Essences of Detachment, these divine Souls. And wert
thou to soar in the holy realm of “God was alone, there was none else besides Him,” thou wilt ﬁnd
in that Court all these names utterly non-existent and completely forgotten. Then will thine eyes
no longer be obscured by these veils, these terms, and allusions. How ethereal and lofty is this
station, unto which even Gabriel, unshepherded, can never attain, and the Bird of Heaven,
unassisted, can never reach!
And, now, strive thou to comprehend the meaning of this saying of ‘Alí, the Commander of
the Faithful: “Piercing the veils of glory, unaided.” Among these “veils of glory” are the divines and
doctors living in the days of the Manifestation of God, who, because of their want of discernment
and their love and eagerness for leadership, have failed to submit to the Cause of God, nay, have
even refused to incline their ears unto the divine Melody. “They have thrust their ﬁngers into their
ears.”119 And the people also, utterly ignoring God and taking them for their masters, have placed
themselves unreservedly under the authority of these pompous and hypocritical leaders, for they
have no sight, no hearing, no heart, of their own to distinguish truth from falsehood.
Notwithstanding the divinely inspired admonitions of all the Prophets, the Saints, and Chosen
ones of God, enjoining the people to see with their own eyes and hear with their own ears, they
have disdainfully rejected their counsels and have blindly followed, and will continue to follow, the
leaders of their Faith. Should a poor and obscure person, destitute of the attire of men of learning,
address them saying: “Follow ye, O people! the Messengers of God,”120 they would, greatly
surprised at such a statement, reply: “What! Meanest thou that all these divines, all these
exponents of learning, with all their authority, their pomp and pageantry, have erred, and failed to
distinguish truth from falsehood? Dost thou, and people like thyself, pretend to have
comprehended that which they have not understood?” If numbers and excellence of apparel be
regarded as the criterions of learning and truth, the peoples of a bygone age, whom those of today
have never surpassed in numbers, magniﬁcence and power, should certainly be accounted a
superior and worthier people.
It is clear and evident that whenever the Manifestations of Holiness were revealed, the
divines of their day have hindered the people from attaining unto the way of truth. To this testify
the records of all the scriptures and heavenly books. Not one Prophet of God was made manifest
Who did not fall a victim to the relentless hate, to the denunciation, denial, and execration of the
clerics of His day! Woe unto them for the iniquities their hands have formerly wrought! Woe unto
them for that which they are now doing! What veils of glory more grievous than these
embodiments of error! By the righteousness of God! to pierce such veils is the mightiest of all acts,
and to rend them asunder the most meritorious of all deeds! May God assist us and assist you, O
concourse of the Spirit! that perchance ye may in the time of His Manifestation be graciously
aided to perform such deeds, and may in His days attain unto the Presence of God.
Furthermore, among the “veils of glory” are such terms as the “Seal of the Prophets” and the
like, the removal of which is a supreme achievement in the sight of these baseborn and erring
souls. All, by reason of these mysterious sayings, these grievous “veils of glory,” have been
hindered from beholding the light of truth. Have they not heard the melody of that bird of
Heaven,121 uttering this mystery: “A thousand Fáṭimihs I have espoused, all of whom were the
daughters of Muḥammad, Son of ‘Abdu’lláh, the ‘Seal of the Prophets’”? Behold, how many are the
mysteries that lie as yet unraveled within the tabernacle of the knowledge of God, and how
numerous the gems of His wisdom that are still concealed in His inviolable treasuries! Shouldst
thou ponder this in thine heart, thou wouldst realize that His handiwork knoweth neither