* * *Prayers and Meditations
by Bahá’u’lláh
Translated by Shoghi Effendi from the original Persian and Arabic
– I –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O Lord my God! Every man of insight confesseth Thy sovereignty and Thy
dominion, and every discerning eye perceiveth the greatness of Thy majesty and the compelling
power of Thy might. The winds of tests are powerless to hold back them that enjoy near access to
Thee from setting their faces towards the horizon of Thy glory, and the tempests of trials must
fail to draw away and hinder such as are wholly devoted to Thy will from approaching Thy court.
Methinks, the lamp of Thy love is burning in their hearts, and the light of Thy tenderness is
lit within their breasts. Adversities are incapable of estranging them from Thy Cause, and the
vicissitudes of fortune can never cause them to stray from Thy pleasure.
I beseech Thee, O my God, by them and by the sighs which their hearts utter in their
separation from Thee, to keep them safe from the mischief of Thine adversaries, and to nourish
their souls with what Thou hast ordained for Thy loved ones on whom shall come no fear and who
shall not be put to grief.
– II –
UNTO Thee be praise, O Lord my God! I entreat Thee, by Thy signs that have encompassed the
entire creation, and by the light of Thy countenance that hath illuminated all that are in heaven
and on earth, and by Thy mercy that hath surpassed all created things, and by Thy grace that hath
suffused the whole universe, to rend asunder the veils that shut me out from Thee, that I may
hasten unto the Fountainhead of Thy mighty inspiration, and to the Dayspring of Thy Revelation
and bountiful favors, and may be immersed beneath the ocean of Thy nearness and pleasure.
Suffer me not, O my Lord, to be deprived of the knowledge of Thee in Thy days, and divest
me not of the robe of Thy guidance. Give me to drink of the river that is life indeed, whose waters
have streamed forth from the Paradise (Riḍván) in which the throne of Thy Name, the All-
Merciful, was established, that mine eyes may be opened, and my face be illumined, and my heart
be assured, and my soul be enlightened, and my steps be made ﬁrm.
Thou art He Who from everlasting was, through the potency of His might, supreme over all
things, and, through the operation of His will, was able to ordain all things. Nothing whatsoever,
whether in Thy heaven or on Thy earth, can frustrate Thy purpose. Have mercy, then, upon me, O
my Lord, through Thy gracious providence and generosity, and incline mine ear to the sweet
melodies of the birds that warble their praise of Thee, amidst the branches of the tree of Thy
oneness.
Thou art the Great Giver, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.
– III –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O Lord my God! I beseech Thee by Him Who is Thy Most Great Name, Who
hath been sorely afﬂicted by such of Thy creatures as have repudiated Thy truth, and Who hath
been hemmed in by sorrows which no tongue can describe, to grant that I may remember Thee
and celebrate Thy praise, in these days when all have turned away from Thy beauty, have
disputed with Thee, and turned away disdainfully from Him Who is the Revealer of Thy Cause.
None is there, O my Lord, to help Thee except Thine own Self, and no power to succor Thee save
Thine own power.
I entreat Thee to enable me to cleave steadfastly to Thy Love and Thy remembrance. This is,
verily, within my power, and Thou art the One that knoweth all that is in me. Thou, in truth, art
knowing, apprised of all. Deprive me not, O my Lord, of the splendors of the light of Thy face,

whose brightness hath illuminated the whole world. No God is there beside Thee, the Most
Powerful, the All-Glorious, the Ever-Forgiving.
– IV –
MAGNIFIED be Thy name, O Lord my God! Thou art He Whom all things worship and Who
worshippeth no one, Who is the Lord of all things and is the vassal of none, Who knoweth all
things and is known of none. Thou didst wish to make Thyself known unto men; therefore, Thou
didst, through a word of Thy mouth, bring creation into being and fashion the universe. There is
none other God except Thee, the Fashioner, the Creator, the Almighty, the Most Powerful.
I implore Thee, by this very word that hath shone forth above the horizon of Thy will, to
enable me to drink deep of the living waters through which Thou hast viviﬁed the hearts of Thy
chosen ones and quickened the souls of them that love Thee, that I may, at all times and under all
conditions, turn my face wholly towards Thee.
Thou art the God of power, of glory and bounty. No God is there beside Thee, the Supreme
Ruler, the All-Glorious, the Omniscient.
– V –
LAUDED be Thy name, O my God! Thou beholdest me in the clutches of my oppressors. Every
time I turn to my right, I hear the voice of the lamentation of them that are dear to Thee, whom
the inﬁdels have made captives for having believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and for having set
their faces towards the horizon of Thy grace and of Thy loving-kindness. And when I turn to my
left, I hear the clamor of the wicked doers who have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs, and
persistently striven to put out the light of Thy lamp which sheddeth the radiance of Thine own
Self over all that are in Thy heaven and all that are on Thy earth.
The hearts of Thy chosen ones, O my Lord, have melted because of their separation from
Thee, and the souls of Thy loved ones are burnt up by the ﬁre of their yearning after Thee in Thy
days. I implore Thee, O Thou Maker of the heavens and Lord of all names, by Thy most effulgent
Self and Thy most exalted and all-glorious Remembrance, to send down upon Thy loved ones that
which will draw them nearer unto Thee, and enable them to hearken unto Thine utterances.
Tear asunder with the hand of Thy transcendent power, O my Lord, the veil of vain
imaginings, that they who are wholly devoted to Thee may see Thee seated on the throne of Thy
majesty, and the eyes of such as adore Thy unity may rejoice at the splendors of the glory of Thy
face. The doors of hope have been shut against the hearts that long for Thee, O my Lord! Their
keys are in Thy hands; open them by the power of Thy might and Thy sovereignty. Potent art
Thou to do as Thou pleasest. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Beneﬁcent.
– VI –
PRAISE be to Thee, O Lord my God! I swear by Thy might! Successive afﬂictions have withheld
the pen of the Most High from laying bare that which is hidden from the eyes of Thy creatures,
and incessant trials have hindered the tongue of the Divine Ordainer from proclaiming the
wonders of Thy gloriﬁcation and praise. With a stammering tongue, therefore, I call upon Thee, O
my God, and with this my afﬂicted pen I occupy myself in remembrance of Thy name.
Is there any man of insight, O my God, that can behold Thee with Thine own eye, and where
is the thirsty one who can direct his face towards the living waters of Thy love? I am the one, O
my God, who hath blotted out from his heart the remembrance of all except Thee, and hath
graven upon it the mysteries of Thy love. Thine own might beareth me witness! But for
tribulations, how could the assured be distinguished from the doubters among Thy servants? They
who have been inebriated with the wine of Thy knowledge, these, verily, hasten to meet every
manner of adversity in their longing to pass into Thy presence. I implore Thee, O Beloved of my
heart and the Object of my soul’s adoration, to shield them that love me from the faintest trace of
evil and corrupt desires. Supply them, then, with the good of this world and of the next.
Thou art, verily, He Whose grace hath guided them aright, He Who hath declared Himself to
be the All-Merciful. No God is there but Thee, the All-Glorious, the Supreme Helper.

– VII –
PRAISE be to Thee, O Lord my God! I beseech Thee by this Revelation whereby darkness hath
been turned into light, through which the Frequented Fane hath been built, and the Written Tablet
revealed, and the Outspread Roll uncovered, to send down upon me and upon them who are in my
company that which will enable us to soar into the heavens of Thy transcendent glory, and will
wash us from the stain of such doubts as have hindered the suspicious from entering into the
tabernacle of Thy unity.
I am the one, O my Lord, who hath held fast the cord of Thy loving-kindness, and clung to the
hem of Thy mercy and favors. Do Thou ordain for me and for my loved ones the good of this world
and of the world to come. Supply them, then, with the Hidden Gift Thou didst ordain for the
choicest among Thy creatures.
These are, O my Lord, the days in which Thou hast bidden Thy servants to observe the Fast.
Blessed is he that observeth the Fast wholly for Thy sake and with absolute detachment from all
things except Thee. Assist me and assist them, O my Lord, to obey Thee and to keep Thy
precepts. Thou, verily, hast power to do what Thou choosest.
There is no God but Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. All praise be to God, the Lord of all
worlds.
– VIII –
GLORIFIED be Thy name, O Lord my God! Thou beholdest my dwelling-place, and the prison into
which I am cast, and the woes I suffer. By Thy might! No pen can recount them, nor can any
tongue describe or number them. I know not, O my God, for what purpose Thou hast abandoned
me to Thine adversaries. Thy glory beareth me witness! I sorrow not for the vexations I endure for
love of Thee, nor feel perturbed by the calamities that overtake me in Thy path. My grief is rather
because Thou delayest to fulﬁll what Thou hast determined in the Tablets of Thy Revelation, and
ordained in the books of Thy decree and judgment.
My blood, at all times, addresseth me saying: “O Thou Who art the Image of the Most
Merciful! How long will it be ere Thou riddest me of the captivity of this world, and deliverest me
from the bondage of this life? Didst Thou not promise me that Thou shalt dye the earth with me,
and sprinkle me on the faces of the inmates of Thy Paradise?” To this I make reply: “Be thou
patient and quiet thyself. The things thou desirest can last but an hour. As to me, however, I quaff
continually in the path of God the cup of His decree, and wish not that the ruling of His will
should cease to operate, or that the woes I suffer for the sake of my Lord, the Most Exalted, the
All-Glorious, should be ended. Seek thou my wish and forsake thine own. Thy bondage is not for
my protection, but to enable me to sustain successive tribulations, and to prepare me for the trials
that must needs repeatedly assail me. Perish that lover who discerneth between the pleasant and
the poisonous in his love for his beloved! Be thou satisﬁed with what God hath destined for thee.
He, verily, ruleth over thee as He willeth and pleaseth. No God is there but Him, the Inaccessible,
the Most High.”
– IX –
MAGNIFIED be Thy name, O Lord my God! I know not what the water is with which Thou hast
created me, or what the ﬁre Thou hast kindled within me, or the clay wherewith Thou hast
kneaded me. The restlessness of every sea hath been stilled, but not the restlessness of this Ocean
which moveth at the bidding of the winds of Thy will. The ﬂame of every ﬁre hath been
extinguished except the Flame which the hands of Thine omnipotence have kindled, and whose
radiance Thou hast, by the power of Thy name, shed abroad before all that are in Thy heaven and
all that are on Thy earth. As the tribulations deepen, it waxeth hotter and hotter.
Behold, then, O my God, how Thy Light hath been compassed with the onrushing winds of
Thy decree, how the tempests that blow and beat upon it from every side have added to its
brightness and increased its splendor. For all this let Thee be praised.
I implore Thee, by Thy Most Great Name, and Thy most ancient sovereignty, to look upon
Thy loved ones whose hearts have been sorely shaken by reason of the troubles that have touched

Him Who is the Manifestation of Thine own Self. Powerful art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee.
Thou art, verily, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
– X –
O THOU Whose face is the object of the adoration of all that yearn after Thee, Whose presence is
the hope of such as are wholly devoted to Thy will, Whose nearness is the desire of all that have
drawn nigh unto Thy court, Whose countenance is the companion of those who have recognized
Thy truth, Whose name is the mover of the souls that long to behold Thy face, Whose voice is the
true life of Thy lovers, the words of Whose mouth are as the waters of life unto all who are in
heaven and on earth!
I beseech Thee, by the wrong Thou hast suffered and the ills inﬂicted upon Thee by the hosts
of wrongful doers, to send down upon me from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will purify me
of all that is not of Thee, that I may be worthy to praise Thee and ﬁt to love Thee.
Withhold not from me, O my Lord, the things Thou didst ordain for such of Thy handmaidens
as circle around Thee, and on whom are poured continually the splendors of the sun of Thy
beauty and the beams of the brightness of Thy face. Thou art He Who from everlasting hath
succored whosoever hath sought Thee, and bountifully favored him who hath asked Thee.
No God is there beside Thee, the Mighty, the Ever-Abiding, the All-Bounteous, the Most
Generous.
– XI –
LAUDED be Thy name, O Lord my God! Darkness hath fallen upon every land, and the forces of
mischief have encompassed all the nations. Through them, however, I perceive the splendors of
Thy wisdom, and discern the brightness of the light of Thy providence.
They that are shut out as by a veil from Thee have imagined that they have the power to put
out Thy light, and to quench Thy ﬁre, and to still the winds of Thy grace. Nay, and to this Thy
might beareth me witness! Had not every tribulation been made the bearer of Thy wisdom, and
every ordeal the vehicle of Thy providence, no one would have dared oppose us, though the
powers of earth and heaven were to be leagued against us. Were I to unravel the wondrous
mysteries of Thy wisdom which are laid bare before me, the reins of Thine enemies would be cleft
asunder.
Gloriﬁed be Thou, then, O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name to assemble
them that love Thee around the Law that streameth from the good-pleasure of Thy will, and to
send down upon them what will assure their hearts.
Potent art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee. Thou art, verily, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting.
– XII –
PRAISED be Thou, O Lord my God! This is Thy servant who hath quaffed from the hands of Thy
grace the wine of Thy tender mercy, and tasted of the savor of Thy love in Thy days. I beseech
Thee, by the embodiments of Thy names whom no grief can hinder from rejoicing in Thy love or
from gazing on Thy face, and whom all the hosts of the heedless are powerless to cause to turn
aside from the path of Thy pleasure, to supply him with the good things Thou dost possess, and to
raise him up to such heights that he will regard the world even as a shadow that vanisheth swifter
than the twinkling of an eye.
Keep him safe also, O my God, by the power of Thine immeasurable majesty, from all that
Thou abhorrest. Thou art, verily, his Lord and the Lord of all worlds.
– XIII –
LAUDED be Thy name, O my God! Thou beholdest how the tempestuous winds of tests have
caused the steadfast in faith to tremble, and how the breath of trials hath stirred up those whose
hearts had been ﬁrmly established, except such as have partaken of the Wine that is life indeed
from the hands of the Manifestation of Thy name, the Most Merciful. These are the ones whom
no word except Thy most exalted word can move, whom nothing whatever save the sweet

smelling fragrance of the robe of Thy remembrance can enrapture, O Thou Who art the Possessor
of all names and the Maker of earth and heaven!
I implore Thee, O Thou Who art the beloved Companion of Bahá, by Thy name, the All-
Glorious, to keep safe these Thy servants under the shadow of the wings of Thine all-
encompassing mercy, that the darts of the evil suggestions of the wicked doers among Thy
creatures, who have disbelieved in Thy signs, may be kept back from them. No one on earth, O my
Lord, can withstand Thy power, and none in all the kingdom of Thy names is able to frustrate Thy
purpose. Show forth, then, the power of Thy sovereignty and of Thy dominion, and teach Thy
loved ones what beseemeth them in Thy days.
Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, the Most Great.
– XIV –
ALL praise be to Thee, O my God! Thou beholdest my helplessness and poverty, and bearest
witness unto my woes and trials. How long wilt Thou abandon me among Thy servants? Suffer
me to ascend into Thy presence. The power of Thy might beareth me witness! Such are the
tribulations with which I am encompassed that I am powerless to recount them before Thy face.
Thou, alone, verily, hast through Thy knowledge reckoned them.
I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art my Companion in my lowliness, to rain down upon Thy
loved ones from the clouds of Thy mercy that which will cause them to be satisﬁed with Thy
pleasure, and will enable them to turn unto Thee and to be detached from all else except Thee.
Ordain, then, for them every good conceived by Thee and predestined in Thy Book. Thou art,
verily, the All-Powerful, He Whom nothing whatsoever can frustrate. From everlasting Thou hast
been clothed with transcendent greatness and power, with unspeakable majesty and glory. There
is no God beside Thee, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Ever-Forgiving.
Gloriﬁed be Thy name, Thou in Whose hand are the kingdoms of earth and heaven.
– XV –
O THOU Who art the Ruler of earth and heaven and the Author of all names! Thou hearest the
voice of my lamentation which from the fortress-town of ‘Akká ascendeth towards Thee, and
beholdest how my captive friends have fallen into the hands of the workers of iniquity.
We render Thee thanks, O our Lord, for all the troubles which have touched us in Thy path.
Oh, that the span of my earthly life could be so extended as to embrace the lives of the former and
the latter generations, or could even be so lengthened that no man on the face of the earth could
measure it, and be afﬂicted every day and every moment with a fresh tribulation for love of Thee
and for Thy pleasure’s sake!
Thou well knowest, however, O my God, that my wish is wholly dissolved in Thy wish, and
that Thou hast irrevocably decreed that my soul should ascend unto the loftiest mansions of Thy
Kingdom, and pass into the presence of my all-glorious Companion.
Hasten, by Thy grace and bounty, my passing, O my Lord, and pour forth upon all them that
are dear to Thee what will preserve them from fear and trembling after me. Powerful art Thou to
do whatsoever may please Thee. No God is there except Thee, the All-Glorious, the All-Wise.
Thou seest, O my Lord, how Thy servants have left their homes in their longing to meet
Thee, and how they have been hindered by the ungodly from looking upon Thy face, and from
circumambulating the sanctuary of Thy grandeur. Pour out Thy steadfastness and send down Thy
calm upon them, O my Lord! Thou art, in truth, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.
– XVI –
PRAISE be to Thee, O Lord my God! Thou seest my tears and lamentations, and hearest my
sighing, my cry and bitter wailing. I am the one, O my Lord, that hath held fast the cord of Thy
mercy which hath surpassed the entire creation. I am the one that hath clung to the hem of Thy
loving-kindness, O Thou in Whose hand is the empire of all names!
Have mercy upon me and upon all them that are in my company, through the wonders of
Thy grace and power. Shield us, then, O my God, from the mischief of Thine enemies, and assist
us to help Thy Faith, and to protect Thy Cause, and to celebrate Thy glory. Thou art, verily, He

Who from everlasting hath inhabited the inaccessible heights of His unity, and will continue to
remain the same for ever and ever. Nothing whatsoever escapeth Thy knowledge, nor is there
anything that can frustrate Thee. No God is there beside Thee, the Almighty, the Ever-Faithful,
the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, the Best-Beloved.
Lauded and gloriﬁed art Thou, in Whose hand is the empire of all things!
– XVII –
MAGNIFIED be Thy name, O God, the Lord of heaven! Attire my head with the crown of
martyrdom, even as Thou didst attire my body with the ornament of tribulation before all that
dwell in Thy land. Grant, moreover, that they whose hearts yearn over Thee may draw nigh unto
the horizon of Thy grace, above which the Daystar of Thy beauty sheddeth its radiance. Ordain,
also, for them what will make them rich enough to dispense with aught else except Thee, and rid
them of all attachment to such as have repudiated Thy signs.
There is none other God but Thee, the Guardian, the Self-Subsisting.
– XVIII –
PRAISED be Thou, O my God! How can I thank Thee for having singled me out and chosen me
above all Thy servants to reveal Thee, at a time when all had turned away from Thy beauty! I
testify, O my God, that if I were given a thousand lives by Thee, and offered them up all in Thy
path, I would still have failed to repay the least of the gifts which, by Thy grace, Thou hast
bestowed upon me.
I lay asleep on the bed of self when lo, Thou didst waken me with the divine accents of Thy
voice, and didst unveil to me Thy beauty, and didst enable me to listen to Thine utterances, and to
recognize Thy Self, and to speak forth Thy praise, and to extol Thy virtues, and to be steadfast in
Thy love. Finally I fell a captive into the hands of the wayward among Thy servants.
Thou beholdest, therefore, the exile which I suffer in Thy days, and art aware of my
vehement longing to look upon Thy face, and of mine irrepressible yearnings to enter the court of
Thy glory, and of the stirrings of my heart under the inﬂuences of the winds of Thy mercy.
I entreat Thee, O Thou Who art the Ruler of the kingdoms of creation and the Author of all
names, to write down my name with the names of them who, from eternity, have circled round
the Tabernacle of Thy majesty, and clung to the hem of Thy loving-kindness, and held fast the
cord of Thy tender mercy.
Thou art, in truth, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.
– XIX –
PRAISED be Thou, O Lord my God! I implore Thee, by Thy Most Great Name through Which Thou
didst stir up Thy servants and build up Thy cities, and by Thy most excellent titles, and Thy most
august attributes, to assist Thy people to turn in the direction of Thy manifold bounties, and set
their faces towards the Tabernacle of Thy wisdom. Heal Thou the sicknesses that have assailed
the souls on every side, and have deterred them from directing their gaze towards the Paradise
that lieth in the shelter of Thy shadowing Name, which Thou didst ordain to be the King of all
names unto all who are in heaven and all who are on earth. Potent art Thou to do as pleaseth
Thee. In Thy hands is the empire of all names. There is none other God but Thee, the Mighty, the
Wise.
I am but a poor creature, O my Lord; I have clung to the hem of Thy riches. I am sore sick; I
have held fast the cord of Thy healing. Deliver me from the ills that have encircled me, and wash
me thoroughly with the waters of Thy graciousness and mercy, and attire me with the raiment of
wholesomeness, through Thy forgiveness and bounty. Fix, then, mine eyes upon Thee, and rid me
of all attachment to aught else except Thyself. Aid me to do what Thou desirest, and to fulﬁll
what Thou pleasest.
Thou art truly the Lord of this life and of the next. Thou art, in truth, the Ever-Forgiving, the
Most Merciful.
– XX –

LAUDED be Thy name, O Thou Who beholdest all things and art hidden from all things! From
every land Thou hearest the lamentations of them that love Thee, and from every direction Thou
hearkenest unto the cries of such as have recognized Thy sovereignty. Were their oppressors to be
asked: “Wherefore have ye oppressed them and held them in bondage in Baghdád and elsewhere?
What injustice have they committed? Whom have they betrayed? Whose blood have they spilled,
and whose property have they plundered?” they would know not what to answer.
Thou knowest full well, O my God, that their only crime is to have loved Thee. For this reason
have their oppressors laid hold on them, and scattered them abroad. Aware as I am, O my God,
that Thou wilt send down upon Thy servants only what is good for them, I nevertheless beseech
Thee, by Thy name which overshadoweth all things, to raise up, for their assistance and as a sign
of Thy grace and as an evidence of Thy power, those who will keep them safe from all their
adversaries.
Potent art Thou to do Thy pleasure. Thou art, verily, the Supreme Ruler, the Almighty, the
Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.
– XXI –
PRAISED be Thou, O Lord my God! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have set my
face towards Thy Cause, believing in Thy oneness, acknowledging Thy unity, recognizing Thy
sovereignty and the power of Thy might, and confessing the greatness of Thy majesty and glory. I
ask Thee, by Thy name through which the heaven was cleft asunder, and the earth was rent in
twain, and the mountains were crushed, not to withhold from me the breezes of Thy mercy which
have been wafted in Thy days, nor to suffer me to be far removed from the shores of Thy
nearness and bounty.
I am he who is sore athirst, O my Lord! Give me to drink of the living waters of Thy grace. I
am but a poor creature; reveal unto me the tokens of Thy riches. Doth it beseem Thee to cast out
of the door of Thy grace and bounty such as have set their hopes on Thee, and can it beﬁt Thy
sovereignty to hinder them that yearn after Thee from attaining the adored sanctuary of Thy
presence and from beholding Thy face? By Thy glory! Such is not my belief in Thee, for I am
persuaded that Thou art the God of bounteousness, Whose grace hath encompassed all things.
I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy mercy that hath surpassed the entire creation, and Thy
generosity that hath embraced all created things, to cause me to turn my face wholly towards
Thee, and to seek Thy shelter, and to be steadfast in my love for Thee. Write down, then, for me
what Thou didst ordain for them who love Thee. Powerful art Thou to do what Thou pleasest. No
God is there beside Thee, the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.
Praised be God, the Lord of the worlds!
– XXII –
EXALTED art Thou, O Lord my God! I am the one who hath forsaken his all and set his face
towards the splendors of the glory of Thy countenance, who hath severed every tie and clung to
the cord of Thy love and of Thy good-pleasure. I am he, O my God, who hath embraced Thy love
and accepted all the adversities which the world can inﬂict, who hath offered up himself as a
ransom for the sake of Thy loved ones, that they may ascend into the heavens of Thy knowledge
and be drawn nearer unto Thee, and may soar in the atmosphere of Thy love and Thy good-
pleasure.
Ordain, O my God, for me and for them that which Thou didst decree for such of Thy chosen
ones as are wholly devoted unto Thee. Cause them, then, to be numbered among those whose
eyes Thou hast cleansed and kept from turning to any one save Thee, and whose eyes Thou hast
protected from beholding any face except Thy face.
Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, the Supreme King, the Help
in Peril, the All-Pardoner, the Ever-Forgiving.
– XXIII –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O Lord my God! I implore Thee by the onrushing winds of Thy grace, and by
them Who are the Daysprings of Thy purpose and the Dawning-Places of Thine inspiration, to

send down upon me and upon all that have sought Thy face that which beseemeth Thy
generosity and bountiful grace, and is worthy of Thy bestowals and favors. Poor and desolate I am,
O my Lord! Immerse me in the ocean of Thy wealth; athirst, suffer me to drink from the living
waters of Thy loving-kindness.
I beseech Thee, by Thine own Self and by Him Whom Thou hast appointed as the
Manifestation of Thine own Being and Thy discriminating Word unto all that are in heaven and on
earth, to gather together Thy servants beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy gracious providence.
Help them, then, to partake of its fruits, to incline their ears to the rustling of its leaves, and to
the sweetness of the voice of the Bird that chanteth upon its branches. Thou art, verily, the Help
in Peril, the Inaccessible, the Almighty, the Most Bountiful.
– XXIV –
PRAISED be Thou, O Lord my God! I implore Thee by Them Who are the Tabernacles of Thy
Divine holiness, Who are the Manifestations of Thy transcendent unity and the Daysprings of
Thine inspiration and revelation, to grant that Thy servants may not be kept back from this
Divine Law which, at Thy will and according to Thy pleasure, hath branched out from Thy most
great Ocean. Do Thou, then, ordain for them that which Thou didst ordain for Thy chosen ones
and for the righteous among Thy creatures, whose constancy in Thy Cause the tempests of trials
have failed to shake, and whom the tumults of tests have been powerless to hinder from
magnifying Thy most exalted Word—the Word through Which the heavens of men’s idle fancies
and vain imaginations have been split asunder. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the
All-Knowing.
Enable, then, Thy servants, O my God, to recognize the Daystar that hath shone forth above
the horizon of Thine irrevocable decree and purpose, and suffer them not to be deprived of the
Paradise which Thou, by Thy name, the All-Glorious, hast called into being in the heavens of
Thine exalted omnipotence. Cause them, moreover, O my God, to hearken to Thy most sweet
voice, that they may all hasten to recognize Thy unity and acknowledge Thy oneness, O Thou
Who art the Beloved of the hearts of all that yearn after Thee, and the Object of the adoration of
such as have known Thee!
I beseech Thee, by them that have cut down all the idols in this Revelation through which the
Most Grievous Convulsion and the Great Terror have appeared, to assist, at all times, Thy servants
with the signs of Thine almighty power and the evidences of Thy transcendent and all-compelling
might. Grant, then, that their hearts may be made as strong as brass, that they may remain
unmoved by the overpowering might of such as have transgressed against Him Who is the
Manifestation of Thine Essence and the Dayspring of Thine invisible Self, and that they may all
arise to glorify and help Thee, so that through them the ensigns of Thy triumph may be lifted up
in Thy realm, and the standards of Thy Cause may be unfurled throughout Thy dominions. Thou
art He who from everlasting hath, through the potency of His will, been all-powerful, and will
continue to remain the same for ever and ever. Thou art, verily, the All-Glorious, the Most High.
No God is there but Thee, the Most Powerful, the Most Exalted, the Help in Peril, the Most Great,
the One Being, the Incomparable, the All-Glorious, the Unrestrained.
– XXV –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O Lord my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Chosen Ones, and by the Bearers of
Thy Trust, and by Him Whom Thou hast ordained to be the Seal of Thy Prophets and of Thy
Messengers, to let Thy remembrance be my companion, and Thy love my aim, and Thy face my
goal, and Thy name my lamp, and Thy wish my desire, and Thy pleasure my delight.
I am a sinner, O my Lord, and Thou art the Ever-Forgiving. As soon as I recognized Thee, I
hastened to attain the exalted court of Thy loving-kindness. Forgive me, O my Lord, my sins
which have hindered me from walking in the ways of Thy good-pleasure, and from attaining the
shores of the ocean of Thy oneness.
There is no one, O my Lord, who can deal bountifully with me to whom I can turn my face,
and none who can have compassion on me that I may crave his mercy. Cast me not out, I implore
Thee, of the presence of Thy grace, neither do Thou withhold from me the outpourings of Thy

generosity and bounty. Ordain for me, O my Lord, what Thou hast ordained for them that love
Thee, and write down for me what Thou hast written down for Thy chosen ones. My gaze hath, at
all times, been ﬁxed on the horizon of Thy gracious providence, and mine eyes bent upon the court
of Thy tender mercies. Do with me as beseemeth Thee. No God is there but Thee, the God of
power, the God of glory, Whose help is implored by all men.
– XXVI –
SUFFER me, O my God, to draw nigh unto Thee, and to abide within the precincts of Thy court, for
remoteness from Thee hath well-nigh consumed me. Cause me to rest under the shadow of the
wings of Thy grace, for the ﬂame of my separation from Thee hath melted my heart within me.
Draw me nearer unto the river that is life indeed, for my soul burneth with thirst in its ceaseless
search after Thee. My sighs, O my God, proclaim the bitterness of mine anguish, and the tears I
shed attest my love for Thee.
I beseech Thee, by the praise wherewith Thou praisest Thyself and the glory wherewith
Thou gloriﬁest Thine own Essence, to grant that we may be numbered among them that have
recognized Thee and acknowledged Thy sovereignty in Thy days. Help us then to quaff, O my
God, from the ﬁngers of mercy the living waters of Thy loving-kindness, that we may utterly
forget all else except Thee, and be occupied only with Thy Self. Powerful art Thou to do what
Thou willest. No God is there beside Thee, the Mighty, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.
Gloriﬁed be Thy name, O Thou Who art the King of all Kings!
– XXVII –
THOU beholdest, O my God, the Daystar of Thy Word shining above the horizon of Thy prison-
city, inasmuch as within its walls He who is the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dayspring of
the light of Thy unity hath raised His voice and uttered Thy praise. The fragrances of Thy love
have thereby been wafted over Thy cities and have encompassed all the dwellers of Thy realm.
Since Thou hast revealed Thy grace, O my God, deter not Thy servants from directing their
eyes towards it. Consider not, O my God, their estate, and their concerns and their works. Consider
the greatness of Thy glory, and the plenteousness of Thy gifts, and the power of Thy might, and
the excellence of Thy favors. I swear by Thy glory! Wert Thou to look upon them with the eye of
justice, all would deserve Thy wrath and the rod of Thine anger. Hold Thou Thy creatures, O my
God, with the hands of Thy grace, and make Thou known unto them what is best for them of all
the things that have been created in the kingdom of Thine invention.
We testify, O my God, that Thou art God, and that there is no God besides Thee. From
eternity Thou hast existed with none to equal or rival Thee, and wilt abide for ever the same. I
beseech Thee, by the eyes which see Thee stablished upon the throne of unity and the seat of
oneness, to aid all them that love Thee by Thy Most Great Name, and to lift them up into such
heights that they will testify with their own beings and with their tongues that Thou art God
alone, the Incomparable, the One, the Ever-Abiding. Thou hast had at no time any peer or partner.
Thou, in truth, art the All-Glorious, the Almighty, Whose help is implored by all men.
– XXVIII –
PRAISED be Thou, O Lord my God! I bear witness that from eternity Thou wert exalted in Thy
transcendent majesty and might, and wilt to eternity abide in Thy surpassing power and glory.
None in the kingdoms of earth and heaven can frustrate Thy purpose; none throughout the realms
of revelation and of creation can prevail against Thee. At Thy command Thou doest what Thou
willest, and by the power of Thy sovereignty Thou rulest as Thou pleasest.
I implore Thee, O Thou Who causest the dawn to appear, by Thy Lamp which Thou didst
light with the ﬁre of Thy love before all that are in heaven and on earth, and whose ﬂame Thou
feedest with the fuel of Thy wisdom in the kingdom of Thy creation, to make me to be of those
who have soared in Thine atmosphere, and surrendered their will to Thy decree.
I am all wretchedness, O my Lord, and Thou art the Most Powerful, the Almighty. Have pity
upon me by Thy grace and bountiful favor, and graciously aid me to serve Thee and them that are

dear to Thee. Potent art Thou to do as Thou willest. No God is there but Thee, the God of strength,
of glory and wisdom.
– XXIX –
MANY a chilled heart, O my God, hath been set ablaze with the ﬁre of Thy Cause, and many a
slumberer hath been wakened by the sweetness of Thy voice. How many are the strangers who
have sought shelter beneath the shadow of the tree of Thy oneness, and how numerous the
thirsty ones who have panted after the fountain of Thy living waters in Thy days!
Blessed is he that hath set himself towards Thee, and hasted to attain the Dayspring of the
lights of Thy face. Blessed is he who with all his affections hath turned to the Dawning-Place of
Thy Revelation and the Fountainhead of Thine inspiration. Blessed is he that hath expended in
Thy path what Thou didst bestow upon him through Thy bounty and favor. Blessed is he who, in
his sore longing after Thee, hath cast away all else except Thyself. Blessed is he who hath
enjoyed intimate communion with Thee, and rid himself of all attachment to anyone save Thee.
I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Him Who is Thy Name, Who, through the power of Thy
sovereignty and might, hath risen above the horizon of His prison, to ordain for everyone what
becometh Thee and beseemeth Thine exaltation.
Thy might, in truth, is equal to all things.
– XXX –
LAUDED be Thy name, O Lord my God! Thou seest me in this day shut up in my prison, and
fallen into the hands of Thine adversaries, and beholdest my son (The Purest Branch) lying on the
dust before Thy face. He is Thy servant, O my Lord, whom Thou hast caused to be related to Him
Who is the Manifestation of Thyself and the Dayspring of Thy Cause.
At his birth he was afﬂicted through his separation from Thee, according to what had been
ordained for him through Thine irrevocable decree. And when he had quaffed the cup of reunion
with Thee, he was cast into prison for having believed in Thee and in Thy signs. He continued to
serve Thy Beauty until he entered into this Most Great Prison. Thereupon I offered him up, O my
God, as a sacriﬁce in Thy path.
Thou well knowest what they who love Thee have endured through this trial that hath
caused the kindreds of the earth to wail, and beyond them the Concourse on high to lament.
I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by him and by his exile and his imprisonment, to send down upon
such as loved him what will quiet their hearts and bless their works. Potent art Thou to do as
Thou willest. No God is there but Thee, the Almighty, the Most Powerful.
– XXXI –
PRAISED be Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by them who have circled round the throne of Thy
will, and soared in the atmosphere of Thy good pleasure, and turned with all their affections
towards the Horizon of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thine inspiration, and the Dawning-
Place of Thy names, to aid Thy servants to observe what Thou hast commanded them in Thy days
—commandments through which the sacredness of Thy Cause will be demonstrated unto Thy
servants and the affairs of Thy creatures and of Thy realm will be set aright.
I testify, O my God, that this is the Day whereon Thy testimony hath been fulﬁlled, and Thy
clear tokens have been manifested, and Thine utterances have been revealed, and Thy signs have
been demonstrated, and the radiance of Thy countenance hath been diffused, and Thy proof hath
been perfected, and Thine ascendancy hath been established, and Thy mercy hath overﬂowed, and
the Daystar of Thy grace hath shone forth with such brilliance that Thou didst manifest Him Who
is the Revealer of Thyself and the Treasury of Thy wisdom and the Dawning-Place of Thy
majesty and power. Thou didst establish His covenant with every one who hath been created in
the kingdoms of earth and heaven and in the realms of revelation and of creation. Thou didst raise
Him up to such heights that the wrongs inﬂicted by the oppressors have been powerless to deter
Him from revealing Thy sovereignty, and the ascendancy of the wayward hath failed to prevent
Him from demonstrating Thy power and from exalting Thy Cause.

So highly didst Thou exalt Him that He openly delivered unto the kings Thy messages and
commandments, and hath never for one moment sought His own protection, but striven to protect
Thy servants from whatever might withhold them from approaching the kingdom of Thy
nearness, and from setting their faces towards the horizon of Thy good pleasure.
Thou seest, O my God, how, notwithstanding the swords that are drawn against Him, He
calleth the nations unto Thee, and though Himself a prisoner summoneth them to turn in the
direction of Thy gifts and bounties. With every fresh tribulation He manifested a fuller measure of
Thy Cause, and exalted more highly Thy word.
I testify that through Him the Pen of the Most High was set in motion, and with His
remembrance the Scriptures in the kingdom of names were embellished. Through Him Thy
fragrances were wafted, and the sweet smell of Thy raiment was shed abroad amongst all the
dwellers of the earth and the inmates of heaven. Thou seest and knowest full well, O my God,
how He hath been made to dwell within the most desolate of cities, so that He may build up the
hearts of Thy servants, and hath been willing to suffer the most grievous abasement, that Thy
creatures may be exalted.
I pray Thee, O Thou Who causest the dawn to appear, by Thy Name through Which Thou
hast subjected the winds, and sent down Thy Tablets, that Thou wilt grant that we may draw near
unto what Thou didst destine for us by Thy favor and bounty, and to be far removed from
whatsoever may be repugnant unto Thee. Give us, then, to drink from the hands of Thy grace
every day and every moment of our lives of the waters that are life indeed, O Thou Who art the
Most Merciful! Make us, then, to be of them who helped Thee when fallen into the hands of those
Thine enemies who are numbered with the rebellious among Thy creatures and the wicked amidst
Thy people. Write down, then, for us the recompense ordained for him that hath attained Thy
presence, and gazed on Thy beauty, and supply us with every good thing ordained in Thy Book for
such of Thy creatures as enjoy near access to Thee.
Brighten our hearts, O my Lord, with the splendor of Thy knowledge, and illumine our sight
with the light of such eyes as are ﬁxed upon the horizon of Thy grace and the Dayspring of Thy
glory. Preserve us, then, by Thy Most Great Name, Which Thou didst cause to overshadow such
nations as lay claim to what Thou hast forbidden in Thy Book. This, verily, is what Thou didst
announce unto us in Thy Scriptures and Thy Tablets.
Cause us, then, to be so steadfast in our love towards Thee that we will turn to none except
Thee, and will be reckoned amongst them that are brought nigh to Thee, and acknowledge Thee
as One Who is exalted above every comparison and is holy beyond all likeness, and will lift up our
voices amongst Thy servants and cry aloud that He is the one God, the Incomparable, the Ever-
Abiding, the Most Powerful, the All-Glorious, the All-Wise.
Strengthen Thou, O my Lord, the hearts of them that love Thee, that they may not be
affrighted by the hosts of the inﬁdels that are turned back from Thee, but may follow Thee in
whatsoever hath been revealed by Thee. Aid them, moreover, to remember and to praise Thee, and
to teach Thy Cause with eloquence and wisdom. Thou art He Who hath called Himself the Most
Merciful. Ordain, then, O my God, for me and for whosoever hath sought Thee what beseemeth
the excellence of Thy glory and the greatness of Thy majesty. No God is there but Thee, the Ever-
Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.
– XXXII –
THOU seest Thy dear One, O my God, lying at the mercy of Thine enemies, and hearest the voice
of His lamentation from the midst of such of Thy creatures as have dealt wickedly in Thy sight.
He it is, O my Lord, through Whose name Thou didst beautify Thy Tablets, and for Whose greater
glory Thou didst send down the Bayán, and at Whose separation from Thee Thou didst weep
continually. Look Thou, then, upon His loneliness, O my God, and behold Him fallen into the
hands of them that have disbelieved in Thy signs, have turned their backs upon Thee, and have
forgotten the wonders of Thy mercy.
He it is, O my God, about Whom Thou hast said: “But for Thee the Scriptures would have
remained unrevealed, and the Prophets unsent.” And no sooner had He, by Thy behest, been

manifested and spoken forth Thy praise, than the wicked doers among Thy creatures compassed
Him round, with the swords of hate drawn against Him, O Thou the Lord of all names! Thou well
knowest what befell Him at the hands of such as have rent asunder the veil of Thy grandeur, and
cast behind their backs Thy Covenant and Thy Testament, O Thou Who art the Maker of the
heavens! He is the One for Whose sake Thou (the Báb) hast yielded Thy life, and hast consented
to be touched by the manifold ills of the world that He may manifest Himself, and summoned all
mankind in His name. As soon as He came down, however, from the heaven of majesty and
power, Thy servants stretched out against Him the hands of cruelty and sedition, and caused Him
to be afﬂicted with such troubles that the scrolls of the world are insufﬁcient to contain a full
recital of them.
Thou seest, therefore, O Thou Beloved of the world, Him Who is dear to Thee in the clutches
of such as have denied Thee, and beholdest Thy heart’s desire under the swords of the ungodly.
Methinks He, from His most exalted station, saith unto me: “Would that my soul, O Prisoner, could
be a ransom for Thy captivity, and my being, O wronged One, be sacriﬁced for the adversities Thou
didst suffer! Thou art He through Whose captivity the standards of Thine almighty power were
hoisted, and the daystar of Thy revelation shone forth above the horizon of tribulation, in such
wise that all created things bowed down before the greatness of Thy majesty.
“The more they strove to hinder Thee from remembering Thy God and from extolling His
virtues, the more passionately didst Thou glorify Him and the more loudly didst Thou call upon
Him. And every time the veils of the perverse came in between Thee and Thy servants, Thou
didst shed the splendors of the light of Thy countenance out of the heaven of Thy grace. Thou art,
in very truth, the Self-Subsisting as testiﬁed by the tongue of God, the All-Glorious, the one alone
Beloved; and Thou art the Desire of the world as attested by what hath ﬂowed down from the Pen
of Him Who hath announced unto Thy servants Thy hidden Name, and adorned the entire
creation with the ornament of Thy love, the Most Precious, the Most Exalted.
“The eyes of the world were gladdened at the sight of Thy luminous countenance, and yet the
peoples have united to put out Thy light, O Thou in Whose hands are the reins of the worlds! All
the atoms of the earth have celebrated Thy praise, and all created things have been set ablaze
with the drops sprinkled by the ocean of Thy love, and yet the people still seek to quench Thy
ﬁre. Nay—and to this Thine own Self beareth me witness—they are all weakness, and Thou, verily,
art the All-Powerful; and they are but paupers and Thou, in truth, art the All-Possessing; and they
are impotent and Thou art, truly, the Almighty. Naught can ever frustrate Thy purpose, neither
can the dissensions of the world harm Thee. Through the breaths of Thine utterance the heaven
of understanding hath been adorned, and by the effusions of Thy pen every moldering bone hath
been quickened. Grieve not at what hath befallen Thee, neither do Thou lay hold on them for the
things they have committed in Thy days. Do Thou be forbearing toward them. Thou art the Ever-
Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.”
– XXXIII –
PRAISE be unto Thee, O my God! Thou art He Who by a word of His mouth hath revolutionized
the entire creation, and by a stroke of His pen hath divided Thy servants one from another. I bear
witness, O my God, that through a word spoken by Thee in this Revelation all created things were
made to expire, and through yet another word all such as Thou didst wish were, by Thy grace and
bounty, endued with new life.
I render Thee thanks, therefore, and extol Thee, in the name of all them that are dear to Thee,
for that Thou hast caused them to be born again, by reason of the living waters which have ﬂowed
down out of the mouth of Thy will. Since Thou didst quicken them by Thy bounteousness, O my
God, make them steadfastly inclined, through Thy graciousness, towards Thy will; and since Thou
didst suffer them to enter into the Tabernacle of Thy Cause, grant by Thy grace that they may not
be kept back from Thee.
Unlock, then, to their hearts, O my God, the portals of Thy knowledge, that they may
recognize Thee as One Who is far above the reach and ken of the understanding of Thy creatures,
and immeasurably exalted above the strivings of Thy people to hint at Thy nature, and may not

follow every clamorous impostor that presumeth to speak in Thy name. Enable them, moreover, O
my Lord, to cleave so tenaciously to Thy Cause that they may remain unmoved by the perplexing
suggestions of them who, prompted by their desires, utter what hath been forbidden unto them in
Thy Tablets and Thy Scriptures.
Thou art well aware, O my Lord, that I hear the howling of the wolves which appear in Thy
servants’ clothing. Keep safe, therefore, Thy loved ones from their mischief, and enable them to
cling steadfastly to whatsoever hath been manifested by Thee in this Revelation, which no other
Revelation within Thy knowledge hath excelled.
Do Thou destine for them, O my Lord, that which will proﬁt them. Illumine, then, their eyes
with the light of Thy knowledge, that they may see Thee visibly supreme over all things, and
resplendent amidst Thy creatures, and victorious over all that are in Thy heaven and all that are
on Thy earth. Powerful art Thou to do Thy pleasure. No God is there but Thee, the All-Glorious,
Whose help is implored by all men.
Praised be Thou, Who art the Lord of all creation.
– XXXIV –
PRAISED be Thou, O Lord my God! I implore Thee by Thine Ancient Beauty and Most Great
Name, Whom Thou hast sacriﬁced that all the dwellers of Thine earth and heaven may be born
anew, and Whom Thou hast cast into prison that mankind may, as a token of Thy bounty and of
Thy sovereign might, be released from the bondage of evil passions and corrupt desires, to number
me with those who have so deeply inhaled the fragrance of Thy mercy, and hastened with such
speed unto the living waters of Thy grace, that no dart could hinder them from turning unto Thee,
nor any spear from setting their faces towards the orient of Thy Revelation.
We testify, O my Lord, that Thou art God and that there is none other God besides Thee. From
everlasting Thou wast enthroned on the inaccessible heights of Thy power, and wilt unto
everlasting continue to exercise Thy transcendent and unrestrained dominion. The hosts of the
world are powerless to frustrate Thy will, nor can all the dwellers of the earth and all the inmates
of heaven annul Thy decree. Thou truly art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Great.
Bless, O my God, those of the followers of the Bayán as have been numbered with the people
of Bahá, who have entered within the Crimson Ark in Thy Name, the Most Exalted, the Most
High. Thy might, verily, is equal to all things.
– XXXV –
I GIVE praise to Thee, O Lord my God! I entreat Thee by Thy Name through which Thou didst
cause the dawn to appear, and the winds to blow, and the seas to surge, and the trees to bring
forth their fruits, and the earth to be beautiﬁed with its rivers, that Thou wilt aid all them that are
dear to Thee with both Thy visible and invisible hosts. Render them, moreover, victorious over all
those who have so rebelled in Thy land, and dishonored Thy name, and disbelieved in Thy signs,
and broken Thy Covenant, and cast behind their backs Thy laws, and have to such an extent risen
up against Thee, that they carried into captivity Thy kindred, and ﬂung the Manifestation of Thy
Self into prison, and immured Him Who is the Dayspring of Thine Essence in the most desolate of
cities.
Thou, O my Lord, art He whose strength is immense, Whose decree is terrible. Lay hold on
Thine adversaries by the power of Thy sovereignty, and assemble Thy loved ones beneath the
shadow of the tree of Thy oneness, that they may stand before Thy throne, and catch the accents
of Thy voice, and gaze on Thy beauty, and discover the power of Thy might.
Thou art, verily, the All-Powerful, the Almighty.
– XXXVI –
LAUDED be Thy name, O my God! I am so carried away by the breezes blowing from Thy
presence that I have forgotten my self and all that I possess. This is but a sign of the wonders of
Thy grace and bountiful favors vouchsafed unto me. I give praise to Thee, O my God, that Thou
hast chosen me out of all Thy creatures, and made me to be the Dayspring of Thy strength and

the Manifestation of Thy might, and empowered me to reveal such of Thy signs and such tokens
of Thy majesty and power as none, whether in Thy heaven or on Thy earth, can produce.
I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy most effulgent Name, to acquaint my people with the
things Thou didst destine for them. Do Thou, then, preserve them within the stronghold of Thy
guardianship and the tabernacle of Thine unerring protection, lest through them may appear what
will divide Thy servants. Assemble them, O my Lord, on the shores of this Ocean, every drop of
which proclaimeth Thee to be God, besides Whom there is none other God, the All-Glorious, the
All-Wise.
Uncover before them, O my Lord, the majesty of Thy Cause, lest they be led to doubt Thy
sovereignty and the power of Thy might. I swear by Thy glory, O Thou Who art the Beloved of the
worlds! Had they been aware of Thy power they would of a certainty have refused to utter what
Thou didst not ordain for them in the heaven of Thy will.
Inspire them, O my Lord, with a sense of their own powerlessness before Him Who is the
Manifestation of Thy Self, and teach them to recognize the poverty of their own nature in the face
of the manifold tokens of Thy self-sufﬁciency and riches, that they may gather together round
Thy Cause, and cling to the hem of Thy mercy, and cleave to the cord of the good pleasure of Thy
will.
Thou art the Lord of the worlds, and of all those who show mercy, art the Most Merciful.
– XXXVII –
GLORY be to Thee, O King of eternity, and the Maker of nations, and the Fashioner of every
moldering bone! I pray Thee, by Thy Name through which Thou didst call all mankind unto the
horizon of Thy majesty and glory, and didst guide Thy servants to the court of Thy grace and
favors, to number me with such as have rid themselves from everything except Thyself, and have
set themselves towards Thee, and have not been kept back by such misfortunes as were decreed
by Thee, from turning in the direction of Thy gifts.
I have laid hold, O my Lord, on the handle of Thy bounty, and clung steadfastly to the hem of
the robe of Thy favor. Send down, then, upon me, out of the clouds of Thy generosity, what will
purge out from me the remembrance of any one except Thee, and make me able to turn unto Him
Who is the Object of the adoration of all mankind, against Whom have been arrayed the stirrers of
sedition, who have broken Thy covenant, and disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs.
Deny me not, O my Lord, the fragrances of Thy raiment in Thy days, and deprive me not of
the breathings of Thy Revelation at the appearance of the splendors of the light of Thy face.
Powerful art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee. Naught can resist Thy will, nor frustrate what Thou
hast purposed by Thy power.
No God is there but Thee, the Almighty, the All-Wise.
– XXXVIII –
LAUDED be Thy name, O Lord my God! I testify that Thou wast a hidden Treasure wrapped
within Thine immemorial Being and an impenetrable Mystery enshrined in Thine own Essence.
Wishing to reveal Thyself, Thou didst call into being the Greater and the Lesser Worlds, and didst
choose Man above all Thy creatures, and didst make Him a sign of both of these worlds, O Thou
Who art our Lord, the Most Compassionate!
Thou didst raise Him up to occupy Thy throne before all the people of Thy creation. Thou
didst enable Him to unravel Thy mysteries, and to shine with the lights of Thine inspiration and
Thy Revelation, and to manifest Thy names and Thine attributes. Through Him Thou didst adorn
the preamble of the book of Thy creation, O Thou Who art the Ruler of the universe Thou hast
fashioned!
I bear witness that in His person solidity and ﬂuidity have been joined and combined. Through
His immovable constancy in Thy Cause, and His unwavering adherence to whatsoever Thou, in
the plentitude of the light of Thy glory, didst unveil to His eyes, throughout the domains of Thy
Revelation and creation, the souls of Thy servants were stirred up in their longing for Thy
Kingdom, and the dwellers of Thy realms rushed forth to enter into Thy heavenly dominion.
Through the restlessness He evinced in Thy path, the feet of all them that are devoted to Thee

were steeled and conﬁrmed to manifest Thy Cause amidst Thy creatures, and to demonstrate Thy
sovereignty throughout Thy realm.
How great, O my God, is this Thy most excellent handiwork, and how consummate Thy
creation, which hath caused every understanding heart and mind to marvel! And when the set
time was fulﬁlled, and what had been preordained came to pass, Thou didst unloose His tongue to
praise Thee, and to lay bare Thy mysteries before all Thy creation, O Thou Who art the Possessor
of all names, and the Fashioner of earth and heaven! Through Him all created things were made to
glorify Thee, and to celebrate Thy praise, and every soul was directed towards the kingdom of Thy
revelation and Thy sovereignty.
At one time, Thou didst raise Him up, O my God, and didst attire Him with the ornament of
the name of Him Who conversed with Thee (Moses), and didst through Him uncover all that Thy
will had decreed and Thine irrevocable purpose ordained. At another time, Thou didst adorn Him
with the name of Him Who was Thy Spirit (Jesus), and didst send Him down out of the heaven of
Thy will, for the ediﬁcation of Thy people, infusing thereby the spirit of life into the hearts of the
sincere among Thy servants and the faithful among Thy creatures. Again, Thou didst reveal Him,
decked forth by the name of Him Who was Thy Friend (Muḥammad), and caused Him to shine
brightly above the horizon of Ḥijáz, as a token of Thy power and an evidence of Thy might.
Through Him Thou didst send unto Thy servants what enabled them to scale the heights of Thy
unity, and to yearn over the wonders of Thy manifold knowledge and wisdom.
I testify, O Thou Who art the Lord of the whole creation, and the Desire of whosoever hath
sought Thee, that, amidst Thy creatures, They resemble the sun which no matter how often it
riseth and setteth is still the one and the same sun. Whoso maketh any distinction between any
of Them hath truly failed to attain the ultimate purpose, and to reach the highest goal, and hath
been deprived of the mysteries of unity and of the lights of sanctity and oneness. I testify,
moreover, that Thou hast decreed that none on the face of the earth should equal Them, and none
of Thy creatures be able to be compared with any of Them, in order that Thine own singleness
and peerlessness might be recognized and established.
Gloriﬁed, immeasurably gloriﬁed be Thy name, O my God! How can I ever beﬁttingly mention
Thee or sufﬁciently praise Thee, that Thou hast manifested Him by the power of Thy might, and
caused Him to shine above the horizon of Thy will, and made Him the Dayspring of Thy signs,
and the Dawning-Place of the revelation of Thy names and Thine attributes? How bewilderingly
mysterious, moreover, O my God, is His nature and all that Thou hast infused into Him, through
Thy strength and by the power of Thy might! At one time He appeareth as the water which is
Life indeed, sent down out of the heaven of Thy grace, and poured forth from the clouds of Thy
mercy, that Thy creatures may be endued with new life, and live as long as Thine own Kingdom
endureth. Every drop of that water would sufﬁce to quicken the dead, and to set their faces in the
direction of Thy favors and Thy gifts, and to rid them of all attachment to aught else except Thee.
At another time He revealeth Himself as the Fire which Thou didst kindle in the tree of Thy
unity, whose heat melted the hearts of Thine ardent lovers when He Who is the Daystar of the
world shone forth above the horizon of Iráq. I testify, O my God, that through Him the veils of
human fancy were burnt up, and the hearts of men were set towards the scene of Thy most
resplendent glory.
I implore Thee, O Thou Who art the Supreme Ordainer, not to suffer me to be deprived of the
breezes which are wafted in Thy days, the days whereon the sweet smell of the raiment of Thy
mercy hath been shed abroad. Neither do Thou keep me back from Thy most great Ocean, every
drop of which crieth out and saith: “Great is the blessedness that awaiteth him who hath been
awakened from his sleep by the breath of God which, from the source of His mercy, hath blown
over all such of His creatures as have set themselves towards Him!”
Thou seest, O my Lord, how Thy servants are held captive by their own selves and desires.
Redeem them from their bondage, O my God, by the power of Thy sovereignty and might, that
they may turn towards Thee when He Who is the Revealer of Thy names and attributes is
manifested unto men.

Cast upon this poor and desolate creature, O my Lord, the glance of Thy wealth, and ﬂood his
heart with the beams of Thy knowledge, that he may apprehend the verities of the unseen world,
and discover the mysteries of Thy heavenly realm, and perceive the signs and tokens of Thy
kingdom, and behold the manifold revelations of this earthly life all set forth before the face of
Him Who is the Revealer of Thine own Self. Direct, then, his eyes, O my God, towards the horizon
of Thy loving-kindness, and make steadfast his heart in its attachment to Thee, and unloose his
tongue to praise Thee, and make him able to hold fast the cord of Thy love, and to cling to the
hem of Thy bounteousness, and to proclaim Thy name amidst Thy creatures, and to recount Thy
virtues throughout Thy realm, in such wise that no obstacle will deter him from turning to Thy
name, the All-Bountiful, and no veil shut him out from Thee, in Whose hand is the dominion of
utterance and the kingdom of all names and attributes!
Hold Thou the hand of this seeker who hath set his face towards Thee, O my Lord, and draw
him out of the depths of his vain imaginations, that the light of certainty may shine brightly
above the horizon of his heart in the days whereon the sun of the knowledge of Thy creatures
hath been darkened through the shining of the Daystar of Thy glory; the days whereon the moon
of the world’s wisdom hath been eclipsed through the appearance of Thy hidden knowledge, and
the manifestation of Thy well-guarded secret, and the revelation of Thine enshrined mystery; the
days whereon the stars of men’s doings have fallen through the rising of the orb of Thy unity and
the shedding of the radiance of Thy transcendent oneness.
I beg of Thee, O my God, by Thy most exalted Word which Thou hast ordained as the Divine
Elixir unto all who are in Thy realm, the Elixir through whose potency the crude metal of human
life hath been transmuted into purest gold, O Thou in Whose hands are both the visible and
invisible kingdoms, to ordain that my choice be conformed to Thy choice and my wish to Thy
wish, that I may be entirely content with that which Thou didst desire, and be wholly satisﬁed
with what Thou didst destine for me by Thy bounteousness and favor. Potent art Thou to do as
Thou willest. Thou, in very truth, art the All-Glorious, the All-Wise.
Happy is the man who hath recognized Thee, and discovered the sweetness of Thy fragrance,
and set himself towards Thy kingdom, and tasted of the things that have been perfected therein
by Thy grace and favor. Great is the blessedness of him who hath acknowledged Thy most
excellent majesty, and whom the veils that have shut out the nations from Thee have not
hindered from directing his eyes towards Thee, O Thou Who art the King of eternity and the
Quickener of every moldering bone! Blessed, also, is he that hath inhaled Thy sweet savors, and
been carried away by Thine utterances in Thy days. Blessed, moreover, be the man that hath
turned unto Thee, and woe betide him that hath turned his back upon Thee.
Praised be Thou, the Lord of the worlds!
– XXXIX –
O THOU Who dealest equitably with all who are in heaven and on earth, and rulest over the
kingdom of Thy creation and of Thy Revelation! I testify that every man of equity hath recognized
his unfairness in the face of the revelation of the splendors of the Daystar of Thy Justice, and the
ablest of pens hath confessed its impotence before the movement of Thy most exalted Pen.
By Thy life, O Thou the Possessor of all names! The minds of the profoundest thinkers are
sore perplexed as they contemplate the ocean of Thy knowledge, and the heaven of Thy wisdom,
and the Luminary of Thy grace. How can he who is but a creation of Thy will claim to know what
is with Thee, or to conceive Thy nature?
Praise, immeasurable praise be to Thee! I swear by Thy glory! My inner and outer tongue,
openly and secretly, testify that Thou hast been exalted above the reach and ken of Thy creatures,
above the utterance of Thy servants, above the testimonies of Thy dear ones and Thy chosen
ones, and the apprehension of Thy Prophets and of Thy Messengers.
I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Name which Thou hast made to be the Dayspring of Thy
Revelation and the Dawning-Place of Thine inspiration, to ordain for this wronged One and for
them that are dear to Thee what becometh Thy loftiness. Thou, in very truth, art the All-
Bountiful, the All-Powerful, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.

– XL –
PRAISE be to Thee, O Lord my God! I implore Thee, by Thy Name which none hath beﬁttingly
recognized, and whose import no soul hath fathomed; I beseech Thee, by Him Who is the
Fountainhead of Thy Revelation and the Dayspring of Thy signs, to make my heart to be a
receptacle of Thy love and of remembrance of Thee. Knit it, then, to Thy most great Ocean, that
from it may ﬂow out the living waters of Thy wisdom and the crystal streams of Thy gloriﬁcation
and praise.
The limbs of my body testify to Thy unity, and the hair of my head declareth the power of
Thy sovereignty and might. I have stood at the door of Thy grace with utter self-effacement and
complete abnegation, and clung to the hem of Thy bounty, and ﬁxed mine eyes upon the horizon
of Thy gifts.
Do Thou destine for me, O my God, what becometh the greatness of Thy majesty, and assist
me, by Thy strengthening grace, so to teach Thy Cause that the dead may speed out of their
sepulchers, and rush forth towards Thee, trusting wholly in Thee, and ﬁxing their gaze upon the
orient of Thy Cause, and the dawning-place of Thy Revelation.
Thou, verily, art the Most Powerful, the Most High, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
– XLI –
THY unity is inscrutable, O my God, to all except them that have recognized Him Who is the
Manifestation of Thy singleness and the Dayspring of Thy oneness. Whoso assigneth a rival unto
Him hath assigned a rival unto Thee, and whoso hath set up a peer for Him hath set up a peer for
Thyself. No, no, none can withstand Thee in the whole of creation. Thou hast everlastingly been
exalted far above all comparison and likeness. Thy oneness hath been demonstrated by the
oneness of Him Who is the Dawning-Place of Thy Revelation. Whosoever denieth this, hath
denied Thy unity, and disputed with Thee about Thy sovereignty, and contended with Thee in
Thy realm, and repudiated Thy commandments.
Assist Thou Thy servants, O my Lord, to recognize Thy unity and to declare Thy oneness,
that all may gather together around what Thou didst desire in this Day whereon the sun of Thine
essence hath shone forth above the horizon of Thy will, and the moon of Thine own being hath
risen from the Dayspring of Thy behest. Thou art He, O my Lord, from Whose knowledge nothing
whatsoever escapeth, and Whom no one can frustrate. Thou doest Thy pleasure, by Thy
sovereignty that overshadoweth the worlds.
Thou well knowest, O my God, my Best-Beloved, that naught can quench the thirst I suffer in
my separation from Thee except the waters of Thy presence, and that the tumult of my heart can
never be stilled save through the living fountain of my reunion with Thee. Send down, then, upon
me, O my Lord, out of the heaven of Thy bounty what will draw me nearer unto the chalice of
Thy gifts, and make me able to quaff the choice sealed Wine, Whose seal hath been loosed in Thy
name, and from Which the sweet savors of Thy days have been shed abroad. Thou, in truth, art
the All-Bountiful, Whose grace is inﬁnite.
The whole universe testiﬁeth to Thy generosity. Have mercy, then, upon me by Thy
graciousness, and deal bountifully with me through the power of Thy sovereignty, and suffer me
to enjoy near access to Thee by Thy manifold favors. Thou, truly, art the Great Giver, the
Almighty, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bountiful.
– XLII –
LAUDED be Thy name, O my God and the God of all things, my Glory and the Glory of all things,
my Desire and the Desire of all things, my Strength and the Strength of all things, my King and
the King of all things, my Possessor and the Possessor of all things, my Aim and the Aim of all
things, my Mover and the Mover of all things! Suffer me not, I implore Thee, to be kept back from
the ocean of Thy tender mercies, nor to be far removed from the shores of nearness to Thee.
Aught else except Thee, O my Lord, proﬁteth me not, and near access to anyone save Thyself
availeth me nothing. I entreat Thee by the plenteousness of Thy riches, whereby Thou didst

dispense with all else except Thyself, to number me with such as have set their faces towards
Thee, and arisen to serve Thee.
Forgive, then, O my Lord, Thy servants and Thy handmaidens. Thou, truly, art the Ever-
Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.
– XLIII –
O GOD, Who art the Author of all Manifestations, the Source of all Sources, the Fountainhead of
all Revelations, and the Wellspring of all Lights! I testify that by Thy Name the heaven of
understanding hath been adorned, and the ocean of utterance hath surged, and the dispensations
of Thy providence have been promulgated unto the followers of all religions.
I beseech Thee so to enrich me as to dispense with all save Thee, and be made independent of
any one except Thyself. Rain down, then, upon me out of the clouds of Thy bounty that which
shall proﬁt me in every world of Thy worlds. Assist me, then, through Thy strengthening grace, so
to serve Thy Cause amidst Thy servants that I may show forth what will cause me to be
remembered as long as Thine own kingdom endureth and Thy dominion will last.
This is Thy servant, O my Lord, who with his whole being hath turned unto the horizon of
Thy bounty, and the ocean of Thy grace, and the heaven of Thy gifts. Do with me then as
becometh Thy majesty, and Thy glory, and Thy bounteousness, and Thy grace.
Thou, in truth, art the God of strength and power, Who art meet to answer them that pray
Thee. There is no God save Thee, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
– XLIV –
LAUDED be Thy name, O Thou Who art my God and throbbest within my heart! Thou art well
aware and dost witness that whatsoever shameth them that are dear to Thee must shame also
Him Who is the Manifestation of Thyself and the Dayspring of Thy Revelation. Nay, He is put to
greater shame than they when they are led to confess the good things which have escaped them
in Thy days.
These are Thy servants, O my Lord, who for love of Thee have abandoned their homes, and
sustained the tribulations decreed by Thee in Thy path. I swear by Thy glory! Every time any one
of them testiﬁeth before Thee to his evil doings, shame covereth my face, for they are Thy
servants who have tasted of the cup of woe in Thy Cause, who have quaffed from the chalice of
adversity when the light of Thy countenance was lifted upon them, and who were so vexed by
trials that peace was utterly denied them within the precincts of Thy court.
The power of Thy might beareth me witness! My heart hath melted by reason of my love for
them that are dear to Thee, and my soul is laden with anguish for the sorrows which have
afﬂicted them at the revelation of Thy Cause and the appearance of the billowing oceans of Thy
grace and favors. The sighs they uttered, O my Lord, have caused my sighs to ascend towards
Thee, and the burning of their hearts hath consumed mine own heart within me.
I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art the Lord of all being and the Enlightener of all things visible
and invisible, to grant that every one of them may become an ensign of Thy guidance among Thy
servants, and a revelation of the splendors of the Daystar of Thy loving-kindness amidst Thy
creatures. Thou hast, O my God, chosen them to love Thee, and to stand before the throne of Thy
majesty. No other station hath excelled the station to which Thou hast called them. How many
the nights, O my God, when sleep failed to overtake them because of their remembrance of Thee,
and how numerous the days which they spent in lamentation over the things that have befallen
Thee at the hands of Thine enemies! I entreat Thee, O Thou Who art the Ruler of rulers, and the
Uplifter of the downtrodden, to aid them so to assist Thy Cause and exalt Thy word that through
them Thy praise may be shed abroad amidst Thy creatures, and Thy virtues recounted throughout
Thy realm. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most
Generous.
Praised be Thou, O Lord my God! This is Thy servant whom Thou hast in the kingdom of Thy
names called by Thine own name, and whom Thou hast reared under the wings of Thy grace and
favors. Thou seest him, therefore, hastening in the direction of Thy gifts, and rushing forth
towards Thee seeking after Thy bounty. Attire him, O my God, with the mantle of Thy favor and

the robe of Thy muniﬁcence and generosity, that all created things may perceive from him the
sweet smell of the raiment of Thy love. Adorn, then, his head with the crown of Thy
remembrance, in such wise that his fame may be noised abroad among Thy servants as one who
loveth Thee and cleaveth steadfastly to Thy Cause. Assist him, moreover, at all times and under
all conditions to help Thee and to remember Thee, and to extol Thy virtues amidst Thy creatures.
I swear by Thy glory, O my God! Every time I muse on Thy glory and Thy sovereignty I ﬁnd
myself as the most guilty among them that have transgressed against Thee in Thy realm, and
every time I contemplate the heights in which none except Thee can abide, I discover that I am
the most sinful of all the creatures that dwell in Thy land. Had it not been for Thy name, the
Concealer, and for Thy name, the Ever-Forgiving, and for the sweet savors of Thy name, the Most
Merciful, all Thy chosen ones had been reckoned amongst the perverse and the wicked.
I render Thee thanks that Thy mercy hath overtaken them and Thy grace and bountiful
favors compassed them on every side.
And now, having confessed the things Thou didst cause to ﬂow down from my Pen, I implore
Thee, by Thy name which Thou hast raised up above every other name, and hast caused to
overshadow all that are in heaven and all that are on earth, to cast not away him that hath turned
towards Thee, and to deny him not the wonders of Thy grace and the hidden evidences of Thy
mercy. Let the hands of Thine omnipotence kindle in his heart a lamp that will enable him to
shine brightly in Thy days, and to cry out with such vehemence in Thy name that no timidity will
deter him from soaring in the atmosphere of Thy love, and from ascending to the horizon of
rapture and longing for Thee, and that the pursuits of Thy creatures will not withhold him from
magnifying Thy word, that Thou mayest behold him sanctiﬁed as Thou wishest and as beseemeth
Thy majesty and glory.
Exalted though this station may be, O my God, and however excellent this position—for who
else except Thyself hath the power to show forth what may be deemed worthy of Thine
exaltation and beﬁt Thy greatness—yet Thou art He Who is the All-Bountiful, the Most
Compassionate. All the atoms of the earth testify that Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the
Benevolent, the Great Giver, the All-Glorious, the All-Wise. Look, then, upon him, O my God, with
the eyes of Thy loving-kindness, and cast upon him the glance of Thy generosity. Enrapture him,
moreover, with the sweet melodies of Him Who is the Fountainhead of Thy Revelation, in such
wise that he may wholly surrender his will to Thy pleasure, and ﬁx his hopes upon the things
Thou didst ordain in Thy Tablets. Strengthen, then, his heart by Thy name, the Almighty, the
Faithful, that he may draw forth the hand of power, and with it help Thy Cause when the light of
Thy beauty is manifested and the Daystar of Thy majesty is risen.
Since Thou hast called him by Thy name, O my Lord, single him out among Thy servants for
Thy service. Thou well knowest, O my Lord, that in revealing myself I have sought only to reveal
Thy Cause, and have turned to no one except for the sake of Thy Revelation and for the purpose
of manifesting Thy loving-kindness. I beseech Thee, by Thy treasured Name Who, at this very
moment, is speaking, to send down upon him and upon them that love Thee that which is
enshrined in the heaven of Thy favor and bounties, that they may be ﬁlled with vehement longing
towards Thee, and exult in Thy Covenant, O Thou Who art the Lord of Lords! Ordain, then, for
him and for them that which becometh Thy name, the All-Bountiful.
Thou art, in truth, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Powerful, the All-Glorious, the
Most Great.
– XLV –
MY God, my Fire and my Light! The days which Thou hast named the Ayyám-i-Há (the Days of
Há, Intercalary Days) in Thy Book have begun, O Thou Who art the King of names, and the Fast
which Thy most exalted Pen hath enjoined unto all who are in the kingdom of Thy creation to
observe is approaching. I entreat Thee, O my Lord, by these days and by all such as have during
that period clung to the cord of Thy commandments, and laid hold on the handle of Thy precepts,
to grant that unto every soul may be assigned a place within the precincts of Thy court, and a seat
at the revelation of the splendors of the light of Thy countenance.

These, O my Lord, are Thy servants whom no corrupt inclination hath kept back from what
Thou didst send down in Thy Book. They have bowed themselves before Thy Cause, and received
Thy Book with such resolve as is born of Thee, and observed what Thou hadst prescribed unto
them, and chosen to follow that which had been sent down by Thee.
Thou seest, O my Lord, how they have recognized and confessed whatsoever Thou hast
revealed in Thy Scriptures. Give them to drink, O my Lord, from the hands of Thy graciousness
the waters of Thine eternity. Write down, then, for them the recompense ordained for him that
hath immersed himself in the ocean of Thy presence, and attained unto the choice wine of Thy
meeting.
I implore Thee, O Thou the King of kings and the Pitier of the downtrodden, to ordain for
them the good of this world and of the world to come. Write down for them, moreover, what none
of Thy creatures hath discovered, and number them with those who have circled round Thee, and
who move about Thy throne in every world of Thy worlds.
Thou, truly, art the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.
– XLVI –
PRAISED be Thou, O my God, that Thou hast ordained Naw-Rúz as a festival unto those who have
observed the Fast for love of Thee and abstained from all that is abhorrent unto Thee. Grant, O my
Lord, that the ﬁre of Thy love and the heat produced by the Fast enjoined by Thee may inﬂame
them in Thy Cause, and make them to be occupied with Thy praise and with remembrance of
Thee.
Since Thou hast adorned them, O my Lord, with the ornament of the Fast prescribed by Thee,
do Thou adorn them also with the ornament of Thine acceptance, through Thy grace and bountiful
favor. For the doings of men are all dependent upon Thy good pleasure, and are conditioned by
Thy behest. Shouldst Thou regard him who hath broken the Fast as one who hath observed it,
such a man would be reckoned among them who from eternity had been keeping the Fast. And
shouldst Thou decree that he who hath observed the Fast hath broken it, that person would be
numbered with such as have caused the Robe of Thy Revelation to be stained with dust, and been
far removed from the crystal waters of this living Fountain.
Thou art He through Whom the ensign “Praiseworthy art Thou in Thy works” hath been
lifted up, and the standard “Obeyed art Thou in Thy behest” hath been unfurled. Make known this
Thy station, O my God, unto Thy servants, that they may be made aware that the excellence of
all things is dependent upon Thy bidding and Thy word, and the virtue of every act is conditioned
by Thy leave and the good pleasure of Thy will, and may recognize that the reins of men’s doings
are within the grasp of Thine acceptance and Thy commandment. Make this known unto them,
that nothing whatsoever may shut them out from Thy Beauty, in these days whereon the Christ
exclaimeth: “All dominion is Thine, O Thou the Begetter of the Spirit (Jesus)”; and Thy Friend
(Muḥammad) crieth out: “Glory be to Thee, O Thou the Best-Beloved, for that Thou hast
uncovered Thy Beauty, and written down for Thy chosen ones what will cause them to attain
unto the seat of the revelation of Thy Most Great Name, through which all the peoples have
lamented except such as have detached themselves from all else except Thee, and set themselves
towards Him Who is the Revealer of Thyself and the Manifestation of Thine attributes.”
He Who is Thy Branch and all Thy company, O my Lord, have broken this day their fast, after
having observed it within the precincts of Thy court, and in their eagerness to please Thee. Do
Thou ordain for Him, and for them, and for all such as have entered Thy presence in those days all
the good Thou didst destine in Thy Book. Supply them, then, with that which will proﬁt them, in
both this life and in the life beyond.
Thou, in truth, art the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
– XLVII –
O THOU the Lord of the visible and the invisible, and the Enlightener of all creation! I beseech
Thee, by Thy sovereignty which is hid from the eyes of men, to reveal in all directions the signs of
Thy manifold blessings and the tokens of Thy loving-kindness, that I may arise with exultation
and rapture and extol Thy wondrous virtues, O Thou the Most Merciful, and stir up by Thy name

all created things, and so kindle the ﬁre of Thy gloriﬁcation amidst Thy creatures, that all the
world may be ﬁlled with the brightness of the light of Thy glory, and all existence be inﬂamed
with the ﬁre of Thy Cause.
Roll not up, O my Lord, what hath been spread out in Thy name, and extinguish not the lamp
which Thine own ﬁre hath lit. Withhold not, O my Lord, the water that is life indeed from running
down—the water from whose murmuring the wondrous melodies which extol and glorify Thee can
be heard. Deny not, moreover, Thy servants the sweet fragrance of the breath which hath been
wafted through Thy love.
Thou seest, O Thou Who art my All-Glorious Beloved, the restless waves that surge within
the ocean of my heart, in my love and yearning towards Thee. I implore Thee, by the signs of Thy
majesty and the evidences of Thy sovereignty, to subdue Thy servants by this Name Which Thou
hast made to be the King of all names in the kingdom of Thy creation. Potent art Thou to rule as
Thou pleasest. No God is there but Thee, the All-Glorious, the All-Bountiful.
Do Thou ordain, moreover, for every one who hath turned towards Thee what will make him
steadfast in Thy Cause, in such wise that neither the vain imaginations of the inﬁdels among Thy
creatures, nor the idle talk of the froward amidst Thy servants will have the power to shut him
out from Thee. Thou, verily, art the Help in Peril, the Almighty, the Most Powerful.
– XLVIII –
UNTO Thee be praise, O Lord my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Most Great Name Who hath been
shut up in the prison-town of ‘Akká, and Who—as Thou beholdest, O my God—hath fallen into the
hands of His enemies, and is threatened by the swords of the wicked doers, to make me steadfast
in His Cause, and to direct mine eyes continually towards His court, in such wise that nothing
whatsoever will have the power to turn me back from Him.
I testify, O my Lord, that He hath surrendered His life in Thy path, and hath wished for
Himself nothing but tribulation in the love He beareth to Thee. He hath endured all manner of
vexations that He may manifest Thy sovereignty unto Thy servants, and exalt Thy word amidst
Thy creatures. As the adversities deepened, and the troubles sent down by Thee compassed Him
on every side, He became so impassioned by His thought of Thee, that the hosts of all them that
had disbelieved in Thee and repudiated Thy signs ceased to affright Him.
I implore Thee, O my Lord, by Him and by whatsoever pertaineth unto Him, to set my
affections upon Him even as He hath set His own affections upon Thyself. I testify that His love
is Thy love, and His self Thy self, and His beauty Thy beauty, and His Cause Thy Cause.
Deny me not, O my Lord, what is with Thee, and suffer me not to be forgetful of what Thou
didst desire in Thy days. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, the All-
Wise.
– XLIX –
LAUDED be Thy name, O Lord my God! I entreat Thee by Thy Name through which the Hour
hath struck, and the Resurrection came to pass, and fear and trembling seized all that are in
heaven and all that are on earth, to rain down, out of the heaven of Thy mercy and the clouds of
Thy tender compassion, what will gladden the hearts of Thy servants, who have turned towards
Thee and helped Thy Cause.
Keep safe Thy servants and Thy handmaidens, O my Lord, from the darts of idle fancy and
vain imaginings, and give them from the hands of Thy grace a draught of the soft-ﬂowing waters
of Thy knowledge.
Thou, truly, art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous.
– L –
GLORY be to Thee, O my God! Thou hearest Thine ardent lovers lamenting in their separation
from Thee, and such as have recognized Thee wailing because of their remoteness from Thy
presence. Open Thou outwardly to their faces, O my Lord, the gates of Thy grace, that they may
enter them by Thy leave and in conformity with Thy will, and may stand before the throne of

Thy majesty, and catch the accents of Thy voice, and be illumined with the splendors of the light
of Thy face.
Potent art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee. None can withstand the power of Thy sovereign
might. From everlasting Thou wert alone, with none to equal Thee, and wilt unto everlasting
remain far above all thought and every description of Thee. Have mercy, then, upon Thy servants
by Thy grace and bounty, and suffer them not to be kept back from the shores of the ocean of Thy
nearness. If Thou abandonest them, who is there to befriend them; and if Thou puttest them far
from Thee, who is he that can favor them? They have none other Lord beside Thee, none to adore
except Thyself. Deal Thou generously with them by Thy bountiful grace.
Thou, in truth, art the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.
– LI –
THOU dost witness, O my God, how He Who is Thy splendor calleth Thee to remembrance,
notwithstanding the manifold troubles that have touched Him, troubles which none except Thee
can number. Thou beholdest how, in His prison-house, He recounteth Thy wondrous praises with
which Thou didst inspire Him. Such is His fervor that His enemies are powerless to deter Him
from mentioning Thee, O Thou Who art the Possessor of all names!
Praised be Thou that Thou hast so strengthened Him with Thy strength, and endowed Him
by Thine almighty power with such potency, that aught save Thee is in His estimation but a
handful of dust. The lights of unfading splendor have so enveloped Him that all else but Thee is in
His eyes but a shadow.
And when Thine irresistible summons reached me, I arose, fortiﬁed by Thy strength, and
called all that are in Thy heaven and all that are on Thy earth to turn in the direction of Thy
favors and the horizon of Thy bounties. Some caviled at me, and determined to hurt me and slay
me. Others drank to the full of the wine of Thy grace, and hastened towards the habitation of Thy
throne.
I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art the Creator of earth and heaven and the Source of all things,
to attract Thy servants through the fragrances of the Robe of Thine Inspiration and Thy
Revelation, and to help them attain the Tabernacle of Thy behest and power. From eternity Thou
wert by Thy transcendent might supreme over all things, and Thou wilt be exalted unto eternity
in Thy Godhead and surpassing sovereignty.
Let Thy mercy, then, be upon Thy servants and Thy creatures. Thou art, in truth, the
Almighty, the Inaccessible, the All-Glorious, the Unconditioned.
– LII –
LAUDED be Thy name, O my God! I entreat Thee by the fragrances of the Raiment of Thy grace
which at Thy bidding and in conformity with Thy desire were diffused throughout the entire
creation, and by the Daystar of Thy will that hath shone brightly, through the power of Thy might
and of Thy sovereignty, above the horizon of Thy mercy, to blot out from my heart all idle fancies
and vain imaginings, that with all my affections I may turn unto Thee, O Thou Lord of all
mankind!
I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant, O my God! I have laid hold on the handle of Thy
grace, and clung to the cord of Thy tender mercy. Ordain for me the good things that are with
Thee, and nourish me from the Table Thou didst send down out of the clouds of Thy bounty and
the heaven of Thy favor.
Thou, in very truth, art the Lord of the worlds, and the God of all that are in heaven and all
that are on earth.
– LIII –
I KNOW not, O my God, what the Fire is which Thou didst kindle in Thy land. Earth can never
cloud its splendor, nor water quench its ﬂame. All the peoples of the world are powerless to resist
its force. Great is the blessedness of him that hath drawn nigh unto it, and heard its roaring.
Some, O my God, Thou didst, through Thy strengthening grace, enable to approach it, while
others Thou didst keep back by reason of what their hands have wrought in Thy days. Whoso

hath hasted towards it and attained unto it hath, in his eagerness to gaze on Thy beauty, yielded
his life in Thy path, and ascended unto Thee, wholly detached from aught else except Thyself.
I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by this Fire which blazeth and rageth in the world of creation, to
rend asunder the veils that have hindered me from appearing before the throne of Thy majesty,
and from standing at the door of Thy gate. Do Thou ordain for me, O my Lord, every good thing
Thou didst send down in Thy Book, and suffer me not to be far removed from the shelter of Thy
mercy.
Powerful art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee. Thou art, verily, the All-Powerful, the Most
Generous.
– LIV –
LAUDED be Thy name, O my God! Aid Thou by Thy strengthening grace Thy servants and Thy
handmaidens to recount Thy virtues and to be steadfast in their love towards Thee. How many
the leaves which the tempests of trials have caused to fall, and how many, too, are those which,
clinging tenaciously to the tree of Thy Cause, have remained unshaken by the tests that have
assailed them, O Thou Who art our Lord, the Most Merciful!
I render Thee thanks that Thou hast made known unto me such servants as have utterly
abolished, by the power of Thy might and of Thy sovereignty, the idols of their corrupt desires,
and were not kept back by the things which are possessed by Thy creatures from turning in the
direction of Thy grace. These have so vehemently rent the veils asunder that the dwellers of the
cities of self have wept, and fear and trembling seized the people of envy and wickedness who,
adorning their heads and their bodies with the emblems of knowledge, have proudly rejected Thee
and turned away from Thy beauty.
I implore Thee, O my Lord, by Thy surpassing majesty and Thine Ancient Name, to enable
Thy loved ones to assist Thee. Direct, then, continually their faces towards Thy face, and write
down for them what will cause all hearts to exult and all eyes to be gladdened.
Thou, truly, art the Help in peril, the Self-Subsisting.
– LV –
O GOD! The trials Thou sendest are a salve to the sores of all them who are devoted to Thy will;
the remembrance of Thee is a healing medicine to the hearts of such as have drawn nigh unto
Thy court; nearness to Thee is the true life of them who are Thy lovers; Thy presence is the
ardent desire of such as yearn to behold Thy face; remoteness from Thee is a torment to those
that have acknowledged Thy oneness, and separation from Thee is death unto them that have
recognized Thy truth!
I beseech Thee by the sighs which they whose souls pant after Thee have uttered in their
remoteness from Thy court, and by the cries of such of Thy lovers as bemoan their separation
from Thee, to nourish me with the wine of Thy knowledge and the living waters of Thy love and
pleasure. Behold Thy handmaiden, O my Lord, who hath forgotten all else except Thee, and who
hath delighted herself with Thy love, and lamented over the things that have befallen Thee at the
hands of the wicked doers among Thy creatures. Do Thou ordain for her that which Thou didst
ordain for such of Thy handmaidens as circle round the throne of Thy majesty, and gaze, at
eventide and at dawn, on Thy beauty.
Thou art, verily, the Lord of the Judgment Day.
– LVI –
GLORY be to Thee, O Lord my God! These are the days whereon Thou hast bidden all men to
observe the Fast, that through it they may purify their souls and rid themselves of all attachment
to any one but Thee, and that out of their hearts may ascend that which will be worthy of the
court of Thy majesty and may well beseem the seat of the revelation of Thy oneness. Grant, O
my Lord, that this fast may become a river of life-giving waters and may yield the virtue
wherewith Thou hast endowed it. Cleanse Thou by its means the hearts of Thy servants whom
the evils of the world have failed to hinder from turning towards Thine all-glorious Name, and
who have remained unmoved by the noise and tumult of such as have repudiated Thy most

resplendent signs which have accompanied the advent of Thy Manifestation Whom Thou hast
invested with Thy sovereignty, Thy power, Thy majesty and glory. These are the servants who, as
soon as Thy call reached them, hastened in the direction of Thy mercy and were not kept back
from Thee by the changes and chances of this world or by any human limitations.
I am he, O my God, who testiﬁeth to Thy unity, who acknowledgeth Thy oneness, who
boweth humbly before the revelations of Thy majesty, and who recognizeth with downcast
countenance the splendors of the light of Thy transcendent glory. I have believed in Thee after
Thou didst enable me to know Thy Self, Whom Thou hast revealed to men’s eyes through the
power of Thy sovereignty and might. Unto Him I have turned, wholly detached from all things,
and cleaving steadfastly unto the cord of Thy gifts and favors. I have embraced His truth, and the
truth of all the wondrous laws and precepts that have been sent down unto Him. I have fasted for
love of Thee and in pursuance of Thine injunction, and have broken my fast with Thy praise on
my tongue and in conformity with Thy pleasure. Suffer me not, O my Lord, to be reckoned among
them who have fasted in the daytime, who in the night-season have prostrated themselves before
Thy face, and who have repudiated Thy truth, disbelieved in Thy signs, gainsaid Thy testimony,
and perverted Thine utterances.
Open Thou, O my Lord, mine eyes and the eyes of all them that have sought Thee, that we
may recognize Thee with Thine own eyes. This is Thy bidding given us in the Book sent down by
Thee unto Him Whom Thou hast chosen by Thy behest, Whom Thou hast singled out for Thy
favor above all Thy creatures, Whom Thou hast been pleased to invest with Thy sovereignty, and
Whom Thou hast specially favored and entrusted with Thy Message unto Thy people. Praised be
Thou, therefore, O my God, inasmuch as Thou hast graciously enabled us to recognize Him and to
acknowledge whatsoever hath been sent down unto Him, and conferred upon us the honor of
attaining the presence of the One Whom Thou didst promise in Thy Book and in Thy Tablets.
Thou seest me then, O my God, with my face turned towards Thee, cleaving steadfastly to
the cord of Thy gracious providence and generosity, and clinging to the hem of Thy tender mercies
and bountiful favors. Destroy not, I implore Thee, my hopes of attaining unto that which Thou
didst ordain for Thy servants who have turned towards the precincts of Thy court and the
sanctuary of Thy presence, and have observed the Fast for love of Thee. I confess, O my God, that
whatever proceedeth from me is wholly unworthy of Thy sovereignty and falleth short of Thy
majesty. And yet I beseech Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast revealed Thy Self, in the
glory of Thy most excellent titles, unto all created things, in this Revelation whereby Thou hast,
through Thy most resplendent Name, manifested Thy beauty, to give me to drink of the wine of
Thy mercy and of the pure beverage of Thy favor, which have streamed forth from the right hand
of Thy will, that I may so ﬁx my gaze upon Thee and be so detached from all else but Thee, that
the world and all that hath been created therein may appear before me as a ﬂeeting day which
Thou hast not deigned to create.
I moreover entreat Thee, O my God, to rain down, from the heaven of Thy will and the clouds
of Thy mercy, that which will cleanse us from the noisome savors of our transgressions, O Thou
Who hast called Thyself the God of Mercy! Thou art, verily, the Most Powerful, the All-Glorious,
the Beneﬁcent.
Cast not away, O my Lord, him that hath turned towards Thee, nor suffer him who hath
drawn nigh unto Thee to be removed far from Thy court. Dash not the hopes of the suppliant who
hath longingly stretched out his hands to seek Thy grace and favors, and deprive not Thy sincere
servants of the wonders of Thy tender mercies and loving-kindness. Forgiving and Most Bountiful
art Thou, O my Lord! Power hast Thou to do what Thou pleasest. All else but Thee are impotent
before the revelations of Thy might, are as lost in the face of the evidences of Thy wealth, are as
nothing when compared with the manifestations of Thy transcendent sovereignty, and are
destitute of all strength when face to face with the signs and tokens of Thy power. What refuge is
there beside Thee, O my Lord, to which I can ﬂee, and where is there a haven to which I can
hasten? Nay, the power of Thy might beareth me witness! No protector is there but Thee, no place
to ﬂee to except Thee, no refuge to seek save Thee. Cause me to taste, O my Lord, the divine
sweetness of Thy remembrance and praise. I swear by Thy might! Whosoever tasteth of its

sweetness will rid himself of all attachment to the world and all that is therein, and will set his
face towards Thee, cleansed from the remembrance of any one except Thee.
Inspire then my soul, O my God, with Thy wondrous remembrance, that I may glorify Thy
name. Number me not with them who read Thy words and fail to ﬁnd Thy hidden gift which, as
decreed by Thee, is contained therein, and which quickeneth the souls of Thy creatures and the
hearts of Thy servants. Cause me, O my Lord, to be reckoned among them who have been so
stirred up by the sweet savors that have been wafted in Thy days that they have laid down their
lives for Thee and hastened to the scene of their death in their longing to gaze on Thy beauty and
in their yearning to attain Thy presence. And were any one to say unto them on their way,
“Whither go ye?” they would say, “Unto God, the All-Possessing, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting!”
The transgressions committed by such as have turned away from Thee and have borne
themselves haughtily towards Thee have not availed to hinder them from loving Thee, and from
setting their faces towards Thee, and from turning in the direction of Thy mercy. These are they
who are blessed by the Concourse on high, who are gloriﬁed by the denizens of the everlasting
Cities, and beyond them by those on whose foreheads Thy most exalted pen hath written: “These!
The people of Bahá. Through them have been shed the splendors of the light of guidance.” Thus
hath it been ordained, at Thy behest and by Thy will, in the Tablet of Thine irrevocable decree.
Proclaim, therefore, O my God, their greatness and the greatness of those who while living or
after death have circled round them. Supply them with that which Thou hast ordained for the
righteous among Thy creatures. Potent art Thou to do all things. There is no God but Thee, the
All-Powerful, the Help in Peril, the Almighty, the Most Bountiful.
Do not bring our fasts to an end with this fast, O my Lord, nor the covenants Thou hast made
with this covenant. Do Thou accept all that we have done for love of Thee, and for the sake of
Thy pleasure, and all that we have left undone as a result of our subjection to our evil and corrupt
desires. Enable us, then, to cleave steadfastly to Thy love and Thy good pleasure, and preserve us
from the mischief of such as have denied Thee and repudiated Thy most resplendent signs. Thou
art, in truth, the Lord of this world and of the next. No God is there beside Thee, the Exalted, the
Most High.
Magnify Thou, O Lord my God, Him Who is the Primal Point, the Divine Mystery, the Unseen
Essence, the Dayspring of Divinity, and the Manifestation of Thy Lordship, through Whom all the
knowledge of the past and all the knowledge of the future were made plain, through Whom the
pearls of Thy hidden wisdom were uncovered, and the mystery of Thy treasured name disclosed,
Whom Thou hast appointed as the Announcer of the One through Whose name the letter B and
the letter E have been joined and united, through Whom Thy majesty, Thy sovereignty and Thy
might were made known, through Whom Thy words have been sent down, and Thy laws set forth
with clearness, and Thy signs spread abroad, and Thy Word established, through Whom the hearts
of Thy chosen ones were laid bare, and all that were in the heavens and all that were on the earth
were gathered together, Whom Thou hast called ‘Alí-Muḥammad in the kingdom of Thy names,
and the Spirit of Spirits in the Tablets of Thine irrevocable decree, Whom Thou hast invested with
Thine own title, unto Whose name all other names have, at Thy bidding and through the power of
Thy might, been made to return, and in Whom Thou hast caused all Thine attributes and titles to
attain their ﬁnal consummation. To Him also belong such names as lay hid within Thy stainless
tabernacles, in Thine invisible world and Thy sanctiﬁed cities.
Magnify Thou, moreover, such as have believed in Him and in His signs and have turned
towards Him, from among those that have acknowledged Thy unity in His Latter Manifestation—a
Manifestation whereof He hath made mention in His Tablets, and in His Books, and in His
Scriptures, and in all the wondrous verses and gem-like utterances that have descended upon Him.
It is this same Manifestation Whose covenant Thou hast bidden Him establish ere He had
established His own covenant. He it is Whose praise the Bayán hath celebrated. In it His
excellence hath been extolled, and His truth established, and His sovereignty proclaimed, and His
Cause perfected. Blessed is the man that hath turned unto Him, and fulﬁlled the things He hath

commanded, O Thou Who art the Lord of the worlds and the Desire of all them that have known
Thee!
Praised be Thou, O my God, inasmuch as Thou hast aided us to recognize and love Him. I,
therefore, beseech Thee by Him and by Them Who are the Daysprings of Thy Divinity, and the
Manifestations of Thy Lordship, and the Treasuries of Thy Revelation, and the Depositories of
Thine inspiration, to enable us to serve and obey Him, and to empower us to become the helpers
of His Cause and the dispersers of His adversaries. Powerful art Thou to do all that pleaseth Thee.
No God is there beside Thee, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the One Whose help is sought by all
men!
– LVII –
GOD testiﬁeth to the unity of His Godhood and to the singleness of His own Being. On the throne
of eternity, from the inaccessible heights of His station, His tongue proclaimeth that there is none
other God but Him. He Himself, independently of all else, hath ever been a witness unto His own
oneness, the revealer of His own nature, the gloriﬁer of His own essence. He, verily, is the All-
Powerful, the Almighty, the Beauteous.
He is supreme over His servants, and standeth over His creatures. In His hand is the source of
authority and truth. He maketh men alive by His signs, and causeth them to die through His
wrath. He shall not be asked of His doings and His might is equal unto all things. He is the Potent,
the All-Subduing. He holdeth within His grasp the empire of all things, and on His right hand is
ﬁxed the Kingdom of His Revelation. His power, verily, embraceth the whole of creation. Victory
and overlordship are His; all might and dominion are His; all glory and greatness are His. He, of a
truth, is the All-Glorious, the Most Powerful, the Unconditioned.
– LVIII –
PRAISE be to Thee, to Whom the tongues of all created things have, from eternity, called, and yet
failed to attain the heaven of Thine eternal holiness and grandeur. The eyes of all beings have
been opened to behold the beauty of Thy radiant countenance, yet none hath succeeded in gazing
on the brightness of the light of Thy face. The hands of them that are nigh unto Thee have, ever
since the foundation of Thy glorious sovereignty and the establishment of Thy holy dominion,
been raised suppliantly towards Thee, yet no one hath been able to touch the hem of the robe that
clotheth Thy Divine and sovereign Essence. And yet none can deny that Thou hast ever been,
through the wonders of Thy generosity and bounty, supreme over all things, art powerful to do all
things, and art nearer unto all things than they are unto themselves.
Far be it, then, from Thy glory that anyone should gaze on Thy wondrous beauty with any
eye save Thine own eye, or hear the melodies proclaiming Thine almighty sovereignty with any
ear except Thine own ear. Too high art Thou exalted for the eye of any creature to behold Thy
beauty, or for the understanding of any heart to scale the heights of Thine immeasurable
knowledge. For should the birds of the hearts of them that are nigh unto Thee be ever enabled to
soar as long as Thine own overpowering sovereignty can endure, or to ascend as long as the
empire of Thy Divine holiness can last, they shall, in no wise, be able to transcend the limitations
which a contingent world hath imposed upon them, nor pass beyond its conﬁnes. How, then, can
he whose very creation is restricted by such limitations, attain unto Him Who is the Lord of the
Kingdom of all created things, or ascend into the heaven of Him Who ruleth the realms of
loftiness and grandeur?
Gloriﬁed, immeasurably gloriﬁed art Thou, my Best-Beloved! Inasmuch as Thou hast ordained
that the utmost limit to which they who lift their hearts to Thee can rise is the confession of their
powerlessness to enter the realms of Thy holy and transcendent unity, and that the highest
station which they who aspire to know Thee can reach is the acknowledgment of their impotence
to attain the retreats of Thy sublime knowledge I, therefore, beseech Thee, by this very
powerlessness which is beloved of Thee, and which Thou hast decreed as the goal of them that
have reached and attained Thy court, and by the splendors of Thy countenance that have
encompassed all things, and by the energies of Thy Will whereby the entire creation hath been
generated, not to deprive them that have set their hopes in Thee of the wonders of Thy mercy, nor

to withhold from such as have sought Thee the treasures of Thy grace. Ignite, then, within their
hearts the torch of Thy love, that its ﬂame may consume all else except their wondrous
remembrance of Thee, and that no trace may be left in those hearts except the gem-like evidences
of Thy most holy sovereignty, so that from the land wherein they dwell no voice may be heard
except the voice that extolleth Thy mercifulness and might, that on the earth on which they walk
no light may shine except the light of Thy beauty, and that within every soul naught may be
discovered except the revelation of Thy countenance and the tokens of Thy glory, that haply Thy
servants may show forth only that which shall please Thee and shall conform wholly unto Thy
most potent will.
Glory be to Thee, O my God! The power of Thy might beareth me witness! I can have no
doubt that should the holy breaths of Thy loving-kindness and the breeze of Thy bountiful favor
cease, for less than the twinkling of an eye, to breathe over all created things, the entire creation
would perish, and all that are in heaven and on earth would be reduced to utter nothingness.
Magniﬁed, therefore, be the marvelous evidences of Thy transcendent power! Magniﬁed be the
potency of Thine exalted might! Magniﬁed be the majesty of Thine all-encompassing greatness,
and the energizing inﬂuence of Thy will! Such is Thy greatness that wert Thou to concentrate the
eyes of all men in the eye of one of Thy servants, and to compress all their hearts within his
heart, and wert Thou to enable him to behold within himself all the things Thou hast created
through Thy power and fashioned through Thy might, and were he to ponder, throughout eternity,
over the realms of Thy creation and the range of Thy handiwork, he would unfailingly discover
that there is no created thing but is overshadowed by Thine all-conquering power, and is vitalized
through Thine all-embracing sovereignty.
Behold me, then, O my God, fallen prostrate upon the dust before Thee, confessing my
powerlessness and Thine omnipotence, my poverty and Thy wealth, mine evanescence and Thine
eternity, mine utter abasement and Thine inﬁnite glory. I recognize that there is none other God
but Thee, that Thou hast no peer nor partner, none to equal or rival Thee. In Thine
unapproachable loftiness Thou hast, from eternity, been exalted above the praise of any one but
Thee, and shalt continue for ever, in Thy transcendent singleness and glory, to be sanctiﬁed from
the gloriﬁcation of any one except Thine own Self.
I swear by Thy might, O my Beloved! To make mention of any created thing beseemeth not
Thy most exalted Self, and to bestow any praise upon any one of Thy creatures would be wholly
unworthy of Thy great glory. Nay, such a mention would be but blasphemy uttered within the
court of Thy holiness, and such praise would amount to no less than a transgression in the face of
the evidences of Thy Divine sovereignty. For the mere mention of any one of Thy creatures would
in itself imply an assertion of their existence before the court of Thy singleness and unity. Such
an assertion would be naught but open blasphemy, an act of impiety, the essence of profanity and
a wanton crime.
Wherefore, I bear witness with my soul, my spirit, my entire being, that should They Who are
the Daysprings of Thy most holy unity and the Manifestations of Thy transcendent oneness be
able to soar so long as Thine own sovereignty endureth and Thine all-compelling authority can
last, they will fail in the end to attain unto even the precincts of the court wherein Thou didst
reveal the effulgence of but one of Thy most mighty Names. Gloriﬁed, gloriﬁed be, therefore, Thy
wondrous majesty. Gloriﬁed, gloriﬁed be Thine unattainable loftiness. Gloriﬁed, gloriﬁed be the
preeminence of Thy kingship and the sublimity of Thine authority and power.
The highest faculties which the learned have possessed, and whatsoever truths they, in their
search after the gems of Thy knowledge, have discovered; the brightest realities with which the
wise have been endowed, and whatever secrets they, in their attempts to fathom the mysteries of
Thy wisdom, have unraveled, have all been created through the generative power of the Spirit that
was breathed into the Pen which Thy hands have fashioned. How, then, can the thing which Thy
Pen hath created be capable of comprehending those treasures of Thy Faith with which, as
decreed by Thee, that Pen hath been invested? How can it ever know of the Fingers that grasp
Thy Pen, and of Thy merciful favors with which it hath been endowed? How can it, already
unable to reach this station, be made aware of the existence of Thy Hand that controlleth the

Fingers of Thy might? How can it attain unto the comprehension of the nature of Thy Will that
animateth the movement of Thy Hand?
Gloriﬁed, gloriﬁed be Thou, O my God! How can I ever hope to ascend into the heaven of Thy
most holy will, or gain admittance into the tabernacle of Thy Divine knowledge, knowing as I do
that the minds of the wise and learned are impotent to fathom the secrets of Thy handiwork—a
handiwork which is itself but a creation of Thy will?
Praise be to Thee, O Lord, my God, my Master, my Possessor, my King. Now that I have
confessed unto Thee my powerlessness and the powerlessness of all created things, and have
acknowledged my poverty and the poverty of the entire creation, I call unto Thee with my tongue
and the tongues of all that are in heaven and on earth, and beseech Thee with my heart and the
hearts of all that have entered beneath the shadow of Thy names and Thine attributes, not to shut
us from the doors of Thy loving-kindness and grace, nor to suffer the breeze of Thy bountiful care
and favor to cease from being wafted over our souls, nor to permit that our hearts be occupied
with any one except Thee, or our minds to be busied with any remembrance save remembrance of
Thy Self.
By the glory of Thy might, O my God! Wert Thou to set me king over Thy realms, and to
establish me upon the throne of Thy sovereignty, and to deliver, through Thy power, the reins of
the entire creation into my hands, and wert Thou to cause me, though it be for less than a
moment, to be occupied with these things and be oblivious of the wondrous memories associated
with Thy most mighty, most perfect, and most exalted Name, my soul would still remain
unsatisﬁed, and the pangs of my heart unstilled. Nay, I would, in that very state, recognize myself
as the poorest of the poor, and the most wretched of the wretched.
Magniﬁed be Thy name, O my God! Now that Thou hast caused me to apprehend this truth, I
beseech Thee by Thy Name which no scroll can bear, which no heart can imagine and no tongue
can utter—a Name which will remain concealed so long as Thine own Essence is hidden, and will
be gloriﬁed so long as Thine own Being is extolled—to unfurl, ere the present year draw to a close,
the ensigns of Thine undisputed ascendancy and triumph, that the whole creation may be
enriched by Thy wealth, and may be exalted through the ennobling inﬂuence of Thy transcendent
sovereignty, and that all may arise and promote Thy Cause.
Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the All-Highest, the All-Glorious, the All-Subduing, the All-
Possessing.
– LIX –
ALL praise, O my God, be to Thee Who art the Source of all glory and majesty, of greatness and
honor, of sovereignty and dominion, of loftiness and grace, of awe and power. Whomsoever Thou
willest Thou causest to draw nigh unto the Most Great Ocean, and on whomsoever Thou desirest
Thou conferrest the honor of recognizing Thy Most Ancient Name. Of all who are in heaven and
on earth, none can withstand the operation of Thy sovereign Will. From all eternity Thou didst
rule the entire creation, and Thou wilt continue for evermore to exercise Thy dominion over all
created things. There is none other God but Thee, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the All-
Powerful, the All-Wise.
Illumine, O Lord, the faces of Thy servants, that they may behold Thee; and cleanse their
hearts that they may turn unto the court of Thy heavenly favors, and recognize Him Who is the
Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dayspring of Thine Essence. Verily, Thou art the Lord of all
worlds. There is no God but Thee, the Unconstrained, the All-Subduing.
– LX –
GLORIFIED be Thou, O my God! Behold Thou my head ready to fall before the sword of Thy Will,
my neck prepared to bear the chains of Thy Desire, my heart yearning to be made a target for the
darts of Thy Decree, mine eyes expectant to gaze on the tokens and signs of Thy wondrous Mercy.
For whatsoever may befall me from Thee is the cherished desire of them who thirst to meet Thee,
and the supreme aspiration of such as have drawn nigh unto Thy court.
By the glory of Thy might, O Thou my Well-Beloved! To have sacriﬁced my life for the
Manifestations of Thy Self, to have offered up my soul in the path of the Revealers of Thy

wondrous Beauty, is to have sacriﬁced my spirit for Thy Spirit, my being for Thy Being, my glory
for Thy glory. It is as if I had offered up all these things for Thy sake, and for the sake of Thy
loved ones.
Though my body be pained by the trials that befall me from Thee, though it be afﬂicted by
the revelations of Thy Decree, yet my soul rejoiceth at having partaken of the waters of Thy
Beauty, and at having attained the shores of the ocean of Thine eternity. Doth it beseem a lover to
ﬂee from his beloved, or to desert the object of his heart’s desire? Nay, we all believe in Thee, and
eagerly hope to enter Thy presence.
– LXI –
LAUDED be Thy name, O Lord my God! Thou dost witness that Thy will hath prevailed over all
created things, and Thy mercy hath surpassed all who are in heaven and on earth. And when
Thou didst purpose to unveil Thy sovereignty, and to glorify Thy word, and to reveal Thy
bounteousness and mercy, Thou didst raise up one of Thy servants, and didst choose Him above all
Thy creatures, and didst single Him out for Thy purpose, and didst clothe Him with the robe of
Thy guidance, and didst immerse Him beneath the seas of Thy majesty and grandeur, and didst
sanctify Him from all that beseemeth not the greatness of Thy glory and the power of Thy might,
and didst bid Him to cry out before all that are in heaven and on earth, and summon the
multitudes to the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Revealer of Thy signs.
No sooner had He proclaimed Thy Cause, and risen up to carry out the things prescribed unto
Him in the Tablets of Thy decree, than the Great Terror fell upon Thy creatures. Some turned
towards Thee, and detached themselves from all except Thee, and sanctiﬁed their souls from the
world and all that is therein, and were so enravished by the sweetness of Thy voice that they
forsook all Thou hadst created in the kingdom of Thy creation. Others recognized Thee and then
hesitated, others allowed the world to come in between them and Thee and to withhold them from
recognizing Thee. Others disdained Thee, and turned back from Thee, and wished to prevent Thee
from achieving Thy purpose. And yet behold how all of them are calling upon Thee, and are
expecting the things they were promised in Thy Tablets. And when the Promised One came unto
them, they recognized Him not, and disbelieved in Thy signs, and repudiated Thy clear tokens, and
strayed so grievously from Thy path that they slew Thy servants, through the brightness of
whose faces the countenances of the Concourse on high have been illumined.
I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art the Lord of all names, to guard Thy loved ones against Thine
enemies, and to strengthen them in their love for Thee and in fulﬁlling Thy pleasure. Do Thou
protect them, that their footsteps may slip not, that their hearts may not be shut out as by a veil
from Thee, and that their eyes may be restrained from beholding anything that is not of Thee.
Cause them to be so enraptured by the sweetness of Thy divine melodies that they will rid
themselves of all attachment to any one except Thee, and will turn wholly towards Thee, and
extol Thee under all conditions, saying: “Praised be Thou, O Lord our God, inasmuch as Thou hast
enabled us to recognize Thy most exalted and all-glorious Self. We will, by Thy mercy, cleave to
Thee, and will detach ourselves from any one but Thee. We have realized that Thou art the
Beloved of the worlds and the Creator of earth and heaven!”
Gloriﬁed be God, the Lord of all creation!
– LXII –
LAUDED and gloriﬁed art Thou, O Lord my God! Thou art He Who from everlasting hath been
clothed with majesty, with authority and power, and will continue unto everlasting to be arrayed
with honor, with strength and glory. The learned, one and all, stand aghast before the signs and
tokens of Thy handiwork, while the wise ﬁnd themselves, without exception, impotent to unravel
the mystery of Them Who are the Manifestations of Thy might and power. Every man of insight
hath confessed his powerlessness to scale the heights of Thy knowledge, and every man of
learning hath acknowledged his failure to fathom the nature of Thine Essence.
Having barred the way that leadeth unto Thee, Thou hast, by virtue of Thine authority and
through the potency of Thy will, called into being Them Who are the Manifestations of Thy Self,
and hast entrusted Them with Thy message unto Thy people, and caused Them to become the

Daysprings of Thine inspiration, the Exponents of Thy Revelation, the Treasuries of Thy
Knowledge and the Repositories of Thy Faith, that all men may, through Them, turn their faces
towards Thee, and may draw nigh unto the kingdom of Thy Revelation and the heaven of Thy
grace.
I beseech Thee, therefore, by Thyself and by Them, to send down, from the right hand of the
throne of Thy grace, upon all that dwell on earth, that which shall wash them from the stain of
their trespasses against Thee, and cause them to become wholly devoted to Thy Self, O Thou in
Whose hand is the source of all gifts, that they may all arise to serve Thy Cause, and may detach
themselves entirely from all except Thee. Thou art the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the
Unrestrained.
O my God, my Master, my Best-Beloved! I am Thy servant and the son of Thy servant. I have
held fast the cord of Thy grace, and clung to the hem of the garment of Thy loving providence. I
entreat Thee, by Thy Most Great Name, Whom Thou hast appointed as the unerring Balance
among the nations, and Thine infallible Proof unto all men, not to forsake me, nor to abandon me
to my corrupt desires. Do Thou preserve me beneath the shadow of Thy Supreme Sinlessness, and
enable me to magnify Thine own Self amidst the concourse of Thy creatures. Withhold not from
me the Divine fragrance of Thy days, and deprive me not of the sweet savors wafting from the
Dayspring of Thy Revelation. Bestow on me the good of this world and of the next, through the
power of Thy grace that hath encompassed all created things and Thy mercy that hath surpassed
the entire creation. Thou art He Who holdeth in His grasp the kingdom of all things. Thou doest
what Thou willest through Thy decree, and choosest, through the power of Thy might, whatsoever
Thou desirest. None can resist Thy will; naught can exhaust the impelling force of Thy command.
There is no God but Thee, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Most Bountiful.
– LXIII –
THOU beholdest, O my God, Thy servant who dwelleth in this prison-house, wholly detached
from any one but Thee, his eyes turned in the direction of the Dayspring of Thy mercy, his heart
longing for the wondrous manifestations of Thy grace. Thou, O my Lord, hast reckoned up the ills
that have afﬂicted him in Thy path. Thou seest him compassed about with such of Thy creatures
as have transgressed and rebelled against Thee, who have come in between him and Thy loved
ones, who have ﬁxed his abode in this land and wronged Thee, and who have hindered Thy
servants from turning towards Thee.
For all these things I offer thanksgiving unto Thee, O my Lord! I implore Thee to assist me
and them that love me to magnify Thy Word, and to endow us with such strength that the ills of
this world and its tribulations will be powerless to hinder us from remembering Thee and from
extolling Thy virtues. Powerful art Thou to do all things; resplendent art Thou above all things.
Every conqueror is but a serf whom Thy hand hath subjected, and the richest of the rich is as
destitute before the immensity of Thy wealth. The noblest of nobles is humbled when faced with
the manifestations of Thy glory, and the mightiest of potentates is a mere abject one when
confronted with the compelling evidences of Thine authority.
Tear asunder, O my God, the veil of vain imaginings that hath obscured the vision of Thy
people, that all may haste towards Thee, may tread the path of Thy pleasure, and walk in the
ways of Thy Faith. We are, O my God, Thy servants and Thy bondsmen. Thou art sufﬁcient unto
us so that we can dispense with the world and all that is therein. We are wholly satisﬁed with all
that hath befallen us in Thy path, and exclaim: “Praised be Thou, in Whose hand are the realms of
revelation and of creation, and all the kingdoms of earth and heaven!”
– LXIV –
PRAISE be to Thee, O Lord my God, my Master! Thou hearest the sighing of those who, though
they long to behold Thy face, are yet separated from Thee and far distant from Thy court. Thou
testiﬁest to the lamentations which those who have recognized Thee pour forth because of their
exile from Thee and their yearning to meet Thee. I beseech Thee by those hearts which contain
naught except the treasures of Thy remembrance and praise, and which show forth only the
testimonies of Thy greatness and the evidences of Thy might, to bestow on Thy servants who

desire Thee power to approach the seat of the revelation of the splendor of Thy glory and to assist
them whose hopes are set on Thee to enter into the tabernacle of Thy transcendent favor and
mercy.
Naked am I, O my God! Clothe me with the robe of Thy tender mercies. I am sore athirst; give
me to drink of the oceans of Thy bountiful favor. I am a stranger; draw me nearer unto the source
of Thy gifts. I am sick; sprinkle upon me the healing waters of Thy grace. I am a captive; rid me of
my bondage, by the power of Thy might and through the force of Thy will, that I may soar on the
wings of detachment towards the loftiest summits of Thy creation. Thou, verily, doest what Thou
choosest. There is no God but Thee, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the Unconstrained.
– LXV –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O my God! Thou knowest that my sole aim in revealing Thy Cause hath
been to reveal Thee and not my self, and to manifest Thy glory rather than my glory. In Thy path,
and to attain Thy pleasure, I have scorned rest, joy, delight. At all times and under all conditions
my gaze hath been ﬁxed on Thy precepts, and mine eyes bent upon the things Thou hast bidden
me observe in Thy Tablets. I have wakened every morning to the light of Thy praise and Thy
remembrance, and reached every evening inhaling the fragrances of Thy mercy.
And when the entire creation was stirred up, and the whole earth was convulsed, and the
sweet savors of Thy name, the All-Praised, had almost ceased to breathe over Thy realms, and the
winds of Thy mercy had well-nigh been stilled throughout Thy dominions, Thou didst, through the
power of Thy might, raise me up among Thy servants, and bid me to show forth Thy sovereignty
amidst Thy people. Thereupon I arose before all Thy creatures, strengthened by Thy help and Thy
power, and summoned all the multitudes unto Thee, and announced unto all Thy servants Thy
favors and Thy gifts, and invited them to turn towards this Ocean, every drop of the waters of
which crieth out, proclaiming unto all that are in heaven and on earth that He is, in truth, the
Fountain of all life, and the Quickener of the entire creation, and the Object of the adoration of all
worlds, and the Best-Beloved of every understanding heart, and the Desire of all them that are
nigh unto Thee.
Though the ﬁerce winds of the hatred of the wicked doers blew and beat on this Lamp, He
was, at no time, in His love for Thy beauty, hindered from shedding the fragrance of His light. As
the transgressions committed against Thee waxed greater and greater, my eagerness to reveal Thy
Cause correspondingly increased, and as the tribulations deepened—and to this Thy glory beareth
me witness—a fuller measure of Thy sovereignty and of Thy power was vouchsafed by me unto
Thy creatures.
And ﬁnally, I was cast by the transgressors into the prison-city of ‘Akká, and my kindred were
made captives in Baghdád. The power of Thy might beareth me witness, O my God! Every trouble
that hath touched me in Thy path hath added to my joy and increased my gladness. I swear by
Thee, O Thou Who art the King of Kings! None of the kings of the earth hath power to hinder me
from remembering Thee or from extolling Thy virtues. Were they to be leagued—as they have
been leagued—against me, and to brandish their sharpest swords and most afﬂictive spears against
me, I would not hesitate to magnify Thy name before all them that are in Thy heaven and on Thy
earth. Nay rather, I would cry out and say: “This, O my Beloved, is my face which I have offered
up for Thy face, and this is my spirit which I have sacriﬁced for Thy spirit, and this is my blood
that seetheth in my veins, in its longing to be shed for love of Thee and in Thy path.”
Though—as Thou beholdest me, O my God—I be dwelling in a place within whose walls no
voice can be heard except the sound of the echo, though all the gates of ease and comfort be shut
against us, and thick darkness appear to have compassed us on every side, yet my soul hath been
so inﬂamed by its love for Thee, that nothing whatsoever can either quench the ﬁre of its love or
abate the consuming ﬂame of its desire. Lifting up its voice, it crieth aloud amidst Thy servants,
and calleth them, at all times and under all conditions, unto Thee.
I beseech Thee, by Thy Most Great Name, to open the eyes of Thy servants, that they may
behold Thee shining above the horizon of Thy majesty and glory, and that they may not be
hindered by the croaking of the raven from hearkening to the voice of the Dove of Thy sublime

oneness, nor be prevented by the corrupt waters from partaking of the pure wine of Thy bounty
and the everlasting streams of Thy gifts.
Gather them, then, together around this Divine Law, the covenant of which Thou hast
established with all Thy Prophets and Thy Messengers, and Whose ordinances Thou hast written
down in Thy Tablets and Thy Scriptures. Raise them up, moreover, to such heights as will enable
them to perceive Thy Call.
Potent art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee. Thou art, verily, the Inaccessible, the All-Glorious.
– LXVI –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O Lord my God! Thou seest me dwelling in this prison-house that lieth
behind the seas and the mountains, and knowest full well what I have endured for love of Thee
and for the sake of Thy Cause. Thou art He, O my God, Who hath raised me up at Thy behest,
and bidden me to occupy Thy seat, and to summon all men to the court of Thy mercy. It is Thou
Who hast commanded me to tell out the things Thou didst destine for them in the Tablet of Thy
decree and didst inscribe with the pen of Thy Revelation, and Who hast enjoined on me the duty
of kindling the ﬁre of Thy love in the hearts of Thy servants, and of drawing all the peoples of the
earth nearer to the habitation of Thy throne.
And when, as bidden by Thee, I arose and called out, by Thy leave, all Thy creatures, the
wayward among Thy servants opposed me. Some turned away from me, others disowned my
claim, a few hesitated, while others were sore perplexed, notwithstanding that Thy testimony was
set forth before the followers of all religions, and Thy proof demonstrated unto all the peoples of
the earth, and the signs of Thy might so powerfully manifested as to encompass the entire
creation.
I was, moreover, opposed by mine own kindred, although, as Thou knowest, they were dear to
me and I had desired for them that which I had desired for mine own self. These are the ones who,
when learning that I had been cast into prison, perpetrated against me what no man else on earth
had perpetrated.
I entreat Thee, therefore, O my God, by Thy name by which Thou hast separated between
truth and denial, to purify their hearts of all evil suggestions, and to enable them to draw nigh
unto Him Who is the Dayspring of Thy names and Thine attributes.
Thou knowest, O my God, that I have severed every tie that bindeth me to any of Thy
creatures except that most exalted tie that uniteth me with whosoever cleaveth unto Thee, in this
the day of the revelation of Thy most august Self, that hath appeared in Thy name, the All-
Glorious. Thou knowest that I have dissolved every bond that knitteth me to any one of my
kindred except such as have enjoyed near access to Thy most effulgent face.
I have no will but Thy will, O my Lord, and cherish no desire except Thy desire. From my pen
ﬂoweth only the summons which Thine own exalted pen hath voiced, and my tongue uttereth
naught save what the Most Great Spirit hath itself proclaimed in the kingdom of Thine eternity. I
am stirred by nothing else except the winds of Thy will, and breathe no word except the words
which, by Thy leave and Thine inspiration, I am led to pronounce.
Praise be to Thee, O Thou Who art the Well-Beloved of all that have known Thee, and the
Desire of the hearts of such as are devoted to Thee, inasmuch as Thou hast made me a target for
the ills that I suffer in my love for Thee, and the object of the assaults launched against me in
Thy path. Thy glory beareth me witness! I can, on no account, feel impatient of the adversities
that I have borne in my love for Thee. From the very day Thou didst reveal Thyself unto me, I
have accepted for myself every manner of tribulation. Every moment of my life my head crieth
out to Thee and saith: “Would, O my Lord, that I could be raised on the spear-point in Thy path!”
while my blood entreateth Thee saying: “Dye the earth with me, O my God, for the sake of Thy
love and Thy pleasure!” Thou knowest that I have, at no time, sought to guard my body against
any afﬂiction, nay rather I have continually anticipated the things Thou didst ordain for me in the
Tablet of Thy decree.
Behold, then, O my God, my loneliness among Thy servants and my remoteness from Thy
friends and Thy chosen ones. I beseech Thee, by the showers of the clouds of Thy mercy, whereby

Thou hast caused the blossoms of Thy praise and utterance and the ﬂowers of Thy wisdom and
testimony to spring forth in the hearts of all them that have recognized Thy oneness, to supply
Thy servants and my kindred with the fruits of the tree of Thy unity, in these days when Thou
hast been established upon the throne of Thy mercy. Hinder them not, O my Lord, from attaining
unto the things Thou dost possess, and write down for them that which will aid them to scale the
heights of Thy grace and favor. Give them, moreover, to drink of the living waters of Thy
knowledge, and ordain for them the good of this world and of the world to come.
Thou art, verily, the Lord of Bahá, and the Beloved of his heart, and the Object of his desire,
and the Inspirer of his tongue, and the Source of his soul. No God is there but Thee, the
Inaccessible, the Most High. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Forgiving,
the Most Merciful.
– LXVII –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O Lord my God! I yield Thee thanks for having enabled me to recognize the
Manifestation of Thyself, and for having severed me from Thine enemies, and laid bare before
mine eyes their misdeeds and wicked works in Thy days, and for having rid me of all attachment
to them, and caused me to turn wholly towards Thy grace and bountiful favors. I give Thee
thanks, also, for having sent down upon me from the clouds of Thy will that which hath so
sanctiﬁed me from the hints of the inﬁdels and the allusions of the misbelievers that I have ﬁxed
my heart ﬁrmly on Thee, and ﬂed from such as have denied the light of Thy countenance. Again I
thank Thee for having empowered me to be steadfast in Thy love, and to speak forth Thy praise
and to extol Thy virtues, and for having given me to drink of the cup of Thy mercy that hath
surpassed all things visible and invisible.
Thou art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, the All-Loving.
– LXVIII –
PRAISED be Thou, O my God! Thou seest me shut up in this Prison, and art well aware that I have
entered it solely for Thy sake and for the sake of the gloriﬁcation of Thy word and the
proclamation of Thy Cause. I cry out to Thee, this very moment, O Thou Who art the Lord of all
worlds, beseeching Thee, by Thine undoubted Name, to attract the hearts of Thy servants unto the
Dayspring of Thy most excellent titles and the Dawning-Place of Thy most resplendent signs.
But for the troubles that touch me in Thy path, O my God, how else could my heart rejoice in
Thy days; and were it not for the blood which is shed for love of Thee, what else could tinge the
faces of Thy chosen ones before the eyes of Thy creatures? I swear by Thy might! The ornament
that adorneth the countenance of Thy dear ones is the blood which, in their love for Thee, ﬂoweth
out of their foreheads over their faces.
Thou beholdest, O my God, how every bone in my body soundeth like a pipe with the music
of Thine inspiration, revealing the signs of Thy oneness and the clear tokens of Thy unity. I
entreat Thee, O my God, by Thy Name which irradiateth all things, to raise up such servants as
shall incline their ears to the voice of the melodies that hath ascended from the right hand of the
throne of Thy glory. Make them, then, to quaff from the hand of Thy grace the wine of Thy
mercy, that it may assure their hearts, and cause them to turn away from the left hand of idle
fancies and vain imaginings to the right hand of conﬁdence and certitude.
Now that Thou hast guided them unto the door of Thy grace, O my Lord, cast them not away,
by Thy bounty; and now that Thou hast summoned them unto the horizon of Thy Cause, keep
them not back from Thee, by Thy graciousness and favor. Powerful art Thou to do as Thou
pleasest. No God is there but Thee, the Omniscient, the All-Informed.
– LXIX –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O Lord my God! My tongue, both the tongue of my body and the tongue of
my heart, my limbs and members, every pulsating vein within me, every hair of my head, all
proclaim that Thou art God, and that there is none other God beside Thee. From everlasting Thou
hast been immeasurably exalted above all similitudes and comparisons, and sanctiﬁed from
whatsoever pertaineth to the creation Thou hast created and fashioned. From eternity Thou hast

been alone, with none to share the majesty of Thy singleness, and hast remained far above the
changes and chances to which all Thy creatures are subjected.
And when Thou didst purpose to demonstrate the power of Thy sovereign might, and to
glorify Thy word, and to guide the steps of Thy people, Thou didst raise up from among Thy
creatures One of Thy servants, Whom Thou didst send forth with the signs of Thy sovereignty,
and Whom Thou didst endue with the clear tokens of Thy oneness, that He might fulﬁll Thy
testimony unto all created things, and perfect Thy proof before all men.
As soon as He revealed Himself, as bidden by Thee, and called Thy servants to turn in the
direction of Thy gifts, and to set their faces towards the horizon of Thy knowledge, the signs of
dissension appeared amongst them. Some responded to Thy call and, without the least hesitation,
obeyed Thy summons. Others turned their backs to Thee, and followed the desires of a corrupt
inclination.
I implore Thee, O my God, by Thy Most Great Name, to enrapture the nations through the
potency of the Word which Thou didst ordain to be the king of all words, the Word whereby the
goodly pearls of Thy hidden wisdom were uncovered, and the gem-like mysteries which were
wrapped up within Thee were unraveled. Deprive them not, by Thy grace and bounty, of the
things Thou didst desire for them, and suffer them not to be far removed from the shores of the
ocean of Thy presence.
Every existence, whether seen or unseen, O my Lord, testiﬁeth that Thy mercy hath
surpassed all created things, and Thy loving-kindness embraced the entire creation. Look upon
them, I entreat Thee, with the eyes of Thy mercy. Thou art the Ever-Forgiving, the Most
Compassionate. Do with them as beseemeth Thy glory, and Thy majesty, and Thy greatness, and
Thy bounteousness and Thy grace. Deal not with them according to the limitations imposed upon
them, or the manifold vicissitudes of their earthly life.
Thou knowest, O my Lord, that I am but one of Thy servants. I have tasted of the sweetness
of Thy speech, and acknowledged Thy unity and Thy singleness, and set my face towards the
Source of Thy most excellent names and the Dayspring of Thy transcendent attributes, and
wished to be enabled by Thee to immerse myself beneath the ocean of Thy oneness and to be
submerged by the mighty waters of Thy unity.
Assist me, by Thy strengthening grace, O my Lord, to do what Thou didst will, and withhold
not from me the things Thou dost possess. So enravish me with the wonders of Thine utterances
that the noise and distraction of this world may be powerless to deter me from turning unto Thee,
and may fail to shake my constancy in Thy Cause, or to distract my gaze from the horizon of Thy
grace. Aid me, then, O my God, to do what pleaseth Thee, and to carry out Thy will. Write down
for me, moreover, the good of this world and of the world which is to come, and ordain for me a
seat of truth in Thy presence. Potent art Thou to do what Thou willest, and to rule as Thou
pleasest. No God is there but Thee, the Inaccessible, the All-Glorious, the Most Great.
All-praise to Thee, O Lord of the worlds and the Object of the adoration of the entire creation!
– LXX –
FADED now is all that erstwhile ﬂourished in the Paradise of Thy transcendent oneness, O my
God! Where are the rain-giving clouds of Thy mercy? Shorn are the branches of the Tree of Thy
unity of the vesture of Thy majesty and wisdom; where is the springtime of Thy gifts and
bounties? Motionless lies the Ark of Thy Cause on the sea of Thy creation; where are the winds of
Thy grace and favors? Encompassed on every side is Thy Lamp by the tempests of discord blowing
from every land; where is the globe of Thy graciousness and protection?
Thou seest, O my God, how the eyes of these poor creatures are bent upon the horizon of Thy
riches, how the hearts of these helpless ones are set in the direction of Thy might. I beseech Thee,
O Thou Who art the sole Desire of them that have recognized Thee, and the Object of the
adoration of the entire creation, not to suffer them, now that Thou hast attracted them by Thy
most exalted Word, to be far removed from the Tabernacle which Thou hast reared up by Thy
name, the All-Glorious.

They are sore pressed with cares, O my Lord, and are encompassed about by the wicked. Send
down, therefore, from the heaven of Thy behest Thine invisible hosts, that, holding aloft the
ensigns of Thy victory, they may help them in Thy land, and may shield them against Thine
adversaries.
I entreat Thee, O my God, by Thy name through which the clouds have rained down their
rain, and the streams have ﬂowed, and the ﬁre of Thy love hath been kindled throughout Thy
dominion, to assist Thy servant who hath turned towards Thee, and hath spoken forth Thy praise,
and determined to help Thee. Fortify, then, his heart, O my God, in Thy love and in Thy Faith.
Better is this for him than all that hath been created on Thine earth, for the world and whatsoever
is therein must perish, and what pertaineth unto Thee must endure as long as Thy most excellent
names endure. By Thy Glory! Were the world to last as long as Thine own kingdom will last, to
set their affections upon it would still be unseemly for such as have quaffed, from the hands of
Thy mercy, the wine of Thy presence; how much more when they recognize its ﬂeetingness and
are persuaded of its transience. The chances that overtake it, and the changes to which all things
pertaining unto it are continually subjected, attest its impermanence.
Whosoever hath recognized Thee will turn to none save Thee, and will seek from Thee
naught else except Thyself. Thou art the sole Desire of the heart of him whose thoughts are ﬁxed
on Thee, and the highest Aspiration of whosoever is wholly devoted unto Thee.
No God is there beside Thee, the Almighty, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the Most
Powerful.
– LXXI –
MAGNIFIED be Thy name, O my God, for that Thou hast manifested the Day which is the King of
Days, the Day which Thou didst announce unto Thy chosen Ones and Thy Prophets in Thy most
excellent Tablets, the Day whereon Thou didst shed the splendor of the glory of all Thy names
upon all created things. Great is his blessedness whosoever hath set himself towards Thee, and
entered Thy presence, and caught the accents of Thy voice.
I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by the name of Him round Whom circleth in adoration the
kingdom of Thy names, that Thou wilt graciously assist them that are dear to Thee to glorify Thy
word among Thy servants, and to shed abroad Thy praise amidst Thy creatures, so that the
ecstasies of Thy revelation may ﬁll the souls of all the dwellers of Thine earth.
Since Thou hast guided them, O my Lord, unto the living waters of Thy grace, grant, by Thy
bounty, that they may not be kept back from Thee; and since Thou hast summoned them to the
habitation of Thy throne, drive them not out from Thy presence, through Thy loving-kindness.
Send down upon them what shall wholly detach them from aught else except Thee, and make
them able to soar in the atmosphere of Thy nearness, in such wise that neither the ascendancy of
the oppressor nor the suggestions of them that have disbelieved in Thy most august and most
mighty Self shall be capable of keeping them back from Thee.
– LXXII –
LAUDED be Thy name, O Thou in Whose hands is the kingdom of all names, and in the grasp of
Whose might are all that are in heaven and all that are on earth! I entreat Thee, by Him Who is
Thy Most Effulgent Name Whom Thou hast made a target for the darts of Thy decree in Thy
path, O Thou the King of eternity, to rend asunder the veils that have shut off Thy creatures from
the horizon of Thy glory, that haply they may turn their faces in the direction of Thy mercy, and
draw nigh unto the Dayspring of Thy loving-kindness.
Leave not Thy servants to themselves, O my Lord! Draw them through the inﬂuence of Thine
utterances unto the Dawning-Place of Thine inspiration, and to the Fountain of Thy Revelation,
and to the Treasury of Thy wisdom. Thou art He to Whose strength and power all things have
testiﬁed, Whose Purpose nothing whatsoever of all that hath been created in Thy heaven and on
Thy earth hath been able to frustrate.
Render, then, victorious, O my God, Thy servants who have set their faces towards Thee, and
directed their steps to the seat of Thy grace. Send down, then, upon them what will keep them

safe from the danger of turning to any one but Thee, and from ﬁxing their eyes upon aught else
except Thyself.
Potent art Thou to do what Thou willest, and to rule as Thou pleasest. There is no God but
Thee, the God of glory and wisdom.
– LXXIII –
GLORIFIED art Thou, O Lord my God! I beseech Thee by Thy Name, the Restrainer, to withhold
from us the maleﬁcence of Thine adversaries who have disbelieved in Thy testimony, and caviled
at Thy beauty. Overpower by Thy Name, the All-Subduing, such as have wronged Thy Previous
Manifestation Who hath now appeared invested with Thy title, the All-Glorious. Lay hold, by Thy
name, the Chastiser, on them that have treated Thy Cause with scorn, have jested at Thy most
mighty utterances, and were hindered from attaining this most exalted station. Enable Thy loved
ones, by Thy Name, the Victorious, to prevail against Thine enemies and the inﬁdels among Thy
creatures. Rend asunder, by Thy Name, the Cleaver, the veil that hideth the doings of them that
have besmirched Thine honor and undermined Thy Faith among Thy people. Bind, by Thy Name,
the Restorer, the broken hearts of them that love Thee, and graciously bless them in their affairs.
Teach them, by Thy Name, the All-Knowing, the wonders of Thy wisdom, that they may cleave
steadfastly to Thy Faith and walk in the ways of Thy pleasure. Keep them safe, by Thy Name,
the Withholder, from the tyranny of the oppressor and the wickedness of the evil-doers and the
malice of the stirrers of mischief. Shield them, by Thy Name, the Preserver, within the stronghold
of Thy might and power, that haply they may be protected from the darts of doubt that are hurled
by such as have rebelled against Thee. Sanctify for Thy servants, by Thy Name which Thou hast
blessed above all other names, which Thou hast singled out for Thy favor, and by which Thou
didst reveal Thy beauty, these days of which the Pen of Thy decree hath distinctly written, and
which, according to Thy will and wisdom, have been preordained in Thine irrevocable Tablet.
Subject to Thy rule, by Thy Name, the Conqueror, the people of Thy realm, that all may turn
towards Thy face and forsake their all for love of Thee and for the sake of Thy pleasure.
Abase Thou, O my Lord, Thine enemies, and lay hold on them with Thy power and might,
and let them be stricken by the blast of Thy wrath. Make them taste, O my God, of Thine awful
majesty and vengeance, for they have repudiated the truth of the One in Whom they had
believed, Who came unto them with Thy signs and Thy clear tokens and the evidences of Thy
power and the manifold revelations of Thy might. Gather, then, together Thy loved ones beneath
the shadow of the Tree of Thy oneness, and of the Manifestation of the effulgent light of Thy
unity.
Thou art, verily, the One Whose power is immense, Whose vengeance is terrible. No God is
there beside Thee, the Almighty, the Most Powerful.
– LXXIV –
MAGNIFIED be Thy name, O Lord my God, inasmuch as Thou hast inclined mine ear to Thy voice,
and called me to Thyself, and opened mine eyes to gaze on Thy beauty, and illumined my heart
with Thy knowledge, and sanctiﬁed my breast from the doubts of the inﬁdels in Thy days. I am
the one, O my God, who lay fast asleep on his couch, when lo, the messengers of Thy manifold
mercies were sent down upon me by Thee, and the gentle winds of Thy loving-kindness blew over
me, and roused me up, and caused me to set my face towards the sanctuary of Thy knowledge,
and to ﬁx mine eyes upon the splendors of the light of Thy face.
I am but a poor creature, O my Lord! Behold me clinging to the hem of Thy riches. I have ﬂed
from darkness and from waywardness unto the brightness of the light of Thy countenance. Were I
—and to this Thy glory beareth me witness—to render thanksgiving unto Thee, through the whole
continuance of Thy kingdom and the duration of the heaven of Thine omnipotence, I would still
have failed to repay Thy manifold bestowals.
I implore Thee, O my Lord, by Thy name, the Ever-Abiding, and by Thy name which Thou
didst ordain to be the most great Instrument binding Thee to Thy servants, to grant that I may ﬂee
for shelter to Thy door, and speak forth Thy praise. Write down, then, for me, in every world of

Thine, that which will enable me to enter beneath Thy shadow and within the borders of Thy
court.
Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Bountiful, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Forgiving, the
Most Generous.
– LXXV –
ALL PRAISE be to Thee, O Lord, my God! I know not how to sing Thy praise, how to describe Thy
glory, how to call upon Thy Name. If I call upon Thee by Thy Name, the All-Possessing, I am
compelled to recognize that He Who holdeth in His hand the immediate destinies of all created
things is but a vassal dependent upon Thee, and is the creation of but a word proceeding from Thy
mouth. And if I proclaim Thee by the name of Him Who is the All-Compelling, I readily discover
that He is but a suppliant fallen upon the dust, awe-stricken by Thy dreadful might, Thy
sovereignty and power. And if I attempt to describe Thee by glorifying the oneness of Thy Being, I
soon realize that such a conception is but a notion which mine own fancy hath woven, and that
Thou hast ever been immeasurably exalted above the vain imaginations which the hearts of men
have devised.
The glory of Thy might beareth me witness! Whoso claimeth to have known Thee hath, by
virtue of such a claim, testiﬁed to his own ignorance; and whoso believeth himself to have attained
unto Thee, all the atoms of the earth would attest his powerlessness and proclaim his failure.
Thou hast, however, by virtue of Thy mercy that hath surpassed the kingdoms of earth and
heaven, deigned to accept from Thy servants the laud and honor they pay to Thine own exalted
Self, and hast bidden them celebrate Thy glory, that the ensigns of Thy guidance may be unfurled
in Thy cities and the tokens of Thy mercy be spread abroad among Thy nations, and that each and
all may be enabled to attain unto that which Thou hast destined for them by Thy decree, and
ordained unto them through Thine irrevocable will and purpose.
Having testiﬁed, therefore, unto mine own impotence and the impotence of Thy servants, I
beseech Thee, by the brightness of the light of Thy beauty, not to refuse Thy creatures attainment
to the shores of Thy most holy ocean. Draw them, then, O my God, through the Divine sweetness
of Thy melodies, towards the throne of Thy glory and the seat of Thine eternal holiness. Thou art,
verily, the Most Powerful, the Supreme Ruler, the Great Giver, the Most Exalted, the Ever-Desired.
Grant, then, O my God, that Thy servant who hath turned towards Thee, hath ﬁxed his gaze
upon Thee, and clung to the cord of Thy mercifulness and favor, may be enabled to partake of the
living waters of Thy mercy and grace. Cause him, then, to ascend unto the heights to which he
aspireth, and withhold him not from that which Thou dost possess. Thou art, verily, the Ever-
Forgiving, the Most Bountiful.
– LXXVI –
PRAISED be Thou, O Lord my God! Every time I attempt to make mention of Thee, I am hindered
by the sublimity of Thy station and the overpowering greatness of Thy might. For were I to praise
Thee throughout the length of Thy dominion and the duration of Thy sovereignty, I would ﬁnd
that my praise of Thee can beﬁt only such as are like unto me, who are themselves Thy creatures,
and who have been generated through the power of Thy decree and been fashioned through the
potency of Thy will. And at whatever time my pen ascribeth glory to any one of Thy names,
methinks I can hear the voice of its lamentation in its remoteness from Thee, and can recognize
its cry because of its separation from Thy Self. I testify that everything other than Thee is but
Thy creation and is held in the hollow of Thy hand. To have accepted any act or praise from Thy
creatures is but an evidence of the wonders of Thy grace and bountiful favors, and a manifestation
of Thy generosity and providence.
I entreat Thee, O my Lord, by Thy Most Great Name whereby Thou didst separate light from
ﬁre, and truth from denial, to send down upon me and upon such of my loved ones as are in my
company the good of this world and of the next. Supply us, then, with Thy wondrous gifts that are
hid from the eyes of men. Thou art, verily, the Fashioner of all creation. No God is there but Thee,
the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Most High.

– LXXVII –
O THOU, at Whose dreadful majesty all things have trembled, in Whose grasp are the affairs of
all men, towards Whose grace and mercy are set the faces of all Thy creatures! I entreat Thee, by
Thy Name which Thou hast ordained to be the spirit of all names that are in the kingdom of
names, to shield us from the whisperings of those who have turned away from Thee, and have
repudiated the truth of Thy most august and most exalted Self, in this Revelation that hath caused
the kingdom of Thy names to tremble.
I am one of Thy handmaidens, O my Lord! I have turned my face towards the sanctuary of
Thy gracious favors and the adored tabernacle of Thy glory. Purify me of all that is not of Thee,
and strengthen me to love Thee and to fulﬁll Thy pleasure, that I may delight myself in the
contemplation of Thy beauty, and be rid of all attachment to any of Thy creatures, and may, at
every moment, proclaim: “Magniﬁed be God, the Lord of the worlds!”
Let my food, O my Lord, be Thy beauty, and my drink the light of Thy presence, and my hope
Thy pleasure, and my work Thy praise, and my companion Thy remembrance, and my aid Thy
sovereignty, and my dwelling-place Thy habitation, and my home the seat which Thou hast
exalted above the limitations of them that are shut out as by a veil from Thee.
Thou art, in truth, the God of power, of strength and glory.
– LXXVIII –
PRAISED be Thou, O Lord my God! Every time I am reminded of Thee and muse on Thy virtues, I
am seized with such ecstasies and am so enravished by Thee that I ﬁnd myself unable to make
mention of Thy name and to extol Thee. I am carried back to such heights that I recognize my self
to be the same as the remembrance of Thee in Thy realm, and the essence of Thy praise among
Thy servants. As long as that self endureth, so long will Thy praise continue to be shed abroad
among Thy creatures and Thy remembrance gloriﬁed by Thy people.
Every man endued with insight among Thy servants is persuaded that my self liveth
eternally and can never perish, inasmuch as remembrance of Thee is eternal and will endure so
long as Thine own Self endureth, and Thy praise is everlasting and will last as long as Thine own
sovereignty will last. By its means Thou art gloriﬁed by such of Thy chosen ones as call upon
Thee and by the sincere among Thy servants. Nay, the praise wherewith any one, in the entire
creation, praiseth Thee proceedeth from this exalted self and returneth unto it, even as the sun
which, while it shineth, sheddeth its splendor upon whatsoever may be exposed to its rays. From
this sun is generated, and unto it must return, the light which is shed over all things.
Exalted, immeasurably exalted art Thou above any attempt to measure the greatness of Thy
Cause, above any comparison that one may seek to make, above the efforts of the human tongue
to utter its import! From everlasting Thou hast existed, alone with no one else beside Thee, and
wilt, to everlasting, continue to remain the same, in the sublimity of Thine essence and the
inaccessible heights of Thy glory.
And when Thou didst purpose to make Thyself known unto men, Thou didst successively
reveal the Manifestations of Thy Cause, and ordained each to be a sign of Thy Revelation among
Thy people, and the Dayspring of Thine invisible Self amidst Thy creatures, until the time when,
as decreed by Thee, all Thy previous Revelations culminated in Him Whom Thou hast appointed
as the Lord of all who are in the heaven of revelation and the kingdom of creation, Him Whom
Thou hast established as the Sovereign Lord of all who are in the heavens and all who are on the
earth. He it was Whom Thou hast determined to be the Herald of Thy Most Great Revelation and
the Announcer of Thy Most Ancient Splendor. In this Thou hadst no other purpose except to try
them who have manifested Thy most excellent titles unto all who are in heaven and on earth. He
it was Whom Thou hast commanded to establish His covenant with all created things.
And when Thy promise came to pass and the set time was fulﬁlled, He Who is the Possessor
of all Names and Attributes was made manifest unto men. Thereupon all that were in the
heavens and all that were on the earth were terror-stricken save those whom Thou didst keep
under Thy protection and preserve within the shelter of Thy power and gracious providence.

There befell Him, at the hands of such of Thy creatures as have transgressed against Thee, that
which the tongue of no one of Thy servants can recount.
Look down, then, upon Him, O my God, with the eye of Thy tender mercy, and send down
upon Him and upon those that love Him all the good Thou didst ordain in the heaven of Thy will
and the Tablet of Thy decree. Aid them, then, with Thy succor, for Thou art, verily, the Almighty,
the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, the All-Compelling.
– LXXIX –
ALL glory be to Thee, O Lord my God! I bear witness for Thee to that whereto Thou Thyself didst
bear witness for Thine own Self, ere the day Thou hadst created the creation or made mention
thereof, that Thou art God, and that there is none other God beside Thee. From eternity Thou hast,
in Thy transcendent oneness, been immeasurably exalted above Thy servants’ conception of Thy
unity, and wilt to eternity remain, in Thine unapproachable singleness, far above the praise of
Thy creatures. No words that any one beside Thee may utter can ever beseem Thee, and no man’s
description except Thine own description can beﬁt Thy nature. All who adore Thy unity have
been sore perplexed to fathom the mystery of Thy oneness, and all have confessed their
powerlessness to attain unto the comprehension of Thine essence and to scale the pinnacle of
Thy knowledge. The mighty have all acknowledged their weakness, and the learned recognized
their ignorance. They that are possessed of inﬂuence are as nothing when compared with the
revelations of Thy stupendous sovereignty, and they who are exalted sink into oblivion when
brought before the manifestations of Thy great glory. The radiance of the brightest luminaries is
eclipsed by the effulgent splendors of Thy face, and the tongues of the most eloquent of speakers
falter under the unrestrained effusions of Thy holy utterance, and the foundations of the
mightiest structures tremble before the onrushing force of Thy compelling power.
Who is there, O my God, that can be deemed worthy to be remembered when Thou art
remembered, and where is he to be found who can be regarded as capable of hinting at Thy nature
or worthy of mention in the court of Thy transcendent oneness? From everlasting Thou hast been
alone with no one else beside Thee, and to everlasting Thou wilt continue to be one and the same.
No God is there beside Thee, the God of power, of glory and wisdom.
Gloriﬁed be Thy name, O Lord my God! I beseech Thee by Him Who is Thine exalted and
supreme Remembrance, Whom Thou hast sent down unto all Thy creatures and invested with
Thy name, the All-Glorious, Whose will Thou hast ordained to be Thine own will, Whose self
Thou hast decreed to be the revealer of Thine own Self, and His essence the Dayspring of Thy
wisdom, and His heart the treasury of Thine inspiration, and His breast the dawning-place of Thy
most excellent attributes and most exalted titles, and His tongue the fountainhead of the waters
of Thy praise and the wellspring of the soft-ﬂowing streams of Thy wisdom, to send down upon
us that which will enable us to dispense with all else except Thee, and will cause us to direct our
steps towards the sanctuary of Thy pleasure and to aspire after the things Thou didst ordain for
us according to Thine irrevocable decree. Empower us, then, O my God, to forsake ourselves and
cleave steadfastly to Him Who is the Manifestation of Thy Self, the Most Exalted, the Most High.
Supply us also with that which is best for us, and write us down with such of Thy servants as
have repudiated the Idol (Mírzá Yaḥyá), and ﬁrmly believed in Thee, and been so established on the
throne of certitude that the whisperings of the Evil One have been powerless to hinder them from
turning their faces towards Thy name, the All-Merciful.
Powerful art Thou to do what Thou pleasest and to ordain what Thou willest. No God is there
but Thee, the All-Possessing, the All-Highest, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful, the All-Knowing,
the All-Wise.
– LXXX –
O THOU Whose remembrance is the delight of the souls of all them that yearn after Thee, Whose
name is the exultation of the hearts of all who are wholly devoted to Thy will, Whose praise is
cherished by such as have drawn nigh unto Thy court, Whose face is the ardent desire of all them
that have recognized Thy truth, Whose trial is the healer of the sicknesses of them who have

embraced Thy Cause, Whose calamity is the highest aspiration of such as are rid of all attachment
to any one but Thyself!
Gloriﬁed, immeasurably gloriﬁed art Thou, in Whose hands is the empire of whatsoever is in
the heavens and whatsoever is on earth, Thou, Who through but one word of Thy mouth, caused
all things to expire and dissolve asunder, and Who, by yet another word, caused whatever had
been separated to be combined and reunited! Magniﬁed be Thy name, O Thou Who hast power
over all that are in the heavens and all that are on earth, Whose dominion embraceth whatsoever
is in the heaven of Thy Revelation and the kingdom of Thy creation. None can equal Thee in Thy
created realms; none can compare with Thee in the universe Thou hast fashioned. The mind of no
one hath comprehended Thee, and the aspiration of no soul hath reached Thee. I swear by Thy
might! Were any one to soar, on whatever wings, as long as Thine own Being endureth,
throughout the immensity of Thy knowledge, he would still be powerless to transgress the bounds
which the contingent world hath set for him. How can, then, such a man aspire to wing his ﬂight
into the atmosphere of Thy most exalted presence?
He, indeed, is endued with understanding who acknowledgeth his powerlessness and
confesseth his sinfulness, for should any created thing lay claim to any existence, when
confronted with the inﬁnite wonders of Thy Revelation, so blasphemous a pretension would be
more heinous than any other crime in all the domains of Thine invention and creation. Who is
there, O my Lord, that, when Thou revealest the ﬁrst glimmerings of the signs of Thy
transcendent sovereignty and might, hath the power to claim for himself any existence whatever?
Existence itself is as nothing when brought face to face with the mighty and manifold wonders of
Thine incomparable Self.
Far, immeasurably far, art Thou exalted above all things, O Thou Who art the King of Kings! I
entreat Thee by Thy Self and by Them Who are the Manifestations of Thy Cause and the
Daysprings of Thine authority to write down for us that which Thou hast written down for Thy
chosen ones. Withhold not from us that which Thou didst ordain for Thy loved ones, who, as soon
as Thy call reached them, hastened unto Thee, and when the splendors of the light of Thy
countenance were shed upon them, instantly prostrated themselves in adoration before Thy face.
We are Thy servants, O my Lord, and in the grasp of Thy power. If Thou chastisest us with
the chastisement inﬂicted upon the former and the latter generations, Thy verdict would be
assuredly just and Thine act praiseworthy. Powerful art Thou to do what pleaseth Thee. None
other God is there beside Thee, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting.
– LXXXI –
UNTO Thee be praise, O Thou Who inclinest Thine ear to the sighing of them that have rid
themselves of all attachment to any one but Thee, and Who hearest the voice of the lamentation
of those who are wholly devoted to Thy Self! Thou beholdest all that hath befallen them at the
hands of such of Thy creatures as have transgressed and rebelled against Thee. Thy might beareth
me witness, O Thou Who art the King of the realms of justice and the Ruler of the cities of mercy!
The tribulations they have been made to suffer are such as no pen, in the entire creation, can
reckon. Should any one attempt to make mention of them, he would ﬁnd himself powerless to
describe them.
As these tribulations, however, were sustained in Thy path and for love of Thee, they who
were afﬂicted by them render thanks, under all conditions, unto Thee, and say: “O Thou Who art
the Delight of our hearts and the Object of our adoration! Were the clouds of Thy decree to rain
down upon us the darts of afﬂiction, we would, in our love for Thee, refuse to be impatient. We
would yield Thee praise and thanksgiving, for we have recognized and are persuaded that Thou
hast ordained only that which will be best for us. If our bodies be, at times, weighed down by our
troubles, yet our souls rejoice with exceeding gladness. We swear by Thy might, O Thou Who art
the Desire of our hearts and the Exultation of our souls! Every trouble that toucheth us in our love
for Thee is an evidence of Thy tender mercy, every ﬁery ordeal a sign of the brightness of Thy