* * *Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Translated By Shoghi Effendi
– I –
LAUDED and gloriﬁed art Thou, O Lord, my God! How can I make mention of Thee, assured as I
am that no tongue, however deep its wisdom, can beﬁttingly magnify Thy name, nor can the bird
of the human heart, however great its longing, ever hope to ascend into the heaven of Thy
majesty and knowledge.
If I describe Thee, O my God, as Him Who is the All-Perceiving, I ﬁnd myself compelled to
admit that They Who are the highest Embodiments of perception have been created by virtue of
Thy behest. And if I extol Thee as Him Who is the All-Wise, I, likewise, am forced to recognize
that the Wellsprings of wisdom have themselves been generated through the operation of Thy
Will. And if I proclaim Thee as the Incomparable One, I soon discover that they Who are the
inmost Essence of oneness have been sent down by Thee and are but the evidences of Thine
handiwork. And if I acclaim Thee as the Knower of all things, I must confess that they Who are
the Quintessence of knowledge are but the creation and instruments of Thy Purpose.
Exalted, immeasurably exalted, art Thou above the strivings of mortal man to unravel Thy
mystery, to describe Thy glory, or to even hint at the nature of Thine Essence. For whatever such
strivings may accomplish, they can never hope to transcend the limitations imposed upon Thy
creatures, inasmuch as these efforts are actuated by Thy decree, and are begotten of Thine
invention. The loftiest sentiments which the holiest of saints can express in praise of Thee, and
the deepest wisdom which the most learned of men can utter in their attempts to comprehend
Thy nature, all revolve around that Center Which is wholly subjected to Thy sovereignty, Which
adoreth Thy Beauty, and is propelled through the movement of Thy Pen.
Nay, forbid it, O my God, that I should have uttered such words as must of necessity imply
the existence of any direct relationship between the Pen of Thy Revelation and the essence of all
created things. Far, far are They Who are related to Thee above the conception of such
relationship! All comparisons and likenesses fail to do justice to the Tree of Thy Revelation, and
every way is barred to the comprehension of the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dayspring of
Thy Beauty.
Far, far from Thy glory be what mortal man can afﬁrm of Thee, or attribute unto Thee, or the
praise with which he can glorify Thee! Whatever duty Thou hast prescribed unto Thy servants of
extolling to the utmost Thy majesty and glory is but a token of Thy grace unto them, that they
may be enabled to ascend unto the station conferred upon their own inmost being, the station of
the knowledge of their own selves.
No one else besides Thee hath, at any time, been able to fathom Thy mystery, or to
beﬁttingly extol Thy greatness. Unsearchable and high above the praise of men wilt Thou remain
forever. There is none other God but Thee, the Inaccessible, the Omnipotent, the Omniscient, the
Holy of Holies.
– II –
THE beginning of all things is the knowledge of God, and the end of all things is strict observance
of whatsoever hath been sent down from the empyrean of the Divine Will that pervadeth all that
is in the heavens and all that is on the earth.
– III –
THE Revelation which, from time immemorial, hath been acclaimed as the Purpose and Promise
of all the Prophets of God, and the most cherished Desire of His Messengers, hath now, by virtue
of the pervasive Will of the Almighty and at His irresistible bidding, been revealed unto men. The
advent of such a Revelation hath been heralded in all the sacred Scriptures. Behold how,

notwithstanding such an announcement, mankind hath strayed from its path and shut out itself
from its glory.
Say: O ye lovers of the One true God! Strive, that ye may truly recognize and know Him, and
observe beﬁttingly His precepts. This is a Revelation, under which, if a man shed for its sake one
drop of blood, myriads of oceans will be his recompense. Take heed, O friends, that ye forfeit not
so inestimable a beneﬁt, or disregard its transcendent station. Consider the multitude of lives that
have been, and are still being, sacriﬁced in a world deluded by a mere phantom which the vain
imaginations of its peoples have conceived. Render thanks unto God, inasmuch as ye have
attained unto your heart’s Desire, and been united to Him Who is the Promise of all nations.
Guard ye, with the aid of the one true God—exalted be His glory—the integrity of the station
which ye have attained, and cleave to that which shall promote His Cause. He, verily, enjoineth on
you what is right and conducive to the exaltation of man’s station. Gloriﬁed be the All-Merciful,
the Revealer of this wondrous Tablet.
– IV –
THIS is the Day in which God’s most excellent favors have been poured out upon men, the Day in
which His most mighty grace hath been infused into all created things. It is incumbent upon all
the peoples of the world to reconcile their differences, and, with perfect unity and peace, abide
beneath the shadow of the Tree of His care and loving-kindness. It behooveth them to cleave to
whatsoever will, in this Day, be conducive to the exaltation of their stations, and to the promotion
of their best interests. Happy are those whom the all-glorious Pen was moved to remember, and
blessed are those men whose names, by virtue of Our inscrutable decree, We have preferred to
conceal.
Beseech ye the one true God to grant that all men may be graciously assisted to fulﬁll that
which is acceptable in Our sight. Soon will the present-day order be rolled up, and a new one
spread out in its stead. Verily, thy Lord speaketh the truth, and is the Knower of things unseen.
– V –
THIS is the Day whereon the Ocean of God’s mercy hath been manifested unto men, the Day in
which the Daystar of His loving-kindness hath shed its radiance upon them, the Day in which the
clouds of His bountiful favor have overshadowed the whole of mankind. Now is the time to cheer
and refresh the downcast through the invigorating breeze of love and fellowship, and the living
waters of friendliness and charity.
They who are the beloved of God, in whatever place they gather and whomsoever they may
meet, must evince, in their attitude towards God, and in the manner of their celebration of His
praise and glory, such humility and submissiveness that every atom of the dust beneath their feet
may attest the depth of their devotion. The conversation carried by these holy souls should be
informed with such power that these same atoms of dust will be thrilled by its inﬂuence. They
should conduct themselves in such manner that the earth upon which they tread may never be
allowed to address to them such words as these: “I am to be preferred above you. For witness, how
patient I am in bearing the burden which the husbandman layeth upon me. I am the instrument
that continually imparteth unto all beings the blessings with which He Who is the Source of all
grace hath entrusted me. Notwithstanding the honor conferred upon me, and the unnumbered
evidences of my wealth—a wealth that supplieth the needs of all creation—behold the measure of
my humility, witness with what absolute submissiveness I allow myself to be trodden beneath the
feet of men.” …
Show forbearance and benevolence and love to one another. Should anyone among you be
incapable of grasping a certain truth, or be striving to comprehend it, show forth, when conversing
with him, a spirit of extreme kindliness and goodwill. Help him to see and recognize the truth,
without esteeming yourself to be, in the least, superior to him, or to be possessed of greater
endowments.
The whole duty of man in this Day is to attain that share of the ﬂood of grace which God
poureth forth for him. Let none, therefore, consider the largeness or smallness of the receptacle.

The portion of some might lie in the palm of a man’s hand, the portion of others might ﬁll a cup,
and of others even a gallon-measure.
Every eye, in this Day, should seek what will best promote the Cause of God. He, Who is the
Eternal Truth, beareth Me witness! Nothing whatever can, in this Day, inﬂict a greater harm upon
this Cause than dissension and strife, contention, estrangement and apathy, among the loved ones
of God. Flee them, through the power of God and His sovereign aid, and strive ye to knit together
the hearts of men, in His Name, the Uniﬁer, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
Beseech ye the one true God to grant that ye may taste the savor of such deeds as are
performed in His path, and partake of the sweetness of such humility and submissiveness as are
shown for His sake. Forget your own selves, and turn your eyes towards your neighbor. Bend your
energies to whatever may foster the education of men. Nothing is, or can ever be, hidden from
God. If ye follow in His way, His incalculable and imperishable blessings will be showered upon
you. This is the luminous Tablet, whose verses have streamed from the moving Pen of Him Who
is the Lord of all worlds. Ponder it in your hearts, and be ye of them that observe its precepts.
– VI –
BEHOLD, how the divers peoples and kindreds of the earth have been waiting for the coming of
the Promised One. No sooner had He, Who is the Sun of Truth, been made manifest, than, lo, all
turned away from Him, except them whom God was pleased to guide. We dare not, in this Day,
lift the veil that concealeth the exalted station which every true believer can attain, for the joy
which such a revelation must provoke might well cause a few to faint away and die.
He Who is the Heart and Center of the Bayán hath written: “The germ that holdeth within
itself the potentialities of the Revelation that is to come is endowed with a potency superior to
the combined forces of all those who follow Me.” And, again, He saith: “Of all the tributes I have
paid to Him Who is to come after Me, the greatest is this, My written confession, that no words of
Mine can adequately describe Him, nor can any reference to Him in My Book, the Bayán, do
justice to His Cause.”
Whoso hath searched the depths of the oceans that lie hid within these exalted words, and
fathomed their import, can be said to have discovered a glimmer of the unspeakable glory with
which this mighty, this sublime, and most holy Revelation hath been endowed. From the
excellence of so great a Revelation the honor with which its faithful followers must needs be
invested can be well imagined. By the righteousness of the one true God! The very breath of these
souls is in itself richer than all the treasures of the earth. Happy is the man that hath attained
thereunto, and woe betide the heedless.
– VII –
VERILY I say, this is the Day in which mankind can behold the Face, and hear the Voice, of the
Promised One. The Call of God hath been raised, and the light of His countenance hath been lifted
up upon men. It behooveth every man to blot out the trace of every idle word from the tablet of
his heart, and to gaze, with an open and unbiased mind, on the signs of His Revelation, the proofs
of His Mission, and the tokens of His glory.
Great indeed is this Day! The allusions made to it in all the sacred Scriptures as the Day of
God attest its greatness. The soul of every Prophet of God, of every Divine Messenger, hath
thirsted for this wondrous Day. All the divers kindreds of the earth have, likewise, yearned to
attain it. No sooner, however, had the Daystar of His Revelation manifested itself in the heaven of
God’s Will, than all, except those whom the Almighty was pleased to guide, were found
dumbfounded and heedless.
O thou that hast remembered Me! The most grievous veil hath shut out the peoples of the
earth from His glory, and hindered them from hearkening to His call. God grant that the light of
unity may envelop the whole earth, and that the seal “the Kingdom is God’s” may be stamped
upon the brow of all its peoples.
– VIII –

BY the righteousness of God! These are the days in which God hath proved the hearts of the
entire company of His Messengers and Prophets, and beyond them those that stand guard over
His sacred and inviolable Sanctuary, the inmates of the celestial Pavilion and dwellers of the
Tabernacle of Glory. How severe, therefore, the test to which they who join partners with God
must needs be subjected!
– IX –
O ḤUSAYN! Consider the eagerness with which certain peoples and nations have anticipated the
return of Imám Ḥusayn, whose coming, after the appearance of the Qá’im, hath been prophesied,
in days past, by the chosen ones of God, exalted be His glory. These holy ones have, moreover,
announced that when He Who is the Dayspring of the manifold grace of God manifesteth
Himself, all the Prophets and Messengers, including the Qá’im, will gather together beneath the
shadow of the sacred Standard which the Promised One will raise. That hour is now come. The
world is illumined with the effulgent glory of His countenance. And yet, behold how far its
peoples have strayed from His path! None have believed in Him except them who, through the
power of the Lord of Names, have shattered the idols of their vain imaginings and corrupt desires
and entered the city of certitude. The seal of the choice Wine of His Revelation hath, in this Day
and in His Name, the Self-Sufﬁcing, been broken. Its grace is being poured out upon men. Fill thy
cup, and drink in, in His Name, the Most Holy, the All-Praised.
– X –
THE time foreordained unto the peoples and kindreds of the earth is now come. The promises of
God, as recorded in the holy Scriptures, have all been fulﬁlled. Out of Zion hath gone forth the
Law of God, and Jerusalem, and the hills and land thereof, are ﬁlled with the glory of His
Revelation. Happy is the man that pondereth in his heart that which hath been revealed in the
Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Meditate upon this, O ye beloved of God, and
let your ears be attentive unto His Word, so that ye may, by His grace and mercy, drink your ﬁll
from the crystal waters of constancy, and become as steadfast and immovable as the mountain in
His Cause.
In the Book of Isaiah it is written: “Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of
the Lord, and for the glory of His majesty.” No man that meditateth upon this verse can fail to
recognize the greatness of this Cause, or doubt the exalted character of this Day—the Day of God
Himself. This same verse is followed by these words: “And the Lord alone shall be exalted in that
Day.” This is the Day which the Pen of the Most High hath gloriﬁed in all the holy Scriptures.
There is no verse in them that doth not declare the glory of His holy Name, and no Book that doth
not testify unto the loftiness of this most exalted theme. Were We to make mention of all that
hath been revealed in these heavenly Books and holy Scriptures concerning this Revelation, this
Tablet would assume impossible dimensions. It is incumbent, in this Day, upon every man to place
his whole trust in the manifold bounties of God, and arise to disseminate, with the utmost
wisdom, the verities of His Cause. Then, and only then, will the whole earth be enveloped with
the morning light of His Revelation.
– XI –
ALL glory be to this Day, the Day in which the fragrances of mercy have been wafted over all
created things, a Day so blest that past ages and centuries can never hope to rival it, a Day in
which the countenance of the Ancient of Days hath turned towards His holy seat. Thereupon the
voices of all created things, and beyond them those of the Concourse on high, were heard calling
aloud: “Haste thee, O Carmel, for lo, the light of the countenance of God, the Ruler of the Kingdom
of Names and Fashioner of the heavens, hath been lifted upon thee.”
Seized with transports of joy, and raising high her voice, she thus exclaimed: “May my life be
a sacriﬁce to Thee, inasmuch as Thou hast ﬁxed Thy gaze upon me, hast bestowed upon me Thy
bounty, and hast directed towards me Thy steps. Separation from Thee, O Thou Source of
everlasting life, hath well nigh consumed me, and my remoteness from Thy presence hath burned
away my soul. All praise be to Thee for having enabled me to hearken to Thy call, for having

honored me with Thy footsteps, and for having quickened my soul through the vitalizing fragrance
of Thy Day and the shrilling voice of Thy Pen, a voice Thou didst ordain as Thy trumpet-call
amidst Thy people. And when the hour at which Thy resistless Faith was to be made manifest did
strike, Thou didst breathe a breath of Thy spirit into Thy Pen, and lo, the entire creation shook to
its very foundations, unveiling to mankind such mysteries as lay hidden within the treasuries of
Him Who is the Possessor of all created things.”
No sooner had her voice reached that most exalted Spot than We made reply: “Render thanks
unto thy Lord, O Carmel. The ﬁre of thy separation from Me was fast consuming thee, when the
ocean of My presence surged before thy face, cheering thine eyes and those of all creation, and
ﬁlling with delight all things visible and invisible. Rejoice, for God hath in this Day established
upon thee His throne, hath made thee the dawning-place of His signs and the dayspring of the
evidences of His Revelation. Well is it with him that circleth around thee, that proclaimeth the
revelation of thy glory, and recounteth that which the bounty of the Lord thy God hath showered
upon thee. Seize thou the Chalice of Immortality in the name of thy Lord, the All-Glorious, and
give thanks unto Him, inasmuch as He, in token of His mercy unto thee, hath turned thy sorrow
into gladness, and transmuted thy grief into blissful joy. He, verily, loveth the spot which hath
been made the seat of His throne, which His footsteps have trodden, which hath been honored by
His presence, from which He raised His call, and upon which He shed His tears.
“Call out to Zion, O Carmel, and announce the joyful tidings: He that was hidden from mortal
eyes is come! His all-conquering sovereignty is manifest; His all-encompassing splendor is
revealed. Beware lest thou hesitate or halt. Hasten forth and circumambulate the City of God that
hath descended from heaven, the celestial Kaaba round which have circled in adoration the favored
of God, the pure in heart, and the company of the most exalted angels. Oh, how I long to announce
unto every spot on the surface of the earth, and to carry to each one of its cities, the glad-tidings
of this Revelation—a Revelation to which the heart of Sinai hath been attracted, and in whose
name the Burning Bush is calling: ‘Unto God, the Lord of Lords, belong the kingdoms of earth and
heaven.’ Verily this is the Day in which both land and sea rejoice at this announcement, the Day
for which have been laid up those things which God, through a bounty beyond the ken of mortal
mind or heart, hath destined for revelation. Erelong will God sail His Ark upon thee, and will
manifest the people of Bahá who have been mentioned in the Book of Names.”
Sanctiﬁed be the Lord of all mankind, at the mention of Whose name all the atoms of the
earth have been made to vibrate, and the Tongue of Grandeur hath been moved to disclose that
which had been wrapt in His knowledge and lay concealed within the treasury of His might. He,
verily, through the potency of His name, the Mighty, the All-Powerful, the Most High, is the ruler
of all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth.
– XII –
BESTIR yourselves, O people, in anticipation of the days of Divine justice, for the promised hour is
now come. Beware lest ye fail to apprehend its import and be accounted among the erring.
– XIII –
CONSIDER the past. How many, both high and low, have, at all times, yearningly awaited the
advent of the Manifestations of God in the sanctiﬁed persons of His chosen Ones. How often have
they expected His coming, how frequently have they prayed that the breeze of Divine mercy
might blow, and the promised Beauty step forth from behind the veil of concealment, and be made
manifest to all the world. And whensoever the portals of grace did open, and the clouds of divine
bounty did rain upon mankind, and the light of the Unseen did shine above the horizon of celestial
might, they all denied Him, and turned away from His face—the face of God Himself.…
Reﬂect, what could have been the motive for such deeds? What could have prompted such
behavior towards the Revealers of the beauty of the All-Glorious? Whatever in days gone by hath
been the cause of the denial and opposition of those people hath now led to the perversity of the
people of this age. To maintain that the testimony of Providence was incomplete, that it hath
therefore been the cause of the denial of the people, is but open blasphemy. How far from the
grace of the All-Bountiful and from His loving providence and tender mercies it is to single out a

soul from amongst all men for the guidance of His creatures, and, on one hand, to withhold from
Him the full measure of His divine testimony, and, on the other, inﬂict severe retribution on His
people for having turned away from His chosen One! Nay, the manifold bounties of the Lord of all
beings have, at all times, through the Manifestations of His Divine Essence, encompassed the
earth and all that dwell therein. Not for a moment hath His grace been withheld, nor have the
showers of His loving-kindness ceased to rain upon mankind. Consequently, such behavior can be
attributed to naught save the petty-mindedness of such souls as tread the valley of arrogance and
pride, are lost in the wilds of remoteness, walk in the ways of their idle fancy, and follow the
dictates of the leaders of their faith. Their chief concern is mere opposition; their sole desire is to
ignore the truth. Unto every discerning observer it is evident and manifest that had these people
in the days of each of the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth sanctiﬁed their eyes, their ears, and
their hearts from whatever they had seen, heard, and felt, they surely would not have been
deprived of beholding the beauty of God, nor strayed far from the habitations of glory. But having
weighed the testimony of God by the standard of their own knowledge, gleaned from the
teachings of the leaders of their faith, and found it at variance with their limited understanding,
they arose to perpetrate such unseemly acts.…
Consider Moses! Armed with the rod of celestial dominion, adorned with the white hand of
Divine knowledge, and proceeding from the Párán of the love of God, and wielding the serpent of
power and everlasting majesty, He shone forth from the Sinai of light upon the world. He
summoned all the peoples and kindreds of the earth to the kingdom of eternity, and invited them
to partake of the fruit of the tree of faithfulness. Surely you are aware of the ﬁerce opposition of
Pharaoh and his people, and of the stones of idle fancy which the hands of inﬁdels cast upon that
blessed Tree. So much so that Pharaoh and his people ﬁnally arose and exerted their utmost
endeavor to extinguish with the waters of falsehood and denial the ﬁre of that sacred Tree,
oblivious of the truth that no earthly water can quench the ﬂames of Divine wisdom, nor mortal
blasts extinguish the lamp of everlasting dominion. Nay, rather, such water cannot but intensify
the burning of the ﬂame, and such blasts cannot but ensure the preservation of the lamp, were ye
to observe with the eye of discernment, and walk in the way of God’s holy will and pleasure.…
And when the days of Moses were ended, and the light of Jesus, shining forth from the
Dayspring of the Spirit, encompassed the world, all the people of Israel arose in protest against
Him. They clamored that He Whose advent the Bible had foretold must needs promulgate and
fulﬁll the laws of Moses, whereas this youthful Nazarene, who laid claim to the station of the
divine Messiah, had annulled the laws of divorce and of the sabbath day—the most weighty of all
the laws of Moses. Moreover, what of the signs of the Manifestation yet to come? These people of
Israel are even unto the present day still expecting that Manifestation which the Bible hath
foretold! How many Manifestations of Holiness, how many Revealers of the light everlasting,
have appeared since the time of Moses, and yet Israel, wrapt in the densest veils of satanic fancy
and false imaginings, is still expectant that the idol of her own handiwork will appear with such
signs as she herself hath conceived! Thus hath God laid hold of them for their sins, hath
extinguished in them the spirit of faith, and tormented them with the ﬂames of the nethermost
ﬁre. And this for no other reason except that Israel refused to apprehend the meaning of such
words as have been revealed in the Bible concerning the signs of the coming Revelation. As she
never grasped their true signiﬁcance, and, to outward seeming, such events never came to pass,
she, therefore, remained deprived of recognizing the beauty of Jesus and of beholding the Face of
God. And they still await His coming! From time immemorial even unto this day, all the kindreds
and peoples of the earth have clung to such fanciful and unseemly thoughts, and thus have
deprived themselves of the clear waters streaming from the springs of purity and holiness.…
To them that are endowed with understanding, it is clear and manifest that, when the ﬁre of
the love of Jesus consumed the veils of Jewish limitations, and His authority was made apparent
and partially enforced, He, the Revealer of the unseen Beauty, addressing one day His disciples,
referred unto His passing, and, kindling in their hearts the ﬁre of bereavement, said unto them: “I
go away and come again unto you.” And in another place He said: “I go and another will come,
Who will tell you all that I have not told you, and will fulﬁll all that I have said.” Both these

sayings have but one meaning, were ye to ponder upon the Manifestations of the Unity of God
with Divine insight.
Every discerning observer will recognize that in the Dispensation of the Qur’án both the Book
and the Cause of Jesus were conﬁrmed. As to the matter of names, Muḥammad, Himself, declared:
“I am Jesus.” He recognized the truth of the signs, prophecies, and words of Jesus, and testiﬁed
that they were all of God. In this sense, neither the person of Jesus nor His writings hath differed
from that of Muḥammad and of His holy Book, inasmuch as both have championed the Cause of
God, uttered His praise, and revealed His commandments. Thus it is that Jesus, Himself, declared:
“I go away and come again unto you.” Consider the sun. Were it to say now, “I am the sun of
yesterday,” it would speak the truth. And should it, bearing the sequence of time in mind, claim to
be other than that sun, it still would speak the truth. In like manner, if it be said that all the days
are but one and the same, it is correct and true. And if it be said, with respect to their particular
names and designations, that they differ, that again is true. For though they are the same, yet one
doth recognize in each a separate designation, a speciﬁc attribute, a particular character. Conceive
accordingly the distinction, variation, and unity characteristic of the various Manifestations of
holiness, that thou mayest comprehend the allusions made by the Creator of all names and
attributes to the mysteries of distinction and unity, and discover the answer to thy question as to
why that everlasting Beauty should have, at sundry times, called Himself by different names and
titles.…
When the Unseen, the Eternal, the Divine Essence, caused the Daystar of Muḥammad to rise
above the horizon of knowledge, among the cavils which the Jewish divines raised against Him
was that after Moses no Prophet should be sent of God. Yea, mention hath been made in the
Scriptures of a Soul Who must needs be made manifest and Who will advance the Faith, and
promote the interests of the people of Moses, so that the Law of the Mosaic Dispensation may
encompass the whole earth. Thus hath the King of eternal glory referred in His Book to the words
uttered by those wanderers in the vale of remoteness and error: “‘The hand of God,’ say the Jews,
‘is chained up.’ Chained up be their own hands; And for that which they have said, they were
accursed. Nay, outstretched are both His hands!” “The hand of God is above their hands.” Although
the commentators of the Qur’án have related in divers manners the circumstances attending the
revelation of this verse, yet thou shouldst endeavor to apprehend the purpose thereof. He saith:
How false is that which the Jews have imagined! How can the hand of Him Who is the King in
truth, Who caused the countenance of Moses to be made manifest, and conferred upon Him the
robe of Prophethood—how can the hand of such a One be chained and fettered? How can He be
conceived as powerless to raise up yet another Messenger after Moses? Behold the absurdity of
their saying; how far it hath strayed from the path of knowledge and understanding! Observe how
in this Day also, all these people have occupied themselves with such foolish absurdities. For over
a thousand years they have been reciting this verse, and unwittingly pronouncing their censure
against the Jews, utterly unaware that they themselves, openly and privily, are voicing the
sentiments and belief of the Jewish people! Thou art surely aware of their idle contention, that all
Revelation is ended, that the portals of Divine mercy are closed, that from the daysprings of
eternal holiness no Sun shall rise again, that the Ocean of everlasting bounty is forever stilled, and
that out of the Tabernacle of ancient glory the Messengers of God have ceased to be made
manifest. Such is the measure of the understanding of these small-minded, contemptible people.
These people have imagined that the ﬂow of God’s all-encompassing grace and plenteous mercies,
the cessation of which no mind can contemplate, has been halted. From every side they have risen
and girded up the loins of tyranny, and exerted the utmost endeavor to quench with the bitter
waters of their vain fancy the ﬂame of God’s Burning Bush, oblivious that the globe of power
shall, within its own mighty stronghold, protect the Lamp of God.…
Behold how the sovereignty of Muḥammad, the Messenger of God, is today apparent and
manifest amongst the people. You are well aware of what befell His Faith in the early days of His
Dispensation. What woeful sufferings did the hand of the inﬁdel and erring, the divines of that age
and their associates, inﬂict upon that spiritual Essence, that most pure and holy Being! How
abundant the thorns and briars which they have strewn over His path! It is evident that that

wretched generation, in their wicked and satanic fancy, regarded every injury to that immortal
Being as a means to the attainment of an abiding felicity; inasmuch as the recognized divines of
that age, such as ‘Abdu’lláh Ubayy, Abú-‘Ámir, the hermit, Ka’b-ibn-i-Ashraf, and Naḍr-ibn-i-
Ḥárith, all treated Him as an impostor, and pronounced Him a lunatic and a calumniator. Such sore
accusations they brought against Him that in recounting them God forbiddeth the ink to ﬂow, Our
pen to move, or the page to bear them. These malicious imputations provoked the people to arise
and torment Him. And how ﬁerce that torment, if the divines of the age be its chief instigators, if
they denounce Him to their followers, cast Him out from their midst, and declare Him a
miscreant! Hath not the same befallen this Servant, and been witnessed by all?
For this reason did Muḥammad cry out: “No Prophet of God hath suffered such harm as I have
suffered.” And in the Qur’án are recorded all the calumnies and reproaches uttered against Him, as
well as all the afﬂictions which He suffered. Refer ye thereunto, that haply ye may be informed of
that which hath befallen His Revelation. So grievous was His plight, that for a time all ceased to
hold intercourse with Him and His companions. Whoever associated with Him fell a victim to the
relentless cruelty of His enemies.…
Consider, how great is the change today! Behold, how many are the Sovereigns who bow the
knee before His name! How numerous the nations and kingdoms who have sought the shelter of
His shadow, who bear allegiance to His Faith, and pride themselves therein! From the pulpit-top
there ascendeth today the words of praise which, in utter lowliness, glorify His blessed name; and
from the heights of minarets there resoundeth the call that summoneth the concourse of His
people to adore Him. Even those Kings of the earth who have refused to embrace His Faith and to
put off the garment of unbelief, nonetheless confess and acknowledge the greatness and
overpowering majesty of that Daystar of loving-kindness. Such is His earthly sovereignty, the
evidences of which thou dost on every side behold. This sovereignty must needs be revealed and
established either in the lifetime of every Manifestation of God or after His ascension unto His
true habitation in the realms above.…
It is evident that the changes brought about in every Dispensation constitute the dark clouds
that intervene between the eye of man’s understanding and the Divine Luminary which shineth
forth from the dayspring of the Divine Essence. Consider how men for generations have been
blindly imitating their fathers, and have been trained according to such ways and manners as have
been laid down by the dictates of their Faith. Were these men, therefore, to discover suddenly that
a Man, Who hath been living in their midst, Who, with respect to every human limitation hath
been their equal, had risen to abolish every established principle imposed by their Faith—
principles by which for centuries they have been disciplined, and every opposer and denier of
which they have come to regard as inﬁdel, proﬂigate and wicked—they would of a certainty be
veiled and hindered from acknowledging His truth. Such things are as “clouds” that veil the eyes
of those whose inner being hath not tasted the Salsabíl of detachment, nor drunk from the
Kawthar of the knowledge of God. Such men, when acquainted with those circumstances, become
so veiled that, without the least question, they pronounce the Manifestation of God as inﬁdel, and
sentence Him to death. You must have heard of such things taking place all down the ages, and
are now observing them in these days.
It behooveth us, therefore, to make the utmost endeavor, that, by God’s invisible assistance,
these dark veils, these clouds of Heaven-sent trials, may not hinder us from beholding the beauty
of His shining Countenance, and that we may recognize Him only by His own Self.
– XIV –
THE Divine Springtime is come, O Most Exalted Pen, for the Festival of the All-Merciful is fast
approaching. Bestir thyself, and magnify, before the entire creation, the name of God, and
celebrate His praise, in such wise that all created things may be regenerated and made new.
Speak, and hold not thy peace. The daystar of blissfulness shineth above the horizon of Our name,
the Blissful, inasmuch as the kingdom of the names of God hath been adorned with the ornament
of the name of thy Lord, the Creator of the heavens. Arise before the nations of the earth, and arm
thyself with the power of this Most Great Name, and be not of those who tarry.

Methinks that thou hast halted and movest not upon My Tablet. Could the brightness of the
Divine Countenance have bewildered thee, or the idle talk of the froward ﬁlled thee with grief and
paralyzed thy movement? Take heed lest anything deter thee from extolling the greatness of this
Day—the Day whereon the Finger of majesty and power hath opened the seal of the Wine of
Reunion, and called all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth. Preferrest thou to
tarry when the breeze announcing the Day of God hath already breathed over thee, or art thou of
them that are shut out as by a veil from Him?
No veil whatever have I allowed, O Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens, to shut me
from the recognition of the glories of Thy Day—the Day which is the lamp of guidance unto the
whole world, and the sign of the Ancient of Days unto all them that dwell therein. My silence is
by reason of the veils that have blinded Thy creatures’ eyes to Thee, and my muteness is because
of the impediments that have hindered Thy people from recognizing Thy truth. Thou knowest
what is in me, but I know not what is in Thee. Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. By
Thy name that excelleth all other names! If Thy overruling and all-compelling behest should ever
reach me, it would empower me to revive the souls of all men, through Thy most exalted Word,
which I have heard uttered by Thy Tongue of power in Thy Kingdom of glory. It would enable me
to announce the revelation of Thy effulgent countenance wherethrough that which lay hidden
from the eyes of men hath been manifested in Thy name, the Perspicuous, the sovereign
Protector, the Self-Subsisting.
Canst thou discover anyone but Me, O Pen, in this Day? What hath become of the creation
and the manifestations thereof? What of the names and their kingdom? Whither are gone all
created things, whether seen or unseen? What of the hidden secrets of the universe and its
revelations? Lo, the entire creation hath passed away! Nothing remaineth except My Face, the
Ever-Abiding, the Resplendent, the All-Glorious.
This is the Day whereon naught can be seen except the splendors of the Light that shineth
from the face of Thy Lord, the Gracious, the Most Bountiful. Verily, We have caused every soul to
expire by virtue of Our irresistible and all-subduing sovereignty. We have, then, called into being a
new creation, as a token of Our grace unto men. I am, verily, the All-Bountiful, the Ancient of
Days.
This is the Day whereon the unseen world crieth out: “Great is thy blessedness, O earth, for
thou hast been made the footstool of thy God, and been chosen as the seat of His mighty throne.”
The realm of glory exclaimeth: “Would that my life could be sacriﬁced for thee, for He Who is the
Beloved of the All-Merciful hath established His sovereignty upon thee, through the power of His
Name that hath been promised unto all things, whether of the past or of the future.” This is the
Day whereon every sweet smelling thing hath derived its fragrance from the smell of My garment
—a garment that hath shed its perfume upon the whole of creation. This is the Day whereon the
rushing waters of everlasting life have gushed out of the Will of the All-Merciful. Haste ye, with
your hearts and souls, and quaff your ﬁll, O Concourse of the realms above!
Say: He it is Who is the Manifestation of Him Who is the Unknowable, the Invisible of the
Invisibles, could ye but perceive it. He it is Who hath laid bare before you the hidden and
treasured Gem, were ye to seek it. He it is Who is the one Beloved of all things, whether of the
past or of the future. Would that ye might set your hearts and hopes upon Him!
We have heard the voice of thy pleading, O Pen, and excuse thy silence. What is it that hath
so sorely bewildered thee?
The inebriation of Thy presence, O Well-Beloved of all worlds, hath seized and possessed me.
Arise, and proclaim unto the entire creation the tidings that He Who is the All-Merciful hath
directed His steps towards the Riḍván and entered it. Guide, then, the people unto the garden of
delight which God hath made the Throne of His Paradise. We have chosen thee to be Our most
mighty Trumpet, whose blast is to signalize the resurrection of all mankind.
Say: This is the Paradise on whose foliage the wine of utterance hath imprinted the
testimony: “He that was hidden from the eyes of men is revealed, girded with sovereignty and
power!” This is the Paradise the rustling of whose leaves proclaimeth: “O ye that inhabit the
heavens and the earth! There hath appeared what hath never previously appeared. He Who, from

everlasting, had concealed His Face from the sight of creation is now come.” From the whispering
breeze that wafteth amidst its branches there cometh the cry: “He Who is the sovereign Lord of all
is made manifest. The Kingdom is God’s,” while from its streaming waters can be heard the
murmur: “All eyes are gladdened, for He Whom none hath beheld, Whose secret no one hath
discovered, hath lifted the veil of glory, and uncovered the countenance of Beauty.”
Within this Paradise, and from the heights of its loftiest chambers, the Maids of Heaven have
cried out and shouted: “Rejoice, ye dwellers of the realms above, for the ﬁngers of Him Who is the
Ancient of Days are ringing, in the name of the All-Glorious, the Most Great Bell, in the midmost
heart of the heavens. The hands of bounty have borne round the cup of everlasting life. Approach,
and quaff your ﬁll. Drink with healthy relish, O ye that are the very incarnations of longing, ye
who are the embodiments of vehement desire!”
This is the Day whereon He Who is the Revealer of the names of God hath stepped out of the
Tabernacle of glory, and proclaimed unto all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth:
“Put away the cups of Paradise and all the life-giving waters they contain, for lo, the people of
Bahá have entered the blissful abode of the Divine Presence, and quaffed the wine of reunion,
from the chalice of the beauty of their Lord, the All-Possessing, the Most High.”
Forget the world of creation, O Pen, and turn thou towards the face of thy Lord, the Lord of all
names. Adorn, then, the world with the ornament of the favors of thy Lord, the King of everlasting
days. For We perceive the fragrance of the Day whereon He Who is the Desire of all nations hath
shed upon the kingdoms of the unseen and of the seen the splendor of the light of His most
excellent names, and enveloped them with the radiance of the luminaries of His most gracious
favors—favors which none can reckon except Him, Who is the omnipotent Protector of the entire
creation.
Look not upon the creatures of God except with the eye of kindliness and of mercy, for Our
loving providence hath pervaded all created things, and Our grace encompassed the earth and the
heavens. This is the Day whereon the true servants of God partake of the life-giving waters of
reunion, the Day whereon those that are nigh unto Him are able to drink of the soft-ﬂowing river
of immortality, and they who believe in His unity, the wine of His Presence, through their
recognition of Him Who is the Highest and Last End of all, in Whom the Tongue of Majesty and
Glory voiceth the call: “The Kingdom is Mine. I, Myself, am, of Mine own right, its Ruler.”
Attract the hearts of men, through the call of Him, the one alone Beloved. Say: This is the
Voice of God, if ye do but hearken. This is the Dayspring of the Revelation of God, did ye but
know it. This is the Dawning-Place of the Cause of God, were ye to recognize it. This is the Source
of the commandment of God, did ye but judge it fairly. This is the manifest and hidden Secret;
would that ye might perceive it. O peoples of the world! Cast away, in My name that transcendeth
all other names, the things ye possess, and immerse yourselves in this Ocean in whose depths lay
hidden the pearls of wisdom and of utterance, an ocean that surgeth in My name, the All-Merciful.
Thus instructeth you He with Whom is the Mother Book.
The Best-Beloved is come. In His right hand is the sealed Wine of His name. Happy is the
man that turneth unto Him, and drinketh his ﬁll, and exclaimeth: “Praise be to Thee, O Revealer
of the signs of God!” By the righteousness of the Almighty! Every hidden thing hath been
manifested through the power of truth. All the favors of God have been sent down, as a token of
His grace. The waters of everlasting life have, in their fullness, been proffered unto men. Every
single cup hath been borne round by the hand of the Well-Beloved. Draw near, and tarry not,
though it be for one short moment.
Blessed are they that have soared on the wings of detachment and attained the station which,
as ordained by God, overshadoweth the entire creation, whom neither the vain imaginations of the
learned, nor the multitude of the hosts of the earth have succeeded in deﬂecting from His Cause.
Who is there among you, O people, who will renounce the world, and draw nigh unto God, the
Lord of all names? Where is he to be found who, through the power of My name that transcendeth
all created things, will cast away the things that men possess, and cling, with all his might, to the
things which God, the Knower of the unseen and of the seen, hath bidden him observe? Thus hath
His bounty been sent down unto men, His testimony fulﬁlled, and His proof shone forth above the

Horizon of mercy. Rich is the prize that shall be won by him who hath believed and exclaimed:
“Lauded art Thou, O Beloved of all worlds! Magniﬁed be Thy name, O Thou the Desire of every
understanding heart!”
Rejoice with exceeding gladness, O people of Bahá, as ye call to remembrance the Day of
supreme felicity, the Day whereon the Tongue of the Ancient of Days hath spoken, as He
departed from His House, proceeding to the Spot from which He shed upon the whole of creation
the splendors of His name, the All-Merciful. God is Our witness. Were We to reveal the hidden
secrets of that Day, all they that dwell on earth and in the heavens would swoon away and die,
except such as will be preserved by God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
Such is the inebriating effect of the words of God upon Him Who is the Revealer of His
undoubted proofs, that His Pen can move no longer. With these words He concludeth His Tablet:
No God is there but Me, the Most Exalted, the Most Powerful, the Most Excellent, the All-Knowing.
– XV –
THE Pen of Revelation exclaimeth: “On this Day the Kingdom is God’s!” The Tongue of Power is
calling: “On this Day all sovereignty is, in very deed, with God!” The Phoenix of the realms above
crieth out from the immortal Branch: “The glory of all greatness belongeth to God, the
Incomparable, the All-Compelling!” The Mystic Dove proclaimeth from its blissful bower, in the
everlasting Paradise: “The source of all bounty is derived, in this Day, from God, the One, the
Forgiving!” The Bird of the Throne warbleth its melody in its retreats of holiness: “Supreme
ascendancy is to be attributed, this Day, to none except God, Him Who hath no peer nor equal,
Who is the Most Powerful, the All-Subduing!” The inmost essence of all things voiceth in all
things the testimony: “All forgiveness ﬂoweth, in this Day, from God, Him to Whom none can
compare, with Whom no partners can be joined, the Sovereign Protector of all men, and the
Concealer of their sins!” The Quintessence of Glory hath lifted up its voice above My head, and
crieth from such heights as neither pen nor tongue can in any degree describe: “God is my
witness! He, the Ancient of everlasting days is come, girded with majesty and power. There is
none other God but Him, the All-Glorious, the Almighty, the All-Highest, the All-Wise, the All-
Pervading, the All-Seeing, the All-Informed, the Sovereign Protector, the Source of eternal light!”
O My servant, who hast sought the good-pleasure of God and clung to His love on the Day
when all except a few who were endued with insight have broken away from Him! May God,
through His grace, recompense thee with a generous, an incorruptible and everlasting reward,
inasmuch as thou hast sought Him on the Day when eyes were blinded. Know thou that if We
reveal to thee but a sprinkling of the showers which, through God’s decree, and at the hands of
the envious and the malicious, have rained upon Us, thou wouldst weep with a great weeping, and
wouldst bewail day and night Our plight. Oh, would that a discerning and fair-minded soul could
be found who would recognize the wonders of this Revelation—wonders that proclaim the
sovereignty of God and the greatness of its power. Would that such a man might arise and, wholly
for the sake of God, admonish, privately and openly, the people, that haply they may bestir
themselves and aid this wronged One Whom the workers of iniquity have so sorely afﬂicted.
Methinks that I hear the Voice of the Holy Spirit calling from behind Me saying: Vary Thou
Thy theme, and alter Thy tone, lest the heart of him who hath ﬁxed his gaze upon Thy face be
saddened. Say: I have through the grace of God and His might besought the help of no one in the
past, neither will I seek the help of anyone in the future. He it is Who aided Me, through the
power of truth, during the days of My banishment in ‘Iráq. He it is Who overshadowed Me with
His protection at a time when the kindreds of the earth were contending with Me. He it is Who
enabled Me to depart out of the city, clothed with such majesty as none, except the denier and the
malicious, can fail to admit.
Say: My army is My reliance on God; My people, the force of My conﬁdence in Him. My love
is My standard, and My companion the remembrance of God, the Sovereign Lord of all, the Most
Powerful, the All-Glorious, the Unconditioned.
Arise, O wayfarer in the path of the Love of God, and aid thou His Cause. Say: Barter not
away this Youth, O people, for the vanities of this world or the delights of heaven. By the

righteousness of the one true God! One hair of Him excelleth all that is in the heavens and all that
is on the earth. Beware, O men, lest ye be tempted to part with Him in exchange for the gold and
silver ye possess. Let His love be a storehouse of treasure for your souls, on the Day when naught
else but Him shall proﬁt you, the Day when every pillar shall tremble, when the very skins of
men shall creep, when all eyes shall stare up with terror. Say: O people! Fear ye God, and turn not
away disdainfully from His Revelation. Fall prostrate on your faces before God, and celebrate His
praise in the daytime and in the night season.
Let thy soul glow with the ﬂame of this undying Fire that burneth in the midmost heart of
the world, in such wise that the waters of the universe shall be powerless to cool down its ardor.
Make, then, mention of thy Lord, that haply the heedless among Our servants may be admonished
through thy words, and the hearts of the righteous be gladdened.
– XVI –
SAY: O men! This is a matchless Day. Matchless must, likewise, be the tongue that celebrateth the
praise of the Desire of all nations, and matchless the deed that aspireth to be acceptable in His
sight. The whole human race hath longed for this Day, that perchance it may fulﬁll that which
well beseemeth its station, and is worthy of its destiny. Blessed is the man whom the affairs of
the world have failed to deter from recognizing Him Who is the Lord of all things.
So blind hath become the human heart that neither the disruption of the city, nor the
reduction of the mountain in dust, nor even the cleaving of the earth, can shake off its torpor. The
allusions made in the Scriptures have been unfolded, and the signs recorded therein have been
revealed, and the prophetic cry is continually being raised. And yet all, except such as God was
pleased to guide, are bewildered in the drunkenness of their heedlessness!
Witness how the world is being afﬂicted with a fresh calamity every day. Its tribulation is
continually deepening. From the moment the Súriy-i-Ra’ís (Tablet to Ra’ís) was revealed until the
present day, neither hath the world been tranquillized, nor have the hearts of its peoples been at
rest. At one time it hath been agitated by contentions and disputes, at another it hath been
convulsed by wars, and fallen a victim to inveterate diseases. Its sickness is approaching the stage
of utter hopelessness, inasmuch as the true Physician is debarred from administering the remedy,
whilst unskilled practitioners are regarded with favor, and are accorded full freedom to act.… The
dust of sedition hath clouded the hearts of men, and blinded their eyes. Erelong, they will perceive
the consequences of what their hands have wrought in the Day of God. Thus warneth you He
Who is the All-Informed, as bidden by One Who is the Most Powerful, the Almighty.
– XVII –
BY Him Who is the Great Announcement! The All-Merciful is come invested with undoubted
sovereignty. The Balance hath been appointed, and all them that dwell on earth have been
gathered together. The Trumpet hath been blown, and lo, all eyes have stared up with terror, and
the hearts of all who are in the heavens and on the earth have trembled, except them whom the
breath of the verses of God hath quickened, and who have detached themselves from all things.
This is the Day whereon the earth shall tell out her tidings. The workers of iniquity are her
burdens, could ye but perceive it. The moon of idle fancy hath been cleft, and the heaven hath
given out a palpable smoke. We see the people laid low, awed with the dread of thy Lord, the
Almighty, the Most Powerful. The Crier hath cried out, and men have been torn away, so great
hath been the fury of His wrath. The people of the left hand sigh and bemoan. The people of the
right abide in noble habitations: they quaff the Wine that is life indeed, from the hands of the All-
Merciful, and are, verily, the blissful.
The earth hath been shaken, and the mountains have passed away, and the angels have
appeared, rank on rank, before Us. Most of the people are bewildered in their drunkenness and
wear on their faces the evidences of anger. Thus have We gathered together the workers of
iniquity. We see them rushing on towards their idol. Say: None shall be secure this Day from the
decree of God. This indeed is a grievous Day. We point out to them those that led them astray.
They see them, and yet recognize them not. Their eyes are drunken; they are indeed a blind
people. Their proofs are the calumnies they uttered; condemned are their calumnies by God, the

Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. The Evil One hath stirred up mischief in their hearts, and they
are afﬂicted with a torment that none can avert. They hasten to the wicked, bearing the register of
the workers of iniquity. Such are their doings.
Say: The heavens have been folded together, and the earth is held within His grasp, and the
corrupt doers have been held by their forelock, and still they understand not. They drink of the
tainted water, and know it not. Say: The shout hath been raised, and the people have come forth
from their graves, and arising, are gazing around them. Some have made haste to attain the court
of the God of Mercy, others have fallen down on their faces in the ﬁre of Hell, while still others
are lost in bewilderment. The verses of God have been revealed, and yet they have turned away
from them. His proof hath been manifested, and yet they are unaware of it. And when they
behold the face of the All-Merciful, their own faces are saddened, while they are disporting
themselves. They hasten forward to Hell Fire, and mistake it for light. Far from God be what they
fondly imagine! Say: Whether ye rejoice or whether ye burst for fury, the heavens are cleft
asunder, and God hath come down, invested with radiant sovereignty. All created things are heard
exclaiming: “The Kingdom is God’s, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.”
Know thou, moreover, that We have been cast into an afﬂictive Prison, and are encompassed
with the hosts of tyranny, as a result of what the hands of the inﬁdels have wrought. Such is the
gladness, however, which the Youth hath tasted that no earthly joy can compare unto it. By God!
The harm He suffereth at the hands of the oppressor can never grieve His heart, nor can He be
saddened by the ascendancy of such as have repudiated His truth.
Say: Tribulation is a horizon unto My Revelation. The daystar of grace shineth above it, and
sheddeth a light which neither the clouds of men’s idle fancy nor the vain imaginations of the
aggressor can obscure.
Follow thou the footsteps of thy Lord, and remember His servants even as He doth remember
thee, undeterred by either the clamor of the heedless ones or the sword of the enemy.… Spread
abroad the sweet savors of thy Lord, and hesitate not, though it be for less than a moment, in the
service of His Cause. The day is approaching when the victory of thy Lord, the Ever-Forgiving, the
Most Bountiful, will be proclaimed.
– XVIII –
SAY: We have caused the rivers of Divine utterance to proceed out of Our throne, that the tender
herbs of wisdom and understanding may spring forth from the soil of your hearts. Will ye not be
thankful? They who disdain to worship their Lord shall be of those who are cast off. And oft as
Our verses are rehearsed unto them, they persist in proud disdain, and in their gross violation of
His law, and know it not. As for them who have disbelieved in Him, they shall be in the shadow of
a black smoke. “The Hour” hath come upon them, while they are disporting themselves. They
have been seized by their forelock, and yet know it not.
The thing that must come hath come suddenly; behold how they ﬂee from it! The inevitable
hath come to pass; witness how they have cast it behind their backs! This is the Day whereon
every man will ﬂy from himself, how much more from his kindred, could ye but perceive it. Say:
By God! The blast hath been blown on the trumpet, and lo, mankind hath swooned away before
us! The Herald hath cried out, and the Summoner raised His voice saying: “The Kingdom is God’s,
the Most Powerful, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.”
This is the Day on which all eyes shall stare up with terror, the Day in which the hearts of
them that dwell on earth shall tremble, save them whom thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise,
pleaseth to deliver. All faces have turned black except those to whom the God of Mercy hath
vouchsafed a radiant heart. Drunken are the eyes of those men that have openly refused to behold
the face of God, the All-Glorious, the All-Praised.
Say: Perused ye not the Qur’án? Read it, that haply ye may ﬁnd the Truth, for this Book is
verily the Straight Path. This is the Way of God unto all who are in the heavens and all who are
on the earth. If ye have been careless of the Qur’án, the Bayán cannot be regarded to be remote
from you. Behold it open before your eyes. Read ye its verses, that perchance ye may desist from
committing that which will cause the Messengers of God to mourn and lament.

Speed out of your sepulchers. How long will ye sleep? The second blast hath been blown on
the trumpet. On whom are ye gazing? This is your Lord, the God of Mercy. Witness how ye
gainsay His signs! The earth hath quaked with a great quaking, and cast forth her burdens. Will
ye not admit it? Say: Will ye not recognize how the mountains have become like ﬂocks of wool,
how the people are sore vexed at the awful majesty of the Cause of God? Witness how their
houses are empty ruins, and they themselves a drowned host.
This is the Day whereon the All-Merciful hath come down in the clouds of knowledge, clothed
with manifest sovereignty. He well knoweth the actions of men. He it is Whose glory none can
mistake, could ye but comprehend it. The heaven of every religion hath been rent, and the earth
of human understanding been cleft asunder, and the angels of God are seen descending. Say: This
is the Day of mutual deceit; whither do ye ﬂee? The mountains have passed away, and the
heavens have been folded together, and the whole earth is held within His grasp, could ye but
understand it. Who is it that can protect you? None, by Him Who is the All-Merciful! None, except
God, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Beneﬁcent. Every woman that hath had a burden in her
womb hath cast her burden. We see men drunken in this Day, the Day in which men and angels
have been gathered together.
Say: Is there any doubt concerning God? Behold how He hath come down from the heaven of
His grace, girded with power and invested with sovereignty. Is there any doubt concerning His
signs? Open ye your eyes, and consider His clear evidence. Paradise is on your right hand, and
hath been brought nigh unto you, while Hell hath been made to blaze. Witness its devouring
ﬂame. Haste ye to enter into Paradise, as a token of Our mercy unto you, and drink ye from the
hands of the All-Merciful the Wine that is life indeed.
Drink with healthy relish, O people of Bahá. Ye are indeed they with whom it shall be well.
This is what they who have near access to God have attained. This is the ﬂowing water ye were
promised in the Qur’án, and later in the Bayán, as a recompense from your Lord, the God of
Mercy. Blessed are they that quaff it.
O My servant that hath turned thy face towards Me! Render thanks unto God for having sent
down unto thee this Tablet in this Prison, that thou mayest remind the people of the days of thy
Lord, the All-Glorious, the All-Knowing. Thus have We established for thee, through the waters of
Our wisdom and utterance, the foundations of thy belief. This, verily, is the water whereon the
Throne of thy Lord hath been raised. “His Throne had stood upon the waters.” Ponder this in thine
heart, that thou mayest comprehend its meaning. Say: Praise be to God, the Lord of all worlds.
– XIX –
TO every discerning and illumined heart it is evident that God, the unknowable Essence, the
Divine Being, is immensely exalted beyond every human attribute, such as corporeal existence,
ascent and descent, egress and regress. Far be it from His glory that human tongue should
adequately recount His praise, or that human heart comprehend His fathomless mystery. He is,
and hath ever been, veiled in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and will remain in His Reality
everlastingly hidden from the sight of men. “No vision taketh in Him, but He taketh in all vision;
He is the Subtile, the All-Perceiving.”…
The door of the knowledge of the Ancient of Days being thus closed in the face of all beings,
the Source of inﬁnite grace, according to His saying, “His grace hath transcended all things; My
grace hath encompassed them all,” hath caused those luminous Gems of Holiness to appear out of
the realm of the spirit, in the noble form of the human temple, and be made manifest unto all
men, that they may impart unto the world the mysteries of the unchangeable Being, and tell of
the subtleties of His imperishable Essence.
These sanctiﬁed Mirrors, these Daysprings of ancient glory, are, one and all, the Exponents on
earth of Him Who is the central Orb of the universe, its Essence and ultimate Purpose. From Him
proceed their knowledge and power; from Him is derived their sovereignty. The beauty of their
countenance is but a reﬂection of His image, and their revelation a sign of His deathless glory.
They are the Treasuries of Divine knowledge, and the Repositories of celestial wisdom. Through
them is transmitted a grace that is inﬁnite, and by them is revealed the Light that can never

fade.… These Tabernacles of Holiness, these Primal Mirrors which reﬂect the light of unfading
glory, are but expressions of Him Who is the Invisible of the Invisibles. By the revelation of these
Gems of Divine virtue all the names and attributes of God, such as knowledge and power,
sovereignty and dominion, mercy and wisdom, glory, bounty, and grace, are made manifest.
These attributes of God are not, and have never been, vouchsafed specially unto certain
Prophets, and withheld from others. Nay, all the Prophets of God, His well-favored, His holy and
chosen Messengers are, without exception, the bearers of His names, and the embodiments of His
attributes. They only differ in the intensity of their revelation, and the comparative potency of
their light. Even as He hath revealed: “Some of the Apostles We have caused to excel the others.”
It hath, therefore, become manifest and evident that within the tabernacles of these Prophets
and chosen Ones of God the light of His inﬁnite names and exalted attributes hath been reﬂected,
even though the light of some of these attributes may or may not be outwardly revealed from
these luminous Temples to the eyes of men. That a certain attribute of God hath not been
outwardly manifested by these Essences of Detachment doth in no wise imply that they Who are
the Daysprings of God’s attributes and the Treasuries of His holy names did not actually possess
it. Therefore, these illuminated Souls, these beauteous Countenances have, each and every one of
them, been endowed with all the attributes of God, such as sovereignty, dominion, and the like,
even though to outward seeming they be shorn of all earthly majesty.…
– XX –
KNOW thou of a certainty that the Unseen can in no wise incarnate His Essence and reveal it
unto men. He is, and hath ever been, immensely exalted beyond all that can either be recounted or
perceived. From His retreat of glory His voice is ever proclaiming: “Verily, I am God; there is none
other God besides Me, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. I have manifested Myself unto men, and
have sent down Him Who is the Dayspring of the signs of My Revelation. Through Him I have
caused all creation to testify that there is none other God except Him, the Incomparable, the All-
Informed, the All-Wise.” He Who is everlastingly hidden from the eyes of men can never be
known except through His Manifestation, and His Manifestation can adduce no greater proof of
the truth of His Mission than the proof of His own Person.
– XXI –
O SALMÁN! The door of the knowledge of the Ancient Being hath ever been, and will continue
forever to be, closed in the face of men. No man’s understanding shall ever gain access unto His
holy court. As a token of His mercy, however, and as a proof of His loving-kindness, He hath
manifested unto men the Daystars of His divine guidance, the Symbols of His divine unity, and
hath ordained the knowledge of these sanctiﬁed Beings to be identical with the knowledge of His
own Self. Whoso recognizeth them hath recognized God. Whoso hearkeneth to their call, hath
hearkened to the Voice of God, and whoso testiﬁeth to the truth of their Revelation, hath testiﬁed
to the truth of God Himself. Whoso turneth away from them, hath turned away from God, and
whoso disbelieveth in them, hath disbelieved in God. Every one of them is the Way of God that
connecteth this world with the realms above, and the Standard of His Truth unto every one in the
kingdoms of earth and heaven. They are the Manifestations of God amidst men, the evidences of
His Truth, and the signs of His glory.
– XXII –
THE Bearers of the Trust of God are made manifest unto the peoples of the earth as the
Exponents of a new Cause and the Revealers of a new Message. Inasmuch as these Birds of the
celestial Throne are all sent down from the heaven of the Will of God, and as they all arise to
proclaim His irresistible Faith, they, therefore, are regarded as one soul and the same person. For
they all drink from the one Cup of the love of God, and all partake of the fruit of the same Tree of
Oneness.
These Manifestations of God have each a twofold station. One is the station of pure
abstraction and essential unity. In this respect, if thou callest them all by one name, and dost
ascribe to them the same attributes, thou hast not erred from the truth. Even as He hath revealed:

“No distinction do We make between any of His Messengers.” For they, one and all, summon the
people of the earth to acknowledge the unity of God, and herald unto them the Kawthar of an
inﬁnite grace and bounty. They are all invested with the robe of prophethood, and are honored
with the mantle of glory. Thus hath Muḥammad, the Point of the Qur’án, revealed: “I am all the
Prophets.” Likewise, He saith: “I am the ﬁrst Adam, Noah, Moses, and Jesus.” Similar statements
have been made by Imám ‘Alí. Sayings such as these, which indicate the essential unity of those
Exponents of Oneness, have also emanated from the Channels of God’s immortal utterance, and
the Treasuries of the gems of Divine knowledge, and have been recorded in the Scriptures. These
Countenances are the recipients of the Divine Command, and the Daysprings of His Revelation.
This Revelation is exalted above the veils of plurality and the exigencies of number. Thus He
saith: “Our Cause is but One.” Inasmuch as the Cause is one and the same, the Exponents thereof
also must needs be one and the same. Likewise, the Imáms of the Muḥammadan Faith, those
lamps of certitude, have said: “Muḥammad is our ﬁrst, Muḥammad is our last, Muḥammad our all.”
It is clear and evident to thee that all the Prophets are the Temples of the Cause of God, Who
have appeared clothed in divers attire. If thou wilt observe with discriminating eyes, thou wilt
behold Them all abiding in the same tabernacle, soaring in the same heaven, seated upon the
same throne, uttering the same speech, and proclaiming the same Faith. Such is the unity of those
Essences of Being, those Luminaries of inﬁnite and immeasurable splendor! Wherefore, should one
of these Manifestations of Holiness proclaim saying: “I am the return of all the Prophets,” He,
verily, speaketh the truth. In like manner, in every subsequent Revelation, the return of the
former Revelation is a fact, the truth of which is ﬁrmly established.…
The other station is the station of distinction, and pertaineth to the world of creation, and to
the limitations thereof. In this respect, each Manifestation of God hath a distinct individuality, a
deﬁnitely prescribed mission, a predestined revelation, and specially designated limitations. Each
one of them is known by a different name, is characterized by a special attribute, fulﬁlls a deﬁnite
mission, and is entrusted with a particular Revelation. Even as He saith: “Some of the Apostles We
have caused to excel the others. To some God hath spoken, some He hath raised and exalted. And
to Jesus, Son of Mary, We gave manifest signs, and We strengthened Him with the Holy Spirit.”
It is because of this difference in their station and mission that the words and utterances
ﬂowing from these Wellsprings of Divine knowledge appear to diverge and differ. Otherwise, in
the eyes of them that are initiated into the mysteries of Divine wisdom, all their utterances are, in
reality, but the expressions of one Truth. As most of the people have failed to appreciate those
stations to which We have referred, they, therefore, feel perplexed and dismayed at the varying
utterances pronounced by Manifestations that are essentially one and the same.
It hath ever been evident that all these divergencies of utterance are attributable to
differences of station. Thus, viewed from the standpoint of their oneness and sublime detachment,
the attributes of Godhead, Divinity, Supreme Singleness, and Inmost Essence, have been, and are
applicable to those Essences of Being, inasmuch as they all abide on the throne of Divine
Revelation, and are established upon the seat of Divine Concealment. Through their appearance
the Revelation of God is made manifest, and by their countenance the Beauty of God is revealed.
Thus it is that the accents of God Himself have been heard uttered by these Manifestations of the
Divine Being.
Viewed in the light of their second station—the station of distinction, differentiation, temporal
limitations, characteristics and standards—they manifest absolute servitude, utter destitution, and
complete self-effacement. Even as He saith: “I am the servant of God. I am but a man like you.”…
Were any of the all-embracing Manifestations of God to declare: “I am God!” He, verily,
speaketh the truth, and no doubt attacheth thereto. For it hath been repeatedly demonstrated that
through their Revelation, their attributes and names, the Revelation of God, His names and His
attributes, are made manifest in the world. Thus, He hath revealed: “Those shafts were God’s, not
Thine.” And also He saith: “In truth, they who plighted fealty unto Thee, really plighted that
fealty unto God.” And were any of them to voice the utterance, “I am the Messenger of God,” He,
also, speaketh the truth, the indubitable truth. Even as He saith: “Muḥammad is not the father of
any man among you, but He is the Messenger of God.” Viewed in this light, they are all but

Messengers of that ideal King, that unchangeable Essence. And were they all to proclaim, “I am
the Seal of the Prophets,” they, verily, utter but the truth, beyond the faintest shadow of doubt. For
they are all but one person, one soul, one spirit, one being, one revelation. They are all the
manifestation of the “Beginning” and the “End,” the “First” and the “Last,” the “Seen” and the
“Hidden”—all of which pertain to Him Who is the Innermost Spirit of Spirits and Eternal Essence
of Essences. And were they to say, “We are the Servants of God,” this also is a manifest and
indisputable fact. For they have been made manifest in the uttermost state of servitude, a
servitude the like of which no man can possibly attain. Thus in moments in which these Essences
of Being were deep immersed beneath the oceans of ancient and everlasting holiness, or when
they soared to the loftiest summits of Divine mysteries, they claimed their utterances to be the
Voice of Divinity, the Call of God Himself.
Were the eye of discernment to be opened, it would recognize that in this very state, they
have considered themselves utterly effaced and nonexistent in the face of Him Who is the All-
Pervading, the Incorruptible. Methinks, they have regarded themselves as utter nothingness, and
deemed their mention in that Court an act of blasphemy. For the slightest whispering of self
within such a Court is an evidence of self-assertion and independent existence. In the eyes of
them that have attained unto that Court, such a suggestion is itself a grievous transgression. How
much more grievous would it be, were aught else to be mentioned in that Presence, were man’s
heart, his tongue, his mind, or his soul, to be busied with anyone but the Well-Beloved, were his
eyes to behold any countenance other than His beauty, were his ear to be inclined to any melody
but His Voice, and were his feet to tread any way but His way.…
By virtue of this station they have claimed for themselves the Voice of Divinity and the like,
whilst by virtue of their station of Messengership, they have declared themselves the Messengers
of God. In every instance they have voiced an utterance that would conform to the requirements
of the occasion, and have ascribed all these declarations to Themselves, declarations ranging from
the realm of Divine Revelation to the realm of creation, and from the domain of Divinity even
unto the domain of earthly existence. Thus it is that whatsoever be their utterance, whether it
pertain to the realm of Divinity, Lordship, Prophethood, Messengership, Guardianship,
Apostleship, or Servitude, all is true, beyond the shadow of a doubt. Therefore these sayings which
We have quoted in support of Our argument must be attentively considered, that the divergent
utterances of the Manifestations of the Unseen and Daysprings of Holiness may cease to agitate
the soul and perplex the mind.
– XXIII –
CONSIDER the former generations. Witness how every time the Daystar of Divine bounty hath
shed the light of His Revelation upon the world, the people of His Day have arisen against Him,
and repudiated His truth. They who were regarded as the leaders of men have invariably striven
to hinder their followers from turning unto Him Who is the Ocean of God’s limitless bounty.
Behold how the people, as a result of the verdict pronounced by the divines of His age, have
cast Abraham, the Friend of God, into ﬁre; how Moses, He Who held converse with the Almighty,
was denounced as liar and slanderer. Reﬂect how Jesus, the Spirit of God, was, notwithstanding
His extreme meekness and perfect tender-heartedness, treated by His enemies. So ﬁerce was the
opposition which He, the Essence of Being and Lord of the visible and invisible, had to face, that
He had nowhere to lay His head. He wandered continually from place to place, deprived of a
permanent abode. Ponder that which befell Muḥammad, the Seal of the Prophets, may the life of
all else be a sacriﬁce unto Him. How severe the afﬂictions which the leaders of the Jewish people
and of the idol-worshipers caused to rain upon Him, Who is the sovereign Lord of all, in
consequence of His proclamation of the unity of God and of the truth of His Message! By the
righteousness of My Cause! My Pen groaneth, and all created things weep with a great weeping,
as a result of the woes He suffered at the hands of them that have broken the Covenant of God,
violated His Testament, rejected His proofs, and disputed His signs. Thus recount We unto thee
the tale of that which happened in days past, haply thou mayest comprehend.

Thou hast known how grievously the Prophets of God, His Messengers and Chosen Ones,
have been afﬂicted. Meditate awhile on the motive and reason which have been responsible for
such a persecution. At no time, in no Dispensation, have the Prophets of God escaped the
blasphemy of their enemies, the cruelty of their oppressors, the denunciation of the learned of
their age, who appeared in the guise of uprightness and piety. Day and night they passed through
such agonies as none can ever measure, except the knowledge of the one true God, exalted be His
glory.
Consider this wronged One. Though the clearest proofs attest the truth of His Cause; though
the prophecies He, in an unmistakable language, hath made have been fulﬁlled; though, in spite of
His not being accounted among the learned, His being unschooled and inexperienced in the
disputations current among the divines, He hath rained upon men the showers of His manifold
and Divinely inspired knowledge; yet, behold how this generation hath rejected His authority, and
rebelled against Him! He hath, during the greater part of His life, been sore-tried in the clutches of
His enemies. His sufferings have now reached their culmination in this afﬂictive Prison, into
which His oppressors have so unjustly thrown Him. God grant that, with a penetrating vision and
radiant heart, thou mayest observe the things that have come to pass and are now happening, and,
pondering them in thine heart, mayest recognize that which most men have, in this Day, failed to
perceive. Please God, He may enable thee to inhale the sweet fragrance of His Day, to partake of
the limitless effusions of His grace, to quaff thy ﬁll, through His gracious favor, from the most
great Ocean that surgeth in this Day in the name of the Ancient King, and to remain ﬁrm and
immovable as the mountain in His Cause.
Say: Glory be to Thee Who hast caused all the holy Ones to confess their helplessness before
the manifold revelations of Thy might, and every Prophet to acknowledge His nothingness at the
effulgence of Thine abiding glory. I beseech Thee, by Thy name that hath unlocked the gates of
Heaven and ﬁlled with ecstasy the Concourse on high, to enable me to serve Thee, in this Day,
and to strengthen me to observe that which Thou didst prescribe in Thy Book. Thou knowest, O
my Lord, what is in me; but I know not what is in Thee. Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-
Informed.
– XXIV –
BEWARE, O believers in the Unity of God, lest ye be tempted to make any distinction between
any of the Manifestations of His Cause, or to discriminate against the signs that have
accompanied and proclaimed their Revelation. This indeed is the true meaning of Divine Unity, if
ye be of them that apprehend and believe this truth. Be ye assured, moreover, that the works and
acts of each and every one of these Manifestations of God, nay whatever pertaineth unto them,
and whatsoever they may manifest in the future, are all ordained by God, and are a reﬂection of
His Will and Purpose. Whoso maketh the slightest possible difference between their persons, their
words, their messages, their acts and manners, hath indeed disbelieved in God, hath repudiated His
signs, and betrayed the Cause of His Messengers.
– XXV –
IT is evident that every age in which a Manifestation of God hath lived is divinely ordained, and
may, in a sense, be characterized as God’s appointed Day. This Day, however, is unique, and is to
be distinguished from those that have preceded it. The designation “Seal of the Prophets” fully
revealeth its high station. The Prophetic Cycle hath, verily, ended. The Eternal Truth is now come.
He hath lifted up the Ensign of Power, and is now shedding upon the world the unclouded
splendor of His Revelation.
– XXVI –
PRAISE be to God, the All-Possessing, the King of incomparable glory, a praise which is
immeasurably above the understanding of all created things, and is exalted beyond the grasp of
the minds of men. None else besides Him hath ever been able to sing adequately His praise, nor
will any man succeed at any time in describing the full measure of His glory. Who is it that can
claim to have attained the heights of His exalted Essence, and what mind can measure the depths

of His unfathomable mystery? From each and every revelation emanating from the Source of His
glory, holy and never-ending evidences of unimaginable splendor have appeared, and out of every
manifestation of His invincible power oceans of eternal light have poured. How immensely
exalted are the wondrous testimonies of His almighty sovereignty, a glimmer of which, if it but
touched them, would utterly consume all that are in the heavens and in the earth! How
indescribably lofty are the tokens of His consummate power, a single sign of which, however
inconsiderable, must transcend the comprehension of whatsoever hath, from the beginning that
hath no beginning, been brought into being, or will be created in the future till the end that hath
no end. All the Embodiments of His Names wander in the wilderness of search, athirst and eager
to discover His Essence, and all the Manifestations of His Attributes implore Him, from the Sinai
of Holiness, to unravel His mystery.
A drop of the billowing ocean of His endless mercy hath adorned all creation with the
ornament of existence, and a breath wafted from His peerless Paradise hath invested all beings
with the robe of His sanctity and glory. A sprinkling from the unfathomed deep of His sovereign
and all-pervasive Will hath, out of utter nothingness, called into being a creation which is inﬁnite
in its range and deathless in its duration. The wonders of His bounty can never cease, and the
stream of His merciful grace can never be arrested. The process of His creation hath had no
beginning, and can have no end.
In every age and cycle He hath, through the splendorous light shed by the Manifestations of
His wondrous Essence, recreated all things, so that whatsoever reﬂecteth in the heavens and on
the earth the signs of His glory may not be deprived of the outpourings of His mercy, nor despair
of the showers of His favors. How all-encompassing are the wonders of His boundless grace!
Behold how they have pervaded the whole of creation. Such is their virtue that not a single atom
in the entire universe can be found which doth not declare the evidences of His might, which doth
not glorify His holy Name, or is not expressive of the effulgent light of His unity. So perfect and
comprehensive is His creation that no mind nor heart, however keen or pure, can ever grasp the
nature of the most insigniﬁcant of His creatures; much less fathom the mystery of Him Who is
the Daystar of Truth, Who is the invisible and unknowable Essence. The conceptions of the
devoutest of mystics, the attainments of the most accomplished amongst men, the highest praise
which human tongue or pen can render are all the product of man’s ﬁnite mind and are
conditioned by its limitations. Ten thousand Prophets, each a Moses, are thunderstruck upon the
Sinai of their search at His forbidding voice, “Thou shalt never behold Me!”; whilst a myriad
Messengers, each as great as Jesus, stand dismayed upon their heavenly thrones by the
interdiction, “Mine Essence thou shalt never apprehend!” From time immemorial He hath been
veiled in the ineffable sanctity of His exalted Self, and will everlastingly continue to be wrapt in
the impenetrable mystery of His unknowable Essence. Every attempt to attain to an
understanding of His inaccessible Reality hath ended in complete bewilderment, and every effort
to approach His exalted Self and envisage His Essence hath resulted in hopelessness and failure.
How bewildering to me, insigniﬁcant as I am, is the attempt to fathom the sacred depths of
Thy knowledge! How futile my efforts to visualize the magnitude of the power inherent in Thine
handiwork—the revelation of Thy creative power! How can mine eye, which hath no faculty to
perceive itself, claim to have discerned Thine Essence, and how can mine heart, already powerless
to apprehend the signiﬁcance of its own potentialities, pretend to have comprehended Thy
nature? How can I claim to have known Thee, when the entire creation is bewildered by Thy
mystery, and how can I confess not to have known Thee, when, lo, the whole universe
proclaimeth Thy Presence and testiﬁeth to Thy truth? The portals of Thy grace have throughout
eternity been open, and the means of access unto Thy Presence made available, unto all created
things, and the revelations of Thy matchless Beauty have at all times been imprinted upon the
realities of all beings, visible and invisible. Yet, notwithstanding this most gracious favor, this
perfect and consummate bestowal, I am moved to testify that Thy court of holiness and glory is
immeasurably exalted above the knowledge of all else besides Thee, and the mystery of Thy
Presence is inscrutable to every mind except Thine own. No one except Thyself can unravel the
secret of Thy nature, and naught else but Thy transcendental Essence can grasp the reality of Thy

unsearchable being. How vast the number of those heavenly and all-glorious beings who, in the
wilderness of their separation from Thee, have wandered all the days of their lives, and failed in
the end to ﬁnd Thee! How great the multitude of the sanctiﬁed and immortal souls who were lost
and bewildered while seeking in the desert of search to behold Thy face! Myriad are Thine ardent
lovers whom the consuming ﬂame of remoteness from Thee hath caused to sink and perish, and
numberless are the faithful souls who have willingly laid down their lives in the hope of gazing on
the light of Thy countenance. The sighs and moans of these longing hearts that pant after Thee
can never reach Thy holy court, neither can the lamentations of the wayfarers that thirst to
appear before Thy face attain Thy seat of glory.
– XXVII –
ALL praise to the unity of God, and all honor to Him, the sovereign Lord, the incomparable and
all-glorious Ruler of the universe, Who, out of utter nothingness, hath created the reality of all
things, Who, from naught, hath brought into being the most reﬁned and subtle elements of His
creation, and Who, rescuing His creatures from the abasement of remoteness and the perils of
ultimate extinction, hath received them into His kingdom of incorruptible glory. Nothing short of
His all-encompassing grace, His all-pervading mercy, could have possibly achieved it. How could it,
otherwise, have been possible for sheer nothingness to have acquired by itself the worthiness and
capacity to emerge from its state of nonexistence into the realm of being?
Having created the world and all that liveth and moveth therein, He, through the direct
operation of His unconstrained and sovereign Will, chose to confer upon man the unique
distinction and capacity to know Him and to love Him—a capacity that must needs be regarded as
the generating impulse and the primary purpose underlying the whole of creation.… Upon the
inmost reality of each and every created thing He hath shed the light of one of His names, and
made it a recipient of the glory of one of His attributes. Upon the reality of man, however, He
hath focused the radiance of all of His names and attributes, and made it a mirror of His own Self.
Alone of all created things man hath been singled out for so great a favor, so enduring a bounty.
These energies with which the Daystar of Divine bounty and Source of heavenly guidance
hath endowed the reality of man lie, however, latent within him, even as the ﬂame is hidden
within the candle and the rays of light are potentially present in the lamp. The radiance of these
energies may be obscured by worldly desires even as the light of the sun can be concealed beneath
the dust and dross which cover the mirror. Neither the candle nor the lamp can be lighted through
their own unaided efforts, nor can it ever be possible for the mirror to free itself from its dross. It is
clear and evident that until a ﬁre is kindled the lamp will never be ignited, and unless the dross is
blotted out from the face of the mirror it can never represent the image of the sun nor reﬂect its
light and glory.
And since there can be no tie of direct intercourse to bind the one true God with His creation,
and no resemblance whatever can exist between the transient and the Eternal, the contingent and
the Absolute, He hath ordained that in every age and dispensation a pure and stainless Soul be
made manifest in the kingdoms of earth and heaven. Unto this subtle, this mysterious and
ethereal Being He hath assigned a twofold nature: the physical, pertaining to the world of matter,
and the spiritual, which is born of the substance of God Himself. He hath, moreover, conferred
upon Him a double station. The ﬁrst station, which is related to His innermost reality,
representeth Him as One Whose voice is the voice of God Himself. To this testiﬁeth the tradition:
“Manifold and mysterious is My relationship with God. I am He, Himself, and He is I, Myself,
except that I am that I am, and He is that He is.” And in like manner, the words: “Arise, O
Muḥammad, for lo, the Lover and the Beloved are joined together and made one in Thee.” He
similarly saith: “There is no distinction whatsoever between Thee and Them, except that They are
Thy Servants.” The second station is the human station, exempliﬁed by the following verses: “I am
but a man like you.” “Say, praise be to my Lord! Am I more than a man, an apostle?” These
Essences of Detachment, these resplendent Realities are the channels of God’s all-pervasive grace.
Led by the light of unfailing guidance, and invested with supreme sovereignty, They are
commissioned to use the inspiration of Their words, the effusions of Their infallible grace and the

sanctifying breeze of Their Revelation for the cleansing of every longing heart and receptive spirit
from the dross and dust of earthly cares and limitations. Then, and only then, will the Trust of
God, latent in the reality of man, emerge, as resplendent as the rising Orb of Divine Revelation,
from behind the veil of concealment, and implant the ensign of its revealed glory upon the
summits of men’s hearts.
From the foregoing passages and allusions it hath been made indubitably clear that in the
kingdoms of earth and heaven there must needs be manifested a Being, an Essence Who shall act
as a Manifestation and Vehicle for the transmission of the grace of the Divinity Itself, the
Sovereign Lord of all. Through the Teachings of this Daystar of Truth every man will advance and
develop until he attaineth the station at which he can manifest all the potential forces with which
his inmost true self hath been endowed. It is for this very purpose that in every age and
dispensation the Prophets of God and His chosen Ones have appeared amongst men, and have
evinced such power as is born of God and such might as only the Eternal can reveal.
Can one of sane mind ever seriously imagine that, in view of certain words the meaning of
which he cannot comprehend, the portal of God’s inﬁnite guidance can ever be closed in the face
of men? Can he ever conceive for these Divine Luminaries, these resplendent Lights either a
beginning or an end? What outpouring ﬂood can compare with the stream of His all-embracing
grace, and what blessing can excel the evidences of so great and pervasive a mercy? There can be
no doubt whatever that if for one moment the tide of His mercy and grace were to be withheld
from the world, it would completely perish. For this reason, from the beginning that hath no
beginning the portals of Divine mercy have been ﬂung open to the face of all created things, and
the clouds of Truth will continue to the end that hath no end to rain on the soil of human
capacity, reality and personality their favors and bounties. Such hath been God’s method
continued from everlasting to everlasting.
– XXVIII –
HAPPY is the man who will arise to serve My Cause, and glorify My beauteous Name. Take hold
of My Book with the power of My might, and cleave tenaciously to whatsoever commandment thy
Lord, the Ordainer, the All-Wise, hath prescribed therein. Behold, O Muḥammad, how the sayings
and doings of the followers of Shí‘ih Islám have dulled the joy and fervor of its early days, and
tarnished the pristine brilliancy of its light. In its primitive days, whilst they still adhered to the
precepts associated with the name of their Prophet, the Lord of mankind, their career was marked
by an unbroken chain of victories and triumphs. As they gradually strayed from the path of their
Ideal Leader and Master, as they turned away from the Light of God and corrupted the principle of
His Divine unity, and as they increasingly centered their attention upon them who were only the
revealers of the potency of His Word, their power was turned into weakness, their glory into
shame, their courage into fear. Thou dost witness to what a pass they have come. Behold, how
they have joined partners with Him Who is the Focal-Point of Divine unity. Behold how their evil
doings have hindered them from recognizing, in the Day of Resurrection, the Word of Truth,
exalted be His glory. We cherish the hope that this people will henceforth shield themselves from
vain hopes and idle fancies, and will attain to a true understanding of the meaning of Divine unity.
The Person of the Manifestation hath ever been the representative and mouthpiece of God.
He, in truth, is the Dayspring of God’s most excellent Titles, and the Dawning-Place of His exalted
Attributes. If any be set up by His side as peers, if they be regarded as identical with His Person,
how can it, then, be maintained that the Divine Being is one and incomparable, that His Essence is
indivisible and peerless? Meditate on that which We have, through the power of truth, revealed
unto thee, and be thou of them that comprehend its meaning.
– XXIX –
THE purpose of God in creating man hath been, and will ever be, to enable him to know his
Creator and to attain His Presence. To this most excellent aim, this supreme objective, all the
heavenly Books and the divinely revealed and weighty Scriptures unequivocally bear witness.
Whoso hath recognized the Dayspring of Divine guidance and entered His holy court hath drawn
nigh unto God and attained His Presence, a Presence which is the real Paradise, and of which the

loftiest mansions of heaven are but a symbol. Such a man hath attained the knowledge of the
station of Him Who is “at the distance of two bows,” Who standeth beyond the Sadratu’l-Muntahá.
Whoso hath failed to recognize Him will have condemned himself to the misery of remoteness, a
remoteness which is naught but utter nothingness and the essence of the nethermost ﬁre. Such
will be his fate, though to outward seeming he may occupy the earth’s loftiest seats and be
established upon its most exalted throne.
He Who is the Dayspring of Truth is, no doubt, fully capable of rescuing from such
remoteness wayward souls and of causing them to draw nigh unto His court and attain His
Presence. “If God had pleased He had surely made all men one people.” His purpose, however, is to
enable the pure in spirit and the detached in heart to ascend, by virtue of their own innate powers,
unto the shores of the Most Great Ocean, that thereby they who seek the Beauty of the All-
Glorious may be distinguished and separated from the wayward and perverse. Thus hath it been
ordained by the all-glorious and resplendent Pen.…
That the Manifestations of Divine justice, the Daysprings of heavenly grace, have when they
appeared amongst men always been destitute of all earthly dominion and shorn of the means of
worldly ascendancy should be attributed to this same principle of separation and distinction which
animateth the Divine Purpose. Were the Eternal Essence to manifest all that is latent within Him,
were He to shine in the plentitude of His glory, none would be found to question His power or
repudiate His truth. Nay, all created things would be so dazzled and thunderstruck by the
evidences of His light as to be reduced to utter nothingness. How, then, can the godly be
differentiated under such circumstances from the froward?
This principle hath operated in each of the previous Dispensations and been abundantly
demonstrated.… It is for this reason that, in every age, when a new Manifestation hath appeared
and a fresh revelation of God’s transcendent power was vouchsafed unto men, they that
misbelieved in Him, deluded by the appearance of the peerless and everlasting Beauty in the garb
of mortal men, have failed to recognize Him. They have erred from His path and eschewed His
company—the company of Him Who is the Symbol of nearness to God. They have even arisen to
decimate the ranks of the faithful and to exterminate such as believed in Him.
Behold how in this Dispensation the worthless and foolish have fondly imagined that by such
instruments as massacre, plunder and banishment they can extinguish the Lamp which the Hand
of Divine power hath lit, or eclipse the Daystar of everlasting splendor. How utterly unaware they
seem to be of the truth that such adversity is the oil that feedeth the ﬂame of this Lamp! Such is
God’s transforming power. He changeth whatsoever He willeth; He verily hath power over all
things.…
Consider at all times the sovereignty exercised by the Ideal King, and behold the evidences of
His power and paramount inﬂuence. Sanctify your ears from the idle talk of them that are the
symbols of denial and the exponents of violence and anger. The hour is approaching when ye will
witness the power of the one true God triumphing over all created things and the signs of His
sovereignty encompassing all creation. On that day ye will discover how all else besides Him will
have been forgotten and come to be regarded as utter nothingness.
It should, however, be borne in mind that God and His Manifestation can, under no
circumstances, be dissociated from the loftiness and sublimity which They inherently possess.
Nay, loftiness and sublimity are themselves the creations of His Word, if ye choose to see with My
sight not with yours.
– XXX –
GOD witnesseth that there is no God but Him, the Gracious, the Best-Beloved. All grace and
bounty are His. To whomsoever He will He giveth whatsoever is His wish. He, verily, is the All-
Powerful, the Almighty, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. We, verily, believe in Him Who, in
the person of the Báb, hath been sent down by the Will of the one true God, the King of Kings, the
All-Praised. We, moreover, swear fealty to the One Who, in the time of Mustagháth, is destined to
be made manifest, as well as to those Who shall come after Him till the end that hath no end. We
recognize in the manifestation of each one of them, whether outwardly or inwardly, the

manifestation of none but God Himself, if ye be of those that comprehend. Every one of them is a
mirror of God, reﬂecting naught else but His Self, His Beauty, His Might and Glory, if ye will
understand. All else besides them are to be regarded as mirrors capable of reﬂecting the glory of
these Manifestations Who are themselves the Primary Mirrors of the Divine Being, if ye be not
devoid of understanding. No one hath ever escaped them, neither are they to be hindered from
achieving their purpose. These Mirrors will everlastingly succeed each other, and will continue to
reﬂect the light of the Ancient of Days. They that reﬂect their glory will, in like manner, continue
to exist forevermore, for the Grace of God can never cease from ﬂowing. This is a truth that none
can disprove.
– XXXI –
CONTEMPLATE with thine inward eye the chain of successive Revelations that hath linked the
Manifestation of Adam with that of the Báb. I testify before God that each one of these
Manifestations hath been sent down through the operation of the Divine Will and Purpose, that
each hath been the bearer of a speciﬁc Message, that each hath been entrusted with a divinely
revealed Book and been commissioned to unravel the mysteries of a mighty Tablet. The measure
of the Revelation with which every one of them hath been identiﬁed had been deﬁnitely
foreordained. This, verily, is a token of Our favor unto them, if ye be of those that comprehend
this truth.… And when this process of progressive Revelation culminated in the stage at which His
peerless, His most sacred, and exalted Countenance was to be unveiled to men’s eyes, He chose to
hide His own Self behind a thousand veils, lest profane and mortal eyes discover His glory. This
He did at a time when the signs and tokens of a divinely appointed Revelation were being
showered upon Him—signs and tokens which none can reckon except the Lord, your God, the Lord
of all worlds. And when the set time of concealment was fulﬁlled, We sent forth, whilst still wrapt
within a myriad veils, an inﬁnitesimal glimmer of the effulgent Glory enveloping the Face of the
Youth, and lo, the entire company of the dwellers of the Realms above were seized with violent
commotion and the favored of God fell down in adoration before Him. He hath, verily, manifested
a glory such as none in the whole creation hath witnessed, inasmuch as He hath arisen to
proclaim in person His Cause unto all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth.
– XXXII –
THAT which thou hast heard concerning Abraham, the Friend of the All-Merciful, is the truth, and
no doubt is there about it. The Voice of God commanded Him to offer up Ishmael as a sacriﬁce, so
that His steadfastness in the Faith of God and His detachment from all else but Him may be
demonstrated unto men. The purpose of God, moreover, was to sacriﬁce him as a ransom for the
sins and iniquities of all the peoples of the earth. This same honor, Jesus, the Son of Mary,
besought the one true God, exalted be His name and glory, to confer upon Him. For the same
reason was Ḥusayn offered up as a sacriﬁce by Muḥammad, the Apostle of God.
No man can ever claim to have comprehended the nature of the hidden and manifold grace of
God; none can fathom His all-embracing mercy. Such hath been the perversity of men and their
transgressions, so grievous have been the trials that have afﬂicted the Prophets of God and their
chosen ones, that all mankind deserveth to be tormented and to perish. God’s hidden and most
loving providence, however, hath, through both visible and invisible agencies, protected and will
continue to protect it from the penalty of its wickedness. Ponder this in thine heart, that the truth
may be revealed unto thee, and be thou steadfast in His path.
– XXXIII –
IT hath been decreed by Us that the Word of God and all the potentialities thereof shall be
manifested unto men in strict conformity with such conditions as have been foreordained by Him
Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. We have, moreover, ordained that its veil of concealment be
none other except its own Self. Such indeed is Our Power to achieve Our Purpose. Should the Word
be allowed to release suddenly all the energies latent within it, no man could sustain the weight
of so mighty a Revelation. Nay, all that is in heaven and on earth would ﬂee in consternation
before it.

Consider that which hath been sent down unto Muḥammad, the Apostle of God. The measure
of the Revelation of which He was the bearer had been clearly foreordained by Him Who is the
Almighty, the All-Powerful. They that heard Him, however, could apprehend His purpose only to
the extent of their station and spiritual capacity. He, in like manner, uncovered the Face of
Wisdom in proportion to their ability to sustain the burden of His Message. No sooner had
mankind attained the stage of maturity, than the Word revealed to men’s eyes the latent energies
with which it had been endowed—energies which manifested themselves in the plenitude of their
glory when the Ancient Beauty appeared, in the year sixty, in the person of ‘Alí-Muḥammad, the
Báb.
– XXXIV –
ALL praise and glory be to God Who, through the power of His might, hath delivered His creation
from the nakedness of nonexistence, and clothed it with the mantle of life. From among all created
things He hath singled out for His special favor the pure, the gem-like reality of man, and
invested it with a unique capacity of knowing Him and of reﬂecting the greatness of His glory.
This twofold distinction conferred upon him hath cleansed away from his heart the rust of every
vain desire, and made him worthy of the vesture with which his Creator hath deigned to clothe
him. It hath served to rescue his soul from the wretchedness of ignorance.
This robe with which the body and soul of man hath been adorned is the very foundation of
his well-being and development. Oh, how blessed the day when, aided by the grace and might of
the one true God, man will have freed himself from the bondage and corruption of the world and
all that is therein, and will have attained unto true and abiding rest beneath the shadow of the
Tree of Knowledge!
The songs which the bird of thine heart had uttered in its great love for its friends have
reached their ears, and moved Me to answer thy questions, and reveal to thee such secrets as I am
allowed to unfold. In thine esteemed letter thou hadst inquired which of the Prophets of God
should be regarded as superior to others. Know thou assuredly that the essence of all the Prophets
of God is one and the same. Their unity is absolute. God, the Creator, saith: There is no distinction
whatsoever among the Bearers of My Message. They all have but one purpose; their secret is the
same secret. To prefer one in honor to another, to exalt certain ones above the rest, is in no wise to
be permitted. Every true Prophet hath regarded His Message as fundamentally the same as the
Revelation of every other Prophet gone before Him. If any man, therefore, should fail to
comprehend this truth, and should consequently indulge in vain and unseemly language, no one
whose sight is keen and whose understanding is enlightened would ever allow such idle talk to
cause him to waver in his belief.
The measure of the revelation of the Prophets of God in this world, however, must differ. Each
and every one of them hath been the Bearer of a distinct Message, and hath been commissioned to
reveal Himself through speciﬁc acts. It is for this reason that they appear to vary in their
greatness. Their Revelation may be likened unto the light of the moon that sheddeth its radiance
upon the earth. Though every time it appeareth, it revealeth a fresh measure of its brightness, yet
its inherent splendor can never diminish, nor can its light suffer extinction.
It is clear and evident, therefore, that any apparent variation in the intensity of their light is
not inherent in the light itself, but should rather be attributed to the varying receptivity of an
ever-changing world. Every Prophet Whom the Almighty and Peerless Creator hath purposed to
send to the peoples of the earth hath been entrusted with a Message, and charged to act in a
manner, that would best meet the requirements of the age in which He appeared. God’s purpose
in sending His Prophets unto men is twofold. The ﬁrst is to liberate the children of men from the
darkness of ignorance, and guide them to the light of true understanding. The second is to ensure
the peace and tranquillity of mankind, and provide all the means by which they can be
established.
The Prophets of God should be regarded as physicians whose task is to foster the well-being
of the world and its peoples, that, through the spirit of oneness, they may heal the sickness of a
divided humanity. To none is given the right to question their words or disparage their conduct, for

they are the only ones who can claim to have understood the patient and to have correctly
diagnosed its ailments. No man, however acute his perception, can ever hope to reach the heights
which the wisdom and understanding of the Divine Physician have attained. Little wonder, then, if
the treatment prescribed by the physician in this day should not be found to be identical with that
which he prescribed before. How could it be otherwise when the ills affecting the sufferer
necessitate at every stage of his sickness a special remedy? In like manner, every time the
Prophets of God have illumined the world with the resplendent radiance of the Daystar of Divine
knowledge, they have invariably summoned its peoples to embrace the light of God through such
means as best beﬁtted the exigencies of the age in which they appeared. They were thus able to
scatter the darkness of ignorance, and to shed upon the world the glory of their own knowledge. It
is towards the inmost essence of these Prophets, therefore, that the eye of every man of
discernment must be directed, inasmuch as their one and only purpose hath always been to guide
the erring, and give peace to the afﬂicted.… These are not days of prosperity and triumph. The
whole of mankind is in the grip of manifold ills. Strive, therefore, to save its life through the
wholesome medicine which the almighty hand of the unerring Physician hath prepared.
And now concerning thy question regarding the nature of religion. Know thou that they who
are truly wise have likened the world unto the human temple. As the body of man needeth a
garment to clothe it, so the body of mankind must needs be adorned with the mantle of justice
and wisdom. Its robe is the Revelation vouchsafed unto it by God. Whenever this robe hath
fulﬁlled its purpose, the Almighty will assuredly renew it. For every age requireth a fresh measure
of the light of God. Every Divine Revelation hath been sent down in a manner that beﬁtted the
circumstances of the age in which it hath appeared.
As to thy question regarding the sayings of the leaders of past religions. Every wise and
praiseworthy man will no doubt eschew such vain and proﬁtless talk. The incomparable Creator
hath created all men from one same substance, and hath exalted their reality above the rest of His
creatures. Success or failure, gain or loss, must, therefore, depend upon man’s own exertions. The
more he striveth, the greater will be his progress. We fain would hope that the vernal showers of
the bounty of God may cause the ﬂowers of true understanding to spring from the soil of men’s
hearts, and may wash them from all earthly deﬁlements.
– XXXV –
PONDER awhile. What is it that prompted, in every Dispensation, the peoples of the earth to
shun the Manifestation of the All-Merciful? What could have impelled them to turn away from
Him and to challenge His authority? Were men to meditate on these words which have ﬂowed
from the Pen of the Divine Ordainer, they would, one and all, hasten to embrace the truth of this
God-given, and ever-enduring Revelation, and would testify to that which He Himself hath
solemnly afﬁrmed. It is the veil of idle imaginations which, in the days of the Manifestations of
the Unity of God and the Daysprings of His everlasting glory, hath intervened, and will continue
to intervene, between them and the rest of mankind. For in those days, He Who is the Eternal
Truth manifesteth Himself in conformity with that which He Himself hath purposed, and not
according to the desires and expectations of men. Even as He hath revealed: “So oft, then, as an
Apostle cometh to you with that which your souls desire not, do ye swell with pride, and treat
some as impostors, and slay others.”
There can be no doubt whatever that had these Apostles appeared, in bygone ages and cycles,
in accordance with the vain imaginations which the hearts of men had devised, no one would have
repudiated the truth of these sanctiﬁed Beings. Though such men have been, night and day,
remembering the one true God, and have been devoutly engaged in the exercise of their devotions,
yet they failed in the end to recognize, and partake of the grace of, the Daysprings of the signs of
God and the Manifestations of His irrefutable evidences. To this the Scriptures bear witness. Thou
hast, no doubt, heard about it.
Consider the Dispensation of Jesus Christ. Behold, how all the learned men of that generation,
though eagerly anticipating the coming of the Promised One, have nevertheless denied Him. Both

Annas, the most learned among the divines of His day, and Caiaphas, the high priest, denounced
Him and pronounced the sentence of His death.
In like manner, when Muḥammad, the Prophet of God—may all men be a sacriﬁce unto Him—
appeared, the learned men of Mecca and Medina arose, in the early days of His Revelation, against
Him and rejected His Message, while they who were destitute of all learning recognized and
embraced His Faith. Ponder awhile. Consider how Balál, the Ethiopian, unlettered though he was,
ascended into the heaven of faith and certitude, whilst ‘Abdu’lláh Ubayy, a leader among the
learned, maliciously strove to oppose Him. Behold, how a mere shepherd was so carried away by
the ecstasy of the words of God that he was able to gain admittance into the habitation of his
Best-Beloved, and was united to Him Who is the Lord of Mankind, whilst they who prided
themselves on their knowledge and wisdom strayed far from His path and remained deprived of
His grace. For this reason He hath written: “He that is exalted among you shall be abased, and he
that is abased shall be exalted.” References to this theme are to be found in most of the heavenly
Books, as well as in the sayings of the Prophets and Messengers of God.
Verily I say, such is the greatness of this Cause that the father ﬂieth from his son, and the son
ﬂieth from his father. Call ye to mind the story of Noah and Canaan. God grant that, in these days
of heavenly delight, ye may not deprive yourselves of the sweet savors of the All-Glorious God,
and may partake, in this spiritual Springtime, of the outpourings of His grace. Arise in the name
of Him Who is the Object of all knowledge, and, with absolute detachment from the learning of
men, lift up your voices and proclaim His Cause. I swear by the Daystar of Divine Revelation! The
very moment ye arise, ye will witness how a ﬂood of Divine knowledge will gush out of your
hearts, and will behold the wonders of His heavenly wisdom manifested in all their glory before
you. Were ye to taste of the sweetness of the sayings of the All-Merciful, ye would unhesitatingly
forsake your selves, and would lay down your lives for the Well-Beloved.
Who can ever believe that this Servant of God hath at any time cherished in His heart a
desire for any earthly honor or beneﬁt? The Cause associated with His Name is far above the
transitory things of this world. Behold Him, an exile, a victim of tyranny, in this Most Great
Prison. His enemies have assailed Him on every side, and will continue to do so till the end of His
life. Whatever, therefore, He saith unto you is wholly for the sake of God, that haply the peoples
of the earth may cleanse their hearts from the stain of evil desire, may rend its veil asunder, and
attain unto the knowledge of the one true God—the most exalted station to which any man can
aspire. Their belief or disbelief in My Cause can neither proﬁt nor harm Me. We summon them
wholly for the sake of God. He, verily, can afford to dispense with all creatures.
– XXXVI –
KNOW thou that when the Son of Man yielded up His breath to God, the whole creation wept
with a great weeping. By sacriﬁcing Himself, however, a fresh capacity was infused into all
created things. Its evidences, as witnessed in all the peoples of the earth, are now manifest before
thee. The deepest wisdom which the sages have uttered, the profoundest learning which any mind
hath unfolded, the arts which the ablest hands have produced, the inﬂuence exerted by the most
potent of rulers, are but manifestations of the quickening power released by His transcendent, His
all-pervasive, and resplendent Spirit.
We testify that when He came into the world, He shed the splendor of His glory upon all
created things. Through Him the leper recovered from the leprosy of perversity and ignorance.
Through Him, the unchaste and wayward were healed. Through His power, born of Almighty God,
the eyes of the blind were opened, and the soul of the sinner sanctiﬁed.
Leprosy may be interpreted as any veil that interveneth between man and the recognition of
the Lord, his God. Whoso alloweth himself to be shut out from Him is indeed a leper, who shall
not be remembered in the Kingdom of God, the Mighty, the All-Praised. We bear witness that
through the power of the Word of God every leper was cleansed, every sickness was healed, every
human inﬁrmity was banished. He it is Who puriﬁed the world. Blessed is the man who, with a
face beaming with light, hath turned towards Him.
– XXXVII –

BLESSED is the man that hath acknowledged his belief in God and in His signs, and recognized
that “He shall not be asked of His doings.” Such a recognition hath been made by God the
ornament of every belief and its very foundation. Upon it must depend the acceptance of every
goodly deed. Fasten your eyes upon it, that haply the whisperings of the rebellious may not cause
you to slip.
Were He to decree as lawful the thing which from time immemorial had been forbidden, and
forbid that which had, at all times, been regarded as lawful, to none is given the right to question
His authority. Whoso will hesitate, though it be for less than a moment, should be regarded as a
transgressor.
Whoso hath not recognized this sublime and fundamental verity, and hath failed to attain this
most exalted station, the winds of doubt will agitate him, and the sayings of the inﬁdels will
distract his soul. He that hath acknowledged this principle will be endowed with the most perfect
constancy. All honor to this all-glorious station, the remembrance of which adorneth every exalted
Tablet. Such is the teaching which God bestoweth on you, a teaching that will deliver you from all
manner of doubt and perplexity, and enable you to attain unto salvation in both this world and the
next. He, verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bountiful.
– XXXVIII –
KNOW of a certainty that in every Dispensation the light of Divine Revelation hath been
vouchsafed unto men in direct proportion to their spiritual capacity. Consider the sun. How feeble
its rays the moment it appeareth above the horizon. How gradually its warmth and potency
increase as it approacheth its zenith, enabling meanwhile all created things to adapt themselves to
the growing intensity of its light. How steadily it declineth until it reacheth its setting point. Were
it, all of a sudden, to manifest the energies latent within it, it would, no doubt, cause injury to all
created things.… In like manner, if the Sun of Truth were suddenly to reveal, at the earliest stages
of its manifestation, the full measure of the potencies which the providence of the Almighty hath
bestowed upon it, the earth of human understanding would waste away and be consumed; for
men’s hearts would neither sustain the intensity of its revelation, nor be able to mirror forth the
radiance of its light. Dismayed and overpowered, they would cease to exist.
– XXXIX –
PRAISE be to Thee, O Lord My God, for the wondrous revelations of Thy inscrutable decree and
the manifold woes and trials Thou hast destined for Myself. At one time Thou didst deliver Me
into the hands of Nimrod; at another Thou hast allowed Pharaoh’s rod to persecute Me. Thou,
alone, canst estimate, through Thine all-encompassing knowledge and the operation of Thy Will,
the incalculable afﬂictions I have suffered at their hands. Again Thou didst cast Me into the
prison-cell of the ungodly, for no reason except that I was moved to whisper into the ears of the
well-favored denizens of Thy Kingdom an intimation of the vision with which Thou hadst, through
Thy knowledge, inspired Me, and revealed to Me its meaning through the potency of Thy might.
And again Thou didst decree that I be beheaded by the sword of the inﬁdel. Again I was cruciﬁed
for having unveiled to men’s eyes the hidden gems of Thy glorious unity, for having revealed to
them the wondrous signs of Thy sovereign and everlasting power. How bitter the humiliations
heaped upon Me, in a subsequent age, on the plain of Karbilá! How lonely did I feel amidst Thy
people! To what a state of helplessness I was reduced in that land! Unsatisﬁed with such
indignities, My persecutors decapitated Me, and, carrying aloft My head from land to land paraded
it before the gaze of the unbelieving multitude, and deposited it on the seats of the perverse and
faithless. In a later age, I was suspended, and My breast was made a target to the darts of the
malicious cruelty of My foes. My limbs were riddled with bullets, and My body was torn asunder.
Finally, behold how, in this Day, My treacherous enemies have leagued themselves against Me,
and are continually plotting to instill the venom of hate and malice into the souls of Thy servants.
With all their might they are scheming to accomplish their purpose.… Grievous as is My plight, O
God, My Well-Beloved, I render thanks unto Thee, and My Spirit is grateful for whatsoever hath

befallen Me in the path of Thy good-pleasure. I am well pleased with that which Thou didst
ordain for Me, and welcome, however calamitous, the pains and sorrows I am made to suffer.
– XL –
O MY Well-Beloved! Thou hast breathed Thy Breath into Me, and divorced Me from Mine own
Self. Thou didst, subsequently, decree that no more than a faint reﬂection, a mere emblem of Thy
Reality within Me be left among the perverse and envious. Behold, how, deluded by this emblem,
they have risen against Me, and heaped upon Me their denials! Uncover Thy Self, therefore, O My
Best-Beloved, and deliver Me from My plight.
Thereupon a Voice replied: “I love, I dearly cherish this emblem. How can I consent that Mine
eyes, alone, gaze upon this emblem, and that no heart except Mine heart recognize it? By My
Beauty, which is the same as Thy Beauty! My wish is to hide Thee from Mine own eyes: how
much more from the eyes of men!”
I was preparing to make reply, when lo, the Tablet was suddenly ended, leaving My theme
unﬁnished, and the pearl of Mine utterance unstrung.
– XLI –
GOD is My witness, O people! I was asleep on My couch, when lo, the Breeze of God wafting over
Me roused Me from My slumber. His quickening Spirit revived Me, and My tongue was unloosed to
voice His Call. Accuse Me not of having transgressed against God. Behold Me, not with your eyes
but with Mine. Thus admonisheth you He Who is the Gracious, the All-Knowing. Think ye, O
people, that I hold within My grasp the control of God’s ultimate Will and Purpose? Far be it from
Me to advance such claim. To this I testify before God, the Almighty, the Exalted, the All-Knowing,
the All-Wise. Had the ultimate destiny of God’s Faith been in Mine hands, I would have never
consented, even though for one moment, to manifest Myself unto you, nor would I have allowed
one word to fall from My lips. Of this God Himself is, verily, a witness.
– XLII –
O SON of Justice! In the night season the beauty of the immortal Being hath repaired from the
emerald height of ﬁdelity unto the Sadratu’l-Muntahá, and wept with such a weeping that the
Concourse on high and the dwellers of the realms above wailed at His lamenting. Whereupon
there was asked, Why the wailing and weeping? He made reply: As bidden I waited expectant
upon the hill of faithfulness, yet inhaled not from them that dwell on earth the fragrance of
ﬁdelity. Then summoned to return I beheld, and lo! certain doves of holiness were sore tried within
the claws of the dogs of earth. Thereupon the Maid of Heaven hastened forth unveiled and
resplendent from Her mystic mansion, and asked of their names, and all were told but one. And
when urged, the ﬁrst letter thereof was uttered, whereupon the dwellers of the celestial chambers
rushed forth out of their habitation of glory. And whilst the second letter was pronounced they fell
down, one and all, upon the dust. At that moment a voice was heard from the inmost shrine:
“Thus far and no farther.” Verily, We bear witness unto that which they have done, and now are
doing.
– XLIII –
O AFNÁN, O thou that hast branched from Mine ancient Stock! My glory and My loving-kindness
rest upon thee. How vast is the tabernacle of the Cause of God! It hath overshadowed all the
peoples and kindreds of the earth, and will, erelong, gather together the whole of mankind
beneath its shelter. Thy day of service is now come. Countless Tablets bear the testimony of the
bounties vouchsafed unto thee. Arise for the triumph of My Cause, and, through the power of
thine utterance, subdue the hearts of men. Thou must show forth that which will ensure the
peace and the well-being of the miserable and the downtrodden. Gird up the loins of thine
endeavor, that perchance thou mayest release the captive from his chains, and enable him to
attain unto true liberty.
Justice is, in this day, bewailing its plight, and Equity groaneth beneath the yoke of
oppression. The thick clouds of tyranny have darkened the face of the earth, and enveloped its

peoples. Through the movement of Our Pen of glory We have, at the bidding of the omnipotent
Ordainer, breathed a new life into every human frame, and instilled into every word a fresh
potency. All created things proclaim the evidences of this worldwide regeneration. This is the most
great, the most joyful tidings imparted by the Pen of this wronged One to mankind. Wherefore
fear ye, O My well-beloved ones? Who is it that can dismay you? A touch of moisture sufﬁceth to
dissolve the hardened clay out of which this perverse generation is molded. The mere act of your
gathering together is enough to scatter the forces of these vain and worthless people.…
Every man of insight will, in this day, readily admit that the counsels which the Pen of this
wronged One hath revealed constitute the supreme animating power for the advancement of the
world and the exaltation of its peoples. Arise, O people, and, by the power of God’s might, resolve
to gain the victory over your own selves, that haply the whole earth may be freed and sanctiﬁed
from its servitude to the gods of its idle fancies—gods that have inﬂicted such loss upon, and are
responsible for the misery of, their wretched worshipers. These idols form the obstacle that
impedeth man in his efforts to advance in the path of perfection. We cherish the hope that the
Hand of Divine power may lend its assistance to mankind, and deliver it from its state of grievous
abasement.
In one of the Tablets these words have been revealed: O people of God! Do not busy
yourselves in your own concerns; let your thoughts be ﬁxed upon that which will rehabilitate the
fortunes of mankind and sanctify the hearts and souls of men. This can best be achieved through
pure and holy deeds, through a virtuous life and a goodly behavior. Valiant acts will ensure the
triumph of this Cause, and a saintly character will reinforce its power. Cleave unto righteousness,
O people of Bahá! This, verily, is the commandment which this wronged One hath given unto you,
and the ﬁrst choice of His unrestrained Will for every one of you.
O friends! It behooveth you to refresh and revive your souls through the gracious favors which
in this Divine, this soul-stirring Springtime are being showered upon you. The Daystar of His
great glory hath shed its radiance upon you, and the clouds of His limitless grace have
overshadowed you. How high the reward of him that hath not deprived himself of so great a
bounty, nor failed to recognize the beauty of his Best-Beloved in this, His new attire. Watch over
yourselves, for the Evil One is lying in wait, ready to entrap you. Gird yourselves against his
wicked devices, and, led by the light of the name of the All-Seeing God, make your escape from
the darkness that surroundeth you. Let your vision be world-embracing, rather than conﬁned to
your own self. The Evil One is he that hindereth the rise and obstructeth the spiritual progress of
the children of men.
It is incumbent upon every man, in this Day, to hold fast unto whatsoever will promote the
interests, and exalt the station, of all nations and just governments. Through each and every one
of the verses which the Pen of the Most High hath revealed, the doors of love and unity have been
unlocked and ﬂung open to the face of men. We have erewhile declared—and Our Word is the
truth: “Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship.”
Whatsoever hath led the children of men to shun one another, and hath caused dissensions and
divisions amongst them, hath, through the revelation of these words, been nulliﬁed and abolished.
From the heaven of God’s Will, and for the purpose of ennobling the world of being and of
elevating the minds and souls of men, hath been sent down that which is the most effective
instrument for the education of the whole human race. The highest essence and most perfect
expression of whatsoever the peoples of old have either said or written hath, through this most
potent Revelation, been sent down from the heaven of the Will of the All-Possessing, the Ever-
Abiding God. Of old it hath been revealed: “Love of one’s country is an element of the Faith of
God.” The Tongue of Grandeur hath, however, in the day of His manifestation proclaimed: “It is
not his to boast who loveth his country, but it is his who loveth the world.” Through the power
released by these exalted words He hath lent a fresh impulse, and set a new direction, to the birds
of men’s hearts, and hath obliterated every trace of restriction and limitation from God’s holy
Book.
O people of Justice! Be as brilliant as the light, and as splendid as the ﬁre that blazed in the
Burning Bush. The brightness of the ﬁre of your love will no doubt fuse and unify the contending

peoples and kindreds of the earth, whilst the ﬁerceness of the ﬂame of enmity and hatred cannot
but result in strife and ruin. We beseech God that He may shield His creatures from the evil
designs of His enemies. He verily hath power over all things.
All praise be to the one true God—exalted be His glory—inasmuch as He hath, through the
Pen of the Most High, unlocked the doors of men’s hearts. Every verse which this Pen hath
revealed is a bright and shining portal that discloseth the glories of a saintly and pious life, of pure
and stainless deeds. The summons and the message which We gave were never intended to reach
or to beneﬁt one land or one people only. Mankind in its entirety must ﬁrmly adhere to
whatsoever hath been revealed and vouchsafed unto it. Then and only then will it attain unto true
liberty. The whole earth is illuminated with the resplendent glory of God’s Revelation. In the year
sixty He Who heralded the light of Divine Guidance—may all creation be a sacriﬁce unto Him—
arose to announce a fresh revelation of the Divine Spirit, and was followed, twenty years later, by
Him through Whose coming the world was made the recipient of this promised glory, this
wondrous favor. Behold how the generality of mankind hath been endued with the capacity to
hearken unto God’s most exalted Word—the Word upon which must depend the gathering
together and spiritual resurrection of all men.…
Incline your hearts, O people of God, unto the counsels of your true, your incomparable
Friend. The Word of God may be likened unto a sapling, whose roots have been implanted in the
hearts of men. It is incumbent upon you to foster its growth through the living waters of wisdom,
of sanctiﬁed and holy words, so that its root may become ﬁrmly ﬁxed and its branches may spread
out as high as the heavens and beyond.
O ye that dwell on earth! The distinguishing feature that marketh the preeminent character
of this Supreme Revelation consisteth in that We have, on the one hand, blotted out from the
pages of God’s holy Book whatsoever hath been the cause of strife, of malice and mischief
amongst the children of men, and have, on the other, laid down the essential prerequisites of
concord, of understanding, of complete and enduring unity. Well is it with them that keep My
statutes.
Time and again have We admonished Our beloved ones to avoid, nay to ﬂee from, anything
whatsoever from which the odor of mischief can be detected. The world is in great turmoil, and the
minds of its people are in a state of utter confusion. We entreat the Almighty that He may
graciously illuminate them with the glory of His Justice, and enable them to discover that which
will be proﬁtable unto them at all times and under all conditions. He, verily, is the All-Possessing,
the Most High.
– XLIV –
LAY not aside the fear of God, O ye the learned of the world, and judge fairly the Cause of this
unlettered One to Whom all the Books of God, the Protector, the Self-Subsisting, have testiﬁed.…
Will not the dread of Divine displeasure, the fear of Him Who hath no peer or equal, arouse you?
He Whom the world hath wronged hath, at no time, associated with you, hath never studied your
writings, nor participated in any of your disputations. The garb He weareth, His ﬂowing locks, His
headdress, attest the truth of His words. How long will ye persist in your injustice? Witness the
habitation in which He, Who is the incarnation of justice, hath been forced to dwell. Open your
eyes, and, beholding His plight, meditate diligently upon that which your hands have wrought,
that haply ye may not be deprived of the light of His Divine utterance, nor remain bereft of your
share of the ocean of His knowledge.
Certain ones among both commoners and nobles have objected that this wronged One is
neither a member of the ecclesiastical order nor a descendant of the Prophet. Say: O ye that claim
to be just! Reﬂect a little while, and ye shall recognize how inﬁnitely exalted is His present state
above the station ye claim He should possess. The Will of the Almighty hath decreed that out of a
house wholly devoid of all that the divines, the doctors, the sages, and scholars commonly possess
His Cause should proceed and be made manifest.
The Breathings of the Divine Spirit awoke Him, and bade Him arise and proclaim His
Revelation. No sooner was He roused from His slumber than He lifted up His voice and

summoned the whole of mankind unto God, the Lord of all worlds. We have been moved to reveal
these words in consideration of the weakness and frailty of men; otherwise, the Cause We have
proclaimed is such as no pen can ever describe, nor any mind conceive its greatness. To this
beareth witness He with Whom is the Mother Book.
– XLV –
THE Ancient Beauty hath consented to be bound with chains that mankind may be released from
its bondage, and hath accepted to be made a prisoner within this most mighty Stronghold that the
whole world may attain unto true liberty. He hath drained to its dregs the cup of sorrow, that all
the peoples of the earth may attain unto abiding joy, and be ﬁlled with gladness. This is of the
mercy of your Lord, the Compassionate, the Most Merciful. We have accepted to be abased, O
believers in the Unity of God, that ye may be exalted, and have suffered manifold afﬂictions, that
ye might prosper and ﬂourish. He Who hath come to build anew the whole world, behold, how
they that have joined partners with God have forced Him to dwell within the most desolate of
cities!
– XLVI –
I SORROW not for the burden of My imprisonment. Neither do I grieve over My abasement, or the
tribulation I suffer at the hands of Mine enemies. By My life! They are My glory, a glory
wherewith God hath adorned His own Self. Would that ye know it!
The shame I was made to bear hath uncovered the glory with which the whole of creation had
been invested, and through the cruelties I have endured, the Daystar of Justice hath manifested
itself, and shed its splendor upon men.
My sorrows are for those who have involved themselves in their corrupt passions, and claim
to be associated with the Faith of God, the Gracious, the All-Praised.
It behooveth the people of Bahá to die to the world and all that is therein, to be so detached
from all earthly things that the inmates of Paradise may inhale from their garment the sweet
smelling savor of sanctity, that all the peoples of the earth may recognize in their faces the
brightness of the All-Merciful, and that through them may be spread abroad the signs and tokens
of God, the Almighty, the All-Wise. They that have tarnished the fair name of the Cause of God,
by following the things of the ﬂesh—these are in palpable error!
– XLVII –
O JEWS! If ye be intent on crucifying once again Jesus, the Spirit of God, put Me to death, for He
hath once more, in My person, been made manifest unto you. Deal with Me as ye wish, for I have
vowed to lay down My life in the path of God. I will fear no one, though the powers of earth and
heaven be leagued against Me. Followers of the Gospel! If ye cherish the desire to slay
Muḥammad, the Apostle of God, seize Me and put an end to My life, for I am He, and My Self is
His Self. Do unto Me as ye like, for the deepest longing of Mine heart is to attain the presence of
My Best-Beloved in His Kingdom of Glory. Such is the Divine decree, if ye know it. Followers of
Muḥammad! If it be your wish to riddle with your shafts the breast of Him Who hath caused His
Book the Bayán to be sent down unto you, lay hands on Me and persecute Me, for I am His Well-
Beloved, the revelation of His own Self, though My name be not His name. I have come in the
shadows of the clouds of glory, and am invested by God with invincible sovereignty. He, verily, is
the Truth, the Knower of things unseen. I, verily, anticipate from you the treatment ye have
accorded unto Him that came before Me. To this all things, verily, witness, if ye be of those who
hearken. O people of the Bayán! If ye have resolved to shed the blood of Him Whose coming the
Báb hath proclaimed, Whose advent Muḥammad hath prophesied, and Whose Revelation Jesus
Christ Himself hath announced, behold Me standing, ready and defenseless, before you. Deal with
Me after your own desires.
– XLVIII –
GOD is my witness! Had it not been in conﬂict with that which the Tablets of God have decreed, I
would have gladly kissed the hands of whosoever attempted to shed my blood in the path of the

Well-Beloved. I would, moreover, have bestowed upon him a share of such worldly goods as God
had allowed me to possess, even though he who perpetrated this act would have provoked the
wrath of the Almighty, incurred His malediction, and deserved to be tormented throughout the
eternity of God, the All-Possessing, the Equitable, the All-Wise.
– XLIX –
KNOW verily that whenever this Youth turneth His eyes towards His own self, he ﬁndeth it the
most insigniﬁcant of all creation. When He contemplates, however, the bright effulgences He hath
been empowered to manifest, lo, that self is transﬁgured before Him into a sovereign Potency
permeating the essence of all things visible and invisible. Glory be to Him Who, through the
power of truth, hath sent down the Manifestation of His own Self and entrusted Him with His
message unto all mankind.
– L –
SHAKE off, O heedless ones, the slumber of negligence, that ye may behold the radiance which
His glory hath spread through the world. How foolish are those who murmur against the
premature birth of His light. O ye who are inly blind! Whether too soon or too late, the evidences
of His effulgent glory are now actually manifest. It behooveth you to ascertain whether or not
such a light hath appeared. It is neither within your power nor mine to set the time at which it
should be made manifest. God’s inscrutable Wisdom hath ﬁxed its hour beforehand. Be content, O
people, with that which God hath desired for you and predestined unto you.… O my ill-wishers!
The Daystar of eternal Guidance beareth me witness: Had it been in my power, I would have,
under no circumstances, consented to distinguish myself amongst men, for the Name I bear utterly
disdaineth to associate itself with this generation whose tongues are sullied and whose hearts are
false. And whenever I chose to hold my peace and be still, lo, the voice of the Holy Ghost, standing
on my right hand, aroused me, and the Supreme Spirit appeared before my face, and Gabriel
overshadowed me, and the Spirit of Glory stirred within my bosom, bidding me arise and break my
silence. If your hearing be purged and your ears be attentive, ye will assuredly perceive that every
limb of my body, nay all the atoms of my being, proclaim and bear witness to this call: “God,
besides Whom is none other God, and He, Whose beauty is now manifest, is the reﬂection of His
glory unto all that are in heaven and on earth.”
– LI –
O PEOPLE! I swear by the one true God! This is the Ocean out of which all seas have proceeded,
and with which every one of them will ultimately be united. From Him all the Suns have been
generated, and unto Him they will all return. Through His potency the Trees of Divine Revelation
have yielded their fruits, every one of which hath been sent down in the form of a Prophet,
bearing a Message to God’s creatures in each of the worlds whose number God, alone, in His all-
encompassing Knowledge, can reckon. This He hath accomplished through the agency of but one
Letter of His Word, revealed by His Pen—a Pen moved by His directing Finger—His Finger itself
sustained by the power of God’s Truth.
– LII –
SAY: O people! Withhold not from yourselves the grace of God and His mercy. Whoso withholdeth
himself therefrom is indeed in grievous loss. What, O people! Do ye worship the dust, and turn
away from your Lord, the Gracious, the All-Bountiful? Fear ye God, and be not of those who
perish. Say: The Book of God hath been sent down in the form of this Youth. Hallowed, therefore,
be God, the most excellent of makers! Take ye good heed, O peoples of the world, lest ye ﬂee from
His face. Nay, make haste to attain His presence, and be of them that have returned unto Him.
Pray to be forgiven, O people, for having failed in your duty towards God, and for having
trespassed against His Cause, and be not of the foolish. He it is Who hath created you; He it is
Who hath nourished your souls through His Cause, and enabled you to recognize Him Who is the
Almighty, the Most Exalted, the All-Knowing. He it is Who hath unveiled to your eyes the
treasures of His knowledge, and caused you to ascend unto the heaven of certitude—the certitude

of His resistless, His irrefutable, and most exalted Faith. Beware that ye do not deprive yourselves
of the grace of God, that ye do not bring to naught your works, and do not repudiate the truth of
this most manifest, this lofty, this shining, and glorious Revelation. Judge ye fairly the Cause of
God, your Creator, and behold that which hath been sent down from the Throne on high, and
meditate thereon with innocent and sanctiﬁed hearts. Then will the truth of this Cause appear
unto you as manifest as the sun in its noontide glory. Then will ye be of them that have believed
in Him.
Say: The ﬁrst and foremost testimony establishing His truth is His own Self. Next to this
testimony is His Revelation. For whoso faileth to recognize either the one or the other He hath
established the words He hath revealed as proof of His reality and truth. This is, verily, an
evidence of His tender mercy unto men. He hath endowed every soul with the capacity to
recognize the signs of God. How could He, otherwise, have fulﬁlled His testimony unto men, if ye
be of them that ponder His Cause in their hearts. He will never deal unjustly with anyone, neither
will He task a soul beyond its power. He, verily, is the Compassionate, the All-Merciful.
Say: So great is the glory of the Cause of God that even the blind can perceive it, how much
more they whose sight is sharp, whose vision is pure. The blind, though unable to perceive the
light of the sun, are, nevertheless, capable of experiencing its continual heat. The blind in heart,
however, among the people of the Bayán—and to this God is My witness—are impotent, no matter
how long the Sun may shine upon them, either to perceive the radiance of its glory, or to
appreciate the warmth of its rays.
Say: O people of the Bayán! We have chosen you out of the world to know and recognize Our
Self. We have caused you to draw nigh unto the right side of Paradise—the Spot out of which the
undying Fire crieth in manifold accents: “There is none other God besides Me, the All-Powerful,
the Most High!” Take heed lest ye allow yourselves to be shut out as by a veil from this Daystar
that shineth above the dayspring of the Will of your Lord, the All-Merciful, and whose light hath
encompassed both the small and the great. Purge your sight, that ye may perceive its glory with
your own eyes, and depend not on the sight of anyone except yourself, for God hath never
burdened any soul beyond its power. Thus hath it been sent down unto the Prophets and
Messengers of old, and been recorded in all the Scriptures.
Strive, O people, to gain admittance into this vast Immensity for which God ordained neither
beginning nor end, in which His voice hath been raised, and over which have been wafted the
sweet savors of holiness and glory. Divest not yourselves of the Robe of grandeur, neither suffer
your hearts to be deprived of remembering your Lord, nor your ears of hearkening unto the sweet
melodies of His wondrous, His sublime, His all-compelling, His clear, and most eloquent voice.
– LIII –
O NAṢÍR, O My servant! God, the Eternal Truth, beareth Me witness. The Celestial Youth hath, in
this Day, raised above the heads of men the glorious Chalice of Immortality, and is standing
expectant upon His seat, wondering what eye will recognize His glory, and what arm will,
unhesitatingly, be stretched forth to seize the Cup from His snow-white Hand and drain it. Only a
few have as yet quaffed from this peerless, this soft-ﬂowing grace of the Ancient King. These
occupy the loftiest mansions of Paradise, and are ﬁrmly established upon the seats of authority.
By the righteousness of God! Neither the mirrors of His glory, nor the revealers of His names, nor
any created thing, that hath been or will ever be, can ever excel them, if ye be of them that
comprehend this truth.
O Naṣír! The excellence of this Day is immensely exalted above the comprehension of men,
however extensive their knowledge, however profound their understanding. How much more must
it transcend the imaginations of them that have strayed from its light, and been shut out from its
glory! Shouldst thou rend asunder the grievous veil that blindeth thy vision, thou wouldst behold
such a bounty as naught, from the beginning that hath no beginning till the end that hath no end,
can either resemble or equal. What language should He Who is the Mouthpiece of God choose to
speak, so that they who are shut out as by a veil from Him can recognize His glory? The

righteous, inmates of the Kingdom on high, shall drink deep from the Wine of Holiness, in My
name, the all-glorious. None other besides them will share such beneﬁts.
– LIV –
BY the righteousness of God, my Well-Beloved! I have never aspired after worldly leadership. My
sole purpose hath been to hand down unto men that which I was bidden to deliver by God, the
Gracious, the Incomparable, that it may detach them from all that pertaineth to this world, and
cause them to attain such heights as neither the ungodly can conceive, nor the froward imagine.
– LV –
CALL thou to remembrance, O Land of Ṭa (Ṭihrán), the former days in which thy Lord had made
thee the seat of His throne, and had enveloped thee with the effulgence of His glory. How vast
the number of those sanctiﬁed beings, those symbols of certitude, who, in their great love for thee,
have laid down their lives and sacriﬁced their all for thy sake! Joy be to thee, and blissfulness to
them that inhabit thee. I testify that out of thee, as every discerning heart knoweth, proceedeth
the living breath of Him Who is the Desire of the world. In thee the Unseen hath been revealed,
and out of thee hath gone forth that which lay hid from the eyes of men. Which one of the
multitude of thy sincere lovers shall We remember, whose blood hath been shed within thy gates,
and whose dust is now concealed beneath thy soil? The sweet savors of God have unceasingly
been wafted, and shall everlastingly continue to be wafted upon thee. Our Pen is moved to
commemorate thee, and to extol the victims of tyranny, those men and women that sleep beneath
thy dust.
Among them is Our own sister, whom We now call to mind as a token of Our ﬁdelity, and as
proof of Our loving-kindness, unto her. How piteous was her plight! In what a state of resignation
she returned to her God! We, alone, in Our all-encompassing knowledge, have known it.
O Land of Ṭa! Thou art still, through the grace of God, a center around which His beloved ones
have gathered. Happy are they; happy every refugee that seeketh thy shelter, in his sufferings in
the path of God, the Lord of this wondrous Day! Blessed are they that remember the one true God,
that magnify His Name, and seek diligently to serve His Cause. It is to these men that the sacred
Books of old have referred. On them hath the Commander of the Faithful lavished his praise,
saying: “The blessedness awaiting them excelleth the blessedness we now enjoy.” He, verily, hath
spoken the truth, and to this We now testify. The glory of their station, however, is as yet
undisclosed. The Hand of Divine power will, assuredly, lift up the veil, and expose to the sight of
men that which shall cheer and lighten the eye of the world.
Render thanks unto God, the Eternal Truth, exalted be His glory, inasmuch as ye have
attained so wondrous a favor, and been adorned with the ornament of His praise. Appreciate the
value of these days, and cleave to whatsoever beseemeth this Revelation. He, verily, is the
Counselor, the Compassionate, the All-Knowing.
– LVI –
LET nothing grieve thee, O Land of Ṭa (Ṭihrán), for God hath chosen thee to be the source of the
joy of all mankind. He shall, if it be His Will, bless thy throne with one who will rule with justice,
who will gather together the ﬂock of God which the wolves have scattered. Such a ruler will, with
joy and gladness, turn his face towards, and extend his favors unto, the people of Bahá. He indeed
is accounted in the sight of God as a jewel among men. Upon him rest forever the glory of God,
and the glory of all that dwell in the kingdom of His revelation.
Rejoice with great joy, for God hath made thee “the Dayspring of His light,” inasmuch as
within thee was born the Manifestation of His Glory. Be thou glad for this name that hath been
conferred upon thee—a name through which the Daystar of grace hath shed its splendor, through
which both earth and heaven have been illumined.
Erelong will the state of affairs within thee be changed, and the reins of power fall into the
hands of the people. Verily, thy Lord is the All-Knowing. His authority embraceth all things. Rest
thou assured in the gracious favor of thy Lord. The eye of His loving-kindness shall everlastingly

be directed towards thee. The day is approaching when thy agitation will have been transmuted
into peace and quiet calm. Thus hath it been decreed in the wondrous Book.
– LVII –
WHEN thou art departed out of the court of My presence, O Muḥammad, direct thy steps towards
My House (Baghdád House), and visit it on behalf of thy Lord. When thou reachest its door, stand
thou before it and say: Whither is the Ancient Beauty gone, O most great House of God, He
through Whom God hath made thee the cynosure of an adoring world, and proclaimed thee to be
the sign of His remembrance unto all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth? Oh!
for the former days when thou, O House of God, wert made His footstool, the days when in
ceaseless strains the melody of the All-Merciful poured forth from thee! What hath become of thy
jewel whose glory hath irradiated all creation? Whither are gone the days in which He, the
Ancient King, had made thee the throne of His glory, the days in which He had chosen thee alone
to be the lamp of salvation between earth and heaven, and caused thee to diffuse, at dawn and at
eventide, the sweet fragrance of the All-Glorious?
Where, O House of God, is the Sun of majesty and power Who had enveloped thee with the
brightness of His presence? Where is He, the Dayspring of the tender mercies of thy Lord, the
Unconstrained, Who had established His seat within thy walls? What is it, O throne of God, that
hath altered thy countenance, and made thy pillars to tremble? What could have closed thy door
to the face of them that eagerly seek thee? What hath made thee so desolate? Couldst thou have
been told that the Beloved of the world is pursued by the swords of His enemies? The Lord bless
thee, and bless thy ﬁdelity unto Him, inasmuch as thou hast remained His companion through all
His sorrows and His sufferings.
I testify that thou art the scene of His transcendent glory, His most holy habitation. Out of
thee hath gone forth the Breath of the All-Glorious, a Breath that hath breathed over all created
things, and ﬁlled with joy the breasts of the devout that dwell in the mansions of Paradise. The
Concourse on high, and they that inhabit the Cities of the Names of God, weep over thee, and
bewail the things that have befallen thee.
Thou art still the symbol of the names and attributes of the Almighty, the Point towards
which the eyes of the Lord of earth and heaven are directed. There hath befallen thee what hath
befallen the Ark in which God’s pledge of security had been made to dwell. Well is it with him
that apprehendeth the intent of these words, and recognizeth the purpose of Him Who is the Lord
of all creation.
Happy are those that inhale from thee the sweet savors of the Merciful, that acknowledge
thine exaltation, that safeguard thy sanctity, that reverence, at all times, thy station. We implore
the Almighty to grant that the eyes of those who have turned away from thee, and failed to
appreciate thy worth, may be opened, that they may truly recognize thee, and Him Who, through
the power of truth, hath raised thee up on high. Blind, indeed, are they about thee, and utterly
unaware of thee in this day. Thy Lord is, verily, the Gracious, the Forgiving.
I bear witness that through thee God hath proved the hearts of His servants. Blessed be the
man that directeth his steps toward thee, and visiteth thee. Woe to him that denieth thy right,
that turneth away from thee, that dishonoreth thy name, and profaneth thy holiness.
Grieve not, O House of God, if the veil of thy sanctity be rent asunder by the inﬁdels. God
hath, in the world of creation, adorned thee with the jewel of His remembrance. Such an ornament
no man can, at any time, profane. Towards thee the eyes of thy Lord shall, under all conditions,
remain directed. He, verily, will incline His ear to the prayer of every one that visiteth thee, who
will circle around thee, and calleth upon Him in thy name. He, in truth, is the Forgiving, the All-
Merciful.
I beseech Thee, O my God, by this House that hath suffered such change in its separation
from Thee, that bewaileth its remoteness from Thy presence, and lamenteth Thy tribulation, to
forgive me, and my parents, and my kindred, and such of my brethren as have believed in Thee.
Grant that all my needs be satisﬁed, through Thy bounty, O Thou Who art the King of Names.
Thou art the most Bountiful of the bountiful, the Lord of all worlds.

– LVIII –
CALL thou to mind that which hath been revealed unto Mihdí, Our servant, in the ﬁrst year of Our
banishment to the Land of Mystery (Adrianople). Unto him have We predicted that which must
befall Our House (Baghdád House), in the days to come, lest he grieve over the acts of robbery and
violence already perpetrated against it. Verily, the Lord, thy God, knoweth all that is in the
heavens and all that is on the earth.
To him We have written: This is not the ﬁrst humiliation inﬂicted upon My House. In days
gone by the hand of the oppressor hath heaped indignities upon it. Verily, it shall be so abased in
the days to come as to cause tears to ﬂow from every discerning eye. Thus have We unfolded to
thee things hidden beyond the veil, inscrutable to all save God, the Almighty, the All-Praised. In
the fullness of time, the Lord shall, by the power of truth, exalt it in the eyes of all men. He shall
cause it to become the Standard of His Kingdom, the Shrine round which will circle the concourse
of the faithful. Thus hath spoken the Lord, thy God, ere the day of lamentation arriveth. This
revelation have We given thee in Our holy Tablet, lest thou sorrow for what hath befallen Our
House through the assaults of the enemy. All praise be to God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
– LIX –
EVERY unbiased observer will readily admit that, ever since the dawn of His Revelation, this
wronged One hath invited all mankind to turn their faces towards the Dayspring of Glory, and
hath forbidden corruption, hatred, oppression, and wickedness. And yet, behold what the hand of
the oppressor hath wrought! No pen dare describe his tyranny. Though the purpose of Him Who is
the Eternal Truth hath been to confer everlasting life upon all men, and ensure their security and
peace, yet witness how they have arisen to shed the blood of His loved ones, and have pronounced
on Him the sentence of death.
The instigators of this oppression are those very persons who, though so foolish, are reputed
the wisest of the wise. Such is their blindness that, with unfeigned severity, they have cast into
this fortiﬁed and afﬂictive Prison Him, for the servants of Whose Threshold the world hath been
created. The Almighty, however, in spite of them and those that have repudiated the truth of this
“Great Announcement,” hath transformed this Prison House into the Most Exalted Paradise, the
Heaven of Heavens.
We did not refuse such material beneﬁts as could relieve Us from Our afﬂictions. Every one of
Our companions, however, will bear Us witness that Our holy court is sanctiﬁed from, and far
above, such material beneﬁts. We have nevertheless accepted, while conﬁned in this Prison, those
things of which the inﬁdels have striven to deprive Us. If a man be found willing to rear, in Our
name, an ediﬁce of pure gold or silver, or a house begemmed with stones of inestimable value,
such a wish will no doubt be granted. He, verily, doeth what He willeth, and ordaineth that which
He pleaseth. Leave hath, moreover, been given to whosoever may desire to raise, throughout the
length and breadth of this land, noble and imposing structures, and dedicate the rich and sacred
territories adjoining the Jordan and its vicinity to the worship and service of the one true God,
magniﬁed be His glory, that the prophecies recorded by the Pen of the Most High in the sacred
Scriptures may be fulﬁlled, and that which God, the Lord of all worlds, hath purposed in this most
exalted, this most holy, this mighty, and wondrous Revelation may be made manifest.
We have, of old, uttered these words: Spread thy skirt, O Jerusalem! Ponder this in your
hearts, O people of Bahá, and render thanks unto your Lord, the Expounder, the Most Manifest.
Were the mysteries, that are known to none except God, to be unraveled, the whole of
mankind would witness the evidences of perfect and consummate justice. With a certitude that
none can question, all men would cleave to His commandments, and would scrupulously observe
them. We, verily, have decreed in Our Book a goodly and bountiful reward to whosoever will turn
away from wickedness and lead a chaste and godly life. He, in truth, is the Great Giver, the All-
Bountiful.
– LX –

MY captivity can bring on Me no shame. Nay, by My life, it conferreth on Me glory. That which
can make Me ashamed is the conduct of such of My followers as profess to love Me, yet in fact
follow the Evil One. They, indeed, are of the lost.
When the time set for this Revelation was fulﬁlled, and He Who is the Daystar of the world
appeared in ‘Iráq, He bade His followers observe that which would sanctify them from all earthly
deﬁlements. Some preferred to follow the desires of a corrupt inclination, while others walked in
the way of righteousness and truth, and were rightly guided.
Say: He is not to be numbered with the people of Bahá who followeth his mundane desires, or
ﬁxeth his heart on things of the earth. He is My true follower who, if he come to a valley of pure
gold, will pass straight through it aloof as a cloud, and will neither turn back, nor pause. Such a
man is, assuredly, of Me. From his garment the Concourse on high can inhale the fragrance of
sanctity.… And if he met the fairest and most comely of women, he would not feel his heart
seduced by the least shadow of desire for her beauty. Such a one, indeed, is the creation of spotless
chastity. Thus instructeth you the Pen of the Ancient of Days, as bidden by your Lord, the
Almighty, the All-Bountiful.
– LXI –
THE world is in travail, and its agitation waxeth day by day. Its face is turned towards
waywardness and unbelief. Such shall be its plight, that to disclose it now would not be meet and
seemly. Its perversity will long continue. And when the appointed hour is come, there shall
suddenly appear that which shall cause the limbs of mankind to quake. Then, and only then, will
the Divine Standard be unfurled, and the Nightingale of Paradise warble its melody.
– LXII –
RECALL thou to mind My sorrows, My cares and anxieties, My woes and trials, the state of My
captivity, the tears that I have shed, the bitterness of Mine anguish, and now My imprisonment in
this far-off land. God, O Muṣṭafá, beareth Me witness. Couldst thou be told what hath befallen the
Ancient Beauty, thou wouldst ﬂee into the wilderness, and weep with a great weeping. In thy
grief, thou wouldst smite thyself on the head, and cry out as one stung by the sting of the adder.
Be thou grateful to God, that We have refused to divulge unto thee the secrets of those
unsearchable decrees that have been sent down unto Us from the heaven of the Will of thy Lord,
the Most Powerful, the Almighty.
By the righteousness of God! Every morning I arose from My bed, I discovered the hosts of
countless afﬂictions massed behind My door; and every night when I lay down, lo! My heart was
torn with agony at what it had suffered from the ﬁendish cruelty of its foes. With every piece of
bread the Ancient Beauty breaketh is coupled the assault of a fresh afﬂiction, and with every drop
He drinketh is mixed the bitterness of the most woeful of trials. He is preceded in every step He
taketh by an army of unforeseen calamities, while in His rear follow legions of agonizing sorrows.
Such is My plight, wert thou to ponder it in thine heart. Let not, however, thy soul grieve over
that which God hath rained down upon Us. Merge thy will in His pleasure, for We have, at no
time, desired anything whatsoever except His Will, and have welcomed each one of His
irrevocable decrees. Let thine heart be patient, and be thou not dismayed. Follow not in the way of
them that are sorely agitated.
– LXIII –
O THOU whose face is turned towards Me! As soon as thine eyes behold from afar My native city
(Ṭihrán), stand thou and say: I am come to thee out of the Prison, O Land of Ṭa, with tidings from
God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. I announce unto thee, O mother of the world and
fountain of light unto all its peoples, the tender mercies of thy Lord, and greet thee in the name of
Him Who is the Eternal Truth, the Knower of things unseen. I testify that within thee He Who is
the Hidden Name was revealed, and the Unseen Treasure uncovered. Through thee the secret of
all things, be they of the past or of the future, hath been unfolded.
O Land of Ṭa! He Who is the Lord of Names remembereth thee in His glorious station. Thou
wert the Dayspring of the Cause of God, the fountain of His Revelation, the manifestation of His

Most Great Name—a Name that hath caused the hearts and souls of men to tremble. How vast the
number of those men and women, those victims of tyranny, that have, within thy walls, laid down
their lives in the path of God, and been buried beneath thy dust with such cruelty as to cause
every honored servant of God to bemoan their plight.
– LXIV –
IT is Our wish to remember the Abode of supreme blissfulness (Ṭihrán), the holy and shining city
—the city wherein the fragrance of the Well-Beloved hath been shed, wherein His signs have been
diffused, wherein the evidences of His glory have been revealed, wherein His standards have been
raised, wherein His tabernacle hath been pitched, wherein each of His wise decrees hath been
unfolded.
It is the city in which the sweet savors of reunion have breathed, which have caused the
sincere lovers of God to draw nigh unto Him, and to gain access to the Habitation of holiness and
beauty. Happy is the wayfarer that directeth his steps towards this city, that gaineth admittance
into it, and quaffeth the wine of reunion, through the outpouring grace of his Lord, the Gracious,
the All-Praised.
I am come to thee, O land of the heart’s desire, with tidings from God, and announce to thee
His gracious favor and mercy, and greet and magnify thee in His name. He, in truth, is of immense
bounteousness and goodness. Blessed be the man that turneth his face towards thee, that
perceiveth from thee the fragrance of God’s Presence, the Lord of all worlds. His glory be on thee,
and the brightness of His light envelop thee, inasmuch as God hath made thee a paradise unto His
servants, and proclaimed thee to be the blest and sacred land of which He, Himself, hath made
mention in the Books which His Prophets and Messengers have revealed.
Through thee, O land of resplendent glory, the ensign, “There is none other God but Him,”
hath been unfurled, and the standard, “Verily I am the Truth, the Knower of things unseen,” been
hoisted. It behooveth every one that visiteth thee to glory in thee and in them that inhabit thee,
that have branched from My Tree, who are the leaves thereof, who are the signs of My glory, who
follow Me and are My lovers, and who, with the most mighty determination, have turned their
faces in the direction of My glorious station.
– LXV –
CALL Thou to remembrance Thine arrival in the City (Constantinople), how the Ministers of the
Sulṭán thought Thee to be unacquainted with their laws and regulations, and believed Thee to be
one of the ignorant. Say: Yes, by My Lord! I am ignorant of all things except what God hath,
through His bountiful favor, been pleased to teach Me. To this We assuredly testify, and
unhesitatingly confess it.
Say: If the laws and regulations to which ye cleave be of your own making, We will, in no
wise, follow them. Thus have I been instructed by Him Who is the All-Wise, the All-Informed.
Such hath been My way in the past, and such will it remain in the future, through the power of
God and His might. This, indeed, is the true and right way. If they be ordained by God, bring forth,
then, your proofs, if ye be of them that speak the truth. Say: We have written down in a Book
which leaveth not unrecorded the work of any man, however insigniﬁcant, all that they have
imputed to Thee, and all that they have done unto Thee.
Say: It behooveth you, O Ministers of State, to keep the precepts of God, and to forsake your
own laws and regulations, and to be of them who are guided aright. Better is this for you than all
ye possess, did ye but know it. If ye transgress the commandment of God, not one jot or one tittle
of all your works shall be acceptable in His sight. Ye shall, erelong, discover the consequences of
that which ye shall have done in this vain life, and shall be repaid for them. This, verily, is the
truth, the undoubted truth.
How great the number of those who, in bygone ages, have committed the things ye have
committed, and who, though superior to you in rank, have, in the end, returned unto dust, and
been consigned to their inevitable doom! Would that ye might ponder the Cause of God in your
hearts! Ye shall follow in their wake, and shall be made to enter a habitation wherein none shall
be found to befriend or help you. Ye shall, of a truth, be asked of your doings, shall be called to

account for your failure in duty with regard to the Cause of God, and for having disdainfully
rejected His loved ones who, with manifest sincerity, have come unto you.
It is ye who have taken counsel together regarding them, ye that have preferred to follow the
promptings of your own desires, and forsaken the commandment of God, the Help in Peril, the
Almighty.
Say: What! Cleave ye to your own devices, and cast behind your backs the precepts of God?
Ye, indeed, have wronged your own selves and others. Would that ye could perceive it! Say: If your
rules and principles be founded on justice, why is it, then, that ye follow those which accord with
your corrupt inclinations and reject such as conﬂict with your desires? By what right claim ye,
then, to judge fairly between men? Are your rules and principles such as to justify your
persecution of Him Who, at your bidding, hath presented Himself before you, your rejection of
Him, and your inﬂiction on Him every day of grievous injury? Hath He ever, though it be for one
short moment, disobeyed you? All the inhabitants of ‘Iráq, and beyond them every discerning
observer, will bear witness to the truth of My words.
Be fair in your judgment, O ye Ministers of State! What is it that We have committed that
could justify Our banishment? What is the offense that hath warranted Our expulsion? It is We
Who have sought you, and yet, behold how ye refused to receive Us! By God! This is a sore
injustice that ye have perpetrated—an injustice with which no earthly injustice can measure. To
this the Almighty is Himself a witness.…
Know ye that the world and its vanities and its embellishments shall pass away. Nothing will
endure except God’s Kingdom which pertaineth to none but Him, the Sovereign Lord of all, the
Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the Almighty. The days of your life shall roll away, and all the
things with which ye are occupied and of which ye boast yourselves shall perish, and ye shall,
most certainly, be summoned by a company of His angels to appear at the spot where the limbs of
the entire creation shall be made to tremble, and the ﬂesh of every oppressor to creep. Ye shall be
asked of the things your hands have wrought in this, your vain life, and shall be repaid for your
doings. This is the day that shall inevitably come upon you, the hour that none can put back. To
this the Tongue of Him that speaketh the truth and is the Knower of all things hath testiﬁed.
– LXVI –
FEAR God, ye inhabitants of the City (Constantinople), and sow not the seeds of dissension
amongst men. Walk not in the paths of the Evil One. Walk ye, during the few remaining days of
your life, in the ways of the one true God. Your days shall pass away as have the days of them
who were before you. To dust shall ye return, even as your fathers of old did return.
Know ye that I am afraid of none except God. In none but Him have I placed My trust; to none
will I cleave but Him, and wish for naught except the thing He hath wished for Me. This, indeed,
is My heart’s desire, did ye but know it. I have offered up My soul and My body as a sacriﬁce for
God, the Lord of all worlds. Whoso hath known God shall know none but Him, and he that feareth
God shall be afraid of no one except Him, though the powers of the whole earth rise up and be
arrayed against him. I speak naught except at His bidding, and follow naught, through the power
of God and His might, except His truth. He, verily, shall recompense the truthful.
Narrate, O Servant, the things Thou didst behold at the time of Thine arrival in the City, that
Thy testimony may endure amongst men, and serve as a warning unto them that believe. We
found, upon Our arrival in the City, its governors and elders as children gathered about and
disporting themselves with clay. We perceived no one sufﬁciently mature to acquire from Us the
truths which God hath taught Us, nor ripe for Our wondrous words of wisdom. Our inner eye wept
sore over them, and over their transgressions and their total disregard of the thing for which they
were created. This is what We observed in that City, and which We have chosen to note down in
Our Book, that it may serve as a warning unto them, and unto the rest of mankind.
Say: If ye be seekers after this life and the vanities thereof, ye should have sought them while
ye were still enclosed in your mothers’ wombs, for at that time ye were continually approaching
them, could ye but perceive it. Ye have, on the other hand, ever since ye were born and attained
maturity, been all the while receding from the world and drawing closer to dust. Why, then, exhibit

such greed in amassing the treasures of the earth, when your days are numbered and your chance
is well-nigh lost? Will ye not, then, O heedless ones, shake off your slumber?
Incline your ears to the counsels which this Servant giveth you for the sake of God. He, verily,
asketh no recompense from you and is resigned to what God hath ordained for Him, and is
entirely submissive to God’s Will.
The days of your life are far spent, O people, and your end is fast approaching. Put away,
therefore, the things ye have devised and to which ye cleave, and take ﬁrm hold on the precepts of
God, that haply ye may attain that which He hath purposed for you, and be of them that pursue a
right course. Delight not yourselves in the things of the world and its vain ornaments, neither set
your hopes on them. Let your reliance be on the remembrance of God, the Most Exalted, the Most
Great. He will, erelong, bring to naught all the things ye possess. Let Him be your fear, and forget
not His covenant with you, and be not of them that are shut out as by a veil from Him.
Beware that ye swell not with pride before God, and disdainfully reject His loved ones. Defer
ye humbly to the faithful, they that have believed in God and in His signs, whose hearts witness
to His unity, whose tongues proclaim His oneness, and who speak not except by His leave. Thus
do We exhort you with justice, and warn you with truth, that perchance ye may be awakened.
Lay not on any soul a load which ye would not wish to be laid upon you, and desire not for
anyone the things ye would not desire for yourselves. This is My best counsel unto you, did ye but
observe it.
Respect ye the divines and learned amongst you, they whose conduct accords with their
professions, who transgress not the bounds which God hath ﬁxed, whose judgments are in
conformity with His behests as revealed in His Book. Know ye that they are the lamps of
guidance unto them that are in the heavens and on the earth. They who disregard and neglect the
divines and learned that live amongst them—these have truly changed the favor with which God
hath favored them.
Say: Await ye till God will have changed His favor unto you. Nothing whatsoever escapeth
Him. He knoweth the secrets both of the heavens and of the earth. His knowledge embraceth all
things. Rejoice not in what ye have done, or will do in the future, nor delight in the tribulation
with which ye have afﬂicted Us, for ye are unable by such means as these to exalt your stations,
were ye to examine your works with acute discernment. Neither will ye be capable of detracting
from the loftiness of Our state. Nay, God will add unto the recompense with which He shall
reward Us, for having sustained with persevering patience the tribulations We have suffered. He,
verily, shall increase the reward of them that endure with patience.
Know ye that trials and tribulations have, from time immemorial, been the lot of the chosen
Ones of God and His beloved, and such of His servants as are detached from all else but Him, they
whom neither merchandise nor trafﬁc beguile from the remembrance of the Almighty, they that
speak not till He hath spoken, and act according to His commandment. Such is God’s method
carried into effect of old, and such will it remain in the future. Blessed are the steadfastly
enduring, they that are patient under ills and hardships, who lament not over anything that
befalleth them, and who tread the path of resignation.…
The day is approaching when God will have raised up a people who will call to remembrance
Our days, who will tell the tale of Our trials, who will demand the restitution of Our rights from
them that, without a tittle of evidence, have treated Us with manifest injustice. God, assuredly,
dominateth the lives of them that wronged Us, and is well aware of their doings. He will, most
certainly, lay hold on them for their sins. He, verily, is the ﬁercest of avengers.
Thus have We recounted unto you the tales of the one true God, and sent down unto you the
things He had preordained, that haply ye may ask forgiveness of Him, may return unto Him, may
truly repent, may realize your misdeeds, may shake off your slumber, may be roused from your
heedlessness, may atone for the things that have escaped you, and be of them that do good. Let
him who will, acknowledge the truth of My words; and as to him that willeth not, let him turn
aside. My sole duty is to remind you of your failure in duty towards the Cause of God, if
perchance ye may be of them that heed My warning. Wherefore, hearken ye unto My speech, and
return ye to God and repent, that He, through His grace, may have mercy upon you, may wash