HABIB SABET MEMOIRS

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 2
Draft of 1/5/09


TABLE OF CONTENTS


IN THE NAME OF GOD
A CHILD'S RECOLLECTIONS
TUITION FOR SCHOOL
THE FIRST COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
BEARING WINTER'S COLD
THE HORSE-DRAWN TROLLEY CAR
THE TARBIAT SCHOOLS
COLLEGE TESTS
THE ST. LOUIS DAYS
THANKS TO AGHA JAN, THE TOBACCONIST
THE PARADE GROUNDS
THE ARRIVAL OF THE FIRST AIRPLANE IN IRAN
AT THE ST. LOUIS SCHOOL
TEACHING GHOLAM HOSSEIN MOSSADEGH
REWARD AND PUNISHMENT
THE TITLE OF "COMMANDING GENERAL"
DEAR UNCLE'S BICYCLE
TOLSTOY

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 3
Draft of 1/5/09

THE FIRST MOTORCYCLE IN IRAN
ACROBATICS IN PRESENCE OF AHMAD SHAH
MOTORCYCLES WERE ON THE INCREASE IN IRAN
TAKING THE VEHICLE TO TEHERAN
TO SEE AN AUTOMOBILE
SUMMER VACATIONS IN GHOLHAK
THE FIRST TRIP TO GHAZVIN
STREET CLEANING IN OLD TEHERAN
THE FIRST ELECTRICAL POWER PLANT IN TEHERAN
THE TELEPHONE
AUTOMOBILES AND NAILS
MASS TRANSPORTATION
A PROMISING PERIOD AS A DRIVER AND A PROPOSAL TO BUY A
FORD SEDAN
THE FIRST TRIP TO THE PORT OF ANZALI
ENTRY INTO RESHT
RETURN TO TEHERAN AND SOME OTHER TRIPS
THE FIRST TRIP TO BAGHDAD
MY FIRST TRIP TO SYRIA AND BEIRUT
A TRIP TO EUROPE AND THOUGHTS ABOUT THE FUTURE
A CIRCUS FOR TEHERAN

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 4
Draft of 1/5/09

THE FIRST IRANIAN TRANSPORT COMPANY
SOUVENIRS FROM THE RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION DAYS
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A WOOD WORKING FACTORY
MY FIRST LESSON IN ECONOMICS
CARPENTRY AT HOME
THE FIRST KEY TO SUCCESS
THE DECISION TO ESTABLISH A WOODWORKING FACTORY
SELECTION AND PURCHASE OF THE FACTORY SITE
BETTER DAYS FOR THE FACTORY
THE GARAGE DOOR AND THE TELEPHONE
AN IMPORTANT CHANGE AFTER THE BURNING OF THE FACTORY

ERROR! BOOKMARK NOT DEFINED.
THE PTT BUILDING
THE VOYAGE FROM IRAN TO AMERICA
NEWS ABOUT THE SINKING OF THE PRESIDENT COOLIDGE
A MEETING WITH AGNES ALEXANDER
ARRIVAL AT SAN FRANCISCO
ON TO THE EAST COAST
POLICE AND TICKET
ARRIVAL INTO CHICAGO
ARRIVAL INTO NEW YORK

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 5
Draft of 1/5/09

THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEW YORK OFFICE
FIROOZ COMPANY IS FORMED
THE DECISION TO PUT UP A TIRE PLAN
THE STUDEBAKER DEALERSHIP
THE VOLKSWAGEN AGENCY
THE FOUNDING OF IRAN VOLKS
THE ESSO (EXXON) DEALERSHIP
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A LUBRICATING PLANT
TWO MORE PLANTS
OTHER AGENCIES
BEECHCRAFT AIRPLANES
THE AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY AGENCIES
CONSTRUCTION MACHINES
EXPANSION OF FIROOZ
ICE AND ICE MAKING IN IRAN
THE FIRST ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR
SQUIBB PHARMACEUTICALS
PENICILLIN TO IRAN
REVLON
ZAM ZAM CO. PEPSI COLA
THE TEMPORARY EXILE OF THE QUEEN MOTHER

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 6
Draft of 1/5/09

TELEVISION OF IRAN
MANUFACTURING OF TELEVISIONS
AN AMERICAN-MADE PERSIAN TYPEWRITER
WIRE AND CABLE MANUFACTURING
A VISIT TO THE ISLAND OF MAURITIUS WHERE REZA SHAH THE
GREAT WAS EXILED
THE ABADAN TV STATION
THE MARRIAGE OF HABIB AND BAHEREH
HABIB SABET'S LAST YEARS

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 7
Draft of 1/5/09

IN THE NAME OF GOD

Can Anything begin without mentioning His name?



Perhaps, dear reader, you too, like the writer of these memoirs,
has discovered that the path of life is not always smooth, safe and
without danger.  It is a road with curves, ups and downs and full of
surprises which man, because of his nature and destiny, must follow
and accept as a reality of existence.

I, too, like all travelers on this road, have for the last 82 years,
followed this path and crossed all the hardships, detours and
impediments and have come to accept the truth of this creation.

The memories that you read in this book are like footsteps that
have been left behind by someone who survived those curves,
impasses and hardships.  Better still, let me compare them to fires
that have undergone various stages and remain aglow in my life.  A
poet once said, "nothing remains after a caravan's journey but the
images of fires that it brings home."

Many of my friends and acquaintances, and especially my sons
Iraj and Hormoz, encouraged me to gather these "fires" in one place so
that my "experiences, visions, tales, learning and warnings" would
warm them as well as the readers of this book.  Albeit, that I, myself
will slowly lose the warmth of life, and sleep in the eternal coldness of
dust.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 8
Draft of 1/5/09

In this book you will see signs and guidance that may make
tomorrow’s path clearer, solutions to your life's problems easier and
your table full of blessings.

I was never arrogant or egotistical, nor do I want to "show-off" in
writing this book, especially since the light of my candle is fading and
there are only a few steps left to the end of my days.

My life is summarized in three words:  "Innocence-Maturity-
Extinction"
Habib Sabet
25 Dec. 1989

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 9
Draft of 1/5/09


A CHILD'S RECOLLECTIONS

When you grow up you ask “why did I do certain things when I
was a child?”  The main reasons are: your environment, necessity and
childishness.

Now, at the age of 86, I well remember that my maternal
grandfather, Mirza Khalil (Photo#1) had built a modest house in the
south of Teheran on Jenat Golshan St. (at one time called Pahlavi Ave.
and now Mossadegh).  At the end of the small courtyard, a two room
building was allocated to my father, mother, and sister Tahereh, and it
was there that we lived.

My father was born in Teheran (Photo#2).  Both of my parents'
ancestors were originally from Kashan, but a long time ago came to live
in Teheran.  My father who was born about 110 years ago (1880) and
passed away in 1957 was not educated and actually illiterate.  However,
he was steadfast and stood on his own, had a strong character, was
kind and very faithful.  He sold cloth in a shop located at Old Shahpour
Street.  He enjoyed and cherished his occupation so much that he
would get up before dawn, say his prayers, meditate and rush off to his
work.  Even though he had a modest income, he was very generous,
simply because he had endured poverty and a simple life.  Every year,
at the beginning of autumn, knowing that there are needy people, he
would gather food and clothing and with love and joy go to their homes
and present them with such.

Not having gone to school, nor attended math classes, whenever
a few friends got together and talked about figures, paper and pencils
were used by them, but my father calculated in his head and a few

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 10
Draft of 1/5/09

minutes later gave out the answer.  He would turn to them and say, "if
you have any doubts as to my figures, check them out with your papers
and pencils".  After a while the figures produced by them were the
same as my father's.  He would then calmly turn to them and say
"Didn't I say so?"

He surely was a wise man.  Lies made him angry.  If someone
told him a fib about business or another matter, he would counsel that
person and say "Why a lie - why a lie?"

My mother had some primary education, and was by nature
artistic and a good housekeeper.  Whenever her chores were done, she
would turn to sewing, patchwork and handicrafts.  We still have some
of her works and they are much cherished.

She loved to help the needy.  At one time there was a famine in
Iran and it was hard to find bread or other provisions.  My mother
would bake some bread or gather some rice and other foods, put them
under her chador, travel a long distance to friends and relatives who
were in need and then make her way back.

Unfortunately, she became ill and was bed-ridden.  Reading was
one of her pleasures and she would read poetry from Hafez and often
would tell my sister to come to her bedside and read prayers and
meditation.

She had a keen interest in our education and would not allow
anything to interfere in our upbringing.  She would guide and encourage
my sister and myself, firmly, but with loving kindness and good
examples.  I cannot remember, even one time, that our father and
mother scolded us or raised their hand.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 11
Draft of 1/5/09


Surely it was because of that positive and caring way in which
they told us what to do, that touched our hearts and caused us to obey
them.

The way we lived was very simple, but even with those limited
possibilities we had a pleasant life.  My sister and I loved one another
very much and followed our parents’ example of accepting that humble
lifestyle.  We had no neighbors or playmates, therefore we played
together and because of this we felt very close and enjoyed it.

I well remember that my sister sewed pieces of cloth together to
make a doll and I would stuff cotton inside it and with a pencil draw
eyes, eyebrows, a mouth and a nose in the image of a woman.  It was
here that we didn't agree.  I made the doll as a female, and she didn't
like that and would say, "Why didn't you draw it a mustache?"

She, like her mother, liked sewing and cooking and would cut
cloth and sew her own clothes.

One day, I got a penny from my father and went to a shop close
by to buy a small red-colored earthen pot with two handles.  Artistic
objects always attracted my attention and this small pot with a handle
on each side looked very nice.  I bought it and with great joy returned
home.  Playing with that simple pot, which was the handiwork of some
artisan, gave me the same pleasure that I enjoy now seeing antiques
and valuable works of art.

I believe that love and appreciation of works of art should not be
related to their monetary value.  It is first, the beauty and second, the
artistic quality of the object that should attract us.  The small pot

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 12
Draft of 1/5/09

which was my first "objet d'art" acquisition gave me so much joy and
kept me so occupied that I became interested to see how it was made.
For this reason, I went to the potter's shop.  The potter had a small
back room where he would shape his wares and fire them in a little
oven.  The place fascinated me because it was there that I realized how
much work goes into the making of a piece of art.

One day my sister (Photo#3) insisted on using the pot for
cooking.  On the one hand, I didn't want to disappoint her, nor did I
want the pot to crack or break simply because I was certain that I
couldn't buy a similar one at the same price.  To please my dear sister,
I agreed to her wish, found two bricks, and set up our own stove.  I put
the pot on the bricks and gathered some dry twigs, which I found in the
garden.  Now the moment had arrived to find the ingredients for this
cookout.  As my mother was against such childish doings and playing
with fire, we could not count on her to give us what we needed, nor had
we any money.  An event or the will of God came to help us out.  The
kids in our block, like other neighborhoods, would use tree branches to
make slingshots and shoot at the poor birds.  As chance would have it,
a tiny bird which had been hit by a stone from those very slingshots
fell into our courtyard, bleeding.  My sister rushed towards it, picked it
up sorrowfully and with her small hands tried to revive it.  But, it was
no use.  It had bled too much and after a while it died.  She said
"Rather than throwing it away, we'll cook it in our pot", and that is
exactly what we did.

At that time, I was 6 or 7 and we both went to school.  Early
every morning, we'd leave the house and make our way on foot to
school, which was quite a distance.  They had enrolled us both in the
same place, which was called "Madreseh Tarbiat" located at a
crossroads called "Hassan Abbad".  In those days it was considered

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 13
Draft of 1/5/09

one of the best schools.  My sister went to the girl’s section and I to
the boy’s section.  They were well separated.  As I mentioned before,
unfortunately, my father had no schooling and therefore could not help
us in our homework.  However, my mother, even though she had
attended only a few classes, would do her best to aid us.    In both
sections of the school, there were children who were much better off
than my sister and myself.  Nonetheless, we were never jealous.  On
the contrary, we rejoiced at what they had and were happy for their well
being.  Our aim was to get a good education and later, work well to
have a better and more successful life.

TUITION FOR SCHOOL

The tuition was about seventy pennies or about seven Tomans
(about one U.S. Dollar in 1975) a year.  They didn't charge us for the
two months of summer holidays.  In all, for the 9 years of my
education, a total of 63 Tomans was paid or $9.  But even to pay those
few pennies, was not easy for my father.  Some months he would give
me only half the amount and say, "give them this and tell them I'll pay
the rest later."  For this reason, the schools income was limited and a
meager salary was paid to the teachers.  I remember well that before
the Sepah Revolution, the public sector teachers who had not been
paid for several months received bricks instead of money.  This was
only possible because a benevolent brick maker had donated some
bricks to the Ministry of Education.  Because of this, the teachers
didn't show up for work and the public schools were closed for a while.

To pay a few pennies for tuition was not the only problem that my
father and I had.  Where were we to get the money for books, pens,
pencils and paper?  Even so, my father got me the books, regularly and
on time!  Sometimes he could find cheap second and third hand books

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 14
Draft of 1/5/09

by going to the Bazaar near the Shah Mosque.  However, to find paper
was my duty.  Therefore, some Fridays, I would go to his shop, unwrap
the paper around the bundles or cloth, cut it into writing paper size,
and use it for my schoolwork.  Similarly, I would use the plywood inside
those same bundles of cloth to make the doors for our house.  These
were, for me, the very lessons of life.

THE FIRST COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY

My mother had four brothers (Photo#4).  One of them had the
habit of smoking.  To prepare his cigarettes, he would buy a special
type of tobacco that was imported from Russia, spread it in the middle
of a thin square paper especially made for cigarettes, also from Russia,
and then roll it, lighting it with a match that also came from Russia.

When I was a child, there were no supermarkets in Iran.  But at
the top of the street where we lived there were a few stores, which had
the likeness of supermarkets.  One of these stores sold lumber and
building materials, another was a pottery, store and the third, a
general store, which offered all types of wares and provisions, including
tobacco, to its customers.  About every two days my uncle would give
me two tenths of a penny and say, "Go to the top of the street and buy
me some tobacco".  I had to obey and so would set off grumbling to do
what I was told.  Like his sister, my uncle was very kind and would give
me a tenth of a penny which I kept.  From these tenth-of-a-pennies
and others that my father had given me, I amassed ten pennies!

The next time I went to that store, I asked the owner, "If I buy 10
pennies worth of tobacco instead of two, how much of a price difference
will there be?  What I mean is - How much more tobacco will you give
me?"  He replied, about twice as much.  I said "Then give me 10

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 15
Draft of 1/5/09

pennies worth.  After this transaction, I returned to my uncle, gave him
the same amount of tobacco as before and per instructions of the
storekeeper, put the rest in a safe, humid corner of the kitchen.  The
next day, with two strings tied to the top and bottom part of an empty
shoe polish can, I made a small scale.  I found two weights of one gram
and half a gram and whenever my dear uncle needed tobacco, I would
fetch it from its hiding place, weigh it, bring it to him and collect the
money!  This affair continued for a long time, and its success brought
me a great deal of pleasure.

BEARING WINTER'S COLD

School days went by, but believe me, there were many hardships.
I went through many difficult winters, and supported the bitter cold,
even though I had no overcoat, no warm underwear and no scarf.  My
shoes, because of rain, ice and mud had holes in them. The only thing
I had was a pair of woolen mittens that my mother had knitted and
which kept my hands warm while walking the long distance from home
to school and back.  During those cold days, my thoughts turned to
springtime and summer fruits, because then I could pack my lunch box
with bread, cheese and grapes, rather than the usual bread, cheese
and halvah.  From time to time we had something special to take to
school - the previous nights meat patties that my mother would wrap
in a checkered handkerchief from her native city of Kashan.

But let me say that the simple and down-to-earth life that we led
was very pleasant and had a special quality.  So much so that, in the
future, a blanket seemed as a down quilt, an ordinary meal was like a
feast and any wearable clothing had the feel of cashmere.  Had my
childhood been otherwise, the periods that followed would not have
given me much delight or pleasure.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 16
Draft of 1/5/09


I now realize that it was at that period of my life that I learned
the meaning of affection and the secret of success, thanks to my
parents.

As my father had a limited income, he had to economize; my
mother, knowing this, adapted herself and did likewise.  Fortunately,
they were in loving harmony in every aspect of their lives.  Their aim
and hope was to have a calm existence and to bring up their children in
a worthy manner.  They devoted everything to this goal.  To them, over-
reaching and waste was meaningless.

I remember one winter day, in order to buy me a pair of shoes, we
went to the domed Bazaar of Teheran (Photo#5) which runs many
hundreds of meters.  We visited a dozen shops, just so that the best
could be bought at the most reasonable price.  My mother would sew
her own, my sister's and my clothing with a great deal of joy and
happiness.  To do this gave her much pleasure.


THE HORSE-DRAWN TROLLEY CAR

From our home to school, which was far away, there was no
means of transportation, therefore we had to go on foot.  On some of
the more important avenues they had installed rails where wagons
were pulled by two horses.  The "cars" had two running boards on each
side, where the passengers stood in a row behind the driver.  In the
middle section there was a compartment where by paying a penny
more, you could sit.  Every few hundred meters, one of the wagons
would go to a side rail to let the one coming from the opposite direction
to pass.  Such travel was very time consuming and slow.  Quite often

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 17
Draft of 1/5/09

the wagon wheels would jump the rails, and all the passengers would
get off, and with the driver, all pleading God's help to put the "car" back
on the tracks!  These horse-drawn wagons, as well as the first steam
powered train, which went to a southern suburb of Teheran, were put
into operation by a Belgian company during the reign of the Qajar
Dynasty.  Later on, when the Pahlavis came to rule, this means of
travel was dismantled because it caused bottlenecks in the streets of
the Capitol.

The tickets were printed on green and yellow paper, to
differentiate between first and second class.  Even though the lowest
tariff was a fraction of a penny, we couldn't afford it, and anyway, we
got more exercise by walking, especially in those days that Teheran
was less crowded and it was nice to go on foot.

THE TARBIAT SCHOOLS

The Baha'is had established two schools by the name of Tarbiat
(education).  One was for girls and the other for boys.  They were
renowned for their teaching methods.  At the Schools, a progressive
curriculum was developed to provide children and youth with a well-
rounded education and at the same time teach them good behavior.
Well-trained educators and teachers ran these two schools.  Their full
time presence and diligence was not for the little money they received,
but rather because they believed that the service rendered in educating
children of diverse backgrounds and religions, was a service to
humanity and considered as worship.

The feeling at school was very good and although discipline was
strict, it was enforced in a considerate way.  Each student's work was
carefully monitored, but with utmost kindness.  This method of

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 18
Draft of 1/5/09

education was very successful, not only during those school days, but
even more so in later life.

There was never any physical punishment, such as using a whip,
or even verbal reprimand.  Counseling and proper words were used to
guide the wayward child.

As mentioned before, even though the tuition was only a few
pennies, my father had difficulties in paying it and often did so by
installments.

In those days, no electricity was supplied to homes.  Most
buildings, especially schools, had big windows to let in the light.  The
problem of heating was solved by installing a kerosene burning, black
metal stove, imported from Russia.  Students had to pay the equivalent
of two months tuition to buy the fuel used in those stoves.  For me
this was impossible.

Winter was approaching.  Because of the large windows, the cold
penetrated and made the rooms very chilly.  The time had come to
install the stoves.  They were put in the front of the class near where
the teacher sat.  They were lit only one or two hours in the morning
and even so the rooms were so cold that the students sat with their
overcoats, gloves and even scarves on.

As I had fairly good grades, normally they would let me sit in the
front rows.  But in the winter, because I had not paid my fuel fees, they
would send me to the back of the class.  This was to show justice to
those that had paid their bills and therefore, had a right to sit in the
front rows, closer to the heater.  There were no chairs, only benches

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 19
Draft of 1/5/09

without even a backrest.  The desks were simple, but had a shelf where
one could place his books, papers, etc.

Gym time was two hours, once a week, and consisted of
calisthenics and muscle building.  These same movements were to be
done at home so we could keep in shape.

The foreign language taught in those days was French.  This,
because the French were the first to develop a cultural exchange with
Iran and promote a knowledge of Western civilization among Iranians.
For this reason, the "St. Louis" and "Alliance" Schools were
established, first in Teheran and later in other cities, such as Isfahan.
It was during the reign of Fath-Ali Shah that Iran came to know
Europe, and especially, France.  Words such as "Farangi" (Foreigner)
came into usage and "Farangestan" (Land of Foreigners) became
synonymous with all Western nations.  Due to trips made by the Qajar
Kings and the Royal family, as well as wealthy youth, to France, the
language and culture of that country, especially in Teheran became
prominent and more literary and scientific books were translated from
French than any other language.  At the universities, French terms and
expressions were taught in technical and scientific colleges.  Most of
the students who went abroad, traveled to France and upon completion
of their education brought back French culture, habits and customs.
As a result, most older Iranians adopted and imitated French ways in
their day to day practices and activities.

During our school years, we also learned French because it was
in fashion and a sign of a good education.  In later years, the English
and Americans too established schools in Teheran and other cities,
and encouraged people to learn English.  Then the Germans started

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 20
Draft of 1/5/09

German speaking classes and soon opened a technical college using
their own language.

In the Tarbiat Schools, Baha'i teachers from America taught us
enough English that we could hold a conversation or read a simple
text.

COLLEGE TESTS

The first six years of Tarbiat School came to an end.  For the first
time the Ministry of Education decided that any student who had
finished Primary School should take a test in order to obtain a
certificate.  I went to the designated place, took the exam and
fortunately, got my diploma.  This was considered an important
accomplishment and encouraged me to attend the seventh grade in
English.  I was now 13 years old and wanted to continue my education,
preferably in English.  But the only place that had a secondary
curriculum was the "St. Louis School", a French language school,
located in the middle of the city and very, very far from our home.
Since there was no other choice, I decided to enroll there.

THE ST. LOUIS DAYS

Besides its great distance from where we lived, there was
another problem.  The tuition was much more than Tarbiat.
Furthermore, the students were mostly from rich and known families,
such as Farman-Farmian, Mossadegh, Pirnia, Shams, Hedjazi, etc.
They came to school in their private carriages, accompanied by their
governess' carrying their well provisioned lunch boxes.  Needless to
say, they were well received by the teachers and others.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 21
Draft of 1/5/09


The way these well-to-do children treated one another, was quite
different from their attitude towards me and a few others like myself.

I would walk a long way in winter through ice, snow and mud up
to my knees to get there.  When I entered class, my face and hands,
due to the cold, would be the color of a red beet!  In one hand I would
be carrying my books and note-papers, in the other, the well known
checkered handkerchief from Kashan, containing last night's bread and
some cheese or leftovers from yesterdays’ meal.  I well remember that
most of the students who came from wealthy or noble families would
bring, or have brought for them, their food in several pots, one piled on
top of another and eat in the school lunchroom.  But I was not
admitted.  There was no reason for me to go there anyway, since my
lunch bag was quite meager.  Needless to say that the contents of
those gentlemens' pots could feed several persons, but they were not
in the habit, contrary to traditional Iranian customs of hospitality and
generosity, of offering and sharing.  The rule they established was that
each one would eat his own food.

THANKS TO AGHA JAN, THE TOBACCONIST

Necessity forced me to find a solution.  In the street where the
St. Louis School was situated, a shop was run by a man called Mirza
Agha Jan, the cigar seller.  He had a medium sized stature, was very
polite and kind, had seen the ups and downs of life and had learned
the meaning of generosity and amiability.  He wasn't from the rich and
mighty, who did not know much about the feelings of the poorer
classes.  He gained his family's livelihood from selling cigars and
tobacco.  I fixed my thoughts on his shop and a few times stopped in
front of it.  I didn't dare enter, for there was no reason for a 14 year old

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 22
Draft of 1/5/09

student to go into such a place, especially since I had no intention of
buying any of his wares.  In my present school, as was in the Madreseh
Tarbiat School, if it became known that a student even touched a
cigarette, he would be thoroughly punished.

After observing that I appeared several times at the door of his
shop, the owner came out and in complete friendliness asked me; "Can
I do something for you?  Come in."  I was touched by his kindness and
this gave me much courage.  I said, "Yes, there is a problem that might
be solved by you.  My name is Habib and I live in Jenat Golshan Street.
It isn't long that I have come to study at the St. Louis School.  I have
no place to eat my lunch.  One can't eat in the classrooms.  They won't
let me in the lunchroom because I don't come from a noble or well to
do family.  I can't sit in the street and lay out my bread and cheese in
my handkerchief and start to eat in front of all the passersby.  It would
take hours for me to go home, eat, and come back.  I was wondering if I
could ask your permission, without bothering or asking anything from
you, to sit in a corner of your shop, have my lunch, and leave?"  This
good-hearted man, as if a son had asked for something from his father,
smiled, and changed my hope into a reality by saying, "With pleasure,
in the back of the shop, there is a small eating area, where you can
enjoy your noon meal in complete tranquillity."  This example of human
kindness can never be forgotten and as time goes by, its effect leaves
such an impression on a person's inner being, that like a holy text,
one wants to pass it on to others.

THE PARADE GROUNDS

In the northwestern part of Teheran, there was a huge field
called "The Training Grounds".  It was here that the Army would hold
its maneuvers and Reza Shah, The Great (father of Mohammed Reza

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 23
Draft of 1/5/09

Pahlavi) reviewed the military parades.  Later, it was converted into a
huge public park with cafes and restaurants, a music stand, and a
theater, which the masses could enjoy, especially during the pleasant
Teheran nights.  Many years after, Government buildings were
constructed such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Officers Club, The
Archaeological Museum, The Main Post Office, and one of the oil
company offices, leaving no trace of that memorable park.

THE ARRIVAL OF THE FIRST AIRPLANE IN IRAN

One day in 1925, a plane hovered over Teheran piloted by a man
named Kuzminski.  He searched for a place to land, and chose this
field.  At that moment, hundreds of people climbed onto the rooftops of
the stores and shops bordering that field to see their first "balloon", as
a plane was called in those days.  I, too, joined the crowds and found
myself a rooftop.  Needless to say, for people who had not even seen
an automobile, the sight of an airplane landing in Teheran was
unbelievable.

One of my teachers, Rashid Yassemi, was present on that
occasion, and although 65 years have gone by, the memory of that
exceptionally learned man is fresh in my mind.  The reason?  Because
he helped and was kind to all of his students.  You have certainly
observed that if you show consideration to a child, it will certainly
reflect in his attitude towards you.  If you are friendly to him, he will be
friendly to you.  Help him, and he will be helpful.  He will learn these
positive traits and as a human being develop them easily and at the
right time and for the rest of his life, put them into practice.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 24
Draft of 1/5/09

AT THE ST. LOUIS SCHOOL

The St. Louis School provided a complete curriculum for Iranian
students in a well organized education program.  Whether a child was
poor or rich, didn't matter to the group that ran that institution.  Their
main aim was to offer the best, not only in teaching but also in
upbringing.  If a pupil didn't have the possibilities to buy books, paper,
pen, pencil, etc., they would help him, directly or indirectly.

At the beginning, there were two teachers, Father Galo and
Father Chatlet, both very serious and methodical.  At the same time
that they demanded that the students do their work as best as they
could, they encouraged and rewarded their pupils with the utmost
kindness.

TEACHING GHOLAM HOSSEIN MOSSADEGH

The teachers at school were aware of the financial resources of
the students.  They knew that my situation was difficult, and tried to
find a solution.  One of my classmates, Gholam Hossein Mossadegh,
was the son of a very famous man (Photo#6).  They contacted His
Excellency Mossadegh-o-Saltaneh who agreed to give me six Tomans a
month (about one U.S. Dollar) to go to his house and review the days
work with his son.  This sum was a big help towards my education.
Every afternoon, after school closed, their carriage and his governess
would come for Gholam Hossein, take him home, serve his tea and
biscuits, and let him have a little rest.  I in the meantime would have
to walk quickly to get to their house, about two kilometers away.  This
social class segregation was very pronounced, not only between primary
and secondary school students, but also at college level between
teachers and professors.  As stated before, I was not allowed to eat in

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 25
Draft of 1/5/09

the same lunchroom as the well to do boys, even though we were
classmates.  Social edicts did not permit me to ride in Gholam
Hossein's carriage, although I was his tutor, nor to have tea with him,
after having done our homework together.  These social class
differences did not disturb or discourage me, for my main aim was to
advance in my studies and reach higher levels of education.

His home was extremely well decorated.  For me, it was
wonderful to see those beautiful rugs and furnishings and have a
chance to sit in those lovely chairs.  With utmost happiness and in a
friendly spirit, we reviewed our homework.   After an hour, I would head
for home.  Sometimes it was warm, sometimes it was cold, but it was
always after dark and the evening shadows scared me.  Once in our
house, which of course could in no ways be compared with
Mossadegh's, I had some tea and sweets and forgot the toils and
fatigue of the day.  Then I enjoyed my mother's cooking, which was
prepared with diligence and love.

One of the results of this simple day to day life, my mother's
home cooking, and ordinary matters, was to teach me in later years to
be thankful and appreciate everyone and everything.  During my
lifetime, I met many people from different walks of life and came to
know their characters, attitudes and social position.  It became clear to
me that although they had everything one could ask for, they were
often unhappy and dissatisfied.  I asked myself; "Why is it so?"
Finally, by comparing their lives with my own, I realized that during
their childhood and youth, they were surrounded by such blessings and
possibilities, that later on, there was nothing new or better to bring
them joy and happiness.  Whatever they would acquire would be tiring
and boring.  Yes, to appreciate water, you have to be thirsty.  The
thirstier you are, the more you'll cherish it.  To obtain even a few

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 26
Draft of 1/5/09

drops, you'll work hard and struggle, but eventually you'll be
successful.

The point is that wealthy parents should not spoil their children.
For, if their off-spring have everything easy, there will be no reason to
trouble themselves to earn money or work hard to prove their
capabilities.

REWARD AND PUNISHMENT

In order to encourage the students to do their utmost, both in
the Tarbiat and the St. Louis schools, the teachers gave out small
colored cards with various citations such as "Good", "Fair" and
"Excellent."  The pupil's name was written on top and had the
signature of the Headmaster and stamp of the school.  They were
awarded either at the end of each month or on special occasions, with
pomp and ceremony.  Needless to say, this had an extreme effect on
our morals.  I too, received some of those cards, and because they were
handed out on merit and not on one's social position, justice was
done.

Likewise, those who didn't study well or were mischievous were
punished.  This meant that they had to stay after school, or during
their lunch hour, to write a certain word or text hundreds of times,
covering page after page.  For many of my classmates, this was
considered a miserable ordeal, but for me it was a blessing.  For those
lazy classmates of mine wanted a way out.  So, they begged me to do it
for them.  In exchange for each page that I wrote, they would give me
five blank sheets, and often added a pencil for my toils.  In reality, this
barter solved my problem of writing materials.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 27
Draft of 1/5/09

THE TITLE OF "COMMANDING GENERAL"

We had half an hour before classes and one hour after lunch for
recreation.  I used this time to exercise or play simple games.  Some
days I would be writing punishment texts for my friends.  Even so, I
found enough time to print a newspaper called "Witness" which would
narrate the day or week's happenings, and distribute it among the
pupils of our school.  This contact with the student body led me to
organize various groups. Among them a team was formed to exercise
and drill in military fashion.  Because of this, the students at the St.
Louis school gave me the nickname of "Commanding General" which
they still use when we see one another.  Those childhood friendships,
which are based on sincerity, kindliness, and camaraderie, last forever
and continue to give one great pleasure.  For this reason, we long to
have reunions and refresh our memories of those days.  In 1942 I went
to the USA, and when I came back to Iran in 1947, I invited the
students of St. Louis and Father Galo, who had now become
headmaster, for a dinner at Darband Hotel.  We all realized that it was
the close ties established in those early days of our lives that makes
us happy when we get together.

DEAR UNCLE'S BICYCLE

If you recall, I was tutoring Gholam Hossein Mossadegh1 and
getting six Tomans (about 80 cents) a month which was a great help for
my schooling.  This money plus ten Tomans, which I had saved would
now be put to good use.


1 Dr. Mossadegh, the father of Gholam Hossein, was the Prime Minister who nationalized the Iranian oil
industry.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 28
Draft of 1/5/09

As stated before, I had four uncles.  One of them, Rahim Khan
Arjomand, the father of Khalil, Eskandar, and Siavoush, founded the
famous Arj and Shole Khavar Factories.  Mr. Arjomand was very kind,
precise, knowledgeable, and had a good memory.  He started as a clerk
in the offices of the Post and Telegraph and in a short time became the
Under-Secretary of that Ministry and was sent as Iran's Delegate to
international postal conferences.

In his youth, he had bought a bicycle which served him well, but
now, because of his high position, Rahim Khan didn't ride it anymore
and had hung it on a wall in his cellar.  Many parts of this bicycle had
become rusty and it didn't have tires.  However, I felt that even though
it has so many defects, I'll be able to fix and use it.  I asked my uncle
to give it to me so I could save it from exile.  He said he would agree,
but only if I handed him nine Tomans.  i. e. buy it for that sum.

Of course at that moment I was disappointed that my dear uncle
wanted me to pay for that piece of junk, but because I needed it and
the price was not too high, I accepted.  It was later that I realized that
what my uncle had done was absolutely right.  The fact that he did not
give the bicycle away free, taught me something, for which I am
grateful.  The lesson is that a person should be compensated for his
work or product and should not offer it free just because someone
expects a favor or puts him "on the spot."  Likewise, others should also
accept to pay for what they obtain and not always count on getting
things free or benefiting from people's generosity.  Of course there are
exceptions.  Helping out and being big hearted at the right time, are
meritorious examples of a real human being, as is the act of accepting
such.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 29
Draft of 1/5/09

TOLSTOY

The bicycle affair with my uncle and this question of paying for
something reminds me of an interesting story.  The scene is a Russian
city.  A lady gets off the train and starts to look for a porter to carry her
baggage to a horse-drawn carriage.  She spots a respectable-looking
man.  “Don't delay”, she says to herself, “he is a good porter”.  She
calls him and orders that he carry her bag to a taxi carriage which was
waiting for a fare.  The man without the slightest hesitation, picks up
the heavy bag and puts it into the vehicle.  The lady gives him three
Rubles and tells the driver to start the horses.  But the story doesn't
end here.  While starting to move, the driver turns around and says,
"Madame, you surely didn't recognize what an important and famous
person acted as your porter!"  Her reply, "No, wasn't he a porter?"  The
driver in a loud voice and laughing tells her, "My dear lady - that was
Tolstoy, the well-known Russian philosopher, writer and educator, who
is much admired and loved by the people of all of Russia."  The lady,
regretting her mistake, tells the driver to turn the carriage around and
catch up with Tolstoy.  Fortunately, he had not gotten far.  The lady, in
excusing herself, asked for his pardon, admitting her ignorance as to
his identity.  Tolstoy, even though from a noble family, never expected
such apologies, and in a kindly manner, which was the key to his
character, replies, "My dear lady, doing work in any form makes me
proud.  I carried your bag with the utmost joy and was amply rewarded
by three Rubles.  Moreover, when a few drops of sweat from my brow
fell on your suitcase, I better appreciated the compensation that I
received for my work.  Therefore, why should you feel ashamed or feel
that you have to apologize?  Please continue to your destination
without any discomfort."

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 30
Draft of 1/5/09

By selling his bicycle, my uncle too taught me a lesson.  That day
nine Tomans was no problem, especially since it was money that I had
saved from tutoring young Mossadegh.

I paid cash and began to clean and repair it.  Just to get rid of
the rust, took a whole week of scrubbing with sandpaper and kerosene.
There still remained the hard job of repairing it and finding two tires.
Finally, it had to be painted, a matter about which I knew nothing!

On a street called "Gaslight", (later, "Electric Light", later, "Amir
Kabir"), although very narrow, horse drawn carriages went up and down.
Along this street, two Baha'i brothers ran a carpentry shop and a
bicycle store, side by side.  The older brother's name was Mohammed
Reza Khan, the younger, Mohammed Taghi Khan.  The word "Khan"
dates form the Turkish and Mogul invasions and has crept into Farsi
(the language of Iran or Persia of old).  Even at the beginning of the
Pahlavi Dynasty, it was used as a title of respect.  Later, on orders
from Reza Shah Pahlavi, (the father of the last Monarch of Iran), it was
abandoned.

The aforementioned brothers chose the family name "Tom" when
identity cards were established in modern Iran. (Photo#7)

Mohammed Taghi Khan was a very capable mechanic.  Even
though he had no formal education in this field, through observation
and a quick mind, he became an expert in technical matters.  In those
days, there were no motorcycles or automobiles - only bicycle repairs.

The older brother, Mohammed Reza Khan, was very smart and
his specialty was making violins, which became renowned and were
bought and sold at a high price.  Both brothers, besides being hard

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 31
Draft of 1/5/09

workers and very talented, were very polite, honest, and had a high
standard of morality.  Their aim was to perform high quality work and
render service to humanity.

On one of those days that I didn't have to tutor young
Mossadegh, I went directly from school to Mohammed Taghi Khan's
bicycle store and lingered for a while.  While there, I observed the
various operations needed to repair a bicycle and overheard some of
the remarks and demands of the customers.  For example "Put some
air in the tires," "The bell doesn't ring," "The brakes on my bike don't
work," "The pedal has fallen off," etc. etc.  A busy place - A lot of work.
People coming and going all the time.  Mohammed Taghi Khan, with
only two apprentices who couldn't even read or write, did all the repairs
and at a fast pace.  They would get one or two pennies per job and send
off their customers very happy and satisfied.

A thought came to my mind and that was to meet the shop
owner.  I had doubts about doing it or not doing it.  Should I speak to
him or not?  Should I tell him my problem?  Should I give him my
suggestions, or forget about the whole thing?  I said to myself, "This
man seems very polite and moreover, is very much occupied with his
work; yet doesn't have enough workers - it's better that I have a
discussion with him".

With great faith, I went forward and said, "Sir, may I have a few
words with you?  My name is Habib.  I am a student at the St. Louis
School.  I bought a bicycle that needs to be put in order.  It has no
tires, and I don't even know the price of tires and inner tubes".  He
said, “two Tomans, and with the other things to be done, it will cost
you a total of 5 Tomans, but you need pay only 4.6 Tomans."  I said, "I
have no money!  But if you agree, please give me two tires and repair

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 32
Draft of 1/5/09

the bicycle and in place of money, I'll come and work for you two
afternoons per week plus all day Fridays until my account is settled.
Be sure that I already have some experience, having repaired my own
bicycle.  You can test me and after that, accept my proposition."

As he was a self-made man, very kind, and knew how it feels to
have no money, he appreciated the meaning of helping others.
Therefore, he accepted my proposition and from the next day on, two
afternoons a week, I would go there directly and work with a great deal
of enthusiasm.  He gave me the tires and my bicycle became
operational.  It took me back and forth to school and Dr. Mossadegh's
house.

At the shop, I persevered hard and showed much interest in my
work.  Because of my schooling, I was able to spot the problems faster
than the other trainees and therefore, put things right rather quickly.
My boss showed his appreciation by offering me a full time job with
good pay.  Because my time was limited, and the hours spent there
were only to pay for the tires and inner tubes, I had to refuse this kind
gentleman's offer.

One afternoon, as I entered Dr. Mossadegh's home, the
Governess said, "After you have finished your tutoring, the Doctor
wants to see you."  This made me very happy as Gholam Hossein had
done well in his studies and his teachers were quite satisfied.  I
thought to myself that because of this, the Doctor will surely give me a
good reward today.  Will it be money?  Clothing?  An overcoat, or
something else?

After our session, I said to the Governess, "The tutoring has
finished.  I am ready to see the Dr."  My joy was ever increasing.  She

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 33
Draft of 1/5/09

left and came back saying, "Come into the Dr.'s room."  I went into his
study, which was a fairly large room, with a high ceiling, decorated with
lovely plaster-work.  The floor was covered by a beautiful carpet and Dr.
Mossadegh was sitting on a mattress hidden under a rug with pillows
behind it, as backrests.  I bowed.  He acknowledged with a polite
gesture.  He then said "I am satisfied with the tutoring you gave to
Gholam Hossein.  But because his studies have improved, from
tomorrow on, you don't have to come anymore."  Considering that I was
expecting something else, these words for me were like the bomb that
exploded on Hiroshima.

Gholam Hossein had a younger sister, named Mansoureh, who in
later years married Dr. Matin Dafftari, a Minister of Justice, and at one
time, Prime Minister under Reza Shah.  She would sit in when her
brother and I did our homework together, saying she too wanted to
learn French.  She would listen and sometimes ask questions about
certain words.  From time to time, Mansoureh would bring us tea and
sweets.

Hearing Dr. Mossadegh's words, I became very upset, for the
money I received for tutoring his son was used to pay for my education.
What would I do now?  Tears came to my eyes.  He noticed this, but
didn't show any sorrow, nor did he say anything.  I said, "In that
Gholam Hossein’s marks have improved and that you are content,
makes me very happy and I feel a sense of pride.  His teachers too
have expressed their satisfaction and have told me so.  I didn't expect
much more than that, but what you paid me was a big help towards my
schooling and now all of a sudden, to be deprived of it, will cause a
great hardship.  I would like to make a suggestion: since there are only
two months left before the end of the school year, permit me to tutor
both of your children, for the same amount of six Tomans (less than

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 34
Draft of 1/5/09

one dollar) per month.”  The Dr., realizing my situation and needs,
accepted my proposal.

It was now 1918.  The school year had ended and so had World
War I.  Everyone was happy and I shared in that general joy.  More
than that, I was privileged to own a suitable bicycle that added to my
bliss.  Yes, there are some who have palaces and own luxurious means
of travel, but don't appreciate them.  For me, who had almost nothing,
this old bicycle which had been repaired with so much care, brought
the greatest happiness.

This bicycle, which had a light, a bell and a horn, attracted a lot
of attention, especially among the children in our block.  When they
heard it coming, they would come out and surround it, asking such
questions as, "How does it work?  Can I ring the bell?  Can I squeeze
the horn?  Can you take us for a ride?"

After a while, the parents would appear and ask if I could teach
their sons to ride a bicycle, offering to pay for the lessons.  It was a
good idea, which I readily accepted.  They paid a penny an hour to learn
to ride a bike.  Needless to say, there were many customers.

To teach bicycle riding at that rate brought me a good income and
also left me some free time to do better things.  So, I went to
Mohammed Taghi Khan's bicycle shop and, in gratitude for his help
when I had needed it, offered to repair bicycles, free of charge.  Often,
we had lunch together, eating the stew that they cooked in a small clay
pot.

THE FIRST MOTORCYCLE IN IRAN

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 35
Draft of 1/5/09

One day, while working in Mohammad Taghi Khan's shop, I
spotted a motorcycle, which my boss was examining very closely.  He
wanted to know what each part did and especially how the motor
worked.  The owner of the motorcycle only knew how to ride it and had
no knowledge of its mechanical aspects.  Therefore, he needed
someone to learn it's secrets and be able to repair it in due course.  In
a short time, Mohammed Taghi Khan acquainted himself with the
various parts of the motorcycle and even rode it up and down the
street.

ACROBATICS IN THE PRESENCE OF AHMAD SHAH

Mohammed Taghi Khan rode a bicycle so well that he could even
do acrobatics with it.  One day he was invited to the Shah's Palace,
located in Farah Abbad (North East of Teheran) to perform for Ahmad
Shah Qhajar2 and the Crown Prince, Mohammed Hassan Mirza.

On the appointed day, I joined him.  We went through the
vegetable gardens of the North, where the wonderful smell of
cucumbers filled the air.  We entered His Majesty's compound.  I saw
the last Qhajar King.  He was short in stature and had black eyebrows
and black eyes.  He wore a black sheepskin hat that had a medallion
bearing the Imperial Coat of Arms sewn on it.  Mohammed Hassan
Mirza, the Crown Prince, too, was short, wore a similar hat, but
without the imperial emblem and had a jacket with golden lion and sun
buttons.

The acrobatic show pleased the Qhajar Shah and the Crown
Prince and both smiled.  During the performance, the Shah ordered a
servant to bring him a handkerchief.  He went and brought back a

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 36
Draft of 1/5/09

neatly folded handkerchief on a plate.  His Majesty, with a loud sound,
blew his nose and placed the handkerchief on the plate.  I thought to
myself that a handkerchief doesn't have to be put on a plate, or have to
go through such a ceremony!  It was later that I found out that such
things are part of courtly practices and demands of an era gone by.
What's more, paper handkerchiefs did not exist at that time, and
maybe tradition had it that a monarch was not supposed to have a
handkerchief in his pocket.

On our way back, Mohammad Taghi Khan told me about a family
from Rasht (Northwest of Iran) called Ebtehaj and about one of their
sons named Abol Hassan Khan who was very generous and had helped
many of his fellow citizens, including my boss.  I realized that
appreciation and gratitude are signs of a great man.  Not only did I
learn technical subjects from Mohammed Taghi Khan, but also good
manners, and especially how to be helpful to people and show
friendship to all.  From him I learned the pleasure of being kind and
rendering service to God's creation.  Through the years, it has become
very clear to me that humans are thirsty for love and cannot support
animosity or negative attitudes.

MOTORCYCLES WERE ON THE INCREASE IN IRAN

Slowly, the number of motorcycles increased and the only place
that could service or repair them was the bicycle shop of Mohammad
Taghi Khan.  It was there that my mechanical knowledge increased and
in a short time I too was able to service and repair motorcycles.

As mentioned before, the first World War had just ended, and
foreign troops, the English in particular, were evacuating.  The British

2 This was the dynasy before the Pahlavis.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 37
Draft of 1/5/09

Army had a depot in Ghazvin, (about 100 kms west of Teheran) where
munitions and a small quantity of vehicles, especially Ford pick-ups,
were stored.  One day a person came to the shop and informed
Mohammad Taghi Khan that there are a number of practically new cars
and small trucks for sale, but so far no buyers had come forth.  The
man insisted that Mohammad Taghi Khan go to Ghazvin and buy one of
these pick-ups.

The decision to go or not to go was difficult because in Iran of
1918, no one had an automobile except the Russian Embassy.
Therefore, no one knew how to drive a car, there were no spare parts
and no one knew how to repair one.  For these reasons, there was no
buyer of a car, let alone a pick-up!  Another reason was that there were
no roads and the available paths had pot-holes, crossed water
trenches, no bridges existed over rivers, etc., etc.  The paths were only
good for caravans, horse drawn carriages, donkeys, etc. and could not
be used by a vehicle.

The middle-man, who wanted the deal to go through, insisted
that if Mohammad Taghi Khan bought a car, he would become the
owner of the first private car in Iran.  This idea made my friend's eyes
flash.  But, in addition to the difficulties mentioned before, there was
another more important one, he did not have enough money!  I
suggested to the man that he return in a few days and maybe we'll find
a solution by then.

I felt that a quick decision was not right.  Even from childhood, I
believed that one should not be in a hurry to give a reply but rather
study the situation and think well before giving a negative answer.
Better still, one should try to find a solution, for there is greater
pleasure and satisfaction in finding a way rather than saying 'no'.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 38
Draft of 1/5/09


I told Mohammad Taghi Khan that sooner or later, automobiles
will be brought to Teheran and other cities of Iran and will become
commonplace.  Therefore, to be the first seems logical.  He replied that
technical and monetary reasons made it difficult.  I said, "There is no
one more experienced than you in mechanical matters, you're well
suited for this.  Regarding the financial aspect, let's first go to
Ghazvin, inspect the vehicle, ask the price, and then find the solution.
Even if we don't buy it, we'll have taken a small trip and added to our
knowledge."

My boss agreed and a few days later when the middle-man
showed up, we arranged to meet him at the depot.  Mohammad Taghi
Khan and I went to Ghazvin, which is about 100 kilometers away, on
our bicycles and found the British camp located outside of that town.
There were hundreds of piles of all sorts of war materiels.

In a corner, under the sun, three Ford pick-ups, which had two
seats in the front and a space for goods in the back, could be seen.
Although neither one of us had any experience to differentiate a good
car from a bad one, we headed for the one that looked better than the
others and had good tires and asked the price.

The reply was, "150 Tomans” (about 25 Dollars).  At that time,
this amount was high, but for such a vehicle, it seemed reasonable.
We looked at one another.  Can we put together such a sum?  My
companion said, "I have 100 Tomans, so we lack 50!"  In those days,
anyone who had 100 Tomans was considered rich and creditworthy.
You know well that money by itself is not a sign of character or the
importance of a person.  For there are many rich people who have little
manners or human qualities.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 39
Draft of 1/5/09


Anyway, Mohammad Taghi Khan already had 100 Tomans and 50
was lacking.  What should be done?  I remarked that he had many
friends back in Teheran.  Maybe he could borrow 50 Tomans from one
or two of them.  He said that was a good idea, let's go back to Teheran
and discuss it with some of them.

Regarding borrowing, there are various opinions and ideologies.
In Islam and some other religions, it is permitted, moreover, such an
act is a sign of generosity and true friendship.

For the matter of buying the pick-up, a loan was imperative.  He
was able to get the needed money from a Mr. Borhan and his close
friends.  With 150 Tomans in our pockets, and a great deal of caution
for carrying such a great sum, we returned to Ghazvin.  We asked for a
discount on the price.  We tried to bargain.  Nothing doing.  The seller
was not Iranian.  The price was fixed.  My boss handed him the 150
Tomans and became the owner of a Ford pick-up, which he didn't know
how to drive.  What to do?  How does one start it up?  How to take it to
Teheran?  Once there, where would we garage it?

This reminded me of a story about a Maharajah who went to
Rome to visit his former teacher, living in a modest house.  Upon his
return to India, His Majesty sent his host an elephant in appreciation
of his hospitality.  The man didn't know how to feed or where to keep
an elephant.  What was he to do with this valuable gift?  Finally, he
gave it to the Zoo and cleared his conscience vis-à-vis the kindness of
the Maharajah.  A poem from Saadi says, "Either don't befriend an
elephant keeper or build a place to house the elephant!"

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 40
Draft of 1/5/09

TAKING THE VEHICLE TO TEHERAN

The phrase "necessity is the mother of invention" was put to
test.  I suggested that we hire two horses, tie the pick-up to them like
a carriage, and in this way take it to Teheran.

This idea worked well and after a few days, the pick-up was in
front of the bicycle shop.  Then we pushed and pulled it inside.  There,
my mentor went to work, and day and night, spent his time in finding
out its mechanical secrets and eventually, how it functions.  He would
do and undo various parts until finally, he was able to start the engine.
But he did not dare take it out or drive it.

As mentioned before, the Russian Embassy had the only
automobile in Teheran.  From time to time, its driver would come to the
shop to repair parts or discuss matters.  This time, Mohammed Taghi
Khan went to seek his help and after a little practice, learned how to
drive.  This "new" driver would take the pick-up out and bring it back.
But, upon arriving in front of the shop, he would stop the engine and
we would have to push it inside!  The reason for this was that he
feared hitting the doors or the walls or the brakes not taking hold.

The vehicle was painted from top to bottom and ready for work.
The question now was that after all that great investment and trouble,
how could it be used?

TO SEE AN AUTOMOBILE

Because in those days an automobile was considered a
miraculous invention, group after group came to see the above
mentioned pick-up.  They would stare at it and ask such questions as:

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 41
Draft of 1/5/09

“What is the mirror for?; How does it start and how does it move?;
Does it burn wood or kerosene or coal?; How does it cross rivers?;
What if it stops in the middle of a river?”; etc., etc.

Peoples’ curiosity and the desire to see an automobile and even
more, to ride one was unbelievable.  We too, were considering ways of
how best to benefit from it.  Should it be used to transport goods?
Should it carry passengers?  Should we keep it for our own use?
Seeing that people were anxious to ride a car, I suggested that we take
off the back platform and build a cabin with seats in its place to carry
passengers.

We asked Mohammed Reza Khan, the brother of my mentor, who
was a capable carpenter, to build a wooden body.  He said bring me a
picture and with the help of ironsmiths and coach builders, we'll put
something good together.  And so they did.  In four months the pick-up
was transformed into a station wagon.

Now, we had to find a way to exploit this car.  I suggested that
we take it to a central square in the middle of Teheran, park it in a
favorable spot, and offer to give rides at 5 or 6 cents a person,
transporting them to the suburb of Tajrish, Gholhak or just around
town.  This idea became a reality and soon there were dozens of people
waiting in line to: "Have a ride in an automobile."

SUMMER VACATIONS IN GHOLHAK

In the north of Teheran, at the foot of the Alburz Mountains, a
vacation spot developed by the name of Shemranat, the best area being
Gholhak, because of its cool, pure air and a murmuring river which
passed through it.  In the summer, when Teheran became very hot,

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 42
Draft of 1/5/09

thousands of people would flock to it, using every means possible.  The
wealthy would go in private carriages, others by horse, but the majority
would get on donkeys and trek their way up hill to this most inviting
paradise.  Incidentally, the British had chosen this location for their
summer residence.

On Thursday afternoons (which is like Saturday in Western
countries) or the beginning of weekends, Mohammed Taghi Khan's
automobile ran a shuttle between Teheran and Gholhak.  The fares he
collected in two days was more than the 150 Tomans he paid for the
pick-up.  He got a great deal of pleasure and also made good money,
which led me to think that other things could be done in relation to
Gholhak.

I suggested that a bicycle shop be set up in Gholhak during the
summers, for which I would accept the responsibility.  I would repair
bikes, teach how to ride one, and rent them to people who wanted a
means of getting about.  More importantly, on the days that
vacationers wanted to go back to work, we would rent them a bicycle,
they would ride it down hill to Teheran, deposit them at the downtown
shop, and we would place the bikes on top of, or on the side of the auto
and bring them up to be ready for another rental.  He agreed, and soon
an ideal place, well located, was rented for 12 cents a month, and the
activities began.  After work I would sleep in the shop and as expected,
there was a big demand for bicycles and so I was not only busy during
the summer but also had a good income.

From time to time, Mohammed Taghi Khan would bring the auto
to the Gholhak shop and I would add water to the radiator or splash
water on the wooden spokes of the wheel so they would not dry out.
Soon I learned to drive the car and often I replaced him in the run

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 43
Draft of 1/5/09

between Teheran and Gholhak, but for his account.  I had to be very
careful and avoid accidents.  One day I missed hitting a horse-driven
trolley by just a few centimeters, and said "Thank God" that nothing
happened.

It was the year 1920, I was 17, and the summer was ending.
School would begin soon.  Although my tutoring fees from Dr.
Mossadegh had ended, I was not worried for I had a good bicycle, had
learned to drive a car, learned a little about mechanics, was accepted
by my mentor, and now it was time to continue my education.

In this same year, an insurance and transport company had
imported 4 automobiles made by Willys Overland.  They were for sale,
but no one came to buy one because no one knew how to drive, and
they were gathering dust.  Then one day a Mr. & Mrs. Assef Saltaneh,
members of a prominent family and the parents of Amir Houshang
Davaloo, considered buying one of them.  Lack of a driver was the big
problem.  So they contacted my mentor for a solution.  He introduced
me for the job because he was so busy with his car, repairs of bicycles
and motorcycles, etc. that he did not even have a few hours free.

Sometime later, Mr. Mirza Ahmed Ghazvini, who changed his
family name to Rassekh, and was the father of Dr. Shahpour Rassekh,
contacted me.  Mr. Ghazvini supervised the estates and business
affairs of Mr. Assef Saltaneh.  He told me that His Grace is thinking of
buying one of those four cars and is looking for a driver.  Do you want
and will you accept such a job?

I replied, “I like working and being busy especially driving, but I
am going to school and that, for me, comes first.”  However, I could
work from Thursday noon to Saturday morning, which is the weekend.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 44
Draft of 1/5/09

Mr. Rassekh agreed and fixed a monthly salary of 50 Tomans.  Then we
went to take delivery of the car, which was painted black, and for which
he paid 750 Tomans.  I drove it to their home and at first it was housed
in the carriage building.  Later, they built a garage in a corner of the
garden.

During the week, I went to St. Louis School, and on Thursday
afternoons and Fridays, drove the family and their guests to Gholhak,
or Tajrish.  In addition to my salary, Mrs. Assef Saltaneh would tip me
with a few gold coins, as did some of their guests.

The two sons of this noble family, Amir Houshang and Ghassem
Khan, loved to go for a drive.  From the moment that I arrived, they
would be with me, treating me with tea and sweets and often offered
me lunch and dinner.  Their parents too were very generous and during
the one year that I was with them I felt completely at home.

Mrs. Assef Saltaneh told me not to let her sons get behind the
wheel, or even try to drive the car.  The only other person that was
allowed to get near the car was the gardener and then, to clean it.  So,
the car was parked in its garage five days a week, and all eagerly
awaited Thursday afternoons, when it would come out to be driven and
enjoyed.

THE FIRST TRIP TO GHAZVIN

Mr. Assef Saltaneh, who had the title of "Jenab" (Sir), wanted to
travel by automobile to his estates in Ghazvin, accompanied by his
advisor, Mirza Ahmed Rassekh.  But Mrs. Saltaneh was fearful that
their automobile would suffer too much.  I accepted the task and on a
holiday we set out for Ghazvin.  The so called "road" was an enemy for

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 45
Draft of 1/5/09

the automobile, for it was dusty, full of pot holes and plenty of curves.
Ditches and sometimes small rivers had to be crossed.  But with the
utmost care and vigilance, we made the 100 or so kilometers in eight
hours.  I had to stop every so often to check the tires and make sure
they were not over-heated or punctured, as well as to check the oil and
water levels.  Coming back was the same, except that I had received a
box of rice cookies and pistachios to take to my parents.

STREET CLEANING IN OLD TEHERAN

My first year of service to the Assef Saltaneh family ended and
during this time, all the salary and gold coins that I got were entrusted
to Mirza Ahmed Rassekh for safe keeping.  In reality, my driving
experience and these savings were my assets.

Since there were only three automobiles in Teheran in 1918, lack
of rules and regulations permitted free circulation.  Yet on the other
hand, there were few streets suitable for easy passage.  In winter there
was snow, ice, and mud and in the summer, dust would hamper easy
driving.  To reduce the dust level, the municipality had workers,
carrying large goatskin pouches filled with water, go up and down the
main streets and avenues to spray them.  Some shop-keepers would
even tip them to spray water in front of their stores.

Someone came up with the idea of taking large barrels, putting
them on horse drawn chariots, attaching a long water pipe drilled with
holes in them, and thus spray the thoroughfares.  Old and young were
fascinated with this innovation.  Later on, the municipality bought a
specially constructed tank truck for this important job!

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 46
Draft of 1/5/09

Many remember that in those days Teheran did not have a piped
water system.  There were large "Qhanats" or springs with an
abundance of water in the north of the city.

By gravity, the water would flow through a network of open
ditches on both sides of the streets.  In the cellar of homes, buildings,
stores, etc. a water reservoir was built to store water.  Underground
ceramic pipes were used to conduct the water from the ditches to the
reservoirs.  To do this, one had to stand in front of his house, usually
late at night when the water was cleanest, dam the ditch, thus
diverting the water into his house, and when his reservoir was filled,
open the way for his neighbor to get his share.  You can imagine what
confusion, bickering and shouting took place.  Patience became a virtue
and even the trees had to wait their turn.

Thursdays were our block's turn and my father would have to stay
up all night if need be until our reservoir was filled.  Otherwise there
would be a shortage of water for a whole week.

THE FIRST ELECTRICAL POWER PLANT IN TEHERAN

I spoke about Teheran's unlit, dark streets before.  There was no
electricity and the matter was of such importance that the first street
where electric lamps were installed was named "Electric Lamp Avenue."
The first generating plant was put up by a man named Haj Mehdi Amin
who also was the manager of the coin minting factory under
Nasseradin-Shah.  The engine was coal fired and produced steam
power, which ran the generator.  Initially it produced just enough
electricity for the above mentioned street, a square and some bordering
houses.  Other thoroughfares were either dark or lit by small kerosene
lamps hung on walls or poles.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 47
Draft of 1/5/09


THE TELEPHONE

The telephone was just introduced and was not available to all.
Cabins with one phone and an operator were installed at some
important crossroads.  These were considered as local telephone posts
and people would go there and pay the attendant 2 or 3 pennies
depending on the time and distance of the call.  The operator then
would call the central office, stating the name of the person on the
other side and once connected, the call would go through.  The number
of subscribers and the network was so limited, that names were used
and not numbers.

AUTOMOBILES AND NAILS

Traffic or bottlenecks did not exist in those days.  The biggest
problem in driving were the nails that had come off the donkeys’ and
horses’ hooves and littered the streets and roads, and continually
punctured the tires.  Vehicles were not equipped with spare tires or
lights.

For example, when the car got a puncture between Teheran and
Gholhak, I would stop on the spot, take out the spare inner tube which
was stored under my seat, change it with the one that had a hole in it,
and with a hand-operated air pump fill it with air.  One person alone
could not manage this task.  So, all the passengers, regardless of their
social position, including women with their chadors (head to foot veils)
would get off and help.  Not only because they thought it was a
humanly act, but more, to get going again and benefit from their
automobile outing.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 48
Draft of 1/5/09


Pedestrians, seeing or hearing a car, would remain on the
sidewalk, looking at it with awe, not daring to cross the street.

MASS TRANSPORTATION

The peoples' desire to travel by automobiles was on the increase,
mostly to Shiraz, Esfahan, Baghdad, etc., but in particular, to a
Caspian Sea resort called "Andali", which was later renamed "The Port
of Pahlavi".

They would contact Mohammed Taghi Khan, but he, because of
the bicycle store and a dozen other activities, would refuse their
request for transportation.  I too, being busy with my studies, and
especially perfecting my French, could not find the time to drive them
to where they wanted to go.

Summer vacation was approaching and I wanted to use my driving
abilities and make the most of it.  Working for the Assef Saltaneh
family was part time and the income was limited.  I didn't want to ask
my father for money, for what little he made was to provide our
household needs and to buy medicine and pay doctor's bills for my
mother who was sick and by now bed-ridden.  Her doctor's name was
Arastoo Hakim, whose family name later became Hakim.  In those days
it was difficult to diagnose certain sicknesses and all we could do was
to pray to God for her well-being.  My sister would do the cooking,
washing and in reality took over the chores as well as looking after our
mother.  She exceeded our expectations.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 49
Draft of 1/5/09

A PROMISING PERIOD AS A DRIVER AND A PROPOSAL
TO BUY A FORD SEDAN

It was the year 1921.  I was 18 years old and was looking for
something to do during the school holidays.  One day, a man came to
the bicycle shop and told us that a foreign trading company in Tabriz (a
Northwestern town) was leaving Iran and had a Ford sedan for sale.
Could you find a customer?  I said that there are two Willys Overland
cars waiting to be bought for the last two years.  Who is going to buy a
used Ford?  He replied that it's not so old and what's more, there are
several tires, springs and spare parts, all of which, with the car could
be bought for 500 Tomans.

I asked, "Where is the car?"  He said, "In Tabriz".  I suggested
that the car, spares, etc. be brought to Teheran for a close look.  He
agreed on condition that there be a potential buyer.  For some reason
or other, at that very moment, I decided to buy it myself and told him
so.  In a weeks time, the car and all the equipment and the manager of
the company, who was English, appeared in a private warehouse in
Teheran.  I examined the lot and again asked the total price.  The
answer was “500 Tomans”.  I asked for a discount, to which he replied
that according to instructions from the head office, he could not sell it
for a penny less.

I accepted and it was agreed that in a few days I would bring the
money and take delivery.  The amount that I had saved came to 487
Tomans, all of which was kept by my "Banker" Mirza Ahmed Rassekh.
So I rushed to him and asked for my money.  Contrary to my belief, he
said that he did not have all that in cash, and it would take some time
to get it.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 50
Draft of 1/5/09

He was right, for in those days coins were in circulation far more
that paper notes.  The few notes that were used, were those printed
during the time of Nasser Edin Shah and were valid only in the city
whose name they bore.  A Teheran bill was not valid in Shiraz, for
example.  Bills of Exchange and Drafts were used for large transactions
and then only through reputable merchants.

Notwithstanding all of this, I became disturbed and explained to
Mr. Rassekh that if I did not give the money on time, I would lose the
car.  Being a businessman he understood me and promised to provide
the needed amount in a short period.

Then I went home and told my father and mother about this
transaction.  They became very unhappy and said, "You want to pay 500
Tomans which is a fortune to buy a car?  What is a car good for?"  I
explained that it would be used for renting.  At this, they became angry
for they were against this type of work in the first place.  But with the
explanations that I gave, their unhappiness diminished.

Then I told my father that I am short of 13 Tomans.  Could he
lend it to me?  Because he was against my buying the car, he simply
said, "I don't have such money."  I approached my uncles.  They too
turned me down.  Maybe I could borrow from Mohammed Taghi Khan?  I
gave up that thought for I had a better idea!  An idea that relieved me
from the burden of a loan.

Once I had my own 487 Tomans, I went to the seller and told him
that I have only this sum.  He thought that I was still asking for a
discount and said, "I told you before, I can't accept a penny less.  Bring
the remaining 13 Tomans and then you can take delivery of the car and
all its spares."  I proposed that he keep a few of the tires and some

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 51
Draft of 1/5/09

parts as guarantee for the 13 Tomans, until such time as I gather the
rest of the money.  He accepted and the deal was done.  The car was
mine.  I drove it to our house and parked it in front of the house.  By
now crowds were gathering, especially kids.  I splashed it with a few
pails of water and gave it a thorough cleaning.  The kids helped me with
this work, because it is in the nature of youth to help one another.  To
thank them, I gave them all a ride around the block.  The sun was
setting and it would soon be night.  My thoughts went to where shall I
garage the car?

Across from our house, there was a huge estate that belonged to
a famous, rich family called "Borhan-E-Dowlleh", who were well known
during the Qhajar Dynasty.  It was this same person, nearing the end
of his life, who decided to parcel out his vast lands and distribute them
to teachers and those who worked for the Ministry of Education.

Within this large garden, there was a huge covered hall, which
could accommodate several horse-drawn carriages.  As usual, necessity
led me to find a solution.  I called upon the caretaker, explained to him
that I needed a place to keep my car and could he ask his boss'
permission?  He came back and announced that Mr. Boran-E-Dowleh
had agreed with great kindness to my request.  In turn, I said, "Please
thank him and tell him that he should consider the car as his own and
it would give me much joy to drive him wherever and whenever he so
desired".

Next morning, I took the car to the Central Square of Teheran,
parked it in front of the Post and Telegram Building, to await the
passengers that would want to travel between Teheran and Qholhak.
It wasn't long before people paid 5 Rials just to ride around the Square.
The fare to Qholhak was a little more - about 6 Rials.  Within three

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 52
Draft of 1/5/09

days, I had amassed over 100 Tomans.  My father and mother, upon
hearing this, became concerned, asking "From whom and where did you
get so much money?"  They couldn't believe that this sum was collected
in only three days from a car to whose purchase they had protested a
short while ago.

THE FIRST TRIP TO THE PORT OF ANZALI

There was a great deal of demand to travel to places outside of
Teheran.  Five persons wanted to go to Ghazvin and the Port of Anzali.
I accepted to drive them.  Two were students who were in a hurry to
catch a boat from Anzali to Baku.  They paid a fare of 30 Tomans.  Not
knowing what the real cost would be, I accepted, saying to myself that
at least I'll learn something, do some sightseeing and maybe find some
passengers for the return trip.  Gasoline was imported from Russia in
16 liter cans and sold for 8 pennies in Teheran.  It was said that in
Anzali it would cost only 7 pennies.  So off we went, trusting in God!

Since there was no baggage compartment, we tied the suitcases,
blankets, mattresses, utensils, oil lamps, etc. to the running boards
and everything else had to rest on the passenger's laps.  We took
several days supply of food and water with us, because no one was
sure what provisions could be found along the way, let alone a safe
place to rest or sleep.

It was early dawn and the air was fresh when we started off for
Ghazvin, praying we would reach town by nightfall.  The trail was dusty.
We crossed dozens of hills and valleys.  Some curves were very
dangerous and only one river had a bridge, if you could call it that.  Our
first stop was the village of Mehr-Abad where the passengers

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 53
Draft of 1/5/09

descended, stretched their legs, washed the dust off their hands and
faces while I checked the oil, tires, and radiator water.

One should mention that these "Rest Areas" date back several
millenniums when riders on fast horses carried messages from one
point to another throughout the vast Persian Empire.  Later, caravans
used them for overnight stops and in recent times, horse-drawn
carriages would find food and lodging therein.

The second stop was Karaj where the only building was a control
shack used by the gendarmerie (militia).  Here again, I inspected the
car, and with the help of the passengers, repaired a flat tire.  Soon we
were on our way and reached Ghazvin at about 4:00 PM.  This town is
very old and has a long history.  It served as the capital of the Safavi
Dynasty and many monuments and sites remain to this very day.

While listening to the conversations between the passengers, I
kept a close eye on the road and around dusk, decided that the next
village called Lowshan was where we would spend the night.  The
bedding was spread out close to a brook, the food brought from Teheran
was shared, the samovar (tea pot) lighted and small glasses filled with
tea were served to all.  It was a most pleasant evening because the
stars were shining, the brook was murmuring, the glow of the samovar
fire and the peace and quiet were all symbols of a different way of life,
that brings back sentimental memories.

At the first signs of dawn we packed our belongings and headed
for Rasht.  Soon we arrived at one of the tributaries of the great
Sefidrood River.  Since there was no bridge, the passengers very kindly
got off to lighten the car and waded across the stream.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 54
Draft of 1/5/09

Then came a big test because the next few dozen kilometers were
all down hill, the road very narrow and with over ten curves.  I used the
hand brake, as well as the foot brakes and with much holding of our
breath and saying prayers, we reached the bottom - safe and sound.

Within half an hour, we arrived at Manjil, a village with a few
houses, a teahouse and one general store.  This place is well known
for its green olives, olive oil, smoked fish, garlic bulbs hanging from the
ceiling, candles, etc.  Munjil is probably the windiest region of Iran.
The speed of wind sometimes reaching over a hundred kilometers per
hour, shaking everything in its path.

However, the residents of this village were very hospitable and
quickly gathered around our car, offering tea and sweets.  They were
happy to see us, maybe because there were not many travelers who
passed through, especially in a horseless carriage.

We resumed our trip, but not without fear, for the passages were
narrow, the curves sharp, and the ditches numerous.  At one point, I
had to tell the passengers to refrain from talking too much, as their
chatter might absorb me and this might lead to an accident.  From then
on, silence prevailed.  We stopped every 50 or 60 kilometers to check
the car from top to bottom.  Thanks be to God that the vehicle was new
and well built.

Suddenly, the scene changed and from dusty plains and
mountainous passages we entered the forest of Gilan with its lush
vegetation.  Now our concern was not to get lost and to reach Resht as
soon as possible.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 55
Draft of 1/5/09

All of a sudden we came to a rather broad river.  Fortunately,
there was a teahouse and a few huts.  The locals told us that there
were large, sharp stones on the river bed and that the car might get
damaged in trying to cross it.  What should be done?  In the spirit of
cooperation and hospitality, two or three of them volunteered to wade
the river, remove the boulders and clear a path.  The passengers got off
and waited in a hut, while those brave men did their job.  They even
pushed the car to the other side.  Then they carried my passengers
piggy-back across the river.  No matter how much I insisted, they would
not accept any money for their troubles.  In those days people served
and helped one another as a way of life and not for compensation.

ENTRY INTO RESHT

It was late afternoon when we arrived in Resht, a large, well
placed and progressive city.  Because the two students did not want to
miss their ship, we left the sightseeing for our return from the Port of
Anzali and headed in that direction.  Again the road was winding and
full of potholes but we managed to reach our destination just in time
to see the big, blue Caspian Sea, which seemed to merge with the sky.
A few small boats and one or two ships were docked at the port.  We
rushed to ask the gatekeeper if the ship for Baku had left, and he
replied that it would sail the next day.  We were overjoyed at hearing
this, and for me especially it was rewarding to know that I had made
the deadline earlier than promised and accomplished that which I had
set out to do.

RETURN TO TEHERAN AND SOME OTHER TRIPS

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 56
Draft of 1/5/09

The passengers spent the night at their friends' homes and I
slept in the car.  Early morning they came to see me and paid their
fares and also a good tip.  On behalf of their hosts, they invited me to
lunch, which still gave me time to see the sights.  Anzali was much
smaller than it appeared.  A few stores carried mostly Russian goods
such as matches, shoes, lump sugar, perfume and cloth from Europe.
Fish, rice and vegetables were in abundance.  Our hosts lavished us
with all kinds of food.  It should be known that Gilan cooking is very
famous.

One of the persons present said that the ship from Baku had
brought some passengers who wanted to go to Teheran but could not
find transportation.  Now that they had heard about my car, they were
anxious to know if I could drive them there.  I said, "With pleasure, but
on the condition that we can spend some time in Resht and the fare
will be 30 Tomans for the four of them".

As mentioned before, the port of Anzali, although small, was an
important thoroughfare between Iran and Europe.  Freight and
passengers would arrive from or leave for Baku (in Russian Azarbayjan)
and from there travel to other parts of the Soviet Union, Germany,
France, England, etc.

Some sheds lined the waterfront and barbed wire was used to
mark off the customs area.  All sorts of goods were stacked either in
sheds or in the yard.  A small building acted as the passenger terminal
and those who arrived by boat had the choice of going to Resht either
by horseless carriage or by using a small railroad that had been built to
facilitate trade between Iran and the rest of the world.  This same
railroad was later turned over to my future father-in-law, Mr. Bagheroff.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 57
Draft of 1/5/09

The four persons who would accompany me to Teheran were
overjoyed that instead of going by carriage, they could travel by car.
They even offered to pay 40 Tomans in place of the 30 Tomans asked by
me, and so the next day we tied their suitcases to the running boards,
stowed some bedding in the back and set off for Rasht.

My passengers told me to go directly to the home of one of their
relatives, a certain Sardar Mansour, who was a notable of that city.
Our host was most hospitable and offered me lodging and suggested
that we visit the various sights and leave on the next day.  We did just
that and in appreciation, I drove him and his children through Rasht,
where as elsewhere, people looked with amazement at this "horseless
carriage".

I was able to find gasoline in a caravan-sarai (rest-stop), which
acted as a depot for goods imported from Russia.  I filled the gas tank
and bought a few extra containers as the price was much cheaper than
elsewhere!

The evening before our departure, a man appeared and in a
pleading voice said, "I must get to Ghazvin as soon as possible and will
pay any fare".  I told him that the car was rented to these gentlemen
and anyway there was no place inside for another person.  He said, "I
am willing to ride on the running board, if they will agree to let me
come along!"  They did and he sat on the extra gas tank all the way and
paid me 10 Tomans for the trip.

A few more trips were made to Anzali port, always taking or
bringing back passengers to or from Europe.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 58
Draft of 1/5/09

Because of people wanting to go on pilgrimages to holy shrines,
Baghdad and Kerbella became the new destinations, but it would be
some time before I made my first trip in that direction.

A man named Mohagheh Al Alama, who wanted to become a
member of parliament from Shiraz, offered me 80 Tomans to drive him
there.  The road from Teheran to Qom and then to Isfahan was good
compared to the road from Isfahan to Shiraz, which was terrible.  Not
only were there curves and bumps but crossing the water ditches
nearly broke the car!  To go over the ditches more easily, I decided to
carry two long, large wooden planks to act as a bridge.  This did the
trick and I saved my car from falling apart.

The first night we slept in Dilijan, a small town in the middle of
wheat, barley and oat fields.  I could not understand what the people
were saying because, like many parts of Iran, the dialect was quite
different to what was spoken in Teheran.  The second night we stayed
at Mourcheh Khor, an historical town where Nader fought the Afghan
armies.  The third day we arrived in Isfahan, a famous city for its past
history, artisans, shops, the big square with mosques and royal
palaces.  However, since my passenger was in a hurry to reach Shiraz,
we did not stop for even a few minutes.  The third night was spent in a
small town called Abadeh, where the Ghashaghi tribes stopped on their
way to the northern pasture lands.  The famous ruler, Karim Khan
Zand, was very fond of this area because it was mountainous and
always had a cool breeze.  The fourth day we entered Shiraz, the home
of the most famous poets such as Saadi and Hafez.

My passenger was very kind and generous during our four day trip
and showed his satisfaction by giving me a tip of 20 Tomans in addition
to the fare.  When he said good-bye, I felt sad, especially since I did

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 59
Draft of 1/5/09

not know anyone in Shiraz.  Just the same I decided to do some sight-
seeing.

This world famous city was the capital of Iran many centuries ago
and boasts many artisans, poets, warriors and architects.  The glazed
tile mosques, green parks, and well engineered, beautifully decorated
buildings attract thousands of visitors each year.

Among the souvenirs to take home from Shiraz are fruits such as
thin-skinned lemons, rose-water, and sweets of all kinds.  A renowned
handicraft is their method of making jewel and cigarette boxes, as well
as picture frames, from finely cut ivory, teak and copper strips.  These
strips are cut like one cuts a salami or cucumber and glued in place.
Star shaped pieces are placed one next to another and a mosaic sheet
is produced.  This is cut into different sizes and glued to the box or
frame to produce beautiful objects called "Khatam Kari".  I thought that
these would be the best gifts to offer friends and family.  Fortunately,
when I was visiting the main bazaar I met the man whose name has
become synonymous with this type of work, Mr. Sanie Khatam.  I
bought two boxes from him and he kindly gave me a good discount.
During our conversation, he learned that I had a car and would be
going back shortly.  He said, "My son wants to go to Teheran.  Can you
take him as a passenger?"  I replied, "With pleasure, but I have to find
some other fares."  He promised to help me and did so by introducing
me to my other passengers.

Before leaving Shiraz, I realized that taking 80 Tomans with me
was a big risk.  For it is well known that highway robbers stop voyagers
and take whatever they can!  Someone told me that a branch of the
"Shahi Bank" existed in Shiraz.  I deposited the money and received a
check to be cashed in Teheran.  Now I started to worry about the check

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 60
Draft of 1/5/09

being discovered.  So, I folded it, put it in an envelope and hid it behind
the reflector of the car's headlight.

Next day we started off for Teheran.  It was about 5:00 PM and
near Abadeh two armed men on horseback rode towards us.  The
passengers showed anxiety and fear for their lives.  But I, still an
inexperienced youth, became concerned about the check.  Instead of
trying to run away from them, I stopped the car, which in itself is a
sign of submission.  They came forward and asked, "Where are you
coming from?"  I replied, "Shiraz".  Next question: "Who are these
people?"  Each person introduced himself.  Next: "Whose car is it?"
Reply, "Mine."  The tougher looking one said, "By whose permission are
you here?"  I replied, "I didn't know that you needed permission!"
While waving us to go on, he said, "Don't ever come around these
parts!"  We all gave a sigh of relief as one of the passengers told us
that he recognized one of the riders as the famous highway man called
"Akbar Khordel".

The second day we passed Isfahan, and on the third day we
arrived in Teheran, safe and sound.

My wish was to go and visit faraway places, but for the time being
I continued to taxi people between Teheran and Shimran.

One day, a friend suggested a trip to Kashan, a city to the south
of Teheran.  I accepted with joy for both my grandparents were born
there and I always wanted to visit it.  The road was much better than I
anticipated.  Upon arriving in Kashan, I saw an old friend named
Abdolmisssagh Missaghieh and benefited from his knowledge and
experience of the city.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 61
Draft of 1/5/09

Until that day, no car had entered that city.  Therefore the
residents of Kashan gathered around, touching, examining and asking
questions about this horseless carriage.  They stood in front of the car
and no matter how much I blew the horn, they would not move out of
the way.  For they imagined that the sound of the car horn is a music
particular to itself.

One day Mr. Missaghieh and some relatives invited me to lunch
and for a tour of the town.  Again, crowds gathered and blocked our
passage.  Blowing the horn did no good, so I bought a large camel bell
and tied it to the front of the car.  That did the trick.  From then on,
upon hearing the sound of the bell, people scattered to the side.

We visited the gardens of "Fin", which since have become very
famous.  Clear, cool water emerges from deep caverns, flowing into a
multitude of water ways or small canals lined with blue glazed tiles.  A
majestic palace, which was once a summer residence used by the
Ghajar kings and princes, is located at the top of this park.  Much
history and intrigue is associated with this place, for it served as a
prison and there were even a few beheadings.

When we went back to the center of Kashan, I found out that
this city, located on the edge of the great "Loot" desert, was very hot
during the day and cool at night.  It is known for its cooking utensils
made of copper, velvet cloth, fine carpets, and gold weaving.  Because it
has many black widow spiders, in the summer months when people
sleep in the open air under the star studded sky, they place the legs of
their beds in shallow pools of water so that these dangerous creatures
can't get to them.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 62
Draft of 1/5/09

A much feared bandit and his son, Mashallah Khan, had become
the terror of these parts.  Highway robbery went unchecked.  A prime
minister, Voshogh-O-Dowleh, put such a high ransom on their heads
that finally they were caught, brought to Teheran and hanged in the
main square of the capital.  From then on the inhabitants of Kashan
and its surroundings could sleep in peace.

My greatest pleasure during this period of my life was to ferry
passengers by automobile throughout Iran.  In this way I made good
money and came to know every nook of my wonderful country.
Wherever I went, people were kind and hospitable.  They became
adjusted to this new method of travel and I enjoyed their company.
Getting to know the various ways of life, dialects, clothing, food and
traditions was a great learning process.  All was well!  Thanks be to
God.  My only concern was, "What if I don't find the spare parts that I
may need for the car?"

THE FIRST TRIP TO BAGHDAD

My first trip outside of Iran was to the west, to Iraq, whose
capital is Baghdad.  There I could find all types of spare parts and bring
them back to Iran.  However, one difficulty was getting through
customs.  For although the two countries had friendly relations, the
inspectors would search every passenger from head to foot.  They would
look into every cavity of the car, open all the suitcases and levy heavy
duties on all imported items (see photo#8).  The reason for this was
lack of revenue, and the income from customs made up for budget
deficits.

On one trip, I bought a jersey dress for my sister, Tahereh.  Upon
opening my bag, the inspector saw it and said, "You'll have to pay a

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 63
Draft of 1/5/09

pretty penny for this!"  No matter how much I protested against the
exorbitant duty, he would not give in and charged me what he wanted.

When friends and family learned that I was going back and forth
to Baghdad, they all gave me lists of luxury items to buy for them.  That
city being at the crossroads of trade and commerce between Europe and
the Orient, made it like the Paris, London or New York of the region.
Ties, stockings, mechanical goods, high quality shirts, shoes, etc. were
much in demand.  The item on every woman's list was black silk cloth,
which would be used for "Chadors".  Some wanted face powder, lipstick
and even high heeled shoes.

Visiting Baghdad is like going back into history.  It was from here
that the Medes, the Sasanians and other dynasties ruled Mesopotamia
and the lands to the east and the west.  I was fascinated by the ruins
and the archaeological sites that I saw, always remembering that at
Tarbiat School we had read about these vast empires.  For centuries,
this great metropolis was the seat of the Caliphates, the highest
authority of the Islamic world.

When Europe was in the dark ages and nothing was known of the
American continent, Baghdad had universities, magnificent buildings,
well stocked bazaars, produced the finest poets and encouraged the
arts.  Students and seekers from all over the Middle East flocked to it,
for it was the center of the universe.  But alas, time and time again,
wars led by Ghengis Khan, Tamour Lane and others destroyed that
great civilization and plundered its riches.

One of the peculiarities of Baghdad is its coffee and tea houses.
These are open-air cafes where food and beverages are served.  People
meet there to chat, play chess and checkers, but especially to conduct

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 64
Draft of 1/5/09

their business affairs.  Instead of discussing trade and commerce in
their hot, stuffy offices, they come to the cafes to benefit from the
fresh air, have a cup, socialize and conclude important deals.  I visited
one of these cafes, ordered a glass of tea, but not knowing Arabic and
having no business to conduct, left a short time later.

While wandering through the streets of this city, my thoughts
went back to the year 1863.  For it was in that year that Baha’u’llah,
the prophet of the Baha’i faith who was banished to Baghdad by
Nasseredin Shah, revealed his mission of a spiritual reawakening and
the beginning of a new world order to humanity.  This historic event
took place on the property of Najib Pasha and since has been known as
the Garden of Rizvan.

MY FIRST TRIP TO SYRIA AND BEIRUT

Running a taxi service made me quite rich.  For in two years, I
amassed a few thousand Tomans and this capital brought ideas to my
head.  The first thought was to buy another car.  In 1925, during one of
the trips to Baghdad, I left my automobile there and went to Beirut, a
port city that served as an important point for trade between the
Middle East and Europe.

It was now seven years after the end of World War I.  The
Ottoman Empire had been broken up and parts of it divided between
the French and the British as mandates.  Much attention was being
paid to Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, etc.  The link between the
Mediterranean ports and inner cities was through the desert.  Because
of sand storms, route markers or any semblance of a road would soon
disappear and passage became hazardous, even dangerous.  The only
solution was to have a well experienced guide lead a caravan of cars,

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 65
Draft of 1/5/09

buses, and trucks, one following another.  Food and water for two days
or more was prepared, several dozen passengers and drivers would
operate the vehicles and the long trek would begin.  Sometimes a
caravan would get lost and by the time it was found, if ever, sad and
shocking stories would be told about it.

As mentioned before, the British Army and the Foreign Office
were well established in Iraq and Palestine.  The French were
mandates for Syria and Lebanon.  The gold coins from England and
France were much in demand, but the Ottoman gold lire was more
popular.

The car that had won a good reputation for these desert
crossings was named "Hudson".  Several of these well built cars
started together and after fifteen hours reached Damascus, but these
fifteen hours were filled with anxiety and fear of getting lost.  Once we
reached our destination, prayers of thanks mingled with joy and
laughter on all sides.  I was very happy, for in a short time we would
arrive in Beirut.

My first trip to Beirut, a beautiful and historic city spread
between the Lebanese mountains and the Mediterranean sea, was very
pleasant and memorable.  I had heard much about its past, especially
during the time of the Phoenicians, followed by the Romans, Islam,
and finally the Ottoman Empire and now a free nation.  Both
Christianity and
Islam contributed much to
its cultural and
educational institutions.  An important port and center of trade, Beirut
is a link between the Arab world and the west.

I visited the stores, the likes of which I had not seen before.
Here, goods from all over the world were well stocked and especially

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 66
Draft of 1/5/09

luxury items such as European furniture, elegant clothing, china,
crystal vases, etc.  Shopping around became a good past time and one
of the first things I bought was a pair of black, shiny leather shoes for
my sister.  When she wore them in Teheran, she got so many
compliments, that dozens of ladies asked me to get them a pair on my
next trip.

After a few days of shopping and sightseeing, I went after that for
which I had come to Beirut, to buy a car.  Most of the European and
American manufacturers had an agent in this city, which was
considered the Paris of the Middle East.  I already owned a Ford, had
traveled in a Hudson, and had heard of Dodge.  The question was:
which of these three makes should I buy?  Ford became the choice,
because mine had given me complete satisfaction and the various trips
that we had made together left me with a good impression.  Experience
is the best guide in one's life.  A stanza from a famous poem says:

The wise have always wished to live twice:
Once to gain experience,
And the second, to use that experience.

I went to the Ford dealer.  His name was Charles Gherm, a well
dressed and very polite man and a writer of poems and several books.  I
told him about my past, the satisfactory performance of my Ford and my
desire to buy another to take back to Iran and eventually many more
for resale.

Charles, who was an important dealer of Fords, would import the
parts, chaises, etc, and then assemble the cars in Beirut and sell
them.  They were always painted black and sold for about 320 - 340
Tomans, or 85 Ottoman pounds.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 67
Draft of 1/5/09


Charles agreed to take 80 pounds and delivered a new Ford (see
photo #9), which I drove to the Holy Land, then called Palestine.  I
traveled through the Promised Land of the Jews, spent some time in
Haifa to visit the Baha’i gardens on Mount Carmel and made a
pilgrimage to the Shrines.

After a few days in Palestine, I drove the new Ford to Baghdad
where I had left the first one.  An Iraqi driver was hired.  We got a few
passengers and headed for Teheran.

I paraded the new shiny Ford through the streets of the capital
and that attracted many potential customers.  As the idea was to sell
the car, a buyer showed up and paid me 600 Tomans, nearly twice the
purchase price; and that for a car that took me from Beirut to Palestine
to Baghdad to Teheran and had brought some fares that covered all the
expenses.

This first transaction encouraged me to such a point that the
next time, I bought 3 or 4 cars, sold them easily, and made a good
profit.  This type of business, transporting passengers to and from
Iran, had become so attractive that others started doing it.

The matter of going on a pilgrimage to the Holy Shrines of
Karbala, Najaf and Kazemein was very important to Muslims.  For years
even centuries, the route taken was through the Caspian port of
Andali,
Baku,
across
western
Russia,
the
Black
Sea,
the
Mediterranean, Egypt or Syria or Palestine to Saudi Arabia and Mecca.
Now, by bus or automobile, the trip via Baghdad, Damascus, Beirut,
etc. was faster and safer.  So dozens of transport companies were

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 68
Draft of 1/5/09

formed, taxi services came into operation, and all sorts of vehicles
were needed.

The Iranians too wanted to travel, go on buying trips and make
pilgrimages.  Sensing this demand, automobile dealers from Beirut
seized the opportunity and established branches in Teheran.  Michael
and George Saad introduced the Hudson, Kattaneh Brothers opened
the Dodge Dealership, later the Chrysler and Plymouth dealerships;
Eysayoff and Amini obtained the Ford Agency, Levy Brothers got the
Chevrolet dealership, as did others for White and International Trucks,
etc.

Mr. Ali Vakili, president of the Teheran Chamber of Commerce,
seeing that sugar and tobacco had become government monopolies,
insisted and convinced the parliament to pass a law prohibiting private
importation of cars, trucks, and spare parts.  A "Central Company"
whose shares were held by the government was established to import,
sell and distribute vehicles and their parts.  It was soon realized that
these bureaucrats, who had no practical experience in the automobile
industry, were not ordering the right type of spare parts or the
quantities needed.  This created havoc for the owners of cars as well as
for the transport and bus companies.

The former importers did not sit idle and were constantly
searching for ways to break up the monopoly.  They contacted the
manufacturers and convinced them to help change the situation by
delaying shipments, sending more of this and less of that, etc., to
prove that the monopoly is against the interest of all and was not
businesslike.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 69
Draft of 1/5/09

The government faced so many complaints by owners and users
of cars and trucks that it decided to dissolve the "Central Company"
and let the foreign-run agencies be "reborn" on condition that they
would take in Iranian partners or shareholders.

The first to accept this proposition and solution were the
Katteneh Brothers (see photo #10), who took Mr. Hamedanian and
myself as their Iranian partners.  Others did the same.  The situation
improved greatly and all became satisfied for experienced people were
running the show and not amateurs.

A TRIP TO EUROPE AND THOUGHTS ABOUT THE FUTURE

Considering the constant changes that were taking place, and
having amassed some money from the sale of many Fords and the
passenger service, I toyed with the idea of getting my own automobile
dealership.  For this I would have to gather much information and
travel to where these vehicles were produced.

I left for France and arrived in Paris sometime later.   This city of
a thousand wonders, with its historical background, its cultural
heritage, architectural beauty and scientific progress was for me,
unimaginable.  This country and all it had to offer was a magnet that
drew Iranians to it and for us it was the symbol of the European
continent.  The people of France and their outlook on life, their system
of education, laws, love of beauty, and literature is probably still the
closest of the European countries to ours.

To learn the French language started way back during the Ghajar
Dynasty.  France was the country where most Iranians who could afford
it, went for their higher education.  French teachers and schools

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 70
Draft of 1/5/09

appeared in many parts of our country.  Laws and administrative
systems were based on French practices.

While in Paris I gave up the idea of a car dealership and decided
to buy two Berliet trucks, ship them to Beirut via Marseilles and drive
them overland to Iran and establish a transport company.  I did just
that.  Also, I thought that while in Europe, I would visit Italy to see its
historical cities, learn more about its culture and industry.

After having sent the trucks to Beirut, I went to northern Italy
where the famous Fiats were produced.  There I bought a seven
passenger touring car and drove it along the picturesque Mediterranean
coast to Beirut.  The two Berliets were cleared through customs in that
port city and with goods and passengers, my little convoy traveled to
Baghdad.

A CIRCUS FOR TEHERAN

In Baghdad I went to see a British circus and was so fascinated
and entertained that the idea of taking it to Teheran entered my head.
Why not let my countrymen enjoy such a spectacle in which people can
do such wonders and are able to train animals to perform?

If you enjoy something you want to share it with others.  At that
moment you think of your friends and say to yourself, "I wish they were
here!"  I thought how nice it would be if the people of Iran or at least
Teheran could see a circus and realize how far animal training has
gone.  A meeting with the circus manager was arranged.  I told him that
I had two trucks and a seven passenger car that could take them and
their belongings to Teheran, where they could perform.  For this, would
he be willing to give me 20% of his ticket sales?  Since going from one

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 71
Draft of 1/5/09

place to another was his biggest problem, he agreed on the condition
that I give him a few more days in Baghdad to finish off his contract.  I
readily accepted for Baghdad was a good place to spend time.

On the given date, we loaded the animals, tent and their baggage
on the trucks.  The manager and his staff rode in my car.

Once in Teheran, they were lodged at the Ferdows Hotel and I
went about to find a place where the tent could be set up.

At the crossroads of Ferdows Avenue and the Third of Esfand
Boulevard (named in honor of the day Reza Khan made the coup d'etat
that established the Pahlavi Dynasty), an empty lot was available.
However, it had been used as a rubbish heap.  I cleaned it up, rented it
and the circus tent was set up.

Since this was the first circus ever in Teheran, the demand was
so great, that two performances a day were necessary.  One was in the
afternoon and one at night.  Needless to say, the proceeds were
overwhelming, and I was able to get a good share of that income in
compensation for my efforts.

THE FIRST IRANIAN TRANSPORT COMPANY

After two successful months, the circus moved on to India.  My
two trucks and the seven passenger Fiat were now free.  I decided to
use them rather than sell them.  The results were unbelievable.

For centuries, goods were transported by donkeys, horses and
camels.  Not only was it troublesome, but also time consuming and
often unsafe.  This new method, to move all sorts of merchandise by

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 72
Draft of 1/5/09

truck, was very attractive and practical.  At first, dozens of customers
showed up, then later, hundreds.  Passengers flocked in great numbers
to travel between Teheran and other cities.  A promising business and
a turn in my life had begun.

But all was not rosy.  I made a mistake in buying the French
Berliets.  Spare parts were not readily available and these trucks were
not ideal for Iran.  Furthermore, I needed a new base for my new
venture.

A search was started and finally I found a place on Sepah Street,
sometimes called Hassan Abbad Crossroad.  It was a former Jewish
cemetery.  The owners were reluctant to erect houses, commercial
buildings or even use it as a warehouse.  However, they accepted my
proposal and rented it as a garage for three Tomans a month.  In those
days that was a good sum, but low for such a space.  I moved the two
trucks and the car immediately and put up a sign "Sabet Transport
Company".  It was probably the first of its kind in Teheran and maybe
all of Iran (see photo #11).

As mentioned before, the trucks were a complete failure.  The
only thing to do was to buy better trucks.  The previously mentioned
Kattaneh Brothers had opened an office in Teheran and represented
the famous Dodge Company.  They had plenty of parts and vehicles on
hand.  We negotiated two trucks and I fitted the trucks for hauling.

Needless to say an important part of one's life is how to plan for
the future.  How can one live better, serve humanity, and make every
day better than the day before.  Not only in obtaining material wealth,
but in achieving spiritual and moral progress as well.  This

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 73
Draft of 1/5/09

inventiveness and problem solving will not only help the one person,
but will also contribute to the advancement of society in general.

I wondered too, what could I do to improve my situation?  One
day my thoughts centered on the way the mail was transported in Iran.
Reza Shah had come to power and wanted to modernize everything.
Until now the post, money, letters-of-credit, etc. were carried by horse-
drawn carriages, mules or camels.  Maybe the government would permit
me to fulfill this function by using my vehicles.

My uncle, Rahim Arjomand, was the Assistant Director of the
Post, Telephone and Telegraph.  This idea was discussed with him but
because of his conservative nature and fear of accepting such a
responsibility, he refused my offer.  I insisted, giving many good
reasons for its success and finally convinced him to discuss the matter
with his superior, the minister himself.  To strengthen the argument, I
proposed to carry the mail on my trucks from Teheran to Mazandaran (a
northeastern province, near the Caspian Sea).  This was in line with
the wishes of Reza Shah who was anxious to establish a link between
the capital and the towns of northern Iran.

The minister who was very positive in his thinking discussed the
matter with the Shah, who in turn gave his approval.  Shortly
thereafter, a contract was signed giving Sabet Transport the concession
to carry the mail twice a week from Teheran to Babol in lieu of 80
Tomans a month.  This postal service became so renowned that soon
the government expanded the network to cover the cities of southern
and western Iran and even Baghdad.  I became so encouraged by this
new venture that I had stationary printed with the letterhead:

Sabet Transport Company

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 74
Draft of 1/5/09

Governmental Postal Service
Reza Shah's Mazanderan Route

(see photo #12)

Both passenger and goods transportation were on the increase
and this necessitated expanding the fleet.  Although passenger cars
were added from time to time, it was really the shortage of trucks that
caused problems.  So I decided to go directly to the Dodge Importer in
Beirut and buy several trucks at a time, load them with goods in Beirut
and drive them to Iran.  This operation meant that I bought the trucks
at a much lower price and made some money in transporting goods to
Teheran.  The drivers were mostly Lebanese or Syrians who were
qualified and courteous.

It was in the late 1920's that Reza Shah decided to build the
trans-Iranian railroad.  Until that date there were only a few miles of
tracks, some here, some there.  The only long mileage of track was the
one built by the Russians between Jolfa (Caspian port) and Tabriz.


SOUVENIRS FROM THE RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION DAYS

In 1927 the Trans-Iranian Railroad construction was started.
The ground breaking ceremonies were in the presence of Reza Shah
and many dignitaries who had come from Teheran.  By coincidence, the
route of the to-be constructed railroad was exactly the same as that
which had been awarded to Sabet Transportation to carry the mail, i.e.
Khorramshar (port on the Persian Gulf) to Mazandaran on the Caspian
Sea.  The important task of building the railroad was given to a Danish
Company called Kampsax, whose directors were Mr. Kampmann and

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 75
Draft of 1/5/09

Mr. Saxhill, thus the name of the company.  The organization was first
class, with much experience, capability and fairness towards the
Iranian employees, thus fulfilling the wishes of Reza Shah.  Good
wages were paid and thousands of workers, engineers and staff were
trained in modern methods of construction and administration.  The
idea of the Shah was that there would be a transfer of technology while
establishing good human relations.

On the inauguration of the northern section of the line, Reza
Shah asked an Iranian engineer some technical questions.  Hearing
answers that did not satisfy him and seemed ambiguous, he
reprimanded the engineer saying, "In the future, pay more attention to
your work and study the details and inform yourself of what you are
doing."  As the leader of modern Iran, he was very keen to obtain the
best results and encouraged his countrymen to assume their
responsibilities.  He personally visited various sites and applauded the
way mountain passages were opened, tunnels built and bridges of
unbelievable length were constructed.  Wherever Reza Shah went, he
would prove his unending endurance, brightness of mind and genuine
desire to transform ancient Persia into modern Iran.  His questions at
various work sites amazed the people around him and even the foreign
technicians.

A key figure in this project that took many years was a man
named Garing, who assumed the financial and administrative
responsibilities of Kampsax.  He stayed in Iran from 1927 until 1977
and in those 50 years served Iran as well as his native country of
Denmark.

In order to keep the construction of this national railroad going
at full speed, the logistics and supply pipeline of machinery and

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 76
Draft of 1/5/09

equipment, especially the supply of rails and ties was very important.
Kampsax, after much investigation, decided to award the haulage of the
necessary materials, including rails, cement, dynamite, etc. to Sabet
Transportation Company.  We tried our best to satisfy their deadlines
and keep the work on schedule.  Unfortunately though, while the
southern and northern sections were both almost complete, the middle
part had run into a major problem.

Some of the requirements came by ship through the port of
Khorramshaar in the south, but the rails came through Russia in the
north.  Unfortunately, a dispute between Iran and the USSR prevented
the northern shipments.  Mr. Saxhill who was in overall charge of the
project called me into his office.  First, he thanked me for the
cooperation between myself and his assistants.  He stated how
pleased he was with our services and then he said, "The rail beds are
ready, the ties are in place, but we have no rails from the north to
complete the job.  Can your trucks haul some rails from the south to
the middle section?"

I replied that it all depended on the length of the rails.  He said,
"About twelve meters".  I quickly answered "Yes!'  He was overjoyed,
and said that he would immediately give the good news to Reza Shah.
He added that, “Whatever the cost, it will be paid.  The important thing
is to accomplish the task and to please his majesty, for that, Kampsax
will be grateful to you.”

I set out to find the best solution, for the distance between
Doroud and Arak (the west-central part of Iran) was great.  The road
was narrow, winding and had many up and down steep grades.  The
Ministry of Roads had done a good job in improving the conditions, but
still to haul long rails would not be easy.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 77
Draft of 1/5/09


Consultation is the basis for finding solutions and a few heads
are better than one.  So, I contacted my old friend Mehdi
Batmanghelich, a self-made man with much courage and initiative.  He
owned a fleet of heavy-duty trucks and was quite active and
knowledgeable.  The matter was studied in depth.  When all
alternatives were considered, his solution was to hang the 12 meter
rails in front of and behind the driver's cab.

With this solution in hand, I contacted Mr. Saxhill again to
reassure him of the rail delivery.  Mr. Saxhill in turn informed Reza
Shah that the obstacle had been removed and that work would
continue without interruption.

A contract was signed and I gathered other truck owners for we
needed many vehicles.  Through cooperation by all, the rails were
transported, and the northern section of the Trans-Iranian Railroad
joined the southern section at Arak.

Saxhill and I became the best of friends, for he appreciated what
I did to facilitate his work and in turn, I got a helping hand at the
beginning of my business career.  Whenever I visited Copenhagen, I
would go to see him and he reciprocated by his hospitality.

Needless to say, because of this important undertaking, the
number of trucks increased constantly and soon we had more than 20
vehicles in "Sabet Transportation Company".  Other truck owners
joined the fleet and soon about 40 vehicles were hauling rails and
other necessities.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 78
Draft of 1/5/09

What I learned from all this was that even when confronted by
difficulties and tests, we as human beings, having been given by the
Almighty an intellect and a soul, should never be discouraged or
downhearted.  On the contrary, we should, through perseverance and
patience strive to achieve our goals, knowing that if our aim is to carry
forward an ever advancing civilization, God will be helping us.

THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A WOOD WORKING FACTORY

As mentioned before, when I was 15 years old our family lived in
a small house off Amirieh Avenue.  In the spring, trees were green and
there was an abundance of water.  During the summer months
residents of Teheran would come to that area to stroll and meet their
friends.  Later, the name of that Boulevard was changed to "Reza Shah
Avenue".

Our home had been bought by my father for 75 Tomans (about
$10 at the rate of exchange at that time).  He had made a down
payment and paid the rest of it with monthly installments.  It
consisted of one large room in the center, surrounded by two smaller
rooms, the kitchen, another room and a water reservoir, which was in
the cellar.  There was a modest court yard with a round shallow pool in
the center.  There was no furniture, so we sat on a rug in the so called
"Living Room".

From time to time, I would invite my school friends to our
dwelling, either to study together or just chat and pass the free hours.
Since there were no chairs or tables inside, we sat on the edge of the
pool or simply on the ground, upon a mat.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 79
Draft of 1/5/09

My mother, who was in the kitchen either cooking or doing
something, was uneasy when we trooped in.  She was concerned
because there was no door to separate the inside from the outside.
She would say that she was embarrassed when my friends saw her in
this situation and maybe it would be better if they didn't come.  I
assured her that I would take care of the matter by building a door for
the kitchen.  She smiled with contentment but wondered how I could
fulfill my promise, not having the tools or wood or experience.

But I was determined, so I set out to build the door.  In time, I
became convinced that to take a decision is the first step towards
accomplishment.  You have to decide on something, then through faith,
perseverance, hard work and a sense of responsibility, achieve it.  Of
course, one has to think out all the aspects, the pros and cons, and
then take action.

Regarding the matter of decision taking, which has played an
important role in my accomplishments, I am reminded of the great
conqueror and warrior Tamarlane.  This historic figure wrote in his
native tongue of Turkish about one of his defeats and his hiding in
some ruins to save his life.  There he sees an ant trying to carry a
heavy grain up the mud wall and into his nest.  As the weight of the
grain was too much for the ant, each time he was halfway up, he would
tumble down.  Determined, he would not be discouraged and would pick
up the grain and try once more.  Again the ant would fall.  Tamerlane,
although in a desperate situation, concentrated all his attention on
the doings of this ant.  He saw that after many attempts, this small
creature finally dragged the grain into his nest.

At this point, Tamarlane gets up and says to himself, "Are you
less than this ant?  Gather your forces, renew your energy put defeat

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 80
Draft of 1/5/09

behind you and move on to more conquests!"  And so he did, winning
one victory after another.

Maybe the idea to build a simple door is nothing compared to the
above story, but the decision to do so with no carpentry experience and
no tools - and to succeed, was a first step and an encouragement to
establishing the first mechanized, modern wood working factory in Iran.

As told before, our neighborhood had three stores.  One store
sold cheese, butter, yogurt, tobacco, dried peas, etc.  Another carried
pots and pans, dishes, kettles and so on.  The third sold wood, floor
matting made of bamboo, ladles, wooden spoons, forks, logs, etc.

From the third store, I bought a small wooden rod, which I would
use as the handle for the kitchen door that I was to build.  But as for
the planks that would constitute the door itself, I had an idea.  Before
divulging that, let me explain a few things.

My father sold cloth in the bazaar.  He bought English fabric from
importers and sold it retail in his small store, located near Shahpour
Street.  Next to his store, there were many others dealing in all sorts
of wares.  One of the shops belonged to the Elghanian family.  One of
the sons became very prosperous.  His first name was Habib and he
started several businesses, one of which was plastic injection.
Unfortunately he was executed during the Islamic revolution, but let
me go back to the story about the wooden door.

The yards of cloth that my father sold in his store were wrapped
around a flat wooden plank measuring 60 - 70 cm long by 20 - 25 cm
wide.  It was these boards that I had in mind.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 81
Draft of 1/5/09

I should mention that often after school, I would go to my
father's store, especially on Fridays and holidays when the stores were
open.  One day, I asked if he would take me along and visit the various
bazaars selling shoes, cloth, etc.  He agreed, for by going with him I
would learn new things and help him out as well.

He told me that this "Sabze-Maidan" (Green Square) was
established during the reign of Nasser-I-Din Shah.  At first it had a
huge pool in the center where people would wade and wash
themselves, despite the filth and bacteria-laden water.  Some would
wash in preparation for prayers, workers would wash their feet and
hands, others would bathe their children or wash diapers, etc.
Fortunately the municipality filled it up with earth and that put an end
to its spreading disease and the unsightly practices.

On this very site bazaars were built, each section being rented to
various guilds - shoemakers, leather goods, clothes sellers, etc.  Then
he told me the history of various political intrigues that led to
beheadings, murders and jealousies in the court of Nasser-I-Din Shah.
Among the executions were two innocent Baha’is, Vargha and his son
Rouhollah.

By this time we had reached the cloth selling area and my father
bought 4 - 5 rolls of cloth, putting some under his arms and others
over his shoulders.  Then we went back to his shop in Shahpour
Street.

Sadness overcame me at the sight of my father burdening himself
with the weight of all that cloth, simply to provide us with a decent
living.  I asked if I could carry some of the rolls and he said you are too
small for that.  I insisted and he agreed to let me carry one roll.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 82
Draft of 1/5/09

Seeing that I was becoming tired, he took it back and eventually we
reached our destination.  There I said, "Please don't sell the planks,
for I need them to build a door for the kitchen."  His total surprise was
no less than that of my mother's.  He agreed and I stayed to learn
more.

MY FIRST LESSON IN ECONOMICS

I have to say that my first lessons in economics were learned in
my father's shop.  There, I observed how one buys and sells, the art of
bargaining, and how my father's calm made him a winner.  I enjoyed it!

It was in this school that I learned how to save and appreciate
the value of every little thing.  Once, I asked, "Why did you bargain so
much over a few pennies?"  He replied, "Profits come from buying at a
lower price, and not always from selling high."  An old proverb says,
"Get your money's worth".

Some customers would bargain a great deal.  But my father, in
good humor and with stories, would say to them, "So what if I make a
few pennies, you on the other hand will wear your suit for many years
and in good health!"

He would put up with their whims and demands because he knew
that our family's livelihood depended on them.  He would offer the best
materials at honest prices in order to gain the confidence of his
customers, even if they didn't buy a thing.  He had not attended
school, but had gained his experience and wisdom by associating and
working with people, which is in itself worth a great deal.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 83
Draft of 1/5/09

He had heard the saying "Learn from the mouths of people".  This
is one of the best ways to obtain wisdom, become educated and learn
the good ways of life.

Although he had no schooling, he was good with figures and
could make notes in a small booklet about his business.  He was
honest, polite and generous.  Whatever he said or did was acceptable
by most because they knew he was sincere.

I hope I did not bore you by speaking about my father.  I think it
is only just to mention the good characteristics of a person and
appreciate their qualities.

One important point is clear; he was economical.  He used to
say, "Waste is ungodly.  A person has to rely on himself and spend in
accordance with his means, not his whims and fancies!"

In the back of his shop there was a small space where he would
eat his lunch.  A meal very modest and inexpensive, consisting of
bread and cheese, and sometimes grapes or melon or halvah.  As
previously said, I enjoyed a similar menu in school.

After lunch he would take a nap for about half an hour and be
ready for his afternoon's work.  On many occasions, I would join him
for that simple meal.  But let me say that those simple luncheons were
so pleasant and unforgettable that no matter where and how well I eat
now, those days will always be remembered.

CARPENTRY AT HOME

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 84
Draft of 1/5/09

To build a door for our kitchen I needed more than a few boards.
I took the few pennies I had saved from my piggy bank and bought a
small drill, a hammer, pliers, a saw, a file, and finally a few nails.

I set to work, first cutting the door handle to size, then making a
frame and finally nailing the boards to the cross planks.  When it was
finished, trimmed and sanded, I attached the door to the frame and our
kitchen finally had a door.

My mother was very pleased but remarked that the door made the
room too dark.  I obliged and removed a plank so light could come in.

Having achieved this, I decided to build a bed for myself.  Seeing
her son's capabilities, my mother asked if I could build a bigger table
than the one we had.

The bed was easy to make, for I used white pine wood.  While
sawing it, I cut my left thumb.  My mother quickly used a brownish
liquid that was called potassium of permangenate and a piece of white
cloth to bandage it.  I returned to work and soon saw that the liquid
had come through the cloth and stained the wood.  The color was nice,
so I went to my mother and said, "Don't throw away the mixture, for I
am going to use it to stain my wooden bed."  The final hue was a dark
violet or the color of eggplant.  The result was attractive and even now,
I can picture it.

The outcome of all this was that I discovered a new interest and
that was woodworking, or carpentry.  I became so involved and drawn to
this type of work, that in 1932, when I was 29 years old, I established
the first woodworking plant in Iran using motor driven machines.  The

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 85
Draft of 1/5/09

site was "Baghe Shah" and the name was "Sabet's Woodworking
Factory".

As I mentioned before, previous to this I had already founded a
company transporting goods and passengers and a contract to carry the
government mail.

But to manage a factory using modern technology and the latest
methods of producing wooden doors, windows and furniture was
something else.  It required ingenuity and perseverance, and that is
exactly what I wanted.  Even as a small child, I desired to be inventive
and not merely copy others.

THE FIRST KEY TO SUCCESS

In order to succeed in your chosen profession, you must love it,
show the utmost interest and be willing to make sacrifices.  These
conditions must be maintained for a long time.  If not, after awhile
your enthusiasm will cool down and soon disappointment and even
regret will bring about material and moral losses.

An old saying goes like this, "No one will adopt a child, unless
the child is wearing a golden chain around his neck!"  Meaning that
one will never treat another's child like one’s own.  To select someone
else's occupation can never be like the one you have picked out for
yourself.  For the same way that you show love, patience, and
understanding for your offspring, so you must for your work, if you want
to be successful.

How often do we see, especially among young people, that having
started something and not achieving their goals in a short period, they

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 86
Draft of 1/5/09

abandon it and go on to look for something else and then something
else, and so on, blaming their failures on chance and misfortune.

Wanting to be successful and carefully planning for it will require
decisions that are firm and binding, thus assuring achievement.  It
goes without saying that all professions and endeavors are worth
pursuing, especially if they can be rewarding; otherwise they would not
exist.  No one will go after something which is worthless!  For
selection and success depends on one's love and capabilities for that
work; then patience and perseverance are needed and finally
accumulation of experience.  A combination of all this, plus a belief
that only by doing good can one surge ahead and achieve the desired
goals makes victory inevitable.

Hoping not to have tired you, let me say that the reason why I
was able to set up the large woodworking factory, and other "first"
enterprises in Iran, is because the practices and principles mentioned
above.

If carpentry attracted me, it started with a simple desire to build
a door for my mother, a person whom I loved and who had sacrificed so
much for my sister and myself.  This willingness to do something
positive laid the foundation for my future activities.

Because of this keen interest in carpentry, I spent hours learning
about the various tools of the trade, such as saws, hammers, drills,
planners, etc.  Much time was used to visit saw mills, wood-working
shops and stores that sold furniture, just to see what were the details
and peculiarities of this business that I wanted to enter.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 87
Draft of 1/5/09

I noticed that there was a lot of labor involved.  Heavy tree trunks had
to be sawed into planks, usually by two workers exerting so much
energy that perspiration would cover their face and arms.  Then the
planks would be cut to certain lengths, planned and glued to one
another, then shaped and nailed together.

The work places were often small, and in the cold months filled with
smoke generated by burning the waste wood in small tin barrels.  Saw
dust was always in the air and covered everything.  Because everything
was done manually, the work hours were long and tiring.  Although at
that time I was only 28 years old and inexperienced, I thought to
myself, "Surely there must be an easier way to cut wood, produce doors
and windows and make furniture?"  I was told that in the city of
Leipzig, in Germany, there is an annual fair, where among other things,
there was a wood-working machinery exposition, and that should I
decide to go, I would see a lot and learn a great deal.

The idea fascinated me, for I thought maybe finally we could put an end
to all that hand work, the sweating, the long hours and low quality
products.

The small carpentry shop owners had neither the means nor the vision
to get involved in such a "mechanization" project.  The Government of
Reza Shah had more important things to do such as finishing the
railroad, establishing law and order, upgrading the administration, etc.
It was too soon to expect it to pay attention to the development of
commerce and industry.  I too didn't have enough cash for such a
venture.  So, what was to be done?

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 88
Draft of 1/5/09

Finally, my love for this work, the idea of helping my country to
modernize and wishing to improve the lot of carpenters led me to take
the decision and go to Germany.

Therefore, via Russia, which was the most frequented route to Europe
in those days, I headed for Berlin, the capitol of Germany and the
second most important city of that continent.  On my way west, the
vast farmlands and rivers that led to the Baltic and the industries
created after the ruinous First World War fascinated and absorbed my
attentions.  I had read and heard much about the Prussians with
leaders such as Bismarck, Wilhelm, and Hindenburg.  My readings
included the defeat of the Germans in a humiliating war, which was
started by themselves and which had brought turmoil and fire to so
many nations.  I became sad and disturbed.

The stopover in Berlin was short, for my plans were to reach Leipzig
and the fair as soon as possible.  Upon arrival, I headed for the section
where wood working machines were on display.  I was overjoyed at
seeing all those electrical saws, sanders, automatic drills, planers,
etc., assembled together, under one roof.  Why, I asked myself, hadn't
someone from our country ever imported several or at least one of
these wonderful machines which have been in use for so many years,
simply to facilitate things and save time and energy?  Hours were spent
in examining each machine, comparing one with another, asking
questions upon questions and not being ashamed to do so.  What is
wrong with admitting that one doesn't know something?  A big fault is
to be ignorant of a matter yet pretend knowledge of that!

How many dictators, kings and rulers has this world seen, who through
their stubbornness and blind prejudices have brought misery,
destruction and death to countless of millions of peoples?  Their

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 89
Draft of 1/5/09

egotism prevented them from listening to well-wishing advisors and
divinely inspired counselors.  How happy is the man who has learned
the meaning of knowledge. Woe to him who is ignorant and doesn't
want to find the truth!

THE DECISION TO ESTABLISH A WOODWORKING
FACTORY

Vis-à-vis those impressive machines, the exposition and what it
represented, I felt completely awestricken.  Without the least shame, I
approached the sellers, technicians and finally the directors of the
companies present and told them of my plan to set up the first modern,
machine-run factory in Iran.  With the utmost courtesy and patience,
they listened and promised their help.

A company by the name of "Adolf Aldinger" of Stuttgart, had the largest
stand and appeared to be the best.  After meeting one of the managers,
it was agreed that his company would prepare a detailed list of
machines and spare parts, with a layout and installation instructions.
This was done while I was still in Germany and based on that offer, the
order was placed and foreseen that in a few months all would be
shipped to Teheran.

Now, I would have to rush back to Iran so as to find and buy the land
needed for the factory as well as draw up the plans for the building,
purchase the necessary electric generators, etc.

I had a good friend named Fath-O-Lah Moshir Obehey.  He was a few
years older and had much
experience
in
industrial matters,
construction details and best of all promised to help me in every
possible way with this project.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 90
Draft of 1/5/09


SELECTION AND PURCHASE OF THE FACTORY SITE

There were at that time large tracts of land in an area West of Teheran
called Bagh-E-Shah.  To me, they seemed too far out for customers to
travel such a distance.

One day, a person named Sadr, riding a motorcycle, came to my office
and garage on Sepah Avenue and said, "The Honorable Farmanfarmain
invites you to visit him tomorrow at noon time".  Surprised, I accepted.
Surprised, because I thought this person might be mistaken, for what
would Mr. Farmanfarmain want of me? Maybe he wants to go on a trip
himself or wants me to drive someone or he needs to transport
something?

Any way, the next day I went to his home located on Sepah Avenue
near Kakh Street and the same person, who brought the message,
greeted me at the door and led me to an outer garden and hence, to a
building which was used for ceremonies and receptions.  There, for the
first time I would meet Abdul-Hussein Mirza Farmanfarmain, an old
man, a former Prince of the late Ghajar dynasty, and a person who was
much respected by Reza Shah.  He was the father of Nossrat-Dowleh
Firooz, one of the famous ministers of Reza Shah, and owner of land
equivalent to the territories of Holland or Belgium.  He was the one
who gave his long green cane and his private house, the marble palace
to Reza Shah, who was the officer that made a coup d’etat and
established a new dynasty called "Pahlavi".

The best water in Teheran came from a spring located in the north of
the city, on the property of this same Farmanfarmain, and with his
permission used by the inhabitants of the capitol.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 91
Draft of 1/5/09


Once in his presence, we bowed.  It was this same person who ruled
many of the tribes and cities of Persia in former times.  Now, with the
utmost courtesy and warmth, he bade me to have a seat and ordered
tea.  Then he said, "It is lunch time. Let us go and eat".  With humility
and certain hesitation, I accepted.  He extended his left hand so that I
could take his arm and help him to the adjoining room, which was
foreseen for lunches.  We sat at a round table.  He asked Mr. Sadr, his
major domo, to sit as well.  This was 58 years ago or 1931.  The servant
first brought the soup.  Then, a large round plate of white rice and a
deep dish of stew (khoresht ghormeh sabzi). His hospitality, manners
and courtesy impressed me a great deal.  He ordered the servant to
serve me first.

Then with simple but sincere words, he said, "I understand that you
want to establish a woodworking factory.  Will you install an electric
generator?"  I replied, "It's true, we'll have electricity, because the
factory will need it".  He asked, "Where do you want to install it?”  I
said, "The place is to be determined".  He instructed Mr. Sadr to
accompany me and show me all the land in and around Teheran.

While thanking him, I said, "We have to make a careful selection so as
to find a suitable yet inexpensive property".  He then stated, "My aim
is not to sell land, but to give a young person such as yourself, who
wants to create something new and important, a good helping hand.
Go and find the land needed, mark off as much as you need, determine
the fair price and pay in as many installments as you can.  Then come
back to see me, especially at noon time so we can have lunch
together.”

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 92
Draft of 1/5/09

Whatever he said was sincere and full of kindness and generosity.  He
had a far reaching vision, an impressive personality and a strong
character.  Maybe it was because of his trials and tribulations, the
passage of time and his vast experience that are worth more than
material wealth.  If a mother's love did not exist, or was not passed to
her child, our world would be another world.  How wonderful it is when
one, before going to sleep, can ask himself, “Did I do something today
to bring joy and comfort to someone?  Did I give somebody a helping
hand?”

With Mr. Sadr, we visited many plots of land and finally with the help
of Mr. Moshir Obehi, selected one that was located at the Western gate
of Teheran called Bagheh Shah (The King’s Garden).

A few days later I went to see Mr. Farmanfarmain.  He kept me for
lunch and after, he told me that I could buy as much as I wanted.  I
replied, "As my budget is limited, I'll take 6,000 Square meters at 10
Rials a square meter.  And as I have no cash available, I'll pay for it
when the factory starts working".  He said, "First, 9 Rials is enough
and second, pay whenever you can".

I'll never forget his generosity or that day.  On many occasions, I have
told his children that my factory would not have had a good beginning
had it not been for their father.  In appreciation, I am always at their
service.

The factory started it's work and whenever possible I paid a sum of 20
or even 100 Rials.  It was never asked of me, "When will you make a
payment"?

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 93
Draft of 1/5/09

The machinery and accessories arrived from Germany.  The factory
building, well designed and constructed by engineer Fathollah Moshir
Obahi, was finished and very attractive (photo 13).  The roof had timber
beams covered with tin sheets.  In due time the doors and window
were made on site.  It took about two years to complete the job, the
delay being due to shortage of cash.  I had no funds myself, therefore,
we had to depend on money that was gradually generated from my other
business, The Sabet Transport Company.

In those days, there was no industrial development bank or any other
bank to get a loan.  People who had a little or great amount of money
wouldn't even consider loaning to a factory.  The only person that I
knew to whom one could turn and get a private loan was Kazem Pour.
He was from the Northern part of Iran, bordering on the Russian
frontier and therefore his original name was "Kazemoff".  Because the
word "off" was a Russian title meaning "son of"; the regime of Reza
Shah was against such names and therefore, he dropped the "off" and
simply became Kazem Pour-Amri, and that, because the family was
known for their belief in the Baha’i faith and service to humanity.

Kazem Pour had a big store and was in building supplies and iron beam
sales.  His eldest son's name was Abbas, and it was he who gave me a
loan of 100 Tomans and upon repayment, would renew it again.

Such people who are always willing to give others a helping hand, are
well appreciated and their open-mindedness and sense of generosity
gave me the chance to finish the plant.

The factory was soon ready and to supervise the operations, I hired two
competent foremen.  The first was an Iranian named Ellias.  He had
studied in France and had a good knowledge of furniture making.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 94
Draft of 1/5/09


The second was a German named Ochter, who was an expert in the
workings of carpentry machines.  Carpenters were invited to visit the
factory and give us their rough lumber to be cut or planned, or prepared
for finishing in their own shops.  Some took advantage of this offer
while others who feared that our success would give us a competitive
edge, refused to benefit from this labor-saving and speedy way of doing
their work.

We needed work, and much of it, in order to utilize and amortize the
expensive machinery and overhead.  Unfortunately, some carpenters
spread rumors that wood cut with a fast saw would heat and dry up too
quickly.  To our regret, many believed them and although we had some
customers, the number was not enough to pay for the wood, labor and
other expenses (photo 14).

The idea to produce tables and chairs in large quantities and advertise
their prices and sell direct to consumers, helped a great deal but we
were always short of cash.

In those days, the only other factory in Iran was the sugar plant of
"Kahrizak".  This was controlled by the Ministry of Arts and Crafts
under a Secretary of State named "Motazem-Saltaneh Farokh" (photo
15).  By orders of Reza Shah, The Great, it was his duty to keep this
factory going despite many problems.  Sugar in those days was not in
powder or cubes but in the form of a loaf or cone.  In order to dry the
loaves as they came out of the molds, it was necessary to place them
in wooden racks, which were needed by the hundreds.  These shelves
or racks, which had to be uniform and sturdy were beyond the
possibilities of traditional carpenters who refused to build them
anyway.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 95
Draft of 1/5/09


The Ministry, which had a limited budget and a stingy Director,
accepted our offer to produce these racks.  The main condition was that
they be delivered complete, installed and accepted by the inspectors.
We fulfilled our part of the contract but the Ministry didn't pay.  We
waited for awhile, but still they didn't pay.  We had done our best but
now we were in a financial pinch.  The workers who had not been paid
for sometime quit their jobs.  The lumber sellers came to the factory
many times to collect their money.  The situation became desperate.  I
decided to go and see the Minister Mr. Farokh.  His secretary would not
let me in his office.  I said, "I'll stay here until he comes out, I won't
move unless I am paid.  I'll even sleep here!"

Finally, Mr. Minister allowed me in.  I didn't know if I could sit down.
So, standing, I asked him very politely to issue the payment order,
explaining in the meanwhile the deplorable situation at the factory.
Contrary to my expectations, without the
slightest regret or
understanding, he ordered me out of the room.  He said, "Whenever we
have money, we'll pay you".  I said, "If you didn't have the funds, why
did you order?"  He replied, "Don't be insolent" and with that he
ordered his secretary to kick me out.  But before leaving, I said, "Maybe
the reason you don't pay me is because I am an honest person, and
haven't tried to bribe anyone".  Mr. Farokh became very angry and
insulted and said he would have the police arrest me.

Next morning, an officer from the Central Police Department, which
was headed by Colonel Mohamed Hossein Ayrom, came to arrest me, in
return for the work I had done and service rendered in making those
shelves.  I was in jail for two months.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 96
Draft of 1/5/09

After that period, my father-in-law, Sayyed Ahmed Khamsi, through his
good friend the Minister of Justice, Mr. Ali Akbar Davar, who had
reorganized the Department of Justice and the Courts, interceded and
I was called into the office of Colonel Ayrom.  All of this, only after the
matter had been brought to the attention of Reza Shah himself.

The Colonel ordered some tea and sweets and started to appease me,
saying that in reality he had nothing to do with the reason for my
arrest.  It was orders.

After sometime, the Department of Arts and Crafts paid 3,000 Tomans,
but I'll never forget that incident.

BETTER DAYS FOR THE FACTORY

Because it was my aim to be successful and contribute to the
industrialization of the country, I accepted all challenges despite the
shortage of cash, lack of customers at times, the daily problems of
running the plant or any unforeseen events.  Due to this perseverance,
the factory attracted many customers and forged ahead, developing a
good reputation.

It was at this time that I decided, with the help of Manuchehr
Khorsand, who had just returned from France with a degree in
Architecture, to build a house on land just North of the factory. (Photo
16)  Needless to say all the doors, windows and even the furniture for
this house was produced at the plant and for the first time, innovative
design, color and shape was utilized.  So much that many people came
to visit and see the latest in carpentry progress, especially the cherry
colored doors and windows.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 97
Draft of 1/5/09

One afternoon, the factory guard came running, very excited, to
announce that Reza Shah, The Great, was about to enter the
aforementioned
house.

One
could
easily
understand
his
astonishment, for wherever Reza Shah went, even when Ministers or
Army officers were in his presence ready to obey instructions or try to
reply to his questions, an atmosphere of tenseness and excitement
developed.  I, accompanied by the very capable and experienced plant
foreman, Gholam Reza, rushed to greet Reza Shah.  He had walked
from nearby Baghe-Shah, which had become his main headquarters
after the famous Coup D'Etat that had brought him to power. He came
alone and very much at ease for a "visit".

With the utmost attention to details, which was his main character, he
looked closely at the doors and windows.  As soon as we entered, we
bowed and stood behind him.  Soon he turned to us and spoke in a
kind and encouraging tone, saying, "If I pay, will you also build me such
fine quality objects?"  We replied, "Your majesty, we will build better,
even without payment!"  He asked, "Where is the factory?"  The reply
was, "Nearby, just below this building".

Without hesitation, he started to walk towards the factory.  To me, he
seemed very pleased with this visit and showed an appreciation for
what had been accomplished.

At the end of his visit, he asked for a carriage.  We hailed one and with
the utmost joy and thankfulness bade him good-bye.  It seems to me
that this visit on his part was to eradicate the bad memories of the
Arts and Crafts and Police incident.

Two days later in the morning, General Karim Agakhan Bouzar Jomehri,
the Mayor of Teheran, with his Buick, without forewarning, came to the

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 98
Draft of 1/5/09

factory and said, "His Majesty has instructed us to buy all the
furniture and doors and windows for the Municipality and the Shah's
Palaces from you.  We will give you all the wood and timber needed.  I
thanked him but informed him that we didn't have all that money or
the place to store it.

Contrary to all the rumors about his lack of knowledge or capability to
run the city of Teheran, he proved to be honest, dynamic and kind.  I
don't think the Capitol ever had a better manager.

In answer to my concerns, he said, "Close to your factory there are
many empty lots that belong to the municipality.  Go chose what you
need and we'll transfer the deed, and the payment for that land will be
offset by the work delivered to us.  The money for the lumber will be
taken care of later.  Don't worry about it."

It is true that what he said and did was with the complete backing of
Reza Shah, but one must remember that he was one of the important
officers who participated in the Coup D’Etat and moved up in rank only
after proving his capabilities.  He looked after the royal household and
was Chief of Staff till the last days of the Shah.

As Mayor of Teheran, he completely changed the face and character of
the Capitol.  Four main boulevards were built over the moats
surrounding the city.  A North-South road was established that was
lined with maple trees, later named Pahlavi Avenue.

In those days, the water of Teheran was provided by a canal that had
it's source from the near-by town of Karaj.  The supply entered the city
from the North and flowed South through many avenues and streets,
but the most attractive were the waterfalls of Pahlavi Boulevard.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 99
Draft of 1/5/09


Mayor Bouzarjomehri was responsible for many of the main squares of
Teheran such as Sepah, Ferdowsi, etc., as well as two of the important
city parks with fountains, trees, flowers and so on.  Even the City
Administration became modern and well run with uniforms for Civil
Servants and separate Departments for the various Municipal affairs.

Yes, with the visit of the Mayor and the orders he placed, the factory
started to become active again and hope was restored.  I bought 700
meters at 3 Tomans a square meter, and the next day several army
trucks brought us so much lumber that all the land was covered.  A
short while later, orders for furniture for the Municipal restaurant, the
cafes, the Shah's private residences, and the Caspian Villas came
pouring in.  Money was coming in, we found ourselves very busy and
out of remorse.

A few days later, Mr. Shokoo-Ol Molk, the private Secretary of the
Shah, sent a messenger to announce that tomorrow afternoon, her
Royal Highness, Queen Pahlavi, will visit the factory and wants to see
those special doors and windows.  We were delighted and anxiously
awaited her arrival.

Next day, Queen Pahlavi, with Her Lady in Waiting, Mrs. Arfah, the
wife of one of the well known and distinguished Princes, appeared at
the entrance.  Without exaggeration and aside from all political
considerations, it must be admitted that she was worthy of the title
"Queen of Iran".  A lady in every sense, she showered her grace upon
all and the workers, employees and myself were overjoyed.  She keenly
observed all the production operations and asked detailed questions,
and finally ordered some chairs, tables, closets, commodes and so on.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 100
Draft of 1/5/09

All were meticulously produced and controlled by the foremen and
managers and delivered to the Marble Palace.  Along with her
appreciation, she paid us well and I am sure that that furniture,
produced with such pride in Sabet's factory was well used even after
the palace became the "Reza Shah Museum".

From then on, order after order came in and exceeded our capacity so
much so that we worked overtime.  Even so, deliveries were delayed
and quite often we had to apologize or invent excuses to calm our
customers.

Mr. Haj Gholam Reza Amin, who passed away many years ago and was
a kind and generous man, famous for his character and uprightness,
invited us several times to his home, and was very hospitable.  One
day, this gentleman came to visit the factory and saw four chairs built
according to a French model.  He liked them, learned that the price was
4 Tomans and ordered two.  Foreman Gholam Reza, whose name I've
mentioned before and whose daughter became the famous singer of
radio and television "Elaheh", promised that the two chairs would be
ready in two or three weeks.  This surprised my good friend and myself
for we thought they would be ready much sooner, but didn't say
anything.  Unfortunately two, three, even six weeks went by and the
chairs were not ready.  All sorts of excuses were given, such as the
wood is not yet dry, the worker is sick, etc, etc.,

Finally, the chairs were ready and again this kind-hearted man invited
us to lunch.  He was 15 years older than me and much more
experienced and knowledgeable in matters of courtesy and manners.

After lunch, very politely and with a great deal of tact, he talked about
the virtues of punctuality.  He said that no matter what position one

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 101
Draft of 1/5/09

has or what circumstances may come about, or in what deal or affair
one is involved, he must keep his word and respect his promise.  For
this is how others judge us.  With bowed head, I thanked him for his
advice and knew that I had learned a great lesson.  From that day on I
have always tried to be punctual and keep my word and do as promised.
Needless to say the moral and material rewards have been great.

THE GARAGE DOOR AND THE TELEPHONE

One day I was standing in the factory courtyard when a man entered
the premises and politely said, "I am constructing a building and have
already ordered the doors and windows, but the carpenter can not build
the garage doors.  Could you send someone to take the measurements,
construct and install them as soon as possible?  I'll pay whatever it
costs.  I asked, "When can we come to do this?"  He said, "I will
telephone you".  Upon hearing that, my foreman and I started to laugh,
for it was more than three years that we had requested a telephone, a
very important necessity for our work, and not received it yet.

We had to explain to the customer that the reason for our laughter was
that we had no phone for him to call us, and no matter how hard we
had tried, we were unsuccessful.  In complete surprise he said, "The
day after you install my garage doors, you will have your phone".

It did not take more than a minute for us to find out that this
gentleman was none other than the very famous writer, Mr. Moti-O-
Dooleh Mohamed Hejazi, well known for his stories, poems and literary
works.  In addition to this, he had an important position in the post,
telephone and telegraph ministry.

The doors were measured, built and installed in six days.  That

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 102
Draft of 1/5/09

very same day our phone was connected.

From this, I learned the importance of keeping one’s promise and the
value of sincerity.  Mr. Hejazi and I became good friends and whenever
I needed literary advice, I went to see him.

THE FACTORY FIRE

Six years after the start-up of the factory, a fire burnt some of it.  The
reason was never known and I don't want to blame anyone or think
that it was on purpose because of jealousy or competition.  I believe
that you should consider people in a positive way and have no doubts
unless the contrary is proven.  A cigarette or a spark can easily set dry
lumber or wood shavings on fire, without it being done on purpose.

Fortunately, the machines were not burnt.  The main damage was to
the wood and finished articles.  The plant was insured for 50,000
Tomans, but the insurance company was reluctant to settle, claiming
that they would pay only after it was proven that the value of what
remained was less than 50,000 Tomans.  It took two years but they
finally paid a token amount.

Although the loss was substantial, I decided not to give up.  I loved
this work and soon all was as before and we received many orders.
Competition was tough and the expenses of running a modern factory
were much greater than the hand-worked carpentry shops.  Customers
sought low prices and often didn't consider quality or prompt delivery,
which were our main principles.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 103
Draft of 1/5/09

THE PTT BUILDING

I remember that the ministry of post, telegraph and telephone was
constructing a large modern building on Sepah Avenue and required a
great number of doors and windows.  The requirements were that the
purchase be made only through bidding or adjudication.  Our offer was
slightly more than the carpentry shops' prices, but the quality far
superior, according to the ministry officials.  However, since price was
the sole determinant, the award went to the others and since my aim
was to develop the whole wood working industry, I didn't mind that
others got work and the philosophy of "live and let live" was kept in
mind.

At that time there were about 200 workers producing doors, windows,
chairs, tables, etc., under the supervision of French and German
specialists.  My satisfaction was complete, for an industry with modern
machinery and techniques was created and even today many of the
products of the “Sabet Factory” can be seen in buildings and homes of
Iran, not only in Teheran but many of the other cities of the country.

Unfortunately, this success was short lived.  Like all things that
change due to different circumstances, times and conditions, good and
bad, ugly or beautiful, we too had to submit to destiny.

The second world war started in 1939 when Germany attacked Poland.
Hitler and the axis powers over-ran one European country after
another, brought humility on the German people, exterminated
millions of Jews and other minorities.  Close to 100 million soldiers
and civilians lost their lives.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 104
Draft of 1/5/09

Iran declared its neutrality in 1941, but under the pretext that the
Shah was Pro-German, Russian, American and British troops occupied
Iran and used its railroads, roads and infrastructure to supply the
Russians in their fight against Hitler and built the so called "Victory
Bridge".  Our factory too was taken over without compensation.

Autumn of 1941 Reza Shah signed his abdication and left Teheran for
Isfahan, Kerman and the Port of Bandar Abbas to board a ship for the
island of Mauritius, his place of exile.  After some time, complaining
about the climatic conditions of that place, he was transferred to
Johannesburg in South Africa and three years later passed away.

The threat of persecutions against minorities, especially Jews and
Baha’is, forced many of my countrymen to leave the country.  Seeing
little hope for the future, and having nothing to do, I too decided to
travel.  With my wife, Bahereh, and sons, Iraj 9, and Hormoz 5, we
headed for the U.S., where I thought to find work and educate my
children, at least for the duration of the war.  But before leaving, for
one never knows what may happen, I put things in order; sold the
shares of Auto-Teheran to the Kattaneh Brothers, put the factory in my
father's hands and a small trading company in Momtaz Street in the
hands of my trusted brother-in-law Aziz Yazdi.

THE VOYAGE FROM IRAN TO AMERICA

On the 7th of November, 1941, we drove from Teheran via Kermanshah
to Baghdad.  Because of the war in Europe, it was impossible to go to
the U.S. via the Atlantic.  The only other possibility was to fly to
Singapore and then to San Francisco.  After consultation, we decided to
do just that.  A month later, a plane took us to Singapore with the aim
of going on to San Francisco.  Mrs. Mary Kattaneh and her son, Tony

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 105
Draft of 1/5/09

and daughter, Joyce were with us.  They were fortunate to fly on but we
four had to give up our seats to American military personnel.

What could we do?  There was a war going on and all rules and
regulations were put aside.  We were obliged to get on a ship called the
"President Coolidge" and follow a long and dangerous route.

The ship left port on December 1, 1941 headed for San Francisco, little
knowing what lay ahead.  On December 7, 1941 the Japanese bombed
Hawaii and attacked "Pearl Harbor".  Dozens of ships were sunk, many
planes destroyed and thousands of soldiers, sailors and civilians were
killed.  This caused the U.S. to enter the war on the side of the allies
and bring Japan to justice.

NEWS ABOUT THE SINKING OF THE PRESIDENT
COOLIDGE

After this event, Japanese submarines were on the lookout to sink any
American ship anywhere in the Pacific Ocean.  Our ship was such a
target.

American radios continuously announced that the "Coolidge" had been
sunk.  This, to throw off the enemy subs.  It worked, for the Japanese
no longer looked for us.  On the other hand, the news that the
"Coolidge" had been sunk caused much concern and sadness among
the relatives and friends of those who were on board.  We, ourselves,
didn't know what might happen at any moment.

Mr. & Mrs. Dallal and their two daughters, Iris and Gladys, were also
on this ship.  I knew David Dallal in Teheran for he represented
Firestone Tires and International Trucks in Iran.  We were fortunate to

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 106
Draft of 1/5/09

be together and to keep one another company, especially since their
children and ours were the same ages.

Everyday and even some nights we had to practice "Sinking" drills.  It
was very nerve-wracking and frightening to be in complete black-out, to
see curtains drawn at all times, to grope in the dark and expect to be
hit by bombs or torpedoes any second.  Imagine wearing life jackets all
the time, even when trying to sleep, or waiting to hear the sirens to
announce that the ship was hit, and big and small should head for the
life boats or throw themselves in the chilly water.  Moreover, strict
instructions were given that the wounded or dying were to be left
behind to go down with the ship.  Can one imagine leaving his child or
husband, or even a stranger to drown?  In such circumstances maybe it
is better to die rather than witness such a sight.

Days went by, every minute seemed like hours.  When would all this
finish?  Thank God it came to an end, for on December 14th, the S.S.
President Coolidge entered the bay of Honolulu.  The port was crowded
with sunken ships, the smoke of burned buildings, and the agony of
thousands of persons was visible everywhere.

To have seen the mass graves, ships with only the upper parts showing
above the water, the hospitals filled with the wounded, the orphans in
shacks, burnt out factories, stores, cars, homes; makes one sick and
tearful at the tragedy and senselessness of wars.  May the wrath of the
Almighty come upon those who advocate and carry out these bloody
wars.

A MEETING WITH AGNES ALEXANDER

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 107
Draft of 1/5/09

The event that brought us away from our sadness was the meeting with
a Baha’i lady named Agnes Alexander, who had been appointed a Hand
of the Cause* of Baha’u’llah by the Guardian of the Baha’i faith, Shoghi
Rabbani.  I had noted her address in Teheran before leaving and now, I
wanted to find her.

While the ship was docked, the passengers could go sightseeing and
shop or visit their friends.  We seized the opportunity and found Agnes
Alexander sitting in the balcony of a gray, wooden building.  Upon
introducing ourselves, she let us in her home.  What a pleasant and
unforgettable encounter, for we had heard much about her and she,
having met many Persians during her travels, welcomed us with much
love and appreciation.  Feelings of unity and warmth surrounded us all.

Mrs. Alexander, who usually resided in Hawaii and served humanity in
every way possible, had come here to teach the Baha’i faith to the
islanders and had found much joy in talking about this new religion.

She invited us for tea and made us feel at home through her kind
hospitality.  After a while, she took us to the Baha’i center, a modest
wooden building that had been built recently.  We met several native
Baha’is who welcomed us and together we said prayers for peace and
the advancement of mankind.

Twenty years later, Bahereh and I again visited those islands.  We were
surprised to learn that the small center had been sold for a good price,
because it was in the middle of the city, and that with the money, a
very large and beautiful building had been built in the outskirts of
Honolulu.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 108
Draft of 1/5/09

ARRIVAL AT SAN FRANCISCO

We said our farewells to Honolulu and our Baha’i friends who had been
so hospitable and headed for our port of entry into the U.S.  But there
were still thousands of miles to go and the nightmares of blackouts,
being torpedoed, etc. were with us.

I think that belief in God, no matter what religion one may practice, is
a fundamental basis for human existence.  It was this faith that kept
us hopeful and certain that the Almighty would cause us to reach the
mainland.

And so it was on December 25, 1941, that the ship and its joyful (some
tearful) passengers reached San Francisco harbor with its bright lights,
skyscrapers, and big city activities.  The “President Coolidge”, after so
many weeks of blackouts, turned on all of its lights, and like a floating
metallic island entered its berth.

We all collected our suitcases, said good-bye and good luck to the
friends we had made during the four week voyage from Singapore to
California and went directly to the San Francis hotel, which had been
reserved in advance.  It was the first night that all four slept well,
thanking the Lord for being alive and secure.

The next few weeks were spent sightseeing, shopping and finding new
friends.  We celebrated the New Year of 1942 with new clothing, and a
great hope for the future.  We learned much about this large city of
750,000 inhabitants, its origins, the earthquakes; the melting pot of
Italians, Chinese and dozens of other nationalities, its factories, world
famous universities, the Golden Gate and other bridges, etc,

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 109
Draft of 1/5/09

It was now time to leave San Francisco.  Before leaving Iran, I had
ordered a four-door Chrysler Sedan and went to the dealer to pick it up
and prepare for the trip to Southern California, i.e. Los Angeles and
Hollywood.

We decided to stay three months in southern California, just to relax
and enjoy ourselves.  I must say that this was one of the best periods
of my life.

An apartment was rented in "Hollywood Towers" for $80 a month,
having two bedrooms, a living-dining room, kitchen and a hall and
bathrooms.  We visited the various film studios and even met some of
the famous personalities.  These encounters brought to mind the
artistic capabilities of human beings and also the tremendous
advances made by science.  I realized that man is often unconscious of
his abilities.  I remembered the words of Napoleon: "The impossible is
impossible", in other words, impossible does not exist!  Of course, this
thought has its limitations, but, in general, it means that what can be
accomplished is even greater than what we can imagine.

Again, I refer to another of Napoleon's sayings that goes like this: "It is
pessimism that prevents us from achieving our highest aspirations, for
man has whatever it takes to reach his desires".

Once again, we had the pleasure of meeting many Baha’is who made us
feel at home by their hospitality and help.  Their spiritual outlook not
only brought joy to themselves and whomever they met, but helped us
to better understand Americans.  Those three months were wonderful
and among the Baha’is there was Marzieh Gail, the daughter of Nabi-
Dowleh ond Ali Gholi Khan, who organized many meetings or
"Firesides" so that we could speak about Iran and our travels.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 110
Draft of 1/5/09


ON TO THE EAST COAST

It was now April and time to leave for Chicago and New York.  Bahereh,
Iraj, Hormoz and myself put all of our belongings in the green Chrysler
(photo 12) and headed East.

Traveling by car has its advantages.  One can start and stop at will,
interesting landmarks can be seen leisurely and most of all, one can
enjoy nature by picnicking, seeing the pastures, farms, cities, villages,
etc.

On the way to Chicago, we spent a night at Geyserville farm as the
guests of its owner, a man of 80.  He told my wife that if she so
wished, she could prepare a Persian meal.  Bahereh was delighted and
cooked rice and a sauce called "Fesenjan".  But because there was no
pomegranate juice available, she used orange juice as an ingredient.

After dinner and before going to his bedroom, our host said that he
gets up at 7 am, but we could sleep late and have our breakfast at will.
I asked him why so early?  He replied that he personally prunes the
orange trees, waters them, and so on.  I was surprised that a man of
his age had the energy and patience to do all that.

Next morning I, too, got up early and accompanied him.  He virtually
ran up a high, steep hill as though it was nothing; and I at 38 could
hardly keep up with him.  After a short time, I expressed my fatigue but
he said that he wasn't the least tired.  Very politely, I asked him, "With
all of these orange groves and the wealth that you posses, why do you,
yourself take the time and trouble to work and continue to plant even
more saplings?  You are on in years and may never see these young

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 111
Draft of 1/5/09

trees give fruit?"  He replied, "You are right, but my aim in planting
these trees, is not that I should eat or sell the fruits; I believe that as
others planted and now we benefit from their work, we should plant
now so others in the future may benefit from our doings."

Hearing this, my thoughts went back to a Persian story telling about a
very old man planting walnut trees.  Upon the remark that he would
not live long enough to pick the walnuts, he replied, "Others planted
and we eat them, let me plant, that others may eat them."

That story and this encounter clearly told me that I too should plan my
life in such a way that the results of my endeavors would benefit as
many people as possible and should not be limited to my own benefit
or existence.

After saying good-bye and thanking our host for his hospitality and the
experiences that he shared with us, we set out for Chicago, the big city
that was surrounded with industries of all sorts as well as being
considered one of the important commercial hubs of the world.  Almost
everything needed was at the disposal of these people, but often one
does not appreciate what one has, especially in comparison with
conditions in other countries.

THE POLICE AND A TICKET

Although we had a road map, we lost our way and found ourselves in a
small town in the outskirts of Chicago.  While trying to find the right
road, we heard a continuous siren.  Not having heard a similar sound
before, and thinking that it has nothing to do with us, we just
continued.  Then a police car pulled alongside and told me to stop.  Two
officers approached and said, "Don't you realize that you entered a one-

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 112
Draft of 1/5/09

way street?  You're liable for a fine!  Show me your driving license."  I
told him we are new in your country, have lost our way, don't know why
we should be fined and what was the meaning of one-way.  The second
officer said "You'll first pay a fine of $15, and then we'll tell you about a
one-way street!"

I was surprised and didn't know what to do.  First, because I didn't
think a mistake had been made.  Second, because $15 converted into
Iranian money was a great deal to pay.  Third, if I went down a one-way
street, it was because we were lost.  I told the story exactly as it was,
hoping the police would understand.  As they were quite angry, they
didn't accept my excuses.  So I tried another tactic.  I said, "I am
surprised at the way you Americans treat foreigners.  For, if an
American came to Iran, we would be very hospitable and show the
visitor much respect and do our best to make him happy.  But when we
Persians enter your country, instead of helping us find the way and
teaching us what to do, you scold and give us a ticket”.

It worked!  He became very friendly and said, "I won't give you a ticket
this time, and follow me so I can show you the way to Chicago.”  By
telling the truth, we were not fined, were put on the right road and told
the American police a little about Iran.

ARRIVAL IN CHICAGO

We checked into a hotel that had a beautiful view and was so centrally
located that we could learn and wonder about all the different aspects
of this huge metropolis.

However, the second day we found out that our younger son, Hormoz,
aged 5, had measles.  This made everyone concerned, but the hotel

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 113
Draft of 1/5/09

manager said not to worry and called in a doctor.  He started the
treatment by pulling the curtains and turning off the lights, so the
room would be dark, ordered complete rest and warned that the patient
should not scratch himself and finally, to be patient, for it will take a
week or 10 days to cure.

The doctor learned that we were from Iran and asked many questions
about that country.  He became very sympathetic when I told him about
our trials and tribulations, especially the part about the voyage from
Singapore to San Francisco.  He asked about my work in Iran, the
problems that we had to reach the U.S. and about the future education
of Iraj and Hormoz.

We became good friends and his frequent visits to see how his patient
was getting along impressed us a great deal.  Here was a man
dedicated to his profession and at the same time, humane, courteous
and humble.

The day of his last visit, I asked him what was owed.  He replied that
what he did for my son was not for money but to help a family in a
foreign land and to show the friendship that most Americans offer their
fellowmen.

Realizing that he would not accept money, I gave him a hand-worked
box inlaid with brass, mother of pearl and teak wood, which we had
brought from Iran.  This token of our gratitude and a souvenir from Iran
pleased him a great deal.

From this I learned that to help others and serve humanity is one of
the noblest things that man can do, for he is the highest form of
creation and by good actions he can prove this.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 114
Draft of 1/5/09


It was now April 20th, and the day in which the delegates and others of
the American Baha’i community gathered in Willamette, just outside of
Chicago, for the annual convention.  We were fortunate to attend and
meet most of the 250 people who were there to discuss ways and
means to eliminate the prejudices of race, color, religion, and
nationalism that were causing the hatred, jealousy and wars in various
parts of the world.  The main topic was the establishment of world
peace and unity among the people and nations of this planet.

The sessions were held in the Mashrogh-Ol-Askar, (Bahai house of
worship) which is comparable to a mosque, church or synagogue.  It is
here and in similar houses of worship all over the world that Baha’is
and people of other faiths assemble to pray and meditate and give
thanks to God or the supreme creator.

This building, located along the shores of Lake Michigan in the State of
Illinois, is nine-sided, made of white cement and granite and has
become world famous for its architectural design and beauty.  Tourists,
persons interested in world religions, engineers, architects and people
from all walks of life visit this structure in great numbers.  Similar
Baha’i houses of worship exist in Uganda, Sydney, Samoa, Panama,
Frankfurt and New Delhi.  The first one was constructed in the City of
Eshghabad in the Soviet Union at the turn of the century, but was
destroyed by an earthquake some years ago.

While in Chicago, we visited the many museums and the trade center
and learned that this city has five universities, is the second largest
American metropolis in population, and is surrounded by many
industries, slaughter-houses, steel mills, etc.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 115
Draft of 1/5/09

ARRIVAL IN NEW YORK

The month of April was coming to and end.  Because of Hormoz's
illness, we did not see as much of Chicago as was desired, but at least
the Baha’i convention made up for that.

It was early May that our faithful Chrysler took us into New York, the
biggest, busiest city and port of the United States.  The weather was
getting warmer and Spring had arrived.

We lodged in a hotel on West 65th Street, while looking for an
apartment.  Fortunately, one was found at 480 Park Avenue.  The
owners, an insurance company, had many empty apartments and were
anxious to find a customer, especially since the price of real estate
was on down.  I was able to rent it for $300 a month, a figure that was
affordable.  Furniture and other necessities were bought and soon it
became our new home.

At that time there weren't many Iranians in New York, but it did not
take long for me to find some of my old friends such as Motahedeh,
Haghani, Manouchehrian, Farhadi and Khosrowshahi.

As stated before, there were two reasons for me to leave Iran.  First,
the threat of war and invasion of our country.  Second, the wish to
educate our two sons to the best of their mother's and my ability.  I
believe that the foremost responsibility of parents is to bring up and
educate their children, making any sacrifice to achieve that aim.

Iraj was 9, and Hormoz 5.  We were advised to put them in boarding
school, for in that way, they could learn English quickly.  A school was
found about 20 miles north of New York City and Iraj was enrolled first.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 116
Draft of 1/5/09

Later, Hormoz was enrolled.  I remember the day we drove him up.  He
started to cry, saying, "You are going to leave me alone!  I don't know
anyone here."  And although his mother and I too were saddened and
had to brush our tears aside, we knew that this was to his benefit and
one day, no one would regret this decision.  (Photo 18)  Regarding their
education, I am happy that their mother and myself took the care and
made the sacrifices needed so that they could have the best.

Iraj, who was born in Teheran in the year 1931, entered Horace Mann
in 1942 in New York.  He went on to get a Bachelor of Science degree in
Economics at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania,
and later obtained a Master of Business Administration degree from
Harvard University in 1956.

Hormoz, born in 1936 in Teheran, also went to Horace Mann and
continued his studies at the University of Pennsylvania and got a
Bachelor of Science in Economics.

The whole idea was that our two sons obtain their schooling in a
country that could offer the best and most advanced education and
with that, return to their native country and further the progress and
development of Iran.

With the help of the Almighty this was achieved and after completing
their studies, they went back and did the best they could to advance
the cause of commerce and industry.

Iraj directed the 12 Zamzam plants (producing Pepsi Cola, Schweppes,
and other soft drinks), managed Mina glass factory, Iran Cork, and was
on the Board of Directors of General Tire of Iran, Iran Gas and
Cylinder, Radio Television of Iran, Esso (Exxon) Lube Plant, and the

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 117
Draft of 1/5/09

Bank of Iran and the Middle East.  He was also a member of the Lions
Club and on the Board of the Foundation of Damavand University.

Hormoz was President of Firooz Trading Company (selling household
appliances, T.V. receivers, wood working machinery, etc) on the Board
of General Tires Recapping Plant, Radio-T.V. of Iran, Sabet-Pasal
Company (Importers of Volkswagen); Iranian's Bank, Revlon of Iran,
Transpic, Esso (Exxon), Mina Glass, and Iran Gas, etc.

THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEW YORK OFFICE

Once the boy’s education was under way, I turned my attention to
opening a small office at 30 Rockefeller Plaza.  My first activity was to
start correspondence with Iran.

I asked Mr. Moosa Haghani to join me so together we could look into
various business possibilities.  His Persian and English were perfect.
Moreover, we were distant relatives.  His experiences and good
judgment were invaluable.  We had very good relations and even up to
today, myself and the family count on his advice.

Our plan was to import from Iran and Export American products.  One
of the items considered was Persian carpets.  But soon we found out
that for the time being, there was not much demand for rugs.  To
import pistachios and other food stuffs didn't appeal to me.  So what
should we do?

Maybe the best way to find a suitable answer was to consult with those
who had the knowledge and experience.  For I believe, and it has been
written in all the Holy Books, that consultation is the perfect method
to resolve a problem.  In history, we read that those who had advisors

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 118
Draft of 1/5/09

and consulted with them, such as Genjis Khan the conqueror, they
usually won.  Others, such as Amir Taymour or Napoleon, who were
reluctant to consult and insisted on their own way, lost.

After discussing what to do, we decided to import a special tree sap
(Gum Arabic) which was used for making pharmaceuticals, candies and
other food stuffs.  After several shipments, which did not sell well
because there were others with much more knowledge and contacts, we
gave up this affair.

In the meantime, we hired a German refugee, Richard Goetter, whose
many years in the export and import business, integrity and hard work
became an invaluable asset.

After many studies, it became clear that our best bet was to start
exporting U.S. products.  But there was a war going on and all the
ships were being used by the American Government to transport
military goods.  The only way to send things to Iran was in small
packages called "Parcel Post."

During one of the Shah’s trips to the U.S., the Iranian businessmen
asked me to welcome His Majesty and make a small speech about the
relations between the two countries.  I remember well that he
encouraged us to return to Iran and establish commercial and
industrial enterprises. (Photo 19).

FIROOZ COMPANY IS FORMED

Those days, the only way to communicate between the U.S. and Iran
was by telegraph.  No telephone or airline existed.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 119
Draft of 1/5/09

The people of Iran were in need of everything and because of the war in
Europe and the Pacific all items had become scarce.  Those living in
Teheran were especially hungry for American goods.

If I wanted to export to Iran, reliable persons would have to be found
there, but being so far away, on whom could I count?  After much
thought, it was decided to create a private company with the name
"Firooz Trading Corp." to be supervised by my father (photo 20).  Mr.
Aziz Yazdi, my brother-in-law was appointed General Manager.  Light-
weight items such as ladies stockings, tooth brushes and paste, pens
and pencils, pharmaceuticals etc. were sent via Parcel Post.  This
business of exporting American goods to Iran became so successful
that a second company had to be created.

Some of my old friends such as Asghar Panahi, Emile Abboud,
Alexander Saffian and Dr. Mohsen Lak had formed a company called
"Pasal", comprising a letter from each of their names.  They contacted
me, suggesting a joint venture be set up with the title "Sabet-Pasal".
This new company would benefit from the possibilities of the New York
office of Habib Sabet and the existing Teheran organization of "Pasal".
Our main asset was the trust and confidence that we had for one
another.

Soon orders came from Teheran to find and buy this or that.  Mr.
Goetter and myself would seek the highest quality goods at the best
prices and ship them to Iran.

One of the items that had a high demand was tires.  In April of 1944,
after participating at the Baha’i convention in Chicago, I made a trip to
Akron, Ohio, which was the center of tire manufacturing.  I met Mr.
William O’Neill the owner and manager of General Tire Co., and told

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 120
Draft of 1/5/09

him about my experiences in the automotive field and the possibilities
of the Iranian market.  After much discussion, a visit to the plant and
the promise that Sabet-Pasal would do their best to sell General Tires,
he agreed to sign a contract.  While doing so he asked me, "Where is
Iran?"  With a smile, I told him of its location, past history and so on.
Then he wanted to know if I could place an order, to which I agreed and
the first order amounting to $530 was signed.

Next, we had to find a way to get these tires to Iran.  All transport
permits were issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce.  First, I
visited and then wrote to the office that was in charge.  We
acknowledged that times were difficult, a war was going on, etc., but
the matter was that all the vehicles produced in America and operating
in Iran needed U.S. tires.

After many exchanges of letters and running around, they said that a
blanket permission is impossible, but every case would be reviewed
and once determined when and where the goods were going, an export
license would be given.  So far so good!

The first shipment totaling $530 arrived at the Persian Gulf Port of
Khorram Shahr, was trucked to Teheran, and immediately sold.  This
encouraged the Board of Sabet-Pasal to order and reorder in greater
quantities.  To be sure that we could get enough, I told General Tire
that we are willing to pay a premium price on condition that all of our
orders are shipped as soon as possible.  In this way, Sabet-Pasal
company was put on a priority list.  Thus the customers were well
stocked and happy, we made profits, and the name "General Tire"
became well known.  Our purchases were on the top of General's
export list.  An American company that didn't even know where Iran
was, exported more to that country than anywhere else.  The Iranian

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 121
Draft of 1/5/09

market
became
so
important
that
they
sent
a
permanent
representative to Teheran to help us sell even more.

THE DECISION TO PUT UP A TIRE PLANT

The reputation of General Tire increased continuously and the
marketing strategy was so good that it became the number one seller
in Iran, especially truck and heavy duty tires.  This success brought
about the idea of producing locally and inviting General Tire of Akron to
participate in a joint venture.  Our competitors weren't happy about
this, but since our aim was to help industrialize the country and create
jobs, the Ministry of Industry gave us their approval and complete
support.

The factory would be located in Teheran.  In 1964, 30,000 square
meters of land was bought, a building was constructed and machinery
and equipment installed to produce 20,000 tons of tires.  (Photo 21)

In July of 1965, the first Iranian built tires entered the market.
However, the capacity was not enough to satisfy the demand.
Therefore, we were obliged to import the shortfall in order to satisfy our
customers and keep our share of the market.  This customer
satisfaction was the most important asset that we had and through it
good public relations were established.  Seeing that the demand was
there, we obtained a second permit to double the capacity.  At the
beginning, the daily production was 430 tires but by 1974, it reached
2900 units.

The Board of Directors of General Tire of Iran was made up of
expatriates, mostly Americans and 4 Iranians, namely Emile Abboud,
engineer Asghar Panahi, Dr. Mohsen Lak and Iraj Sabet.  At this point,

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 122
Draft of 1/5/09

I would like to thank all of them for their devotion and hard work, for it
was they who directed this huge undertaking with much success.

The start of my business life from 1921 was bicycles, cars and trucks.
Now, we were producing tires by the hundreds of thousands each year
and providing jobs, products and services.  The many years of patience
and perseverance were now coming into fruition.  I realized that an
honorable profession or business will succeed, but you need
experience and knowledge to get ahead.

The desire to serve General Tire of Iran to the best of his ability
caused Iraj to spend many months in Akron to better learn the details
of the tire industry.  In his capacity as Vice-Chairman, he contributed
much to the progress of this company.

Bahereh and I had always wanted to travel by ship from Europe to
America.  Having worked hard these last few years, we decided to take
a small vacation and spend a few days away from it all.  We did this in
1948. (Photo 22).

THE STUDEBAKER DEALERSHIP

As stated a few times, my main interest was the automotive business.
I always wanted to obtain an American automobile dealership.  But all
the major companies already had an agent, except Studebaker.  On
several occasions I contacted their management in Indiana and finally,
in 1944, accompanied by my wife Bahereh, we made a trip to their
headquarters.  The President of the company was pleased to hear
about my past, starting my career as an automobile driver, then the
trucking company and finally my involvement in the Chrysler
Dealership in Iran.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 123
Draft of 1/5/09


The Second World War was still going on and the U.S. needed all the
vehicles that were produced.  After many discussions, Studebaker and
the U.S. Government accepted that right after the war, a limited
number of vehicles would be allocated to Iran.  (Photo 23)

Once the war was over, we made the first shipment of 8 cars to the
Port of Khorram Shahr, from where they were driven to Teheran.
Because of the good relations between our company and Studebaker
and the shipping line, we ordered and sent hundreds of cars and trucks
every year.  The sales manager of the vehicle division of Sabet-Pasal
company was Mr. Mahmoud Khamsi (my brother-in-law).  One of his
innovations was to encourage a group of drivers to form the first taxi
company, using Studebaker cars.

THE VOLKSWAGEN AGENCY

Due to extreme competition, the Studebaker company had to close its
doors, which meant that Sabet-Pasal had to look elsewhere to import
cars.  Because of the good relations between the Studebaker
management and the Volkswagen importer of Belgium, they tried to get
us a certain quantity of Volkswagens from their quota to be shipped to
Iran.  But this was not possible, due to the fact that Volkswagen of
Germany, or the parent company already had a distributor for Iran
called "Vahabzadeh Brothers", who were importing hundreds of cars
and therefore, there was no need for another dealer.

But destiny has its own plans.  For disunity among the Vahabzadehs
brought their activities to a halt and caused the export department of
Volkswagen to seek and find a new importer.  One can imagine that
when that news got out, there were dozens of candidates who

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 124
Draft of 1/5/09

contacted
the
German
Embassy
to
apply
for
this
important
representation.

As I was in Teheran at that time, I decided to go and see the
Commercial Attaché.  He received me but said, "I think your application
is too late and maybe by now Volkswagen has taken its decision.  Not
being in the habit of taking a "No" for an answer, I asked him to
telegraph our request anyway.

After about a month Volkswagen sent a reply to Sabet-Pasal company
stating that they would like to meet us.

The purpose behind creating such a small car was to make it so
economical and low cost that everyone could afford one.  The project
was started during Hitler's regime and the attractive and huge factory
was located in a huge open space in Northern Germany called
"Wolfsburg".  The plants were well laid out and the latest technology in
automotive engineering was used.  The company had built houses,
apartments, schools, stores, restaurants, etc., for its thousands of
employees and workers.

After arriving and being met at the airport of Hanover, our hosts drove
us to the main offices, which were an hour’s distance.

The export manager and his assistants welcomed us and said, "We
have some information about you and your past experiences, but
wanted to meet your personally and hear more."

I told them about my childhood, the bicycle days, the automobile
period, the trucking company, the Auto-Teheran car agency, the years
in America, the Studebaker dealership, etc.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 125
Draft of 1/5/09


The next evening we had dinner together, visited the small town and
during the good-byes were told that this visit was routine and that all
applicants had passed some time at Wolfsburg.  The final selection
would be made later.  As we left, I had little hope that Sabet-Pasal
would be chosen.

A little later, a letter arrived inviting us to Wolfsburg and their offices
for the second time.  The same scenario repeated itself, and after
visiting the factory, they told us that we would be invited for dinner.

At 6:30 our hosts arrived at the guest house and contrary to the last
trip, this time they drove us to one of the main buildings in which they
had a sort of "Club" to entertain their guests.

We were led to the dinning room and I was placed at the head of a long
table.  On the other side sat the managing director of Volkswagen and
on the sides, the marketing, technical and financial managers.  The
room was well arranged and beautiful flowers decorated the table.

When the four course dinner had been served, the managing director,
along with his collaborators, rose with a glass of champagne in his
hand.  He said, "After thoroughly evaluating the 46 applicants and
researching all the facts, the Board of Directors has decided to appoint
Habib Sabet and thus, Sabet-Pasal Company, as the new dealer of
Volkswagen for Iran.  I am pleased to congratulate you and wish the
best success for the both of us."

Standing, they all raised their glasses and drank the champagne.
Bahereh and I too raised our glasses, brought them to our lips, but did
not drink because of our religious beliefs about alcoholic beverages.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 126
Draft of 1/5/09

While all were standing, I thanked them on my own behalf as well as
my partners in Sabet-Pasal Company.  Then, I asked, "Why did you
choose our group among all the applicants?"

The Managing Director, in a voice which reflected his candor and
friendliness, said, "In addition to technical and commercial reasons,
there were three other considerations.  First, you did not boast or
exaggerate your achievements.  Second, the other 46 candidates used
every way possible, such as having banks, politicians, men of
influence, etc., bring pressure on us, whereas you did not ask even one
person or organization to recommend your company.  This shows that
you could stand on your own and had faith and determination.  Third,
whenever we asked the others about you, they would say that you
didn't have enough capital, were not suitable for this important
dealership, were not well known, were Baha’i, Jewish, etc.  On the
other hand, you never made negative remarks or tried to belittle the
others.  These 3 factors convinced us that you have courage, are
honest, and show consideration for others."

The next day the contract was signed and we flew to Paris and then to
Teheran.  This was a journey of material and moral victory.

THE FOUNDING OF IRAN VOLKS

Volkswagen vehicles, which already had a good name in Iran, became
even more popular.  The demand for cars and spare parts was so great
that at times we had to arrange special quick shipments at additional
costs to keep the pipeline filled and our customers satisfied.

A new organization was needed, so a company with the name "Iran
Volks" was formed to take care of this fast growing sector of our

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 127
Draft of 1/5/09

businesses.  While signing the incorporation papers, I remembered
Napoleons words, "To conquer is easy - to keep and administer is
difficult."

Our aim was to keep our customers satisfied and give them the
attention and service which they required.  It wasn't important that
they be big or small as long as they were a customer.  It has often been
seen that a small, so called unimportant client who is dissatisfied, can
influence and deter others.

An important part of our imports were Volkswagen ambulances.  These
were bought by hospitals, clinics, the Iranian Red Cross and the
Ministry of Health.  Because of humanitarian reasons and a belief that
business should serve the community, we kept the prices very low and
satisfied ourselves with a minimum profit.  Thus, God's blessings were
showered on all.

THE ESSO (EXXON) DEALERSHIP

Having an important base such as Volkswagen encouraged us to obtain
other automotive agencies, such as lubricants, electrical components,
batteries, tools, jacks, etc.  Thus, we started to import Esso oils,
greases, and lubricants for the automotive and aviation industries from
the U.S.

In 1965, the Sabet-Pasal partners decided that the volume of imports
had reached such a high level that local production should be
considered.  Esso International was not in agreement with this idea.
First, because they wanted to export their own products.  Second, they
argued that the National Iranian Oil Company was establishing its own

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 128
Draft of 1/5/09

lubricant plant in Abadan and would surely oppose a foreign
competitor.

THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A LUBRICATING PLANT

Despite the forgoing, our decision was firm because we knew that by
building such a plant, a new industry would be added for the progress
of Iran and hundreds of new jobs would be created.

It took two years of discussions in Geneva, New York, and Teheran,
with the cooperation of Esso, the Ministry of Economy, and finally with
the wish of the Shah, who wanted the Iranian industries to develop,
that an accord was reached.

Esso, being an international oil company and having put up dozens of
plants all over the world, provided all the technical assistance, plant
layouts and the purchase of the best machinery.  On our part, we
purchased a big plot of land in South Teheran, next to the N.I.O.C.
refinery.  The initial capital was $4,700,000 and the capacity rated at
30,000 tons of oil.  In a short time, the output was increased to 60,000
tons per year.  It took about 15 months to become operational, but
when it happened, all our trials, concerns, and efforts were rewarded.

A helicopter brought the Shah to the site and he, as well as many
Ministers and foreign guests, attended the opening ceremonies.
(Photo 24)

Our joint-venture partner Esso sent many engineers and technicians,
as well as a managers to Iran to help start the operations.  The
company called "Towlid & Tasfieh Roughan" (Oil Production & Refinery)
also sent many young Iranians to be trained abroad.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 129
Draft of 1/5/09


From the beginning, the board appointed engineer Foud Ashraf to be
the technical manger.  He did a splendid job, especially that he was
very conscientious and had many years experience having worked a
long time for the National Oil Company in Abadan.

TWO MORE PLANTS

To ship the lubricants to the markets of Teheran and the Provinces,
thousands of containers were needed.  So, two production lines were
established next to the main plant, one to produce drums and the
other for round and square cans.  Needless to say, filling machines
were also installed and vertical integration was implemented.  In 1979,
the number of employees and workers totaled 400 persons.

OTHER AGENCIES

In order to serve our customers to the utmost, we decided to increase
the number of products imported.

Auto-lite, a famous manufacturer of spark plugs, batteries, and other
automotive electrical parts gave us their representation.  To better sell
and service these items, in 1950, a separate company was created by
the name of "Auto Nour," under the capable management of Mr.
Faramarz Ashraf.

Soon, mechanical and hydraulic jacks and lifts, tools, electric
generators, gasoline and diesel pumps, and lift trucks were being
imported from such companies as Murphy Diesel, Pierce Strato,
Gilbarco, Snap-On-Tools, Yale and Towne, etc.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 130
Draft of 1/5/09


BEECHCRAFT AIRPLANES

It became apparent that in Western countries, small airplanes were
being used very often for private or corporate use.  In a country like
Iran with bad roads, long distances and few airline connections, it was
natural that an aircraft agency would be appropriate.  We contacted the
Beech Air Craft Corporation, which had a world wide reputation for two,
four and six seater planes.  Mr. Beech and his secretary had many
years ago built their first small aircraft in a garage.  Then a factory was
put up.  On one of their visits to New York, my wife and I met them at
the Plaza Hotel (photo 25) where much was discussed about the future
of aviation in Iran.  A short while later, we obtained their
representation and ordered a single-engine plane called "Bonanza".
Soon thereafter, the Ministry of Health bought two units as flying
ambulances.  A four seater was bought by a rancher in Isfahan by the
name of Asghar Teherani Massoud.  A two-engine plane with all the
trimmings was bought by the Shah, who enjoyed flying and was a
capable pilot.  And finally, a special Bonanza was ordered for the
Crown-Prince, Reza Pahlavi.

THE AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY AGENCIES

There being large and small farms all over Iran, there was a growing
need for mechanization.  So tractors, harvesters, plows, etc. were much
in demand.

I made a trip to the mid-American State of Minnesota and visited a
company called "Minneapolis-Moline".  They made a variety of
agricultural machines, which had many attachments for all kinds of

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 131
Draft of 1/5/09

farm use.  The agency was obtained for Sabet-Pasal and Mr. Mahmoud
Khamsi was appointed manager of that department.  Through his
efforts and the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture was giving long
term loans, we were able to import thousands of units and thus render
a service to that sector of the economy.

Some years later, we added a Japanese company by the name of
Yanmar, which made small hand-pushed but motorized tractors,
especially for the smaller farms and rice fields of Northern Iran.

CONSTRUCTION MACHINES

Parallel to the development of industries and agriculture, the building
and construction sector was expanding very, very rapidly.  The
government provided low interest loans and land speculation was the
order of the day.

Again, Sabet-Pasal obtained the representation of such companies as
Letournou, Westinghouse, Tower, cranes made by a French company
named Richier, graders made by Wabco, etc.

EXPANSION OF FIROOZ

In 1944, when the Second World War was at its height, Iran was in dire
need of pharmaceuticals and health products.  We then decided to
extend Firooz Company’s activities and try to serve our country.

Messrs. Ashraf and Arjomand, the latter my maternal uncle, were well
known for their business acumen and many years experience in
management.  They joined Firooz's Board of Directors.  Our aim was to

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 132
Draft of 1/5/09

import pharmaceuticals, health care products, surgical and x-ray
equipment, even ambulances, and sell them at very low prices all over
the nation.

Household appliances, as we know them now, did not exist in Iran at
that time.  Heating at home, work, or school was done with charcoal,
wood or kerosene.  Fire was a hazard and these crude heaters needed
constant surveillance.

I went to Chicago in 1945 to attend a trade show and after a thorough
comparison, chose the "Duo-Therm" brand of kerosene air and water
heaters.  The design was very attractive and the function very simple.
The agency agreement was signed and thousands of these units were
imported and sold in the cities, towns and even villages of Iran.

Soon, the name "Duo-Therm" became so famous that any one who
wanted a heater, under any mark would simply say, "Give me a Duo-
Therm."

In those days, with the exception of some wealthy people who had
their own baths at home, the masses went to public baths.  There, one
had to wait on line, go through the trouble of changing clothing and
even worse, the sanitary conditions, source of clean water, diseases,
etc. were a continuos concern.  With these individual water heaters
installed in many homes, the question of cleanliness and public health
was vastly improved.

Most of the latest innovations, inventions and discoveries attracted
our attention.  When the product became available in Europe or
America, we immediately considered it for our markets.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 133
Draft of 1/5/09

For example, it was in 1946 that I saw for the first time an electric
shaver.  My thoughts went back to many years ago when the straight
razor, sharpened on a leather strap, or the Gillette shaver, with lather,
warm water, etc. was in use.  How times change!  Soon, we obtained
the "Phillips" agency for Firooz Company and started to distribute its
various products.

In those days, cooking was by means of wood or charcoal.  The stove in
itself was the heart of the dwelling and the meeting point of the family
and friends.  It had a social value.  Anyway, it was at the Chicago fair
that I saw various cooking stoves and ranges.  Why not import them for
Iranian homes I thought?  After exchange of several letters with a
company called "Magic Chef", we obtained their agency and like other
items, hundreds at first, and then thousands of cooking ranges were
sold to satisfied homeowners.

ICE AND ICE MAKING IN IRAN

From centuries ago, Persians used ice to preserve food, mix it in their
summer desserts or just to keep cool.  Even Saadi, the famous poet,
mentions it in his "Golestan".

The clever method used to produce and keep ice was to build a long but
very tall wall in a field, observing the sun's path so as to have the
maximum shade.  Then, a wide ditch would be dug at the base of the
wall and at the beginning of winter water would be poured into the
ditch.  The cold nights would freeze the water and during the day time,
the tall walls would prevent the suns rays from warming or melting the
ice.  In reality a huge ice-maker was created and in larger cities,
several of them.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 134
Draft of 1/5/09

In the Spring and Summer, the owners of these "Ice makers" would
break up the ice and sell it to stores, homes, cafes, etc.

Once the ice was bought, it was not easy to keep it from melting.  So,
Sabet carpentry company, which had experience in making cabinets of
all sorts, designed an "ice chest" and soon made it a reality.  It
consisted of a wooden box with a hinged cover.  Inside the chest, there
was placed a galvanized box, a bit smaller than the outer one.  In
between these two, an empty space of about 3 inches (10 cm) was filled
with sawdust, thus creating insulation.  Since there was no other
"appliance" to keep the ice from melting, this innovation solved the
problem and thousands of such ice chests were bought by home
owners and shops.

THE FIRST ELECTRIC REFRIGERATOR

Electricity made its presence in Teheran many years ago.  The first
thoroughfare in the capitol, which had previously been lit by gas, but
now benefited from electricity, was called, at first, "Gas Light"; and now
"Electric Light" street.  The first power plant was put up by Haj Amin
Alzarb and later dozens of others were established.  Despite this, there
was always a shortage of electricity and "Black-outs" were common.

Therefore, the idea came to me to find a refrigerator that could work
without electricity.  A Swedish company by the name of Electrolux
made a kerosene refrigerator called "Servel".  Firooz company started to
import them and soon areas of Teheran and towns and villages where
electricity was in shortage benefited from these appliances.

As more power plants were installed throughout Iran, the demand for
electric refrigerators increased tremendously.  Companies such as

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 135
Draft of 1/5/09

General Electric, Westinghouse, etc. had representatives already.
Fortunately, Kelvinator was available.  Firooz contacted this American
company and in 1946, I traveled to Detroit to obtain the agency.
Thousands of refrigerators entered Iran and the market became so
important that local manufacturing was started.  By the 70's and 80's,
Iran was even exporting to the Gulf States and the other neighboring
countries.

SQUIBB PHARMACEUTICALS

In 1941 when my family and I left Teheran for the United States, there
was a great shortage of medicine, basically because it came from
Europe and especially England, where the war had just started.

Once in New York, I contacted Merck, Upjohn, Lilly-White and others
to see if they had products that could be sent to Iran.  The reply was
always, "No".

Our apartment was at the corner of 58th street and a company called
Squibb had their offices on the next block.  It was easy for me to visit
them often, but the answer was always the same, "We are not
authorized to export pharmaceuticals".  Finally, I said, "Is there any
product that you can sell me"?  They replied, "Our famous Squibb
toothpaste".  I bought 3 dozen tubes and sent them by parcel post to
my father.  I had now become a customer of Squibb.

Sometime later my father sent me a telegram, "Please send 100 dozen
tubes of toothpaste."  I sent packages in the name of the employees
and even workers of his company, "Abdullah Sabet Imports."  The
Squibb name became so famous that soon thousands of dozens of
tubes were being exported.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 136
Draft of 1/5/09


PENICILLIN TO IRAN

In 1928 a British doctor by the name of Alexander Fleming discovered
Penicillin.  However, it was not before the Second World War that its
use became very important.  This God given antibiotic not only saved
the lives of millions of soldiers, but also helped civilians to fight all
sorts of diseases.

Again my thoughts went towards finding a way to introduce this
"miracle medicine" to our doctors back home.  I approached the
management of Squibb and asked if I could buy a few tubes as samples
to send to Iran and maybe help some patients in dire need.  They
accepted, gave me a few packages and didn't even charge me for them.
With a great deal of joy and without hesitation, they were sent to our
office in Teheran with a message that read, “As soon as they arrive,
contact the Ministry of Health and cable me the results.”

It wasn't long that a cable came with an order for immediate shipment
of several thousand vials of Penicillin.  I took the request to Squibb
who took it upon themselves to obtain the necessary permits from the
U.S. Government.  A private plane was chartered and the shipment
sent on its way.  (Photo 26)

I was very happy that this first shipment and others that followed
permitted my country-men and women to benefit from this drug.  I felt
that because my intention was pure and not profit motivated, the
Almighty rewarded me amply and for that I am thankful.

The management of Squibb decided to help Firooz to train salesmen
and to organize a vast distribution network.  Branch offices were

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 137
Draft of 1/5/09

created in the provinces and the name of Squibb became so well known
that a few years later a joint-venture plant was set up to produce
certain pharmaceuticals locally.

A plot of land was bought by Firooz and Squibb 9 kilometers outside of
Teheran.  Laboratories, manufacturing and packing were all housed in a
modern building.  Iranian chemists and lab technicians were hired and
trained by specialists from the U.S. and European countries.

Once the Squibb plant became operational, other companies from all
over the world decided to set up their own factories in Iran.

In order to keep up this continuous program of aiding the country and
providing the best in medical and health care, Firooz imported
"Coricidin", a cold remedy from Schering of Bloomfield, New Jersey.
Later, these pills were also manufactured locally.

Turning to hospital and clinical needs such as x-ray equipment, etc.,
we contacted several American manufacturers, only to be turned down
because they said the great distances made servicing of these
sophisticated machines difficult.  I decided to go to Holland and visit
the "Philips" company of Eindhoven.  There, I had the pleasure of
meeting Dr. Philips.  I told him that the people of Iran are familiar with
the name Philips through radios, shavers and household appliances
and that they trust the Philips Company.  “Why should they be
deprived of other products such as x-ray machines and operating room
equipment?” I asked.  Dr. Philips said that these highly technical and
sensitive instruments needed to have well trained specialists to run
them and that there must be an ample supply of spares and finally
good servicemen.  "Are you ready to undertake all this?" he asked.  I
replied, "Of course!"

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 138
Draft of 1/5/09


Two months later, the first x-ray unit was shipped and a capable
person arrived in Teheran to install and operate it and teach others.

REVLON

In New York, a Mr. Revson decided to introduce beauty products under
the name "Revlon".  Needless to say, today it has a world-wide
reputation.

In 1945, while living in Manhattan, I went to find the above company
and asked if we could buy their nail polish, lipstick, creams, etc. for
Iran.  The answer was, "With pleasure".  So I sent a few dozen boxes
and cartons of their various items by parcel post to Teheran.

Soon, the women and young ladies of Iran so favored Revlon that
thousands of packages were being imported.  Again, the demand
became so great that Revlon and Firooz created a joint-venture to
manufacture locally.

The plant was nearing completion and production would have begun
shortly were it not for the revolution of 1979 and the prohibition of all
beauty goods.

ZAM ZAM CO. PEPSI COLA

It was in 1940, while walking in one of the main streets of Teheran
that I observed a man filling empty bottles with water drawn from a
nearby canal.  Then, with a small spoon, he would pour a mixture of
sugar and colored powder into each bottle, push his finger into the

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 139
Draft of 1/5/09

mouth of the bottle and shake it for a few seconds.  Next, he would
take a metal crown, put it on the top and with a small hammer bang it
into place.  Finally, he would glue a strip of paper on which was written
the word "Lamar" over the cap and neck of the bottle.  My curiosity
forced me to ask him what he was doing.  He replied very politely and
proudly that he was producing a soft drink called “Lamar” and with that
offered me an uncapped but filled bottle.

Another day I was passing Sepah Avenue and noticed a man sitting in a
garage surrounded by used Sardine and Pickle cans.  With a big
scissors, he would cut small round plates, place them in a sort of mold
and hammer away until a fringed crown was formed.

When asked what he was producing the reply was, "Crowns for drinks
such as Lamar and others".  Now I became aware that these were the
same caps that were used by the bottler that I had seen a few days
ago.

During the years that we were in the U.S., Bahereh, myself and
especially Iraj and Hormoz, came to know and enjoy soft drinks such as
Coca-Cola, Pepsi Cola and others.  One day in New York while having
lunch, Iraj said to me, "You have brought so many new products and
industries to Iran.  Why don't we put up a Coca-Cola plant?"  My
thoughts went back to the “Lamar" bottler, the unsanitary crowns, the
polluted water and so on.

I replied, "Maybe we should consider this suggestion and offer the
public something new and refreshing and at the same time make a
profit."  But in reality, I did not see my own possibilities to accomplish
this.  But on the other hand, I realized that if I approached an
international soft drink company maybe they would be interested to

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 140
Draft of 1/5/09

work with us.  So Pepsi Cola was contacted and certain basic
information gathered.  But so many other activities kept me busy.
Also, the question of creating and marketing such a product and the
uncertainties of whether there would be a general and sufficient
acceptance made me hesitant.

However, the idea fascinated me, especially since this was yet another
way to help the industrialization of the country, create many jobs,
provide a product for thousands of shop, cafe, kiosk and restaurant
owners, and eventually give millions of my countrymen, women and
children a clean, healthy and inexpensive drink.

I decided to resume my discussions with Pepsi Cola and go all out to
make this a success.  For this venture, substantial capital was needed
and no one in Teheran was ready to take the risk and put money into
such an unknown business.  The only one who accepted to buy 10% of
the shares was Emile Abboud, one of my partners in Sabet-Pasal
company.

I returned to America and asked Pepsi Cola to prepare the drawings for
the bottling plant, order the machinery, the conveyors, mixing tanks,
lab equipment, trucks, etc., for a production of 2000 cases per day, on
our behalf.  Then, I went to Germany and found the best bottle maker
and ordered 200,000 bottles, with the name Pepsi Cola printed on
them, in English and Persian.  The concentrate, which is a secret
formula, and the crowns were sent from the U.S..

Since my house in Teheran had been rented out, the few months a year
that we returned to Iran we would stay at the Darband Hotel in
Shemiran, at the foot of the Alburz mountains.  One early morning the
room telephone rang.  It was Emile saying that he was in the lobby and

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 141
Draft of 1/5/09

wanted to see me as soon as possible.  I told him I'll be down in 10
minutes.  As I came down the stairs, I saw a very disturbed and
nervous Mr. Abboud.  I said, "What's wrong?"  He replied that he had
not slept the night before and was worried as to who might buy Peps-
Cola in Iran and that he would surely lose his 10% capital.  I said, “Is
that all?  Don't worry.  I'll put up all the money myself and at least
tonight you'll be able to sleep well."

Of course to make a profit in business is normal, but if I undertook
this venture, it was not for money alone but rather to offer something
better than "Lamar”, i.e. a clean, well produced and easily available soft
drink.

One day, while having lunch at the home of Hossein Ala (photo 27)
Ambassador to the U.S., Prime Minister and Minister of Court, the
question of what should we call the new company that was to be
formed shortly came up.  Mrs. Nasser ol Molk, the mother-in-law of Mr.
Ala and an aristocratic lady, suggested the name "Zam Zam, (The
fountain of paradise).  Truly an excellent choice for a soft drink
company.

Next, we turned our attention to finding a suitable site for the factory.
I discussed the matter with Mr. Abdol Missagh Missaghian, a close
relative and an expert in Real Estate.  He said, "Choose a land near
Teheran, on a main boulevard, to get as much attention and visitors as
possible, yet not too far so that the delivery trucks don't waste time
and fuel to service the customers.  Wonderful advice.  An 8,000 square
meter parcel of land was bought just one mile outside of the city.
German and American architects drew plans for a very modern building
with a large show window so that the bottling operations could be seen
by all.  The metal superstructure was assembled by Arj company.  The

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 142
Draft of 1/5/09

wooden cases were produced by local carpenters.  The 12 trucks were
Studebakers and imported by Sabet-Pasal.  The truck bodies were made
locally by Iron smiths who quickly copied the first models that came
from abroad.

Alot of water is needed for a bottling plant.  So an 80 meter deep well
was dug and a 25 centimeter pipe brought a clear, pure water to the
surface.  But before it could be used, it had to go through a filtration
process so a small sand and chemical purification plant was installed.

It was in August 1955 that the first cases of Pepsi Cola were palletized,
ready to be marketed.  (Photo 28)

The parent company had sent thousands of cardboard and metal
posters with the words "Pepsi" in Farsi and English printed over a blue
and red crown.  Locally, we had prepared advertising material.  Dozens
of workers placed signs on hundreds of walls and cafe and kiosk fronts
overnight.  The next morning the inhabitants of Teheran awoke to see
the city covered with Pepsi advertising.

The next day, the twelve trucks filled with the product paraded the
main streets and then started to sell to predetermined outlets.  We
sold each bottle for 3.5 Rials and the dealer sold it for 5 Rials, giving
him a large profit margin.

With so much advertising, vast distribution and a low price, success
was immediate.  There was such a big demand that stores ran out of
product and had to drive or take a taxi to the plant to replenish their
stock.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 143
Draft of 1/5/09

In 1956, my eldest son Iraj who had just finished his Master of
Business Administration at Harvard, returned to Iran and took charge
of Zam Zam.

The Pepsi operation became so well known that everyday hundreds of
people would come to visit the plant.  Among them was Princess
Shams and her husband Mr. Pahlbod, accompanied by General Yazdan-
Panah. (Photo 29)  Their visit was a great encouragement to the
employees, workers and management of Zam Zam.

In a short time the name Pepsi became well known throughout the
country and a second plant was put up in the Port City of
Khorramshahr to serve the oil district of Abadan.  But, as this factory
did not have enough capacity to serve Southern Iran and the Gulf
States, Iraj decided to build a super plant in Ahwaz, the Capitol of
Khusiztan.  This very modern operation started producing Pepsi Cola in
1957.

My greatest recompense came the day that Dr. Jahanshah Saleh, the
Minister of Health, stated the following in one of the sessions of the
Iranian Parliament, "Since the availability of Pepsi Cola, there has
been a 60% decrease in communal diseases, especially diarrhea."

All of this encouragement and the high sales figures convinced Iraj to
continue the expansion both vertically and horizontally.  Three more
plants were established in the year 1959 in the cities of Resht, Meshed
and Isfahan.

Hundreds of trucks were added to the fleet and several dozen
warehouses were put up in the provinces.  Crown cork, plastic case

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 144
Draft of 1/5/09

making and C02 plants where installed in Teheran and the South to
assure all the material supplies needed.

To bring bottles from abroad was costly and time consuming so we
decided to establish a glass bottle factory.  This new company's name
was "Mina" and, in addition to producing bottles for Zam Zam, it also
manufactured jars, medicine bottles and even drinking glasses.

With all of these support companies and a growing market, more plants
were created in the cities of Shiraz, Kerman, Iranshahr, Kermanshah,
Bandar Abbas and Tabriz.

Twelve plants, with 3500 employees, 450 trucks and 55 distribution
centers were producing and selling more than 40 million cases of 24
bottles.  In 1978, just a few months before the Islamic Revolution,
mobs attacked and partially burnt the beautiful Shiraz plant and then
the one in Tabriz.  In the first year of the upheaval, 1979, all the Zam
Zam organizations were taken over by the revolutionary council.  The
lack of spare parts, competent technicians, and the jailing or execution
of some of the Baha’i managers and employees practically brought the
operations to a halt.  Finally, because of the U.S. hostage situation,
American companies could no longer export their products to Iran.
Shipment of Pepsi Cola concentrate to Zam Zam was stopped.  150
million dollars of capital was wasting away and millions of people were
deprived of a healthy, clean drink.

THE TEMPORARY EXILE OF THE QUEEN MOTHER

In 1953, Dr. Mohammed Mossadegh was Prime Minister.  He had many
differences with the Royal family and the Shah had left the country.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 145
Draft of 1/5/09

In that year, my family and I were in New York.  One day the telephone
rang and the manager of the Constellation shipping company informed
me that one of their ships would dock in Manhattan the next day and
that the Queen Mother, the wife of Reza Shah the Great, and her
entourage were aboard.

During that Summer, Mr. Nassrollah Entezam, General Morteza
Yazdan-Panah, Mr. Mahmoud Foroughi and some other Government
Dignitaries were in New York.  I brought this news to their attention,
but none could believe it.  Furthermore, because of the very delicate
political situation, no one volunteered to accompany my wife and
myself to welcome The Queen Mother.  However, early the next
morning, General Yazdan-Panah who was adjutant to the Shah, called
and said that he and his wife would come with us.

When we arrived at the pier it became clear that the ship had docked
early.  There was no sign of any passengers.  Upon asking, I was
informed that there are still a few on board.  After obtaining
permission, I went inside and the first person I saw was Ali Izadi,
Major Domo to her Majesty.  I said, "Why aren't you getting off?"  He
replied that they were waiting to be met by the Iranian Ambassador or
the General Consul, and while saying that, he took us to the Queen
Mother.

She was wearing a gray dress and a matching hat, and appeared to be
rather disturbed.  She said, "Everyone left the boat early this morning,
but it is hours that we are awaiting the Ambassador or General
Consul.  Where are they?"

I told her that, "No one was aware of your arrival and that I was
informed by the shipping company because we export through them and

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 146
Draft of 1/5/09

they thought that as an Iranian I should know about your trip.  If it
pleases you, let us all leave the ship."

As I looked around, I saw 8 persons who had accompanied her and
about 50 suitcases, cartons, etc.  The first thing to do was to call the
office to send a truck for the luggage and then call the Waldorf-Astoria
Hotel to prepare the necessary rooms.

Then, we started down the gangplank on which a long red carpet had
been placed to cover the wooden planks.  After the second step, the
Queen Mother slipped and fell down, badly breaking her left leg.  The
Captain of the ship, very disturbed and panicked, ordered that she be
taken to the boat's infirmary.

While her leg was being looked after, an ambulance was called and New
York Hospital was notified of the event and asked that a surgeon be
ready to operate.

Her calm and patience surprised us all and when the ambulance
arrived, she insisted that I should accompany her and sit in the seat
reserved for the nurse.

I obeyed.  The others and the luggage went to the Hotel and we to the
hospital.  The amazing thing was that instead of complaining about the
accident or her pain, she repeatedly asked about the whereabouts and
health of her son, The Shah-in-Shah.

Although, I assured her that he was safe and not in danger, her
anxiety and concern did not diminish.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 147
Draft of 1/5/09

We entered the hospital, and although all was prepared for the
operation, she refused to be anesthetized.  She kept on saying, "They
are going to put me to sleep and kill me!"

I told her, "Here no one is against you.  The doctors and nurses have
nothing to do with Iranian politics.  They are sworn to do their duty.
So please let them proceed!"  She said, "All right, but only if you swear
not to leave me alone, and keep my hand until I become conscious!"
The doctors accepted this and wearing a sterilized gown, I too was
admitted into the operating room.

The broken bone was operated on and the leg put into a plaster cast.
Unfortunately, the x-rays showed that it was not in place.  So the first
cast had to be sawed off, the bones re-connected and a second cast
poured.  Further x-rays showed that this time the operation was a
success.

The Queen Mother stayed 29 days in the hospital.  My wife would
prepare Iranian dishes according to The Queen Mother’s wishes and
my two sons would take the food to her room, and I and a Dr. Moqhbel
would visit her often. (Photo 30).  While she was there, I received two
telegrams from the Shah, thanking me and my family for looking after
his mother.

When she was able to leave the hospital, a trip was arranged for her to
visit Princess Shams Pahlavi in Los Angeles.

After her departure, Mr. Izadi came to my New York office, saying that
he had a message from the Queen Mother.  She wanted to thank
Bahereh, Iraj, Hormoz and myself for the love we had shown and the
hospitality we extended, and asked what could she do for us?  I said,

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 148
Draft of 1/5/09

"Tell her that we all regretted the accident and were sad that she had
to suffer so much.  Our happiness and joy is that she has recuperated
so well and that for us is the greatest recompense."

Some years later, after my return to Teheran, Mr. Moshiri, head of the
Queen Mother’s private office, came one day to visit me at our house
on Villa Street.  He told me that her Majesty had found out that we
were in town, wanted to invite Bahereh and myself for lunch, and that
the next Friday she would be waiting for us at her palace.  I accepted
with much joy, for this would give us great pleasure to see her again.

It was noon when we arrived at her palace on Sepah Avenue.  She
greeted us with the utmost kindness and love.  We spoke about the
past, the hospital days, her visit to California and so on.  Then we were
led to the dinning room where a long table had been set with all the
trimmings.  To our surprise and joy we saw all the people who had
accompanied her to the United States.

The Queen Mother sat at the head of the table.  She placed Bahereh to
her left and me to her right.  The other eight took their designated
places.

There were plates of rice, various sauces, sweets, salad, etc.  In the
center of the table was a big soup dish with "Koofteh Tabrizi", a special
dish from the North West Province of Azarbaijan.   She said, "I will
never forget your hospitality, love and patience while I was in America.
I swear that after the passing of Reza Shah the Great, I never went
into the kitchen again.  During our lifetime, at first I cooked for him,
then I supervised the cooking, and finally just sat back and let others
do it.  But, today I prepared this Koofteh Tabrzi, which Reza Shah liked

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 149
Draft of 1/5/09

very much, in your honor”, and with that she took our plates and
served us herself!

Those words, that generosity, and her sense of appreciation caused
tears to run down my cheeks.  Imagine, a Queen so humble and
thoughtful.

But it did not end there.  For every time we were in Teheran, she would
invite us, often to special ceremonies.

It was in the Summer of 1955 that Mr. Moshiri, her Chief of Protocol,
called me saying, "Come to the palace as soon as possible!"  I
wondered, what had happened? Why the sense of urgency?

Once there, they told me that in order to avoid an accident, her driver
braked the car suddenly, that her Majesty was thrown forward and as a
result her right foot fractured.  She was driven to her residence and the
doctors were called.

Her first wish was to have me come and consult with them.  I
suggested that maybe she would like to be flown to New York - to the
same doctor and the same hospital as before.  But his Majesty the
Shah decided that a professor be brought from Austria to operate in
Teheran.


TELEVISION OF IRAN

Iraj, who had studied Business in the U.S., was fascinated by
television and often spoke of introducing it into Iran.  This idea caused

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 150
Draft of 1/5/09

him to import a closed circuit TV consisting of a small camera, some
cables and a receiver.

Naturally he wanted to put it into use.  Having learned that the Queen
Mother had left the hospital and was resting at home, he suggested
that a "Telecast" be organized to entertain her.  She accepted but
asked, "What are you going to show?" The reply, "There are some
musicians who accompany a famous young singer named Gougoush.
We'll have them perform in the garden and put the receiver in your
bedroom”.

My son put the thought into practice and soon the first Iranian TV
program became a reality.  By coincidence and without announcing it,
the Shah came to visit his mother just when the song and dance was
being televised in the marble palace.

After asking about her health, his Majesty inquired as to what was
happening, from where did the receiver come, who had brought it here,
etc.  It became very apparent that the Shah-in-Shah liked the idea of
having T.V. in Iran.

But he said, "Mr. Eshragi, the Minister of PTT, says it’s impossible.  He
believes we don't have the technicians, the performers, operators,
programmers, etc.  Worse, there is the problem of importing and
servicing thousands of TV sets and who can afford them?"  Then, he
turned to me and asked, "What do you think?"  My answer was that it's
a difficult job but not impossible.  "So", he said, "if it's not too difficult,
I'll ask you to do it and give instructions to the Government to help in
every way possible”.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 151
Draft of 1/5/09

A few minutes later, Dr. Manoucher Eqhbal, the Chairman of The
National Oil Company, entered. (Photo 31).  The Shah discussed the
matter with him, knowing that his thinking was very positive, and told
him, "Give Sabet all the assistance needed so that a TV station can be
established as soon as possible and the people of Iran benefit from its
programs”.

I had always wanted to build a hospital or create a university.  Here
was my chance to progress the development of our country, for
television can contribute so much to education, culture and the
advancement of humanity, if done right.  So, with the desire of the
Shah and the encouragement of my sons and friends, I decided to
establish the first TV station in Teheran, well knowing that it will be a
non-profit enterprise.

Advertising is the financial backbone of all private TV stations.  But in
Iran, it would take some time before businessmen would be willing to
spend their money for that.  Therefore, to get it started and going, my
other companies had to support it financially.

Looking backwards, I must admit that creating the television industry
in Iran, despite its losses, gave me much more pleasure and joy than
all the other businesses which were profitable, because this was a real
service to my country and especially to future generations.

In 1957, when the Teheran station went on the air (photo 32), there
were only a few countries outside of the U.S., Canada, Japan, and
some European nations that had this miracle of communications.
Before 1960, no one could imagine the sociological, educative,
commercial, and entertainment effects, good and bad, that this
invention would have on the world.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 152
Draft of 1/5/09


In Iran, like many other countries, television touched on all aspects of
life and society.   It brought into the homes not only something to
watch and hear, but more important, to learn.  News, children's and
women's hour, popular and classic music, plays, games, debates,
interviews, movies, etc. were only some of the programs that appeared
daily and weekly.  The viewers were people from all walks of life, some
rich, some less rich.  They included old women and men who could not
go out at night, workers who needed something to relax after a days
hard work, children whose education was limited to what they were
taught in school, and so on.

The management of TV of Iran had a lot of work to do.  For example,
operators, both audio and visual, had to be trained.  Lighting
specialists, set makers, speakers, announcers, etc., all had to be found
and hired for a new profession called television.  Writers who had
prepared stories and documents for print, now had to widen their
vision and capabilities to produce for sight and sound.  Films would
have to be imported and dubbed or have sub-titles.  News had been
printed in newspapers or heard on the radio.  Now, it would have to be
prepared to be seen and heard.

In the past, the masses were exposed to passion plays, fly-by-night
theater groups, puppet shows, 3-4 musicians playing together on
traditional instruments, etc.  Various actors and even women singers
made a name for themselves, but only a few were privileged to see and
hear them.  Comedians sometimes blackened their faces with burnt
cork and sang and danced as minstrels.  Much like the famous "Al
Jolsen."

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 153
Draft of 1/5/09

With the advent of TV in Iran, people came to know symphony
orchestras, as well as first class theater with professional actors and
actresses.  Storytellers, with the help of cartoons and films, now
narrated the history of Ancient Persia for adults as well as "Little Red
Riding Hood", "La Fontaine" and "Hans Christian Anderson" for the
children.

In other countries, the private or government stations could draw on
experienced and well trained technicians, producers, writers, actors,
actresses, singers and musicians who had performed in concerts,
operas, films, radio and the stage.  In Iran, there was little such
manpower available.  If television was to become a success, it had to
be created, expanded, encouraged and well remunerated.

There were no schools or colleges where music, dramatic arts, news
casting, or advertising were being taught.  Technical schools were
offering automotive, electrical, metal and woodworking courses, not
radio, or movie or television classes.  Moreover, the radio and PTT,
which are government organizations in Iran, would not permit their
engineers or performers to work elsewhere.  So, TV Iran had to hire
foreign technicians to get the station going, while training its
personnel locally or sending young men and women to countries having
TV, to be trained.

Announcers, newscasters, storytellers, etc, in other words, all that
concerned the Iranian culture, needed people who knew the history,
traditions and the psychology and sociology of the country.  Talented
and well educated men and women were selected and trained for TV.

Little did the viewers know or realize about the problems, anxieties
and time used in preparing a half hour program.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 154
Draft of 1/5/09


Ten years later, with the help of the French Government, a public
service station, run and operated by the Iranian Ministry of Education
and PTT, became operational.  They too, despite a substantial budget
and government backing, had to go through the same experiences and
headaches as Television of Iran, channel 3.

Anyway, it was rewarding to hear that thousands of people in Teheran
and later in Abadan and Ahwaz (the second and third stations), were
buying sets to view the programs.  This fascinating box was slowly but
surely creating an evolution in peoples’ thinking, and outlook on life.  A
new industry was developing that would profoundly change the
education, music, economy, literature and even politics of the nation.

To add to the flexibility of the programs and cover events outside of the
studios, mobile units and tape recorders were bought.  This permitted
telecasts from sports stadiums, of parades and even happenings in the
parliament.  The tapes were used to record shows or events during the
day and put them on the air in the evening or night.  This technique
was especially used for debates, interviews with foreign dignitaries who
visited Teheran, and special anniversary dates such as the Shah's
Birthday and Independence Day.

Needless to say, Television of Iran sometimes aroused criticism and
negative feelings especially when it was competing with newspapers,
magazines and the government radio and TV.  Jealousy and fanaticism
are destructive forces, but patience and understanding can overcome
them.

In Iran, as elsewhere, television became a source of solidarity,
unification, and democracy.  For now hundreds of thousands and even

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 155
Draft of 1/5/09

millions could see what was happening all over the world.  Ceremonies,
disasters, violence, wars, etc., were shown minutes after they
happened.  Suffering and joy became a universal sharing, thus bringing
people ever closer.  Through this media the people of Teheran and
wherever TV existed, felt themselves a part of a new World Order, that
was establishing peace and a unification of mankind.

When the government station went on the air (ten years after
"Television of Iran" - the private channel), we welcomed it very warmly
and extended our full cooperation.  The biggest contribution by this
new station was in the field of education.  For every afternoon, the best
teachers in math, sciences, history, etc. would use the latest audio-
visual technology to provide superior teaching programs, not only into
classrooms but also into thousands of homes.  Now parents could see
what was being taught to their children.

Another important contribution of TV Iran was the interviews that
often took place with different guests visiting our country.  By this
means, the viewers could see and hear world personalities such as
Nehru, Johnson, Lola Brigita, the Prince of Japan, The Pope, etc.,
telling about their countries or professions and wishing the people of
Iran prosperity and continued success.  (Photo 33-1; 33-2; 33-3)

As a commercial chain, TV of Iran encouraged and helped advertising
firms to use this new mass media to show and talk about their clients’
products and services.  With the rapid industrialization of Iran, it was
absolutely necessary to find a method to introduce the myriad of
products, from detergents to automobiles, to the buying public.  TV was
the ideal way.  At first, live commercials were telecast and then dozens
of studios started to produce taped commercials.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 156
Draft of 1/5/09

The decor and settings of various shows and programs started to have
an influence on people’s tastes and choice of furnishings at home and
at work.  Slowly but surely, its effect’s on human relations, manners,
politics, family affairs, etc., could be observed, especially by educators
and sociologist.  It helped a developing country such as Iran with its
customs, peculiarities, and even one might say backwardness, to catch
up, at least partially, with the outside world.

MANUFACTURING OF TELEVISIONS

At first, TV receivers such as RCA, Phillips, Grundig, etc. were
imported.  Then in 1961, Firooz company, the agent of RCA products in
Iran, came to an arrangement whereby TV kits would be imported and
assembled in Teheran.

A new company was formed by the name of "Radio Television of Iran”
(RTI).  Thousands of components arrived each month and finally, the
local workshops and carpenters started to copy stampings, or forming
the metal parts and producing the wooden cabinets.  Persian ingenuity
and centuries of craftsmanship quickly took up the job of supplying the
needed parts.  Unfortunately, the Islamic Revolution of 1978-79 was a
destructive force and one of its examples was the burning of the TV
assembly plant.

AN AMERICAN-MADE PERSIAN TYPEWRITER

Besides Mr. Moosa Haghani and Mr. Goetter who worked at the New
York office at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, I hired a secretary to type the
English letters.  The Persian or Farsi correspondence was done by
hand, taking much time and not being very neat.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 157
Draft of 1/5/09


So, I wondered - how about a Farsi typewriter?  I knew that Arabic and
Farsi machines were produced in Europe, but not in the U.S.

We approached a famous American company by the name of Royal
Typewriters to produce such a machine.  At first, they were reluctant,
but later accepted, but on condition that I would help them.

For almost a year I would go to their factories in Stamford,
Connecticut, about 1 1/2 hours by train from New York City, once or
twice a week to work with their technicians.  Latin or English letters
are set apart, one from the other.  But Farsi letters have to connect.
So the job took much time and precision, but finally a typewriter
emerged that found its way into offices, homes, industry and schools.

WIRE & CABLE MANUFACTURING

One evening, Bahereh and I were invited for dinner at the newly
inaugurated "Teheran Hilton".  It was a business reception organized
by the Plan Organization.  At our table, we met Mr. and Mrs. Castillio
who were originally from Cuba but had to flee from the Castro Regime.
They told us how their belongings and affairs had been confiscated and
they had to find their way to Miami.  Later, he was hired by an
American company called Phelps-Dodge, which is one of the world's
largest excavators of copper and producer of wires and cables.

Mr. Castillio had come to Iran to propose a joint venture, but alas no
one seemed interested.  Disappointed, they were leaving Teheran in
two days.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 158
Draft of 1/5/09

I became so interested in the possibilities of such an important
industry that I told him he should show a little patience and maybe I
could help him.

Mr. Castillio delayed his trip by one week, came to the office at Sabet-
Pasal building below the Pepsi Cola plant, and gave me all the details
to convince me to not only pursue this matter but maybe invest in
such a project.

Through Mr. Ala, we met with the Shah, who showed a very positive
attitude, especially since Iran has cooper mines in "Sar Cheshme" in
the province of Kerman.  His Majesty instructed Mr. Najm Abadi,
Minister of Mines and Industries to follow up the matter.  He, in turn,
agreed that a cable and wire factory was needed for the electrification
and communication industries of our country.  Mr. Castillio was
overjoyed and kissed me.

I believe that a company's name should reflect its activity or product.
By merging the words "Sim” (wire) and Cable, the name: “SICAB" was
created.  I consulted this with my son Iraj and engineer Panahi who
both approved.

The capitalization and registration of the company was completed in a
short time.  A large plot of land was bought in the industrial zone of
Ghazvin, near Teheran, and the building built with the help of a Swiss
company, Suter & Suter, and the machines ordered through Phelps-
Dodge.  The operation was about to start when the revolution put a
stop to all activities.

However, I learned that some time later, a part of the factory became
operational.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 159
Draft of 1/5/09


A VISIT TO THE ISLAND OF MAURITIUS WHERE REZA
SHAH THE GREAT WAS EXILED

While attending a Baha’i conference on the Island of Mauritius, I was
told that this was where Reza Shah, The Great, founder of modern Iran
was exiled for a time.

After flying there from Teheran and driving a long winding road through
jungles, we arrived at a small town, which was the capitol, and checked
into a modest hotel.

When the conference, which had been organized to promote world unity
and to discuss ways to improve the economic and social conditions of
the world, ended, a Baha’i friend suggested that we go sight-seeing and
visit the place that had been the Pahlavi residence.

Out of curiosity I agreed and soon we found ourselves in a huge
property in the middle of which a French styled palace had been built
by a wealthy land-owner.  After his passing, the building and grounds
had been abandoned and had fallen into despair.

My thoughts went to the island of St. Helena, where Napoleon was
exiled.  At that very moment I decided to buy the whole property.
When asked about the details of those past years, the caretaker said,
"I don't know much, but there is a British Colonel that was appointed
as host of his Majesty.  I'll take you to meet him." But when we arrived
at the small house, the colonel's wife told us that about two weeks ago
he had passed away, and she had little knowledge of what went on in
those days.  However, she knew that Reza Shah and her husband went
walking every morning, but the rest of the time, his Majesty would stay

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 160
Draft of 1/5/09

indoors.  The children of the Royal family would come from time to time
to visit their parents.  She brought several albums in which pictures
taken by her late husband were neatly arranged.  One photo showed
Mohammad Reza Shah and his first bride, Fowzieh, the sister of the
King of Egypt, Faroukh.  On the back of this photo the son had written
that he missed his father and asked about his health.  Other pictures
showed the Prince and Princess while at play or sitting at the dinning
table.

But what attracted me the most was a large blue sheet of paper which
was signed by the British Consul in Bombay authorizing Reza Shah and
eight of his family or companions to enter the Island of Mauritius,
which at that time in 1941-42 was part of the British Empire.  There
were eight photos glued to the "Mass Visa" with the names printed
underneath each one.

Seeing this document brought tears to my eyes and choked with
emotion I said to her, "Can I have these albums and this sheet?"  Not
hearing a favorable reply, I offered to buy them and explained that
these were of no value to her but for me as an Iranian, they were
important.  She accepted.  I bought them and on the way back to the
hotel, decided that this property, which has such a historical
significance in the history of Iran, should be bought.

A good friend of our family, Aziz Navidi, was a Baha’i pioneer in this
island and had lived in Mauritius a long time.  Being a lawyer, Aziz
helped me to find a notary public who represented the owner’s son.
The price was paid, the transfer document signed, and I had a
photographer take color pictures of the whole property.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 161
Draft of 1/5/09

Upon my return to Teheran, I went to see Mr. Ala, Minister of Court.
After telling him about my trip, visit and purchase of this historic site,
I showed him the pictures and said, “I would like to offer this to my
nation and the Shah, so it can become a museum and never be
demolished”.  Mr. Pahlbod, the Minister of Arts and Culture and the
brother-in-law of the Shah brought the matter to His Majesty’s
attention.

The next day an audience was held at which I narrated the whole story,
showed the pictures, and reiterated my wish.  His Majesty, very moved
and while appreciating my offer said this property should be transferred
to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Later, the National Oil Company started to repair the property and
turned it into a museum.  The revolution of 1979 probably changed the
situation, but the albums and the visa were left in Teheran.

THE ABADAN TV STATION

As stated before, the first private commercial TV station started in
1957 in Teheran. Because of its tremendous success and the
government's desire to provide TV for the industrial and oil regions of
the South, a second station started its telecasts in the fall of 1959 in
Abadan.  His Majesty, Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, and Queen Farah were
at the inauguration.  (Photo 34)

Mr. Ebrahim Mansouri was the first manager of this important station,
which not only covered the Province of Khusistan, but also transmitted
to the Persian Gulf states and emirates.  Many of the programs were
thus in Arabic as well as in Persian.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 162
Draft of 1/5/09

As there was no video-tape at that time, all the programs were live.
One can imagine what time and sacrifice was needed to prepare so
many shows seven days a week.  Here, I have to thank Mr. Mansouri
and all the staff, especially the youth who did such a wonderful job.

Some of the programs were as follows:

- Children's
- News in Persian, English and Arabic
- Health and Sanitation
- Local and National Music
- Quiz and Theater
- Women's

The telecasts in Arabic and English were much appreciated by our Gulf
neighbors who did not have their own TV stations.  This built such
good relations between Iran and those countries that our managers
were often invited by the emirates to discuss special programs and
later, to guide them in establishing their own TV chains.

THE MARRIAGE OF HABIB AND BAHEREH

In 1927 I thought of marrying.  To select an unknown person and to see
her was impossible.  In those days someone would introduce the girl
and the parents did the choosing.  In my case, after searching and
getting the family's opinion, it was decided that I should marry Uncle
Rahim Arjomand's daughter, Maghbooleh.  It was a good choice, for we
knew one another from our family gatherings.

She was attractive, was getting a fine education at Tarbiat School, and
had been taught housekeeping by her very capable mother.  We became

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 163
Draft of 1/5/09

engaged and the marriage date set.  But her grandmother died and we
had to postpone the wedding.

In the meantime, another suitor came along.  He was the son of a
Shirazi family called Dehghan and was wealthier than I.

One day, my uncle called me into his office at the Ministry of Post and
Telegraph and told me, "Don't count on getting married to my
daughter."  This decision made me sad, but I reasoned that if a
marriage is not based on love and harmony, it is better that it not be.

Then I asked my uncle, "What should I say to our family and friends?
If I say that Maghbooleh has a problem, then I am hurting my own
cousin.  If I say that there is something wrong with me and that she
has refused?…"  These two questions bothered my uncle for I could see
that he had gone into some deep thoughts.  Finding it difficult to give
me an answer, he simply said, "Tell them the marriage has been called
off!"  I did just that and kept the family relationship in peace and
harmony.

Upon my return to the office I contacted my good friend engineer Fath-
O-Llah Moshir-O-Behi and asked him what to do?  After some thought,
he said, "Before the news gets out and the matter becomes
embarrassing, find some other girl and get married.”  His suggestion
was excellent!  But which girl?  And where to find her?

I had another friend by the name of Mohammed Partovi who had much
experience, was learned, and had a good sense of humor.  He told me,
"My wife, the daughter of Said Ahmed Bagheroff (Khamsi) of Rasht, has
a sister who is beautiful and charming and you would make a lovely
couple."

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 164
Draft of 1/5/09


I thought to myself, “If you could marry Bagheroff's daughter, nothing
would be better”.  So I said to Partovi, "Get going and arrange it!"

Mr. Bagheroff and his entire family were coming from Rasht to Tehran
to visit his cousin, Said Nassrollah, stay at his hotel, and spend a
week in the capitol.  Mr. Partovi took me to the Grand Hotel to meet
them.  In turn, I invited them to my house for lunch and had a good
look at Bahereh and fell in love, not one time, but a hundred times.

Meetings and discussions followed and some weeks later, we obtained
our parents permission to marry.

Accompanied by Fat-O-Llah, we drove to Rasht in my Dodge automobile
and in the summer of 1929, Bahereh and I were married.  (Photos 35.1,
35.2, 35.3, 35.4, 35.5)

I have had sixty years of a wonderful marriage to a women who has
been understanding, caring, a superb housekeeper, extremely spiritual,
good looking and very faithful.  We have two children, Iraj, born
February 22, 1931 and Hormoz, born August 10, 1936.

Iraj married Faegheh Nika Ramzi in 1957 and they have three children:
Tina, who married engineer Siavosh Sefidvash in 1987.  They live near
San Diego, California.  The second child is Sina Abdullah, who married
Jaquiline, daughter of Massoud Eghrari of Long Island, New York in
1988.  They now live in Washington, D.C.  The second son is Taj.  He
was born in Geneva, Switzerland and lives in Arizona.  Iraj's daughter
and sons studied in Teheran, Switzerland, England and the U.S.  They
are spiritual, fine looking and successful.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 165
Draft of 1/5/09

Hormoz married Iran Khosrowshahi in Geneva in 1963 and they have a
son, Reja who was born in 1964.  He studied in Teheran and the U.S.
From 1985 to 1989 Reja worked as an assistant in a bank in Los
Angeles, and in 1990 went to New York to join his father at Gulf
Associates.

Hormoz remarried in 1964 to Valerie Springer and they have two sons,
Aram and Karim.  (Photo 36)

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 166
Draft of 1/5/09

HABIB SABET'S LAST YEARS
(Written by Iraj and Hormoz Sabet)

Dear Readers:

All that you have read so far was written by our father, Habib Sabet,
and has been printed exactly as he wrote it.

But, because of his sudden passing, the book was left incomplete.  We,
his children thought that the story of his life should be finished up to
the last days of his earthly existence.

During the last years of the reign of Mohammed Reza Shah, for
different reasons, many disappointed businessmen left the country
with the idea of continuing their activities elsewhere.

On the contrary, our father not only tried to convince the others to
stay, but also to set an example, continued his activities with all the
energy and love that he had for his country.

Although he had reached an age of retirement, he wanted to pursue his
efforts and guide his sons and the managers of the companies that he
had established personally or was on the Board of Directors.  These
Companies were:

Firooz Co.
Iran Volkswagen Co.
Television of Iran
Radio and TV of Iran
Sicab Co.
Iran Gas Co.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 167
Draft of 1/5/09

Iran Cylinder Co.
Transpic Co.
Johnson and Johnson of Iran
Zam Zam Bottling
Mina Glass Co.
Crown Cork Factory
Auto-Nour Co.
General Tire Co.
Bank of Iran and the Middle East
Industrial and Mining Bank of Iran
Iranians Bank
Irano-British Bank
Esso Refinery and Blending Co.
Schering Pharmaceutical of Iran
Squibb of Iran
Iramoz Properties Co.

Two years before the Iranian Islamic Revolution, our father and mother
went to Paris to follow up on some business matters and see some of
their grandchildren who were studying in Europe.

Their intention was to return to Teheran in the fall of 1978.  When the
followers of Khomeini set fire to the Pepsi Cola plant of Shiraz, they
postponed their trip and spent most of their time helping social and
educational organizations, as well as their family.

The two of us, Iraj and Hormoz, having spent our summer vacations in
Europe, were anxious to return to our homes and business activities.
Unfortunately, the situation in Iran became worse, and we too had to
abandon the idea of returning to Teheran.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 168
Draft of 1/5/09

Our father had an office in New York, which was still functioning.  After
leaving Paris for the U.S., he would spend much of his time there
writing his memoirs, (photo 37 and 38) or helping his friends and
especially, Iranian students.

In 1979 the Islamic Revolutionary Council decreed that because the
Sabets were Baha’is, all their assets and even private belongings were
to be confiscated.  Thus, three generations’ efforts, ingenuity,
entrepreneurship, sacrifice and contribution to their country was swept
aside, and the return of Bahereh and Habib Sabet, their two sons and
six grandchildren became impossible.

Our father went to Los Angeles and continued to see his old friends
and the hundreds of ex-managers and employees who like himself were
now in exile.

To us he would say, "Don't be too sad, for whatever we created in Iran
was for Iran and our countrymen and women - no matter which
government is in power, the people will benefit from what we did."  For
example, when the U.S. forbade the export of Pepsi concentrate, he
became disturbed saying that this action deprives the Iranians from
having their soft drink - it has nothing to do with the presence or
absence of Sabet or this or that government!  In the case of spare
parts, too, he told the manufacturers to send them to Iran, for it would
be unjust to bring those machinery to a halt.

It was at the insistence of Iraj that our father started to write his
memoirs in 1984.  At first he was reluctant, but his friends and the two
of us convinced him that this would be good not only for his
descendants, but for the youth who would learn much from his
experiences.

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 169
Draft of 1/5/09


He devoted nearly six years to this task, bringing together his own
recollections, pictures and stories and anecdotes from his family and
friends.  He would get up at about 5 AM nearly everyday to work on this
project which gave him so much pleasure. (Photo 37).

We are sure that his life would have continued for many more years,
but a heart attack took him to the next world on February 20, 1990.

His passing saddened the hearts of his family, relatives and many,
many friends.  Memorial services were held in Los Angeles, New York
and Geneva.  Telegrams and letters of condolences were sent by
hundreds of Iranians and non-Iranians from around the world to us,
but mostly to his widow, Bahereh, who was shattered by his death.

Although acknowledgments have been sent out, if anyone was
forgotten, we take this opportunity to thank them also.

Dear Reader, even though all our assets were taken over by the
Revolutionary Council, and each of us and our children are in different
parts of the world, still the biggest and most valuable inheritance that
our father left us is the following:

An unshakable faith in God and in his messenger for this day,
Baha’ullah, whose teachings are to be a spiritual person and to serve
humanity.  He educated and brought us up to follow in his foot-steps.
If only we could.

Our father was a self-made man.  He believed in truth, honesty and
spiritual qualities.  He never had a grudge against anyone and showed
understanding and love towards even those who tried to hurt him.  He

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 170
Draft of 1/5/09

loved his native land of Iran.  He valued wealth but never became a
slave to it.  If he lost money, he would not let it affect him and would
compare it to spilt milk.  He respected the dignity of his co-workers.

He would tell us, "My success is due to honesty and truthfulness and
a desire for the betterment of mankind, which is a fundamental Baha’i
principle."

The passing of his friends made him extremely sad, as was the case
when Youseff Sobhani, the Pepsi plant manaher, was executed.  It
shook him and made him cry.

To his wife, our mother, he was very devoted and loving.  He was
humble and appreciative of God's blessings.

His heart was like the ocean and he wouldn't let problems discourage
him.

He believed in a bright future for Iran and would say that for one who
has faith, the recent upheavals and losses are of little importance.

At a meeting of Iranians, just a few months before his passing away,
he was very happy and proud to see so many of his old friends and
relatives in good health and fairly prosperous, despite what they had
gone through after the revolution.  Asked to say a few words, he said,
"Dear compatriots, don't be sad and forlorn because you are away from
your beloved country.  It was surely the will of the Almighty that you
are in Western, industrialized nations.  Open your eyes and ears and
learn their technologies and secrets of success.  Then you can return
one day and serve your country, which needs the experiences and
knowledge that you have acquired.   This is your God given duty!"

Habib Sabet Memoirs
Page 171
Draft of 1/5/09


The heritage that he left us is his good name, the unforgettable service
that he rendered his country and the progressive ideas that are based
on a spiritual foundation.

His strong will and the desire to serve humanity can be considered
exemplary.

Today, he is not in this world, but his image is visible to his children
and friends and his spirit is with us.

California
June 1993
Iraj and Hormoz Sabet