Lights of ‘Irfán
Studies in the Principal Bahá’í Beliefs
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars

Book Fourteen

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their
authors. Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Cover Design by Majid Nolley, majidnolley.com
Typeset and edited by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
170 B.E. 2013 C.E.
ISBN 978-3942426183
Copyright © 2013, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund

My holy, My divinely ordained Revelation may be
likened unto an ocean in whose depths are concealed
innumerable pearls of great price, of surpassing luster. It
is the duty of every seeker to bestir himself and strive to
attain the shores of this ocean, so that he may, in
proportion to the eagerness of his search and the efforts
he hath exerted, partake of such benefits as have been
pre-ordained in God’s irrevocable and hidden Tablets. If
no one be willing to direct his steps towards its shores, if
every one should fail to arise and find Him, can such a
failure be said to have robbed this ocean of its power or
to have lessened, to any degree, its treasures? How vain,
how contemptible, are the imaginations which your
hearts have devised, and are still devising! O My
servants! The one true God is My witness! This most great,
this fathomless and surging Ocean is near, astonishingly
near, unto you. Behold it is closer to you than your life-
vein! Swift as the twinkling of an eye ye can, if ye but
wish it, reach and partake of this imperishable favor, this
God-given grace, this incorruptible gift, this most potent
and unspeakably glorious bounty.
— Bahá’u’lláh
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CLIII

Table of Contents
Preface ............................................................................................. i
Yínyáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew .............................................................. 1
Collective Security: An Indispensable Requisite for a Lasting Peace
Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing ............................................................... 33
Celestial Fire: Bahá’u’lláh as the Messianic Theophany of the Divine Fire
(átar, á∂ar, átash) in Zoroastrianism
Farshid Kazemi ......................................................................... 45
“These Four States Conferred Upon Thee”: Tetrarchic Thinking in
Philosophy — Theology — Psychology
Wolfgang Klebel .................................................................... 125
Reason and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge ............................................................................... 163
Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Nayriz on the Naw-Ruz
`Abdu’l-Bahá Interred the Remains of The Báb on Mt. Carmel
Baharieh Rouhani Maani ......................................................... 233
Role of Principles in the Bahá’í Faith: Principles and Fashion
Farjam Majd .......................................................................... 261
Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen ..................................................................... 281
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Elucidation of the Concept of the Oneness of Humanity
During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen ....................................................................... 289
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt: September 1910 – 5 December 1913
Julio Savi ............................................................................... 321
Elucidations
Individual Rights and Freedoms
Universal House of Justice ...................................................... 367
Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations ..... 387
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Thirteen ..................... 388
Publications, Distributors of the ‘Irfán Colloquia ..................... 399

i

Preface
Encouraging,
promoting,
and
supporting
deeper
and
systematic studies in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and the
fundamental principles of the belief system of the Bahá’í Faith
are the main aim and objective of the `Irfán Colloquium and its
publications. According to the exhortation of Bahá’u’lláh such
studies are the duty of every seeker.
Know thou that he is truly learned who hath
acknowledged My Revelation, and drunk from the
Ocean of My knowledge. [TAB 207-208]
My holy, My divinely ordained Revelation may be
likened unto an ocean in whose depths are concealed
innumerable pearls of great price, of surpassing luster.
It is the duty of every seeker to bestir himself and strive
to attain the shores of this ocean, so that he may, in
proportion to the eagerness of his search and the
efforts he hath exerted, partake of such benefits as have
been pre-ordained in God’s irrevocable and hidden
Tablets. [GWB CLIII]
`Abdu’l-Bahá refers to such studies and research as divine
blessing:
All blessings are divine in origin, but none can be
compared with this power of intellectual investigation
and research, which is an eternal gift producing fruits
of unending delight. Man is ever partaking of these
fruits. All other blessings are temporary; this is an
everlasting possession. [PUP 50]
The `Irfán Colloquium is also an attempt to encourage and
support studies aimed at correlating Bahá’í teachings with
intellectual schools of thought, the scientific perspective,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
ii
various religious traditions and current challenges in human
society, as advised and strongly recommended by Shoghi
Effendi:
The Cause [the Bahá’í Faith] needs more Bahá’í scholars,
people who not only are devoted to it and believe in it
and are anxious to tell others about it, but also who
have a deep grasp of the Teachings and their
significance, and who can correlate its beliefs with the
current thoughts and problems of the people of the
world.1
and again:
We need Bahá’í scholars, not only people far, far more
deeply aware of what our teachings really are, but also
well-read
and
well-educated
people,
capable
of
correlating our teachings to the current thoughts of the
leaders of society. We Bahá’ís should, in other words,
arm our minds with knowledge in order to better
demonstrate to, especially, the educated classes, the
truths enshrined in our Faith. We Bahá’ís should, in
other words, arm our minds with knowledge in order to
better demonstrate to, especially, the educated classes,
the truths enshrined in our Faith.2
`Irfán Colloquia are annually held in English, Persian and
German languages in North America and Europe. Lights of
`Irfán is an annual publication containing a selection of the
papers presented at the `Irfán Colloquia conducted in English or
articles contributed for publication.
The present volume includes an exegesis of certain concepts,
terminologies, or texts, as well as presentation of new
approaches in the studies of the Bahá’í Writings and the
fundamental belief system of the Faith.
“Yín-yáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith” is a
presentation focusing on a pivotal theory in traditional Chinese
thought, influencing many aspects of Chinese worldview
(Weltanschauung3). The ever-increasing and expansion of the
occasions of the encounter between the Chinese culture and the

Preface

iii
Bahá'í Faith calls for better understanding of the fundamental
principles or framework of the ideas dominating Chinese world-
view and correlating it with the Bahá’í worldview. It is an
attempt to discuss the impact of the similarities in the modern
encounter between the Chinese culture and the Bahá'í Faith.
“Reason and the Bahá’í Writings” is an exploration of
one of the fundamental teachings of the Bahá’í Faith. “If
religion were contrary to logical reason,” `Abdu’l-Bahá says,
“then it would cease to be a religion and be merely a tradition”
[SAQ 7]. The paper explains what the Writings say about reason,
its proper uses, and limitations. It also strives to resolve an
apparent contradiction in what the Writings assert about
reason. This investigation considers new concepts used in the
Bahá’í Writings such as “rational God” and “rational soul.” In
addition, it discusses some controversies surrounding the topic
of reason in the Writings, among them cultural differences and
logic and the resulting cultural politics.
“Role of Principles in the Bahá'í Faith: Principles
and Fashion” is an attempt to systematically explore and
answer the following questions: Are moral laws and values
relative or absolute? Is living according to long-established
moral values old-fashioned? How did past religions fall into
ritualistic imitations? Should we be more conservative or
progressive? And more generally, what do we believe in? Why do
we believe in it? Should our beliefs change over time? It presents
a hierarchical or tree-like model of the world including two tree
structures each having nodes and links defining multiple levels
of organization: a system tree (specific to general) and a type
tree (general to specific).
“Celestial
Fire:
Bahá’u’lláh
as
the
Messianic
Theophany of the Divine Fire in Zoroastrianism”
examines the mystico-messianic hermeneutics of Bahá’u’lláh in
which He enunciates Himself to be the theophanic appearance
of the Zoroastrian Divine Fire (átar) in person in light of some
of the relevant material from the Gatha (the earliest Zoroastrian
texts which are considered to be the Prophet’s own words), and
other Zoroastrian sources that point to this eschatological
expectation. Also, it briefly outlines some of the relevant
history of the transference of this motif of the Zoroastrian Fire

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
iv
into early Greek philosophy, Judaism, Christianity, Arabic
Hermetical Alchemy and Islamic philosophy.
“‘These
Four
States
Conferred
Upon
Thee’4:
Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy, Theology and
Psychology” is discussed in relation to frequent references to
four-fold relationships such as “Firstness and Lastness –
Inwardness and Outwardness” [SVFV 27]; “Motion and Stillness –
Will and Purpose” [GWB 164] and several others in Bahá'u'lláh's
Writings. It attempts to show how these fourfold principles we
call “tetrarchies” are a new way of thinking about humankind
and the entire universe. It is significant that all these statements
originated during the early periods of Bahá'u'lláh's revelation
which means that they are to be understood in a mystical
context. It should be noted that the word “Tetrarchy” is not
mentioned, as such, in any enumeration of Bahá'u'lláh’s
principles, yet, it is the writer’s opinion that this idea presents a
new way of thinking. This concept describes a new pattern of
thought, a new basic hermeneutical and ontological principle
permeating the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh.
“Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle to the Son
of the Wolf” presents a brief account of the historical
background of Bahá’u’lláh’s Epistle to the Son of the Wolf and
the two external references mentioned in that passage, namely
the Báb’s Qayyumu’l-Asmá’ and the Islamic prayer of Ramadan.
It explores the meanings and connotations of certain expressions
or terminologies in the two references such as “Crimson Arc,”
“people of Bahá” as companions of that Arc, “Ism Alláh-Al-
A`zam” or “Bahá” (Splendor), “Bahíyyih,” and “Abhá.”
On the occasion of the centenary of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s history-
making and extensive visit to North America, and His numerous
public talks there, a number of presentations made at the `Irfán
Colloquia during 2012 were related to that visit and those talks.
Three articles in this volume are related to those events and
some of the concepts promoted by `Abdu’l-Bahá during that
visit.
“‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt: early September 1910 – 5
December 1913” is an extensive and well documented
chronicle of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s discontinuous sojourns in Egypt

Preface

v
from early September 1910 to 5 December 1913. It presents a
historical and political background for His time there, provides
brief descriptions of Egyptian cities and towns visited by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, mentions the members of the Holy Family who visited
Him in Egypt, outlines public opinion reaction and the press
coverage, and lists several important personages who met Him.
“`Abdu'l-Bahá's Elucidation of the Concept of the
Oneness of Humanity, During His Western Travels”
looks at `Abdu'l-Bahá's explanation of the central teaching of
the Bahá'í Faith, (the principle of the oneness of humankind) in
His talks in the West, primarily in the United States, and
through His own actions.
“Collective Security: An Indispensable Requisite
for A Lasting Peace” discusses the principle of collective
security as adumbrated by Bahá'u'lláh and elaborated upon by
`Abdu'l-Bahá as a prerequisite for a lasting peace. It explores the
principles of such a collective security and the range of steps
that the international community needs to take for its
establishment. It also makes concrete recommendations for the
application of these broad principles in a manner that is
actionable and politically palatable in today's world.
Although `Irfán Colloquium programs and publications do
not include historical research and studies, as an exception and
due to the unique personal connection of the author, an article
related to the historical memoirs, “Eyewitness Account of
the Massacre of Bahá’ís in Nayriz — Naw Ruz 1909,” is
published in this volume.
The Elucidations section in the Lights of `Irfán includes
letters written by or on behalf of the Universal House of Justice
or documents that have been issued by the Bahá’í World Centre
concerning clarification or elaboration of specific subjects
related to the aims and purposes of the `Irfán Colloquium and
its publications. In this volume, the Elucidations section
includes the message of the Universal House of Justice dated 29
December 1988 on “Individual Rights and Freedom”
addressed to the followers of Bahá'u'lláh in the United States of
America. This message includes guidance on a number of topics
of concern to Bahá’í scholars.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
vi
Appendix I is the “Bibliography of Bahá’í Writings and Their
Abbreviated titles” used in the text of the papers published in
this book, to facilitate referring to the sources of the quoted
statements. Appendix II, “Contents of Previous Volumes of
Lights of `Irfán,” provides a list of the contents of previous
volumes. It also shows the range, types, methodological
approaches and scope of the papers that are presented and are
welcome to be presented at the `Irfán Colloquia. In addition to
the papers presented at the `Irfán Colloquia, research papers
related to the main goals of the `Irfán Colloquium are welcome
to be directly submitted for publication in the Lights of `Irfán.
Starting with Book Six we have made two changes to the
`Irfán Colloquia’s style guide. All “authoritative” publications
are cited by an abbreviation; see Appendix II, “Bibliography of
the Bahá’í Writings and Their Abbreviations Used in This
Book.” Words of Prophets/Manifestations, i.e. quotations
from Sacred Writings, (not including statements by Shoghi
Effendi or the Universal House of Justice), are italicized.
All papers published in this book, present the views and
understanding of their authors. The texts of the papers are
published as provided by the authors. Their writing styles and
scholarly approaches are therefore different. Articles are
published in this volume according to the alphabetical order of
the author’s surnames.





Iraj Ayman





Chicago, March 2013

1 From the letter of 21 October 1943 to an individual believer
2 From the letter of 5 July 1949 to an individual believer
3 Weltanschauung is a German word composed of Welt ('world') and
Anschauung ('view' or 'outlook'). It is a concept fundamental to German
philosophy and epistemology and refers to a wide world perception.
Additionally, it refers to the framework of ideas and beliefs through which
an individual, group or culture interprets the world and interacts with it.
4 Bahá'u'lláh, The Seven Valleys and Four Valleys.

Yínyáng Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith 1
Phyllis Ghim-Lian Chew
Abstract
The yín-yáng concepts are a pivotal theory in traditional
Chinese thought, influencing many aspects of Chinese
civilization, government, architecture, personal relationships
and ethics. The literacies of this paradigm has astounding
similarities with the literacies of the Bahá’í faith, especially with
regards to the origin of matter, historical perspective, gender
relationships and practices related to health and healing. This
paper will set out to discuss the impact of these similarities in
the modern encounter between the Chinese culture and the
Bahá’í Faith.
Introduction
From its earliest expression in myth, legend and verse over
3,000 years ago, the yínyáng (阴阳) cosmology has remained
central to the Chinese way of viewing things and can be said to
be the primal polarity in Chinese thought. Cosmology here
refers to a framework of ideas and beliefs through which an
individual, group or culture interprets the world and interacts
with it. It is defined in this paper as a “worldview” or a network
of presuppositions which may or may not be verified by the
procedures of natural science but in terms of which every
believer’s experience is interpreted and understood. Yínyáng is
able to account for many natural phenomena and while the
cosmic individual, Chinese or otherwise, does not “control”
nature, his or her knowledge of how to “align” the human with
the natural will immeasurably enlarge the ability to control his
or her life processes.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Yínyáng cosmology is essentially “Chinese” as it is a concept
which informs many branches of classical Chinese science and
philosophy and has penetrated deeply into the popular culture
and dominated the language of medicine, geomancy, and other
accepted “sciences” without major challenge. The earliest
Chinese characters for yín and yáng are found in inscriptions
made on “oracle bones,” which are skeletal remains of various
animals used in ancient Chinese divination practices as early as
the 14th century BCE. Its origin is not linked to the vision of
any single individual or to any single text and remains a matter
of great dispute. Its earliest literary reference is in the Yì Jíng
(Book of Changes c.700 BCE), which is constructed around sixty-
four hexagrams (gua 卦 word), each of which is made of six
parallel broken or unbroken line segments (yao 爻).2 Here, yín
and yáng are represented by broken and solid lines. Some tri-
grams are more yáng: ☰ is heavily yáng, while ☷ is heavily yín.
Yín and yáng, which literally means the polar opposites of
“shadow” and “light,” is often symbolized by the following
symbol: Yáng is the white side with the black dot on it, and yín
is the black side with the white dot on it.

The Yín-Yáng symbol

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

Like its cosmology, no one knows the person who created
this symbol. What is important is to understand the textual and
visual history behind this symbol. Here, a circle is drawn to
uphold the idea of a timeless creation with no beginning and
end. The curve of yín and yáng is a little like a kaleidoscope and
therefore implies that they are mutually arising, interdependent
and continuously transforming one into the other. Notice too
that there are smaller circles nested within each half of the
symbol and this is a reminder once again of the interdependent
nature of the black/white opposites and the fact that relative
existence is in constant flux and change. The smaller circles also
symbolize the possibility that yínyáng can be divided into
further yínyáng ad infinitum. In other words, within each yín
and yáng category, another yín and yáng category can be
distinguished.
The next section will further elaborate on the ideas behind
this symbol though four conceptual lenses, namely, relativity,
unity, complementarity, and balance.
Relativity
The first notion of yínyáng is its relativity, which in essence,
expresses a relationship that one notion is the opposite of the
other. For example, the son is both yín and yáng; yín because he
is believed to be inferior to his father and yáng because he is
believed to be superior as male. In other words, nothing is
absolute — only more yín compared to something, or more yáng
compared to something else. The Chang Huang T’u-shu pien
(图书编), an encyclopedia edited by Zhang Huang 章潢 （1527-
1608） in Ming Dynasty (Forke, The World Conception 214–15),
describes it in the following manner:
Heaven and the sun, spring and summer, east and south
are yáng, the earth and the moon, autumn and winter,
west and north are yín. But during the day heaven and
earth are both yáng, and at night they are both yín. In
spring and summer, heaven and earth, the sun and the
moon are all yáng, in autumn and winter they are all
yín. In the east and the south the four seasons are

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
always yáng, in the west and the north they are always
yín. The left hand is yáng, the right one yín, in this no
change is possible, but raise both hands, then they are
both yáng, and put them down, and they are both yín,
and no matter whether you raise them or put them
down, when they are hot they are both yáng, and when
they are cold they are both yín.
Therefore, although it is possible to distinguish yín and yáng,
it is impossible to separate them since they depend on each
other for definition. For example, one cannot speak of
temperature apart from its yín and yáng aspects — for example,
dark and light, female and male, low and high, cold and hot,
hotness and coldness, water and fire, etc. They are
complementary forces (hidden, feminine) and seen (manifest,
masculine), that combine to form a greater whole as part of a
dynamic system. Each side always contains the others just as
night contains day, or a mother “contains” the infant that she
will, in time, give birth to. They give rise to each and in turn
affect each other.
This notion of relativity as suggested throughout the Dao-te
ching (c. 450 BC), a small (about 5,000 characters) but
extraordinary work on Chinese life and culture written by one
called Lao-tze (“old man” or “teacher”):
For what is and what is not beget each other;
Difficult and easy complete each other;
Long and short show each other;
High and low place each other;
Noise and sound harmonize each other;
Before and behind follow each other.
— Dao-te ching, (Maurer) ch. 2.
Su Shih (苏轼 960–1279 CE), a scholar from the Sung dynasty
indicates the importance of perspectives. When there is a shift
in our position, the objects appear to change. Therefore, we can
no longer be so naive as to assume that what we see constitutes

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

all there is to see. As in much Chinese classical poetry, the
notion of relativity is subtly emphasized:
From the side, a whole range; from the end, a single
peak:
Far, near, high, low no two parts alike. Why can’t I tell
the true shape of Lu Shan?
Because I myself am in the mountain.
— Watson, Selection from a Sung Dynasty, 101
This principle of perspective or relativity is remarkably in tune
with modern science and eplains why Yínyáng cosmology
continues to hold relevance today.
Unity
The second characteristic to note in the discussion of the
yínyáng correlates is their essential unity. Yínyáng is a
“completing” rather than a “competing” theory. For example,
“heads” and “tails” are different sides of the coin. The circle is
like the coin and the coin contains the two halves and it is what
the two sides have in common that makes them the same. In
order to get heads or tails, one may flip the coin but whether
the coin lands on its head or tail, in terms of the essence of the
coin, the answer will always be the same. Hence, instead of the
principle of duality and opposition so common in western
philosophy, there are instead the theories of succession, e.g.,
day follows night, night follows day, small becomes big, big
becomes small, slow changes to fast, fast slackens to slow, what
goes up comes down and vice versa. No entity can ever be
isolated from its relationship to the center of our metaphorical
“coin,” and if it is detached from the center, it will cease to exist.
This center which it originates from is commonly known as
the Dao (道), the life-giving power or principle. It is called
Brahman in Hinduism, Dharmakaya in Buddhism, and Dao in
Daoism. Because it transcends all concepts and categories, the
Buddhist also calls it Tathata or Suchness. This idea may also
have been borrowed by the Greek philosophers of the Ionian

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
School (c. 585–540 BCE) e.g., Thales, Anaximander, and
Anaximenes, who argued that orderliness could only be
explained though the existence of a single unifyíng substance
which were in control of all the parts. This also bears some
similarity to the Bahá’í idea of the “first will” or what the
ancient philosophers termed the “First Mind.” According to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the first will is an emanation which is “not limited
by time or place; it is without beginning or end — beginning and
end in relation to God are one” [SAQ 203].
Zhuangzi (庄子), an influential Chinese philosopher in the 4th
century BCE explains that the manifestation of this first
principle in each created being is called te (virtue 德) and that
Dao and te are actually of one essence, the former being the
universal essence, and the latter the share of the former
deposited in every individual being, what in most world
religions is referred to as “God” and “the soul.” In short, Daoist
philosophy is to “return to Dao,” namely to align or balance
oneself to the “Primeval One,” the “Divine Intelligence,” or the
“Source” of all things, which most religions call “heaven” or
“the afterlife.” As Zhuangzi puts it:
In the beginning there was non-being. It had neither
being nor name. The One originates from it: it has
oneness but not yet physical form. When things obtain
it and come into existence, that is called virtue (德)
(which gives their individual character). That which is
formless is divided into yín and yáng and from the
beginning going on without interruption is called
destiny (ming 命). Through movement and rest, it
produces all things. When things are produced in
accordance with the principle (li 理) there is a physical
form, and when these follow their own specific
principles, that is what we call “nature”. By cultivating
one’s nature one will return to virtue. When virtue is
perfect, one will be one with the beginning. Being one
with the beginning, one becomes vacuous (thus,
receptive to all) and being vacuous, one becomes great.
One will then be united with the sound and breath of

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

things. When one is united with the breath of things,
one is then united with the universe. (Chan, Sourcebook 202)
Similarly, in Bahá’í cosmology, form and substance arise
simultaneously and they are interdependent:
They have said that the potentialities (qábiliyyát) and
the recipients of the potentialities (maqbúlát) came into
being and were created simultaneously. For example, it
has been stated that all things are composed of two
elements: the “Fashioner” (qábil) and the “Fashioned
(maqbúl). By “Fashioned” is meant substance (mádda)
and primary matter (huyúlá), and by Fashioner is meant
form and shape, which confines and limits the primary
matter from its state of indefiniteness and freedom to
the courtyard of limitation and definite form.
(Bahá’u’lláh, Makátíb 2:35; provisional translation by Moojan
Momen and quoted in Brown 26)
This “life-giving force” is given the actual name of “God” or
“Creator” in prophetic religions such as Islam and Christianity.
In the Bahá’í faith, it is stated that “the Word of God ... is the
Cause of the entire creation, while all else besides His Word are
but the creatures and the effects thereof” [TB 140]. For
Zhuangzi, the Dao is the all-pervading principle that exists prior
to the existence of the universe, and it is to be found in
everything, no matter how trivial or base (Chuang-tzu, chapter 2).
Complementarity
Complementarity refers to the phenomena that in any yín
phenomenon there is a little yáng; and in every yáng
phenomenon there is a little yín. In other words, the night is
never completely dark because there is always some yáng light
(from the moon, stars, fireflies), and the yáng day has some
darkness (shadows for instance). Yín and yáng transform each
other: like an undertow in the ocean, every advance is
complemented by a retreat, and every rise transforms into a fall.
It is an irretrievable inter-relatedness. Thus, a seed will sprout
from the earth and grow upwards towards the sky — an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
intrinsically yáng movement. Then, when it reaches its full
potential height, it will fall.
We see this same idea illustrated from the Ts’an-t’ung-chi3
(参同契) a classic by Wei Boyang 魏伯阳 from the Eastern Han
Dynasty (147–167 AD):
Within light there is darkness, but do not try to
understand that darkness.
Within darkness there is light, but do not look for that
light.
Light and darkness are a pair, like the foot before and
the foot behind in walking.
Each thing has its own intrinsic value and is related to
everything else in function and position.
This intricate complementarity embodies a belief that
everything, however small, in some sense reflects it. Just as the
cells of the body imply the whole, so every part of creation
implies the cosmos.
In reference to animals and vegetables, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
“... the animal, as to its body, is made up of the same
constituent elements as man” [SWAB 153]. “All the elements that
are combined in man exist also in vegetables” [SAQ 258]. In
addition, quoting Imam Ali, Bahá’u’lláh writes “Dost thou
reckon thyself only a puny form/When within thee the universe
is folded?” [SVFV 34].
The essence of this inter-relatedness reinforces once again the
idea of the cosmic whole as interdependent and inseparable. A
famous poem by Zháng Zǎi (张载, 1020–77 CE), a Neo-
Confucian philosopher and cosmologist, writes:
Heaven is my father and Earth is my mother, and even
such a small creature as I find an intimate place in their
midst. Therefore that which fills the universe I regard as
my body and that which directs the universe I consider
as my nature. All people are my brothers and sisters,
and all things are my companions. (Chan, Sourcebook 497)

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

Similarly, the Bahá’í scriptures points to the significance of
complementarity. Members and elements are interconnected and
influence one another spiritually and materially:
This limitless universe is like the human body, all the
members of which are connected and linked with one
another with the greatest strength.... In the same way,
the parts of this infinite universe have their members
and elements connected with one another, and influence
one another spiritually and materially. [SAQ 245–46]
Balance
Balance is needed if complementary opposites are to interact
elegantly. A deficiency of one aspect implies an excess of the
other. Thus, if yín is excessive, the yáng will be too weak. For
example, summer is considered as yáng and isolated as such; it
may seem “excessive,” but not so if the whole of the four
seasons are taken into account. Another example is that if it is
too hot, then there is not enough coolness and vice versa. If the
temperature is neither too cold nor too hot, then both cold and
hot aspects are mutually controlled and held in check. In human
relationships as in a marriage, one can say that here the extent
to which one partner can be aggressive depends on the extent to
which the other is passive. They exert mutual control over each
other. Thus, in a relationship in which yín and yáng are
unbalanced for a long periods of time, the resulting
transformation may be drastic.
Western philosophies have tended to be lopsided by
glorifying one pole at the expense of the other, e.g., the mind is
considered to be better than the body, and logic preferable to
intuition, the yín–yáng paradigm emphasizes the equality of
proportions. When Confucius (551–479 BCE) wrote The
Doctrine of the Mean (中庸), he meant that both excess and
inadequacy were extremes and that only by understanding the
“Mean” and holding on to it could harmony be achieved
[Doctrine of the Mean, ch. 27]. Hence for Confucius, “To go beyond
is as wrong as to fall short” [Analects, 11:15]. Likewise,
Bahá’u’lláh said that “In all matters moderation is desirable. If a
thing is carried to excess, it will prove a source of evil” [TB 69].

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
This notion of “balance” has significant implications on
moral values and has been used to explain the relationship
between good and evil. For Zhuangzi, nothing can be said to be
absolutely right (e.g., the notions of right and wrong do not
exist, since right is right only because of the existence of
wrong).4 Zhuangzi believes that conflict arises when a person
departs from Dao and tries to act contrary to nature. This
concept of balancing both yín and yáng forces and of being at
one with Dao has been used to teach morality throughout
Chinese history. Lao-tzu illustrates this paradox within a set of
correspondences:
On tiptoe you don’t stand.
Astride you don’t walk.
Showing yourself, you don’t shine,
Asserting yourself, you don’t show,
Boasting yourself won’t get you credit.
Vaunting yourself won’t let you endure.
In Dao, these things are called
Tumors and dregs, which all things abhor.
Whoever has Dao does not dwell on them.
— Dao-te ching, ch. 24
There is, however, a distinct difference between the concept
of balance in the Chinese psyche and that of other prophetic
religions with a holy book. While keeping to the mean is
imperative for harmony, what exactly is the mean with regards
to moral and social behavior is not made explicit, since it is the
theoretical mean which is referred to. For other religionists such
as the Bahá’ís, the book itself is “the unerring Balance
established amongst men” [KA 22].
With these four essential characteristics of Yínyáng
cosmology in hand, I will now proceed to a preliminary
exploration of four areas, namely, the origin of creation,
historical perspective, the relationship of man and woman, and

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

health and healing, and examine their remarkable relationship
across time and space with the Bahá’í Faith.
The Dao of Creation
The idea of causation so central to Western thinking is
almost entirely absent in Chinese thought. Indeed, no Chinese
thinker who discusses the subject admits the possibility of an
initial conscious act of creation since in Yínyáng cosmology
things were connected, rather than caused, and things influence
each other not mechanically but by a kind of induction. Hence,
unlike the ancient Greeks who believed that the essence of
knowledge is to grasp the “why” or to prove the existence of the
primary
cause,
the
Chinese
were
most
interested
in
understanding the interrelationships. As Ronan and Needham
argues:
The fundamental difference was that in Europe, there
was a need to think of God as the creator or the prime
mover behind the machine. Not the Chinese. To them
the parts of a living body as the universe could account
for the observed phenomena by a kind of will: co-
operation of the component part was spontaneous,
even involuntary and this alone was sufficient. There
were thus two traditions of the universe and each went
their separate ways. [Ronan and Needham 163]
The word “cause” implies a direct dependency with the
effects in much the same way that attributes of knowledge
requires the existence of objects of knowledge. Similarly, the
term “Creator” assumes its counterpart, the created, in order to
be comprehensible. There was therefore no reason to debate on
cause and effect since this was already implied or understood.
As the first chapter of the Dao-te ching reiterates:
If Dao can be Daoed, it is not Dao.
If its name can be named, it is not its name.
Has no name: precedes heaven and earth;
Has a name: mother of ten thousand things

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The First Cause or the Creator is not the focus here and only a
description rather than an exploration will suffice. There is an
implied acceptance that it exists, and no effort is made to
postulate the “hows” or “whys” of its existence. Like other
world religions, the Bahá’í Faith, explicitly indicates that while
God is the creator of all things, but unlike them, it elaborates
that God exists, only outside the order of His creation and like
the Dao, is completely unknowable:
Lauded by Thy Name, O Lord my God! I testify that
Thou wast a hidden Treasure wrapped within Thine
immemorial Being and an impenetrable Mystery
enshrined in Thine own Essence. Wishing to reveal
Thyself, Thou didst call into being the Greater and the
Lesser Worlds. [PM 48–49]
In the above, the Greater and Lesser world may be interpreted
as the hereafter and this world. It follows then in Bahá’í
cosmology that without the limiting constraints of time and
space, “the latter world hath neither beginning nor end” [TB 187],
something not incomparable with Zhuangzi’s notion of heaven
as “one of ceaseless revolution, without beginning or end” [Fung
133].
Nevertheless, while not embroiled in the “who’s who” of
creation, China’s ancient philosophers were keen to understand
the hows. They postulated the origin of the cosmos as a series of
progressions from the T’ai Chi (太极” the one great ultimate”)
to the two principles Yínyáng ; the three sources; heaven, earth
and humankind; and the five elements represented symbolically
by wood 木, fire 火, earth 土, metal 金, and water 水.5 The Wu
Xing (五行 “five phases”) is a fivefold conceptual scheme used
in many fields of Chinese thought both past and present such as
feng shui (风水, astrology, traditional Chinese medicine, music,
military strategy and martial arts. While the ancient Greeks had
recognized the five elements as early as the 6th century BCE,
they looked on them as substances or natural qualities, unlike
the Chinese which viewed them as “process” or “change.”
Interestingly, Bahá’u’lláh [TB 140] also explains the cause of
creation through “two poles” — the active force and its

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

recipient or the “even” and the “odd,” which by their
interaction generates a “heat” or life-giving energy that creates
and orders the innumerous beings in the universe:
The world of existence came into being through the
heat generated from the interaction between the active
force and that which is its recipient. These two are the
same, yet they are different.”
Bahá’u’lláh calls that which first results from the active force
and its recipient prior to the generation of the world, al-failayn,
the twin active agents, and al-munfa’il, the twin passive agents,
and affirms that they “are indeed created through the irresistible
Word of God” [TB 140]. In other tablets, He identifies them
with the four elements of “fire,” “air,” “water,” and “earth,”
[Brown 28, 35–36], two of which are identified as active while the
other two as passive, something not quite unlike the Chinese
“five phases.”
These four elements are described in the Lawh-i-Ayiy-i-Nur in
the following manner:
Know ye that the first tokens that emanated from the
pre- existent Cause in the worlds of creation are the
four elements: fire, air, water, and earth... Then the
natures (ustuqusat) of these four appeared: heat,
moisture, cold and dryness — those same qualities that
ye both reckon and know. When the elements interacted
and joined with one another, two pillars became evident
for each one: for fire, heat and dryness, and likewise for
the remaining three in accordance with these rules, as ye
are aware. By them God created all that there is in the
worlds of creation, whether of the higher or lower
realms. In whatsoever things these natures came into
equilibrium that thing endured the passage of time, as
ye behold with the sun and the moon; and in whatsoever
thing these natures came not into balance, that thing
passed quickly into extinction, even as ye observe to be
the case with the creatures of the lower worlds. [Brown
35–36]

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
This quotation suggests, in synchrony with Chinese beliefs,
the gradual development of life on earth.6 The Yì Jíng 易经, for
instance, views civilization as a systematic and progressive
development from simple undifferentiated beginnings towards a
complex structure, and the development of the individual as
following a parallel course from ignorance to enlightenment and
from an unwitting identity with Dao to knowing the Dao. There
is a traditional story accounting for the gradual creation of the
universe and although caution must be exercised in putting
implicit faith in such traditional stories, I am including the
following for its popular anecdotal value:
A period of 2,267,000 years was computed to have
intervened from the beginning of heaven and earth to
the year 480 BC. This period was divided into great
sections, each with its own characteristics. Proceeding
that period were countless ages of one unbroken black
night and the profoundest gloom. The universe
consisted of Breath or Gas which was a homogeneous
unit without form. Out of this limitless chaos came the
Great Limit, or Beginning. Then the grosser particles of
the universal gas fell down and became Earth, the finer
ascended and became heaven. This was the beginning of
heaven and earth. These two in the course of many
thousands of years produced the four great Bodies —
sun, moon, planets and constellation; and the four less
Bodies — water, fire, earth and stone. Then was the
eternal stillness terminated. The interactions of these
various bodies produced transformations, first of a
simple then of a more complex kind till they finally
culminated in the reproduction of man.
Though man was the most intelligent of all beings,
many ages elapsed before the earliest rudiments of
civilization appeared. Some of the remote ancestors of
the Chinese dwelt in caves, and wandered without fixed
abode till one of their numbers devised a kind of
dwelling, which put an end to cave homes. People of
another tribe were naked, except for a small covering
of plants before and another behind. One of them was a
sage who cut wood into slices so thin that they could

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

cover the body like fish scales and protect it from the
winds and the frosts. He taught them to plait their hair
so that the heaviest rain would drop off their
head... [Ross 1–3]7
Such a mythological foundation enabled the Chinese to align
relatively easily with later scientific theories such as Darwin’s
theory of evolution or current concept of cosmology such as
those expounded by Stephen Hawking (A Brief History of Time)
where the universe was formed from the dust of space after a
“Big Bang.” Abdu’l Bahá himself suggests that creation unfolds
in a sequential gradual manner, tending towards higher and more
complex forms:
That it is clear that original matter, which is in the
embryonic state, and the mingled and composed
elements which were its earliest forms, gradually grew
and developed during many ages and cycles, passing
from one shape and form to another, until they
appeared
in
this
perfection,
this
system,
this
organization and this establishment, though the
supreme wisdom of God. [SAQ 182–83, 199]
The Dao of Historical Perspective
With relativity as a key embedded principle, it is not
surprising that religious conflict has been less of an issue in
Chinese culture.8 According to a Chinese saying, “同源共流” —
the presence of great religious teachers at different periods of
history may be likened to tributaries branching out from the
same river — they may start off at different sites and carry
different names but the water which each receives is the same.
Another Chinese four-word collocation, “殊途同归,” visualizes
different paths towards the same destination. So too the
classical quotation “致化归一，分教斯五.” written by 刘勰 (Liu
Xie) in c.501-502 CE indicates that while the teaching is from
the same source and for the same purpose, it may develop
into different branches.9 In addition, The Chinese language
shows that “religion” has been treated synonymously as
“education,” and “religious personnel” as “teachers” of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
particular schools. Religion is called Chiao (教) or “teaching” or
“Education,” (育), and the founders of religions as Chiao Tsu
(主) or “Teaching Master.”
Although there were occasional polemics and religious
persecution in China’s long history, the traditional attitude was
generally one of tolerance rather than dogmatic discrimination
and ideological opposition, as the existence of strong Buddhist
and Daoist elements in Neo-Confucianism make plain. If there
was persecution, it was more often a result of a struggle for
power rather than a denial of the essential truth of the other’s
philosophical view.10 This relative tolerance is also a likely result
of the perspective of time as relative, a sharp contrast to
religions such as Christianity and Islam, where time “stops”
around one revelatory event: the appearance of Christ and the
revelation of the Quran. In other words, Chinese and Bahá’í
cosmology adopts the “Eastern” view that time is cyclical with
no beginning and end, a sharp contrast to “Western” dualist
concept of time as historical with a start and end-point.
This sense of wholeness has always led the Chinese mind
towards the sense of relativity of particulars within the
universal totality, and it was not surprising that the Chinese
were among of the first to envisage a future society of world
brotherhood and unity. Arnold Toynbee, a philosopher of
history, included Chinese civilization among the five survivors
of a number of ancient and medieval civilizations that once
existed.11 Toynbee found that the Chinese civilization was the
only one that aimed to eliminate war by establishing a world
government of Great Unity (or Great Harmony) guided by the
humanistic precepts of Confucius. While the search for an ideal
Commonwealth has been a feature of other civilizations,12 it
was only in China that it formed part of the psyche, not just of
the scholar class but also of the common people.
As early as 5th century BCE, the Chinese people have
entertained the lofty thought of the “pacification of the world”
(Ta-tung 天下大同), bringing to mind ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s point that
“[t]he most important principle of divine philosophy is the
oneness of the world of humanity, the unity of mankind” [PUP
31]. Throughout the history of Chinese religion, such calls have

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

come from its charismatic leaders and visionary prophets.
Confucius dreamt of a united world, which he termed “the
Great Unity” (大同 or ta t’ung). He urged his disciples to strive
to produce a paradise covering the whole world. His ideas have
been a motivating force to many Chinese legislators, scholars,
and authors, especially to reformers and revolutionaries such as
Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the founder of the Chinese Republic in 1912.
Another influential philosopher who was fascinated with the
utopian idea of the Great Unity was Mozi (墨子, 479–381 BCE),
who developed a concept called “all-embracing love” (Chien-ai
兼爱), which emphasized a love of all humankind rather than
just the love of the family. Then there was Mao Zedong, the
founder-president of the Peoples’ Republic of China whose aim
it was to establish the “Great Harmony” (世界大同). Although
Mao was much influenced by Marx and Lenin early in life, much
of his philosophy is interestingly, often in tune with the
principles of traditional Chinese philosophy.13
While this ideal, a united world characterized by world
solidarity, has not been in keeping with actual practice, as
reported in historical accounts of European traders and
diplomats who were more often regarded as “barbarians” rather
than as co-equals in the “middle kingdom,” such isolated
individual accounts, most of which occurring in the time of
Western imperial expansion, should be better interpreted in the
context of the existing political–social situation and do not
represent the essential spirit of Chinese thought.
The Dao of Man and Woman
Yín is normally characterized as slow, soft, yielding, diffuse,
cold, wet, and passive; and is associated with water, earth, the
moon, femininity and the night. Yáng, by contrast, is fast, hard,
solid, focused, hot, dry, and aggressive; and is associated with
fire, sky, the sun, masculinity and daytime. In the Yì Jíng, there
are many references to male–female relations in both verbal and
nonverbal symbols. It begins with the two hexagrams, Ch’ien
and K’un, which stand for heaven and earth, yáng and yín, as
well as male and female. In particular, Hexagram 31, Hsien,
(咸)with the lake above the mountain, refers to the mutual

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
influence and attraction between the two natural forces.14 In
addition, Part II of the Yì Jíng also begins with reference to
male and female.
Interestingly, in one of his tablets, ‘Abdu’l–Bahá explains the
story of Adam and Eve as a metaphor for one being the “active”
force and the other its “recipient.” This might be said to be
related to the two principles inherent in the Primal Will
mentioned by Bahá’u’lláh as al-fa’il, the active force, and al-
munfa’il, its recipient:
Adam signifieth that reality which is pervasive,
effulgent and active, that is the manifestation of God’s
names and attributes, and the evidences of His mercy.
Whereas Eve is that reality which is the seeker and the
recipient of the force, the grace, the message and the
influence — that reality which receiveth the impact of
all God’s Names and Attributes. [Nakhjavani 72]
In Chinese cosmology, while heaven may be spoken in some
social-political interpretations as the “powerful male force” and
earth as “the weak female force,” the two are theoretically equal
since Heaven can accomplish nothing unless Earth responds.
Both men and women go through yín and yáng phases, and the
personality of each man and women is not a static entity but a
dynamic phenomenon resulting from the play within masculine
and feminine phenomena. Yínyáng are correlates which may also
serve to delineate different stages in life, for example, the first
half of life, led by yáng, is a time of differentiation, during
which we understand ourselves and the world by dividing it into
pieces. The second half is characterized by yín or the tendency
to make whole, to see and experience the connections between
things, to replace separateness with harmony.
However, with time this concept was modified to establish a
rigid order in which men were supposed to be masculine and
women feminine. The patriarchal bias of succeeding dynasties
also saw yín and yáng become associated with moral values, and
the correlates were subsequently used to explain the polarity of
light and darkness, and good and bad. Good deeds, for instance,
stemmed from the principle of yáng, which through the
patriarchal eyeglass represented principles such as benevolence,

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

righteousness, propriety, wisdom and faith, and which added to
the spiritual bank of merit. Conversely, bad deeds stemmed
from the principles of yín and such principles as passion, anger,
sorrow, likes, dislikes, desires, and violence and anything that
caused punishment in the afterlife in the other world. Such an
interpretation was later symbolized into script so that the
character for yín (阴) meant the shady side of a slope and is
associated with qualities such as cold, rest, responsiveness,
passivity, darkness, interiority, downwardness and inwardness.
On the other hand, the character of yáng (阳) stood for the
sunny side of a slope and all that was bright and creative.
Yínyáng cosmology was also utilized to portray prototypes
of the human social order e.g., “The ruler is yáng, the subject
yín; the father is yáng, the son yín; the husband is yáng, the wife
yín.” Later writers such as Tung Chung-shu (179–104 BCE), a
major representative of the New Text School,15 taught that
“Heaven has trust in the yáng but not in the yín” (Bodde 619). The
patrilineal bias in Chinese culture therefore transformed the
original theory by elevating the yáng principle at the expense of
the yín. Not surprisingly, practices such as female infanticide
and foot-binding, and sale of daughters, have shown the status
of women in traditional Chinese societies to be unenviable.
The patriarchal bias to equate yín with passivity and yáng
with activity is also evident in Western culture. The attempt to
portray women as passive and receptive and men as active and
creative goes back to Aristotle’s theory of sexuality and has
been used throughout the centuries as a “scientific” rationale
for keeping women in a subordinate role, subservient to men. It
should be noted that the symbolism of yín as passivity is not a
problem; the problem is when passivity comes to be viewed as
undesirable.
Interestingly, in Bahá’í scripture the feminine principle is
depicted both as a passive and an active one, which creates,
empowers, rears, and nourishes. It is not a fixed condition of
sexuality applied to objects in the created world. Mothering
images, for example, are used to suggest the divine creative
principle of the word of God:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Every single letter proceeding out of the mouth of God
is indeed a mother letter, and every word uttered by
Him Who is the Well Spring of Divine Revelation is a
mother word, and His Tablet a Mother Tablet. [GWB
142]
The mothering images are used to suggest the divine creative
principle of the Word of God. Bahá’u’lláh himself identifies the
feminine powers of God with the word “Fashioner”:
No sooner is this resplendent word uttered, than its
animating energies, stirring within all created things,
give birth to the means and instruments whereby such
arts can be produced and perfected. All the wondrous
achievements
ye
now
witness
are
the
direct
consequences of the revelation of His name. [GWB 142]
The theme of masculine-feminine complementarity and
interaction is manifested in the Tablet of Carmel.16 Drewek
(1992) refers to this tablet as an instance of the divine
dramatization of two forces coming together, the Ancient of
Days as the Manifestation and a feminine personification of the
Mountain of God, the Queen of Carmel, the site of the
Manifestation’s holy seat or throne. She describes a kind of
courtship dance with feelings of separation and longing for
reunion followed by a kind of consummation between heaven
and earth. This consummation results in the appearance of “the
people of Bahá.” In a long-awaited reunion, the feminine
principle is now ready to shift from a competitive to a
complementary opposite.
Unity or harmony does not mean a merging of the two in
which one is subordinated or sacrificed but rather the
complementary combination of the two to produce a more
aesthetically satisfyíng whole. It also does not mean a blurring
of differences to become an undifferentiated one. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
has explained the concept of complementarity in a manner
reminiscent of the yín–yáng principle:
The world of humanity consists of two parts: male and
female. Each is the complement of the other. Therefore
if one is defective, the other will necessarily be

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

incomplete and perfection cannot be attained.... Just as
physical accomplishment is complete with two hands, so
man and woman, the two parts of the social body, must
be perfect. It is not natural that either should remain
undeveloped; and until both are perfected, the
happiness of the human world will not be realized. [PUP
134]
This is reminiscent of Lao-tzu’s teachings 2,500 years ago:
Know the masculine;
Keep to the feminine.
Be beneath-heaven’s ravine
To be beneath-heaven’s ravine
Is to stay with unceasing virtue
And return to infancy
Know the white; (yáng)
Keep to the black (yín)
Be beneath-heaven’s model.
To be beneath-heaven’s model
Is to stay with unerring virtue
And return to the limitless.
— Dao-te ching, ch. 28
It is impossible to read the above without realizing where Lao-
tzu, living in a patriarchal age, placed his true priorities.
Replete with yín symbols, it teaches that the sage should adopt
the yín qualities. Balance is once again stressed as the essential
condition for harmony. If so, the equality of status between
men and women is subtly raised.17

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The Dao of Health and Healing
Influenced by Yínyáng cosmology, Chinese medicine is based
on the premise that the part can only be understood in relation
to the whole. Unlike Western medicine where cause and effect is
paramount, for the Chinese physician, it is not so much what x
is causing to y but rather the relationship of x to y. A symptom
therefore is not traced back to a cause but is looked at as part
of a totality. If a person has a symptom, Chinese medicine
wishes to discover how the symptom fits into the patient’s
entire bodily pattern. A person who is well or “in harmony” has
no distressing symptoms and expresses mental, physical, and
spiritual balance. When the person is ill, the symptom is only
one part of a complete bodily imbalance that can be seen in
other aspects of his or her life and behavior. Interestingly,
Hippocrates (ca 460-600 BCE) also viewed the body as a
balanced system, able to heal its disorders form within. This
idea is also embodied in the concept of the Hindu-Buddhist
karma where the effects of spirit and matter acts on one
another.
In contrast, Western medicine is concerned with disease
categories or agents of disease, which it isolates and tries to
change, control, or destroy. The Western physician usually
starts with a symptom and then searches for an underlying
mechanism that may be a possible cause for a disease. There
appears to be a foundational belief that a disease is a relatively
well-defined self-contained phenomenon, although it may affect
different parts of the body. Hence, there is a penchant for
precise diagnostic frames of narrow areas so the cause may be
isolated (Edward & Bouchier, Davidson’s Principles and Practice of
Medicine).
However, the basic premise for Chinese medicine rests in its
orientation in finding imbalances and “righting” it. Balance or
moderation is the key to the preservation of life. This makes it a
more likely candidate for “the medicine of the future,” as
outlined by Abdu’l-Bahá:
The outer, physical causal factor in disease, however, is a
disturbance in the balance, the proportionate equi-

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

librium of all those elements of which the human body
is composed. To illustrate: the body of man is a
compound of many constituent substances, each
component being present in a prescribed amount,
contributing to the essential equilibrium of the whole.
So long as these constituents remain in their due
proportion, according to the natural balance of the
whole — that is, no component suffereth a change in its
natural
proportionate
degree
and
balance,
no
component being augmented or decreased — there will
be no physical cause for the incursion of disease.
[Compilation 1: 465–67]
Biological rhythms go out of synchronization when there has
been some violation of natural law, such as the practice of
harmful habits, repression of emotions, or incorrect diet.
Unbalance will result in cessation of the ch’i (气), a force or
energy which may be equivalent to what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls the
“mind force”:
The mind force — whether we call it pre-existent or
contingent — doth direct and coordinate all the
members of the human body, seeing to it that each part
or member duly performeth its own special function. If
however, there be some interruption in the power of
the mind, all the members will fail to carry out their
essential functions, deficiencies will appear in the body
and the functioning of its members, and the power will
prove ineffective. [SWAB 48]
In addition, ill health is not only a result of imbalance within
parts of the body or of disharmony between the mind and the
body but also something that can be brought about by an
imbalance between the individual and the environment. The
Yellow Emperor’s Classic (黄帝内经 300 and 100 BCE), the
Chinese equivalent of the Hippocratic corpus, taught that the
winds and seasons have marked effects on the human body,
certain physical conditions being the response to terrestrial
forces. It was therefore crucial for human beings to act in
accordance with the seasons so as to avoid disharmony, for each
person breathes the breath of the universe, tastes its

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
atmosphere, and reflects its rhythm. Interestingly, modern
medicine is now beginning to investigate the effect of
atmospheric and meteorological conditions on the human
organism, and it has been shown that the number of breaths
each person draws varies according to the time of the year.
Much like animals and insects, human beings also respond to a
circadian rhythm of sunlight. Humans also experience annual
rhythms, and these have been observed in regular changes of
bodyweight as well as in seasonal hair loss.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains this inter-dependency:
For all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to
the properties of things are the causes of the existence,
development and growth of created beings. It is
confirmed through evidences and proofs that every
being universally acts upon other beings, either
absolutely or through association. [SAQ 178–79]
Since the primary objective of Chinese medicine is to restore
the balance in the body and since each body is different,
individualized treatment, therefore, becomes one of its
distinguishing features. As in the Ayurvedic tradition, treatment
is tailored to the needs of the individual so as to maximize
immunity to diseases and to achieve balance. Chinese diagnostic
technique does not turn up a specific disease entity or a precise
cause, but, rather, renders an almost poetic, yet workable,
description of the whole person. The therapy then attempts to
bring the configuration into balance, to restore harmony to the
individual. In an attempt to discover a pattern of imbalance or
disharmony in a patient’s body, all relevant information,
including the symptoms as well as the patient’s other general
characteristics, are gathered and woven together.
The validity of individualized treatment of a patient, rather
than the uniform treatment of a disease, is acknowledged by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
The skillful physician does not give the same medicine
to cure each disease and each malady, but he changes

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

remedies and medicines according to the different
necessities of the disease and constitution. [SAQ 94]
While the Yellow Emperor’s Classic dealt with acupuncture,
moxibustion, and surgery as a means of restoring balance, one
major way in which much healing is done is through herbal
medicine or food. The Chinese have thus developed a complex
classification of foods which range from cold, cooling and
neutral, to warming and hot.18 Things are also classified not
only directly as a yín or yáng in nature but also relative to each
other. Seaweeds, for example, are yín because they are passive
plants that grow in the sea. Fish might also be considered yín
because they live in the sea, but compared to seaweed, they are
classified as yáng because they are active animals.
The importance of food as a means of curing illnesses is
verified in the Bahá’í scriptures:
When highly-skilled physicians shall fully examine this
thoroughly and perseveringly, it will be clearly seen that
the incursion of disease is due to a disturbance in the
relative amounts of the body’s component substances,
and that treatment consisteth in adjusting these relative
amounts, and that this can be apprehended and made
possible by means of foods. [Abdu’l Baha, Compilation
1:465–67]
Because “medical science appears to be in its infancy” [Abdu’l
Baha, Compilation 1:473–74], not least because many major diseases
are treated by invasive surgery, Bahá’ís are meanwhile
encouraged to “develop the science of medicine to such a high
degree that they will heal illnesses by means of foods” [Abdu’l
Baha, Compilation 1:468]. The Faith, however, advices their
adherents to refer to qualified doctors and mainstream practices
since an alternative medical paradigm is not yet in place.
Despite some promising similarities between Chinese and
Bahá’í perceptions on health and healing, there is one essential
difference: for the Bahá’í, while medical treatment and a skilled
doctor may cure a patient, the actual healer, in reality, is God
[Abdul Baha, Compilation 1:468]. For the Chinese, as long as the
patient is healed, this is not a relevant consideration. In Chinese

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
medicine, there is therefore little or less emphasis on the
spiritual or prayerful aspect of healing, since the existence of
God is not considered a worthwhile debatable subject. The
Chinese philosophers have traditionally played down the
importance of metaphysics and Confucius has gone as far as to
refuse to answer such questions. Their focus has been to
emphasize processes, relationships and ethics, rather than the
concept of the Absolute.
Conclusion
The four principles inherent in yín–yáng cosmology —
relativity, unity, complementarity, and balance — have gone a
long way in influencing Chinese ideas where the origin of
creation, historical perspective, gender relationships, and that
of health and healing are concerned. There is a striking
similarity of Yínyáng principles with the tenets of the Bahá’í
Faith despite its separation in time and place. In both the
Chinese cosmological worldview and the Bahá’í Faith, the idea
of the unknowability of the Creator and the evolutionary
development of life on earth is unfolded. Yín-yáng concepts
have also endowed the Chinese with a capacity to interpret
events in a larger historical or geographical perspective in terms
of comparative religion and world unity. Again in both
worldviews, gender relationships are represented symbolically as
creative forces which, when in complete balance, results in
harmony and prosperity. Last but not least, yín-yáng cosmology
has left its mark on Chinese medicinal theory which,
corresponding to Bahá’í beliefs, is based on the premise of
righting imbalances. Perhaps the most profound discovery is the
fact that Yínyáng has enabled the Chinese to be focused on the
processes and the relationships rather than an Absolute or a
single revelatory event. This perspective is propelled by the
Chinese language which does not differentiate between
education and religion. In this way, both education and religion
are foregrounded as the bedrock of civilization since they are
indivisible. The stress on relationships or ethics puts it in
profound similarity with Bahai literature which has centrally
emphasize deeds over words and the fact that actions and

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

intentions must and should match, irrespective of our
affiliations to any religious teacher.
Meanwhile, the yín–yáng paradigm remains a useful one to
explain socio-political, cultural, and economic imbalances at the
beginning of the new millennium. In the past, yáng has been
favored over yín, and the present world seems to have reached a
point of great social, ecological, moral, and spiritual imbalance.
It has, for instance, favored self-assertion rather than
integration, rational knowledge rather than intuitive wisdom,
analysis rather than synthesis, science rather than religion,
competition rather than cooperation and expansion rather than
conservation. Despite being the parent of Yínyáng cosmology,
present day China has not been spared from a currently
disjointed view of human life, which has attempted to divorce
faith from reason and which has departed from the traditional
attitude of tolerance to one of dogmatic discrimination and
ideological opposition. Since the last 30 years, China has shown
a preference for materialism over spirituality and for
individualism over the common good, an extremely yáng
condition.
Nevertheless, we may take heart in the fact that yáng, having
reached its peak, will eventually retreat since among the laws
governing change and nature for the Chinese, the most
fundamental is the one which states that “When a thing reaches
one extreme, it reverts from it” (物极必反).19
“New age” ideas are gaining popularity, and there is, for
instance, the rising concern with ecology, the strong interest in
mysticism, the growing feminine awareness, and the rediscovery
of holistic approaches to health and healing. This phenomenon
was elucidated by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá at the beginning of the 20th
century, when he explained that the “new age” will be “an age in
which the masculine and feminine elements of civilization will
be more properly balanced” [Compilations II:99]. In other words,
“while the world in the past has been ruled by force, the balance
has already begun to shift and force appears to be losing its
dominance to mental alertness, intuition, and service” [ibid.]. It
is, prophetically, a new age where Yínyáng is once again in
balance.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
BIBLIOGRAPHY
* The translations of the Analects and The Doctrine of the Mean
which I have used is by J. Legge. The translation of the Dao-te
ching is by Maurer, that of Chuang-tzu is by Fung Yu Lan, and that
of the Yì Jíng is by Richard Wilhelm.
Bodde, Derk. “Harmony and Conflict in Chinese Philosophy.” In
Studies in Chinese Thought. Ed. Arthur F. Wright. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1953. 19–67.
Brown, Keven. “A Bahá’í Perspective of Matter.” The Journal of
Bahá’í Studies 2:1 (1989–1990): 15–44.
Chan, Wing- tsit, ed. Sourcebook in Chinese Philosophy. Princeton,
N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1963.
Chew, Phyllis Ghim Lian. The Chinese Religion and the Bahá’í Faith.
Oxford: George Ronald, Publishers, 1993.
Chew, Phyllis Ghim-Lian. Life, Death and Immortality: the Daoist
Religion in Singapore and the Bahá’í Faith. The Singapore Bahá’í
Studies Review, 2, 1, 67-90. 1997
Chew, Phyllis Ghim-Lian. Brothers and sisters: Buddhism in the Family
of Chinese Religion. The Singapore Bahá’í Studies Review, 5,1,
2000. 1-32.
Compilation of Compilations. The two volumes prepared by the
Universal House of Justice, 1963-1990. Vols. 1 & 2. Australia:
Bahá’í Publications Australia, 1991.
Drewek, Paula. “Feminine Forms of the Divine in Bahá’í Scriptures.”
The Journal of Bahá’í Studies 5.1 (1992): 13–23.
Edward, Christopher R. W and Jan A. D. Bouchier. Eds. Davidson’s
Principles and Practice of Medicine. 16th edition, Hong Kong:
ELBS Books, 1992.
Forke, Alfred. The World Conception of the Chinese. New York:
Arno Press, 1975. (First printed 1925.)
Fung, Yu-Lan. Chuang Tzu. A New Selected Translation with an
exposition of the Philosophy of Kuo Hsiang. Shanghai: The
Commercial Press, 1933.
Giles, H. A. Chuang Tzu: Daoist Philosopher and Chinese Mystic.
London: Unwin Paperbacks, 1980. (First published 1889)

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith

Girardot, N. J. Myth and Meaning in Early Daoism. The Theme of
Chaos. Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1983.
Hawking, Stephen. H. A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to
Black Holes. New York: Bantam Books, 1988.
Legge, J. The Chinese Classics. 5 vols. Hong Kong: Hong Kong
University Press, 1960.
Magill, F. N., ed. Masterpieces of World Philosophy in Summary
Form. New York: Harper Row and Publishers.
Maurer, H. Dao. The Way of the Ways. England: Wildwood House,
1986.
Nakhjavani, Bahiyyih. Response. Oxford: George Ronald, Publishers,
1981.
Needham, Joseph. The Grand Titration, Science and Society in East
and West. London: George Allen and Unwin, 1969.
Ronan, C. A., and J. Needham. The Shorter Science and Civilization
in China. An Abridgement of Joseph Needham’s Original Texts.
Vol. 1. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1978.
Rosemont, Henry, Jr. “Early Chinese Cosmology.” Journal of the
American Academy of Religious Studies, L, 2.
Ross, John. The Origin of the Chinese. Malaysia: Pelanduk
Publications, 1990. (First published 1916.)
Toynbee, A. A Study of History. London: Oxford University Press,
1934.
Wadlow, Rene. Futures Bulletin, 26, 3, December, 2000. (A bulletin
of the World Futures Studies Federation).
Wang, Tze-ping. “Ta Tung or Universalism.” Star of the West 24,
1934 (Translated by Y. S. Tsao)
Watson, Burton. Selection from a Sung Dynasty Poet: Su Tung-p’o.
New York: Columbia University Press, 1965.
Wilhelm. R. The Yì Jíng or the Book of Changes. Trans. Cary F.
Baynes. 3d ed. London: Routledge and Kegan Paul.
Wilhelm, R. Change: 8 Lectures on the Yì Jíng. London: Routledge
and Kegan Paul, 1975.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

NOTES
1 This paper was presented at the Irfan Colloquium at the Centre for Bahai
Studies, Acuto Italy, July 2012.
2 The oldest manuscript that has been found, although incomplete, dates
back to the Warring States period (circa 475–221 BC) (Balkin 2002).
3 Harmony of difference and sameness by Ts’an-t’ung chi, as translated by
Ch’an Master Shih-t’ou Hsi-ch’ien (石头希迁禅师) Retrieved on 10
October 2012 from http://www.sacred-texts.com/bud/zen/sandokai.htm
4 Fung, Chuang Tzu 50. See also Magill, Masterpieces of World Philosophy 187.
5 Within Chinese medicine texts the Wu Xing are also referred to as Wu Yun
(五运 wŭ yùn) or a combination of the two characters (Wu Xing-Yun)
(五行) these emphasize the correspondence of five elements to five
‘seasons’ (four seasons plus one). Another tradition refers to the wu xing
as wu de 五德, the Five Virtues (:五德始终说 五德終始說).
6 This contrasts with the literal interpretations of the Bible that the earth is
only around 6,000 years old. Bahá’u’lláh states: “The learned men, that
have fixed at several thousand years the life of this earth, have failed,
throughout the long period of their observation, to consider either the
number or the age of the other planets” (Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 163).
7. See also Girardot, Myth and Meaning, and the Huai-nan Tzu (淮南子180–
122 BCE).
8 See Chew, Brothers and Sisters.
9 This quotation is taken from the book 《文心雕龙·∙宗经》. 文心雕龙
(Wenxindiaolong) is a great book on literary critique theories. 宗经
(Zongjing) is one volume of it talking about ideas of ancient saints
(confucius and others).
10 There was a persecution in 845 AD where more than 4,600 monasteries and
40,000 smaller ones were destroyed. The issues were basically political and
economic e.g. not too many able-bodied men had joined monasteries and
thus became unavailable for agricultural production and army or labour
conscription, or too much land belonged to Buddhist church and thus
became tax exempt. Significantly, confiscated images of bronze were
made into currency, those of iron into agricultural implements, those of
gold and silver turned to the Treasury and images of wood, clay and stone
left untouched. Hence, we may argue that the persecution was not quite
anti-religious. See Chew, Brothers and Sisters, p. 17.
11 The other four are the Indian civilization of Asia the Islamic civilization,
the Greek Orthodox in Greece, Russia, etc. and Western Christianity in
Western Europe and America. See Toynbee, A Study of History.

Yinyang Cosmology and the Bahá’í Faith


12 Plato’s Republic is for example, a model for many. A utopian island also
occurs in the Sacred History of Eluthemerus (c 300 BC).
13 See Chew, Chinese Religion, Chapter 7.
14 See Rosemont, Explorations. Also the Yì Jíng.
15 The New Text School is the Han Dynasty form of Confucianism which
were heavily influenced by the five phases and yínyáng theory.
16 See Drewek, “Feminine Forms of the Divine” 18.
17 Similarly, while Confucius did not have much to say directly about women-
men relationships, it must be remembered that he placed great emphasis on
being humane and contributed to basic human rights with his depiction of
the superior person, the development of the original concept of jen,
(“every man can cultivate his nature into loving man and embracing all
men with benevolence”), his belief in the original goodness of human
beings, his teachings on love and the golden rule. Women are included in
the Chinese concept of jen or “person.”
18 In general, foods which grow or live in ponds, lakes, streams, rivers, seas
and oceans are colder or more cooling than those which grow on land.
Watercress, seaweeds, fish and all kinds of seafood, e.g. have cold or
cooling natures, while carrots, leeks, eggs, chicken and red meats have
warm or hot natures. The natures of all foods can be changed by the way
they are cooked. If watercress is stir-fried for example, it is less cooling
than when it is boiled in a soup. And when chicken is steamed it is less
“heating” than when it is grilled.
19 See Rene Wadlow, “Are we on the threshold of a New Age?” Light Voices,
4, 2, 1999, 7-8. In addition, there is a common Chinese saying, which may
probably be derived from Lao-tzu “returning is the motion of Dao” and
“to be far is to return.” The idea is that if anything develops certain
extreme qualities, those qualities invariably change into their opposites.

Collective Security
An Indispensable Requisite for a Lasting Peace
Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing
Introduction
Collective security is a term that can mean different things to
different people. For the purposes of this article, the term
encompasses the idea of an international agreement whose sole
purpose is to ensure the peace and security of all people. This
agreement is to be reached by a core group of world leaders who
are, in Abdu’l-Bahá’s words, “high-minded” and “distinguished,”
“shining exemplars of devotion and determination,” who arise
“with firm resolve and clear vision,” with the sole motive and
purpose of acting for “the good and happiness of all mankind”
and for the establishment of “Universal Peace” [SDC 64]. Once
agreement is reached, the core group will seek to have it ratified
by all nations resulting in an International covenant in which all
countries universally participate. A core provision of this
Covenant is that if a nation violates any of its terms thereby
disturbing the peace, all the other nations will arise as one, to
bring it to heel. This united response is to be carried out
applying pre-determined criteria and rules arrived at and
implemented collectively.
The need for this this kind of an International Covenant that
is collectively enforceable is evident when we consider the state
of the world today in which nations often engage in egregious
acts that break the peace and do so with impunity. We need
only consider the examples of nations that have illicit nuclear
weapons programs in direct contravention of international
laws, such as North Korea and Iran, or nations that engage in
gross human rights abuses of their populations like Sudan and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Syria, or nations that openly sponsor terrorism, like Iran. The
fact that these examples are allowed to continue year after year
demonstrates the bankruptcy of the international security
system and the reality that the international community has
abdicated responsibility to do what is necessary to preserve
peace in this world for too long. Unfortunately, it is the
common people who have suffered as a result. Their suffering
has been widespread and prolonged. It is high time for all
nations to act in unity to create a system of collective security
that is both strong and flexible to meet the needs of our time.
Key Elements of a Viable System of Collective
Security
The most effective system of collective security is one that is
able to deter nations from breaching the peace and also to
effectively and swiftly restore the peace in those few instances
in which it is breached.
What We Need to Minimize the Risk of a Breach of
International Peace And Security
In order to forestall and prevent conflict and maintain the
peace, several requirements should be met. They are as follows:
Limit the Amount and Type of Arms Every Nation
Can Have
To minimize the risk that any nation will be tempted to
breach the peace, the amount [SDC 64] and type of arms each
nation may possess must be restricted. First, all nations must
agree, as matter of principle, to limit the amount of arms each
of them can have to that which they need to maintain internal
order and security within their borders [GWB CXVII, p. 249]. This
agreement must be embodied within the International
Covenant. Thereafter an International Commission should be
appointed to study the circumstances of each country and
determine what that amount should reasonably be for each
country. The Commission should undertake an investigation to
determine the amount of arms each nation actually possesses. A

Collective Security

plan should then be made for the destruction of that quantity of
arms that exceeds the amount deemed sufficient to maintain
internal order. Lastly, the process of arms’ destruction must be
supervised by an internationally appointed body so as to ensure
transparency and avoid arousing suspicion.
For this scheme to work, such agreement to limit the
possession of arms must apply to all countries without
exception. No country can be allowed to rely on a security
exclusion to opt out nor can any country be allowed to
withdraw from the agreement. Should a country be tempted to
do either, its action should be regarding as a threat to the peace
triggering collective enforcement action, a topic that is
discussed further on in this article.
Second, the international covenant must include a provision
to eliminate all nuclear weapons. There is no good reason for
any nation to possess nuclear weapons. Using them is
unthinkable and it is both unfair and ultimately impossible, as
humanity has discovered the hard way, to confine them to a few
countries. As long as even one nation has nuclear weapons,
others will want them for a host of reasons including at best the
insecurity they engender or at worst a desire to wield more
power and influence in the world. In addition to the elimination
of existing arsenals of nuclear weapons, all nations must agree
to stop developing and producing new weapons of mass
destruction as well as fissile material such as highly enriched
uranium and separated plutonium that can be used to produce
such weapons. Finally, countries must agree to put all facilities
and nuclear material needed for the creation of nuclear energy
under the management and control of a supranational body that
will ensure that they are used solely for the legitimate end of
making electricity to meet the energy demands of the planet. By
doing this, the risks of a nation secretly diverting an otherwise
legitimate energy-producing nuclear program for military
purposes will be eliminated.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Strengthen the International Court to Make it More
Effective and Trusted
Nations will inevitably have disputes, which must be
resolved. Our goal should be to ensure that they are resolved
peacefully, without resort to force and without degenerating
into destabilizing conflicts. In order for this to happen, nations
must be required to take their disputes to the International
Court Of Justice (also known as the “World Court”). In other
words, the World Court must be granted compulsory
jurisdiction over all disputes between countries to which all
nations must submit without exceptions and opt-outs. Moreover,
the judgments of the World Court must be binding upon the
parties to any conflict or dispute and capable of enforcement
by an international force. Without this, nations may choose to
ignore the World Court’s verdicts with impunity, thereby
undermining its credibility and increasing the chances of conflict.
In order for nations to agree to the strengthening of the
World Court in this way, the Court must command both the
respect and trust of all nations. This will only happen if it is
viewed as adequately representing all nations and its judges are
seen to be acting fairly and in the collective interest of the
community of nations. These judges must be unbiased and
beyond moral reproach. The key to creating this type of
confidence lies in the manner in which judges are elected to the
World Court. As an initial matter, it is important that they be
elected rather than appointed. The question then arises as to
how the international community might conduct an election
that ensures broad representation. The author of this article
believes that Bahá’í scholars can offer some useful ideas and
principles to the international community based on an
examination of the method Abdu’l-Bahá has proposed for the
eventual election of the “Supreme Tribunal.” Abdu’l-Bahá has
proposed a two-stage election of judges: the first step requires
the parliament of each country to elect two or three national
representative in direct proportion to the size of its population.
The election of these representatives is to be confirmed by the
legislature, the executive branch and head of state of each
country. Abdu’l-Bahá then goes on to suggest a second step in
which the members of the “Supreme Tribunal” are to be elected

Collective Security

from among these representatives, without specifying who the
electorate will be at this second stage [SWAB 306-307]. Although
we do not know when this “Supreme Tribunal” as envisioned by
Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá will come into being, there is no
reason why we cannot use Abdu’l-Bahá’s proposed method for
electing its members as a blueprint from which we can derive
ideas and principles to share with the international community
which in turn can use them as it sees fit in order to bolster the
credibility and perceived trustworthiness of the World Court in
the eyes of the peoples of the world by making it increasingly
representative of all peoples and governments.
Once elected, the judges of the World Court must act
independently and free of political pressure or other. Their
appointments should be for a fixed term and they should be
banned from seeking future governmental appointments.
In the Event of a Breach of the Peace, What Is
Needed to Restore Peace Quickly and Effectively
Regardless of how strong and effective a well-crafted a
system of collective security is, it is unlikely to forestall all
conflict. There will probably be instances — hopefully rare — in
which a country will be tempted to act in ways that disrupt
international or regional peace. In those instances an effective
collective security system must be capable of swiftly bringing
the country to heel and restoring the peace for which it needs a
strong enforcement mechanism ideally in the form of a standing
international force.
Establish an International Standing Force
In the event that a nation violates one of the provisions of
the Covenant, thereby breaching the peace, or engages in
behavior that threatens peace such as sponsoring terrorist
groups, engaging in gross and widespread human rights abuses
or illegally producing and acquiring nuclear weapons, the
Security Council must have at its immediate disposal troops and
equipment ready to deploy rapidly and effectively to maintain
or restore the peace. Without such enforcement capability, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Covenant is a dead letter and the Security Council loses its
authority, effectiveness and credibility. Recent history is replete
with examples of an ineffectual and weak Security Council. A
few of these were mentioned above including the genocide in
Darfur, illegal nuclear weapons programs in North Korea and
Iran, and large-scale massacres and human rights abuses in Syria.
Many people and nations oppose the creation of an
international standing force because they fear it may run amok
and become a menace in the hands of a totalitarian world
government. In order to convince these skeptics that an
international standing force is vital to humanity’s well-being
and redounds to the best interests of all nations, they must first
be persuaded to embrace three foundational principles
articulated in the Writings.
The first principle is that force still has a role to play in
international relations with the caveats that it be used
collectively, in accordance with clear and pre-determined
guidelines and by collective institutions that truly represent all
the peoples of the world. In addition such force is to be used
solely in the service of justice. Abdu’l-Bahá speaks to this point
when He says that sometimes war is a “powerful basis of peace”
and “ruin the very means of reconstruction” [SDC 70]. He goes
on to say that if war is waged for a righteous purpose then “this
apparent tyranny [is] the very substance of justice and this
warfare the cornerstone of peace” [SDC 71].
An analogy that comes to mind in conveying the necessity for
the occasional collective use of force is that of chemotherapy —
a remedy consisting of harsh chemicals — that is nevertheless
used to rid the body of cancer. Although many healthy cells are
destroyed along with the cancerous ones, the alternative
strategy of doing nothing is not a viable one. The sacrifice of
some healthy cells is necessary for the greater goal of saving the
patient. If we focus on ensuring that all cells stay intact, we are
likely to lose the patient altogether.
The second principle is that national sovereignty must be
curtailed. This principle [WOB 40] was implicitly recognized in
the context of the use of force when the UN Charter was
crafted. The framers recognized there would be instances where

Collective Security

the use of force was necessary. They therefore made provision
for nations to enter into agreements with the Security Council
to contribute armed forces, assistance and facilities to the
Council for use in the event that the peace was threatened or
broken.1 Unfortunately, because of the unwillingness of nations
to forego their hold on absolute sovereignty especially in the
area of military power and more particularly in relation to the
composition, maintenance and location of forces, the relevant
provisions of the Charter were never implemented, thereby
severely weakening the effectiveness and authority of the
Security Council from its birth.
The third principle is that the good of the part can best be
reached by assuring the good of the whole [WOB 198]. In other
words, a nation can effectively guarantee its well-being, if it
assures the good of the community of nations as a whole. This
means that when there is a threat to the peace or a breach
thereof, the response must be a collective one, undertaken by
collective institutions such as a revamped Security Council and
a standing force that represent all the nations. Moreover, the
response must be in accordance with rules that have been
determined collectively in advance.
Once nations embrace these principles, they will more readily
accept the need for a standing force that is independent of the
whim of any one nation or group of nations and free of the
bane of expediency, as it unabashedly enforces the International
Covenant and upholds international law.
Determine the Criteria and Conditions for Use of a
Standing Force
In addition to creating an international standing force, it is
imperative that the criteria by which it can act to enforce the
peace be pre-determined by all nations collectively. Currently,
under the terms of the UN Charter, the Security Council may
use force in order to restore or maintain peace where there is a
threat to that peace, a breach of the peace or an act of
aggression.2 However, these terms are not defined. This is a flaw
that needs to be remedied. The definition should identify the
triggering circumstances under which a standing force can act

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
and should include the following: gross human rights abuses
such as genocide, the illicit production, acquisition or sale of
nuclear capabilities in contravention of international laws, state
sponsorship of terrorism, a build-up of arms, territorial
aggression, failure to implement a judgment of the World
Court (especially where this is likely to give rise to conflict),
and breach of any provisions of the International Covenant.3
Gradual Steps Towards The Creation of A Standing
Force
As mentioned above, states are likely to be resistant to the
establishment of an international standing force. Therefore,
they might find it more palatable if this is done in incremental
steps. The first step proposed here would involve creating
regional security organizations each with their own standing
force. In this first stage all these regional standing forces would
coordinate their activities as part of a loose network
encompassing the planet. It will be easier for a nation to
embrace this step, as experience has demonstrated that it is
easier for nations to cede sovereignty over national security to a
regional organization than to an international one.4 This is so
for a number of reasons including the fact that language and
culture are often shared in a region creating more trust and
understanding. Also, a decentralized regional organization tends
not to raise the same feared specter as a distant centralized
authority making decisions from afar without an adequate
understanding of the facts on the ground and the potentially
adverse ramifications of its decisions. Moreover, there is a
stronger incentive for a nation to collaborate in preserving
regional security because it is more keenly and directly impacted
by things that go awry in its backyard and it is therefore in its
self-interest to engage in efforts to keep its region secure.
Once this loosely integrated network of regional security
organizations and attendant standing forces is established and
functioning for some time, the second step can be taken. This
step requires these regional security organizations to formalize
their relationship with the Security Council and make their
forces available for its use. This step has the added benefit that
the Security Council, with its finger on the security pulse of the

Collective Security

planet, can allocate primary responsibility for the security of
each region to the relevant regional security organization. The
operating principle would be that a threat to any one nation is
to be viewed as a threat to all in the region. However, before
using regional force in any given situation, the regional security
organization would first need to seek the approval of the
Security Council, as is currently required under the terms of the
UN Charter5 except in a dire emergency in which it could be
allowed to act first and seek ratification later. Finally, an
additional benefit in having the Security Council coordinate
security activities world-wide, is that it can specify a time frame
within which the regional force must solve the regional problem.
Then, in the event that the regional force is unable to meet the
deadline, the Security Council can call upon other regional forces
to lend their assistance. This kind of incremental solidarity in
solving problems will slowly create trust and teach regions of
the world to work together for the common cause of peace.
Eventually, the world would be ready for the third and final
step which would require consolidating and integrating the
various regional forces so that they function as permanent units
of a truly independent standing army each stationed in their
regional locations. Such an arrangement makes operational
sense in that the forces are physically close to conflicts that may
arise in their region and can therefore act more swiftly. It is also
makes more fiscal sense as it eliminates the costs of
transporting them over vast distances and setting up new
regional quarters every time there is a new conflict. At this
stage, these units will operate solely at the behest of the Security
Council and completely independently of the individual nations
or regional groups of nations. They will, however, engage in
regular
joint
training
exercises,
and
have
integrated
communications systems, compatible equipment and a shared
language so that they can work together in unity in a seamless
and effective fashion if needed.6
The Benefits of an International Standing Force
The creation of an international standing force will yield
many benefits. Among them is deterrence: nations are likely to
consider the consequences of collective action against them

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
before they flout international laws with impunity. Another
benefit is that the authority of international laws and
institutions will be upheld, not just in word, but also in
practice. In addition, having pre-agreed rules that determine
when the standing force can be used means that international
agencies like the Security Council, tasked with preserving the
peace of the planet can act quickly, decisively and effectively
without vacillating and nip a problem in the bud without
allowing it to fester and mushroom into a full-blown war. There
is also the added bonus that no one nation’s military is
overstretched nor does it have to bear an unfair and
disproportionate burden either financially or in human
resources. Last, but not least, such a collective system will
ensure that the rules are applied equally across the board to all
violators of the peace.
Conclusion
The world is in desperate need of an effective system of
collective security that will deter nations from entering into
conflicts and restore the peace in the rare event that it is
breached. The creation of such a system is not only possible but
inevitable. It requires that a handful of enlightened and
visionary leaders motivated solely by a desire for peace, enter
into an agreement to create such a system. To be effective, this
collective security system must at the very least, limit the
amount of arms each nation can have, eliminate all nuclear
weapons, strengthen the World Court and create an
incrementally integrated international standing force.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Charter of the United Nations, www.un.org/aboutun/charter.
Ma’ani Ewing, Sovaida. Collective Security Within Reach. Oxford,
UK: George Ronald, 2008.

Collective Security


NOTES
1 UN Charter, Articles 43-46.
2 UN Charter, Article 42.
3 Sovaida Ma’ani Ewing, Collective Security Within Reach, pp. 121-122.
4 The African Standby Force and the European Rapid Reaction Force are
good examples.
5 UN Charter, Chapter VIII.
6 For a more detailed analysis, see Ewing, Collective Security, pp. 159-168.

Celestial Fire
Bahá’u’lláh as the Messianic Theophany of the
Divine Fire (átar, á∂ar, átash) in
Zoroastrianism1
Farshid Kazemi
Open your inner eye, that ye may behold the celestial
Fire (‘átash-i yazdan).2
— Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity, 68
Introduction
The French Islamo-Iranologist and philosopher Henry Corbin
(d. 1978), in his four-volume magnum opus En Islam Iranian (In
Iranian Islam) whilst discussing the Zoroastrian motif of the
divine Fire in the works of the Persian philosopher Shihab al-
Din al-Suhrawardi (d. 1191), called al-Maqtul (the Slain) and the
Shaykh al-Ishráq (the Master of Illumination), wrote:
Just as each species is the theurgy and image of a Light
among the victorial Lights, a Light from which they
emanate and which governs them, so also Fire, the
luminous Fire (nar dhat al-nur), not the infernal Fire, is
the theurgy of the Archangel Ordibehest (one of the
seven amahraspands, Avestan Arta-Vahishta). Move-
ment and heat … are the manifestational form (mazhar)
of the Light: they have no other cause than the Light.
However, they reach their highest degree in the Fire.3

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
In the last portion of this terse passage, Corbin observes that it
is “movement and heat,” that “are the manifestational forms of
Light,” and that “they have no other cause then the Light,” but
that “they reach their highest degree in the Fire.” This insight of
Corbin provides an ideal framework for our discussion of the
motif of the Mazdean celestial Fire (and other Zoroastrian
motifs) in the Bahá’í scriptural corpus, as it precisely maps the
complex coordinates of the various components of this topos,
namely the dialectic of movement and heat, light and fire.
One of the foundational philosophical premises at the heart
of Bahá’í ontology is that the structure of being and existence
(wujud) is one of process and becoming rather then static and
fixed.4 Thus ‘being’ as such is ‘becoming’, and is manifested in
history in a dialectical relationship, of existence and essence,
matter and form. This foundational vision of a dynamic and
dialectical ontological process,5 in the writings of the Iranian
prophet Mirzá Husayn-`Alí Núrí, Bahá’u’lláh (d. 1892) — the
founder of the Bahá’í Faith — is often typified by the symbolism
of Fire (New Persian atash), which via its attribute/quality ‘heat’
(hararat), is the cause of motion or movement (harakat) and
hence the very foundation of the world of existence. Among the
various symbolic imaginaries, Fire, due to its dynamic nature, is
one of the symbols of the Primal Will (mashiyyat awaliyya) in
the Bahá’í writings, the active and dynamic agent (fa’il) through
which all things/beings come into existence in a perpetual or
processual creation.6 Indeed, the greatest mytho-symbol at the
heart of Bahá’í metaphysics par excellence is none other then
this Primal Will — which is the pre-existential reality of the
prophets, termed Manifestation(s) of God (mazhar iláhí) in
Bahá’í lexicon, (also variously called in the texts as the
Command (amr) or Word of God (kalimat allah, Greek logos) —
who is at once both the perpetual motive force behind the
genesis of the cosmos (cosmogony) and the unfoldment of
sacred history or hierohistory (termed in Bahá’í lexicon as
progressive revelation) as such.7
In many of his significant tablets to Zoroastrians, Bahá’u’lláh
makes a startling and profound eschatological enunciation,
namely that he is the messianic theophany of the divine Fire
(atash) foretold in the Mazdean scriptures.8 This Fire which is at

Celestial Fire

once the symbol and theurgy of Truth (asha/arta) in
Zoroastrianism,
is
according
to
Bahá’u’lláh,
manifested
(mazhar) in his person; thus effectively enunciating that he is the
messianic theophany or the locus of the manifestation (mazhar)
of the primordial divine Fire in Mazdeanism. This enunciation,
however profound, forms only the first layer of his spiritual and
divine hermeneutics (ta’wil iláhí) (see below), as Bahá’u’lláh in
one hermeneutical turn deploys both a cosmogonic and
messianico-eschatological register to the Mazdean Fire, by
equating the Primal Will (mashiyyat awaliyya) with the celestial
Fire in Zoroastrianism. In other words, the Primal Will whose
symbol is this celestial Fire in Zoroastrianism has appeared in
the ‘person’ of Bahá’u’lláh.
In Zoroastrianism, this divine Fire (átar) is personified as a
primordial being or divinity in the oldest portion of the Avesta
(Zoroastrian scriptures), namely the Gáthás. It is in the Avesta
that this Fire is endowed with the profoundly theophanic
epithet entitled, “the Son of Ahura Mazda,” which is at once co-
extensive with the divine Truth (asha) (there is one instance in
which they are co-terminus) and forms with it a syzygy, a twin,
or dualitude. This Fire is also intimately connected to another
profoundly sublime concept in Mazdaism, namely to the
luminous light of Khvarnah (literally ‘Glory’), the Light of Glory
or Divine Glory. It is precisely this Khvarnah, as we shall see,
which is linked to the very name of Baha’(-Allah), apropos his
claim to be the theophanic locus or manifestation (mazhar) of
the Mazdean Fire, and the very embodiment of the farr iláhí or
the “Divine Glory.” This is precisely the same Khvarnah that
shone resplendent in the prophet Zarathustra himself, and it is
the Araeo Glorea of the Mazdean messianic figure par
excellence, the savior called in the texts — Saoshyant (He who
will bring benefit), who is at times referred to as, “He who hath
the appearance of the Sun.” It is the Saoshyant, possessed of the
fiery Khvarnah, who will usher in the renovation, the
transformation and transfiguration of the world at the end of
time, “the making brilliant of Creation” or farshokart / farshigard
(Avestan frasho-kereti, Pahlavi frashegird). Thus according to
Zoroastrian apocalyptic imaginary, it is precisely the divine Fire
(atar) and Truth (asha) that shall be ‘embodied’ or “made flesh”
as it were, in a ‘person’ at ‘the end of time’, and who shall judge

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
the world by means of his luminous and spiritual radiance,
symbolized at once as the Fire and the Khvarnah, and shall be
victorious (Vahram/Bahram) over the forces of darkness or the
Lie (druj), through the forces of light or the Truth (asha).
While Bahá’í scholarly literature on the Zoroastrian
apocalyptic imaginary have largely focused on Bahá’u’lláh as the
appearance of the messianic figure called Shah Bahram
Varjivand in some Pahlavi texts,9 yet the apocalyptic
expectation of the coming of the luminous and divine Fire (atar)
in the Gáthás and later Zoroastrian sources (such as the Pahlavi
texts), and their relation to Bahá’u’lláh’s messianic claims have
effectively gone unnoticed and remain a virtual terra incognita
(See Below).10 Indeed, in light of the tremendous importance
that this theme has upon the study of Bahá’u’lláh’s messianic
self-conception and its relation to Zoroastrian apocalyptic
imaginary, it is surprising that no studies have as yet appeared in
elaborating the significance of this motif (and other
constellation of motifs) and its deployment in Bahá’u’lláh’s
oeuvre.11 In this study, I will rely on a number of translated and
previously untranslated Persianate tablets of Bahá’u’lláh to
Zoroastrians,
where
he
deploys
a
mystico-messianic
hermeneutics (ta’wil) of the Zoroastrian scriptures, in which he
proclaims at once to be the cosmogonic primal Fire (who is the
cause of creation), and the messianic epiphany of the Mazdean
apocalyptic or eschatological Fire (atar) in person. I will
undertake my analysis in light of some of the relevant material
from the Gáthás, the Younger Avesta, and later Zoroastrian
scriptural corpora, such as the Pahlavi texts, that point to this
eschatological expectation and cosmogonic function of the
Zoroastrian divine Fire.
Bahá’u’lláh as the Theophany of the Divine
Fire (átar) in Zoroastrianism
Last night, from the cypress branch, the nightingale
sang, in Pahlavi notes, the lesson of spiritual stations.12
— Hafiz (d. 1389/90)

Celestial Fire

In a collection of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá to Zoroastrians called Yárán-i Pársí (Zoroastrian or Persian
Friends), we find a few of the many tablets Bahá’u’lláh wrote to
Zoroastrians and believers of Zoroastrian heritage, throughout
his ministry. Such tablets as the tablet to the Zoroastrian
notable Mánakjí Sa˙ib (Lawh-i-Mánakjí Sa˙ib) and the Tablet
of the Seven Questions (Lawh-i-Haft Pursish),13 — which were
composed mostly in the so-called “pure Persian” or pársí-ye
sáreh — are perhaps among the outstanding examples of the
Persianate tablets of Bahá’u’lláh.14 Indeed, there is an evident
intertextuality between these works of Bahá’u’lláh and
Zoroastrian
sacred
texts,
though
they
are
more
phenomenological in scope, rather than citations and references
to specific scriptural texts. It is within the larger cycle of these
Zoroastrian tablets, that we often encounter Bahá’u’lláh
alluding to himself with characteristic Zoroastrian symbols and
motifs, such as the celestial or heavenly Fire (atash, nar), Light
(roshanaee, nur), Radiance (partow) and Solar imagery
(khorsheed, aftab, shams), among other symbols of divine
luminosity, illumination, and radiance, so often encountered in
Zoroastrian and Manichean (the so-called ‘Religion of Light’)
texts. Indeed, it is at the beginnings of many of these tablets
that there is an extended doxology or doxophany, in which the
reality of the Word of God (kalimat allah), or the Primal Will of
God (mashiyyat awaliyya) — the pre-existent reality of the
Manifestation — is alluded to symbolically as the Primal Light,
the Primal Fire, the pre-eternal Sun.
In many of these Zoroastrian tablets, Bahá’u’lláh explicitly
identifies himself with the Mazdean sacred Fire and its
apocalyptic or messianic advent. Bahá’u’lláh states “open your
inner eye, that ye may behold the celestial Fire (‘átash-i yazdan,
literally the ‘Fire of God’) [i.e., himself].”15 Indicating that
organs of spiritual apperception are required, rather than sense
perception, to behold this celestial Fire hypostasized and
personified as his-self. In another emblematic passage
Bahá’u’lláh writes:
Today the Sun of the Word of God (goftar-i yazdan) is
resplendent above the horizon of Utterance (bayan) and
with an emanation (tajallí) from its divine emanations,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
the heart of the people of the world are made refulgent
and luminous. The Fire which imparteth Love (‘átash-i
mohabat afrooz), is today manifest and resplendent in
the world [i.e., himself].16
Here Bahá’u’lláh deploys Solar symbolism whilst alluding to the
pre-existential Word of God (goftar-i yazdan), evoking the
centrality of the Sun and its imagery in Zoroastrian as well as
Manichean literary corpora, and states that the Fire (atash) from
which love emanates or which is the source of love, is today
made manifest and shines resplendent in the world through his
being. In another hermeneutical turn, Bahá’u’lláh whilst
deploying the motifs of light and darkness, emblematic of
Zoroastrianism, refers to himself as the messianic appearance of
the Mazdean Light. In Lawh-i-Mánakjí Sa˙ib he writes, “At a
time when darkness had encompassed the world, the ocean of
divine favor surged and His Light was made manifest, that the
doings of men might be laid bare. This, verily, is that Light
which hath been foretold in the heavenly scriptures [i.e.,
Zoroastrian scriptures].”17 Indeed, here Bahá’u’lláh by referring
to himself as the Light that became manifest whilst darkness
reigned, at once evokes Zoroastrian symbolisms of light and
darkness, which simultaneously recalls the imagery of the
Johannian Logos, “In him [λόγος, logos] was life and the life was
the light [φως, phos] of men. The light shines in the darkness,
and the darkness has not overcome it” (John 1: 4-6, 9-10). The
Logos of John itself has been influenced by the logos doctrine
of Philo and Heraclitus, whose conception of Logos as Fire has
clear Zoroastrian influences. (For further relations of the
relation of the logos to fire and light, see below.)
Perhaps one of the most significant hermeneutics of Mazdean
Fire found in the Bahá’í textual corpus that must be mentioned
here, and which as we shall see profoundly corresponds to one
of the symbolic registers of Fire in the Zoroastrian scriptures
(see below), is that the Holy Spirit (ruh al-quds), also termed the
Most Great Spirit (ruh al-’azam), is identified with the
Zoroastrian Sacred Fire. What is of profound interest for our
theme is that in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh the visionary logic
and symbolic imagery of the Holy Spirit, is personified in a
feminine figure called, the “Maid of Heaven” (huriyya or

Celestial Fire

huriyyat al-firdows). It is this heavenly Maiden, symbolized at
once with the Mazdean Fire, who appeared to Bahá’u’lláh in an
oneiric encounter whilst in prison, in the so-called Black Pit
(siyah chal), which according to Bahá’í liturgical calendar, is the
moment of the birth of his divine revelation and mission.
Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith (wali amrullah)
writes, “the “Most Great Spirit,” as designated by Himself
[Bahá’u’lláh], and symbolized in the Zoroastrian, the Mosaic,
the Christian, and Muhammadan Dispensations by the Sacred
Fire, the Burning Bush, the Dove and the Angel Gabriel
respectively, descended upon, and revealed itself, personated by
a “Maiden,” to the agonized soul of Bahá’u’lláh (emphasis
added)” [GPB 238-239]. In another similar passage Shoghi Effendi
notes that the Most Great Spirit (ruh al-’azam) is, “that same
Spirit which, in the Zoroastrian, the Mosaic, the Christian, and
Muhammadan Dispensations had been symbolized by the
‘Sacred Fire’, the ‘Burning Bush, the ‘Dove’, and the ‘Angel
Gabriel’” (emphasis added) [CF 100]. It is precisely this sacred
fire, which in Zoroastrian-ism is the Holy Spirit, and is
personified in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh as a Maiden, a
luminous being of light, the heavenly ‘Twin’ or alter ego of
Bahá’u’lláh. Thus the Mazdean Fire and the Maid of Heaven are
co-terminous and refer to the same phenomenon, or more
precisely noumenon, in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, namely to
the Holy Spirit (ruh al-quds), and the Most Great Spirit (ruh al-
’azam). Indeed, it is this “Sacred Fire,” which in Zoroastrianism
is identified as the Holy Spirit, and who is personified in the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh as a Maiden, and typified by the
feminine figure of Daena in Mazdaism, and as the Maiden of
Light in Manichaeism (see below).18
Perhaps an early precedent to Bahá’u’lláh’s self-identification
with the Zoroastrian sacred Fire may be found in Manichaeism,
the religion of the Iranian Gnostic-prophet Mani (d. 277), the
so-called “Apostle of Light.”19 Indeed, there is a profound
resemblance and correspondence between Bahá’u’lláh’s own
multi-messianic claims and Mani’s prophetic claims:
Wisdom and deeds have always from time to time been
brought to mankind by the messengers of God. So in
one age they have been brought by the messenger called

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Buddha to India, in another by Zardusht [Zarathustra]
to Persia, in another by Jesus to the West. Thereupon
this revelation has come down and this prophecy has
appeared in the form of myself, Mani, the envoy of the
true God in the Land of Babylon.20
In the religious literature of Manicheaism, which was
composed in several languages, including Middle Persian, we
find an interesting identification of the Living Self/Soul
(Middle Persian griv zindag) to the Zoroastrian sacred Fire. In a
Manichean text called the Recitation of the Living Self (Gwysn
‘yg Gryw Zyndg), the Living Self states:
I am the fire that Zarathustra kindled
And he bade the righteous to kindle.
From the seven consecrated, sweet smelling fires
Bring to me, the Fire, purified fuel.21
Concerning this hymn Klimkeit states that, “it interprets the
sacred water and sacred fire of the Zoroastrian cult in a Gnostic
sense.”22 Here the Living Self identifies itself with the
Zoroastrian fire, and proclaims to be the appearance of the
sacred Fire consecrated by Zarathustra. In one of the Hymns to
the Living Soul, Mani himself is identified with the Living
Soul/Self, “Praise to you, Living Soul, holy, holy, Lord Mar
Mani!”23 Indeed, Mani is often given a lofty and theophanic
status in the Manichean writings. In the Bema hymns, Mani is
addressed as the (beautiful) “form that was created by the
Word” (of the Father of Light)… as the divine Word that has
assumed visible, incarnate form.”24 This same Living Soul/Self
in Manichean myth is also referred to in various ways as the
Cross of Light, the Five Elements or Limbs, the Soul, the Youth,
and the Suffering Jesus (Jesus Pitiblis). There are three figures
of Jesus in the Manichaen writings, they are, Jesus the
Splendour, the Suffering Jesus (Jesus Pitiblis), and Jesus the
Messiah, or the prophet of history. The relationship of the three
figures of Jesus in Manichean writings, are not always clear, and
at times, they are interchangeable with each other. Mary Boyce
notes that, “the three concepts of Jesus are not always kept

Celestial Fire

wholly distinct.”25 Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh in his vast corpus of
writings often refers to himself as the “Youth.” In the Arabic
Lawh Mallah al-Quds or Tablet of the Holy Mariner, in which
the Maiden figures prominently, Bahá’u’lláh refers to himself as
al-fata al-’iraqi or the “Iraqi Youth” (“the Arabian Youth,” in
Shoghi Effendi’s rendering), and in the Persian tablet of the
same name, this title is given its full force in terms of the
Persian character of the “Youth,” by the opening words of the
tablet, “He is the non-Arab, the Persian, the Iraqi” (huwwa al-
’ajami al-farsi al-’iraqi) (see below).26
In the Manichaen writings, the Maiden of Light, the
Suffering Jesus, the heavenly Twin, the Light/Great Nous, and
the divine Glory (farrah), namely the Zoroastrian Khvarnah, all
symbolize and designate the same reality, namely Mani’s angelic
Twin, his heavenly self or alter ego. In a Hymn of Praise to
Mani it is written:
We bend our knees in deep veneration, we worship and
praise the mighty God, the praised King and Lord of the
Worlds of Light, worthy of honor, according to whose
wish and will you (Mani), our exalted God, did come to
us.
We worship Jesus, the Lord, the Son of Greatness, who
has sent you, blessed one, to us. We worshipt the
exalted Maiden (of Light), the bright Twin, who was
your comrade and companion in every battle.
We worship your great Glory (farrah), our Father,
Apostle of Light, oh Mani, oh Lord!27
In this hymn the Maiden of Light, the Twin, and the divine
Glory (farrah) are identified with Mani, the “Apostle of Light.”
Indeed we encounter this Maiden of Light again and again, as
the heavenly Self or ‘Twin’ (syzygos) of Mani. In a Parthian
prayer to Mani, we read:
… Great Maitreya, noble Messenger of the gods,
interpreter of the religion, …Jesus — Maiden of Light,
Mar Mani, Jesus — Maiden of Light — Mar Mani, have
[mercy] upon me, oh merciful Bringer of Light!28

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The imagery of the “Maid of Heaven” (huriyya al-firdows)
the personification of the Holy Spirit in the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh is also often filled with images of light (nur),
splendor (munawar) and illumination (ishraq). Indeed, the
Maiden of Light, which is Mani’s heavenly Twin, and the
Mazdean Fire, are identical to the Maid of Heaven in
Bahá’u’lláh’s oeuvre and acts as a signifier for his heavenly Twin
or alter ego. Bahá’u’lláh recounts the moment of divine
revelation and the epiphany of the Holy Spirit, personified as a
“Maiden” in this manner:
While engulfed in tribulations I heard a most
wondrous, most sweet voice, calling above My head.
Turning My face, I beheld a Maiden — the embodiment
of the remembrance of [the name of] My Lord —
suspended in the air before Me. So rejoiced was she in
her very soul that her countenance shone with the
ornament of the good-pleasure of God, and her cheeks
glowed with the brightness of the All-Merciful. Betwixt
earth and heaven she was raising a call which captivated
the hearts and minds of men. She was imparting to both
my inward and outward being tidings which rejoiced my
soul, and the souls of God’s honored servants. Pointing
with her finger unto My head, she addressed all who are
in heaven and all who are on earth, saying “By God! This
is the Best-Beloved of the worlds, and yet ye
comprehend not, and the power of His sovereignty
within you, could ye but understand… [SLH 185]
Thus, it may be said that the Manichean Maiden of Light, and
the Mazdean celestial Fire, are therefore conceptually co-
extensive with the ‘Maid of Heaven’ in the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh,29 a reality designated in his oeuvre by various
symbolic imaginaries such as inter alia, the Primal Will (mashiyat
awaliyya), First Intellect (aql al-awwal), Word of God (kalimat
allah), Command of God (amr allah) and the Holy Spirit (ruh al-
quds), all designating the same divine reality and sublime entity.
Indeed, the source of Mani’s revelation is designated as his
‘Twin’ or heavenly self, but has also been referred to as the
“Living Paraclete” who appeared to him and gave him the
knowledge of all things, as it states in the Kephalaia, “Thus did

Celestial Fire

the Paraclete disclose to me all that has been and all that will
be.” As there seems to be an apparent discrepancy between
these figures, namely the twin, and the Living Paraclete,
Widengern states, “here the celestial Messenger is called the
‘Living Paraclete.’ Western sources say that Mani described
himself as the Paraclete Predicated by Jesus in the Fourth
Gospel. On the basis of the foregoing, this assertion cannot be
impugned. But, how can it be then that it is the so-called ‘twin’
who comes to Mani as his higher self? Precisely because the
Living Paraclete, who is the Holy Ghost [Spirit], is the same as
the ‘twin.’”30 Here again the Living Paraclete, the Twin, and the
Holy Spirit, are identified with Mani’s own higher self.31 The
appearance of the Living Paraclete which revealed the
knowledge of all that has been and all that will be also recalls a
description of the revelatory source of Bahá’u’lláh’s knowledge
of all things, which he states appears to him “in the form of a
tablet”:
Thou knowest full well that We perused not the books
which men possess and We acquired not the learning
current amongst them, and yet whenever We desire to
quote the sayings of the learned and of the wise,
presently there will appear before the face of thy Lord
in the form of a tablet all that which hath appeared in
the world and is revealed in the Holy Books and
Scriptures. Thus do We set down in writing that which
the eye perceiveth. Verily His knowledge encompasseth
the earth and the heavens.32
Indeed, this passage recalls the Irano-gnostic heritage discussed
above, and this description in Bahá’u’lláh’s oeuvre is another
symbolic epithet of the Maid of Heaven, the Primal Fire, the
Holy Spirit, all designating his heavenly self, his twin, or alter
ego. In an important passage the convergence of all these
symbolic imaginaries for the same spiritual reality are further
illuminated by Bahá’u’lláh:
Whenever I chose to hold My peace and be still, lo, the
Voice of the Holy Spirit, standing on My right hand,
aroused Me, and the Most Great Spirit appeared before
My face, and Gabriel overshadowed Me, and the Spirit

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
of Glory stirred within My bosom, bidding Me arise and
break My silence. [GPB 100]
The motif of the appearance of a ‘suspended’ written tablet
also figures in the celebrated Syriac or Coptic Gnostic fable, the
Hymn or Song of the Pearl, composed sometime in the 3rd
century CE. The Song recounts the life of a Parthian Prince,
designated as the “Youth” (like Mani and Bahá’u’lláh)33 who
‘descends’ to Egypt, at the request of his royal parents, to
acquire the pearl which is guarded by a fierce dragon. He strives
in vein to keep his identity a secret from the dwellers of this
foreign land. Whilst in the inn where he stays, he is given an
extremely rich meal after which he falls into a deep slumber.
Soon the tidings of his son’s predicament, reaches his father and
the King calls the magistrates and princes to compose a tablet
with a sign and seal by the feduatories, the Queen and the King.
The tablet, inscribed on fine silk assumes the form of a
marvelous bird, an eagle/falcon34 whose melodious voice
awakens the Prince from his sleep:35
And serving as messenger,
the letter was a letter sealed by the king with his right
hand
against the evil children of Babylon and the savage
demons of the Sarbug labyrinth.
It rose up in the form of an eagle, the king of all winged
fowl;
it flew and alighted beside me and became speech.
At its voice and the sound of its rustling
I awoke and rose from my sleep.
I took it, and kissed it, broke its seal, and read.
And the words written on my heart were the letter for
me to read.36
Here the letter/tablet, which symbolically appeared as an eagle,
is the very words written in the heart of the Prince. The
letter/tablet is the Princes’ own self or twin. Towards the end

Celestial Fire

of the Song, when the Princely “youth” sets out upon his return
voyage to his heavenly homeland, the letter accompanies him
much like the Daena in Zoroastrianism:
On my way the letter that awakened me was laying like a
women on the road.
And as she awakened me with her voice so she guided
me with her light as if she were an oracle.37
Indeed, the Mazdean parallels with the figure of Daena — the
feminine angelic figure or “maiden,” that accompanies the soul
on its post-mortem celestial voyage — are clear in this text.
Thus, in a similar vein the tablet which appears to Bahá’u’lláh is
his own self or heavenly twin, and at once signifies the Maid of
Heaven, the Holy Spirit, the Most Great Spirit, the Pen (al-
qalam), all of which act as symbolic signifiers for Bahá’u’lláh’s
own self. Indeed, in an invocatio or prayer Bahá’u’lláh refers to
his heavenly and pre-existential reality as an archetypal divine
sealed book that speaks:
This, verily, is the Day wherewith Thy Scriptures, and
Thy Books, and Thy Tablets, have been adorned. And
He Who now speaketh is, in truth, the Well-guarded
Treasure, and the Hidden Secret, and the Preserved
Tablet [al-lawh al-mahfuz], and the Impenetrable
Mystery, and the Sealed Book [al-kitab al-mamhur].38
Thus, Bahá’u’lláh by referring to himself as the “Sealed Book,”
recalls the sealed letter of the King, which appeared in the form
of an eagle/falcon to the “youth,” the Parthian Prince in the
Song of the Pearl. As we shall see the symbol of the eagle or
falcon will have further hermeneutical ramifications in the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh and its association with the Khvarnah in
Zoroastrianism (see below).
The Angel or ‘Heavenly Twin,’ or syzygos of Mani, which the
Firhist of Ibn al-Nadim (d. 995) in Arabic calls al-Taum (derived
from the Syriac word tauma, meaning ‘twin)39 appeared to him
twice in his life, first at the age of 12, and then at the age of 24.
This topos of two, doubling, or twin revelations is precisely
repeated in the prophetic career of Bahá’u’lláh. Bausani refers

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
to this motif of the twin revelations whilst discussing the two
“revelations” of Mani, and notes that, “the ‘double’ initial
revelation [is] recorded in a number of religions, including the
recent Bahá’ísm…”40 Shoghi Effendi, who often deploys the term
“twin” in many of his English letters and communications to the
Bahá’í world, in one of his talks points out the mysteries of the
appearance of twin or two sacred personages, structures, and
events in the Babi-Bahá’í revelations and states, “In the Cause
of God everything is twin.”41 Indeed, the motif of twin
revelations of Bahá’u’lláh, one hidden (batin) and one open
(zahir), is consonant with this symbolic register of the motif of
“twins” in Irano-gnostic universe of thought. The first hidden
epiphany, as we have seen, occurred in the siyah chal (Black Pit)
dungeon in Tehran in 1853, and the second open revelation
occurred in 1863 in the Garden of Ridvan outside Baghdad. The
two 12 days (12+12=24) pertaining to the commencement of
Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation and his open declaration at the garden
of Ridvan, are significant as they fall into this same symbolic
motif of the “twin.” Indeed, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá the
doubling of 12 from previous religious cycles to 24, signifies
the “greatness” of the Bahá’í revelation, and in his exegesis of
the twenty-four elders in the visionary Apocalypse of John of
Patmos states that, “in this glorious manifestation there are
twenty-four [elders], double the number of all the others, for
the greatness of this manifestation requires it” [SAQ 57]. In this
precise sense, the Bahá’í revelation may be termed the religion
of the “twin” par excellence.
Another precedent to Bahá’u’lláh’s claim to be the theophany
of the Mazdean celestial Fire may be found among the Nusayris.
Indeed, among the esoteric Shí’ite sect of Nusayris (also called
the Alawis), who are often considered to be part of the so-called
“ghulat” (extreme Shi’ites) and whose doctrines display clear
Zoroastrian influences, the figure of ‘Ali ibn Abi Talib, the
cousin and son-in-law of the prophet, and the first Shi’i Imam,
is identified with the heavenly Fire in Zoroastrianism. Indeed,
the Nusayris believe in seven manifestations of God from Able
to ‘Ali, which is said to have taken place in seven cycles or
periods, namely the cycle of Abraham, the Arab, the cycle of
Muhammad and the Persian cycle in which ‘Ali manifested
himself. In Persian Nusayri texts ‘Ali is entitled Numayr, which

Celestial Fire

means fire.42 In Nusayri texts such as Risala fi al-Siaqa by Al-
Khasibi, it is written that ‘Ali had previously manifested himself
to the Persians:
The Most High [‘Ali] deposited his wisdom with the
Persians [i.e., Zoroastrians] and then left, being pleased
with them. He promised to return to them. He is the
one who said that God Almighty has deposited His
mystery with you [the Arabs], manifested Himself
amongst you, and destined you to receive it. But you
have lost it while the Persians have preserved it even
after its disappearance, by means of fire and light, in
which He manifested Himself.43
Here ‘Ali is associated with fire and light, through which he
manifested himself among Zoroastrian Persians, and through
which, namely the Mazdean fire, his mystery was preserved.
Another Nusayri author al-Tabarani states:
The Persians have sanctified fire, from which they await
the manifestation of the deity. This manifestation will
take place among the Persians, for they never cease to
keep lighted the fire from which they await this same
manifestation, and the accomplishment of the promise
of the deity in that event.44
Thus, according to these Nusayri texts the manifestation of God
will take place among the Persians, and it will be through the
fire, which is identified with ‘Ali. This has obvious and clear
resonances with Bahá’u’lláh’s own claim to be the manifestation
of the Mazdean Fire, and clearly reaches back to the same Irano-
gnostic spiritual universe. It is possible that Bahá’u’lláh, during
the Istanbul/Edirne period in Ottoman Turkey (1863-1867-8),
and the ‘Akka period in Palestine (1868-92), may have come into
contact with members of the Nusayri community, who largely
live in Syria, as well as in Turkey and Palestine. Thus, the
Nusayris preserve within their doctrines elements of Iranian and
Zoroastrian thought, and conceive of the eschatological promise
of the manifestation of the divine Fire among the Persians — a
claim perfectly exemplified in Bahá’u’lláh’s own claims to be
the manifestation and theophany of the Mazdean Fire (atash).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Fire and its consequent light, have often symbolized the
divine theophany or epiphany of God and Divine self-
manifestation and self-revelation in many religions. In the
Hebrew scriptures Fire is referred to in the Sinaitic episode,
where God, in an Angelophany (or theophany), “appeared in a
flame of fire [‘esh] out of the midst of the bush” [Ex 3:2]; in
another instance God went before the Israelites, “by day in a
pillar of cloud [‘ammud ‘anan]…. And by night in a pillar of fire
[‘ammud ‘esh] to give them light” [Ex 13:21].45 Intimately linked
to this concept of Cloud (Hebrew ‘anan, Arabic ‘amma)46 and
Fire is the concept of the Divine Presence or Shekinah with that
of God’s Glory (kevod, also spelled kavod),47 “Moses could not
enter the Tent of Meeting, for the cloud rested [shakhan] upon
it, and the glory of the Lord filled the Tabernacle” [Ex 40:35]. In
another instance in Ezekiel’s vision of God’s Glory (kevod), we
read, “upon the likeness of the throne,” “was a likeness with the
appearance of a man,” and “with the appearance of the fire with
brightness all around,” “this was the appearance of the likeness
of the Glory [kabed] of the Lord” [Ezk 1:26-28]. Hence in the
Hebrew Bible the Glory of God or kevod elohim, is likened to
the appearance of a man, who has the appearance and
luminosity of fire. Jackson notes the striking similarity of the
Persian Khvarnah, with the Shekinah, stating, “The doctrine of
this flaming majesty [khvarnah] has an analogy in the Shekhína
of the Jews.”48 It must be recalled here that such texts as the
Book of Ezekiel were composed in Second Temple Judaism
after the Babylonian exile, and when the Jews had come into
contact with Persians and had been living under Persian rule for
some time.49
In the New Testament, Jesus, also states, “I shall baptize you
with the Holy Spirit and with Fire [pyr]” (Mt 3:11, Lk 3:16] and
the book of Hebrews declares, “for our God is a consuming
fire” [Heb 12:29], and in the visionary narrative of the
Apocalypse of John of Patmos, which as we shall see has explicit
Zoroastrian influences, Jesus in his parousia is envisioned with
an imagery of fire not unlike Ezekiel’s vision of God’s Glory,
“His eyes were as a flame of fire,” and “his name is called the
Word [logos] of God” [Rev 19:12] and “fire came down from
God out of heaven” [Rev 20:9]. Here the Logos is depicted with
the imagery of Fire, characteristic of Zoroastrianism. Scholars

Celestial Fire

such as David Flusser have noted that the Apocalypse of John
has explicit Zoroastrian influences, especially from a Judeo-
Greek apocalyptic text or apocalypse called the Oracle of
Hystaspas, which has its provenance in a Zoroastrian source or
sources. Indeed, many references to the topos of Fire in John’s
Apocalypse have their origin in the apocalyptic text of the
Oracle of Hystaspes.50 The Oracle of Hystaspes is a Jewish
apocalypse written in Greek, largely transmitted by the Church
Father Lactantius in his Divine Institutions, and has been
demonstrated to have a clear Zoroastrian provenance and to
have influenced to a great degree the Apocalypse of John of
Patmos. Indeed, there are several references in which the Fire
symbolism of the Oracle of Hystaspes has clear parallels with
the Apocalypse of John, and point to their Zoroastrian heritage.
For instance the final apocalyptic end described in the Oracle is
accompanied by fire, as it states, “Cities shall be utterly
overthrown, and shall perish; not only with fire and the
sword…”51 Also, at the apocalyptic end fire emanates from “a
great prophet” (magnus propheta) who is sent forth from God,
and “if anyone shall endeavour to injure him, fire shall come
forth out of his mouth and shall burn that man. By these
prodigies and powers he shall turn many to the worship of
God.”52 In another instance, speaking of the “coming of the
King (regis)” — the messianic figure in the text whom the early
Christians such as Lactantius considered to be Jesus — who
“shall descend with a company of angels to the middle of the
earth (in medium terrae, i.e. Jerusalem) and there shall go before
him an unquenchable fire…”53 Yet, another clear Zoroastrian
parallel is the evocation of the followers of truth (ashvan) vs.
the wicked or followers of the lie (dregvan) at the end of time,
“When these things shall so happen, then the righteous and the
followers of truth shall separate themselves from the wicked…”54
Finally, in the book of Acts of the Apostles, we read, “And
there appeared to them tongues as of fire, distributed and
resting on each one of them, and they were all filled with the
Holy Spirit” [Acts 1:3-5]. The “tongues of fire,” act as a signifier
for the illumination of the Holy Spirit descending upon the
hearts of the apostles.
In the Qur’an as well, Fire and Light — which is an attribute
of fire — has been employed in describing God. The famed

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
‘Light verse’ is perhaps the most emblematic example of the
association of light with God.
God is the light (nur) of the heavens and the earth. The
likeness of His light is a niche within which is a lamp in
glass, the glass like unto a shining star lit from a blessed
tree, an olive, neither of the East nor of the West, its
oil nearly glowing though fire had touched it not. Light
upon Light. God guides to His light whomsoever He
wills.55
In another passage of the Qur’an it states in one instance
“the Fire of God (nar allah) kindled roaring over the hearts
covered down upon them, in columns (‘amadin) outstretched”
[Qur’an 104:6-8]. Note again the reference to the Columns
(‘amadin) of Fire, which we saw earlier in the Hebrew Bible. In
early esoteric Shi’ite traditions attributed to the Imams this
imagery of light associated with the Prophet Muhammad or the
Nur Muhammadi is extended to the whole complex of the motif
of the Fourteen Pure Ones, the Prophet Muhammad, Imam ‘Ali
and all the Imams, as well as the daughter of the Prophet,
Fatima, namely the pleroma of the Fourteen Pure Ones
(chahárdah ma’súmín) — a complex that has such close parallels
with the light imagery of Zoroastrian and Manichean texts, that
their influence on these early traditions (ahadith/akhbar) cannot
be contested. In Twelver Shi’ism the promised one, the
Qa’im/Mahdi, in the hermeneutics of the Imams is interpreted
as the Fire. In a Tradition attributed to Ja’far al-Íádiq, in the
hermeneutics of the first part of Qur’án 74:31, {We have
appointed only angels to preside over the Fire (má ja’alná aß˙áb
al-nár illá malá’ika)}, the sixth Imam stated, “The Fire is the
Qá’im (fa-l-nár huwa al-qá’im), peace be upon him, who has
kindled his light and (the light of) his appearance for the peoples
of the east and the west (i.e. for the whole world) (qad anára
∂aw’ahu wa-khurújahu li-ahl al-sharq wa-al-gharb). The angels
are they who possess the knowledge of the family of
Mu˙ammad (wal-malá’ika hum alladhína yamlikúna ‘ilm ál
Mu˙ammad), may the blessings of God be upon them.”56 Here,
in the hermeneutics of the Imams, the Shi’ite faithful are
symbolically interpreted to represent the “angels,” who have
knowledge of the Imams. This esoteric hermeneutics is, as we

Celestial Fire

shall see, continued in the Bahá’í writings in relation to the
Bahá’í faithful, the people of Baha’ (see below).
One particular image in early esoteric Shi’ite Traditions
ascribed to the Imams is the Column of Light, the columna
gloriae, which as we saw earlier was mentioned in the Hebrew
Bible and the Qur’an. It is this Column of Light which appears
earlier in the Manichean literature and may very well have
influenced them; called variously the Column of Glory (umud al-
subh) or Pillar of Fire or Light, and which is significantly
mentioned in one of the tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, in a visionary
encounter with the heavenly Maiden or Maid of Heaven (see
below). Indeed we encounter a Colum of Light or ‘amud min
naur (or ‘amud al-nur) in early Shi’i cosmology and cosmogony,
in which it acts as one of the sources of the gnosis of the
Imams. The earliest Shi’i Traditions relate that the pre-
existential reality of the Prophet and the Imams were in the
form of a Column of Light, dwelling in worlds (‘awálim) of
light, before the creation of the world, and subsequently made
its voyage from Adam to the Imams, and eventually will
culminate in the Day of Resurrection. In these traditions,
reference is made to ‘amud min naur, or the Column of Light,
which is precisely what their reality or light is derived from, in
pre-existence, where Prophet Muhammad and the Imams exist as
silhouettes of light (ashbáh) before the creation of the world. In
one such tradition the Prophet states:
We were silhouettes of light until God wanted to create
our form; He transformed us into a column of light
(sayyarana ‘amuda nurin) and hurled us into Adam’s
loins; then he made us be transmitted through the loins
of fathers and wombs of mothers... and when He had us
reach the loins of ‘Abd al-Muttalib [the grandfather of
both the Prophet and ‘Ali], He divided the light into
two and placed half in the loins of ‘AbdAllah [the
Prophet’s father], and the other half in the loins of
‘Abu Talib [the Prophet’s uncle and the father of ‘Ali],
Amina [the Prophet’s mother] received in her breast the
half that was for me, and she brought me into the
world; likewise Fatima, the daughter of Asad [the
mother of ‘Ali] received in her breast that half that was

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
for ‘Ali, and he begot al-Hasan and al-Husayn... Thus
this light will be transmitted from imam to imam until
the Day of Resurrection.57
This voyage of the Column of Light, the columna gloriae, in
early esoteric Shi’ite sources is also comparable to the light of
the Khvarnah in Zoroastrianism, in which it is transmitted as a
luminous and fiery seminal fluid,58 and is linked to the birth of
the prophet Zarathustra (see below). The Manichean influence
may also be witnessed in Tayyibi Isma’ilism, in which the
Column of Light plays an important imamological and
eschatological function. According to Tayyibi gnosis the soul of
the faithful initiate (mustajib) is said to make a spiritual
ascension or voyage from spiritual rank to rank (hadd) and this
“ascension toward the superior hadd is caused by the magnetism
of the column of light (‘amud min nur, or al-’amud al-nurani),
the summit of which reaches into the pleroma of the archangels
and towards which the souls of the believers are drawn.”59 The
great Iranian Sufi Sahl b. Abdullah at-Tustari (d. 283/896), who
was one of the teachers of the famed Sufi martyr Mansur al-
Hallaj (d. 309/922), also refers to the Column of Glory, and
may have been influenced either by Manichean sources or more
likely by such Shi’ite Traditions as noted above. Gerhard
Böwering, in his excellent study of the role of the prophet
Muhammad in Tustari’s work writes:
God in His absolute oneness and transcendent reality, is
affirmed by Tustari as the inaccessible mystery of
divine light which yet articulates itself in the pre-eternal
manifestation of the “likeness of His light, “mathlau
nurihi, that is, “the likeness of the light of Muhammad,”
nur Muhammad. The origin of the nur Muhammad in
pre-eternity is depicted as a luminous mass of
primordial adoration in the presence of God which
takes the shape of a transparent column, ‘amud, of
divine light and constitutes Muhammad as the primal
creation of God. Thus, explaining the terminology of
the Light-verse, Tustari says: “When God willed to
create Muhammad, He made appear a light from His
light. When it reached the veil of the Majesty, hijab al-
’azamah, it bowed in prostration before God. God

Celestial Fire

created from its prostration a mighty column like
crystal glass of light that is outwardly and inwardly
translucent.60
The Manichean Column/Pillar of Light/Glory has further
profound parallels in Jewish mysticism and esotericism, namely
Kabbalah, and may have influenced such texts as the Zohar.
There is a veritable list of affinities between the Manichaean
and the Zoharic vision of the Pillar of Glory/Light, as Moshe
Idel has noted, “1. The concept of a pillar that is luminous is
found in both the Zohar and in Manicheaism. 2. Both
Manicheans and the circle of the Zohar share the view that a
pillar of light or of glory leads souls to paradise. 3. The pillar of
glory is identical to the perfect man in Manichaen sources. In
the Zohar, ‘amuda’ de-’emtza’ita’ is related to Adam, as both
are symbols of the sefirah of Tiferet.”61 This is only a few of the
similarities between the Manichean and Zoharic Column of
Light, but their affinity with the Shi’ite Column of Light is also
evident.
In one of Bahá’u’lláh’s tablets, Ishraqat (Splendors: literally
the radiance of the rising sun), the Maiden is personified as the
embodiment of Trustworthiness standing upon a Pillar of Light
(‘amud min al-nur):
One day of days We repaired unto Our Green Island
[jazirat al-khadrá´]. Upon Our arrival, We beheld its
streams flowing, and its trees luxuriant, and the
sunlight playing in their midst. Turning Our face to the
right, We beheld what the pen is powerless to describe;
nor can it set forth that which the eye of the Lord of
Mankind witnessed in that most sanctified, that most
sublime, that blest, and most exalted Spot. Turning,
then, to the left We gazed on one of the Beauties of the
Most Sublime Paradise, standing on a pillar of light
[‘amud min al-nur], and calling aloud saying: ‘O inmates
of earth and heaven! Behold ye My beauty, and My
radiance, and My revelation, and My effulgence. By
God, the True One! I am Trustworthiness and the
revelation thereof, and the beauty thereof. I will
recompense whosoever will cleave unto Me, and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
recognize My rank and station, and hold fast unto My
hem. I am the most great ornament of the people of
Baha, and the vesture of glory unto all who are in the
kingdom of creation. I am the supreme instrument for
the prosperity of the world, and the horizon of
assurance unto all beings.’ Thus have We sent down for
thee that which will draw men nigh unto the Lord of
creation. [TAB 122]
Since Kamran Ekbal has discussed the Manichean parallels of
the Column of Glory/Light or Pillar of Fire with the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, there is no reason to cover that ground again here.62
However, what is seldom noted is the location or topography of
this visionary encounter, referred to by Bahá’u’lláh as “Our
Green Island” or jazirat al-khadrá´. Shoghi Effendi in his
hermeneutics of the above passage states, “In one station the
intent is the Garden of Ridvan [in ‘Akka], and in another, it is a
spiritual interpretation of the station of Trustworthiness.”63 It
is well known that the Green Island refers to the Garden of
Na’myan in the vicinity of ‘Akka, which Bahá’u’lláh later
suggestively (re)named the Garden of Ridvan (Paradise), but
what is never mentioned is that it is also an allusion to certain
Shi’ite traditions concerning the Green Island (jazirat al-
khadrá´) beyond the White Sea, the land or earth of visions,
which is associated with Paradise, and where the Twelfth Hidden
Imam, the awaited Qa’im/Mahdi, is said to have resided and
where the Shi’ite faithful may voyage and encounter him.
Corbin sums up the symbols in a narrative concerning the Green
Island, by an “Iranian shaykh, ‘Ali ibn Fazel Mazandarani,
toward the end of our thirteenth century, an experience
recorded in the Account of strange and marvelous things that he
contemplated and saw with his own eyes on the Green Island
situated in the White Sea”:
The account of the Green Island allows us an abundant
harvest of symbols: (1) It is one of the islands belonging
to the son of the Twelfth Imam. (2) It is that island,
where the Spring of Life gushes, in the shade of the Tree
of Paradise, that ensure the sustenance of the Imams
followers who live far away, and that sustenance can
only be a “suprasubstantial” food. (3) It is situated in

Celestial Fire

the west, as the city of Jabarsa is situated in the west of
the mundus imaginalis, and thus it offers a strange
analogy with the paradise of the East, the paradise of
Amitabha in Pure Land Buddhism; similarly, the figure
of the Twelfth Imam suggestive of comparison with
Maitreya, the future Buddha; there is also an analogy
with Tir-na’n-g, one of the worlds the Afterlife among
the Celts, the land of the West and the forever ever
young. (4) Like the domain of the Grail, it is an
interworld that is self-sufficient. (5) It is protected
against and immune to any attempt from outside. (6)
only one who is summoned there can find the way. (7) A
mountain rises in the center; we have noted the symbols
that it conceals. (8) Like Mont-Salvat, the inviolable
Green Island is the place where his followers approach
the mystical pole of the world, the Hidden Imam,
reigning invisibly over this age- the jewel of the Shi’ite
faith.64
In fact it was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the son of Bahá’u’lláh who
acquired this “Green Island” for his father, so that after forty
years of consecutive imprisonment and exile from Iran, his
father may find therein a measure of peace, as he well knew that
Bahá’u’lláh loved the verdant beauty of nature. In one of his
tablets ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “Praise be to God who made the
center of His Splendour and Dawning-place of His Lights, and
the horizon of His signs and the center of His mysteries the
Exalted Horizon (ufuq-i al-’ala) and the Kingdom of Abha
(malakut al-abha’), and the Supreme Paradise and the Green
Island (jazirat al-khadrá´), and the inhabitants of Jabalqa and
the City of Jabarsa…”65 Here the symbols of the earth of visions
is realized messianically on the plain of history, in ‘Akka66 in the
Garden of Ridvan (Paradise) which is transfigured into the
visionary topography of the “Green Island,” the visio
samargadina, and can only be perceived as such with “the eyes
of fire,67“ as Corbin puts it, namely through the organ of
visionary apperception activated by the Holy Spirit, whose
symbol is the Fire. Already before his outward declaration in the
Baghdad period, Bahá’u’lláh gestures towards a spiritual
hermeneutics of the expectation of the Shi’ite Hidden Imam
Muhammad al-Mahdi, the presumed son of Hassan al-Askari,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
who had remained in occultation, according to Shi’ite doctrine,
for at least a thousand years. Bahá’u’lláh writes in the Gems of
Divine Mysteries (Jawahir al-Asrar):
All that thou hast heard regarding Mu˙ammad the son
of Óasan — may the souls of all that are immersed in the
oceans of the spirit be offered up for His sake — is true
beyond the shadow of a doubt, and we all verily bear
allegiance unto Him. But the Imáms of the Faith have
fixed His abode in the city of Jábulqá, which they have
depicted in strange and marvellous signs. To interpret
this city according to the literal meaning of the
tradition would indeed prove impossible, nor can such a
city ever be found. Wert thou to search the uttermost
corners of the earth, nay probe its length and breadth
for as long as God’s eternity hath lasted and His
sovereignty will endure, thou wouldst never find a city
such as they have described, for the entirety of the earth
could neither contain nor encompass it. If thou wouldst
lead Me unto this city, I could assuredly lead thee unto
this holy Being, Whom the people have conceived
according to what they possess and not to that which
pertaineth unto Him! Since this is not in thy power,
thou hast no recourse but to interpret symbolically the
accounts and traditions that have been reported from
these luminous souls. And, as such an interpretation is
needed
for
the
traditions
pertaining
to
the
aforementioned city, so too is it required for this holy
Being. When thou hast understood this interpretation,
thou shalt no longer stand in need of “transformation”
or aught else.
Know then that, inasmuch as all the Prophets are but
one and the same soul, spirit, name, and attribute, thou
must likewise see them all as bearing the name
Mu˙ammad and as being the son of Óasan, as having
appeared from the Jábulqá of God’s power and from
the Jábulsá of His mercy. For by Jábulqá is meant none
other than the treasure-houses of eternity in the all-
highest heaven and the cities of the unseen in the
supernal realm. We bear witness that Mu˙ammad, the

Celestial Fire

son of Óasan, was indeed in Jábulqá and appeared
therefrom. Likewise, He Whom God shall make
manifest abideth in that city until such time as God will
have
established
Him
upon
the
seat
of
His
sovereignty.68
Hence Bahá’u’lláh’s allusion to the Green Island in which he
had a vision of the personification of Trustworthiness in the
form of a luminous Maiden, at once contains multiple messianic
allusions drawn from Mazdean, Manichaen, and Shi’ite sources,
all of which are emblematic of the spiritual universe of Iran.
In the Mazdean liturgy of prayer, the Zoroastrian faithful
pray five times during the twenty-four hour period, whilst
standing in the presence of Fire, whether an actual fire, a lamp,
the Sun, the Moon, or any source of light and luminosity.69
Hence the point of adoration for the Zoroastrian faithful is the
outward manifestation of the divine Fire, which is at once the
syzygy of Asha (Truth/Order). The Báb in the Persian Bayan, as
well, enjoined every believer to face the Sun on Friday and to
recite a specified prayer to it and similarly to recite a monthly
prayer to the Moon. The Báb writes:
While facing the sun on Friday, say this verse so that
you will attain the presence of the sun of reality on the
day of resurrection: “Verily, the glory (al-Bahá’) of God
be upon your rising, O rising sun! Testify to that which
God hath testified of His Own Self: Verily, there is no
God but Him, the Almighty, the Best-Beloved.”70
The Zoroastrian liturgy of prayers to be recited before the
presence of a source of fire such as the sun (and the moon) is
clearly apparent in this liturgical enunciation of the Bab.
However, these exoteric (zahir) supplications by the Bab, at
once point to an esoteric (batin) and messianic dimension.
Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh states that the esoteric and messianic
significance of this liturgical supplication of the Bab, acts as an
encoded signifier to his own name, that is Baha’, and to his
messianic status as the promised one of the Bayan. He writes:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Someone wants to know the secret of what was revealed
to him that came before me [the Bab] regarding the sun
and his standing while facing it. Blessed is the one who
asked this question and wanted to know what was
concealed from the hearts of the worlds. Say: I swear by
God that what he meant by the sun is my beauty that
has shown forth from behind the clouds with great
lights. Because we made the sun to be the greatest of
our signs between heaven and earth, he stood facing it,
submissive to my Self, the Inaccessible, the Powerful,
the Most High. When he rose facing it during the first
part of his day, he spoke a word for which there is no
loftier or greater in God’s knowledge, if you be of
those who know. When he gazed upon it, he said, and
his word is the truth, “Verily, The glory (al-Bahá’) of
God be upon your rising, O rising sun! Testify to that
which God hath testified of His Own Self: Verily, there
is no God but Him, the Almighty, the Best-Beloved.”
This was so that all would attain certain knowledge of
the inmost secret through the appearance of the sun and
testify to that which God has testified, that there is no
God but Him, the Almighty, the Best-Beloved.
…He [the Bab] disclosed the Greatest Name [baha’] so
that everyone would bear witness on the day of
revelation to what he had seen. This word is mentioned
as one of the fundamentals of the divine commands
revealed in the Bayan and each soul in this day must
turn toward God on Friday and utter these words,
calling to mind the beloved of the world.71
Here the Báb’s invocation to the sun, which contains the
Greatest Name al-Bahá’, according to the hermeneutics of
Bahá’u’lláh, becomes a reference to himself, and by glorifying
and supplicating the rising of the visible sun, the Báb
effectively gestures towards the advent of the rising of the
invisible Sun of Reality, namely the figure of Bahá’u’lláh. In
many of the writings of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh the Sun and
Moon act as symbols of the divine Light, at once typifying the
pre-existential Primal Will of God, which in the lexicon of the
Báb and Bahá’u’lláh are often referred to as the Sun of

Celestial Fire

Truth/Reality (shams-i haqiqat, shams al-haqiqa), the Sun of the
Word of God (shams-i kalamey-i ellahi, shams-i kalimat allah).
Indeed, in Shi’ism the two symbols of the Sun and Moon
represent respectively, the Prophet Muhammad and Imam ‘Ali,
exemplified in the famed Tradition, “I am the Sun and ‘Ali is the
Moon,”72 that is, the Sun signifies the station of Prophethood
or the Primal Will, and the divinely ordained Guardianship or
Walaya, reflecting the light of the Sun of Prophethood,
symbolized as the Moon. This would not have escaped the early
Bábí votaries, who mainly ranked among the Shaykhis, and who
were long steeped in the traditions of the Imams. Indeed,
Bahá’u’lláh in his commentary on the Qur’anic Surah of the Sun
“Tafsír-i-Súriy-i-Wa’sh-Shams” (Surah 91) writes, “Know thou
that whoso clingeth to the outward sense of the words, leaving
aside their esoteric significance, is simply ignorant.”73 He then
provides several hermeneutic registers for the term ‘Sun’ in that
verse, which confirms that one of the meanings of the Sun is the
“Primal Will,” and goes on to state that by the verse, ““By the
moon when it followeth it!” The moon signifieth the station of
guardianship [walaya], which followeth the sun of prophethood,
that is, it appeareth afterward, to vindicate the cause of the
prophet among God’s servants.”74
In the preamble of the tablet to Mánakjí Sahib, Bahá’u’lláh
identifies the pre-existent or primal Word of God, with the
primal or first Light through which all things have come into
being:
This dewdrop, which is the Primal Word of God
(nakhusteen guftar-i kerdegar), is at times called the
Water of Life, in as much as it quickeneth with the
waters of knowledge them that have perished in the
wilderness of ignorance. Again it is called the Primal
Light (roshanai-ye nakhosteen), a light born of the Sun
of divine knowledge, through whose effulgence the first
stirrings of existence (junbesh-i nakhusteen, the primal
movement) were made plain and manifest.75
It is clear from the above that “existence” which is literally “the
first movement” of creation is ascribed to the Primal Light,
which is the same as the Primal Word of God. In a similar

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
passage Bahá’u’lláh writes, “This movement was made manifest
in creation from the heat of the Word of God. Whosoever hath
attained unto this heat, hastened to the path of the Friend, and
whosever remained deprived became despondent, a despondency
that hath no end.”76 This primal Light or Fire, which is co-
terminus with the Primal Will, is the cause of heat through
which all of existence is set in motion. Abdu’l-Bahá in a short
tablet to a Zoroastrian believer states, “The soul of the world
and the movement of existence is from the essence of the
[heavenly] Fire…”77 It is here that the dialectic of fire and light,
of heat and movement are related at once to the existentiation
of the cosmos and its perpetual motion. In a profound series of
theophanic utterances related to divine radiance so often
encountered in Mazdean and Manichean texts, Bahá’u’lláh
proclaims, “Today the Light is speaking, the Fire is conversing
and the Sun of Truth is shining.”78 Here in no uncertain terms
Bahá’u’lláh claims to be the personification, embodiment, and
epiphany of the Mazdean Fire.
Now among these Persianate Tablets to Zoroastrians, which
continue the same motif(s) of Fire, Light, Heat, and Movement,
one stands out as the locus classicus par excellence, as it is here
that Bahá’u’lláh at once unequivocally identifies himself as the
appearance of the divine Fire (atash) foretold in the Zoroastrian
scriptures; whilst simultaneously equating this Mazdean celestial
Fire with the pre-existential Primal Will as the cause or motive
force which has brought all creation into existence. In this
Tablet called Lawh-i Dustan-i Yazdani (Tablet of the Divine
Friends), whose recipient remains unknown, Bahá’u’lláh in one
profound turn accomplishes several hermeneutical registers for
the divine Fire in Zoroastrianism. Since this portion of the
tablet will act as the locus for our analysis, I shall cite it here in
full and begin to explore it in greater detail:
Ascent and descent, stillness and motion [harikat], have
come into being through the Will of the Lord of all that
hath been and shall be. The cause of ascent is lightness,
and the cause of lightness is heat [hararat]. Thus hath it
been decreed by God. The cause of stillness is weight
and density, which in turn are caused by coldness. Thus
hath it been decreed by God. And since He hath

Celestial Fire

ordained heat to be the source of motion and ascent
and the cause of attainment to the desired goal, He hath
therefore kindled with the mystic hand that [True] Fire
[‘átash-i haqiqi]79 that dieth not and sent it forth into
the world, that this divine Fire [‘átash-i illahiyya] might,
by the heat of the love of God, guide and attract all
mankind to the abode of the incomparable Friend. This
is the mystery enshrined in your Book [Avesta] [in ast
sirr-i kitáb-i shuma] that was sent down aforetime, a
mystery which hath until now remained concealed from
the eyes and hearts of men. That primal Fire [‘átash-i
ágház] hath in this Day appeared with a new radiance
and with immeasurable heat. This divine Fire burneth of
itself, with neither fuel nor fume, that it might draw
away such excess moisture and cold as are the cause of
torpor and weariness, of lethargy and despondency, and
lead the entire creation to the court of the presence of
the All-Merciful. Whoso hath approached this Fire hath
been set aflame and attained the desired goal, and
whoso hath removed himself therefrom hath remained
deprived.80
There are two important hermeneutical registers or narratives to
be noted in the above passage, first a more philosophical
narrative, and second a more mytho-symbolic one:
1. Fire as the symbol of the Primal Will of God, who via heat
is the agent or cause of motion/movement and hence of
creation (cosmogony),81 and
2. This Primal Will which is symbolized as the divine Fire, is
sent into the world (i.e., Bahá’u’lláh), and was foretold as a
messianic
expectation
in
Zoroastrian
scriptures
(messianism/eschatology).82
First let us turn to the hermeneutics of Bahá’u’lláh related to
his symbolic identification of himself as the fulfillment of the
messianic expectation of the divine Fire in Zoroastrianism. A
comparative analysis of the motif of Fire in these Zoroastrian
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh with the Zoroastrian scriptures will
enable us to perceive that indeed they have their counterpart,
their syzygy as it were, in the Zoroastrian texts themselves. In

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
particular, we will look at the Gathas (meaning Songs or
Hymns), which are considered to be the words of the prophet
Zarathustra himself. Indeed, the Gathas are unanimously
considered by scholars to be the prophet Zoroaster’s’ own
words. They are couched in an ancient mantic poetry, which
have caused many difficulties for scholars translating the
Gathas. It is no wonder then that the translations of the Gathas
are at times so varied and different from one another.83 The
other parts of the Avestan Yasna or the Acts of Worship, and
the Yashts are called respectively the Younger Avesta.
Now, before we explore the monumental hermeneutical
edifice that Bahá’u’lláh has raised round the motif of the
Mazdean Fire, it is important to see what other scholars have
said in their respective commentaries regarding the above
passage. To our knowledge only two scholars have referenced
the above text, namely Faridu’ddin Radmehr84 and Christopher
Buck. Since Radmehr refers to the first portion of this
paragraph dealing with its philosophico-cosmogonic elements
only, without discussing its Zoroastrian context, we shall deal
with it in another section. However, Buck has referenced the
above passage in its messianic and eschatological context, but
only cites part of the passage, namely the portion which reads:
“this is the mystery enshrined in your Book that was sent down
aforetime, a mystery which hath until now remained concealed
from the eyes of men.”85 Buck reads this passage in light of his
discussion of the prophecy of Sháh Bahrám Varjivand, whereby
this “mystery” (sirr) becomes a reference to Sháh Bahrám.
However, it is clear from the full context of the passage cited
above, that the “mystery” or “secret” (sirr) in this instance does
not refer to Sháh Bahrám, but to the divine Fire (atash).
Bahá’u’lláh significantly refers to this Fire as a “mystery”
foretold in the Mazdean sacred texts, indicating that it has
remained hidden until now. However, the expectation of Sháh
Bahrám was neither a mystery nor a secret, in fact it was a
widespread messianic expectation in nineteenth century Iran, as
noted by Buck himself.86 Thus the secret effectively contained in
the Zoroastrian scriptures, according to Bahá’u’lláh, is a
messianic secret, which is none other then the promise of the
appearance of the divine Fire, which now stands revealed (i.e.,
himself).

Celestial Fire

In many of his tablets to Zoroastrians Bahá’u’lláh again and
again alludes to that which had hitherto remained ‘hidden’
(mastur) in the Mazdean scriptures, but which has now been
revealed via subtle allusions and references in his writings. In
one instance, whilst speaking about the tablets which have been
revealed in honor of Zoroastrians Bahá’u’lláh writes:
In these days Tablets have been revealed especially for
the people of Zarathustra [i.e. Zoroastrians]. And that
which has been hidden (mastur) up to now in their
Books (kutub), has been mentioned therein (madhkúr).
But unless and until that which belongs to them does
not become known (ma’lum nashavad), no one will
understand the references of the words of the Revealer
of Verses [i.e., Bahá’u’lláh].87
In the above text Bahá’u’lláh significantly indicates that all that
was hidden (mastur) up to now in the Zoroastrian scriptures has
been mentioned in his writings and that unless and until that
which belongs to Zoroastrians (i.e., their sacred texts), does not
become known or understood (ma’lum nashavad), no one can
appreciate the subtle references and allusions in his writings to
Zoroastrians. But, what is it that was hidden in the Zoroastrian
scriptures? And what is it that must become known first, in
order to properly appreciate such references? Indeed, as
indicated by Bahá’u’lláh in the previous passage, one such
hidden secret or mystery is precisely the promise of the
messianic advent of the divine Fire (atar/atash) — a promise
first alluded to in the Gathas, as well as other Zoroastrian texts
such as the Younger Avesta, and the later Pahlavi texts. Hence,
presumably it is this motif and similar constellation of motifs in
Mazadean scriptures that must become more widely read and
studied, that such references as alluded to by Bahá’u’lláh in his
tablets to Zoroastrians, may be better appreciated and
understood.
In another tablet to a Zoroastrian believer Bahá’u’lláh refers
to this same secret or mystery with the significant Persian term
ráz (secret, mystery):

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The radiance of the world-conquering Sun hath
illuminated the world and has bestowed freshness to this
age of despondency, happy is the eye that hath seen and
recognized. Ask from the self-sufficient Lord, so that
He may shine upon you the mystery (ráz) of His Day,
and may vivify you with a new life. He is the Able, the
Knowing.88
The mystery or secret (ráz) here is the appearance of
Bahá’u’lláh, which is referred to as His Day, or the Day of God,
or the divine spring-time or Naw-Ruz (New Day). It is
interesting to note here that in some of the Middle Persian or
Pahlavi texts in the Sassanian period (3rd–7th century CE), which
received their final form sometime from the 7th to the 11th CE,
the Persian term ráz meaning “secret,” or “mystery” (which is
semantically co-terminus with sirr in Arabic), is used at times to
signify precisely “the secret of eschatology”89 in its broadest
sense of both individual and universal. Apart from this, there is
an important occurrence of ráz in a text, which is related to the
seventh day of creation in Genesis, as it states, “for this same
secret the Jews rest on the day of Sabbath even now.”90 Shaked
avers that “the ‘secret’ here is the reason that God rested on the
seventh day after He had created the world,”91 but he does not
elaborate as to what this secret “reason” entails.92 What seems
to have escaped Shaked and is important to note here is that in
the Zoroastrian calendar out of the seven holy days or festivals,
the 7th and final holy day, is the festival called the New Day or
Naw Ruz (the spring-equinox), “prefiguring annually the future
‘New Day’ of eternal bliss,”93 that is to say of frashegird (the
making brilliant of creation), and which is precisely associated
with Truth (asha) and Fire (atar) (see below). Indeed, these seven
festivals were associated with one of the seven creations and its
divinity in the Pahlavi texts, as Boyce states:
The six feasts are assigned to a creation and its divinity
in the order given in the Zoroastrian creation myth…
the sixth being that of mankind, which was under the
especial care, through his Holy Spirit, of Ahura
Mazdá… The seventh [creation], that of fire, which
quickens all the others, was under the guardianship of
Asha ... and its feast is Nowruz itself.94

Celestial Fire

Thus, as we have seen in both the Gathas and in the Pahlavi
texts, Fire is the originating cause of creation, and acts as the
cause of movement that sets existence into motion (this will be
more fully developed in the section on Mazdean Fire: see
below). Indeed, there are profound messianic overtones in
aspects of the Zoroastrian calendar and its relation to
Fire/Truth and their correspondences to the Babi-Bahá’í
calendar called the Badí’ (meaning New, Wondrous, Unique)
calendar, and the name Baha (Glory, Light, Splendor, Beauty).
Some scholars have noted the overall resemblance of the Badí’
calendar to the Zoroastrian liturgical calendar, as Walbridge
states, “The Báb’s [also Bahá’u’lláh’s] calendar resembles the
Zoroastrian calendar much more closely than the Muslim one,
being a solar calendar with non-lunar months and with months
and days named after divine attributes.”95
Indeed, there is a profound homology and correspondence
between the Zoroastrian calendar, with the name of divinities or
angelic entities (yazatas, izads) which have their counterpart,
their syzygy, in the Babi-Bahá’í calendar, in the divine names
and attributes of God (asma’ wa sifat-i illahi), which is
effectively those of the Manifestation of God.96 The
Zoroastrian calendar may be considered therefore, as a sort of
messianic cryptogram containing an allusion, a secret (raz), a
“hierophantic sign,” as Corbin puts it, heralding the coming of
the New Day or Naw-Ruz, that is the appearance of the Divine
Fire as the Saoshyant, which is encoded into the month and the
days set aside for Fire (atar, a∂ar, azar), which is numerically the
number nine (See Figure 1 and Figure 2).97 Indeed, nine is
precisely the numerical value of the divine name Baha’
according to the Arabic abjad system98 — in which each Arabic
letter of the alphabet represents a numeric value — and nine is
associated with the days and months that are presided over by
the divine Fire (atar/a∂ar/azar) in the Zoroastrian liturgical
calendar, and Baha’ is the divine name presiding over the year
nine in the Badí’ calendar, and it is precisely the divine name

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Baha’ which is linked with Naw Ruz and linked to the element
of Fire. Thus the heavenly and divine Fire as symbolized in the
Zoroastrian calendar, is co-incident and co-terminus in every
particular with the divine name Baha’ in the Badí’ calendar.
Here again the Most Great Name or Baha’ is co-extensive with
the divine Fire in Zoroastrianism (See Figure 199 and Figure 2),
and as we shall see, becomes the embodiment of the Mazdean
divine Fire and Light of Glory or Khvarnah (see below).100
Thus as we have seen, Bahá’u’lláh’s spiritual hermeneutics
locates the divine (Primal) Fire as a messianic secret or mystery
foretold in the Zoroastrian scriptures. Now we must first
ascertain in more detail if in fact the Zoroastrian scriptures, and
the Gathas in particular, do contain an expectation of the
coming of the divine Fire, namely as a messianic figure in
eschatological times, and second to see if in the Gathas and
other Zoroastrian sources (i.e., the Pahlavi texts) this divine Fire
is the primal cause of existence or creation.
The 7 Holy Days of
Obligation
The 30 Days
of the Month
The 12 Months of
the Year
7th Holy Day
21 March
English Name “New Day”
9th day
Avestan
Atar
9th month
(November/December)
Adar
Younger Avestan/
Middle Persian
No Roz
Pahlavi
Adar
Pahlavi
Adar
Associated Amesha
spenta
Asha Vahishta (Best Truth)
New Persian
Azar
New Persian
Azar
Associated creation
Fire
English
Fire
English
Fire
Figure 1: Zoroastrian Calendar

Celestial Fire


Name of Day and
Month
Holy Days
Year Name and
Number
1st day/month
21 March
Associated element: Fire
Creative Word
Naw Ruz
21 March
Year 9 from the cycle
of 19 years

Arabic name
Bahá
Arabic name
Bahá
Arabic name
Bahá
English name
Splendor or Glory
English name
Splendor or
Glory
English name
Splendor or Glory
Numerical value
(abjad) 9
Numerical
value (abjad) 9
Numerical value
(abjad) 9
Figure 2: Bábí/Bahá’í Calendar
Mazdean Fire: From Cosmogony to
Eschatology
There is perhaps no single religion that lights the imagination
with the symbol of a holy and sacred Fire, than the religion of
ancient Iran, namely Zoroastrianism.101 The symbolism of a
sacred Fire permeates all aspects of Mazdaism, from its sacred
texts, to its liturgy, from its cosmology and cosmogony, to its
messianism and apocalyptic-eschatology. Indeed, it cannot be
gainsaid that Fire in all its manifestation is one of the
quintessential symbols of Mazdaism par excellence. So much so,
that for centuries, Zoroastrians were polemically referred to as
“Fire worshipers” (atash parast). It was to such misconceptions
that the great poet Firdowsi (d. 1020) spoke to when he wrote
these lines in his Book of Kings (Shahnameh):
[Hushang’s] ancestors had their religion, their spiritual
practice.
Worshiping Izad [God] was the way they pursued.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
At that time fire with its beautiful color [was to them],
What stone in the mihrab is now to Arabs [Muslims].
Fire was placed in the heart of stones in order for
[Divine] light to spread from it throughout the
world.102
The adoration and worship of Fire stretches into the
immemorial past among the Indo-Iranians, and in all probability
had its origins in the cult of the hearth fire like such divinities
as the Vedic Agni (fire). Similarly Fire among the ancient
Iranians was the visible manifestation of the divinity called
Atar, and was worshiped via the hearth fire in liturgical
ceremonies that made offerings to the divinity. The term used in
the Gáthás for Fire is átar, (Avestan átar, Middle Persian ádar or
ádur, New Persian átash) the etymology of which remains
unknown.103 Also as Skjærvø notes, “In the Old Avesta, divine
beings are referred to as “lords” (ahura, Old Indic asura), among
them the heavenly fire, Ahura Mazda’s son…”104 (12). Indeed,
Atar is one of the many but significant divine entities or beings
called yazatas or izads (The Adorable Ones) in Zoroastrianism,
and which Zoroastrian tradition designates as “angels”
(fereshtegan).105
The Gathas (Songs or Hymns), which are considered to be the
prophet Zoroaster’s/Zarathustra’s own words, may be dated
approximately to 1500-1000 BCE and form the oldest portion
of the Avesta often called the Old Avesta. They are couched in
an ancient mantic poetry, which have caused many difficulties
for scholars translating them. It is little wonder that the
translations of the Gathas are at times so varied and different
from one another.106 The other parts of the Avestan Yasna or
the Acts of Worship, and the Yashts are called respectively the
Younger Avesta, and were formed before the Achaemenid
dynasty, perhaps during the Median period around 700-550
BCE. Finally, the later Middle Persian or Pahlavi texts belong to
the Sassanian period (3rd–7th century CE), and received their
final form sometime from the 7th to the 11th CE.
Before examining the motif of the divine Fire in the
Zoroastrian scriptures, one of the most important aspects of

Celestial Fire

Zoroastrianism that must be mentioned at the outset is its
profound mytho-logic, in which, there is a simultaneous
“mythical and theologico-philosophical” narrative functioning
side by side. Indeed, as Alessandro Bausani notes, “Sufficient
attention has not been paid to this “style” of Mazdaic
Scriptures. This is true not only of the later Pahlavi books but
also of Avesta itself.”107 Indeed, Wolfson’s definition of the
mythologic operative in dreams, is apropos with regard to the
logic of Zoroastrian texts, as he states, “mythologic — … should
not be construed as privileging either logical or mythical
patterns of discourse, rendering one subordinate to the
other…”108 It is precisely due to this mytho-logic operative in
Mazdean imaginary, that the attributes of God or Ahura Mazda
“are not (be they eternal or created) intelligible concepts; rather
they are themselves ‘persons’ or ‘angels.’”109 Indeed, Bausani is
in agreement with Corbin when he states, “the Mazdean, instead
of putting to himself the questions: “What is Time? What is
Earth? What is Water?,” asks: “Who is Time? Who is Earth?
Who is Water?”110 Indeed, it is precisely here that the Mazdean
question becomes Who is Fire? rather than What is Fire? As
Bausani notes, “The problem lies in rightly interpreting the verb
is: in which sense are these images of vision what they represent?
Certainly they are not angels in the Biblical and the Qur’anic
sense of mere messengers or servants of God; Corbin compares
them rightly with the dii-angeli of Proclus.”111 This Fire (atar,
adar, atash) in Mazdean texts, as we shall see, is precisely a
divine “person,” an angelic primordial being, who is personified
as the ‘Son’ of Ahura Mazda, and His most Holy Spirit (amesha
spenta). In this precise sense, Fire is not conceived of as a
concept or abstraction, but rather as a “person,” one of the
creative “angelic” cohorts of Mazdean cosmology and cosmogony.
It is crucial to bear in mind this unique mytho-logic operative in
the “style” of the Mazdaic scriptures, throughout this section.
Fire (átar) in the Gáthás plays (both a cosmogonic, as well as)
an important apocalyptico-eschatological role — particularly at
the eschaton or ‘end of time.’112 In Yasna 43:4, it states, “Yes, I
shall (truly) realize Thee to be both brave and virtuous, Wise
One, if Thou shalt help me (now) with the very hand with which
Thou dost hold those rewards Thou shalt give, through the heat
of Thy truth-strong fire, to the deceitful and to the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
truthful…”113 This passage gestures towards the eschatological
function of fire/atar at the end of time. Indeed, Insuler in his
note to this verse relates the rewards which Ahura Mazda will
give through “the heat of Thy truth-strong fire” to “the time of
the final judgment” to the “deceitful and to the truthful,”114
namely to the ashavan and dregvan. This passage is profoundly
significant as it links Truth/Order (asha) with Fire, to which we
shall return to in due course.
In another significant passage of the Gathas, the observation
noted above, namely the reversal of What with Who in
Mazdean mytho-logic, becomes directly evident in relation to
the Fire, “Yes I have already realized thee to be virtuous, wise
lord, when he attended me with good thinking. To his question,
“whom dost thou serve?” I then replied: “Thy fire. As long as I
shall be able, I shall respect that truth is to have a gift of
reverence” (Yasna 43:9).115 Indeed, it is precisely to the question
of “whom do you serve,” that Zoroaster responds, “Thy fire,”
thereby personifying the fire, but also pointing to his
identification with the fire and truth, a unito mystica, with his
own heavenly counterpart or twin. Here again Fire is associated
with Truth/Asha, and is considered to be its visible
manifestation. In Yasna 47:6 it states, “Wise Lord together with
this virtuous spirit [spenta mainyu] Thou shalt give the
distribution of the good to both factions through Thy fire, by
reason of the solidarity of piety and truth. For it shall convert
the many who are seeking.”116 What is important in this passage
is the unmistakable link between the Fire of Ahura Mazda, and
His Virtuous Spirit or Holy Spirit (spenta mainyu); and indeed
the locution “it will convert the many who are seeking,” has
clear messianic overtones, as it is the Fire who will “convert the
many,” at the final judgment.
In the Yasna Hapniahitni (The Yasna of the Seven-Chapters)
which is as old as the Gathas (1000-1500 BCE), the divine Fire is
explicitly identified with Ahura Mazda’s Holy Spirit, “As fire
Thou art a joy to the Wise Lord… as the Most Holy Spirit art
thou a joy to him — for this is thy most efficacious name.”117
Another translation of the same Yasna 36:3 reads:
You are indeed the Fire of the Wise Lord.

Celestial Fire

You are indeed his most bounteous spirit.
We approach you O Fire of the Wise Lord,
With what is the most powerful of your names.118
Here we see that the Fire is identified with Ahura Mazda’s most
Bounteous Spirit, which is variously translated as the Virtuous
Spirit or Holy Spirit (spenta maniyu). It is through this most
powerful of God’s names, Fire (atar), which is synonymous with
the Holy Spirit that the faithful worshiper approaches God. It is
of profound interest here to note that the divine Fire, which is
here referred to as the “Most Powerful of Your Names,” is not
unlike the concept of the Greatest of all names, the shém há
mephorash of Jewish tradition,119 and the Greatest Name of God
(al-ismu’llah al-a’zam) in Islam, and may well have its Mazdean
homologue in the divine Fire. The notion of God’s Greatest
Name or the Most Great Name has a long heritage in the Judeo-
Christian and Islamic traditions and seems to have its ancient
counterpart in the Gathas of Zarathustra regarding the Fire as
the most powerful name of Ahura Mazda. Indeed, it is precisely
in the name Baha’ — termed as ‘the most great name of God’ by
Bahá’u’lláh (al-ismu’llah al-a’zam) — which means at once
glory/light/splendor/beauty that we shall see the very epiphany
and theophany of the divine Fire in Zoroastrianism — a Fire
which is at once ‘the most great name of God’, and the essence
of the symbol of Khvarnah or the Light of Glory. In this precise
sense, it is this Fire typified by the luminous light of the
Khvarnah that shall accompany the Messianic figure, the
Saoshyant, at the eschaton (see below).
In a veritable list of similar passages in the Gathas, the
eschatological appearance of Fire (Atar) and its connection with
Asha may be noted (italics are added for emphasis):
Yasna 34:4 Now, we wish Thy fire, Lord, which possess
strength through truth [asha] and which is the wisest,
forceful thing, to be of clear help to Thy supporter but
of visible harm, with the powers in its hands, to Thy
enemy, Wise One.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Yasna 31:19 This knowing world-healer has listened
[Zarathustra], he who has respected the truth, Lord,
being one who has mastery over his tongue at will for
the true speaking of the (proper) words when the
distribution in the good shall occur to both factions
through Thy bright fire,120 Wise One.
Yasna 46:7 Whom hast Thou appointed as guardian for
me, Wise One, if the deceitful one shall dare to harm
me? Whom other than Thy fire and Thy (good) thinking
through whose actions one has nourished the truth,
Lord?
Yasna 51:9 The satisfaction which Thou shalt give to both
factions through Thy pure fire and molten iron, Wise
One, is to be given as a sign among living beings, in
order to destroy the deceitful and to save the truthful.
In the Younger Avesta, the divine Fire or Atar is personified
with the sublime and theophanic title, the “Son of Ahura
Mazda” (Atars puthra Ahurahe Mazda) (Fire, the Son of God).
Thus we read:
Yasna 2. To Fire, the son of Ahura Mazda. To you, O
Fire, son of Ahura Mazda. With propitiation, for
worship, adoration, propitiation, and praise.
Yasna 2:12 With this libation and Baresman I desire for
this Yasna you, the Asha-sanctified Atar, the Son of
Ahura Mazda, the master of Asha, with all Fires.
Yasna 62: 1. I offer my sacrifice and homage to thee, the
Fire, as a good offering, and an offering with our hail
of salvation, even as an offering of praise with
benedictions, to thee, the Fire, O Ahura Mazda’s son! ...
6. And may’st thou grant me, O Fire, Ahura Mazda’s
Son! that whereby instructors may be (given) me, now
and for evermore, (giving light to me of Heaven) the
best life of the saints, brilliant, all glorious. And may I
have experience of the good reward, and the good

Celestial Fire

renown, and of the long forecasting preparation of the
soul.121
It is evident from the above passages that Fire (atar) is
personified as a “being,” ‘the son of Ahura Mazda,’ who, like
God, is at once the object of love and worship for the faithful.
Fire, is the “most adorable of the most adorable” of the Yazatas,
and considered the primary way and intermediary, by which the
faithful are to draw near the object of their worship, namely
God (Ahura Mazda). This personification of Fire as the Son of
Ahura Mazda is profoundly significant, as it already adumbrates
the coming of the divine Fire as a ‘being’ who is precisely
manifested as Asha (Truth), the messianic figure at the eschaton,
namely the Sayoshant, and not simply an element or an
abstraction symbolizing divine judgment at the end of time.
It is worth mentioning here that the term ‘Son of God’ which
is applied to the Mazdean Fire, may have influenced, early on,
the theophanic title of Jesus as the ‘Son of God’ in the New
Testament, which has no precise precedence in the Jewish
scriptures (i.e., Hebrew Bible).122 Indeed it may be argued that
this title in its Christian context may owe more to the
Zoroastrian heritage of the “Son of God” than to Judaism, for
in all of the Jewish scriptures nowhere can we discover
references to a Messiah, who is at once ‘divine’ and the creator
of the world and is referred to with the epithet ‘Son’ of God.
The great Jewish philosopher Philo of Alexandria (50 CE), calls
the Logos the “Son of God,” and the “only begotten son of
God,”123 and the first manifestation of God, but Philo’s Logos
doctrine does not conceive that the Logos could become
‘embodied’ in a ‘person’ or to be “made flesh.” But, this is
precisely what we discover in Zoroastrianism, namely Fire
personified as the ‘Son of God’ and who shall appear at the end
of time, ‘embodied’ as it were, in the Zoroastrian savior.
The designation ‘Son of God’ and its relation to Fire, the
Holy Spirit, and Truth/Order in Zoroastrianism lend themselves
to a comparative analysis with the lexicon of the New
Testament, which refer to Jesus in similar terms. For instance,
Jesus was asked by Pontus Pilate as to who he was, and he states,
“I am the Truth,” effectively enunciating to be the
“embodiment” or incarnation of Truth, just as the Gathas

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
foretold the embodiment of the Truth in the eschatological final
judgment. In another place, Jesus states, “I am the way, the
truth and the life” (John 14:6), and in another instance turning
to his disciples he states, you shall be baptized by the “Holy
Spirit and by Fire,” thereby equating fire with the Holy Spirit,
precisely as it is found in the Zoroastrian scriptures. Indeed, the
Logos of John 1:1, which appears in the “flesh,” namely Jesus of
Nazareth, is the “Light, which shineth in darkness, but the
darkness comprehendeth not,” again evokes classic Zoroastrian
motifs of light and darkness. The New Testament concept of the
virgin birth of Jesus is likely more related to the Zoroastrian
conception of the virgin birth of the Sayoshant, than to any
references or precedents in the Jewish scriptures (see below).
Indeed this should be of no surprise, as the influence of Iranian
motifs, especially apocalyptic and eschatological motifs, on
Judaism, Buddhism, Christianity, Manichaeism, and Islam, are
well known, and have received general scholarly consensus
among Iranologists.
Now let us see how in the Gathas (and other Zoroastrian
texts), the divine Fire (who is called the Son of God) is
intimately linked with the divine Truth/Order called Asha124
(Avestan, Arta, Asha or Asha Vahishata, Best Truth, Middle
Persian, Urdiwahasht or Urdibehesht, which can also be
translated as Order, Righteousness, cosmic and moral order) and
the ‘Virtuous Spirit’ (Spenta Mainyu) which may also be
translated as the ‘Holy Spirit,’ through which all of creation
comes into being.125 Asha is one of the six Archangelic beings or
Amesha Spentas (Ahura Mazda himself being the seventh —
forming together a divine Heptad), which all have a
corresponding element, “these six Amesha Spentas are also the
archangelic emblem-personification of the primordial elements:
Earth (Spenta Armaiti), Cattle (Vohu Manah), Fire (Asha),
Metals (Khshathra), Water (Haurvatat), Plants (Ameretat).”126
Indeed, as Bausani perceptively points out, these Amesha
Spentas or archangelic beings “are the elements not as allegories
of them, but as living personal symbols, as “Lords of the
Species.” The concept of Ratu, Lord of the Species, is present
everywhere in Mazdaic books. The Lord of the Species
“Woman” is, for instance, the mythico-historical Daena,
‘religion’…”127 Hence, Asha does not only allegorize or

Celestial Fire

symbolize Fire, but is the Fire, insofar as it is its Lord of the
Species. Indeed, it was Suhrawardi who equated the Platonic
Forms with the Zoroastrian Angelic entities (yazatas),128 and
who “designates them the “lords of the species” (arbáb al-anwá’)
(see Harawi, Anváriyyih, pp. 41-42), an expression which
Bahá’u’lláh confirms in a Tablet in which He explains the
meaning of the “active force” [fa’il] mentioned in the Tablet of
Wisdom. In that Tablet, He says: “The intention of the active
force is the lord of the species, and it hath other meanings”
[Áthár-i-Qalam A’lá, vol. 7, p. 113].”129
Indeed, all of the seven Amesha Spentas form together a kind
of unio mystica which is alluded to in Yasht 19:16.
Who are all seven of one thought, who are all seven of
one speech, who are all seven of one deed; whose
thought is the same, whose speech is the same, whose
deed is the same, whose father and commander is the
same, namely, the Maker, Ahura Mazda.130
It is important to note also that in the Gathas the Holy Spirit,
Fire, and Asha are all linked together. As it states, “A person
shall bring to realization the best… according to the single
understanding: the Wise One is the Father of Truth (a⌃a). Wise
Lord, together with this virtuous spirit [spenta maniyu] Thou
shalt give the distribution in the good to both factions through
thy fire” [Yasna 47:2, 6]. It is precisely by the Virtuous Spirit or
Holy Spirit, which is here linked with Asha/Truth, that the Wise
Lord shall distribute good or justice to both factions through
His Fire. This passage is precisely in the context of eschatology,
when Fire will appear and act as a judge through which good or
justice will be distributed to the ashavan or followers of truth,
and to the dregavan or the followers of falsehood. Stanly Insler
in his comments to the translation of the Gathas states, “Fire
was considered to be a manifestation of truth. Therefore
worship of the fire was worship of the truth.”131 Similarly Mary
Boyce states: “Zoroaster … apprehended fire as the creation of
A⌃a Vahi⌃ta (q.v.), and … saw fire as the instrument of God’s
judgment at the Last Day.” Indeed it was to remember this fact
that the prophet Zarathustra states in Yasna 43.9: “At the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
offering made in reverence (to fire) I shall think of truth (a⌃a) to
the utmost of my power.”132
Now let us look further into the Gathas to see if this divine
Truth/Order/Asha which forms with Fire a dualitude or syzygy,
has a conceptual parallel like that of the Primal Fire as the active
agent though whom all creation comes into being (i.e., the
cosmogonic cause), and who will be embodied in the world as a
Saviour, the Saoshyant, in eschatological times (much like the
tablet(s) of Bahá’u’lláh to Zoroastrians). In Gatha 48:6 it states,
“And the Wise One shall increase the plants for her through
Truth [asha], He who is to be Lord at the birth of the foremost
existence.”133 Here the pre-existence and personification of
Asha is described as “He,” “who is to be Lord at the birth of the
foremost existence.” This title ‘Lord of foremost existence’ may
be related to both cosmogony and eschatology, namely to the
notion of Frashegird or the making “brilliant” or “luminous” of
creation at the end of time. Indeed, most scholars have noted
that Asha is part of the creative/cosmogonic principle of Ahura
Mazda, as Boyce puts it succinctly:
As the hypostasis of what should be in the physical
sphere, i.e., order, regularity, A⌃a is present “in the
beginning, at creation,” when Ahura Mazdá fixed the
course of sun, moon and stars (Y. 44.3). It is through
him that Ahura Mazdá made the plants grow (Y. 48.6),
and he has the epithet “world-furthering,” fradá
t.gaétha- [Y. 33.11].
Thus Asha is a pre-existent being that was present “in the
beginning at creation,” and that it is through him that God set
the cosmos in order (i.e., sun, moon, and stars), and that it is
through Asha that things grow (i.e., plants and other existent
things) and have their existence. Indeed, this recalls the Logos
(often translated as Word, which also means Order, or Logic,
and is the conceptual cognate of Asha) in John 1:1, which was
there “in the beginning,” and through whom all things were
created, just as it is with Asha. Furthermore, the cosmogonic
epithet “world-furthering,” fradá t.gaétha” is further testimony
to the eternal creative agency of Asha. Hultgård also in
reference to the above passage in Yasna 44: 3-5 also notes that,

Celestial Fire

“the oldest Avestan texts, the Gathas, pay homage to Ahura
Mazda as father and “creator” of the universe (Y. 44: 3-5; the
word datar meaning here “one who sets [chaos] into order”).”134
What is interesting is that the Avestan word datar, which is one
of the masculine noun r stems literally meaning ‘giver’, is
related to the word atar in the same stem — the adjectival form
of nominative singular atarsh (átar⌃) — which is precisely the
word for fire.135 Indeed here we have an early linguistic relation
of Truth/Order (asha) with Fire.
Now it is in the same important hymn of the Gathas, namely
Yasna 43, that a link is established between Truth/Asha and the
Saoshyant, meaning “He who will bring benefit,” and his
‘embodiment’ on earth at the time of the renovation or
frashegird. Indeed, as Shakad has noted “One of the clear
eschatological terms in the Gáthás is Sao⌃yant, the future
benefactor, a term which may have originally applied to
Zoroaster himself (e.g., Y. 46.3; cf. Boyce, 1975, pp. 234 ff.).136
Yasna 43:16 Therefore, Lord, this Zarathustra chooses
that very spirit of Thine which indeed is the most
virtuous of all, wise one. “May truth [Asha] be
embodied and strong with breath. May there be piety
under the rule of Him who has the appearance of the
sun. May He dispense through His good thinking (each
reward).137
Here the messianic and eschatological hope of the coming of
Asha is clearly stated by the prophet Zarathustra himself, that
“Asha may be embodied” or become ‘flesh’ as it were, and be
“strong with breath,” namely as a living and breathing human
being, who is later identified with the Saoshyant or the savior in
Zoroastrianism. The messianic name, Astvat-ereta, “he who
embodies Asha,” was given to the Saoshyant and developed
from this very last passage of Yasna 43:16. As Boyce states,
Zoroaster’s community held ardently to hope in the
coming of this man [Astvat-ereta], to whom was given
the title Sao⌃yant, “He who will bring benefit,” and
gradually it came to be believed that he would be born
of the seed of Zoroaster himself, miraculously

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
preserved at the bottom of a lake, where it is watched
over by the frava⌃is (see Frawahr) of the just. When
Fra⌃ō.kəәrəәti is near, it is held, a virgin will bathe in this
lake and become with child, and will bear a son, the
Sao⌃yant; and a name was fashioned for him, Astvat-
ereta, “He who embodies righteousness [asha].” This
name is evidently derived, with a small dialect
difference, from Zoroaster’s own words in Y. 43.16:
astvaṱ
a⌃əәm
hyáṱ
“may
righteousness
[asha]
be
embodied.”138
Indeed the Saoshyant, who is entitled Astvat-ereta, will radiate
the luminous and fiery Khvarnah or Light of Glory, which does
not only accompany kings, but prophetic and messianic figures,
including Zoroaster himself. As Boyce further notes:
Astvat-ereta will be accompanied, as his father was
before him, and as all righteous kings and heroes are, by
Xᵛarəәnah, Divine Grace (see Xwarrah), and it is in Ya⌃t
19, which celebrates Xᵛarəәnah, that the extant Avesta
has most to tell of him. There the worshippers declare:
“We sacrifice to the mighty ... kingly Xᵛarəәnah ... which
will accompany the victorious Sao⌃yant ... so that he
may make existence new again, not ageing, not dying,
not decaying” [Yt. 19.88-89].139
Now in the Middle Persian or Pahlavi texts, both cosmogonic
and eschatological functions of the divine Fire are further
elaborated. Indeed, the cosmogonic aspect of the divine and
celestial fire becomes more pronounced in the Pahlavi text
called Bundahi⌃n (Creation), as J. Duchense-Guillemin states,
“In Mazdean orthodoxy when Ohrmazd creates the world, he
produces at first, from Infinite Light, a form of fire, from
which all things are to be born. This form of fire is, “bright,
white, round, and visible from afar…. [emphasis added]”140 This
is the passage of the Bundahi⌃n that Duchense-Guillemin refers
to, “Ohrmazd fashioned forth the form of His creatures from
His own self, from the substance of light — in the form of fire,
bright, white, round, visible afar.”141 Here we have a pre-
existent being in the “form of fire” through which all things are
created and which has a clear cosmogonic function. It is

Celestial Fire

interesting to note that this fire is linked with Ohrmazd himself
and is created from the substance of his own light. Guillemin
points out that another Pahlavi text gives “the name of this
giant body, or form of fire… in the Datistan-i Danik [it is
written]… that ‘Ohrmazd, the Lord of all things, produced from
Infinite Light, a form of fire whose name was that of Ohrmazd
and whose light was that of fire.’”142 In his reflection on this
enigmatic
passage
Duchense-Guillemin
states:
“Ohrmazd
creating a body which is called Ohrmazd — what can be the
meaning of this? It seems to me that everything becomes clear if
we are prepared to consider the phrase as a clumsy adaptation
of a Zurvinite one which said in effect: Zurvan creates Ohrmazd
— not forgetting that in Manichaeism, Ohrmazd is the name of
Cosmic Man, issued from the supreme god Zurvan.”143 But,
though Duchense-Guillemin is correct in his reading that there
seems to be a Zurvinite influence on this otherwise orthodox
Mazdean cosmogony, yet there is an ancient precedent in the
Avesta, in which the “form of fire,” especially the ritual fire, is
conceived symbolically as the “shape” or “body” of Ahura
Mazda. In the Yasna of the Seven Chapters, in Yasna 36: “the
ritual fire is addressed as Ahura Mazda’s most beautiful shape”:
We proclaim, O Wise Lord, That these lights are your
most beautiful shape of shapes, since that highest of the
high was called the sun.144
In another Pahlavi text, the Denkard (Acts of Religion), a
similar cosmogonic function of the Fire is deployed, with clear
Neo-Platonic influences. As Mansour Shaki puts it, “Blending
traditional tenets with Neo-Platonic doctrine, the passage
recounts that the creator first fashions from the Endless Light
the all-embracing form of fire (âsrô-kerp), which emanates two
instruments of equal creative powers: the Spirit of the Power of
the Soul (mênôg î wax⌃ nêrôg) and the Spirit of the Power of
Nature (mênôg î chihr nêrôg).”145 Hence, even in the scheme
presented in the Denkard, which is a mixture of Neo-Platonic
emanationism with traditional Mazdean cosmogony, the “form
of fire” is what brings the process of emanation and hence
creation into being. Just as in Mazdean cosmogony the
luminous divine Fire is at the origin or beginning of creation
and is the means by which creation is existentiated, so also, Fire

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
figures as the quintessential feature of the drama of the end, at
the eschaton, and the renovation (frashegird) of the world.
Indeed, the Pahlavi texts speak of the eschatological appearance
of the Fire at the end of time as a “person” or a human figure.
In the Zatspram or Zadspram we read, “In the end, manifest and
plain, there will be seen by night and in the atmosphere a form
of fire, in the shape of a man, conceived by the spiritual gods,
riding as it were, a fiery horse, and fearful (to behold): and they
shall be freed from doubt.”146 Here a similar “form of fire”
which at the beginning of creation, in pre-existence, brought
forth the creation of all things (cosmogony), appears in the
“shape of a man,” at the end of time (eschatology), as a savior
riding upon a horse. Indeed, this passage recalls the figure of
Logos in the Apocalypse of John riding upon a white horse, and
is evocative of the Oracle of Hystapes, and may have been
influenced by it.
And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and
he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and
in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes
were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many
crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew,
but he himself. And he was clothed with a vesture
dipped in blood: and his name is called “The Word of
God.” [Rev. 19:11-13]
Indeed, the Word of God or Logos in the Apocalypse of
John, whose eyes are like “flames of fire” has clear Zoroastrian
overtones. It is also worth noting that this vision of Christ or
the Word of God is regarding his second appearance or
parousia. In another instance, Hultgård also paraphrases a
portion of Wizidagiha-i Zadspram, stating that, “the great fire
is likened to a huge human figure holding in his hand a tree with
the branches above and the roots below. The branches will take
the righteous and bring them to paradise the roots will seize the
wicked and drop them in hell [WZ 35:40, 44].” Thus, the
symbolism of the “great fire,” “in the shape of a man,” a theos
anthropos, alludes to a messianic figure, a soter or savior, the
Saoshyant, who will come at the end of the Zoroastrian aeon
(age), and through whom the “righteous” will enter paradise and
the “wicked” into hell: a classic motif attributed to Fire as

Celestial Fire

divider of the ashavan and dreagvan at the final judgement, that
as we have seen, goes back to the Gathas themselves. This form
or shape of fire is also mentioned in a Manichaean text in
Middle Persian called Shapuragan in the context of eschatology
and the end of the aeon. It describes in vivid terms the
eschatological Day of Judgment, in which “the Great Fire
ascends to the heavens in the chihr (i.e., shape) of Ohrmazd-
bagh (The Primordial Man).”147 Thus in Mazdaism and
Manichaeism, the heavenly and celestial Fire is visualized as a
sacred person.
In Iranian apocalyptic imaginary there is a sublime
correspondence between the beginning (cosmogony) and the end
(eschatology), as Hultgård has observed: “One cannot
understand
Persian
Apocalypticism
without
taking
into
consideration its context within cosmic history. There is an
inner coherence between the beginning and the end that is
unique to the Iranian worldview.”148 Kreyenbroek also notes this
homology of the beginning with the end in Mazdean thought
stating that, “in Zoroastrian eschatology as it developed since
the time of the Prophet [Zarathustra], the Last Things have
come to mirror the First things [Cosmogony] am lost
completely, although in a compressed form.”149 In his brief
description of the stages of cosmogony in the Pahlavi texts he
states, in the early creation “Fire brings movement” and towards
the “End of Time” “Fire and Molten metal cleanse the
world…”150 In this precise sense, the dialectic of fire and
movement is linked in Zoroastrianism to cosmogony, just as it
is in Bahá’u’lláh’s Persianate tablets. In fact, Kreyenbroek
observes that of the various “elements of eschatology, only the
cleansing flow of molten metal, has no obvious counterpart in
the cosmogony. As it plays an important role in the Gathas, it
seems likely that its presence in Zoroastrian eschatology goes
back directly to Zarathustra’s teaching.”151 It is in this Mazdean
sense that Jesus in the Apocalypse of John states, “I am the First
or the Beginning (alpha) and the Last or the End (omega)” [Rev.
1:17; 2:8; 22:13]. Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh in a similar manner correlates
the beginning with the end, he states, “Know thou that the end
is like unto the beginning. Even as thou dost consider the
beginning, similarly shouldst thou consider the end, and be of
them that truly perceive. Nay, rather consider the beginning as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
the end itself, and so conversely, that thou mayest acquire a
clear perception” [TB 183]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ also states that in all
the great spiritual cycles “the origins and ends are the same”
[BWF 400] Namely that each cycle of divine revelation begins by
the Manifestation of the Primal Will, symbolized here by the
celestial Fire, and ends with its appearance again on the plain of
history. Thus cosmogony mirrors eschatology and vice versa,
and each cycle of the self-revelation and theophany of the
Primal Will, is itself a microcosm of the process of cosmogony.
As it is abundantly clear in the Mazdean context the world
comes into being through the divine Fire and ends by the
coming of Fire, which personified and embodied as the salvific
appearance of Truth/Asha in the form of the Saoshyant, will
radiate the Fire of the divine “Glory,” namely the Khvarnah.
Bahá’u’lláh as the Fire and Light of the Divine
Glory (Khvarnah)
There is a profound correspondence and sublime homology
between Zoroastrianism and the Bahá’í faith152 — these twin
religions of the soil of Iran, “the earth of Light” — which may
be gestured at the outset of this section by an emblematic
episode in the life of Bahá’u’lláh, in which he states to his
prison interrogators in ‘Akka, who upon insisting as to his name
and native home land exclaimed: “My name is Bahá’u’lláh (Light
of God), and my country is Nur (Light).”153 It is here that
Bahá’u’lláh in a sublime hermeneutical turn simultaneously
reveals the spiritual correspondence, the syzygy, between his
heavenly abode, and his earthly homeland, a land which is the
realm of spiritual Light(s) in the pleroma of the world of Lahut,
and which in the sacred topography of this world, and the
coordinates of the world of Nasut (the physical world), is the
land of Iran (often referred to in our texts as mahd-i amr’ullah
or the cradle of the Cause of God), in the province of
Mazandaran called Nur (Light). Indeed, it is in the very name of
Baha’ (Allah) that we shall discover the manifestation of the
divine Fire, not least typified by one of the most sublime
concepts in all of Mazdeanism, namely the Khvarnah.

Celestial Fire

One of the aspects of the divine Fire in Zoroastrianism is the
sublime concept of Khvarnah, the “Divine Glory” or “Light of
Glory,” as Corbin calls it.154 Khvarnah, the Avestan term for
‘Splendour’ or ‘Glory’ (Old Persian farnah, middle Persian
khwarr, new Persian khurrah or farr), is derived from khvar, ‘to
shine, to illuminate’, and was translated into Greek as doxa or
glory. This luminous and radiant glory is not only characteristic
of Yima (Jamshid), the first king in Mazdean mytho-history (and
of Royal light of kingly authority and legitimacy in general),
and Zarathustra as the prophet of God, but also of the future
messianic savior(s), the Saoshyant(s). In iconography, it is
typified by the luminous halo or Aura Gloriae of kings and
priests (such as the relief of Kartir at Naqsh-i Rostam and
Naqsh-i Rajab) in Zoroastrianism, and which influenced the
iconography of Buddhism (the halo behind the head of the
Buddha), Christianity (the halo represented behind Jesus Christ
in paintings and icons), and Islam (represented by both a halo
and flames of fire emanating from behind the head of prophet
Muhammad in miniatures and paintings).
The relation of Khvarnah to the sacred Fire, has often been
noted by various scholars, for example, Jackson states, “the
essence of fire manifests itself in the form of the huvarenah
[khavarnah]…”155 In many of the passages of the Avesta
Khvarnah is a “power of luminous and fiery nature.”156 For
instance it is in Yasht 10:127 that the “‘strong’ (uγra-) xᵛarəәnah-
of the kauui- is identified with a “blazing fire” (átar⌃
yōupa.suxtō) that precedes Mithra in his chariot.”157 Indeed, all
the three great sacred Zoroastrian fires of ancient Iran, namely
“Farnbág, Gu⌃nasp, and Burzén-Mihr,” were thought to be the
visible manifestation of “the divine “Glory of Fire” (Av. atarəә
xvarəәnah-) which is the hypostasis of the power and “glory” in
all fires (see Bd. 18.15).”158 It is in one of the Pahlavi scriptures,
the Revayat, that another link is established between the Fire
and Daena, as it states, “the spirit of Fire itself, will be present
“with the other Ame⌃aspands” to receive the righteous soul at
the Činvat Bridge.”159 Here it is the Fire, like the Daena the
heavenly twin of the soul, who will be the one to receive the
soul of the righteous in its post-mortem heavenly voyage. As
Corbin states, “that is why Daena is also Xvarnah [Khvarnah],
personal Glory and Destiny, and as such is ‘thine Aeon, thine

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Eternity.’”160 Thus, the soul’s archetypal counterpart, its twin, is
at once Daena and Khvarnah, and may be linked to what
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has termed “the heavenly spirit” or the “spirit of
Faith” (ruh-i iman), which may be linked to the concept of
Daena (the Maiden) signifying at once religion, the soul’s
double/twin, and a maiden.161 In his discussion of five types of
spirit Abdu’l-Bahá states, “The fourth degree of spirit is the
heavenly spirit; it is the spirit of faith and the bounty of God; it
comes from the breath of the Holy Spirit, and by the divine
power it becomes the cause of eternal life. It is the power which
makes the earthly man heavenly…” [SAQ 144]
Indeed, as we have seen the celestial Fire is linked to the
radiance of the Zoroastrian savior or Saoshyant, and the flaming
majesty or glory that is Khvarnah, which accompanies all the
Zoroastrian saviors, including Zoroaster himself, and whose
being permeates and radiates the Light of Glory (khvarnah). The
Denkard (Acts of Religion), one of the Pahlavi texts, describes
in mytho-poetic terms the birth of the prophet Zarathustra in
which three days prior to his birth, his mother, Frin, became so
radiant and luminous that the whole village was immersed in
light. The inhabitants thought that a great fire had been set
ablaze and hurriedly evacuated the village. But, upon their
return they came to find a boy full of brilliance had been born.
When the mother of Zarathustra was fifteen, she irradiated light
wherever she moved. The Denkard explains that the sublime
radiance that emanated from her was due to the Khvarnah that
dwelt in her.162 In another Pahlavi text the Zádspram,
“Zoroaster’s xwarrah [Khvarnah] is said to have descended from
heaven and become manifest “in the form of fire” (pad átax⌃
éwénag) at the moment of his birth (5.1, 8.8).”163 The motif of
this supra-natural splendor or light, which accompanied the
birth of Zarathustra, is also evident in Islamic Sira narratives
concerning the birth of Muhammad. According to Ibn Ishaq,
when the mother of prophet Muhammad, Amina, was pregnant
with him, she witnessed in a dream that a light radiated from her
belly to the castles of Syria.164
The dramatic setting of the revelation of prophet Zarathustra
is also characterized by the supra-natural splendour of the
heavenly Fire that radiated upon the mountain where the

Celestial Fire

prophet had retired. The Greek philosopher Dion Chrysostom
of Prusa (d. 112), “mentions the highest peak on which
Zarathustra retired in order to “live in the way that was his
own,” and where a ceremony of ecstasy, invisible to the eyes of
the profane, unfolds in a setting of fire and supernatural
splendor.”165Indeed, this event has its similitude in Bahá’u’lláh’s
own retirement to the mountains of Sulaymaniyyah in Iraqi
Kurdistan (after his epiphanic encounter with the luminous
Maiden (huriyya), the symbol of the Holy Spirit and his own self
or ‘Twin’), where some of his sublime poetical outpourings such
as the qasída-i `izz-i varqaiyya or “the Ode of the Dove” were
penned, at the request of Naqshbandi Sufis, among whom
Bahá’u’lláh lived at the time.
Now, it is precisely in one of the poems of the Baghdad
period (1853-63), penned during his two-year retirement to the
Sulaymaniyyah mountains that Bahá’u’lláh states that he is the
Divine Light of Glory (farr iláhí):
That King, through whose Command the world is
recreated,
From whose breath, Christ’s spirit came to life.
That Divine Light of Glory (farr iláhí), from whose
Decree, the Holy Spirit, is made a humble servant.166
Here Bahá’u’lláh identifies himself, in the third person, with the
Zoroastrian farr iláhí or Divine Light of Glory, and which is
also at once personified and symbolized in his person and name,
Baha’. This is the clearest textual basis for Bahá’u’lláh’s claim to
possess the farr iláhí or the Divine Light of Glory. In fact,
Bahá’u’lláh’s messianic claim to be the appearance of the
Mazdean divine Fire is precisely co-extensive with being the
manifestation of Khvarnah, for as we have seen, Khvarnah is the
victorial Fire, and it is precisely this Fire which will symbolically
radiate from the Zoroastrian savior. Indeed it is in the Arabic
verbal noun Baha’, meaning at once, splendour, glory, radiant
light, and beauty, that the term Khvarnah, Khurrah, farr itself
becomes translated and transferred into Arabic as Baha’. This is
accomplished through the mystical lexicon of Suhrawardi, the
Shaykh al-Ishraq. In this respect the work of this great martyr

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
philosopher of Iran, acts as a spiritual bridge — a chintvat
bridge as it were — between Mazdean and Islamic Iran, to the
Bahá’í faith. It is worth citing an extended passage in Corbin’s
In Iranian Islam, in which he discusses the translation of
Khvarnah as Baha’, in Suhrawardi’s Hikmat al-Ishraq (the
Philosophy of Illumination):
Other terms make as many allusions to these “sources of
the Light of Glory” [Khvarnah] during the course of the
book. As we have stated, the book of Oriental
Theosophy [Hikmat al-Ishraq] begins with a radical
reform of Logic and finishes with a sort of memento of
ecstasy, captured in two lyrical psalms. It is a question
of “wanderings that went knocking on the portal of the
great halls of the Light” and an encounter towards
which “Angels who draw others to the Orient” advance
and pour Water that springs from the “Source of
Beauty” (Yanbû al-bahâ). We already noted above (page
59), that the word Xvarnah [Khvarnah] is translated
exactly by the Arabic bahâ (beauty, flash, splendor).
“Sources of Beauty,” on this page is therefore
equivalent to Yanâbî al-Khurrah, the Sources of the
Light of Glory, from the magnificent account of his
personal confession. The qualification given to the
Angels illustrates even better that, to Suhrawardî’s
mind, Xvarnah and Ishrâq, Light of Glory and Light of
the Orient, Source of Xvarnah and Oriental Source, are
mutually interchangeable terms. Water and Light167 are
traditionally also mutually interchangeable as sources of
Life and Knowledge. We encounter the expressions
“Sources of Life” and “Sources of Light and Life” on
other pages. The Source is itself not an object of
knowledge but that what makes it gush forth [emphasis
added].168
Here, as Corbin observes, the term Khvarnah in Suhrawardi’s
lexicon becomes “translated exactly by the Arabic Baha’,” and
that the “Sources of Beauty” (Yanbu al-Bahá), and the Sources
of the Light of Glory, namely Yanabi al-Khurrah, become
mutually interchangeable terms. In one of the Persianate tablets
of Bahá’u’lláh, he states that by his manifestation, “…the

Celestial Fire

luminous rays of the Imperishable world are resplendent (ishraq)
from the Dawning-place of the Will (mashriq-i iradih) of the
Merciful.”169 That is to say, that through his appearance the
primal Will shines resplendent in the world. Such texts not only
recall Zoroastrian motifs of celestial light and divine radiance,
but at once evoke the mystical lexicon so characteristic of the
school of Ishraq, the illuminationist philosophy of Suhrawardi.
Thus here through the medium of the Suhrawardian corpus, we
have a precise cognate in the translation of the term Khvarnah
into the Arabic Baha’, a translation which is perfectly
exemplified in the very name of Baha’(Allah), who claims to be
the manifestation and theophany of the Mazdean divine Fire,
and he who embodies and radiates the divine Light of Glory, the
“Victorial Fire,” namely the Khvarnah.
In another ingenious turn Bahá’u’lláh mystically alludes to
himself as the embodiment of Khvarnah by evoking one of the
ancient symbols associated with the Light of Glory, namely the
royal Falcon (shah-baz). In the Table to Manakji Sahib
Bahá’u’lláh states:
The Tongue of Wisdom [kherad] proclaimeth: He that
hath Me not is bereft of all things. Turn ye away from
all that is on earth and seek none else but Me. I am the
Sun of Wisdom [aftab-i binesh] and the Ocean of
Knowledge [darya-ye danesh]. I cheer the faint and
revive the dead. I am the guiding Light [roshanaee] that
illumineth the way. I am the royal Falcon [shah-baz] on
the arm of the Almighty. I unfold the drooping wings
of every broken bird and start it on its flight.170
The obvious allusion to the art of falconry notwithstanding,
in this passage to the Zoroastrian literati Manakji Sahib,
Bahá’u’lláh, by referring to himself as the royal Falcon (shah-
baz), is subtly proclaiming to his interlocutor — who
presumably would know the symbolic association of the Falcon
with Khvarnah — that he is the Khvarnah, the divine Light of
Glory.171 Indeed, in Iranian textual and iconographical sources
the falcon is the symbol of the Khvarnah par excellence. In
certain Kushan coins (1-2 CE) the Khvarnah is represented, not
only as a human figure with flames of fire radiating from it, but

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
also as a “bird of prey, whether eagle or falcon.”172 It was in
Yasht 19:34-35 that Khvarnah assumed the form of a bird and
abandoned Yima (Jamshid), as the Yasht states, “…Khvarnah was
seen to depart from him [Yima] in the shape of a bird…
Khvarnah went from shining Yima… in the shape of a hawk
[varegna].”173 Another iconographical source that represents the
Khvarnah is in Persepolis, exemplified by the bird like winged-
disk on the Achaemenid brick-panels, which evokes the
“metamorphosis” of the Khvarnah into a falcon. The term
varegna which has variously been translated as falcon, hawk, or
eagle, may be best rendered into English as falcon. Sodovar
examining many textual and iconographical sources of the
Khvarnah concludes that, “these sources all tend to confirm the
association of flacons — rather than eagles — with the
khvarnah.”174 Finally, in one of the iconographies of the
Khvarnah, in which it is depicted as a falcon, the falcon is
carrying in its claws two pearls (see the Song of the Pearl
above). Indeed, in the Qur’an the maidens of paradise —
huriyya, are likened “unto hidden pearls” [Qur’an 56:23], a symbol
associated at once with the Khvarnah and the Daena (Maiden) in
Zoroastrianism and with the Maid of Heaven in Bahá’u’lláh’s
oeuvre. Thus, in this precise sense, Bahá’u’lláh is the royal
Falcon, which is the Khvarnah and the embodiment of
Khvarnah, the bearer of the Aura Gloriae, the Divine Fire and
Light of Glory: the visible manifestation of the divine and
celestial Fire. It is precisely this Divine Light or Glory that was
to accompany the Saoshyant, the messianic figure of
Zoroastrianism par excellence, who is to appear at the end of
the aeon and shine resplendent with its light.
Incidentally, there is a profound homologue between the
falcon and Símurgh, the fabulous and great “Saéna bird,” which
“derives from Avestan məәrəәγô saênô ‘the bird Saêna’, originally
a raptor, either eagle or falcon, as can be deduced from the
etymologically identical Sanskrit s‚yena‚”175 meaning falcon.
Indeed, the Saéna is conceptualized as a colossal falcon, “which
has its perch on the Tree of All Seeds or of All Healing’ (Yt.
12:17), and which by its great weight and the beating of its
wings breaks the twigs of this tree and scatters its seeds, which
wind and rain then carry over the earth”176 Indeed, in Yasht
14.41 “Vəәrəәthraγna [Wahram/Bahram], the deity of victory,

Celestial Fire

wraps xᵛarnah [Khvarnah]… round the house of the worshipper…
like the great bird Saéna, and as the watery clouds cover the
great mountains, which means that Saéna will bring rain.”177 In
this precise sense, the luminous Khvarnah, the royal Falcon, and
the Símurgh are all symbolically co-extensive with one another.
It is here that in a profound hermeneutical turn, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
states that the mytho-poetic figure of the Símurgh, symbolically
signifies none other than Bahá’u’lláh. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a tablet
to one of the believers who resided in Shemiran, which lies on
the slopes of the Alborz mountain outside the City of Tehran,
states:
But, the change of weather in Shemiran is due to the
Bird of Love in the vicinity of the All-Merciful. That
place is not the dwelling place of birds; it is the
dwelling-place of the ‘Anqa’ of the East, and the nest of
the Símurgh of Mount Qaf. For the Blessed Beauty…
resided for one year during the summer season, in that
pure and fragrant grove…178
In this passage ‘Abdu’l-Bahá at once makes the ‘Anqa’ and the
Símurgh co-terminous,179 and provides a mystical interpretation
of Bahá’u’lláh as the Símurgh, and indicates that the weather of
Shemiran, which was once cold and inhospitable, has become
mild and pleasant, due to Bahá’u’lláh’s presence in that region
for a time. In another tablet ‘Abdu’l-Bahá provides a further
hermeneutical register to the Símurgh and its legendary
dwelling-place on the mystical Mount Qaf in Islamic literature
and Sufi discourse. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to the Báb who was
imprisoned in Chehriq, in Northwestern Iran in the province of
Azarbaijan, and continues to state that “for a time His Holiness
Zoroaster also travelled and sojourned in those regions [i.e.,
Azarbaijan]. And Mount Qaf, which hath been mentioned in
Narrations and Traditions, is none other then Qafqaz [the
Caucasus], and it is the belief of Iranians [i.e., Zoroastrians]
that it is the nest of the Símurgh, and the dwelling place of the
‘Anqa’ of the East.”180 Here, in a unique linguistic turn, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá equates Mount Qaf with the Qaf in the name of Qafqaz
or the Caucasus in the Azarbaijan region of Iran. Indeed,
another profound homologue may be found in the mystical and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
visionary treatises of Suhrawardi, particularly the Persian
treatise, ‘The Símurgh’s Shrill Cry’ (Safír-i Símurgh):
This treatise… is called ‘The Simurgh’s Shrill Cry.’ It
would not be detrimental to recall, by way of an
introductory
preface,
something
of
this
bird’s
conditions and place of habitation. Those who have
been illuminated have shown that every hoopoe that
abandons his nest in springtime and plucks his feathers
with his beak and sets off for Mount Qaf will fall
under the shadow of Mount Qaf within the span of a
thousand years of [the time referred to in the text],
‘one day with thus Lord is as thousand years, of those
which ye compute [Koran, 22:47]. These thousand years,
in the calendar of the People of Reality, are but one
dawning ray from the orient of the Divine Realm
[Mashriq-i Lahut-i Azam]. During this the hoopoe
becomes a Simurgh whose shrill cry awakens those who
are asleep. The Simurgh’s nest is on Mount Qaf. His cry
reaches everyone, but he has few listeners; everyone is
with him, but most are without him.181
Indeed, the description of the Símurgh by Suhrawardi is
consonant with the Bahá’í concept of hiero-history or
“progressive revelation,” in which once about every thousand
years or so, a Manifestation of God (mazhar iláhí), symbolized
here as the Símurgh, appears and inaugurates a new religious
dispensation or spiritual cycle. Now it is also noteworthy that
the last sentence in which Bahá’u’lláh states, “I unfold the
drooping wings of every broken bird and start it on its
flight”(see above), recalls the great mystical epic of Faríd ud-
Dín ‘Attár (c. 1142 — c. 1220) the Conference of the Birds
(Manteq aṭ-Ṭayr), in which the Hoopoe (hudhud)182 leads the
birds upon a spiritual voyage towards the King of the birds, the
Símurgh, where through perhaps one of the greatest mystical
puns in Persian poetics, only thirty birds remain, literally sí
(thirty) morgh (bird[s]), who thereby see themselves mirrored in
the Símurgh. Here the sī-murgh (thirty birds) encounters its own
heavenly double, its twin, in the Sīmurgh. In this precise sense,
the symbolism of ‘Attár’s poetics may be read not as a union of
the soul with the Divine per se (which is a characteristic reading

Celestial Fire

of the dramatic dénouement of the epic), but rather as a subtle
gesture towards the Mazdean motif of the soul’s encounter with
its heavenly twin.
Now just as we have seen with the divine Fire (atar), the
Khvarnah or the Light of Glory, is also endowed with
cosmogonic and eschatological functions in the Zoroastrian
scriptures. In Yasht 19:10 it is written that Ahura Mazda
possesses the Khvarnah in order to “create all the creatures.”183
Corbin refers to the sublime and luminous entity of the
Khvarnah, as an “Energy,” which has been “operative from the
initial instant of the formation of the world until the final act
announced and forecast in the technical term Frsahkart, which
designates the transfiguration to be accomplished at the end of
the Aeon by the Saoshyants or Saviors…” Indeed, in Yasht 19 it
states that it is through the Khvarnah, that “Ahura Mazda has
created the many and good … beautiful, marvelous … creatures,
full of life, resplendent.”184 Thus, it is in such texts as Yasht 19,
dedicated to the Khvarnah, that the cosmogonic function of
this divine Fire of Glory is explicitly confirmed.
Although, the Khvarnah is often related to the sacral
authority of kings and of spiritual and temporal sovereignty, it
is not exclusive to prophets and kings. Human beings are also
endowed with the Khvarnah, and “at the final, eschatological
renovation (frasha), this supernatural light [khvarnah] will
adorn all of them: “the great light appearing as coming forth
from the body will shine continually over the earth… and this
light will be their garment, resplendent, immortal, exempt from
old age.”185 Indeed, according to Bahá’í mystical hermeneutics,
these beings of light, who will accompany the Saoshyant, and
will radiate the Khvarnah or the Light of Glory, are the people
of Baha’ (ahl-i baha), who are the beings of Light, which is
precisely the etymological meaning of Bahá’í: namely the
followers of the Light/Glory or beings of Light/Glory. As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ states:
The Lord of Hosts [i.e., Bahá’u’lláh] hath descended
with the army of lights and angels of heaven [i.e.,
Bahá’ís] and depressed the armies of darkness! He sent
His angels to all directions, with a call of the trumpet
of realities and meanings, instructions and teachings!

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Therefore, O people of the earth, appreciate the
opportunity, in this new century, wherein the lights
have been revealed by the Glorious Lord!”186
Note here the profound Zoroastrian motifs of Light and
Darkness, and the association of the faithful, namely Bahá’ís,
with angelic beings and the army of light. It is these faithful
who are created from the “earth of Light,” namely the earth of
Baha’, and whose being is the ontological co-incidence of their
outer (zahir) and inner (batin) being. This spiritual creation, at
once new and primordial, are the creatures of light foretold in
the Mazdean scriptures, as Corbin sums up a portion of Yasht
19, “the creatures who are to come from the world of light and,
in the form of Saoshyants, renew earthly existence, making it an
existence with the nature of Fire, when all creatures will possess
an incorruptible body of luminous Fire.”187 It is they who are
referred to in the verse by Bahá’u’lláh, “Some know Us and bear
witness, while the majority bear witness, yet know Us not” [TB
13]. This gnosis (‘irfán) of Baha is what distinguishes the faithful
of love, the people of Baha, from the rest who bear witness
outwardly, yet inwardly do not know, for they lack the gnostic
vision bestowed by the “eyes of fire”. Thus it is they who are
created from the radiance of the supernal Light, and from “the
form of Fire made visible” on the plain of history, namely
Bahá’u’lláh, the divine Light of Glory, the embodiment of the
Mazdean Fire and of Khvarnah. In the spiritual hermeneutics of
the Bahá’í textual universe, these beings of light as Saoshyants,
then become symbolized as the people of Baha’, who along with
the savior Saoshyant (i.e., Bahá’u’lláh), will bring about the
spiritual transfiguration and renovation of the cosmos, the
making-brilliant or wonderful of creation (frashegird), which
may be symbolically identified with the Order of Bahá’u’lláh
(nazm-i Baha) and his Wondrous New Order (nazm-i Badi’).
Thus as we have seen throughout this study, the mystico-
messianic hermeneutics of Bahá’u’lláh find their correspondence
and analogue in the conceptual coordinates of the celestial Fire
(atar, adar, atash) in Mazdean scriptures, from the Gathas to the
Palavi texts. The Mazdean heavenly Fire is not only equated
with Truth/Order (asha), but forms with it a syzygy or
dualitude, a bi-unity; and who is therefore represented in the

Celestial Fire

Zoroastrian mytho-logic as a ‘person,’ a ‘being,’ albeit a meta-
physical and meta-temporal being, who is at once the cause of
the existentiation of the cosmos, and who will become
“embodied” or made resplendent in the world as a ‘person,’ and
who is expected to appear at “the end of the millennium” as the
Saoshyant, to make brilliant (frashegird) and radiant all of
creation, precisely through the light and luminosity of his divine
and primordial Fire — a Fire which is intimately and
simultaneously connected to the sublime concept of Khvarnah
or the divine Light of Glory, the Victorial Fire, and with the
person and name of Baha’ (Allah).

NOTES
1 The present study will form a portion of a larger project provisionally
entitled, The Primordial Fire: From Zoroastrianism to the Baha’i Faith. The
completion of this paper was interrupted in 2009, until a brief respite in
the summer of 2012 allowed me the opportunity to finally complete it. I
would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to Kamaran Ekbal and
Moojan Momen for their valuable comments on an earlier draft of this
paper and for their thoughtful editorial suggestions. Finally, I particularly
would like to thank Dr. Iraj Ayman for his kind encouragement and
generous invitation to present an earlier form of this paper at the 2009
‘Irfan Colloquium in Santa Cruz, California.
2 Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity (Bahá’í World Centre, 2006) 68. For the
original Persian, see Yaran-i Parsi: Majmu’ih-i-Alwah-i-Mubarakih Jamal-i
‘Aqdas Abha va Hadrat-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá bi Iftikhar Bahá’íyan-i-Parsi (Bahai
Verlag: Germany, 1998-155 B.E.) 3. All the published tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Zoroastrian believers are collected in this
single volume.
3 Henry Corbin, In Iranian Islam, Vol. 2: Suhrawardi and the Persian
Platonists (English translation by Hugo M.Van Woerkmon, 2003) 81.
Electronically published at http://www.scribd.com/doc/9664772/Henry-
Corbins-In-Iranian-Islam-Vol2. For a critical apperisal of the work of
Corbin, see Steven M. Wasserstrom, Religion After Religion: Gershom
Scholem, Mircea Eliade, and Henry Corbin at Eranos, (Princeton
University Press, Princeton, 1999); also, Vahid Brown, “A Counter-
History of Islam: Ibn ‘Arabi within the Spiritual Topography of Henry
Corbin,” Journal of Ibn Arabi Society, Volume XXXII, Autumn 2002. For
a response to some of the critiques, see Maria E. Subtelny, “History and
Religion: The Fallacy of Metaphysical Questions (A Review Article).”
Iranian Studies: March 2003, 36(1): 91-101. Also, Nile Green, ‘Between
Heidegger and the Hidden Imam: Reflections on Henry Corbin’s

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

Approaches to Mystical Islam’, in M.-R. Djalili, A. Monsutti & A.
Neubauer, Le monde turco-iranien en question, coll. Développements,
Paris, Karthala; Genève, Institut de hautes études internationales et du
développement, 2008, pp. 247-259.
For the significance of Corbin to Babi-Bahá’i studies see, Ismael Velasco,
‘A For the significance of Corbin to Babi-Bahá’i studies see, Ismael
Velasco, ‘A Prolegomenon to the Study of Bábí and Baha’i Scriptures: The
Importance of Henry Corbin to Bábí and Baha’i Studies,’ Baha’i Studies
Review, Vol. 12, 2004.
4 The notion of ‘process’ in Islamic philosophy may be considered to have
originated with the Persian philosopher Sadr al-Din Shirazi (d. 1640),
known as Mulla Sadra, and his notion of essential motion (al-haraka fi’l-
jawhar), often translated as ‘substantial motion’ (al-haraka al-jawhariyya).
This concept was later developed further into a complete process
metaphysics by Shaykh ‘Ahmad al-Ahsai (d.1826), whose profound works
form the immediate conceptual background to Bábí and Baha’i
philosophy. The Sadrian term harakat-i jawhariyya is also often
encountered in the Baha’i writings. See, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Má’idiyi-i Asmání,
`Abdu’l-Hamíd Ishráq Khávarí. (Tehran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 129 B.E)
5:51-2. Also, Fád.il-i-Mázindarání, Amr va Khalq, Vol. 1. (Tehran:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1954-55) 123-4. For a still valuable study of
Sadra’s philosophy, see Fazlur Rhaman, The Philosophy of Mullá Sadrá.
(Albany: State University of New York Press, 1975). On Shaykh ‘Ahmad’s
dynamic metaphysics see, Idris Hamid, The Metaphysics and Cosmology of
Process According to Shaykh ‘Ahmad al-Ahasa’i: Critical Edition,
Translation, and Analysis of Observations of Wisdom (PhD thesis, State
University of New York, Buffalo, 1998). For a brief discussion of Shaykh
Ahmad’s critique of Sadra on this notion see Christain Jambet, The Act of
Being: The Philosophy of Revelation in Mulla Sadra, translated by Jeff
Fort, (New York: Zone Book, MIT Press, 2006) 191-227.
5 Nader Saeidi notes this dialectic core of Baha’i philosophy in his, “A
Dialogue with Marxism,” Circle of Unity, Anthony A. Lee, editor. (Los
Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1984) 235-256. See, also cf. Logos and
Civilization. I shall have occasion to discuss the ancient roots of this
dialectical motif of the Mazdean Fire and its influence on the great pre-
Socratic philosopher Heraclitus, whose writings influenced modern
philosophers such as Hegel, Nietchze, etc. in a seprate chapter.
6 For a short, but useful discussion of the Primal Will, see Keven Brown, “A
Brief Discussion of the Primal Will in the Baha’i Writings,” Baha’i Studies
Bulletin 4:2 (January 1990) 22-27.
7 For the concept of manifestation, see Juan Cole, “The Concept of
Manifestation in the Bahá’í Writings,” Baha’i Studies 9 (1982), pp. 1–38.
Available online: http://bahai-library.com/cole_concept_manifestation.
See also Nader Saiedi, Maẓhariyyat (Doctrine of Manifestation) (Canada:
Persian Institute for Bahá’í Studies, 1995).

Celestial Fire


8 Interestingly, perhaps the only other precedent for this identification with
the Zoroastrian sacred Fire may be found in Manicheanism (See Below).
9 Christopher Buck, “Bahá’u’lláh as Zoroastrian savior,” in Baha’i Studies
Review 8, 1998. Idem, “The Eschatology of Globalization: The Multiple-
Messiahship of Bahá’u’lláh Revisited,” in Studies in Modern Religions, and
Religious Movements and the Bábí-Bahá’í Faiths, ed. Moshe Sharon
(Leiden: Brill, 2004).
10 Aside from Buck’s work, there are several works in Persian that deal with
Bahá’u’lláh as the eschatological expectations of Zoroastrianism, but they
do not discuss Bahá’u’lláh’s claim to be the fulfillment of the messianic
and apocalyptic expectation of the Mazdean Fire. See, Neshat Anwari,
“Bishárat-i Asho Zartusht dar bareh-ye do Zohur-i Akhar al-Zaman,” in
Mahbúb-i ‘Alam [The Beloved of the World] (‘Andalíb Editorial Board,
1992–93) 103-122. See also, ‘Andalíb magazine number 49, pp. 26-31; and
number 83, pp. 74-77.
11 There is one general survey of the symbolism of Fire in Bahá’u’lláh’s
oeuvre, but it contains no references to the Zoroastrian tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh referring to this motif. See Manuchehr Salmanpour, Mafahim-
e Nar dar Athar-i Ha∂rat-i Bahá’u’lláh (The Concept of “Nár” (Fire) in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh), Safínih-yi ‘Irfán 2 (Darmstadt: Asri Jadid
Publishers, 1999) 31-49. Another important Fire symbolism in
Bahá’u’lláh’s oeuvre is related to the mysteries of the Sinaitic episode. See,
Stephen Lambden’s excellent study, “Sinaitic Mysteries: Moses/Sinai
motifs in the Babi/Bahai Writings.”
12 Divan-e Hafiz, ghazal 486. See Meisami, Julie Scott (May, 1985).
“Allegorical Gardens in the Persian Poetic Tradition: Nezami, Rumi,
Hafez.” International Journal of Middle East Studies 17(2), 229-260. It is
interesting to note that Bahá’u’lláh often refers to himself in many of his
writings as the ‘Nightingale’ (Bulbul) and the ‘Rose’ (Gol), evoking classic
tropes and motifs of the Beloved, so often encountered in Persian mystical
and classical poetry, and thereby gesturing towards the messianic
appearance of the Nightigale and the Rose of the mystic lovers (i.e.,
himself). See Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i Bulbul-i Firaq, Athar-i Qalam-i A`la Vol.
4 (Tehran: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1968), pp. 363-367. For a provisional
translation see, Juan R. Cole, Nightingale of Seperation. Available here:
http://www-personal.umich.edu/ jrcole/bahai/nightsep/nightsep.htm
13 For a brief discussion of these two Tablets see, Adib Taherzadeh, The
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 3 (London: George Ronald, 1983) 270-4.
14 These were composed in “pure” Persian at the request of Mánakjí Sa˙ib,
however, many of the other tablets to Zoroastrian believers also contain
Arabic portions.
15 Bahá’u’lláh, Yaran-i Parsi, 3. Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity 68.
16 Provisional translation, Bahá’u’lláh, Yaran-i Parsi 1. All provisional
translations are mine, unless otherwise noted.
17 Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity 8. Bahá’u’lláh Yaran-i Parsi, 21.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

18 For an excellent study of the Zoroastrian motif of Daena and its relation
to the concept of the ‘Maiden’ in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh see, Kamran
Ekbal, “Daena-Den-Din: The Zoroastrian Heritage of the ‘Maid of
Heaven’ in the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh,” Scripture and Revelation (ed.
Moojan Momen), Baha’i Studies Vol III, (George Ronald, Oxford: 1997)
125-169. Idem, Angizeh-i Huriyya ya Daena va Deen va rad payi Mazdisna
dar Lawh-i Mallah al-Quds (The Maid of Heaven and the Tablet of the
Holy Mariner), Safínih-yi ‘Irfán 2 (Darmstadt: Asri Jadid Publishers, 1998)
110-123. Some aspects of the motif of Light from Zoroastrian and
Manechean texts related to the motif of the ‘Maid of Heaven’ is discussed
by Ekbal in pages 142-147. We shall have occasion to discuss further the
motif of the Fire and the Maid of Heaven (huriyya) later (See Below).
19 Manfred Hutter whilst discussing the motif of “progressive revelation” in
the Baha’i faith states, “The idea that there is a succession of prophets and
divine revelations in the history of religions, is not a phenomenon limited
to the Baha’i religion. In the religious history of Iran, it was formulated by
the religious founder, Mani (216 — 277). Bahá’u’lláh himself was hardly
aware of Mani as a representative of a lost religion. Mani’s teachings of a
successive revelation only indirectly influenced Bahá’u’lláh via the
mediation of Islam.” See Manfred Hutter, Handbuch Bahá’í: Geschichte–
Theologie–Gesellschaftsbezug (Stuttgart: Kohlhammer Verlag, 2009) 119.
Hutter’s observations generally seem apt, but I would only add that it was
an Islam tinged with Shi’ite gnosis and bateni elements, which were
influenced by Manichaeism early on.
The term often used for Manicheans in Arabic sources is al-Zindiq’ or
dualists (and more generally has come to mean heresy), and was coined in a
herisiographical context. To my knowledge there is no mention of Mani in
any of the published Baha’i sacred texts. However, since only a small
fraction of the vast corpus of Baha’i scriptures have been published to
date, it is not impossible that such a mention may come to light in the
future. In light of the variety and voluminous questions asked from
Bahá’u’lláh, Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi during their lives, it would be
curious that no one would have asked about Manicheaism and its founder
Mani. However, in an early anti-Bahá’i polemic one of the charges
brought against Bahá’u’lláh was that his religion bore a close resemblence
to that of Mani’s. In Mirza Abu’l Fazl’s monumental apology called al-
Fara’id, this charge is mentioned and refuted in light of the fact that
similar charges were leveld against the prophet Muhammad, who was
similarly accused of having styled his revelation with that of Mani’s. See
Mirza Abu’l-Fadl Gulpaygani’s al- Fará’id (Cairo: Matba’ah Hindiyyah,
1315 A.H./1897) 432-33.
Among the Manicahean relations with Islam, the title of prophet
Muhammad, the ‘Seal of the Prophets or Apostles’ (khatam al-nabiyyin) is
of note (Qur’an 33:40), and is thought to have been a title espoused by
Mani, especially by some “Islamic authors [that] ascribed to Mani the
claim to be the Seal of the Prophets.” Werner Sundermann, “Manichean

Celestial Fire


Eschatology,” Encyclopaedia Iranica, Vol. VIII, Fasc. 6, pp. 569-575;
online at: http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/eschatology-ii (accessed
on 25 August 2012). See also, G. G. Stroumsa, “‘Seal of the Prophets.’ The
Nature of a Manichaean Metaphor,” Jerusalem Studies in Arabic and Islam
7, 1986, pp. 61-74.
20 Mani, Shapuragan, cited in al-Biruni, Kitab al-athar al-baqiya ed. C. E.
Sachau (Leipzig, 1878) 207, also translated by Sachau, The Chronology of
Ancient Nations (London, 1879) 190.
21 Hans-Joachim Klimkeit, Gnosis on the Silk Road: Gnostic Texts from
Central Asia. (New York: HarperCollins Publishers, 1993) 50.
22 Hans-Joachim Klimkeit, Gnosis on the Silk Road 50.
23 Hans-Joachim Klimkeit, Gnosis on the Silk Road 44.
24 Hans-Joachim Klimkeit, Gnosis on the Silk Road 83.
25 Mary Boyce, A Reader in Manichaean Middle Persian and Parthian.
(Leiden: 1977 (Acta Iranica 9a), 10.
26 Ishraq-Khavari Ma’idih-yi Asmani, 4:340. For both the Arabic and Persian
of this tablet, see pp. 335-341; for the translation of Shoghi Effendi, see
Bahá’í Prayers (Wilmette, Illinois, USA: Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1985) 221-
229. For other tablets that employ the motif of the “Youth” by
Bahá’u’lláh, see Lawh-i Ghulam al-Khuld `Abdu’l-Hamid Ishraq-Khavari,
ed., Ayyam-i Tis`ih (Tehran: Mu’assasih-’i Milli-yi Matbu`at-i Amri, 1973)
92-99; for a translation of this tablet, see John Walbridge. “Bahá’u’lláh’s
`Tablet of the Deathless Youth’: Text, Translation, Commentary.”
Translations of Shaykhi, Bábí and Baha’i Texts, Vol. 1, no. 7 (October,
1997), online at http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_lawh_ghulam_khuld.
For the whole motif of the Divine Being or God as a “Youth,” see Josef
van Ess, The Youthful God: Anthropomorphism in Early Islam (Tempe,
Ariz., 1988) 1-20.
Also relevant is Omid Ghaemmaghami’s excellent study, ‘Numinous
Vision, Messianic Encounters: Typological Representations in a Version
of the Prophet’s ˙adíth al-ru’yá and in Visions and Dreams of the Hidden
Imam,’ Dreams and Visions in Islamic Societies, Edited by Alexander D.
Knysh and Özgen Felek (New York: Suny Press, 2012) 51-76. For the motif
of the Youth in the Báb’s oeuvre, see Omid Ghaemmaghami, “A Youth of
Medium Height: The Báb’s Encounter with the Hidden Imam in Tafsír
Súrat al-Kawthar,” in A Most Noble Pattern: Collected Essays on the
Writings of the Báb, Alí Muhammad Shírazí (1819-1850) (Oxford: George
Ronald, 2012) 175-195.
27 Hans-Joachim Klimkeit, Gnosis on the Silk Road 137.
28 Hans-Joachim Klimkeit, Gnosis on the Silk Road 163.
29 For a similar discussion and observation on the Manichaen Maiden of
Light and the Baha’i Maid of Heaven see, Kamran Ekbal, “Daena-Den-
Din.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

30 Geo Widengren, Mani and Manichaeism. Hisotry of Religions Series, trs.
Charles Kessler (New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston 1965) 27.
31 The Paraclete also appears in Bahá’u’lláh’s oeuvre in several hermeneutical
registers, in one of which Bahá’u’lláh is the advent of the Paraclete, see
Stephen Lambden, “Prophecy in the Johannine Farewell Discourse: The
Advents of the Paraclete, Ah.mad, and the Comforter (Mu’azzí),”
Scripture and Revelation (ed. Moojan Momen), Baha’i Studies Vol III,
(George Ronald, Oxford: 1997) 69-124.
32 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of Wisdom (Lawh-i Hikmat) in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh,
148. The words of Mani in the the Kephalaia, cited above, “Thus did the
Paraclete disclose to me all that has been and all that will be,” has a
profound resonance with the words of Bahá’u’lláh in this tablet, “there
will appear before the face of thy Lord in the form of a tablet all that
which hath appeared in the world…” (see above).
33 Widengren states, “In the Syriac Song of the Pearl… the Son-Redeemer is
portrayed as the youth, the young prince. This was the model for the
Manichaean Redeemer in his symbolic aspect of ‘sripling’ or youth”
(emphasis added). Geo Widengren, Mani and Manichaeism 49.
34 We shall have occasion to discuss this motif of the eagle/falcon as related
to the Mazdean Khvarnah (farr) the Light of Glory, and to Bahá’u’lláh’s
own name and his symbolic idenfication as the royal falcon (see below).
35 Geo Widengren, Mani and Manichaeism 12-13.
36 Willis Barnstone and Marvin Meyer The Gnostic Bible: Gostic Texts of
Mystical Wisdom from the Ancient and Medieval Worlds. Edited by
(Boston: New Seeds, 2003) 391. Two older translations of the Song of the
Pearl, one by G.R.S. Mead, and the other by William Wright may be found
on the Gnostic Society Library. Available online:
http://gnosis.org/library/hymnpearl.htm
37 Barnston and Mayer, The Gnostic Bible 392. Mayer and Branston note that
this portion is based on the Greek recension and not the Syriac, f7.
38 Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh 284. For the notion of
the Speaking Book in Shi’ism which is an appellation of the Imams, with a
similar Gnostic heritage, see M. Ayoub, ‘The Speaking Qur’án and the
Silent Qur’án: A Study of the Principles and Development of Imami Shi’i
tafsir,’ in Andrew Rippin (ed.), Approaches to the History of the
Interpretation of the Qur’án, (Oxford: Clarendon, 1988) 177-98.
39 Geo Widengren, Mani and Manichaeism 26. Regarding the motif of the
twin Widengren states, “The designation ‘twin’ is that given to the
celestial double of the deligated prophet. Through the descent of his
heavenly self he is appointed to his apostleship. This line of thought,
originating in Iran, was common to Gnosticism generally and was later to
play a considerable part in Islamic ideas.” Cf. 26.
40 Alessandro Bausani, Religion in Iran: From Zoroaster to Bahá’u’lláh
(Bibliotheca Persica, 2000) 84.

Celestial Fire


41 Dhikru’llah Khadem, The Vision of Shoghi Effendi, 117-18. For instance,
the twin heralds: Shaykh Ahmad Ahsa’i (d. 1242/1826) and Sayyid Kazim
Rashti (d.1259/1843); twin Manifestations: the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh; twin
individual successors: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi; twin institution
of the Administrative Order: the Guardianship and the Universal House of
Justice, etc.
42 Matti Moosa, Extremist Shiites: The Ghulat Sects (New York: Syracuse
University Press, 1988) 332. For an important study of Nusayris, see M. M.
Bar-Asher, and A. Kofsky, The Nußayrí-’Alawí Religion: an Enquiry into its
Theology and Liturgy, (Leiden: Brill, 2002).
43 Citted in Moosa, Extremist Shiites 334.
44 Citted in Moosa, Extremist Shiites 334.
45 On this Pillar or Column of Fire, especially in its Manechean, Shi’i and
Baha’i context see below.
46 For the concept of the Cloud, see Stephen Lambden’s study of ‘ama in the
Babi-Bahá’i writings, ‘An Early Poem of Mirza Husayn ‘Ali Bahá’u’lláh:
The Sprinkling of the Cloud of Unknowing (Rashh-i ‘ama),’ Baha’i Studies
Bulletin 3.2 (1984) 4-114.
47 The Persian word kabood meaning ‘blue’ or dark or deep ‘blue’ is related
to the Hebrew word kavod.
48 A. V. William Jackson, Zoroastrain Studies: The Iranian Religion and
Various Monographs (New York: Columbia University Press, 1928) 57.
49 Though there is some scholarly consensus that there are certain Zoroastrian
“influences” on Judaism, it is important to note that influences were
never one way, and that rather than speaking of “influences,” it is better
to speak of a crossfertelization or symbiosis, which would be a more
accurate characterization of the relationship between Zoroastrainism and
Judaism through out their long history. For an excellent series of scholarly
monographs related to contacts between Iran and Judaism, see the series
edited by Shaul Shaked, Irano-Judaica five volumes (1982- present).
50 See David Flusser’s excellent study, ‘Hystaspes and John of Patmos,’
Irano-Judaica: Studies Relating to Jewish Contacts with Persian Culture
Throughout the Ages, edited by Shaul Shaked, (Jerusalem: Ben-Zvi
Institute for the Study of Jewish Communities in the East, 1982) 12-75.
51 Flusse, ‘Hystaspes and John of Patmos’ 24.
52 Flusse, ‘Hystaspes and John of Patmos’ 26.
53 Flusse, ‘Hystaspes and John of Patmos’ 28.
54 Flusse, ‘Hystaspes and John of Patmos’ 27.
55 Qur’an 24:35
56 The earliest surviving work to cite this hadith is Sharaf al-Dín `Alí al-
Ḥusayní al-Astarábádí al-Najafí (d. ca. 965/1558), Ta’wíl al-áyát al-ẓáhira
fí fa∂á’il al-’itra al-†áhira (Qum: al-Madrasa lil-Imám al-Mahdí,
1407/1987), vol. 2: p. 735, hadith no. 6. The hadith is also cited in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

Mu˙ammad b. Báqir al-Majlisí, Bi˙ár al-anwár (Beirut: Dár I˙yá’ al-Turáth
al-’Arabí, 1403/1983), vol. 24, p. 326, hadith no. 41, though the particle
“qad” is dropped in this version. I am greatful to Omid Ghaemmaghami
for this source and translation.
57 See Mohammad Ali Amir-Moezzi, The Divine Guide in Early Shi’ism (trans.
David Streight, Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994) 40.
Amir-Moezzi does not note the Manichaen parallels of the Column of
Light with the Shi’ite sources.
58 There is a link between these concepts and motifs and the World of
Particles (`alam-i dharr). See Farshid Kazemi, (2009), “Mysteries of Alast:
The Realm of Subtle Entities (`Alam-i dharr) and the Primordial Covenant
in the Bábí–Bahá’í Writings” Baha’i Studies Review 15, pp. 39-66. See also,
Mirca Eliad, “Spirit, Light, and Seed,” Occultism, Witchcraft, and
Cultural Fashions: Essays in Comparative Religion (Chicago: University of
Chicago, 1976) 93-19.
59 Farhad Daftary, The Isma’ilis: Their History and Doctrines (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1992) 296. For a further discussion of the
Manichaen Column of Light in Isma’ilism, see Henry Corbin, Cyclical
Time and Isma’ili Gnosis (London: Kegan Paul International, 1983) 110-
115. For a study of the relationship of Isma’ili philosophical ideas and the
Bábí and Baha’i religions, see Farshid Kazemi, “Early Isma’ili Philosophy
and the Bábi-Bahá’í Religions.” Paper presented at the Irfan Colloquia
Center for Bahá’í Studies: Acuto, Italy. June 28-July 1, 2009.
60 Cited in Annemarie Schimmel, And Muhammad is His Messenger (Chapel
Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1985) 125. In another instance,
Böwering rightly notes Shi‘i influences on these concepts of al-Tustari, “In
his theology, al-Tustarí understood God under the symbol of light (núr) on
the background of the light verse (áyat al-núr, XXIV, 35) and chose the
phrase of “the light of Mu˙ammad” (núr Mu˙ammad) to designate the
primal man and prototypical mystic, apparently in vague association with
logos  speculation and S̲híʿí terminology. In interretation of [Qur’an] II,
30, and LIII, 13-18, he conceived of Mu˙ammad as the column of light
(ʿamúd al-núr) standing in primordial adoration of God, the crystal which
draws the divine light upon itself, absorbs in its core (qalb Mu˙ammad)
and projects it unto humanity in the Qurʾán.” See, Böwering, G. “Sahl al-
Tustarí, Abú Mu˙ammad b. ʿAbd Alláh b. Yúnus b. ʿIsá b. ʿAbd Alláh b.
Rafíʿ.” Encyclopaedia of Islam, Second Edition. Brill, 2010. Brill Online.
Also, see See Gerhard Böwering, The Mystical Vision of Existence in
Classical Islam (Berlin: de Gruyter, 1980). For a discussion of the
Mu˙ammadan Light (nur Mu˙ammadi) in Shi‘ism; see Uri Rubin, ‘Pre-
Existence and Light: Aspects of the Concept of Nur Muhammad,’ Israel
Oriental Studies, 5 (1975) 62-119.
61 Moshe Idel, Ascensions on High in Jewish Mysticism: Pillars, Lines,
Ladders (Budapest: Central European University Press, 2005) 124.

Celestial Fire


62 See Kamran Ekbal, “Daena-Den-Din” 130-131, 144-147. Twelver Shi’i,
Isma’ili, Sufi, and Zoharic parallels of the Column of Light or Glory are
not discussed in Ekbal.
63 Yádnámeh-yi Mesbá˙-i Monír. Edited by Vahid Rafati. (Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlág, 2006) 239. For similar writings on the Green
Island (Jazirat al-Khazra) see ibid, 238-239.
64 Henry Corbin, “Mundus Imaginalis or the Imaginary and the Imaginal” in
Swedenborg and Esoteric Islam. Translated by Leonard Fox. (Pennsylvania,
Swedenborg Foundation, 1995) 28-29. Also available online:
http://hermetic.com/bey/mundus_imaginalis.htm.
Omid Ghaemmaghami presented a paper, “From the Jabulqa of God’s
Power to the Jabulqa of Superstition: The Twelfth Imam in the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’“ at the Irfan Colloquia Bosch Bahá’í
School: Santa Cruz, CA, USA, May 19-23, 2010. Also Cf. “To the Land of
the Promised One: The Green Isle in Akhbari, Shaykhi, Bábí and Baha’i
Topography.” Paper presented at the conference “Messianism and
Normativity in Late Medeivel and Modern Persianate World,” Freie
Universitat, Berlin, 17-18 September 2010. I have not seen either of these
papers.
65 Provisional translation ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Yádnámeh-yi Mesbá˙-i Monír 239.
66 Indeed, in many Islamic traditions (ahadith), both Sunni and Shi’i, the plain
of Acre or ‘Akka (or Akko) was considered to be the site of the
appearance of the messianic figure of Mahdi/Qa’im and the final
apocalyptic cataclysm. In fact, in his text Epistle of the Son of the Wolf,
Bahá’u’lláh alludes to the fulfillment of these traditions of eschatological
expectation regarding ‘Akka (albeit in a mystico-spiritual manner) and
ends his text with a veritable list of them. For some of the sources of these
traditions see, Moojan Momen “‘Akka Traditions (hadith) in the Epistle to
the Son of the Wolf” in Lights of Irfan, Volume 4, pages 167-178. The
Sufi-mystic Muhyi al-Din Ibn al-’Arabi (d. 638/1240) in his monumental
Futuhat al-Makkiyya (Meccan Illuminations) states that after the
apocalyptic battle in ‘Akka, none survives save one of the Mahdi’s
ministers “on the plain of Acre, where Allah will set the divine table [al-
ma’ida al-ilahiyya] for the vultures and lions.” Cited in Jean-Pierre Filiu,
Apocalypse in Islam. Translated by M. B. DeBevoise (Los Angeles:
University of California Press, 2011) 33.
67 Corbin cited in Steven M. Wasserstrom, Religion After Religion: Gershom
Scholem, Mircea Eliade, and Henry Corbin at Eranos, (Princeton
University Press, Princeton, 1999). 31.
68 Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries (Haifa: Baha’i World Centre, 2002)
36-37. Aside from turning the Hidden Imam into an archetypal figure in
this passage, Bahá’u’lláh seems to be deploying a form of taqiyya
(dissimulation) here in his affirmation of the existence of the eponomous
twelfth Imam, the purported “son” of the 11th Imam Hassan al-Askari in
Twelver Shi’ism. In the later writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

there is a progressive, but categorical denial of the existence of this “son,”
the so-called Muhammad al-Mahdi, the Hidden Imam; but the
eschatological hope of a messianic figure who will be born in the future is
not denied, as that role is said to be symbolically fulfilled by the Bab. See
‘Abdu’l-Hamid Ishraq-Khavari Ma’idih-yi Asmani, 8:102; 7:185. Also cf.
Muhadirat (2 vols. in 1, Hofheim-Langenhain: Baha’i-Verlag, 1987) 813. I
am indepted to Kamran Ekbal for the last reference (Muhadirat). On the
denial of the existence of the Twelfth Imam in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh
see, Stephen Lambden’s brief notes, ‘The Babi-Bahá’i Demythologization
of Shi’i Messianism,’ avaliable at http://hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/
03-Biblical-islam-BBst/IMAM12.HTM.
Similarly, Armin Eschraghi presented a paper, ‘Identifying Roots and
Mechanisms of Religious Prejudice: Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings on the 12th
Imám,’ Presented at the Irfan Colloquia Session #83, Center for Bahá’í
Studies: Acuto, Italy, July 3-6, 2008. Unpublished manuscript. On taqiyya
in the writings of the Bab, see Vahid Brown, “Secrets Concealed by
Secrets: Taqiyya as Arcanization in the Autobibliographies of the Bab” in
A Most Noble Pattern: Collected Essays on the Writings of the Bab, ‘Ali
Muhammad Shirazi (1819-1850). Edited by Todd Lawson and Omid
Ghaemmaghami (Oxford: George Ronald, 2011) 88-104. Also see Kamran
Ekbal, “Taqiya iii. Among Bábís and Baha’is,” Encyclopaedia Iranica,
online edition, available at: http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/taqiya-
iii-among-babis-and-Baháis (accessed on 19 August 2012)
69 Mary Boyce, Textual Sources for the Study of Zoroastrianism, ed. and
trans., (Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1984) 58.
70 The Bab, Arabic Bayan, 7:17. Provisional translation by William McCants,
Kashkúl: An Anthology of Shaykhi, Babi, and Baha’i Scripture. Available
online: http://www.kashkul.org/2010/09/20/sun-salutation/
71 Bahá’u’lláh, excerpted in Ma’idih-yi Asmani, 8:104-5. Provisional
transaltion by William McCants, Kashkúl.
72 Abú al-Qásim Alí b. Mu˙ammad b. Alí al-Khazzáz al-Qummí al-Rází,
Kifáyat al-athar fí naßß alá al-a imma al-ithná ashar (Qum: Intishárát-i
Bídár, Ma†ba at al-Khayyám, 1401/1980-1), p. 41. I am greatful to Omid
Ghaemmaghami for locating the source of this hadith.
73 “Tafsir Surat ‘Wa’sh-Shams,’“ in Bahá’u’lláh, Majmu`ih, Sabri ed., p. 11.
ans. Juan R. Cole, “Bahá’u’lláh: Commentary on the Surah of the Sun.”
Originally published in Baha’i Studies Bulletin 4:3-4 (April 1990), pp. 4-
22. Available online: http://personal.umich.edu/ jrcole/shams.htm
74 Cole, Bahá’u’lláh: Commentary on the Surah of the Sun.
75 Bahá’u’lláh Yaran-i Parsi, 19; Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity 3.
76 Provisional translation from Bahá’u’lláh, Yaran-i Parsi, 13.
77 Provisional translation from Yaran-i Parsi, 191.
78 Bahá’u’lláh, Darya-ye Danish. (NSA of the Baha’is of India, 1988) 111.

Celestial Fire


79 Here I had to amend the translation in the Tabernacle of Unity, as it was
missing the important term “True” (haqiqi) for the “Fire” (atash). This is
profoundly significant for our theme, as we shall see below, “truth” and
“fire,” are invariably linked in the Gathas (and other Zoroastrian texts),
and here Bahá’u’lláh significantly links the two together. Indeed, Fire in
the Gathas is called the “truth-strong fire” (See Below).
80 Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity 71-72; Bahá’u’lláh Yaran-i Parsi, 5. This
tablet is also translated by Juan R. Cole titled, “Tablet to the
Zoroastrians,” from Majmu`ih-i Matbu`ih-yi Alvah (Cairo: Sa`adat, 1920/
Wilmette: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1979), pp. 247-251, online at
http://bahai-library.com/bahaullah_lawh_dustan_yazdani
81 This philosophical narrative will not be developed here, as a separate study
is required to do it full justice. I shall fully develop the relevant
conceptual genealogy of the transference of the motif of the Zoroastrian
Fire into early Greek philosophy (pre-Socratic), Arabic
Hermetica/Alchemy and Islamicate philosophy in a separate article.
82 Another hermeneutical register in this passage is the motif of the “heat of
the love of God.” Bahá’u’lláh similarly writes regarding the Prophet
Zarathustra/Zoroaster: “O Bahram! Thou didst ask concerning His
Holiness Zoroaster. Indeed, He came from the presence of God, and He
was responsible for the guidance of the people. The fire of love is set
ablaze by His hand through the Fire of Divine Love, and His Book came
[down] bearing Divine Commandments and Ordinances...” Provisional
translation from Bahá’u’lláh, Yarani Parsi, 54. Bahá’u’lláh is stating that
this primal fire of divine love has again appeared in the world through his
manifestation “with a new radiance and with immeasurable heat.” Here
Bahá’u’lláh’s spiritual hermeneutics (ta’wil) of Zoroaster as the purveyor
of the fire of love through the fire of divine love, has a long heritage in
Persian classical poetry and the so-called ‘Religion of Love’ (mazhab-e
‘ishq). Henry Corbin writes, “This religion of love was and remained the
religion of all the minstrels of Iran and inspired them with the magnificent
ta’wil [spiritual hermeneutics] which supplies a link between the spiritual
Iran of the Sufis and Zoroastrian Iran, for according to this ta’wil the
Prophet of Islam in person proclaims Zarathustra to be the prophet of the
Lord of love; the altar of Fire becomes the symbol of the Living Flame in
the temple of the heart.” See Henry Corbin, Alone with the Alone:
Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn ‘Arabi trans. Ralph Mannheim
(Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1969) 100-101. Also a good
collection of essays is Hafiz and the Religion of Love in Classical Persian
Poetry (International Library of Iranian Studies), edited by Leonard
Lewisohn (London: I. B. Tauris, 2010).
83 See, William W. Malandra, “Gathas, ii. Translations” Encyclopaedia
Iranica, Vol. X, Fasc. 3, pp. 327-330; available online at:
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/gathas-ii-translations
84 Fariduddin Radmehr, Arbáb-i Ḥikmat dar Lawh-i Ḥikmat. (Ontario:
Association for Baha’i Studies in Persian, 2002) 269. Radmehr does not

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

elaborate on this passage, but just cites it in relation to other cosmogonic
passages in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh, particularly those relating to the
Tablet of Wisdom (Lawh-i Hikmat), in which Bahá’u’lláh quotes directly
from portions of the Book of the Secret Creation (Kitab-i Sirr al-Khaliqa)
attributed to Balinus or (pseudo)Appolonius of Tayna.
85 See Christopher Buck, “The Eschatology of Globilization: The Multiple-
Messiahship of Bahá’u’lláh Revisited,” in Studies in Modern Religions, and
Religious Movements and the Bábí-Bahá’í Faiths, ed. Moshe Sharon
(Leiden: Brill, 2004) 148. Buck has dealt in detail with the issue of the
identification of Bahá’u’lláh with Sháh Bahrám who is the messianic figure
developed in late Pahlavi texts. In his paper, Bahá’u’lláh as Zoroastrian
Savior, Buck strives to tackle the dilemma of how such late texts as the
Pahlavi scriptures can purport to prophecy the coming of a messianic
figure called Sháh-Bahrám or Kay Wahram, and then used to legitimate a
prophetic or messianic claim such as that of Bahá’u’lláh’s.
86 See Buck, “Bahá’u’lláh as Zoroastrian savior.” Idem,”The Eschatology of
Globilization.” For Zoroastrian conversions to the Baha’i faith, many of
them based on the acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh as the Zoroastrain savior
Shah Bahram, See Fereydun Vahman, “The Conversion of Zoroastrians to
the Baha’i Faith,” The Baha’is of Iran: Socio-Historical Studies. Edited by
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw and Seena B. Fazl. Routledge Advances in
Middle East and Islamic Studies, vol. 12 (London: Routledge, 2008) pp.
30-48. Also, Susan Stiles Maneck, “Early Zoroastrian conversions to the
Bahá’i Faith in Yazd, Iran,” from Iran East and West: Studies in Bábí and
Baha’i History, vol. 2 (Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1984).
87 Provisional translation from Bahá’u’lláh, Yaran-i Parsi 55. Similarly in
another instance we read: “Know thou, moreover, that We have addressed
to the Magians [Zoroastrians] Our Tablets, and adorned them with Our
Law.... We have revealed in them the essence of all the hints and allusions
(al-rumuz wa al-isharat) contained in their Books. The Lord, verily, is the
Almighty, the All-Knowing.” Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come
76. See the original text in Bahá’u’lláh, Yaran-i Parsi 56.
88 Provisional translation from Bahá’u’lláh, Yaran-i Parsi 58.
89 Shaul Shaked, “Esoteric Trends in Zoroastrianism,” in From Zoroastrian
Iran to Islam: Studies in Religious History and Cultural Contacts (Great
Britain: Ashgate Publishing limited, 1995) 212.
90 Shaked, “Esoteric Trends in Zoroastrianism” 212.
91 Shaked, “Esoteric Trends in Zoroastrianism” 212.
92 In what Sholem terms “Jewish and rabbinic Gnosticism,” two books of the
Hebrew Bible were particularly regarded to contain profound secrets, and
were only to be taught to an initiated few: the Account of Creation
(Ma’aseh Bereshit) in the first chapter of Genesis and the first chapter and
tenth chapter of the book of Ezekiel regarding the mysteries of the Throne
of Glory or the Account of the Chariot (Ma’aseh Merkabah). As it says in
the Talmud, “the story of creation should not be expounded before two
persons, nor the chapter on the Chariot before one person, unless he is a

Celestial Fire


sage and already has an independent understanding of the matter.” See,
Gershom Sholem, Kabbalah, (New York: Meridian, 1978) 12. Interestingly
the very same term ‘raz’ (secret, mystery) used in the Pahlavi texts, is
deployed in these earliest forms of Jewish gnosis, and particularly that of
the Apocalyptic genre, which was in particular related to discussions of
the divine Glory (kavod) and the divine Throne and the mystery of the
eschatological self-revelation of God at the eschaton or “the end times”.
cf. Ibid, 13. Indeed raz is a significant Iranian loan word in Hebrew and
Aramaic and is attested to in the Book of Daniel (Dan. 2:18; 4:9) and in
the Dead Sea Scrolls. For an important study of the contacts and cross-
fertilization between Judaism and Zoroastrianism in this period (3rd — 7th
century CE) see, Jacob Neusner, Judaism, Chrisitianity, and
Zoroastrianism in Talmudic Babylonia, (Atlanta: Brown University, 1990).
Eliot R. Wolfson writes, “Esotericism has informed Jewish spirituality
from ancient times. One thinks of the apocalyptic notion of raz, which
referred to a secret transmitted to select individuals of extraordinary
caliber or pedigree. The secret could relate to history, cosmology, or
eschatology [emphasis added].” See, Eliot R. Wolfson, “Introduction to
Jewish Mysticism and Esotericism.” Available online at
http://cojs.org/cojswiki/Introduction_to_Jewish_Mysticism_and_Esotericism
For Zoroasterian influences on Jewish apocalyptic, see Norman Cohn, and
G. Widengren.
93 Boyce, Textual Sources 18.
94 See Mary Boyce, “Nowruz” Encyclopaedia Iranica, available online at:
www.iranica.com/articles/nowruz-i (accessed on 23 December 2009).
95 John Walbridge, Sacred Acts, Sacred Space, Sacred Time. Baha’i Studies
Volume I. (Oxford: George Ronald 1996) 182.
96 The names of the Badí’ calendar are drawn from the Shí’í dawn prayer
(Du`á Sahar) for the time of the Fast (Ramadán) by the fifth Shí’í Imám,
Muhammad al-Báqir.
97 As Corbin states, “each Mazdean month, as well as the whole year, is the
homologue of the Aeon, the great cycle of the Time-of-long-domination.
The “date” is therefore in this case a hierophanic sign: it heralds the end of
a millennium, the dawn of a new age…” Corbin, Celestial Earth 33.
98 See, Azartash Azarnoosh; Rahim Gholami. “Abjad.” Encyclopaedia
Islamica. Editors-in-Chief: Wilferd Madelung and, Farhad Daftary. Brill
Online, 2013. For a relevant discussion of the abjad system and the word
Baha’, see Franklin Lewis, ‘Overview of the Abjad numerological system,’
online at http://bahai-library.com/lewis_abjad_numerological_system
99 For the Zoroastrian calendar see, Boyce, Textual Sources 18-20.
100 For the Badí’ calendar see, John Walbridge, Sacred Acts 183-194. Nader
Saiedi, Gate of the Heart on the Elements see pp. 67-74, on the Badí’
calendar see p. 75.
101 The oldest reference to the religions own self-designation is mazdayasna
or the worship of Mazda. Throughout this paper I use Zoroastrianism,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

Mazdaism, and Mazdeanism interchangably. Please note that no effort has
been made to standardize the transliteration of Avestan and Middle
Persian terms that are cited from other sources. All cited Avestan and
Middle Persian terms retain their original transliterated forms.
102 Cited in Fatemeh Keshavarz, Recite in the Name of the Red Rose: Poetic
Sacred Making in Twentieth Century Iran (Columbia, University of
California Press: 2006) 36. The interpretation of Firdowsi here is later
repeated and elaborated by the founder of the Iluminasionist (Ishraqhi)
philosophy, Suhrawardi. See, Walbridge. For a brief notice of the so-called
fire-earth controversy in this period, see Bausani 216-217.
103 Mary Boyce, “Áta⌃”. Encyclopaedia Iranica. New York: Mazda Pub.
(2002). pp. 1–5.
104 Prods Oktor Skjærvø, The Spirit of Zoroastrianism (New Haven and
London: Yale University Press, 2011)
105 It is worth noting that in the Yasna Hapniahitni (The Yasna of the Seven-
Chapters), which is as old as the Gathas, Atar is significantly refered to as
one of the Amesha Spentas or Bounteous Immortals, Y 1.2: “the Fire of
Ahura Mazda, who of the Bounteous Imortals has taken his position
most.” See Michael Stausberg, Zorastrian Rituals in Context (Leiden: E.J.
Brill, 2004) 298.
106 William W. Malandra, “Gathas ii: Translations.” Encyclopedia Iranica,
2000. Available online: http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/gathas-ii-
translations
107 Alessandro Bausani, “Pre-Islamic Thought,” in A History of Muslim
Philosophy, Edited and Introduced by M.M. Sharif. Published by Islamic
Philosophy Online: http://www.muslimphilosophy.com/hmp/6.htm
108 Elliot R. Wolfson, A Dream Interpreted Within a Dream (New York:
Zone Books, 2011) 13.
109 Alessandro Bausani, “Pre-Islamic Thought.”
110 Alessandro Bausani, “Pre-Islamic Thought.” See also Bausani, Religion in
Iran 69-70. Also, Henry Corbin, Spiritual Body and Celestial Earth (tr. by
Nancy Pearson, Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1977) 5.
111 Alessandro Bausani, “Pre-Islamic Thought.”
112 The question of the antiquity of Zoroastrian apocalyptic is still debated in
the scholarly literature, but the tide is now turning towards accepting the
antiquity of apocalyptic motifs in the later Pahlavi texts. Indeed, in the
following I argue for the antiquity of the motif of the Fire, which also
appears in the later Pahlavi texts, both in cosmogonic and apocalyptic
contexts. See Boyce, Mary (1984). “On the Antiquity of Zoroastrian
Apocalyptic”. Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies
(London: SOAS) 47/1: 57–75; Touraj Daraee, “Indo-European Elements in
the Zoroastrian Apocalyptic Tradition,” Classical Bulletin, vol. 83, no. 2,
2007, pp. 203-213.

Celestial Fire


113 Stanly Insler, The Gáthás of Zarathustra, (Leiden: E.J. Brill, Atca Iranica I:
1975) 61.
114 Insler, The Gáthás 61.
115 Insler, The Gáthás 63.
116 Insler, The Gáthás 89.
117 Richard Charles Zaehner, The Dawn and Twilight of Zoroastrianism, (New
York: Phenox Press, 2003) 74-75.
118 Stausberg, Zorastrian Rituals in Context 294.
119 Josef van Ess, The Youthful God: Anthropomorphism in Early Islam
(Tempe, Ariz., 1988) 6.
120 Insler states, “at the time of the final judgment.” Insler, The Gáthás 41.
121 Translated by L. H. Mills (from Sacred Books of the East, American ed.
1898). Available online: http://www.avesta.org/yasna/yasna.htm#y54.
122 It is interesting to note here that Bahá’u’lláh himself refers to Jesus as
“the Son of God” (see Shoghi Effendi, World Order 105), thereby
affirming the title ‘Son’ of God as applied in the New Testament to Jesus.
Indeed, according to the heremenutics of the Baha’i writings, the title of
‘Son’ may equally be a reference to the divine reality wh7ich inheres in all
the ‘Manifestations’ (mazahir) of God. Shoghi Effendi states, “It is in a
sense attributable — this kind of Sonship — to all the Prophets.” (Shoghi
Effendi, Lights of Guidance, p 372). In another similar passage Shoghi
Effendi states, “As far as their spiritual nature is concerned all Prophets
can be regarded as Sons of God...” (See Lights of Guidance 491). Thus,
according to this hermeneutic the title “Son of God,” which is at once the
title of the Mazdean Fire and of Jesus, in so far as it refers to the
dimension of the Logos in all the Prophets, all of them, including
Bahá’u’lláh, may be designated with the theophanic title the ‘Son of God.’
See Lights of Guidance 491).
123 Marian Hillar, “The Logos and Its Function in the Writings of Philo of
Alexandria: Greek Interpretation of the Hebrew Myth and the Foundation
of Christianity,” A Journal from The Radical Reformation. A Testimony
to Biblical Unitarianism, Vol. 7, No. 3 Spring 1998, Part I pp. 22-37; Vol.
7, No. 4 Summer 1998, Part II pp. 36-53. Available online:
http://www.socinian.org/philo.html
124 For an important study of the relation of Asha and Fire see, H. Lommel,
“Symbolik der Elemente in der zoroastrischen Religion,” in Zarathustra,
ed. B. (Schlerath, Darmstadt, 1976) 266-69.
125 The Avasten word Arta is related to the word R†a in Vedic Sanskrit which
means Order, Truth, Right, etc. In English — itself an Indo-European
language — the word ‘right’ is related to the Vedic r†a and to the Avesten
arta.
126 Alessandro Bausani, “Pre-Islamic Thought.”
127 Alessandro Bausani, “Pre-Islamic Thought.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

128 See John Walbridge, The Wisdom of the Mystic East: Suhrawardi and
Platonic Orientalism. (New York: State University of New York Press,
2001) 62-63.
129 See Keven Brown. “Creation.” The Bahá’í Encyclopedia. Available online:
http://users.sisqtel.net/kevenbrown/creation.html.
130 Translated by James Darmesteter (From Sacred Books of the East,
American Edition, 1898.) Edited by Joseph H. Peterson, 1995. Available
online: http://www.avesta.org/ka/yt19sbe.htm
131 Insler, The Gáthás 63.
132 Boyce, Mary (1987), “Ardwashi⌃t,” Encyclopedia Iranica, 2, (New York:
Routledge & Kegan Paul) 389-390. Available online: Encyclopedia Iranica
at http://www.iranica.com
133 Insler, The Gáthás 91.
134 Hultgård, “Persian Apocalypticism” 44.
135 Robert S. P. Beekes, A Grammer of Gatha-Avestan, (The Netherlands: E. J.
Brill, Leiden: 1988) 122-124.
136 Shaul Shakad, Eschatology Iranica.
137 Insler, The Gáthás 65.
138 Mary Boyce, “Astvat-ereta,” in Encyclopedia Iranica 1987. Available
Online: http://www.iranica.com
139 Mary Boyce, “Astvat-ereta.”
140 J. Duchense-Guillemin, Cambridge History of Iran vol. 3(2), edited by
Ehsan Yarshater, 899-900.
141 Boyce, Textual Souces for the Study of Zoroastrianism 47.
142 Duchense-Guillemin, Cambridge History of Iran vol. 3(2), 899-900.
143 Duchense-Guillemin Cambridge History of Iran vol. 3(2), 900.
144 Stausberg, Zorastrian Rituals in Context 29.
145 Mansour Shaki, “Elements, i. In Zoroastrianism.” Encyclopedia Iranica,
Vol. VIII, Fasc. 4, pp. 357-360; available online at:
http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/elements (accessed on 23 November
2009).
146 R.C. Zaehner, Zurvan: A Zoroastrian Dilemma (New York : Biblo and
Tannen, 1972). 133.
147 Abolala Soudavar, The Aura of Kings: Legitimacy and Divine Sanction in
Iranian Kingship. Bibliotheca Iranica, Intellectual Traditions Series, No.
10. (Costa Mesa, Mazda Publishers, 2003) 44.
148 Anders Hultgård, “Persian Apocalypticism,” The Encyclopedia of
Apocalypticism: The Origins of Apocalypticism in Judaism and
Christianity, (London: Continium Publishing: 2000) 44.
149 Philip G. Kreyenbroek, “Millennialism and Eschatology in the Zoroastrian
Tradition,” in Imagining the End: Visions of Apocalypse from the Ancient

Celestial Fire


Middle East to Modern America, ed. Abbas Amanat and Magnus
Bernhardsson (New York: I.B. Tauris, 2002) 47.
150 Kreyenbroek, “Millennialism and Eschatology in the Zoroastrian
Tradition” 47.
151 Kreyenbroek, “Millennialism and Eschatology in the Zoroastrian
Tradition” 47.
152 The relation of the Baha’i faith to the spiritual universe of Iran,
particularly to Zoroastrianism, Manichaenism, and to a Gnostic mode of
thought peculiar to Iran, has seldom been noted by scholars. One of the
few exceptions is the excellent study by the Italian Islamicist and
Iranolgist Alessandro Bausani, namely his magisterial Religion in Iran:
From Zoroaster to Bahá’u’lláh. The general historical trajectory and
continuity of the spiritual universe of Iran, masterfully discussed in
Bausani’s work, must be kept in mind throughout this study. Other
relevant works are Kathryn Babayan’s, Mystics, Monarchs and Messiahs:
Cultural Landscapes of Early Modern Iran (Cambridge: Harvard Middle
Eastern Monographs, 2002) especially the epilogue; also relevant is
Patricia Crone’s, The Nativist Prophets of Early Islamic Iran: Rural Revolt
and Local Zoroastrianism (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012).
153 Hasan Balyuzi, Bahá’u’lláh: the King of Glory (Oxford: George Ronald,
1980) 330.
154 Corbin, Spiritual Body 13.
155 Jackson, Zoroastrian Studies157.
156 G. Gnoli, “Farr(ah)/ xᵛarəәnah,” Encyclopaedia Iranica, IX, 1999, pp. 312-
19, also available at www.iranicaonline.org/articles/farrah. On the
Khvarnah see further, Bailey, H. W. Zoroastrian Problems in the Ninth-
Century Books (1943). Oxford, 1971. 1-77. Gnoli, Gherardo. “Über das
iranische hṵarnah-: lautliche, morphologische und etymologische Probleme.
Zum Stand der Forschung.” Altorientalische Forschungen 23 (1996): 171–
180. Gnoli, Gherardo. “Nuove note sullo hṵarnah-.” In Oriente e
Occidente. Convegno in memoria di Mario Bussagli, edited by Chiara Silvi
Antonini, Bianca Maria Alfieri and Arcangela Santoro, pp. 104–108.
Rome, 2002. Cf. Duchesne-Guillemin, Jacques. “Le ‘Xaͮrenah.’“ Annali
dell’Istituto Universitario Orientale di Napoli, Sezione Linguistica, 5
(1963): 19–31. Lubotsky, Alexander (1998), “Avestan xᵛarəәnah-: the
etymology and concept,” in Meid, W., Sprache und Kultur. Akten der X.
Fachtagung der Indogermanischen Gesellschaft Innsbruck, 22.-28.
September 1996, Innsbruck: IBS, pp. 479–488.
157 G. Gnoli, “Farr(ah),” online at www.iranicaonline.org/articles/farrah.
158 Mary Boyce, “ dur Farnbág.” Encyclopaedia Iranica, Vol. I, Fasc. 5, pp.
473-475; an updated version is available online at
http://www.iranicaonline.org (accessed online at 20 June 2009).
159 Boyce, “dur Farnbág.”
160 Corbin, Spiritual Body 45.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

161 Bausani, Religion in Iran 53.
162 Mirca Eliad, “Spirit, Light, and Seed,” Occultism, Witchcraft, and
Cultural Fashions: Essays in Comparative Religion (Chicago: University of
Chicago, 1976) 103.
163 G. Gnoli, “Farr(ah)/ x ar nah.”
164 Ibn Kathir, al-Sīra al-Nabawiyya (The Life of the Prophet Muhammad)
Vol. I. tr. Trevor Le Gassick (Reading, UK: Garnet Publishing, 1998) 232. I
owe this reference to Kamran Ekbal.
165 Corbin, Spiritual Body 35.
166 Provisional translation from Ishraq-Khavari, Ma’idih 4:191-2. No
scholarly sources have as yet established a link between Khvarnah and the
term Baha’. Ekbal and Lambden in their respective works have made some
remarks that the name Baha is related to Khvarnah, but without
establishing this link or providing any textual basis in which Bahá’u’lláh
claims to be the possessor of Khavarnah or farr. They do not show for
instance that Bahá’u’lláh himself has made this link, nor do they link the
divine Fire with Khavarnah and thereby connect it to Bahá’u’lláh’s
pronouncements. See, Lambden, Stephen, `The word Baha, Quintessence
of the Greatest Name of God’ in Baha’i Studies Review 3:1 (1993). Also,
Kamran Ekbal, “Daena-Den-Din: The Zoroastrian Heritage of the ‘Maid
of Heaven’ in the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh,” Scripture and Revelation (ed.
Moojan Momen), Baha’i Studies Vol III, (George Ronald, Oxford: 1997).
167 Note also the Water and Light imagery associated with the Primal Will in
Bahá’u’lláh’s Zoroastrian tablets discussed above (see above).
168 Henry Corbin, In Iranian Islam, Vol. 2: Suhrawardi and the Persian
Platonists (English translation by Hugo M.Van Woerkmon, 2003) 65.
Corbin specifically avails himself of H. W. Bailey’s excellent work in this
respect, on the translation of Khvarnah into Baha’. See especially, pp. 27,
48, 62, 63, 75 in H. W. Bailey, Zoroastrian Problems in the Ninth-Century
Books (Oxford 1971).
169 Another translation in Tabernacle of Unity 75.
170 Yaran Parsi 31; Tablets 164-71; Tabernacle of unity 9.
171 Note here Bahá’u’lláh’s self-identifcation with Light, which precisely
precedes his symbolic proclamation to be the royal Falcon.
172 G. Gnoli, “Farr(ah)/ x ar nah.”
173 Mary Boyce, Textual Sources 30.
174 Abolala Soudavar, The Aura of Kings: Legitimacy and Divine Sanction in
Iranian Kingship. Bibliotheca Iranica, Intellectual Traditions Series, No.
10. (Costa Mesa, Mazda Publishers, 2003) 22.
175 Hanns-Peter Schmid, “Símorg,” Encyclopaedia Iranica, 2012, available at:
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/simorg (accessed at 15 August 2010).
176 Boyce, A History 88–89.
177 Hanns-Peter Schmid, “Símorg.”

Celestial Fire


178 Muntakhabati-az Makatib-i-Hadrat-i-’Abdu’l-Bahá, Hofheim-Langenhain:
Bahá’í-Verlag, 2000, vol. 4:15. There are several other hermenutical
registers for the Símurgh in the Baha’i textual corpus.
179 In an early work of the Andalusian mystic Ibn al-ʿArabī, the 'Anqa – often
translated as the phoenix – is symbolically associated with the messianic
figure of the Mahdi, and the Seal of the Saints. See, Gerald T. Elmore,
Islamic Sainthood in the Fullness of Time: Ibn al-ʿArabī’s Book of the
Fabulous Gryphon, Leiden and Boston, 1999. Also, Gerald T. Elmore, The
"Millennial" Motif in Ibn al-ʿArabī's "Book of the Fabulous Gryphon." In
The Journal of Religion, Vol. 81, No. 3, (Jul., 2001), pp. 410-437. For a
general overview of 'Anqa in Islamic  sources, see Pellat, Ch. "ʿAnḳāʾ."
Encyclopaedia of Islam, Leiden-London, 1960.
180 Asadu’llah Fadil Mazandarani, Amr va Khalq, repr. 4 vols. in 2, Hofheim-
Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1985, 2:69.
181 W.M. Thackston, The Mystical and Visionary Treatises of Shihabuddin
Yahya Suhrawardi (London: Octagon Press, 1982) 88; Majmú’a-yi
Musannafát-i Shaykh-i Ishraq: Œuvres Philosophiques et Mystiques. ed.
Nasr & Corbin . Tome III. Œuvres en Persan. Tehran & Paris, 1970, pp.
314-15.
182 It is worth mentioning here one of the hermeneutics of the hoopoe
(hudud) in Qur’an 27:20-22, noted in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s verbal discourses,
“The Hoopoe (hudud) was a person that Solomon would send as a
messenger. He attained to the apex of fame. He was a lowely bird, but
became a renowned and mighty Símurgh.” See, Ishraq-Khavari Ma’idih-yi
Asmani, 2:208.
183 Cited in Mirca Eliad, “Spirit, Light, and Seed” 104.
184 Henry Corbin, Spiritual Body 13.
185 Zatspram, cited in Mirca Eliade, “Spirit, Light, and Seed” 104.
186 Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdu’l-Bahá Volume II 288.
187 Henry Corbin, Spiritual Body 45.

“These Four States Conferred Upon Thee”1
Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy, Theology,
and Psychology
Wolfgang Klebel
Introduction
In this paper the attempt is made to understand reality in a
new way, a way that is forward thinking and following the
evolution of the human ability to understand, to reason.
Consequently, the evolution of human thinking will be part of
the investigation of this study, and it will start with new ideas in
philosophy, will then transcend them by including theological
statements and will finally apply findings of this process to
studies in psychology. It is not accidental that the writer had
first a complete philosophical and theological education and
then became clinical psychologists, which today is still his
professional practice.
How real is reality, is the first question studied here.2 If
reality is real, how can we understand reality, is the other
question. Several things seem to be clear. Humankind was
always trying to find an answer to these questions, and the
answer changed from century to century, from epoch to epoch.
What is intended here is not to find a final answer, but to find
an answer that is valid today, or, to attempt such an answer and
to get a step further in this quest for a solution. It is clear, on
the other hand, that there will never be a final answer. The
question remains unanswered in some sense, no matter how
often an answer is found, how often the search has started
again. Considering this, any answer to this final question about
reality is temporary and transient, yet, the search is necessary

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
and all the answers found are of highest importance for human
self-understanding and for the understanding of reality.
Anticipating the second theological part of this paper, it can
be stated that it is a theological contention, as presented in the
Bahá’í principal of progressive revelation, that every new
revelation
to
mankind
has
fundamentally
changed
the
understanding of reality, as it is predicted in the Bible in the
book of Revelation that a new heaven and a news earth will
appear with the return of Christ. This was interpreted in the
Bahá’í Writings as the new heaven standing for the new
revelation and the new earth being the new understanding of
this revelation, establishing a new understanding of reality.
The next thing to consider is where such an answer can be
found. Looking at the history of investigating this question,
which could be called the history of ontology, it is established
that answers come from different searches, from different fields
of exploration. Philosophy comes first to mind; it is the
discipline where ontology is usually studied. Next might be
physics, considering the outside world of man; followed by
psychology, exploring the inside world of humanity, and this
includes epistemology since man is the one who understands.
The answers given by the religions of the world is found in their
theology, which seems to be the answer that reaches the farthest
into the question, because it includes God; it reaches towards an
understanding of the ultimate; no matter, how tangential, or
even how opposing this search might necessarily appear.
Another issue of this quest is the fact that answers of such
depth are never found by a single person, they usually present
themselves in the work of many, of a whole generation of
thinkers. Therefore, any answer searched for and found in this
paper will start with some thinkers, other than this writer, and
these answers are developed throughout history, mainly the
history of the last two centuries. The focus on the last two
centuries is taken, because the assumption can be made that the
development of thinking has reached a critical phase during
these centuries and might well find a conclusion, albeit a
transitory one; yet, these answers could be decisive and showing
the way into the future. What will be shown below is the fact

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

that any deficient or wrong answer to these questions can, and
has had, devastating consequences for all of humankind.
Hermeneutic Circle of Understanding
This paper is presented with a concern because the terms used
in this paper have a specific meaning and could be
misunderstood if not placed in the right context. The idea of
the hermeneutic circle3 presents us with the solution to this
problem. The “Oxford Guide to Philosophy” describes the
hermeneutic circle with the following words:
A term often used by philosophers in the (mainly
continental) tradition running from Schleiermacher and
Dilthey to Heidegger, Gadamer, and Ricoeur. It has to
do with the inherent circularity of all understanding, or
the fact that comprehension can only come about
through a tacit foreknowledge that alerts us to salient
features of the text which would otherwise escape
notice.4
In this understanding the parts have to be understood from the
whole and the whole from the parts. In other words, any word,
any idea must be seen in the light of the whole presentation and
not abstracted from it, which would, often enough, lead to
misunderstandings, sometimes even to the opposite meaning as
indented by the original writer.
Explaining this circle of understanding an example might be
introduced here and it is critical for the understanding of this
paper. The term “progressive” and “progress” is such a
shimmering concept that can mean different things in different
contexts as used by different writers, especially if the meaning
expressed are based on different philosophical and sociological
assumptions.
In
present
day
politics
and
sociological
descriptions of every day events, the word progressive is usually
used to contrast a forward looking attitude versus a backward
looking approach to political and social actions.
Today’s Progressives claim that they present the future, yet
often enough they indicate by this adjective their move from

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
individualism to collectivism, often enough understood as
collectivism in a Marxist or socialistic fashion, where the state
or the government is the solution to all problems, while
individual effort and achievement is seen as a misguided and
often evil intention. The historical context to this assumption is
ironic. Karl Marx, in his materialistic point of view, where
every progress is based on the economic structure of society,
stated in the Communist Manifesto that the “free development
of each is the condition for the free development of all”.5
Yet, in all countries where his ideas became the guiding
philosophy of the government the diametrical opposite
happened, the freedom of the individual was forcefully
suppressed by an overpowering state that used terror tactics to
enforce this ideology. The so-called progresses lead from
extreme liberalism and capitalism to communism, both the
extreme positions in this philosophical polarity, both causing
devastation and backwardness, lack of progress and rigid social
structures that eventually collapsed in the Soviet Union, or had
to be drastically changed in post-Mao China.
When the word progressive is used in this paper and by this
author it is used in the context of the Bahá’í Writings about
Progressive Revelation, indicating a progress to an ever higher
level of reality, or as stated by Bahá’u’lláh that All men have
been created to carry forward an ever-advancing civilization
[GWB 214]. This advancement of civilization, directs society
towards what Teilhard de Chardin called the point Omega or the
Noosphere. That most of the writings of Teilhard are consonant
with the Bahá’í Writings in this and other points was
demonstrated by this author in a previous paper in the Lights of
Irfan.6
The term progressive in this paper needs to be understood
not as going from individualism to state collectivism, as modern
“progressives” would have it, but from a development of the
polarity between the individual and the collective, in which both
poles are protected and enhanced. This will lead progressively
forwards to an ever higher and advanced society. Whenever a
concept is presented it has to be understood in the horizon of
the writer and then placed into the horizon of the reader as
Gadamer7 has explained.

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

Tetrarchic Understanding of Reality
Considering that answers reaching into the depth of being are
complex, are transcending simple logic or straight forward
logical thinking, the process of thinking about such answers
needs to be explored as well. With this thought, we come to the
special aspect of this study, the fact that answers presented in
this paper are called tetrarchic. This is a Greek word from
history, “tetras” meaning four and “arche” meaning beginning,
principle, prince or ruler. While the historical use of this word
was describing a single country governed by four rulers, who
were called tetrarchs,8 in this writing its meaning is drawn back
to the original meaning of the words tetras and arche, indicating
an idea or a reality that is based on four principles, or is
emerging from four beginnings. This emerging is best expressed
by the German word “Ursprung,” meaning springing or leaping
forth from the beginning, like water welling up from a spring,
or emerging from a fountain.
Reality, as it is understood here, and the understanding of
reality as well, emerges always from four principles, from four
origins or beginnings. To see this, to perceive such a process
takes a special way of understanding; it takes what we call
vision, to recognize reality in this way and a whole section will
be dedicated to this aspect of epistemology in order to clarify
how to see reality and why it is not always seen that way.
Another thought that will be developed is the fact that these
four principles are organized as two pairs of opposites, which
subsequently are combined into four unified quadrants.
Consequently, we understand that any tetrarchic unity is created
from its parts. In a reverse way it must also be said that the
whole creates the parts. The parts in the whole are assuming
different functions contributing to the whole, and are doing
that only because they are unified in the whole, therefore, it is a
unity in the diversity of its parts. This will then be explained as
the structure of reality of the cosmos, of all living beings and
first and foremost of humanity. It will, as well, best describe
the way of thinking about this very reality.
The central theme of this paper is dominated by the
consideration that the world is changing and developing, i.e., is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
in process of evolution and has to be seen in new ways in order
to be understood. This has to be kept in mind, so that further
changes and developments can be anticipated.
Philosophy
“Gegensatz,” or Polar Oppositeness: Romano Guardini
In this chapter, the focus is upon the philosophical issue of
the reality “as it really is” and not as it can be logically
described. There is, quite definitely, a difference of how we
think logically about reality and how reality really is.
Throughout history, as will be described later, the view of
reality has changed over time, now we are concerned about
today’s view, how do we have to understand, how do we have to
think in order to understand our world. Every historical epoch
has different paradigms to understand itself and its world;
therefore, it is important to think with new understanding
especially in a time as ours, where changes in thinking, changes
in science and technology, changes in everyday life occur almost
daily.
There are two thinkers, among many that will be focused
upon, who have changed thinking about reality, who see the
world not as a simplistic mechanistic structure, like a machine,
but look at the world from the point of view of life and
development of life, they ask the question what do we see when
we look at the world, at the human condition?
Guardini’s Gegensatz or Oppositeness of Reality
The first concept we consider is the concept of
“Oppositeness,” “Opposites” or “Polar Opposites.”9 These
words are chosen to stand for the German word “Gegensatz.”
This word means that something is set against some other thing,
it is opposed to it, at least in some ways, and it is united with
the other concept as well. It is important to see these opposites
as forming a unity; in other words, the unity experienced when
considering life forms, is always a unity that is build and formed
from opposites, these opposites are opposites because they

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

form a unity and the unity is only possible as unity, because
there are opposites united, consequently neither unity nor
opposites can be conceived without each other. Guardini
expressed this when saying (translation by this writer):
Life consists in unified opposites; in a Unity
constructed from opposites. We experience life as
existing and functioning in opposites and as unfolding
in that way.… Everything has its Opposite in itself, so
that one is in the other, or even better, one is through
the other.10
When saying that in this polar relationship one is in the other
or through the other, it is stated that “one” cannot be thought
of without the “other”. Then the question arises of what is prior
or more valuable, the whole or the parts, the unity or the
opposite parts constituting the unity. If one is through the
other, this question is moot: both in their special ways are first
or originating the other and both are originated by the other. In
other words, the whole is constituted through the parts and the
parts are constituted as parts only if they are forming a whole.
That thought includes the consideration that the parts, now
forming a whole function different than before and the whole
by being a whole of parts is different than the mere aggregation
of parts, not forming a whole.
A simple example will explain that and it can be applied to all
reality. In the chemical molecule water, when separated, the
same atoms form gases, when combined they are a liquid at
normal temperature with totally different attributes and
function. When atoms form a molecule, they are still the same
and when the molecules falls apart, the atoms have not changed,
yet, when combined in the molecule, i.e., when these parts form
a whole they will function differently and appear differently,
have different manifestations and react differently with other
atoms and molecules. For example a water molecule contains
one oxygen and two hydrogen atoms connected by covalent
bonds. Water is a liquid at ambient conditions.
Logically, this problem cannot be solved. This was known
already by Plato, who in his Dialogue “Parmenides” let
Parmenides talk with Socrates and they are not finding a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
solution of the problem of the one and its parts. The questions
are asked by Parmenides; Socrates gives the laconic answers in
this dialogue.
Then the one cannot have parts, and cannot be a whole?
Why not?
Because every part is part of a whole; is it not? Yes.
And what is a whole?
Would not that of which no part is wanting be a whole?
Certainly.
Then, in either case, the one would be made up of parts;
both as being a
whole, and also as having parts? To be sure.
And in either case, the one would be many, and not one?
True.
But, surely, it ought to be one and not many? It ought.
The history of philosophy since Parmenides and Plato is the
story of attempting to solve this problem between the whole
and its parts. Either the whole got priority like in Aristotle or
the parts do not form a real whole like by Democritus. Either
the world is conceived like a big machine by Newton, where the
parts are not really forming a whole or the world is understood
like a big organism, as in the romantic philosophy. The concept
of parts combining in a whole like in a machine is the ideology
that has created modern technology and science, the organic
understanding
is
the
more
humanistic
and
spiritual
understanding that is in conflict with the other. Issues like
religion versus atheism, Darwinism versus intelligent Design
even today exist in this conflict between the Parts and the
Whole, as anticipated by Plato.
There are many examples of polar opposites; one of the
oldest to be considered is the oppositeness of gender, of female
and male. Here it is clear that both have humanness in common,
so they are united in an essential way, yet they are opposed to
each other as well, and what is even more important, they can
only exist when the other opposed side exists as well, because

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

they are designed to complement, to support and to collaborate
together, without this relationship humanity could not exist,
neither could either man or woman.
This relationship was described in this mutual dependency, as
the “Universal Man” in Hildegard von Bingen’s Liber
Divinorum Operum, in the year 1165.
“Man and woman are in this way so involved with each
other that one of them is the work of the other.
Without woman, man could not be called man; without
man, woman could not be named woman.”11
What will be found is that this kind of opposite relationship is
crucial in the understanding of reality, it pervades all of reality.
Neglecting it is creating misunderstanding and, consequently,
reality is not understood. If either the male and rarely in history
the female is taken as the only and real human, it becomes clear
that both lose, the supremacy of the male will in extreme
destroy not only the female but will also diminish the male
aspect of humanity. Modern tendencies to correct the previous
one-sided view of humanity have marked the new thinking and
understanding of the human reality.
The definition of the word opposite or oppositeness, with
which the word “Gegensatz” is translated, was presented by
Romano Guardini in his book “Der Gegensatz,” (The
Oppositeness, an attempt to a philosophy of the living-
concrete,” translation by this writer).
This specific relationship, in which two elements
generally exclude each other and yet are connected with
each other, and in addition seem to presuppose each
other, a relationship that appears in quantitative,
qualitative and formal structures, we call oppositeness
(“Gegensatz”).12
Several elements of this description need to be further
explained. These opposite elements generally exclude each other,
especially logically and in the way, they are usually considered
by the rational mind. Yet, they show a connection with each
other, in other words, they cannot only be looked at insofar as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
they are in opposition, but need to be considered as well,
insofar as they are always somehow connected and, as is said in
the next sentence, they are not only connected but are
presupposing one another. That means that one cannot exist in
reality without the other, or in other words, one without the
other presents an extreme situation that is not functional and
destroys the unity of reality. With reality is understood the
concrete individualized reality, of the thing as it is and not the
abstract concept of things in our rational understanding.
This can easily be explained when we consider such opposites
as rest or stillness on the one hand and action and movement on
the other. These two opposites belong together like night and
day, like being awake and being asleep. One cannot be totally
resting, even in sleep we dream and one cannot be totally in
action, we need a reserve of rest and inner stillness that makes
action meaningful and productive. While they are logically
opposites, we cannot think other than by separating them, these
two concepts are inseparable in reality and always need to be
considered together, whenever we think about the reality of
both, of rest and stillness and action and movement. In life, an
overactive person loses effectiveness, and an overly resting
person will not act enough to make a difference. In extremis,
we have the inactive couch potato who does nothing and the
neurotic overactive meddler, who does too much and achieves
nothing.
In concrete reality, we need both and life is a constant
walking and living in this tension between rest and activity, we
need periods of work and vacation, we need daytime activity
and nighttime rest and sleep to be productive and effective.
Especially creativity must be based on both sides of these
opposites and the balance is crucial, even though every person
must find her own measure and equilibrium between these
opposites without falling in the extreme and destroying this
living unity.
Another word of Guardini needs consideration, when he
describes the Gegensatz (opposites):
Both sides are always given together; one is only
possible and conceivable with the other. This is

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

oppositeness: Two moments, each one of them cannot
be derived from the other, or transferred into the other,
each one is unmixed in itself, nevertheless they are
irremovable connected with each other, they cannot be
thought of unless they are understood as existing with
each other and through each other.13
Guardini’s crossing of opposites
Romano Guardini further talks about the oppositional
unities that are combined so that two pairs of opposites form a
crossing where two pairs of opposites are seen together in the
form of a cross forming four quadrants. He places the
opposites “Act and Structure” as well as “Form and Abundance”
in this structure. In another of these crossings of opposites, he
places Connection and Division in opposition to Similarity and
Distinction producing the following picture.

It is interesting to note that a rather similar arrangement was
used by an American thinker, Ken Wilber, of whom we will talk
later, and who most likely never read the book of Guardini as it
was not translated into English and Wilber never mentioned
Guardini in his Bibliography. While there is the possibility that
some intermediate writer transferred the idea of Guardini to
Wilber, from the description of Wilber that does not seem
apparent. Most likely, the idea was independently found. Even

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
more interesting is, what we will discuss in the theological part
of this paper, the same arrangement was presented in the
previous century in a mystical writing of Bahá’u’lláh.
When different writers, who are separated in different
continents and who speak different languages, and live in
different times come independently to the very similar
conclusion, we observe a phenomenon that needs to be
considered. Guardini wrote his book in 1925, Wilber wrote
about this idea at the end of the century, and the theological
description
happened
a
century
before
these
writers,
nevertheless, the similarity is more than a coincidence. It can be
described as something that was an idea which time had come.
In order to properly describe this arrangement and give it
meaning, the word Tetrarchy was applied to this structure by
this writer, where two pairs of two opposites are forming the
four principles of a new unity, like in a tetrarchy four rulers
rule one country. Here four principles are forming a unity,
describing a reality that cannot be otherwise described.
The obvious similarity of these thoughts should not make us
forget their differences. While Guardini’s interest is mainly in
the oppositeness of the pairs, Wilber does not stress this idea
and develops the pairs in four quadrants, attempting to describe
the developmental aspect of life and reality. Wilber sees the
connection of the pairs in the four quadrants of the crossing
and develops his understanding of reality from this aspect as
will be described below.
Before going forward and explaining the concept of
quadrants, as Wilber has formulated it, let us recapture the
important features of oppositeness as described by Guardini.
Two concepts are described as opposites, if they are logically
in opposition, but must be perceived as in reality always
presupposing each other, and being in existence through their
oppositeness, as well as, forming through their mutual
presupposition a unity, which best can be described as a unity in
diversity.
This definition cannot be logically reduced, but the tension
that is inherent in this opposition needs to be supported

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

rationally and will always require that these concepts have to be
considered together. Any separation or undue emphasis on one
side or the other is destroying this precarious unity on which
every living being is based. In fact, this oppositeness with its
tension and resolution in a unity in diversity needs to be
extended to all beings, from the material to the spiritual reality.
If anything is seen otherwise, the reality of it is not really
brought into the understanding mind, and only part of reality is
seen. This is not only unrealistic, but also destructive, when
used in application it will destroy the reality that it tries to deal
with.
There is a good example from politics to clarify the above
statement. In any democratic process, there are parties, and the
parties are most often in opposition. Nevertheless, the parties
on both sides are necessary and presuppose each other in order
to take care of the whole, the state. If one party takes over the
whole, especially if it eliminates the other parties from
functioning or even from existing, it will be destructive to the
whole and not represent the whole in any meaningful way.
Even after all other parties have been eliminated, as for
example in Hitler’s Germany or Lenin’s Russia, these dictatorial
governments still call themselves parties, even though, they have
assumed the governance of the whole and do not tolerate any
opposition. That such an arrangement is dysfunctional has been
proven in the last century and any party who acts as the whole is
unable to produce results that benefit the whole, it becomes
destructive and creates a dysfunctional society.
It is interesting to observe that these parties developed a
tyrannical leader, who eventually had to “purge” the party itself,
as Hitler did in the “Röhm Putsch” and Stalin did when killing
two thirds of the party’s first Central Committee. In this sense,
it has been said during the French Revolution, that the
revolution devours its own children.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The contribution of Ken Wilber: Quadrants,
Levels, Holon
The integration of the inside and outside, of the individual
and collective, of being and awareness is at the core of the
integral philosophy of Ken Wilber, whose writings will assist in
this paper’s quest to understand reality14. What is reality, we
need to ask again? How does the self relate to the internal and
external, to the individual and to the collective? To rediscover
this tradition of the self and to fortify it with modern science
and the understanding of the development of the individual and
of humanity Wilber’s has developed his integral philosophy,
which has become a new, a worldwide phenomenon as the
translation of his books into 20 languages demonstrates and
made him the most read thinker not only in USA, but popular
also in countries such as Germany and Japan?

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

Wilber’s Four Quadrants
Wilber organizes the structure of reality as well as of human
consciousness in four quadrants, where the left two quadrants
are depicting the inside of things and the right two sides the
outside of things [see graph on previous page]. The upper
quadrants signify the individual aspect and the lower two
quadrants the collective aspect of reality and consciousness.
This paper is concerned with a vision that will shape the
future; it is trying to discover the way humanity sees itself and
it will try to solve the difficulties the future might bring. Can
philosophy be the answer, or does it take more than human
understanding? This idea will result in an attempt to formulate
some principles of integral and progressive thinking, an
attainment that can today only be envisioned in its outlines and
that will have to be developed over time.15
A note about popularity needs to be inserted here. Popularity
is not a criterion of truth, in fact, it often is indicative of a lack
of truth, or, as history has proven, it is an indication of what
can be called “half-truth.” Something becomes popular because
it conveys some truth, but in an easy form, which often
disguises the untruthful, but popular aspect of the statement. In
the case of the Integral Philosophy of Ken Wilber this issue will
be explored below under the term of spiritual materialism.16
He further indicates that the philosophical tradition for
several thousand years, in East and West, has seen the structure
of being in similar ways, talking about the area of the “I” as the
Beautiful, about the area of “We” as the Good and about the
right sight (the “It and Its”) as the area of the True. (See picture
above) Combining the tradition and the modern understanding
of consciousness he added another aspect to this structure, that
of the levels. With this concept, he introduces into the structure
of the perennial philosophy the modern idea of historicity, of
evolution and progress.
In this Wilber follows the view of Teilhard de Chardin and
others, who had indicated that the evolutionary aspect of reality
was a new understanding. Additionally, they had also described
this evolution in not only a biological Darwinian sense, but also

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
much more in an ontological sense, ascribing this concept of
evolution to the world and the reality of being. Teilhard had
developed his view from the scientific understanding of the
human phenomenon, since then many studies of psychology and
philosophy have built a rather substantial understanding of the
progressive character of the universe.

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

In Wilber’s graph above,17 the development of the individual
consciousness is shown as starting at the center and moving
towards the corners in a continuous evolution of awareness, of
behavior, of social and cultural understanding.
The same is true for the reality and development of the
universe, starting in the center with the big bang and developing
upwards and towards the corners in all four directions.
What should never be overlooked is the fact that this
development is not happening in four different directions, but
that these four quadrants are integrated and corresponding
aspects of the same reality. Whatever develops or changes in
one quadrant has effects in all the others, and happens at the
same level in all four quadrants. This fact was cogently
demonstrated by Wilber in an overview of the modern
understanding
of
developmental
psychology
and
is
demonstrated in the history of humankind as well.
In the figure above from Wilber’s books, this development is
depicted. Beginning in the center, the development of the
physical world on the right side and of the spiritual world on the
left side is noted in the different levels of development. In all
for direction, the development starts in the middle and spreads
out from there, this progress is interconnected, and all four
arrows are presenting the development of the whole.
Obviously, this scheme presupposes the understanding that
awareness is present at all levels of development of the universe.
The reader is invited to seek the explanation for this
understanding of awareness and the history of this ontological
and epistemological idea in the writings of Wilber. Wilber
describes the development of the universe in three spheres: The
understanding, development and integration of physiosphere
(matter), biosphere (living organisms) and noosphere (a
Teilhardian concept, meaning the sphere of the mind), is
presupposed in this scheme.
Wilber’s Holon
There is another Wilberian concept (originally coined by
Arthur Koestler) that is important for the understanding of this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
metaphysical concept of integration, which again places Wilber
in the center of modern thinking and demonstrates that all of
his concepts are thoroughly integrated with the understanding
of science. This is his concept of the Holon. This Greek term
stands in for the word whole but in a very specific sense. Wilber
explains that the world is not made of matter or spirit, who in
his and Teilhard’s system are never to be separated, but out of
Holons. A Holon is a whole consisting of parts in its own right,
and which is always at the same time a part of a higher whole.
Consequently, and that is important to the understanding of
Wilber’s system, everything is such a Holon, and dependent on
what place such a Holon is found it will be including always
parts and be a part of other wholes. So for example, the atom is
a whole compared to subatomic particles such as electrons or
even lower quarks etc. As soon as the atom is included in a
higher whole such as a molecule, it becomes a part of this.
Again, the molecule will be part of the cell, and the cell of the
organism and so forth, even into the spiritual area of
consciousness, this principle is continued. There is no end in
either direction. The reality consists of these Holons, which
gradually developed into ever-higher wholes.
When the oppositeness of Guardini and the crossing of
opposites is introduced into the Wilberian concept of
Quadrants and Holons a new idea is emerging, which we call the
tetrachic structure of being. What is important to note is the
fact that this is a basic structure of being, it appears in all
concrete existing entities, and solves the old problem of the
whole and its parts, in developing the understanding of reality.
This relationship is placed at the center of the consideration:
reality is seen as it is concrete and actual, not in abstract logical
constructions, but as it is. It takes this difficult logical
structure to approach the concrete and individual reality, to
understand its functioning and gain new insight in “how reality
really is.”
It is further important to recognize that it takes a special
way of thinking and understanding in order to be able to
penetrate to this level of understanding. As Teilhard of Chardin
mentioned, there are two different way of thinking,

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

However, it is just at this point, in fact, that we meet
an initial split in the thinking mass of mankind.
And further:
Beneath
an
infinite
number
of
secondary
differentiation, caused by the diversity of social
interests, of scientific investigation or religious faith,
there are basically two types of minds, and only two:
those who do not go beyond (and see no need to go
beyond) perception of the multiple — however
interlinked in itself the multiple may appear to be —
and those for whom perception of this same multiple is
necessarily completed in some unity. There are only, in
fact, pluralists and monists: those who do not see, and
those who do.18
Obviously, in this paper the thinking in unity is attempted
and there are several ways how this can be described. Teilhard
calls it monistic versus pluralistic thinking, another way do
understand the relationship between these different ways of
thinking and understanding reality was described by Guardini,
who wrote his book before Teilhard’s papers were available and
mentioned three ways of understanding.
Guardini’s Epistemology or three Ways of
Understanding
Guardini at the end of his book “Der Gegensatz” presents
another interesting consideration about the way concrete reality
is understood. He distinguishes three levels of understanding:
rational, trans-rational and super-rational (in German: Rational,
Außer-Rational and Über-Rational).
The first is the rational understanding forming concepts,
which abstracts from the concrete individual reality and forms a
general idea. In order to individualize we have to give this thing,
this animal or person a name or indicate that we mean this
house and not the other house next to it. Fortunately, houses
have numbers and people and pets have names, otherwise we
could not speak about an individual person without describing

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
some features that are specific to that individual, or pointing to
that individual, like in court.
Guardini describes another way of understanding, which he
calls intuition. This way of understanding Guardini calls trans-
rational (“Außer-Rational”), which he describes as a clear and
normal way of understanding. Additionally, he places these two
ways of understanding in an opposition, so that the conceptual,
abstract way of understanding can never be totally separated
from the intuitive concrete way of understanding. Whenever we
think of a general abstract concept, like that of “cat,” or
felineness, we somehow have the concrete experience and
picture of a specific individual cat or cats in mind, only that
makes the abstract thought possible and meaningful.
And whenever we think or talk about an individual cat, for
example, the abstract concept of cat is in the field of
understanding as well, because we know always both, the focus
and concentration may be on the individual or on the abstract
concept, but both cannot be thought about without the other
side, i.e., its opposite being included and in some way this
defines the idea of either a particular animal or person. On the
other hand, the idea of animalness, or humanness must be
considered whenever the individual example of this animal or
person is considered,. Even if we invent a fictitious animal, like
the unicorn, we have to make a picture of it in our mind, and
this picture will be concrete of such an animal and not abstract
as the concept of unicornness would be.
After that discussion, the third way of understanding is
mentioned by Guardini with some caution. He claims that the
mystery of the living is not in the intuitive versus the rational
understanding, but in this third way of understanding that he
calls super-rational, it is a higher understanding than reason or
intuition, it is the understanding of the whole, of the unity of
reality and it is achieved in the tension between rational and
intuitive understanding. It is not a Hegelian synthesis, which
abolishes the other ways of understanding; it is an original, a
first and essential understanding, which is actually very simple
in its complicatedness. Any attempt to define this logically, is
bound to fail. This core of the concrete reality can only be

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

understood in an act of knowing, that has the same structure as
the reality, and this is what Guardini calls vision (Anschauung):
To understand the core of the living reality and to
approach its mystery is not a nebulous imagination, it
rather takes vision, which is possible only in the
tension, and in respect of the mystery, which requires
discipline and self-control.19
Guardini describes further this concept and indicates that any
one-sidedness destroys this tension of understanding reality;
that it leads to erroneous simplification, and to false
explication and failure to understand truthfully. Only the
oppositeness of this relationship allows the human mind to
grasp the whole and to use rational understanding and intuitive
perception in a scientific and philosophically correct way in
approaching reality. Rationalism and intellectualism, if used
one-sided, will be opposed by Intuitionism, or Romanticism and
Mysticism and both will fail to understand reality as it really is.
In understanding reality, this epistemological structure needs
always to be kept in mind, and the vast theological and pastoral
work of Romano Guardini is testimony to that fact. Here we
will use this understanding to improve on the psychological and
cosmological conceptualization of Ken Wilber and later it is
expected to be helpful in understanding the theological and
revelatory Writings of the Bahá’í Faith. The last part of this
paper will be an attempt to apply this way of thinking to
psychology as a proof of its value and effectiveness. Another
thought, which will be considered later, is the fact that in
modern physics, especially in Quantum Mechanic, light has
oppositional character, it is showing wave characteristics
and/or corporal characteristic, depending on the research
apparatus of the investigator, the same is true for Einstein’s
Relativity Theory, between mass and energy.
This oppositional essence at the core of reality has created a
revolution in physics and in philosophy as well. It has put
consciousness
in
the
center
of
discourse,
with
many
consequences that will be explored later.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Integral Opposite of Unity in Diversity (Goethe,
Solovyov, Gabriel, Wucherer)
The history of the thinking in “Gegensatz” (Oppositeness) has
predecessors but comes to its fruition in the writings of
Augustinus
Karl
Wucherer-Huldenfeld,
who
wrote
his
dissertation on the Gegensatz philosophy of Romano Guardini
and developed this and other ideas into a Philosophy of the
Whole (Ganzheitsphilosophie). In his most recent book,
Philosophische Theologie im Umbruch20 (Philosophic Theology
in Radical and Renewing Change) he has developed this topic
over many pages as a separate topic.
In this excurse or digression first the general idea of the one
and the many is discussed, and then its development by Thomas
Aquinas is described. The different understanding of the
dialectic of the idea of the whole is seen in its extreme
understanding of totalitarian unity versus anarchistic plurality.
Finally the history of the integral whole is explained in the
Aristotelian
tradition
and
the
new
paradigms
of
its
understanding are presented, where Guardini and Teilhard de
Chardin play a major role.
It is significant that Wucherer, when applying this idea of the
integral whole to the different religions and the conversion
from one religion to another, presents an understanding that is
only expressed in the Bahá’í understanding of unity of religion.
A criterion of the truth of one’s own religion is the
uninhibited and loving acceptance of all other paths to
salvation of humankind, because ultimately they all
stem from the same origin as your own religion.
He claims in this passage that all religions are from the same
origin, are from God, their revelations are presented by distinct
messengers, at different times to humanity at different levels of
evolution. The same God is revealed in the different revelations,
which were given at different historical times to different
people, therefore the same message had to be presented in
diverse ways. Additionally, he further says that

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

the conversion or the going from one religion to
another (if one has honestly lived in the original
religion) is outdated, or possibly even morally
questionable, if the growing into another religious
community excludes the improved retention and
deepening in the own original religion from which one
is coming from.21
These statements are based on an understanding of the
different religions of this world, that is only present in the
Bahá’í Faith, i.e., all religions are true and are only steeps and
historical expressions of the different Manifestations, who all
bring the same message from God to humankind, adjusted to
the level of understanding in the different periods of history.
That this idea is not alien to the Christian message was
demonstrated by Wucherer in a personal discussion with this
writer. He reminded this writer of the story of Cornelius in the
Acts of the Apostles, (Chapter 10-11) where Cornelius, who
obviously was a Roman and a pagan at the time, is several times
mentioned as a devout God-fearing person (Act 10:1; 10:22:
upright and God-fearing) who in his prayers got a message from
God to seek Peter and who together with his family and friends
received the Holy Spirit even before he was baptized. It is
remarkable that this episode which is a lengthily passage of the
Acts and is repeatedly mentioning the religious qualities of
Cornelius has been so totally forgotten in Christianity. Many
Christians condemn not only the adherents of other Religions
but also members of other Christian denominations, a fact that
does not seems to be based on scripture, but is a human
convention of intolerance and exclusivity born from pride and
ignorance and based on a wrong understanding of reality. When
the oppositional aspect of reality is overlooked, the unity is
destroyed, politically as well as socially and philosophically.
Matter and Spirit (Teilhard, Ebner, Buber)
The relationship between matter and spirit has occupied
philosophers throughout history, from materialisms of a
Democritus to Hobbes Leviathan and finally to Karl Marx and
the dialectical materialism of Communism, as described by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Stalin. There is the dualistic solution as presented by Descartes,
which is dominating modern science, and the conflict between
Plato and Aristotle, about what is reality, the eternal ideas of
Plato or the concrete reality as presented in the physics and
metaphysics of Aristotle has never been resolved.
In recent times Teilhard de Chardin has attempted a novel
solution by stating that mater and spirit are fundamentally
connected, are dependent of each other and are in a process of
development that has come in our days to a significant solution.
Ferdinand Ebner has placed the spiritual in man into the
word, and proves that the word, given to man is the source of
man’s spiritual existence, a similar approach has been presented
by Buber and the other personal dialogical thinkers of the last
century.
Theology
New Heaven and New Earth
In the book of Revelation (21:1) a vision is described
Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, the first
heaven and the first earth had disappeared now, and
there was no longer any sea.
Bahá’u’lláh interpreted this passage in a new way, stating:
On the contrary, by the term “earth” is meant the earth
of understanding and knowledge, and by “heavens” the
heavens of divine Revelation. [KI 47]
This change from the old to the new is a change of
understanding, of a new understanding of the creation as
renewed by the new Revelation. What is prophesied in the book
of Revelation has been fulfilled in the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, the change is a change of understanding; it is a new
and sublime Vision.

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

Were the breezes of Revelation to seize thee, thou
wouldst flee the world, and turn unto the Kingdom, and
wouldst expend all thou possessest, that thou mayest
draw nigh unto this sublime Vision. [SLH 81]
In the Surih of the Temple, Bahá’u’lláh describes the Maiden
as announcing to the world a new understanding of reality
expressed in new and wondrous sciences and craft, brought
through the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh:
Erelong shall We bring into being through thee
exponents of new and wondrous sciences, of potent
and effective crafts, and shall make manifest through
them that which the heart of none of Our servants hath
yet conceived.22 [SLH 35]
Must it not be assumed that the new philosophical and
scientific understandings, which have been presented in the first
part of this paper, are part of the new understanding of reality?
This new understanding was originated in the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh and it was found a century later by thinkers and
theologians, even if they had no first-hand knowledge of this
Revelation. To make sure that this is more than an idle
speculation, we will now demonstrate how the Bahá’í Writings
can be understood and how this new thinking in Opposite and
Tetrarchic structures can be found in the Bahá’í Writings. This
is not only found there, but it clarifies these structures, gives
them a new and deeper meaning, which does elucidate the
Writings as well and makes them easier to understand.
It takes a New Eye, a New Ear, a New Heart, and a New
Mind to find this new understanding of the Creation and it is
given to the seeker, as Bahá’u’lláh stated:
He [the seeker] will find himself endowed with a New
Eye, a New Ear, a New Heart, and a New Mind. [KI 195]

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
“Gegensatz” or Polar Oppositeness in the Bahá’í
Writings
In the Bahá’í writings the word opposite is only used in the
extreme and contradictory way, so that opposites excluder each
other like good and evil, light and darkness. Nevertheless, other
concepts are frequently placed in opposite or polar positions as
can easily be demonstrated. When Bahá’u’lláh speaks in the
Tablet of Wisdom of the world of existence coming into being
he presents on oppositional polar relationship of the principle
forces involved.
The world of existence came into being through the
heat generated from the interaction between the active
force and that which is its recipient. These two are the
same, yet they are different. Thus doth the Great
Announcement inform thee about this glorious
structure. [TB 140]
The active force and the recipient force are clearly describing
a “Gegensatz,” they are polar opposites, therefore they are
called the same and different. One can make a reference to the
Aristotelian concept of form and matter, but this understanding
of same and different goes beyond the Aristotelian concept of
form and matter, which are only conceived as being opposite
but not as the same as well. Bahá’u’lláh calls this a glorious
structure in His Great Announcement, placing a great emphasis
and importance on this way of describing reality and its origin.
When tetrarchic structures in the Bahá’í Writings are
described below, it will become clear that all the concepts used
to form a tetrarchy are in a “Gegensatz” or in polar
oppositeness to each other and are to be understood in the same
way. Such polar concepts are Firstness and Lastness, Inwardness
and Outwardness, [SVFV 27] Stillness and Motion, Will and
Purpose [GWB 164], Ascent and Descent (TU 51]; to mention only
the most obvious examples. Concluding it can be stated that the
concept “Gegensatz” or polar opposites is not present as such in
the Writings. Nevertheless, this phrase, common in the
Writings, leads us directly to the concept of “Gegensatz” as it
was described above.

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

Tetrarchies in the Bahá’í Writings
Bahá’u’lláh has many fourfold statements that can be seen as
tetrarchic statements, because they are addressing the principles
or origins of reality. A list is added here, that is most likely not
complete, but should make clear that this is a frequently used
form of speech in Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings.
These structures are from the early writings of Bahá’u’lláh,
mainly of the Bagdad Period. The last here mentioned is from
the Gleanings but is original in a Tablet written to Mírzá Hádí
during Bahá’u’lláh’s stay in Edirne (Adrianople). This is the
period where most of Bahá’u’lláh’s mystical writings were
composed, after His stay at the Mountain of Kurdistan where
He had contact with Sufis, who were visiting Him later on in
Bagdad after His return. Most of these statements were made
before his public announcement in the Garden of Ridván. This
point is made to explain that it is the mystical approach to
reality that is expressed in these tetrarchies. This approach is
based on a special way of understanding reality, which is called
vision like in this Verse of Bahá’u’lláh:
Were the breezes of Revelation to seize thee, thou
wouldst flee the world, and turn unto the Kingdom, and
wouldst expend all thou possessest, that thou mayest
draw nigh unto this sublime Vision.” [ESW 56]
The same term Vision (in German “Anschauung”), is used by
Guardini as presented above, in the context of the way we
understand reality. For Guardini Vision transcends the rational
and intuitive understanding and is needed to approach the
mystery of reality, when he said: “To understand the core of the
living reality and to approach its mystery is not a nebulous
imagination, it rather takes vision.”23 This mystery is the reality
seen in Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation and Vision; it is the way to
approach this Revealed Reality.
While tetrarchies are found in the so-called mystical writings
of Bahá’u’lláh, these are philosophical and fundamental ideas
about being, which refer to the structure of reality and give us
insight in the new way of understanding reality of the Bahá’í
Revelation.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

The question is here, can we organize these statements into a
tetrarchic structure and what does this mean? One answer would
be that these statements can be inserted into existing tetrarchic
structures without difficulty. If the Bahá’í concepts fit into
these structures and if this insertion makes sense, we can
conclude that these fourfold structures can be described as
tetrarchies. Another answer to the question posed above is the
fact that when the Bahá’í concepts are inserted into this
structure, they make sense and the other concepts become more
meaningful as well. So it seems advantageous on both ends,
advantageous for understanding the Bahá’í writings and also for
better understanding such structures in modern writings.
Integration of Tetrarchies
It is important that tetrarchies are not logical structures that
follow the logical way of understanding; neither do they follow
the intuitive way of understanding to follow Guardini’s
epistemology.
Tetrarchies
are
elements
of
Vision,
of
Anschauung, and therefore need to be understood in a totally

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

new way. Bahá’u’lláh indicate this distinction of understanding
when He describes the wayfarer’s journey in his mystical
pursuit. In the first part of the Valley of Unity He describes the
fact that the light of the sun, being white, is reflected in
colorful objects as color and concludes that colors are from the
object, not from the light. In other words the diversity of the
world is based on an underlying unity of light.
In like manner, colors become visible in every object
according to the nature of that object. For instance, in
a yellow globe, the rays shine yellow; in a white the rays
are white; and in a red, the red rays are manifest. Then
these variations are from the object, not from the
shining light. [SVFV 19]
Later he explains what this fact means to the wayfarer in his
journey towards the Unity with the Beloved. Those who only see
the diversity and color of objects see only the surface, the outside
of beings. What they do not see is the underlying unity of
reality, of all things. Looking only at the diversity and differen-
tiations of things, we do not see reality, but see the dust that
hides reality. Bahá’u’lláh then talks about some who look at the
light, which is the unity in diversity of the world, and the third group
He is talking about are those who see the origin of the world’s
unity; in the metaphor presented here, they see the sun itself.
In sum, the differences in objects have now been made
plain. Thus when the wayfarer gazeth only upon the
place of appearance — that is, when he seeth only the
many-colored globes — he beholdeth yellow and red and
white; hence it is that conflict hath prevailed among the
creatures, and a darksome dust from limited souls hath
hid the world. And some do gaze upon the effulgence
of the light; and some have drunk of the wine of
oneness and these see nothing but the sun itself. [SVFV 21]
These are the three levels of knowing, the three planes we
know reality, from the diversity of this world to the unity in
this diversity and to the origin of this relationship of unity in
diversity in the unity of God. These different epistemological
positions are the cause of conflict in this world, according to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Bahá’u’lláh, which could easily be demonstrated in describing the
different philosophical and scientific opinions prevalent today.
Thus, for that they move on these three differing
planes, the understanding and the words of the
wayfarers have differed; and hence the sign of conflict
doth continually appear on earth. [SVFV 21]
In the following passage Bahá’u’lláh describes the three basic
ways of understanding reality, the three epistemological
positions towards the understanding of reality and he adds a
fourth position, the position of ignorance, of being unable to
see anything, of being “completely veiled.” Again, he adds to
this explanation the insight in the problems which is created by
those “ignorant people,” who do not see the reality in a spiritual
understanding and therefore inflict on people what they actually
deserve themselves.
For some there are who dwell upon the plane of oneness
and speak of that world, and some inhabit the realms of
limitation, and some the grades of self, while others are
completely veiled. Thus do the ignorant people of the
day, who have no portion of the radiance of Divine
Beauty, make certain claims, and in every age and cycle
inflict on the people of the sea of oneness what they
themselves deserve. [SVFV 21]
This description can be compared with Guardini’s three ways of
understanding, explained above.
Those “who dwell upon the plane of oneness” have vision or
Anschauung, those who “inhabit the realms of limitation” are
bound by logical thinking only, and those who inhabit “the
grades of self” clearly belong to those who have intuition as
their tool of understanding.
It should not be surprising that tetrarchic structures are
difficult to understand, especially as we are all seeing the world
mostly in scientific and logical terms, are used to explanations
of reality in this way and are not educated to accept other ways
of understanding. As Guardini has noted vision is difficult, it
takes the toleration of the tension between logical knowledge and
intuition and it entails “respect of the mystery, which requires

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

discipline and self-control.” On the other hand, Guardini’s
influence in the Catholic understanding of religion, primarily in
Germany but even here in USA, where his books are translated,
might indicate that this way of thinking is not only powerful,
but also forward-looking and progressive for our times.
Thoughts about Dual and Tetrarchic Structures in the Bahá’í Faith
In the following pages, the adjective tetrarchic24 is used from
the Greek meaning four (tetras = four) princes governing a
single kingdom, in contrast to monarchy, where there is only
one (monos = one) ruler. As used here, tetrarchy refers to the
four principles that constitute the whole; they all are
independent principles, yet, they are integrated in the whole and
they contribute to the whole. In the Bahá’í writings, these four
principles are translated into English as the four states of man.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
And thus firstness and lastness, outwardness and
inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself,
that in these four states conferred upon thee thou
shouldst comprehend the four divine states, and that
the nightingale of thine heart on all the branches of the
rosetree of existence, whether visible or concealed,
should cry out: “He is the first and the last, the Seen
and the Hidden....” [SVFV 27]
With this passage in mind, we shall below consider the
principles of a Tetrarchic Developmental Psychology, which
deals with how the human psyche develop and questions of a
possible Tetrarchic Psychopathology. The latter considers how
mental illness affects the human psyche. We shall also consider
what this new approach may mean for a Tetrarchic approach to
Psychotherapy.
In the figure below the fourfold or tetrarchic structure is
shown to consist of a double tetrarchic paradigm: Two opposite
states are opposed and integrated with two other opposite
states. In this paradigm, it is important to reconcile and
integrate all the four or eight opposites into a whole, as an
example of Unity in Diversity:
Motion
eros/thanatos
< | >
—
Stillness
life/death drive
Will
purposeful goal directed
< | >
—
Purpose
freedom of choice

Firstness
individual
< | >
—
Lastness
collective
Inwardness
spiritual
< | >
—
Outwardness
material

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

Leaving aside other four-fold principles in the Writings, we
shall consider only these four, which depict the reality of life in
this double tetrarchic structure. In these four states of man, the
tetrarchic paradigm is applied to the different areas of
psychology. Bahá’u’lláh indicates that this tetrarchic paradigm is
essential to all reality by calling it to come from the “rosetree of
existence” [SVFV 27]. Another aspect of this structure needs to
be emphasized: the total spiritual unity of the soul that is seen
in our limited vision as a tetrarchic structure. Bahá’u’lláh
expresses that clearly when talking in the same tablet about the
different vision of reality:
For some there are who dwell upon the plane of oneness
and speak of that world, and some inhabit the realms of
limitation, and some the grades of self, while others are
completely veiled. [SV 20]
Three different planes of vision of reality are described: one is
the plane of oneness, the other the realm of limitation, and
grades of self and finally, the realm of those who see nothing at
all. What is described in this paper is the realm of “limitation
and self,” which is the area of psychological studies. Yet the
plane of oneness, of unity, and of the whole must never be
overlooked and must be taken into account whenever the world
is seen as it presents itself to our vision.
Therefore Bahá’u’lláh reminds us at the end of the Valley of
Unity of this vision of oneness:
These statements are made in the sphere of that which is
relative, because of the limitations of men.
Otherwise, those personages who in a single step have
passed over the world of the relative and the limited,
and dwelt on the fair plane of the Absolute, and pitched
their tent in the worlds of authority and command —
have burned away these relativities with a single spark,
and blotted out these words with a drop of dew.
And they swim in the sea of the spirit, and soar in the
holy air of light. Then what life have words, on such a
plane, that “first” and “last” or other than these be seen

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
or mentioned! In this realm, the first is the last itself,
and the last is but the first. [SV 27]
In the original the above quote and the quote below are one
paragraph, here the sentences are separated for easier analysis.
This vision of the spirit ... in the holy air of light is what
unifies the tetrarchic structure and what allows the four
principles described above to be seen in their unity. Both of the
contradictory aspects are integrated, or they are the same, so
that the first is the last, as noted above. Both must always be in
sight, which is why seekers must see with the eye of God:
Then will the manifold favors and outpouring grace of
the holy and everlasting Spirit confer such new life
upon the seeker that he will find himself endowed with
a new eye, a new ear, a new heart, and a new mind.
He will contemplate the manifest signs of the universe,
and will penetrate the hidden mysteries of the soul.
Gazing with the eye of God, he will perceive within
every atom a door that leadeth him to the stations of
absolute certitude.7 [GWB 267]
When analyzing this we find that the tetrarchic structure is
based on the integration of opposites, of a dual structure
forming a whole. This is basically a dual and paradoxically
opposing and integrated structure. The dual nature of man was
already indicated in the following verse of the Bible:
All
things
are
double,
one
against
another:
and he hath made nothing imperfect. (Book of Sirach,
25:24)
Here, too, we observe the basis of the fourfold structure
described above which embraces the opposites of first and last,
inwardness and outwardness. It needs to be noted that several
of these tetrarchic structures can be superimposed on each
other as seen in the diagram given above which forms a
panoramic picture of the human condition.

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy

In this view of human nature, there are three levels of
understanding. The first, as indicated by Bahá’u’lláh, is
held by people who do not see any unity, who hold on
to a materialistic, particularistic worldview that tries to
explain everything by its physical parts. The second
view is more open seeing the whole in the parts and
trying to find some meaning in the world. With this
view in mind, we can recognize the paradigm presented
here. This view leads to the third view, in which the
seeker sees the whole and the parts, sees the spiritual
and the material and is in touch with the rosetree of
existence.
Psychology
After having established the tetrarchic vision of reality in
philosophy, after having expanded and transcended this view in
the theological section of this paper, it could be applied to a
specific field, to psychology to demonstrate its value and
potential usefulness. Other realms of reality could be as well be
seen in the tetrarchic vision, for example modern Quantum
Physics, where the dual character of light as particle and as wave
can be seen as a polar opposite and this findings have
revolutionized modern physics, but we will not pursue this idea
here.
This application to psychology has been made in a previous
paper by this author, about “The Essence of Man,”26 in this
paper the basic philosophical and theological condition for the
finding presented in that paper were more explicitly explained,
giving it a deeper understanding so that future application to
psychology can be improved, and its meaning towards a new
understanding of the psychology of man can be expanded.
Further studies will be needed to prove the thesis, which was
enlarged in the present paper, to diverse psychological disorders
and to the infantile development as well as to the mature human
behavior.
The concept of the tetrarchic structure of reality was further
explained and the concept of Polarity or Gegensatz was
developed to further deepen the understanding of reality as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
presented in its tetrarchic structures. The previous paper about
“The Essence of Man” and the understanding of the tetrarchic
structure as applied to psychology was extended and presented
with a better understanding of its integral aspects. These aspects
include the polarity of reality and a new epistemology to be able
to have a vision of reality seen in its tetrarchic structure. This
added insight was found to be present in the Bahá’í Writings,
and this further improved the understanding of how to see
reality in this new and progressive way, at the three planes of
Vision, Reason, and Insight and as presented in the Valley of
Unity in the Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh where He said: “For
some there are who dwell upon the plane of oneness and speak
of that world, and some inhabit the realms of limitation, and
some the grades of self, while others are completely veiled. …”
[SVFV 21]
It seems to be advantageous that the development of the
progressive understanding of the Bahá’í Writings is coordinated
with the thinking of today in order to better present them when
teaching the Bahá’í Faith. This paper needs to be regarded as
another small step towards this goal.

NOTES
1 Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, page 27.
2 Paul Watzlawick, Wie Wirklich ist die Wirklichkeit, Wahn-Täuschung-
Verstehen, (How Real is Reality, Delusion-Error-Understanding), Piper
Verlag, München, 2010, ISPN 978-3-492-24310
3 Term often used by philosophers in the (mainly continental) tradition
running from Schleiermacher and Dilethey to Heidegger, Gadamer, and
Rioeur
4 Oxford University Press, Oxford, New York, 2005
5 Karl Marx, The Communist Manifesto, 1848
6 Wolfgang Klebel, “Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í
Principles with the Basic concepts of Teilhard de Chardin” in Lights of
‘Irfán, Book Five; Wilmette: BNC, 2004, pages 77-108.
7 Hans-Georg Gadamer, Truth and Method; Continuum; London, New York,
Second Revised Edition, 1975, pages 301-306
8 Tetrarchy in the Roman Empire under Diocletian is described by Pliny the
Elder as follows: regnorum instar singulae et in regna contribuuntur.” (see

Tetrarchic Thinking in Philosophy


Wikipedia under tetrarchy) “Each tetrarch is the equivalent of a singular
ruler, and each is contributing to the rule of the whole.” The term tetrarch
is known from the Bible where the different tetrarchs, the sons of Herod
the Great, who were ruling Israel are mentioned in the history of John the
Baptist (Luke 3:1, 3:19), Jesus (Luke 9:7, Matt. 14:1) and then Paul (Acts
13:1). Herod the Great was a monarch (monos=single, arche=beginning,
principle, prince, ruler), he divided the kingdom among his sons into four
tetrachies, without dividing the kingdom; the word tetrarch is similar to
monarch, instead of one ruler there are four rulers or princes in one
kingdom.
9 Guardini in his book: Der Gegensatz, Versuch zu einer Philosophie des
Lebendig-Konkreten, (Oppositeness, an attempt towards a philosophy of
the living-concrete) Matthias-Grünewald Verlag, Mainz, fourth edition
1998, mentions that “Polarität” (polarity) and “Gegensatz” have for all
practical purpose the same meaning, He stated that “these concepts are
comparable if closely looked at” (page 24 footnote). He prefers the word
Gegensatz to Polarity because polarity has been too much talked about
(“ist zerredet”), in other words, is more confusing in its use. It might be
important to talk of “polar opposites when correctly translating the word
Gegensatz.
10 Ibid. page 133
11 This quote is taken from Wikipedia, Hildegard von Bingen.
12 Romano Guardini ibid. page 28. While many of the theological and
pastoral books of Guardini have been translated into English, this book,
unfortunately, has not yet found a translator.
13 Guardini ibid. p.41
14 This idea was presented in Lights of Irfan, Wolfgang Klebel “True of
Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken Wilber’s System of
Integral Philosophy” Book Six (2005), pages 87-120. The idea was further
developed and is here presented in an abbreviated and advanced way.
15 The dialogical thinking of Martin Buber and Ferdinand Ebner as presented
by Augustinus Karl Wucherer Huldenfeld and Ebner und Martin Buber
(The dialogical thinking) Verlag Karl Albert, Freiburg, München, 2002. At
present another volume of the same writer is available that will be
commented upon later in the paper.
16 Wilber’s psychological and philosophical system is based on the Psychology
of Transpersonalism. In an extensive and internal critique of this
philosophy, which places Wilber in a modern and Western Buddhist
tradition, Toegel has called Wilber’s position “Spiritual Materialism.”
Johannes Toegel, Eine Theologie des Zeitgeistes, Darstellung und Kritik
am Beispiel der Transpersonalen Psychology (A theology of the spirit of
the time, a presentation and critique using the example of transpersonal
psychology); Dissertation (28,684); University of Vienna, 1991. Toegel
reports that for three years he had tried the same approach, while living in
a cave in Tibet, where he eventually met a true master and realized that
true mystical experiences consist in trust and acceptance and not in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

striving to higher transpersonal techniques. This issue will be dealt with in
another chapter.
17 This chart is taken from the book, The Essential Ken Wilber, an
Introductory Reader, by Kendra Crossen Burroughs, Shambhala, Boston &
London, 1998, p. 103
18 Teilhard. “How I believe” page 101 in Christianity and Evolution,
Harcourt Brace & Company, San Diego, New York, London 1969,
19 Guardini ibid. p.174 passim
20 Augustinus Karl Wucherer–Huldenfeld, Philosphische Theologie im
Umbruch, Boehlau Verlag, Vienna, Cologne, Weimar, 2011. Especially the
Fourth Excursion, pages 469-556
The German word “Umbruch” implies the act of plowing, breaking the earth
and opening it for the new seed, indicating radical change and profound
renewal, consequently the cover picture of the book is the Sower by
Vincent van Gogh, 1888
21 Ibid. page 477
22 The paragraph is broken u for better understanding. In the phrase “through
thee” the pronoun thee clearly indicates Bahá’u’lláh, it must be questioned
why the Thee is not capitalized as in all the other paragraphs of this
Tablet, this seems tobe a printing error.
23 Guardini ibid. p.174 passim
24 Tetrarchy in the Roman Empire under Diocletian is described by Pliny the
Elder as follows: regnorum instar singulae et in regna contribuuntur.” (see
Wikipedia under tetrarchy) “Each tetrarch is the equivalent of a singular
ruler, and each is contributing to the rule of the whole.” The term tetrarch
is known from the Bible where the different tetrarchs, the sons of Herod
the Great, who were ruling Israel are mentioned in the history of John the
Baptist (Luke 3:1, 3:19), Jesus (Luke 9:7, Matt. 14:1) and then Paul (Acts
13:1). Herod the Great was a monarch (monos=single, arche=beginning,
principle, prince, ruler), he divided the kingdom among his sons into four
tetrachies; the word tetrarch is similar to monarch, instead of one ruler
there are four rulers or princes in one kingdom.
25 The book of Sirach or Ecclesiasticus forms part of the Greek Bible though
it does not appear in the Jewish Canon; it is therefore one of the
deuterocanonical books. It was written in Hebrew, St. Jerome and the
rabbis (who quote from it) knew the book in its original language. It is
accepted as part of the Christian biblical canon by Catholics, Eastern
Orthodox, and most Oriental Orthodox but not by most Protestants.
(Confer Wikipedia and the Introduction in “The Jerusalem Bible”;
Doubleday and Company, Inc.; Garden City, New York, 1966)
26 Wolfgang Klebel, in Lights of Irfan, Book Twelve, Wilmette 2010, pages
27-104.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Part I
1. Introduction
One of the hallmarks of the Bahá’í Writings is that they place
an enormous emphasis on the power of reason. Indeed, few, if
any, religious Scriptures have as much to say about reason as the
Bahá’í Writings. While other religions such as Judaism,
Christianity, Islam and Buddhism certainly have strong
traditions of rational theology and philosophy — for example,
Maimonides, Aquinas, Avicenna and Nagarjuna — these are
derived and inferred from revealed Scripture. In contrast, the
Bahá’í Writings themselves contain a large number of direct and
indirect statements about the nature and importance of reason,
as well as its appropriate uses and limitations.
The importance of reason in the Bahá’í Writings is directly
emphasized in various ways which will be explored below. Let us
begin with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s affirmation that “If a question be
found contrary to reason, faith and belief in it are impossible,
and there is no outcome but wavering and vacillation” [PUP 181].
That fact that reason is necessary for a steady faith makes the
clear the fundamental importance of reason for the Writings.
For now, it suffices to note ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s declarations that
“The foundations of religion are reasonable” [PUP 128] and that
“If religion were contrary to logical reason then it would cease
to be a religion and be merely a tradition” [PT 143]. In other
words, reason is a sine qua non for religion to retain its identity
as religion; it is an essential attribute of religion. Elsewhere, he
adds that religion is “founded upon the premises and
conclusions of reason, and both (religion and science) must bear

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
its [reason’s] test” [PUP 107]. Reason, in effect, is a touchstone
by which we may distinguish true religion from superstition.
The use of the imperative word “must” indicates not only an
obligation to “test” or assess religion by reason, but also that
religion is obligated to meet the standards of reason. Further
emphasizing the essential nature of reason in religion, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá asserts that “in this age the peoples of the world need the
arguments of reason,” [SAQ 7, emphasis added] indicating, thereby,
that the contemporary world has a special need for teaching
reason in religion.
To some extent, of course, the need for reason in religion
occurs in any age insofar as the Bahá’í Writings view reason or
rationality as a defining i.e. essential attribute of humankind:
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the
animal is the rational soul, and these two names — the
human spirit and the rational soul — designate one thing.
[SAQ 208, emphasis added]
Consequently, all revelations appeal to rationality though to
different
degrees
according
to
humankind’s
stage
of
development in the process of progressive revelation. The
extraordinary importance of the “human spirit” or “rational
soul” is emphasized by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s declaration that “the
spirit of man is the most noble of phenomena ... the meeting
between man and God” [PUP 239]. This assertion shows the
“rational soul” has a special place in phenomenal creation and
even a special spiritual status. From this we may infer that
rationality, as an essential attribute of the soul, holds an exalted
place the gifts bestowed upon humankind. Furthermore, Shoghi
Effendi’s intriguing reference to the “invisible yet rational
God” [WOB 112] also points to a close link between religion and
reason, though it should be remembered that the ‘rationality of
God’ is not assessable to human thought. We know from Shoghi
Effendi that God is rational, but as humans, we do not
necessarily understand that rationality.
There are at least five reasons why the ubiquitous direct and
indirect references to reason in the Writings require study.
First, without such an examination, our understanding of the
divine Texts will remain incomplete. For example, ‘Abdu’l-

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

Bahá’s declares that “The foundations of religion are
reasonable” [PUP 128; cf. 63] — i.e. that the very basis of religion
is reasonable or rational — but that requires some understanding
of the nature of reason and how it is exemplified in the
Writings.
Second, self-knowledge also demands understanding of
reason insofar as the human spirit and the “rational soul” are
identical, as we have seen above. In short, humans have a
divinely bestowed rational essence. As Bahá’u’lláh writes,
Consider the rational faculty with which God hath
endowed the essence of man. Examine thine own self,
and behold how thy motion and stillness, thy will and
purpose, thy sight and hearing, thy sense of smell and
power of speech, and whatever else is related to, or
transcendeth,
thy
physical
senses
or
spiritual
perceptions, all proceed from, and owe their existence
to, this same faculty. [GWB LXXXIII, p. 163; emphasis added]
The physical senses as well as the “spiritual perceptions” depend
on the “rational faculty” and are informed by it. Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement also makes it clear that the spiritual aspects of our
being are dependent on the “rational faculty” and, therefore,
influenced by it. Clearly, without some knowledge of the soul’s
rational nature, we cannot fully understand our own nature.
Third, the requirements of effective teaching work in the
modern world necessitate a better comprehension of reason in
the Writings. Contemporary culture is increasingly shaped by
science and the scientific method both of which put reason at a
premium. This emphasis on rationality is reflected in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s assertion that “in this age the peoples of the world need
the arguments of reason” [SAQ 7, emphasis added]. The phrase “in
this age” draws attention to a special need for rationality in our
time. This applies even to spiritual matters: “Therefore, it must
be our task to prove to the thoughtful by reasonable arguments
the prophethood of Moses, of Christ and of the other Divine
Manifestations” [SAQ 11].
Fourth, the intended audience of the Writings is humankind
as a whole which will study and learn from the models of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
reasoning given in the divine Texts. These models will influence
the way humanity thinks about religion per se, about religious
issues as well as about the other problems confronting us. It is,
therefore, a matter of considerable significance to understand
what the Writings say about reason, its nature, its uses and its
limitations and how reason is exemplified in the Writings.
Fifth, Bahá’u’lláh’s and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements identifying
reason with the essence of humankind have far-reaching
implications especially for the goal of unifying human kind into
one global commonwealth. Because rationality is a universal
aspect of humanity, a connective principle applying to all
peoples and cultures across historical epochs and geographical
barriers, it forms the basis for a positive global dialogue and a
unified world order.
This paper concludes that the Writings make in-depth and
far-reaching use of reason in four senses of the term: (1) the
powers of reasoning, [PT 90] i.e. the “rational faculty” [GWB
LXXXIII 163]; (2) ‘reasonableness’ as in thinking that is
appropriate to its subject matter; (3) ‘reasonableness’ in the
sense of not being random and having a purpose; and (4) the use
of logic as in “logical reasoning” [SAQ 143, emphasis added]. The
most extensively used aspect of reason is logical reasoning
which is found in almost all explications of the Teachings and
principles. Logical reasoning exemplifies what has traditionally
been called ‘Aristotelian’ logic but is also referred to as
‘classical’ or ‘standard logic.’1 The pervasive presence of such
logic should come as no surprise in light of the confirmation of
a variety of Aristotelian concepts and arguments in the
Writings.2 Indeed, as noted in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in London,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ had a deep knowledge of Aristotle’s philosophy:
“The talk [by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’] developed into a learned
dissertation on the Philosophy of Aristotle” [ABL 95]. This
suggests that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ thought Aristotelian philosophy
important enough to discourse on it in some detail. We will,
however, also examine whether the Writings include other
forms of reasoning.
The first and major part of this paper explores how reason is
defined and exemplified in the Bahá’í Writings. Portions of this
part may strike some readers as overly technical in regards to

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

logic, but this is unavoidable to cover the topic thoroughly. It
also demonstrates the intellectual richness of the Writings.
However, every effort has been made to reduce coverage of
technicalities to an absolute minimum. The second part
concerns itself with various issues surrounding this subject.
These include standard logic and quantum science, standard
logic and non-western logical systems, the preservation of
diversity and standard logic, and post-colonial critiques of
standard logic.
It must be emphasized that this paper concerns itself with a
philosophical understanding of the Bahá’í Writings and does not
in any way reduce the Writings to a “mere philosophy”  [WOB
196]. A philosophical understanding studies the philosophical
aspects of the Writings just as a historical understanding
examines them from a historical point of view without reducing
them to history. As divine revelation intended for humanity’s
future development, the Writings are multifaceted and thus, can
be understood from many perspectives, without being
diminished to any one of them. Thus, a philosophic study of
reason in the Bahá’í Writings will help us broaden and deepen
our understanding and appreciation as we seek to cultivate and
develop our faith.
2. The Meanings of Reason and Rationality
In one of its meanings, ‘reason’ refers to a particular human
power, capacity or ability: “the power of comprehending,
inferring, or thinking especially in orderly rational ways.”3
Reason, in this sense, is a ‘power’ or ability or faculty that
humans possess. According to Bahá’u’lláh, this is the “rational
faculty with which God hath endowed the essence of man ...
[which] should be regarded as a sign of the revelation of Him
Who is the sovereign Lord of all” [GWB LXXXIII 163] and which,
as we have seen above, distinguishes humans from animals. As a
particular human capacity, reason carries out such functions as
analysis; argumentation, i.e. giving reasons and/or analysis;
evaluation; application; synthesis; identification of cause and
effect; abstraction; identifying purpose; analogizing; inferring;
induction and deduction. It performs these operations in an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
orderly, step-by-step manner that others can follow and test for
themselves.
We can observe many of these specific functions of reason in
virtually all explications throughout the Writings. For example,
it is obvious in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s discussion about why the human
species undergoes no essential change in evolution, i.e. it does
not change from one species to another as “[c]ertain European
philosophers”4 claim. In the course of explication, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
presents a critical analysis of the scientific view and then
evaluates it, i.e. he assesses its merits and rejects it. What the
scientists say is “not a proof of the change of species” [SAQ 191].
In so doing, he presents an argument for his alternative view,
and gives reasons for accepting it [SAQ 191]. To strengthen his
argument, he presents the analogy of the infant’s development
in the mother’s womb from which he infers that despite physical
changes in form, our human essence does not change. As part of
explaining this analogy, he gives a purpose for this growth, i.e.
to embody God’s image [SAQ 191] in the world. This analogy is
also a synthesis insofar as it integrates the concept of changes in
bodily form with the concept of a stable, unchangeable human
essence and spiritual nature. He uses induction in his references
to specific creatures such as the serpent. Finally, he leads us to
the principle from which we can deduce his teaching from a
spiritual source, i.e. the Bible: “We will make man in Our image
and likeness.”5 Any reader of his talk can observe the careful
step-by-step manner in which he constructs his argument.
A similar process can be observed in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
discussion of the Bahá’í teachings about the trinity. He says,
“All have confessed that the question is beyond the grasp of
reason, for three cannot become one, nor one three. To unite
these is impossible; it is either one or three” [TAB3 512, emphasis
added]. Consequently, the Trinity cannot be accepted as
Christians understand it because it is irrational i.e. violates
several logical laws as we shall see below. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá performs
a reducto ad absurdum argument by showing that any “division”
in God would lead to an impossible conclusion since “division
and multiplicity are properties of creatures which are
contingent existences, and not accidents which happen to the
self-existent [God]” [SAQ 113]. This conclusion is absurd because

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

God cannot be subject to accidental changes. Indeed, as we shall
see below, the Christian concept of the trinity violates the
logical laws of identity, of non-contradiction and the excluded
middle. In the course of explicating the Bahá’í view, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá analyses and evaluates Christian view and then gives
reasons why an alternative explanation is needed. The first
reason is that “For God to descend into the conditions of
existence would be the greatest of imperfections” [SAQ 113]
while the second is that the “Lordly Reality admits of no
division” [SAQ 113]. He then presents an analogy and a logical
synthesis to clarify his argument:
Now if we say that we have seen the Sun in two mirrors
— one the Christ and one the Holy Spirit — that is to
say, that we have seen three Suns, one in heaven and the
two others on the earth, we speak truly. And if we say
that there is one Sun, and it is pure singleness, and has
no partner and equal, we again speak truly. [SAQ 113]
Thus, by using the capacities of human reason, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
rationalizes, i.e. gives a rational, non-contradictory form to the
doctrine of the Trinity. That which had hitherto been regarded
as a ‘mystery’ beyond reasonable explanation receives a logically
rational explanation. Significantly, he finishes his explication of
the trinity by saying that either his explanation is true or
the foundations of the Religion of God would rest
upon an illogical proposition which the mind could
never conceive, and how can the mind be forced to
believe a thing which it cannot conceive? A thing
cannot be grasped by the intelligence except when it is
clothed in an intelligible form; otherwise, it is but an
effort of the imagination. [SAQ 113, emphasis added]
It is important to note that even when discussing a spiritual
issue, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá emphasizes that the mind cannot “conceive”
of an “illogical proposition” i.e. cannot genuinely understand it
and, therefore, cannot be expected to believe it. Moreover,
even the “form” of a proposition must be “intelligible,” i.e.
reasonable and conforming to logic. It is no longer sufficient to
call the trinity a ‘mystery’ and leave it at that. Moreover, this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
passage also shows that he does not accept the idea that the
“Religion of God” could rest on illogical, irrational premises:
“The foundations of religion are reasonable” [PUP 128]. We
observe this principle at work in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s efforts to
rationalize various Biblical passages such as those dealing with
Adam and Eve: “if the literal meaning of this story were
attributed to a wise man, certainly all would logically deny that
this arrangement, this invention, could have emanated from an
intelligent being” [SAQ 122].
It is worth noting that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s explication clearly
demonstrates that rationality has a place in considering spiritual
issues. In other words, the scope of rationality is not limited to
the earthly phenomenal realm.
A second meaning of reason refers to ‘being reasonable,’ in
the sense of thinking or acting appropriately. All things, actions
or situations have an inherent nature or essence and our
responses must be in harmony with this essence, or at least,
must not offend against it. An action is reasonable or rational if
it is appropriate to the essence of a situation or the object of
the action. For example, under normal circumstances, it is not
appropriate, and not reasonable to treat an adult like an infant
or a crime like an act of charity; their essential natures are too
different. Indeed, such treatment commits a logical error, a
category mistake, i.e. in treating one kind of thing as if it were
another kind of thing. Bahá’u’lláh, advises that a speaker should
“deliver his words at the appropriate time and place” [TAB 172],
i.e. that words should be in harmony with the nature of a
situation and an audience. Words delivered as Bahá’u’lláh
prescribes will inevitably be reasonable. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asks,
“How can man be content to lead only an animal existence when
God has made him so high a creature?” [PT 122] Underlying this
rhetorical question is the premise that acting against our higher
nature is unreasonable or inappropriate to our nature; it is a
logical category mistake in which we illogically treat ourselves
as something we are not. A similar idea underlies ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
statement, “It is not reasonable that man should hold to the old
tree, claiming that its life forces are undiminished, its fruit
unequaled, its existence eternal” [PUP 141]. Here, too, we
observe the concept of ‘inappropriateness’ at work; clinging to

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

the
“old”
revelation
is
inappropriate
and,
therefore,
unreasonable in light of its diminished vigor. By implication,
accepting Bahá’u’lláh’s new revelation is appropriate and
reasonable.
The concept of reasonableness as appropriateness is the
foundation of the doctrine of progressive revelation. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says, “All religious laws conform to reason, and are suited
to the people for whom they are framed, and for the age in
which they are to be obeyed” [PT 141]. The fact that revelations
are “suited to the people for whom they are framed” means that
they are appropriate and, therefore, reasonable. This supports
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “The foundations of religion are
reasonable” [PUP 128]. Religious law must be appropriate to the
nature of the culture to which is applied. If they were not
appropriate to the cultures for which they are revealed, such
revelations would make no sense; it would be irrational to obey
them. The statement that “religious laws conform to reason”
can also mean that such law is consistent with standard logic,
i.e. the logic of everyday experience. We shall explore this in
greater depth below.
If a thought or action is appropriate and reasonable, it is also
just. This principle underlies ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s assertion, “Know
that to do justice is to give to everyone according to his
deserts” [SAQ 266]. In other words, justice is dispensing an
appropriate or reasonable response to an act or statement. This
may even apply to ourselves. Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction, “Be fair
to yourselves and to others” [GWB CXVIII 277, emphasis added]
illustrates this. If we do not behave according to our nature, i.e.
according to our essence, if we behave inappropriately to
ourselves, we are not only being unreasonable or irrational but
also being “unfair” to ourselves. We are diminishing ourselves.
To be fair or just to ourselves we must treat ourselves
according to our immortal spiritual nature and not our
transient animal nature. This applies to intellectual justice as
well. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares that “I wish you to be fair and
reasonable in your judgment, setting aside all religious
prejudices” [PUP 364]. In other words, in order judge a subject in
a “fair and reasonable” manner, we must judge it according to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
its true, i.e. essential nature by setting aside inappropriate
prejudices.
The third sense of reason or being reasonable refers to having
a purpose. Actions that have no purpose are simply arbitrary
and random and, therefore, are not informed or shaped by
reason. This is one of the aspects of purpose that seems
appropriate to Shoghi Effendi’s reference to a “rational God”
[WOB 112]. The Writings tell us that God had a purpose in
creation: “the purpose of creation ... is the knowledge of Him
Who is the Eternal Truth” [KA 176]. Creation is not “fortuitous”
[SAQ 181] or accidental but is informed by a plan and purpose.
Since creation has a purpose, it also has a certain consistency
underlying and guiding its processes, which is to say, creation is
fundamentally one. The Universal House of Justice makes this
clear in its assertion that “there is a consistency in the
universe.”6
3. Reason as Logic in the Writings
In its fourth, technical sense — which we will explore in some
depth — ‘reason’ refers to the use of logic which is often
mentioned through the Writings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states, “The
human spirit consists of the rational, or logical, reasoning
faculty” [TAB1 115, emphasis added]. The “human spirit,” of course,
is the rational soul which is identified here as a “logical
reasoning faculty” which distinguishes humanity from animals
[SAQ 208]. This identification of reason with logical thought also
applies to religion: “If religion were contrary to logical reason
then it would cease to be a religion and be merely a tradition”
[PT 142]. In short, religion must not violate “logical reason.” The
association of ‘reason’ and ‘logic’ are also seen in statements
like the following: “By intellectual processes and logical
deductions of reason this superpower in man can penetrate the
mysteries of the future and anticipate its happenings” [PUP 49,
emphasis added]. We must note that reason is described as a
“superpower” that transcends nature and, therefore, reveal its
secrets. He also declares,
If we insist that such and such a subject is not to be
reasoned out and tested according to the established

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

logical modes of the intellect, what is the use of the
reason which God has given man? [PUP 63, emphasis added]
In other words, all subjects — mundane or spiritual — must be
“reasoned out” i.e. examined by such rational procedures as
analysis, inference, extrapolate as well as “tested” by logical
reason. Failing to do so is neglect of the divine gift of reason
bestowed on humankind. Conversely, the gift of reason imposes
on us an obligation to use it.
The reference to the “established logical modes” is significant
because it suggests that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is thinking of the kind of
logical reasoning that is generally established in Europe and
America at the time. Hegel’s dialectical logic was not generally
used, and other developments in non-standard or non-
Aristotelian logic were only beginning and were still the
province of specialists in a few universities. Thus, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s reference to the “established logical modes” is most likely
to Aristotelian or standard logic which had widespread use.
Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá believed that Aristotelian logic was
globally known: “Today the philosophy and logic of Aristotle
are known throughout the world” [PUP 327]. Given that belief, it
makes sense for him to make considerable use of Aristotelian
logic in the Writings since it would help the Teachings reach a
world-wide
audience.
Furthermore,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
marks
Aristotle for special praise because he was “interested in both
natural and divine philosophy” which is one of the reasons for
the survival of his teachings [PUP 327].
Standard, classical or Aristotelian logic is based on three
rules: the law of identity; the law of non-contradiction and the
law of the excluded middle. We shall examine in some depth
how each of these laws is exemplified in the Bahá’í Writings.
3.1 The Law of Identity (LI)
Logical reasoning and all coherent discourse must obey the
law of identity (LI) according to which at any given moment, a
thing, situation, or process is the same as itself and not
something else. A thing can only have one identity, not two at
the same time in the same sense and in the same context: a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
cactus cannot be a dinner plate, and a horse cannot be a
crescent wrench. Of course, a thing may have a variety of
characteristics — a horse may be brown, with white feet and a
variegated tail — but these characteristics are parts of its
existence as a single, specific thing.
When applied to discourse, i.e. discussions and explanations,
the LI means that terms must be used consistently; if words
change their meanings or slip from one sense of a word into
another,
confusion
ensues
and
understanding
becomes
impossible. We are all familiar with disagreements caused by
people using a word in different senses, e.g. gendered and
ungendered uses of the word ‘men.’ The statement ‘All people
are equal’ is another example. We must, for example, be careful
to use the word “equal” consistently, i.e. not slip from spiritual
to legal to economic to sociological equality. We may, of
course, discuss how these distinct forms of equality are related
but we cannot conflate one meaning into another. In this sense,
the Writings, like every other explicatory text, follow the LI.
More important, the Writings apply the LI to a number of
metaphysical and spiritual teachings. For example, the principle
of identity underlies the Bahá’í teachings about the unique
existence of all things, i.e. the teaching that each thing is what it
is and never has been or will be something else `Abdu’l-Bahá
also applies the LI when he says, “in the sensible world
appearances are not repeated” [SAQ 282, emphasis added]. He
informs us that no two seeds of grain are alike. Elsewhere he
applies this principle to the sun: “the sun is one in its essence,
unique in its real identity, single in its attributes” [TAB1 117]. We
also observe the LI exemplified in the teachings about human
evolution; as noted in a foregoing discussion, `Abdu’l-Bahá
declares that humans have always been human despite any
animal-like appearances in their outward form. The human
essence or identity has not changed, i.e. is itself and nothing else
despite variations of outward form or which of its inherent
potentials it exhibits. The identity or essence of a thing is
stable.
This principle even applies to things involved in processes.
For example, `Abdu’l-Bahá sees humankind as involved in an
evolutionary process but, as we have seen above, he is emphatic

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

that the human essence is always the same regardless of our
stage of development: [PUP 358] “Throughout this journey of
progression [through the mineral, plant and animal stations] he
has ever and always been potentially man” [PUP 225]. The inner
potentials of our essence are present from the beginning and are
actualized or externalized over time — which only makes it
appear as if a change in essence or identity had occurred. In his
potential, i.e. in his essence “Man from the beginning was in
this perfect form and composition”7 These ever-present
potentials are revealed over time.
`Abdu’l-Bahá makes theological use of the LI in his argument
to explain the impossibility of reincarnation. This is important
because it clearly demonstrates that he does not see the laws of
logic as applying only to worldly or empirical matters but also
to spiritual matters. He states that a rose’s “specific identity can
never return” [SWAB 184]. The general or essential qualities that
return are shared by all roses but they do not return in the
unique form of one particular rose; that rose is what it is, and
cannot be replaced by anything else. Its “intrinsic elemental
reality” [PUP 421] is absolutely unique. He applies the same
principle to the return of Elijah [SAQ 134].
Another theological or spiritual application of the LI is
found in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s discussion of the Trinity.
If we say that the Trinity was originally one and was
later divided, change and transformation will be
necessarily applied to the Essence of Oneness, and
change and transformation are necessities of the
contingent world and not of the Essence of Divinity.
[TAB3 512]
He faults this argument with violating the LI. God, Who is the
“Essence of Oneness” cannot be divided and changed; to derive
the doctrine of the trinity from such a division denies God’s
identity with Himself, and is, therefore, a logical error. It
violates the LI by treating God as if He were an ordinary being
subject to division, time and space.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
3.2 The Law of Non-Contradiction (LNC)
The second — and central — law of standard, classic or
Aristotelian logic is the law of non-contradiction (LNC). In
general
terms,
this
means
that
a
statement
cannot
simultaneously make two contradictory claims about the same
issue. More technically, the LNC says that a thing cannot have
and not have the same attributes at the same time in the same
sense and from the same perspective or context. We cannot
weigh 180 pounds and not weight 180 pounds at the same time,
in the same sense and in the same context i.e. our place on earth.
On the moon, we would only weigh 29.8 pounds, but that is the
result of a change of context or perspective. Another example:
an act cannot simultaneously be just and unjust in the same
sense and from the same viewpoint. However, we can argue that
a punishment is just from the perspective of a person’s act, but
unjust from the viewpoint of the person`s deficient mental
capacity.
The Writings’ strong commitment to the LNC is based in an
equally strong commitment to the unity of truth. Since truth is
one, it cannot be divided by contradictions because these
fracture truth into mutually exclusive parts. As `Abdu’l-Bahá
affirms, “No one truth can contradict another truth” [PT 136].
This pithy statement is the essence of the LNC and logically
obligates us to resolve contradictions to avoid clashing truths.
The same may be said of the declaration that “truth or reality is
not multiple; it is not divisible” [PUP 106]. This is further re-
enforced by his assertion that “truth is one, although its
manifestations may be very different” [PT 128, emphasis added].
Differences in the “manifestations” of truth do not necessarily
imply logical contradictions which `Abdu’l-Bahá seeks to avoid.
Here, too, is an implied obligation to resolve apparent
contradictions. Shoghi Effendi re-affirms this theme, saying,
“Truth may, in covering different subjects, appear to be
contradictory, and yet it is all one if you carry the thought
through to the end”8 which he emphasizes by asserting that
“Truth is one when it is independently investigated, it does not
accept division” [JWTA 35]. Again, we detect the implied
obligation to “carry the though through to the end” in order to
resolve contradictions and, thereby, comply with the LNC.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

There are two main ways of resolving a contradiction to
comply with the LNC: the first is to eliminate one part of the
contradiction; the second is to show that each statement is
refers to a different perspective, or a different sense or time;
and the third is to demonstrate an underlying unity. `Abdu’l-
Bahá applies the first method in his philosophical argument for
the unity of God:
For the realities of the Essence of Unity, knowledge,
and the things known, have an absolute unity which is
real and established. Otherwise, the Essence of Unity
would become the place of multiple phenomena ...
which is absurd. [SAQ 291]
In other words, God, the “Essence of Unity” cannot at the same
time and in the same sense be both one and multiple. It is worth
noting that he declares the denial of the LNC in this case to be
“absurd,” i.e. irrational and, therefore, not only beyond human
thought or conception [SAQ 114] but also to be avoided. In
addition, he follows this method when dealing with the
contradiction between accepting God as an “Ultimate Cause”
and asserting that a causal process can go on forever without
God. He dismisses the second alternatively as “manifestly
absurd” [TAF 18]. In logical terms, He is saying that the causal
sequence of creation cannot both go on forever and not go on
forever, i.e. end with God. By dismissing one alternative, He
enjoins the other.
Generally,
resolving
contradictions
by
taking
viewpoint/context, time and sense into consideration allows us
to reconcile the conflicting sides insofar as conflict is
eliminated thereby allowing us to accept the truth of both sides.
This allows us a more inclusive view that encourages acceptance
of complexities and nuances. In The Seven Valleys, Bahá’u’lláh
illustrates the first — and more commonly used in the Writings
— alternative of resolving contradictions by referring to
different perspectives.
let thine Eminence consider his own self; thou art first
in relation to thy son, last in relation to thy father. In
thine
outward
appearance,
thou
tellest
of
the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
appearance of power in the realms of divine creation; in
thine inward being thou revealest the hidden mysteries
which are the divine trust deposited within thee. [SV 26]
Bahá’u’lláh reconciles these contradictory differences — first,
last; outward, inward — not by asserting relativism but by
correlating these contraries to differences in viewpoint or
perspective, i.e. “in relation to” father and son; and to “outward
appearance” and “inward being.” Nowhere does He suggest that
the father can be both first and last in “relation to [the] son.”
In regards to time sequence, “firstness” is the only possible
relationship. Here is another example of Bahá’u’lláh modeling
this method of resolving contradictions:
Wonder not, if my Best-Beloved be closer to me than
mine own self; wonder at this, that I, despite such
nearness, should still be so far from Him.... Consider
what God hath revealed, that “We are closer to man
than his life-vein”. By this he meaneth that his heart,
which is the seat of the All-Merciful and the throne
wherein abideth the splendor of His revelation, is
forgetful of its Creator. [GWB XCIII 185, emphasis added]
From the perspective of our human spiritual condition, we can
be distant from God, whereas ontologically, from the
perspective of our dependence on God as the pre-condition for
our existence, God is “closer to us than our own selves. Once
this shift is taken into account, the contradiction is harmonized
with the LNC.
What the foregoing examples teach us is that the LNC readily
accommodates seemingly contradictory statements made from
different
perspectives
or
viewpoints.
However,
while
differences
of
perspective
are
quite
compatible
with
Aristotelian or standard logic,9 they do not necessarily imply
relativism. Relativism allows contradictory truth-claims — even
from the same perspective — because there supposedly is no
ultimate standard by which to judge between various truth-
claims. Thus, all truth-claims must be accepted. Standard logic
rejects contradictory truth-claims from the same perspective
since they cancel each other out. My chair cannot be under me

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

and not under me at the same time, in the same sense from the
same perspective or context. Similarly, because the spiritual and
physical perspectives are different, there is no violation of the
LNC in claiming that spiritually, humans are the acme of
creation [GWB XC 177; cf. GWB XC 179] while at the same time
claiming that physically “the animal is nobler, more serene,
poised and confident” [PUP 184]. The statements come from the
spiritual and physical perspectives, and, therefore, do not
contradict each other. Another example: `Abdu’l-Bahá uses
differing perspectives to resolve the contradiction between
sophists who claim the external world is “an absolute illusion”
[SAQ 278] and those who claim the external world is real. He says
that from God’s perspective, our existence is an “illusion,” but
from our own perspective, it is not. In this case, he uses the
difference of perspective to synthesize apparently conflicting
beliefs. Similarly, he informs us that while a scorpion is evil
from the perspective of man, it is not evil from its own
perspective [SAQ 263] thereby reconciling two seemingly
conflicting views.
It is essential to understand that the principle of the LNC
also applies to religion and spiritual issues. Bahá’u’lláh teaches
that “the foundation of all the religions of God is one; that
oneness is truth and truth is oneness which does not admit of
plurality” [PUP 454, emphasis added]. In logical terms, truth cannot
have the attribute of oneness and not have this attribute (i.e. be
multiple) in the same sense etc. By returning to the foundations
we recover the lost oneness of truth because we resolve any
contradictions: the “unity of truth, through the power of God,
will make these illusory differences [among religions] to vanish
away” [SWAB 30, emphasis added]. Here, too, the LNC is affirmed
insofar as differences, including contradictory differences, will
be dissolved. The “different religions have one truth underlying
them; therefore, their reality is one” [PUP 106]. If their “reality is
one,” they cannot be contradictory. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes a
similar affirmation in regards to science, reason and religion:
“weigh carefully in the balance of reason and science everything
that is presented to you as religion. If it passes this test, then
accept it, for it is truth” [PT 144, emphasis added]. Instructing us to
use the “balance of reason” includes employing the tools of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
logic. If an idea cannot pass this test, “reject it, for it is
ignorance!” [PT 144]
By following Bahá’u’lláh’s and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s example, we
can
resolve
even
seemingly
intransigent
contradictory
statements. One of the most challenging is Bahá’u’lláh’s
declaration about the origin of creation:
The world of existence came into being through the
heat generated from the interaction between the active
force and that which is its recipient. These two are the
same, yet they are different. [TB 140]
The statement appears to violate the LNC insofar as it says
these two forces are “the same, yet ... different.” However,
there is no self-contradiction in saying that these two are the
same in origin and substance but are different in form and
function. In terms of origin and substance they both
instantiations of God’s Will, while in terms of form and
function one is active and the other is receptive. In either case,
they are manifestations of God’s Will. We may also analyze this
paradox with the aide of the Writings endorsement of
Aristotle’s four causes: the material, efficient, formal and final
causes [SAQ 280]. Both the active and passive parts share a
material cause, i.e. a substance which is a manifestation of
God’s Will; in this sense they are alike. However, they differ
formally, i.e. in form and, therefore, they differ in function.
Yet, they are alike vis-à-vis their efficient cause which is God
Who brings them into existence and is the origin of their
action. Finally, they are alike in their final cause — which is
creation — by means of the “heat” or energy released by their
interaction. In both of these interpretations, the contradiction
has been settled by observing that different perspectives explain
the otherwise contradictory attributes.
Interestingly,
two
real-life
phenomena
illustrate
this
situation. The first, and clearer of the two is magnetism. Every
magnet has two poles, i.e. it is one thing or substance but
always has two polar opposite functions which generate an
electromagnetic field just as the active and receptive forces
generate the heat “from which existence [comes] into being.”
The second example is water. Both ice and steam have the same

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

substance, i.e. water, yet these two obviously differ in form and
function, and in these different forms can also interact.
3.3 The Law of the Excluded Middle (LEM) in the Bahá’í
Writings
The Bahá’í Writings are consistent with the LNC and,
therefore, exemplify a two-value logic — the two values being
‘true’ and ‘false.’ The law of the excluded middle (LEM) says
that a statement or its negation must be either true or false:
either an elephant is heavier than a flea or an elephant is not
heavier than a flea. There is no middle ground and one of these
two propositions must be true. (The difference between the
LNC and the LEM is that the LNC says no proposition can be
both true and false, and the LEM says that a statement or its
specific negation must be either true or false.) There is no
middle ground between them.
The Writings, of course, are not a logic and philosophy text,
but they contain numerous passages which are consistent with
the LEM’s principle that there is no middle ground between a
proposition and its negation. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
“This is the Truth and beyond the Truth there is only error”
[TAB1 115]. In other words, a statement is either true or not true
— and by implication, we must choose one or the other. There is
no valid third alternative. The same thinking underlies statement
as such as “This is the truth and there is nothing beyond the
truth but manifest error” [TAB2 304] as well as “This is the truth
and there is naught beyond the truth save error” [TAB3 524]. By
asserting that ‘outside’ the truth there is only “error” or falsity,
these statements affirm the principle of the LEM that there is
no middle ground between falsity and truth. It also implies that
we must choose one or the other. The same is true of the
following statement: “‘Verily this is the truth and naught is
there beside the truth but manifest error’” [TAB 25]. According
to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá we should all have “a sword which divides truth
from falsehood” [TAB1 166]. This metaphor shows a clear
division between true and false without any suggestion of a
middle ground; moreover, the rigor of the language used
strongly suggests we are obligated to choose between the two.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Two-value reasoning also applies to theological matters.
Speaking of Christ, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “The sword [Christ]
carried was the sword of His tongue, with which He divided the
good from the evil, the true from the false, the faithful from
the unfaithful, and the light from the darkness” [PT 55, emphasis
added] He also says, “When Christ appeared, He possessed a
sword; but it was the sword of His tongue with which He
separated the false from the true” [PUP 292, emphasis added].
Referring to Biblical issues, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asks, “Question: How
shall we determine the truth or error of certain biblical
interpretation?” [PUP 212] We observe the principle of the LEM
at work in these choices between negations.
The same rigorous division between truth and error is
observed in Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “This, verily, is the
truth, and all else naught but error” [GWB CXX 255]. The
unmistakable implication here, as in all other such statements, is
that we should choose truth. Bahá’u’lláh also says, “Behold how
the divine Touchstone hath, according to the explicit text of the
Book, separated and distinguished the true from the false” [KI
227, emphasis added]. Third alternatives are clearly excluded as they
are in His statement that one of the tasks of the Manifestations
is to ensure that “the true should be known from the false, and
the sun from the shadow” [KI 53, emphasis added; cf. KI 228]. In
other words, the mission of the Manifestations is to help
humans distinguish between truth and falsity and to choose one
or the other. There is no suggestion that we evade such choices
by trying to find a middle ground. Indeed, God tests our ability
to distinguish “truth from falsehood ... guidance from error”
[KI 8; cf. KI 202, 221]. As required by Aristotle’s definition of the
LEM, each of these terms is a negation of the other, e.g.
happiness and misery, “guidance and error.”
As we have shown, ‘LEM-statements,’ i.e. statements that
demand either affirmation or denial without recourse to an
alternative or ‘middle’ are consistently found throughout the
Writings. For example, in discussing the trinity, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
asserts “for three cannot become one, nor one three. To unite
these is impossible; it is either one or three” [TAB3 512]. God is
one or not. God is three or not. There is only one correct
answer in each proposition — which is that God is one and He is

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

not three. In criticizing the doctrine of the trinity, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
is, in effect, asserting that no middle ground exists, i.e. that the
Christian view of God as being one and three is false, i.e. a
violation of the LEM. Here is another example: “Absolute
repose does not exist in nature. All things either make progress
or lose ground. Everything moves forward or backward,
nothing is without motion” [PT 88]. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá clearly
eliminates any middle ground — that repose exists — and gives
us a choice between progress and not making progress. The
LEM is also applied to spiritual or theological issues: “Now,
either one must say that the Blessed Beauty hath made a mistake,
or He must be obeyed” [SWAB 214]. Once again, the middle
ground has been eliminated. In logical form, this argument reads
as follows: Bahá’u’lláh has made a mistake or He has not made a
mistake; if He has not made a mistake, He must be obeyed and
if He has made a mistake, He must not be obeyed. One of the
two alternatives must be accepted.
There are also other forms of the LEM statements in the
Writings. These are statements about the existence of God, the
existence and immortality of the soul, progressive revelation
and the essential infallibility of the Manifestation. The Writings
leave no room between accepting these teachings as divine
revelation or rejecting them outright. For example, “The human
spirit which distinguishes man from the animal is the rational
soul” [SAQ 208] is a LEM statement that is either true or false.
Either the human spirit is the rational soul or it is not. Even to
have a degree of rationality is to have rationality. Of course,
LEM statements can be interpreted by different readers, but
such interpretation must rest on either acceptance or rejection.
Appearances to the contrary, agnosticism is not a viable middle
ground since agnosticism is a statement of one’s inner mental
condition and not a statement about the propositions
themselves.
In reflecting on the LEM in the Writings, we should not be
misled by apparent paradoxes which seem to undermine it. For
example, in order to explain why He does not, contrary to the
custom in Persian writing, use numerous quotations, Bahá’u’lláh
quotes,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
If Khidir did wreck the vessel on the sea,
Yet in this wrong there are a thousand rights. [SV 26]
At first glance, it seems as if right and wrong were conflated to
make some middle ground between them. This does not
necessarily follow. Rather than conflating the two and positing
a hypothetical middle ground, it is more logical to say that the
“wrong” is, indeed, “wrong” in itself, but that it has some
“right” consequences. Because an act and its consequences are
not the same things, there is no logical necessity to interpret
this example as violations of the LEM.
4. The Principle of Sufficient Reason
In addition to the three laws of standard logic, the Writings
also implicitly employ the principle of sufficient reason (PSR).
According to this principle there must be a necessary and
sufficient reason why every thing or event is what it is and not
something else. All of science is based on the PSR since science
is a quest for necessary and sufficient reasons why certain
events happen and why they happen in the way they do. All
humans, regardless of culture or historical time, implicitly or
explicitly use the PSR insofar as they ‘troubleshoot’ problems,
i.e. try to find the causes of problems. A potter seeking to
know why a pot shattered in a fire, uses the PSR to explain and
correct the problem.
`Abdu’l-Bahá appeals to the PSR when he says that the order
and complexity of nature “is the creation of God, and is not a
fortuitous composition and arrangement” [SAQ 181]. In other
words, physical nature alone does not meet the PSR, i.e. it is not
sufficient to explain its own existence, order, composition and
arrangement. Thus all purely naturalist/materialist explanations
are incomplete. `Abdu’l-Bahá confirms this, saying, “The divine
philosophers declare that the world of nature is incomplete”
[PUP 329]. Precisely because physical nature cannot explain itself
even in principle, logic forces us to posit something else that
transcends physical nature as a sufficient cause. Elsewhere,
`Abdu’l-Bahá amplifies this argument by appealing to God as the

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

only sufficient reason or explanation for the order in the
universe:
were it not for this Director, this Co-ordinator, the
universe would be flawed and deficient. It would be
even as a madman; whereas ye can see that this endless
creation carrieth out its functions in perfect order ... it
is clear that a Universal Power existeth, directing and
regulating this infinite universe. Every rational mind
can grasp this fact. [SWAB 48, emphasis added]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s final remark is significant because he
associates his argument which is based on the PSR with
rationality itself. Not paying attention to the PSR which
provides the logical foundation of his argument, is a failure in
rationality itself. Another demonstration of the PSR is `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s argument to show the necessity for God by means of a
First Mover. There must be a First Mover because no sequence
of causation can go on forever. He rejects the concept that a
causal series can be infinite:
to maintain that this process goes on indefinitely is
manifestly absurd. Thus such a chain of causation must
of necessity lead eventually to Him who is the Ever-
Living ... the Ultimate Cause. [TAF 18]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá rejects an infinite causal sequences as
“manifestly absurd,” though he does not specifically say why.
However, the reasons are not hard to fathom. Explaining the
existence of contingent beings by even more contingent beings
leads to an infinite regress which explains nothing and can only
be stopped by an “Ultimate Cause” that is not Itself a
contingent being. Second, an infinite causal sequence has the
“present problem.” If the causal sequence is made up of an
infinity of individual causal acts, how can it ever arrive at the
present? There are an infinite number causal acts between each
causal act.10 Third, how can there be an infinite, i.e. indefinite
number of individual things or acts? Any collection of
individual things/acts, must be definite, countable, though it
may of course be very large. This renders the notion of an
infinite causal chain implausible.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
In the Writings, there is another aspect to the PSR based on
the Bahá’í theory of causality which explicitly confirms
Aristotle’s four causes: material, efficient, formal and final
[SAQ 280, emphasis added]. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, a chair has
a material cause, i.e. wood; an efficient cause, i.e. the carpenter;
a formal cause, i.e. a plan, or the way the parts are put together;
and a final cause i.e. the reason(s) for building the chair. This
final cause activates and guides the other three causes. Without
it, there is no PSR for building the chair in the first place. Since
all “phenomena are preceded by causes,” [SAQ 280] it follows
that all things have a PSR or final cause. For humans, this PSR is
explicitly noted in the Noonday Prayer: “I bear witness that
Thou hast created me to know Thee and to worship Thee.” It is
also implicitly contained in Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “All
men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization”
[GWB
CIX
214]. No explanation of natural
phenomena that fails to include a final cause or satisfy the PSR
is complete or valid. For example, `Abdu’l-Bahá says, “For the
noblest part of the tree is the fruit, which is the reason of its
existence. If the tree had no fruit, it would have no meaning”
[SAQ 196-197; cf. PT 98]. Without the fruit, the tree lacks a
sufficient reason to exist. This has enormous implications for
the practice of science which seeks to make its explanations as
complete as possible but is averse to the concept of final
causes.
5. Deductive Reasoning
Standard logic provides the basic laws that correct reasoning
must obey regardless of whether our reasoning methods or
procedures are deductive, inductive, analogical or Socratic
dialectical. We shall now examine how the Writings make use of
these methods.
Deductive reasoning begins with a general or universal
statement and then deduces specific consequences entailed in
the general statement. For example, the universal statement ‘All
birds have two wings’ entails the conclusion that ‘My parrot has
two wings.’ This conclusion follows the LI, the LNC and the
LEM. My bird cannot both have and not have two wings; it
must be either true or false that it has two wings.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

Deductive reasoning is especially suited to the Writings
because it depends primarily on the truth of the initial universal
statement. This makes deduction the appropriate mode of
reasoning for those in authority with completely trustworthy
knowledge. Unlike scientists still looking for the truth, the
essentially infallible Manifestation and His interpreter (who has
acquired infallibility) are able to give us absolutely reliable
universal propositions — e.g. humans are made in God’s image —
from which we can draw specific conclusions. Their universal
propositions provide the guidance we need for our own
reasoning process so that we do not wander too far from the
truth.
Deductive arguments can be presented formally as one or a
series of syllogisms, i.e. a three-part argument in which a
conclusion is inferred from first two premises. Here is the most
famous deductive syllogism in western philosophy.
1) All humans are mortal;
2) Socrates is human;
3) Therefore, Socrates is mortal.
The conclusion is implicitly embedded or entailed in the first
universal premise. If the first two premises are true, the
conclusion is necessarily true; no other answer is logically
possible without violating one of the rules of reasoning. The
conclusion can only be challenged by disproving the first and/or
second premises. If ‘Socrates’ is my cat, the syllogism is false.
We must also realize that all universal premises are
embryonic syllogisms, i.e. fully developed syllogisms can be
inferred from them. The second premise and conclusions are
implied but easily ‘unpacked.’11 For example, to say that “All
humans are mortal” automatically includes every individual
human being. The syllogistic form is simply an efficient way of
‘unpacking’ the implicit steps to a conclusion. Take, for
example, Abdu’l-Bahá’s declaration that “[t]he human spirit
which distinguishes man from the animal is the rational soul”
[SAQ 208]. This is a universal premise about all humans, which

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
includes everyone, including our friend, Bill. A syllogism makes
this clear:
1) The human spirit distinguishes man from animal;
2) Bill has a human spirit, i.e. is human;
3) Therefore, Bill is distinguished from animals.
Wherever we find a universal premise in the Writings (or any
other work) we can test its conclusion by putting it into
syllogistic form.
We shall use syllogisms to illustrate the careful deductive
structure of the arguments presented in the Writings. Although
the Writings do not contain any formalized deductive
syllogisms as shown above, many of the arguments they present
have a syllogistic structure embedded in them. A well known
example of an explicit universal statement from the Writings is,
“All men have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization ... To act like the beasts of the field is unworthy of
man” [GWB CIX 214], from which Bahá’u’lláh immediately draws
the conclusion that we should not behave like animals. The core
logical argument can be expressed as a syllogism:
1) “All men have been created to carry forward an ever-
advancing civilization;”
2) Behaving like beasts will not advance a civilization;
3) Therefore, humans should not behave like beasts. (“To
act like the beasts of the field is unworthy of man.”)
Of course, we must emphasize that Bahá’u’lláh Himself is not
dependent on such deductions for His knowledge and
understanding. However, he uses this form as a pedagogical tool
to help us grasp His teachings.
Deductive reasoning does not necessarily use the word “all”
or “every” explicitly in its general or universal statements, but
“all” or “every” must be implied. That is what makes them
universal. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

thou wilt see that a lower plane can never comprehend a
higher. The mineral kingdom, for example, which is
lower, is precluded from comprehending the vegetable
kingdom... [SWAB 46]
There is a syllogism using an implied universal premise and
syllogism embedded in this passage.
1) “A lower plane can never comprehend a higher”;
2) The “mineral kingdom ... is lower”;
3) Therefore, the mineral kingdom cannot comprehend
the vegetable kingdom.
Putting ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s arguments into syllogistic form can be
quite a laborious step-by-step procedure which is probably why
‘Abdu’l-Bahá does not do it. It would quickly prove tedious.
However, what is important is that it can be done in order to
reveal the rigorous logical structure underlying his and
Bahá’u’lláh’s arguments. This provides demonstrative support
to show that the doctrine that the Teachings are reasonable.
The use of deductive reason includes both “spiritual
proof[s]” [SAQ 197] and logical proofs. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá identifies
the following as a “spiritual proof,” i.e. one that does not
depend on empirical knowledge.
it cannot be said there was a time when man was not ...
from the beginning which has no beginning, to the end
which has no end, a perfect manifestation always exists.
This man of whom we speak is not every man; we mean
the perfect man. For the noblest part of the tree is the
fruit, which is the reason of its existence; if the tree had
no fruit, it would have no meaning. Therefore it cannot
be imagined that the worlds of existence ... were
without man! [SAQ 196]
The core of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s explanation, parts of which
expressed metaphorically, can be formalized in the following
syllogism:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
1) The “Perfect Man” is the final cause (“noblest part”)
of existence;
2) The “worlds of existence” require a final cause;
3) Therefore, there can be no world without the
“Perfect Man.”
Of course, `Abdu’l-Bahá supplements this argument with
considerably more details than we find in the syllogisms, but the
two foregoing deductive syllogisms represent the logical heart
of his argument.
What follows is an example of what `Abdu’l-Bahá calls “the
logical evidences for the immortality of the soul” [SAQ 228].
The logical proof of the immortality of the spirit is
this, that no sign can come from a nonexisting thing —
that is to say, it is impossible that from absolute
nonexistence signs should appear — for the signs are the
consequence of an existence, and the consequence
depends upon the existence of the principle. So from a
nonexisting sun no light can radiate ... [SAQ 225]
In this and the subsequent passages, `Abdu’l-Bahá goes to
extraordinary lengths to show how the soul or spirit can operate
without the body. If we focus on the main ideas to be proved in
his detailed argument, we can detect two central deductive
syllogisms at work. The first proves the existence of the spirit
and the second, the spirit’s immortality.
1) All things that exist show signs of existence (“No sign
can come from a nonexisting thing”);
2) The spirit shows signs of existence;
3) Therefore, the spirit exists
and
1) All things that depend on the physical body to exist
cannot survive the dissolution of the body;

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

2) The spirit (which exists) does not depend on the
physical body for existence;
3) Therefore, the spirit can survive the dissolution of
the body i.e. is immortal.
These two deductive syllogisms represent the formal structure
of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s argument. Of course, he goes into far more
detail than these core syllogisms but the logical nucleus of his
argument is readily apparent.
The other common form of deductive reasoning has its first
premise in the conditional i.e. ‘if-then’ form. For example, here
is a passage from Paris Talks:
I say unto you: weigh carefully in the balance of reason
and science everything that is presented to you as
religion. If it passes this test, then accept it, for it is
truth! If, however, it does not so conform, then reject
it, for it is ignorance! [PT 144]
The formalized logical argument embedded in this statement
can be written as follows:
1) If statement X is presented “as religion”;
2) X passes the test of reason and science;
3) Therefore, we must accept X.
There are numerous examples like this throughout the
Writings.12
We have demonstrated that deductive reasoning is pervasive
throughout the Writings and that it is rigorous enough to be
formalized in syllogistic form. This demonstrates that careful
logical reasoning is embedded in the Texts which not only
advocate but also practice reason. This point becomes more
salient when we realize that deductive reasoning follows the
four laws of classical reasoning we have discussed.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
6. Inductive Reasoning
Instead of working from the top down, as deduction does,
inductive reason works from the bottom up and draws general
or universal conclusions on the basis of specific examples. We
observe that in the past, ants were always attracted to the food
at our picnics, and conclude that ants are attracted by picnic
food. Unlike deductive conclusions which are logically certain,
inductive conclusions have only a degree of probability. For
example, we could improve the probability of our conclusion
by observing 20,000 picnic sites instead of six. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
illustrates
inductive
reasoning
when
he
writes,
“Also
[humankind] bringeth to light the past events that have been
lost to memory, and foreseeth by his power of induction future
happenings that are as yet unknown” [TAF 11, emphasis added]. In
other words, on the basis of past events, we can reach a
conclusion about future events or likely future events. This is
exactly what science does which studies numerous examples of a
phenomena and then reaches a conclusion. Elsewhere ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says that “through processes of inductive reasoning and
research” [PUP 50] we can learn a great deal about humanity. In
other words, we learn from or conclude from specific individual
events.
The Writings nonetheless show us many examples of
induction in practice. For example, here is a complete inductive
argument with its conclusion stated at the end:
But when you look at Nature itself, you see that it has
no intelligence, no will. For instance, the nature of fire
is to burn; it burns without will or intelligence. The
nature of water is fluidity; it flows without will or
intelligence. The nature of the sun is radiance; it shines
without will or intelligence ... Man is able to resist and
to oppose Nature because he discovers the constitution
of things ... all the inventions he has made are due to his
discovery of the constitution of things ... It is evident,
then, that man rules over Nature. [SAQ 3, emphasis added]
Because humans have knowledge and the will to resist nature
which has no will of its own, “man rules over nature.” This

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

example models the proper form of an inductive argument:
evidence from specific examples is accumulated and then a
general or universal conclusion is reached. Here is another
example of induction:
Alas that humanity is completely submerged in
imitations and unrealities ... They follow superstitions
inherited from their fathers and ancestors ... That which
was meant to be conducive to life has become the cause
of death; that which should have been an evidence of
knowledge is now a proof of ignorance; that which was
a factor in the sublimity of human nature has proved to
be its degradation. [PUP 179, emphasis added]
In this passage we observe how ‘Abdu’l-Bahá bases his
conclusion — that we have turned the opportunities for new life
into our degradation — on a wide variety of examples
specifically named or alluded to. We should note that in this
example, he is drawing a spiritual conclusion from these worldly
examples.
Bahá’u’lláh also uses inductive arguments. He lists a series of
historical examples in which people have yearned for the
Manifestation and then, ironically, turned away from Him when
He appeared. Indeed, Bahá’u’lláh goes into considerable detail
in each case to give us evidence to support His argument. He
then provides us His conclusion:
It behoveth us, therefore, to make the utmost endeavor,
that, by God’s invisible assistance, these dark veils,
these clouds of Heaven-sent trials, may not hinder us
from beholding the beauty of His shining Countenance,
and that we may recognize Him only by His own Self.
[GWB XIII 26]
From this litany of failures to recognize a new Manifestation,
Bahá’u’lláh draws the practical conclusion that we must strive
not to make the same error and that, with God’s assistance, we
learn to recognize the Manifestation for Himself.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
7. Analogical Reasoning
The Bahá’í Writings make frequent use of analogical
reasoning to explain and support the teachings. In analogies, we
observe that two things are similar but not identical, and then
reason or draw conclusions about one thing, i.e. the target, by
comparisons with something else, i.e. the source.13 The more
similarities between the source and the target, the stronger the
conclusion will be. However, while analogical arguments
provide good reasons to accept a conclusion, they do not
provide logically necessary proof.
One of the most striking arguments by analogy in the
Writings concerns the organic nature of human society.
According to Bahá’u’lláh, we should
Regard the world as the human body which, though at
its creation whole and perfect, hath been afflicted,
through various causes, with grave disorders and
maladies. [GWB CXX 254]
The underlying analogy is that initial appearances not
withstanding, both the human body and the world/society are
living organisms. Because they are the same kinds of things, we
can transfer attributes from one to the other, i.e. from the
source — the human body — to the target — the world/society.
Thus, He says that the world/society, like the human body, can
also suffer “disorders and maladies.” For health, we need
properly integrated parts functioning for the good of the
whole.
Shoghi Effendi uses this organic concept of society to build
his argument for dealing with Covenant breakers. He describes
the Faith “as a living organism” [WOB 23], which, like an
organism is able “to expand and adapt itself to the needs and
requirements of an ever-changing society” [WOB 23]. He
transfers the attributes of an organism, i.e. the source, to the
target, i.e. the Bahá’í Faith. Consequently, Shoghi Effendi
concludes that internal existential threats to the Faith must be
excised from the Bahá’í community like “a cancer” [DG 16,
emphasis added]. Tolerating internally rebellious and destructive
elements within itself would expose the Faith to mortal danger.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

Another example of an argument from analogy is ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s use of the sun and its planets to show why an
intermediary between God and humankind is necessary. He
informs us that “An intermediary is needed to bring two
extremes into relation with each other” [PT 57]. This is the
principle on which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá constructs his analogy. It
asserts that when two extremes are to be connected, a third
connecting entity is necessary.
The Divine Reality may be likened to the sun and the
Holy Spirit to the rays of the sun. As the rays of the sun
bring the light and warmth of the sun to the earth,
giving
life
to
all
created
beings,
so
do
the
‘Manifestations’ ... bring the power of the Holy Spirit
from the Divine Sun of Reality to give light and life to
the souls of men. [PT 57]
The rays are the necessary intermediaries between the sun and
the earth because the sun itself cannot descend to earth just as
God does not descend into materiality. Consequently, “there
must be a Mediator between God and Man, and this is none
other than the Holy Spirit, which brings the created earth into
relation with the ‘Unthinkable One’, the Divine Reality” [PT 57].
8. Socratic Dialectical Reasoning
In his guidance to the conduct of consultation by a Spiritual
Assembly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “The shining spark of truth
cometh forth only after the clash of differing opinions” [SWAB
87, emphasis added]. This statement encapsulates the essence of
Socratic dialectic reasoning14 in which we seek the truth by
carefully cross-examining all ideas, by trying them against
contradictory or alternative suggestions and by analyzing them
in light of divine revelation and for logical consistency.
Naturally, we must take into account the spiritual context of
this intellectual procedure for it is this spiritual context which
forms the psycho-spiritual environment that helps us find the
truth. This spiritual focus is essential because it discourages
human idiosyncrasies, foibles and/or personal agendas from
derailing the dialectical reasoning process.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Two words stand out in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement: “clash”
and “only.” The former strikes a somewhat ‘Hegelian chord’ in
its allusion to a “clash” or collision to test viewpoint and its
rivals. The word “only” seems to re-enforce this ‘Hegelian
chord’ insofar as the “clash” of opinions (not individuals) is
necessary for testing viewpoints. However, in contrast to the
Hegelian dialectic, Socratic and Bahá’í dialectical reasoning does
not necessarily end in a synthesis of views; truth may be with
one point of view or another.
Although dialectical reasoning is necessary to Bahá’í
consultation, it is not sufficient. Bahá’í consultation makes a
key improvement in the process of dialectical reasoning by
requiring participants to surrender personal ownership of ideas.
When an idea is put forth it becomes at once the
property of the group. Although this notion sounds
simple, it is perhaps the most profound principle of
consultation
...
When
followed,
this
principle
encourages those ideas that spring forth from a sincere
desire to serve, as opposed to ideas that emanate from a
desire for personal aggrandizement or constituency-
building.15
Eliminating the concept of ‘ownership’ of ideas is essential to
dialectical reasoning because the required objectivity is easily
lost if the participants are side-tracked by personal ‘politics.’ As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “They must in every matter search out the
truth and not insist upon their own opinion” [SWAB 87]. Truth is
all that matters.
The role of dialectical reasoning is seen primarily in the
requirements of consultation and less so in the Writings which
have few clear-cut examples of dialectic reasoning. This is not
unexpected
since
the
Writings
characteristically
reason
deductively from infallibly given universal premises and do not
generally show the ‘debating’ process by which actual
conclusions are reached. However, we do have an example of
dialectical reasoning in its embryonic stage in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
discussion of pantheism in Some Answered Questions. Here we
observe the pattern of exposition and refutation and/or
improvement that characterizes dialectical reasoning. In the

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

discussion of pantheism, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains Sufi and
Theosophist beliefs about God’s relationship to the phenomenal
world and then contrasts them with what the Prophets have
taught. According to him, the Prophets teach that phenomenal
reality emanates from God Who “remains and continues in the
exaltation of Its [God’s] sanctity” [SAQ 293]. Manifestation,
however, means something appears in various forms. He
demonstrates
the
weaknesses
of
the
Sufi-Theosophical
arguments for manifestation and why emanation is the correct
alternative. A similar pattern of exposition and refutation is
found in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s discussion about reincarnation [SAQ
282] and “The Birth of Christ” [SAQ 87].
It should be mentioned in passing, that dialectical reasoning
requires adherence to the four laws of reasoning discussed in
previous sections. A dialogue in which terms are not used
consistently, in which the choice of truth or falsity is evaded, in
which logical self-contradictions are rampant and in which
reasons are not adequate to the subject matter quickly
degenerates into nonsense that communicates nothing except
confusion. No one will know what anyone else is talking about
and that makes communication impossible. It destroys the very
possibility and purpose of consultation.
9. A “Rational God”
Perhaps the most intriguing statement about rationality in
the Bahá’í Writings is Shoghi Effendi’s reference to
that invisible yet rational God Who, however much we
extol the divinity of His Manifestations on earth, can
in no wise incarnate His infinite, His unknowable, His
incorruptible and all-embracing Reality in the concrete
and limited frame of a mortal being. Indeed, the God
Who could so incarnate His own reality would, in the
light of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, cease immediately
to be God. So crude and fantastic a theory of Divine
incarnation is as removed from, and incompatible with,
the essentials of Bahá’í belief ...  [WOB 112, emphasis
added]

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Shoghi Effendi’s explanation tells us that an infinite and perfect
God cannot incarnate Himself in finitude and imperfection
without losing His identity as God. As Shoghi Effendi says,
were God to do so, He would “cease immediately to be God.”
i.e. God must be infinite and perfect to be God. Therein we see
consistency with the law of identity (LI). Shoghi Effendi’s
statement is also consistent with the law of non-contradiction
(LNC) which tells us that God cannot be infinite and perfect as
well as finite and imperfect at the same time in the same sense.
Next, we observe the law of the excluded middle (LEM) insofar
as one or the other of following statements must be true: ‘God
is infinite and perfect’ or ‘God is not infinite and perfect.’ A
third choice — which is precisely what the Christian
understanding of the trinity asserts — is not logically possible.
Shoghi Effendi describes this non-existent third choice as “crude
and fantastic” which is a very strong rejection of a doctrine
from another religion. Consistency with the three basic laws of
standard logic is clearly one reason why Shoghi Effendi refers to
a “rational God.” We hasten to add that this does not
compromise God’s absolute freedom to act as He pleases. As
creator of the laws of logic He is free to choose to act in
agreement with them.
Further evidence of God’s rationality is also seen in creation.
As shown above, creation has a final cause, or purpose, a reason
for being by which we can begin understanding it as an orderly
composition and not “as a fortuitous composition and
arrangement” [SAQ 181]. Order and purpose are essential
attributes of rationality, and, in this case, signs of a “rational
God” acting in the phenomenal world. Bahá’u’lláh says,
And when the sanctified souls rend asunder the veils of
all earthly attachments ... then will the purpose of
creation, which is the knowledge of Him Who is the
Eternal Truth, become manifest. [KA 176]
Speaking of natural creation, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “the creation
of God ... is not a fortuitous composition and arrangement
[SAQ 181, emphasis added] and is “composed and combined with the
greatest strength, conformable to wisdom and according to
universal law” [SAQ 181]. Here, too, we observe that God reveals

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

Himself as acting consistently with purpose and reason. This
does not, of course, mean that we humans always understand
this purpose or the reasons for creation, but it means we can
rest assured that such reasons and such a purpose exist.
10. The Limits of Reason
There are, broadly speaking, three viewpoints about the
powers of reason. Rationalism in its strongest form, often
associated with empiricism and logical positivism, maintains
that reason can tell us ‘everything.’ Whatever cannot be known
by reason is not knowledge. Reason alone is both necessary and
sufficient. At the other extreme is skepticism, in our time
mainly in its as postmodern guise, which says reason can tell us
nothing. There is no truth and we only have opinions or
viewpoints, none less or more true than any other. Reason is
neither necessary nor sufficient. Moderate rationalism lies
between these two extremes. It holds that reason can tell us
some things but not others; it has the ability to provide some
knowledge but it also has limits. In short, reason is necessary
but not sufficient.
In our view, the Bahá’í Writings espouse moderate
rationalism, i.e. the view that reason is necessary but not
sufficient. Having examined the necessity of reason in the
Writings, let us turn our attention to its limitations. Doing so
requires a brief excursion into ontology since Bahá’í
epistemology has an ontological foundation. In a nutshell, the
Writings teach that ontology determines epistemology, i.e. what
can be known is determined by a thing’s ontological status.
Because “the degrees of existence are different and various,
some beings are higher in the scale than others” [SAQ 130]. The
result is that “everything which is lower is powerless to
comprehend the reality of that which is higher” [SAQ 146, emphasis
added] which brings us to the first limitation: human reason
cannot comprehend God.
It is evident that the human understanding is a quality
of the existence of man, and that man is a sign of God:
how can the quality of the sign surround the creator of
the sign? ... Therefore, the Reality of the Divinity is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
hidden from all comprehension, and concealed from the
minds of all men. It is absolutely impossible to ascend
to that plane. We see that everything which is lower is
powerless to comprehend the reality of that which is
higher. [SAQ 146, emphasis added]
The ontological difference between God and humankind is
intrinsic and cannot be overcome. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states
categorically that “it is absolutely impossible to ascend to that
plane.” This impossibility forbids all claims to know “the
reality” or Essence of God and rejects all claims to having
attained and experienced ontological unity with God, even if
only in a subjective, emotional or ‘mystic’ state. This
impossibility is “absolute” and, therefore, falsifies any claim to
have attained such union from any perspective.16
However, our understanding of this ontological difference
must be fine-tuned for, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “The existence of
the Divine Being hath been clearly established, on the basis of
logical proofs, but the reality of the Godhead is beyond the
grasp of the mind” [PUP 47, emphasis added]. In other words, we
may know by logical proofs that God exists but not what God
is, i.e. we may know about His existence which can be logically
demonstrated, but we cannot know His Essence. In a similar
vein Adib Taherzadeh writes,
It is essential to differentiate between the ‘Essence of
God’ which Shoghi Effendi describes as the ‘innermost
Spirit of Spirits’ or ‘Eternal Essence of Essences’, and
‘God revealed’ to humanity. The former is unknowable,
while the latter is comprehensible to man.17
The “Essence of God” is unknowable but “God revealed’ to
humanity” i.e. God as revealed in phenomenal creation — can be
known. He is known to us through the revelation of the
Manifestations. What the Manifestation reflects is derived
from and associated with God — that is precisely what makes
him a Manifestation — and what He reveals to us about God, is
knowledge about God appropriate to human understanding.
Another limitation of reason is identified when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
affirms that by “intellectual development and power of reason,

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

man cannot attain to his fullest degree — cannot accomplish the
progress effected by religion” [PUP 170]. Yet again, this time
from a new perspective, the Writings support the central
contention of moderate rationalism that reason while necessary
is not sufficient for the full development of humankind. “No
system of philosophy has ever been able to change the manners
and customs of a people for the better” [PT 164] — a fact amply
illustrated by the tragic history of various ideologies in the 20th
Century. Genuine human development requires the power of the
Holy Spirit:
The world of humanity must be confirmed by the
breath of the Holy Spirit in order to receive universal
education. [PUP 170]
Another limitation of reason is that it cannot learn about the
essence of things directly. This brings us to one of the most
philosophically important passages in the Writings.
Know that there are two kinds of knowledge: the
knowledge of the essence of a thing and the knowledge
of its qualities. The essence of a thing is known through
its qualities; otherwise, it is unknown and hidden. [SAQ
220, emphasis added]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s wording in the second statement requires careful
examination. It asserts that the “essence of a thing is known
through its qualities; otherwise it is unknown and hidden.” In
other words, it is, in fact, possible to know about essences but
only by means of their “qualities” or attributes. Knowledge of
essences is indirect, mediated by “their qualities.” There is no
direct knowledge of the essence. Consequently, our reasoning is
limited to these externalized, manifested qualities and actions of
things. Abdu’l-Bahá adds,
the inner essence of anything is not comprehended, but
only its qualities. For example, the inner essence of the
sun is unknown, but is understood by its qualities,
which are heat and light. The inner essence of man is
unknown and not evident, but by its qualities it is
characterized and known. Thus everything is known by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
its qualities and not by its essence. Although the mind
encompasses all things, and the outward beings are
comprehended by it, nevertheless these beings with
regard to their essence are unknown; they are only
known with regard to their qualities. [SAQ 220]
This passage reinforces the interpretation that the essence of
things is not known in-itself but only externally by manifested
qualities and their inter-action with the world. Only God has
such knowledge of “inner essence[s].” Once again, we observe
that this distinction puts restrictions on the powers of reason
by forestalling all claims to immediate, ‘inside’ knowledge of
essences. This prohibits any claims of ontological ‘mystical
union’ with God since that would obviously provide such
‘inside’ knowledge of the divine.
We must also recognize that reason cannot comprehend the
higher spiritual realms such as the Abhá Kingdom, i.e. “the
worlds beyond this, and their condition” [ABL 66]. This is
another important limitation of reason, one which has a direct
effect on beliefs regarding the after-life and the existence of
super-sensory realms of being. Of these worlds, we can only
know what the Writings tell us.
Furthermore, reason by itself cannot complete its quest for
knowledge, i.e. it lacks the power to attain the certainty with
which the process of reasoning completes itself. (If it did not
seek certainty what would be the point of the quest for
knowledge?) Reason is necessary but is not sufficient to attain
its natural goal of certainty. To attain certainty by itself, reason
could only rely on still more reason, thus setting up an infinite
regress which never achieves its goal. To achieve this certainty
we must go beyond reason.
How shall we attain the reality of knowledge? By the
breaths and promptings of the Holy Spirit, which is
light and knowledge itself. Through it the human mind
is quickened and fortified into true conclusions and
perfect knowledge. [PUP 21, emphasis added]
In our view, the “reality of knowledge” includes the certainty
that all knowledge seeks. This is only attained by the

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

“promptings of the Holy Spirit” which enliven and strengthen
the mind and “fortify[ ]” it into “true conclusions.” In short,
the reasoning capacities are strengthened so that our findings
have truth and certainty, i.e. “perfect knowledge.” Abdu’l-Bahá
also says,
It is most certain that if human souls exercise their
respective reason and intelligence upon the divine
questions, the power of God will dispel every difficulty,
and the eternal realities will appear as one light, one
truth, one love, one God and a peace that is universal.
[PUP 79]
What makes this statement especially interesting is that
assistance from the “power of God,” is conditional upon our
“exercise” of “reason and intelligence.” If we fail in this
“exercise,” divine help cannot or will not assist us, a situation
similar to The Arabic Hidden Words which state, “If thou
lovest Me not, My love can in no wise reach thee” [HW Ar. 5].
Equally noteworthy is the reference to using “reason and
intelligence upon the divine questions,” i.e. to using reason in
regards to spiritual issues thereby emphasizing that reason is not
only applicable to the phenomenal realm. This passage illustrates
yet again that reason is necessary but not sufficient in the quest
for knowledge. The same idea is expressed in the following
passage:
He has bestowed upon him the power of intellect so
that through the attribute of reason, when fortified by
the Holy Spirit, he may penetrate and discover ideal
realities and become informed of the mysteries of the
world of significances. As this power to penetrate the
ideal knowledges is superhuman, supernatural, man
becomes the collective center of spiritual as well as
material forces...  [PUP 303, emphasis added]
Reason, when “fortified by the Holy Spirit,” may acquire
knowledge of “ideal” i.e. non-material realities and the
supernatural
realm
because
reason
is
“superhuman,
supernatural.” When properly assisted, reason is not confined

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
to the phenomenal world. However, without help from the Holy
Spirit, even our natural, scientific knowledge is not possible.
Without the Holy Spirit he [man] would have no intellect,
he would be unable to acquire his scientific knowledge
... The illumination of the Holy Spirit gives to man the
power of thought, and enables him to make discoveries
by which he bends the laws of nature to his will. [PT 58;
cf. FWU 51]
Without the Holy Spirit, humans would have no “intellect”
i.e. no mind and no reason by which to make scientific
discoveries. Obviously, the “illumination” of the Holy Spirit is
a pre-condition for the intellect or reasoning power in
humankind; this divine illumination “gives to man the power of
thought” and “enables him to make discoveries.” This explains
why the action of the Holy Spirit cannot be explained in strictly
rational and empirical terms. Illumination from the Holy Spirit
is a pre-condition for reason and is therefore, ontologically
superior to it. As we recall, the ontologically lower cannot
understand the higher. Thus, the conclusion that the Holy
Spirit’s actions are beyond reason is not merely a ‘mystification’
or evasion but rather a strict logical consequence of the
relationship between the dependent things and that on which
they depend.
Finally, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that the
Holy Spirit gives the true method of comprehension
which is infallible and indubitable. This is through the
help of the Holy Spirit which comes to man, and this is
the condition in which certainty can alone be attained.
[SAQ 297, emphasis added]
Here, too, we find reference to the “true method of
comprehension” which is available to the “quickened” mind as
well as to the certainty or infallibility that “perfect knowledge”
requires. Knowledge acquired with assistance of the Holy Spirit
is described as “infallible and indubitable.” Elsewhere, ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá also notes the possibility of certain knowledge: if we have
proof that is acceptable to the senses, to reason, to “traditional
authority” [PUP 254] and to the heart, we will have knowledge

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

that can be “relied upon as perfectly correct” [PUP 254]. Later he
adds that we can absolutely rely [on] and declare to be
complete” [PUP 256, emphasis added] a proof that meets these four
criteria. These statements suggest that in principle it is possible
for humans to have certain knowledge — a topic we shall now
examine more closely.
11. The Reliability of Reason
There is yet one more, extraordinarily important limitation
of reason i.e. the unreliability of the reasoning process itself.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to this limitation in his discussions when he
that philosophers cannot come to any final agreement on a wide
variety of issues.
Therefore, it is evident that the method of reason is not
perfect, for the differences of the ancient philosophers,
the want of stability and the variations of their
opinions, prove this. For if it were perfect, all ought to
be united in their ideas and agreed in their opinions.
[SAQ 296, emphasis added]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s conclusion is based on the premise that truth is
one; consequently, if the reasoning process were fully reliable,
this one truth would be evident to all. Elsewhere he adds that
these differences among scientists and philosophers are “clear
proof that human reason is not to be relied upon as an infallible
criterion” [PUP 21].
We must carefully examine ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements about
the unreliability of reason because they can easily be
misinterpreted to undermine virtually everything the Writings
say about epistemology, i.e. about knowledge and reason. First,
we must note what the passage does not say. Although it
discusses the reasoning process, the construction of chains of
inferences, the formation of “opinions,” and debates among
philosophers and scientists, it does not discuss what we may call
the ‘basic knowledge’ we use to build rational inferences and
arguments. In other words, this limitation of reason does not
undermine or relativize statements such as fire is hotter than
ice; a triangle has three sides; an elephant has more mass than an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
ant; you either went to bed last night or did not; the sun seems
to go around the earth. The Writings, of course, make constant
use of such basic knowledge in developing arguments,
explicating teachings and illustrating spiritual principles: spring
is preceded by winter and followed by summer [SAQ 73]; a clear
sky lets us see the sun [PT 62]; we can travel underwater in
submarines [PT 41]. The significance of this observation is that it
limits human fallibility to the process of reasoning and does not
necessarily apply to all knowledge claims. We may acquire
certain knowledge or facts and though they are very basic, they
are absolutely necessary to the construction and explication of
arguments whether our own or those in the Writings. In fact,
the Writings depend on basic knowledge being certain and
universal in order to reach a world-wide audience. The full
significance of this will become apparent later. For now we shall
only conclude that the Bahá’í Writings avoid skepticism about
all knowledge by recognizing the validity of basic knowledge.
If misinterpreted, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements about the
imperfection of the reasoning process can lead to claims of a
serious self-contradiction in the Writings. On one hand, the
Writings note the unreliability of reason while on the other,
they put enormous emphasis on reason and rationality, even for
religion and spiritual issues. As we have seen, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
admonishes us to use reason as a test for distinguishing religion
from ignorance and superstition. However, if reason is
unreliable, how can we use it as instructed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá?
How can it be useful in recognizing superstitions when reason
itself is not reliable? On the surface at least, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
critique of reason seems to undermine and contradict the
Writing’s strong advocacy of reason. This confronts us with a
stark question: Do the Writings contradict themselves?
Before demonstrating how Shoghi Effendi resolves this
contradiction, it is important to recall that reasoning
“fortified” [PUP 22] by the Holy Spirit can attain “certainty”
[SAQ 299]. Therefore, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s declaration about the limits
of reason do not apply in such cases. This means that
infallibility is possible in principle — a fact of immense
importance in regards to the Universal House of Justice which
is the recipient of divine guidance.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

One way of resolving this apparent contradiction between
advocating and apparently undermining reason is to recall
Shoghi Effendi’s statement that the Bahá’í Faith is “scientific in
its method.”18 This has several applications. The first is that
science recognizes that in principle reason is fallible and that all
truth-claims are provisional, but at the same time, it recognizes
that in practice truth-claims are accepted as true until there is
empirical evidence and demonstrably better reasoning to prove
otherwise. No mere imaginative speculation about possibilities
suffice to dislodge a provisionally certain fact; better empirical
evidence and better reasoning are required. Thus, while from the
perspective of principle, there are no absolute certainties in
science, from the perspective of practice there are pragmatic
certainties we use until contrary concrete observational and
rational evidence arises. All accepted scientific facts are in this
position: fallible in principle but having pragmatic certainty.
For example, in principle the heliocentric theory of the solar
system is fallible, but in practice no one questions it given the
absence of empirical evidence. The suggestion that it is simply
an illusion from Descartes’ clever demon — or the Matrix — is
of no value to science. In this way, science strikes a balance
between stability and change.
Applied to the Writings, this leads to the view that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s occasional statements about the fallibility of natural,
unassisted reason concern principle, while his frequent
statements extolling and recommending reason concern
practice. This means there is no contradiction between principle
and practice because they refer to different aspects of
reasoning. Therefore, they do not really contradict or
undermine each other.
We might also say that while the main emphasis is on the use
of reason, passages on the limitations of reason are meant
primarily as a heuristic admonition to forestall hubris about our
reasoning processes and the resulting conflicts. This ‘corrective
view’ is supported by the enormous disparity between the
number of passages extolling and recommending reason and the
very small number of passages about its limitations [SAQ 207; PUP
21 and 254]. Like any good teacher, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá highlights the
main lesson he wants to teach, in this case, the importance of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
using reason in the quest for both spiritual and worldly
knowledge. However, he also provides a corrective if arguments
get out of hand, and forestalls the hubris of extreme rationalism
that might even claim to know God in His Essence.
The inherent fallibility of reason also raises the problem of
circular reasoning. If reason is fallible, how can we use it to
judge a work of reasoning with any confidence in the results?
We are caught in a vicious circle. Is there a way of escape? In
principle, for science there is no escape since there is nothing
superior to reason by which to judge its results. One can only
check and re-check one’s data and conclusions in hopes of
finding hidden errors — and await the results of other research.
On the other hand, Bahá’í epistemology distinguishes between
natural reason working alone and natural reason “fortified” [PUP
22] by the Holy Spirit and, therefore, has a superior platform by
which to judge the results of reasoning. The problem for Bahá’ís
is knowing which reasoning process has been “fortified” and
which has not.
To help us judge the results of our reasoning, the Writings
are “scientific in [their] method” in a second way. The sciences
use a “negative gate-keeper” method of excluding inadequate
viewpoints that cannot meet certain criteria — such as
quantification, physicality, objectivity or falsifiability. Any
hypothesis that meets the various criteria is acceptable until
experimentation or the discovery of an internal reasoning error
rule it out. For example, although in quantum physics the
Copenhagen interpretation is most often cited, (a trend that is
now changing) there are, in fact, several other scientifically
valid interpretations of quantum data. They all make the same
predictions and are, therefore, recognized as equally valid, e.g.
interpretations by Everett, Gell-Mann and de Broglie-Bohm.19
The negative gate-keeper has two correlated functions. First,
it tells us what criteria a hypothesis or viewpoint must have to
be acceptable. In physics, quantification is one of them.
Second, the negative gate-keeper tells us what to avoid.
Physicists must avoid Aristotelian concepts of momentum and
chemists must avoid the phlogiston theory of combustion. The
negative gate-keeper does not dictate any specific interpretation
or hypothesis but only criteria which our theories must satisfy.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

Within that framework, we may believe or hypothesize anything
we believe is true. The net effect is that both unity of subject
matter and diversity of exploration and hypothesizing are
preserved.
A similar situation prevails in the Writings. They lay out
certain criteria for our beliefs. For example, they must be based
on the Writings and at least be conflict-free vis-à-vis guidance
from the Universal House of Justice. Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also tell us particular beliefs to avoid. For
example, the criteria that God does not manifest Himself in His
creation, leads to the rejection of metaphysical pantheism [SAQ
289], and God’s literal incarnation in Christ [SAQ 152]. On the
basis of the criteria that “there are no repetitions in nature”
[PUP 285] the concept of re-incarnation [PUP 167] is rejected.
Ontological materialism [PUP 262], is denied because it asserts
that spiritual and non-material aspects of existence are not real.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá rejects the traditional Biblical interpretation of
the Fall [SAQ 122] because it violates the criterion of logical
reason: “the intelligence cannot accept it” [SAQ 122]. He rejects
a host of traditional Biblical interpretations on this ground.20
Among the other views rejected are the concepts of a real
infinite regress [SAQ 148], atheism, the materiality of the soul
and the mortality of the human soul. This list tells us what
beliefs to avoid, and, thereby, helps us set aside viewpoints
which imply or directly invoke rejected positions. However, as
with science, the negative gate-keeper here does not dictate any
specific understanding per se; it only gives us criteria for
whatever understandings we may develop.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá presents this idea in the image of the garden.
Although he envisages a garden made up of many kinds of
flowers, he also distinguishes between the plants in the garden
and those outside in their “wild state” [SAQ 194]. The latter he
associates with unfruitfulness. However, just as some plants or
trees can be cultivated to become fruitful, some concepts can
be revised to meet the criteria of the Writings [SAQ 7]. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s example gives a concrete illustration how negative gate-
keeping preserves the unity, i.e. identity of the Bahá’í teachings
and, at the same time allows the maximal diversity of ideas and
understandings.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The need for negative gate-keeping is clear. Without the
ability to make critical judgments and to impose criteria of
understanding, without some way of distinguishing truth from
error, the independent investigation of truth would be a
pointless exercise. Why bother seeking the truth if every
proposition or viewpoint is true? Indeed, if every proposition
or truth-claim is true, how can we even try to distinguish truth
from error or identify “the people of error” [TDP 51; SAQ pp. 59,
75]. In such situations, no guidance — even divine guidance — is
necessary: we can simply believe whatever suits us at the
moment which is the very antithesis of the Manifestation’s
mission.
There are several advantages to the negative gate-keeper
method used by the Writings. One is that it preserves the unique
identity and nature of the Bahá’í Faith and its teachings while,
at the same time, allowing the maximal variety of ideas and
understandings. It balances unity-in-diversity with as much
emphasis on the unity as on the diversity. Any ideas that do not
run afoul of the criteria the Writings establish are acceptable,
even though they may clash with each other.
The negative gate-keeper has one other advantage, namely, it
provides what we have called ‘practical certainty’ in a foregoing
section of this paper. While reason alone cannot give us
absolute certainty, our understandings and practices can have
‘practical certainty’ as long as they meet the criteria of reason
and the guidelines given by the Writings. This, too, strengthens
diversity because it encourages different understandings and
practices to flourish without threatening the unity of the
teachings.
Inevitably, it will be asked ‘How do we determine which
interpretation is to be passed by the negative gate-keeper?’ In
our opinion, there is no hard-and-fast answer to this question.
Instead, there are several means by which an idea may be tested.
The Bahá’í Faith, of course, has no clergy or ‘official
philosopher’ to ensure harmony with the Teachings because it
guarantees that individuals have a duty and right to investigate
and think for themselves. Thus, in our view, this determination
is first made by those who suggest an idea; they have an obvious
interest in seeing that their ideas harmonize with the Writings

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

or at least are neutral. Second, whether or not an idea can pass
the negative gate-keeper may emerge in discussion with others
who might be able to show an explicit or implicit problem.
Moreover, given the enormous emphasis on reason in the
Writings, we might also say that the application of reason itself
can help us make this determination. If an argument logically
implies conclusions that violate certain Teachings, and/or are
logically deficient, then obviously there is a problem to be
rectified. Finally, in the case of papers intended for publication,
the review process may also play a role under some
circumstances.
12. Non-Discursive Knowing and Thinking
So far we have examined what is called ‘discursive reason,’
i.e. reaching conclusions on the basis of chains of inference
based on universal premises, empirical evidence or analogies.
Discursive reasoning requires clearly articulated steps according
to the laws of logic. In our view, this kind of reasoning is
pervasive throughout the Writings — but does not cover all
ways of acquiring knowledge and reaching conclusions. The
Writings, as noted before, espouse a moderate rationalism
which recognizes the validity of non-discursive methods of
knowing and finding truth. Some authors such as Ken Wilber21
refer to these methods as ‘transrational,’ i.e. psycho-spiritual
processes that include but transcend reason. They do not violate
rationality but go beyond it.
Before proceeding, it is important to highlight that non-
discursive reasoning is not to be confused with irrationality.
The irrational and the non-discursive differ insofar as
irrationality involves a cognitive deficiency or confusion in the
reasoning process. It may involve setting aside reason in favor
of something else, e.g. a personal preference or desire, a
political agenda, an advantage to be gained or a sheer assertion
of will power for its own sake. On the other hand, non-
discursive reasoning is a way of acquiring knowledge or
reaching conclusions about reality that does not involve the
chains of inference we have previously examined.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
When speaking of non-discursive reasoning, we must
distinguish between the process and the result. By definition,
the process itself is non-discursive i.e. it cannot be
communicated by laying out a chain of logical inferences.
About the process we must remain silent, or communicate by
metaphors, analogies or by various forms of artistic expression.
However, the result, i.e. the conclusions we reach or the actions
we take on the basis of the non-discursive process must, at the
very least, not contradict the Writing’s emphasis on rationality.
The Writings would be weakened by another serious self-
contradiction in their epistemology if intrinsic rationality of
the soul and ‘other ways of knowing’ conflicted with reason
instead of complementing it. Even if the process of attaining
knowledge is non-discursive, the results must still make sense in
and be applicable to this world. If they do not, they will simply
be irrational — which means they would not pass the test of
rationality which the Writings recommend. Indeed, if such
‘other ways of knowing’ were irrational, they would also be
violating the very essence of man, i.e. the “rational soul.”
It is noteworthy that irrationality has only negative
connotations in the Writings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá associates the
irrational with the “foolish” [SWAB 185], and with the “irrational
drinker” [TAB3 492]. Shoghi Effendi associates it with the
“illogical,”22 with “irrational instincts of youth, its follies, its
prodigality, its pride, its self-assurance, its rebelliousness, and
contempt of discipline” [PDC 117] and “superstition” [WOB 137].
Irrationality has no place in the Bahá’í quest for knowledge and
truth.
13. Non-Discursive Thinking: The Heart
Although the heart is the most important ‘organ’ or capacity
for non-discursive reasoning, it is not in inherent conflict with
reason. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us, “The world of minds corresponds
with the world of hearts [PUP 270, emphasis added]. In other words,
the heart and mind or reason23 are distinct but they are not
opposed, i.e. do not necessarily contradict one another although
they ‘deliberate’ in different ways. The Writings show this in
several ways. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “And among the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh is, that religion must be in conformity with science

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

and reason, so that it may influence the hearts of men.”24 It is
noteworthy that reason is able to “influence the heart.” This
idea is emphasized in the following:
If religious belief and doctrine is at variance with
reason, it proceeds from the limited mind of man and
not from God; therefore, it is unworthy of belief and
not deserving of attention; the heart finds no rest in it,
and real faith is impossible. How can man believe that
which he knows to be opposed to reason? Is this
possible? Can the heart accept that which reason denies?
Reason is the first faculty of man and the religion of
God is in harmony with it. [PUP 231]
There are several issues here. First is the suggestion that what
is rational comes from God, and what is irrational comes from
the human mind. Here, too, God is associated with rationality —
as in Shoghi Effendi’s reference to the “rational God” — though
this trait does not, of course, exhaust His nature. Second, the
heart cannot find rest in beliefs and doctrines that are “at
variance with reason.” In other words, the heart cannot find
rest in the irrational and even more — “real faith” in the
irrational is “impossible.” The heart cannot accept ideas that
violate reason which means that in some sense the heart is
rational too or at least sufficiently sensitive to rationality to
make it a requirement.
Throughout the Writings we are instructed to “ponder in
[our] hearts” [SWAB 241] a variety of subjects such as
Bahá’u’lláh’s prophesies [SWAB 17], “the mysteries of Divine
Revelation” [KI 47], and the social principles of the Faith. The
heart is described as “the seat of the revelation of the inner
mysteries of God” [GWB CXXV 264]. It is clear that the heart, like
reason, is able to cogitate, assess, reflect, analyze, understand
and conclude, albeit it ways that we cannot explain discursively.
For example, Bahá’u’lláh says, “Ponder this in thine heart, that
thou mayest comprehend its meaning” [GWB XVII 46], and
“Ponder this in thine heart, that the truth may be revealed unto
thee” [GWB XXXII 76] thereby showing that the heart can
examine, reflect on, understand and comprehend the truth. The
heart has an epistemological function as indicated by the phrase

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
“understanding heart” [GDM 51]. The heart’s function in
acquiring truth is noted elsewhere as well: “May your hearts
become clear and pure like unto polished mirrors in which may
be reflected the full glory of the Sun of Truth” [PT 95] and “men
of enlightened heart worship truth on whatever horizon it
appears” [PT 128, emphasis added]. It also has a cognitive function
as indicated by the phrase, “sight of thy heart” [SWAB 37] which
is to say that in its own way, the heart can perceive things, in
this case, “intellectual realities” among which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá lists
“all the qualities and admirable perfections of man” [SAQ 263]
and “love” [SAQ 83]. The heart is also described as a “spiritual
faculty” [TAB1 208] gifted in “spiritual susceptibilities” [PUP 7; cf.
TAB2 286] which is to say, it is open to spiritual influences:
“reflections of the spirit and impressions of the Divine are now
mirrored clear and sharp in the deep heart’s core” [SWAB 19].
However, what can it mean to ‘ponder in our hearts’? How
can we ‘ponder’ or reach understandings or conclusions without
abstract concepts or discursive logical operations or, possibly,
even without words? To what extent can we be conscious of
these deliberations? On the basis of our studies, we conclude
that the Writings do not provide us with precise information
about this because one cannot give exact discursive descriptions
of non-discursive processes. We can only experience them and
feel their influences on our thinking as we “ponder in [our]
hearts” [SWAB 241].
Given the consistent association of the heart with various
kinds of love in the Writings, it seems plausible that the
deliberations of the heart are intimately connected with the
feelings of love for God and His creation, i.e. the ‘agapeic’25
aspects of humankind. These include sympathy, empathy,
personal and existential concern, compassion, and devotion.
But even this love is rational in the sense of being appropriate
to the soul that God has created in each person. Thus, when we
“ponder in [our] hearts,” it seems likely that we deliberate under
the guidance of, or in the light of, love as the fundamental force
in the cosmos: “Love is the fundamental principle of God’s
purpose for man, and He has commanded us to love each other
even as He loves us” [PT 121]. When pondering in our hearts, we
observe and reflect about people, things and issues from the

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

perspective of God’s universal love as reflected in us and, in
doing so, reach our conclusions. How exactly this happens,
cannot, as said before, be discursively explained. It is a process
that must be personally experienced directly to be understood.
In that way, it resembles what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says about our
understanding of immortality:
But if the human spirit will rejoice and be attracted to
the Kingdom of God, if the inner sight becomes
opened, and the spiritual hearing strengthened, and the
spiritual
feelings
predominant,
he
will
see
the
immortality of the spirit as clearly as he sees the sun.
[SAQ 225]
This heart-knowledge is immediate, like the knowledge of our
own physical sensations and even spiritual insights. According
to the Writings, the mind and spirit are directly aware of our
own bodily states as well as our own feelings and “spiritual
conditions” [SAQ 157].
Such knowledge is not based on a clear-cut subject/object
division as are all other kinds of knowledge and thought. When
we perceive a tree or think about an idea, there is a difference
between the object of thought and the person thinking, i.e.
between subject and object, the knower and what is known.
Consequently, we must consciously exert “effort and study” to
know and think about them because they are external to us.
However, with our bodily, emotional and spiritual states, we are
both subject and object, knower and known. It is a direct,
immediate, intimate “knowledge of being” not a mediated,
objective knowledge about being. Moreover, this knowledge is
not limited to ourselves alone. Because humans are a
“microcosm” [PUP 69] the laws, principles or ‘mysteries’ of entire
universe is “expressed or revealed” [PUP 69] within us. This
suggests that in our heart-ponderings, we may, if we go deep
enough, also gain knowledge about creation in this way.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
14. Intuition
Intuitions are another non-discursive way of knowing
according to the Writings. Speaking about the divine origin of
the universe, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
These obvious arguments are adduced for weak souls;
but if the inner perception be open, a hundred thousand
clear proofs become visible. Thus, when man feels the
indwelling spirit, he is in no need of arguments for its
existence. [SAQ 6]
If we have direct sight or experiential knowledge we have no
need of discursive, step-by-step inferential reasoning. Opening
our eyes — not devising arguments — will prove the existence of
the sun. The direct experience is identified with feelings in this
passage, once again suggesting that feelings are the medium of
this kind of direct, non-discursive knowledge. After discussing
the immortality of the soul, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá declares,
if the inner sight becomes opened, and the spiritual
hearing
strengthened,
and
the
spiritual
feelings
predominant, he will see the immortality of the spirit as
clearly as he sees the sun. [SAQ 225, emphasis added]
Here, too, we observe that direct insight — “inner sight” — and
“spiritual feelings” give us non-discursive knowledge about
spiritual topics like immortality. However, we must bear in
mind that direct “inner sight,” though not subject to inferential
reasoning, is not inherently irrational, and thereby, opposed to
the “rational soul.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá shows the necessity of intuition for ontological
reasons. There are “invisible realms which the human intellect
can never hope to fathom nor the mind conceive” [SWAB 185].
These cannot be known by discursive reasoning no matter how
astute; rather we must cleanse the channel of our “spiritual
sense” [SWAB 185] which leads us to “the sweet scents of
holiness” [SWAB 185] or intuitions from the “invisible realms.”
Again, we should note that nothing here suggests that these
intuitions are not in harmony with reason even though the
process of receiving them cannot be described discursively.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

Like intuitions, ‘transcendent experiences’ also seem to take
us out of the world of ordinary time and space. Such
experiences can only be discussed — if at all — only by means of
poetic metaphors. We find one such described in The Seven
Valleys. Having explained His statements about firstness and
lastness, Bahá’u’lláh informs us that these statements apply to
the “sphere of that which is relative,” i.e. the ordinary world,
“of variation and oneness, of limitation and detachment” [KI
160].
These statements are made in the sphere of that which is
relative, because of the limitations of men. Otherwise,
those personages who in a single step have passed over
the world of the relative and the limited, and dwelt on
the fair plane of the Absolute, and pitched their tent in
the worlds of authority and command — have burned
away these relativities with a single spark, and blotted
out these words with a drop of dew. And they swim in
the sea of the spirit, and soar in the holy air of light.
Then what life have words, on such a plane, that “first”
and “last” or other than these be seen or mentioned! In
this realm, the first is the last itself, and the last is but
the first. [SV 26]
A few “personages” have transcended this ordinary plane of
existence. In some indescribable way, they have attained a realm
beyond explanation by discursive reasoning, though what
transpires in that realm is not be incompatible with reason.
God, after all, is a “rational God” and we would not expect His
creation to violate His own nature. What we encounter in this
realm is beyond discursive explanation, a knowledge that must
be experienced, not discursively described. The acceptance of
such
experiential
knowledge
emphasizes
the
moderate
rationalism in the Writings.
One of the conclusions we may draw from our discussion of
the heart, intuition and transcendent experience is that
rationality and discursivity are not synonymous in the Writings.
Viewing a work of art may give us experiential knowledge but
such knowledge is not necessarily non-rational because it is non-
discursive, i.e. cannot be satisfactorily be explained in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
inferential steps. Indeed, given our essential nature as “rational
souls” and the existence of a “rational God” it is hard to see
how any true knowledge or understanding of any sort could be
non-rational even though it is non-discursive.
15. The Uses of Reason in the Writings
Perhaps the most important use of reason in the Writings is
to test the validity of religion and religious beliefs.
Consider what it is that singles man out from among
created beings, and makes of him a creature apart. Is it
not his reasoning power, his intelligence? Shall he not
make use of these in his study of religion? I say unto
you: weigh carefully in the balance of reason and
science everything that is presented to you as religion.
If it passes this test, then accept it, for it is truth! If,
however, it does not so conform, then reject it, for it is
ignorance! [PT 144]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá notes that reasoning is humanity’s distinguishing
feature and, in the form of a rhetorical question, tells us to use
our “reasoning power” in our “study of religion.” There is no
suggestion here that reason cannot deal with spiritual issues. He
then commands us to “test” religion by reason. Elsewhere he
tells us that “Religion must stand the analysis of reason” [PUP
175]. If religion must pass the test of rationality, then obviously
reason is sufficiently reliable to make such analysis feasible and
worthwhile. If it were not, there would be no point to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s command to use it. This demonstrates yet again that
while we must be aware of reason’s limitations, we should not
let them deter us from using and relying on reason. He says,
In divine questions we must not depend entirely upon
the heritage of tradition and former human experience;
nay, rather, we must exercise reason, analyze and
logically examine the facts presented so that confidence
will be inspired and faith attained. [PUP 327, emphasis
added]

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

It is important to note the imperative — “we must exercise
reason” which implies not only that reason is sufficiently
reliable for the task but also that we are remiss if we do not use
it. Noteworthy as well is the command that we must “logically
examine” religious teachings. Moreover, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also
declares that “If religion were contrary to logical reason then it
would cease to be a religion and be merely a tradition” [PT 142,
emphasis added]. Here, too, we observe the association of reason
and logic.
Further evidence of reason’s ability to deal with and test
spiritual subjects is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s declaration that
The intellectual proofs of Divinity are based upon
observation and evidence which constitute decisive
argument, logically proving the reality of Divinity, the
effulgence of mercy, the certainty of inspiration and
immortality of the spirit. This is, in reality, the science
of Divinity [PUP 326].
Even the existence of God — Who is absolutely non-material —
can be “decisive[ly]” proven by reason and logic, a view re-
affirmed elsewhere when he says, the “existence of the Divine
Being hath been clearly established, on the basis of logical
proofs.”26 It is significant that he accepts the validity of logical
proofs of God’s existence as being “decisive” and “clearly
established” without the slightest suggestion that we should
doubt these results. Once again we observe that reason and
logic are not only applicable to metaphysical and theological
subjects but are also deemed sufficiently reliable to be used in
this way. Other spiritual topics which reason can demonstrate
are “the effulgence of mercy,” “the certainty of inspiration” and
the “immortality of the spirit” all of which transcend the
empirical-physical aspects of reality. In a similar vein, he
affirms “The Unity of God is logical, and this idea is not
antagonistic to the conclusions arrived at by scientific study”
[PT 141]. He also asserts that “If a question be found contrary to
reason, faith and belief in it are impossible, and there is no
outcome but wavering and vacillation” [PUP 181]. Reason is
necessary to attaining genuine faith that can withstand the tests
of this world; without such support from reason, faith will

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
vacillate or waver. This suggests that reason is also necessary to
faith and that faith without reason is deficient.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá sums up his teachings about reason and religion
with the assertion that “The foundations of religion are
reasonable” [PUP 128]. In other words, reason is at the very base
of religion and is, fundamentally, a rational enterprise though
we cannot grasp all aspects of this rationality in logical
discursive reason. This reasonable foundation is, of course, why
religion and science can be in harmony: they share the same
foundation and, therefore, are unified in their beginnings.
16. The Search for Truth
The Writings are clear that reason enables us to discover
truth; after all, if reason could not discover truth, there is no
point in requiring us to use it. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “God has
created man in order that he may perceive the verity of
existence and endowed him with mind or reason to discover
truth” [PUP 287, 303, emphasis added].27 Similarly, he says, “He
[God] has endowed him [man] with mind, or the faculty of
reasoning, by the exercise of which he is to investigate and
discover the truth” [PUP 291, emphasis added]. He declares that
“God has created man and endowed him with the power of
reason whereby he may arrive at valid conclusions” [PUP 312,
emphasis added]. Indeed, the Bahá’í Writings constantly emphasize
that truth exists and that reason can discover it. As ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says,
[t]he power of the rational soul can discover the
realities of things, comprehend the peculiarities of
beings, and penetrate the mysteries of existence. All
sciences,
knowledge,
arts,
wonders,
institutions,
discoveries and enterprises come from the exercised
intelligence of the rational soul. [SAQ 217, emphasis added]
The last sentence is especially important, telling us that “all
sciences, knowledge ... come from the exercised intelligence of
the rational soul.” If all knowledge comes from the rational
soul, this includes non-discursive knowledge which is still
rational though not open to discursive explanation. As noted

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

before, discursivity and rationality are not synonymous in the
Writings. There are levels of truth which, though rational,
cannot be set down in step-by-step inferences of discursive
reasoning. To emphasize reason’s ability to discover truth,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
God has created man in order that he may perceive the
verity of existence and endowed him with mind or
reason
to
discover
truth.
Therefore,
scientific
knowledge and religious belief must be conformable to
the analysis of this divine faculty in man. [PUP 287; cf.
PUP 291]
It is noteworthy that he says that “religious belief” must be
“conformable” to reason, implying, thereby, that irrational
religious beliefs are unacceptable and that such beliefs are
unworthy of the “rational soul.” This statement also implies
that there are real differences between truth and nonsense.
Part II: Questions Concerning Reason
In the first part of this study, we have examined the role of
reason in the Writings. We shall now turn our attention to
some the issues that may arise in regards to this topic.
17. The Issue of Diversity
Because of the strong and pervasive emphasis on reason
throughout the Bahá’í Writings, the issue of diversity arises. It
may be argued that the prominence of reason and especially
standard or Aristotelian reason throughout the Writings
undermines the teachings on diversity, notably cultural
diversity. Standard reasoning is, after all, the associated with a
particular, i.e. Western culture and is not necessarily relevant to
all cultures. Some might even argue that the emphasis on such
reason is little more than a “post-colonialist” attempt to impose
Western thought forms on the non-Western world. In general
terms, we may ask, ‘Why is there such a pervasive presence of
Aristotelian or standard logic when such logic seems to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
undermine diversity and privilege works that harmonize with
reason or at least do not contradict it?’
Before continuing, we must emphasize the unchallengeable
right of individuals to hold any view/interpretation of the
Writings they like, rationally tenable or not. That right is never
in question and must be vigorously upheld: “at the very root of
the Cause lies the principle of the undoubted right of the
individual to self-expression, his freedom to declare his
conscience and set forth his views” [PBA 43]. Nonetheless, saying
that nothing can diminish our right to hold even rationally
untenable views is not the same as saying that all views are
equally rational and/or tenable. The first is a judicial issue while
the second is epistemological.
However, the Writings instruct us to use the “divine faculty”
[PUP 287] of reason as a tool to distinguish tenable from
untenable views. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá directs us to
weigh carefully in the balance of reason and science
everything that is presented to you as religion. If it
passes this test, then accept it, for it is truth! If,
however, it does not so conform, then reject it, for it is
ignorance! [SAQ 144]
Elsewhere he tells us that “both [religion and science] are
founded upon the premises and conclusions of reason, and both
must bear its test” [PUP 107]. This makes it clear that reason is
inherently a selective mechanism which involves rejecting some
views or, at least, setting them aside until they have been made
rationally tenable. Such a selective mechanism is necessary
because the whole point of investigating the truth is lost
without it. Why seek the truth if there is no way of
distinguishing it from error, or if we have no standard by which
to differentiate the more plausible from the less plausible?
Without the standard of reason “anything goes”28 and
consequently, one of the foundational teachings — seeking the
truth — of the Bahá’í Faith is lost. Indeed, the concept of
consultation is also lost without the goal of distinguishing the
tenable from the untenable. Making such distinctions is
precisely the point of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s declaration that “The
shining spark of truth cometh forth only after the clash of

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

differing opinions” [SWAB 87]. Finally, the doctrine of the
harmony of science and religion is undermined if we refuse to
recognize that reason is necessary to help us distinguish tenable
from untenable views, e.g. oxidation versus the phlogiston
theory of combustion.
If all viewpoints were equally rational or tenable or all
harmonized with the Writings to an equal degree it is difficult,
if not impossible, to explain why Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
reject some ideas as false. Metaphysical pantheism [SAQ 289],
ontological materialism [PUP 262], and re-incarnation [PUP 167]
are explicitly disallowed. Furthermore, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá refer to some ideas as “absurd” [SAQ 291], “childish” [PUP
219], “erroneous” [SAQ 278; TB 124], “mistaken” [PUP 87], and
“wrong” [SAQ 6] thereby, obviously rejecting them, and, by
implication, guiding us to reject them too. In other words,
acceptance and encouragement of diversity does not necessarily
mean that “anything goes” and that there are no standards by
which to distinguish the tenable from the untenable. The
Writings make reason, and specifically standard reason, one of
those standards.
It might be argued that making such judgments on the basis
of the pervasive presence of standard or Aristotelian reasoning
in the Writings is a manifestation of a ‘post-colonialist’ sense
of superiority. However, there are several problems with the
‘post-colonial’ critique. Most obviously, the objection is, in the
last analysis, beside the point. Whether it is ‘post-colonial’
thinking or not, the Bahá’í Writings see rationality as the
essential attribute of the human soul and pervasively and
consistently model rationality in the form associated with
Aristotelian or standard reasoning. In other words, this form of
reasoning is unavoidable in any encounter with the Writings.
Regardless of what culture people come from and what level of
education they have, they will have to enrich themselves with
this aspect of the Writings if they wish to understand the
arguments used by Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Since “in this
age the peoples of the world need the arguments of reason”
[SAQ 7, emphasis added] it would especially difficult to overlook
the ubiquity of Aristotelian reasoning in the Writings simply

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
because a number of current academic theories find this model
of rationality problematic.
The main problem with the ‘post-colonialist’ critique is that
it commits the genetic fallacy, i.e. a fallacy of irrelevance which
makes a pejorative judgment about something on the basis of
its supposed origins or past use instead of by its inherent
content and application. The fact that standard logic originated
in the West and spread globally by means of Western
imperialism does not necessarily make it inapplicable on a
global basis to other cultures and in our time. Indeed, since the
Bahá’í Writings make such extensive use of standard logic
decisively, it seems obvious that neither its content nor its
application is necessarily and inherently harmful to anyone or
any culture. Without a doubt, the Writings use and recommend
such reasoning and provide such models precisely because they
are deemed helpful and conducive to human development
during the remainder of this dispensation. Would we expect the
Bahá’í Writings to model or recommend anything that does not
have positive potential for human development? Surely, given
the pervasiveness of standard logic in the Writings, it is more
likely that such reasoning is essential or necessary to positive
human development.
A second major problem with the ‘post-colonial’ critique is
that it overlooks the universality of the Law of Non-
contradiction (LNC), which encapsulates the essence of standard
or Aristotelian reasoning. No matter what individuals or
cultures claim to believe about logical contradictions, no matter
what models of logic they have, in the practice of daily life they
behave according to the LNC. People in all ages and in all places
know that we cannot have eaten lunch and not eaten lunch at
the same time, in the same sense and from the same perspective.
Recognizing this is a survival skill. Hunters and gatherers know
that they have either bagged a kill or collected berries — or they
have not. No tribe’s winter storage both contains and does not
contain meat. Nor do humans act as if a truck — or a lion or a
mastodon — is both coming and not coming at them at the same
time and the same sense. A failure to recognize the LNC and act
on it is potentially injurious or even fatal. The LNC does not
even need to be known discursively or consciously. A newborn

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

‘knows’ that it cannot be fed and not fed at the same time in the
same sense — and will let us clearly know which is the case! In
other words, regardless of what theoretical superstructures or
models of reason/logic are constructed by various cultures, they
do not negate the practical, daily application of the LNC.
In our view, the Writings make use of this daily, practical
logic which humans apply precisely because it is universally
accessible to people everywhere and at all times. In that sense, it
is not culture-bound: no matter what culture we are in or at
what time we live, my child cannot be fed and not fed at the
same time and in the same sense. What parent — even one who
explicitly ‘disbelieved’ in the LNC — would confuse one with
the other? This universality makes standard, i.e. Aristotelian
reasoning ideal for meeting the world’s need for a unified,
global method of reasoning without which human cross-cultural
communication will be severely hindered and, thereby, impede
the quest for world unity and peace.
In reflecting about reason in the Bahá’í Writings, the
question arises whether or not ‘other kinds’ i.e. non-standard
logic may be found in the Writings. More specifically, we must
consider if the Writings rule out the use of logical systems that
deny the law of non-contradiction (LNC). In our view, the
answer is negative: there is no mandate to limit such matters a
priori although it is difficult to see how two such contradictory
systems can be reconciled. The most we can say is that this study
has found no evidence of non-standard logic whereas we have
found plentiful evidence of the implicit and explicit use of
standard, Aristotelian reasoning. Nowhere, for example, do we
find we find many-valued logics such as Nagarjuna’s catuskoti.
We can, of course, debate why anyone would follow adopt such
logic in light of the persistent and pervasive use of standard or
Aristotelian reasoning throughout the Writings. Furthermore,
we may discuss if such a strategy actually succeeds in regards to
a particular Text.
More
specifically,
we
have
found
no
intentionally
paradoxical, i.e. self-contradictory passages that cannot be
resolved by the resources of standard logic as given in the
Writings. Two examples follow.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Our first passage concerns the “mystic knower” [SVFV 51] and
the “grammarian” [SVFV 51] in Bahá’u’lláh’s parable in The Four
Valleys. When the two travelers arrived at “Sea of Grandeur”
[SVFV 51], the mystic “flung himself onto the waves but the
grammarian stood “lost in his reasonings” [SVFV 51]. First
appearances to the contrary, this story is not a critique of
reason per se but a critique of the misuse of reason. The moral
is clear: there is a time for discursive reason and there is a time
to act. The grammarian’s fault is not in reasoning — after all, his
reasoning has brought him to the Sea of Grandeur — but in
failing to distinguish between situations that require reasoning
and those that require action. He fails to act appropriately i.e.
reasonably, and he lacks the courage to act on the basis of his
reasoning. He misuses reason, not having understood that
reason cannot tell us everything as moderate rationalism asserts.
Some things can only be learned by doing and experience. That
is why “the death of self is needed” [SVFV 51], i.e. complete,
unreserved existential commitment, not further rationalization.
Another apparent conflict with reason is found in the Báb’s
statement that “reason, even in its utmost level of abstraction,
is confined to the understanding of limited phenomena.”29
Reading this, we must be careful not to assume that “limited
phenomena” are material/physical phenomena, and, therefore
reason is limited to these. Reason, as we have seen, can also deal
with “intellectual realities which are not sensible, and which
have no outward existence” [SAQ 186] as well as with spiritual
issues. It is true that reason cannot understand unlimited
phenomena because reason requires concepts which are
inherently limited but that is exactly why the Writings espouse a
moderate rationalism — to allow other avenues of knowing.
However, as we have shown in regards to other ways of
knowing, i.e. non-discursive knowledge and reasoning, non-
discursive is not synonymous with non-rational.
These examples remind us that the Writings espouse a
“moderate rationalism” according to which reason cannot tell us
everything. Other ways of knowing are also available, such as
‘action’ in the example of the mystic knower and the
grammarian. There is also the knowledge of the heart as noted in
previous discussions. The ubiquity of Aristotelian logic in the

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

Writings does not necessarily negate the validity of these other
ways of knowing, so there is no necessary conflict between
them. Indeed, we would not expect such conflicts because truth
is one, i.e. it cannot be divided by contradictions. As `Abdu’l-
Bahá affirms, “No one truth can contradict another truth” [PT
136].
18. Standard Logic and Modern Science
One critique of standard or ‘classical’ reasoning is that it is
limited to the ordinary macroscopic world in which we live, and
is, therefore, out of step with developments in quantum physics
which operates at the microscopic level. Our reasoning should
be in harmony with the microscopic level which is the basis for
macroscopic reality. It is argued that the Writings would not
model and recommend standard logic since it is not in harmony
with quantum logic.
The most obvious answer to this critique is that
notwithstanding developments in quantum physics, the Writings
clearly show a persistent and pervasive use of standard or
Aristotelian reason. The evidence we have presented — as well as
the greater volume of evidence excluded — cannot be avoided.
Moreover, in our view, it is doubtful that Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá would make such widespread use of this type of
reasoning if we were not meant to understand it and use it as a
model. Nor is it likely that the Writings would present believers
with insurmountable obstacles vis-à-vis quantum theory and
logic.
Furthermore, in daily practice it is difficult to see how we
would we apply quantum logic — especially in the Copenhagen
interpretation of quantum phenomena — to life at the
macroscopic level. What application can there be in the
macroscopic world of the Copenhagen principle that objects or
persons do not exist until they are observed and only as long as
they are observed? How can we use quantum logic derived from
this fact vis-à-vis trains or mastodons? Is there anything we can
practically do in our lives with the Heisenberg Uncertainty
Principle which dictates that we cannot simultaneously ascertain
the position and velocity of a particle? While this may be true at

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
the microscopic level, at the macroscopic level traffic police
seem to have no trouble doing both. The application of
quantum logic in the macroscopic world seems like a recipe for
incredible confusion. We must also bear in mind that while the
Copenhagen interpretation is the best known version of
quantum theory, it is not the only one. Indeed, there are at least
six other viable interpretations at least one of which, David
Bohm’s, is consistent with standard logic. In other words, all
quantum interpretations do not necessarily lead to the strange
effects associated with the Copenhagen model.30
Indeed, the claim that standard logic is out of step with the
quantum logic used to study events at the micro-level is
questionable and open to debate. Mathematical physicist
Roland Omnes, who has done pioneering work in reconciling
classical (standard) logic and quantum logic, sees no reason to
abandon standard logic because
it can be shown that common sense logic is actually a
logic of consistent quantum histories and that common
sense arguments are ultimately verbalizations of
implications that can be demonstrated in quantum logic
... the probability for common sense to be wrong is
practically always negligible as long as it deals with
macroscopic objects.31
He adds,
common sense conforms to the quantum nature of laws
governing the material world, at least in normal
conditions, and for objects on our human scale (and
often, even well below it).32
In other words, there is no irreducible and necessary conflict
between standard logic and quantum logic. This is exactly what
we would expect from a Bahá’í perspective because reality is
one: “As reality is one and cannot admit of multiplicity,
therefore different opinions must ultimately become fused into
one” [SWAB 298]. If reality is truly one, it seems unlikely that it
is bifurcated into two, mutually contradictory, i.e. absolutely
incompatible parts or levels. Reality would be fragmented and

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings

multiple. At the very least we would expect that the two types
of reasoning are complementary and not contradictory.
A different critique of the standard logic used in the
Writings is that standard logic does not work in the
astronomical sciences because of relativity. This argument
appears to confuse relativity theory in astronomy and relativism
in philosophy. Unlike philosophic relativism which has no
absolutes by which to make judgments about various truth-
claims, scientific relativity theory has an absolute — the speed
of light — which is the same in all frames of reference i.e. the
same for all observers regardless of their motion. It is a
universal constant, a universal speed limit. From this it is readily
apparent that a particle either has or has not attained light speed
or some fraction of it. Such measurements — subject to the
LNC — fall well within the purview of standard logic. In
addition, even though the same event can appear contradictory
in different frames of reference, i.e. in different perspectives,
the same event cannot have all contradictory appearances in the
same frame of reference or perspective. In other words, the
LNC still applies.
Let us examine one more case. Heisenberg accepts that
standard and quantum logic are related (one is an extension —
not negation — of the other).33 However, Heisenberg also
endorses the Aristotelian concepts of act and potency in his
understanding
of
the
quantum
world.34
For
him,
the
superposition of a particle refers to its potentials for
actualization; for potentials — even opposite potentials — to
exist simultaneously does not violate standard logic.35
Heisenberg’s view that quantum logic is an “extension” of
classical logic means that like Newtonian physics, standard logic
is valid within its own sphere, i.e. the macro-world, which
means that there is no inherent conflict with quantum physics.
Standard logic is the appropriate logic for the macro-world
which is why Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá make use of it.
19. Conclusions
On the basis of this study of reason in the Bahá’í Writings,
we may reach seven major conclusions.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
1. The Bahá’í Writings assert that “The foundations of
religion are reasonable” [PUP 128] and consistently
advocate and even require the use of reason in regards to
phenomenal and spiritual/religious matters and as a test
for truth and falsity.
2. The
Bahá’í
Writings
pervasively
model
standard,
Aristotelian or classical reasoning in their explications,
illustrations and arguments.
3. he Bahá’í Writings espouse moderate rationalism which
recognizes ‘other ways of knowing.’ They reject the idea
that non-discursive reasoning is necessarily non-rational;
4. The Bahá’í Writings use a negative gate-keeper method to
protect both the ‘unity’ and the ‘diversity’ in “unity-in-
diversity”;
5. The Bahá’í Writings adopt a scientific response to the
fallibility of reason;
6. Given the pervasive use of standard logic in the Writings,
it is reasonable to conclude that they intend this as the
universal logic for humankind;
7. Arguments against standard logic in the Writings based on
post-colonial theory, quantum mechanics or relativity
theory are untenable and not persuasive.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Al-Khalili, Jim. Quantum: A Guide for the Perplexed. London.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 2003.
Bunin and Yu. The Blackwell Dictionary of Western Philosophy.
Chichester: Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2009.
Heisenberg, Werner. Physics and Philosophy. New York:
HarperCollins, 2007.
Omnes, Roland. Quantum Philosophy. Princeton. Princeton
University Press, 1999.

Reason and the Bahá’í Writings


NOTES
1 Nicholas Bunnin; Jiyuan Yu (2004). The Blackwell Dictionary of Western
philosophy, p. 266: “[Logic] is divided into standard (or classical) logic,
non-standard logic and inductive logic. Standard logic includes traditional
logic (Aristotelian syllogism) and modern classical logic which is an
expansion of traditional logic ...” Also L. T. F. Gamut (1991). Logic,
Language, and Meaning, Volume 1: Introduction to Logic, pp. 156–157:
propositional and predicate logic (classical logic is propositional) “can
nevertheless be regarded as standard logic.”
2 See Ian Kluge, The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings in Lights
of Irfan 4, p. 17–79, 2003.
3 Merriam-Webster Dictionary, http://merriam-webster.com/dictionary/reason
4 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 191. cf. Chapter 49, “The
Growth and Development of the Human Race.”
5 Genesis 1:26 in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 192.
6 From a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice,
dated 22 June 1977, online at http://bahai-
library.com/compilation_bahai_scholarship_khan
7 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 193; emphasis added; see also
Shoghi Effendi in The Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahá’í Community,
p. 458.
8 Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, Feb. 24, 1947 in Lights of
Guidance, p. 476.; emphasis added.
9 However, we must not mistake an acceptance of differences in perspective
with relativism. Classical, Aristotelian logic asserts that from any one
given perspective, only one claim can be true whereas relativism asserts
that no truth-claim can be established because there is no absolute
standard by which to judge. Relativism accepts even contradictions as
‘true,’ whereas standard logic does not.
10 This is not a repetition of Zeno’s arrow paradox since Zeno was discussing
a single trajectory subject to mental divisions and this statement deals
with real — not mental — divisions between individual, definite acts.
11 An incomplete syllogistic form called an ‘enthymeme’ is missing one of the
propositions, or the conclusion is implied but not stated.
12 `Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 7, 90, 177, 258, 293, 304 to
identify only a few.
13 Bunnin and Yu, editors, The Blackwell Dictionary of Western Philosophy,
p. 25.
14 These are known as the dialogues of Plato but feature Socrates as the usual
protagonist.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

15 Bahá’í International Community,”Consultation,”
http://info.bahai.org/article-1-3-6-3.html
16 See Ian Kluge, “Relativism in the Baháí Writings,” (Lights of Irfan ) for an
examination of various passages on this topic.
17 Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh v 4, p. 129; emphasis
added.
18 Shoghi Effendi, Extracts from the USBN, # 85, July 1934, p. 6.
19 Jim Al-Khalili, Quantum: A Guide for the Perplexed, p. 132 — 153.
20 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions in Part 2 “Some Christian
Subjects,” pp. 83–143.
21 Ken Wilber, The Marriage of Sense and Soul, p. 92.
22 From the Guardian to an individual believer, October 1, 1935: Canadian
Bahá’í News, February 1968, p. 11) Compilations, Lights of Guidance, p.
490.
23 Reason and mind are the same in the Writings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The
Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 22; also p. 360, p. 287.
24 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to the Hague, p. 5; emphasis added.
25 From the Greek ‘agape’ i.e. love for humanity-in-general.
26 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 46. See
also Some Answered Questions, p. 225 in regards to logical proof for
immortality.
27 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 303, p. 287;
emphasis added.
28 Paul Feyerabend, Against Method, p. 5. “The only principle that does not
inhibit progress is anything goes.”
29 The Báb, in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p, 211.
30 Nick Herbert, Quantum Realities.
31 Roland Omnes, Quantum Philosophy, p. 190; emphasis added.
32 Roland Omnes, Quantum Philosophy, p. 193.
33 Werrner Heisenberg, Physics and Philosophy, p. 155.
34 Werrner Heisenberg, Physics and Philosophy, p. 154.
35 Heisenberg also writes, “The probability wave of Bohr, Kramers, Slater…
was a quantitative version of the old concept of “potentia” in Aristotelian
philosophy.” Physics and Philosophy, p. 15.

Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of
Bahá’ís in Nayriz on the Naw-Ruz
`Abdu’l-Bahá Interred the Remains of
The Báb on Mount Carmel
Baharieh Rouhani Maani
Naw-Ruz 1909 is a significant landmark in the history of the
first Bahá’í century. `Abdu’l-Bahá chose the festive occasion to
accomplish a most sacred task entrusted to Him by His Father.
The task was the interment of the remains of the Báb in a
specific spot in the heart of Mount Carmel in Haifa. When
Bahá’u’lláh assigned the task to His Most Great Branch, the
remains of the Báb were still in Iran and the land on which a
befitting Mausoleum for the purpose was to be built had not
yet been acquired. The accomplishment of the task became one
of the principle objectives of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry. This
objective and that of His trip to the West achieved within a
short period after He gained freedom from decades of exile and
incarceration are mysteriously linked. He undertook His
historic journey to Egypt and the West only after He had
successfully completed the original structure of the Shrine of
the Báb and ceremoniously interred the body of the martyred
Herald of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation in the designated spot.
Another historic event took place thousands of miles away
during that historic Naw-Ruz: The believers in Nayriz were
targeted once again for adhering to the tenets of the nascent
Faith, and eighteen souls innocent of any wrongdoing were
tortured and put to death. `Abdu’l-Bahá links the interment of
the “sanctified body of His Holiness, the Báb … in the Shrine on
Mount Carmel” to the event in Nayriz. He says: “[S]acrifice was
necessary and martyrdom required … The loved ones in Nayriz …
won the trophy of excellence.”1

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The Interment of the Remains of The Báb
Gripping as is the life and martyrdom of the Bab, the account
of the rescue of His body, its transfer to the Holy Land, and
interment in a spot designated by Bahá’u’lláh in the heart of
Mount Carmel sixty years later is no less fascinating. According
to Shoghi Effendi, “[T]he mangled bodies of the Báb and His
fellow-martyr, Mirza Muhammad-`Ali Zunuzi, were removed, in
the middle of the second night following their execution,
through the pious intervention of Haji Sulayman Khan, from
the edge of the moat where they had been cast to a silk factory
owned by one of the believers of Milan, and were laid the next
day in a wooden casket, and thence carried to a place of safety.
Subsequently, according to Bahá’u’lláh’s instructions, they were
transported to Tihran and placed in the shrine of Imam-Zadih
Hasan” [GPB 273]. The decision to transfer the remains to Tihran
“was prompted by the wish the Báb Himself had expressed in
the ‘Ziyarat-i-Shah `Abdu’l-`Azim,”2 in which, addressing the
buried saint, He says: “Well is it with you to have found your
resting-place in Rayy, under the shadow of My Beloved. Would
that I might be entombed within the precincts of that holy
ground!”3
It took sixty years from the date the bodies of the Báb and
His fellow-martyr were removed from the edge of the moat
outside Tabriz until they were finally interred in the Shrine on
Mount Carmel. During that time “by reason of the ascendancy
of the enemy, and from fear of the malevolent” the sacred
remains knew “neither rest nor tranquility” until “through the
mercy of the Abha Beauty” they were “ceremoniously deposited,
on the day of Naw-Ruz, within the sacred casket, in the exalted
Shrine on Mt. Carmel.”4 Early in His ministry, `Abdu’l-Bahá
arranged for the “precious Trust” to be transported to the Holy
Land. It was delivered into His hands on 31 January 1899 [GPB
274].
Immediately after the remains reached the Holy Land,
`Abdu’l-Bahá with great difficulty acquired the plot of land on
Mount Carmel, which Bahá’u’lláh had specified for the Resting
Place of the Báb’s remains, and began constructing the original
six rooms of the Shrine. With the intrigues employed by

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

Covenant-breakers to abort or at least indefinitely delay the
completion of the project, it took nine years for the original
structure to be built. “Every stone of that building, every stone
of the road leading to it” `Abdu’l-Bahá “with infinite tears and
at tremendous cost, raised and placed in position” [GPB 275]. To
help the believers grasp the significance of this undertaking and
appreciate its vital importance, Shoghi Effendi says:
`Abdu’l-Bahá Himself testified, on more than one
occasion, that the safe transfer of these remains, the
construction of a befitting mausoleum to receive them,
and their final interment with His own hands in their
permanent resting-place constituted one of the three
principal objectives which, ever since the inception of
His mission, He had conceived it His paramount duty
to achieve. This act indeed deserves to rank as one of the
outstanding events in the first Bahá’í century. [GPB 273]
The successful completion of this sacred undertaking
fulfilled an old prophecy in Zechariah: “Thus speaketh the Lord
of hosts, saying, Behold the man whose name is The Branch; and
he shall grow up out of his place, and he shall build the temple
of the Lord.”5 The enshrining of the remains of the Báb paved
the way for another remarkable achievement of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
ministry: His trip to Egypt, North America and Europe. The
consummation of the second depended on the accomplishment
of the first and neither was possible without `Abdu’l-Bahá
gaining freedom from decades of exile and strict confinement.
His freedom could not be realized without drastic changes in
Iran and Turkey, two countries intent on uprooting the nascent
Cause of God or at least keeping its advancement in check. Had
the necessary changes occurred sooner, Abdu’l-Bahá would have
built the Báb’s Shrine, entombed His remains earlier, then
undertaken His trip to the West when He was younger and time
constraints were not so intense. Freedom came when `Abdu’l-
Bahá was sixty-six years old and His health impaired. Time was
of the essence. The world was moving toward the first
conflagration
of
international
magnitude.
With
the
dethronement of Muhammad-`Ali Shah in Iran and Sultan
`Abdu’l-Hamid, the Ottoman Emperor, impediments to His
freedom were removed. Several months after achieving

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
freedom, He with His own hands placed, during a moving
ceremony, the inner casket containing the sacred remains of the
Báb and His fellow-martyr in the marble sarcophagus prepared
by the Bahá’ís of Rangoon, Burma. The sarcophagus had arrived
and been placed beforehand in the vault of the Shrine, which
had been built for the purpose. The historic Naw-Ruz that
witnessed one of the most significant achievements of `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s ministry coincided with the martyrdom of eighteen
Bahá’ís in Nayriz.
In a visitation prayer revealed in 1909 in honor of the Bahá’í
martyrs of Nayriz, `Abdu’l-Bahá beseeches God to make their
blood the cause of the dissemination of divine signs, of the
appearance of mysteries and the shining of light in other lands.6
On the Naw-Ruz that witnessed the interment of the remains of
the Báb on Mount Carmel and the martyrdom of the Bahá’ís in
Nayriz, `Abdu’l-Bahá received the joyous news of the
convocation in Chicago of the first American Bahá’í
Convention and the election of the members of the Bahá’í
Temple Unity, a prelude to the election of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the United States and Canada, linking the
entombment of the remains of the Báb and the election of the
Bahá’í Temple Unity with the martyrdom of the believers in
Nayriz.
On the day of the entombment of the remains of the Bab,
three believers from Nayriz were among the eastern and western
pilgrims present at the ceremony.7 On that day `Abdu’l-Bahá
singled out the three Nayrizi pilgrims for special consideration.
The outpourings of His loving kindness vouchsafed to these
three pilgrims astonished the recipients and everyone present.
After the ceremony, `Abdu’l-Bahá announced that there was
room in His carriage for three people. Not wishing to show
favoritism, He asked that a lot be drawn. The drawn names were
those of the three pilgrims from Nayriz. These friends were well
aware of their unworthiness and of the presence at the gathering
of devoted and outstanding believers from the east and the
west, so they could not fathom the significance of `Abdu’l-Bahá
focusing His special attention on them. The following day,
`Abdu’l-Bahá went for a walk along the seashore and took with
Him the pilgrims from Nayriz. As He was walking, He looked at

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

the sea and spoke of a storm. Seeing the calm sea, the Nayrizi
pilgrims thought `Abdu’l-Bahá was speaking of a storm in the
making. `Abdu’l-Bahá repeated: “The sea is stormy, very
stormy.” He then turned to the pilgrims and said you are
dismissed. Tomorrow you return home. He gave them specific
instructions how to proceed and said: Tarry not anywhere until
you reach home.8
The Mystery of Sacrifice
Shortly after the martyrdom of the believers in Nayriz during
Naw-Ruz 1909, `Abdu’l-Bahá revealed a Tablet. In it He speaks
of the heroism of the friends, of the atrocities they suffered and
the effect of the pure blood that was shed there. The Tablet
leaves no doubt that the martyrdom of those lovers of the
Blessed Beauty was a ransom for the highly remarkable
undertaking of His ministry, the interment of the sanctified
body of the Báb in its eternal resting place on Mount Carmel:
O ye Friends of God! In these days Nayriz hath become
the place for blood shedding. Sanctified souls among
the loved ones of the Lord have sacrificed their lives
and hastened to the field of martyrdom in the path of
the conspicuous Light. For this the eyes are tearful and
hearts burn with sorrow. Sobbing and sighs have soared
to the highest heaven and extreme sadness hath caused
lamentation to appear anew. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s highest
wish is to quaff a drop of the chalice of faithfulness
and to be intoxicated with the wine of sacrifice, that
the end of His life may be the beginning of infinite
grace…
O ye friends of `Abdu’l-Bahá! In these days, through a
felicitous event and confirmations from the Lord of the
highest Heaven, as well as assistance from the unseen
Kingdom, the sanctified body of His Highness, the Bab,
was interred in its Shrine on Mount Carmel. Therefore,
sacrifice was necessary and martyrdom required. The
loved ones in Nayriz, inebriated by this brimming
chalice and with the rod of high resolve, have won the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
trophy of excellence. Happy are they and blessed is this
chalice, which is overflowing with the wine of the love
of God. Upon them be the Glory of God…9
The necessity of sacrifice and the requirement of martyrdom
in relation to the interment of the remains of the Báb and its
linkage to what the Bahá’ís of Nayriz suffered highlight the
significance of a phenomenon strongly present in the early
history of the Bahá’í Faith. The tree of the Cause of God has
indeed been nurtured with the blood of martyrs. Before His
declaration, the Báb offered up His only son, Ahmad, as a
sacrifice. Thousands of believers met their death and many more
thousands sacrificed everything they possessed for the
promotion of His Cause. He later offered His own life in the
path of the One Whose Advent He had come to herald. Two
decades later Bahá’u’lláh sacrificed His saintly son, Mirza
Mihdi, for the realization of the lofty ideals of His Cause, while
He was incarcerated together with His family and companions
in the army barracks in `Akka. Nearly two years had passed since
they had arrived there and lived under stringent restrictions. No
change in their situation was in sight. The few pilgrims who
spent months travelling on foot to attain Bahá’u’lláh’s presence
had to be content with seeing the movement of His hand from a
distance, then retrace their steps. For the doors of the prison to
open, for some relief to come to Bahá’u’lláh, His family and
companions, for the pilgrims to attain the presence of their Best
Beloved, a mighty sacrifice was required. That sacrifice was the
sanctified life of the Purest Branch, the youngest son of
Bahá’u’lláh and Asiyyih Khanum. “His dying supplication to a
grieving Father was that his life might be accepted as a ransom
for those who were prevented from attaining the presence of
their Beloved” [GPB 188]. Prison doors opened four months after
his martyrdom.
The Purest Branch’s sacrifice served other purposes. The
quickening of the world and the unification of its inhabitants
owe their realization to Bahá’u’lláh offering up His beloved son
as a ransom: “I have, O my Lord, offered up that which Thou
hast given Me, that Thy servants may be quickened, and all that
dwell on earth be united” [GPB 188].

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

The Uprising of Shaykh Dhakariyya Kuhistani
The episode that led to the massacre of eighteen Bahá’ís in
Nayriz during Naw-Ruz 1909 has become known as the uprising
of Shaykh Dhakariyya, for it was under his command that the
rebel forces living in the Kuhistan region surrounding Nayriz
launched an attack on the town, wreaked havoc on the Bahá’í
inhabitants, and massacred the male believers they laid their
hands on. Rebels invariably thrive when chaos and confusion
reign. When the government is strong, the officials are just and
the rule of law is observed, they keep a low profile, ever ready
to take advantage when the ingredients for security are absent.
The quest for freedom from the despotic rule of the Qajar
kings began in Iran almost simultaneously with the Advent of
the Báb in the mid-nineteenth century and culminated in the
constitutional revolution in the early years of the twentieth
century. The Advent of the Báb awakened the people of Iran to
the potentialities inherent in human beings and raised their
awareness of the glorious destiny awaiting the human race. His
teachings spread throughout the country and beyond startling
the
ecclesiastics
and
government
leaders
alike.
The
transformative power of His revelation changed the inner
realities and outward conduct of His followers, which
continued to grow after His execution in 1850. Thousands of
His followers were put to death, and Bahá’u’lláh, the most
prominent and influential of all, was forced to leave the
country and spend the rest of His life in exile. Some fair-minded
scholars have begun assessing the influence of the Báb’s
teachings on the movement for reform in Iran. Future historians
and analysts, unbiased and impartial, will no doubt cover in
detail the crucial contribution that His Advent, as well as that
of Bahá’u’lláh and the writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá, have made to
social and political change in that land and beyond.
The constitutional revolution created a fertile ground in Iran
for the proponents and opponents of democracy to get
entangled in their opposing ideologies and fight for priorities
that served their selfish ends. `Abdu’l-Bahá was in constant
communication with the believers and provided guidance that
protected them from falling a victim to the intrigues employed

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
by self-seeking individuals on either side. The volume of Tablets
revealed during that period testifies to the precariousness for
the Bahá’ís of the events that transpired. Muzaffari’d-Din
Shah’s willingness during his ministry (1896-1906) to allow some
measure of democracy to take hold afforded some relief to the
Bahá’ís in Iran and enabled them to promote the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh with less stringent restrictions. The atmosphere was
favorable enough for `Abu’l-Bahá to send a Bahá’í delegation
consisting of Mr. Hippolyte Dreyfus and Lua Getsinger to meet
the Shah and his Prime Minister, Mirza `Ali Asghar Khan
Atabak, during the Shah’s second visit to Paris in 1902. The
purpose of the meeting was to seek restitution of Bahá’í rights
and appeal for justice. The relative calm during the rein of
Musaffari’d-Din Shah provided the people of Iran, including the
Bahá’ís, some measure of freedom to pursue independently
matters of conscience. As a result, people in high office and
from all walks of life, who wished to know about the Bahá’í
Faith, had the opportunity to do so without fear of severe
persecution.
The signing of the decree to adopt a constitution and
establish a parliament in 1906 presaged a new era of social and
political change in Iran. However, the Shah’s death immediately
after he signed the decree, his successor’s opposition to
democratic rule, and the blatant interference of foreign nations
in the internal affairs of the country, threw everything into
confusion and chaos ensued. Muhammad `Ali Shah, who
succeeded Muzaffri’d-Din Shah, disbanded the parliament and
sided with those who benefited from dictatorship. He was
dethroned by the proponents of democracy in 1909 and his son,
Ahmad, a minor when he came to power, ruled by proxy. These
rapid changes and deep-rooted ideological differences and
conflicts weakened the central government, emboldened
different factions and tribes who sought autonomy, and gave
rise to rebellion especially in areas farther away from the
capital. One such place was Nayriz, a small town situated about
228 kilometers to the south east of Shiraz.
Although a famous town in ancient Iran, when the Báb
declared His Mission in 1844, Nayriz was an obscure place on
the map of that country. What made it prominent again was the

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

heroism of the Bábís of the town who fought alongside Jinab-i-
Vahid in the Fort of Khajih and defended their right to adhere
to a new system of belief they considered the pathway to
individual and collective transformation and salvation. That
episode ended on 29 June 1850, ten days before the Báb’s
martyrdom, but the heroism of the believers did not end there.
After Jinab-i Vahid and many valiant souls were martyred, the
survivors of the Fort of Khajih episode were persecuted
mercilessly. The continuation of the atrocities committed
against the defenseless Bábí community reached unbearable
proportions when Zaynu’l-`Abidin Khan, the governor of
Nayriz responsible for the first upheaval and the continued
suffering of the believers, was murdered.
To escape the onslaught of a relentless enemy, the scattered
beleaguered believers took refuge in nearby mountains under
the leadership of `Ali Sardar, assisted by Khajih Qutba, two
young and brave souls who cared for the survivors of the first
Nayriz upheaval. Their congregation alarmed the governor, who
sent exaggerated reports to Shiraz and gathered an army to
force the Bábís into submission. This second upheaval became
known as Jang-i Jabal (Battle of Mountain), during which
nineteen strongholds each consisting of nineteen brave believers
engaged the combined forces of the government and tribal
factions living in the area. One of the strongholds was defended
solely by women under the leadership of Nanih Sami` (the
mother of Sami`).10 The believers fought heroically to the last
fighting man and woman. That episode occurred in 1852 and
coincided with the imprisonment of Bahá’u’lláh in the Siyah
Chal of Tihran and the intimation of His Mission in the
concluding months of that year. The survivors of the second
Nayriz upheaval, mostly old men, women and children, were
taken captive and sent to Shiraz, every two riding on the back
of an unsaddled horse, with the heads of martyrs on spears
parading before them. Most men suffered martyrdom at
different stages of the journey; the rest were executed in
Tihran. The women and children, after untold suffering, were
freed in Shiraz and abandoned to their fate. Many returned to
Nayriz, some remained in Shiraz. One of the survivors, a young
boy about twelve years old, named Muhammad-Shafi`, who had
lost his father and four paternal uncles in the first and second

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Nayriz upheavals, was taken captive together with his mother
and grandfather. He and his mother were held in Shiraz; his
grandfather, Mirza `Abdu’l-Husayn, together with other male
survivors, continued the arduous journey toward Tihran.11
Muhammad-Shafi and his mother were among the women and
children captives who were freed in Shiraz and remained there.
Under the care of his mother he continued his education and
grew up to be a staunch and devoted believer. With the help of
the Imam Jum`ih, who knew his father and grandfather,
Muhammad-Shafi` became proficient in religious knowledge
necessary for holding responsible positions. Impressed with his
personality and demeanor, after the death of his grandson, the
Imam Jum`ih appointed Muhammad-Shafi` to the prestigious
position of the Imam (prayer leader) of Jami` mosque in
Nayriz.12 He then became known as Mullá Muhammad-Shafi`,
and served the people of his town and its surrounding areas with
integrity and distinction. He attained Bahá’u’lláh’s presence in
Baghdad and dedicated his life to the promotion of His Cause.
The many Tablets revealed in his honor testify to the
staunchness of his faith and to the selfless services he rendered.
He later wrote an account of the first and second upheavals in
Nayriz during the Bábí period and sent the original of his
manuscript to the Holy Land. Nabil bases his account of those
episodes on Mullá Muhammad-Shafi’s booklet.13 It is believed
that the account was written when Bahá’u’lláh directed Bahá’ís
with firsthand knowledge of historical events to prepare such
accounts and send them to the Holy Land. The original of Mulla
Muhammad-Shafi`’s manuscript has so far not been found. It
may have been among the material stolen by the Covenant-
breakers. The draft of the manuscript was destroyed during the
third episode, known as the uprising of Shaykh Dhakariyya.14
Fortunately by then a few transcripts had been made and were
held by certain individuals. Muhammad-Shafi` Rouhani, the
author of Lama`atu’l-Anvar and the father of this writer,
located one transcript in Rafsanjan in the province of Kirman,
which he used for writing the history of the Babi-Bahá’í Faith in
Nayriz.
An interval of more than half a century separates the second
Nayriz upheaval, known as Jang-i Jabal (Battle of Mountain),

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

from the third episode, known as the uprising of Shaykh
Dhakariyya. The lengthy lull in the cessation of hostilities has
been attributed to the wise leadership of Mulla Muhammad-
Shafi`. He established friendly relationship with governor Fath-
`Ali Khan, the son of Zaynu’l-`Abidin Khan.15 The two entered
into a formal agreement, which both sides honored to the end
of their lives. The provisions of the agreement provided for
mutual understanding and respect, and for disputes to be settled
through negotiation, not violence and armed conflict. The
friendly
contacts
between
them
led
to
the
governor
investigating the truth of Bahá’u’lláh’s Claim and professing
belief in the tenets of His Faith. During his governorship the
general atmosphere in Nayriz changed and became so warm and
friendly between Bahá’ís and Muslims that a number of
prominent Bahá’í teachers were allowed to visit the place, teach
the Cause of God to people of all backgrounds, and
complement Mulla Muhammad-Shafi` in his efforts to promote
the nascent Faith and deepen the understanding of the friends in
Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.16 As a result, the friends’ transition
from the Bábí to Bahá’í Faith was very smooth. The militant
Bábís of Nayriz accepted Bahá’u’lláh as the One for Whom the
Báb had sacrificed Himself, and changed their conduct to
comply with the tenets of His Cause, one of which was the
abolition of holy war. Their firmness in Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant
passed the test when after His Ascension the opponents of
`Abdu’l-Bahá, His appointed Successor, tried hard but failed to
win their support.
Mulla Muhammad-Shafi’s eldest grandson and namesake, a
true heir of his grandfather in many respects, by a strange
coincidence was also twelve years old when the uprising of
Shaykh Dhakariyya took place. Like his grandfather, the young
Muhammad-Shafi’ made acquiring knowledge his lifelong quest,
became a committed Bahá’í, was steadfast like a solid rock in
the Covenant, and dedicated his life to the promotion of the
Cause of Bahá’u’lláh. One of his imperishable services has been
the writing of the history of the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths in
Nayriz. After extensive search, as stated earlier, he found in
Rafsanjan in the province of Kirman a transcribed copy of his
grandfather’s booklet, gathered his own notes, located and
interviewed the living members of the families of survivors of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
the earlier episodes, added his own observations of subsequent
events, and wrote Lama`atu’l-Anvar, Depicting the Soul-Stirring
Episodes of Nayriz.17 He also wrote his memoirs, entitled
Khatirat-i Talkh va Shirin (Bittersweet Memories) which were
published after his death. The following account is based
principally on these two sources.18
Eyewitness Account of the Massacre of
Bahá’ís in Nayriz During Naw-Ruz 1909
It was mid-March 1909 when the notorious rebel from the
Kuhistan region, Shaykh Dhakariyya, who had earned his
reputation by defying government regulations, by launching
attacks on defenseless people, plundering property, using
distortion to enrich himself and his supporters, even causing
bloodshed, engaged in armed conflict with the local government
of Nayriz. The attack did not happen in a vacuum. It was
carried out on orders from Haji Siyyid `Abdu’l-Husayn-i Lari,
the leader of the Shi`is of the area. His pretext was setting up a
national government and protecting Islam from undesirable
influences. It was several days before Naw-Ruz. Bahá’ís were
fasting and like all Iranians were preparing to embrace the New
Year. With the launching of the attack the festive mood turned
somber, then it became a nightmare for the Bahá’ís of the town
when on Naw-Ruz eve the Shaykh conquered an important fort
outside Nayriz and turned the attack, which until then the
inhabitants thought was political and against the local
government, into an onslaught against the Bahá’ís. That Naw-
Ruz coincided with the interment of the remains of the Báb in
the heart of Mount Carmel, fulfilling the sacred task Bahá’u’lláh
had entrusted to His Most Great Branch many years earlier.
That a rebel with meager resources and control over a tiny
part of the country could in the name of religion declare war on
a local governor installed and supported by the regime in power
and prevail is a tale beyond the scope of this paper. Suffice it to
say that during the rein of the Qajar kings, whom Iranians
considered usurpers of the crown, clergy in Iran gained
inordinate influence and meddled at will with matters of state
culminating in humiliating defeat for the country, the loss of

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

territory to Russia, intensification of the influence of foreign
powers, and causing widespread discontent. Disgusted with the
hopeless situation, Iranians rose up against despotism and
demanded reform. The movement for democracy gathered
momentum and yielded some tangible results in the early years
of the nineteenth century. The preoccupation with internal
struggles for social and political change and the rapid succession
of kings sapped whatever strength was left and exhausted the
energy needed to keep law and order in the country. When the
constitutional revolution was in full swing, in some provinces
certain elements took advantage of the weakness of the central
government and raised the banner of rebellion. Among them
were clerics who worked with tribal heads and looked for
opportunities to spread their influence. The deteriorated
security situation was a gift to the rebels who thrived when
chaos and confusion reigned. Some tribes revolted against the
central authority and wreaked havoc on the regions they
brought under their control. Nayriz was one of the worst
affected areas.
During the constitutional revolution `Abdu’l-Bahá provided
constant guidance to the Bahá’ís of Iran and warned them
emphatically against getting involved. As a result, the believers
kept clear of politics and continued promoting the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh, revolving around the principle of the oneness of
humankind. The truce that Mulla Muhammad-Shafi` had
negotiated with Fath-`Ali Khan, the governor of Nayriz, years
earlier enabled prominent Bahá’í teachers to visit Nayriz,
provide spiritual sustenance to the believers, and guide eager
souls to the pathway of truth. The visit of the last two itinerant
teachers during this period, Mr. Tarazu’llah Samandari, later
appointed by Shoghi Effendi to the rank of a Hand of the Cause
of God, and Mr. Ali Akbar Rafsanjani,19 coincided with the
period leading to the uprising of Shaykh Dhakariyya. The
meetings held for these teachers were filled to capacity; even
rooftops were occupied. Some of the inhabitants of the town
started investigating the truth of Bahá’u’lláh’s Mission and
expressed interest in joining the Faith. This development roused
the animosity of the antagonists and determined them to do
what it took to stop the progress achieved. The deputy governor
of Nayriz, a friend of the Faith, secretly sent a message to the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Local Spiritual Assembly, apprised its members of the enemy’s
schemes, and advised that the best course of action was for the
visitors to leave Nayriz immediately and go to a safer place.
Upon the receipt of this advice, the two teachers, escorted by
ten Bahá’í men known for their bravery and staunchness of
faith, left for Sarvistan, a town in the province of Fars not very
far from Nayriz.
The teachers left the town safely but the adversaries did not
stop agitating. They turned to Haji Siyyid `Abdu’l-Husayn-i
Lari, the leader of the Shi`is of the area, and beseeched him to
take necessary action to curb the advancement of the Bahá’í
Faith. The Haji had an added incentive to encourage an assault
on Nayriz to take place: he had received an invitation from the
Shaykhu’l-Islam20 of the town asking him to subdue the local
government and rid Nayriz of its governor and his family. The
reason the Shaykhu’l-Islam had turned against the local
government was unrelated to the Bahá’í Faith and the teaching
activities of the friends. In fact, he was favorably inclined
toward Bahá’u’lláh’s Cause. His grievance had to do with an
incident involving the governor and his deputy, which he found
highly offensive and humiliating.
Mas‘udu’d-Dawlih, the son of Asifu’d-Dawlih, was then the
governor of Nayriz. He was married to Nazhatu’l-Muluk, the
daughter of Fath-`Ali Khan. Her brother, Muhammad Hasan
Khan-i Sartip, was the deputy governor. Mas‘udu’d-Dawlih
committed an act which, though legal in Islam, caused great
offence and cost him his position. What did he do? He
contracted another marriage, this time with the daughter of the
Shaykhu’l-Islam, a very influential personage in the area, nay in
the province of Fars. His first wife’s family, immensely
displeased
with
Mas‘udu’d-Dawlih,
brought
tremendous
pressure to bear on him until he relented and divorced his
second wife. This was something far beyond what the Shaykhu’l-
Islam could bear. Deeply offended and insulted by the incident,
he decided to exact revenge and waited for opportunity to
present itself. When he found the ground ready, he sent an
invitation to Haji Siyyid `Abdu’l-Husayn to attack Nayriz and
dislodge the governor.21

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

The requests that Haji Siyyid `Abdu’l-Husayn received from
the fanatic inhabitants of Nayriz and from the Shaykhu’l-Islam
provided ample justification for him to act, but the timing had
to be right. The dethronement of Muhammad `Ali Shah Qajar
and the ensuing chaotic situation presented the hoped-for
opportunity. To realize the dream of subduing the people of the
town and inducing them to do what he and his supporters
desired, he needed a ruthless agent. Shaykh Dhakariyya
Kuhistani, whose authority was supreme in twelve small towns
and villages in the mountains surrounding Nayriz, was the man
for the job. The Haji ordered the Shaykh to proceed toward the
town with forces under his command. Shaykh Dhakariyya was
happy to comply and did as ordered. He and the armed men
under his control moved toward Nayriz intent on conquering
the town, expelling the governor, establishing an autonomous
entity that opposed the central government, and dealing the
Bahá’ís a fatal blow.
Nayriz was besieged and fighting began between the forces of
the governor supported by the inhabitants of Nayriz on the one
hand and the rebels supported by tribesmen living in the
surrounding areas on the other. To prevent support and supplies
from Shiraz, the capital of the province of Fars, to reach the
governor’s forces in Nayriz, the rebels cut off all means of
communication.
After three days of fighting, the rebels took the northern
highlands
and
strongholds.
After
that
victory,
Shaykh
Dhakariyya invited the inhabitants of Nayriz to the fort of
Sayfabad, which he had conquered. The people were curious to
know what the Shaykh had in mind, so they attended the
meeting. Shaykh Dhakariyya’s purpose was to induce them to
cooperate with him. To succeed, he knew that he had to offer
them incentives they could not refuse. Knowing the fanatic
population’s deep-rooted animosity toward the Bahá’í Faith and
its followers, he made the Bahá’ís a scapegoat. In his speech he
introduced Haji Siyyid `Abdu’l-Husayn-i Lari as the defender of
Islam and the supporter of a national government, and himself
as the standard-bearer of Islam. In the same speech he attacked
the Bahá’í Faith and roused his audience against the Bahá’ís of
the town.22 By so doing he helped the seed of hatred and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
contention, which had been planted in their hearts decades
earlier, to yield the fruit he desired. At the same time he
diminished support for the local government, whose forces were
already hard pressed to hold ground. Then in a surprise attack
by night, he took a section of the town known as Mahallih
Kuchih Bala.23 A few days later another section of the town fell
into the rebels’ hands and they moved closer to Mahallih Bazar,
the seat of the government. The governor of Nayriz,
Mas‘udu’d-Dawlih, and his brother-in-law Hasan Khan-i Sartip,
the grandson of Haji Zaynu’l-`Abidin Khan,24 fled Mahallih
Bazar and moved to Mahallih Chinarsukhtih, where the Bahá’ís
lived. They chose the Jami` mosque, which was a mighty
stronghold, for their defense. Intimidated by the approaching
forces of the Shaykh, the governor and his brother-in-law fled
Nayriz by night in disguise and left the Bahá’ís at the mercy of
the
advancing
forces
of
the
Shaykh.
Thus
Mahallih
Chinarsukhtih became the battlefield. Fighting began around the
Jami` mosque between the inhabitants of that mahallih and the
rebels. One of the Bahá’ís, Muhammad-Hasan, son of Rahim,
was killed during that encounter. After Mahallih Chinarsukhtih
fell to the rebels, the Shaykh issued a decree making it a
religious duty to kill the Bahá’ís, plunder their property, and set
fire to their homes. The fanatics among the inhabitants of
Mahallih Chinarsukhtih joined hands with the Shaykh’s forces in
carrying out the decree. Most Bahá’ís, in obedience to
Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings prohibiting His followers from engaging
in holy war, left Nayriz and moved to a mountainous area to the
south of the town, where the early Bábís had defended
themselves against their adversary. Some with infants, or elderly
family members unable to walk a long distance, could not get
very far and went into hiding closer to the town.
Among the Bahá’ís who fled the town and took refuge in the
nearby mountains were the twelve-year old Muhammad-Shafi`,
his two younger brothers, his mother, Nurijan Khanum, and his
maternal uncle and aunts. Fearing the outcome of the Shaykh’s
victory, they took off for areas outside the town they
considered safe.
Other Bahá’í fugitives from Nayriz scattered in the same
region: Those younger and stronger moved further up the

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

mountain in search of safer hiding places, the groups consisting
of older people, women and children stayed in caves lower down
the mountain. With the group comprising Muhammad-Shafi`
and his family was a servant who carried some provisions for
them on the back of a mule. They started off early in the
morning of Naw-Ruz 1909. The mother of Muhammad-Shafi`, a
devoted and valiant soul, knowing the gravity of the situation,
related stories about the heroic deeds of the early believers,
awakening in them the spirit of heroism and sacrifice. Before
noon they reached a valley known as Tang-i Lay-i Hina and took
refuge in a small cave. When night fell, everywhere was pitch
black and no sound could be heard except the water and the
wind. Frightened and bewildered, they counted the hours and
minutes. About midnight they heard footsteps and wondered
whether the enemy had discovered their hideout. As they held
their breath in readiness to meet their fate, they heard a familiar
voice. A Muslim relative, whose Bahá’í wife was a member of
the group, had come to warn his relatives that the area was
unsafe. He informed them of the Shaykh’s decree and added that
he had announced that whoever presented the severed head of a
male Bahá’í, age ten years or older, would receive the reward of
a hundred tumans; if a Bahá’í were captured and taken to him
alive, the captor would receive 2000-3000 Rials, the wealthier
the victim the higher the reward. However, the women and small
children were not to be harmed, he said. The visiting relative
suggested that while it was still dark the men should take an
unfrequented mountain route to flee the area, and the women
and children return to Nayriz. Everyone agreed. What was of
concern was the situation of the boys who were older than ten.
Muhammad-Shafi` was then about twelve years old. He and two
other boys two years younger than him could not keep pace
with the men who were going to Sarvistan on foot.25 After
deliberation, it was decided that he and the other two boys
should wear the chadur and accompany the women. As the
parting time arrived, Muhammad-Shafi`’s maternal uncle,
Shaykh Muhammad Husayn, turned to his Muslim brother-in-
law and said:
Now that we are saying goodbye and moving towards
an unknown destiny, God has willed that you take
charge of these defenseless and homeless women and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
children. I adjure you to hide them in an obscure and
deserted place in Nayriz. If you see that the enemy is
likely to find and dishonor them and you are unable to
provide protection, throw them into a well and cover it
with debris that no blight may touch this family.
Readers unfamiliar with the cultural norms of the Middle
East in the early nineteenth century may find it extraordinary,
even outrageous that men made life and death decisions on
behalf of the women in their care. Unless one has lived in those
places at the time when those norms dictated certain behavior,
it would be most difficult, if not impossible, to understand the
dynamics at work. Tradition backed by Quranic references was
the supreme determiner of behavior. What they perceived as
‘honor’ was uppermost in men’s minds, when it came to their
womenfolk. Men were in charge of the affairs of the women,
and they made decisions as necessary to ensure at any cost what
they considered their honor. If they could not do it themselves,
they delegated the responsibility to another male member of the
family, which is what happened here. It must be added that the
women who fell in the hand of the enemy, if they did not enjoy
amnesty, suffered a worse fate than death, as evidenced by what
is going on today in places where religious and holy wars occur.
At the time of farewell, the immediate future looked bleak.
No one knew what the future held. The hope of reunion was
slim indeed. Time was short. Loved ones had no choice but to
separate. Tears were ceaseless, hearts were burning with anguish,
sighs were soaring high, but uttering a sound could cost their
lives, emotions had to be contained and words were uttered in
whisper. The fate of the ones who were fleeing, as well as those
who were returning to Nayriz was unknown. Those who fled
faced many hazards on the way. Those who remained had little
hope of making it through the ordeal. Risky as the choices were,
they were better than immediate annihilation.
After the men left, the women and children, exhausted and
distraught, decided to tarry a while longer in the Tang-i-Lay-i
Hina. They spent the night in fear and uncertainty. No one had
the appetite to eat. However, spiritually they were ready to
embrace any eventuality. When daylight broke, the boys who
were older than ten wore the chadur and with the women started

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

walking toward Nayriz. With them was Mashhadi Hasan, the
Muslim husband of Muhammad-Shafi`’s aunt, as well as the
servant, whose name was Muhammad-Taqi. On the way they
could hear gunshots and see fire raging in that part of the town
where Bahá’ís lived. They realized that their houses had been set
on fire. The rebels’ practice was to set fire to Bahá’í houses
after plundering the contents. As the group continued walking,
feeling anxious and exhausted, the mule that carried their
provisions, carpet and bedding, was wrested out of the servant’s
hand by thieves and the servant himself stripped of his clothes.
However, the women were not disturbed. About noon, hungry
and without necessary provisions, they reached the ruins of a
house where they decided to retire for a while. They spent the
night in that spot without food and water. Fear of being
discovered kept everyone awake. Every time they heard a
footstep, all rushed to a dry well within the ruins of the house
and stood ready to throw themselves in, to honor the parting
words of Shaykh Muhammad-Husayn.
The plunderers and opportunists were hard at work that night
searching every corner of the town and the surrounding areas to
find male Bahá’ís, turn them in, and collect their reward. The
next morning another Muslim relative, a cousin by the name of
Mirza Muhammad-i-Shu`a`, who had heard his aunts and cousins
were staying in that place, rushed to their aid, took them to his
home and offered hospitality until the situation improved. To
get to his house, the group had to walk through the area in front
of the Masjid-i Jami` in Mahallih Chinarsukhtih, where fighting
was intense. As they were passing through the area, the young
Muhammad-Shafi` saw from under his chadur deplorable and
tragic scenes. Opposite the mosque he saw a body hanging
upside down from a mulberry tree. The corpse was bright red,
like freshly barbequed meat. There was also a heap of stone
collected under the body. His curiosity made him ask whose
corpse it was. In response, his cousin said it was the corpse of
Mulla Muhammad-`Ali who, together with his son-in-law, Mulla
Hasan, had been killed in Mahallih Bazar on the day of Naw-
Ruz. The corpse of Mulla Hasan, he was told, was similarly
hung in Mahallih Bazar but Mulla Muhammad-`Ali’s body had
been dragged to Mahallih Chinarsukhtih near the mosque, where
it had been set on fire, hanged and stoned. So many stones were

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
used that an elevation was formed under his body. The purpose
of inflicting abuse on dead bodies was to send a twofold
message: To intimidate the believers that if they insisted on
holding on to their new belief they would suffer a similar fate,
and to strike fear in the hearts of those who sympathized with
the Bahá’í Faith that if they crossed the line and joined the
adherents of that Faith, they would know what to expect.
Seeing the horrific scene and hearing the explanation in
response to his question so affected Muhammad-Shafi` that
after reaching the home of his cousin, he fell ill and developed a
temperature. The scene was so imprinted on his soul that he
remembered it vividly to the end of his life.
The search for male Bahá’ís continued. The hostile elements
among the population let loose by Shaykh Dhakariyya violated
the privacy of every Bahá’í home. They entered any and all areas
where they suspected Bahá’ís were hiding. The men who had not
fled the area and gone to Sarvistan were in grave danger. Nayriz
and its surroundings were combed for male Bahá’ís. When
found, they were dragged out and delivered to the Shaykh’s
gunmen, who took them to the Shaykh for interrogation, the
hope being that they would recant their belief in Bahá’u’lláh in
exchange for their lives. However, none caved in under
pressure, they all courageously confirmed their adherence to the
Bahá’í Faith and expressed readiness to die, to vindicate its
truth. They were summarily tried and brutally put to death, their
properties confiscated, plundered and burnt to the ground,
their women and children left without shelter, protection,
barest necessities and means to survive.
In that chaotic situation the rebels and ruffians enriched
themselves by causing the innocent Bahá’ís death and
destruction, others to sustain untold suffering and heartache.
But among the population there were some who extended a
helping hand to their Bahá’í friends and neighbors, at times
risking their own lives. A case in point is a Muslim father whose
daughter was engaged to a young Bahá’í man, named `Ali,
arrested for his faith. He did what he could to save the life of
his son-in-law to be and succeeded in getting a decree from the
Shaykh to spare the young man’s life. When he happily reached
the place of execution with the decree in his hand, he realized it

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

was too late, `Ali had already been executed. Then he saw that
`Ali’s brother, Mulla Rahman, was being taken to the arena of
sacrifice. He used the decree to save his life instead. Mulla
Rahman was kept in prison until Shaykh Dhakariyya left Nayriz,
then freed.26
Another man saw his Bahá’í friend, Amru’llah Nikayin, sitting
in the full view of public gaze on the day the Shaykh’s gunmen
had entered the town and were roaming the place looking for
Bahá’ís. He realized that his friend was unaware of the dangers
facing the Bahá’ís. He immediately briefed him of the situation
and advised him to take refuge in a house where his father and
brother-in-law were hiding. The father, the son and the son-in-
law stayed in that house for about a week before being
discovered by those working for the Shaykh. When armed men
entered to search the house and got close to the room where the
three were hiding, one of the neighbors, a Mirza Nasru’llah,
came forward, protested that they had entered unannounced,
and angrily said: “If you are looking for Bahá’ís, I am one of
them.” In the encounter he received some injuries. A group of
Muslims later testified that Mirza Nasru’llah was not a Bahá’í,
and he was released. However, the house was no longer a safe
place for the Bahá’ís to hide. At midnight when no one was
around, Mirza Nasru’llah took the three Bahá’ís to a place
outside Nayriz, showed them the route to Sarvistan and said all
Bahá’í fugitives have fled to that town; it is best for you to join
them there, he said. The three left Nayriz. In Khayr, a village
between Nayriz and Runiz, they tarried for a while.
Unfortunately, while there they were robbed of their
belongings. They were even stripped of the clothes they were
wearing. But they did make it alive to Sarvistan and joined other
Bahá’í fugitives there.
When the young Muhammad-Shafi` and his family reached
the home of his cousin, the women were accommodated in one
room and he had to stay in a storeroom, away from the eyes of
would-be intruders. An opening large enough for him to crawl
into was made under saddlebags that were filled with dried fruit,
nuts and grain. He spent 13 days and nights in that hole until
Shaykh Dhakariyya left Nayriz. The only time he could leave his
hiding place for a brief time was late at night. The Muslim

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
relatives kept the fugitives abreast of the news: more Bahá’ís
were killed every day. Even ten-year-old Bahá’í boys were not
immune. If one were found alive, he would be burned rather
than killed. Muhammad-Shafi` saw clearly that this could happen
to him but instead of being fearful, was so filled with the spirit
of faith and sacrifice that he found himself ready to offer up his
life for his belief. He attributed his state of readiness for
sacrifice to the visit of the two prominent Bahá’í teachers,
Mirza Tarazu’llah Samandari and Mirza `Ali Akbar-i Rafsanjani,
who had visited Nayriz before the incident. Their visit had
prepared the Bahá’ís of the town for such a day, he believed.
During the thirteen days of the Naw-Ruz celebration that
Shaykh Dhakariyya was in Nayriz (21 March to 3 April 1909),
eighteen valiant believers were brutally tortured and killed for
no reason other than their adherence to the Bahá’í Faith. As
stated earlier, every one of them was taken to the Shaykh and
ordered to recant his faith or be killed. Each refused to recant
and preferred to die for the truth he had embraced. Those
martyred were Mulla Hasan, Mulla Muhammad `Ali, Muhammad
Hasan-i
Kulahmal,
Mulla
`Abdu’l-Majid,
Aqa
`Abbas,
Muhammad Isma`il, `Ali, the son of Muhammad Isma`il,
Muhammad Ibrahim, the brother of Muhammad Isma`il,
Asadu’llah, the son of Muhammad Ibrahim, Mihdi, the son of
Mulla Husayn and son-in-law of Muhammad Isma`il, `Ali Akbar,
the son of Mashhadi Naw-Ruz and the nephew of Muhammad
Isma`il and Muhammad Ibrahim, Mulla Husayn, the son of
Zaynal and the father of Mihdi, Muhammad `Ali, the son of
Darvish, Ibrahim, the son of Darvish and brother of
Muhammad `Ali, Mirza Akbar Kaffash, Ustad `Ali Sabbagh,
originally from Sirjan, Ustad `Ata’u’llah, and Amru’llah, the son
of Sulayman.27
Before Shaykh Dhakariyya left Nayriz, he installed a man
there as his deputy. The rule of the Shaykh and his deputy lasted
for a month. During that time pressure was maintained on the
Bahá’ís. Those who were hiding could not come out. The
properties, which had been confiscated, stayed in the rebels’
hands and the women and children, through necessity, lived on
the barest minimum. Muhammad-Shafi` and the members of his
group lived for a month on a daily ration of figs and a little

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

coarse bread. After a month, news was received that a new
governor had been installed in Fars, that Qavamu’l-Mulk-i
Shirazi had been put in charge of keeping law and order in the
province, and that he had ordered his forces to move towards
Nayriz and the areas under the control of tribal chiefs. As this
news spread, the situation improved. Muhammad-Shafi` and two
other Bahá’í boys of his age were able to venture out. He could
run errands for his mother outside the home. But whenever he
stepped out, he faced the abusive language of the children who
roamed the streets and inflicted on him and other Bahá’ís as
much insult and harm as they possibly could. One day he met
another Bahá’í, Haji Mir `Ali, who had just come out of his
hiding place. He whispered into the ear of Muhammad-Shafi`:
“Relief supplies have arrived from Shiraz. Tell your mother to
send someone to my home to receive a saddlebag of wheat
(about 75-80 kilos).” The young boy was overjoyed, ran home
and gave his mother the glad-tidings. His mother said in
response, “My husband is in the Holy Land, I cannot degrade
him by accepting handouts.” The young hungry boy, who was
longing for a piece of good bread, was naturally disappointed.
Gradually the inhabitants of the town discovered where
Muhammad-Shafi` and his family were hiding and exerted
pressure on their hosts for having provided shelter to Bahá’ís.
One day the landlady suggested to grandmother Nurijan that in
order to put an end to the talk circulating in town, she should
consider going with the womenfolk to the mosque. She stressed
that her mere presence in the mosque would suffice to ease the
pressure. Grandmother refused to comply, saying, “I will leave
your home and stay in the wilderness but will not visit the
mosque. I will not bring upon myself the blight of people
thinking that I have abandoned my faith.”
It was close to mid-May 1909 when Nurijan Khanum took
the hands of her three young sons and returned to their home,
of which only a skeleton remained. The first night was spent on
the rubble with no bedding, but to them it looked like heaven,
for they had been freed from confinement and could breathe a
sigh of relief. Another month passed before her husband, Mirza
`Abdu’l-Husayn, returned from the Holy Land and found his
business partner, Mulla Hasan, martyred, all accounting books,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
records
and
documents
destroyed,
harvests
demolished,
agricultural produce devastated, and his family destitute. He
had to start all over again and build his life from scratch.
When the pilgrims heard the news that Mulla Hasan had been
martyred on Naw-Ruz, they realized the significance of what
`Abdu’l-Bahá had said in response to the request they made on
his behalf: Mulla Hasan had wanted to go on pilgrimage and
asked his friends to submit to `Abdu’l-Bahá the request that he
may attain his heart’s desire. Instead of granting the request,
`Abdu’l-Bahá said that he had attained. The pilgrims knew that
Mulla Hasan had never been on pilgrimage and fearing that they
had not presented the request properly, repeated it in different
words. `Abdu’l-Bahá said again that he had attained. When the
returning pilgrims found out what had transpired on Naw-Ruz,
they realized that `Abdu’l-Bahá was aware of Mulla Hasan’s
martyrdom at the time it was taking place. He knew that in the
world of spirit he had attained his heart’s desire.28
The Fate of the Bahá’ís Who Fled Nayriz
Between seventy to eighty Bahá’í fugitives from Nayriz
gathered in Sarvistan, which was the only safe place accessible
to them in the province of Fars. After Shaykh Dhakariyya
entered Nayriz as a victor and issued his infamous decree, many
male Bahá’ís fled the town. They took off on foot in small
groups. The first town on their route where the Bahá’í
community could offer them refuge was Istahbanat, but danger
awaited them there as well. The fanatics were determined to bar
the fugitives from entering. They agitated the inhabitants to
arise against ‘infidels’ coming to their town. The Bahá’ís of
Istahbanat, knowing the dangers awaiting their fellow
religionists, appointed a trustworthy person to meet the groups
before they entered Istahbanat, warn them of the dangers
awaiting them in the town, and advise them to proceed directly
to Sarvistan. The fugitives’ first stop was Runiz, a place
between Istahbanat and Nayriz, owned by some members of the
Afnan family. The man who managed the property was Mir
Muhammad Hasan, a Bahá’í. He warmly received the fugitives
and extended to them loving hospitality. Within twenty-four
hours almost all the fugitives had gathered there. Although

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz

warmly welcomed, the fugitives could not tarry there for long,
for nomadic tribes roamed the area frequently, rendering the
place unsafe. Therefore, the fugitives continued their journey
to Sarvistan. They sent one person ahead of time, to inform the
friends in that town of their imminent arrival. Mr. Tarazu’llah
Samandari and Mr. `Ali Akbar Rafsanjani, who had left Nayriz
before the disturbances, were still in Sarvistan. In consultation
with them, the believers prepared a plan for sending relief
supplies to the refugees and for receiving them in their town.
The provisions and warm clothing that were sent proved
critical, for the number of fugitives was large, not everyone was
dressed properly for the bitter cold, nor did they have sufficient
foodstuff to continue the arduous journey on foot.
Kharman Kuh, the mountain route the fugitives had to cross
to get to Sarvistan, was covered with snow, and there was no
clear path to follow. When they reached the peak, they had no
choice but to slide down on their back, to reach the other side.
By the time all got down, they suffered from exhaustion and had
no energy to continue the trip. Seeing a friendly face awaiting
their arrival on the other side and receiving the means of
sustenance sent from Sarvistan ignited in their hearts the spark
of hope. This was to them like heaven compared with the hell
they had been through. After a short sojourn there, they
continued their trip. In the vicinity of Sarvistan, sympathetic
friends came out en masse to meet them. What a scene to
behold! After days of traversing rough trails and snow-covered
mountain routes, uncertain of what was lying ahead, they found
themselves amidst loving friends who received them with open
arms, shed with them tears of joy, and joined them in offering
prayers of gratitude to the Lord. Alas, the joy was incomplete
and had sorrow in its embrace. The fugitives, grateful for
having reached a safe place, were anxious about the fate of their
wives, children, mothers and sisters they had left behind. They
knew not what had happened to them after their midnight
separation days ago.
Life for the refugees was made as comfortable as possible
within the means available to the Bahá’ís of Sarvistan.
Meanwhile, a new provincial governor, Sahamu’d-Dawlih, was
installed in Shiraz, the capital of Fars, and Nasru’d-Dawlih was

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
given responsibility to keep law and order in areas populated by
tribes and nomads. On his way to Laristan, he stopped in
Sarvistan, where the Bahá’í refugees were gathered. They
appointed Khajih Muhammad, a survivor of the first and
second Nayriz upheavals, to submit a written complaint against
Siyyid `Abdu’l-Husayn-i Lari and Shaykh Dhakariyya. They also
briefed Nasru’d-Dawlih in detail of what the Bahá’ís of Nayriz
had been put through. Nasru’d-Dawlih was visibly affected by
what he heard, and promised to do everything in his power to
make the two men responsible for the atrocities to pay for their
crimes. Right then he issued a decree appointing Rida Quli
Khan, the Mushir-i Divan, as the deputy governor of Nayriz,
charging him with responsibility to subdue the Shaykh’s deputy
and his supporters with the help of the Bahá’ís. He told Rida
Quli Khan to leave immediately for Nayriz and carry out the
order as soon as the Bahá’ís reached there. At the same time, he
advised the Bahá’í refugees to leave for Nayriz and assist the
deputy governor to carry out his mission. He further advised
the friends not to demand the return of their confiscated
properties found in the hands of the rebels. For that, he said,
“await my arrival.” The Bahá’ís did as advised. Nasru’d-Dawlih,
faithful to his promise, succeeded in cleansing Nayriz from the
presence of the rebels, and returned the confiscated properties
to their rightful owners.
The end of the Shaykh Dhakariyya episode did not mean the
end of disturbances in Nayriz. Time and again the Shaykh and
other rebels attacked Nayriz and caused the Bahá’ís much
suffering, the loss of property and livelihood. A detailed
account of each event is written in Lam`atu’l-Anvar by
Muhammad-Shafi` Rouhani, which is currently being translated
for publication in English.

NOTES
1 From `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet in Persian, the approved English translation of
which is quoted on page 16 of Against Incredible Odds by this author.
2 Nabil-i Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers. Translated from the original Persian
by Shoghi Effendi, first British edition, p. 379.

Massacre of the Bahá’ís in Nayriz


3 ibid.
4 H.M. Balyuzi, `Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, p. 126.
5 Zechariah, vi.12. Quoted in H.M. Balyuzi, Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, p. 129.
6 The full text of the Tablet is quoted in Muhammad-`Ali Faizi, The Queen
of Carmel, p. 99.
7 The three Nayrizi pilgrims were: Mirza `Abdu’l-Husayn Rouhani, Mirza
Ahmad Vahidi and Mirza Fadlu’llah `Inayati.
8 Muhammad-Shafi` Rouhani, Khatirat-i-Talkh va Shirin, p. 18, quoted in
Baharieh Rouhani Maani, Against Incredible Odds, p. 13.
9 Ibid, pp. 24-5. The approved provisional English translation of the Tablet
is quoted in Against Incredible Odds, p. 16.
10 It was customary in those days to identify women, when necessary, by the
name of a close male family member. Here the valiant warrior was known
by the name of her son, Sami`.
11 Mirza `Abdu’l-Husayn was unable to keep pace with the caravan due to age
and ill health. He was beheaded in Sa`adatabab, a village between Shiraz
and Abadih. His body was buried there and his head along with the heads
of other martyrs were taken to Abadih, where they were buried.
12 This was very early in the history of the Faith and believers were not yet
barred from holding positions in the mosque.
13 Nabil-i-Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 472. Nabil refers to Mulla
Muhammad-Shafi` as Mulla Shafi`, its abbreviated form.
14 Muhammad-Shafi` Rouhani, Lama`atu’l-Anvar, p. 569, footnote 41
15 Zaynu’l-`Abidin Khan was the governor of Nayriz when the Fort of Khajih
episode took place.
16 Mirza Haydar `Ali, Mirza Mahram, Aqa Mirza Mahmud Zarqani, Aqa
Mirza Jalal Zarqani are among the renowned Baha’i teachers who visited
Nayriz and were received warmly by Mulla Muhammad-Shafi` (Lama`atu’l-
Anvar, p. 125).
17 Lama`atu’l-Anvar, Depicting the Soul-Stirring Episodes of Nayriz was first
published in two volumes by the Baha’i Publishing Institute of Tihran,
Iran. The first volume was published in 130 BE (1972), the second in 132
BE (1974). The two volumes were republished with revisions and index in
2002 by Century Press, Australia.
18 The two sources differ slightly in a few minor details.
19 Mr. Ali Akbar Rafsanjani, a devoted believer from Rafsanjan in the
province of Kirman, knew by heart many Tablets and captivated his
audience with his melodious voice. He passed away prematurely.
20 Siyyid Shahabu’d-Din Ashraf. According to the author of Lama`tu’l-Anvar,
he was familiar with the tenets of the Baha’i Faith and a believer at heart.
He had no intention to harm the Baha’is. The unintended consequences of
his invitation caused him deep regret and remorse. He withdrew from

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

public life after the uprising of Shaykh Dhakariyya. His poems in praise of
Bahá’u’lláh testify to his belief in the truth of the Cause of the Blessed
Beauty.
21 Haji Siyyid `Abdu’l-Husayn was from Lar, a town in the district of
Laristan. He was inspired by Shaykh Fadlu’llah Nuri, a notorious cleric
who played a dubious role in the movement for democracy in Iran, and
antagonistic toward Baha’is. The Shi`is of Nayriz and the surrounding
areas paid allegiance to Haji `Abdu’l-Husayn-i Lari.
22 It has been related that during that meeting the Shaykh served dates to
those gathered, letting it be known that he had fed everyone with a small
amount of dates, to common people a feat, to some a miracle.
23 There were four Mahallih (locations) in Nayriz, each with its own
characteristics and distinctions. For more information, see Against
Incredible Odds, p. 3.
24 It was during his governorship that the first Nayriz upheaval, the Fort of
Khajih episode, took place in 1850, and it was his murder in 1852 that
caused Jang-i Jabal, or the second Nayriz upheaval.
25 Sarvistan is a town in the province of Fars, about halfway between Shiraz
and Nayriz. The reason Baha’is felt safe there was the peaceful coexistence
between the inhabitants. Some influential Baha’is who were in positions of
responsibility had created an atmosphere conducive to mutual
understanding and respect.
26 Had Mulla Rahman been put to death, the number of martyrs would have
been nineteen, but the last minute intercession kept the number at
eighteen, says the author of Lama`atu’l-Anvar.
27 An account of the life of each martyr, as well as the immediate members of
their families, the Tablets revealed in their honor, and other matters
related to the Shaykh Dhakariyya episode and its aftermath are given in
Lama`atu’l-Anvar, Depicting the Soul-Stirring Episodes of Nayriz by
Muhammad-Shafi` Rouhani.
28 Mirza Ahmad Vahidi, one of the three pilgrims, is the source of this
anecdote.

Role of Principles in the Bahá’í Faith
Principles and Fashion
Farjam Majd
Abstract
Are moral laws and values relative or absolute? Is living
according to long-established moral values old-fashioned? How
did past religions fall into ritualistic imitations? Should we be
more conservative or progressive? And more generally, how do
we identify and apply principles to questions of great import?
To explore these questions systematically, a hierarchical or
tree-like model of the world is presented including two tree
structures each having nodes and links defining multiple levels
of organization: a system tree (specific to general) and a type
tree (general to specific). Any entity at all, an object, a
principle, a process, and the like may be represented as a node at
some level in these two tree structures. This hierarchical model
holds within itself and clearly manifests many important and
inherent relationships between the entities it represents by
virtue of the position of those entities on the trees. Examples
of these inherent relationships are simultaneity and relativity.
The principles revealed by Bahá’u’lláh are shown to be
general principles at the root of the type tree and while in their
application variations exist, in their essence they are
unchangeable truths. Thus, being principled has nothing to do
with being old-fashioned or new-fashioned; or conservative or
progressive because principles are timeless.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Introduction
Abdu’l-Bahá, the Son of the Author and Founder of the
Bahá’í Faith, Bahá’u’lláh, has stated: “[n]ow concerning nature,
it is but the essential properties and the necessary relations
inherent in the realities of things. And though these infinite
realities are diverse in their character yet they are in the utmost
harmony and closely connected together” [TAF 20]. This is a very
insightful and important statement. It signifies that diverse and
different entities are connected together and have relations in
their realities which are inherent. Here, a class of inherent
relationships, concerning the inherent hierarchical structures of
entities and information, is explored.
Of Fashion and Models
No discourse on fashion is complete without talking about
models and supermodels. Context is our friend, however, and
by identifying the proper context we need not stray too far
from our objectives in this paper. One of the distinguishing
qualities of the human mind is its ability to understand abstract
relationships and think in terms of models of reality. Simply
put, a model of an entity is a set of components with the
interrelationships between them, all together representing the
entity. Models of entities are not unique or complete. Various
aspects of an entity may be modeled, possibly each aspect with a
different model, for better focus and other practical purposes.
An entity can literally be anything: an object, a process, a
relationship, an organization, or any other conceivable thing.
Principles are no exception. They can be modeled. However, a
model for one or a number of particular principles is not being
proposed here. Rather, a meta model, a model of models, a
supermodel is presented. This supermodel includes general and
important aspects of every other model, as will be made clearer
in the following passages.

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith

The Runway in the Forest
Every supermodel needs a runway to demonstrate her talents.
The runway for our supermodel is a forest full of trees. After
all, what else would a forest be full of? But these are no
ordinary trees. They hold the keys to clearly defining and
understanding some of the most significant, puzzling, and
sometimes contentious issues human kind has faced and
continues to face.
Let’s first start with the trees and we’ll eventually get to the
forest. Actually, we’ll have to first start with the roots,
branches, and leaves to create the tree. One aspect of a tree is
that it represents a hierarchy, and a hierarchy is a very
fundamental structure. We’ll soon find out just how
fundamental it is. However, the reader is cautioned that this
walk in the forest at first may seem dry and feel like a walk in
the desert, far from the subject at hand. But, this walk is
necessary to build a foundation and will soon lead us back to
the main path.
Any entity at all, an object, a principle, a process, and the
like may be represented as a hierarchy. This is because any such
entity inevitably has some components which constitute the
entity. In turn, the entity itself is inevitably a component of a
bigger entity. Perhaps viewing this entity as a system offers a
more concrete and tangible perspective, because it is clear that a
system has components and it is equally clear that the system is a
component in a bigger system. This inclusion of components in
bigger and bigger systems, or conversely, systems containing
smaller and smaller components define a hierarchy. This concept
is best illustrated with some examples to indicate at once its
ubiquity and broadness across diverse areas, and its power and
simplicity to represent important aspects of any system.
As a first example, consider the system of language. A book
is a system of written language which includes chapters. Each
chapter in turn includes pages, pages include paragraphs,
paragraphs include sentences, sentences include words, words
include letters, and so on. The book system itself is also a
component of a library, which is a bigger system. The
relationship between each part of the written language and its

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
constituent components can be clearly represented as a
hierarchy.
As a second example, consider a physical system, such as a
house. A house is a system which includes rooms, rooms include
walls and doors, walls include bricks (and doors have their own
components), and so on. The house system itself is also a
component in a bigger system which is a neighborhood. The
relationship between each part of the house and its constituent
components can also be clearly represented as a hierarchy.
The Anatomy of a System Tree
The hierarchical relationship described above may now be
cast in the mold of a tree, as depicted in Figure 1, to help us get
back to our roots in this paper. A system tree, further described
below with respect to Figure 2, represents no less than a whole
system. Tree structures, when used for modeling, are generally
depicted in an upside down orientation with the root at top and
leaves at bottom. A system, as a whole, being modeled or
represented by a system tree corresponds to the root. First level
components of the system, those which together form the
system, correspond to internal nodes (shown by small circles in
these figures) or branches of the tree. The second level
components, or subcomponents, those which together form the
first level components, correspond to the next level of nodes or
branches.
This correspondence between the system components and
subcomponents with the nodes of the tree continues until the
leaves of the tree are reached. The leaves of the tree represent
the last set of subcomponents to be modeled. This point is
arbitrary and depends on the purpose of the modeling. That is,
the tree may have arbitrary depth and may be extended upwards
from the root or downwards from the leaves to include an
arbitrary number of levels. Hence, a given tree may also be
viewed as a sub-tree in a bigger tree, making the root node of
the sub-tree, an intermediate node in the bigger tree, which in
turn will have a higher level root of its own.

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith


Figure 1: General (upside down) tree structure
As also indicated before, the specifics of the system tree are
somewhat arbitrary, and thus flexible, in that the system being
modeled may be decomposed into components along boundaries
and based on parameters dictated by the purpose of modeling
and the nature of the application at hand. That is, the model is
not deterministic or unique. In other words, the same system
may be modeled with many different system trees depending on
the purpose of the modeling, amount of details desired, and the
type of information needed, to name just a few factors
considered in modeling.
The Physiology of a System Tree
If the structure of a tree is its anatomy, then the properties
are its physiology. This hierarchical model has certain intrinsic
properties, which are briefly described here. A few of these
properties are described in more detail as they are more relevant
to the modeling and analysis of principles. The system tree is
firstly characterized as being a Specific To General (STG) tree
when proceeding from the root to the leaves. This is so because
the system as a whole, corresponding to the root, is the most
specific entity being modeled. As the tree is traversed towards
the leaves, each successive subcomponent becomes simpler and
thus more general. To illustrate, going back to the example of
the house, a house as a whole is a specific and particular
building. The next level of components of the house, for

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
example, the rooms, are necessarily simpler and necessarily more
general in nature. That is, the same room can be a component of
many houses while the houses as a whole are specific and
different from each other. Similarly, a room is made of walls
which are still simpler and more general than rooms, and a wall
is made of bricks, which are the most general and least specific
or distinguished components in the building and thus may be
used in any part of any building.

Figure 2: System tree — STG: Specific (root) To
General (leaves)
A few words about the semantics of trees will help in
describing their properties more clearly. The system tree is an
upside down tree including successive layers of nodes going
from a single root node to the leaf nodes. If the root node is
viewed as a first generation, then the next level of nodes may be
viewed as its children or the second generation. The third level
of nodes are the children of the second generation or level, and
so on down to the leaves. Thus, each node has both a single
parent and one or more children. A node is a child with respect
to its higher level nodes (closer to the root node) and a parent
with respect to its lower level nodes (closest to the leaves).
But the attributes and characteristics of the hierarchical tree
model does not end with generational analogy of parent and

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith

children. There are many other important and interesting
characteristics which are inherent in this fundamental structure.
Some of the most important of these characteristics, briefly
reviewed
below,
include
containment/inclusion,
scope,
recursion,
simultaneity,
relativity,
symmetry,
emergent
properties, system behavior, abstraction, dependency flow, and
reductionism.
Containment or Inclusion
The containment or inclusion property of the system tree
provides that a node includes, or is constituted by all its child
nodes. So, a room node in a model of a house includes or
contains all child nodes such as walls and doors. Conversely,
when walls and doors are combined, they constitute a room.
Scope
The scope property provides that the scope of detail at every
level of the tree is different from other levels. As the tree is
traversed towards the root node, the scope becomes broader.
This property is sometimes indicated with the semantics of high-
level (less detailed; near the root) or low-level (more detailed;
near leaves) in system tree, analogous to zooming out or in with
a camera, when looking at a house, respectively.
Recursion
The recursion property provides that any arbitrary node in a
system tree can itself be considered the root of the sub-tree
under that node. That is, the tree structure is recursive and any
sub-tree looks like the whole tree in structure.
Simultaneity
The simultaneity property is highly significant and has many
important implications in various fields. This property provides
that a system may operate differently at different levels of the
system tree, at the same time without conflict or contradiction.
For example, in the house model, a round wall may be made

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
with square bricks. A round wall can exist at one level
simultaneously with square bricks at a lower level, without
contradiction. As another example, consider the system tree of
the process of walking. Walking is a process at one level and
includes foot steps as its components at a lower level. A person
may walk several times from a door to a window and back,
which is a deterministic path, while the size and direction of
each step taken is random. So, a deterministic process may exist
simultaneously with a random process in the same overall
process, at different levels and without contradiction.
Relativity
The relativity property provides that at high levels, which
have less detail and thus fewer choices, the properties are more
absolute. While at low levels, which have more detail and thus
offer more choices, the node attributes are more variable and
more relative. Something can be relative only if a choice of
more than one option is available, while it is absolute when
there is only one choice. Each child node is relative compared
with its parent, while the parent node is absolute with respect to
its children because there is only a single parent node for
potentially multiple child nodes. As an example, consider
entering a house. Entering a particular house, modeled as a root
node in a system tree, is an absolute action in the sense that the
house is either entered or not. But within the house, multiple
different rooms may be entered, which is a relative action in the
sense that there are multiple choices of rooms, which are child
nodes.
Symmetry
The symmetry property is closely related to the relativity
property and provides that symmetry or invariance in the
system tree increases going towards the root.
Emergent Properties
The emergent properties attribute is an important concept,
which provides that new properties or behaviors of the system

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith

appear going towards the root of the system tree, which
properties do not exist at lower levels. For example, in the three
dimensional space, the concept of an angle comes into existence
only after two dimensions are considered. Angles do not exist in
one dimension. Another example is electronic memory, which
appears at the level of several interconnected gates or flip-flops
and does not exist at lower level of individual transistor
switches.
Analytical Properties
Some useful analytical properties of system tree includes
requirement and causation analysis. Briefly, the process of
analyzing the requirements for achieving an end result may be
modeled as a system tree by modeling the requirements in each
level as child nodes and the result as their parent. Similarly,
causation may be modeled as a system tree by modeling the
causes at each level as child nodes and the effect as their parent.
Many other analytical tools may be developed based on these
basic models.
Level-Relativity
The level-relativity of system behavior is related to
simultaneity and provides that system behavior cannot be
merely specified as a whole and must be specified relative to a
particular level.
Abstraction
The abstraction property is essential to intelligence and
provides that moving towards the more general and common
elements from specific elements may provide essential
information needed in analysis without unnecessary details that
clutter up the subject.
Dependency Flow
The dependency flow property provides that logical
dependency is always from general to specific. This means the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
general must exist before the specific can exist because the
general is always embedded in the specific, but not vice versa.
Reductionism
Reductionism, which is the idea that the more complex can
be described in terms of the more basic, is limited in part by
emergent properties, because emergent properties cannot be
entirely described in terms of simpler ones.
A Few Comments about Applicability of Tree-
Based Models
While the system tree is not the main focus of this paper, it
shares many properties in common with the type tree described
below. Additionally, the system tree is equally applicable to
principles and their components, same as it pertains to any
entity, as elaborated above.
The system tree, together with the type tree, form a
comprehensive model for important aspects of any entity in the
physical world. This statement is not an overreach or a boast.
The physical world is characterized by entities composed of
components. Abdu’l-Bahá states:
This limitless universe is like the human body, all the
members of which are connected and linked with one
another with the greatest strength. How much the
organs, the members and the parts of the body of man
are intermingled and connected for mutual aid and help,
and how much they influence one another! [SAQ 245]
He clearly confirms that the universe itself is composed of parts
and members. He further states: “[t]he physical station is
phenomenal; it is composed of elements, and necessarily
everything that is composed is subject to decomposition” [SAQ
151]. Again, He confirms that the “physical station,” that is,
anything that exists in the physical world, “is composed of
elements.” Hence, the system tree may be used to represent
important properties and relationships between components in

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith

any entity. Thus, the applicability of the system tree to any
entity is certain.
Similarly, the type tree, as further described below, is also
generally applicable to any entity composed of various
characteristics, since such characteristics may be added or
removed from various entities represented by the tree nodes at
different levels, corresponding to moving up and down the tree.
Some may recognize the similarity between the general-to-
specific (type tree) and specific-to-general (system tree) with the
deductive and inductive reasoning methods, respectively.
However, although similar in some respects, these concepts are
not the same. The deductive and inductive reasoning methods
are logical techniques for arriving at a valid conclusion from
valid premises. These techniques are not models for system
components or attributes, as are system and type trees,
respectively. They also do not have the same properties, some of
which were enumerated above for the tree-based models.
But our forest has more than one type of tree, it has two
types: the system tree described above, and a type tree (also
known as an “inheritance” tree in computer science circles)
described below. The type tree is opposite the system tree in the
sense that it is General To Specific (GTS): the root is the most
general and the leaves are the most specific. Figure 3 shows a
type tree for a house. In a type tree, the root represents a
general type of characteristic or attribute, which is “inherited”
by each lower level moving towards the leaves. For example, a
building is a more specific type of structure and inherits the
attributes of the structure; a residential building is a more
specific type of building and inherits the attributes of the
structure and the building; and a house is a more specific type
of residential building and inherits the attributes of the
structure, the building, and the residential building. So, in this
example model, the house is the most specific type while the
structure is the most general. The inclusion property for type
trees provides that each lower node inherits and includes all the
attributes of the higher level nodes in its path. Each lower node
in a lower level also adds new attributes not existing in the
upper levels or nodes.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Just as every entity is a node in a system tree, every entity is
also a node in a type tree. This is because every entity is a type
of something. That is, every entity has properties and attributes
which it inherits from a more general entity and also there are more
specific entities, which can inherit its properties and attributes.
The properties of the type tree are similar to ones briefly
described for the system tree above, but with some differences
due to the different natures of these trees. These properties are
only further elaborated as needed.

Figure 3: Type tree — GTS: General (root) to Specific
(leaves)
The Type Tree and Analysis of Principles
Now is the time to get back from our stroll in the forest to
the business of principles and fashion. In this business we
mainly need two assets: the properties of relativity and
simultaneity. As briefly mentioned above, in this business, the
objective is not the analysis of any particular principle. Rather,
the objective is a methodology of analysis based on the
properties of this hierarchical supermodel. However, as a
bonus, the answers to some of the ancient questions become
obvious or trivial once this analysis is understood. Another
bonus is that, while grand prospects are anticipated from the

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith

use of this methodology, the supermodel is actually simple to
understand and apply in its essential aspects.
As an illustrative example, the biological principle that every
living organism must consume food to survive can be
instructive in understanding the application of the type tree.
Let’s call this the “food principle.” This principle in its most
general form, stated above, may be represented by the root
node. At the next lower (more detailed) level, the nodes may
represent principles which provide that plants, carnivores, and
herbivores, as more specific types of living organisms, each
require the appropriate food to survive. For example, at this
level, the food principle requires carnivores to eat meat to
survive. In the type tree, according to the property of inclusion,
these nodes inherit the attributes of living organisms and foods
from the root principle. Still, at the next lower level, a horse is a
more specific type of a herbivore and consumes grass, a more
specific type of food. At this level, the horse inherits the
attributes of herbivores in turn in addition to the attributes of
living organisms.
Applying the properties of simultaneity and relativity to the
type tree representing the food principle provides valuable
insights. The property of simultaneity provides that the
different versions of the food principle, one at the root level
applying to all living organisms and one at the lower level
applying
to
horses,
are
simultaneously
true
without
contradiction or conflict.
However, all principles are not created equal. The relativity
property provides that the nodes, and the principles they
represent, that are closer to the root are more general and hold
true for the lower levels, while the reverse is not true.
Conversely, the nodes farther away from the root are more
relative and varied. As nodes get farther away from the root,
the number of nodes increase at each level, signifying more
inherited attributes, and creating more variations and options.
For example, in the above model of the food principle, At the
root, there is only one form of this principle, which states that
“living organisms need food to survive.” The same statement at
a more specific level proliferates into more varied forms such as
“horses need grass to survive,” “wolves need meat to survive,”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
“birds need seeds to survive,” and the like. The lower level
principles only hold true at their own nodes (and lower ones, if
any), but not for their siblings at the same level. So, there is no
valid principle stating that “horses need seeds to survive.”
Applying these insights to social principles can be even more
illuminating. Four seemingly self contradictory examples will be
used for this purpose: unity in diversity, courtesy in different
cultures, religious imitations, and the conservative-progressive
dichotomy.
Unity in Diversity
Unity in diversity is the Bahá’í principle that states that the
Bahá’í Faith “does not ignore, nor does it attempt to suppress,
the diversity of ethnical origins, of climate, of history, of
language and tradition, of thought and habit, that differentiate
the peoples and nations of the world. It calls for a wider loyalty,
for a larger aspiration than any that has animated the human
race” [WOB 41]. But, how can such diversity, particularly of
“thought and habit,” work with a “wider loyalty?” This concept
precisely corresponds with the type tree and some of its
properties, simultaneity and relativity, in particular. The
property of relativity requires that “wider loyalty” increases as
the type tree is traversed towards its single root node because of
fewer nodes, while diversity of “thought and habit” increases as
it is traversed towards the leaves because of more nodes and
accumulated attributes. But, simultaneity property precludes
contradiction despite differences between the nodes. Thus, the
concept of unity in diversity, far from being a contradictory
concept, is perfectly consistent and logical.
To take a specific example of unity in diversity, consider the
diversity of teaching, or teachers for that matter. As a root
principle, the purpose of teaching is the transfer of knowledge
to the student with the help of the teacher. Thus, the type tree
representing the principle of teaching starts. Moving down
towards the leaves, the next level of nodes may represent more
specific types of teaching. For example, one node at this level
may represent teaching in a classroom, while another node may
represent teaching by doing, and a third node may represent

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith

teaching via independent study. Each method may be suitable
and selected for a different type of subject, student, or teacher.
And each method is still for the transfer of knowledge to the
student, in compliance with the root principle.
The unity is at the root or towards the upper levels closer to
the root, and the diversity is at the lower levels. In the above
example, the unity aspect is that each type of teaching is united
with others in that they are all a type of teaching and fulfill the
purpose of teaching when appropriately selected. The diversity
aspect is that there are diverse teaching methods at lower levels,
each suitable for a different situation.
Therefore, the selection of a particular method (or node)
depends not only on the attributes inherited from upper nodes,
but also on attributes which differentiate the nodes at the level
under consideration. And even though the nodes within a level
are different and possibly in conflict, there are no conflicts
across levels between parent and child nodes. This is
simultaneity in action.
Cultural Courtesy
Courtesy appears in different, and sometimes contradictory
forms in different cultures. For example, in some oriental
countries burping after eating a meal is considered a sign of
enjoyment of the meal and courtesy or complement to the host,
while in many other cultures it is considered rude to do so.
Bahá’u’lláh says: “O people of God! I admonish you to observe
courtesy, for above all else it is the prince of virtues. Well is it
with him who is illumined with the light of courtesy and is
attired with the vesture of uprightness” [TB 88]. If we define
courtesy as behavior patterns or statements that show respect to
the receiving party, then the principle of courtesy so defined is
modeled as the root of a type tree. According to the relativity
property, behaviors at the lower levels on the type tree become
more specific and each correspond to the various cultures and
attributes associated with respect in those cultures. Further,
according
to
the
simultaneity
property,
the
behaviors
represented by the lower level nodes can be simultaneously

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
courteous without contradicting the higher levels or root
courtesy principles.
However, sometimes people misinterpret a behavior as
discourteous. There are two sources of errors in type tree that
may cause such misinterpretation: a type one error results if it is
mistakenly assumed that a lower level node is at a higher or root
level, and a type two error results if it is assumed that a higher
level or root node is at a lower level. In this example, a type one
error occurs if courtesy in a particular culture is mistakenly
assumed to be a root principle. Then, behavior from any other
culture that contradicts this behavior is deemed discourteous
because it does not fall under this mistaken root. So, if burping
is considered rude as a matter of fundamental principle, then
regardless of culture one may consider it rude behavior.
Conversely, a type two error occurs if the root principle is
mistakenly assumed to belong to a lower level. So, one may assume
that showing respect is optional when showing courtesy; simply
one of many alternatives. But, courtesy cannot be dissociated
from respect. Respect is an inherent part of any courteous
behavior regardless of other accompanying cultural rituals.
Religious Imitations
“This divinely-purposed delay in the revelation of the basic
laws of God for this age, and the subsequent gradual
implementation of their provisions, illustrate the principle of
progressive revelation which applies, as Bahá’u’lláh Himself
explained, even within the ministry of each Prophet” [SCKA 5].
In the context of type trees, the concept of progressive
revelations, as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, is an expansion of the
type tree from the root upwards, that is, towards more general
principles. This concept may be made clearer by revisiting the
recursion property and the topology of the tree structure. More
specifically, a root node in a tree, such as the type tree of Figure
3, may be placed at an intermediate node of a bigger tree, Thus,
the old tree becomes a sub-tree. making the old root node an
intermediate node. For example, if the type tree modeling a
particular religion or revelation is attached at the intermediate
root of a bigger tree, then the progressive revelation becomes
the new root node in the bigger tree, with respect to the

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith

particular revelation, which is now a sub-tree. Hence, the
particular revelation is a more specific incarnation of the concept
of progressive revelation, which is applicable to all revelations.
In religions past, various principles targeted specific needs of
the society at the time. For example, in Judaism and Islam there
are restrictions on types of food the faithful can consume. In
contrast, in the Bahá’í Faith, there are substantially no food
restrictions (except for alcoholic drinks) and decisions are left to
the believers mostly based on health criterion, which is a higher
level principle than a principle banning pork products, for example.
Thus, religions fall into dogmatic rituals and imitations by
making a type one error: thinking the principles revealed in their
religions for specific needs of the time belonged to a higher
level in the type tree than the level to which they truly belonged.
So, when they have to switch to other practices which are more
suitable for later times, they fail and continue to adhere to
outdated rituals of older times.
To Be Conservative or Progressive? That’s the Question
A divisive subject, particularly in modern politics, but also in
popular culture and society, the conservative-progressive
dichotomy has convinced many that only one or the other can
be right, never both. This is where we return to the issue of
fashion: is it old-fashioned to be principled, particularly when
the principles were known in some form since older times? To
answer this question, the relativity property must be revisited.
The relativity property provides that the closer to the root a
principle is, the more absolute it is, and thus, the less dependent
it is on various attributes, which attributes in turn define the
situations to which the principle applies. As such, true root
principles are timeless and do not change according to changing
situations over time, or at least are broadly applicable to many
situations. That is, they are not relative with respect to various
situations, but absolute. In other words, principles are by
definition conservative, namely, they are conserved over time
and across different situations.
Moral relativity is sometimes associated with progressive
positions. To explore this aspect, it is helpful to reiterate that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
not all principles are created equal. That is, there are principles
at the root of a tree which are absolute in the context of that
tree, and then there are situational principles at lower levels in
the same tree that are relative. Relativity, recall, exists because
at lower levels alternatives exist one of which may be chosen
according to a given situation. As an example, consider again
the moral law of courtesy towards others as the root principle.
This is an absolute principle and does not change relative to
different cultures. However, culture-based manners are principles
corresponding to intermediate or leaf nodes and are relative.
This conclusion precludes the notion of moral relativity when
observing true root principles. Moral relativity is the
embodiment of the type two error in the type tree in which a
root principle is mistakenly assumed to be a lower level
principle and thus relative to situation. When this error occurs,
a root principle that is applicable to all situations is not
observed or is only applied to some. Of course, moral relativity
is a valid and essential concept to understand and apply for
principles corresponding to intermediate or leaf nodes in the
type tree.
Conversely, the application of principles, that is the more
specific principles under the root principle, that are applicable
in particular situations, are relative with respect to the situation
or problem to which they are applied. In this sense, the
application of principles is by definition progressive.
But, according to the simultaneity property, conservative and
progressive incarnations of principles can be simultaneously
true and valid, because they operate on different levels. Hence,
the conservative-progressive dichotomy is a false dichotomy.
One should be, and actually has no other choice than being
conservative when observing root principles, and conversely, he
should be, and has no other choice than being progressive when
observing application of principles in new situations.
Putting It All Together
Employing system and type trees and their properties as
models in the analysis of various problems, systems, concepts,

Principles in the Bahá’í Faith

entities, and principles provides a general methodology for such
analysis, rather than specifically modeling any particular
problem domain. This general applicability creates a powerful
framework for clearly defining problems and issues and devising
approaches and solutions.
One of the most important and widely applicable results of
understanding this methodology is that root principles are not
relative and are thus timeless. There are no “old-fashioned” or
“progressive” principles. Principles are eternal, even though our
understanding of such principles are refined as we grow.
Applications of root principles, however, are relative to
situations and must be adapted accordingly. This relationship
between root principles and their applications is nowhere more
evident in modern life than in the relationship between science
and technology. Scientific principles are timeless while their
applications, namely technology, change with time, needs, and
situations. Newton’s laws of motion propelled fish in
prehistoric oceans, moved horse and buggy 200 years ago, and
sets in motion jet planes and space craft today. The principles
remain unchanged, but new applications are devised as
understanding of the principles is refined.
At this point in human history, Bahá’u’lláh has revealed many
social, moral, and philosophical principles and guidelines that
may be considered as root principles due to their very general
and high level natures. Abdu’l-Bahá, the appointed interpreter
of His Writings, takes these general principles and defines lower
level, more detailed principles for practical application in
various situations. In effect, Abdu’l-Bahá traverses the type tree
towards the leaves, providing more specific application of the
root principles. In observing these principles, the two types of
errors, substituting low level principles for higher level ones and
substituting the higher level principles for lower level ones, are
avoided by observing their relative levels of detail, context, and
application. Making either of these errors may result in
misunderstanding and misguided application of the principles.
For example, if a root principle enunciated by Bahá’u’lláh,
such as leading a chaste life, is mistaken as a lower level
principle applicable only in specific situations, such as within a
culture or during a particular period, then when outside those

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
specific situations, one will mistakenly assume that this
principle is not applicable any more.
Conversely, if a lower level principle or practice, such as
adopting a particular type of food, attire, or marriage
ceremonies at a particular locality, is taken as a root principle,
then one will mistakenly assume that at all places and all times
such practices must be observed, leading to empty and
inapplicable imitations and rituals.
Conclusion
All analysis, explicitly or implicitly, depend on models, which
represent various concepts and entities by defining elements of
such entities and the inter-relationships between these elements.
The hierarchical model, effectively represented by tree-like
structures, have properties that encompass every entity by
representing intrinsic structural relationships and properties of
the entities, regardless of their specific natures or the fields in
which the entities exist. The system tree has a Specific To
General (STG) structure, while the type tree has a General To
Specific (GTS) structure. The type and system trees provide a
general methodology for the analysis of principles and entities,
rather than providing a specific model for a particular system or
problem. The properties of the type tree are especially
important for principles and clarify the structure of many
difficult and ill-defined problems.
An analysis of the properties of the type tree reveal that root
principles are not relative and are thus timeless. The relativity
and simultaneity properties of the type tree show that there are
no “old-fashioned” or “progressive” principles. Principles are
eternal, but their applications are relative to situations. These
properties also reveal that principles can have different effects
at different levels in the type tree without contradiction. These
properties further show that type one and type two errors,
namely, substituting low level principles for higher level ones
and substituting the higher level principles for lower level ones,
respectively, can cause misguided applications of principles at
all levels.

Commentary on a Passage in the Epistle
to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
O Shaykh! Seek thou the shore of the Most Great
Ocean, and enter, then, the Crimson Ark which God
hath ordained in the Qayyum-i-Asma for the people of
Bahá’. Verily, it passeth over land and sea. He that
entereth therein is saved, and he that turneth aside
perisheth. Shouldst thou enter therein and attain unto
it, set thy face towards the Kaaba of God, the Help in
Peril, the Self-Subsisting, and say: “O my God! I beseech
Thee by Thy most glorious light, and all Thy lights are
verily glorious.” Thereupon, will the doors of the
Kingdom be flung wide before thy face, and thou wilt
behold what eyes have never beheld, and hear what ears
have never heard.
— Bahá’u’lláh, ESW, pp. 139-140
The above is a passage from Bahá’u’lláh’s last major work,
the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. This book is addressed to
“the son of the Wolf,” Shaykh Muhammad Taqi known as Áqá
Najafi (1846-1914). It is worth pausing a while to reflect upon
the life of this individual as it becomes relevant when we come
to consider the above quotation. Aqa Najafi was a member of
what became the most powerful clerical family in Isfahan. They
were called the Masjid-Sháhí or Najafí family, often also called
the Áqáyán-i Masjid-i Sháh. His father, Shaykh Muhammad
Baqir (1235/1819-1883), was called “the Wolf” by Bahá’u’lláh
on account of his responsibility for the execution of the King
of Martyrs and Beloved of Martyrs in Isfahan in 1879. This
father and son controlled the Shah Mosque (Masjid-i Sháh) in
Isfahan and the Shaykh Lutfu’llah Mosque as well as building a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
new mosque, the Masjid-i Naw, and were implacable enemies of
the Bahá’í community. Both father and son used their power in
Isfahan to extort large amounts of money from the citizens as
religious taxes. One of their most lucrative actions was to hoard
grain during the famines that occurred and then sell it to a
starving population at grossly inflated prices. When the mayor
of Isfahan, Haji Muhammad Ja`far, protested at this, they
accused him of being a ‘Babi’ and had him executed.
Father and son rose to the height of their power after the
death of two other powerful clerics in Isfahan in 1874-5: In
February 1874, Sayyid Asadu’lláh Rashtí died; by this time, the
Imám-Jum`ih Mir Muhammad Sultán ul-`Ulamá was very feeble
and weak and would be dead within a year. This left Shaykh
Muhammad Baqir and his son Áqá Najafí as the preeminent
power among the `ulama of Isfahan for the rest of the century.
In May of the same year, 1874, Sultan Mas`ud Mirza Zill us-
Sultan (1850-1918) became governor of Isfahan which he was to
remain for the next 33 years (until 1907). Although he was the
eldest son of Nasiru’d-Din Shah, he was excluded from the
succession because his mother was not of the royal family. For
most of his time as governor of Isfahan, especially in the later
years, Zill us-Sultan was engaged in a titanic struggle for control
of the town with Shaykh Muhammad Baqir and Aqa Najafi. At
stake was the ability to gain wealth and power through control
of endowments, through dominating the merchants, traders and
craftsmen of the city, and thus determining whether these
citizens gave of their money for government taxes or for
religious ones. Whoever was able to exert power in the city
would be the person to whom the merchants, traders and
craftsmen of the city would turn to settle disputes and in return
would be the recipient of emoluments and gifts. In the struggle
for control of the city, the Bahá’ís were often caught in the
middle. The clerics would raise a disturbance against the Bahá’ís
as a way of discomfiting Zill us-Sultan, demonstrating their
power and the weakness of the governor. The governor and the
`ulama were not however always on opposite sides. Sometimes,
if a wealthy Bahá’í came to their attention, their avarice would
surmount their enmity and they would sink their differences in
order to gain whatever they could from denouncing him as a
Bahá’í.

A Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

According to Bahá’í accounts, this is what happened in the
first major episode of Bahá’í persecution that occurred in
Isfahan. Perhaps fittingly this episode occurred right at the start
of the new era for Isfahan, within a few days of the arrival of
Zill us-Sultan in 1874. There were episodes of persecution
instigated by the Wolf (until his death in 1882) and the son of
the Wolf throughout the whole of the last quarter of the
nineteenth century, starting in 1874 with an attempt to have all
of the Bahá’ís in Isfahan arrested and in particular a family of
wealthy merchants, five brothers, who were sons of Haji Abu’l-
Hasan Shushtari. Mulla Kázim of Tálkhunchih was executed in
February 1879; the King of Martyrs and the Beloved of Martyrs
in March 1879; Mirza Ashraf was executed in 1888; then from
1889-1900 for a period of eleven years there was almost
continual persecution of the Bahá’ís of the village of Sidih and
the small nearby town of Najafabad. In 1903 there was a major
upheaval in Isfahan itself during which the Bahá’ís took refuge
in the Russian Consulate — this episode inspired the major
episode of persecution in Yazd that year that resulted in the
death of about 100 Bahá’ís.
In the above-quoted passage there are references to two
external works:
1. The first of these external references is to the Qayyumu’l-
Asma, the first work of the Báb after His declaration. Indeed
the first chapter of this book was revealed to Mulla Husayn
Bushru’i on the night of the Báb’s Declaration to him in May
1844. Bahá’u’lláh makes several references in other places to the
fact that there is a reference to a Crimson Ark prepared for the
“people of Bahá’” in the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá. See, for example,
the following instance from the Ishráqát:
We have admonished Our loved ones to fear God, a
fear which is the fountainhead of all goodly deeds and
virtues. It is the commander of the hosts of justice in
the city of Bahá’. Happy the man that hath entered the
shadow of its luminous standard, and laid fast hold
thereon. He, verily, is of the Companions of the
Crimson Ark, which hath been mentioned in the
Qayyúm-i-Asmá. [TB 120]

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Shoghi Effendi also alludes to the fact that the Qayyúmu’l-
Asmá “eulogizes the high station ordained for the people of
Bahá’, the ‘Companions of the crimson-colored ruby Ark’” [GPB
23].
Insofar as can be ascertained, it seems that by the “Crimson
Ark,” Bahá’u’lláh intended the Cause of God and by the
“companions of the Crimson Ark,” He intended those who were
His true followers, those who manifested the Divine Attributes
and were loyal to the Covenant of God. This is seen in such
quotations as the following:
Know thou that the souls of the people of Bahá, who
have entered and been established within the Crimson
Ark, shall associate and commune intimately one with
another, and shall be so closely associated in their lives,
their aspirations, their aims and strivings as to be even
as one soul. They are indeed the ones who are well-
informed, who are keen-sighted, and who are endued
with understanding. Thus hath it been decreed by Him
Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. [GWB 169]
Bless, O my God, those of the followers of the Bayan as
have been numbered with the people of Bahá, who have
entered within the Crimson Ark in Thy Name, the Most
Exalted, the Most High. Thy might, verily, is equal to
all things. [PM 44]
Blessed is he who preferreth his brother before himself.
Verily, such a man is reckoned, by virtue of the Will of
God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise, with the people of
Bahá who dwell in the Crimson Ark.1
The glory which proceedeth from God, the Lord of the
Throne on High and of the earth below, rest upon you,
O people of Bahá, O ye the companions of the Crimson
Ark, and upon such as have inclined their ears to your
sweet voices and have observed that whereunto they are
bidden in this mighty and wondrous Tablet.2
How great the blessedness that awaiteth the king who
will arise to aid My Cause in My Kingdom, who will

A Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

detach himself from all else but Me! Such a king is
numbered with the companions of the Crimson Ark —
the Ark which God hath prepared for the people of
Bahá.3
Once again We exhort all believers to observe justice
and fairness and to show forth love and contentment.
They are indeed the people of Bahá, the companions of
the Crimson Ark. Upon them be the peace of God, the
Lord of all Names, the Creator of the heavens.4
Adib Taherzadeh states that the reference to the ‘people of
Bahá’ as the ‘companions of the Crimson-Coloured Ark’
moving upon the ‘Crimson Sea’ is in the first chapter of the
Qayyumu’l-Asmá,5 but this appears to be incorrect, since the
present writer can find no such reference. The closest that the
present author can find to such a reference in the Qayyumu’l-
Asma occurs in the first half of the Surat al-Akbar — Surah 57.
This passage can be translated thus:
Verily God has created around this Báb seas of water of
the Elixir, made crimson by the oil of Existence and
made alive by the fruit of Desired One. And God has
ordained for it ships (arks) of His precious crimson
rubies. And only the people of Bahá’ have the
permission of God the Exalted One to sail upon it.6
2. The second external reference is less obvious. It relates to
the words that Bahá’u’lláh bids the Shaykh to recite: “O my
God! I beseech Thee by Thy most glorious light, and all Thy
lights are verily glorious.”
These words come from a dawn prayer for Ramadan, the
month of the Islamic Fast, which was revealed by the fifth Shi`i
Imam, Muhammad al-Baqir. This prayer is well-known to
Bahá’ís because the names of the months of the Badí` calendar,
which was created by the Báb and adopted by Bahá’u’lláh, are
drawn from that prayer. Indeed they occur in that prayer in the
exact order in which they are in the Badí` calendar. Imam
Muhammad al-Baqir urged his followers to recite this prayer
because:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
If people knew the greatness of this supplication before
God, the speed with which it would [enable the devotee
to] be answered, they would certainly kill each other
with swords in order to obtain it. And if I took an oath
that the Ism Alláh al-A`zam (Mightiest Name of God) is
in this prayer, I would be stating the truth. Thus, when
you recite this supplication, recite it with all
concentration and humility and keep it hidden from
other than his people [i.e. non-Shi’is].7
The first Bahá’í month is Bahá and this prayer by Muhammad
al-Baqir begins with exactly the sentence that Bahá’u’lláh bids
the Shaykh to recite: “O my God! I beseech Thee by Thy most
glorious light, and all Thy lights are verily glorious.” A more
literal translation of this passage is:
I beseech Thee by Thy Bahá’ (Splendour) at its most
splendid (abhá’) for all Thy Splendour (bahá’) is truly
resplendent (bahiyy). I, verily, O my God! beseech Thee
by the fullness of Thy Splendour (bahá’).8
There is, however, an interesting back-story that may explain
why Bahá’u’lláh is bidding Aqa Najafi to recite this prayer. The
Bahá’ís in Isfahan had begun to use this prayer in their teaching
of the Bahá’í Faith in Isfahan, saying that this prayer proves that
Bahá’ is the Greatest Name of God: since Muhammad al-Baqir
has assured Muslims that the Greatest Name is somewhere in the
prayer and it is right that the Greatest Name be given
precedence and priority and placed first in the sequence of
Names. Therefore the Greatest Name of God is Bahá’.
Word of this reached the ear of the Son of the Wolf Aqa
Najafi. The rest of the story is taken up by the French scholar
A.-L.-M. Nicolas, who was a French diplomatic officer in Iran
at this time and visited Isfahan. Nicolas relates the following
story which demonstrates well the degree of Aqa Najafi’s hatred
of the Bahá’ís — that he was even willing to distort the religion
of Islam rather than see any advantage to Bahá’ís. Concerning
the Muslim dawn prayer for the Fast, Nicolas writes:

A Passage in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

The Imam Baqir [the Fifth Imam of the Shi’his] has said
that this prayer is the loftiest of prayers because it
contains the greatest name of God — Bahá’! The Muslim
world naturally remained in agreement with this until
the day when someone drew the attention of Aqa
Najafi, the mujtahid of Isfahan, to the fact that in it
was precisely the name of the Man-Yuzhiruhu’llah [Him
Whom God shall make manifest] promised by the Bab.
Aqa Najafi prohibited the saying of this prayer from
that time on.’9
Word of Aqa Najafi’s action in prohibiting the recital of this
dawn prayer of the Imam Muhammad Baqir must have been sent
to Bahá’u’lláh as He was in receipt of regular reports from all
of the towns and villages where Bahá’ís lived. Thus when in the
passage that we are considering, Bahá’u’lláh bids Aqa Najafi to
recite this very same dawn prayer that the Shaykh had
prohibited, we can pause to wonder about this. Was Bahá’u’lláh
teasing Aqa Najafi in asking him to do what he had prohibited?
Was Bahá’u’lláh rebuking Aqa Najafi for prohibiting a prayer
that revealed by one of the holiest figures in Shi`i Islam? How
would Aqa Najafi have read this passage?
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Momen, Moojan. The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 1844-1944. Some
Contemporary Western Accounts. Oxford: George Ronald, 1981.
Nicolas, A.L.M. Le livre des sept preuves de la mission du Bab, Paris:
J. Maison-neuve, 1902.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 1. Oxford:
George Ronald, 1974.

NOTES
1 Kalimát-i-Firdawsiyyih, in Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 71
2 Lawh-i-Dunyá, in Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 97

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

3 Kitab-i-Aqdas, para 84; see also Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 212
4 Ishraqat, in Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 134
5 Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, v 1, p. 280
6 Translated from Manuscript of E.G. Browne collection, F11(11), dated 1
Muharram 1323 (1905), in hand of Mírzá Áqá Khán Kirmání, in University
Library, Cambridge, p. 191.
7 Trans. by Stephen Lambden, see http://hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/
03-Biblical-islam-BBst/dawnP.htm.
8 Trans. by Stephen Lambden, see http://hurqalya.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/
03-Biblical-islam-BBst/dawnP.htm.
9 Nicolas, Livre de Sept Preuves, pp. 57-8n; translated in Moojan Momen,
The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 1844-1944, pp. 280n.

`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Elucidation of the
Concept of the Oneness of Humanity
During His Western Travels
Wendi Momen
The concept of the oneness of humanity in the
Bahá’í writings
The Bahá’í teachings centre on two interrelated and often
interchangeable concepts: the oneness of humanity and the
unity of humankind.
For the purposes of this paper, I take the ‘oneness of
humanity’ to be an expression of a fundamental truth about the
nature of humanity, while `unity of humankind’ is an aspiration
of the way human beings need to act so that civilization will
advance sustainably into the future.
The central teaching of the Bahá’í Faith is the oneness of
humankind.
The principle of the Oneness of Mankind — the pivot
round which all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh revolve ...
implies an organic change in the structure of present
day society, a change such as the world has not yet
experienced. [WOB 42-43]
The principle of the oneness of humanity is embedded in the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh.1 As a concept, it was not unknown: it is
also found in Islam.2 In the West, however, the idea was not
well developed at the beginning of the 20th century, even
among the Bahá’ís. It was `Abdu’l-Bahá in his role as the
interpreter of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh who explained to the
Bahá’ís and others what this concept meant and how they should

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
apply it in their lives. His talks, public and private, during his
travels to the West in 1911-13 frequently expanded on this
primary Bahá’í teaching.
What `Abdu’l-Bahá did was to establish new definitions of
‘all’, ‘we’ and ‘us.’ There are many identifiers of the ‘other’:
strange faces, strange clothes and hats, strange practices and
customs, strange ideas and religion. In effect, `Abdu’l-Bahá
defined ‘all’, ‘we’ and ‘us’ in a more inclusive way and
overturned western ideas of ‘foreign’, ‘stranger’, ‘strangeness’,
‘other’, ‘enemy’.
`Abdu’l-Bahá in the West
`Abdu’l-Bahá was freed from 40 years of captivity in 1908 by
the Young Turk Revolution. In 1911 he left the Middle East for
the first time and travelled to Europe, visiting France and
Britain. His purpose was to bring the teachings of his father,
Bahá’u’lláh, to the West. `Abdu’l-Bahá made a longer and more
extensive visit to the West in 1912-13, spending eight months in
the United States, including a few days in Montreal, Canada, as
well as short visits to England, Scotland, Stuttgart, Vienna and
Budapest, with a stay of 22 weeks in Paris.
The themes of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s talks in the West were peace,
the oneness of humanity, one God, the equality of women and
men, the importance of education for everyone but especially
for women and children, the unity of religions, the need to rid
oneself of prejudices of all kinds, economic issues, political
topics such as good governance and the like. These themes are
interrelated and `Abdu’l-Bahá linked them in several of his talks.
These topics became known as the `principles’ of the Bahá’í
Faith
(although
there
are
many
Bahá’í
teachings
not
incorporated into the list). That `Abdu’l-Bahá focused on the
social issues of the day rather than on the more ethereal and
mystical teachings which can be found in the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and which he did address from time to time can be
attributed to the injunction of the Bahá’u’lláh “Be anxiously
concerned with the needs of the age ye live in, and centre your
deliberations on its exigencies and requirements” [GWB 213].

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

Each of the countries visited by `Abdu’l-Bahá experienced
what today we would today call racism. It was part of the
institutions of government and business and was widespread
among individuals in their relationships with others. No country
provided full rights to all the people living in it; some denied
people the full rights of citizenship, others access to services,
still others the right to marry persons of their choice, etc. It was
common for people to demean members of different ethnic,
religious or class groups, to make fun of them or to treat them
as though they were invisible.
`Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in the West at a time of great social
change. The scientific and technological advances of the 19th
century were being played out at every level of society. Social
developments included the rise of middle classes; mass
transportation, including relatively inexpensive passage to
North America from Europe; the growth of the labour
movement; better health owing to better medicines, drains,
plumbing and nutrition resulting in a steady increase in
population; greater access to education; calls for the extension
of the franchise to women; and the transfer of Darwinian
concepts such as ‘survival of the fittest’ to a social context and
the rise of social Darwinism. The movement of people in the
19th and early 20th century — as refugees from pograms or
from poverty, as slaves or bonded servants, through
colonization — increased the diversity of many European
countries and particularly the United States. What did not
change so rapidly was the attitude of people towards those who
were ‘different’ in some way — ‘foreign’, dark-skinned, with a
different religion, disabled, poor, of a lower ‘class’, uneducated,
‘woman’.
Major challenges to the principle of the
oneness of humanity
The major challenges to the principle of the oneness of
humanity that `Abdu’l-Bahá encountered were anti-Semitism,
which was particularly rife in Europe and in the 19th century
had led to pogroms against the Jews; xenophobia, a suspicion of
foreigners of any description, again, particularly in Europe; and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
racism, particularly by whites towards blacks and Native
Americans in North America, a racism which was based on
colour and assumed that members of a particular race all had the
same characteristics, such as laziness. `Abdu’l-Bahá was acutely
aware of the dangerous racial climate in the United States and
warned that steps should be taken to change it.
... the stress and strain imposed on the fabric of
American
society
through
the
fundamental
and
persistent neglect, by the governed and governors alike,
of the supreme, the inescapable and urgent duty — so
repeatedly and graphically represented and stressed by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
in
His
arraignment
of
the
basic
weaknesses in the social fabric of the nation — of
remedying, while there is yet time, through a
revolutionary change in the concept and attitude of the
average white American toward his Negro fellow
citizen, a situation which, if allowed to drift, will, in
the words of `Abdu’l-Bahá, cause the streets of
American cities to run with blood ... [CF 126]
In addition, nationalism and nationalist movements were
poised to change the map of Europe while colonialism changed
the map of the world. `Abdu’l-Bahá particularly noted the tense
situation in Europe, which he said was largely due to prejudice:
Just now Europe is a battlefield of ammunition ready
for a spark, and one spark will set aflame the whole
world. [PUP 122]
The causes of dispute among different nations are
always due to one of the following classes of prejudice:
racial, lingual, theological, personal, and prejudices of
custom and tradition. [ABL 59]
By focusing in his public lectures and private discussions on the
central principle of the oneness of humankind, `Abdu’l-Bahá
directly challenged the entrenched social views — and, perhaps
more importantly — the racist behaviours of many people.
Further, he was a living example of how one could demonstrate
that they upheld the principle.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

The situation in Europe at the time of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit in 1911-13
Anti-Semitism was rife across Europe at the time of `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s travels. France, for example, had only recently emerged
from the Dreyfus affair which had exposed the anti-Semitism
and ethnic nationalism prevalent there. Vienna was a centre of
religious prejudice and racism. Approximately two and a half
million Jews, mostly from central Europe, immigrated to the
United States between 1881 and 1924, contributing to a revival
of anti-Semitism there.3 Anti-Semitism in Germany rose steadily
through the early years of the 20th century, culminating in the
atrocities of the 1930s and 1940s.
At the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visits to Britain the country
was preoccupied with the issue of Home Rule for Ireland — an
island divided by religious prejudice into sectarian camps. In
1912 unionists pledged to resist Home Rule, by force if
necessary. This issue, the partition of Ireland and the
subsequent ‘troubles’ that arose from it, are in the popular
media couched as having a religious basis but others have
suggested that they may also be seen as having a basis in race.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s promotion of the concept of the oneness of
humanity countered both perceptions, seeing both divisions as
subsets of the basic set ‘humanity’.
At the same time, the women’s suffrage movement was very
active in the UK, with suffragettes turning more militant in
their efforts to win the vote. While disapproving of the use
violence to achieve the suffragettes’ ends, `Abdu’l-Bahá was a
strong advocate of the advancement of women and of their
enfranchisement. Again, in the Bahá’í teachings, women are half
of the ‘humanity’ that is one.
There are many indicators of the racism that was embedded
in British society at the time and that racism was promoted,
perhaps unwittingly — that is, without malice, since non-whites
were not considered ‘one of us’. For example, a popular
children’s book, The Adventures of Two Dutch Dolls by
Florence Kate Upton, had been published in London in 1895. It
told the story of two dolls in a toy shop who encountered
Golliwogg, ‘a horrid sight, the blackest gnome’, wearing ‘bright

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
red trousers, a red bow tie on a high collared white shirt, and a
blue swallow-tailed coat’, a ‘caricature of American black faced
minstrels’,4 easily mocked. So popular was the Gollywogg
character that he became the central character in 14 further
books and was made into a similarly popular rag doll. At best,
use of this character was insensitive to the feelings of the non-
white population of Britain, where the character originated
(although it also became popular in other parts of Europe and in
the US and Australia). It may be that the racial epithet ‘wog’,
used by the British to denote foreigners, particularly from the
Middle or Far East, came from this character (although this may
also be an acronym for Western Oriental Gentleman, or
similar).5 It was this attitude of the white society that people of
a different race or nationality did not merit being treated with
dignity that `Abdu’l-Bahá challenged by giving a different
definition of what a human being is — not merely a physical
being with physical characteristics, which were more or less the
same — but divinely created, a noble being with the same
potential regardless of superficial physical characteristics.
Canada too had racist policies. For example a law denied
rights to the Chinese, even if they were citizens.6 Jews and
Native Americans were also targets of racism in Canada.
Racism and xenophobia were deeply embedded in Austria.
Austrians’ traditional dislike for specific groups such as Turks,
Serbs and especially Jews climaxed during the Second World
War. But it was in the United States, with its recent history of
the slavery of, primarily, black people, that `Abdu’l-Bahá
promoted most vigorously the oneness of humanity and was
able to demonstrate this teaching in the most dramatic ways.
Prevailing ideas of race in the West
Popular ideas about race and how a person’s colour or other
characteristics related to race were based on religious, legal,
scientific and traditional determinants.7 Among the most
pernicious
were
the
biblical
justification
for
slavery,
particularly of foreigners;8 the concept that developed during
the height of 18th and 19th century slave trade that black
people were cursed with the ‘curse of Ham’9 for their sins and

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

deserved the punishment of slavery; and the idea, ostensibly
based on scientific principles and promoted by 19th-century
physicians, that people of ‘mixed blood’ — ‘mulattoes’ — were
more susceptible to disease than those of ‘pure’ blood and lived
shorter lives; and that their descendants, if the mixing of blood
continued
into
the
next
generations,
would
become
progressively less fertile.10
An influential proponent of what developed into 20th
century European racism was Joseph Arthur Comte de
Gobineau, whose “Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races”
(1853-1855) argued against mixing races (identified as black,
white, and yellow) and questioned whether the black and yellow
races belonged to the same human family as the white race. He
believed the white race, which he called the ‘Aryan’ and
identified with Germanic people, was superior to the other races
and that it was the white race that was responsible for the
progress and advance of civilization, so long as it remained free
of contamination by intermarrying with other races. Although
Gobineau was interested only in how social life operates, his
work was the inspiration for those who developed political
platforms from it, such as Hitler.
In the United States, popular notions of race based on
physical characteristics such as skin colour and facial features
were bolstered by a legal decision of Judge Henry St George
Tucker in Hudgins v. Wright (State of Virginia, 1806).11 The
case concerned a Virginia slave, Hannah Hudgins, who sought
freedom on the grounds that her mother was a Native American,
not black, and that Hannah herself was Native American, not
black. The Virginia Supreme Court upheld a decision in a lower
court on the grounds that as she looked ‘Indian’, she was Indian
and therefore was entitled to be considered a non-slave. Judge
Tucker’s decision reads, in part:
Nature has stampt upon the African and his descendants
two characteristic marks, besides the difference of
complexion, which often remain visible long after the
characteristic distinction of colour either disappears or
becomes doubtful; a flat nose and woolly head of hair.
The latter of these disappears the last of all; and so
strong an ingredient in the African constitution is this

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
latter character, that it predominates uniformly where
the party is in equal degree descended from parents of
different complexions, whether white or Indians ...
Upon these distinctions as connected with our laws, the
burden of proof depends.12
Tucker deemed that because Hannah had long straight hair —
clearly the characteristic of a Native American — and not the
wooly hair of black Africans, she must be a Native American,
not a black African, and therefore entitled to her freedom. This
judgement embedded a concept of racial stereotyping within a
legal framework.
Situation of the American Bahá’í community
at the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit in 1912
When `Abdu’l-Bahá visited North America in 1912 there were
very few Bahá’ís at all on the continent13 and very few indeed
were of African-American heritage. Stockman says that by July
1908, 15 blacks had accepted the Faith in Washington DC,
owing to efforts of Pauline Hannen14 — there were about 70
Bahá’ís altogether in the city at the time15 — about 21.4 per cent
of the Bahá’í community, compared to the proportion in the
city of 28 per cent.16
Among the blacks in Washington DC at this time was Louis
Gregory, a ‘prominent black lawyer’, who became a Bahá’í in
1909 through the efforts of Carrie York, the Hannens, and Lua
Getsinger. He was president of the Bethel Literary and
Historical Society, the city’s oldest black organization, and was
able to bring the Faith to the attention of black intellectuals.
He promoted integration between black and white Bahá’ís,
writing to the Washington DC Bahá’ís deploring the segregation
of the Bahá’í community. As a result, in March 1910 the
Washington Bahá’ís began to hold racially integrated meetings
in what was a wholly segregated city in America’s South. In
Gregory
was
elected
to
Washington’s
‘Working
Committee’, thus becoming the first black to serve on a Bahá’í
consultative body; in 1912 he was elected to the Executive
Board of Bahai Temple Unity.17

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

The oneness of humankind was a very difficult concept for
Bahá’ís at the turn of the 20th century to put into practice in
their personal lives. In the United States, fraternization between
black and white races was not only frowned upon, it was
criminalized. The American Civil War of 1861-5 may have freed
black slaves but it did not change segregation laws. 38 of its 50
states had at some time ‘anti-miscegenation’18 laws19 — laws
banning interracial relationships and/or marriage which were
first introduced by several of the American colonies in the late
17th century and the last of which were repealed only in 1967.20
Even in many ‘northern’ states that had fought to free slaves,
blacks could not stay in the same hotels as whites, eat in the
same restaurants, or frequent the same clubs. Public transport
was available to both but seats were reserved for white people
and black people had to stand, or sit at the back. Tall buildings
had separate lifts for blacks and whites and interracial marriage
was illegal in a number of ‘northern’ states. Even though blacks
had been able to attend university since 1837,21 graduates were
not afforded the same jobs as whites and even if they achieved
professional status, they were excluded from society.
The Bible was used in the US to defend anti-miscegenation
laws well into the 20th century, using a racist interpretation of
stories such as that of Phinehas22 and the ‘Curse of Ham’.23
Even before he arrived in America `Abdu’l-Bahá was aware of
the damage race prejudice was causing to the country:
One of the great reasons of separation is colour. Look
how this prejudice has power in America, for instance.
See how they hate one another! Animals do not quarrel
because of their colour! Surely man who is so much
higher in creation, should not be lower than the
animals. Think over this. What ignorance exists! White
doves do not quarrel with blue doves because of their
colour, but white men fight with dark-coloured men.
This racial prejudice is the worst of all. [ABL 55]

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s application of the teaching of
the oneness of humanity in the West
It was into this society that `Abdu’l-Bahá came, bearing the
message of the oneness of humanity. A number of people —
black and white — agreed with the sentiment, as an intellectual
reality and a statement about human nature, but did not see that
it had anything to tell them about the way they lived their lives.
They might have been quite willing to accept that people of
different races should be free and should vote in elections,
should attend school as children and university as adults but
would not have considered them eligible to be friends or want
them as neighbours, nor would they have wished to have them
over to dinner or to marry their daughters. `Abdu’l-Bahá
challenged this complacency by deliberately bringing people of
different races and nationalities together and personally
revelling in the display of diversity, rather than hiding it away.
Thus, for example, he was very touched by the attendance of
different races at the meeting in Washington DC at which he
described the people as different gems. Balyuzi reports that
after this meeting, ‘He was wonderfully exhilarated’ as he
travelled to his next engagement.
His voice could be heard, loud and clear, exclaiming: ‘O
Bahá’u’lláh! What hast Thou done! O Bahá’u’lláh! May
my life be sacrificed for Thee! O Bahá’u’lláh I May my
soul be offered up for Thy sake! How full were Thy
days with trials and tribulation! How severe the ordeals
Thou didst endure! How solid the foundations Thou
hast finally laid, and how glorious the banner Thou
didst hoist.’24
`Abdu’l-Bahá acknowledged that there are differences in
humanity, differences of gender, colour, race, nationality, class,
thought, opinion, religion, language; and he encountered many
forms of social differentiation and discrimination on his travels
and was himself the target on some occasions. All these
differences he considered to be superficial and of negligible
importance.25 If they had any importance or significance, it was
to add to the beauty and diversity of the human race. Giving
inappropriate
importance
to
any
of
these
differences

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

undermines, he suggested, the full expression of the oneness of
humanity.
However, in his talks `Abdu’l-Bahá did not focus on the
particularities of these divisions but rather on the message of
the oneness itself as an antidote for all divisions and coolness
between people of different ethnicities and backgrounds.
He outlined some practical steps people could take to
develop the oneness of humankind as a lived reality. For
example, he said all people needed to remove all forms of
prejudice from their lives:
We must banish prejudice. Religious, patriotic, racial
prejudices must disappear, for they are the destroyers
of human society. We must become the cause of the
unity of the human race. [ADP 25]
A new religious principle is that prejudice and
fanaticism whether sectarian, denominational, patriotic
or political are destructive to the foundation of human
solidarity; therefore man should release himself from
such bonds in order that the oneness of the world of
humanity may become manifest. [BWF 247]
If you meet those of different race and colour from
yourself, do not mistrust them and withdraw yourself
into your shell of conventionality, but rather be glad
and show them kindness. Think of them as different
coloured roses growing in the beautiful garden of
humanity, and rejoice to be among them.
Likewise, when you meet those whose opinions differ
from your own, do not turn away your face from them.
All are seeking truth, and there are many roads leading
thereto. Truth has many aspects, but it remains always
and forever one.
Do not allow difference of opinion, or diversity of
thought to separate you from your fellow-men, or to be
the cause of dispute, hatred and strife in your hearts.26

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
In his very first public talk ever — on 10 September 1911,
City Temple, London — `Abdu’l-Bahá discussed this basic
teaching of Bahá’u’lláh:
This is a new cycle of human power ... It is the hour of
unity of the sons of men and of the drawing together of
all races and all classes ... The gift of God to this
enlightened age is the knowledge of the oneness of
mankind and of the fundamental oneness of religion.
War shall cease between nations, and by the will of God
the Most Great Peace shall come; the world will be seen
as a new world, and all men will live as brothers. [ABL
19-20]
It was an invitation to the Lake Mohonk Conference on
International Arbitration in May 1912 that ostensibly brought
`Abdu’l-Bahá to the United States:
From the beginning, `Abdu’l-Bahá took keen interest in
efforts to bring into existence a new international
order. It is significant, for example, that His early
public references in North America to the purpose of
His visit there placed particular emphasis on the
invitation of the organizing committee of the Lake
Mohonk Peace Conference for Him to address this
international gathering.27
As it was the Lake Mohonk Conference on International
Arbitration in May 1912 that brought `Abdu’l-Bahá to the
United States, it is significant to note that his talk on 15 May at
the conference was entitled “The Oneness of the Reality of
Humankind.” In his opening remarks he drew attention to the
situation 60 years previously, with the revolutions across
Europe in 1848 and the wars in Persia, describing the enmity
between the different religions and nationalities. It was at this
time, he said, that Bahá’u’lláh appeared, proclaiming the
‘oneness of the world of humanity and the greatest peace’.
Those who accepted Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings ‘were united and
attained the greatest amity and unity’ such that the ‘Kurd, the
Arab, the Persian and the Turk freed themselves from the
prejudice of race and were people agreed’. ‘Among those people

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

the utmost of love and oneness of peace now obtain, for the
great teachings of Bahá’u’lláh make for the oneness of the world
and for humanity, universal peace and arbitration,’ he stated.28
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s response to anti-Semitism and
xenophobia
`Abdu’l-Bahá specifically challenged prevailing ideas of anti-
Semitism, xenophobia and racism. For example, with regard to
anti-Semitism, he told members of the Temple Emmanu-El in
San Francisco:
... the foundation of the religion of God laid by Moses
was the cause of their eternal honour and national
prestige, the animating impulse of their advancement
and racial supremacy and the source of that excellence
which will always command the respect and reverence
of those who understand their [particular] destiny and
outcome.... [PUP 364]
He explained to New Yorkers that in 1870 Bahá’u’lláh had
written to the Shah of Persia advising him to ‘be kind to all his
subjects’, ‘dispense justice’, ‘make no distinction between the
religions’ and ‘charging him to deal equally with Jew, Christian,
Muslim and Zoroastrian’ and ‘to remove the oppression
prevailing in his country’.
At that time [1870] the Jews were greatly oppressed in
Persia. Bahá’u’lláh especially recommended justice for
them, saying that all people are the servants of God, and
in the eye of the government they should be equally
estimated. ‘If justice is not dealt out, if these
oppressions are not removed and if thou dost not obey
God, the foundations of thy government will be razed,
and thou shalt become evanescent, become as nothing.’
[PUP 223]
`Abdu’l-Bahá understood why people were xenophobic but
asked them to overcome this by changing their behaviour
towards foreigners:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Let not conventionality cause you to seem cold and
unsympathetic when you meet strange people from
other countries. Do not look at them as though you
suspected them of being evil-doers, thieves and boors.
You think it necessary to be very careful, not to expose
yourselves to the risk of making acquaintance with
such, possibly, undesirable people.
I ask you not to think only of yourselves. Be kind to the
strangers, whether come they from Turkey, Japan,
Persia, Russia, China or any other country in the world.
Help to make them feel at home; find out where they
are staying, ask if you may render them any service; try
to make their lives a little happier.
In this way, even if, sometimes, what you at first
suspected should be true, still go out of your way to be
kind to them — this kindness will help them to become
better. [PT 15]
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s challenge to racism
But it was racism, particularly colour prejudice in North
America, that `Abdu’l-Bahá focused on primarily in his western
travels. Using a variety of images and metaphors, he explained
the beauty in the diversity of humankind. He overturned age-
old concepts of racial superiority and inferiority, challenged
even the very concept of ‘race’. Further, more than merely
voicing the principle of the oneness of humanity, he
demonstrated it in his own actions, often causing consternation
or outrage among both Bahá’ís and the wider population.
The idea that ‘races’ are natural distinctions in humanity, that
there is a biological basis for distinguishing one group of people
from another determined by physical characteristics such as
colour, hair type, skin texture, the shape of the nose or eyes is
questioned today by scientists, forensic anthropologists and
others.29 The notion of ‘race’ as it is popular conceived is a
social construct yet human differentiation based these physical
features is still accepted today as a way to distinguish and

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

categorize groups of people, often to suppress them or to exert
power over them. At the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels in the
West this concept was very much embedded in the popular mind
as well as in social and political institutions and legal
frameworks.
In a talk at Howard University, an historically black
university in Washington DC, `Abdu’l-Bahá dismissed the idea
that there were ‘races’ of people, focusing rather on the idea
that there is only one race, the human race:
There are no whites and blacks before God. All colours
are one, and that is the colour of servitude to God.
Scent and colour are not important. The heart is
important. If the heart is pure, white or black or any
colour makes no difference. God does not look at
colours; He looks at the hearts. He whose heart is pure
is better. He whose character is better is more pleasing
... white and black are the descendants of the same
Adam; they belong to one household ... All humanity is
descended from them. Therefore, in origin they are one.
[PUP 45]
At the same time, he used the language of `different races’
familiar to his hearers to explain the principle of the oneness of
humanity, drawing on what he saw as the superficial physical
differences among people to demonstrate his point.
How `Abdu’l-Bahá made his points
To discuss the issue of the oneness of humanity with western
audiences, `Abdu’l-Bahá focused on the physical characteristics
of human beings, selecting the one — colour — that was
immediately obvious to everyone and the one used by most
people to determine race, particularly for purposes of social
and other forms of discrimination. He also discussed
differences of religion, nationality and gender.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Use of metaphors
In many of his western talks `Abdu’l-Bahá used metaphors
from nature to describe the physical colour differences of
people. Always used to show the beauty of the diversity of
colours, the metaphors most frequently employed by `Abdu’l-
Bahá were flowers in a garden, leaves and fruits of a tree, waves
of an ocean, jewels and the human body.
The metaphor of flowers may be an extension of the
metaphor for the oneness of humanity found in the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, trees: ‘Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves
of one branch.’ [GWB 218]. The use of garden imagery for
western audiences was inspired. For Christians and Jews, the
garden evokes the Garden of Eden and its inhabitants, Adam
and Eve, and serves as a reminder that all people have a common
ancestry. Further, many of the cities to which `Abdu’l-Bahá
travelled were famed for their public gardens and parks — Paris,
Washington DC, London — gardens and flowers were
particularly loved by the English; and they were thus familiar to
his audiences. Thus when `Abdu’l-Bahá described how a garden
is enhanced by having flowers of different colours and shapes,
he was describing something people could understand and
appreciate and they immediately grasp his point:
... difference of race and colour is like the variegated
beauty of flowers in a garden ... If all the flowers in a
garden were of the same colour, the effect would be
monotonous and wearying to the eye ... the various
races of humankind lend a composite harmony and
beauty of colour to the whole. Let all associate,
therefore, in this great human garden even as flowers
grow and blend together side by side without discord or
disagreement between them. [PUP 67-69]
`Abdu’l-Bahá frequently reiterated Bahá’u’lláh’s own metaphor
likening humanity to a tree with different leaves, branches and
fruit:
Bahá’u’lláh has addressed the world of humanity,
saying, ‘Verily, ye are the fruits of one tree and the

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

leaves of one branch.’ This signifies that the entire
world of humanity is one tree. The various nations and
peoples are the branches of that tree. Individual
members of mankind are represented by the twigs and
blossoms. Why should these parts of the same tree
manifest strife and discord toward each other? [PUP 372]
and sometimes expanded it create not only a visual image but an
evocation of a pleasant springtime:
All men are the leaves and fruit of one same tree, they
are all branches of the tree of Adam, they all have the
same origin. The same rain has fallen upon them all, the
same warm sun makes them grow, they are all refreshed
by the same breeze. [PT 129]
Another metaphor drawn from nature used by `Abdu’l-Bahá
was that of the ocean and its waves. Bahá’u’lláh had used this
metaphor to describe the immensity of his revelation,30 the
bounty and mercy of God,31 the vastness of God’s knowledge32
and many other characteristics of God and His revelation.
`Abdu’l-Bahá added to this catalogue by comparing the oneness
of humanity to the ocean. As he had recently spent many days at
sea, perhaps contemplating the ocean and its waves, this may
well have been in his mind when he drew on this imagery to
explain the principle to a western audience:
Your souls are as waves on the sea of the spirit;
although each individual is a distinct wave, the ocean is
one, all are united in God.
Every heart should radiate unity, so that the Light of
the one Divine Source of all may shine forth bright and
luminous. We must not consider the separate waves
alone, but the entire sea. We should rise from the
individual to the whole. The spirit is as one great ocean
and the waves thereof are the souls of men. [PT 83]
We must use these powers in establishing the oneness of
the world of humanity, appreciate these virtues by
accomplishing the unity of whites and blacks, devote

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
this divine intelligence to the perfecting of amity and
accord among all branches of the human family so that
under the protection and providence of God the East
and West may hold each other’s hands and become as
lovers. Then will mankind be as one nation, one race
and kind — as waves of one ocean. Although these
waves may differ in form and shape, they are waves of
the same sea. [PUP 51]
The jewel metaphor employed by `Abdu’l-Bahá was also
effective for western audiences. Jewels are beautiful, expensive,
rare, desirable and highly prized and using them to describe
human beings of different colour cast people in a new light:
A meeting such as this seems like a beautiful cluster of
precious jewels — pearls, rubies, diamonds and
sapphires ... In the clustered jewels of the races, may the
coloured people be as sapphires and rubies, and the
whites as diamonds and pearls. The composite beauty of
humanity will be witnessed in their unity and blending.33
For whites to hear blacks beings described as rubies and
sapphires was highly unusual — as no doubt it was for the blacks
themselves.
Howard Colby Ives records an incident involving a number
of street children who had been invited to meet `Abdu’l-Bahá.34
One was a black 13 year old boy who did not enter the room for
fear he was not invited. `Abdu’l-Bahá welcomed him in, saying
that here was a black rose. Later, when offering the children
chocolates, he picked out a very dark one and laid it against the
boy’s cheek. The other boys looked at their friend in a new light
and he himself thought of himself differently.
To Ives, who witnessed the encounter, `the scene brought
visions of a new world in which every soul would be recognized
and treated as a child of God.’
Another metaphor used by `Abdu’l-Bahá to demonstrate the
sort of unity possible among humans was the human body.
Again, this may be an extension of the image of unity provided
by Bahá’u’lláh: ‘Be ye as the fingers of one hand, the members

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

of one body’ [GWB 139]. `Abdu’l-Bahá’s description of the
differentiated organs and limbs of the body working together
provides his audience with perhaps the most easily understood
of all his metaphors, as everyone has a body and understands
how its different parts contribute to its functioning:
This diversity [of races, etc.], this difference is like the
naturally created dissimilarity and variety of the limbs
and organs of the human body, for each one
contributeth to the beauty, efficiency and perfection of
the whole. [SWAB 290]
Joining of East and West
It was not only the bringing together of black and white that
`Abdu’l-Bahá addressed. In Europe, as well as in North America,
`Abdu’l-Bahá described the oneness of the peoples of the East
and the West.
The most important principle of divine philosophy is
the oneness of the world of humanity, the unity of
mankind, the bond conjoining East and West, the tie of
love which blends human hearts. [PUP 31]
As the East and the West are illumined by one sun, so
all races, nations, and creeds shall be seen as the
servants of the One God. The whole earth is one home,
and all peoples, did they but know it, are bathed in the
oneness of God’s mercy. God created all. He gives
sustenance to all. He guides and trains all under the
shadow of his bounty. [ABL 38]
`Abdu’l-Bahá not only reiterated the basic oneness of all
people from both the East and the West but also encouraged
both to come together in unity, that is, to manifest their
essential oneness and to act as one people:
I have come here with this mission: that through your
endeavours, through your heavenly morals, through
your devoted efforts a perfect bond of unity and love
may be established between the East and the West so

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
that the bestowals of God may descend upon all and
that all may be seen to be the parts of the same tree —
the great tree of the human family. [PUP 16]
Deeds, not words
`Abdu’l-Bahá exhorted people to do more than pay lip-service
to the principle to the oneness of humanity:
Love ye all religions and all races with a love that is true
and sincere and show that love through deeds and not
through the tongue; for the latter hath no importance,
as the majority of men are, in speech, well-wishers,
while action is the best. [SWAB 69]
Thus although it is the primarily the words of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
talks given on his journeys across Europe and North America
that were recorded, it was often the actions of `Abdu’l-Bahá
himself that made greatest and most lasting impression on
people. The Bahá’í Faith does not rely upon the recorded actions
of `Abdu’l-Bahá as a reliable guide to the truth of the
revelation, nevertheless, as `Abdu’l-Bahá was appointed by
Bahá’u’lláh as the Perfect Exemplar of his teachings, observing
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s deeds was an important way for Bahá’ís, and
others, to understand how Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings could be
implemented in their own lives. Hence there are several
accounts by eye-witnesses of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s demonstration of
the oneness of humankind.
Actions of `Abdu’l-Bahá
Demonstrating the oneness of race: Louis Gregory at
luncheon
Perhaps the primary example pointed to by Bahá’ís of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s actions demonstrating the oneness of humanity,
the equality of all and the due regard that people should hold
for one another was the luncheon held in the rigidly segregated
Washington DC at the home of the Chargé d’Affaires for the
Persian Legation, Ali Kuli Khan, a Bahá’í, on 23 April 1912 at

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

which `Abdu’l-Bahá was the guest of honour.35 A number of
dignitaries were invited to the luncheon, which took place after
`Abdu’l-Bahá had spoken at Howard University on the ‘harmony
between blacks and whites and the unity of humankind’,36 and
diplomatic seating protocol was observed. Local Bahá’í Louis
Gregory, a black lawyer whom `Abdu’l-Bahá had met previously,
was not invited to the luncheon but `Abdu’l-Bahá had asked him
to attend at the home of Ali Kuli Khan prior to it for a
consultation. When the guests were called for luncheon,
`Abdu’l-Bahá went into the dining room but Mr Gregory stayed
behind. When everyone was seated, `Abdu’l-Bahá called for Mr
Gregory. While the host was seeking him, `Abdu’l-Bahá
rearranged the seating, placing Mr Gregory in the seat of
honour at his right,37 demonstrating `Abdu’l-Bahá’s disregard
for the convention that segregated blacks and white at such
occasions and providing a simple example of how unity of races
could be embedded in one’s personal life.
Demonstrating the oneness of rich and poor
It was not just a recognition of the oneness of races that
interested `Abdu’l-Bahá. He was also concerned that people
understand that the oneness of the human race extended to the
poor and indigent as well. A most telling example of `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s response to the poor living in a big city was his
attendance at the Bowery Mission on Manhattan’s Lower East
Side on 19 April 1912. He had only been in the United States for
a week, having arrived on the 11th.
The Bowery Mission was established in 1879 by the Rev. and
Mrs. A. G. Ruliffson as a very decidedly Christian mission with
the objective of assisting recent immigrants to New York City
who had not yet found adequate means to earn a living. Over
time it provided help, both material and spiritual, to the
homeless and impoverished in New York. It is the third oldest
gospel mission in the United States. New York was a centre of
immigration at this time and many of the people who lived there
were immigrants from Europe seeking a better life in the United
States — economic migrants, as they are known today — and by
definition were poor, as well as being on the bottom rung of
society. At the time the Bowery Mission catered for men only,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
although there had been a well-established programme since
1894 of taking poor city children into the countryside for their
health and relaxation. Juliet Thompson states that many of the
men were alcoholics and came to the mission to get out of the
cold. The Bowery itself was a place of great deprivation and
poverty, known for its ‘down and outs’ well into the 1950s —
and was often called ‘skid row’.
It was the practice of the Mission to invite outside speakers
to preach to the men who came there and `Abdu’l-Bahá was
probably seen as simply another such. Juliet Thompson arranged
the visit.
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s talk was short and simple, apparently less than
800 words. He addressed the men as ‘my relatives, my
companions’, saying ‘I am your comrade’. He did not chide
them or call them to great things, ask to change their lives or to
transform themselves. He did not ask them to give up their
alcohol, to renounce their sins or change their ways. Rather he
told them that Jesus himself was poor, that he said ‘Blessed are
the poor’, not ‘Blessed are the rich’ and that he said he, too, was
poor and that the Kingdom of God is for the poor. He told
them they should be thankful to God that ‘although this world
you were indigent yet in the Kingdom of God you were
precious’. Some today might consider this to be patronizing,
telling the poor that their poverty is a good thing, and wonder
why `Abdu’l-Bahá would take this line. It is important, however,
to recall that the ethic of the time was very much that the poor
deserved to be poor because they lived ignoble lives. In the
popular view, just as in some of the tabloid press of today, the
poor were poor because they were lazy and stupid and had too
many children and drank too much — not because the social
environment failed to educate them, provided no safety net
when they were out of work, that there was little public
housing,
that
private
rents
were
extortionate
and
accommodation for the poor was crowded, unsafe, unhygienic
and precarious — tenement slums, in other words. `Abdu’l-Bahá
reversed this picture for the men of the Bowery, telling them
that
The rich are mostly negligent, inattentive, steeped in
worldliness, depending upon their means, whereas the

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

poor are dependent upon God, and their reliance is
upon Him, not upon themselves. Therefore, the poor
are nearer the threshold of God and His throne. [PUP 33]
`Abdu’l-Bahá did not talk about the Bahá’í principle of
bridging the gap between extreme wealth and extreme poverty.
He did not talk about the history of the Bahá’í Faith or even
about Bahá’u’lláh, except to mention that Bahá’u’lláh himself
had been poor and that he had ‘admonished all that we must be
the servants of the poor, helpers of the poor, remember the
sorrows of the poor, associate with them; for thereby we may
inherit the Kingdom of heaven’ and that ‘God has not said that
there are mansions prepared for us if we pass our time
associating with the rich, but he has said there are many
mansions prepared for the servants of the poor, for the poor
are very dear to God.’ [PUP 33]
He ended his brief talk by praising the men at the Bowery
Mission:
So, my comrades, you are following in the footsteps of
Jesus Christ. Your lives are similar to His life; your
attitude is like unto His; you resemble Him more than
the rich do. Therefore, we will thank God that we have
been so blessed with real riches.
Then he offered himself to them:
And in conclusion, I ask you to accept `Abdu’l-Bahá as
your servant. [PUP 34]
`Abdu’l-Bahá could have left it there and just gone away. But
he did not. He did not let the 400 to 500 destitute men who
heard him pass back into the city night to sleep in doorways, to
scavenge for food. Rather, having told them poverty is not an
ignoble state, he then proceeded to give them money, a silver
coin or two each — as many as five or six for the most
destitute.38 He did not ask them to buy food with it or to save it
or use it for noble purposes. He just gave it. How it was spent
was not a concern of `Abdu’l-Bahá. He gave, without
admonition or advice. Some accepted ungraciously, some with

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
grace;39 again `Abdu’l-Bahá was not concerned with their
response — he merely gave.
And he shook each hand. He actually touched the people he
spoke to. This small act is very significant. Many would not
have dared touch a person of the streets for fear of catching a
disease or worse. However, `Abdu’l-Bahá habitually shook the
hands of the people who came to hear him. The shaking of hands
with the priest as one leaves the church after a service is
characteristic of the Christian faith and may well have been
expected by those at the Bowery Mission. The shaking of hands
can be a symbol of equality and in this instance no doubt was
meant as such by `Abdu’l-Bahá — another example of the
oneness of humanity.
Demonstrating the oneness of women and men
I have discussed elsewhere `Abdu’l-Bahá’s articulation of the
Bahá’í teaching of the equality of women and men.40 Briefly, he
spoke frequently about this principle while in the West,
prompted in part by the issue of women’s suffrage, which was
politically and socially controversial and saw women taking
direct, often militant, action to force governments to legislate
for it. `Abdu’l-Bahá was in favour of women’s suffrage but
advised that they use non-violent means to achieve it. He also
exhorted men to recognize the equality of women and to
provide them with the educational, economic, political and job
opportunities that would enable them to progress.41 `Abdu’l-
Bahá included ‘women’ in the term ‘humanity’ and made few
distinctions between them and men, casting any such
differences as ‘negligible’.42
But `Abdu’l-Bahá did not merely speak about the teaching of
the equality of women and men, he showed how it could be
implemented within the Bahá’í community and, by extension,
within the community at large. For example, he gave significant
responsibilities to women for the initiation and management of
important developments within the religion.
Some ten years before `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to the West,
Chicago Bahá’ís, inspired by the laying of the corner stone of
House of Worship in Ishqabad in 1902, asked him whether it

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

would be possible to establish a Temple in Chicago. He wrote
two Tablets to the Chicago House of Spirituality giving his
approval. On 7 June 1903 he sent a third Tablet to Corinne
True, president of the Chicago Women’s Assembly of Teaching:
I entreat God to assist the confirmed believers in
accomplishing this great service and with entire zeal to
rear this mighty structure which shall be renowned
throughout the world ...
Whosoever arises for the service of this building shall
be assisted with a great power from His Supreme
Kingdom and upon him spiritual and heavenly blessings
shall descend, which shall fill his heart with wonderful
consolation and enlighten his eyes by beholding the
glorious and eternal God! [TAB 96-97]
True took this to be an assignment from `Abdu’l-Bahá,
writing to a friend, ‘He wrote me instructions about the Temple
to my utter astonishment that placed a great responsibility on
my shoulders.’43 Her response was to take the letter to the
Women’s Assembly of Teaching, which raised some money for
the Temple. However, not much progress was made until just
before True was to go on pilgrimage in 1907. She launched a
petition calling for the start of construction on the Temple,
writing to Bahá’ís all over the country. Almost 800 signatures
were collected, the petition sheets glued together by True’s
husband into a large scroll and the scroll taken to `Akka and
presented to `Abdu’l-Bahá. When `Abdu’l-Bahá received the
scroll, he gave True detailed instructions on the location and
design of the Temple and, much to her surprise and the
discomfiture of the men on the House of Spirituality, assigned
her a major role in the task of building the Temple. Thus
`Abdu’l-Bahá involved women in the most significant project of
the American Bahá’í community of the early 20th century.
Similarly, in 1920 `Abdu’l-Bahá assigned Agnes Parsons the
task of organizing ‘a Convention for unity of the coloured and
white races’.44 Parsons was a wealthy white socialite in
Washington DC who had become a Bahá’í around 1908 and
financially supported many of the prestigious Bahá’í activities.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Washington DC was the hub for Bahá’í teaching among the
African Americans but there is no evidence to suggest that she
was involved with this. Louis Gregory was assigned to assist her
with this controversial activity.
Parsons reached out to her circle of socially prominent
women to be patrons of the event and 19 agreed. She was able
to secure high-ranking speakers, including Senator Samuel
Shortridge of California, Congressman Martin B. Madden of
Illinois and Congressman Theodore Burton of Ohio. Assisted by
Gregory and a committee chosen by her, Parsons organized in
Washington DC from 19 to 21 May 1921 what was to become
the first in a long series of Race Amity (later Race Unity)
conferences to be held throughout the US.
These are among the many examples of `Abdu’l-Bahá
entrusting women with important tasks outside their apparent
areas of competence and experience and thus enabling both
women and men to see practical illustrations of his advice to
men, that they give women opportunities to achieve their
potential45 and that ‘When men own the equality of women
there will be no need for them to struggle for their rights!’46
The elephant in the room
`Abdu’l-Bahá gave many practical demonstrations of how
people might begin to appreciate and act upon the principle of
the oneness of humanity. Among the most telling of these was
his arrangement of the marriage of Louis Gregory to Louise
(Louisa) Mathews. a white Englishwoman. The ‘elephant in the
room’ at the time, that is, the one obvious issue that everyone
wished to ignore, was the question of intermarriage. In the
United States it was, as discussed above, actually illegal in 25 of
the 48 US states of the time and so this issue might not have
been so pressing as integration of meetings and activities.
However, `Abdu’l-Bahá responded to a correspondent who was
happy that progress had been made in that there were now
Bahá’í meetings for each race:
You have written that there were several meetings of
joy and happiness, one for white and another for

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness

coloured people. Praise be to God! ... If it be possible,
gather together these two races, black and white, into
one Assembly, and put such love into their hearts that
they shall not only unite but even intermarry. Be sure
that the result of this will abolish differences and
disputes between black and white. Moreover, by the
Will of God, may it be so. This is a great service to
humanity. [BWF 358]
Thus even after all `Abdu’l-Bahá’s lectures about racial harmony
and the oneness of humanity and his expressions of how pleased
he was at interracial meetings, nevertheless the idea of
integration between blacks and white was so controversial and
so outside social mores of the time that very few Bahá’ís were
able to effect any change in their behaviour.
Gregory and Mathews had met while on pilgrimage in March
1911 and had been attracted to one other as friends. During
their pilgrimage `Abdu’l-Bahá had spoken about the importance
of race unity. `Abdu’l-Bahá encouraged the two to develop their
friendship and to consider marriage. In the course of the next
year `Abdu’l-Bahá continued to hint that he would be pleased if
they would marry and eventually they decided to do so. They
were married on 27 September 1912 in New York in a quiet
Church of England ceremony, the exchange of Bahá’í wedding
vows being said after the main ceremony. They were the first
interracial Bahá’í couple.
The Effectiveness of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Efforts
`Abdu’l-Bahá spent a considerable in Europe, the United
States and Canada. He spoke to thousands of people, both in
public and in private. He was the subject of hundreds of
newspaper accounts. He was lauded and praised by clergy, lay
people, rich and poor. Yet the number of people who became
Bahá’ís was very small and the number of people who
understood his message and were prepared to act very limited.47
However, there are several indicators of the effectiveness of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s efforts to embed a consciousness of the oneness
of humanity among both Bahá’ís and the wider society. First, he

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
gave them actions they could take, however small, such as
holding meeting where all races were welcome, including women
on Local Spiritual Assemblies48 and giving service to the poor.
He changed the discourse among Bahá’ís on the meaning of
the oneness and unity of humanity and refined ‘we’ (‘We must
banish prejudice ... We must become the cause of the unity of
the human race’ [ADP 25]), making oneness not just an
intellectual position but a change of one’s personal being so
that one’s behaviour towards others reflected the reality of
oneness. Further, `Abdu’l-Bahá clearly articulated the Bahá’í
position and eventually changed the behaviour of Bahá’ís. This
did not happen immediately. In Washington DC, for example,
the relationship between blacks and whites deteriorated after
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit, despite the presence of the Gregorys.49 In
time, however, the concept of the oneness of humanity became
not only an oft-quoted principle of Bahá’í discourse but a
feature of Bahá’í community life, activism and advocacy,
inspiring successive generations of Bahá’ís to embed this
principle into their personal lives such that today it is the
defining characteristic of Bahá’ís and their communities
worldwide.

NOTES
1 See, for example, ‘The Great Being saith: O well-beloved ones! The
tabernacle of unity hath been raised; regard ye not one another as
strangers. Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch’ GWB
218]. And: `The earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens’ (ibid.
p. 249); and `He Who is your Lord, the All-Merciful, cherisheth in His
heart the desire of beholding the entire human race as one soul and one
body’ (ibid. p. 213).
2 See http://islamicweb.com/begin/introducing_islam.htm.
3 `A Century of Immigration, 1820-1924’. From Haven to Home: 350 Years
of Jewish Life in America. http://loc.gov/exhibits/haventohome
/haven-century.html
4. Dr David Pilgrim, Professor of Sociology, Ferris State University,
November 2000. http://www.ferris.edu/jimcrow/golliwog/
5. D. Wilton 24 February 2007. Wog. Wordorigins.org. Retrieved from
http://www.wordorigins.org/index.php/more/579)

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness


11. See http://www.duhaime.org/LawMuseum/CanadianLegalHistory/
LawArticle-584/1914-Chinaman-Racism-In-Law.aspx. Anti-`Hindu’
(Indian) articles appeared in the press, pointing out the colour of the skin
of the immigrants, as described in the March-April 1912 edition of The
Aryan, a newspaper `Devoted to the Spread of the Eastern View of Truth;
The Interests of the Hindus in the British Dominions; and the Causes of
Present Unrest in India, published in Victoria, BC.’
7. For a detailed history of racism and slavery, see M. L. Perry, The Last War:
Racism, Spirituality and the Future of Civilization. Oxford: George
Ronald, 2005.
8. See, for example, Leviticus 25:44-6 (Revised Standard Version):
As for your male and female slaves whom you may have: you may
buy male and female slaves from among the nations that are round
about you. You may also buy from among the strangers who
sojourn with you and their families that are with you, who have
been born in your land; and they may be your property. You may
bequeath them to your sons after you, to inherit as a possession for
ever; you may make slaves of them, but over your brethren the
people of Israel you shall not rule, one over another, with
harshness.
and 1 Tim. 6:1-2:
Let all who are under the yoke of slavery regard their masters as
worthy of all honour, so that the name of God and the teaching
may not be defamed. Those who have believing masters must not
be disrespectful on the ground that they are brethren; rather they
must serve all the better since those who benefit by their service
are believers and beloved.
9. Genesis. 9:18-26.
10. See http://un.org/wcm/content/site/chronicle/home/archive/issues2007
/thesolidarityofpeoples/theideologyofracism and Amanda Thompson,
Scientific Racism: The Justification of Slavery and Segregated Education
in America, online at http://pat.tamu.edu/journal/vol-1/thompson.pdf
11. For a partial transcript of the case see http://academic.udayton.edu
/legaled/Race/Cases/Hudgins%20v%20Wrights.htm
12 See http://academic.udayton.edu/legaled/Race/Cases/Hudgins v Wrights.htm
13. Stockman says that by the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit in 1912, there were
between 1200 and 1600 `active members’ and perhaps as many as 2000
Bahá’ís, which included the conversion of blacks and Japanese. Robert H.
Stockman, The Bahá’í Faith in America, Early Expansion, 1900-1912, vol.
2. Oxford: George Ronald, 1995, pp. 382-3.
14. ibid. p. 226.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

15. Robert H. Stockman, `The American Baha’i Community in the Nineties’,”
in Dr Timothy Miller, ed., America’s Alternative Religions. Albany: SUNY
Press, 1995.
16. Two blacks accepted the Faith in Kheiralla’s time (Stockman, Bahá’í Faith
in America, vol. 2, p. 224; in Alabama Paul and Addie Dealy brought
`perhaps a dozen’ blacks in to the Faith but the community of Fairhope
ultimately died out Ibid.). According to Stockmen, the three Jamaicans
who became Bahá’ís in Pittsburgh in 1909 may have been black (ibid. p.
341).
17. ibid. pp. 343-4.
18. `Miscegenation’ was coined in the US in 1863, in the middle of the
American civil war, from the Latin miscere, `to mix’, and genus, `kind’. Its
quasi-scientific etymology was intended to give credence to alleged
differences between races, as if all people were not Homo sapiens sapiens,
a popular view at the time.
19. Perry, Last War, pp. 1-2.
20. See Loving v. Virginia (1967), which declared Virginia’s `Racial Integrity
Act of 1924’ — and thus all anti-miscegenation laws — unconstitutional. It
was not until 2001 that the last of the them was in fact overturned, when
Alabama finally complied.
21. What are known as `historically black colleges and universities’ —
institutions of higher education reserved for blacks — were established
primarily after the American civil war. The first, Cheyney University of
Pennsylvania, was established in 1837.
22. See Numbers 25:1-9. Phinehas was a high priest of Israel who executed an
Israelite man and a Midianite woman while they were together in the man’s
tent, ending a plague said to have been sent by God to punish the Israelites
for sexually intermingling with the Midianites.
23. See Genesis 9:20-7. The Curse of Ham (Curse of Canaan) refers to Ham’s
father Noah placing a curse on Ham’s son, Canaan. Ham saw his father
naked in his tent and told his two brothers, Shem and Japheth, who then
covered Noah with a cloak. When Noah awoke he pronounced the curse on
Ham’s son, Canaan, who was condemned to be a `servant of servants’. to
his brothers. While originally a justification of the subjection of the
Canaanites to the Israelites it was later understood as an explanation for
black skin and slavery.
24. H. M. Balyuzi, `Abdu’l-Bahá: The Centre of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1987, p. 182.
25. Only four years after its founding, the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, now the United States’s oldest, largest
and most widely recognized grassroots-based civil rights organization, was
visited by `Abdu’l-Bahá. Below is an excerpt from his talk at Fourth
Annual Conference of NAACP at the Handel Hall, Chicago, Illinois:

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Concept of Oneness


Can we apply the test of racial colour and say that man of a certain
hue — white, black, brown, yellow, red — is the true image of his
Creator? We must conclude that colour is not the standard and
estimate of judgement and that it is of no importance, for colour
is accidental in nature. The spirit and intelligence of man is
essential, and that is the manifestation of divine virtues, the
merciful bestowals of God, the eternal life and baptism through
the Holy Spirit. Therefore, be it known that colour or race is of no
importance. He who is the image and likeness of God, who is the
manifestation of the bestowals of God, is acceptable at the
threshold of God — whether his colour be white, black or brown; it
matters not. Man is not man simply because of bodily attributes.
The standard of divine measure and judgement is his intelligence
and spirit. (PUP 68)
26. `Abdu’l-Bahá speaking on 28 October 1911 in Paris. `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris
Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1967, p. 53.
27. Commissioned by the Universal House of Justice, Century of Light,
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2001, para. 10.2.
28. Report of the 8th Annual Lake Mohonk Conference on Int’l Arbitration, 15-17
May 1912, pp. 42-4: http://centenary.bahai.us/talk/oneness-reality-humankind
29. See, for example, the debate `Does Race Exist?’ at http://www.pbs.org/
wgbh/nova/evolution/does-race-exist.html; and Michael J. Bamshad and
Steve E. Olson, `Does Race Exist?’ Scientific American, December 2003.
30. See, for example, Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, pp. 187-8; and Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988, p. 247.
31. See, for example, Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988, p. 85; and Gleanings, p. 61.
32. See, for example, Bahá’u’lláh, Gems of Divine Mysteries: Javáhiru’l-Asrár.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2002, p. 16; and Epistle to the Son of the
Wolf, p. 150.
33. `Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Balyuzi, `Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 182.
34. See Howard Colby Ives, Portals to Freedom. Oxford: George Ronald,
1973, pp. 64-7.
35. I have written of this in my earlier paper for the Irfan Colloquium and
therefore allude to it here only briefly. See ``Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with
Modernity during His Western Travels’.
36. Mahmúd-i-Zarqání. Mahmúd’s Diary. Oxford: George Ronald, 1998, p.
55.
37. The Bahá’í World. vols. 1-12, 1925-54. rpt. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1980. Bahá’í World, vol. 12. p. 668.
38. Diary of Juliet Thompson, The. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1983, p. 260.
39. ibid.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

40. See Wendi Momen, `The Two Wings of Humanity: `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Articulation of the Equality of Women and Men During His Western
Travels’.
41. See, for example, `Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 182; and Promulgation, pp.
134, 284.
42. `Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in a letter written on behalf of the Universal House
of Justice to a National Spiritual Assembly, 8 January 1981.
43. Mrs Charles Lincoln Papers, National Bahá’í Archives, Wilmette, Illinois.
Quote in Nathan Rutstein, Corinne True: Faithful Handmaid of `Abdu’l-
Bahá. Oxford: George Ronald, 1987, p. 42.
44. See Gregory, `Inter-Racial Amity’, Bahá’í World, vol. 2, pp. 281-5.
45. `As long as women are prevented from attaining their highest possibilities,
so long will men be unable to achieve the greatness which might be theirs.’
`Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 133.
46. ibid. p. 163.
47. Commissioned by the Universal House of Justice, Century of Light, para.
3.16.
48. The first time women were eligible to be elected to a Local Spiritual
Assembly was in 1912 after `Abdu’l-Bahá wrote to the Chicago House of
Spirituality explaining that a new election should be held to include
women. The new body included both men and women members. See
Anthony A. Lee, Peggy Caton, Richard Hollinger, Marjan Nirou, Nader
Saiedi, Shahin Carrigan, Jackson Armstong-Ingram and Juan R. I. Cole,
`The Service of Women on the Institutions of the Bahá’í Faith’, presented
at the New Zealand Bahá’í Studies Association Conference, Christchurch,
New Zealand, 1988.
49. See Gayle Morrison, To Move the World. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1982, pp. 73-81, 82.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt
Early September 1910 – 5 December 1913
Julio Savi
Abstract
‘Abdu’l-Bahá discontinuously sojourned in Egypt from early
September 1910 to 5 December 1913. This paper is a concise
study of the historical and political background of this sojourn
and of its chronicle. Egyptian cities and towns visited by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá are briefly described as they were in those days.
Members of the Holy Family who visited Him in Egypt are
mentioned. The public opinion reaction and the press coverage
are succinctly outlined. Several important personages and
resident and visiting Bahá’ís who met Him are listed. A short
comment on possible meanings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence in
Egypt concludes the paper.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s travel in Egypt is announced by Shoghi
Effendi as follows:
He, quietly and without any previous warning, on a
September afternoon, of the year 1910, the year
following that which witnessed the downfall of Sultan
‘Abdu’l-Óamid and the formal entombment of the
Báb’s remains on Mt. Carmel, sailed for Egypt ...1
Historical and political background
This travel which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá decided to undertake to
Egypt, Europe and North America was made possible by an
important historical event, known as the Young Turk

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Revolution. The Ottoman Empire, whose part the Holy Land
was in those years, had always been ruled by an authoritarian
regime. In previous centuries this kind of government was
normal and none paid any attention. But after the American
Revolution (1763-1783), and especially the French Revolution
(1789-1799), libertarian ideas made their way in the Western
world producing the sundry insurrectional, bourgeois, liberal
and democratic movements of the nineteenth century.
Unavoidably the echoes of these risings also reached the
Ottoman Empire. And thus at the beginning of the twentieth
century an association was formed in that country known as the
Young Turks, inspired by Mazzini’s “Young Italy (Giovane
Italia)” (1831-1848). Historians define it as a coalition of
groups, quite different from one another, formed by dissident,
progressive, modernist Turkish citizens, opposed to the status
quo, who were united by the common wish to actuate a
constitutional reform of the Turkish absolute monarchy. In
1908 they arose in arms against the Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd II
(1842-1918), who reigned from 1876 to 1909, and his despotic
government. The first result of this military revolt was the
restoration of the constitution, on 24 July 1908. As a
consequence, all political and religious prisoners of the Empire
were set free. Among them there also was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who
was thus free to leave not only ‘Akká, but also the Holy Land,
where He had arrived in 1868.
As to Egypt, the first country that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá visited after
His departure from Haifa, in those days it was pervaded by
conflicting political movements. The country was only
nominally a part of the Ottoman Empire. In 1867 the Sultan
‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz recognized Egypt’s Governor, Ismáʿíl Páshá
(1830-1895), a grandson of Mehmet Ali (1769-1849), an
Albanian Pasha, a politician and a military leader, considered the
founding father of modern Egypt, as Khedive. Khedive, from
the Persian khidív or khadív, “lord, prince, sovereign,” is often
translated “viceroy.” In 1879 Ismá'íl was deposed and his title
passed to his son Tawfíq Páshá (1852-1892). In 1882 the British
army occupied Egypt, but the Khedive remained on the throne
and the country nominally remained under the Ottoman rule. At
the beginning of the twentieth century, Great Britain struggled
to increase its influence over the country’s affairs and more or

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
less covertly undermined the attempts by the young Khedive,
‘Abbás Óilmí II (1874-1944), who assumed the throne at the
death of his father Tawfíq Páshá in 1892, to innovate the
Egyptian administration. At the same time, an arising and
increasing national conscience kept alive the wish of many
Egyptians to achieve complete freedom. And thus there was
strife between those who saw the wellbeing of the country as an
actuation of the Western models and those who wanted to seek
the assistance of the tottering Ottoman Empire to achieve the
Muslim Union, preached by the Persian (or Afghan) theologian
Jamálu’d-Dín-i-Afghání (1838-39–1897), who came to be
considered as the greatest Muslim reformer of the nineteenth
century. Moreover, immediately before ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s arrival,
Egypt had been shaken by an umpteenth violent clash between
Copts and Muslims.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in Egypt and brought a wave of
spirituality and modernity to a country which, although it was
the most intellectually advanced nation in the Arabic world, in
the
religious,
political
and
literary
perspectives,
had
undoubtedly much to learn from such an innovator as the
Master.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sojourn in Egypt
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sojourn in Egypt lasted 23 months altogether,
in three different periods. The first time He remained in the
country eleven months, from early September 1910 to 11
August 1911, when He took off for Marseilles on the S.S.
Corsica. The second time He stayed on for four months, from
early December 1911 to 25 March 1912, when He sailed via
Naples bound to New York on the S.S. Cedric. The third and
last time He sojourned in Egypt for seven months, from 16
June 1913, when He arrived to Port Said from Marseilles on the
S.S. Himalaya, to 2 December 1913, when He boarded a Lloyd
Triestino boat bound to Haifa, where He arrived on 5
December. Ahmad Sohrab (1893–1958), who served as ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s secretary and interpreter from 1912 to 1919 and was
excommunicated by Shoghi Effendi in 1939, has left a detailed
account of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sojourn in Egypt from 1 July to 30
September 1913. Sohrab, whose original name was A˙mad-i-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Ißfahání, went to America in 1901-1902, when he was very
young, as Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l’s attendant. His diary, published
under the title of Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, by New York’s Sears
and London’s Rider in 1929, comprises a chronicle of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s activities during those months as well as translations of
His Tablets and talks.
A short chronicle of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sojourn
in Egypt
The details of the Master’s departure from Haifa are
reported by the Bahá’í News of the Bahá’ís of the United States,
later called Star of the West, whose first issue had appeared on
21 March 1910. Bahá’í News publishes a part of a letter written
on 29 August 1910 by Sydney Sprague (1875-1943) to Isabella
Brittingham. Sprague became a Bahá’í in Paris in 1902ca. He was
one of the earliest Bahá’í pioneers and travel teachers, and went
as far as India and Burma. His book A Year With the Bahais in
India and Burma, in which he narrates his travels in the East,
was published in London in 1908. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá called him
Eskander. In 1910 he married a niece of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s wife,2
the daughter of Mírzá Asadu’lláh-i-Ißfahání, the man who had
been in charge of the conveyance of the remains of the Báb
from Iran to the Holy Land, and the sister of Amín Faríd
(1880ca.-1953), who accompanied the Master in His travels in
the West, and was excommunicated by the Master in 1914.3
Isabella Brittingham (1852-1924), one of the 19 Disciples of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, is considered as the most eminent among the early
American Bahá’í women.4 The letter said:
I have a very big piece of news to tell you. Abdu’l-Bahá
has left this Holy Spot for the first time in forty-two
years, and has gone to Egypt. Think of the vast
significance and importance of this step! ... Everyone
was astounded to hear of Abdu’l-Bahá’s departure, for
no one knew until the very last minute that he had any
idea of leaving. The afternoon of the day he left, he
came to Mirza Assad Ullah’s home to see us and sat
with us awhile beside a new well that has just been
finished and said that he had come to taste the water.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
We did not realize that it was a good-bye visit. Then he
took a carriage and went up the hill to the Holy Tomb
(of the Bab). That night, as usual, the believers gathered
before the house of Abdu’l-Bahá to receive that
blessing, which every day is ours, of being in his
presence, but we waited in vain, for one of the sons-in-
law came and told us that Abdu’l-Bahá had taken the
Khedivial steamer to Port Said.5
It seems that even the Greatest Holy Leaf, His beloved sister,
was informed of this travel only by a Tablet He sent her while
He already was on the steamer bound to Egypt.6
Other details of this departure are described in another letter
published by the Bahá’í News in December 1910. The letter is
signed by Siyyid Asadu’lláh-i-Qumí, an old believer who, a
resident in the Holy Land since 1886, accompanied ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá in His travels to Europe and North America. The letter
says:
You have asked for an account of Abdu’l-Bahá’s
departure to the land of Egypt. Abdu’l-Bahá did not
inform anyone that he was going to leave Haifa. The
day he left he visited the Holy Tomb of the Báb on Mt.
Carmel and when he came down from the mountain of
the Lord, he went direct to the steamer. This was the
first anyone knew about the matter. Within two days he
summoned to his presence Mirza Noureddin7, Shougi
Effendi, Khosro,8 and this servant. The only persons
who accompanied Abdu’l-Bahá to Egypt were Mirza
Moneer Zain9 and Abdul Hossein, one of the pilgrims
who was leaving at that time. When Mirza Noureddin
arrived in Port Said, his brother Mirza Moneer returned
to Haifa.
For nearly one month Abdu’l-Bahá remained in Port
Said and the friends of God came from Cairo, in turn,
to visit him. One day he called me to accompany him
when taking a walk in the streets of the city. He said:
“Do you realize now the meaning of my statement when
I was telling the friends that there was a wisdom in my

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
indisposition?” I answered, “Yes, I do remember very
well.” He continued, “Well, the wisdom was that I must
always move according to the requirements of the
Cause.
Whatever
the
Cause
requires
for
its
promulgation, I will not delay in its accomplishment for
one moment! Now, the Cause did require that I travel
to these parts, and had I divulged my intention at that
time, many difficulties would have arisen.”10
As soon as the Master left the Holy Land, Mírzá Mu˙ammad-
`Alí (1853ca.-1937) spread the rumor that the Master had fled
away because He feared new persecutions from the new Turkish
government. Mírzá Mu˙ammad-`Alí immediately told it to
‘Akká’s Metropolitan, who was among his friends. The
Metropolitan telegraphed to one of his men in Jaffa, who
boarded the same steamer on which the Master was, approached
the Master and dared to inquire about His identity directly
from Him. The same thing happened in Port Said.
After a one month’s sojourn in Port Said, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá again
boarded a steamer without mentioning His intentions to
anyone. Star of the West announced this event as follows:
“SPECIAL. Word has been received from Port Said that Abdul
Baha has sailed from that port on a steamer for an unknown
destination.”11 He intended to go to Europe. But it was very
soon evident that His health did not permit Him to undertake
such a journey. He disembarked in Alexandria, whence He left
only on 11 August 1911, bound to Marseilles.
A few details of this departure are recorded in the same letter
written by Siyyid Asadu’lláh-i-Qumí and published by the Bahá’í
News:
The day that he left for Alexandria he did not mention
the matter to anyone; nor did this servant know the
time of his departure. However, when I heard that he
had left, I hurried to the steamer and there met him
with two pilgrims from Ishqabad. He said: “Tell the
friends, how, under severe circumstances of bodily
weakness, I have accepted the hardships of traveling to
promote the Word of God, to spread the Cause of God
and to diffuse the Fragrances of God! I have left behind

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
friends, relatives and home for the sake of the Cause!”
By this he meant that the believers of God must follow
in his footsteps and illumine the East and the West with
the lights of knowledge, peace and brotherhood.12
When
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
disembarked
in
Alexandria,
He
discovered that the climate was suitable for His health and
therefore He stopped there. After all those years of
imprisonment in an insalubrious place, His health was quite
poor. And thus He did what He Himself recommends to the
Bahá’ís:
... man must become evanescent in God. Must forget
his own selfish conditions that he may thus arise to the
station of sacrifice. It should be to such a degree that if
he sleep, it should not be for pleasure, but to rest the
body in order to do better, to speak better, to explain
more beautifully, to serve the servants of God and to
prove the truths.13
He put His body at rest, so that He could muster His
strength in view of the long travels He intended to undertake.
And thus it happened that the Egyptian city became His
headquarters during His prolonged sojourn in Egypt. In those
three years He repeatedly went back to that city, whose climate
enabled Him to regain the required energy, for facing His later
journeys, especially His long travel to North America.
Ali M. Yazdi (1899-1978), a believer born in Egypt who went
to the United States in 1921, who witnessed the Master’s arrival
in Alexandria in October 1910, describes this event in a book,
Blessings Beyond Measure, posthumously published by his wife
in 1988, as follows:
A crowd gathered in front of the Hotel Victoria for
His arrival. Suddenly there was a hush, a stillness, and I
knew that He had come. I looked. There He was! Then
He walked through the crowd — slowly, majestically,
smiling radiantly as He greeted the bowed heads on each
side. I could only get a vague impression of Him, as I
could not get near Him. The sound of the wind and the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
surf from the nearby shore drowned out His voice so
that I could hardly hear Him. Nevertheless, I went away
happy.
A few days later a villa was rented for Him and His
family not far from the Hotel Victoria. It was in the
best
residential
section,
next
to
the
beautiful
Mediterranean and the beaches. Like all the villas in that
area, it had a garden with flowers and flowering shrubs.
It was there that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá chose to receive a great
variety of notables, public figures, clerics, aristocrats,
and writers — as well as poor and despairing people.14
A detailed chronicle of those days, during which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
so frequently came and went, would take too long. We will
describe only a few episodes.
Hasan M. Balyuzi (1908-1980), a biographer of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
reports a fact that reveals the Master’s care in His relations with
the Muslims. Balyuzi remarks that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sojourn in Alexandria coincided with the
Muslim lunar month of Mu˙arram. This is the month
that witnessed the martyrdom of Óusayn, the grandson
of the Prophet Mu˙ammad and the third apostolic
Imam of His Faith, together with many others of the
House of the Prophet. That tragedy occurred on the
tenth day of Mu˙arram, 61 A.H., which corresponded
to October 10th A.D. 680. The Shí’ah world has
mourned his martyrdom ever since.15
During
that
month
Shi’ites
arrange
gatherings
to
commemorate the sad event. Balyuzi narrates that
Persians of Alexandria invited ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to their
meeting. He went and was received with every mark of
respect. He gave a robe to the reciter of the heart-
rending story of Karbilá, rewarding him richly for his
talent and devotion. He also left money with the hosts
to hold a commemorative meeting on His behalf and to
feed the poor.16

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
In those days, the organizers of the First Universal Race
Congress, which was held in London on 26-29 July 1911 and was
attended by more than 2000 people, invited ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to
deliver a speech during the Congress. On 29 May 1911 He
answered that His present circumstances prevented Him from
attending.17 At the beginning of May ‘Abdu’l-Bahá moved to
Cairo and settled in Zaytun, a district of the city. Balyuzi
informs us that during that sojourn, beside meeting several
important personages, on a Friday He visited the Shrine of
Siyyidah Zaynab, sometimes considered as Imam Óusayn’s
sister, and recited there the Friday prayer.18 The Star of the
West issue of 8 September 1911 records:
Abdul Baha, after staying nearly three months in Cairo
during which time he was interviewed by many
prominent people returned again to Ramleh, the
delightful suburb of Alexandria, on July 22nd. He was
accompanied by Mirza Assadullah, Mirza Moneer,
Mirza Mahmoud and Aga Khosro.19
The same issue of Star of the West also published an article
by Louis G. Gregory (1874-1951), which briefly describes
Gregory’s sojourn in Ramleh between 10 April and 4 May 1911.
Gregory also wrote a more detailed account of his pilgrimage in
a book entitled A Heavenly Vista: The Pilgrimage, published in
Washington in 1911. The article published by Star of the West
says:
I am asked by the STAR OF THE WEST for
impressions gathered during a recent pilgrimage to
Abdu’l Baha at Ramleh and the Holy City. Now I can
respond but briefly; but later I hope that a full account
may be given to the friends of the Cause of all the
valuable lessons received from the Perfect Man.
It is the will of Abdul Baha that all the friends should be
united and happy in the light of the Kingdom. On one
occasion BAHAOLLAH said, “My Presence is happiness
and peace. Hell is the hearts of those who deny and
oppose.” Today the happiness and peace of the Glory of
God (BAHÁ’U’LLÁH) are reflected in the clear Mirror

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
of Abdul Baha. Thus by meeting him one meets all the
Prophets and Manifestations of cycles and ages past. It
is difficult for one to realize at the time, or for a long
time afterwards, the true honor of such a meeting. To
one who realizes even faintly who this Servant of God is
and what powers he represents, such a meeting is high
above all the honors of earth. But no soul can give
adequate testimony of what Abdul Baha may be to any
other soul. With mental and spiritual horizon more or
less limited, each pilgrim discerns according to his
capacity the Majesty and Power that radiate from the
Center of God’s Covenant.
At Ramleh Abbas Effendi20 might at times be seen
walking about the streets. Ofttimes he would ride upon
the electric tramway, making change and paying his fare
in the most democratic fashion. His reception room
was open to believers and non believers alike. Upon a
visit to some unfortunates one day I asked if they knew
him. “O yes,” they responded, “he has been in this
house.” Thus in one way or another thousands of
Persians had opportunity to see ABBAS Effendi; but
among these how few perceived Abdul Baha Viewed
with the outer eye, he scored about the medium height,
with symmetrical features. His lineaments indicate
meekness and gentleness, as well as power and strength.
His color is about that of parchment. His hands are
shapely, with the nails well manicured. His forehead is
high and well rounded. His nose is slightly aquiline; his
eyes light blue and penetrating; his hair is silvery, and
long enough to touch the shoulders; his beard is white.
His dress was the Oriental robes, graceful in their
simplicity. On his head rested a light tar bush,
surrounded by a white, turban. His voice is powerful,
but
capable
of
producing
infinite
pathos
and
tenderness. His carriage is erect and altogether so
majestic and beautiful that it is passing strange that
anyone seeing him would not be moved to say: “This
truly is the King.”

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
On the rational plane his wisdom is incomparable.
During the time of my visit persons of culture were
present from different parts of the world. But people
of acquired learning are but as children to Abdul Baha.
They were reverent in their attitude toward him ....21
Another pen portrait of the Master in those days was written
by Ali M. Yazdi, who at that time was eleven years old. He
remembers that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s voice was “very resonant, very
beautiful.” Then he adds:
He was straight as an arrow. His head was thrown back.
His silver-gray hair fell in waves to His shoulders. His
beard was white. His eyes were keen; His forehead,
broad. He wore a white turban around an ivory felt
cap. He looked at everyone, smiled and welcomed all
with “Khushámadíd. Khushámadíd” (“Welcome. Wel-
come”) ... When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá spoke to me, I would
look into His eyes — blue, smiling, and full of love.22
On 11 August 1911, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá boarded the S.S. Corsica
bound to Marseilles. He went back to Egypt in early December
1911. Of this second sojourn of the Master in Egypt Balyuzi
only wrote: “‘Abdu’l-Bahá wintered in Egypt.”23 Neither does
Star of the West, a rich source of information on the Master’s
travels, report news about ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sojourn in Egypt in
those months. On 9 April 1912 it simply writes:
A report that Abdu’l-Bahá and suite sailed from
Alexandria, Egypt, March 25th on the White Star Line
S. S. “Cedric” due to arrive in New York City, April
10th, has been confirmed.24
Only in 1918 Star of the West informs us that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
celebrated Naw-Rúz 1912 at the Victoria Hotel with a dinner
attended by 85 friends. He delivered a speech on the meaning of
Naw Rúz published by the American journal.25
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s departure for America on 25 March 1912 is
described by both Ali M. Yazdi and Mahmúd-i-Zarqání
(1875ca.-1924), a Persian Bahá’í, a chronicler of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
travels in the West. In his youth Ma˙múd travelled and taught

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
the Faith throughout Iran. In 1903 he went to India, where he
sojourned for many years. Later on he went in pilgrimage to
Haifa, where he remained for a certain time and transcribed
many Tablets. From Haifa He accompanied the Master to
Europe and America. Yazdi writes:
Again ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left us, this time for America. I will
never forget the scene of His departure, as He came out
of the house and turned to wave His last farewell to His
disconsolate family looking down from the veranda
above. They were greatly concerned about His safety
and well-being. He was sixty-eight years old. He had
suffered many hardships and gone through severe trials.
He had been in prison for forty years of His life. And
now He was undertaking a journey to a far-off country
utterly
different
from
any
to
which
He
was
accustomed.
But ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had made up His mind. And when He
made up His mind, nothing could change Him. He
strode out of the garden gate without looking back. He
walked for several blocks near the shore to take the
electric train to Alexandria, where He would board the
ship that was to take Him to New York. He was
followed by about thirty believers who walked silently
behind Him. I was one of them.26
Elsewhere Yazdi mentions the S.S. Cedric, on which the
Master embarked bound to the United States: “It was a
beautiful ship, one of two that plied regularly between
Alexandria and New York, stopping only at Naples.27 Of His
departure from the port of Alexandria, Ma˙múd-i-Zarqání
writes:
The ship left the port of Alexandria with a burst of
steam and great fanfare. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s companions
numbered six: Shoghi Effendi, Siyyid Asadu’lláh-i-
Qumí, Dr Amínu’lláh Faríd,28 Mírzá Munír-i-Zayn, Áqá
Khusraw and this servant.29

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
Ma˙múd tells that the Master was sad, because He had just
received the news that His third daughter, Rú˙á Khánum, was
seriously sick. He also tells that the physician on the ship was an
Italian and misidentified them as Turks. The doctor immediately
gave them trouble because of the health of Khusraw’s eyes. He
said that they were affected by trachoma. In Naples other
Italian doctors confirmed his diagnosis and said that the eyes of
Shoghi Effendi and Mírzá Munír-i-Zayn also were affected by
the same disease and that the American authorities would have
never permitted them to enter the U.S.A. Therefore the Master,
given also the fact that the same Dr Faríd agreed with the Italian
doctors, asked the three to disembark at Naples and to go back
to the Holy Land. Yazdi remembers that in Ramleh Shoghi
Effendi had been “in seventh heaven. He had heard so much
about America, and he longed to be with the Master as He
traveled throughout North America and gave the Message. He
looked forward with great anticipation to the experience ... He
was extremely happy.”30 Rú˙íyyih Rabbani (1910-2000), the wife
of the Guardian, says about this episode of the life of her
husband:
One can well imagine what heart-break this brought to a
boy of fifteen, setting out on the first great adventure
of his life, how much more to Shoghi Effendi, so
attached to his grandfather, so excited over the trip on
a big boat, the great journey to the West in a day when
such long voyages were relatively rate and eventful! He
always remembered this episode with sadness, but in a
touching spirit of submissiveness to the constant blows
he received all his life. It is easy to say it was the Will of
God — but who knows how often the next step, planned
by God, is diverted into another, less perfect path, by
the evil plotting of men? There is no doubt the Master
was greatly grieved by this event, but had to keep His
own counsel, lest the secret of Shoghi Effendi’s future
be prematurely revealed and worse befall him through
the malice and envy of others.31
The story of this travel in North-America and later in Europe is
not our concern. In July 1913 Ahmad Sohrab, who came back

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
from the United States together with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, wrote to
Star of the West:
On 17 June 1913 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived at Port Said
aboard the steamship Himalaya. From there he sent a
telegram instructing many pilgrims to come to Port
Said. As there was not enough room to receive them in
the hotel in which he was staying, a tent was erected on
the roof for the purpose.32
He was accompanied by Siyyid Asadu’lláh-i-Qumí, Mírzá `Alí-
Akbar-i-Nakhjavání, Mírzá Ma˙mud-i-Zarqání and Ahmad
Sohrab.33
‘Abdu’l-Bahá remained in Port Said from 17 June to 11 July
1913. He left the town because of its heat and humidity and
went to Ismailia, where He stayed in the hotel of a certain Mr.
J. Bosta. His health did not improve. Therefore on 17 July He
went to Alexandria. Here He stayed for two weeks in Hotel
Victoria in Ramleh. Then He rented a villa close to Mazlúm
Páshá Station. Ahmad Sohrab describes a number of details of
that sojourn. On 13 August he describes one of the most
common occupations of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, writing Tablets to
believers and non-believers:
When I returned from Alexandria in the afternoon I
was told that the Master had asked for me. I went
immediately to the garden. Seeing me standing near the
door, he permitted me to enter and to take a seat. He
was walking in the avenue fronting a most charming
rose-garden, and dictating Tablets to Mirza Moneer.
Shohgi [sic] Effendi was there also. For nearly three
hours, the limpid stream of revelation flowed to irrigate
the parched ground of hearts in distant climes! Just as
the sun was sinking behind the western horizon, he
revealed a most touching prayer. His voice was like the
music of the spheres, now chanting in a clear rich voice,
now in a low, sweet undertone. The effect made us
forgetful of everything. The dusk of the evening, the
murmur of the breeze through the roses and trees, the
unbroken calmness of the atmosphere, the spiritual

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
beauty of the presence of the Master, and then as we
looked up, the twinkling stars all combined to weave
around our hearts a garland of spiritual enchantment!
We were in reality worshiping the glorious King of
Kings in the holiest moment of our lives! The prayer
was a supplication to the throne of the Almighty for the
purification of souls and the spiritualization of hearts,
— in order that men might sing the praises of their
Lord, and cause the ringing cries of “Ya Baha El Abha”
to ascend from their meeting places to the Supreme
Concourse. As we left the garden, I carried with me that
wonderful prayer of the Beloved! On the wings of Light
it had ascended to the throne of the Almighty and had
been accepted by the Ruler of Mankind.34
Sohrab’s diary also illustrates other aspects of the Master’s
daily life in those days. On 4 August Sohrab writes that early in
the morning he “was summoned by the Beloved” together with
other friends and thus he went to His house. When he arrived
there
... the door opened and we were bidden to the Master’s
writing room. As we sat there we heard Shoghi Effendi
chanting with pathos and sweetness. As he ended the
prayer suddenly I heard the voice of the Master. I was
on my feet. What marvelous depth of feeling! It causes
the stones to dance with joy! He was teaching Shoghi
Effendi how to chant and how to control his voice
under various expressions ....35
On 18 September he writes:
It was a hot day, but the rose-garden is always cool, the
fresh breeze wafting. The master asked Shoghi Effendi
to bring him a bottle of Evian water. Meanwhile an
Arab, who is a laborer, came in and saluted him. The
Arab told a long story, illustrating it with poems, about
the source of the Nile, that it is in paradise and flows
from under a throne — a pretty legend. Then a few men
came in to see the Master. He spoke to them in detail
on trustworthiness, and told them three stories about

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
his own life. For three hours we sat in his presence
listening with attention to every word he said. When he
left the rose-garden, Shoghi Effendi and I went to the
Sidi Jaber station to welcome our dear sister, Mrs.
Fraser. We greeted her on behalf of the Master. After
ten minutes, she stood before him. She is going to live
with the Holy Family, and I have no doubt that the
Bahai world will receive a rich and valuable treasure
when her Diary is given out.36
On 30 September 1913 Ahmad Sohrab’s diary comes to a
conclusion. Balyuzi gives but a short description of those days.
He informs us that the Master did not feel good in Ramleh and
thus He moved for a few days to Abúqír. This may have
happened in November 1913. Since His health did not improve
and the friends in the Holy Land were begging Him to come
back, He decided to return to Haifa.37 Star of the West does
not give any information about the Master’s sojourn in Egypt
in those months. Only the issue of 19 January 1914 publishes a
letter written on 27 December 1913 by H. Imogene Hoagg
(1869-1945), an American believer that visited several times
Italy, to Charles Mason Remey (1874-1974).38 This letter
describes the Master’s arrival in Haifa. Ali M. Yazdi writes that
on 2 December 1913 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá left Alexandria and returned
to the Holy Land.39 He arrived in Haifa on 5 December. Of His
presence in Egypt we have no photograph. Indeed, as Balyuzi
remarks, after the Master’s earliest photographs taken in
Adrianople in 1867 when He was a young man, “there were none
until He reached London in 1911.”40
Egyptian cities and towns visited by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
The first Egyptian town visited by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was Port
Said. He sojourned there when He arrived in the country,
during September and October 1910. He was again in Port Said
from 17 June 1913, when He arrived on the S.S. Himalaya back
from His long trip in North America and Europe, to 11 July of
the same year, when He moved to Ismailia. The place where He
spent more time was Alexandria, precisely the suburb of

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
Ramleh. He arrived there in October 1910 and remained until
May 1911, when He went to Cairo. He returned on 22 July 1911
and moved away bound to Europe on 11 August 1911. He came
back from Europe in early December 1911 and left on 25 March
1912 bound to North America via Naples. Finally He sojourned
in Ramleh from 17 July 1913 to 2 December of the same year,
except a short period in November that He spent in Abúqír.41
He also spent three months in Cairo, in the suburb of Zaytun,
from May 1911 to 22 July of the same year, a week in Ismailia,
from 11 to 17 July 1913, and a short time in Manßúra.42 Ahmad
Sohrab has written graphic descriptions of some of the Egyptian
towns that hosted ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Port Said had become a town only after the opening of the
Suez Canal on 17 November 1869. Sohrab writes about it:
Forty years ago there were only a handful of dingy
hovels with half-naked Arabs. There was no trade, there
were no houses, and no communication existed with the
outside world. Almost all the area on which the present
up-to-date city with its 60,000 busy inhabitants is built,
is land reclaimed from the sea. When the Suez Canal
joined the two mighty oceans together, Port Said
became an international port, and from that date the
magical
progress
of
the
city
continued
uninterruptedly.43
In 1910, when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived there, Port Said was an
international center, inhabited not only by Egyptians, but also
by Europeans of different nationalities. Sohrab describes a feast
for the French Day of Independence:
The European part of Port Said is decorated with
thousands of Japanese lanterns, the French flag is seen
everywhere, and everybody seems to enter into the
spirit of celebration on this National Feast of the
Republic of France. After sunset the principal avenues,
the French Consulate, the Banks, firms and buildings
are lighted up by electricity. The street in which the
Eastern Exchange, Continental and Casino Palace
Hotels are built, is a riot of music promenaders, Arabs,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Greeks,
Italians,
English,
German,
and
French.
Everybody is out to have a good time and to see the
sights. The avenue from one end to the other is wired,
and a roof is constructed of Japanese lanterns. The
trees also bear such luminous fruits.44
Sohrab also describes a Catholic procession in the town:
To-day the French inhabitants had a gorgeous religious
procession which started from their church. All the
streets through which it passed were adorned with flags,
bunting and Japanese lanterns. The priests were dressed
in their pompous surplices of red, gold and silver. There
were long lines of young girls dressed as angels, also a
company of choir boys. The procession was brought to
an end by a large statue of the Virgin Mary, holding the
child, Jesus, in her arms. Of course thousands of Arabs
left their work to gaze at this very spectacular sight of
what they called “idol worship,” and not understanding
the sacredness of these symbols, they poked fun and
laughed in their sleeves. How sad is the ignorance of
humanity!45
As to Alexandria, Sohrab writes:
Alexandria to all intents and purposes is like a
progressive American city. Its tall buildings, its large
department stores, its clean avenues, its double-decked
electric cars, its delightful parks, its electrically lighted
boulevards and streets, its fine promenades around the
seaport, are all signs of a wonderful prosperous spirit.
As I passed along the streets it seemed as though I was
walking on an avenue in New York, and I wondered at
the magical transformations which had taken place since
this city was burned to the ground during the Arabi
[sic] revolution thirty-one years ago. The inhabitants of
all nations, Greeks, Italians, French, Jews, English,
Arabs, Persians, live here and associate with one another
in perfect harmony.46

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
As a matter of fact ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sojourned in Ramleh, about
which Sohrab writes:
Ramleh is a modern Egyptian town with all the
conveniences of western civilization. It is a summer
resort for the most important European officials in the
service of the Egyptian Government, and also for the
native Pashas. There are lovely parks, all kinds of hotels
and splendid houses. We have a nice furnished
apartment about two hundred yards from the residence
of the Beloved.47
When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in Alexandria, He stayed at the
New Victoria Hotel (later Summer Palace Hotel). Sohrab
describes it as follows:
From my room I see the great clock of the New Victoria
Hotel, wherein the Beloved stayed from time to time.
The manager with much pride shows to the guests the
various rooms occupied by the Master. He knows
something about the Cause, and recognizes the great
honor and blessing bestowed upon him and his hotel.
When the Master was here the last time, he gave two
large feasts just before his departure for America.
There are a few other hotels and houses in which the
Beloved has lived periodically. The homes of the Pashas
are really wonderful specimens of the best Renaissance
architecture. They very much resemble the houses and
villas I have seen at Nice. Wonderful palaces, furnished
with a taste truly magnificent, and are enclosed within
gardens, the beauty and charm of which rival the fairy-
lands of the artists and the poets. These “villas” are
surrounded by walls from two to four yards high. The
principal avenues are macadamized and clean and the
narrow streets are also very much like the garden paths
of Nice. As one walks through them the perfume of the
flowers is inhaled, the branches of the trees overhanging
the walls give a cool, inviting shade and the climbing
vines add to the charming verdancy. A man passing
through the streets and observing the houses, sees all
the windows tightly shut. The stranger may think that

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
they are not inhabited, but on inquiring about this
custom of closing the windows, he is politely informed
that as the owner is Mohammedan, the blinds are
drawn, so that no foreign eyes may gaze upon the dark
beauties of the women.48
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also lived for three months, from May to 22
July 1911, in Cairo, in the district of Zaytun, recently become
famous for supposed Marian apparitions. Those apparitions of
lights were reportedly seen by thousands of people and
photographed.
In Ismailia the Master stayed from 11 to 17 July 1913, to
avoid the humid heat of Port Said. Sohrab describes it as
follows:
There is a beautiful large park, lovely buildings, clean
avenues and many electric lights. I was quite surprised
at the size of the park with its big pine trees and
flowers. We saw also the native quarter. The goats, the
hens, the donkeys and the other animals live in the same
room with the Arabs, making a peaceful family.49
As to Abúqír, a village on the Mediterranean Sea about 20
miles north-east of Alessandria, Europeans remember it for the
battle fought and won by Napoleon I in 1799 against the
Ottoman army. The Master stayed there only a few days. As to
Manßúra, it is a town located in the Nile delta region, on the
eastern bank of Damietta branch. Its name means the
victorious, in remembrance of a victory achieved by the
Egyptians against King Louis IX of France in 1249 during the
Seventh Crusade. Óájí Mírzá Óaydar-`Alí (1830ca.-1920),
known as the Angel of Carmel, who during his travels to teach
the Faith had spent ten years in the terrible prisons of Sudan,
lived there for many years since the time when Bahá’u’lláh was
confined in Adrianople (he may have gone there in 1866).
Sohrab’s diary that ends on 20 September 1913 does not
mention either Abúqír or Manßúra.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
The Holy Family
Members of the Holy Family visited a few times their
Beloved during His stay in Egypt. As has been said, the Master
called Shoghi Effendi in September 1910. Then Shoghi Effendi
returned to the Holy Land to attend his school. In April 1911,
Shoghi Effendi was once more with his Grandfather, in Ramleh.
We learn this detail from Gregory, who writes in his diary:
“Before entering we met Shoghi and Rouhi, two beautiful boys,
the grandsons of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. These children of the Holy
household show great affection for pilgrims.”50 Shoghi Effendi
also was with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in March 1912 when He embarked
on S.S. Cedric bound to America and remained on board with
Him as far as Naples. On 1 August 1913 Sohrab writes:
the Greatest Holy Leaf, Abdul Baha’s sister, his
daughter,51 Shoghi Effendi, and five or six others ...
arrived from Haifa. The Beloved came to see us, sat for
one hour, drank a cup of coffee, and then left us to
return to his house to see the newcomers ...52
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had sent the Greatest Holy Leaf to Egypt in
1892 after Bahá’u’lláh’s ascension, together with His eldest
daughter, Îíyá Khánum (d.1951), so that she could recover,
after the severe blow of her Father’s loss. In that period she was
a guest of Óájí Mírzá Óasan-i-Khurásání. During the Master’s
absence from Haifa she administered the affairs of the Cause in
the Holy Land. Shoghi Effendi writes in this regard:
And when, in pursuance of God’s inscrutable Wisdom,
the ban on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s confinement was lifted and
the Plan which He, in the darkest hours of His
confinement, had conceived materialized, He with
unhesitating confidence, invested His trusted and
honoured sister with the responsibility of attending to
the multitudinous details arising out of His protracted
absence from the Holy Land.53
Elsewhere he more concisely writes:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
At the time of His absence in the western world, she
was His competent deputy, His representative and
vicegerent, with none to equal her.54
The Master’s daughters also visited their Father during His
sojourn in Egypt. For example, on 24 July 1913 Sohrab informs
us that ˇúbá Khánum (1880ca.-1959), the Master’s second
daughter, was in Ramleh with her Father55 and on 19 July 1913
he writes that Rú˙á Khánum, His third daughter, was coming to
Egypt.56 On 5 September Sohrab writes:
Yesterday the Master’s daughter57 left for Cairo with
Basheer,58 for a short stay. To-day Shoghi Effendi
joined his mother with Haji Niaz.59 In the afternoon
four Bahais arrived from Cairo.60
Baharieh Rouhani Ma’ani, a biographer of the women of the
Holy Family, hypothesizes that Munírih Khánum (1847-1938),
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s wife, also was among the members of the
family61 who, in Rú˙íyyih Rabbani’s words,
hastened to His presence there [in Egypt], among them
Shoghi Effendi, who joined Him about six weeks after
His arrival ... arriving in the company of the Greatest
Holy Leaf and others on 1 August in Ramleh, where
‘Abdu’l-Bahá had once again rented a villa.62
Like her sister in law, Munírih Khánum also had already been in
Egypt for health reasons, first in 1898ca. and then at the
beginning of the twentieth century.63 Finally, members of His
family were with Him in Ramleh when He left for New York.64
Although this person is not a member of the Holy Family, we
mention here the meeting between the Master and one of His
cousins on His Father’s side. On 1 July 1913 Sohrab writes:
To-day two pilgrims arrived, Mirza Fazlollah, the son
of the oldest brother of Baha-Ullah from Persia, and a
young Bahai from Damascus. Upon hearing of the
arrival of the son of his uncle, Abdul Baha called him
into his presence and showered much love upon him. I
was not there to witness the scene and to hear his

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
words. But Ali Akbar [Nakhjavání] told me that the
Master spoke about his childhood days. Things that I
should like to have heard.65
The public opinion
When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in Egypt, Egyptians knew very
little about Him and the Bahá’í Faith. They knew only what had
been reported by such authoritative, but prejudiced, sources, as
officers of the Iranian government, which had banished
Bahá’u’lláh from His own country, or Ottoman officers, who
had condemned Bahá’u’lláh to a perpetual exile in the prison-
city of ‘Akká. As a matter of fact, Egyptians had heard only
calumnies about the Faith. As soon as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in
Egypt, He was immediately able to prove that those rumors
were wrong. Indeed, such was His personal charm, that He won
the esteem and friendship of all the major personages of the
country, whom He repeatedly met during mutual cordial visits.
He met “clerics, aristocrats, administrators, parliamentarians,
men of letters, journalists and publicists, Arabs, Turks and
Persians, who sought His presence. The poor and the deprived
also had access to Him and went away happy.”66 During His stay
in Egypt ‘Abdu’l-Bahá received many guests, but He never
delivered a public talk. However, as a blog on His travels in the
West remarks, “the little the Egyptian press published about
Him or about His talks given in other countries was ... rich
enough to be considered by historians and writers as a public
proclamation of the Bahá’í Faith, which in those days was
referred to also as the Bábí Faith.”67
Siyyid Asadu’lláh wrote to Star of the West in this regard:
Also, distinguished editors of Arabic and Persian
newspapers, such as Moaid [Mu’ayyad] and Tchehre
Nema [Chihrih Nama], have talked with him and
afterward wrote and published columns of praise and
commendation on his Teachings and greatness. Thus the
newspapers
have
given
great
publicity
to
the
Movement. In regard to the Moaid [Mu’ayyad] article,
Abdul Baha says: “A clipping from the newspaper of
Moaid [Mu’ayyad], which is the first newspaper of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Egypt and its editor well known throughout the world
for his learning, is enclosed. Formerly, this person,
through the instigation of some influential resident
Persians, wrote many articles against this Cause and
called the Bahais infidels. But when Abdul Baha arrived
in this country, with one interview he was completely
changed and contradicted all his former articles with
this one. This is the type of the just man!”
There is no doubt that this trip is fraught with
wonderful results for the Cause and many people will
become awakened. In one of these interviews Abdul
Baha stated he may go to Cairo and pass the remainder
of the winter in that city. The Egyptian winter weather
is ideal, temperate and agrees with him. Since he has
arrived in Egypt his health is much improved, and
should he decide to go to America it will not be before
the springtime. 68
Century of Light remarks:
To some extent the way had no doubt been paved by
warm admiration for the Master on the part of Shaykh
Mu˙ammad ‘Abduh, who had met Him on several
occasions in Beirut and who subsequently became Mufti
of Egypt and a leading figure at Al-Azhar University.69
Mu˙ammad Abdúh (1849-1905) was an Islamic liberal
reformer and teacher, initially the editor of the official gazette
of the Egyptian government, Al Waqa’i’ Al Misríyya (Egyptian
facts), which was founded in 1828, the first Egyptian
newspaper. Exiled from Egypt in 1882, when he went back to
his country, he was a teacher in the ancient al-Azhar University,
founded in 970ca. which took its name, “the luminous,” from a
title of Fatima, Mu˙ammad’s daughter, called az-zahra, the
brilliant. He also was Great Mufti of Egypt, the second highest
religious position in the country. He is remembered as one of
the greatest Egyptian thinkers and reformers. In the 1880s while
he was in exile in Beirut he met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and was influenced
by His words, coming to think that Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings
could save Egyptian society from the ills by which it was

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
afflicted. Therefore he attempted a reform of the Shari’ah, but
his
plans
were
frustrated
by
the
opposition
of
the
conservatives.70
The press coverage
As soon as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá arrived in Egypt, the main
newspapers of the country immediately began to publish articles
on His visit. On 19 September 1910, Al-Ahram (The pyramids),
founded in 1875, then pro-French and today the most popular
Egyptian newspaper, published the news of the unexpected visit
to the country of the “leader of the Bábí Faith.” The article said:
Abbas Effendi left His residence in the city of ‘Akká a
few days ago for Port Said, an event that has
precipitated His Persian followers residing in Egypt to
hasten to that city to be blessed by visiting Him. This
surprise visit has given rise to speculation and
controversial claims between His opponents and
supporters about its motive. The former have alleged
He left ‘Akká out of fear of what may come upon Him
from the new constitutional Turkish regime. His
followers,
strongly
deny
these
uncorroborated
allegations. In fact, He came to Egypt for health
reasons because the air of Egypt is indicated as a cure
for His asthmatic attacks caused by His long
incarceration.71
Despite this article, a few unfriendly personages questioned
the opportunity of the visit of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt. After
about a month, on 16 October, the editor of Al-Mu’ayyad (“the
victorious” or “the supporter”), a nationalist newspaper,
founded in 1889, very popular in those years, answered their
questions. This editor was the skillful Shaykh `Alí Yusif, who
had previously criticized the Bahá’ís and their faith, suggesting
to take firm measures against them. He met the Master in
Ramleh and after that meeting he wrote: “His Eminence Mirza
‘Abbas Effendi, the learned and erudite Head of the Bahá’ís in
‘Akká and the Centre of authority for Bahá’ís throughout the
world, has reached the shores of Alexandria.”72 At first, related

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
the writer, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stayed in the Victoria Hotel, but after
a few days moved to a rented house. Then he went on to
explain:
He is a venerable person, dignified, possessed of
profound knowledge, deeply versed in theology, master
of the history of Islam, and of its denominations and
developments ... whosoever has consorted with Him has
seen in Him a man exceedingly well-informed, Whose
speech is captivating, Who attracts minds and souls,
dedicated to belief in the oneness of mankind ... His
teaching and guidance revolve round the axis of
relinquishing prejudices: religious, racial, patriotic.73
Shaykh Yusif said that he twice went to see ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and
during those interviews learned that His coming had absolutely
no political motive, for “he ‘does not interfere in political
matters;’ His ‘stay in Egypt is for health reasons.’” The news
report concluded with a warm reiteration of welcome to the
learned and wise Visitor, and wished Him a happy stay and
recovery of good health.74
Al-Muqa††am, a pro-British newspaper founded in 1888
which took its name from a chain of hills south-east of Cairo,
and which in those years was the most eminent among the
Egyptian newspapers, published on 28 November 1910 an
appreciative report. The nationalist semiweekly Wadía’n-Níl
(the Valley of the Nile), founded in 1867 and sometimes
considered as the first private newspaper in Egypt, did the same
and published many praises of the Master. Even the Persian
illustrated weekly journal Chihrih-Nama, published in Egypt
between 1904 and 1950, praised Him. Balyuzi writes in this
regard:
Its editor, Mirza ‘Abdu’l-Mu˙ammad-i-Írání, the
Mu’addibu’s-Sul†án [the Preceptor of the Sovereign],
had in the past, in common with many of his
countrymen resident in Egypt, displayed feelings far
from friendly. Now he reported ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s travels
with respect and admiration.75

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
On 19 January 1911 Al-Ahram spoke once more about the
Master. It wrote:
His reverence Abbas Effendi, the head of the Bábí
Faith, is still visiting and being visited, with much
veneration, by senior officials and high ranking
individuals. He is the son of Bahá’u’lláh, and His
successor, and a descendant of a noble Persian lineage.
Kindness and love to all regardless of social rank or
religious affiliation are His distinguishing attributes for
He looks at the unifying force latent in the humanity of
all people and not at their diverse beliefs or worldly
conditions.76
Balyuzi mentions a last article on the Master of the Egyptian
Gazette of 27 June 1913, entitled “‘Abdul Baha in Egypt.
Wonderful Scenes in Port Said. Eastern Bahais Assembled in
Force.”77 The article also said: “At Port Said the pilgrims have
erected a huge tent on the roof of a native hotel and there they
gather and sing with touching devotion.”78
Personages
Of the many personages that attained the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, only the most important will be
mentioned. Easterners will be listed as first. In 1910-1911 in
Alexandria an old enemy of the Faith, Mírzá Mu˙ammad-Mihdí
Khán, the Za’imu’d-Dawlih [Chief of the State], a Persian
politician who had published in 1903 a critical history of the
Bábí Movement, called repeatedly on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and showed
great reverence towards Him. In Cairo, Shaykh Mu˙ammad
Bakhit, the Mufti of Egypt, and Shaykh Mu˙ammad Rishád, the
Imam of the Khedive, visited Him and He returned their visit.
In Cairo He met Jurji (Giorgio) Zaydan (1861-1914), an eminent
Lebanese, Christian writer, the editor of the journal Dar al-Hilal
(The Crescent), later transformed into a publishing house that
still exists today. Zaydan was proud of his Arabic background
and wrote a book entitled The Flying Mameluch, a popular work
of Arabic history.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The most important meeting in Cairo was that with the
Khedive, ‘Abbás Óilmí II (1874-1944), who showed a special
reverence towards the Master. Balyuzi says that the two
personages met twice. The organizer of those meetings was
‘Uthmán Páshá Murta∂á, the Khedive’s chamberlain, and
Balyuzi remarks that he
was devoted to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ... A Tablet which
‘Abdu’l-Bahá addressed to ‘Uthmán Páshá in October
1919 (five years after ‘Abbás Óilmí was deposed) is
indicative of the stature of the man: he is called ‘Amír-
al-wafa’ — the Prince of Fidelity.79
The Master met once more the Khedive in Ramleh in 1913. On
15 August 1913 Ahmad Sohrab writes in this regard:
During our absence in the afternoon, Osman Pasha, one
of the Ministers of the Khedive, called on the Master
conveying the loving greetings of the Ruler of Egypt
and his longing to meet him. The date was then fixed
for the afternoon of August 17th. His Highness the
Khedive is now staying in Alexandria. His summer
resort is near Ramleh. He lives in one of his palaces
fronting the sea called Raas-ottin [Ras at-Tín]. The
Khedive is friendly to the Bahai Movement and has
special regard for the Master. It may be that history will
record that he is one of the few Oriental Rulers who has
received Abdul Baha with due honor.80
On 17 August he records:
This was an important date in the Bahai calendar
because Abdul Baha and the ruler of Egypt met each
other for the second or third time. Beyond this bare
announcement I have no other information. The Master
may give us, later, an account of the meeting, and thus
in our imagination we may construct a picture, or he
may not divulge any of the details. None of the
believers were with him. For the present it is enough to
know that on this day, between three and six p.m., the

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
sovereign of Egypt had the honor and privilege of
talking with Abdul Baha.81
On 4 September 1913 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had a visit from Prince
Mu˙ammad `Alí, (1875-1955), the Khedive’s brother and the
heir to the throne. The Prince had already attained the presence
of the Master, first in Egypt in 1912, then in New York on 22
July 1912,82 then again in Paris in 1913 and finally during the
Master’s travel to Egypt the Prince was with Him for four days,
on 12-16 June 1913. He admired so much ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that he
considered Him as “the most important man in our century.”83
And he loved Him so much that he called Him “‘Abbás Bábá’
which in Arabic means ‘Abbás Father or Father ‘Abbás.”84
Sohrab describes their meeting in Ramleh as follows:
In the afternoon Prince Mohamad Ali, the brother of
the Khedive, called on Abdul Baha. The Prince arrived
in his automobile at the door of our house, and hearing
that the Master lived close by in another one, said that
he would walk to it. Mirza Moneer was about to go on
ahead to notify Abdul Baha, when he appeared in his
long, loose, cream-colored coat from the other side of
the street. Thus, in the middle of the road, the Master
and the Prince met, each offering to the other
courtesies designated for the most distinguished men.
Every one looking at this strange scene wondered, while
trying to imagine what had brought a royal Prince of
Egypt to the Threshold of Abbas Effendi. The Master
was walking ahead and the Prince a few feet behind, and
while they were talking in the most animated manner,
they disappeared from our view.85
Ahmad Sohrab also describes the Egyptian Páshás’ admiration
for the Master, though words uttered by one of them:
We have produced in the Orient a man such as Abbas
Effendi, who alone visited Europe and America, and
who through the sheer force of his personality and the
wonderful soundness and brilliancy of his philosophy,
captivated the pulpits and platforms, revolutionized the
current of western thoughts, opened before your faces

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
vistas of glorious ideals, and drew to his audiences
thousands of men and women who were deeply
attracted to his humane and divine wisdom, while the
Press of the West from one end to another had but one
tongue by which to praise his many virtues and to
elucidate his system of religion and philosophy. Yes, we
are proud of him. We honor him because he comes
from the heart of the Orient. He represents us, he
utters our ideals and longings. You have never sent us a
man who could travel in the Orient and deliver lectures
as Abbas Effendi has done in the West.86
In Egypt the Master also received Khájih Óasan Nizamí
(1879-1955), an Indian scholar and mystic of the Chistí Sufi
order, a prolific writer, an upholder of Islam in India, who later
translated the Seven Valleys into Urdu.87 Finally, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
met in Ramleh the well-known Egyptian writer ‘Abbás Ma˙múd
Al-‘Aqqad (1889-1964), the author of about a hundred books of
philosophy, religion and poetry, famous for his flourished
prose. In the years 1980s the Egyptian television produced a TV
series on his life, titled The Giant. ‘Aqqad has left a description
of that meeting titled “An hour with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”88 Last but
not least, Sohrab’s diary records on 24 September 1913:
Yesterday the new Persian Consul General arrived from
Constantinople and the Master sent all the students to
welcome him at the steamer and to-day, with Mirza Ali
Akbar [Nakhjavání], he went to Alexandria to pay him
a visit, in the hotel where he is staying for a few days
before his departure for Jadda. In the course of
conversation Abdul Baha pointed out to the Consul
General the impartial attitude of the Bahais in recent
developments in Persia and how they are the lovers of
Peace and progress. The mission of the Bahai Cause is
universal and not local; its principles are for all
humanity; its objects are world-wide. The Bahais are the
army of spiritual and intellectual advancements. Then
he spoke a few words about the promotion of the Cause
in America and Europe. The Consul General became
very attracted, and made an engagement to come next
day and call on the Master.89

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
As to the Westerners, we remember the English Wellesley
Tudor Pole (1884-1968) who visited the Master in Ramleh in the
second half of November 1910. Tudor Pole is remembered as a
writer, a philosopher, a mystic and a life-long lover of religious
experiences, mystic visions and spiritualism. He also is
remembered because, along with Winston Churchill, he was the
deviser of the silent minute, which the people of Britain
observed during the Second World War (1939-1945) every
evening at 9 pm. After that meeting he accepted the Faith, but
later on became estranged from it, when Shoghi Effendi began
to build its Administrative Order. During the First World War
Tudor Pole was a major of the British army. He learnt of the
perils hanging over the Master because of the hate of the
Turkish commander, Jamál Páshá, and urged the British military
authority to protect Him. In December 1910 he published his
interview
with
the
Master
on
the
journal
Christian
Commonwealth (28 December 1910), later reprinted by Star of
the West.90 Star of the West also published a part of a letter
describing Tudor Pole’s meeting with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
You may be interested in hearing of my recent visit to
Abdu’l-Bahá at Ramleh, near Alexandria. I spent nine
days at Alexandria and Cairo during the second half of
November, 1910. Abdu’l-Bahá’s health had very greatly
improved since his arrival from Port Said. He was
looking strong and vigorous in every way. He spoke
much of the work in America, to which he undoubtedly
is giving considerable thought. He also spoke a good
deal about the work that is going forward in different
European centres as well as in London, and he expects
great things from England during the coming year ... A
Bahai paper is to be read at the Universal Races
Congress in London next July.91
In Cairo ‘Abdu’l-Bahá met Ronald Storrs, in those days
Oriental Secretary of the British Agency and later knighted.
Storr had known ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in 1909 in the Holy Land. Now
in Egypt, in his own words, he “had the honour of looking after
him and of presenting him to Lord Kitchener.”92 Lord Horatio
Herbert Kitchener (1850-1916), was the British Agent and
Consul-General (de facto administrator) in Egypt. In 1898 he

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
had conquered Sudan and therefore he was known as Lord
Kitchener of Khartoum. Sir Storrs writes that Lord Kitchener
“was deeply impressed by his personality, as who could fail to
be?”93
Sometimes between 1910 and 1913 the Russian playwright
Isabella Grinevskaya (1864-1944) attained the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. After that meeting, Grinevskaya accepted the
Faith, to which she remained faithful for the rest of her life,
keeping in touch with Eastern and Western Bahá’ís. She is
remembered for the many books she published, in which she
described the life of the Jews of the middle class and especially
the situation of young intellectual Jew women. She wrote a play
titled The Báb, which was performed in St. Petersburg in 1904
and in 1916-1917. The play was translated into French and
praised by Tolstoy. She also wrote an essay about her meeting
with the Master and a poem and play titled Bahá’u’lláh. This
play was never performed.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence was also attained by Rustum
Vambery, the son of the famous Arminius, the Jew Hungarian
intellectual (ca. 1832-1913) whom the Master met in Budapest
on 12 April 1912.94 Arminius Vambery was a traveler, an
orientalist and a polyglot. A number of scholars maintain that
the personage of Professor Van Helsing in Bram Stoker’s novel
Dracula (1897) was inspired by Vámbéry. As a matter of fact,
Chapter 23 of the novel mentions a “friend Arminius of Buda-
Pesth.”
Resident and visiting Bahá’ís
Among the many Bahá’ís who lived in Egypt in those days the
chronicles mention especially Mírzá Óasan Khurasání of
Alexandria, who in 1892 had the honor of hosting Bahíyyih
Khánum and Mohammed Yazdi (1848-1933), whom Gregory
describes as “an oriental gentleman of pleasing manners and
placid countenance.”95 The Bahá’í historian Graham Hassall also
mentions Óájí Mírzá Óaydar-`Alí.96 Among the Bahá’ís in Egypt
during the Master’s visits there also was a very distinguished
personage, Mírzá Abu’l-Fadl-i-Gulpáygání (1844-1914), known
for his broad culture and his deep studies of the Bahá’í Faith,

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
one of the 19 Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh. He went to Cairo in July
1895, and was a lecturer of al-Azhar University. Between 1901
and 1904 he traveled through Europa and North America, to
strengthen the new Bahá’ís. When the Master went to Egypt, the
Master often invited him at his presence. Ahmad Sohrab
repeatedly describes their meetings. Isabel Fraser also describes
his presence in Ramleh, where the Master had asked him to come
to enjoy his company.97
The chronicles also mention Shaykh Faraju’lláh Zakí al-Kurdí,
a Kurdish Bahá’í who lived in Cairo. He is the author of the
well-known compilation of prayers by Bahá’u’lláh in Persian and
Arabic, beside the Persian Hidden Words, Ad’iyih-’i Óa∂rat-i
Ma˙búb (Prayers of the Beloved). He also published the Kitáb-i-
Íqán, three volumes of Tablets by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, a collection of
talks delivered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Europe and America and
other important Bahá’í texts. He translated into Arabic the
Tablet of Ishráqát and submitted his translation to the Master.
Shoghi Effendi writes in this regard:
So great is the importance and so supreme is the
authority of these assemblies that once ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
after having himself and in his own handwriting
corrected the translation made into Arabic of the
Ishraqat (the Effulgences) by Sheikh Faraj, a Kurdish
friend from Cairo, directed him in a Tablet to submit
the above-named translation to the Spiritual Assembly
of Cairo, that he may seek from them before
publication their approval and consent.98
As to Westerners, as has been said, Louis Gregory, an
American negro who had accepted the faith in 1909 and the first
Hand of the Cause of his race, was invited by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
stayed in Ramleh from 10 April to 4 May 1911. In his diary of
this pilgrimage he describes the house of the Master as “a
modest but comfortable-appearing house with a front garden.”
He lists the persons who were present during his first meeting
with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “Tamaddun ul Molk and Nouraddin Zaine,
Persians, and Nevill G. Meakin and Miss Louisa A. M. Mathew
(afterwards Mrs. Louis G. Gregory), English.” In this booklet he
describes again the Person of the Master:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá appeared about the medium height, with a
strong frame and symmetrical features. His face is
deeply furrowed and His color about that of
parchment. His carriage is erect and His entire form
strikingly majestic and beautiful. His hands and nails
are shapely and pure. His silver hair is long enough to
touch the shoulders. The beard is snow white, the eyes
light blue and penetrating, the nose slightly aquiline.
The voice is powerful, but capable of infinite pathos,
tenderness and sympathy. His dress was that of the
Oriental gentleman of the highest classes, simple and
neat and very graceful. The color of His apparel was
light, the outer robe being made of alpaca. On His head
rested a light fez, surrounded by a white turban. The
meekness of the servant, the majesty of the king, are in
His brow and form.
As to Louisa Matthew (1866-1956), she was an English
believer of a well-to-do family, graduated from Cambridge. She
had gone to Paris to continue her musical studies and there
accepted the Faith in the early twentieth century. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
introduced Louis G. Gregory to her in Ramleh in April 1911. On
27 September 1912 He Himself married the two. It was a happy
marriage, but filled with difficulties because of their different
races. The two told that, during their travels, they were often
obliged to stay at different hotels. Louisa devotedly served the
Faith for all her life especially in Central Europe (Sofia,
Bulgaria).
In those years also Edith MacKaye de Bons (1878-1959) lived
in Egypt. This American lady went to Paris to study voice.
There she met May Bolles Maxwell (1870-1940). Their meeting
took place on 1899 Christmas Day and Edith became the first
person who was brought to the Faith by May Bolles in the
French capital. Edith later moved to Sion, Switzerland, because
she had married Dr Joseph de Bons (1871–1959), a local dentist.
The de Bons lived in Egypt for a few years and in 1911 they had
the honor of attaining the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Ahmad
Sohrab writes in his diary of 29 July 1913:

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
In the afternoon I called on the Beloved and in his
presence found DeBons, a French Bahai dentist
practicing in Cairo — now on his way to Switzerland to
meet his wife. Abdul Baha is going to take him for a
drive through Nozha Park, which is the National Park of
Alexandria. I have heard much praise of it, but have not
yet been there. They say it rivals any park in Europe or
America. For nearly two hours Abdul Baha entertained
the doctor driving through the park and speaking to
him about his spiritual experiences in America.99
Sohrab’s diary also informs us of the arrival of other
believers come to Egypt to see ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. On 13 July 1913
Sohrab mentions Mrs. Jean Stannard, an English believer and a
travel teacher, who in 1921 translated the Hidden Words into
English, a translation highly appreciated by Shoghi Effendi. In
1925 she founded in Geneva the International Bahá’í Bureau,
later managed by Imogene Hoagg. The Bahá’í International
Community writes in this regard:
The International Bahá’í Bureau served as a gathering
place for Bahá’ís traveling to Geneva for the activities
of the League of Nations and of other international
organizations, and published an international magazine.100
In 1929 the International Bahá’í Bureau was recognized by
the League of Nations. Sohrab writes about Mrs. Stannard:
Mrs. J. Stannard, an English Bahai, is back in Port Said
and may stay with us for several days. I had a most
pleasant conversation with her about the progress of
the Cause in Germany and England. The Master may
send her to India. She is a very active and energetic
worker and no doubt will be able to spread the Bahai
movement very effectively.101
On 24 July 1913 Lua Getsinger (1871-1916), the Herald of
the Covenant and one of the 19 Disciples of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
arrived in Egypt.102 Sohrab writes in this regard:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
This morning the Beloved sent for me. He was feeling
well. Mrs. Getsinger was called into the room and the
plan of her journey to India discussed. Since her arrival
she has been living with Abdul Baha’s family which is
presided over by the Greatest Holy Leaf!103
Sohrab informs us that the Master did not want Lua to go to
India alone and thus summoned Mrs. Isabel Fraser Chamberlain
(1871-1939), the compiler of a collection of talks delivered by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Europe, known as Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine
Philosophy, published in 1917 in Boston by the publisher The
Tudor Press. Sohrab’s diary of 18 September 1913 records:
In the afternoon Abdul Baha passed by, followed by
Shoghi Effendi. He called for me and I walked behind
him in the rose-garden. A telegram sent to Port Said
from the Master to Ahmad Yazdi: “Send Mrs. Fraser to
Ramleh,” brought back the answer that she had left at
one o’clock. He told me to go with Shoghi Effendi to
the station and bring her home. We were expecting her
for a few days. I was delighted to hear the news.104
In the same day Sohrab writes he went and fetch her at the
station together with Shoghi Effendi.
On 22 September Sohrab announced the arrival of Dr.
Edward Getsinger (1866-1935), Lua Getsinger’s husband, one of
the first pilgrims in December 1898, a faithful servant of the
Cause, who published the first collection of Bahá’u’lláh’s
Writings in English. Sohrab records many anecdotes of the
meeting of the Master with the Bahá’ís who hastened to Egypt
to see Him. We like to conclude this short note on those visits
of devoted pilgrims with a detail from Sohrab’s diary:
One of the pilgrims — El Yahou, an old man — had
brought with him from Cairo a bouquet of fragrant
white flowers and six white fezes for the Master. He
stayed with us last night and kept our party in a good
humor until very late. In the morning he wanted the
flowers and fezes to be taken to the Master, which I did
with great pleasure. I knocked at the door, and the

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
beloved opened it. He took the bundle out of my hand
and told me that he would send for him in a few
minutes.105
Meanings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s presence in Egypt
‘Abdu’l-Bahá may have chosen Egypt as the headquarters of
His travels in the West first of all because it was near enough to
the Holy Land to enable Him to see what the Covenant-Breakers
would do in His absence and, in case of extreme necessity, to
quickly go back home. In the meantime, the climate of Egypt,
much healthier than that of ‘Akká and Haifa, would have
alleviated the consequences of the numerous afflictions that
troubled His body, as for example His asthmatic attacks.
Moreover in Egypt there was a flourishing Bahá’í community
and the relations between that community and the Bahá’í
community in the Holy Land had always been very close.
The consequences of His presence in Egypt have been very
important. First of all, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá could personally deny,
through His wisdom and the mysterious charm emanating for
His Person, all the calumnies on the Bahá’í community and on
Himself, which external and internal enemies of the Faith had
spread through the country. The importance of the Master’s
sojourn in Egypt is explained by Century of Light as follows:
An aspect of the Egyptian sojourn that deserves special
attention was the opportunity it provided for the first
public proclamation of the Faith’s message. The
relatively
cosmopolitan
and
liberal
atmosphere
prevailing in Cairo and Alexandria at the time opened a
way for frank and searching discussions between the
Master and prominent figures in the intellectual world
of Sunni Islam. These included clerics, parliamentarians,
administrators and aristocrats. Further, editors and
journalists
from
influential
Arabic-language
newspapers, whose information about the Cause had
been coloured by prejudiced reports emanating from
Persia and Constantinople, now had an opportunity to
learn the facts of the situation for themselves.
Publications that had been openly hostile changed their

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
tone. The editors of one such newspaper opened an
article on the Master’s arrival by referring to “His
Eminence Mírzá ‘Abbás Effendi, the learned and
erudite Head of the Bahá’ís in ‘Akká and the Centre of
authority for Bahá’ís throughout the world” and
expressing appreciation of His visit to Alexandria. This
and other articles paid particular tribute to ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s understanding of Islam and to the principles of
unity and religious tolerance that lay at the heart of His
teachings.106
Last but not least, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá met many important Western
personages, who later spoke about Him to their relatives and
friends in Europe, both through letters and personally during
their visit to their countries. Century of Light writes in this
regard:
Despite the Master’s ill health that had caused it, the
Egyptian interlude proved to be a great blessing.
Western diplomats and officials were able to observe at
first-hand the extraordinary success of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
interaction with leading figures in a region of the Near
East that was of lively interest in European circles.
Accordingly, by the time the Master embarked for
Marseilles on 11 August 1911, His fame had preceded
Him.107
The Universal House of Justice summarizes the main aspects
of the presence of the Master in Egypt and in the West in the
triennium 1910-1913 as follows:
Uncompromising in defence of the truth, yet infinitely
gentle in manner, He brought the universal divine
principles to bear on the exigencies of the age. To all
without distinction — officials, scientists, workers,
children, parents, exiles, activists, clerics, sceptics — He
imparted
love,
wisdom,
comfort,
whatever
the
particular need. While elevating their souls, He
challenged
their
assumptions,
reoriented
their
perspectives, expanded their consciousness, and focused
their energies. He demonstrated by word and deed such

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
compassion and generosity that hearts were utterly
transformed. No one was turned away.108
BIBLIOGRAPHY
“‘Abbás Mahmúd Al-’Aqqad visits ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” in Enayat, The Far-
Stretching River, http://www.farstretchingriver.com/en
/centenary/abbas-al-aqqad’s-visit-to-`abdu’l-baha/
“Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt,” Star of the West, vol. 1, no.12 (16 October
1910), p.1; Star of the West, vol. 1, no.15 (12 December 1912),
pp.2-3.
“The Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh. “Pillars of the Faith,”” The Bahá’í
World, vol. 3 (1928-1930), pp.80-1.
Asadu’lláh-i-Qumí, Siyyid. “Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt,” Star of the West,
vol. 1, n.15 (12 December 1912), pp.2-3.
Bahá’í International Community. “1926. International Bahá’í Bureau,”
bic.org/time-line/international_bahai_bureau_ibb_was_established.
“bahaitravelswest. #9 — 100 Years Ago — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remains in
Ramleh, Egypt,” http://bahaitravelswest.wordpress.com/page/3/,
in Enayat, The Far-Stretching River.
The Bahá’í World, vol. 3 (1928-1930). New York: Bahá’í Publishing
Committee, 1930. Vol. 4 (1930-1932). Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1933. Vol. 19 (1983-1986). Bahá’í World Centre,
Haifa, 1994.
Bahíyyih Khánum. The Greatest Holy Leaf. A Compilation from
Bahá’í sacred texts and writings of the Guardian of the Faith and
Bahíyyih Khánum’s own letters made by The Research Department
at the Bahá’í World Centre. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1982
Balyuzi, Hasan M. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Centre of the Covenant of
Bahá’u’lláh. London: George Ronald, 1971.
Blomfield, Lady (Sara Louise). The Chosen Highway. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1940. Rpt. Oxford: George Ronald, 2007.
“The Centenary of the Arrival of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt (continued),”
Enayat, The Far-Stretching River,
http://www.farstretchingriver.com/en/735-2/#hide.
Century of Light. Commissioned by The Universal House of Justice.
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 2001.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
“The Disciples of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. “Heralds of the Covenant,”” Bahá’í
World, vol. III (1928-1930) pp.84-5.
Enayat, Moshan and Felicity. The Far-Stretching River,
http://bahaitravelswest.wordpress.com/page/3/.
“The Feast of Naurooz (New Day),” Star of the West, vol. 9, no.1 (21
March 1918), pp.8-9.
Fraser, Isabel. “A Glimpse of Mirza Abul-Fazl at Ramleh,” Star of the
West, vol. 4, no.19 (2 March 1914), pp.316-7.
Gail, Marzieh. Summon up Remembrance. Oxford: George Ronald,
1987.
Gregory, Louis G. A Heavenly Vista: The Pilgrimage. R. L. Pendleton,
Washington, 1911. “A Heavenly Vista,” http://bahai-
library.com/gregory_heavenly_vista.
———. “Impressions of Abdu’l-Bahá while at Ramleh. By Mr. Louis G.
Gregory,” Star of the West, 2:9 (8 September 1911), pp.5-6.
“Mirza Haji Niaz,” Star of the West, vol. 10, no.19 (2 March 1920),
p.351.
Hassall, Graham. “Bahá’í country notes: Egypt,” http://bahai-
library.com/hassall_notes_egypt.
Hoagg, H. Imogene. “Abdu’l-Bahá’s return to the Holy Land. Letter
received by Charles Mason Remey,” Star of the West, vol. 4, no.17
(19 January 1914), pp. 288, 290.
Holley, Horace. “Current Bahá’í Activities in the East and West.
Australasia and the Far East,” Bahá’í World, vol. 4 (1930-32),
pp.83-93.
Mahmúd-i-Zarqání. Ma˙múd’s Diary: The Diary of Mírzá Mahmúd-i-
Zarqání Chronicling ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Journey to America by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Mírzá Mahmúd-i-Zarqání. Translated by Mohi
Sobhani. Edited by Shirley Macias. Oxford: George Ronald, 1998.
“News Items,” Star of the West, vol. 2, no. 9 (8 September 1911),
pp.7, 9.
“News Notes,” Star of the West, vol. 1, no.10 (8 September 1910)
pp.9-10.
“News Notes,” Star of the West, vol. 4, no.7 (13 July 1913), p.121.
Rabbani, Ru˙íyyih. — The Priceless Pearl. London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1969.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt
Root, Martha L. “A Great Prince Speaks of ‘Abdu’l Baha,” Star of the
West, vol. 20, no.10 (January 1930), pp.301-5.
———. “A Visit to Rustum Vambery,” Star of the West, vol. 19, no.11
(February 1929), pp.330-1.
Rouhani Ma’ani, Baharieh. Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees: An In-
depth Study of the Lives of Women Closely Related to the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford: George Ronald, 2008.
Oliver Scharbrodt, Islam and the Bahá’í Faith: A Comparative Study
of Muhammad ‘Abduh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘Abbas. Routledge,
London and New York, 2008.
Sohrab, Ahmad. Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt. New York: Sears, and London:
Rider, 1929.
“Special,” Star of the West, vol. 3, no.2 (9 April 1912), p.8.
Sprague, Sydney. A Year With the Bahais in India and Burma. London:
Priory Press, 1908.
Star of the West. The first Bahá’í magazine in the Western world,
published from 1910 to 1935. Issues 1910 to 1924, RP 8 vols.
Oxford: George Ronald, 1978.
Tudor-Pole, Wellesley. “Extracts from Letter from Mr. Wellesley
Tudor Pole,” Star of the West, vol. 1, no. 18 (7 February 1911),
pp.5-6
———. “The First Universal Races Congress,” Star of the West, vol. 2,
no. 8 (10 August 1911), pp.3-4.
———. (Tudor-Pole), “A Wonderful Movement In The East. A Visit To
Abdul Baha At Alexandria,” Star of the West, vol. 1, 18 (7
February 1911), pp.1-4.
The Universal House of Justice. Ri∂ván 2011. To the Bahá’ís of the
World.
Yazdi, Ali M. Blessings Beyond Measure. Recollections of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1988.
———. “Memories of Shoghi Effendi. Adapted from an Oral Account
of `Alí M. Yazdí,” Bahá’í World, vol. 19 (1983-1986), pp.756-9.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

NOTES
1 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 280, chap.19, para. 6.
2 See “News Notes,” Star of the West, vol. 1, no.10 (8 September 1910) p.9.
3 See Star of the West, vol. 5, no.15 (12 December 1914), p.237.
4 See “The Disciples of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Heralds of the Covenant’,” Bahá’í
World, vol. 3 (1928-1930), pp.84-5.
5 “Abdul-Bahá in Egypt,” Star of the West, 1:12 (16 October 1910), p.1.
6 Quoted in Bahíyyih Khánum, p.13.
7 Mírzá Núri’d-Dín-i-Zayn, the son of Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín, one of the
nineteen Apostles of Bahá’u’lláh, the person who asked the questions of
“Questions and Answers” of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. See “The Apostles of
Bahá’u’lláh. ‘Pillars of the Faith’,” The Bahá’í World, vol. 3 (1928-1930),
pp.80-1.
8 Khusraw, the attendant of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, coming from Burma.
9 Mírzá Munír-i-Zayn, the son of Zaynu’l-Muqarrabín.
10 “Abdul-Bahá in Egypt,” Star of the West, vol. 1, no.15 (12 December
1912), p.2.
11 “Abdul-Bahá in Egypt,” Star of the West, vol. 1, no.12 (16 October 1910),
p.1.
12 “Abdul-Bahá in Egypt,” Star of the West, vol. 1, n.15 (12 December 1912),
pp.2-3.
13 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets, vol. 2, p.460.
14 Yazdi, Blessings, p.16.
15 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.137.
16 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.137.
17 See Tudor-Pole, “The First Universal Races Congress,” Star of the West,
vol. 2, no. 8 (10 August 1911), pp.3-4.
18 See Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.138.
19 “News Items,” Star of the West, vol. 2, no. 9 (8 September 1911), p.7.
20 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was also known under this name.
21 “Impressions of Abdul-Bahá while at Ramleh. By Mr. Louis G. Gregory,”
Star of the West, vol. 2, no.9 (8 September 1911), p.5.
22 Yazdi, Blessings, pp.18, 20.
23 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.171.
24 “Special,” Star of the West, vol. 3, no.2 (9 April 1912), p.8.
25 See “The Feast of Naurooz (New Day),” Star of the West, vol. 9, no.1 (21
March 1918), pp.8-9.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt

26 Yazdi, Blessings, pp.20, 22.
27 Yazdi, “Memories of Shoghi Effendi,” Bahá’í World, vol. 19 (1983-1986),
p.756.
28 A nephew of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s wife.
29 Zarqání, Ma˙múd’s Diary, p.13.
30 Yazdi, Blessings, pp.51-2, 53.
31 Rabbani, The Priceless Pearl, p.19.
32 Sohrab, quoted in “News Notes,” Star of the West, vol. 4, no.7 (13 July
1913), p.121.
33 See Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.395.
34 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, pp.187-8.
35 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, p.152.
36 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, p.330.
37 See Balyuzi, ‘Abdu-Bahá, p.402.
38 Hoagg, “Abdul-Bahá’s return to the Holy Land,” Star of the West, vol. 4,
no.17 (19 January 1914), pp.288, 290.
39 See Yazdi, “Memories of Shoghi Effendi,” Bahá’í World, vol. 19 (1983-
1986), p.756.
40 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.xii.
41 See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p.281, chap. 19, para.6.
42 See “The Centenary of the Arrival of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt (continued).”
43 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, p.96.
44 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, pp.62-3.
45 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, pp.88-9.
46 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, pp.109-10.
47 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, pp.106-7.
48 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, pp.165-6.
49 Sohrab, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt, p.80.
50 Gregory, A Heavenly Vista, bahai-library.com/gregory_heavenly_vista.
51 His eldest daughter Zíyá Khánum.
52 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.141.
53 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p.192.
54 Quoted in Bahiyyih Khánum, p.28.
55 See Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.107.
56 See Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.85.
57 Seemingly the first daughter of the Master, Ḍíyá Khánum, the mother of
Shoghi Effendi]
58 A Bahá’í who in 1913 was with the Master in Ramleh. See Sohrab, Abdul-
Bahá in Egypt, pp.189, 195, 282. He could be the same Bashír, the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen

Master’s steward, mentioned by Marzieh Gail (1908-1993) in Summon,
p.237ff.
59 An old Persian believer of the times of Bahá’u’lláh who in those days lived
in Cairo and who passed away in a very advanced age on 5 December 1919.
See “Mirza Haji Niaz,” Star of the West, vol. 10, no.19 (2 March 1920),
p.351.
60 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.283.
61 See Rouhani Ma’ani, Leaves, p.346.
62 Rabbaní, Priceless Pearl, p.21.
63 See Rouhani Ma’ani, Leaves, pp.336-8.
64 See Yazdi, Blessings, pp. 20, 22.
65 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, pp.6-7.
66 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.139.
67 Quoted in “bahaitravelswest. #9 — 100 Years Ago — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remains
in Ramleh, Egypt.”
68 “Abdul-Bahá in Egypt,” Star of the West, vol. 1, n.15 (12 December 1912),
pp.2-3.
69 Century of Light, p.14, cap.2, par. 16.
70 See Scharbrodt, Islam and the Baha’i Faith.
71 Quoted in “bahaitravelswest. #9 — 100 Years Ago — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remains
in Ramleh, Egypt.”
72 Quoted in Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.136.
73 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp.136-7.
74 See “bahaitravelswest. #9 — 100 Years Ago — ‘Abdu’l-Bahá remains in
Ramleh, Egypt.”
75 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.137.
76 Quoted in “The Centenary of the Arrival of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Egypt
(continued).”
77 Quoted in Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.398.
78 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 5.
79 Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.401.
80 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, pp.195-6.
81 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.201.
82 See Balyuzi, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p.230.
83 Quoted in Root, “A Great Prince Speaks of ‘Abdu’l Baha,” Star of the
West, vol. 20, no.10 (January 1930), p.301.
84 Ibidem.
85 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.276.
86 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.167.

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’ in Egypt

87 See Holley, “Current Bahá’í Activities in the East and West. Australasia
and the Far East,” Bahá’í World, vol. 4 (1930-32), p.89.
88 See “‘Abbás Mahmúd Al-’Aqqad visits ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” The Far-Stretching
River.
89 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, pp.354-5.
90 See (Tudor-Pole), “A Wonderful Movement In The East. A Visit To Abdul
Baha At Alexandria,” Star of the West, 1:18 (7 February 1911), pp.1-4.
91 “Extracts from Letter from Mr. Wellesley Tudor Pole,” Star of the West,
vol. 1, no.18 (7 February 1911), pp.5-6.
92 Quoted in Blomfield, The Chosen Highway, p.227.
93 Ibidem.
94 See Root, “A Visit to Rustum Vambery,” Star of the West, vol. 19, no.11
(February 1929), p.330.
95 Gregory, “A Heavenly Vista.”
96 See “Baha’i country notes: Egypt.”
97 See “A Glimpse of Mirza Abul-Fazl at Ramleh,” Star of the West, vol. 4,
no.19 (2 March 1914), pp.316-7.
98 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p.23.
99 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.126.
100 “1926. International Bahá’í Bureau.”
101 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.62.
102 See “The Disciples of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Heralds of the Covenant’,” The
Bahá’í World, vol. 3 (1928-1930), pp.84-5.
103 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.182.
104 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, pp.329-30.
105 Sohrab, Abdul-Bahá in Egypt, p.198.
106 Century of Light, pp.14-15, cap.2, par. 16-18.
107 Century of Light, pp.14-15, cap.2, par. 16-18.
108 Ri∂ván 2011, to the Bahá’ís of the World.

Elucidations
Individual Rights and Freedoms
A Message from the Universal House of Justice
December 29, 1988
To the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America
Dear Bahá’í Friends,
We have noticed with concern evidences of a confusion of
attitudes among some of the friends when they encounter
difficulties in applying Bahá’í principles to questions of the day.
On the one hand, they acknowledge their belief in Bahá’u’lláh
and His teachings; on the other, they invoke Western liberal
democratic practices when actions of Bahá’í institutions or of
some of their fellow Bahá’ís do not accord with their
expectations. At the heart of this confusion are misconceptions
of such fundamental issues as individual rights and freedom of
expression in the Bahá’í community. The source of the potential
difficulties of the situation appears to us to be an inadequacy
of Bahá’í perspective on the part of both individual believers
and their institutions.
Recognizing the immense challenge you face to resolve such
confusion, we pause to reflect with you on these issues in search
of a context in which relevant fundamental questions may be
discussed and understood in the community.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The extraordinary capacities of the American nation, as well
as the superb stewardship of the Bahá’í community within it,
have repeatedly been extolled in the writings of our Faith. In
His Tablets and utterances, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Centre of the
Covenant, projected a compelling vision of the world-
embracing prospects of that richly endowed country. “The
American nation,” He averred, “is equipped and empowered to
accomplish that which will adorn the pages of history, to
become the envy of the world, and be blest in both the East and
the West for the triumph of its people.” In another assertion
addressed to the Bahá’í community itself, He uttered words of
transcendent importance: “...your mission,” He affirmed, “is
unspeakably glorious. Should success crown your enterprise,
America will assuredly evolve into a centre from which waves of
spiritual power will emanate, and the throne of the Kingdom of
God will, in the plentitude of its majesty and glory, be firmly
established.”
Shoghi Effendi, in various statements, celebrated the
remarkable achievements and potential glories of that specially
blessed community, but was moved to issue, in “The Advent of
Divine Justice,” a profound warning which is essential to a
proper understanding of the relation of that Bahá’í community
to the nation from which it has sprung. “The glowing tributes,”
he solemnly wrote, “so repeatedly and deservedly paid to the
capacity, the spirit, the conduct, and the high rank, of the
American believers, both individually and as an organic
community, must, under no circumstances, be confounded with
the characteristics and nature of the people from which God has
raised them up. A sharp distinction between that community
and that people must be made, and resolutely and fearlessly
upheld, if we wish to give due recognition to the transmuting
power of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, in its impact on the lives and
standards of those who have chosen to enlist under His banner.
Otherwise, the supreme and distinguishing function of His
Revelation, which is none other than the calling into being of a
new race of men, will remain wholly unrecognized and
completely obscured.” It is the far-reaching, transformative
implications of this distinction which we especially invite you
to contemplate.

Individual Rights and Freedoms
The vantage point that gives us perspective and is the
foundation of our belief and actions rests on our recognition of
the sovereignty of God and our submission to His will as
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, His supreme Manifestation for this
promised Day. To accept the Prophet of God in His time and to
abide by His bidding are the two essential, inseparable duties
which each soul was created to fulfill. One exercises these twin
duties by one’s own choice, an act constituting the highest
expression of the free will with which every human being has
been endowed by an all-loving Creator.
The vehicle in this resplendent Age for the practical
fulfillment of these duties is the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh; it is,
indeed, the potent instrument by which individual belief in Him
is translated into constructive deeds. The Covenant comprises
divinely conceived arrangements necessary to preserve the
organic unity of the Cause. It therefore engenders a motivating
power which, as the beloved Master tells us, “like unto the
artery, beats and pulsates in the body of the world”. “It is
indubitably clear,” He asserts,: “that the pivot of the oneness of
mankind is nothing else but the power of the Covenant.”
Through it the meaning of the Word, both in theory and
practice, is made evident in the life and work of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
the appointed Interpreter, the perfect Exemplar, the Centre of
the Covenant. Through it the processes of the Administrative
Order — “this unique, this wondrous System” — are made to
operate.
In emphasizing its distinctiveness, Shoghi Effendi has
pointed out that “this Administrative Order is fundamentally
different from anything that any Prophet has previously
established, inasmuch as Bahá’u’lláh has Himself revealed its
principles, established its institutions, appointed the person to
interpret His Word and conferred the necessary authority on
the body designed to supplement and apply His legislative
ordinances”. In another statement, he maintains that, “It would
be utterly misleading to attempt a comparison between this
unique, divinely-conceived Order and any of the diverse systems
which the minds of men, at various periods of their history,
have contrived for the government of human institutions.”
“Such an attempt,” he felt, “would in itself betray a lack of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
complete appreciation of the excellence of the handiwork of its
great Author.”
The lack of such appreciation will detract from the
perspective of anyone who measures Bahá’í administrative
processes against practices prevalent in today’s society. For
notwithstanding its inclination to democratic methods in the
administration of its affairs, and regardless of the resemblance
of some of its features to those of other systems, the
Administrative Order is not to be viewed merely as an
improvement on past and existing systems; it represents a
departure both in origin and in concept. “This new-born
Administrative Order,” as Shoghi Effendi has explained,
“incorporates within its structure certain elements which are to
be found in each of the three recognized forms of secular
government, without being in any sense a mere replica of any
one of them, and without introducing within its machinery any
of the objectionable features which they inherently possess. It
blends and harmonizes, as no government fashioned by mortal
hands has as yet accomplished, the salutary truths which each of
these systems undoubtedly contains without vitiating the
integrity of those God-given verities on which it is ultimately
founded.”
You are, no doubt, conversant with the Guardian’s
expatiations on this theme. Why, then, this insistent emphasis?
Why this repeated review of fundamentals? This emphasis, this
review, is to sound an appeal for solid thinking, for the
attainment of correct perspectives, for the adoption of proper
attitudes. And these are impossible without a deep appreciation
of Bahá’í fundamentals.
The great emphasis on the distinctiveness of the Order of
Bahá’u’lláh is not meant to belittle existing systems of
government. Indeed, they are to be recognized as the fruit of a
vast period of social evolution, representing an advanced stage
in the development of social organization. What motivates us is
the knowledge that the supreme mission of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh, the Bearer of that Order, is, as Shoghi Effendi
pointed out, “none other but the achievement of this organic
and spiritual unity of the whole body of nations,” indicating the
“coming of age of the entire human race”. The astounding

Individual Rights and Freedoms
implication of this is the near prospect of attaining an age-old
hope, now made possible at long last by the coming of
Bahá’u’lláh. In practical terms, His mission signals the advent of
“an organic change in the structure of present-day society, a
change such as the world has not yet experienced”. It is a fresh
manifestation of the direct involvement of God in history, a
reassurance that His children have not been left to drift, a sign
of the outpouring of a heavenly grace that will enable all
humanity to be free at last from conflict and contention to
ascend the heights of world peace and divine civilization.
Beyond all else, it is a demonstration of that love for His
children, which He knew in the depth of His “immemorial
being” and in the “ancient eternity” of His Essence, and which
caused Him to create us all. In the noblest sense, then, attention
to the requirements of His World Order is a reciprocation of
that love.
* * *
It is this perspective that helps us to understand the question
of freedom and its place in Bahá’í thought and action. The idea
and the fact of freedom pervade all human concerns in an
infinitude of notions and modes. Freedom is indeed essential to
all expressions of human life.
Freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of
action are among the freedoms which have received the ardent
attention of social thinkers across the centuries. The resulting
outflow of such profound thought has exerted a tremendous
liberating influence in the shaping of modern society.
Generations of the oppressed have fought and died in the name
of freedom. Certainly the want of freedom from oppression has
been a dominant factor in the turmoil of the times: witness the
plethora of movements which have resulted in the rapid
emergence of new nations in the latter part of the twentieth
century. A true reading of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh leaves no
doubt as to the high importance of these freedoms to
constructive
social
processes.
Consider,
for
instance,
Bahá’u’lláh’s proclamation to the kings and rulers. Can it not be
deduced from this alone that attainment of freedom is a
significant purpose of His Revelation? His denunciations of
tyranny and His urgent appeals on behalf of the oppressed

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
provide unmistakable proof. But does not the freedom
foreshadowed by His Revelation imply nobler, ampler
manifestations of human achievement? Does it not indicate an
organic relationship between the internal and external realities
of man such as has not yet been attained?
In his summary of significant Bahá’í teachings, Shoghi
Effendi wrote that Bahá’u’lláh “inculcates the principle of
‘moderation in all things’; declares that whatsoever, be it
‘liberty, civilization and the like’, ‘passeth beyond the limits of
moderation’ must ‘exercise a pernicious influence upon men’;
observes that western civilization has gravely perturbed and
alarmed the peoples of the world; and predicts that the day is
approaching when the ‘flame’ of a civilization ‘carried to
excess’ ‘will devour the cities’.”
Expounding the theme of liberty, Bahá’u’lláh asserted that
“the embodiment of liberty and its symbol is the animal”; that
“liberty causeth man to overstep the bounds of propriety, and
to infringe on the dignity of his station”; that “true liberty
consisteth in man’s submission unto My commandments”. “We
approve of liberty in certain circumstances,” He declared, “and
refuse to sanction it in others.” But He gave the assurance that,
“Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them
from the Heaven of Revelation, they would, of a certainty,
attain unto perfect liberty.” And again He said: “Mankind in its
entirety must firmly adhere to whatsoever hath been revealed
and vouchsafed unto it. Then and only then will it attain unto
true liberty.”
Bahá’u’lláh’s assertions clearly call for an examination of
current assumptions. Should liberty be as free as is supposed in
contemporary Western thought? Where does freedom limit our
possibilities for progress, and where do limits free us to thrive?
What are the limits to the expansion of freedom? For so fluid
and elastic are its qualities of application and expression that
the concept of freedom in any given situation is likely to
assume a different latitude from one mind to another; these
qualities are, alas, susceptible to the employment alike of good
and evil. Is it any wonder, then, that Bahá’u’lláh exhorts us to
submission to the will of God?

Individual Rights and Freedoms
Since any constructive view of freedom implies limits,
further questions are inevitable: what are the latitudes of
freedom in the Bahá’í community? How are these to be
determined? Because human beings have been created to “carry
forward an ever-advancing civilization,” the exercise of
freedom, it may be deduced, is intended to enable all to fulfill
this purpose in their individual lives and in their collective
functioning as a society. Hence whatever in principle is required
to realize this purpose gauges the latitudes or limits of freedom.
Contemplating Bahá’u’lláh’s warning that “whatsoever
passeth beyond the limits of moderation will cease to exert a
beneficial influence,” we come to appreciate that the
Administrative Order He has conceived embodies the operating
principles which are necessary to the maintenance of that
moderation which will ensure the “true liberty” of humankind.
All things considered, does the Administrative Order not appear
to be the structure of freedom for our Age? ‘Abdu’l-Bahá offers
us comfort in this thought, for He has said that “the moderate
freedom which guarantees the welfare of the world of mankind
and maintains and preserves the universal relationships, is found
in its fullest power and extension in the teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh”.
Within this framework of freedom a pattern is set for
institutional and individual behavior which depends for its
efficacy not so much on the force of law, which admittedly
must be respected, as on the recognition of a mutuality of
benefits, and on the spirit of cooperation maintained by the
willingness, the courage, the sense of responsibility, and the
initiative of individuals — these being expressions of their
devotion and submission to the will of God. Thus there is a
balance of freedom between the institution, whether national or
local, and the individuals who sustain its existence.
Consider, for example, the Local Spiritual Assembly, the
methods of its formation and the role of individuals in electing
it. The voter elects with the understanding that he is free to
choose without any interference whomever his conscience
prompts him to select, and he freely accepts the authority of the
outcome. In the act of voting, the individual subscribes to a
covenant by which the orderliness of society is upheld. The

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Assembly has the responsibility to guide, direct and decide on
community affairs and the right to be obeyed and supported by
members
of
the
community.
The
individual
has
the
responsibility to establish and maintain the Assembly through
election, the offering of advice, moral support and material
assistance; and he has the right to be heard by it, to receive its
guidance and assistance, and to appeal from any Assembly
decision which he conscientiously feels is unjust or detrimental
to the interests of the community.
But occupation with the mechanics of Bahá’í Administration,
divorced from the animating spirit of the Cause, leads to a
distortion, to an arid secularization foreign to the nature of the
Administration. Equally significant to the procedures for
election — to further extend the example — is the evocation of
that rarefied atmosphere of prayer and reflection, that quiet
dignity of the process, devoid of nominations and campaigning,
in which the individual’s freedom to choose is limited only by
his own conscience, exercised in private in an attitude that
invites communion with the Holy Spirit. In this sphere, the
elector regards the outcome as an expression of the will of God
and those elected as being primarily responsible to that will, not
to the constituency which elected them. An election thus
conducted portrays an aspect of that organic unity of the inner
and outer realities of human life which is necessary to the
construction of a mature society in this new Age. In no other
system do individuals exercise such a breadth of freedom in the
electoral process.
* * *
The equilibrium of responsibilities implied by all this
presupposes maturity on the part of all concerned. This
maturity has an apt analogy in adulthood in human beings. How
significant is the difference between infancy and childhood,
adolescence and adulthood! In a period of history dominated by
the surging energy, the rebellious spirit and frenetic activity of
adolescence, it is difficult to grasp the distinguishing elements
of the mature society to which Bahá’u’lláh beckons all
humanity. The models of the old world order blur vision of that
which must be perceived; for these models were, in many
instances, conceived in rebellion and retain the characteristics

Individual Rights and Freedoms
of the revolutions peculiar to an adolescent, albeit necessary,
period in the evolution of human society. The very philosophies
which have provided the intellectual content of such revolutions
— Hobbes, Locke, Jefferson, Mill, come readily to mind — were
inspired by protest against the oppressive conditions which
revolutions were intended to remedy.
These characteristics are conspicuous, for example, in the
inordinate skepticism regarding authority, and consequently, in
the grudging respect which the citizens of various nations show
toward their governments; they have become pronounced in the
incessant promotion of individualism, often to the detriment of
the wider interests of society. How aptly, even after the lapse
of half a century, Shoghi Effendi’s views, as conveyed by his
secretary, fit the contemporary scene: “Our present generation,
mainly due to the corruptions that have been identified with
organizations, seem to stand against any institution. Religion as
an institution is denounced. Government as an institution is
denounced. Even marriage as an institution is denounced. We
Bahá’ís should not be blinded by such prevalent notions. If such
were the case, all the divine Manifestations would not have
invariably appointed someone to succeed Them. Undoubtedly,
corruptions did enter those institutions, but these corruptions
were not due to the very nature of the institutions but to the
lack of proper directions as to their powers and nature of their
perpetuation. What Bahá’u’lláh has done is not to eliminate all
institutions in the Cause but to provide the necessary
safeguards that would eliminate corruptions that caused the fall
of previous institutions. What those safeguards are is most
interesting to study and find out and also most essential to
know.”
We make these observations not to indulge in criticism of
any system, but rather to open up lines of thought, to
encourage a re-examination of the bases of modern society, and
to engender a perspective for consideration of the distinctive
features of the Order of Bahá’u’lláh. What, it could be asked,
was the nature of society that gave rise to such characteristics
and such philosophies? Where have these taken mankind? Has
their employment satisfied the needs and expectations of the
human spirit? The answers to such questions could lay the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
ground for a contrasting observation of the origin and nature
of the characteristics and philosophy underlying that Order.
* * *
As to freedom of expression, a fundamental principle of the
Cause, the Administrative Order provides unique methods and
channels for its exercise and maintenance; these have been
amply described in the writings of the Faith, but they are not
yet clearly understood by the friends. For Bahá’u’lláh has
extended the scope and deepened the meaning of self-
expression. In His elevation of art and of work performed in
the service of humanity to acts of worship can be discerned
enormous prospects for a new birth of expression in the
civilization anticipated by His World Order. The significance
of this principle, now so greatly amplified by the Lord of the
Age, cannot be doubted; but it is in its ramifications in speech
that keen understanding is urgently needed. From a Bahá’í point
of view, the exercise of freedom of speech must necessarily be
disciplined by a profound appreciation of both the positive and
negative dimensions of freedom, on the one hand, and of
speech, on the other.
Bahá’u’lláh warns us that “the tongue is a smouldering fire,
and excess of speech a deadly poison.” “Material fire consumeth
the body,” He says in elaborating the point, “whereas the fire of
the tongue devoureth both heart and soul. The force of the
former lasteth but for a time, whilst the effects of the latter
endureth a century.” In tracing the framework of free speech,
He again advises “moderation”. “Human utterance is an essence
which aspireth to exert its influence and needeth moderation,”
He states, adding: “As to its influence, this is conditional upon
refinement which in turn is dependent upon hearts which are
detached and pure. As to its moderation, this hath to be
combined with tact and wisdom as prescribed in the Holy
Scriptures and Tablets.”
Also relevant to what is said, and how, is when it is said. For
speech, as for so many other things, there is a season.
Bahá’u’lláh reinforces this understanding by drawing attention
to the maxim that, “Not everything that a man knoweth can be
disclosed, nor can everything that he can disclose be regarded as

Individual Rights and Freedoms
timely, nor can every timely utterance be considered as suited to
the capacity of those who hear it.”
Speech is a powerful phenomenon. Its freedom is both to be
extolled and feared. It calls for an acute exercise of judgement,
since both the limitation of speech and the excess of it can lead
to dire consequences. Thus there exist in the system of
Bahá’u’lláh checks and balances necessary to the beneficial uses
of this freedom in the onward development of society. A
careful examination of the principles of Bahá’í consultation and
the formal and informal arrangements for employing them offer
new insights into the dynamics of freedom of expression.
As it is beyond the scope of this letter to expatiate upon
these principles, let it suffice to recall briefly certain of the
requisites of consultation, particularly for those who serve on
Spiritual Assemblies. Love and harmony, purity of motive,
humility and lowliness amongst the friends, patience and long-
suffering in difficulties — these inform the attitude with which
they proceed “with the utmost devotion, courtesy, dignity, care
and moderation to express their views,” each using “perfect
liberty” both in so doing and in “unveiling the proof of his
demonstration”. “If another contradicts him, he must not
become excited because if there be no investigation or
verification of questions and matters, the agreeable view will
not be discovered neither understood.” “The shining spark of
truth cometh forth only after the clash of differing opinions.”
If unanimity is not subsequently achieved, decisions are arrived
at by majority vote.
Once a decision has been reached, all members of the
consultative body, having had the opportunity fully to state
their views, agree wholeheartedly to support the outcome. What
if the minority view is right? “If they agree upon a subject,”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has explained, “even though it be wrong, it is
better than to disagree and be in the right, for this difference
will produce the demolition of the divine foundation. Though
one of the parties may be in the right and they disagree that will
be the cause of a thousand wrongs, but if they agree and both
parties are in the wrong, as it is in unity the truth will be
revealed and the wrong made right.” Implicit in this approach to
the social utility of thought is the profundity of the change in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
the standard of public discussion intended by Bahá’u’lláh for a
mature society.
The qualities by which the individual can achieve the personal
discipline necessary to successful consultation find their full
expression in what Shoghi Effendi regarded as the “spirit of a
true Bahá’í”. Ponder, for instance, the appealing remark
addressed to your own community in one of his earliest letters:
“Nothing short of the spirit of a true Bahá’í can hope to
reconcile the principles of mercy and justice, of freedom and
submission, of the sanctity of the right of the individual and of
self-surrender, of vigilance, discretion and prudence on the one
hand, and fellowship, candour, and courage on the other.” This
was an appeal to the maturity and the distinction towards which
he repeatedly directed their thoughts.
* * *
Because the Most Great Peace is the object of our longing, a
primary effort of the Bahá’í community is to reduce the
incidence of conflict and contention, which have categorically
been forbidden in the Most Holy Book. Does this mean that one
may not express critical thought? Absolutely not. How can there
be the candour called for in consultation if there is no critical
thought? How is the individual to exercise his responsibilities to
the Cause, if he is not allowed the freedom to express his views?
Has Shoghi Effendi not stated that “at the very root of the
Cause lies the principle of the undoubted right of the individual
to self-expression, his freedom to declare his conscience and set
forth his views”?
The Administrative Order provides channels for expression
of criticism, acknowledging, as a matter of principle, that “it is
not only the right, but the vital responsibility of every loyal and
intelligent member of the community to offer fully and frankly,
but with due respect and consideration to the authority of the
Assembly, any suggestion, recommendation or criticism he
conscientiously feels he should in order to improve and remedy
certain existing conditions or trends in his local community”.
Correspondingly, the Assembly has the duty: “to give careful
consideration to any such views submitted to them”.

Individual Rights and Freedoms
Apart from the direct access which one has to an Assembly,
local or national, or to a Counsellor or Auxiliary Board
member, there are specific occasions for the airing of one’s
views in the community. The most frequent of these occasions
for any Bahá’í is the Nineteen Day Feast which, “besides its
social and spiritual aspects, fulfills various administrative needs
and requirements of the community, chief among them being
the need for open and constructive criticism and deliberation
regarding the state of affairs within the local Bahá’í
community”. At the same time, Shoghi Effendi’s advice, as
conveyed by his secretary, goes on to stress the point that “all
criticisms and discussions of a negative character which may
result in undermining the authority of the Assembly as a body
should be strictly avoided. For otherwise the order of the Cause
itself will be endangered, and confusion and discord will reign
in the community.”
Clearly, then, there is more to be considered than the critic’s
right to self-expression; the unifying spirit of the Cause of God
must also be preserved, the authority of its laws and ordinances
safeguarded, authority being an indispensable aspect of
freedom. Motive, manner, mode, become relevant; but there is
also the matter of love: love for one’s fellows, love for one’s
community, love for one’s institutions.
The responsibility resting on the individual to conduct
himself in such a way as to ensure the stability of society takes
on elemental importance in this context. For vital as it is to the
progress of society, criticism is a two-edged sword: it is all too
often the harbinger of conflict and contention. The balanced
processes of the Administrative Order are meant to prevent this
essential activity from degenerating to any form of dissent that
breeds opposition and its dreadful schismatic consequences.
How incalculable have been the negative results of ill-directed
criticism: in the catastrophic divergences it has created in
religion, in the equally contentious factions it has spawned in
political
systems,
which
have
dignified
conflict
by
institutionalizing such concepts as the “loyal opposition” which
attach to one or another of the various categories of political
opinion: conservative, liberal, progressive, reactionary, and so
forth.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
If Bahá’í individuals deliberately ignore the principles
imbedded in the Order which Bahá’u’lláh Himself has
established to remedy divisiveness in the human family, the
Cause for which so much has been sacrificed will surely be set
back in its mission to rescue world society from complete
disintegration. May not the existence of the Covenant be
invoked again and again, so that such repetition may preserve
the needed perspective? For, in this age, the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh has been protected against the baneful effects of the
misuse of the process of criticism; this has been done by the
institution of the Covenant and by the provision of a universal
administrative system which incorporates within itself the
mechanisms for drawing out the constructive ideas of
individuals and using them for the benefit of the entire system.
Admonishing the people to uphold the unifying purpose of the
Cause, Bahá’u’lláh, in the Book of His Covenant, addresses
these poignant words to them: “Let not the means of order be
made the cause of confusion and the instrument of union an
occasion for discord.” Such assertions emphasize a crucial
point; it is this: In terms of the Covenant, dissidence is a moral
and intellectual contradiction of the main objective animating
the Bahá’í community, namely, the establishment of the unity of
mankind.
* * *
We return to the phenomenal characteristics of speech.
Content, volume, style, tact, wisdom, timeliness are among the
critical factors in determining the effects of speech for good or
evil. Consequently, the friends need ever to be conscious of the
significance of this activity which so distinguishes human beings
from other forms of life, and they must exercise it judiciously.
Their efforts at such discipline will give birth to an etiquette of
expression worthy of the approaching maturity of the human
race. Just as this discipline applies to the spoken word, it
applies equally to the written word; and it profoundly affects
the operation of the press.
The significance and role of the press in a new world system
are conspicuous in the emphasis which the Order of Bahá’u’lláh
places on accessibility to information at all levels of society.
Shoghi Effendi tells us that Bahá’u’lláh makes “specific

Individual Rights and Freedoms
reference to ‘the swiftly appearing newspapers’, describes them
as ‘the mirror of the world’ and as ‘an amazing and potent
phenomenon’, and prescribes to all who are responsible for their
production the duty to be sanctified from malice, passion and
prejudice, to be just and fair-minded, to be painstaking in their
inquiries, and ascertain all the facts in every situation”.
In His social treatise, “The Secret of Divine Civilization,”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá offers insight as to the indispensability of the
press in future society. He says it is “urgent that beneficial
articles and books be written, clearly and definitely establishing
what the present-day requirements of the people are, and what
will conduce to the happiness and advancement of society”.
Further, He writes of the “publication of high thoughts” as the
“dynamic power in the arteries of life,” “the very soul of the
world”. Moreover, He states that, “Public opinion must be
directed toward whatever is worthy of this day, and this is
impossible except through the use of adequate arguments and
the adducing of clear, comprehensive and conclusive proofs.”
As to manner and style, Bahá’u’lláh has exhorted “authors
among the friends” to “write in such a way as would be
acceptable to fair-minded souls, and not lead to cavilling by the
people”. And He issues a reminder: “We have said in the past
that one word hath the influence of spring and causeth hearts to
become fresh and verdant, while another is like unto blight
which causeth the blossoms and flowers to wither.”
In the light of all this, the code of conduct of the press must
embrace the principles and objectives of consultation as
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. Only in this way will the press be able
to make its full contribution to the preservation of the rights of
the people and become a powerful instrument in the
consultative processes of society, and hence for the unity of the
human race.
* * *
Some of the friends have suggested that the emergence of the
Faith from obscurity indicates the timeliness of ceasing
observance in the Bahá’í community of certain restraints;

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
particularly are they concerned about the temporary necessity
of review before publishing.
That the Faith has emerged from obscurity on a global scale is
certain. This definitely marks a triumphant stage in the efforts
of the community to register its existence on the minds of those
who influence world events. Consider how, because of the
sufferings and sacrifices of the friends in Iran, the concerns of
the community in these respects have become a matter of
discussion in the most influential parliaments and the most
important international forums on earth. That this emergence
frees the Cause to pursue objectives hitherto unreachable is also
undeniable; but that it marks the attainment of the community’s
anticipated maturity is entirely doubtful.
How could it have attained maturity, when we know from
the clear guidance of the beloved Guardian that obscurity is but
one of the many stages in the long evolution towards the Faith’s
golden destiny? Has he not advised us all that the subsequent
stage of oppression must precede the stages of its emancipation
and its recognition as a world religion? Can the friends forget
the oft-quoted warning of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá concerning the bitter
opposition that will confront the Cause in various lands on all
continents? In the case of the American believers, has Shoghi
Effendi not alluded to this coming fury in his description of
them as the “invincible Army of Bahá’u’lláh, who in the West,
and at one of its potential storm-centres is to fight, in His name
and for His sake, one of its fiercest and most glorious battles”?
Those who are anxious to relax all restraint, who invoke
freedom of speech as the rationale for publishing every and any
thing concerning the Bahá’í community, who call for the
immediate termination of the practice of review now that the
Faith has emerged from obscurity — are they not aware of these
sobering prospects? Widespread as has been the public revulsion
to the current persecutions in Iran, let there be no mistake
about the certainty of the opposition which must yet be
confronted in many countries, including that which is the
Cradle of the Administrative Order itself.
The Faith is as yet in its infancy. Despite its emergence from
obscurity, even now the vast majority of the human race

Individual Rights and Freedoms
remains ignorant of its existence; moreover, the vast majority
of its adherents are relatively new Bahá’ís. The change implied
by this new stage in its evolution is that whereas heretofore this
tender plant was protected in its obscurity from the attention
of external elements, it has now become exposed. This exposure
invites close observation, and that observation will eventually
lead to opposition in various quarters. So far from adopting a
carefree attitude, the community must be conscious of the
necessity to present a correct view of itself and an accurate
understanding of its purpose to a largely skeptical public. A
greater effort, a greater care must now be exercised to ensure
its protection against the malice of the ignorant and the
unwisdom of its friends.
Let us all remember that the struggle of the infant Faith of
God to thrive is beset with the turmoil of the present age. Like a
tender shoot just barely discernible above ground, it must be
nurtured to strength and maturity and buttressed as necessary
against the blight of strong winds and deadly entanglements
with weeds and thistles. If we to whose care this plant has been
entrusted are insensitive to its tenderness, the great tree which
is its certain potential will be hindered in its growth towards the
spreading of its sheltering branches over all humankind. From
this perspective we must all consider the latent danger to the
Cause of ill-advised actions and exaggerated expectations; and
particularly must we all be concerned about the effects of
words, especially those put in print. It is here that Bahá’í
authors and publishers need to be attentive and exert rigorous
discipline upon themselves, as well as abide by the requirements
of review at this early stage in the development of the Faith.
* * *
The right of the individual to self-expression has permeated
the foregoing comments on the various freedoms, but, even so,
a word more might be said about individual freedom. The
fundamental attitude of the Faith in this respect is best
demonstrated by statements of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá concerning the
family. “The integrity of the family bond,” He says,” must be
constantly considered, and the rights of the individual members
must not be transgressed.... All these rights and prerogatives
must be conserved, yet the unity of the family must be

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
sustained. The injury of one shall be considered the injury of all;
the comfort of each, the comfort of all; the honour of one, the
honour of all.”
The individual’s relation to society is explained by Shoghi
Effendi in the statement that, “The Bahá’í conception of social
life is essentially based on the principle of the subordination of
the individual will to that of society. It neither suppresses the
individual nor does it exalt him to the point of making him an
anti-social creature, a menace to society. As in everything, it
follows the golden mean.”
This relationship, so fundamental to the maintenance of
civilized life, calls for the utmost degree of understanding and
cooperation between society and the individual; and because the
need to foster a climate in which the untold potentialities of the
individual members of society can develop, this relationship
must allow “free scope” for “individuality to assert itself”
through modes of spontaneity, initiative and diversity that
ensure the viability of society. Among the responsibilities
assigned to Bahá’í institutions which have a direct bearing on
these aspects of individual freedom and development is one
which is thus described in the Constitution of the Universal
House of Justice: “to safeguard the personal rights, freedom
and initiative of individuals”. A corollary is: “to give attention
to the preservation of human honour”.
How noteworthy that in the Order of Bahá’u’lláh, while the
individual will is subordinated to that of society, the individual
is not lost in the mass but becomes the focus of primary
development, so that he may find his own place in the flow of
progress, and society as a whole may benefit from the
accumulated talents and abilities of the individuals composing
it. Such an individual finds fulfillment of his potential not
merely in satisfying his own wants but in realizing his
completeness in being at one with humanity and with the
divinely ordained purpose of creation.
The quality of freedom and of its expression — indeed, the
very capacity to maintain freedom in a society — undoubtedly
depends on the knowledge and training of individuals and on
their ability to cope with the challenges of life with equanimity.

Individual Rights and Freedoms
As the beloved Master has written: “And the honour and
distinction of the individual consist in this, that he among all
the world’s multitudes should become a source of social good.
Is any larger bounty conceivable than this, that an individual,
looking within himself, should find that by the confirming grace
of God he has become the cause of peace and well-being, of
happiness and advantage to his fellow men? No, by the one true
God, there is no greater bliss, no more complete delight.”
* * *
The spirit of liberty which in recent decades has swept over
the planet with such tempestuous force is a manifestation of the
vibrancy of the Revelation brought by Bahá’u’lláh. His own
words confirm it. “The Ancient Beauty,” He wrote in a soul-
stirring commentary on His sufferings, “hath consented to be
bound with chains that mankind may be released from its
bondage, and hath accepted to be made a prisoner within this
most mighty Stronghold that the whole world may attain unto
true liberty.”
Might it not be reasonably concluded, then, that “true
liberty” is His gift of love to the human race? Consider what
Bahá’u’lláh has done: He revealed laws and principles to guide
the free, He established an Order to channel the actions of the
free, He proclaimed a Covenant to guarantee the unity of the
free.
Thus, we hold to this ultimate perspective: Bahá’u’lláh came
to set humanity free. His Revelation is, indeed, an invitation to
freedom — freedom from want, freedom from war, freedom to
unite, freedom to progress, freedom in peace and joy.
You, who live in a land where freedom is so highly prized,
have not, then, to dispense with its fruits, but you are
challenged and do have the obligation to uphold and vindicate
the distinction between the licence that limits your possibilities
for genuine progress and the moderation that ensures the
enjoyment of true liberty.
[signed]
The Universal House of Justice

Appendices
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their
abbreviations used in this book
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, `Abdu’l-Bahá in London
ADP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy
BWF
Compilation, Bahá’í World Faith
DG
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, Hidden Words
JWTA
Compilation, Japan Will Turn Ablaze!
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán
PB
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh
PBA
Compilation, Principles of Bahá’í Administration
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions
SCKA
Synopsis and Codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Secret of Divine Civilization
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, Summons of the Lord of Hosts
SVFV
Bahá’u’lláh, Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet to Auguste Forel
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
TDP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan
TU
Bahá’u’lláh, Tabernacle of Unity
WOB
Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books 1-13
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)

Appendices
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-
baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: Introduction and Three
Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád): A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of
God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: intro and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in 19th-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ming Tang and 19th-century China
Jianping Wang
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid `Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-
i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

Appendices
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the women
of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine Throne
and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi

Appendices
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven, © 2006
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials
on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey
of Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Law˙-i-Óikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a
Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge
“The newly born Babe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-
1863)
Ramsey Zeine
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eight, © 2007
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea, translated by Francisco J. Díaz
Baron Rosen’s Archive Collection of Bábí and Bahá’í Materials
Youli Ioannesyan

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Mysticism East and West
Farhang Jahanpour
The Word is the Master Key for the Whole World: The “Teaching and
Spirit of the Cause” in Dialogical and Personal Thinking
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Buddhism and the Bahá’í Writings: An Ontological Rapprochement
Ian Kluge
Why the Bahá’í Faith Is Not Pluralist
Grant S. Martin
The Art of Rhetoric in the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
Jack McLean
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet on the Functioning of the Universal House of
Justice: A Provisional Translation and Commentary
Moojan Momen
The Bahá’í Covenant
Ali Nakhjavani
Minimalism from a Bahá’í Perspective
Mahyad Zaerpoor Rahnamaie
Law˙-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam) Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh: A
Provisional Translation and Commentary
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani Mazzoli
The Emergence of World Civilization: An Exposition on Excerpts
from the Writings of Shoghi Effendi
James B. Thomas
Designation of Mírzá Yahyá Azal in the Writings of the Báb: Will and
Testament of the Báb; Memorandum from the Research
Department; Making the Crooked Straight
Letters Written on Behalf of the Guardian
Daniel’s Prophecies
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Nine, © 2008
Emergence, Enchantment, Entanglement and Excellence of the
Cosmos
Wolfgang Klebel
Bahá’u’lláh’s “Most Sublime Vision”
Wolfgang Klebel
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part One
Ian Kluge

Appendices
Postmodernism and the Bahá’í Writings Part Two
Ian Kluge
Relativism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Shoghi Effendi’s The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh: A Theology of the
Word
Jack McLean
Insider and Outsider Scholarship in Bahá’í Studies
Moojan Momen
The Lesser Peace and the Most Great Peace
`Ali Nakhjavani
The Súrat al-mulk and the Súrat al-mulúk: A Preliminary Comparison
Sholeh A. Quinn
Prophets and Mountains
Moshe Sharon
Prayers and rituals in the Bahá’í Faith: A Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá `Alí-
Akbar fí Ardi’l-Álif
Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
Tablet to Jináb-i-Mullá `Alí-Akbar fí ardi’l-álif
trans. Julio Savi and Faezeh Mardani
The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Ian Semple
The Rise of Justice in the Spiritual and Secular Life of Man: An
Exposition on excerpts from The Advent of Divine Justice
James B. Thomas
The Resurrection and Return of Jesus
Issues Related to the Study of the Bahá’í Faith
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Ten, © 2009
Further Comments on a Passage of the Lawh-i-Hikmat
Amin Egea
The Bahá’í Worldview on Unity of Religions: Progressive Revelation:
Principles and Insights from the History of Science
Jena Khadem Khodadad
A Glimpse into the Life of Laura Dreyfus-Barney
Mona Khademi
In the Heart of All That Is: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and Science

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Wolfgang A. Klebel
In the Pure Soil of Thy Heart: “Heart” in Bahá’í Writings and
Neurocardiology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Some Answered Questions: A Philosophical Perspective
Ian Kluge
Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit: Chapter 31 of Some Answered
Questions
Moojan Momen
Man Is Man: ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Human Evolution
Ramin Neshati
Methods and qualities of the seekers of Reality in Some Answered
Questions in the light of Bahá’í Scriptures
Julio Savi
Comments on the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Some Thoughts on the Ministry of the Universal House of Justice
‘Ali Nakhjávání
Classification of the Bahá’í Sacred Texts
Development of Bahá’í Scholarly Activities
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Eleven, © 2010
Chronicles of a Birth Part III: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1873-1895)
Amín E. Egea
Reflections on Some Messianic Prophecies in Shaykhi Works
Y. A. Ioannesyan
Textual Context and Literary Criticism: A Case Study based on a
Letter from Shoghi Effendi
Gerald Keil
The Path of God
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neoplatonism and the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Uncompounded Reality (Lawh Basít al-
Haqíqa)
Moojan Momen
Dashavatara and Progressive Revelation
Anupam Premanand

Appendices
Towards a Contextualization of Bahá’u’lláh’s Lawh-i Qiná’
Sholeh A. Quinn
The Indispensability of Consultation for Ordering Human Affairs
Ian Semple
Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice
Infallibility of the Universal House of Justice
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Twelve, © 2011
The Travels of `Abdu’l-Bahá and their Impact on the Press
Amin Egea
The Essence of Man
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Neo-Platonism and the Bahá’í Faith, Part II
Ian Kluge
Preparing Bahá’í Communities to Embrace Gender Equality
Baharieh Rohani Ma’ani
Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Báb
Moojan Momen
The Duty of Kindness and Sympathy Towards Strangers
Julio Savi
Mayflowers in the Ville Lumière
Julio Savi
The Indispensability of Consultation
Ian Semple
The Mystery of Divinity
James B. Thomas
Speaking on Socio-Political Order
Teaching the Cause of God: A Two-Edged Sword
Ali Nakhjavani
Relativism, A Theological and Cognitive Basis for Bahá’í Ideas about
God
Moojan Momen
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Thirteen, © 2012
The Fragility of Goodness

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Shahbaz Fatheazam
I Know Not How to Sing Thy Praise
Wolfgang A. Klebel
The Bahá’í Writings and Kant’s ’Perpetual Peace’
Ian Kluge
The New Atheism — A Bahá’í Perspective
Ian Kluge
The Choice of the West for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Epoch-making trip
Baharieh Rohani Ma’ani
Apocalyptic Thinking and Process Thinking
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Encounter with Modernity
Wendi Momen
Interpretation and Elucidation
Ali Nakhjavani
Bahá’u’lláh’s Persian Poems Written before 1863
Julio Savi
Clouds and the Hiding God
Moshe Sharon
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Visit to North America, 1912
Robert H. Stockman
Authority and Centrality of the Universal House of Justice
Whether the Apostle Paul was a ”False Teacher”
The Religion of the Sabaeans and African-based Religions in the
Americas
Supreme Tribunal (Mahkamiy-i-Kubra)
Ali Nakhjavani
In Memoriam: Ian Semple (1928–2011)

Appendices
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
Moojan. Momen (ed.), Scripture and Revelation (Oxford:
George Ronald, 1997)
Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bahá’í Faith and the World Religions
(Oxford: George Ronald, 2005)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), The Lights of `Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in English), Books One to
Fourteen (2000–2013)
Iraj Ayman (ed.), Safini-yi Irfán: Compilations of Papers
Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in Persian). Books One to Fifteen,
(1998–2012)
Farah
Dustdar
(ed.),
Beiträge
des
‘Irfán–Kolloquiums:
Compilations of Papers Presented at ‘Irfán Colloquia (in
German) Books One to Five (Hofheim, Germany: Bahá’í Verlag,
2004–2009)
Maryam Afshar, Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá (2004)
Wolfgang Klebel, Revelation of Unity, Unity of Revelation
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2009)
Vahid Rafati, Áftab Ámad Dalil-i Áftáb (The proof of the Sun
is the Sun) (Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2010)
Vahid Rafati, Badáy’-i-Ma’áni va Tafsír (The Wonders of Inner
Meanings and Interpretation): Selected Commentaries of
`Abdu’l-Bahá on Qur’anic Verses and Islamic Traditions
(Darmsdat, Germany: Reyhani Verlag, 2013)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Fourteen
Distributors of `Irfán Publications
Bahá’í Distribution Service (BDS)
415 Linden Ave., Wilmette, IL 60091-2886, USA
Tel.: (847)425-7950
Fax: (847)425-7951
E-mail: BDS@usbnc.org
Bahá’í Verlag (for German publications)
Eppsteiner Str. 89, D-65719, Hofheim, Germany
Tel: (49) 6192-22921
Fax: (49)6192-22936
E-mail: office@bahai-verlag.de
Reyhani Verlag
Benzweg 4, 64293, Darmsstadt, Germany
Tel: 49-6151-95170
Fax: 49-6151-9517299
E-Mail: druck@reyhani.de