THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2009-03-15

To an individual Bahá'í

263 44 15 March 2009 To an individual Bahá’í Dear Bahá’í Friend, 44.1 . . . As your experience in the teaching field clearly demon-

strates, there are indeed many individuals in your country who are open to the Message of Bahá’u’lláh and who can be attract - ed to His Faith. To the earnest teacher, there exists a variety of methods by which such receptive souls can be introduced to the divine principles and, eventually, guided to declare their belief in God’s Messenger for this day…. 44.2 Beyond doubt is the compelling need to ensure that a

seeker’s faith in the Blessed Beauty, by whatever means it has been awakened, is nursed to maturity. This process of spiritual development entails far more than is suggested by the term deepening; it carries with it an invitation to a higher consciousness of the purpose for which every individual human being was created. It implies a fundamental reorienting of a soul towards its Creator, an awakening to the personal and social implications of the Guardian’s statement that Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation is calling into being “a new race of men,” a wholehearted dedication of one’s talents and abilities to the attainment of that day when, the Blessed Beauty assures us, “all men shall be regarded as one soul.” The efflorescence of those talents and abilities and their channeling into specific acts of service is the goal that distinguishes the training institute process from activities intended to deepen new believers.

44.3 The implications at the level of society are no less profound

than those at the individual level. “All men,” Bahá’u’lláh asserts, “have been created to carry forward an ever-advancing civili- zation.” This, rather than the mere accumulation of religious converts, is the elevated goal towards which all our efforts in the teaching field are directed. The central purpose of the 264 FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONtraining institute process is to raise up human resources who can contribute to this objective.

44.4 In countless instances—including in your own region—par -

ticipants of the institute process, whether veteran Bahá’ís or those only recently acquainted with the Faith, have testified to the efficacy of the institute courses in opening their eyes to both a new conception of spiritual reality and its implications for the creation of a new civilization, as well as empowering them to become an agent of the renewal society must undergo. The House of Justice is confident that in … there are innumerable souls who not only have the capacity to embrace this vision, but who are ready, even eager, to work towards its realization.

With loving Bahá’í greetings, Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]