Guidelines for
Improving Accessibility
As our communities become more accessible and
inclusive, we’re learning to understand that the spiritual
principle of diversity can release a significant energy
and facilitate advancement in our communities when
everyone is included. It is important to recognize that
accessibility is everyone’s responsibility, and everyone
benefits from it. The general principle is to preserve
dignity and autonomy for persons with disabilities.
The process of providing accessibility requires removing
physical barriers, changing attitudes and providing
relevant support, communication or technology to
ensure that all persons with disabilities are part of
community life. Therefore, the goal of this section is to
provide practical information to guide and assist indi­
viduals and communities in their efforts to make events
such as conferences, workshops, Feasts, 1 Local Spiritual
Assembly meetings, 2 and other public functions more
accessible to everyone. Since each person has diverse
1	 The Nineteen Day Feast is held on the first day of every
Bahá’í month, and brings together the members of the Bahá’í
community for worship, consultation and fellowship.
2	 Elected annually, Local Spiritual Assemblies consist of nine
Bahá’ís, and govern the affairs of each local Bahá’í community.
Journey of Courage: From Disability to Spiritual Ability
Bahá'í Publications Australia, 2023

needs, it would be best to ask directly what specific
accommodations they need, and then work on a plan of
action to remove the barriers. This requires consultation,
sensitivity, creativity, and an openness to work out the
practical solutions.

Guidelines for Improving Accessibility
Planning Public Events
•	 Planning for accessibility from the beginning
improves the chances for creating an event that is
enjoyable for all participants.
•	 The hybrid model has become standard practice in
the community and there is the responsibility to make
sure accommodations and technology are considered.
•	 An effective strategy for managing accessibility efforts
is to establish an advisory committee representing a
range of disabilities to oversee all phases of the event,
from planning to completion. This is especially
important for larger events. For smaller events, invite
and encourage persons with disabilities to guide and
assist with the planning process of the event.
•	 Local and national disability groups, organizations,
and social agencies are excellent resources for infor­
mation and advice and can help you find a variety
of services.
•	 Site selection may have the greatest overall impact
on accessibility to an event. Check the venue for
inaccessible architectural features when selecting a
home, restaurant, meeting room, or other facility so
wheelchair users and others with mobility limitations
can participate.
•	 Use an accessibility checklist, which is a tool to assess
the level of accessibility of public facilities such as
conference centres, etc., prior to the event being held,
preferably before the facility is booked.

•	 The registration forms should include a section to
identify whether a person has special needs and what
accommodations are required to participate.
•	 At larger events, designate someone to be responsible
for accommodations as well as help with seating,
ensuring captioning and other technology is working,
maintaining clear pathways, and other needs.
•	 Maps, floor plans, pamphlets, schedules, directional
signs, information sheets, etc., should be available
and displayed so persons with disabilities are aware
of what is accessible to them.
•	 For large or medium-sized gatherings, reserve the
front row seats for persons with disabilities.
•	 Allow those with special needs to enter into the
meeting rooms before others.
•	 Some persons with disabilities or health conditions
(visual, hearing, mobility, or medical) use service
dogs. Provide comfortable space for service dogs to
rest during event, and do not pet the service dogs.
•	 Inform the public when accommodations for persons
with disabilities will be available ahead of time to
make them feel included. Use International Symbols
of Accessibility to promote and publicize the accessi­
bility features of the events.
•	 Speak directly to the person with the disability, not to
a third party. Talking with persons with disabilities is
like talking with any other person.
•	 If you offer assistance, wait until the offer is accepted,
then listen or ask for instructions.

Guidelines for Improving Accessibility
Accessibility for Deaf & Hard of Hearing
•	 First find out the person who is deaf or hard of hear­
ing’s means of communication; speech, listening,
lipreading, and/or sign language.
•	 Face the person directly and make eye contact.
•	 Speak clearly and distinctly, and do not exaggerate
mouth movements. Use normal speed unless asked
to slow down.
•	 Keep your face clear of obstacles which includes your
hand, a microphone or any other object.
•	 If the person has difficulty understanding a particular
phrase or word, try a different way of saying the same
thing by rephrasing the sentence.
•	 Reduce background noise because many people with
hearing loss have greater difficulty understanding
speech. Avoid situations where there will be loud
sounds when possible.
•	 Make sure the physical arrangements make commu­
nication more accessible such as sufficient lighting
and sitting in a circle. Make sure the person who is
hard of hearing has their back to the light, including
the windows.
•	 In a group setting, repeat questions or key facts to
make sure everyone understood what was being said.
•	 Provide pertinent information in writing, such as
directions, names, phone numbers, etc.
•	 Use technology by typing back and forth on a
computer screen, using email, instant messenger or
text messaging.

•	 Enable captions / live transcript for Zoom meetings.
(click on settings, click on ‘In Meeting’ (Basic), turn
on ‘Closed Captions’ to ON). It’s free and automatic.
•	 Turn on CC (Closed Captions) on videos, and TV
screens for both online and in- person events.
•	 Use Otter (Otter.ai) and other programs which
transcribe speech to text. This is useful for recording
meetings and taking notes for both virtual and in-per­
son meetings.
•	 Use a good quality microphone at workshops and
meetings to assist individuals to hear better.
•	 Rent or provide Assistive Listening Devices such as
an FM system, Infrared system, loop (audio induc­
tion), and Bluetooth systems. All can be used with or
without hearing aids or a cochlear implant. Contact
the agencies that serve persons who are deaf and hard
of hearing for these systems.
•	 There are a variety of ways to use the phone –
Telecommunications relay service, IP relay service,
video relay service, hearing aid compatible phones,
videophones, captioned or amplified phones,
TTY, etc.
•	 Arrange for Sign Language Interpreters for individu­
als who use American Sign Language (ASL).
•	 If the person uses sign language and you know any
sign language, try using it and your attempts will
be appreciated.
•	 When planning meetings for a Feast or Assembly
meeting, provide visual aids and printed materials
such as letters, prayers, and Holy Writings or send
them online.

Guidelines for Improving Accessibility
•	 Emergency alerting devices such as fire alarms should
be visual (i.e. flashing lights) as well as audio.
•	 Inform the public when captions / live transcript and
other accommodations will be available ahead of time
to make everyone feel included.

Accessibility for Blind & Low Vision
•	 First find out what mediums a person can use; large
print, screen readers, digital audio files, or Braille.
Never assume that a person who is visual impaired
knows Braille; many are unable to read it.
•	 When beginning an activity, make sure to introduce
someone who is visual impaired to their surround­
ings. Many people who are visually impaired feel
comfortable travelling independently, however there
may be times when a guide may be needed. Ask them
how they would like to be guided.
•	 Introduce yourself by name and wait for them to offer
their hand to be shaken. Unexpected touches can
startle or be uncomfortable for the individual.
•	 Speak in a normal tone, speed, and volume. Address
them directly, and not to the person they are with.
•	 To guide a person who is blind, first ask them if they
want assistance, and then let them take your arm.
The individual will walk about half a step behind
you, following your body motions. If you encounter
steps, curbs, doors, or other obstacles, identify them
in spoken language.
•	 When giving directions, be as clear and specific as
possible and check for understanding. Make sure the
person knows when you have finished and are moving
away from them.
•	 There are a range of screen readers which transmits
whatever text is displayed on the computer screen
into a form that a person with vision loss can process

Guidelines for Improving Accessibility
(speech, Braille or a combination of both). Some
examples are JAWS, VoiceOver, TalkBack, Siri,
Kurzweil, Alexa, Google Maps, Google Home, etc.
•	 Use iPhones and other tools to read menus and
more complex documents. Make word documents
accessible using headings, and PDF documents into
searchable PDF docs as opposed to image-only.
•	 Printed materials, prayers and Holy Writings could be
provided using the person’s format of choice.
•	 If there are persons who are blind or have vision loss
in your community; you will need to make sure that
they have transportation to Feasts, public meetings,
etc. Providing rides are much better since it’s more
convenient and supportive.
•	 There are transportation services such as buses, cabs,
light rail transit, and mobility transport. If using these
services, it may require time and money to arrange.
The biggest challenge for persons who are visually
impaired is to navigate around places, which requires
extra planning to get around safely and independently.
•	 Check to see if elevators have either Braille, engraved
numbers, bell signals or speech.

Accessibility for Mobility Difficulties
•	 Work with hosts in private homes for events to arrange
what assistance they might need such as getting into
the home.
•	 A person’s mobility equipment, such as a wheelchair,
scooter or cane, is part of their personal space.
Therefore, do not lean against or touch the equipment.
•	 Do not assume a wheelchair user or person who uses
a walker wants help. If you see a situation where the
person could use your assistance, ask first.
•	 When embarking down a path with multiple obsta­
cles, ask “What’s the easiest way for you to do this?”
Listen and follow their instructions carefully.
•	 Individuals who have difficulty with mobility may be
stopped by barriers most people don’t notice such as
a high curb or a flight of stairs.
•	 Check that there are accessible parking spaces close
to the entrance of the venue reserved for persons with
mobility difficulties. Indicate where the parking is
located in the registration material.
•	 Some individuals find ramps much safer and easier to
use than stairs. Ensure that the main entrances have
accessible ramps in identifiable locations and with
a proper incline (i.e. not too steep of an incline). A
ramp can be permanent or portable.
•	 Curb cuts into sidewalks make it easier for wheelchair
and walker users to get onto or off the sidewalks easily.

Guidelines for Improving Accessibility
•	 Doorways need to be wide enough for a wheelchair
user to enter. The doors should not be heavy and
difficult to open. Look for automatic door openers.
•	 It’s easier if hallways have good smooth floor covering
such as wood, linoleum or non-slip tiles since carpets
can be difficult for wheelchair and walker users.
•	 Check for elevators in the building if there is more
than one floor. The elevator controls need to be within
the reach of a wheelchair user.
•	 Rest-rooms should be equipped with grab bars in key
locations to increase safety and more support.
•	 The doorways to the rest-room need to be a minimum
32 inches wide. In tight spaces, the door should open
outwards from the rest-room. Door lever handles
need to be on both the inside and outside of the door.
•	 The sinks need to be low enough with space for
wheelchair users to place their legs underneath and
the pipes (hot water) are far enough back so that the
person will not burn their legs. Use faucets with level
handles which are easy to turn on and off.
•	 The toilet paper dispensers, towel machines, hand
driers, soap, coat hooks and other dispensers need to
be within reach of wheelchair users.
•	 Remove obstacles (i.e. ornamental plants) and arrange
furniture to ensure clear passage so the person with
mobility difficulties can move around easily.