THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1993-10-28

To all National Spiritual Assembliesdear b aháí f

have a new format and be published annually. Such frequency of appear-ance was intended by Shoghi effendi when the publication was founded,

but circumstances made it impossible to produce it so regularly. The first

volume of the new annual series is scheduled to be published by the end of

december 1993 and will focus on the h oly y ear.

beginning in 1926 as Bahá’í Year Book, this publication has remained a

major record of bahá’í activities and achievements. Assuming the title The 169.12

170.1

170.2

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

6Bahá’í World, each volume from the second to the tenth appeared bien-

nially; subsequent volumes until the nineteenth covered longer periods of

varying lengths; volume xx, currently in preparation, will be the last of the

old series and will cover the period of the Six year plan. The issuance of the

first volume in the new series will precede the production of that extensive

record.

The disclosure of current information about the faith to the public in

such a publication was an expectation that won Shoghi effendi’s unstinting

support and encouragement. he himself provided much of the material for

each volume and supervised its development. his attitude was expressed

in a letter dated 12 december 1929 written by his secretary on his behalf

and which, describing The Bahá’í World as “destined mainly for the non-

bahá’ís,” said, “he has tried to attract through its pages the attention of

educated and enlightened people and especially leaders in every country, with a view to acquainting them with the broad and fundamental principles of the faith and to winning their consideration of the movement as a grow-

ing force for good and for peace throughout the entire world. . . . indeed

Shoghi effendi has made it a point to send copies to as many leading men

as possible. . . . ”

170-1

The house of justice feels that the availability of a well-written, liber-

ally illustrated, attractively designed annual record of bahá’í activities will

facilitate the efforts of the friends and Spiritual Assemblies to present to non-b ahá’ís at all levels of society current information about the cause in

a volume of moderate size. with this in mind, it has assigned the office of

public information at the world center the responsibility for editing and

producing The Bahá’í World in its new format. in due course, that office

will provide you with detailed information about the series, which is to be produced in both hardcover and high-quality paperback editions, making each volume suitable for presentation to representatives of libraries, educa-

tional institutions, government offices, social organizations and the media.

besides the proclamation possibilities of The Bahá’í World, it will, of

course, remain for the friends an important reference source which many will wish to acquire for their personal use.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

170-1. ud, p. 423.170.3

170.4

170.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

6171

Relative Priority of the Various Bahá’í Funds

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]