THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2009-05-17

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

265

45

17 May 2009

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

45.1 In its Rid .ván message of 2008, the Universal House of

Justice referred to the widening impact of the dynamism

flowing from the interactions between the three participants

in the Five  Year Plan. The celebration of the Nineteen Day

Feast has not remained unaffected by this growing dynamism.

Everywhere the devotional portion of the Feast is enriched by the sense of reverence cultivated through personal prayer and

regular devotional gatherings. The administrative portion is

animated by reports on the progress of the Cause, as well as insights contributed by eager  believers drawn from diverse

populations, both newly enrolled and long-standing, engaged

in Bahá’í activity. The social portion transcends polite formal-

ities, becoming the joyous reunion of ardent lovers, of tested

companions united in a common purpose, whose conversations are elevated by spiritual themes.

45.2 Over the course of the Plan, in response to questions that

have been raised about the Nineteen Day Feast, the House

of Justice has described how certain fundamental principles

are to be applied within the context of a steadily expanding

community that is embracing souls from all walks of life, from

every background. Since its comments in this respect may well be of interest to all National Spiritual Assemblies, we have been

asked to write to you as follows.

Decentralization of the Feast in urban centers

45.3 The decentralization of the Nineteen Day Feast in urban

centers, where a significant percentage of humanity currently resides, is an inevitable consequence of the growth of the Faith,

marking a significant stage in the organic development of a lo-

266

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONcal community. While care should be taken to avoid instituting

this practice precipitously when the number of believers in the

entire city is relatively small, a Local Spiritual Assembly should

not feel obliged to prolong the pattern of hosting a communi-

ty-wide Feast if it is no longer propitious. Such a change may be

required when limited time or facilities hamper the satisfactory observance of the three parts of the Feast in a single location,

most notably the portion devoted to consultation on commu-

nity affairs. Experience to date has demonstrated the salutary effect of decentralizing the Feast on the quality of participation,

on bonds of fellowship, and on the overall process of growth.

Although some believers may yearn for the enthusiasm gener -

ated by large community gatherings, this need can be met on other occasions arranged by the Assembly.

45.4 In this connection, we are requested to draw your attention

to the 27  December 2005 message of the House of Justice

which indicated that, as the process of growth continued

to  gather momentum worldwide, urban centers would need

to be divided into progressively smaller areas, perhaps ulti-

mately into neighborhoods, as a means of facilitating planning and  implementation. Not only would such areas become

focal points of activity, the message suggested, but in each the

Nineteen Day Feast would be conducted. Already in some cities around the world the Feast is held at the intimate level of the

neighborhood.

45.5 Dividing a local community into areas for the purpose

of celebrating the Feast is not without certain challenges. In many cities around the world, for instance, people have been

segregated into areas according to various factors such as race,

ethnicity, and economic conditions. A Local Assembly must be

mindful that barriers entrenched in the wider population are not inadvertently perpetuated in the local Bahá’í community as

a whole. By the same token, it must recognize that, for believers

newly enrolled in the community, the desire to assume respon-sibility for the affairs of the Faith is cultivated more readily in

gatherings close to home, in a familiar environment.

45.6 In deciding to decentralize the Feast, a Local Assembly will

need to determine how the devotional portion will be organized and how reports, news, and announcements will be shared. A

common set of materials for the administrative part of the Feast

would generally be disseminated each Bahá’í month to every

area designated to host a gathering, including any particular

267

also want to ensure that consultations in each area are fruitful

and productive, that the views of the friends  are brought to

its attention, and that it responds to recommendations in a

loving and constructive manner. To this end, it may decide to

designate one or more friends to act on its behalf in chairing the gathering, recording the results of consultations, and receiving

contributions to the Fund.

Choice of language

45.7 As a general principle, the Nineteen Day Feast and other

official Bahá’í gatherings should be conducted in the conven-tional language spoken by the people of the locality. However,

as social and economic conditions throughout the world

continue to change, it is not unreasonable to assume that more

and more people will be forced to migrate to urban centers, forming pockets of minorities, each with a distinct language,

as can already be seen, for example, in the concentrations of

Spanish-speaking populations in North America or of certain tribal populations in Africa. In such instances, when the Feast

is decentralized, the question may well arise as to whether

the program can be conducted in the language spoken by the

minority population most prevalent in a neighborhood. At

this stage, the House of Justice does not wish to lay down any hard and fast rules, and it is left to the discretion of the Local

Spiritual Assembly concerned to decide, under the guidance of

the National Spiritual Assembly, how to address the matter, approaching it with both flexibility and an attitude of learning.

45.8 Naturally, whether the Feast is held centrally or in several

locations, a Local Assembly will want all the friends to feel that

they are part of one unified community, irrespective of linguistic

differences, and will take steps to ensure that an inviting

atmosphere is created. To this end, selections from the Writings

in the diverse languages spoken by the friends might well be included in the devotional program of the Feast. Further,

suitable ways should be found to inform believers not fluent

in the language in which the Feast is conducted of the content of major messages and announcements. During consultations,

they should be afforded an opportunity to express their views,

in their own language if necessary. It should be feasible to offer

any translation needed in a manner that does not interfere with

the smooth running of the meeting.

268

FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONAttendance of those who are not Bahá’ís

45.9 The Nineteen Day Feast is an institution of the Cause,

which serves, in part, as a means for the Bahá’í community to

address its affairs in a full and frank manner, without fear of

creating misunderstandings among those unfamiliar with its

purpose. It is for this reason that participation is limited to

members of the Bahá’í community.

45.10 In general, the believers are discouraged from inviting

those who are not Bahá’ís to the commemoration of the Feast.

However, friends of the Faith do sometimes appear unexpected-

ly, and they are not to be turned away. Courtesy and the spirit

of fellowship require that they be warmly received. In this light,

unanticipated visitors, who were by and large infrequent in the past, have been welcome to join the devotional and social

portions of the Feast, but either they were asked to absent

themselves during the administrative portion or that segment of the program would be eliminated entirely.

45.11 Now, with the Plan’s framework for action well established

in so many places, growing numbers enjoy ready access to

Bahá’í community life through the core activities, and there

is greatly increased likelihood that those who are close to the

Faith will learn about the Nineteen Day Feast and appear at

its celebration. The House of Justice has decided that, in such instances, rather than eliminating the administrative portion

completely or asking the visitors to withdraw, those conducting

the program can modify this part of the Feast to accommodate the guests. The sharing of local and national news and infor -

mation about social events, as well as consultation on topics of general interest, such as the teaching work, service projects, the

Fund, and so on, can take place as usual, while discussion of

sensitive or problematic issues related to these or other topics can be set aside for another time when the friends can express

themselves freely without being inhibited by the presence of

visitors.

45.12 A similar approach to the administrative portion may

be adopted when the Feast is celebrated in the home of a

family with some members who are not Bahá’ís. As part of

planning  these occasions, careful thought must be given, on

the one hand, to the requisites of hospitality and love, and, on

the other, to those of confidentiality and unfettered discussion on  important and sensitive subjects. The Local Assembly, in consultation with the believers who have such relatives, should

269

that arises.

Accumulating experience

45.13 The continued expansion of the Bahá’í community in the

years to come will surely give  rise to a range of challenges that will affect how the devotional, administrative, and so-

cial aspects of the Nineteen Day Feast are conducted in diverse

localities. Responsibility for  addressing these challenges will

fall, in the first instance, on Local Spiritual Assemblies. Theirs is

the duty to remain alert to conditions in their communities, to consult with the friends, to respond thoughtfully to a multiplic-

ity of needs and circumstances, and to remain flexible without

compromising fundamental principles. In this connection, they

would naturally seek advice from the Auxiliary Board members.

National Spiritual Assemblies will, in collaboration with the Counsellors, follow developments closely, familiarize them-

selves with approaches taken  in different localities, facilitate

learning to determine which approaches prove most effective over time, and offer guidance and encouragement.

45.14 We are to assure you of the supplications of the Universal

House of Justice in the Holy Shrines that the Blessed Beauty

may confirm your ongoing efforts to guide the friends in

discharging their vital responsibilities to promote the Cause of

God throughout the world.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]