The Universal House of Justice and the Baha’i World
1963-1973
Peter Smith
© Peter Smith, August 2011

Contents
Part I. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
1. Preface
2. The Establishment of the Universal House of Justice
3. The work and development of the Universal House of Justice
A. ADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE.
B. OTHER DEVELOPMENTS.
4. The Universal House of Justice and the Guardianship
A. THE GUARDIANSHIP AND THE COVENANT.
5. The Hands of the Cause and Related Institutions
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS.
B. ASPECTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONING.
C. THE WORK OF THE HANDS AND COUNSELLORS.
Part II. EXPANSION AND CONSOLIDATION
6. The Nine Year Plan.
A. CONTEXT.
B. OBJECTIVES, GOALS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
7. Worldwide expansion and consolidation.
A. WORLDWIDE EXPANSION.
B. NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY FORMATION.
C. OFFICIAL RECOGNITION & PROPERTY ACQUISITION.
D. PUBLISHING, TRANSLATION AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY.
8. Progress and implementation.
9.Teaching, Consolidation and Deepening.
A. ‘TEACHING THE MASSES’.
B. CONSOLIDATION.
C. DEEPENING.
D. THE WORLD CRISIS.
10. Pioneering and Travel Teaching.
A. PIONEERS AND PIONEERING.
B. TRAVEL TEACHING.
11. Proclamation.
12. International conferences.
13. Temples.
14. Commemorations.
Part III. ASPECTS OF BAHA’I LIFE
15. The role of the individual.
16. The role of youth.
17. Law and Administration.
A. QUESTIONS OF BAHA’I LAW.
B. MATTERS OF BAHA’I ADMINISTRATION.
Part IV. THE BAHA’I WORLD CENTRE
18. The Baha’i shrines and gardens.
19. Work on the Baha’i texts.
20. External relations.
21. The Baha’i funds.

1.
Preface to online edition


This book was written many years ago, intended for publication but not wholly completed. It
has been lightly edited for posting online.
Changelog: The source document was prepared in WordPerfect on PC. A copy of the unedited original
wpd file can be downloaded from http://bahai-library.com/smith_uhj_bahai_world . This was
converted to OpenOffice on Mac, typeset, and exported as PDF. Edits include: author's working notes
removed or updated, references to sections not yet written (e.g. introduction, foreword, upcoming
chapter references, appendixes) deleted, underdot diacritic markers removed, formatting streamlined,
paragraph styles defined/standardize, spellchecked, URLs updated.
-J. Winters, August 2012

2. The Establishment of the Universal House of Justice
By the early months of 1963, the final preparations for the International Convention in Haifa
and the World Congress in London were in train. The Hands themselves gathered for their
annual conclave starting on April 9th, giving time to discuss not only the forthcoming
meetings, but the completion of the World Crusade; ‘mass conversion and consolidation’;
their own activities and plans; the relationship between themselves and the soon to be elected
Universal House of Justice; and the financial situation of the Faith.1
The First International Convention went ahead as planned on 21-23 April, starting on the
morning of the first day with the election of the members of the Universal House of Justice at
a gathering in the former home of `Abdu’l-Bahá.2 Altogether, the members of the 56 national
and regional assemblies then established took part, together constituting an electoral college.
Most attended in person, the remainder sending in postal ballots.3 Those elected to the newly-
formed Universal House of Justice were as follows:
Mr. Hugh Chance
Mr. Húshmand Fathe-Azam
Mr. Amos Gibson
Dr. Lutfu'lláh Hakím
Mr. David Hofman
Mr. H. Borrah Kavelin
Mr. `Alí Nakhjavání
Mr. Ian Semple
Mr. Charles Wolcott.
Of the nine, four (Chance, Gibson, Kavelin, Wolcott) were American; three (Fathe-Azam,
Hakím, Nakhjavání) expatriate Iranians; and two (Hofman, Semple) British. Five (Hakím,
Kavelin, Nakhjavání, Semple, Wolcott) were members of the International Baha’i Council,
whilst the others were members of the American (Chance, Gibson), British (Hofman), and
Indian (Fathe-Azam) national assemblies.4
1.
For a copy of their agenda see MC 404.
2.
No.7 Haparsim [Persian] Street, Haifa. The Feast of Ridván was held later in the day in the gardens of the
Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí, and the rest of the proceedings – consultations on various aspects of the
progress of the Faith – at the Beit Harofe Auditorium on Wingate Avenue. For the program outline see MC
424-25. The election results were announced to the assembly members by the tellers on the morning of 22
April (MC 429), having already been cabled to the Baha’i world by the Hands (MC 425-26).
3.
The full list of assembly members is given in MC 406-13. The list also indicates that 285 assembly
members were expected to attend in person, but in her report on the Convention, Charlotte Linfoot states
that 288 were present (BW14: 427), the extra three people presumably originally expecting not to be able
to attend, but finally being able to do so. Travel difficulties or other problems prevented the attendance of
any members from at least five national assemblies (BW14: 427 – but note that the full list indicates seven
assemblies with no members expected to be present: Arabia, Burma, Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, Nicaragua, and
Venezuela), and in some instances only a few members were able to attend in person – presumably for
reasons of cost. The full list indicates that eight national assemblies (British Isles; Columbia; Central and
East Africa; Finland; Iran; Netherlands; South and West Africa; and Switzerland) expected their full
membership to be present.

It was no doubt with a sense of enormous relief that the Hands notified the Baha’is of the
world of the election results and of their own ‘OVERFLOWING GRATITUDE’ at
Bahá’u’lláh’s ‘UNFAILING PROTECTION’ which had enabled the election of the
‘SUPREME LEGISLATIVE BODY’ ordained in his book of laws, and which he had
promised would receive ‘HIS INFALLIBLE GUIDANCE’. This was the ‘AUGUST BODY’
to which all Baha’is should turn, its destiny being to guide the unfoldment of Bahá’u’lláh’s
‘EMBRYONIC WORLD ORDER’, and to ensure the early dawn of the Golden Age of the
Faith, when the ‘WORD OF THE LORD’ would cover the Earth ‘AS THE WATERS
COVER THE SEA’ (MC 425-26).
Following quickly upon the Haifa Convention and the election of the Universal House of
Justice, Baha’is from numerous countries gathered together in London for the Faith’s first
World Congress. This five day meeting (28 April-2 May), held in the Royal Albert Hall in
South Kensington, brought together the largest assemblage of Baha’is ever held to that date.
Immediately following this event, the members of the newly-elected House of Justice began
their first major deliberations, borrowing the British national assembly’s meeting room for
several days for this purpose. Meanwhile, the Hands who had also gathered in London met in
a nearby room to prepare the first draft of a new teaching plan for the House of Justice’s
consideration and arranging for the future arrangement of their own work.5
The message of the Universal House of Justice to the London Congress.
The Baha’is who had gathered together in London for the Congress had what was in effect a
double celebration: for the completion of Shoghi Effendi’s Ten Year Crusade and the
commemoration of the centenary of the founding of the Faith, and for the reestablishment of
what the Baha’is could regard as divinely-guided leadership. This reality was reflected in the
first public statement issued by the Universal House of Justice, dated 30 April 1963, and
presented to the Congress participants (MU#1). It was read on the House’s behalf by David
Hofman, the former British Baha’i national secretary.
This was a time of celebration – the ‘Most Great Jubilee’, commemorating the hundredth
anniversary of the declaration of mission by Bahá’u’lláh, himself ‘the Promised One of All
Ages’, in the Ridván garden in Baghdad in April 1863. As such, it marked the fulfilment of a
Biblical prophecy in the Book of Daniel.6 It also marked the ending of the ‘first epoch’ of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s ‘Divine Plan’, and the successful conclusion of Shoghi Effendi’s ‘world-
4.
Semple is the only one of the original House members still serving. Hakím, the eldest, resigned in 1967,
shortly before his death; Gibson died in office in 1982, and Wolcott in 1987; Hofman and Kavelin resigned
in 1988; Chance was not reelected in 1993; and Fathe-Azam and Nakhjavání resigned in 2003.
5.
These meetings were held in the British National Baha’i Centre at 27 Rutland Gate, South Kensington
(MU, p.7, n.2-1). Twenty Hands signed the London Resolution which summarized their decisions as to
their own future organizational arrangements (9 May; see MC 427), two (Leroy Ioas and Musa Banani)
being absent – presumably staying in Haifa as per a previous decision of the Hands at the Baha’i World
Centre so as to oversee continuing work there and to be on hand lest anything of importance transpired
(MC 405-6).
6.
“Blessed is he who cometh unto the thousand three hundred and thirty five days” (Dan. 12:12). AB
explained that this pointed to one century after Baha’u’llah’s declaration, and the spread of his teachings
across the world.

encircling Crusade’,
7 enabling the Baha’is – ‘his lovers and loved ones’ – throughout the
world to lay ‘this glorious harvest of victory’ at the feet of Bahá’u’lláh in Shoghi’s name
(MU#1.2).
The House paid tribute to the work of both Shoghi Effendi and the Hands of the Cause. It was
Shoghi Effendi alone who had ‘unfolded the potentialities’ of the small, ‘widely scattered’
and ‘largely unorganized’ Baha’i community which had existed at the time of his accession.
This had involved (1) unfolding the ‘grand design’ of ‘God’s Holy Cause’; (2) setting the
great plans of teaching outlined by `Abdu’l-Bahá in motion; (3) establishing the institutions
at the Baha’i World Centre in Haifa-Akka and greatly extending their landed endowments;
(4) raising up the first Baha’i temples in the Americas, Africa, Australasia and Europe; (5)
developing the Baha’i ‘Administrative Order’ throughout the world; (6) setting ‘the Arc of
the Cause’ true on its course; and (7) appointing the Hands of the Cause (MU#1.2).
Shoghi’s appointment of the Hands had, of course, proven singularly significant following his
unexpected death, enabling the Hands to take control of the direction of the Faith. The House
did not wish to dwell on the ‘appalling dangers’ which faced ‘the infant Cause’ when the
Guardian had died, but it was necessary to acknowledge the superb nature of the stewardship
which the Hands had exercised. They had kept the ship of the Cause on its course and
‘brought it safe to port’. In so doing, the Hands had performed heroically, manifesting a level
of labour, self-discipline and sacrifice which elicited the House’s ‘profound admiration’, as
well as their love and pride. They shared the present victory with their ‘beloved commander’,
and the ‘paeons of joy and gratitude’ now due could only be offered if proper
acknowledgement was made of the role they had played in bringing about ‘this supreme
occasion’ (MU#1.3).
For its own part, the Universal House of Justice greeted the Baha’is ‘lovingly and joyfully’,
asking them to pray for the spiritual strengthening and speedy development of its members.
All nine members had been in Haifa at the time of the election of the House, and they had
therefore been able to prostrate themselves at the ‘Sacred Thresholds’ of the shrines of
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb and `Abdu’l-Bahá, humbly seeking strength and assistance in the
‘mighty task’ which lay ahead of them. Then, coming to London for the Congress, they had
been able to pay homage at Shoghi Effendi’s own resting-place. As soon as the House had
been able to ‘organize its work and deploy its forces’, it would carefully examine ‘all the
conditions of the Cause of God’, and communicate appropriately with the Baha’is. In the
meantime, all Baha’is should vigorously follow up the opportunities for expanding the Faith
which had been opened up by the Ten Year Crusade. They should also ensure that
‘(c)onsolidation and deepening’ went hand-in-hand with ‘an eager extension of the teaching
work’. Thus would the ‘onward march of the Cause’ continue unabated ‘in preparation for
future [expansion] plans’. Moreover, now that widespread public attention was being
increasingly drawn to the Baha’is, they should ‘brace themselves’ and ‘prepare their
institutions to sustain the gaze of the world, whether it be friendly or hostile, eager or idle’
(MU#1.5-1.6).
7.
`Abdu’l-Bahá had given the Baha’is the goal of global expansion in his Tablets of the Divine Plan (1916-
17). Shoghi Effendi referred to the accomplishment of this plan as passing through a number of distinct
“epochs”, the first of which had begun in 1937 with the start of the first American Seven Year Plan (1937-
44).

The message to the national conventions in May 1963.
A second major message was sent out to the Baha’i world by the House shortly after the end
of the Congress. Dated 7 May, and addressed to all the various national Baha’i conventions,8
this referred briefly to the organizational arrangements the House had made for its own work
(see below, this chapter), and announced that a new plan of teaching and expansion would be
launched in a year’s time so as to carry the Faith forward ‘on the next stage of its world-
redeeming mission’, specifying a number of tasks which the Baha’is should attend to in the
meantime so as to prepare for the plan (MU#2). It also emphasized the importance and
significance of the recent Convention and Congress, the Universal House of Justice following
the example set by Shoghi Effendi and setting contemporary developments in the Faith in
wider context.
Of the two historic gatherings recently held, the first, the International Convention, had been
unique, and of ‘untold’ and ‘extreme spiritual and administrative significance’, witnessing not
only the election of the House of Justice, but the celebration of the Ridván feast by some
three hundred Baha’is, daily visits to the Baha’i shrines by large groups of Baha’is of various
backgrounds. The second, the Congress, ‘permeated by a spirit of such bliss’ as could only
have come from the ‘outpourings’ of the heavenly kingdom, had been a ‘supreme occasion’,
and the ‘crowning victory’ of Shoghi Effendi’s lifework. Its outstanding features had included
reviews of the progress of the Baha’i Cause; the presentation of new Baha’is from the new
races and countries which had been reached during the Crusade and of the ‘Knights of
Bahá’u’lláh’ who had taken his banner to ‘the unopened and often inhospitable regions of the
earth’;9 the spontaneous outbursts of singing the Baha’i greeting ‘Alláh-u-Abhá’ (‘God is
Glorious’) and the meeting of Baha’i ‘warriors’ known to each other only by name and the
service they had performed; the youth gatherings; the ‘unprecedented publicity’ in the press
and on television and the radio; the ‘daily stream’ of visitors to Shoghi Effendi’s grave; and
the ‘radiant faces’ and ‘heightened awareness’ of the ‘true and real brotherhood’ of the entire
human race within God’s kingdom (MU#2.2-2.3).
The House also reaffirmed the tribute it had paid to the Hands of the Cause at the World
Congress: these ‘precious souls’ had brought the Cause safely to victory in the Guardian’s
name. Thanks were also due to the Auxiliary Board members, the Knights of Bahá’u’lláh and
other pioneers, the members of the national and regional assemblies, and Baha’is everywhere
for their devoted services and their prayers and sacrifices: together they had attracted great
bounties from Bahá’u’lláh (MU#2.4).
Institutional arrangements.
In their message of 7 May (MU#2), the House announced that it had started its work, made
the arrangements for its institutional establishment in Haifa, and decided not to have officers
of its own.10 Henceforth, all its communications would be signed ‘Universal House of Justice’
over an embossed seal (MU#2.5). A further decision of major import was that the House
8.
Each Baha’i national community normally holds an annual delegate convention during the Ridván period at
which the members of the community’s national spiritual assembly are elected and the delegates discuss
any matters relating to the progress of the Faith in their country. See CEBF, ‘convention’, loc. cit.
9.
Shoghi Effendi bestowed the honorific title ‘Knight of Bahá’u’lláh’ on anyone who opened some new
territory to the Faith during the Ten Year Crusade (SCE 220).

would take over the former offices of the now defunct International Baha’i Council to serve
as its official offices, expanding to take over the whole building and thus occupying the space
that had hitherto been available for the Western pilgrims.11 In a message to the Hands in the
Holy Land, the House noted that it expected eight of its nine members to be settled in Haifa
by the beginning of September (MC 428). In October, the House announced that the next
election for its own membership would take place during the Spring of 1968, giving the
existing members an initial five year term of office (MU#6.9).
The legal position of the House had also to be settled. Extensive consultations seem to have
occurred between the House members and the Hands resident in Haifa after the ending of the
London meetings. One immediate consequence was the decision to remove from these Hands
their legal title and function as ‘Custodians of the Baha’i World Faith’, the House of Justice
now having assumed the headship of the Faith. This decision was implemented on 7 June
1963, with statements ending the Custodianship being issued by both the House and the
Custodial Hands (MC 430, 433). The remaining Hands were formally notified of this change
by the Haifa Hands on 14 June. By that date, executive authority as managers of the Palestine
or Israel branches of various national assemblies had also been passed from the Custodial
Hands to the members of the House of Justice (MC 430-31).12
With the election of the House of Justice, the Hands of the Cause also amended aspects of
their own functioning. Whilst the legal office of Custodians was to cease, a distinction was to
continue to be made between the Hands resident in Haifa and the rest. The basic principles
were established by the Hands as a whole during their London meeting: (1) Five of the Hands
were assigned to work in the Holy Land. These were responsible for coordinating the
international work of the Hands as a collective body, both in relationship to the Continental
Hands and the Universal House of Justice; (2) The Hands in Haifa needed a quorum of three
to make decisions. At least two of the three were to be from the original five elected to serve
in Haifa, but if necessary the third could be one of the Continental Hands, reassigned to Haifa
on a temporary basis after appropriate consultations with the other Hands; (3) If a vacancy
occurred for any reason amongst the five Hands serving in Haifa, a replacement would be
elected by the body of the Hands as a whole; (4) Meetings of the Hands as a collectivity
would be called by the Haifa Hands after consultation with the rest; and (5) The Haifa Hands,
acting on behalf of the rest and in accordance with their general instructions, would allocate
10. This is in contrast with the procedure laid down by Shoghi Effendi for local, national and regional
assemblies, all of which must elect their own chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer.
11. The decision was formerly communicated to the Hands resident in Haifa on 26 May (MC 428) and to the
national assemblies on 16 June (MU#3). The building in question is located at 10 Haparsim Street in the
immediate vicinity of the House of `Abdu’l-Bahá and was originally built as a hostel for visiting Baha’i
pilgrims from the West. Part of it was taken over by the International Baha’i Council in 1951, and after the
Universal House of Justice moved into its own buildings in 1982, it became the offices of the International
Teaching Centre. The House of Justice’s occupation of the building necessitated changes in the
arrangements made for pilgrims.
12. Beginning in 1931, Shoghi Effendi had succeeded in getting a number of Baha’i national assemblies legally
incorporated as religious bodies in British administered Palestine. This enabled property deeds to be held in
the name of the assembly but administered on their behalf by Shoghi Effendi or his representative. These
arrangements were continued after the creation of the state of Israel, and by the time of Shoghi Effendi’s
death, nine assembly branches had been established (for Alaska, the British Isles, Canada, India and
Burma, Iran, New Zealand, Pakistan, and the USA) (RPP 267-68).

whatever international funds were available for the work of the institution (Resolution of 9
May 1963; MC 426).
Addressing the annual Baha’i conventions worldwide on 19 May, the Hands issued what
might be seen as their valedictory message at the end of their period of leadership: the
Baha’is’ ‘HEROIC’ and ‘DEDICATED EFFORTS’ throughout the world had assured the
‘TRIUMPHANT CONCLUSION’ of Shoghi Effendi’s Crusade. They now desired to devote
their own efforts to the protection and propagation of the Faith in accordance with their
functions as laid down in the Baha’i texts, concentrating on the ‘ALL IMPORTANT’ work of
teaching the Faith. In their endeavours, the Hands were ‘SUSTAINED’ and ‘UPLIFTED’ by
the establishment of the House of Justice as the Faith’s ‘SUPREME EDIFICE’. They were
confident that the spirit released during the ‘MOST GREAT JUBILEE’ (i.e. the Congress)
would inspire the Baha’is to arise to ensure that the ‘UNPRECEDENTED TIDE’ of victories
in the teaching field would continue.

3. The work and development of the Universal House of Justice
Contents:
A. ADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE.
B. OTHER DEVELOPMENTS.
Key dates:
First International Baha’i Convention (21-23 April). Establishment of the UHJ (21 April). UHJ
statement that there can be no more guardians (6 October).
Launching of the 9YP (Ridván).
Second International Baha’i Convention (21-24 April) and election of the UHJ (21 April).
Announcement of decision to build Seat of the UHJ (7 June). Adoption of the Constitution of the
UHJ (26 November).
Third International Baha’i Convention (29 April-1 May) and election of the UHJ (29 April).
Celebration of the centenary of the revelation of the Kitáb-i Aqdas (2 May).
During the first few months of its existence, the House of Justice made a number of important
decisions regarding its own functioning: (i) it would not have officers (announced 7 May
1963); (ii) it would occupy the whole of the Western Pilgrim House (including the former
offices of the International Baha’i Council) as its official offices (16 June 1963); and (iii) the
next election of the House of Justice would take place in the Spring of 1968 (October 1963)
(2.5; 3.2; 6.9). The House also announced that a new global plan in succession to the Ten
Year Crusade would begin at Ridván 1964 (7 May 1963); took over the legal headship of the
Faith from the Custodial Hands (7 June 1963); announced that there could be no successor to
Shoghi Effendi as guardian (6 October 1963) (MC 430, 433; MU#2.6; 5); and responded to
such urgent matters as the destruction of the Ashkhabad Temple and the plight of a group of
Baha’is imprisoned in Morocco for their faith.
A. ADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF
JUSTICE.
1. Adoption of the Constitution. One major focus for subsequent developments was what
was revealed to be a Nine Year Plan (1964-73). This was formally announced in October
1963, and begun in April 1964. Much of the emphasis of this new Plan was on a global
campaign of expansion and consolidation, designed to establish the Baha’i Faith more widely
and more deeply in the world, but there was also a very significant part of the Plan devoted to
‘World Centre’ goals, one of the most important of which concerned the institutional
development of the House of Justice itself in terms of the formulation of its own Constitution
(MU#14.5). Although the House reported at Ridván 1967, that work on the formulation of its
Constitution was ‘well advanced’ (MU#42.8), a 1968 report for Bahá’í World indicated that
‘many more months of intensive study and deliberation’ would be required before its
completion (BW14: 84),13 and it was not until 26 November 1972, on the Baha’i Day of the
Covenant, that the House was able to announce that the work had been completed and
Constitution formally adopted (MU#123).
13. The work required both a careful study of the relevant Baha’i texts and the resolution of various important
questions (BW14: 84). A statistical report published in November 1968 noted merely that ‘(p)reliminary
drafts and studies’ for the Constitution had been made (BFSI 1).

For the House, the adoption of its own Constitution was a ‘PROFOUNDLY SIGNIFICANT
STEP’ in the ‘UNFOLDMENT’ of its mission. The House was the ‘SUPREME ORGAN’ of
the future Baha’i World Commonwealth, and its Constitution had been hailed by Shoghi
Effendi as the ‘MOST GREAT LAW’ of the Faith. The formulation and formal approval of
this document would no doubt ‘FURTHER REINFORCE’ the ties that bound the Baha’i
World Centre to national and local Baha’i communities throughout the world, as well as
releasing ‘FRESH ENERGIES’ and increase the ‘ENTHUSIASM’ and ‘CONFIDENCE’ of
the Faith’s ‘VALIANT WORKERS’ (MU#123).
The Constitution consists of two documents: a Declaration of Trust and a set of By-Laws.
The Declaration defined the nature of authority within the Baha’i Faith; delineated the
powers and duties of the House of Justice; and outlined the nature of decision making by the
members of the House. The By-Laws outlined the overall structure of Baha’i administration
(community membership [sec. I]; local and national spiritual assemblies [secs. II-III]; the
obligations of assembly members [sec. IV]; the Universal House of Justice itself [sec. V];
Baha’i elections [sec. VI]; the House’s right of review of all assembly decisions [sec. VII];
the Baha’is’ right of appeal against assembly decisions [sec. VIII]; the Boards of Counsellors
[sec. IX]; the Auxiliary Boards [sec. X]; and amendments to the Constitution [sec. XI ]. With
the exception of the sections on the Boards of Counsellors and the Auxiliary Boards, the
document can be summarized as follows:
2. The Declaration of Trust (UHJC 3-7).
I. Authority within the Baha’i Faith: Revelation, Covenant and the election of the
Universal House of Justice.
1. Bahá’u’lláh was the revealer of God’s word in this day and the source of divine authority.
He was the judge, lawgiver, unifier and redeemer for the whole of humankind. He had come
to establish the ‘Most Great Peace’, God’s kingdom on Earth, and had formulated the laws,
principles and institutions for this new world order. He has instituted a Covenant so as to
‘direct and canalize’ the forces released by his revelation. By this means, the integrity and
unity of the Baha’i Faith had been maintained and its expansion stimulated through the
successive ministries of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi (Shoghi Effendi being after
`Abdu’l-Bahá ‘the sole authority in the interpretation of Baha’i Scripture’).
2. This Baha’i Covenant now continued to fulfil ‘its life-giving purpose’ through the ‘agency’
of the Universal House of Justice, a body which as one of the ‘twin successors’ of
Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá,14 had as its ‘fundamental object’ (i) to ensure the continuity of
the divinely appointed authority that flowed from Bahá’u’lláh; (ii) to safeguard the unity of
the Baha’is; and (iii) to ‘maintain the integrity and flexibility’ of the Baha’i teachings. The
‘provenance’, ‘authority’, ‘duties’ and ‘sphere of action’ of the House of Justice all derived
from the revealed writings of Bahá’u’lláh which, together with the ‘interpretations and
expositions’ of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, constituted ‘the binding terms of reference’
of the House of Justice and were ‘its bedrock foundation’ (The authority of these Baha’i texts
being ‘absolute and immutable’ until the appearance of the next divine messenger).
3. Because there had been no successor to Shoghi Effendi as guardian, the House of Justice
14. The guardianship is the other.

was ‘the Head of the Faith’ and its ‘supreme institution, to which all must turn’. For the same
reason, it had to (i) carry ‘ultimate responsibility’ for ensuring ‘the unity and progress’ of the
Faith; (ii) direct and coordinate the work of the Hands of the Cause; (iii) ensure ‘the
continuing discharge of the functions of protection and propagation’ vested in the institution
of the Hands; and (iv) provide for ‘the receipt and disbursement’ of the Huqúqu’lláh.
4. The Universal House of Justice was first elected on the first day of the Baha’i Ridván
festival in the Baha’i year 120 (i.e. 21 April 1963) by the members of the various Baha’i
national assemblies, in response to the summons of the Hands of the Cause (as ‘Chief
Stewards of Bahá’u’lláh’s embryonic World Commonwealth’), and in accordance with the
provisions of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament. This election brought into being the
‘crowning glory’ of the Baha’i administrative system and the ‘very nucleus and forerunner of
Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order. The present Declaration of Trust and its attached by-laws were
approved (signed and sealed) by the members of the House ‘in obedience to the Command of
God and with utter reliance upon Him’ on the 4th day of Qawl in the Baha’i year 129 (i.e. 26
November 1972).
II. The powers and duties of the House. These included the following:
1. To ensure the preservation of the Baha’i sacred texts and to ‘safeguard their inviolability’.
2. To ‘analyse, classify, and coordinate’ the Baha’i writings [i.e. the sacred texts and the
authoritative interpretations and expositions of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi].
3. To ‘defend and protect’ the Baha’i Cause and ‘emancipate it from the fetters of repression
and persecution’.
4. To ‘advance the interests’ of the Faith, including the proclamation, propagation and
teaching of its message, and the expansion and consolidation of its administrative institutions.
5. To ‘usher in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh’.
6. To promote the attainment of Baha’i qualities in the lives of individuals and the
community.
7. To ‘do its utmost’ for the realization of ‘greater cordiality and comity amongst the nations’
and ‘the attainment of universal peace’.
8. To ‘foster that which is conducive to the enlightenment and illumination of the souls of
men and the advancement and betterment of the world’.
9. To enact laws not expressly recorded in the Baha’i sacred texts, and ‘to abrogate according
to the changes and requirements of the time, its own enactments’.
10. To ‘deliberate and decide upon all problems which have caused difference’, and ‘to
elucidate questions that are obscure’.
11. To ‘safeguard the personal rights, freedom and initiative of individuals’.
12. To ‘give attention’ to ‘the preservation of human honour’, ‘the development of countries’
and ‘the stability of states’.
13. To ‘promulgate and apply the laws and principles of the Faith’, safeguarding and
enforcing ‘that rectitude of conduct’ which the ‘Law of God ‘ enjoined.
14. To ‘preserve and develop’ the Baha’i World Centre, i.e. the Faith’s spiritual and
administrative centre ‘permanently fixed in the twin cities of `Akká [Akka] and Haifa’.
15. To ‘administer the affairs of the Baha’i community throughout the world’, guiding,
organizing, coordinating and unifying its activities; founding institutions; and ensuring that
no Baha’i body or institution ‘abuse its privileges or decline in the exercise of its rights and
prerogatives’.

16. To ‘provide for the receipt, disposition, administration and safeguarding of the funds,
endowments and other properties that are entrusted to its care’.
17. To ‘adjudicate disputes falling within its purview’; ‘give judgement’ in cases where
Baha’i law has been violated; and ‘provide for the enforcement of its decisions’.
18. To ‘provide for the arbitration and settlement of disputes arising between peoples’, and to
be ‘the exponent and guardian of that Divine Justice’ which could alone ensure the security of
the world and establish ‘the reign of law and order’ within it.
III. Decision making on the House of Justice. Bahá’u’lláh had designated the members of
the Universal House of Justice as ‘the Trustees of God among his servants and the daysprings
of authority in His countries’ (TB) and promised that they would be inspired by God in their
decision making. Shoghi Effendi had stated that in their legislative work, they were to
prayerfully follow ‘the dictates and promptings of their conscience’. They should acquaint
themselves with the conditions prevailing in the community and dispassionately consider the
merits of any case presented for their consideration, but ultimately they had to reserve for
themselves ‘the right of unfettered decision’. They were not responsible in their decision
making to those whom they represented, and they were not to be governed by the feeling,
opinions and convictions of the mass of the Baha’is or of the [national assembly members]
who had elected them. It was the House members alone who had been made the recipients of
that divine guidance ‘which is at once the life-blood and ultimate safeguard of this
Revelation’.
3. The By-Laws (UHJC 8-16).
Preamble. The Universal House of Justice was the ‘supreme institution’ of the Baha’i
administrative order. Its ‘salient features’, authority and ‘principles of operation’ had all been
‘clearly enunciated’ in Baha’i scripture and its authorized interpretations. The Baha’i
administrative order comprised two separate sections: (i) a series of elected councils, at
universal, secondary and local levels, ‘in which are vested legislative, executive and judicial
powers over the Baha’i community’, and (ii) ‘eminent and devoted’ Baha’is who, under the
guidance of the head of the Faith, were appointed specifically to protect and propagate the
Faith.
The Baha’i administrative order was the ‘nucleus and pattern’ of the future ‘World Order
adumbrated by Bahá’u’lláh’. It would follow a course of ‘divinely propelled organic growth’,
during which its institutions would expand, ‘putting forth auxiliary branches and developing
subordinate agencies, multiplying their activities and diversifying their functions’ in
accordance with the Baha’i principles ‘for the progress of the human race’.
[I] Membership in the Baha’i community. The Baha’i community would consist of all
persons recognized by the House of Justice ‘as possessing the qualifications of Baha’i faith
and practice’. ‘The rights, privileges and duties of individual Baha’is’ were as set forth in the
Baha’i writings and laid down by the House itself. Only those Baha’is who were aged 21 or
above could be eligible to vote and hold Baha’i elective office.
[II] Local spiritual assemblies. If there were at least nine [adult15] Baha’is resident in a
15. The House does not use the term ‘adult’ (understandably, given that definitions of the age of majority differ
from one country to another), but refers to those ‘who have attained the age of twenty-one’. I use the term

locality, they could form a nine member local spiritual assembly. The assembly was to be
formed on the first day of the Baha’i Ridván festival [i.e. normally 21 April] and was to be re-
formed on the same date in each succeeding year, its members holding office until their
successors had been elected. If the number of adult Baha’is was exactly nine, the assembly
could be formed by ‘joint declaration’. Where there were more than nine adult Baha’is, the
adult Baha’is in the locality would convene on the first day of Ridván and elect the assembly.
The ‘general powers and duties’ of these local assemblies was as defined in the Baha’i
writings and the pronouncements of the House of Justice, and they would exercise ‘full
jurisdiction of all Baha’i activities and affairs’ within their localities subject to the provisions
of their ‘Local Baha’i Constitution’.16 The local assemblies’ geographical areas of jurisdiction
would be decided by the responsible national spiritual assembly ‘in accordance with the
principle laid down for each country by the Universal House of Justice’.
[III] National spiritual assemblies. 1. Whenever the Universal House of Justice decided to
form a national spiritual assembly in any country or region, it would call for an election of a
nine member assembly by a body of delegates at a ‘National Convention’. The delegates
would be elected by the voting members of the national community in a manner and at a time
determined by the Universal House of Justice, and would in turn elect the national assembly
in accordance with the provisions of the ‘National Baha’i Constitution’.17 The elected
members would remain in office until their successors had been elected [normally a period of
one year until the next National Convention].
2. The ‘general powers and duties’ of the national assemblies were as set forth in the
writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and the pronouncements of the Universal
House of Justice. Each national assembly would have ‘exclusive jurisdiction and authority’
over all Baha’i activities and affairs throughout its area of jurisdiction (the geographical area
defined by the House). It was charged with seeking ‘to stimulate, unify and coordinate’ the
‘manifold activities’ of all the local spiritual assemblies and individual Baha’is in its area,
‘and by all possible means assist them to promote the oneness of mankind’. It would also
represent its national Baha’i community in relation to other such communities and to the
Universal House of Justice.
3. Each national convention would be primarily concerned with consultation on ‘Baha’i
activities, plans and policies’ and the election of national spiritual assembly. If a national
assembly judged it ‘impracticable or unwise’ to hold a national convention in a particular
year, then it should provide some alternative means by which the annual election and other
essential business of the convention could be conducted. When vacancies in the membership
of a national assembly occurred [i.e. between the annual election], they were to be filled by a
vote of the delegates of the previous convention, either by correspondence or other means
decided by the national assembly.
‘adult’ here as a convenient abbreviation.
16. This refers to the by-laws of a local spiritual assembly, which are given in model form in the successive
volumes of the old series of Bahá’í World. [vol. 4?]
17. This refers to Declaration of Trust and By-Laws of a National Spiritual Assembly given in model form in
the successive volumes of the old series of Bahá’í World.

[IV] Obligations of members of spiritual assemblies. Amongst ‘the most outstanding and
sacred duties’ of spiritual assembly members [at both local and national level] were the
following:
1. To ‘win by every means in their power the confidence and affection of those whom it is
their privilege to serve’.
2. To ‘investigate and acquaint themselves’ with the ‘considered views’, ‘prevailing
sentiments’ and ‘personal convictions’ of ‘those whose welfare it is their solemn obligation to
promote’.
3. To ‘purge their deliberations and the general conduct of their affairs of self-contained
aloofness, the suspicion of secrecy, the stifling atmosphere of dictatorial assertiveness and of
every word and deed that may savour of partiality, self-centredness and prejudice’.
4. Whilst ‘retaining the sacred right of final decision in their hands, to invite discussion,
ventilate grievances, welcome advice and foster the sense of interdependence and co-
partnership, of understanding and mutual confidence between themselves and all other
Baha’is’.
[V] The Universal House of Justice.
1. Membership. The House was to consist of nine men18 who had been elected from the
Baha’i community by secret ballot by the members of all national spiritual assemblies at an
‘International Baha’i Convention’. Unless otherwise decided by the House, the election
would be held every five years, and those elected would continue in office until their
successors were elected and the first meeting of these successors was ‘duly held’.
2. The principal business of the International Convention was to elect the members of the
Universal House of Justice, ‘to deliberate on the affairs of the Baha’i Cause throughout the
world’, and ‘to make recommendations and suggestion’ for the House of Justice’s
consideration. The sessions of the Convention would be conducted in whatever the House
decided.
3. The election. Upon receiving the [House’s] call to the International Convention, each
national assembly would submit a list of its members [as potential delegates]. The recognition
and seating of the delegates would be vested in the House of Justice, however. Arrangements
would be made by the House for delegates who were not able to be present in person to cast
their ballots for the election. If the House decided that conditions made it ‘impracticable or
unwise’ to hold the Convention in a particular year, it would determine some alternative
means by which the election could be held.19 On the day of the election, tellers appointed in
accordance with the House’s instructions would scrutinize and count all the ballots, and then
certify the result. If there was a tie vote or votes which prevented the full membership of the
18. The guardianship and the Universal House of Justice are the only two Baha’i institutions which are
‘gender-specific’, being confined only to men. All other Baha’i institutions (local and national spiritual
assemblies, Continental Counsellors, Auxiliary Board members, etc.) may include people of either sex.
19. To date this provision has only been employed once – in the International Convention of 2003, when the
House decided that unsettled conditions in the Middle East necessitated the Convention’s cancellation. The
election was conducted by postal ballot instead (email from the Universal House of Justice to all National
Spiritual Assemblies dated 4 April 2003).

House being determined on the first ballot, one of more additional ballots would be held. This
additional balloting would only be between those persons tied in the previous ballot, and
would continue until all nine members of the House were elected.
4. Changes affecting the delegates. If a national assembly member who had voted by mail
then ceased to be a member of that assembly before the counting of the ballots at the
Convention, his vote would remain valid unless a successor had already been elected on to
the assembly and the ballot of that successor had been received by the tellers. If additional
voting had to be conducted in the case of a tie vote, the electors would be the national
assembly members who were in office at the time the additional vote was taken.
5. Vacancies in the membership of the House would occur under the following
circumstances: (i) the death of a serving member of the House; (ii) if a House member was
dismissed from membership of the House on account of committing ‘a sin injurious to the
common weal’; (iii) if the House determined that a serving member was no longer able to
fulfil ‘the functions of membership’; and (iv) if the House accepted a resignation from a
serving member.
6. By-elections. If a vacancy in membership of the House occurred, the House would call a
by-election ‘at the earliest possible date’ unless it judged that the next regular election of the
entire membership of the House was so close as to justify deferring the filling of the vacancy
until then. The voters in a by-election would be the national assembly members in office at
the time of the by-election.
7. Meetings. The Universal House of Justice would have no officers. It would conduct its
meetings and organize its activities as it thought necessary. All its business would be
conducted in consultation by the full membership except where it made special provision for
certain matters to be dealt with by a quorum of less then the full membership. The first
meeting after the House’s election would be called by the member who received the highest
number of votes or, if he was absent or incapacitated, by the member who had received the
next highest number of votes. If two or more members had received the same highest number
of votes, the member calling the first meeting would be selected by lot from amongst these
men. All subsequent meetings would be called in the manner decided upon by the House.
8. Signature. The House’s signature would be the words [in English] ‘The Universal House
of Justice’, or in Persian ‘Baytu’l-`adl-i a`zam’ written by the hand of one of its members
upon its authority, and then sealed with the House’s seal.
9. Records. The House would provide for ‘the recording and verification of its decisions’ in
the manner it thought necessary.
[VI] Baha’i elections. ‘In order to preserve the spiritual character and purpose of Baha’i
elections’, practices that were detrimental to that character and purpose (such as the
nomination of candidates and electioneering) would be eschewed. A ‘silent and prayerful
atmosphere’ should prevail during the election so that each elector could vote only for those
whom ‘prayer and reflection’ inspired him [or her] to. All Baha’i elections would be by secret
ballot. Those for the officers of [local or national] spiritual assemblies and committees would

be by majority vote; all the rest would be by plurality vote.20 Additional ballots would be held
in the case of a tie vote or votes. A Baha’i elector’s duties and rights could neither be
assigned to another or exercised by proxy.
[VII] The House’s right of review. The Universal House of Justice had the right to review
any decision or action of any national or local spiritual assembly in the world, and to approve,
modify or reverse that decision or action. The House also had the right to intervene in any
matter in which a spiritual assembly was failing to take action or make a decision, either
requiring the assembly to take action or itself taking action directly.
[VIII] Appeals against assembly actions. Baha’is had the following rights of appeal in
administrative matters: (i) An individual Baha’i could appeal against the decision of his [or
her] local spiritual assembly to the responsible national assembly. The national assembly
would then decide whether to take jurisdiction over the matter or refer it back to the local
assembly for reconsideration. In matters relating to the membership of the Baha’i community,
the national assembly was obliged to take jurisdiction over the case and make a decision; (ii)
Any Baha’i had the right to appeal against a decision by his [or her] national spiritual
assembly to the Universal House of Justice, which would then decide whether to take
jurisdiction over the matter or to leave it within the final jurisdiction of the national assembly;
(iii) In the case of unresolvable ‘differences’ [i.e. disagreements] between local spiritual
assemblies, any of the assemblies involved could bring the matter to the attention of the
national assembly which would thereupon take jurisdiction of the case; (iv) A local assembly
which was dissatisfied with a decision of its national assembly, or which believed that the
actions of the national assembly were having an adverse affect on ‘the welfare and unity’ of
its own local community had the right of appeal to the Universal House of Justice, which
would then decide whether to take jurisdiction over the matter or to leave it within the final
jurisdiction of the national assembly. In all these cases, the appellant, whether an individual
or an assembly, was to first appeal directly to the assembly whose decision was being
questioned, either for reconsideration of the case by that assembly or for submission to a
higher body. The assembly whose decision was being questioned was obliged to forward the
appeal against its decision to the higher authority along with all particulars of the matter. If
the assembly refused to do this or failed to do so within a reasonable period of time, the
appellant could take the case directly to the higher authority. Local assemblies appealing
against the decisions or actions of national assemblies should try to resolve their differences
with the national assembly before submitting the case to the Universal House of Justice.
[IX-X] The Boards of Counsellors and the Auxiliary Boards.
[XI] Amendments to the Constitution. The House’s constitution could be amended by its
own decision when its full membership was present.
B. OTHER DEVELOPMENTS.
20. Thus, the elections for spiritual assembly membership are by plurality voting, and those elected are those
who receive the greatest number of votes: they do not have to obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast.
By contrast, elections for the officers of an spiritual assembly (chairman, secretary, etc.) are by majority
voting, and each office bearer must receive an absolute majority of the votes cast.

4. The Second and Third International Baha’i Conventions. The Second International
Baha’i Convention was held on 21-24 April 1968, and the Third Convention on 29 April-1
May 1973 (BW15: 565-67; 16: 392-95). With the increase in the number of national spiritual
assemblies since 1963 from 56 to 81 in 1968, and then 113 in 1973, the total possible number
of delegates rose from 504 to 729, and then to 1,017. Not all of these could attend in person,
and so sent postal ballots: at the First Convention (in 1963), 288 assembly members had
attended (57% of those eligible), at the Third Convention, 412 members attended (41% of
those eligible) (BW14: 427; 16: 392).21
The primary business of both Conventions was the election of the members of the Universal
House of Justice. Practical questions of changes in the House’s membership had already
received their first public attention in October 1967, when the House announced that it had
‘regretfully’ accepted the resignation of its eldest member, Dr. Lutfu'lláh Hakím (b.1888; then
in his seventy-ninth year), on the grounds that health problems and his advancing age were
making it increasingly difficult for him to participate as effectively as he would wish in the
House’s work. Given the imminence of the next election for the House (April 1968), Hakim
accepted a request to continue to serve as a House member until then (MU#48).22 The other
eight members of the ‘first’ House were all reelected in April 1968, however, and Dr. David
Ruhe, the national assembly secretary of the American Baha’is, was elected in Hakím’s stead
(MU#56). All the serving members were reelected in the third election in 1973 (MU#129).
The delegates were invited to come to the Baha’i World Centre for three days prior to both
Conventions so as to have an opportunity to visit the Baha’i shrines and other holy places,
pray, and meet with members of other national assemblies.23 Each Convention lasted three or
four days, with the election being held during the first session on the first day, and the rest of
the time being spent in listening to talks by the Hands of the Cause and reports on
developments in the Faith, and discussing topics selected by the House concerning further
progress. In keeping with general style of public self-effacement adopted by the members of
the House, the Hands presided over the proceedings and were the dominant voice. Both
Conventions included ‘Feasts’ to celebrate one of the holy days of the Ridván period, and the
Third Convention also included a visit to the site of the future Seat of the Universal House of
Justice and a celebratory meeting for the centenary of the revelation of Bahá'u'lláh’s Kitáb-i
Aqdas.
5. Agencies of the Universal House of Justice: IBAVC and the Audio-Visual
Department. As the work of the House increased, it decided that it was necessary to form
specialist auxiliary agencies to deal with specific tasks. Some of these were located outside of
the Baha’i World Centre and others were located in Haifa as departments working directly
21. The full membership of five national assemblies (Canada, Iceland, Ireland, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom) were present at the 1973 Convention. 14 assemblies were unable to send any representatives
(BW16: 392).
22.  Hakím died a few months later in August 1968.
23. At the 1973 Convention, the House used these three days prior to the Convention proceedings to meet with
the Hands of the Cause and discuss developments in the Faith, including plans for new institutions to deal
with the expected rapid expansion of the Faith (BW16: 392).

under the House of Justice. The first such agency appears to have been the International
Baha’i Audio-Visual Centre (IBAVC), established near Rochester, New York early in 1967
(the House’s official announcement was made on 21 February). An Audio-Visual Department
directly responsible to the House was established in Haifa as a counterpart to IBAVC (BW14:
91-92). In October 1967, the ‘Baha’i International Community’, hitherto an agency
representing the Baha’is to the United Nations in New York City and responsible to the
American national assembly, was effectively upgraded and became a second external agency
of the House.
The House noted the establishment of the International Baha’i Audio-Visual Centre in its
Ridván message of 1967, hailing it as an ‘important supplementary achievement’ of the Nine
Year Plan. The Centre’s function was twofold: (1) to provide ‘teaching and deepening aids’ to
all national assemblies, and (2) to ‘store and index audiovisual records’ from around the
world for the House (MU#42.8). Its specific tasks included ‘creating, producing, storing,
indexing, marketing and distributing audio-visual material’ for the benefit both of the Baha’i
World Centre and the national assemblies throughout the world. As a distributor, it was to act
as a wholesale supplier to the national assemblies and would not be involved in retail sales.
The House hoped that it would become self-supporting. Assignments included arranging
audio-visual coverage of the Intercontinental Conferences of October 1967 and the
production and distribution of a slide programme of the conferences. IBAVC also worked
closely with the House’s own Audio-Visual Department, reproducing and distributing copies
of the later’s sound-slide presentation about the Baha’i Holy Places, Carmel: The Mountain
of God (1967) (BW14: 91-92).
6. The announcement of the building of the Seat of the Universal House of Justice. On 7
June 1972, the House announced that it had decided to begin the planning process prior to the
construction of its own Seat (the ‘CENTER [of] LEGISLATION [for] GOD’S WORLD-
REDEEMING ORDER’) by initiating the selection procedure to choose an architect. This
decision was necessitated by the expansion of activities at the Baha’i World Centre which
itself had resulted from the ‘ACCELERATION’ in the growth of the Faith at local and
national levels and the increasing ‘RANGE’ of its activities. The House members prayed that
the project would be able to progress without interruption so that it could be completed
quickly (MU#115).

4. The Universal House of Justice and the Guardianship
A. THE GUARDIANSHIP AND THE COVENANT.
1. The question of the guardianship. The issue of the guardianship was one which was
evidently of immediate concern to the newly-formed House of Justice, requiring both a
‘prayerful and careful’ study of the relevant Baha’i texts and prolonged consideration of the
views of the Hands in Haifa. The key decision was announced on 6 October 1963, the House
stating that it had found no way in which a second guardian to succeed Shoghi Effendi could
be appointed. Neither was it possible to legislate to make such an appointment (MU#5). The
line of guardians projected in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament had come to an end, and the
Universal House of Justice would have to lead the Baha’i world alone.
As Shoghi Effendi himself had observed, the institutions of the House of Justice and the
guardianship were ‘twin institutions’ appointed by Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá to be their
successors, destined to apply the principles of the Faith, promulgate its laws, protect its
institutions, adapt it ‘loyally and intelligently’ to ‘the requirements of progressive society’,
and consummate the ‘incorruptible inheritance’ which its founders had bequeathed to the
world (WOB 19-20). In this context, the House of Justice’s ruling that it could not legislate
for the appointment of any further guardians was profoundly significant. The House
commented briefly on this situation in a message which it addressed to all Baha’i in October
1963 (MU#6). Faced with the reality of there being no further guardians, the House had to
begin to undertake ‘the heavy tasks laid upon it’, and in accordance with Shoghi Effendi’s
own words ‘guide, organize and unify’ the affairs of the Baha’i Movement throughout the
world, considering afresh the situation as necessary, and laying down the principles to direct
the affairs of the Cause as it deemed advisable (MU#6.2; BA 39, 41).
The Baha’is should be assured. The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh remained unbroken, and its all-
encompassing power remained inviolate. The two unique features which distinguished it from
all previous religious covenants still operated and were unchanged, namely, (1) that the
revealed word in its original purity and as amplified by the divinely-guided interpretations of
`Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, remained immutable, ‘unadulterated by any man-made
creeds or dogmas, unwarrantable inferences or unauthorized interpretations’; and (2) that the
‘channel of divine guidance remained open via the Universal House of Justice, an institution
founded by Bahá’u’lláh himself, and endowed by him with ‘supreme authority and unfailing
guidance’, and able to provide flexibility in the direction of human affairs. In the words of
`Abdu’l-Bahá ‘all things’ had to be referred to the House (Will 14). Again, as Bahá’u’lláh had
asserted, the Baha’i revelation had been established upon an ‘unassailable’ and ‘enduring’
foundation – the ‘(s)torms of human strife’ were powerless to undermine its basis, nor would
the ‘fanciful theories’ of men succeed in damaging its structure (MU#6.3; WOB 109).
An implicit example of the divine protection of the Baha’i Cause was also offered in a
consideration of the period following the death of Shoghi Effendi. It had been a time of
anguish as the Baha’i world found itself suddenly deprived of the guiding hand of its
Guardian, yet rather than paralysing the growth of the Faith, that anguish had stiffened the
Baha’is’ resolve’ and fired them with zeal to complete the tasks which God had laid upon
them. The then recently formed institution of the Hands of the Cause had kept the Baha’is

faithfully to the path ‘which had been shown to us by the pen of divine guidance’, and
brought them both to the successful conclusion of Shoghi Effendi’s Ten Year Crusade and the
establishment of the House of Justice – itself ‘the culminating point of the construction of the
framework of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order’ (MU#6.1).
Yet two facts remained to trouble the thinking of many Baha’is: (1) `Abdu’l-Bahá had
referred to a line of guardians, but the line had ended abruptly after the very first incumbent,
and (2) the Universal House of Justice and the guardianship had been envisaged as ‘twin
institutions’ which would function together in a complementary manner. Various questions
followed, including worries about the right of the Hands of the Cause to call for the election
of the House and about the ability of the House to function on its own without the guidance
of a guardian.
Responding to such uncertainties, the House of Justice composed three major letters on the
issues involved: (i) 9 March 1965; (ii) 27 March 1966; and (iii) 7 December 1969 (MU#23;
35; 75).
2. The letter of March 1965: The election and infallibility of the Universal House of
Justice. The House’s first major public response to such questions was addressed to the
Dutch national assembly on 9 March 1965, and subsequently widely circulated (see MU#23).
In it, the House addressed three questions: (1) the propriety of the House’s own election; (2)
the authority of the House in the absence of a guardian; and (3) the functioning of the House
in the absence of a guardian. As a general comment, the House also stated that it was good if
the Baha’is asked about questions which perplexed them. It was better to put such questions
‘freely and openly’ than to allow them to remain as unexpressed burdens on the hearts of
devoted Baha’is. There were, of course, ‘mysteries’ in the Baha’i religion, but if one
understood the ‘essential tenets’ of the Faith and the ‘indisputable facts’ of any situation,
these were not such as to shake one’s belief. The uncertainties which had troubled the Dutch
questioners were easily dispelled once the ‘basic principles’ of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation had
been grasped (MU#23.1). When the ‘doubts and misgivings’ of the Baha’is were dispelled
then they could devote ‘their every effort’ to spreading the Baha’i message, ‘serenely
confident’ that through the power of Bahá’u’lláh’s covenant, all tests which might be received
from an ‘inscrutable Providence’ would be overcome (MU#23.25).
2.1. The election of the House. For some Baha’is, there evidently remained uncertainties
about the election of the Universal House of Justice itself. If it was known that there would be
no more guardians, why had the election of the House gone ahead? Had the time for the
election been appropriate? Could the International Baha’i Council not have carried on as
before?
To these questions, the House replied that at the time of Shoghi Effendi’s death, no one had
known that the line of guardians had definitely come to an end. It had been evident, however,
that it had been impossible for him to appoint a successor.24 Circumstances and the explicit
requirements of the sacred texts had prevented him from following the provisions of `Abdu’l-
24. He had had no son, and his male relatives (brothers, cousins) had all been declared Covenant-breakers (see
Chapter 1).

Bahá’s Will. This was an obscure situation not covered by any text, and therefore had to be
referred to the then as yet unelected House of Justice. Whatever individuals’ opinions were at
the time, no one – not the Hands of the Cause, the International Baha’i Council, or any other
then existing body – could have made a decision upon this ‘all-important matter’. Only the
House of Justice could make an authoritative pronouncement – and this in itself was an
urgent reason for arranging for its early election (MU#23.3).
Following Shoghi’s death, the Hands of the Cause conducted the international administration
of the Faith in accordance with Shoghi’s appointment of them as ‘Chief Stewards’. They did
this with the complete agreement and loyalty of both the national assemblies and the mass of
the Baha’is. The Hands clearly realized that they had not been given any guarantee of divine
guidance, however, and therefore concluded that their only safe course would be to follow the
instructions and policies of Shoghi Effendi with ‘undeviating firmness’. The Guardian’s plans
up to the end of the Ten Year Crusade were ‘explicit and detailed’, but the Hands believed
that after that point further divine guidance would be essential if the Faith itself was not to be
endangered. This was a second ‘pressing reason’ for calling for the House’s election in 1963.
The correctness of this date was also confirmed by references by Shoghi Effendi to future
post-Crusade plans being under the direction of the House (MU#23.4-6). Accordingly, the
Hands went ahead with their election plans.
The Baha’is should realize that the manner in which the Hands had called for the election of
the House did not contradict the requirements laid down in the relevant Baha’i texts. There
was nothing in the writings stating that the election had to be called by the guardian. To the
contrary, `Abdu’l-Bahá had at one point – when there were renewed threats to his freedom
and his own life was in danger – envisaged calling for the House’s immediate election.25
According to `Abdu’l-Bahá, all that was required was for the Baha’is in the various countries
of the world to elect their delegates and for these in turn to elect their representatives (i.e. the
equivalent of the members of the national spiritual assemblies) and then for these
representatives to elect a body which would be the Supreme (i.e. Universal) House of Justice.
This process could proceed as long as conditions were favourable, and the elections for the
national representatives in Iran, America, India and the rest could proceed without
disturbance The House’s establishment did not require all the nations of the world to have
been converted to the Baha’i Faith. The elections were to follow the European parliamentary
system (MU#23.12-14).
2.2. The authority of the House of Justice. Another set of questions related to the authority
of the House of Justice in the absence of a living guardian. Shoghi Effendi himself had
written that the Baha’i world order would be ‘mutilated’ if it was divorced from the
institution of the guardianship. It would also be permanently deprived of the ‘hereditary
principle’ which `Abdu’l-Bahá had regarded as ‘invariably’ having been upheld by the law of
25. This was in 1907-8, after the arrival in Akka of the second Ottoman commission of enquiry into `Abdu’l-
Bahá ‘s activities, at which time which it was widely believed that `Abdu’l-Bahá was about to be deported
to Fezzan in the North African interior (Balyuzi, `Abdu’l-Bahá, pp.117-23; GPB 269-72). In these
conditions of imminent danger, `Abdu’l-Bahá insisted on carrying out his normal activities, apparently
unconcerned. At the same time, however, he made contingency plans in case the order of exile was carried
out, instructing one of the leading Baha’is, Hájí Mírzá Táqí Afnán, a cousin of the Báb and the chief builder
of the Ashkhabad temple to prepare to arrange for the House’s election if anything should happen to him
(MU#23.15; see also WOB 17).

God. Without the guardianship, ‘the integrity of the Faith would be imperiled’; its stability
‘gravely endangered’; its prestige diminished; the means by which it could take a long
uninterrupted view over a series of generations lost; and the necessary guidance ‘to define the
sphere of the legislative action of its elected representatives’ (i.e. the members of the
Universal House of Justice) ‘totally withdrawn’ (WOB 148). How then would the House
function without the presence of a guardian?
The House’s response was firstly to point to other passages in the corpus of Baha’i texts
which indicated that: (i) Bahá’u’lláh had assured the Baha’is that God’s revelation had been
established on an ‘unassailable’ and ‘enduring’ foundation such that the ‘storms of human
strife’ would be powerless to undermine its basis (WOB 109); (ii) both the guardianship and
the House of Justice had been appointed as institutions to ‘consummate’ the potential
inherited from the founders of the Faith (WOB 20); (iii) each of these ‘twin institutions’ had
its own distinctive powers, authority, rights and prerogatives, and neither could or ever would
‘infringe upon the sacred and prescribed domain of the other’, or seek to curtail its ‘specific
and undoubted authority’ (WOB 148, 150); and (iv) whilst being the permanent head of the
House of Justice, each successive guardian was never to have the right of ‘exclusive
legislation’ or be able to ‘override the decision of the majority of his fellow-members’ of the
House (WOB 150) (MU#23.18).
Again, the House noted that `Abdu’l-Bahá had clearly stated that anything not mentioned in
the Baha’i sacred texts should be referred to the Universal House of Justice. It was under ‘the
protection, unerring guidance and care of the one true Lord’ (i.e. Bahá’u’lláh). He would
guard it from error and protect it ‘under the wing of His sanctity and infallibility’. Whatever
it decided – even by majority vote – would be the ‘real truth’. It would immediately resolve
any differences of opinions between the Baha’is. Anyone who opposed it would be cast out
from the Faith and eventually be defeated (MU#23.11).
Again, in practice, before legislating on any matter, the members of the House carefully and
exhaustively studied all the relevant Baha’i texts – including the ‘vast range’ of binding
interpretations written by Shoghi Effendi (MU#23.19).
Although the House had not been invested with the guardians’ power of interpretation, it was
empowered to do everything that was necessary to establish Bahá’u’lláh’s world order. Its
authority guaranteed ‘(u)nity of administration’, whilst ‘(u)nity of doctrine amongst the
Baha’is was maintained by the combination of (i) a voluminous body of holy texts and
authoritative interpretations and (ii) an ‘absolute prohibition’ on any individual Baha’i
claiming that their own understandings of the Faith were authoritative or inspired. In this
context, every ‘true believer’ was obliged to combine ‘profound faith’ in the ‘unfailing
efficacy’ of Bahá’u’lláh’s message and covenant with the humility of recognizing that no one
at the present time could claim to have understood the ‘vastness’ of the Baha’i Cause or to
have comprehended its ‘manifold mysteries and potentialities’. An understanding of the ‘full
meaning’ of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and of the developing world order which it had ushered in
would only gradually be revealed to the Baha’is, who should trust to time and to the
pronouncements of the House of Justice itself, which would ‘resolve and clarify obscure
matters’ (MU#23.20-23).
In passing, the House also noted that there was a ‘profound difference’ between the

‘interpretations’ of Shoghi Effendi as guardian and the ‘elucidations of the Universal House
of Justice. Shoghi Effendi had revealed what scriptural passages actually meant. Each of his
interpretations was ‘a statement of truth’ which could not be varied. By contrast, the House’s
pronouncements on matters which were not revealed in the Baha’i texts were subject to later
emendation or abrogation by the House itself. They were supplementary applications of
divine law.
2.3. The functioning of the House of Justice. Responding to queries about the House’s
manner of functioning in the absence of a guardian, the House noted that many aspects of this
would be dealt with in its own future Constitution – the formulation of which was one of the
major goals of the Nine Year Plan. In the meantime, the House informed the Baha’is that it
had the right to expel any of its own members by majority vote if it found him guilty of
committing a sin ‘injurious to the common weal’.26 In the case that a House member was
accused of breaking the Baha’i Covenant, the matter would be investigated by the Hands of
the Cause residing in Haifa and if necessary, they would expel him from the Faith, subject to
the approval of the House – the House communicating the Hands’ decision to the Baha’i
world (MU#23.24).
3. The message of May 1966: The Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice.
The House returned to questions relating to the guardianship and its own functioning in a
letter of 27 May 1966 – addressed to an individual, but again widely circulated (MU#35).27
3.1. On Shoghi Effendi not leaving a will. `Abdu’l-Bahá had given Shoghi Effendi the
authority to appoint a successor (indeed had made such an appointment a duty), yet Shoghi
had not done so. Why? The statement which the Hands had made in November 1957 after
Shoghi’s unexpected demise was correct: the Guardian had no children of his own, and all the
other male descendants of Bahá’u’lláh were either dead or had been declared Covenant-
breakers (MC 35-36). Under such circumstances, it had been impossible for Shoghi to
appoint a successor: to do so would itself have breached the ‘clear and specific provisions’ of
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will. Again, `Abdu’l-Bahá had given the Hands the duty of confirming the
appointments of the successive guardians, but after Shoghi Effendi’s death, they had been
unanimous that he had neither appointed a successor nor left a will (MU#35.2). The Baha’is
should acknowledge that in Shoghi’s ‘very silence’ there was a wisdom and a sign of his
‘infallible guidance’. It was not a matter of his failing to obey Bahá’u’lláh (MU#35.3). More
generally, they should remember Shoghi Effendi’s comment that two things were necessary
for a growing understanding of Bahá’u’lláh’s world order: the passage of time and the
guidance of the Universal House of Justice (MU#35.3).
3.2. The infallibility of the House of Justice. The infallibility of the House of Justice when
it operated within its own ‘ordained sphere’ had not been made dependent upon the presence
26. In `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will, the right to expel members of the Universal House of Justice for wrongdoing (the
committing of a sin ‘injurious to the common weal’) was vested in the guardians (Will 14).
27. The House of Justice cites its own letters to individuals on a number of occasions but always omits the
name of the individual so as to preserve the confidentiality of the recipient. It has also adopted the same
practice when citing letters written to individuals by Shoghi Effendi or by one of his secretaries on his
behalf.

of a guardian amongst its members. Although in matters of interpretation, the successive
guardians’ pronouncements would have been binding, in matters of legislation, it had been
envisaged that it would be the decision of the House which would prevail. As Shoghi Effendi
had observed, it was the ‘exclusive right and prerogative’ of the House to make the final
decision on laws and ordinances which had not been laid down in Bahá’u’lláh’s writings. In
such matters, the role of the guardian would simply have been that of the head of the House
of Justice. He could have asked the House to reconsider a decision which he considered
wrong, but he would not have had the right either to legislate by himself or to override the
decision of a majority of his fellow House members (WOB 150; MU#35.4-5).
Of course, Shoghi Effendi had also written that the guardians would have the right to define
the ‘the sphere of the legislative action’ of the House (WOB 148), that is, to state whether or
not a particular matter was already covered in the sacred texts and therefore whether or not it
was a matter that could be legislated upon by the House. Only a guardian had the right to
make such a ruling: no one else. In the absence of a guardian, then, was the House in danger
of straying outside its proper sphere of responsibility and thus falling into error? The House’s
response to this question was threefold: (1) During his thirty-six years as guardian, Shoghi
Effendi had already made an ‘innumerable’ number of such definitions, supplementing those
previously made by Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá. The House always made a careful study
of all available texts prior to making any legislative decisions; (2) The House – itself assured
of divine guidance independently of the guardians – was well aware of the absence of a
guardian, and would therefore only approach making a legislative decision when it was sure
that it was within its own clearly defined sphere of jurisdiction; and (3) Shoghi Effendi had
stated that the two institutions could not and never would infringe upon each other’s domains
(WOB 150; MU#35.6).
As to the question of what role deductions from the Baha’i writings played in the House’s
functioning, `Abdu’l-Bahá had given the House the right of deduction from the texts and thus
enabled it to provide guidance in response to the changing conditions of society as not
everything had been ordained in holy writ and the conditions of society varied by time and
place. It would make decisions and establish ‘inspired and spiritual’ laws ‘through the
inspiration and confirmation of the Holy Spirit’. Moreover, he had promised that the House
would be under care and protection of God, and that it would not make any decisions which
were merely the product of the ‘concepts and opinions’ of its members (MU#35.7).
Again, `Abdu’l-Bahá had contrasted the deductions made by the House from those made by
Islamic scholars. These learned men had endeavoured to adapt their religion to the changing
circumstances of the time, but they had made conflicting deductions. Unlike Islamic scholars,
the House could speak with a single voice, and in the present age, the opinions of the learned
had no authority unless endorsed by the House (MU#35.7).
3.3. The principle of inseparability. As Shoghi Effendi had repeatedly made clear, the
House of Justice and the guardianship were ‘inseparable’ institutions. This did not mean that
they could not function independently, however. Indeed, Shoghi Effendi’s thirty-six year
guardianship had been conducted entirely in the absence of the House. The situation was now
reversed: the House of Justice had to function without a guardian. The absence of a living
guardian did not mean that the guardianship as an institution had lost its significance and
importance. Indeed, it would be just as wrong to argue that the absence of a guardian made all

that had been written about the institution irrelevant and unimportant as it would be to
underestimate the power of the Covenant or to try to somehow find a living guardian in these
changed conditions (MU#35.9).
3.4. Faith and the limits of understanding. ‘Service to the Cause of God’ required ‘absolute
fidelity and integrity’ as well as ‘unwavering faith’. For some Baha’is, the absence of a
successor to Shoghi Effendi was evidently a major intellectual problem, and a belief that
information was perhaps being withheld from the Baha’is ‘for the good of the Cause’ had
begun to circulate. The House assured its correspondent that this was not the case
(MU#35.2). More generally, it stressed that if it did not always go into detail on some matters
this was not because of secretiveness, but rather because the House was determined to refrain
from making any statement that could be construed as an ‘unwarrantable’ inference or
‘unauthorized’ interpretation of the Baha’i writings (MU#35.12).
The Baha’is should know that this was God’s Cause. He had promised that its light would not
fail. Given this promise, the Baha’is should both be faithful and have faith. Only evil would
result if the Baha’is tried to take the responsibility for the future of the Faith into their own
hands and tried to force it into ways that they wished. This is what had happened in the past.
In previous dispensations, believers had been ‘overanxious’ to encompass God’s message
within the framework of their own limited understanding, to define doctrines whose
definition was beyond their power, to explain mysteries which were beyond their
comprehension at the time, and argue that such-and-such was true because it seemed
desirable and necessary. Such compromises with essential truth had now to be scrupulously
avoided. The Baha’is had to adhere strictly to the ‘clear texts’, be conscious of the limitations
of their own knowledge, and not copy the spiritual pride of the past. Intellectual honesty and
humility were required (MU#35.10-11).
3.5. The role of individual interpretation. There had to be a clear distinction between the
understanding which an individual arrived at as a result of his or her own study of the Baha’i
teachings and the authoritative interpretations which could only be made by a guardian. It
was to be remembered that in the Baha’i Faith, individual interpretation was regarded as ‘the
fruit of man’s rational power’ and was ‘conducive to a better understanding of the teachings’.
It was not to be suppressed. At the same time, it was important that disputes and arguments
among the Baha’is be avoided, and that the individual Baha’i understood and made clear that
his or her interpretations were merely personal views. An individual’s interpretations were
not fixed. Rather, their understanding changed continually as he or she grew in
comprehension of the teachings. Thus, an individual’s insights could be ‘enlightening and
helpful’, but they could also be misleading’. Therefore, Baha’is should learn both to ‘express
their own views without pressing them on their fellow Baha’is’ and to ‘listen to the views of
others without being overawed or allowing their faith to be shaken’. Indeed the more a Baha’i
studied the writings, the more he or she would find in them, and the more he would realize
that his previous notions were limited (MU#35.13).
3.6. Clinging to the Covenant and to the Universal House of Justice. No matter how much
the Baha’is were unable to understand either ‘the mystery’ of Shoghi Effendi’s unexpected
death and the absence of a successor, or the implications of this development, they all had to
‘cling with assurance’ to the ‘strong cord’ of the Covenant. They should remember that the
Baha’i Cause was ‘organic’. It grew and developed like a living being. It had often faced

crises which had perplexed the Baha’is, but because it was impelled ‘by the immutable
purpose of God’ it had always overcome such crises, and then gone on to ‘greater heights’
(MU#35.14-15).
In the absence of a living guardian, the Universal House of Justice was ‘the sole infallibly
guided institution in the world’. It was the House which now bore the responsibility ‘for
ensuring the unity and progress of the Cause of God in accordance with the revealed Word’.
As indicated by `Abdu’l-Bahá, it was the centre to which all Baha’is should turn: everyone
should seek guidance from the House, and anyone who turned away from it was in grievous
error (Will 19-20, 26). Again, Shoghi Effendi had made it clear that, in addition to being the
highest legislative body in the Faith, the House was also the ‘apex’ of the Baha’i
administrative system, and the ‘supreme organ’ of the millennial future Baha’i
Commonwealth (GPB 332; WOB 7). Moreover, Shoghi Effendi had specified that the House
would be responsible for such ‘fundamental functions’ as ‘the formulation of future
worldwide teaching plans’; conducting Baha’i administrative affairs; and ‘the guidance,
organization and unification’ of Baha’i activities throughout the world. He had also indicated
that it would function to safeguard ‘the integrity and unity’ of the Faith, and that its members
as a body would be ‘the recipients of the divine guidance which is at once the lifeblood and
ultimate safeguard’ of the Baha’i revelation (GPB 213-4; WOB 153). Again, he had predicted
that the House would come to be regarded as ‘the last refuge of a tottering civilization’ (WOB
89) (MU#35.16-17).
3.7. The performance of necessary functions. As the House had already stated (above), it
was not possible for it to legislate to make it possible to appoint either another guardian or
any more Hands of the Cause. It had a duty, however, to do everything it could to ensure the
performance of the functions it shared with these ‘mighty Institutions’ (MU#35.18).
The Baha’is should note that in the Baha’i system, some functions were the exclusive
preserve of certain institutions, but that other functions were shared in common, even though
one particular institution was designated to take a leading role in their performance. For
example, whilst the Hands of the Cause were specifically assigned the duty of protecting and
propagating the Faith, the House of Justice and the spiritual assemblies shared the same duty,
and indeed every individual Baha’i had an obligation to spread the Faith through teaching.
Thus, whilst the House could not undertake any functions which had been exclusively
assigned to the guardianship (notably the authority to make authoritative interpretations of the
Baha’i sacred writings), there were many functions which it shared with the guardianship,
and which it could therefore exercise in the absence of a living guardian. Central here was the
‘common’ and ‘fundamental’ objective shared by the two institutions ‘to ensure the continuity
of that divinely appointed authority’ which flowed from Bahá’u’lláh, to safeguard the unity of
the Baha’is, and to ‘maintain the integrity and flexibility’ of the Baha’i teachings (WOB 148;
MU#35.8).
Specific duties in this regard were that the House had to devise means whereby the ‘functions
of protection and propagation’ should be properly discharged in the future (see Chapter 5A);
‘receive and disburse’ the Huqúqu’lláh; and make provision for the removal of any individual
House member who committed a sin ‘injurious to the common weal (Will 14). More
generally, and above all else and ‘with perfect faith in Bahá’u’lláh’, it had to ‘proclaim His
Cause and enforce His Law’ so that the millennial Most Great Peace which he had foreseen

would be firmly established and ‘the foundation of the Kingdom of God on earth’
accomplished (MU#35.18).
4. The message of December 1969: Further comments. The House’s third major letter on
matters relating to the guardianship and the House of Justice was dated 7 December 1969 and
addressed to ‘an individual Baha’i’ in reply to questions raised by a youth study group. It was
again given wide circulation, as the points it raised were evidently felt to be of major
significance. The House hoped that its ‘elucidations’ would help the Baha’is understand these
matters more clearly, but counselled that too little time had as yet elapsed since the Baha’i
system had come into being for its functioning and potentialities to be fully understood
(MU#75.18).
4.1. Unity of meaning. One of the questions raised was how to reconcile two passages in the
authoritative Baha’i texts, and before dealing with the specific issue raised, the House
asserted the essential ‘unity of meaning’ of those texts: there could never be any ‘real
contradiction’ between them. Thus, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will and Testament did not in any way
contradict the Kitáb-i Aqdas of Bahá’u’lláh, but rather confirmed, supplemented and
correlated its provisions (see WOB 19). Similarly, the writings of Shoghi Effendi did not
contradict the revealed words of Bahá’u’lláh or the interpretations of `Abdu’l-Bahá
(MU#75.4).
4.2. The relationship between the guardianship and the House of Justice. As set out in the
Baha’i texts, the guardians and the Universal House of Justice had ‘certain duties and
functions in common’, whilst each institution also operated within its own exclusive,
‘separate and distinct sphere’. Thus, the guardians interpreted the texts and the House
legislated on matters not ‘expressly revealed’ in the texts. Within their respective spheres, the
pronouncements of each institution were authoritative and binding. According to Shoghi
Effendi’s own explicit statement, neither institution could or ever would infringe upon ‘the
sacred and prescribed domain of the other’ (WOB 150). Again, given that `Abdu’l-Bahá had
stated that both institutions were under the ‘care and protection’ of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘the
shelter and unerring guidance’ of the Báb (Will 11), it was impossible to conceive of them as
rival centres of authority in conflict with each other: both were vehicles of the same divine
guidance (MU#75.5).
Both institutions had general functions beyond their specific responsibilities, and it was in
these areas that there were shared duties. Thus, the House also had the general functions of
‘protecting and administering the Cause, solving obscure questions and deciding upon
matters that have caused difference’, whilst the guardians were invested with ‘all the powers
and prerogatives’ necessary to protect and lead the Faith. According to `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will,
each successive guardian would also become a life member and ‘irremovable head’ of the
House of Justice, and as such would take part in its deliberations (MU#75.6-7).
This was the context in which to place one of the questions raised by the study group, namely
the seeming contradiction between `Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement in his Will and Testament that
the Universal House of Justice was ‘freed from all error’ (Will 14), and Shoghi Effendi’s
statement that it was one of the duties of a guardian to insist that his fellow House members
reconsidered ‘any enactment’ that he believed conflicted with the meaning of Bahá’u’lláh’s

writings or departed from their spirit (WOB 150). In practice, of course, if there was a living
guardian and he called for the other House members to reconsider a decision, it was
inconceivable that they would ignore his request. It should be remembered, however, that
both institutions were divinely guided and protected. It was the final judgement of the House
which was guaranteed infallibility and not any views expressed during the process of
consultation which led up to that final decision being taken. A living guardian functioning as
a member of the House of Justice was empowered to ask for decisions to be reconsidered
during consultation, but ultimately he was not entitled to overrule a majority decision
(MU#75.2, 75.7-9).
In this regard, it was also useful to consider the actual process followed by the House in
making its decisions: it first observed ‘the greatest care’ in studying all relevant Baha’i texts
as well as considering the views of all its members. Then, after a long period of consultation,
it began to draft a pronouncement, but during this process could decide to reconsider the
issue, eventually reaching a quite different final decision or postponing legislation altogether
for the time being. In the presence of a living guardian, his views would obviously carry great
weight during such a process (MU#75.10).
4.3. Two authoritative centres. It was clear from the Baha’i writings that the Baha’is were
provided with ‘two authoritative centres’ to which they should turn after the passing of
Bahá’u’lláh: on the one hand, ‘the Book’, the word of God as revealed in Bahá’u’lláh’s
writings and interpreted by the properly appointed and divinely inspired interpreters of those
writings (i.e. `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi), and on the other, the House of Justice,
which would decide on matters not covered by the divine word and its authoritative
extensions. Thus, in his writings, Bahá’u’lláh both told his followers to refer to his words and
to `Abdu’l-Bahá as his appointed successor, and ordained the future establishment of the
House, whilst in his turn, `Abdu’l-Bahá explicitly instituted the guardianship; reaffirmed and
elucidated the authority of the House; and again told the Baha’is to turn to the sacred writings
(MU#75.15).
Of these sources of authority, it was clear that the highest was ‘the Book’, as this delimited
the sphere of action of the House of Justice: the House could only legislate on matters not
explicitly revealed in the sacred text and its sphere of legislative action was defined by the
authoritative interpreters of ‘the Book’ (MU#75.75.16).
4.4. The Universal House of Justice in the absence of a guardian. Future guardians were
clearly envisaged in the Baha’i authoritative texts, but there was no promise or guarantee that
the line of guardians would continue indefinitely. Indeed, there were ‘clear indications’ that
the line could be broken, as in the Kitáb-i Aqdas itself which referred to authority over Baha’i
charitable endowments (awqáf) resting first with Bahá’u’lláh, and then after his passing with
his male descendants – the Aghsán (‘Branches’), in this instance taken by the House to
include the future guardians, and after them with the House of Justice, if it had been
‘established ... by then’, and, finally, in the absence of an elected House of Justice with ‘the
people of Bahá’ who spoke not except by his leave and were ‘the champions of victory’
(KA#42).
The death of Shoghi Effendi in 1957 precipitated the exact situation which had been provided
for in the Aqdas passage on endowments, that is the line of guardians had ended before the

House had been elected. Without question, this was a ‘grievous loss’ for the Faith, but it did
not alter God’s purpose or destroy Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant (MU#75.14). There was, after all,
a ‘repeated insistence’ that the Baha’i Covenant was indestructible and God’s purpose for
humanity in this day immutable (MU#75.12-14).
On the specific relationship between the guardianship and the House, whilst the guardians
were clearly intended to have the authority to define the House of Justice’s sphere of
legislative action, this did not mean that the House would stray beyond its proper sphere of
action without such guidance. To the contrary, other texts made it clear that the House would
be infallible and would never infringe on the guardians’ domain of action (MU#75.17).
Specifically, the infallibility of the House was independent of a guardian’s membership of it
or his presence at its sessions. Both `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi had explicitly stated
that its elected members would receive ‘unfailing’ divine guidance in their consultations, and
Shoghi Effendi had also stated that under no circumstances did the guardianship abrogate or
detract from the powers granted to the House by Bahá’u’lláh and confirmed by `Abdu’l-Bahá
(MU#75.6).28 Again, during his thirty-six years as guardian, Shoghi Effendi had actually
already provided guidance as to the House’s sphere of action (MU#75.16).
28. The House also noted that whilst Shoghi Effendi had carefully guided the national and local assemblies
during his ministry, both in ‘the painstaking erection’ of the Baha’i Administrative Order and in the
formulation of national and local Baha’i constitutions, the assemblies had not been given any guarantee of
infallibility in the Baha’i texts. In this regard, the assemblies were unlike the Universal House of Justice.
They could, however, receive divine guidance, if they consulted ‘in the manner and spirit described by
`Abdu’l-Bahá (MU#75.18).

5. The Hands of the Cause and Related Institutions
Contents:
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS.
B. ASPECTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONING.
C. THE WORK OF THE HANDS AND COUNSELLORS.
Key dates:
The development of the institution of the Hands is made a goal of the Nne Year Plan (April). The
UHJ announces that no further Hands of the Cause can be appointed, and authorizes the Hands to
appoint Board members to act as their executive assistants (November).
Formation of the Continental Boards of Counsellors (June).
1972 UHJ statement on ‘The rulers and the learned’ (24 April).
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS.
1. The Hands of the Cause. In its first messages to the Baha’is, the Universal House of
Justice had paid fulsome tribute to the work of the Hands of the Cause in guiding the Baha’i
world to victory in the crisis years following the unexpected death of Shoghi Effendi. The
House had also consulted closely with the Hands in Haifa about the future development of
the Baha’i Cause, and it had been the Hands as a collectivity who had prepared the first draft
of the new Nine Year Teaching Plan which the House launched in April 1964. A close
working relationship had been developed, and the House continued to see the Hands as a
crucial asset in the work of the Faith, referring to their ‘vital responsibility’ in its message of
October 1963, and appointing them as the ‘Standard-Bearers’ of the new plan (UM#6.4, 6.6).
Shoghi Effendi had stated that the Hands had the ‘dual function’ of ‘guarding over the
security’ and of ‘insuring the propagation’ of the Faith (MBW 127), and the House of Justice
reiterated the importance of this dual role. Thus, in their role as protectors of the Faith, the
Hands were to continue to take action to expel Covenant-breakers and to reinstate those who
sincerely repented – subject in each case to the ultimate approval of the House. At the same
time in their propagator role, they were to continue to ‘inspire, advise and assist’ the national
assemblies (MU#6.4).29
2. The development of the institution. As a functioning institution, the Hands had been
formed and developed by Shoghi Effendi, but the close relationship that existed between
them and him was institutional as well as personal. As outlined by `Abdu’l-Bahá in his Will
and Testament, the Hands were to be appointed by the guardians, work in their service, and
approve their successors (Will 12-13). Having determined that the line of guardians had come
to an end, the Universal House of Justice had also to determine what the institutional future
of the Hands of the Cause was going to be.
29. `Abdu’l-Bahá had also referred to the responsibilities of the Hands in his Will and Testament, including the
diffusion of ‘the Divine Fragrancies’ (i.e. teaching the Faith to others), the edification of ‘the souls of men’,
the promotion of learning, and the improvement of ‘the character of all men’. He had also bidden them to
be always ‘sanctified and detached from earthly things’ (Will 12-13).

The ‘development of the Institution of the Hands of the Cause’ thus became a major goal of
the Nine Year Plan (MU#14.5), and in November 1964, the House reported its preliminary
decisions following extensive consultations with the Hands during the Hands’ recently
concluded fourteen day conclave in Haifa (MU#20).30 The meeting itself had been of ‘vital
significance’ (MU#21.1). Having studied the Baha’i texts and hearing the views of the Hands
themselves, the House had concluded that: (1) there was no way in which further Hands of
the Cause could be appointed, neither was it possible for the House to legislate to make such
appointments possible; and (2) the responsibility for determining matters of general policy
relating to the Hands had devolved from Shoghi Effendi to the House of Justice in its role as
‘the supreme and central institution of the Faith to which all must turn’ (MU#20.4). In this
context, it became imperative to find ways in which the Hands’ ‘appointed functions of
protection and propagation’ could be extended into the future. This was all the more
necessary given the significance of the relationship between the Hands and other Baha’i
institutions in relationship to the work of teaching the Faith and to the overall development of
the ‘Baha’i World Order’ (MU#20.2-20.3).
To date, the development of the institution of the Hands by the House of Justice has passed
through three main stages, the first (in 1964) involving changes in existing institutions so as
to give the Hands more time to concentrate on their most important functions; the second and
third (in 1968 and 1973) seeing the establishment of new institutions to take over work
formerly performed by the Hands. Although never stated specifically, these changes were
obviously made in the realization that the 22 Hands still alive and serving the Faith in 1963
would all age and eventually die, and that they could not be replaced.31
3. Initial changes. The first move (in 1964) was to help free the Hands ‘to devote their entire
energies’ to the ‘vitally important’ duties which had been conferred upon them. This mainly
involved changes in the Auxiliary Boards (below), but the House also felt it necessary to
remind the Baha’is that the Hands’ ‘exalted rank and specific functions’ made it inappropriate
for them to be elected or appointed to Baha’i administrative institutions or elected as
delegates at Baha’i national conventions (MU#20.9). At the same time, the larger continents
(the Americas and Asia) were subdivided into smaller and more manageable zones for the
purposes of day-to-day administrative work.32
The Auxiliary Boards. In April 1954, to help the Hands in their work, Shoghi Effendi had
authorized the appointment by them of ‘Auxiliary Boards’, comprising individuals who
30. The meeting was held in late October and early November 1964 (BW15: 169).
31. Of the 32 Hands of the Cause appointed to an active role by Shoghi Effendi, 5 predeceased him, another 4
died during the period of the Custodianship by the Hands, and one (Remey) had been expelled as a
Covenant-breaker. During the Nine Year Plan another 5 were to die, leaving a total of 17 Hands – some of
them quite elderly – still actively serving the Faith at the end of the Nine Year Plan. A list of the Hands is
given below in section C.
32. The Americas were divided into 3 zones: North America (comprising Canada and the continental USA,
Hawaii being reassigned to the Australasian continental area); Central America (including Mexico) and the
Antilles; and South America. Asia was divided into 2 zones: the ‘Middle East’, including Afghanistan,
Pakistan and Soviet Asia; and ‘South and East Asia’ comprising the remainder (MU#20.6). One or more
Hands were responsible for each zone (BW14: 85).

would function as their ‘deputies, assistants and advisors’ (MBW 59). The establishment of
separate Boards for the protection and propagation of the Faith was authorized in October
1957 (MBW 128). Both Boards were organized on a continental basis.
The House quickly acknowledged that the Hands would continue to be assisted in their work
by the members of the Auxiliary Boards (MU#6.4), and then, in November 1964, announced
that it was calling upon the Hands in each continent to appoint one or more Board members
to act in an executive capacity on behalf of each Hand, thereby relieving the Hands of
unnecessary administrative work. At the same time, the number of Board members was to be
almost doubled, raising the total number worldwide from 72 (8x9) to 135 (15x9).33
At this point, the Hands had already discussed the role of the Board members at their London
Conclave in May 1963, coming to the decision that the Board members should also be freed
from administrative responsibilities relating to the spiritual assemblies so as to be able to
devote their full energies to their work for the Boards. Those who were also serving as
national spiritual members were therefore asked to decide within the coming eleven months
in which capacity they could best serve the Faith. This decision was accepted by the House of
Justice, which in turn, in November 1963, directed national assemblies to advise national
convention delegates that whilst they could vote for nationally resident Board members to
serve on the national assembly if they wanted to, it would be better if they did not – so that
the members could concentrate on the work allotted to them. Furthermore, if a Board member
was elected, he or she would then have to decide which role they wanted to retain – Board or
assembly member. Again, being a Board member was a valid reason for resigning from a
national assembly – though an assembly could appeal to the House of Justice if it felt that the
resignation of a particular individual would be detrimental to the interests of the Faith
(MU#11).
4. The Continental Boards of Counsellors.
4.1. The context. With the decision made that it was not possible for the Universal House of
Justice to appoint further Hands of the Cause, and the evident fact that the existing Hands
would all eventually die, the House decided that some means should be devised to extend the
functions of the institution of Hands (specifically the protection and propagation of the Faith)
into the future. By the very nature of the situation, freeing the Hands of less essential work so
that they could concentrate their energies on their major functions could be only a temporary
expedient. It was only in 1968, however, that an adequate means of extending the Hands’
functions was devised. This took the form of the creation of a new institution, the
‘Continental Boards of Counsellors’, to take over many of the Hands’ functions and much of
their work.
4.2. Formation of the Boards. Following the second International Convention in April 1968,
the House members held prolonged and extensive consultations with the Hands, both on the
33. By continent: in Africa, from 18 to 27; in the Americas, from 18 to 36; in Asia, from 14 to 36; in
Australasia, from 4 to 9; and in Europe, from 18 to 27 (MU#20.7). The frequent occurrence of multiples of
nine in these figures stems from the importance Baha’is attach to the number 9 as being both the numerical
value of the Arabic word ‘Bahá’ (Glory) in the abjad system of number-letter equivalence used in Islamic
esotericism and as a symbol of ‘perfection, unity and comprehensiveness’ (See CEBF, loc. cit. ‘abjad’;
‘numbers’).

overall progress of the Nine Year Plan, and what the House described on 9 May as the
‘FUNDAMENTAL OBJECTIVE’ of the extension of the Hands’ functions (MU#57). The
fruits of these deliberations were announced on 21 June 1968, with the news that eleven
‘Continental Boards of Counsellors’ were to be established, each responsible for a specific
geographical area. This was a ‘MOMENTOUS DECISION’ (MU#58). The details of the
Boards’ responsibilities were outlined three days later, along with the list of those appointed
(24 June; MU#59, 60).34 The death of one of the Hands (Hermann Grossman) just a few
weeks later, in July 1968, underlined the timeliness of this development. As the House itself
noted, the Baha’i administrative system was subject to development (‘majestic unfoldment’)
and had been marked by the successive establishment of its various institutions, of which this
was the latest (MU#59.1, 59.8).
The decision to establish the new Boards had evidently followed a prolonged period of
thought and discussion. During the first four years of the Nine Year Plan, much thought had
been given to the question of perpetuating the functions of the Hands, and there had been
extensive study of the relevant Baha’i texts. This had culminated in the recent consultations
with the Hands. A framework for decision making had become evident: (1) the House saw no
way in which additional Hands could be appointed; (2) the absence of a Guardian of the Faith
completely changed the relationship between the House and the Hands, and necessitated that
the House assume the responsibility for devising some means of extending the Hands’
functions into the future; (3) any institutional changes should be made as soon as possible so
as to ‘reinforce and supplement’ the work of the present Hands of the Cause and take ‘full
advantage’ of the opportunity of the Hands themselves to assist in launching and guiding any
‘new procedures’; and (4) any new institution must ‘grow and operate’ in harmony with the
already established principles governing the functioning of the institution of the Hands.
Developments would be proceed through ‘progressive unfoldment’ (MU#59).
4.3. The Counsellors’ responsibilities. Although clearly of far less exalted rank, the
Counsellors’ responsibilities substantially replicated many of the former functions of the
Hands.35 As had the Hands before them, the new Boards were made responsible for ‘the
protection and propagation of the Faith’. Their duties were to include: (1) direction of the
Auxiliary Boards in their respective regions; (2) ‘consulting and collaborating’ with the
national spiritual assemblies of their region; and (3) keeping both the Hands of the Cause and
the Universal House informed of the conditions of the Faith in their region. Thus, the
Auxiliary Boards would now report to the Continental Boards and not to the Hands, and the
Counsellors would be responsible for appointing or replacing Auxiliary Board members as
34. See http://bahai-library.com/uhj_institution_counsellors and http://bahaikipedia.org/Continental_Counsellors
35. A report at the end of the Nine Year Plan states that the Counsellors were instructed ‘to operate in a manner
similar to that set forth by Shoghi Effendi for the Hands of the Cause’, and that in particular the
Counsellors were asked to refer to Shoghi’s ‘letter’ of 4 June 1957 (BW15: 170). This latter reference is
presumably to a cablegram of that date in which Shoghi called upon the Hands and the national assemblies
of each continent to work closely together and exercise ‘UNRELAXING VIGILANCE’ in carrying out
their ‘SACRED, INESCAPABLE DUTIES’ to ensure: (i) the security of the Faith; (ii) the preservation of
the ‘SPIRITUAL HEALTH’ of the Baha’i communities; (iii) the ‘VITALITY’ of the faith of its individual
members; (iv) the proper functioning of its ‘LABORIOUSLY ERECTED [administrative]
INSTITUTIONS’; (v) the ‘FRUITION’ of its worldwide enterprises; and (vi) the ‘FULFILMENT’ of ‘ITS
ULTIMATE DESTINY’ (MU#10.1a; cf MBW 123. Note that the original published version has edited
joining words into the original cable).

circumstances required – albeit initially only after consultation with the Hand or Hands who
had formerly had this responsibility. In all matters they would work in close collaboration
with the Hands (MU#58; 59.2, 59.5).
4.4. Board areas. Initially, eleven Boards were formed (3 each in Africa, the Americas and
Asia; one each for Australasia and Europe), and a total of 36 individuals appointed as
Counsellors, with most of the Boards having a membership of three. The Board areas were as
follows: Northwestern, Central and East, and Southern Africa; North, Central, and South
America; Western, Southeast, and Northeast Asia; Australasia; and Europe. One member of
each Board was appointed as trustee of the Continental Fund for his or her area. The term or
terms of service for the Counsellors would be determined and announced at a later date, and
during their period of service, Counsellors would not be eligible for membership of local or
national assemblies (MU#59.3-4).
5. The changed role of the Hands of the Cause. The creation of the Continental Boards
significantly changed the role of the Hands, relieving them from even more of the routine
work which they had hitherto had to deal with. Freed from oversight of the Auxiliary Boards,
the Hands – ‘the Chief Stewards of Bahá’u’lláh’s embryonic World Commonwealth’ and one
of the ‘most precious assets’ which the Baha’i world possessed – would be able to
concentrate more of their energies on their ‘more primary responsibilities’ of ‘general
protection and propagation’ of the Faith, working to preserve the spiritual health and vitality
of Baha’i communities throughout the world. Whilst each Hand would continue to have a
special concern for Baha’i matters in their own geographical area, all would now be able to
operate increasingly on an intercontinental level, assuming a substantially more worldwide
role and enabling them to add tremendous impetus to the global diffusion of the Faith and the
inspiration of the Baha’is. In this context, the House would call on them to ‘undertake special
missions on its behalf’; ‘represent it on both Baha’i and other occasions’; and ‘keep it
informed about the welfare of the Cause’ (MU#58; 59.7).
Although freed from routine administrative duties, the Hands would have ‘the prerogative
and obligation’ to consult with both the new Continental Boards and the national assemblies
on any matter which they considered to affect the interests of the Faith. The Hands residing in
Haifa would also act as a liaison between the House of Justice and the Continental Boards.
Again, at a future ‘propitious time’, they would help the House in the establishment of the
international teaching centre referred to in Shoghi Effendi’s writings (MU#58; 59.6). The
Hands also retained the authority – subject to the approval of the House – for the expulsion
and reinstatement of Covenant-breakers (BW15: 17-71).
6. ‘The rulers and the learned’.
6.1. The ‘institutions of the learned’. In April 1972, the House provided further elucidation
about the institution of the Continental Boards of Counsellors. Created by the House itself in
1968, the Continental Boards had been primarily devised to extend into the future the
functions of protection and propagation of the Faith which had been vested in the institution
of the Hands of the Cause. Their establishment formed part of a series of developments
involving the ‘institutions of the learned’, which had earlier seen the creation of the Hands of
the Cause and the Auxiliary Boards as functioning institutions, and would in due course no

doubt see other developments, such as the international teaching centre come into being,36 and
the work of the Counsellors expand. Although each of the three existing institutions (Hands,
Counsellors and Auxiliary Boards) was distinct and separate from the others, they were all
‘intimately interrelated’, and in one sense different ranks of a single institution (MU#111.4-
10).
The ‘learned’ in this context were one of two sections of the Baha’i administrative order, the
other being the ‘rulers’, comprising the members of the Universal House of Justice and of the
national and local spiritual assemblies. This was a distinction which went derived from
Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of the Covenant (Kitáb-i `Ahd), in which he had referred to the ‘rulers
and learned among the people of Bahá’. By way of elaboration, Shoghi Effendi had referred
to the Baha’i learned as comprising the Hands of the Cause and other great teachers whilst
the rulers comprised the House and assembly members. He had also noted that in distinction
to the religions of the past, decision-making authority in the Baha’i Faith was vested in the
assemblies, all operating under the shadow of the Universal House of Justice functioning as
the single pivot and centre of the Faith. The dangers of those who ‘accounted themselves as
superior in knowledge and elevated in position’ contending for power had been removed
(MU#111.3, 111.12-13).37
For the House, the Baha’i learned retained ‘the beneficent elements’ of such institutions
whilst avoiding all their ‘inherent’ evils. Thus, the Hands and their related bodies comprised
individuals of ‘exalted rank’ who played a ‘vital role’ in the progress of the Baha’i Cause and
were of ‘fundamental value’ to it. At the same time, however, they had ‘no legislative,
administrative or judicial authority’ and were ‘entirely devoid of priestly functions or the
right to make authoritative interpretations’. This distinction was a new and unique concept
which was not found in previous religions. The Baha’is themselves would only fully grasp
the importance of these institutions with the passage of time as the Baha’i community grew
and the Baha’is were increasingly able ‘to contemplate its administrative structure
uninfluenced by concepts from past ages’. Only then would they properly understand the
‘vital independence’ of the institutions of the rulers and the learned and fully recognize the
‘inestimable value of their interaction’ (MU#111.13-14). As with many other aspects of the
administrative order, understanding grew as that order itself developed ‘organically’ in
response both to the power and guidance of God, and in accordance with Baha’i community
needs as these developed (MU#111.2).
6.2. The distinction between corporate and individual functioning. In passing, the House
noted the inaccuracy of the distinction which were sometimes made by Baha’is between the
two branches of the administration as ‘appointive’ and ‘elective’ arms. It was true that House
and assembly members were elected and the Hands, Counsellors and Board members were
appointed, but the ‘elective’ arm also included the committees of the assemblies and these
were appointed bodies. A better distinction would be between the way in which the
36. The International Teaching Centre was established in June 1973 (MU#131), shortly after the end of the
Nine Year Plan.
37. The enormous power that can accrue to the religiously learned is particularly evident in Shi`i Islam, in
which the ‘learned’ (`ulamá) came to control the legal and educational systems and even vied for political
power. The Shi`i `ulamá also quickly became the main opponents of the Babi and Baha’i religions. See
CEBF, loc. cit. ‘`ulamá’; ‘learned’; Momen.

institutions of the rulers functioned as corporate bodies, whilst those appointed to one of the
institutions of the learned operated primarily as individuals (MU#111.11).
7. Definition in the Constitution of the Universal House of Justice. In the By-Laws to its
own Constitution (November 1972), the House outlined the functioning of the Continental
Boards of Counsellors and Auxiliary Board members as follows:
7.1. The institution of the Boards of Counsellors had been brought into being by the House
in order to extend into the future the Hands of the Cause specific functions of protection and
propagation. The members of these Boards were to be appointed by the House for a term of
office determined by the House. Each Counsellor only functioned within the geographical
zone allocated to him [or her] by the House, and automatically relinquished his appointment
if he moved his residence outside the appointed zone. The boundaries of all zones were
determined by the House. ‘The rank and specific duties’ of a Counsellor made him ineligible
for service on local or national assemblies. If a Counsellor was elected on to the House of
Justice, he ceased to be a Counsellor.
7.2. In each zone [of the Continental Counsellors], there would be two Auxiliary Boards –
one each for protection and propagation of the Faith, the numbers of members of which
would be determined by the House of Justice. The members of these Auxiliary Boards would
be appointed by the Counsellors from amongst the Baha’is of that zone and would serve
under their direction as the Counsellors’ ‘deputies, assistants and advisors’. Each individual
Auxiliary Board member would be allocated a specific geographical area in which to serve,
and would not function as a Board member outside that area unless specifically deputized by
the Counsellors to do so. Auxiliary Board members were eligible for any elected office [e.g.
as an assembly member], but if elected to a local or national administrative post, would have
to choose between continued membership of the Auxiliary Board and the administrative post.
If elected to the Universal House of Justice, he would cease to be a Board member (UHJC
15-16).
8. Increases in the numbers of Counsellors and Board members.
8.1. Further developments. After the formation of the Continental Boards of Counsellors in
1968, there were no further institutional changes relating to the ‘institutions of the learned’
until May and June 1973 when the International Teaching Centre was established in Haifa,
and some changes were made in the zones of the Continental Boards as well as in their
functioning and the total number of Counsellors (MU#131, 132). As these changes occurred
after the end of the Nine Year Plan and the period covered by this volume, they will not be
considered here.
8.2. Increases in the numbers of Counsellors and Board members. On a number of
occasions after the Continental Boards had been formed, the House expressed itself well-
pleased with their functioning (see below, section C). It also made minor changes to their
membership. Thus, in July 1969, the House announced that it had decided to raise the total
number of Counsellors by two to 38, with the addition of one Counsellor each to the South
American and North East Asian areas (raising their numbers to 4 and 3 respectively). There

was also one change of membership to fill a vacancy that arisen (MU#70).38 Again, at Ridván
1970, the House noted that it was augmenting this ‘VITAL INSTITUTION’ through the
appointment of three additional Counsellors (2 in Europe and 1 in Western Asia) (MU#81),
thus raising the overall total to 41 (BW15: 171).
The number of Board members was also increased. In 1964, the total number had been raised
from 72 to 135 (see above), and at Ridván 1970, the House further increased the number of
Board member posts by 45 to a total of 180. The additions comprised 9 in Africa; 18 in the
Americas; 16 in Asia; and 2 in Australasia (MU#81). Over two-thirds of the total number of
Board member posts (126 in all) were for the ‘Board for propagation’ (i.e. teaching the Faith,
etc.), whilst the remainder (54 posts) was for the Board concerned with the protection of the
Faith (BW15: 171).
B. ASPECTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONING.
9. The Hands and the national assemblies. One aspect of the Hands’ functioning which the
House emphasized was the need for a continued close relationship between them and the
national spiritual assemblies. This role had been delineated by Shoghi Effendi in June 1957
(MU#10.1a; cf. MBW 123), and was reiterated by the House in November 1963. The Hands
and the national assemblies bore a highly important joint responsibility in both protecting the
Baha’is and fostering the worldwide development of the Faith. The two institutions had
‘complementary functions’ which could only be exercised effectively if ‘the greatest degree
of understanding and cooperation’ existed between them. Everything possible then should be
done to expedite and facilitate the ‘free play of consultation’ between the two (MU#10). The
House returned to this topic in November 1964, stating that the development of a close
cooperative relationship between the Hands and the assemblies would inevitably strengthen
‘the foundation and functioning of the Cause’. In this context, it was of the ‘utmost
importance’ that both Hands and assemblies be ‘fully informed’ of developments that effected
the Baha’i Cause in the geographical areas under their purview. Each assembly should
therefore work out with the Hands for their continent the most effective methods of keeping
them informed as to what was happening (e.g. if they wished, they could share copies of their
own minutes, or send the Hands copies of pertinent committee reports). The House also
informed the assemblies that the Hands were preparing schedules to meet with the various
national assemblies in their regions and would also invite their members to meet with
members of the Auxiliary Boards from time to time. The Hands – or Board members
appointed to act in their stead – should also be welcomed to attend the sessions of the
national conventions and take part in their deliberations. Again, the House reminded the
assemblies of their decision that those appointed as Board members should be freed from
administrative responsibilities. This included service as committee members and convention
delegates. The assemblies were also notified that the increase in the size of the Auxiliary
Boards would increase the needs of the Continental Funds – to which both they and local
assemblies and individuals were encouraged to contribute (MU#21).
10. Assemblies, Counsellors and Board members. In October 1969, the House addressed a
number of questions which had been asked regarding the functioning of the new Continental
38. See http://bahai-library.com/timeline_members_uhj

Boards of Counsellors and the long-established Auxiliary Boards,39 in particular, the request
that the Board members be allowed to work with the national assemblies on a regular basis
(MU#72.1).
10.1. Division of labour. Firstly, the House stressed that there was a basic division of labour
between the spiritual assemblies and the Auxiliary Boards. ‘Authority and direction’ flowed
from the spiritual assemblies, and it was the responsibility of the spiritual assemblies, assisted
by their committees, ‘to organize and direct’ the work of teaching the Faith. At the same time,
however, the power to accomplish tasks resided primarily ‘in the entire body of the
believers’, and it was the ‘principle task’ of the Auxiliary Boards to help arouse and release
this power. Whilst the assemblies would naturally try to do all they could to stimulate and
inspire the Baha’is, the pressure of administrative work would make it difficult for them to
spend as much time on this activity as they would wish. Similarly, if the Board members were
going to adequately perform their ‘vital’ work of inspiring the Baha’is they should avoid
becoming involved in assembly administration (MU#72.2-3).
In this context, regular participation by a Board member in the work of an assembly would
endanger the collaborative relationship which should exist between the institutions of the
national assembly and the Counsellors, possibly undermining and impairing it. It would also
diffuse the time and energies of the Board members involved. If the Board members became
involved in the administration of teaching, they might gradually take over the direction of a
national committee, thereby usurping the function of the national assembly. Alternatively, the
Board member might become merely an agent of the committee or assembly, travelling hither
and thither at its direction (MU#72.4).
10.2. Levels of work. Another matter was the division of level between the work of the
Auxiliary Boards and that of the Continental Counsellors. Both were responsible for
‘advising, stimulating and assisting’ the Baha’is, but the Board members worked closely with
the ‘grass roots’ of the community, counselling individual Baha’is, groups and local spiritual
assemblies. It was the Counsellors who were responsible for dealing with the national
assemblies, although they could also work at the local level if they chose to (MU#72.3).
10.3. Assembly-Board member contacts. These distinctions did not mean that there should
be no contact between the assemblies and the Board members. Counsellors could ask a Board
member to consult with a national assembly for a particular purpose and acting as their
deputy. A Board member might also meet occasionally with committees of the national
assembly if this was deemed useful for the sharing of information and ideas and the assembly
permitted it. In all cases, however, the participation of the Board member should never
become regular (MU#72.4).
10.4. Sharing information. An important area of collaboration between the Board members
and the national assemblies and their committees was the prompt and full sharing of
information between them. Thus, Board members should receive reports from national
assemblies and national committees about the state of the Baha’i community, and information
39. The House also circulated a compilation on the work of the Auxiliary Board members (dated 25 March
1969), but this was not widely distributed amongst the Baha’is and is not considered here. Nor has it been
reprinted in one of the 3 volumes of the Compilation of Compilations  series.

from the Board members should be transmitted to the assemblies where relevant (MU#72.5-
7).
This said, the Board members’ primary source of information about the community should be
his or her own direct contacts with local spiritual assemblies, groups and individuals. By this
means, both the Counsellors and the national assemblies would have access to ‘two
independent sources of information about the community’: from the national committees and
from the Board members (MU#72.7).
10.5. Recommendations for action. Again, whilst the Board members could send reports to
the national assemblies, they should not include recommendations for action as this would
undermine the authority of both Counsellors and national assemblies. Board members should
send any recommendations for action which they had directly to their Counsellors, and the
Counsellors would then consider these, and only send them on to a national assembly if they
approved them, perhaps modifying them in the process. The national assembly in turn was
not bound to accept such recommendations: it had access to knowledge and experience of
which the Board member might be unaware (MU#72.5-6).
10.6. Assembly plans. One particular matter of information sharing was the need for the
assemblies to keep the Counsellors and Board members well informed regarding their plans.
It was the assemblies which planned and directed the work of the Faith, and if these plans
were well known to the Counsellors and Board members, they would be better able to help
the assemblies in urging the Baha’is to support them. Indeed, the Board members should
continuously direct the attention of the Baha’is to their national assembly’s plans and
encourage them to enthusiastically support them (MU#72.9). The division of labour between
directive authority and encouragement still pertained of course. A Board member might
inspire Baha’is to pioneer, but he or she would then refer anyone who offered to pioneer to
the appropriate committee which would be responsible for organizing the project (MU#72.2-
3).
10.7. Administrative advice. Counsellors and Board members were not concerned with
administration in the sense that they did not administer, e.g. they did not direct or organize
the work of teaching the Faith, and they did not adjudicate about personal problems or
conflicts. All such administrative matters were the responsibility of the assemblies. This did
not mean that Counsellors and Board members were not concerned with administrative
issues, however. To the contrary, it was their responsibility to give advice on administrative
matters and observe and report on ‘the proper working of administrative institutions’. Thus, if
a Board member found that a local assembly was functioning incorrectly, or if a Counsellor
found that a national assembly was functioning incorrectly, he or she should consult with the
assembly concerned ‘in a frank and loving way’, drawing the assembly’s attention to the
relevant Baha’i texts. Again, if a Board member found that a national committee was
inefficient, he or she should report the matter in detail to the Counsellors who would then
decide on appropriate action. Assemblies sometimes misunderstood this distinction, thinking
that Counsellors and Board members should not give advice (MU#72.8).
10.8. Initiative and freedom of action. The Counsellors in each continental zone had ‘wide
latitude’ as to how they should carry out their work. Similarly, they should give each Board
member ‘considerable freedom of action’ within his or her own allocated area. Again, whilst

the Counsellors should regularly direct the work of the Board members, the Board members
themselves did not have to wait for direction. By the very nature of their work, they should be
‘continually engaged in it according to their own best judgement’. They should function even
when they had not been given any specific tasks to perform. Of greatest importance, they
should build up ‘a warm and loving relationship’ with the Baha’is in their area so that the
local assemblies would ‘spontaneously turn to them for advice and assistance’ (MU#72.10).
C. THE WORK OF THE HANDS AND COUNSELLORS.
11. The Hands of the Cause, 1963-73. Between 1951 and 1957, Shoghi Effendi had
appointed 32 individuals to serve as Hands of the Cause. Of these, five predeceased him, four
died during the period of the Custodianship (1957-63), and one (Mason Remey) was expelled
from the Faith as a Covenant-breaker. This left 22 Hands working in the service of the Faith
in 1963 at the time of the establishment of the House of Justice. These are listed below. Of
these, a further five (Agnes Alexander, Músá Banání, Hermann Grossman, Leroy Ioas and
Tarázu'lláh Samandarí) died during the 1963-73 period.
The Hands of the Cause in 1963.
NB. Years of birth and death in parenthesis; date of appointment in square brackets: First
Contingent, 24 December 1951; Second Contingent, 29 February 1952; Third Contingent,
October 1957. Those who died during the 1963-73 period are marked *.
Shu`á`u'lláh `Alá'í (1889-1984). [Second Contingent].
* Agnes Baldwin Alexander (1875-1971). [Individually, 27 March 1957].
Hasan Balyuzi (1908-1980). [Third Contingent].
* Músá Banání (1886-1971). [Second Contingent].
Abu'l-Qásim Faizí (1906-1980). [Third Contingent].
John Ferraby (1914-1973). [Third Contingent].
Collis Featherstone (1913-1990). [Third Contingent].
`Alí-Akbar Furútan (b.1905). [First Contingent].
Ugo Giachery (1896-1989). [First Contingent].
* Hermann Grossman (1899-1968). [First Contingent].
Paul E. Haney (1909-1982). [Individually, 19 March 1954].
* Leroy Ioas (1896-1965). [First Contingent].
Jalál Kházeh (1897-1990). [Individually, 7 December 1953].
Zikrullah Khadem (Dhikru'lláh Khádem) (1904-1986). [Second Contingent].
Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir (1923-1979). [Third Contingent].
Adelbert Mühlschlegel (1897-1980). [Second Contingent].
Enoch Olinga (1926-1979). [Third Contingent].
John Robarts (1901-1991). [Third Contingent].
Rúhiyyih Khánum, Amatu'l-Bahá (b.1910). [Individually, 26 March 1952].
* Tarázu'lláh Samandarí (1874-1968). [First Contingent].
William Sears (1911-1992). [Third Contingent].
`Alí-Muhammad Varqá (b.1911). [Individually, 15 November 1955].
12. The work of the Hands of the Cause. With the election of the Universal House of
Justice, the Hands were able to refocus their energies and activities on work for the protection

and propagation of the Faith.40 As before, a group of Hands lived at the Baha’i World Centre
in Haifa whilst the rest served in the five continents. The Hands in Haifa (now only five in
number) were Rúhiyyih Khánum, Abu'l-Qásim Faizí, `Alí-Akbar Furútan, Paul E. Haney, and
Leroy Ioas (d.1965). These coordinated the work of the Hands as a whole, and were available
for consultation with the House of Justice as needed, but they no longer had to exercise
executive authority or be concerned with a mass of administrative work. The continental
Hands kept an eye on developments in their respective areas and directed their Auxiliary
Boards until the formation of the Boards of Counsellors in 1968. The whole body of the
Hands met periodically in Haifa, where again they consulted with the Universal House of
Justice on matters of concern. Beyond their institutional functions, the Hands also represented
an important emotional link with Shoghi Effendi and the vanished age of the living
guardianship.
What was probably now the major part of the Hands’ work was concerned with the
‘propagation’ of the Faith and the inspiration of the Baha’is around the world. In this
connection it was the Hands who prepared the initial draft of the Nine Year Plan launched by
the House in 1964 (or at least those sections of it dealing with expansion goals), and it was
individual Hands who engaged in extensive tours of the Baha’i world, meeting with national
assemblies to give advice; speaking at Baha’i conventions, Summer schools and other
gatherings; visiting local Baha’i communities and encouraging them in their activities, and
sometimes engaging directly in teaching projects, or in important initiatives such as the
Spanish Baha’i newsletter begun by the Hand Jalál Kházeh in Brazil and widely circulated in
Latin America. The importance of this aspect of the Hands’ work increased after the
appointment of the Continental Boards of Counsellors, the Hands becoming significantly
freer, and many of them embarking on even more extensive journeys. The Hands were also
much involved in the work of proclaiming the Faith to prominent people, including a number
of heads of state.
The other major responsibility of the Hands was the protection of the Faith, particularly from
attacks against its internal integrity – what Baha’is term Covenant-breaking – the Hands
maintaining the primary role in the expulsion and reinstatement of Covenant-breakers. In this
regard, however, the Hands seem not to have had much to do during this period. Some
Remeyite activity continued but it was relatively marginal, and there were no new major
challenges to the pattern of Baha’i administration and leadership. Of course, at a more minor
level, one of the Hands’ duties was to be sensitive to any emergent disunities or losses of
morale within the various Baha’i communities and identify ‘problem’ situations, but in the
absence of detailed studies it is difficult to assess the extent and importance of any ‘morale
building’ work by the Hands during these years.
Until 1968, most of the ‘continental’ Hands were responsible for specific geographical zones,
each overseeing developments in their zone as well as liaising with their fellow Hands. The
system was flexible, and its also evidently recognized the realities of the declining health of
40. Apart from biographies of Zikrullah Khadem and Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir by their widows (Khadem;
Muhájir) and the accounts of Rúhiyyih Khánum’s travels (see below), these is as yet no adequate account
of the Hands’ activities during the 1963-73 decade. Harper provides a useful but general ‘brief lives’
account of the all the Hands of the Cause since the days of Bahá’u’lláh. The Bahá’í World accounts for the
period are extremely brief (BW14: 467-71; 15: 577-87).

several of the Hands. In Africa, there were two Hands in East Africa, the expatriate Iranian
Músá Banání (d.1971) in Uganda, and the native Ugandan Enoch Olinga, in Kenya, and at
different times, the Canadian John Robarts and the American William Sears (both former
pioneers) in the south of the continent. When the Continental Boards of Counsellors were
formed in 1968, Banání convened the initial meeting for the Central and East African Board,
whilst Olinga convened the meeting for the Southern African Board. `Alí-Muhammad Varqá
from Iran convened the Board for Northwestern Africa. In the Americas, Ugo Giachery
(Italian) and Zikrullah Khadem (Iranian), both living in the United States, together with Jalál
Kházeh (Iranian) in Brazil, focussed their attention on Central, North and South America
respectively, convening the inaugural meetings of the Continental Boards for their respective
zones in 1968. Robarts and Sears from Africa both also spent time in North America during
this period. In Western Asia, Shu`á`u'lláh `Alá'í, Tarázu'lláh Samandarí (d.1968) and `Alí-
Muhammad Varqá were all based in Iran, though they also travelled extensively. `Alá'í
convened the first Continental Board meeting for the Western Asian Counsellors (Varqá
convened the meeting for Northwest Africa). In Northeast Asia, Agnes Alexander (d.1971),
an American from Hawaii who had been a long-time pioneer in Japan, was the only Hand,
remaining in her adopted country until 1967 when ill-health (she was then 92) decided her to
return to Hawaii: the Northeast Asian Board was convened by John Robarts from Canada in
her stead. In Southeast Asia, the only Hand was Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir (expatriate Iranian)
and he was also the convener of the first meeting of the Counsellors for that zone. In
Australasia, the only Hand (and the convener of the first Counsellors’ meeting) was Collis
Featherstone (Australian). Finally, in Europe, there were four Hands, Hasan Balyuzi and John
Ferraby in Britain and Hermann Grossman (d.1968) and Adelbert Mühlschlegel in Germany.
Ill-health prevented Balyuzi and Grossman from travelling, so Ferraby and Mühlschlegel
shared the work of visiting and encouraging the Baha’is. Mühlschlegel convened the first
meeting of the European Counsellors.
Other significant aspects of the Hands work included representing the Universal House of
Justice at the inaugural conventions of new national Baha’i communities and at major
international conferences; overseeing the programme of activities for visiting pilgrims at the
Baha’i World Centre (by the Hands in Haifa); and involvement in the management of the
extensive Baha’i properties, including many holy places, in Iran (by Shu`á`u'lláh `Alá'í)
(BW14: 469). One quite unique contribution was by Tarázu'lláh Samandarí, one of the few
remaining Baha’is to have met Bahá’u’lláh, and who in his extensive tours of the Baha’i
world – continued until shortly before his death in 1968 at the age of 93 – was able to share
his memories and thus bring a greater vividness to many Baha’is’ sense of their own
religion’s origins. Another special contribution was by the Iranian-British Hand Hasan
Balyuzi, who used the restrictions on travel imposed by his own declining health to
concentrate on his scholarly interests in Baha’i history, and who thus effectively initiated the
modern period of Babi and Baha’i Studies.41
41. Balyuzi had lived in Britain since 1932 and had played a key role in the development of the Baha’i Faith in
his adopted country. His monograph on Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith (1970) reopened
an important scholarly debate and was the first published English-language academic work on Baha’is
Studies other than articles since the 1910s. It was followed by his biographies of `Abdu’l-Bahá (1971), The
Báb (1973) and Bahá’u’lláh (1980), as well as an introduction to Islam for Western readers, Muhammad
and the Course of Islam (1976), and some other works published posthumously. See BW18: 635-51;
Harper 411-25; Momen, ‘Hasan M. Balyuzi’.

Table x. Hands of the Cause who convened inaugural meetings of the Continental
Boards of Counsellors (CBC), and who attended the first national Baha’i conventions of
new national Baha’i communities and major international conferences, 1963-73.
13. ‘Amatu'l-Bahá’ Rúhiyyih Khánum.42 Amongst the Hands, Shoghi Effendi’s widow,
Rúhiyyih Khánum (b.1910), occupied a unique position. Born Mary Maxwell, and of
Canadian-American parentage, Rúhiyyih Khánum married Shoghi Effendi in 1937, becoming
his helper and companion as well as serving as his secretary for many years. After her
husband’s death in 1957, she acted as the chief rallying point for the Baha’is grieving at the
loss of their Guardian and played a major role in the work of the Custodial Hands. After the
election of the Universal House of Justice, now aged 52, she embarked on a series of often
quite epic journeys that took her to almost all parts of the Baha’i world as well as to remote
areas which no Baha’is had yet visited. Meeting with heads of state as well as peasants and
tribal peoples, her travels included a nine-month tour of India (1964); a seven-month tour of
Latin America (1967-8), focussing on the Amerindian peoples; and four lengthy journeys
across Africa (1970-73).43 She also wrote a biography of Shoghi Effendi, The Priceless Pearl
(Rabbani, 1969), a condensed version of which appeared in Bahá’í World (BW13: 59-205).
14. The House’s tributes to the Hands. Over the years, the House renewed its tributes to the
Hands and their work. Thus at Ridván 1966, it noted the special missions which the Hands
had discharged on its behalf; the teaching tours they had undertaken; the conferences they
had organized; their constant work at the Baha’i World Centre; and, ‘above all’, their ‘never-
ending encouragement’ of the Baha’is and their ‘watchfulness over the welfare of the Cause
of God’. The Hands had given ‘distinction and effective leadership’ to the work of the entire
community (MU#34.6). Again, at Ridván 1967, the House referred to the ‘unfailing light’ of
the Hands’ services throughout the year. They were a ‘precious legacy’ left to the Baha’i
world by Shoghi Effendi, and their place in history was already assured by dint of their
appointment to such high office. Their continued and constant services, however, meant that
in addition to the honour and respect which was naturally due to them on account of their
rank was ‘increasingly added’ the ‘love and admiration’ of the Baha’is. Their present services
included encouragement of the national assemblies and of the Baha’is in general to work to
achieve the goals of the Plan and to obtain a deeper understanding of the ‘true meaning’ of
the Baha’i revelation – a significant contribution to the progress of the Plan which would
have a lasting effect on the development of the Baha’i community (MU#42.9).
At Ridván 1970, the House cabled that it was moved to pay ‘LOVING TRIBUTE’ to the
Hands for their ‘BRILLIANT SERVICES’ in ‘BLAZING TEACHING TRAILS’ across the
surface of the planet and in ‘UPLIFTING’ and advising the Baha’is on all continents
(MU#81).
At Ridván 1971, the House referred to the ‘thankfulness and delight’, and even ‘wonder and
astonishment’ that was evoked by the Hands’ continuing travels and other services. Their
42. The title ‘Amatu'l-Bahá’ means ‘Handmaiden of Bahá’ and was bestowed on several prominent women
Baha’is.
43. For accounts of these trips by her travelling companion, Violette Nakhjavání (daughter of the Hand Músá
Banání and wife of Universal House of Justice member `Alí Nakhjavání), see Nakhjavání, Amatu’l-Bahá,
and Great African Safari. See also BW15: 588-607.

deeds were such as ‘to eclipse the apostles of old’ and conferred ‘eternal splendor’ on the
present period of Baha’i history. On behalf of the Baha’is everywhere, the House members
offered the Hands ‘reverent love and gratitude’ (MU#96.7). At Ridván 1973, the House paid
tribute to the ‘loved and revered’ Hands. They had rendered ‘sacrificial and distinguished
service’ throughout the Plan, inspiring the Baha’is; helping the national assemblies; and
promoting the teaching work. They had played a vital role in the success of the Plan in all
parts of the world, and the ‘lagging fortunes’ of several national communities had been
‘revolutionized’ by a visit by one of the Hands, who had inspired ‘swift and energetic action’
which had then been followed by ‘astonishing results’ that had completely reversed the
community’s prospects. The Hands had also added ‘distinguished works to the literature of
the Faith’ (MU#128.10).
15. The House’s praise of the work of the Continental Boards of Counsellors. In its
Ridván message of 1969, the House described the formation of the Boards of the Counsellors
as the ‘most significant and far-reaching development’ of the past year. Established only after
‘full consultation’ with the Hands, the new Boards had both strongly reinforced the activities
of the Hands of the Cause as an institution and made it possible fo the Hands as individuals to
extend their services across the continents, so that their love, wisdom and spirit of dedication
became ‘universally available’ to the Baha’is. The House expressed itself well satisfied at the
‘exemplary manner’ in which the Counsellors had embarked on their ‘high duties’ under the
guidance of the Hands (MU#68.2).
In July 1969, the House again praised the ‘devoted efforts’ and exemplary services of the
Continental Boards during their first year of service. The ‘loyalty, steadfastness and devotion’
of the newly appointed Counsellors had reinforced the vital work of the Hands (MU#70).
Again, at Ridván 1970, the House referred to the ‘EFFECTIVE REINFORCEMENT’ of the
‘NOBLE WORK’ of the Hands which the able and dedicated Counsellors and their Auxiliary
Boards were performing. Together, these bodies were a ‘VITAL INSTITUTION’ of the Faith
(MU#81). Again, at Ridván 1973, the House stated that the Counsellors, ‘advised and guided’
by the Hands, and ‘working in close collaboration with them’ had already performed
‘outstanding and distinguished services’ during their brief period of office (MU#128.11).

Part II. EXPANSION AND CONSOLIDATION.
6. The Nine Year Plan, 1964-1973.
A. CONTEXT.
1. The conception of the Plan. Much of Baha’i activity during the period covered by this
book was centred on the goals of the Nine Year Plan (Ridván 1964-Ridván 1973) set by the
Universal House of Justice. This plan followed the general format of Shoghi Effendi’s ten-
year ‘Global Crusade’ (1953-63), itself partly an implementation of the ‘Divine Plan’ of
worldwide teaching outlined in`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of the Divine Plan (1916-17).
From the time of its establishment, the Universal House of Justice was evidently determined
to continue the pattern of action planning inherited from Shoghi Effendi, utilizing the
momentum already built up in the Ten-Year Plan. The actual work of preparing the draft of a
new plan for the House of Justice’s consideration was begun by the Hands of the Cause
during their meeting in London after the World Congress (MU, p.7, n.2-1), and the House
referred to the upcoming plan in their message to the national conventions in May 1963
(MU#2), declaring that it would be launched in a year’s time, at Ridván 1964, listing some of
its major objectives, and outlining a number of tasks which should be undertaken
immediately in preparation for it. The formal announcement of what was to be a nine-year
plan (Ridván 1964-Ridván 1973) was made in October 1963 (MU#6), and the plan launched
in April 1964 (MU#14).
2. The context of sacred time. Following the example of Shoghi Effendi, the Universal
House of Justice prepared the Baha’is for the tasks ahead by related the work of the new plan
to various patterns of sacred time outlined in the Baha’i writings.
2.1. The ‘second epoch’ of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan. One such pattern was of the
successive epochs in the ‘unfoldment’ of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan. Thus, in implementing
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s vision of global expansion, Shoghi Effendi had referred to the national and
international plans carried out under his direction as constituting ‘the initial epoch’ in the
‘unfoldment’ of his grandfather’s Divine Plan (MBW 31; c.f. CF 32; MA 101). Starting in
1937, with the First American Seven Year Pan, this first epoch would culminate with the
completion of the Ten Year Plan in 1963 – an event noted by the House of Justice in their
statement to the London Congress (MU#1.2).44
The ‘first epoch’ of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s plan having been completed, the House’s announcement
of a new plan was described as the opening of the ‘second epoch’ of the Divine Plan. This
would be ‘the next stage’ of the Baha’is’ ‘world-redeeming mission’ (MU#2.6). The Baha’i
Cause was now ‘firmly rooted’ in the world. Divinely blessed ‘beyond compare’, and riding
the crest of ‘a great wave of victory’, the Baha’is should now press forward, confident in the
44. Shoghi Effendi divided the first epoch into three stages, corresponding to the first and second American
Seven Year Plans (1937-44; 1946-1953), and to the Global Crusade (1953-63).

‘power and protection’ of Bahá’u’lláh, who would ‘through storm and trial’ and ‘toil and
jubilee’ use his devoted followers to bring the ‘life-giving waters’ of his revelation to ‘a
despairing humanity’ (MU#2.12). The ‘outposts of the Cause’ had been established ‘in the
remotest corners of the earth’, and the Baha’is had witnessed the beginnings of large-scale
conversion. The ‘foundations of the Kingdom’ had been securely laid, and the framework
raised. The Baha’is’ task was now to ‘consolidate these achievements’, safeguard their own
institutions, and ‘gather the peoples and kindreds of the world’ into the ‘Ark’ built by the
‘Hand of God’ (MU#6.5).45
2.2. The ‘third epoch of the Formative Age’. Shoghi Effendi had also described the
development of the Baha’i religion as passing through three ages: (1) an initial ‘Apostolic’ or
‘Heroic’ Age covering the first seventy-seven years of Babi-Baha’i history, and comprising
the ministries of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, and `Abdu’l-Bahá (1844-1921); (2) a present
‘Formative’ or ‘Iron’ Age; and (3) a future millennial ‘Golden Age’ (CF 4-5). During the
Formative Age, the Baha’is were responsible for consolidating and expanding their religion, a
complex and prolonged process, which could again be sub-divided into a series of epochs. In
this framework, the first epoch of the Formative Age began with the preliminary development
of the Baha’i Administrative Order under Shoghi Effendi and the work to implement
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan through the first centrally organized systematic expansion plan
(the American Seven Year Plan, 1937-44). The second epoch was to see the establishment of
the Universal House of Justice, and the further ‘unfoldment’ of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan
(CF 5-6).46
Extending this framework, the House announced in October 1963 that the Faith had now
entered the third epoch of the Formative Age, during which it should (1) grow rapidly in size;
(2) ‘increase its spiritual cohesion and executive ability’; (3) ‘develop its institutions’; and (4)
‘extend its influence into all strata of society’ (MU#6.10).
2.3. The ‘ten-part process’. In a lengthy message, written at the beginning of the Ten Year
Crusade on 4 May 1953 to the All-America Baha’i Intercontinental Conference, Shoghi
Effendi had described the Crusade as the ninth in a series of stages which had begun with the
beginning of prophetic revelation symbolized by the Biblical/Quranic figure of Adam and
would culminate in the future ‘Golden Age’ when ‘the light of God’s triumphant Faith’ would
have ‘suffused and enveloped the entire planet’.47 The tenth and final part would extend over
45. The reference here is to a metaphorical arc of salvation analogous to the arc constructed by Noah.
46. Following the Universal House of Justice’s announcement of the inception of the ‘fourth epoch’ of the
Formative Age in January 1986 (MU#447.7), the House’s Research Department prepared a detailed
summary of the references to epochs by Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice. This gives the
following dates. For the epochs of the Formative Age: 1st epoch, 1921-1944/46; 2nd epoch, 1946-1963; 3rd
epoch, 1963-1986; 4th epoch, 1986-present. For the epochs of the unfoldment of the Divine Plan: 1st epoch,
1937-1963; 2nd epoch, 1964-present. See MU#451.
47. The first nine stages were: (1) The ‘slow and steady growth’ of ‘the tree of divine revelation’ through the
progressive revelations of the Manifestations of God, including Moses, Zoroaster, the Buddha, Jesus, and
Muhammad, watered by the blood shed by the martyrs who had given their lives for these faiths; (2) The
‘fruition of this tree’ with the appearance of the Báb (1844); (3) The ‘grinding of this sacred seed’ in ‘the
mill of adversity’ through the Báb’s execution in Tabriz in 1850, and the yielding of its oil; (4) The ignition

‘numerous crusades’ and ‘successive epochs of both the Formative and Golden Ages of the
Faith’, and would first see the penetration of the divine light into all the remaining territories
of the globe and the erection of the Baha’i Administrative Order throughout the world, and
then finally, the culmination of God’s plan for humanity through the establishment of the
Kingdom of God on Earth and the birth of a world civilization (MBW 153-56). Writing at the
start of its own Nine Year Plan, the House of Justice affirmed that this tenth stage had now
been entered, and would extend over this and a prolonged series of future plans (MU#14.1,
14.3).
2.4. The centenary of the Kitáb-i Aqdas. The House noted that the end of the plan, in 1973,
would coincide with the centenary of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh’s book of laws, the Aqdas,
and expressed the hope that the ‘befitting’ celebrations of that anniversary would be made by
an ‘organically united’ world Baha’i community which had both been victorious in its
completion of the goals set, and was firmly established and dedicated to the service of God
and to the ‘final triumph of His Cause’ (MU#14.10). Relating the work of the Plan to various
anniversaries would be another characteristic of the House’s messages.
B. OBJECTIVES, GOALS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
3. Immediate objectives. Prior to the commencement of the new plan, the House called upon
the existing national assemblies to direct and oversee preparatory work. Thus, in May 1963,
immediately after its members had taken office, the House identified a number of ‘urgent’,
‘immediate’ and ‘essential’ tasks: (1) Pioneers were to be maintained at their posts and the
national assemblies were to direct new pioneers to open unopened territories or to consolidate
those which had already been opened; (2) All local spiritual assemblies should be
strengthened through ‘a firm establishment of Baha’i community life and an active teaching
program’; (3) In the case of those national assemblies which were based on only a small
number of local assemblies, every effort should be made to increase the number of
assemblies prior to Ridván 1964. More generally, the ‘great work’ of teaching had to be
extended everywhere. This had reached a ‘high intensity’ by the end of the Ten Year Plan,
leading in some instances to the beginning of mass conversions to the Baha’i Cause, and
should not be allowed to slacken pace now. Rather, it should increase, particularly as all
Baha’is were now able to draw on the ‘vast spiritual powers’ that had been released as a result
of the London Congress and the emergence of the House itself (MU#2.7-2.8). Again, all
expansion plans depended on adequate financial means, and the launching of the new plan
required a ‘constant flow’ of contributions to the International Fund so as to build up
sufficient reserves by April 1964. To this end, the House called on every Baha’i to give
attention to this ‘vital and pressing matter’, and noted the importance of the principle of
‘universal participation’, in that if every single Baha’i was able to make an offering – great or
small – then they would thereby identify themselves with the work of the Cause (MU#2.11).
In October 1963, the ‘first step’ inaugurating the plan was announced with the projected
of this oil through Bahá’u’lláh’s revelatory experience in the Black Pit prison in Tehran (1852); (5) The
‘clothing of that flickering light’ in the ‘lamp of revelation’ in Bahá’u’lláh’s Ridván declaration of mission
in 1863; (6) The ‘spread of the radiance of that light’ during the remainder of Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry (-
1892); (7) The projection of this light across the American, European and Australasian continents during
the ministry of `Abdu’l-Bahá (1892-1921); (8) The initial worldwide diffusion of the light during the early
part of the Formative Age (1921-1953); and (9) The Ten Year Crusade (1953-63).

formation of nineteen new ‘national’ and regional spiritual assemblies at Ridván 1964. These
additions involved breaking up of 6 of the large sub-continental assemblies that had existed in
Africa, Asia and the Pacific at the end of the Ten Year Crusade, so the overall total of
assemblies in the world was raised from 56 to 69 (MU#6.7).48 One specific need also required
urgent attention. This was the as yet unfulfilled goal of the Ten Year Crusade to complete the
Baha’i House of Worship near Frankfurt in Germany. Although the structure of the building
had been completed, the interior decoration still had to be done, utilities installed, access
roads laid, the grounds landscaped, and a caretaker’s house built. Rapid completion of these
tasks was imperative, especially as any delay was likely to add considerably to the estimated
$210,000 now required for the work. National assemblies should accordingly allocate
substantial budgets so as to ensure immediate completion (MU#2.9).
4. The goals of the Nine Year Plan. The overall objectives of the plan were twofold: (i) the
extensive expansion of the Faith and (ii) universal participation by the Baha’is in the life of
the Faith, and the House saw all the specific goals of the plan as contributing to these
(MU#14.4, 14.8). The plan effectively comprised two substantive sections: expansion and
consolidation goals, themselves distributed amongst the 69 national spiritual assemblies in
the form of separate national plans (MU#6.8), and Baha’i World Centre goals. In addition, the
House laid emphasis on a number of more qualitative goals, which individual Baha’is could
set themselves.
4.1. Expansion and consolidation goals. Worldwide, the plan required the following:
-1. The opening of 70 ‘virgin territories’ (i.e. places where there had never been any
Baha’is), and the resettlement of another 24.49
-2. An increase in the number of national spiritual assemblies from 69 to 108.
-3. An increase in the number of local spiritual assemblies to over 13,700, at least
1,700 of which were to gain legal status (incorporation).
-4. An increase in the number of localities where Baha’is resided to over 54,000.
-5. The building of two more Baha’i Houses of Worship, one each in Asia and Latin
America.
-6. The acquisition of 32 teaching institutes; 52 national Baha’i centres; 54 national
endowments (land held by each national assembly); and sites for 62 future Baha’i Houses of
Worship.
-7. Wide extension of civil authority recognition of Baha’i holy days and marriage
certificates.
-8. The translation of Baha’i literature into 133 additional languages and its
enrichment in the major languages in which translations had already been made.
-9. The establishment of 4 new Baha’i Publishing Trusts.
-10. A vast increase in the financial resources of the Faith (MU#14.6).
48. The new assemblies were: 1. North West Africa; 2. West Africa; 3. West Central Africa; 4. Uganda and
Central Africa; 5. Kenya; 6. Tanganyika and Zanzibar; 7. South Central Africa; 8. South and West Africa; 9.
The Indian Ocean; 10. The Hawaiian Islands; 11. The South Pacific Ocean; 12. The South West Pacific
Ocean; 13. North East Asia; 14. Korea; 15. Malaysia; 16. Indonesia; 17. Vietnam; 18. Thailand; 19. The
Philippines.
49. In its message of October 1963, the House referred to the need to bring ‘God’s healing Message’ to all
those territories which had been set as goals during the Ten Year Crusade but had not yet been opened, and
to ‘all the remaining independent states of the planet’ (MU#6.8).

4.2. The role of the individual. By itself, expansion of the Faith was insufficient. The
healthy development of the Baha’i religion also required the involvement and ‘dedicated
effort’ of each individual Baha’i in terms of: (1) teaching the Baha’i Faith to others; (2) living
a Baha’i life; (3) contributing to the Baha’i fund; and, most particularly, (4) the constant
endeavour to increase one’s understand the significance of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation
(MU#14.7).
4.3. World Centre tasks. A number of major tasks were to be accomplished at the Baha’i
World Centre:
-1. Publication of a synopsis and codification of Bahá’u’lláh’s book of laws, the
Kitáb-i Aqdas (Most Holy Book).
-2. Formulation of a Constitution for the Universal House of Justice.
-3. Development of the institution of the institution of the Hands of the Cause so as to
extend its appointed functions of protection and propagation into the future.
-4. Continued collation and classification of the Baha’i sacred writings, together with
those of Shoghi Effendi.
-5. Continued efforts to emancipate the Faith ‘from the fetters of religious orthodoxy’
and to gain recognition for it as an independent religion.
-6. Preparation of a plan to develop and beautify the entire area of Baha’i property
surrounding the Baha’i shrines in Haifa and Bahjí.
-7. Extension of the existing Baha’i gardens on Mount Carmel.
-8. Development of the relationship between the Baha’i International Community and
the United Nations.
-9. Holding of Oceanic and International Baha’i Conferences.
-10. Coordination of worldwide plans to commemorate the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s
proclamation to the kings and rulers of his day starting in 1867-68 (MU#14.5).
5. Responsibilities. The national spiritual assemblies were placed in immediate control of the
work (as ‘the generals of the Army of Light’) under the overall guidance of the Universal
House of Justice, and the Hands of the Cause were appointed as the ‘Standard Bearers’ in
what was effectively a new crusade (MU#6.6). It was the responsibility of each of the
national Baha’i communities to ‘seize its tasks’, and immediately consider how best to
accomplish them within the allotted years. Each needed to raise its own band of pioneers,
consecrate itself to ‘unremitting labor’, and ‘set out on its mission’. The ‘army of God’ would
be inspired and protected by the Hands of the Cause, aided by the members of the Auxiliary
Boards – their deputies, assistants and advisors (MU#14.10-14.11).
It was the duty of the Baha’is to ‘seize the opportunities of the hour’. This was their ‘golden
opportunity’. Regardless of whatever convulsions might yet be precipitated by ‘the
waywardness of a godless and materialistic age’, and ‘however grievous’ might be impact of
world events on Baha’i plans and endeavours, the Baha’is should press forward, confident
that ‘all things’ were within God’s ‘mighty grasp’, and secure in the knowledge that if they
but played their part, ‘total and unconditional victory’ would inevitably be theirs
(MU#14.11).

6. Inter-assembly collaboration projects. A significant feature of the Nine Year Plan was
the extent to which the House called upon national assemblies to collaborate in the
accomplishment of specific goals. These included the opening, resettlement and consolidation
of particular territories; the establishment of national assemblies; the acquisition of
Hazíratu’l-Quds, temple sites, and other property goals (Winter/Summer schools, teaching
institutes); the translation, enrichment and publication of Baha’i literature; and specific
teaching projects. Altogether, 219 such projects were identified, each with two designated
assemblies: one to assume responsibility for the project and the other to assist in its
accomplishment. The result was to create a web of linkages between assemblies, and
presumably to foster the development of a sense of international Baha’i solidarity as well as
aiding the accomplishment of particular goals. Thus, the Argentinian Baha’is were asked to
assist in the acquisition of a temple site in Central Africa as well as helping the Chileans open
Tierra del Fuego and the Bolivians increase the amount of Baha’i literature in Quechua; the
Hawaiian Baha’is were asked to help with the development of Baha’i literature in the Filipino
languages of Tagalog and Ilocano; and the Finnish Baha’is were directed to help in the
acquisition of a teaching institute in Kenya and the consolidation of the Faith in Russian
Republic. The three assemblies which were given the most collaboration work to do were the
USA (26 projects); Iran (Persia) (22 projects), and the British Isles (17 projects). By
continent, Europe was given the largest number of assistance goals (74), followed by the
Americas (68), Asia (57), Australasia (19), and Africa (1) (BW14: 116-22).

7. Worldwide expansion and consolidation.
Contents:
A. WORLDWIDE EXPANSION.
B. NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY FORMATION.
C. OFFICIAL RECOGNITION & PROPERTY ACQUISITION.
D. PUBLISHING, TRANSLATION AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY.
A. WORLDWIDE EXPANSION.
A primary objective of the Nine Year Plan was to continue and consolidate the expansion
work of the Ten Year Crusade throughout the world. The Crusade had led to an enormous
growth in the number of Baha’i groups and spiritual assemblies worldwide, as well as the
establishment of at least a nominal Baha’i presence in almost every country of the world as
well as in most significant dependent territories and islands. It had been an impressive
achievement, and the House clearly wished to ensure both that the gains of this recent
expansion were strengthened and not lost, and that all remaining ‘unopened’ territories and
islands were secured as quickly as possible.50
1. Territorial expansion. Some indication of the success of the Ten Year Crusade in terms of
the global expansion of the Faith can be gained from a table of territories51 (countries,
colonies, islands) opened to the Faith in various time periods up to 1963 (HISC 9-11; see also
BW13: 460-62). Thus, during the Báb’s ministry (1844-53), the [then Babi religion] was
established in only two territories: Iran and Iraq, the latter at that time consisting of several
Ottoman provinces. By 1892, the year of Bahá’u’lláh’s passing, this had increased to a total
of 15 territories (an addition of 13). Further progressive increases were achieved by 1921 (to
35), 1953 (to 128), and 1963 (to 259) (See Table 8.1, below). It is of note that just over half of
the listed territories – 131 out of 259 – had been ‘opened’ during the Ten Year Plan. A
separate listing gives an additional 61 territories as having been opened to the Faith between
Ridván1963 and Ridván 1968 (BW14: 142-45).
Table 8.1. Territories “opened to the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh”, 1844-1963.
Period
Total
Increment
1844-53. The ministry of the Báb
1853-92. The ministry of Bahá’u’lláh
1892-1921. The ministry of `Abdu’l-Bahá
1921-53. The major part of Shoghi Effendi’s ministry
1953-63. The Ten Year Crusade.
Source: HISC 9-11; BW 13: 460-62.
Exactly what counts as a ‘territory’ is somewhat problematic of course: colonial territories
50. Thus the House’s instructions immediately after its establishment that pioneers were to be maintained at
their posts and that national assemblies were to be ready to direct new pioneers to open unopened territories
or to consolidate those which had already been opened (7 May 1963; MU#2.7).
51. Confusingly, these are referred to as ‘countries’, when many are not.

become independent states, which may or may not coincide with previous administrative
divisions, and there are no fixed and objective criteria to determine which particular islands
or island groups are to be listed separately.52 Thus, the similar listing of ‘countries, significant
territories and islands’ covering the period up to 1968, expanded the total of previously
opened territories to 37 by 1921 and 262 by 1963, so that the grand total by 1968 was of 323
territories (BW14: 142-45). By 1973, however, some consolidation of the recognized
territories had been decided upon (no doubt reflecting the transformation of many former
colonial lands into independent states), and a global total of 335 opened territories was given
for Ridván 1973 – an increase of 95 over a now recalculated figure of 240 territories for 1964
(BW15: 291). Unfortunately, a listing of individual territories was no longer given, only total
numbers by continent (see Table 8.2a), so a detailed comparison between the older and newer
figures is not possible.
Table 8.2. Territorial expansion, 1964-73.
(a) Countries, significant territories and islands where the Baha’i Faith is established.
Year
World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australasia
Europe
Ridván
Ridván
Increment 95
Source: BW15: 291-94.
(b) Nine Year Plan goals.
Year
World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australasia Europe
Opening
Resettlement 24
Source: BW14: 109-111.
The Nine Year Plan goal was for the opening of 70 new territories and the resettlement of
another 24 (Table 8.2 (b)). For the most part, the goal territories listed were islands, the only
(15) countries identified as goals being the following: the newly independent African nations
of Chad, Gabon, Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, Niger and Upper Volta (modern Burkina Faso);53
Dominica, St. Kitts-Nevis and St. Vincent in the Caribbean; Mongolia and North Vietnam in
Asia; and Albania, Liechtenstein and Rumania in Europe. Several of the what were then the
constituent republics of the Soviet Union were also listed (BW14: 109-111).
52. For example, the modern state of Ghana, comprises a number of separate former colonial territories
(Ashanti Protectorate, British Togoland, Gold Coast, and Northern Territories Protectorate), which are all
listed separately in the list of territories opened by 1963 (#72, 134, 145, 222); the former colonies of French
Equatorial Africa and French West Africa were later broken down into a number of independent states; the
British Channel Islands are listed as a single entity (#153), even though they comprise a number of islands
which have distinctive and separate administrative and constitutional statuses.
53. These had all formerly been part of the former vast colonies of French West Africa and French Equatorial
Africa – both of which had been opened during the Ten Year Crusade.

2. Localities and local spiritual assemblies. Two ready measures of the extent of Baha’i
expansion are the number of localities in which Baha’is reside and the number of local
spiritual assemblies which have been formed. Although the definition of what exactly
constitutes a locality may vary somewhat from one country to another,54 and there have
sometimes been changes in these definitions within a country over time, the locality statistics
give us an approximate picture both of the overall increase in the extent of the Baha’i
‘presence’ worldwide and the relative size of the Baha’i communities in particular countries.
As local spiritual assemblies (LSAs) can only be formed when a local Baha’i group has at
least nine adult members (of 21 years or above), LSA figures indicate the presence of at least
a small congregation of Baha’is.55
The Ten Year Crusade had seen more than a fivefold increase (5.3) in the number of localities
worldwide – from 2,700 in 1953 to 14,437 in 1963, and an almost sevenfold increase (6.6) in
the number of local assemblies – from 670 to 4,437 (UHJDS, Memorandum, p.3).56 By 1964,
there were Baha’is residing in over 15,000 localities worldwide and 4,566 local spiritual
assemblies had been established (some 30 percent of the localities). The Nine Year Plan goal
was to more than triple the number of localities and triple the number of assemblies (to
54,102 and 13, 737 respectively),57 but the final achievements by 1973 were well in excess of
these goals: to almost 70,000 localities (x4.6) and over 17,000 local assemblies (x3.7) (see
Table 8.3).
Table 8.3. Localities and local spiritual assemblies, 1964-73 (% in parenthesis).
Region
LSAs (%)
Total localities (%)
Groups and ‘isolated
centres’
Africa
1,361
(29.8)
4,990
(29.3)
3,277
(21.6)
15,245
(21.9)
1,916
10,047
54. When the statistics for localities and local assemblies were first presented in the early volumes of Bahá’í
World, the definition of the civic areas represented by each was not clearly established, and it was only as
Shoghi Effendi began to regularize the statistics that he obtained from the various parts of the Baha’i world
that more rigorous definitions for local areas based on civic districts were adopted. By necessity the
definition of these areas varied from one country to another, depending on the local administrative system
employed, with a complex range of divisions including hamlets, villages, parishes, rural and urban districts,
townships and cities.
55. As with the locality figures, the definition of a local spiritual assembly area may vary from one country to
another and in a few cases within a country over time.
56. UHJDS, Memorandum of May 1988, p.3. This source sometimes gives slightly different figures from the
ones given in Bahá’í World. Where they are available, I have cited the ‘official’ statistics published in
Bahá’í World.
57. For some national Baha’i communities, the Nine Year Plan also called for the establishment of local
spiritual assemblies – or in some cases groups or localities – in every state, province or major
administrative district of the country. The Turkish Baha’is were given the even more specific goals of
having at least one Baha’i living in every major town and village which Bahá’u’lláh had visited during his
sojourn in their country and of establishing local assemblies along the Black Sea coast (BW 14: 122).

Americas
(15.5)
3,234
(19.0)
3,483
(22.9)
15,860
(22.8)
2,776
12,548
Asia
2.234
(48.9)
8,029
(47.1)
7,262
(47.8)
34,892
(50.2)
5,028
26,816
Australasia
(1.8)
(2.2)
(2.7)
1,456
(2.1)
1,049
Europe
(4.0)
(2.4)
(5.0)
2,088
(3.0)
1,673
World
4,566
(100)
17,037
(100)
15,186
(100)
69,541
(100)
10,620
52,133
Source: BW15: 291-94.
It is of note that both localities and assemblies are highly unevenly distributed between the
continents, with about half of each being in Asia in both 1964 and 1973, whilst Africa (with
about 22% of the localities and 30% of the assemblies), and the Americas (with 23% of the
localities in both years and 16% of the assemblies in 1964 and 19% in 1973), account for
most of the remainder. By contrast, Australasia and Europe have a very small share of the
total – about two percent of the localities and assemblies in the case of Australasia, and
between three and five percent of the assemblies in the case of Europe. Australasia has only a
small population, of course, but the population of Europe is very large, and the small number
of localities and assemblies it has is a clear indication of the slower rate of growth of the
Faith in that continent.
A slightly variant set of figures (Table 8.4), indicates progressive annual increments in the
number of localities and local spiritual assemblies, with increasing momentum towards the
end of the Plan. Only one year (1967) shows a downturn in the number of local assemblies.58
58. The downturn could be the result of the collapse of weaker local spiritual assemblies, or the non-
recognition by national assemblies of improperly formed local assemblies, or losses caused by changes in
civic areas, or a combination of these factors.

Table 8.4. The total number of localities and local spiritual assemblies (LSAs) by year,
1963-73.
Year
Localities
LSAs
14,437
4,437
17,650
4,863
22,244
5,988
25,229
6,079
28,207
5,560
30,158
6,467
34,425
7,719
40,362
9,867
49,673
12,378
58,191
13,506
69,012
16,003
Source: Calculated from UHJDS, Memorandum, 15 May 1988, p.3.
3. Populations. Detailed published figures for the size of various Baha’i populations are rare.
Indeed, it was not until 1984 that the Baha’i World Centre provided a public estimate of the
number of Baha’is worldwide, and then, apparently, only in response to media pressure
(UHJDS, Memorandum, pp.4-5). In 1985, the Universal House of Justice itself gave a global
figure for the Baha’i community “of some three to four million people” (UHJ, Promise,
p.19).
There may well be several reasons for this silence by Baha’i leaders and official bodies over
the years. One reason may well have been a wish not to reveal the total number of Baha’is
when they were still unimpressively few in number – emphasizing instead the impressive
extent of Baha’i expansion, but it is likely that other factors were also involved, notably a
lack of reliable figures from some national Baha’i communities, including Iran, the original
homeland of the Faith. Whilst in some Baha’i national communities, there is a long tradition
of keeping and regularly updating membership statistics, this task has undoubtedly proved
more difficult in societies in which many Baha’is live in remote rural areas, or in which
definitions of membership may be more ambiguous.59
59. All religious movements must make decisions about who to include in their estimates of membership,
established religions often adopting far more inclusive criteria than newer ‘sectarian’ movements more
concerned with the ‘purity’ of membership. Thus, in addition to the movement’s core membership of active
believers, the movement’s leadership may decide to include: (i) less active members who participate
occasionally in activities; (ii) individuals who were born into the religion but are not actively involved; and
(iii) the families of members, including children. Additional complications arise in those countries in which
individuals are automatically considered to belong to the state religion or to a communal religious grouping
unless they officially opt out of membership – an option which may be legally or socially difficult. Again,
in some countries, the reality or threat of persecution may lead to a penumbra of covert believers who avoid
public identification. Again, in some countries (e.g. Japan and India), multiple religious memberships are
common. There is as yet no proper and comprehensive study of various definitions of Baha’i membership
on a worldwide basis or of changing definitions in individual Baha’i communities over time.

The best estimate for Baha’i numbers which is currently available for the period under
consideration suggests that in 1963, at the end of the Ten Year Crusade, there were well over
half-a-million Baha’is worldwide (583,000), this figure including youth and children, and that
by the end of the Nine Year Plan, this figure had quadrupled to almost two-and-a-half million
(2,444,000) (Table 8.5). Estimates for the number of adult Baha’is over the same period show
an increase from 221,000 to almost 1.2 million.60
60. The estimates are based on the statistical returns received by the Department of Statistics at the Baha’i
World Centre from the various national Baha’i communities, with extrapolations for the number of children
and youth being made for those communities with reported adult memberships of over a thousand. Since
1987, the Department has begun to collect far more detailed demographic data from the national assemblies
enabling it to prepare more accurate estimates for Baha’i populations (UHJDS, Memorandum of May
1988, p.5).

Table 8.5. Estimated number of Baha’is worldwide by year, 1963-73.
Year
Adult Baha’is
Total (including youth and children)
221,000
583,000
306,000
601,000
390,000
754,000
463,000
903,000
608,000
1,183,000
627,000
1,202,000
692,000
1,350,000
798,000
1,622,000
961,000
1,959,000
1,059,000
2,216,000
1,199,000
2,444,000
Source: UHJDS, Memorandum, 15 May 1988, p.5.
Turning to the continental distribution of Baha’is (Table 8.6), we see the massive
predominance of Asia throughout the period – 62% of the world total in 1963 and 64% in
1973. Africa and the Americas (25% and 11% respectively in 1963 and 14% and 20% in
1973) make up most of the remainder. Australasia (1.1% and 1.5%) and Europe (0.8% and
0.7%), by contrast, make up only a tiny proportion of the total.

Table 8.6. Estimated total Baha’i populations by continent, 1963-73 (% in parenthesis).
Year
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australasia
Europe
World
145,700
(24.97%)
61,900
(10.6%)
364,400
(62.46%)
6,500
(1.1%)
4,900
(0.8%)
583,400
(100%)
181,700
(15.1%)
122,500
(10.2%)
879,800
(73.2%)
9,100
(0.8%)
8,900
(0.7%)
1,202,000
(100%)
339,700
(13.9%)
479,000
(19.6%)
1,572,000
(64.3%)
36,000
(1.47%)
17,200
(0.7%)
2,444,000
(100%)
Source: Calculated from UHJDS, Memorandum. 15 May 1988, p.6.
B. NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY FORMATION.
4. The role of the national spiritual assemblies. Although national coordinating bodies had
developed in various parts of the Baha’i world during the headship of `Abdu’l-Bahá,61 it was
Shoghi Effendi who standardized their formation as ‘national spiritual assemblies’ –
institutions with directive authority for the various ‘national’ Baha’i communities. With the
development of formal teaching plans from 1937 onwards, the national assemblies naturally
became closely involved in the work of propagating the Faith, Shoghi Effendi assigning them
particular goals to accomplish in term of both internal and external growth and consolidation.
61. In Iran and Asiatic Russia, the local spiritual assemblies of Tehran, Ashkhabad and Baku assumed the role
of central coordinating assemblies. The North American Bahai Temple Unity (est.1909) performed a
similar role in the United States and Canada. All these bodies were later replaced by national spiritual
assemblies.

Thus, during the Ten Year Crusade it was the national assemblies which were given the
primary responsible for the achievement of most of the Crusade’s objectives, and in like
manner, the Universal House of Justice described the national spiritual assemblies as the
“generals” of the Nine Year Plan (MU#6.6). In practical terms, it was the national assemblies
which bore the responsibility for the achievement of the majority of the assigned numerical
goals, as well as for the detailed preparatory planning and implementation which went with
that responsibility. In both Ten Year Crusade and the Nine Year Plan, each assembly was
given its own separate plan, with newly formed assemblies being assigned specific goals as
they came into being.
5. National spiritual assembly formation up to 1963. During the earlier part of Shoghi
Effendi’s ministry, the number of organized national Baha’i communities was very small, and
between 1923 and 1953, he only authorized the formation of fourteen national spiritual
assemblies, two of which (in the Soviet regions of the Caucasus and Turkestan) had to be
disbanded due to unfavourable political circumstances.62 Thus, in 1953, at the start of the Ten
Year Crusade, there were only twelve national assemblies worldwide: the British Isles (i.e.
the United Kingdom and Ireland) (formed in 1923); Germany and Austria (1923); India and
Burma (1923, later renamed to include Pakistan in 1947); Egypt and the Sudan (1924); the
United States of America and Canada (1925) – with Canada later achieving its Baha’i
independence with the establishment of its own national assembly (1948); Iraq (1931);
Australia and New Zealand (1934); Persia (Iran) (1934);63 Central America and the Antilles
(1951); South America (1951); and Italy and Switzerland (1953) (UHJDS, “National and
Regional Spiritual Assembly Formation”). It will be noted that whilst a few of these
assemblies were only for a single country, several were binational and two covered vast
regions of Latin America and the Caribbean.
The Ten Year Crusade called for an enormous increase in the number of national assemblies,
and all told an additional 44 assemblies were formed by 1963, raising the overall total to 56.
Fourteen of these assemblies were formed prior to Shoghi’s decease in 1957, and the rest
under the direction of the Hands. In most cases, a general pattern was followed of first
forming multinational regional assemblies and then later forming sub-regional and
specifically national assemblies from these. Thus, the increment of 44 assemblies between
1953 and 1963 represented the formation of 59 new assemblies at the cost of the dissolution
of 15 regional and binational assemblies, some of which had been only transitional bodies
formed during the Crusade itself. Shoghi Effendi also introduced the innovation of having a
‘national’ assembly for a sub-national area – for the discontiguous American state of Alaska
in 1957 (UHJDS, “National and Regional Spiritual Assembly Formation”).
6. National spiritual assembly formation since 1963. National assembly formation
continued as an important objective of the Nine Year Plan. Thus, the “first step” taken to
prepare for the Plan was the formation of nineteen new ‘national’ and regional spiritual
62. The assemblies for the Caucasus and Turkestan were formed in 1925 but due to governmental restrictions
had to be formally dissolved in 1939 (UHJDS, “National and Regional Spiritual Assembly Formation”).
63. The old name of ‘Persia’ was officially retained by the Baha’is until 1957 (UHJDS, “National and Regional
Spiritual Assembly Formation”).

assemblies at Ridván 1964. These additions involved the breaking up of six of the large sub-
continental assemblies that had existed in Africa, Asia and the Pacific at the end of the Ten
Year Crusade, so the overall total of assemblies in the world was raised by 13 from 56 to 69
(MU#6.7).64 In the Plan itself, the House called for the total number of assemblies worldwide
to be raised from 69 to 108 (a net gain of 39), with the dissolution of 7 existing regional
assemblies and the formation of 46 new national assemblies. The areas covered by 6 of the
existing regional assemblies would also be reduced (BW14: 105-6). Almost all of the new
assemblies called for were formed,65 so that with the establishment of additional assemblies
not called for in the Plan, the total number of national assemblies at Ridván 1973 was 113 –
just over double the number that existed in 1963, and a net gain of 44 from the beginning of
the Plan (see Table 8.7).66
Table 8.7. National spiritual assemblies.
(a) In selected years by continent
Year
World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australasia Europe
Ridván
Ridván
Ridván
Ridván
(b) Increments, goals and changes.
Increments,
1963-73
Increments,
1963-64
Increments,
1964-73
9YP Goals
(new [+]
and
108 (+46-7) 30 (+26-6)
28 (+4)
23 (+8)
10 (+6-1)
17 (+2)
64. The new assemblies were: 1. North West Africa; 2. West Africa; 3. West Central Africa; 4. Uganda and
Central Africa; 5. Kenya; 6. Tanganyika and Zanzibar; 7. South Central Africa; 8. South and West Africa; 9.
The Indian Ocean; 10. The Hawaiian Islands; 11. The South Pacific Ocean; 12. The South West Pacific
Ocean; 13. North East Asia; 14. Korea; 15. Malaysia; 16. Indonesia; 17. Vietnam; 18. Thailand; 19. The
Philippines.
65. Given the rapid political changes taking place in Africa during these years, some of the new assemblies
were eventually formed under different names or with different combinations of countries than originally
planned (e.g. Lesotho rather than Basutoland Niger was eventually included in a joint assembly with
Dahomey and Togo rather than with Nigeria as listed in the original Nine Year Plan goals (BW14: 105)).
66. For details see the accounts of the developments by continent and region (Ch. X-x).

dissolved
[-]
assemblies
shown in
parenthesis)
Sources: Calculated from BW13: 468-69, 947-51; BW14: 105-6, 560; BW15: 291-94;67
MU#6.7.
The increases in the number of national assemblies were particularly marked in Africa, where
the total number of assemblies increased from 4 in 1963 to 30 in 1973 – an addition of 26
assemblies; Asia (from 10 to 25, and increase of 15); and Australasia (from 3 to 11, an
increase of 8). Increases in the Americas (by 4, from 24 to 30) and Western Europe (by 2,
from 15 to 17) were quite modest by contrast, separate national assemblies for all major
countries in these regions having been formed during the Ten Year Crusade.
Details of the year-by-year increases in the number of national assemblies are given in Table
8.8. It will be seen that the majority of increments occurred in five years: 1964 (+13), 1967
(+11), and the three-year span, 1970-72 (+31).
67. BW15: 291-64 erroneously gives the figures for Ridván 1963 and not Ridván 1964.

Table 8.8. The total number of national and regional spiritual assemblies by year, 1963-
73.
Year
Total NSAs1
Increment
New NSAs1
Dissolved NSAs1
[1]2
Source: Calculated from UHJDS, “National and Regional Spiritual Assembly Formation”,
and idem, Memorandum, 15 May 1988, p.3.
Notes:
1. Includes both national and regional spiritual assemblies.
2. Achieved after the formal ending of the Nine Year Plan and not included in the Plan
gains.
Of the goals set, only five were not achieved (Algeria, Cambodia, a joint assembly for
Ethiopia and Somalia, Southern Arabia, and Zanzibar). In the case of Zanzibar, the non-
formation of an assembly was presumably because of the union of that country with
Tanganyika shortly after the Nine Year Plan had commenced (to form the new country of
Tanzania, 1964), obviating the need for a separate administration. In Cambodia’s case,
growing political instability and the devastation of war and civil war may have convinced the
Baha’is to delay the establishment of a separate administration. The postponement of the
formation of the remaining three assemblies was no doubt linked to sensitivities about the
visibility of the Baha’is in the Arab world – directly in the case of Algeria and Southern
Arabia, and indirectly in the case of Ethiopia-Somalia, with Ethiopia continuing to act as the
base for the North East Africa assembly whilst the persecution of the Egyptian Baha’is
continued. Persecution also necessitated the dissolution of the Iraqi national spiritual
assembly (1972), one of the most venerable in the Baha’i world (est. 1931).
As to the eleven ‘bonus’ assemblies, three were in the African region (Botswana, Chad, the
Seychelles); two in the Americas (Puerto Rico, the Windward Islands); five in Asia
(Bangladesh,
Brunei (later Eastern Malaysia and Brunei), Kuwait, Sikkim, Singapore); and one was in
Australasia (the North West Pacific, centred in the Carolines)..
C. OFFICIAL RECOGNITION & PROPERTY ACQUISITION.
7. Legal and official status. It was Shoghi Effendi’s policy to try and obtain both legal status

for Baha’i assemblies and governmental recognition of Baha’i holy days (and of the right of
Baha’is to take those days off work) and marriages, wherever this was possible. The first of
these objectives was particularly important in giving Baha’i institutions the right to own
property as legally-constituted bodies, whilst the second has been an important means of
increasing the public recognition of the Faith and of gaining greater prestige in wider society.
The House of Justice has continued to pursue both objectives.68
All such goals necessarily depend on favourable external circumstances – the willingness of
governments or other legal agencies to accord recognition to Baha’i institutions. Thus, the
House noted in May 1964 that ‘recognition goals’ – the legal incorporation of national and
local spiritual assemblies; applications to gain official recognition for Baha’i marriage
certificates and holy days – should only be embarked upon when it seemed reasonably likely
that they could be achieved (MU#16.9). In the case of legal incorporation, it has proven
relatively easy to register or incorporate most of the national assemblies (see Table 8.9).
Thus, in 1963, 38 out of 56 national assemblies (68%) were incorporated, whilst by 1973, 90
out of 113 assemblies (80%) were incorporated – well in excess of the overall Plan goal of 65
assemblies. Only in Asia did a substantial number of assemblies fail to obtain legal status (7
out of 10 not incorporated in 1963; 12 out of 25 not incorporated in 1973).
Table 8.9. Incorporated national spiritual assemblies (total number of assemblies in
parenthesis).
Year
World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australasia Europe
Ridván
38 (56)
3 (4)
19 (24)
3 (10)
3 (3)
10 (15)
Ridván
90 (113)
25 (30)
28 (30)
13 (25)
9 (11)
15 (17)
Sources: Calculated from BW13: 468-69; BW15: 291-94.69
Success in incorporating local assemblies has been far more limited (see Table 8.10) –
reflecting both the strict legal criteria which an assembly must meet so as to gain corporate
status and the relative weakness of many local assemblies. Thus, in 1964, only 413 local
assemblies out of a worldwide total of 4,566 (9.0%) had been incorporated, and whilst the
number of incorporated assemblies had almost quadrupled by 1973 (to 1,556 – exceeding the
goal of 1,386), these still only represented 9.1 percent of the total.
As with the locality and local assembly figures, it will be noted that there are considerable
disparities between the continents in terms of local incorporation: whilst Asia and Africa have
the largest numbers of local assemblies, they have the smallest proportion of assemblies to
have gained legal status: with 2-3% in the case of Africa, and 3-9% in Asia. By contrast, quite
a high proportion of local assemblies in the Americas (32-16%), Australasia (40-20%) and
Europe (34-31%) have achieved legal status.
68. The Nine Year Plan called for the incorporation of 65 national spiritual assemblies; local spiritual assembly
incorporations to be raised to 1,386 – including at least one in each states of the USA; Baha’i marriage
certificates to be recognized in 87 countries; and Baha’i holy days to be recognized in 95 countries (BW
14: 106, 114-16, 123, 135).
69. BW15: 291-64 erroneously gives the figures for Ridván 1963 and not Ridván 1964.

Table 8.10. Local spiritual assembly incorporation and official recognition.
(1) Region
(2) Incorporated LSAs
(as % of total LSAs in
parenthesis)1
(3) Countries
recognizing Baha’i holy
days
(4) Countries
recognizing Baha’i
marriage
Africa
[2.4]
[2.8]
Americas
[31.5]
[16.1]
Asia
[2.7]
[8.6]
Australasia

[40.2]
[20.1]
Europe
[34.1]
[31.4]
World
[9.0]
1,556
[9.1]
Source: BW15: 291-94.
Note: Figures in parenthesis calculated from Table 8.3.
Overall, the total number of countries in which Baha’i holy days and/or marriage have been
officially recognized by the authorities is limited, with respectively only 20 and 26 countries
in 1964, and 64 and 40 in 1973 – less than the Plan goals of gaining recognition of Baha’i
marriage certificates in 87 countries, and of Baha’i holy days in 95 countries (BW 14: 114-
16).70
Some individual achievements were also of particular significance, notably: (1) the
realization of the ‘long-sought’ legal recognition of the Faith in Italy (in 1966), which
resulted in the legal incorporation of the national and all local spiritual assemblies and
enabled the Baha’is to establish their own publishing trust, an achievement hailed by the
House of Justice as a “MILESTONE” in the progress of the Faith in “HEART” of
“CHRISTENDOM”; and (2) the recognition of the Faith as one of Iceland’s religions (by
Ridván 1967), enabling the local assembly in Reykjavik to be legally incorporated, its
chairman to perform Baha’i marriages and burials, Baha’i institutions to be given certain tax
70. An alternative source gives the total number of national assemblies to have gained official recognition for
Baha’i marriage within their area of jurisdiction by 1984 as 49. Of these, ten had gained recognition before
the end of the Ten Year Crusade in 1963, and another thirty during the 1963-73 period. The assemblies
listed are as follows:
Up to the end of the Ten Year Crusade (10):
United States
Hawaii; Haiti
Brazil
Alaska
Liberia
Australia; Canada
New Zealand; Panama.
The 1963-73 period (30):
Finland
Rhodesia
Iceland
Fiji; Korea (South); Pakistan
Lebanon; Philippines
Virgin Islands; Bermuda; Trinidad and Tobago; Malaysia
Swaziland; Tanzania; Solomon Islands; Puerto Rico; Tonga; Norway
Bangladesh
Taiwan; Sweden; Ghana; Zambia
Kiribati; Singapore; Uganda; Laos; Caroline Islands; Samoa; Papua New Guinea.
It will be noted that 7 of the assemblies are in Africa, 10 in the Americas, 9 in Asia, 10 in Australasia, and 4
in Europe. See Baha’i International News Service 143 (March 1985), p.13.

exemptions, and Baha’i holy days to be observed (MU#39; 42.5).
8. Property acquisition. Both Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice have set
the Baha’i national assemblies the goal of acquiring properties, specifically a suitable
building to serve as a national Baha’i headquarters and the seat and meeting place of the
national assembly (the national Hazíratu’l-Quds);71 a site for a future Baha’i temple; and a
‘national endowment’ – a piece of land owned by the assembly.72 Each national assembly and
projected national assembly area should have one of each, and both in 1963/4 and 1973,
almost all assemblies had achieved these goals (see Table 8.11), with the acquisition of
temple sites evidently proving the most difficult objective: in 1963/4 only 46 out of 56
assemblies had such sites, whilst by 1973, 15 out of 113 assemblies still lacked temple sites.
71. On the Hazíratu’l-Quds (‘Sacred Fold’) see CEBF, loc. cit.
72. For a list of the acquisition goals for national Hazíratu’l-Quds, temple sites and endowment lands see BW
14: 107-9. Writing in May 1964, the House noted that in the case of national Baha’i centres it was
sufficient for the building to be a ‘modest structure’ as long as it was sited in a ‘dignified location’ within
the civil limits of the city or town specified in the plan (temple sites, by contrast, did not have to be within
the city limits as long as they were located close to the city). National endowments were for the moment
purely token land purchases. Extensive acquisitions were not necessary, and the goal could be achieved
quite simply through a land donation by one of the Baha’is (MU#16.6-7).

Table 8.11. National headquarters, endowments and temple sites.
Region
National Hazíratu’l-
Quds
National endowments
Temple sites [No. of
Temples in parenthesis]
R1964
R1973
R1964
R1973
R1964
R1973
Africa
5 [1]
26 [1]
Americas
22 [1]
26 [2]
Asia
8 [0]*

Australasia
3 [1]
9 [1]
Europe
8 [1]
16 [1]
World
46 [4]
98 [5]
Source: BW15: 291-94.
Other property goals. The House also set some national spiritual assemblies – mostly in
poorer parts of the world – goals of establishing teaching institutes (32);73 institutions for
Baha’i learning (‘Summer’ and ‘Winter’ Schools) (4), Baha’i-operated public schools (in
Burma and Uganda), and local Hazíratu’l-Quds and endowments (in 20 and 10 countries
respectively) (BW 14: 114, 123). A goal of building two Baha’i temples was also set, and the
national spiritual assemblies of Iran and Iraq were directed to acquire specific Baha’i holy
sites (BW 14: 122).74
D. PUBLISHING, TRANSLATION AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY.
9. Translations. An essential adjunct to the successful consolidation of the Baha’i Faith as a
global religion is the ready availability of its literature in a large number of languages. This
was an objective on which Shoghi Effendi had placed much emphasis, encouraging the
Baha’is to translate both Baha’i scripture and expository works into indigenous languages
around the world as part of the expansion plans which he initiated. This same policy was
continued by The Universal House of Justice.
Already, by 1964, Baha’i literature had been produced in some 323 languages (including the
languages of Esperanto and Interlingua), and the Nine Year Plan called for translations to be
made into an additional 133 languages (BW14: 111-12). In the event, translations were made
into an additional 266 languages, giving a final total of 589 languages by 1973.75 By
73. Writing in May 1964, the House explained that teaching institutes were an activity rather than a place as
such, and were intended to deepen the knowledge of the Baha’is so as to prepare them to participate
actively in the teaching work. In some countries, however – particularly where mass teaching was already
taking place – a modest structure could be built or purchased in the rural areas where the mass teaching was
actually occurring. Elsewhere, the institutes could be conducted in local Baha’i centres, or in rented
accommodation such as those used for most Baha’i Summer Schools (MU#16.8).
74. In Iran, the Baha’is were to acquire two sites associated with the Báb, the prison of Mákú and his place of
execution in Tabriz. They were also to transfer the remains of the Báb’s wife to a chosen site and construct
her tomb. In Iraq, the Baha’is were to acquire the site of the Ridván Garden in Baghdad (where Bahá’u’lláh
had first declared his messianic status to his immediate followers in 1863) and identify and transfer the
remains of the Báb’s mother (BW 14: 122). In the event, it appears that it was not possible to achieve any
of these objectives. However, another fortress in which the Báb had been imprisoned (at Chihríq) was
acquired (MU#42.5).
75. There would seem to be some slight discrepancy between these figures and others which are available.
Thus, a statistical summary prepared by the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land in 1963 lists 309
languages ‘in which Baha’i literature has been translated and printed’ (131 for Asia and Australasia
combined, 97 for Africa, 41 for Europe and 40 for the Americas), with an additional 9 languages into which
Baha’i literature was in the process of being translated (HISC 11-13). A supplementary ‘Addenda’
summarizing additional achievements in 1963-64 lists 37 ‘New languages into which Baha’i literature has
been translated and printed’ (Hands, Addenda 6), a figure which would mean that literature had been
translated into at least 346 (309+37) languages. To add further confusion, the Bahá’í World listing for
Ridván 1963 gives 300 languages ‘into which Baha’i literature has been translated’ (127 for Asia and

continent, the largest group of languages were African (32% of the total), followed by
languages of the Americas (30%), Asia (17%), Australasia (12%), and Europe (9%) (Table
8.12, BW15: 291-94).
Evidently, the amount of Baha’i literature translated into some of these languages was quite
limited in extent – amounting perhaps to little more than a prayer or two, but clearly for an
increasing number of languages, the available Baha’i literature was better developed,
including both scripture and works of exposition.76 In this context, it is of note that one of the
goals of the Nine Year Plan was for the enrichment of Baha’i literature through additional
publications in 45 languages (5 in the Americas, 23 in Asia and 17 in Europe) (BW14: 112-
13).
The House emphasized that the translation of Baha’i literature into new languages was urgent
in that it helped determine the effectiveness of the teaching work. It should also be carefully
coordinated with the settlement of pioneers into the areas where the languages were spoken
(MU#16.10).
Table 8.12. Languages and publishing trusts.
Region
Languages into which Baha’i
literature has been translated
Baha’i publishing trusts
R1964
R1973
R1964
R1973
Africa
Australasia combined, 94 for Africa, 42 for Europe and 37 for the Americas) (BW13: 462-64) – with
translations into another 9 languages in process. Both the 309 and 300 figures include Esperanto (listed as a
European language). There may also be a small error in the figure for Australasian languages for 1973: the
figure given in Bahá’í World is 68, but only 67 are actually listed (BW15, cf pp.293, 714-5, 716). This
would give a total figure worldwide of 586 languages excluding the two invented ones. I am not at present
able to resolve these complexities.
76. Some indication of the extent of Baha’i literature available in 1963 is given in a lengthy listing of selected
titles in various languages (BW13: 1063-1110). Languages with at least 5 published titles excluding
pamphlets included the following: Albanian, Arabic, Burmese, Danish, Dutch, English, Esperanto, Finnish,
French, German, Hindi, Italian, Japanese, Kanarese, Persian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Tamil, Turkish,
and Urdu. If works in manuscript or mimeograph copy were also included, then Armenian, Bulgarian,
Chinese, Czech, Indonesian, Korean, Norwegian, Samoan, Serbian, Sesutho, Swahili, and Swedish should
be added. Unfortunately, volume 13 of Bahá’í World, covering the years 1954-63, is the last to include so
much detailed information on Baha’i publications and translations.

Americas
Asia
Australasia
Europe
World
321*
587*
Source: BW15: 291-94, 703-4.
*Excludes Esperanto and Interlingua.
10. Publishing. Baha’i books were produced by a variety of publishers. By the end of the Ten
Year Crusade in 1963, a total of 8 national Baha’i publishing trusts had been established (in
Argentina, Brazil, Britain, Germany (the Federal Republic), India, Iran, Uganda, and the
United States of America) (BW13: 476).77 The Nine Year Plan called for the establishment of
four more (in Belgium, Italy, Pakistan and Tunisia) (BW14: 113), but in the event, a total of 7
new trusts were established, bringing the overall total to 15 by 1973 (BW15: 703-4). In
addition to those planned in Belgium, Italy and Pakistan, there were new trusts in Spain,
Sweden, and Taiwan. A trust formed in the Lebanon presumably took the place of the trust
originally projected for Tunisia as a publisher for Arabic Baha’i literature.78
In addition to the publishing trusts (bodies with a separate legal existence from their
respective national spiritual assemblies), official Baha’i publishing was also conducted by
publishing committees established by a number of national assemblies. There were also a
small number of independent publishers specializing in the production of Baha’i literature,
notably George Ronald of Oxford in England (established in 1947 and effectively the first
independent Baha’i publisher in the world). The Universal House of Justice also established
its own publishing arm.
77. Apart from the British Publishing Trust, established in 1937 and the first in the world, the other trusts were
all formed during the Ten Year Crusade (HISC 8). The American Publishing Trust replaced the earlier
Publishing Committee.
78. The full list of Baha’i publishing trusts in 1973 was:
Argentina
Belgium†
Brazil
Germany (Federal Republic)
India
Iran
Italy*
Near East (Beirut)*
Pakistan*
Spain*
Sweden*
Taiwan*
Uganda
United Kingdom (formerly British Isles)
United States
Trusts established in the early years of the Nine Year Plan (1964-68) marked †. Those established in the later
years (1968-73) marked *.

Between them, these trusts, committees and private publishers were able to generate an
increasing volume of Baha’i literature in most of the major languages of the world, most
particularly in English, but also in Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Persian,
Portuguese and Spanish. Perhaps even more than had been the case during the guardianship
of Shoghi Effendi, English was the preeminent language of Baha’i publishing as well as of
international Baha’i discourse.79 Persian-language Baha’i works remained relatively difficult
to obtain outside of Iran, the Pahlavi regime tacitly permitting the Iranian Baha’is to
lithograph quantities of literature for their own use, but not allowing large scale publication
(CEBF, ‘publishing’, loc. cit.).
11. Ethnic diversity. One of the objectives which Shoghi Effendi had set the Baha’is was to
increase the diversity of their membership, both in terms of social background and what we
would nowadays refer to as ethnicity. By reaching out to all groups within their societies, the
Baha’is would both proffer their ‘life-giving’ message to all peoples and demonstrate to all
that the Baha’i Faith was able to unite people of diverse backgrounds. The concept of human
diversity is extremely complex of course. In some societies, particular linguistic, religious,
‘tribal’ and perceived racial differences are significant and sharply defined. In others they are
not. Again, the definition of significant difference varies greatly from one society to another,
whilst the ethnic identity of particular individuals may vary from one context to another.
These complexities notwithstanding, Shoghi Effendi himself prepared lists of ‘Races
represented in the Baha’i World Community’, ‘Minority groups and races’ which had been
contacted by the Baha’is, and ‘African tribes represented in the Baha’i Faith’.80 The Hands of
the Cause followed this example and provided lists of races and tribes represented in the
Faith at the end of the Ten Year Crusade in 1963 (71 ‘races’, 348 African tribes, 83
Amerindian tribes, and 87 Asian and Pacific tribes and peoples) (BW13: 464-68).81
For its part, the Universal House of Justice as part of the Nine Year Plan prepared a list of 55
‘Minority groups and races’ which were ‘to be increasingly taught and enrolled [in the Faith]’
(BW14: 113). Under its direction, lists were also prepared of ‘Tribes and peoples represented
in the Baha’i Faith’ as of Ridván 1968 – with 662 for Africa, 165 for the Americas, 228 for
Asia, and 64 for Australasia (1,119 in total); and of ‘Major ethnic and language groups
79. Some small indication of the preeminence of English is provided by a select list of general introductory and
expository Baha’i books provided by the Baha’i World Centre for 1973. Of 42 titles, 34 were available in
English, 18 in Spanish, 12 in French, 10 in German, 9 in Portuguese, 5 in Persian, and 4 in Arabic. Most of
the books in languages other than English were translations from English, but there were six Spanish and
two German works which had evidently been authored in those languages and had not been translated into
any other language (BW15: 753). A similar list of 17 major published works of Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-
Bahá comprised 16 in English, 14 in Persian, 13 in German, 11 in French, 10 in Arabic, 9 in Spanish, and 5
in Portuguese (BW15: 751).
80. See Shoghi, The Bahá’í Faith, 1844-1952: Information Statistical & Comparative, pp. 11-12. The numbers
given (all for 1952) are 30 ‘races’ (for the most part nationalities), 15 minority groups (mostly Amerindian
groupings), and 12 African tribes.
81. HISC lists an extra African tribe (the Shona) (p.18). In the Addenda, a further 83 tribal groups are listed as
being represented in the Faith by 1964 (23 in Africa, 16 in the Americas, and 14 in Asia) (Hands, Addenda
6-7).

represented in the Baha’i World Community’ – 92 in all (BW14: 167-87). In the summary
report at the end of the Plan, only overall numbers were given, however: with an increase in
the worldwide number of ‘Indigenous tribes, races and ethnic groups represented in the
Baha’i Faith’ from an estimated 518 for 1964 to 1,607 for 1973 (BW15: 291, see Table 8.13).
Given the ambiguity of concepts like ‘tribe’ and ‘race’, these lists and figures raise major
definitional problems, but the overall picture is clear enough: during the Nine Year Plan – as
previously in the Ten Year Crusade, the Baha’is were successful in significantly increasing
the ethnic diversity of the community.
Table 8.13. ‘Indigenous tribes, races and ethnic groups’ represented in the Baha’i
community.
Region
R1964
R1973
Africa
1,012
Americas
Asia
Australasia
Europe
unknown
World
518 [est.]
1,607
Source: BW15: 291-94.

8. Progress and implementation.
1. The process of implementation. Having set the Baha’is of the world a detailed set of
goals for the Nine Year Plan, the House of Justice then guided them through a process of
implementation, reporting on progress made, reminding them of goals that still needed to be
achieved, establishing priorities for action, and responding to particular difficulties and
opportunities which emerged as time went by.
Progress towards the accomplishment of the goals therefore contained an element of
flexibility – so that the planning of future activity could be adjusted in response to what had
already been achieved. Thus, the judgement of when a particular new national assembly was
ready to be formed depended on the rate of progress that was occurring within the territory in
question, and additional goals could be added if circumstances were favourable.82 Again,
national assemblies were told that if they experienced any difficulties in the implementation
of their specific goals, or needed any clarification about the goals, they should contact the
House (MU#16.11), and there was evidently a continuing process of consultation between the
House and individual national assemblies, as well as between the Hands (and later the
Counsellors) and the assemblies. In order to provide effective overall direction of the Plan,
the House needed both effective national assemblies (who did the bulk of the work of
implementation) and regular, accurate and up to date information on what was going on in
every part of the Baha’i world.
One element of planning which the House of Justice favoured was the phasing of goals,
national assemblies being instructed that if they had been given what appeared to be a
particular demanding goal, they should consider phasing the task systematically (sending a
copy of this ‘internal plan’ to Haifa when it had been worked out). The House itself came to
identify – and amend – a series of phases in the overall work of the Plan, four phases ((1)
Ridván 1964 to Ridván 1966; (2) Ridván 1966 to October 1967; (3) October 1967 to Ridván
1969; (4) Ridván 1969 to Ridván 1973) eventually being referred to (below).
The House issued regular summaries of progress made, mostly in the form of an almost
annual Ridván message addressed to ‘the Baha’is of the world’.83 These messages reported
82. For example, in September 1966, having previously stated that nine new national spiritual assemblies
would be formed at the following Ridán, the House announced that changed circumstances meant that the
formation of the Cambodian assembly would have to be postponed, but that three additional national
assemblies (Belize, Laos and Sikkim) would be formed (MU#38) – Sikkim being supplementary to the
Plan. Similarly, in August 1969, the House announced that an additional assembly – for Central Africa –
would be established at the following Ridván in light of “the succession of victories, resulting from the
prodigious efforts exerted by the devoted friends [Baha’is]” (MU#71). Again, the changing situation in East
Pakistan – soon to become Bangladesh – led to the formation of a separate national assembly there
(supplementary to the Plan) in 1972.
83. For the 1965 message see MU#24; for 1966 see MU#34; for 1967, MU#42; for 1969, MU#68; for 1970,
MU#81; for 1971, MU#96; for 1972, MU#110; and for 1973, MU#128. The House did not sent its
customary Ridván message in 1968 – the time of the Second International Baha’i Convention (21-24
April), but instead sent a cable to the national conventions in May (MU#57). The Ridván message for 1970
unusually also took the form of a cable, and was addressed to all national assemblies rather than ‘The
Baha’is of the World’.

outstanding achievements over the previous year, identified problems, set immediate goals,
notified the Baha’is of forthcoming developments, and invariably praised the work and
assistance of the Hands of the Cause.
2. The first phase: Ridván 1964 to Ridván 1966. During the first two years of the Plan, The
House of Justice issued major messages on mass teaching (MU#18) and the need for
‘universal participation’ (MU#19); established continental pioneer committees and an
International Deputization Fund to promote pioneering; and issued the first of its major calls
for international pioneers. The Langenhain temple in Germany was also dedicated for public
worship, preparatory work on the Panama temple project begun, and means found to lighten
the work load of the Hands of the Cause, including the appointment of more Auxiliary Board
members.
There was also substantial progress in several aspects of the Plan’s national goals,84 and by
Ridván 1965, the House was able to report that 17 new territories had been opened to the
Faith and 6 others resettled (MU#24.4). A year later, it noted that as a result of pioneer
moves, 24 additional new territories had been opened to the Faith, 4 more resettled, and 93
strengthened (MU#34.2-3). There were also substantial increases in the number of localities
in which Baha’is resided, as well as large-scale increases in the number of Baha’is – most
notably in India, where the total number of Baha’is exceeded 140,000 by Ridván 1965
(MU#24.2).85 Again, several of the property, legal incorporation, official recognition, and
translation goals had already been won. Only one new national spiritual assembly was formed
(Brunei, supplementary to the Plan), but the House felt that sufficient progress had been made
for another nine assemblies to be formed in 1967 – later raised to 11 (MU#34.5; 38).
Ridván 1965. Commenting on the situation at Ridván 1965, the House asserted that the ‘tide
of victory’ which had carried the Baha’is of the world to the World Congress (the ‘Most Great
Jubilee’) was still rising. ‘A ceaseless shower of divine confirmations’ was raining upon the
Baha’is’ efforts, as evidenced by the many ‘noteworthy achievements’ of the first year of the
Plan (MU#24.1). The worldwide Baha’i community evidenced two conditions: (i) within the
Faith, the capacity of the Baha’is to accomplish whatever definite goals were assigned, and
(ii) an almost universal sense of ‘an impending breakthrough to large-scale conversion’
(MU#24.5-24.6). The foundations for ‘great victories’ were now being laid, and the Baha’is
would be able to pursue these with concentration, resolution and relentlessness as the Plan
progressed (MU#24.13). The ‘majestic process’ which had been launched by Shoghi Effendi
with the calling of the Ten Year Crusade was gathering momentum. The Baha’i world
community had then been widely-scattered and obscure, so that posterity might well be
awestruck at the way in which what was still a small section of the human race was
developing ‘the very pattern and sinews of world order’. This process was ‘divinely-
84. Already in May 1964, the House reported two cases of almost immediate accomplishment of particular
objectives (MU#16.2).
85. The Ridván message for 1965 states that the number of centres where Baha’is resided had increased from
over 15,000 at Ridván 1964 to over 21,000 (15,168 to 21,006) – an increase of almost 6,000 in a single
year. In the same period, the number of Baha’is in India had increased by more than 30,000 to over 140,000
(MU#24.1). The Department of Statistics figures cited in Chapter 8, give the locality figures as 17,650
(1964) and 22,244 (1965).

propelled’ and would continue ‘its historic course’ until it reached its final consummation in
the promised kingdom of God on Earth (MU#24.23).
The House also presented the Baha’is with four ‘challenging and immediate’ tasks:
(1) the dispatch of 461 international pioneers;
(2) to raise ‘the intensity of teaching to a pitch never before attained’ so as to achieve
the ‘vast increase’ in Baha’i numbers called for in the plan;
(3) to acquire as rapidly as was possible the remaining property goals of the Plan; and
(4) to prepare national and local plans for a global proclamation of the Faith to ‘the
generality of mankind’ which would begin in the Autumn of 1967 (MU#24.7-14). These
activities would include the holding of six intercontinental conferences.
Ridván 1966. Marking the end of the second year of the Plan at Ridván 1966, the House
lauded the movement of 505 pioneers during the course of the year. This was the largest
number of individuals ever to pioneer in a single year, and there was every hope that with the
exception of 34 posts which were to be opened only if conditions were favourable, all the
immediate appeal goals would be filled or have firm commitments for settlers. The ‘gratitude
and admiration of the entire Baha’i world’ went out to ‘this noble band’ of dedicated Baha’is
who had responded to the call (MU#34.1-2). The ‘splendid achievements’ in pioneering and
teaching, together with the ‘enthusiastic attention’ given to the preparation of proclamation
plans for 1967 had ‘sealed with success’ what the House now identified as the first phase of
the Nine Year Plan. A ‘second phase’ would now begin (MU#34.7).
3. The second phase: Ridván 1966 to October 1967. At Ridván 1966, the House announced
that a second phase of the Plan was now beginning, during which the Baha’is of the world
would have to prepare and ‘arm’ themselves for the third phase, which would consist of a
period of proclamation, starting in October 1967 with the six intercontinental conferences and
continuing until the end of the Nine Year Plan. Five tasks faced the Baha’is as it entered this
second phase of the Plan:
(1) to complete the settlement of pioneers and to dispatch others as needed;
(2) ‘intensive preparation’ for the third phase of the Plan through the development of
new ‘teaching measures’ and the expansion of the various Baha’i funds;
(3) acceleration of the provision of Baha’i literature – particularly translation and
publication in those languages in which there was as yet little or no material;
(4) the acquisition of the remaining property goals; and
(5) the development of the Panama Temple Fund (MU#34.7-8).
The House also called for a “constant stream” of travelling teachers, and more generally,
directed the attention of the Baha’is to the importance of more intensive teaching (again, “to a
pitch never before attained”); support for the Baha’i funds; and individual responsibility.
‘(H)eroic deeds’ were now called for, such as were only performed ‘by divinely sustained and
detached souls’ (MU#34.9-11, 17).
The following eighteen months saw achievements in all these areas. The House of Justice
also issued guidance on such topics as the Baha’i funds; teaching, consolidation and
deepening; the nature of the forthcoming proclamation campaign; and the increasingly
important role played by youth.

In March 1967, the House noted its pleasure at the progress of the Plan so far: almost all of
the accessible goal territories which had needed to be opened to the Faith had now been
settled; a programme of progressive consolidation and continued expansion was being
pursued; plans for the Panama temple were well advanced; the various property goals were
being steadily acquired; 81 of the 108 national assemblies called for in the Plan would soon
be in existence (eleven additional national spiritual assemblies were formed in 1967, more
than originally planned); and the opening of the proclamation period was fast approaching.
Projects at the Baha’i World Centre in Haifa-Akka which had been held in abeyance so as to
concentrate financial resources elsewhere were now to proceed (MU#40.1-2). At Ridván
1967, the House also reported the formation of over 6,000 new local assemblies and the
completion of about 200 international travel-teaching projects Moreover, in 53 territories, the
full number of local assemblies, groups and localities called for in the Plan had already been
achieved (MU#42.3).
In its Ridván message of 1967, the House acknowledged ‘with thankful hearts’ the evidences
of ‘Divine favor’ with which Bahá’u’lláh unfailingly sustained and confirmed the ‘dedicated
efforts’ of the Baha’is worldwide, and ‘unhesitatingly’ affirmed its confidence that the
Baha’is would achieve ‘complete victory’ through their ‘determination and sacrificial efforts’
(MU#42.1). The House regarded the various ‘visible achievements’ that had been gained to
be the consequence of the Faith’s ‘organic vitality’. There was constant movement throughout
the worldwide Baha’i community, reminiscent of ‘the ceaseless surge of the sea’. This was
‘the real cause of its growth’. At the same time there were constant services – assemblies
facing difficult problems, devising plans and shouldering responsibility for national and local
communities growing in numbers and consciousness; committees striving to accomplish
objectives; young Baha’is ‘in eager and dedicated activity’; individuals and families striving
to teach the Faith or hold a fireside gathering – and these services attracted ‘the confirmation
of Bahá’u’lláh’. Indeed, the more these services were supported by prayers and ‘intense
dedication’ and the more extensive they became, the more they released into the world ‘a
spiritual charge’ which ‘no force on earth’ could resist, and which eventually would
necessarily bring about ‘the complete triumph’ of the Baha’i Cause (MU#42.7).
In terms of the tasks that now needed to be addressed, there was a requirement both for more
pioneers, more financial resources, and to prepare for the global proclamation campaign that
was to start in October 1967. Underlying these endeavours, however, was the imperative to
pay constant attention to the development of each national Baha’i community’s homefront.
These were the ‘solid bases’ from which all Baha’i expansion began. They were the sources
of manpower and administrative experience for all expansion activity whether at home or
abroad, and this was reflected in the predominance given to them in terms of Plan goals –
assemblies and groups to be established and new Baha’is to be gained. The systematic
approach of several national assemblies in adopting annual quotas for achieving these goals
was highly recommended (MU#42.13).
The House also directed the Baha’is to consider anew what was meant by ‘deepening’, and to
develop a profounder understanding of Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose for the human race. The House
was ‘(m)indful of the countless expressions of divine love’ which were found in the Baha’i
scriptures and was aware of ‘the extraordinary nature of the crisis’ which was now facing
humanity, and because of this called upon the Baha’is to realize that ‘very great things’ were
expected from them at the present time (MU#42.26).

4. The third phase: October 1967 to Ridván 1969. The House of Justice had originally
intended the third phase of the Plan to run from October 1967, with the holding of six
intercontinental conferences and opening of the proclamation campaign, all the way through
to the end of the Plan (MU#34.7), but evidently later decided that delineation of a fourth
phase (from Ridván 1969) would be useful. As planned, the proclamation campaign began in
October 1967, involving a massive effort to attract public attention to the existence of the
Faith worldwide. The campaign and the conferences are discussed in later chapters.
Apart from the ongoing work on the plan goals and the proclamation campaign, the third
phase also saw the House of Justice assuming direct representation of the Baha’i International
Community at the United Nations; the reelection of the Universal House of Justice at the
Second International Convention (Ridván 1968); the establishment of the Continental Boards
of Counsellors (June 1968); and the holding of a large international conference in Palermo,
Italy (23-25 August 1968), followed by a mass pilgrimage to Baha'i World Centre (26-31
August) to commemorate the centenary of the arrival of Bahá’u’lláh in Akka. The House also
issued an important reminder that the Baha’is should not involve themselves in politics
(December 1967).
Ridván 1968. In April 1968, the Second International Convention was held in Haifa and the
House did not send its customary Ridván message. Instead, it sent a short cable to all national
Baha’i conventions shortly after the International Convention delegates had returned to their
homes, praising the ‘DEDICATED SPIRIT’ and ‘MATURE DELIBERATIONS’ of the Haifa
meeting, and hailing the ‘GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY’ presented by the national conventions
to ‘GALVANIZE’ the Baha’is as the ‘CRUCIAL MIDWAY POINT’ of the Nine Year Plan
approached. Now was the time for the Baha’is to direct all their efforts to the achievement of
‘EVERY REMAINING GOAL’ of the Plan, as well as simultaneously extending and
accelerating the universal proclamation of the Baha’i message. With the ‘UTMOST LOVE’,
the House called upon all Baha’is to make a ‘SACRIFICIAL OUTPOURING’ of their
energies and resources so as to advance the ‘REDEEMING ORDER’ of Bahá’u’lláh, an
Order which was the ‘SOLE REFUGE’ of the ‘MISDIRECTED’ the ‘HEEDLESS’ millions
of the world’s population. The House prayed that the Baha’is would be rewarded for their
dedication and ardour with ‘COMPLETE’ and ‘GLORIOUS’ victory. The House also
announced that its members had held prolonged consultations with the Hands of the Cause
regarding the development of the Faith (the formation of the Continental Boards of
Counsellors was announced shortly after this) (MU#57).
Notes of concern. Despite the achievements that had already been made, by the Summer of
1968, the House of Justice was evidently concerned that the accomplishment of some of the
Plan goals was lagging behind. This was evidenced by the House’s message to the Palermo
Conference participants in August 1968, in which it noted that whilst much had been
accomplished, the midway point of the Nine Year Plan had now [almost] been reached, but
more than half of the goals had yet to be won, with the greatest shortfalls being in the
opening of new territories where Baha’is resided and the formation of local spiritual
assemblies – which in turn inevitably affected the ability to establish new national
assemblies. A dramatic upsurge in ‘effective teaching’ was now needed. So too were more
pioneers, travelling teachers and funding, the House hoping that the conference would

generate ‘a great spiritual dynamic’ which would reinforce the already rising momentum of
activity and carry the Baha’is to victory by the end of the Plan (MU#63.9).
Again, in September 1968, the House expressed its concern that whilst the Plan was now
almost half over, there were substantial shortfalls in progress towards the attainment of some
goals, notably the formation of new local spiritual assemblies and the opening of new
localities where Baha’is resided: an additional 6,997 assemblies (76% of the goal) and over
22,800 localities (59% of the goal) had to be gained. Hundreds of pioneers and travelling
teachers were needed, many of whom would serve in their own countries. The Baha’is
worldwide should join ‘in the true spirit of universal participation’, and win the remaining
Plan goals ‘while there is yet time’. Each individual should assume his or her ‘full measure of
responsibility’ so that everyone could share ‘the laurels of accomplishment’ at the end of the
Plan. Those who were not able to pioneer or travel teach should contribute to the
International Deputization Fund. The House members prayed that the centenary of
Bahá’u’lláh’s exile which had just been commemorated would mark a ‘significant turning-
point’ in the fortunes of the Plan (MU#66.3-5).
Ridván 1969. Reviewing the year just ended at Ridván 1969, the House noted that the
“Cause of God” had continued to pursue “its majestic course”, with the extension of the range
of the Faith’s activities and influence. A year of “remarkable activity” had begun with the
Second International Convention and the new election of the House, and had been marked
both by the establishment of the new institution of the Continental Boards of Counsellors (the
‘most significant and far-reaching development’ of the year, which had fulfilled the Nine Year
Plan goal of extending the institutional functions of the Hands of the Cause, and later the
Palermo Conference and the mass visitation of Baha’is to Bahá’u’lláh’s shrine which
followed it. More generally, the Baha’is had managed to attract increasing attention to the
‘healing message’ of the Faith, both through the success of the campaign to distribute copies
of the compilation The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, and through the Baha’is’ utilization of
the United Nations’ designation of 1968 as Human Rights Year to both strengthen their ties
with the UN and to proclaim the Faith and its teachings. Progress towards many of the
objectives of the Plan was also proceeding well, with ‘great strides’ towards the achievement
of the property acquisition, translation, and assembly incorporation goals. Preparatory work
for the Panama temple was well advanced, and another two national assemblies were now
forming – with another ten planned for the following year. The pace of expansion and
consolidation had accelerated, and if ‘fostered and fed’ would become a ‘full tide of
victorious achievement’ (MU#68.2-8).
5. The fourth phase: Ridván 1969 onwards. In its Ridván message for 1969, the House also
announced that a ‘fourth phase’ of the Nine Year Plan was now beginning. After five years of
‘strenuous labour’, the ‘Baha’i World Community’ was ‘bearing the laurels of outstanding
victories’. In this new phase, the most pressing need continued to be a rapid increase in the
number of Baha’is and in the number of localities opened to the Faith and of ‘well-grounded’
local assemblies formed. This would be the ‘hallmark’ of the new phase of the Plan, and
would create the ‘essential foundation’ for the erection of the remaining national spiritual
assemblies called for in the Plan. The ‘present condition of mankind’ offered ‘tremendous
opportunities’ for the Baha’is, and their activities would be ‘strongly reinforced’ by their
continuing proclamation campaign, international travelling teaching, and inter-assembly

cooperation. A ‘sacrificial outpouring’ in support of the Baha’i funds and the ‘raising up’ of a
‘mighty host’ of pioneers was also needed – the House making its second major call for
pioneers at this time (MU#68.10-12).
The ‘happy consummation’ of the Plan was now ‘faintly discernable on the far horizon’. The
work was well advanced and was blessed by the ‘never-ceasing confirmations of
Bahá’u’lláh’. The entire Baha’i community worldwide was committed to ‘complete victory’.
Victory would only be gained through a combination of factors, however. These were: (1)
hard work; (2) realistic planning; (3) ‘sacrificial deeds’; (4) intensification of the teaching
work; and (5) the constant endeavour by every Baha’i to live up to the standards of the Faith.
This last factor was the most important of all (MU#68.13).
More appeals for action. In a series of successive messages, the House made further appeals
for action by the Baha’is. Thus, in November 1969, it called upon the Baha’is worldwide to
join the members of the House in prayer during the nineteen day feast for the month of Sultán
(the Feast of Sovereignty on 19 January), so that ‘we will all become so imbued with zeal,
courage and enthusiasm’ that nothing would be able to delay the Baha’is’ ‘victorious onward
march’ during the remainder of the Plan (MU#73.6).
Again, in its Ridván message for 1970 (which took the form of a cable rather than the
customary letter), the House noted that the Baha’i ‘world community’ had “AMPLY
DEMONSTRATED” its ability to scale the heights of devotion and sacrifice and win
‘ASTONISHING VICTORIES’ for its ‘WORLD-REDEEMING’, ‘WORLD-HEALING’,
and ‘WORLD-UNITING’ Faith. The Nine Year Plan had already been marked by great
achievements in pioneering; proclamation; the public recognition of the Faith; the upsurge in
youth activities; the acquisition of Baha’i properties; the commencement of construction
work for the Panama temple; and developments at the Baha’i World Centre. The ‘URGENT’,
‘IMMEDIATE’ and ‘VITAL’ need now was to concentrate attention both on increasing the
number of Baha’is, of localities where Baha’is resided and of local spiritual assemblies; and
to fill the large number of remaining pioneer goals. ‘TOTAL VICTORY’ required more
pioneers, as well as more funds and more new Baha’is. The Hands, Counsellors, and
Auxiliary Board and national and local spiritual assembly members, together with ‘EVERY
SINGLE FOLLOWER’ of the Faith, were all therefore ‘SUMMONED’ to exert the
‘UTMOST EFFORT’ during the remaining years of the Plan. The achievement of this step in
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan would endow the Baha’i community with the capacity needed
for its administrative agencies to undertake the next stage in the implementation of the
‘SUPREME PURPOSE’ of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation, that is, the unification of mankind and
the establishment of the ‘LONG PROMISED’ Kingdom of God on Earth (MU#81).
Again, in August 1970, the House expressed its members’ prayer that the ties uniting the
national Baha’i communities would be reinforced, that they would evince ‘GREATER
CONSECRATION’ in meeting the challenging tasks which still lay ahead, and that there
would be ‘WIDER PARTICIPATION’ from ‘ALL RANKS’ of the Baha’is (MU#85). Three
months later, in November, it referred to the ‘challenging and crucial’ closing period of the
Nine Year Plan that the Baha’is were now entering. At its end, what greater gift could they
give to Bahá’u’lláh than ‘the proclamation of Victory’ in his name (MU#86.1). In December,
it reported that there was insufficient support for the Baha’i International Fund, and called for
increased contributions (MU#87). Again, in February 1971, the House appealed to the

Baha’is to seize the “UNIQUE OPPORTUNITIES” of the present hour and “SPARE NO
EFFORT” until the remaining goals of the Plan were fully accomplished, thereby attracting
Bahá’u’lláh’s “INESTIMABLE BLESSINGS” to themselves and their communities. In
particular, the pioneers who were scheduled to move into the territories of the new national
spiritual assemblies that were about to be established at Ridván 1971 should settle in their
posts “WITHOUT DELAY”. The Baha’is in the communities that were to establish national
assemblies were to ‘BRACE THEMSELVES’ so as to exert a ‘SUPREME EFFORT’ and
establish as many local spiritual assemblies as possible in the ‘FAST FLEETING’ weeks that
remained, and so strengthen the foundations of the new national assemblies (MU#92).

Major achievements and activities. Meanwhile, the major Plan goal of national spiritual
assembly formation was beginning to move forward rapidly. By 1969, only 13 additional
assemblies had been formed since the beginning of the Plan (16 new assemblies and 3
regional assemblies disbanded), but in the next three years, an additional 31 were formed.
Eight major oceanic and continental conferences were also held (1970-71), and the Panama
Temple finished and dedicated for worship (April 1972).
Ridván 1971. In its Ridván message for 1971, the House referred to a ‘new horizon’, with
intimations of ‘thrilling developments’, that could now be discerned in the ‘unfolding life’ of
the Faith. This new horizon would be reached through ‘complete victory’ in the Nine Year
Plan. The Plan itself was now ‘well advanced’: in a year’s time the total number of national
spiritual assemblies would be 114, six more than originally called for in the Plan; building
work on the Panama temple would be finished before the end of the year; the recent
international conferences had been a great success, releasing a “wonderful spirit” as well as
practical benefits; and there had been a good response to the urgent appeal which the House
had had to make four months previously for greater support for the International Baha’i Fund.
It was evident, however, that ‘(r)estrictive measures’ against the Faith in a number of
countries would make completion of their goals ‘virtually impossible’, and the Baha’is in
those countries who enjoyed the freedom to teach the Faith were therefore encouraged to so
surpass their own goals as to ‘amply compensate’ for the disabilities suffered by their less
fortunate coreligionists (MU#96.3-6, 8).
Two major objectives of the Plan remained unfulfilled: the formation of new local spiritual
assemblies (10,360 were now in existence, but 14, 966 – an extra 4,606 – were called for in
the Plan), and the opening of new localities where Baha’is resided (46,334 at present, with a
goal of 54,503 – an extra 8,169).86 The overall goal figures were in sight, but the time
remaining to the end of the Plan was short. Moreover, the total statistics concealed major
differences between national communities. The growth of the Faith was uneven both between
and within communities, with some communities exceeding their goals whilst other faced
‘extreme difficulties’ in attaining theirs. Total victory was achievable, but ‘mutual help’ and
an increase in the existing momentum was necessary (MU#96.9). One specific action that
was called for was a reinforcement and support of the ‘army’ of travelling teachers. All of the
Baha’is, but particularly the youth, were challenged to consider how much time they could
devote to the Faith during the remaining two years of the Plan. Some could undertake
teaching visits of short- or long-term duration; others could deputize travelling teachers
86. In percentage terms, the called for increases were 44.4 percent for assemblies, and 17.6 percent for
localities.

financially, or undertake tasks which would free would-be teachers for the teaching work.
Thus, the Baha’is would be able to build up a final and united ‘surge’ of activity that would
carry the Plan to victory (MU#96.8).
For the present, the Baha’is needed to focus their energies on their immediate task of
accomplishing the goals of the Plan. Victory in this regard was the best preparation for the
future and ‘the means of developing new powers and capacities’ in the community itself.. The
House members remained confident that ‘the Army of Light’ (i.e. the Baha’is) would grow in
strength and unity such that by the end of the Plan, it would have scaled ‘the heights of yet
another peak’ in a path that led ultimately ‘to the broad uplands of the Most Great Peace’
(MU#96.11).
Further encouragement. In July 1971, the House called upon the Baha’is to commemorate
the forthcoming fiftieth anniversary of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s passing to rededicate themselves to
winning the remaining Plan goals. Ideally, yet more ‘active and dedicated’ promoters of the
Faith would join those were already helping to win the existing victories so that ‘we may all
meet our obligations and discharge our sacred trust’. This was a ‘crucial stage’ in the
development of the Plan, and if all remaining goals were quickly won, it would be possible to
devote the remaining months of the Plan to ‘an even greater expansion of the Faith’ as it
proceeded on its ‘onward march towards the spiritual conquest of the planet’ (MU#99.4).
In February 1972, the House announced that the total number of localities in which Baha’is
resided worldwide was now 56,645 – more than 2,500 in excess of the original Plan goal. The
Baha’is in those areas where the goals were not yet won were urged exert the ‘UTMOST
EFFORT’ during the remaining months of the Plan to win the goals so that they could join the
ranks of their ‘VICTORIOUS BRETHREN’ – who were urged to continue their
‘VIGOROUS BRILLIANT EXPLOITS’. The House members were offering prayers of
thanksgiving for the divine bounties which surrounded the ‘SACRIFICIAL EFFORTS’ of the
‘LOVE-INTOXICATED’ Baha’is (MU#106).
6. The final year: Ridván 1972-Ridván 1973.
6.1. Ridván 1972. In its Ridván message for 1972, the House described the Baha’i world at
the opening of the final year of the Plan as ‘poised for overwhelming victory’. Divine
bounties had never ceased ‘to rain down upon’ this ‘blessed’ and ‘ever-developing embryonic
world order’, and confirmations continued to attend its efforts. Since the Nine Year Plan
began, ‘extraordinary advances’ had been made in organized and planned Baha’i teaching
activities worldwide, the Panama temple was now being dedicated, and a total of 113 national
assemblies were about to be formed. The goals for property acquisitions and the
establishment of teaching institutes were ‘well in hand’, and in those countries in which it
was possible, the legal incorporation of assemblies and the official recognition of Baha’i
marriages and holy days were ‘making good progress’ (MU#110.1-4). One community (Fiji)
bore the laurels of first achieving every one of its goals and led ‘the procession of rejoicing
and victorious communities within the Army of Light’ (MU#110.9).
The main matter of continuing concern for the House remained the achievement of some of
the national goals for locality numbers and local assembly formation. It was true that the
overall total of localities now exceeded the Plan goal, and that over 260 territories had

achieved or surpassed their goals, but in some 60 or so territories the target figures had still to
be met. Achievement of these remaining goals had to be given ‘absolute priority’. It was
expected that large numbers of local assemblies would be formed during the present Ridván
period [1972], and as soon as the latest figures had been received for assembly and locality
numbers in each country, detailed listings of the unfulfilled goals would be sent to all national
assemblies ‘for urgent release’ to the Baha’is. The House called on national assemblies to
greatly extend ‘the principle of collaboration’ between assemblies, and, as long as it did not
jeopardise their own success, those assemblies which had already achieved their goals or
would achieve them very soon were asked to consider helping those assemblies which were
facing difficulties by supplying pioneers and travelling teachers. There were also
international pioneer goals still to be met (MU#110.5-7).
The Baha’is’ ‘immediate and inescapable task’ was to ensure that every remaining attainable
Plan goal was achieved. This had to be done ‘at all costs’, even it meant that other cherished
plans had to be deferred. No sacrifice could be refused, and what was ‘most important’ had to
take precedence over what was merely ‘important’. One last ‘supreme effort’ would surely
lead to success. The Baha’i youth were worthy of emulation: their recent surge forward into
the vanguard of proclamation and teaching was supported ‘by long-sustained, precedent and
continuing prayer’. They had stormed ‘the gates of heaven’ with their prayers, and all Baha’is
could do the same, for Bahá’u’lláh was ‘the Hearer of prayers’ and would surely come to
their assistance (MU#110.9).
6.2. Final preparations for the ending of the Plan.
-(i) Assembly formation. In May 1972, the House announced a significant alteration in
normal Baha’i administrative practice, namely, that new local spiritual assemblies could be
formed at any time during the final year of the Plan as soon as the number of local adult
Baha’is was nine or more. They would not have to wait until 21 April (the first day of
Ridván) as was the normal practice. This innovation was introduced so as to ‘stimulate the
teaching work’, particularly in those areas where there were large scale entries into the Faith,
and increase the number of assemblies which could be reelected on 21 April 1973 without
outside assistance (MU#113).
-(ii) Formal celebrations. In June 1972, when the end of the Nine Year Plan was in sight, the
House of Justice announced that the formal ending would coincide with both the Third
International Baha’i Convention at the Baha’i World Centre and a centenary commemoration
of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation of his Most Holy Book, the Kitáb-i Aqdas.87 This event would be
celebrated in the Holy Land by the assembled national spiritual assembly members on the
Twelfth Day of Ridván [2 May 1973]. Baha’is throughout the world should hold their own
national and local celebrations on that day so that they could share in the observance for this
‘highly significant centenary’. The celebrations should be for Baha’is only. The ending of the
Plan would be followed by ‘the next stage’ in the promised series of crusades (MU#116.1-2).
87. The exact period during which the Aqdas was composed and the date on which it was completed are
uncertain (Shoghi Effendi dates it to shortly after Bahá'u'lláh’s transfer to the house of `Údí Khammár,
circa 1873 (GPB 213)). The choice of Ridván 1973 as the centenary for its completion had evident
symbolic value as further hallowing the end of the Nine Year Plan, whilst at the same time giving the
Baha’is a definite occasion on which to consider the significance of the Aqdas. The House had already
referred to 1973 as the Aqdas centenary year in their Ridván messages for 1965 and 1971 (MU#24.20;
96.11), as well as in a message to pioneers in November 1970 (MU#86.1).

In addition to this observance, the Baha’is should also undertake a widespread and month-
long proclamation campaign starting on the first day of the Ridván festival [21 April] and
continuing until the holy day commemoration of the Declaration of the Báb [22 May]. This
campaign should include publicity on both the completion of the Plan and the holding of the
International Convention (MU#116.3).
7. The achievements of the Plan.
7.1. Expansion goals. The Nine Year Plan ended at Ridván 1973. In its commemorative
message to the Baha’is of the world, the House announced that an ‘overwhelming victory’
had been achieved, and gave thanks for the confirmations of Bahá’u’lláh which had enabled
this victory to be achieved. The ‘Army of Light’ had achieved both of the central objectives
of its second global campaign: it had surpassed the set goals for the expansion of the Faith
and it had attained ‘a truly impressive degree of universal participation’ (MU#128.1).
The Baha’i Cause was now both enormously more widespread and ‘more firmly grounded’
than it had been in 1964. The ‘expansion’ achievements during the nine years of the Plan
were as follows:
(1) 95 new territories had been opened to the Faith;
(2) the number of national spiritual assemblies had been increased from 69 to 113 [i.e.
an increase of 44], five more than the total set in the Plan;
(3) the total number of local spiritual assemblies had been increased by 12,000 to over
17,000 (3,000 in excess of the goal);
(4) the total number of localities had increased by 54,000 to 69,500 (15,000 in excess
of the goal);
(5) Baha’i literature had been translated into an additional 225 languages, bringing the
total to 571;
(6) 69 temple sites, 56 national Baha’i centres, and 62 national endowments had been
acquired, raising the total numbers of each to 98, 112 and 104 respectively;
(7) the total number of teaching institutes and Summer and Winter School properties
was now 50;
(8) 15 Baha’i Publishing Trusts had now been established, producing Baha’i literature
in the major languages of the world;
(9) the Mother Temple of Latin America had been built and dedicated;
(10) a total of 3,553 Baha’is had responded to the House’s two appeals for pioneers,
2,265 of whom were still at their posts (MU#128.2-3).
7.2. Other achievements.
-(i) Official recognition. Some goals were dependent upon external circumstances, and their
achievement could not be controlled by the Baha’is. Of these, 90 national assemblies and
1,556 local assemblies (181 more than called for) had gained legal incorporation, and official
recognition had been gained for Baha’i holy days in 64 countries, and the Baha’i certificate of
marriage in 40 (MU#128.2).
-(ii) International conferences and worldwide proclamation. The intensive worldwide
proclamation of the Faith initiated in October 1967 with six simultaneous intercontinental
would continue far into the future. Already, a special edition of English-language translations

of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings had been presented to 142 heads of state, and the nine subsequent
oceanic and continental conferences [1970-71] had also given ‘great impetus’ to the
proclamation programme. Attended altogether by almost 17,000 Baha’is, the fifteen
conferences had attracted a great deal of publicity both in the press and on radio. The
conferences had also been made the occasion for acquainting various dignitaries with the
Baha’i message (MU#128.8).
-(iii) World Centre goals and the United Nations. There had been important developments
at the Baha’i World Centre in terms of the adoption of a Constitution by the Universal House
of Justice; the collation and classification of Baha’i texts; the production of the Synopsis and
Codification of Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i Aqdas; and the development Baha’i buildings and
grounds in the Haifa-Akka area. The Plan years had also seen the establishment of the
Continental Boards of Counsellors, and significant development in Baha’i relations with the
United Nations.
-(iv) Three portentous developments. The House also identified three ‘highly portentous’
developments which had occurred during the years of the Nine Year Plan. These were: (1)
‘the advance of youth to the forefront of the teaching work; (2) ‘a great increase in the
financial resources of the Faith; and (3) ‘an astonishing proliferation’ of assistance projects
between national spiritual assemblies (See below) (MU#128.12).
7.3. Difficult countries. In some countries, the Baha’is had not been able to achieve the goals
set, either because of overt persecution or limitations on their freedom to actively promote the
Faith. In others, legal and physical obstacles had prevented the Baha’is achieving certain
goals – mostly those involving the gaining of official recognition or legal incorporation.
Anticipating these barriers to expansion, the House had stated that some goals were subject to
favourable circumstances, and when it became obvious that some of these goals could not be
met, called upon the Baha’is who lived in countries in which they were free ‘to practice and
promote’ the Faith to exceed their own goals and thus ensure that the overall goal totals
would be achieved (MU#128.16).
8. Inter-assembly assistance and collaboration projects. A significant feature of the Nine
Year Plan was the extent to which the House called upon national assemblies to collaborate in
the accomplishment of specific goals. These assistance projects were evidently highly
successful, and at the end of the Plan, the House referred to the ‘astonishing proliferation’ of
these projects as being one of the Plan’s most ‘highly portentous’ developments
(MU#128.12), and to the Faith’s ‘own international relations’ as having become far more
closely knit (MU#128.2).
Altogether, 219 international assistance projects were set as goals in the Nine Year Plan, but
by the end of the Plan, the original goal had been far exceeded, and over 600 such projects
had been completed. Each project involved two designated national assemblies and
communities: one to assume responsibility for the project and the other (generally
geographically remote from the first) to assist in its accomplishment. The assistance given
might involve providing financial, pioneering or teaching support, and included the opening,
resettlement and consolidation of particular territories; the establishment of national
assemblies; the acquisition of Hazíratu’l-Quds, temple sites, and other property goals

(Winter/Summer schools, teaching institutes); the translation, enrichment and publication of
Baha’i literature; and specific teaching projects (for a list see BW 14: 116-22). An additional
development had been international cooperation in the publication of Baha’i literature in
Spanish, French and various African languages. A ‘vast field’ of fruitful endeavour in this
regard lay open for the future (MU#128.15).
The House stated that the intention of this conception had been ‘to strengthen the bonds of
unity’ between different parts of the Baha’i world which had ‘different social, cultural and
historical backgrounds’ (MU#128.15), and clearly the result of these projects was to create a
web of linkages between assemblies, and presumably to foster the development of a sense of
international Baha’i solidarity, as well as aiding the accomplishment of particular goals. Thus,
for example, the Argentinian Baha’is were asked to assist in the acquisition of a temple site in
Central Africa as well as helping the Chileans open Tierra del Fuego and the Bolivians
increase the amount of Baha’i literature in Quechua; the Hawaiian Baha’is were asked to help
with the development of Baha’i literature in the Filipino languages of Tagalog and Ilocano;
and the Finnish Baha’is were directed to help in the acquisition of a teaching institute in
Kenya and the consolidation of the Faith in the Russian Republic. The three assemblies
which were given the most work to do were the USA (26 projects); Iran (‘Persia’88) (22
projects), and the British Isles (17 projects). By continent, Europe was given the largest
number of assistance goals (74), followed by the Americas (68), Asia (57), Australasia (19),
and Africa (1) (BW 14: 116-22).
9. Preparing for the future.
9.1. Preparing for after the end of the Plan. As the Nine Year Plan neared its end, the
House began to prepare the Baha’is for future activities. Thus, in January 1973, the House
announced that the next international teaching plan would begin at Ridván 1974, and
expressed its pleasure that some national assemblies had already formulated plans for coming
Baha’i year after the end of the Nine Year Plan. All assemblies should emulate this action,
specifically working to accomplish two objectives:
(1) To strengthen ‘the foundations’ of their existing achievements through ‘all means
suited to their circumstances’, particularly by ‘developing and enriching Baha’i community
life’ and ‘fostering youth activity’.
(2) To continue the expansion of the Faith, ‘trying new openings and possibilities’
which they had not been able to fully explore when they were under ‘the pressure of other
priorities’ (MU#124).
Each national assembly should make its plan for the coming year now, and send the House of
Justice its report by 1 April 1973 at the latest, so that a ‘consolidated summary’ of all the
reports could be presented to the Third Baha’i International Convention’ [26 April-2 May
1973]. This summary would then provide the Convention delegates with inspiration and be a
source of new ideas when they consulted about the challenges which lay ahead during the
88. English-language Baha’i sources (including the House of Justice) commonly continued to call Iran by its
old European name of Persia until the 1970s. The Iranian Baha’i national spiritual assembly adopted the
modern name for the country in its own English-language title in 1957 (UHJDS, “National and Regional
Spiritual Assembly Formation”). The change of the country’s official name was made on the orders of Reza
Shah in 1935, and it was not until 1956/57 that the Iranian government revoked the prohibition on
foreigners calling the country by the old name (Avery 1, 469).

next plan and beyond. The achievements of this preparation year would also enable the
Baha’i community to begin ‘the next stage of its ‘ever-unfolding destiny’ (i.e. the next plan)
with ‘even greater assurance’. The year would also give the national assemblies opportunity
to prepare for the next plan. Conditions obviously differed from one area to another, and each
assembly needed to adopt goals which were best suited to its own ‘particular circumstances
and possibilities’, but a broad based campaign would be the most effective (MU#124).
9.2. Future possibilities. The House also made several references to possible future
developments. Thus, in its Ridván message of 1971, it speculated that in the near future,
Baha’is were likely to be forced to consider new issues and face new tasks as a result of the
twofold process of ‘the steady progress and consolidation of the Cause’ and ‘the progressive
disintegration’ of the ‘moribund’ environing society.89 These comprised the following
obligations and necessities: (1) to devise new approaches to teaching; (2) to demonstrate the
Baha’i way of life more clearly to ‘a disillusioned world’; (3) to make Baha’i administrative
institutions more effective; (4) to strengthen the authority of national and local assemblies so
as to be able to deal with larger Baha’i communities; (5) to develop ‘the international
character’ of the Faith; and (5) to establish the international Baha’i teaching agency referred
to in previous general letters90 (MU#96.10).
Again, in its Ridván 1973 message, the House stated that the progress of the Faith was
gathering with ‘increasing momentum’, and that ‘in God’s good time’, the Baha’i community
would have ‘traversed the stages’ predicted for it by Shoghi Effendi,91 and raised ‘the fair
mansions of God’s Own Kingdom’ on this ‘tormented planet’. In those mansions, humanity
would find surcease from its ‘self-inflicted’ confusion, chaos and ruin, and the hatreds and
violence of the present age would be ‘transmuted into an abiding sense of world brotherhood
and peace’. All this would be accomplished within the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh
(MU#128.21).
89. This twofold process had been delineated by Shoghi Effendi in The Unfoldment of World Civilization
(WOB 161-206). See further, below.
90. This is a reference to the International Teaching Centre, established in June 1973 shortly after the end of
the Nine Year Plan (MU#131).
91. Shoghi Effendi predicted that the Faith would pass through seven successive stages of development: (1)
“unmitigated obscurity”; (2) being actively repressed; (3) “complete emancipation”; (4) “being
acknowledged as an independent Faith” on terms of “full equality with its sister religions”; (5) “its
establishment and recognition as a State religion”; (6) “its assumption of the rights and prerogatives
associated with the Baha’i state”; and (7) “the emergence of the world-wide Baha’i Commonwealth” (ADJ
12; cf. MBW 155).

9. Teaching, Consolidation and Deepening.
Contents:
A. ‘TEACHING THE MASSES’.
B. CONSOLIDATION.
C. DEEPENING.
D. THE WORLD CRISIS.
1. Teaching, consolidation and deepening. In modern Baha’i terminology, ‘teaching’ refers
to the endeavour to attract more people to the Baha’i Faith and its teachings. In Christian
terms, a Baha’i ‘teacher’ is an evangelist for the Baha’i ‘gospel’. ‘Consolidation’ refers to the
process of Baha’i community development, whereby new Baha’is become spiritually
transformed, united and devoted to the Baha’i Faith and cohesive and active local Baha’i
groups develop. It includes the process of forming and maintaining properly functioning local
spiritual assemblies. ‘Deepening’ refers to the process by which Baha’is deepen their
knowledge and understanding of the Faith through study, discussion and meditation.92
A. ‘TEACHING THE MASSES’.
2. The Baha’i concept and practice of teaching. The importance of ‘teaching the Cause’ is
much emphasized in the Baha’i writings, and there are numerous passages encouraging the
Baha’is to teach their religion and to try to attain the spiritual qualities required of a true and
effective Baha’i teacher (a recognition that the teacher’s conduct may be even more important
than their words).
Several different types of teaching are recognized by Baha’is: the direct presentation of
Baha’i religious beliefs – in particular of Bahá’u’lláh’s claim to be the promised one of all
religions; an indirect method, in which the teacher speaks generally about the Baha’i
principles before turning to the Faith’s key beliefs; the teaching of individuals; and mass
teaching – the presentation of the Baha’i Faith to large numbers of people, often in the
context of a local community, and in the hope of sparking mass conversion.
Given the hostility of most orthodox religious leaders in Iran and the real dangers of
persecution and martyrdom, some Babi and much subsequent Baha’i teaching endeavour was
fairly circumspect (‘indirect’), with the Babi or Baha’i teacher speaking about general issues
until they could judge whether their co-locator was ‘ready’ to be challenged with the Faith’s
central teachings. This approach was supported by Bahá’u’lláh’s own counsel that whilst not
fearing persecution, his followers should teach prudently ‘with wisdom’ (hikmat).93 In the
case of the Babis, a number of leading missionaries also made public proclamations of the
Babi message, and there were several instances in which local communities converted to the
Babi religion en masse following the example of a local religious leader – leading in some
cases to local conflict and the massacre of the Babis. The Baha’is were more careful, and
most of their teaching endeavour in Iran focussed on seeking individual conversions until a
brief period of relative religious freedom in the early years of the twentieth century enabled
92. See CEBF, ‘consolidation’, ‘deepening’ and ‘teaching’, loc. cit.
93. See CEBF, ‘wisdom’, loc. cit.

them to conduct public meetings.94
Outside of the Middle East, Baha’i expansion could proceed far more openly, with public
meetings being organized to present the Baha’i teachings and the publication of introductory
books on the Faith as teaching aids. Even so, small-scale meetings with a group of friends
and enquirers in someone’s home (‘firesides’) often proved to be the most effective way of
securing individual conversions, ensuring that expansion tended to be fairly limited in extent.
this situation only began to change during the Ten Year Crusade as Baha’i teachers in a
number of rural areas of the ‘Third World’ (including Bolivia, India, the Mentawai Islands of
Indonesia and Uganda) encountered a mass response to their message and the modern era of
‘mass teaching’ and ‘entry by troops’ began.95
3. The teaching appeals of the House of Justice. The larger scale of conversions which had
occurred in several areas of the Baha’i world during the Ten Year Crusade were a source of
enormous excitement at the time and the Universal House of Justice was concerned to
encourage the Baha’is to continue such endeavours and extend them to more parts of the
world and so attract significant enrolments of new Baha’is. The House thus appealed
repeatedly for the Baha’is to expand their teaching activities, as well as conveying practical
advise to the national assemblies of the world as to how ‘mass teaching’ might be
conducted.96
3.1. The message of July 1964: ‘Teaching the Masses’. The first major discussion of this
topic was given in a letter which the House of Justice sent to all the national assemblies on 13
July 1964 (MU#18). Here, the House argued that when ‘the masses of mankind’ were
awakened and entered ‘the Faith of God’, a ‘new process’ was set in motion and a ‘new
civilization’ began to develop. Although the masses of humankind were ‘steeped in traditions
of their own’, they were receptive to the divine call, and when they truly responded to the
newly expressed Word of God, they became so influenced by it that they transformed those
who came into contact with them. Such had been the case with the emergence of Christianity
and Islam (MU#18.1).
In this context, God’s standards were different from those of men. Humans valued the
acceptance of a cause by people of distinction, fame and status, deeming such acceptance a
measure of the greatness of the cause. By contrast, God valued every individual – great or
small. Thus, the ‘unsophisticated people of the world’ – who formed the majority of its
population – had the same right to know of the Cause of God as any others. Indeed,
Bahá'u'lláh had stated that he had brought his message for all peoples and to bring the entire
94. There is as yet no proper study of the history of the Babi-Baha’i communities in Iran. For a few brief
comments see SBBR 48-56, 86-99, 175-80. See also CEBF, ‘Babi radicalism’, and ‘Iran’, loc. cit.
95. Again, there is as yet no adequate study of these developments with the exception of two PhD theses on the
main area of initial mass conversion in India (the Malwa area of Madhya Pradesh). See Garlington and
Garrigues on Malwa. More generally see CEBF, ‘expansion’, loc. cit; SBBR 190-95.
96. The main references are the messages of 13 July 1964 (MU#18), Ridván 1965 (MU#24), 2 February 1966
(MU#30), and Ridván 1966 (MU#34). See also a letter of 26 October 1967 directed to those assemblies
already engaged in mass teaching, and a second letter of 31 October 1967 addressed to all national
assemblies (MU#51, 52).

human race to God’s revelation, and that every individual soul had the capacity to recognize
‘the signs of God’ (GWB 96, 105-6). Therefore, every national assembly should seek to
organize Baha’i teaching activities in such a balanced way that all sections of society had
access to the Faith – not concentrating on one section, and including in their endeavours those
sections which were remote and difficult to reach. The success of such a strategy had already
been demonstrated in the dramatic results which had occurred in those countries in which the
Baha’is had succeed in teaching ‘the masses’ (MU#18.2-3). Now, teaching ‘the waiting
masses’ was a reality facing every national assembly (MU#18.18).
3.2. The Ridván message of 1965. The House again called attention to the importance of
teaching in its message of Ridván 1965. The Baha’is should seek to ‘raise the intensity of
teaching to a pitch never before attained’ so that the ‘vast increase’ in Baha’i numbers called
for in the plan could be achieved. This goal would be won by a combination of universal
participation and ‘constant action’. Every individual Baha’i had a part to play – and was
capable of playing it, for ‘every soul meets others’, and as Bahá’u’lláh had promised,
whoever arose to aid his Cause would be rendered victorious by God. This was a time of
‘golden opportunity’ for the Baha’is because in the face of increasing confusion in the world,
people were losing faith in human remedies to resolve the world’s problems and were
therefore willing, and in many places eager, to listen to the ‘divine remedy’. Realization was
at last dawning that ‘There is no place to flee to’ save God (MU#24.12).
3.3. The message of February 1966: ‘Further thoughts about mass teaching’. The House
returned to the subject of mass teaching in a letter dated 2 February 1966, and addressed to
those national assemblies which were engaged in mass teaching. Their work had attracted the
admiration of the rest of the Baha’i world. Mass teaching was of tremendous importance, the
large-scale conversions which had followed it marking the beginning of a new stage in the
development of the Faith. It was therefore vital that the process of teaching the masses not
only be maintained but actually accelerated. The victories gained also needed to be preserved
(MU#30).
3.4. Ridván 1966: Raising ‘the Intensity of Teaching’. The House again emphasized the
importance of teaching in its Ridván message of 1966. Every individual Baha’i, as well as
every Baha’i institution worldwide must needs meet the challenge of raising ‘the intensity of
teaching’ to a pitch that had never before been attained. Only thus could the ‘vast increase’ in
new Baha’is called for in the plan be achieved. This call was directed particularly to those
Baha’is who lived in countries in which they had the freedom to teach their religion – in a
number of others, the Baha’is were now subject to oppression, or at least to restrictions and
official surveillance. The local and national administrative bodies (the assemblies and their
committees) should organize and promote the teaching work through ‘systematic plans’.
These should involve regular ‘fireside’ meetings in the Baha’is’ homes; public meetings,
receptions and conferences; weekend, Summer and Winter schools; and youth conferences –
all of which were ‘vigorously upheld’ at the present time – and, in addition, ‘a constant
stream’ of travelling teachers (MU#34.9-10).
4. The practicalities of teaching. The House also dealt with the practical aspects of the
teaching work in these messages, as well as in two letters in October 1967: the first, dated 26
October 1967, directed to those assemblies already engaged in mass teaching, and the second,

dated 31 October 1967, addressed to all national assemblies (MU#51, 52).
4.1. Teaching all strata of human society. Much of Baha’i teaching endeavour outside of
Iran until the 1950s had focussed on urban areas, and almost universally, the predominant
element in the various Baha’i communities tended to consist of literate and relatively well-
educated ‘middle class’ urbanites. Rural communities and the manual working classes of the
cities were largely neglected. The ‘breakthrough’ that had occurred in a few countries during
the Ten Year Crusade was partly due to success in taking the Baha’i messages to the villages.
This point was noted by the House: in those countries in which the Baha’is had succeed in
teaching ‘the masses’, they had ‘poured out’ their time and effort in rural areas to the same
extent they had previously done in cities and towns (MU#18.2). Again, the House
emphasized that at present, the ‘paramount goal’ of Baha’i teaching work was to carry the
Baha’i message ‘to every stratum of human society and every walk of life’. The national
assemblies should therefore make every effort to present ‘the healing Word of God’ to
everyone: rich, poor, learned, illiterate, old, young, devout, atheistic, those who lived in
‘remote hills and islands’ and in ‘teeming cities’, suburban businessmen, labourers in the
slums, nomadic tribesmen, farmers, and university students. All should be consciously
included in Baha’i teaching plans. The assemblies should remember, however, that the same
presentation of the Baha’i teachings would not appeal to everyone: ‘the method of
expression’ and the approach by the Baha’is should vary ‘in accordance with the outlook and
interests of the hearer’. An approach that was designed to appeal to everyone would usually
only attract a middling group, leaving those at either extreme untouched. The assemblies also
needed to be aware that eager responses to the Baha’i teachings were often found ‘in the most
unexpected quarters’. They should therefore be ready to respond quickly to any response,
success in ‘a fertile area’ awakening a response in others who might have been uninterested
(MU#52).
4.2. Simplicity and love. The urban-focussed teaching of the past had often emphasized
intellectual ‘proofs’ of the Faith. The House noted that when teaching unsophisticated people,
the Baha’is should be careful to present the Baha’i message ‘in the same simplicity’ as was
found in the Baha’i texts. The Baha’is should show ‘genuine and divine love’ in their
contacts. Again, the heart of an ‘unlettered soul’ was extremely sensitive, and any prejudice
on the part of the Baha’i teacher or pioneer would be immediately sensed (MU#18.3). The
Baha’is should teach ‘with conviction, determination, love and lack of prejudice, using a
language that was simple and ‘addressed to the heart’ (MU#18.18).
As a corollary of this simplicity of approach, the Baha’is did not need to insist on the high
standards of knowledge of the Faith that had often hitherto been expected before new Baha’is
were inducted into the community. It was not necessary for the new Baha’is to know all ‘the
proofs, history, laws, and principles of the Faith’ before they declared themselves as Baha’is.
What was necessary was that they became ‘enchanted with the beauty’ of the Baha’i
teachings and touched ‘by the love of Bahá'u'lláh’. This was ‘the spark of faith’, and initially,
all the new Baha’is needed in addition was basic knowledge concerning the central figures of
the Faith97 and the awareness that there were laws which they must follow and ‘an
administration they must obey’ (MU#18.4).
97. The term ‘Central Figures’ (of the Faith) is commonly used by Baha’is to refer to the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, and
`Abdu'l-Bahá.

4.3. Consolidation (see further, below). The House emphasized that after declaring
themselves as Baha’is, the new believers should not be left to their own devices, but rather
‘patiently strengthened and lovingly helped to develop into full Baha’i maturity’. This could
be achieved through correspondence, the dispatch of visitors, conferences and training
courses. Thus they would be gradually won over to what Shoghi Effendi described as ‘the
unreserved acceptance of whatever has been ordained in the teachings’ (MU#18.5; MA 11).
Specific methods which had been found useful included:
-(i) Immediately sending materials to the new Baha’is to let them know that their
declaration of faith had been accepted and that they were now members of the Baha’i
community. Such materials could take the form of simple printed cards portraying a Baha’i
theme or principle (MU#18.10).
-(ii) Holding training courses in the rural areas (usually of about two weeks duration)
and/or weekend training conferences. These training courses and conferences enabled a
selected group of the new Baha’is to be given a more detailed introduction to the Faith and
involved in further Baha’i teaching projects. They could be held in Baha’i homes or in rented
accommodation: it was not necessary to wait until buildings to serve as Baha’i institutes had
been acquired (MU#18.11-13).
4.4. Effective administration. It was essential that the office of the national assembly or the
responsible teaching committees stay in close touch with developments through reports and
correspondence (MU#18.17-18). It was entirely up to the individual national assembly to
decide what committee structure it might adopt so as to ensure the best results in the
extension of its own teaching work, but ‘an efficient teaching structure’ had to be adopted so
that the work could be carried out quickly and in accordance with the principles of Baha’i
administration (MU#30.2).
4.5. The choice of competent teachers. Reliance should not be placed only on pioneers or
city-based Baha’is as teachers. Attention had to be given to was the selection of competent
teachers from amongst the indigenous population of the country. These were individuals who
would eventually bear the brunt of the work of propagating the Faith in their own homelands
(MU#30.2). Again, the House noted that many national assemblies had found it necessary to
select Baha’is as travelling teachers so as to expedite their teaching plans more quickly. It
was necessary to exercise ‘care and discretion’ in the selection of these teachers, however.
The assemblies should remember that people who were mostly illiterate were not able to read
the Baha’i writings for themselves so as to derive spiritual sustenance from them directly.
Instead, illiterates were liable to become largely dependent on their contacts with visiting
teachers. In this context, the ‘spiritual calibre or moral quality’ of the chosen teachers became
enormously important, and those who were selected should therefore be chosen primarily on
the basis of their ‘pure spirit’ and their ‘true love for the Cause’, and of ‘their capacity to
convey that spirit and love to others’. Knowledge of the Baha’i teachings was also important,
but was secondary to this moral-spiritual quality. Wonderful results would be obtained if the
assemblies could ensure to as great an extent as possible that all travelling teachers were
‘pure and sanctified souls’ who served the Faith only out of ‘true devotion and self-sacrifice’
(MU#51).

4.6. Difficulties and disappointments. The House also noted several problems which some
national assemblies had encountered in their mass teaching work:
-(i) Finding that the new Baha’is were less enthusiastic about their new-found faith than
expected, or were not following a Baha’i lifestyle, or had begun to hope that becoming a
Baha’i might lead to material advantages. In all these cases, it was necessary to remember
that the process of nursing a new Baha’i into full spiritual maturity was a slow one, requiring
‘loving education and patience’ (MU#18.16).
-(ii) Experience showed that when material facilities (schools, dispensaries, hospitals, clothes,
food) were offered to the people who were being taught, then many complications arose.
Therefore, when ‘teaching among the masses’, the Baha’is should be careful ‘not to
emphasize the charitable and humanitarian aspects of the Faith as a way to win recruits’. It
was the response to God’s message and the recognition of his messenger that was the prime
motive of teaching (MU#18.4).
-(iii) In order to obtain rapid and more impressive results, some teaching committees placed
emphasis on the number of new declarations rather than the quality of teaching. Similarly,
some travelling teachers might not teach the new Baha’is thoroughly, or even give false
reports of their ‘successes’ (MU#18.16).
In all these cases, the responsible assemblies should not become discouraged, but rather send
teachers in to the rural areas in teams, or at intervals, so as to better ascertain what was going
on and rectify any anomalies (MU#18.17).
5. The House’s role. In encouraging the development of mass teaching, the House of Justice
acted both as a central collecting point for the varied experiences of individual national
spiritual assemblies and a source of guidance drawn from the Baha’i texts.
5.1. A central record. The Universal House of Justice noted that it wished to keep a full-
scale record of the progress of the mass teaching work. Therefore, the national assemblies
should send copies of the published materials they were currently using in areas of large-scale
conversions (e.g. forms, cards, pamphlets, pictures, audiovisual aids, deepening books). The
assemblies should also provide the House with ‘adequate explanations’ of how the materials
were being used and comments as to their usefulness. They should also feel free to tell the
House about any problems they had encountered and to share any recommendations they
might wish to make. Prompt replies on these issues were requested so that ‘an early
evaluation’ of the mass teaching work could be made (MU#30.7).
5.2. The compilation on teaching the masses (May 1967). In order to help the Baha’is gain
a clearer understanding of ‘the importance and nature of the teaching work among the
masses’, the House prepared a compilation of references to the subject from Shoghi Effendi’s
writings,98 confident that the implementation of its principles would aid the Baha’is in their
teaching work. The compilation was sent out to the national assemblies on 11 May 1967, the
98. Including extracts from letters written on Shoghi Effendi’s behalf. The compilation ‘Teaching the Masses’
is reprinted in 2CC 61-71.

House expressing the hope that it would help the Baha’is appreciate better: (1) how to present
the teachings of the Faith; (2) ‘the attitude that must govern those responsible for enrolling
new believers’; (3) the need to educate the new Baha’is, deepening them in the Baha’i
teachings and gradually weaning them away from their former allegiances; (4) the ‘necessity
of keeping a proper balance between expansion and consolidation’; (5) the importance of
involving the local indigenous Baha’is in the Baha’i teaching work and the administration of
the Baha’i community; (6) the need to formulate budgets ‘within the financial capabilities of
the community’, and the ‘worthy goal’ for each national Baha’i community to become
financially self-supporting; (7) ‘the importance of fostering the spirit of self-sacrifice’ in the
hearts of the Baha’is; (8) ‘the preferability of individuality of expression’ within the Baha’i
administrative system to ‘absolute uniformity’; and (9) ‘the lasting value of dedication and
devotion’ in the work of teaching the Faith (MU#43).
5.3. The qualities of the teacher. The House enclosed a second compilation with its two
letters of October 1967. This consisted of a series of extracts from the writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi on the spiritual qualities to which Baha’i
teachers should aspire (MU#52.5-20). The national assemblies – particularly those engaged
in mass teaching – were instructed to include study of these quotations in the deepening
programmes which were offered to the Baha’is in their teaching institutes (MU#51.4). Again,
whilst the assemblies should carefully develop their teaching plans, they should never allow
such plans to eclipse ‘the shining truth’ expounded in the extracts: that it was ‘the purity of
heart, detachment, uprightness, devotion and love’ of the Baha’i teacher that attracted ‘divine
confirmations’ and enabled him or her to win the hearts of others for the Baha’i Cause. The
teacher’s knowledge of worldly learning was unimportant (MU#52.4).
B. CONSOLIDATION.
6. The twin processes. In discussing the importance of mass teaching, the House frequently
linked teaching with the process of consolidation. Thus, in its message of July 1964, the
House referred to the expansion and consolidation of the Faith as ‘twin processes’ that had to
go ‘hand in hand’. The Baha’is should not break off teaching projects aimed at furthering the
expansion of the Faith in order to consolidate and deepen the knowledge and faith of the new
Baha’is. The two processes stimulated each other: increasing the new Baha’is understanding
of the Faith generated further expansion; the enrollment of new believers created a new
communal spirit amongst the Baha’is which reinforced the work of consolidation (MU#18.6).
Again, in its message of February 1966, the House reminded the national assemblies that they
should constantly bear in mind that ‘expansion and consolidation’ were inseparable and
interdependent processes which had to go hand in hand: as Shoghi Effendi had noted, it was
vital that ‘a proper balance’ between these two ‘essential aspects’ of the Faith’s development
be maintained (see ANZ 76). Thus, whilst it was important to expand the range of the Baha’i
community and bring multitudes of people into the protective shadow of the Faith, it was also
very important to ensure (1) that the spiritual life of the individual Baha’i was ‘continuously
enriched’; (2) that local communities were becoming ‘increasingly conscious of their
collective duties’; and (3) that the Baha’i administrative institutions were operating
efficiently (MU#30.2-3).
Similarly, in its message of Ridván 1966, the House emphasized that consolidation had to be

‘(s)imultaneous and coequal’ with the ‘vast, ordered and ever-growing teaching effort’. The
two processes were essential and ‘inseparable parts’ of Baha’i expansion. The proper balance
between the two had to be maintained, particularly as the Baha’is entered ‘the era of large-
scale conversion’. Inevitably, teaching went first, but not to follow it with a plan of
consolidation would be to leave the Baha’i community unprepared to receive large numbers
of new converts in the future. As Shoghi Effendi had stressed: every expansion of Baha’i
activities had to be parallelled with a ‘deeper thrust’ into the community’s spiritual roots
(ANZ 76). The Baha’is should never lose sight of this ‘vital’ and ‘ever-present’ need
(MU#34.13).
7. The nature of consolidation. As to what should be included under the heading of
consolidation, the House provided an important definition in its message of Ridván 1966.
Consolidation consisted of two elements: (1) the establishment of Baha’i ‘administrative
institutions’ (i.e. primarily local assemblies), and (2) ‘a true deepening’ of the new Baha’is in
the ‘fundamental verities of the Cause’ and in its spiritual principles’. These later comprised:
(i) understanding that the ‘prime purpose’ of the Faith was the establishment of the unity of
mankind; and (ii) instruction in Baha’i standards of private and public life (see further below)
(MU#34.13).
C. DEEPENING.
8. Practical deepening. In discussing the need for consolidation, the House also referred to
the need to gain a basic knowledge of what it meant to be a member of the Baha’i community
– what I am here describing as ‘practical deepening’.
In its message of February 1966, the House emphasized the importance of the national
assemblies reinforcing the process of consolidation by making proper arrangements for the
new Baha’is to be deepened in their knowledge of the Faith. Therefore, the assemblies should
consult with the Hands of the Cause and gain the assistance of the members of the Auxiliary
Boards, who, together with those travelling Baha’i teachers selected by the national assembly
or its teaching committees, should be continuously encouraged to conduct deepening courses
and make regular visits to meet with local spiritual assemblies, local communities, and
individual Baha’is in the teaching areas (MU#30.4).
The House addressed the question of what the new Baha’is should learn of the Faith in
several letters:
-(i) In its letter of July 1964, it noted that national assemblies in mass teaching areas had
found it useful if in visiting the local village Baha’i communities, Baha’i teachers gave
instructions in ‘basic Baha’i knowledge’, i.e. Baha’i morality, the importance of teaching,
prayer, fasting, nineteen day feasts, and Baha’i elections. It was of particular importance that
the new Baha’is should be encouraged to contribute to the Baha’i funds so as to give them a
sense of participating as responsible members of the Baha’i community as a whole. National
assemblies should facilitate donations by accepting contributions in kind as well as cash.
Proper receipts should always be given (MU#18.10-14).
-(ii) In February 1966, the House stated that the subjects which members of Auxiliary Boards

and travelling teachers should include in their discussions with local Baha’is were as follows:
-1. The ‘extent of the spread and stature of the Faith today’.
-2. The importance of the daily obligatory prayers – or at least of the short prayer.
-3. The need to educate Baha’i children in the Baha’i teachings and to encourage them
to memorize some of the prayers.
-4. The stimulation of Baha’i youth to participate in the life of the Baha’i community
by such means as giving talks and – if possible – having their own activities.
-5. The necessity of abiding by the Baha’i marriage laws (to have a Baha’i ceremony;
obtain parental consent; observe monogamy; to be faithful to the marriage partner) and of
abstaining from all intoxicating drugs, including alcohol.
-6. The importance of the local Baha’i fund, and of the need for the Baha’is to
understand that whilst the act of contributing to the fund was voluntary, it was also both a
privilege and a spiritual obligation. Methods of facilitating contributions and the local
assembly’s use of the local fund to serve the interests of its community and of the Faith
should also be discussed.
-7. The importance of the Nineteen Day Feast, and the fact that it should be a joyful
occasion and the rallying point of the entire community.
-8. The manner of Baha’i elections, including the teaching of simple balloting
methods for people who were illiterate and of the need to have one literate person (even a
child) present throughout the election process. If necessary, repeated workshops could be
organized on this subject.
-9. The ‘all-important’ teaching work itself together with the need to continuously
deepen the Baha’is in the essentials of the Faith. The Baha’is should be made to realize that
in teaching the Faith to others, they should aim to make those who became Baha’is both
active supporters and teachers of the Faith in their turn. The teachers should look to attracting
others to the Faith both in their own localities and in neighbouring centres (MU#30.5).
All these points were to be placed in the context of the importance of the local spiritual
assembly, and the assemblies themselves should be encouraged to vigorously examine these
‘vital functions’, so that each assembly would become ‘the very heart’ of local community
life, even if this meant that they became burdened with the local community’s problems. The
Baha’is should understand that the ‘law of consultation’ was extremely important, and that it
was to their own local assembly that they should turn: abiding by its decisions, supporting its
projects, cooperating with it wholeheartedly in its promotion of the interests of the Faith,
seeking its advise and guidance in the solution of personal problems and in the adjudication
of any disputes which arose between them (MU#30.6).
-(iii) Again, at Ridván 1966, the House stated that instruction in Baha’i standards of
behaviour ‘in all aspects of private and public life’ should in particular include: daily prayer;
the education of children; the observance of the Baha’i marriage laws; abstention from
politics; the obligation to contribute to the Baha’i funds; the importance of the nineteen day
feast; and the opportunity to acquire a sound knowledge of present-day Baha’i administrative
practice (MU#34.13).
9. Significant understanding. In addition to listing basic aspects of Baha’i practice which
new Baha’is should be taught, the House of Justice reminded all Baha’is of the importance of

seeking to gain a more profound understanding of the significance of the Faith. The key text
here was the Ridván message of 1967, in which the House noted that Shoghi Effendi had
urged the Baha’is to ‘strive to obtain a more adequate understanding of the significance of
Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation’, describing such striving as ‘the first obligation’ of
every loyal Baha’i, which should be the object of their ‘constant endeavor’ (WOB 100). For
the House this placed ‘the obligation of deepening in the Cause’ firmly on every Baha’i.
As to the nature of deepening, the House focussed on the need to gain ‘a clearer apprehension
of the purpose of God for man’, and most particularly his immediate purpose ‘as revealed and
directed by Bahá’u’lláh’. To this end, the Baha’is should study the writings of the Faith to
answer the following questions: (1) What was Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose for the human race? (2)
For what ends did Bahá’u’lláh submit ‘to the appalling cruelties and indignities heaped upon
Him’? (3) What did Bahá’u’lláh mean by ‘a new race of men’? And (4) What were the
‘profound changes’ which Bahá’u’lláh would bring about? The Baha’is should ‘immerse
themselves’ in the ‘ocean’ of the Baha’i writings to seek their answers, organizing ‘regular
study classes for its constant consideration’, and reinforcing their efforts by conscientiously
following the requirements of daily prayer and reading of ‘the Word of God’ enjoined upon
all Baha’is by Bahá’u’lláh (MU#42.23-24).
As to what Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose was, the Baha’is should realize that his ‘glorious mission’
was to establish a divine civilization, the promised Kingdom of God. This was what he – and
also the Báb, `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi – had suffered for. They had come to free
humanity from ‘material fetters’, and enable all people to ‘attain unto true liberty’, and
‘abiding joy’. Their vision had penetrated ‘to the very purpose of human life’, and its
realization required what Shoghi Effendi referred to as ‘an organic change in the structure of
present-day society’ (WOB 43).
This vision was completely different from contemporary concepts of ‘human well-being and
happiness’. Indeed, the Baha’is should be constantly on their guard ‘lest the glitter and tinsel
of an affluent society’ led them to think that the objectives of humanitarian movements or of
enlightened statesmen were the same as their own. Such goals as the extension to the whole
of humanity of the benefits of a high standard or living, education, medical care or technical
knowledge were only ‘superficial adjustments to the modern world’. They would come after
people had turned to the Kingdom of God (MU#42.23).
The House also differentiated deepening from merely acquiring knowledge about the Baha’i
Faith. It was useful to have a ‘detailed and exact knowledge of the present structure of Baha’i
Administration’, or of the bylaws of spiritual assemblies, or of the ‘many and varied
applications of Baha’i law under diverse conditions prevailing around the world’, but this was
not deepening (MU#42.23).
D. THE WORLD CRISIS.
10. Message to the Palermo Conference, August 1968. One aspect of the Baha’i message
which the Universal House of Justice stressed on a number of occasions was the uniquely
salvific nature of that message itself. In a world which successive Baha’i leaders had
characterized as suffering because of turning away from its redeemer, the Baha’i message
was ultimately the only solution to the world’s problems. Within this framework, the teaching

efforts of the Baha’is assumed wider significance.
Thus, in its message to the Palermo Conference, the House reminded the Baha’is that the
writings of the Faith were quite clear about the contemporary world crisis. Forcibly and
repeatedly they set forth the truth that the ‘violent disruption’ which had seized ‘the entire
planet’ was ‘beyond the ability of men to assuage’ unless they were aided by God’s
revelation. The ‘old order’ could not be repaired, and was being ‘rolled up before our eyes’.
The ‘moral decay and disorder’ which were ‘convulsing human society’ had to ‘run their
course’, there was nothing the Baha’is could do to either arrest or divert them (MU#63.4).
Unable to save the decaying old order, the Baha’is were given instead the task of building up
the new world order of Bahá’u’lláh. They should concentrate all their efforts upon this
objective ‘with single-minded devotion’, and not allow themselves to be deflected by ‘the
desperate expedients’ of those who sought ‘to subdue the storm’ that was ‘convulsing human
life’ by means of programmes of political, economic, social and educational change. Having
raised Bahá’u’lláh’s ‘Divine System’, the Baha’is should shelter within its ‘impregnable
stronghold’ where, ‘safe from the darts of doubtfulness’, they could ‘demonstrate the Baha’i
way of life’ to the wider world. The ‘acute distinction’ between model Baha’i communities
and contemporary society would inevitably arouse the interest of the more enlightened non-
Baha’is, and as ‘the world’s gloom’ deepened further in the future, ‘the light of Baha’i life’
would shine ever brighter until eventually it would attract ‘the disillusioned masses’ and
cause them to enter the haven of Bahá’u’lláh’s covenant. Only this would bring them peace,
justice and ‘an ordered life’ (MU#63.5).
Every Baha’i community, therefore, no matter how large or small, should be distinguished by
its ‘abiding sense of security and faith, its high standard of rectitude, its complete freedom
from all forms of prejudice, the spirit of love among its members and for the close knit fabric
of its social life’. Thus would it stand out more brilliantly from the declining society which
environed it and attract people to become Baha’is (MU#63.5).
11. November 1969: A ‘fateful hour in human history’. In November 1969, the House
issued a fresh appeal for the Baha’is to teach the Faith, linking the need for teaching to the
sufferings of humanity as a whole.
This was a ‘fateful hour in human history’. The world situation was worsening, and was
fraught with the ‘pain of war, violence and the sudden uprooting of long-established
institutions’.99 As the tide of catastrophic events mounted, governments and peoples in both
‘the developed and developing nations’, as well as various secular and religions institutions
found themselves ‘helpless to reverse the trend’. Instead they stood ‘bewildered and
overpowered’ by the ‘magnitude and complexity’ of the problems that faced them. Alas, the
response of many people seemed to be merely ‘to stand aside and wring their hands in
99. The late 1960s were widely seen as a period of crisis by many commentators, with 1968 in particular
coming to be seen as a new ‘year of revolutions’ comparable to 1848. Events of the period included the
continuing American war in Vietnam leading to massive student demonstrations in many countries; what
was seen as a near-revolution in France; the Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia to suppress a popular
liberalization movement; race riots in the United States and the assassination of the popular Civil Rights
leader Martin Luther King and the Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy.

despair’, or to join in a ‘babel of shouting and protestations’ which offered ‘no solution to the
woes and afflictions plaguing our age’ (MU#73.1).
For Baha’is, however, the present state of disorder could be seen as fulfilling the prophecies
of Bahá’u’lláh, as well as the ‘oft-repeated warnings’ of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi
about ‘the inevitable fate of a lamentably defective social system, an unenlightened
leadership and a rebellious and unbelieving humanity’. Again, although the present
circumstances were ‘tragic and awful in their immediate consequences’, they were doubtless
serving ‘to sharpen the focus’ on the ‘indispensability’ of the Baha’i teachings to ‘the needs
of the present age’ and would provide the Baha’is with ‘many opportunities’ to reach those
‘countless waiting souls’ who were ‘hungry and thirsty for Divine guidance’. Indeed, an
increasing number of ‘thoughtful and fair-minded’ people were recognizing the ‘evidences of
Divine chastisement’ in the present clamour of ‘contention, grief and destructions’ which was
now reaching ‘such horrendous proportions’, and were ‘turning their faces towards God’ and
becoming ‘increasingly receptive to His Word’ (MU#73.1-2).
The Baha’is should therefore seize the teaching opportunities of the present time ‘before it is
too late’. All Baha’is should be awakened ‘to the immediacy of the challenge’ so that each
one of them could ‘assume his share of the responsibility’ for taking the Baha’i teachings ‘to
all humanity’. Universal participation, itself ‘a salient objective’ of the Nine Year Plan had to
be ‘pressed towards attainment in every continent, country and island of the globe’. Every
Baha’i – no matter how ‘humble or inarticulate’ – had to become ‘intent on fulfilling his role
as a bearer of the Divine Message’. No true Baha’i could remain silent whilst around them
‘men cry out in anguish for truth, love and unity to descend upon this world’ (MU#73.3).100
Peace and spiritual progress in the world were only possible when the Baha’i message
reached into the hearts of men and transformed them. To this end, it was ‘imperative’ for
every Baha’i to set him- or herself individual teaching goals. Examples of these would
include following `Abdu’l-Bahá’s admonishment that each Baha’i should endeavour to lead
at least one new soul to the Faith each year and Shoghi Effendi’s exhortation to hold a
‘fireside’ (an informal Baha’i discussion group) in their homes once every Baha’i month. Just
these alone would ‘assure final and complete victory’ in the Plan, but many Baha’is had the
capacity to do much more. Again, both`Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi had often called
upon the Baha’is ‘to consciously strive to be more loving, more united, more dedicated and
prayerful than ever before’ so that they could overcome the atmosphere of present-day society
which was ‘unloving, disunited, careless of right or wrong and heedless of God’ (MU#73.4-
5).
12. The old order and the new. In addition to these explicit calls to Baha’i activity as a
response to the world’s ills, the House also echoed Shoghi Effendi’s distinction between a
declining old world order and the newly emergent order embodied by the Faith.101 Thus, in its
100. The House therefore called for a worldwide time of prayer during the nineteen day feast for the month of
Sultán (the Feast of Sovereignty, 19 January) that ‘we will all become so imbued with zeal, courage and
enthusiasm’ that nothing would be able to delay the Baha’is’ ‘victorious onward march’ during the
remainder of the Plan (MU#73.6).
101. See in particular, Shoghi Effendi’s lengthy letter of 11 March 1936 to the Baha’is of the West, The

Ridván message of 1969, the House referred to the ‘vivid contrast’ between the continued
progress of the Faith and the ‘chronic unrest afflicting human society’. The events of the past
year had underlined this contrast, the ‘old order’ disintegrating further, whilst the Baha’i
Cause had ‘pursued its majestic course’, with a year of ‘remarkable activity’ (MU#68.1).
Environing crisis necessitated greater consolidation of the Baha’i community. Thus, at
Ridván 1971, the House referred to the new issues and new tasks which it believed the
Baha’is would soon have to face as a result of the twofold process of ‘the steady progress and
consolidation of the Cause’ and ‘the progressive disintegration’ of the ‘moribund’ environing
society. These would include the need to demonstrate the Baha’i way of life more clearly to
‘a disillusioned world’ (MU#96.10).
Again, at Ridván 1972, the House stated that the success of the teaching plan forced upon the
Baha’is’ attention the ‘new requirements’ of the ‘ever-growing’ Baha’i world order both ‘for
its own organic life’ and in relation to ‘the disintegrating world society’ in which it was set.
The divergence between the Faith and ‘the ways of the world’ was becoming ‘ever wider’.
Yet the two had to come together! Thus, the Baha’i community had to increasingly
demonstrate its ability to redeem the ‘disorderliness’, ‘lack of cohesion’, ‘permissiveness’
and ‘godlessness’ of modern society. To do this, the laws, religious obligations, and moral
principles of Baha’i life along with standards of ‘dignity, decency and reverence’, had to
become ‘deeply implanted’ in Baha’i consciousness and the life of the community, and the
‘purposes and standards of the Cause’ had to be well understood and ‘courageously upheld’.
In turn, this process required that there was a marked development in the ‘maturity and
effectiveness’ of local assemblies. The influence of the Counsellors and Board members also
had to develop and spread ‘through the entire fabric of the Baha’i community’, and a ‘vast
systematic program’ for the production of Baha’i literature had to be promoted (MU#110-.8).
Unfoldment of World Civilization (WOB 161-206).

10. Pioneering & Travel Teaching.
Contents:
A. PIONEERS AND PIONEERING.
B. TRAVEL TEACHING.
Key dates:
Appointment of continental pioneering committees (February). The first call for international
pioneers (Ridván).
1966 The call for volunteer travelling teachers (Ridván).
The second call for pioneers (Ridván).
A. PIONEERS AND PIONEERING
1. The Baha’i concept of pioneering. In Baha’i parlance a ‘pioneer’ is someone who has left
their own home and established their residence in another locality or country in order to held
spread the Baha’i Faith.102 Much of the modern conceptualization of pioneering (and the term
itself) was developed by Shoghi Effendi during the various teaching plans which he devised
from the 1930s onwards, but the concept and practice dates back to the earliest days of the
Faith – often interlinked with what in modern Baha’i terminology is referred to as ‘travel
teaching’ (below).
From the Babi period onwards, the Babi and Baha’i Faiths have been promulgated by
enthusiastic missionary teachers,103 a good number of whom were specifically concerned to
establish new centres for the religion by means of visiting or transferring their residence to
new towns and provinces. The remarkable spread of Babism within a few short years
throughout a very large part of Iran as well as into the Shi`i holy cities of Iraq demonstrated
the effectiveness of this strategy, and it was continued by Bahá’u’lláh after the emergence of
the Baha’i Faith as the main successor movement to Babism. Thus, under Bahá’u’lláh’s
direction, Baha’i teachers visited and settled in the Levant, Egypt, Russian Turkestan, the
Caucasus and British India. Bahá’u’lláh also heaped praises on those who had forsaken their
homes in order to teach his Cause – such an action was “the prince of all goodly deeds”, and
those who performed it would be strengthened by the power of the “Faithful Spirit” and
accompanied by a “company of our chosen angels” (GWB 333 #157). Similarly, `Abdu’l-
Bahá oversaw a widespread expansion of the Faith into North America, Europe and Japan
which was partly generated and consolidated through the dispatch of travelling Baha’i
teachers and pioneers. `Abdu’l-Bahá also gave the North American Baha’is a blueprint for
global expansion in the Tablets of the Divine Plan, naming the countries, territories and
islands which he wished the Baha’is to take the Faith to; commenting on the spiritual
qualities which Baha’i teachers should manifest; and noting such practicalities as the need for
teachers to learn the languages of those they sought to teach (LG 570; TDP).
Building on this heritage, Shoghi Effendi encouraged pioneers to settle in the various parts of
the world in which there were as yet few or no Baha’is, and honouring those who pioneered
102. See CEBF, ‘pioneers, pioneering’, loc. cit.
103. Baha’is often dislike to refer to their international teachers as ‘missionaries’, arguing that as whilst pioneers
may receive temporary financial assistance they are neither employees nor ministers of the Baha’i Faith.

as “holy souls”, “Bahá’u’lláh’s crusaders” and “Baha’i warriors” (MA 16; MBW 49).104 The
importance of pioneering was also stressed by the Universal House of Justice, as in May
1964, where it referred to the “vital importance” of the pioneer goals of the plan. Such goals
involved the establishment of “points of light” in new territories, further diffusing “the
radiance of the Faith of God”. This diffusion of light was directly linked to the prestige and
“international status” of the Faith (MU#16.5).
2. The continental pioneer committees. When the Universal House of Justice was first
established, primary responsibility for the settlement of international pioneers rested with the
national spiritual assemblies involved together with their appointed pioneer committees. By
February 1965, however, the House had decided that in order to expedite the settlement of
pioneers, five continental pioneer committees should be established. Each committee was to
be appointed by and responsible to a particular national spiritual assembly: the British
assembly for Africa;105 the United States for the Americas; Iran for Asia; Australia for
Australasia; and Germany for Europe. The assemblies involved were assigned this duty in
February 1965, and were at the same time provided with general terms of reference for the
new committees (MU#22). The responsibility for the African committee was transferred to
the Uganda assembly in the following year (March 1966) (MU#31.6).
The continental committees were ‘service committees’, charged with assisting the national
assemblies and their relevant committees and acting as a contact points and information
exchanges to assist with the planning and processing of pioneer moves. They were intended
to supplement rather than replace any existing administrative arrangements which assemblies
may have made regarding the placement and settlement of pioneers. The committees were not
to assume direct responsibility for the settlement of pioneers but were everywhere to work
through the regular Baha’i administrative system. Because of the urgency of the need, the
committees should be established almost immediately (the House expected to receive the
names of the newly-appointed committee members together with each committee’s contact
address within 30 days), so that full details could be sent to all national assemblies and the
committees themselves could be fully functional by the coming Ridván (21 April). The
secretary of each committee should be a competent and knowledgeable Baha’i who had the
time, ability and facilities for conducting an extensive correspondence. All of the members of
the committee should combine good organizational skills with ‘an aptitude for dealing with
problems in a warm and loving Baha’i way’. Specific tasks which the committees should
perform included determining travel and subsistence budgets for pioneers; compiling
information on pioneer needs in their respective continents, including special skills which
might be needed (e.g. language abilities); compiling useful information on those territories
which needed pioneers (e.g. work opportunities, living conditions); and putting would-be
pioneers in contact with the assemblies responsible for the places in which they might settle
(MU#22). An ‘International Deputization Fund’ was also established in Haifa by the House of
Justice to provide ‘supplementary support’ for specific pioneering projects when other funds
104. Those who pioneered during the Ten Year Crusade were given the honorific title of ‘Knights of
Bahá’u’lláh’. See CEBF, loc. cit.
105. The original ‘Africa Campaign’ (1951-53) which had marked the beginning of widespread Baha’i teaching
work in sub-Saharan Africa was international in scope but was under the overall coordination of the British
national assembly.

were not available, and all Baha’is were subsequently encouraged to contribute to it
(MU#24.11).106
3. Calls for pioneers.
3.1. The first call for pioneers (1965). News of the formation of the new pioneer committees
was communicated to the Baha’i world in the House’s Ridván message for 1965, along with
an appeal for the settlement of 461 pioneers during the course of the coming Baha’i year.
This figure was based on a ‘careful estimate’ of immediate needs after consultation with all
national assemblies, and entailed the settlement of pioneers to open the 54 remaining
unopened (‘virgin’) territories assigned in the plan; resettle 18 territories which had to be left
unoccupied by previous pioneers; ‘reinforce’ areas where the Baha’is were too few or the
Baha’i communities insufficiently cohesive to initiate effective teaching plans; and expand
Baha’i activities in areas where mass teaching was already taking place.107 All Baha’is were
encouraged to consider ‘the challenge’ of pioneering, regardless of wealth, age, sex, length of
Baha’i membership, or degree of present involvement in Baha’i activities (MU#24.7-24.10).
By December 1965, the House was able to report that 93 pioneers had so far settled in their
posts, thus opening fifteen new territories. Another 167 Baha’is were in the process of
moving, giving a total of 295 individuals who had so far responded to the call. Over the next
four months, 200 more pioneer moves would be needed in order to fill the remaining goals.
The fate of the pioneer call therefore hung in the balance, and the House was praying
fervently that the requisite number of ‘HEROIC SOULS’ would soon arise to meet the
challenge of this ‘CRITICAL HOUR’. Any national assembly that needed funding to support
pioneer moves should apply immediately to the International Deputization Fund. It was
imperative that all goals apart from those which were dependent on favourable conditions be
filled, with those which involved opening new territories or resettling presently unopen
territories being given priority. The House expressed its confidence that the Baha’is’ spirit of
devotion would ensure that a ‘BRILLIANT VICTORY’ would be obtained (MU#28).
Further mention was made of the need for pioneers was made in the House’s Ridván message
for 1966, where one of the specific and urgent tasks for the year was identified as the
completion of existing pioneer settlement goals and the dispatch of supplementary pioneers
where this was necessary (MU#34.8). This was followed by a specific message on the
consolidation of pioneering goals, dated 5 June 1966, and addressed to all the national
assemblies, in which the House stated that its members were praying that the Baha’is
worldwide could ‘rise above their local and personal problems’, realize the needs of the Faith
‘at this juncture’ in its ‘inexorable onward development’, and offer ‘their measure of service
and assistance’ on ‘the altar of sacrifice’ with ‘complete self-abnegation’ and ‘wholehearted
devotion’ to Bahá'u'lláh’s ‘infinitely precious Cause’ (MU#36.3).
At Ridván 1969, the House announced that in the end a total of 505 individuals had arisen as
106. The principle of deputization was derived from a verse of Bahá'u'lláh, in which he called upon those who
were not able to ‘arise and promote’ the Baha’i Cause to appoint someone else who would proclaim God’s
revelation on his behalf (GWB 196-97).
107. By continent, the needs were as follows: 86 for Africa; 96 for the Americas; 191 for Asia; 29 for
Australasia; and 59 for Europe (MU#24.10).

pioneers in response to this first call (the ‘greatest feat of organized pioneering’ to that time),
settling in unopened and ‘weakly held’ territories (MU#68.12).
3.2. Supplementary needs (Ridván 1967). In its Ridván message for 1967, the House again
noted the ‘brilliant pioneering feat’ of the second year of the Plan. The moves already made
were beginning to reveal their ‘beneficent effects’, but more pioneers were now urgently
needed for the ‘consolidation and development’ of the Faith in the newly opened or reopened
territories. The ‘immediate requirement’ was for 209 pioneers to settle in 87 listed
territories.108 This was a ‘highly meritorious’ field of service and was open to all Baha’is.
Anyone who wished to respond to this call should study the list of territories and contact their
own national assembly (MU#42.12).
3.3. The second call for pioneers (1969). A second major call for pioneers was made at
Ridván 1969. The House declaring that the ‘magnificent achievement’ of the pioneers of
1965-66 should now be surpassed, with a total of 733 pioneers being needed to settle in 184
specified territories (48 in Africa, 40 each in Asia and the Americas, 38 in Europe and 18 in
Australasia). Detailed information was sent out to national assemblies to ensure that ‘this
vital mobilization of Baha’i warriors’ was accomplished as quickly as possible. Whilst
‘primary responsibility’ had been assigned to those assemblies judged ‘most able’ to meet the
pioneer needs, all Baha’is everywhere should consider whether they could respond to this
call, either by themselves becoming pioneers or by deputizing others to go in their stead
(MU#68.12).
The response to this second call evidently disappointed the House of Justice, and at Ridván
1970, it stated that 479 out of the 733 pioneer goals set the previous Ridván as a minimum
objective were still unfilled (MU#81). Again, in August 1970, it wrote to all national
assemblies, restating the urgency of the appeal that had been made over a year before at
Ridván 1969: to date, only 330 of the pioneer posts then identified had been filled (in a few
cases additional pioneers had also arrived to supplement the Baha’is in these posts). To fill
the remaining goals already identified required a further 417 pioneers,109 and a recent review
of pioneer requirements worldwide revealed that a further 204 places desperately needed
support, either so as to win the minimum number of assemblies or localities called for in the
Plan or to rapidly reinforce work in successful mass teaching areas and so help retain
‘precious gains’. Despite ‘the magnitude of this undertaking’ and the ‘grave challenge’ which
national communities faced in achieving their homefront goals, the House felt it necessary to
point out that these international pioneering goals were minimum requirements. The ‘valiant’
Baha’is throughout the world were summoned to participate in this ‘vital’ undertaking. The
time available was short and the effort required was ‘truly formidable’. Those who responded
to the call should do so ‘promptly and decisively’. Although assigned to specific national
assemblies for completion, the goals could be filled by Baha’is from any national community
(MU#83).
108. Full details of the needs and requirements for each goal was sent to the national assemblies concerned and
to the continental pioneer committees. Although this was effectively a second call for pioneers, the House
counted only the 1965 and 1969 appeals as ‘major calls’ for pioneers (MUHJ#128.3).
109. With 330 pioneer posts out of the 733 called for already filled, only 403 would have remained – not 417 as
here stated, an addition of 14 posts. I am not able to explain this discrepancy.

The response was evidently still insufficient, and at Ridván 1972, the House reported that
there were 267 international pioneer goals that had yet to be met (75 in Africa, 57 in the
Americas, 40 in Asia, 30 in Australasia, and 65 in Europe). Baha’is everywhere were asked to
consider whether they might arise to fill these goals ‘while there is yet time’ (MU#110.7).
3.4. The final figures. Although the response to the House’s second call for pioneers had
been less than the House had hoped, the movement of the ‘army’ of international pioneers
during the course of the Plan had been extremely impressive. As the House noted at the
conclusion of the Plan in Ridván 1973, counting both the major calls for pioneers and
supplementary appeals for particular posts an overall total of 1,344 pioneer moves had been
called for. In response, 3,553 pioneers had actually moved, 2,265 of whom were still at their
posts (MU#128.3).
4. Guidance on pioneering. To move large number of volunteer Baha’i teachers from one
country to another involves both numerous practicalities and the generation and maintenance
of enthusiasm on the part of the pioneers to cope with the challenges and difficulties which
living in a foreign country may entail. As the House reminded the national assemblies in May
1964, it was essential to ensure that the enthusiasm for pioneering generated at the various
national conventions should be maintained and directed wisely and energetically (MU#16.5).
4.1. The completion and consolidation of the goals. The House addressed some of the
practicalities of the dispatch of pioneers in a specific message on the consolidation of
pioneering goals, dated 5 June 1966, and addressed to all the national assemblies (MU#36).
The House began by praising the pioneering accomplishments of the previous Baha’i year as
‘historic and dazzling’. Nevertheless, they emphasized that it was essential not to loose sight
of the need of filling those remaining gaps which were still open and of the ‘ever-present
necessity’ of reinforcing the pioneer moves that had been made with a ‘well-conceived
program of consolidation’. Thus, the following tasks now required attention:
-1. Those national assemblies which were responsible for supplying manpower should
find and dispatch the requisite pioneers to fill the remaining goals as soon as possible. They
should also ‘expedite the completion of those projects which are in process’.110
-2. Those pioneers who had already settled or were in the process of settling in their
posts were to be reminded that their movement to a particular territory was not intended to be
merely some symbolic short stay to enable the Baha’is to say that the territory had been
opened and had received such-and-such a number of pioneers. The objective of all pioneer
moves was both to establish the Baha’i Faith ‘securely and firmly’ in the hearts of the local
people, and to ensure that the Faith’s ‘divinely ordained institutions’ were ‘understood,
adopted and operated’ by the new local Baha’is. It was not enough merely to enroll some
native believers. The pioneers should understand that no matter how great the sacrifices
involved, perseverance in their posts was an act of ‘devoted service’, and according to the
110. This is an example of the House using a functional style of English in a practical communication with
national assemblies. It contrasts with the use of a more ‘exalted’ style of English in many of the House’s
general messages to the Baha’is.

Baha’i writings would have ‘an assured reward’ in both this life and the afterlife.
-3. The pioneer goals of the previous year had been minimum figures. Every national
assembly should carefully assess the needs of the territories under its jurisdiction. If an
assembly felt that more pioneer settlers were needed for a particular territory, they should
submit a report to the House, detailing specific recommendations as to the number needed
and whether there was any preference for a particular nationality.111
-4. It was not enough for national assemblies to have simply sent pioneers to their
assigned goal territories. In all cases, it was of ‘vital importance’ to consider the ‘practical
aspects’ of pioneering. Thus, the financial responsibilities assigned under the previous year’s
goals would continue until the objectives had been ‘permanently and securely maintained’. If
any assembly was unable to meet its financial obligations in this regard, it should apply for
assistance from the International Deputization Fund (MU#36.1-2).
In the same letter, the House asked the pioneers ‘and settlers’, as well as the responsible
national assemblies to note that the initial stages in the work of establishing the Faith in a
new territory were surrounded by an ‘obscurity’ which protected the Faith from hostile
attention. In this situation, the Baha’is should be patient, tactful and wise, and not seek to
attract public attention until ‘receptive souls’ had responded to the Baha’i call and their hearts
had been touched by its message.
4.2. The November 1970 message to pioneers. The House addressed the ‘psychological’
aspects of pioneering in November 1970 in a message sent to all international and homefront
pioneers via their national assemblies. Praising the ‘spirit of self-sacrifice and devotion’
which had animated so many Baha’is to leave their homes and ‘hoist the banner of the Faith’
and promote its teachings in almost every populated area of the world, the House members
wished to comfort the hearts, upraise the spirits and strengthen the loins of the pioneers by
calling to their attention certain passages from the Baha’i writings. Thus, Bahá'u'lláh had
referred to great blessings that would come to those who had left their own countries in order
to teach the Faith. The service of such individuals was ‘the prince of all goodly deeds’ and
they would be strengthened by the divine spirit (GWB 334). Again, `Abdu’l-Bahá had
expressed his own frustrated desire to travel to promote the divine teachings, calling upon the
Baha’is to do this in his stead (TDP 7.8). For his part, Shoghi Effendi had written of the need
for pioneers to ‘plod on’, staying at their posts in the face of difficulties and acting as the
channels for the transmission of a divine grace that would spread through them and
‘gradually permeate the world’. Implicitly, the House also encouraged the present pioneers to
stay at their posts at the present crucial period in the Plan (MU#86).
4.3. Some clarifications. In letters to individual national assemblies, the House further
clarified certain issues.
-(i) Thus, in a long letter to the American assembly on 2 July 1965, it made the following
points:
111. In some instances, individuals of particular nationalities might find it easier to get entry documents or work
permits from the civil authorities in a certain territory. Again, particular language abilities might be
advantageous in certain goal areas.

-1. It reminded them of Shoghi Effendi’s statements that whilst pioneers might well be
given financial assistance in the process of settling into their pioneer posts, this was only a
temporary measure – the pioneers should try to obtain paid employment in their pioneer posts
and did not constitute the equivalent of a paid and professional clergy. The pioneer was
neither an employee or a minister.
-2. Pioneering (like teaching the Faith) was a duty enjoined upon all Baha’is. No
special qualifications or training was necessary. Any Baha’i who moved to another area in
order to spread the Faith was a pioneer (Just as anyone who taught the Faith to others was a
teacher).
-3. Although it was desirable for would-be pioneers to consult with a responsible
committee before going to their chosen pioneer posts, it was not necessary for them to do so.
A Baha’i who left his or her home spontaneously to teach the Faith elsewhere was just as
much a pioneer as one who had consulted a committee before going.
-4. Assemblies had a general duty to give financial assistance to those Baha’is who
were unable to support themselves: not just to pioneers who had not yet found work in their
pioneer posts. A committee which was providing financial assistance to a pioneer had the
right to terminate that assistance when it deemed it ‘right and proper’. If such assistance was
terminated, the committee should offer the pioneer his travel expenses to return home or to go
to some other place where he could earn his living, however.
-5. A committee did not have the right to ‘recall’ a pioneer from his or her chosen field
of service.
-6. A pioneer who went to live in a country or territory under the jurisdiction of
another national assembly came under the authority of that assembly and the assembly of
their original homeland no longer had any jurisdiction over them. If the pioneer was to
receive financial assistance this would normally be paid by the national assembly of the
pioneers homeland, but this was purely for the sake of simplicity. Whatever method that was
most expedient would be chosen.
-7. If a pioneer went to an area in which there were as yet no Baha’is, then he or she
would normally become the channel of communication between any new Baha’i group that
was formed and the responsible national Baha’i committee. However, the pioneer had no
special administrative status, and as soon as a local assembly was formed, the assembly
would become the channel of communication. The pioneer’s special status ceased when an
assembly came into being, and any services which he might perform as a teacher or advisor
would be simply because of being an older and more experienced Baha’i and not because of
being a pioneer. If the pioneer had settled in an area in which there were older and more
experienced local Baha’is then he or she might find that they were receiving counsel and
spiritual support from these local Baha’is rather than vice-versa.
-8. The pioneer’s dwelling had no special significance, and Baha’i meetings should be
held wherever was most convenient – not infrequently in the homes of new Baha’is rather
than the often cramped quarters of the pioneer (LG 570-72, #1937).

-(ii) In other letters to national assemblies, the House made the following additional points:
-1. Those national assemblies which received international pioneers should devise
means for the pioneers and local Baha’is to work together in close harmony, taking advantage
of the help which the pioneers were eager to offer in support of the work of teaching and
deepening, and “demonstrating to a sceptical world the undivided solidarity and exemplary
unity” of the Baha’i community (letter to all national assemblies, 6 July 1969, LG 581,
#1966).
-2. Assemblies’ dealings with pioneers should be characterized as much as possible by
consultation and encouragement. They could encourage pioneers to settle in goal areas and
consult with them as to where they could best be of service, but if the pioneer was financially
self-supporting the assembly had no right to direct them to live in one place rather than
another. If a pioneer had agreed to go to a particular area with the understanding that they
would receive initial financial assistance and then refused to go, the financial assistance could
naturally be withdrawn, of course, but in this instance the pioneer needed to be given ample
opportunity to become self-supporting (letter to the Austrian assembly,30 March 1970, LG
573-74, #1940).
-3. Pioneers needed to settle where they could become self-supporting, and this
depended on local circumstances. A national assembly that was receiving an international
pioneer might have particular places in which they wanted pioneers to settle, but if the
incoming pioneer was not able to settle in the designated goal area, they should settle where
they could, and the assembly should find some other way of filling the specified goal – for
example through ‘homefront pioneering’.112 Any Baha’i who had settled in another country in
order to teach the Faith was to be counted as a pioneer – regardless of whether they were able
to settle in designated goal areas. They were free to settle where they wished, ans even in
those cases in which financial assistance was being provided, the assemblies should not
subject them to ‘rigid rules’ (letter to unnamed national assembly, 30 March 1971, LG 573,
#1938).
B. TRAVEL TEACHING.
5. Travelling teachers. By March 1966, the House of Justice had decided to augment the
work of the pioneers with international travelling teachers. This was not in itself new: the
movement of travelling Baha’i teachers to other countries – where they would tour around
looking for opportunities to present the Baha’i teachings to interested seekers, generate
publicity for the Faith, and encourage the work of any local resident Baha’is – has a long
history, as exampled by the activities of such individuals as Jamál Effendi (Sulaymán Khán
Tunukábuní, d.1898), who travelled extensively in India, Southeast Asia and Central Asia
from the 1870s onwards; Charles Mason Remey (1874-1974), who visited virtually every
single Baha’i community that then existed during the early 1900s; and Martha Root (1872-
1939), the first Baha’i to make an extended tour of South America (in 1919), and the Baha’i
world’s premier itinerant teacher during the 1920s and 1930s.113 What was new was the extent
112. A ‘homefront pioneer’ is one who pioneers within their own national Baha’i community.
113. See the individual entries in CEBF (loc. cit.).

of this travel teaching and the sustained emphasis placed upon it by the House.
The call for volunteer travelling teachers was made at Ridván 1966 (MU#34.10-12), but
initial notice that a call would be made had already been communicated to the national
assemblies on 18 March 1966 so as to give them opportunity to prepare to utilize the
volunteer teachers they received, as well as to place the topic of travel teaching on the
agendas of their annual national conventions and encourage volunteers (MU#31). The
planned movement of teachers should be fully operational by the beginning of the
proclamation period (October 1967), and would then be ‘relentlessly pursued’ for the
remainder of the Nine Year Plan (MU#34.11).
Bahá’u’lláh had praised the movement of teachers ‘from place to place’ when it was
undertaken ‘for the sake of God’ and referred to the influence such movement exerted on the
world, and `Abdu’l-Bahá had urged a constant movement of teachers ‘to all parts of the
world’ (ADJ 84; TDP 8.11). In accordance with these words, the House now sought to
generate ‘a constant stream of visiting teachers to every locality’. By visiting countries other
than their own, Baha’is could stimulate both proclamation and teaching efforts
internationally. Ideally, the teachers would be self-financing, but if a project was judged to
have particular value, the House itself might give it support form the International
Deputization Fund. Offers of service could be for any length of time, and should be directed
in the first instance to the volunteer’s own national assembly or to the continental pioneer
committees – the committees having been given the responsibility for assisting the national
assemblies implement and coordinate the teaching tours. The teachers should recall `Abdu’l-
Bahá’s injunction to be ‘sanctified and free from every attachment’ when they travelled
(MU#31; 34.10-12).
At Ridván 1967, the House expressed itself well-pleased with the results of the call for
travelling teachers made a year previously. To date, about 200 travelling teacher projects had
been completed (including 78 in Europe, 43 in the Americas, 27 in Asia, and 25 in
Australasia), and the House hoped that constant expansion of this activity would occur
(MU#42.6).

11. Proclamation.
1. The idea of proclamation. The idea of a global proclamation campaign was raised by the
Universal House of Justice in its Ridván message of 1965 in connection with the
commemoration of the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s own proclamation of his message to the
world’s leaders, which began symbolically with the revelation of the Súra of the Kings (the
Súratu'l-Múluk) in Edirne (Adrianople) in c.1867.114 Dating this tablet to September/October
1867, the House determined that the ‘fate-laden’ centenary would commence at the Feast of
Mashíyyat (27 September) 1967,115 with specially appointed representatives visiting the site of
Bahá’u’lláh’s house in Edirne on behalf of the Baha’is of the world. Six simultaneous
intercontinental conferences would then follow in October (in Australia, Germany, India,
Panama, Uganda and the USA), and these in turn would be followed by national and local
observances organized by all the national spiritual assemblies. The successful carrying out of
these plans would constitute a commemoration of the sacred event they recalled which was
both ‘befitting’ and ‘commensurate with the resources of the Baha’i World community’
(MU#24.14, 24.16-19).
The conferences themselves would sound the ‘opening notes’ of a period of proclamation
which would continue until the centenary of the revelation of the Kitáb-i Aqdas in 1973.
Planning for this proclamation period required ‘ardent and imaginative study’ by all national
and local assemblies worldwide. National assemblies were asked to consider appointing
national proclamation committees to prepare ‘feasible and effective plans’. The House also
drew the Baha’is’ attention to a 1943 message by Shoghi Effendi outlining what a ‘carefully
conceived’ and ‘efficiently co-ordinated’ proclamation campaign should include – with
speeches, articles in the press, radio broadcasts, contact with sympathetic eminent people,
conferences, banquets, and special broadcasts – and what aspects of the Faith should be
emphasized (its universality, its aims and purposes, episodes in its dramatic history,
testimonials to its transforming power, the character and distinguishing features of its
promised world order) (MA 62; MU#24.20, 24.22).
In a later message (at Ridván 1966), the House announced that the proclamation period,
starting in October 1967, would constitute the ‘third phase’ of the Nine Year Plan (MU#34.7).
114. The Súra of the Kings (the Súratu'l-Múluk) was an Arabic tablet of Bahá’u’lláh addressed to the ‘kings of
the earth’, summoning them to heed Bahá’u’lláh’s call, cast away the things they possessed, and follow
God (see CEBF, loc. cit. ‘Kings’). Shoghi Effendi had regarded it as sounding the ‘opening notes’ of a
period of general and specific exhortation to the rulers and political and religious leaders of the world
which continued until the revelation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, in which Bahá’u’lláh had declared himself to be
the messianic ‘King of Kings’ referred to in the Bible (GPB 171-76, 202-14). Although containing passages
addressed to particular individuals – notably Sultan Abdulaziz (reg.1861-76) and his ministers – the tablet
to the Kings was not sent out to its addressees. It was, however, widely circulated amongst the Baha’is as
an evidence of Bahá’u’lláh’s glory. It was followed by a number of other letters addressed and sent to
individual world leaders – including Emperor Napoleon III of France, Queen Victoria of Britain, Tsar
Alexander II of Russia, Pope Pius IX, and Násiru’d-dín Sháh of Iran. Additional leaders (the German and
Austro-Hungarian emperors) were addressed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (c.1873) (CEBF, loc. cit. ‘Rulers’).
115. The ‘nineteen day feast’ is held at the beginning of each  Baha’i month as a devotional, administrative and
social focus for the life of each local Baha’i community (see CEBF, loc. cit. ‘Calendar’, ‘Feast’).

2. The Ridván message of 1967. The House returned to the topic of the forthcoming
proclamation campaign in its Ridván message for 1967. For more than a century, the Baha’is
had ‘toiled’ to teach their religion, making ‘heroic sacrifices’, ‘dedicated services’ and
‘prodigious efforts’ to establish ‘outposts of the Faith’ in all the chief countries, territories and
islands of the world and to ‘raise the framework’ of the Baha’i administrative system around
the globe. Despite all this work, the Faith still remained largely unknown, however. Now, ‘at
long last’, ‘enthralling’ new opportunities would be in prospect as the Baha’is embarked on
an intensive and enduring global proclamation campaign designed to take the ‘healing
message’ of the Faith to ‘every stratum of human society’. The message was that the
promised one of all religions had come and that the purpose of his revelation was ‘the unity
and well-being of the human race’ (MU#42.15).
The ‘long-to-be-sustained’ campaign would start in October 1967, its ‘opening notes’ being
the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s own proclamation. It would then gather momentum through
the remainder of the Nine Year Plan, and possibly becoming the ‘spearhead’ of other, future
plans to be launched continually until humanity had recognized and ‘gratefully acclaimed’
Bahá’u’lláh as its lord and redeemer (MU#42.15).
Observances and commemorations. The initial observance of the centenary would consist
of special prayers at Bahá’u’lláh’s shrine at Bahjí attended by the members of the House of
Justice and the six Hands of the Cause who would be making the special pilgrimage to Edirne
on behalf of all the Baha’is in the world. After consultations, the six Hands – Rúhiyyih
Khánum, Abu'l-Qásim Faizí, `Alí-Akbar Furútan, Ugo Giachery, Paul Haney and Tarázu'lláh
Samandarí – would then proceed to Edirne, gathering in the former house of Bahá’u’lláh in
that city for prayers and meditation on 27 September.116 Thereafter, the six Hands would part,
each attending one of the International Conferences as the House of Justice’s representatives.
Each of the Hands would carry a copy of a photograph of Bahá’u’lláh, which those who
attended the conferences would be privileged to view. They would also bear a message to the
conferences from the House and would each address the conference they attended on their
own behalf (MU#42.17-18).
The conferences would inaugurate the proclamation period, and be used as venues for the
national assemblies in their respective continents to share their plans for proclamation with
the other assemblies. Between the conferences and Ridván 1968, Baha’is worldwide would
be able to have their own meetings to commemorate the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s
proclamation, ‘that wonderful period in human history when the clouds of Divine bounty’ had
showered ‘their treasures’ upon humanity ‘in lavish profusion’, and the ‘portals’ of God’s
kingdom had been thrown open, such that those ‘who had eyes to see’ had been able to
witness ‘the new Jerusalem’ – ‘a new heaven and a new earth’ – coming down from God
(MU#42.17, 42.19). [N=biblical refs].
The proclamation campaign. For its own part, the House of Justice would be presenting a
special edition of a compilation of Bahá’u’lláh’s proclamatory writings, The Proclamation of
116. The House members would simultaneously gather at the shrine of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí for prayers
(MU#42.17). For the safety of the Faith, no other Baha’is were to be permitted to travel to Turkey at the
time of this gathering (MU#41).

Bahá’u’lláh, to heads of state during the opening of the proclamation period, bringing the
message which Bahá’u’lláh had addressed to the world leaders of his day to their modern-day
successors. A general edition of this same book would be made available to the Baha’is in
English, French, German, Italian and Spanish editions (MU#42.16).
Worldwide proclamation was an ‘unknown sea’ on which the Baha’i world would soon sail. It
would add another dimension to the work of the Baha’is, and should therefore become a
regular part of Baha’i activities in all those countries in which the Baha’is were free to
publicize their religion – being included in budgets and assigned to national and local
committees for ‘study and implementation’. More generally, proclamation activities should
be coordinated with other programs designed to accomplish the goals of the Nine Year Plan.
In this regard, as it developed, proclamation would ‘complement and reinforce’ the ‘twin
processes of expansion and consolidation’, rendering both more effective. Thus, all
proclamation efforts were to be sustained by teaching (particularly at the local level) and
proper preparation made to provide further information to the ‘thousands’ of people who
might now hear of the Faith (MU#42.21).
As the proclamation campaign approached, it also became imperative for the Baha’is to gain
a deeper and clearer understanding of what Bahá’u’lláh’s purpose was for the human race
(see Chapter 11, section C). The ‘dedicated striving’ of this true deepening assumed greater
importance became as the proclamation of the Faith became effective, increasing attention
would be directed to Bahá’u’lláh’s claims, and opposition to the Faith could then well follow
(MU#42.25).
The House reminded the Baha’is that not all communities would be able to join in the
proclamation campaign: Baha’is in many countries suffered from varying degrees of
restriction and oppression which would altogether prevent or severely restrict public activities
of any kind on their part. The House sent such Baha’is a message of special love and
assurance, and conveyed the love and admiration of their fellow Baha’is in freer lands, who –
in gratitude for their freedom – it encouraged to ‘blaze abroad’ such a proclamation of the
Baha’i message as might ‘pave the way for the eventual emancipation of the entire body of
the Faith’ (MU#42.20).
3. ‘The nature and purpose of proclamation’. The House offered further comments on ‘the
nature and purpose of proclamation’ in a general letter to the national assemblies, dated 2 July
1967 (MU#45).
For the House, the enthusiasm already engendered within the Baha’i community in its
preparations for ‘the challenging months and years ahead’ was a source of elation. Yet more
preparation was needed, however. The international conferences which would open the
proclamation period were only just over three months away, and the national assemblies
should now begin to plan what they were going to do. The conferences would then give the
assemblies opportunity to exchange ideas and coordinate plans – an activity which in itself
would be stimulating and greatly increase the momentum of Baha’i activity throughout the
world.
In their preparations, the assemblies should consider the following points:

-1. Proclamation was ‘the diffusion of God’s Word’. It was not merely a publicity
campaign. It comprised a number of activities of which publicity was only one.
-2. One of the most important aspects of proclamation was contacting prominent
people. The Universal House of Justice itself would convey the Baha’i message to all heads
of state, but each national assembly had the duty to contact leaders of thought and other
prominent national figures in its own country, and acquaint them with the fundamental aims,
history, present status and achievements of the Faith. These contacts should be conducted
with ‘the utmost wisdom, discretion and dignity’, and should not be rushed. Any publicity
that was connected with approaches to prominent people should be very carefully evaluated
so that it was neither ‘unwise or discourteous’.
-3. Proclamation was also to include ‘a series of teaching programs designed to reach
every stratum of human society’. These should be pursued ‘diligently and wisely, using every
resource’.
-4. Publicity itself should be ‘well-conceived, dignified and reverent’. A ‘flamboyant
approach’ might well draw much initial attention but also produce a long-term revulsion
which would be hard to overcome. Shoghi Effendi always set a standard of ‘dignity and
reverence’, and this is what the Baha’is should uphold, particularly in any musical or
dramatic presentations. Specifically, photographs of `Abdu’l-Bahá should not be used
indiscriminately. This dignity of approach did not mean that the activities of the Baha’i youth
had to be stultified: one could be exuberant without being irreverent or undermining the
dignity of the Cause’.
-5. Each country had its own particular conditions, and each national assembly should
decide what kind of proclamation activity was appropriate for its own country. There was no
need to follow or copy programmes which had been initiated by other national assemblies.
-6. Follow-up was always of ‘supreme importance’. Proclamation, expansion and
consolidation were mutually helpful activities and should be carefully interrelated. In this
regard, plans should be wisely made and appropriate to local circumstances: in one place it
might be desirable to open a teaching campaign with publicity, in another, it might be better
to establish a solid local Baha’i community before publicizing the Faith or contacting
prominent people (MU#45).
4. The inauguration of the proclamation period. The visit of the Hands to Edirne in
September 1967 and the Intercontinental Conferences in the following month went ahead as
planned, the House notifying the Baha’i world of the conferences’ success on 15 October
(MU#47).
In its message to the conferences, the House reviewed the historical significance of the event
that was being celebrated,117 and then turned to consider the importance both of the worldwide
117. As the House of Justice noted, Bahá’u’lláh’s proclamatory writings in Edirne were part of series of changes
which marked a significant change in the nature of his religious role and teachings – a new ‘stage’ in the
Faith’s ‘divinely ordained destiny’. The context – only briefly alluded to by the House – followed on

proclamation campaign that was now starting and of the conferences themselves as sources of
inspiration for action by the Baha’is in fulfilling the goals of the Nine Year Plan. A hundred
years ago, Bahá’u’lláh himself had begun to proclaim his Faith to the wider world. It was
now time for his followers to again proclaim that divine message, both to the leaders and to
the masses of the world. By these efforts, the Baha’is would be able not only to aid ‘the Faith
of God’ to ‘emerge from obscurity into the arena of public attention’, but also to demonstrate
‘the independent character’ of the Faith’s mission through ‘steadfast adherence to its laws’,
and to brace themselves in preparation for the attacks that were ‘bound to be directed against
its victorious onward march’. The hundred years which had elapsed since Bahá’u’lláh’s
original proclamation of his mission had been a ‘respite’ for humanity. The struggle between
‘the forces of darkness’ – defined as ‘man’s lower nature’ – and ‘the rising sun of the Divine
teachings’ which drew humankind to its ‘true station’ would now intensify. In this context,
‘the fate of humanity’ depended ‘in very large measure’ on the efforts of the Baha’is
(MU#46.3).
5. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh. The compilation of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings prepared by
the House of Justice was entitled The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh.118 It included general
passages addressed collectively to he kings and religious leaders of the world, to the ‘Rulers
of America and the Presidents of the Republics therein’, and to ‘the elected representatives of
the people in every land’, as well as specific passages addressed to the great rulers and
leaders of his day – Napoleon III, Alexander II, Victoria, Wilhelm I, Franz-Joseph, Abdulaziz,
Násiru’d-dín Sháh and Pope Pius IX.119
In its introduction (pp. ix-xiv), the House’s stated that the selected passages represented “the
essence” of Bahá’u’lláh’s “mighty” proclamation of a century ago. Bahá’u’lláh had
proclaimed that
“the long-promised age of world peace and brotherhood had at last dawned and that
He himself was the Bearer of the new message and power from God which would
transform the prevailing system of antagonism and enmity between men and create
the spirit and form of the destined world order” (p. ix).
At that time, the world had been dominated by mostly autocratic monarchs and Bahá’u’lláh’s
call to those rulers had been “either ignored or rejected”, so that his “wise counsels” and “dire
warnings” had gone unheeded. Viewing a world which was ‘at the mercy of rulers so drunk
directly from a schismatic crisis within what was then a small community of Babi exiles in the city, the
majority of the exiles (and ultimately of the Babis in Iran and elsewhere) siding with Bahá’u’lláh, and
coming to refer to themselves as ‘Baha’is’ (followers of Bahá), whilst a minority chose to follow
Bahá’u’lláh’s half-brother, Mírzá Yahyá (Subh-i Azal), and came to be called ‘Azalis’ (followers of Azal).
In the House of Justice’s words, Bahá’u’lláh now became ‘the visible Center and Head of a newly
established Faith’, and the ‘independent character’ of the Baha’i movement as being distinct from Babism
was established. The first pilgrimages by Baha’i devotees to their leader and the first laws of the new
religion (of pilgrimage and fasting) soon followed. shoghi Effendi’s account of the Edirne period of
Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry is found in GPB 163-80. See also Balyuzi, King of Glory.
118. The English edition runs to about 140 pages in all, including the introduction (xiv+127 pp.).
119. On the Baha’i writings to and concerning these rulers see CEBF under the individual’s name.

with pride’ that they could not discern clearly ‘their own best advantage’, Bahá’u’lláh had
stated that the prevailing order of human affairs appeared ‘lamentably defective’, and was
characterized by increasing division and strife. He warned that ‘divine chastisement’ would in
time assail most of the rulers he had addressed, and would “engulf in ruin the peoples of the
world”. That old world order was now being ‘rolled up’. In time, it would be replaced by a
new order based on the unity of the entire human race. The achievement of that unity was the
purpose of the Baha’i Faith “and the aim of all Baha’i activity” (pp. ix-x).
Bahá’u’lláh’s message was one of hope, love and practical reconstruction. The present
generation were reaping the “appalling results” of its forebears’ rejection of Bahá’u’lláh’s
divine call, but today there were “new rulers” and “new people” and perhaps they might hear
and either avoid or mitigate “the severity of impending catastrophe”. It was with this hope
and because it believed that it was its “sacred duty” that the House of Justice was repeating
Bahá’u’lláh’s call, and it was in the same hope and belief that Baha’is worldwide would do
their utmost to bring to their fellows “the redeeming fact of this new outpouring of divine
guidance and love”. The House believed that they would not labour in vain (pp. xiii-xiv).
6. Presentations to heads of state. The House had prepared a special de lux edition of The
Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh for presentation to heads of state. Initially, it had been intended
to present this to 140 heads of state, but 142 eventually received the book.120 Each of these
special copies contained a personal letter to the recipient. Most of the copies appear to have
been presented personally to the individual head of state – or his or her representative – by a
delegation from the Baha’i community of that state or by a special representative of the
House of Justice. At least 55 were sent via the respective countries’ ambassadors at the
United Nations. Two or three were sent by post (BW 14: 206).121
There is as yet no overall account of the presentation of this book to the heads of state or of
their responses to it. Several leaders responded warmly, and the Bahá’í World reports that
most copies were “courteously acknowledged”. In its own report, Bahá’í World reproduced
copies of only two of the letters of acknowledgement: from the American president, Lyndon
B. Johnson, dated 6 October 1967, and from the private secretary of the Queen Juliana of the
Netherlands, dated 5 January 1968 (BW 14: 207-8).122 It also published photographs of the
presentations to the King of Thailand, Phumipon Adulyadet (November 1967); the presidents
120. In October 1967, the House stated that 140 heads of state were being presented with the book (MU#46.4),
and in its Ridván message of 1969, reported that 122 of these had by then received it (MU#68.4). By
Ridván 1973, the total had risen to 142 (MU#128.8). Bahá’í World, Vol. 15 gives the final total as 141 (BW
15: 180).
121. The brief report in Bahá’í World (BW 14: 206) implies that all 140 copies had by then been presented, but
this particular volume of Bahá’í World, whilst published in 1974, only officially covers the period up to
1968, by which date many copies of the special edition had not yet been presented (see note 7).
122. Johnson’s letter stated that all “thoughtful and farsighted men” respected the mission of the Baha’is and
shared their goal of world unity. Their hope was “the hope of men of goodwill everywhere”. Noting “the
growing good” done by the Baha’is, Johnson claimed that their purpose was “the purpose of America”, and
that on “every front”, the United States pressed forward “for a world where hatred has no place and where
all may walk in peace and live in freedom, decency, and understanding” (BW 14: 207). The letter from
Queen Juliana’s secretary is simply a polite acknowledgement.

of Ecuador, Dr. Otto Arosemena (April 1968) and of Paraguay, Gen. Alfredo Stroessner
(November 1967); and the private secretary to the President of Botswana (BW 14: 209-10).
7. Malietoa Tanumafili II. Amongst the heads of state to receive a copy of The
Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh was the Malietoa Tanumafili II of Western Samoa.123 Formally
presented with the book on 27 October 1967 by the Hand of the Cause Ugo Giachery, the
Malietoa subsequently expressed his interest in becoming a Baha’i, made his declaration of
faith in person to Giachery in February 1968, and wrote to the House of Justice expressing
his acceptance of the Faith on 19 February 1968. Replying to this letter, the House members
noted their “awe and wonderment” at the significance of this first conversion to the Faith of a
ruling monarch – a fulfilment of prophecies of Bahá’u’lláh.124 It was a “momentous event” in
the history of the Faith, and news of it would eventually fire the hearts of the Baha’is “with
new zeal and enthusiasm” so that they would be able to rise “to new heights of endeavour in
their God-given role in the quickening of mankind” (BW 15: 180-83).
Initially, the Malietoa – with the full concurrence of the House of Justice – decided not to
make a public declaration of his faith, deeming that it was not yet necessary or propitious. He
did meet with certain of the Baha’is from time to time, however, and he let it be known to his
immediate circle that he had become a Baha’i. He made his acceptance of the Faith publically
known in a letter, dated 31 March 1973, to the delegates to the Third International
Convention (BW 15: 181-83), the House responding by stating that the significance of this
acceptance of the Faith by a “reigning monarch” was an event that would only be properly
understood in centuries to come. For the present, it crowned all the other victories with which
Bahá’u’lláh had blessed the Baha’is during the Nine Year Plan (MU#130).
8. The general proclamation campaign. In its message to the Baha’is gathered at the
International Conferences in October 1967, the House of Justice stated that it had begun the
proclamation campaign by presenting the compilation of Bahá’u’lláh’s writings to the heads
of state. It was now up to the Baha’is to take the Baha’i message to ‘the rest of humanity’. In
this venture the Baha’is were neither alone nor helpless. Instead, sustained by their mutual
love and empowered through their administrative order, ‘the Army of Light’ could achieve
such victories as would ‘astonish posterity’. The time was ripe and the opportunities were
without limit (MU#46.4).
No proper study of the proclamation campaign which followed has as yet been published, and
its results are therefore difficult to assess. Certainly, many high-ranking dignitaries, including
senior political and religious leaders and other people of prominence were presented with
copies of The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh – the House of Justice referring at Ridván 1969 to
“thousands” of officials and leaders who had so far received copies (MU#68.4). More
generally, the Baha’is’ public profile in many countries seems to have been raised as a result
123. [Western] Samoa is a constitutional monarchy within the British Commonwealth. It achieved its
independence in 1962. Its population in 1981 was just over 158,000. A photograph of the Malietoa appears
as the first frontispiece in Bahá’í World, Vol. 15.
124. Dowager Queen Marie of Romania (1875-1938) paid public tribute to the Baha’i teachings after she first
encountered them in 1926 and was regarded as a Baha’i by Shoghi Effendi. See CEBF, ‘Marie’, loc. cit.

of the campaign, with the Faith receiving attention in the national mass communications
media in many places for the first time (MU#68.5).
It would also seem evident that the impact of the proclamation campaign of 1967-73
extended far beyond the Nine Year Plan itself. In many countries, the Baha’is gained greater
experience of how to present their religion in public, and these publicity skills were readily
preserved for future use. It would seem reasonable to suggest that the campaign which began
in 1967 marked the beginnings of a process of ‘emergence from obscurity’ for the Baha’i
which gathered pace after 1973 and has continued to the present day. As the House had noted
in 1967, the proclamation campaign was not necessarily confined to the Nine Year Plan
(MU#42.15). Writing in 1969, and referring to the Faith’s ‘healing message’ being
proclaimed to the peoples of the world, the House stated that the volume of that call was
increasing ‘day by day’ and would continue to do so into the future as it penetrated ‘every
stratum of society’ (MU#68.5).

12. International conferences.
Key dates:
London World Congress (28 April-2 May).
Dedication of Frankfurt Temple (4 July), followed by European Teaching Conference (5 July).
1967 Six conferences: at Kampala; Chicago/Wilmette; Panama City, Panama; New Delhi; Sydney;
Frankfurt (October).
1968 Palermo, Italy (23-25 August), followed by mass pilgrimage to Baha'i World Centre (26-31
August).
Two conferences: at Rose Hill, Mauritius; La Paz, Bolivia (both 14-16 August).
Six conferences arranged as 3 pairs: at Monrovia, Liberia and Singapore (1-3 January); Kingston,
Jamaica and Suva, Fiji (21-23 May); Sapparo, Japan and Reykjavik, Iceland (3-5 September).
Dedication of Panama Temple (29-30 April), followed by International Teaching Conference (1-2
May).
1. Baha’i internationalism. International contacts between Baha’is have been an important
part of Baha’i life since the expansion of the Faith beyond its original Islamic milieu,
reflecting the self-consciously global sense of identity felt by many Baha’is.
From the time of the initial development of Baha’i groups in the West during the 1890s,
Baha’is have self-consciously seen themselves as members of a global religion. Although the
numbers of Baha’is who lived outside of the Faith’s traditional Islamic heartland remained
very small, the idea of belonging to a diverse global community was very attractive to many
Baha’is and emphasized through such means as the visits and tours of Baha’i teachers from
other countries and the distribution of Baha’i periodical literature amongst ‘national’ Baha’i
communities.
A new element of ‘Baha’i internationalism’ was introduced by Shoghi Effendi in the 1950s,
with the holding of a series of four intercontinental conferences in 1953 at the beginning of
the Ten Year Crusade – one each for Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. This was
followed by his plans for a second series of intercontinental conferences in 1958 and an
international congress in 1963, which was eventually held in London (BW 13: 311-32; 14:
57-80. See above, Chapter 2).125
2. Conferences held under the aegis of the Universal House of Justice. Following the
evident success of the London congress, and emulating the earlier conferences, the House
decided to hold its own series of international conferences during the course of the Nine Year
Plan. This was announced as a plan goal in 1964, and the locations of the first set of
conferences, six in all, were announced at Ridván 1965 and scheduled for October 1967 as
part of the opening of the global proclamation campaign (MU#24.17). The venues were
Kampala for Africa; Wilmette [and Chicago] for North America; Panama City for Latin
America and the Caribbean; New Delhi for Asia; Sydney for Australasia; and Frankfurt for
Europe. The first of a second set of conferences (‘Oceanic Conferences’) would be held
during August 1968 on one of the Mediterranean islands to commemorate Bahá’u’lláh’s
125. The conferences of 1953 were held in Kampala, Uganda; Chicago, USA; New Delhi, India; and
Stockholm, Sweden. Those of 1958 were held in Kampala; Wilmette, USA; Singapore (as a replacement
for a proposed conference in Jakarta); Sydney, Australia; and Frankfurt, Germany.

voyage across the Mediterranean Sea hundred years previously (MU#24.21). It was later
decided that this conference would be located at Palermo in Sicily (MU#53). At Ridván 1969,
it was announced that a further eight oceanic and continental conferences would be held in
1970-71 The venues would be La Paz in Bolivia (for the South American continent) and
Rose-Hill in Mauritius (for the Indian Ocean) in August 1970; Monrovia, Liberia (for Africa)
and Jakarta, Indonesia (for the South China ‘Seas’ and Southeast Asia in general) in January
1971;126 Suva, Fiji (for the South Pacific) and Kingston, Jamaica (for the Caribbean) in May
1971; and Sapporo, Japan (for the North Pacific) and Reykjavik, Iceland (for the North
Atlantic) in September 1971 (MU#68.6). Two additional conferences were held in connection
with the dedications of the Frankfurt and Panama temples (4-5/6 July 1964 and 29 April-2
May 1972 respectively).
3. The European Teaching Conference of 1964. The new temple at Langenhain was
dedicated for public worship on 4 July 1964, with Rúhiyyih Khánum acting as the official
representative of the Universal House of Justice. Only one other Hand – John Ferraby from
England – was present. The dedication was followed by a European Teaching Conference (5-
6 July). Altogether, some fifteen hundred Baha’is were in attendance, including Baha’is from
at least 14 countries outside Europe as well as delegates and Baha’is from the various Baha’i
communities of Europe. Apart from gaining a rare opportunity to view the portraits of
Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb,127 the Baha’is listened to several addresses by Rúhiyyih Khánum (in
both English and German), in one of which she stressed the importance of mass teaching.
Reports were also given by each of the European national assemblies; messages of greeting
announced from Baha’is in other parts of the world; and group discussions held on various
aspects of the work of the Nine Year Plan (teaching, cooperation between European national
spiritual assemblies, publishing and translation, contact with the mass media, the exchange of
news, and finances). The Baha’is were also able to use the dedication as a means of gaining
considerable publicity in the press and on radio and television. A special inaugural service
was also held before the formal dedication to which regional and local government figures
and other guests were invited, and a public meeting was held at which there were addresses
on the “Baha’i House of Worship” (in German by Dr. Eugen Schmidt) and “Humanity in
Crisis” (in English by Rúhiyyih Khánum) (BW 14: 484-88).
The House of Justice’s messages to the Conference referred mostly to Baha’i developments
in Europe.
4. The Intercontinental Conferences of October 1967. The House of Justice announced the
126. In view of the continuing difficulties encountered by the Indonesian Baha’is in holding public meetings due
to government restrictions on the Faith, the conference planned for Jakarta was later relocated to Singapore.
This was the second such relocation. The Asian intercontinental conference planned for Jakarta in
September 1958 also had to be moved to Singapore (BW 13: 331-32).
127. These are regarded as sacred by Baha’is and can normally only be viewed at the International Baha’i
Archives Building in Haifa. Copies are frequently displayed at major international conferences. The
ceremonial of the viewing on this occasion was symbolized by Rúhiyyih Khánum anointing each viewer
with attar of roses before they approached the portraits. The Haifa portraits comprise a photograph of
Bahá’u’lláh and paintings of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.

locations for its first series of intercontinental conferences at Ridván 1965 as part of its plans
for the forthcoming proclamation period. The six conferences would be held simultaneously
in October 1967 in Frankfurt, Kampala, New Delhi, Panama City, Sydney and Wilmette,128
and together they would sound the ‘opening notes’ of the proclamation campaign. Each
would be convened by the responsible national spiritual assembly (MU#24.17, 20). A year
later, in its Ridván message of 1966, the House stated that the conferences would have a
threefold purpose: (1) to commemorate the centenary of the beginning of Bahá’u’lláh’s own
proclamation of his mission; (2) to proclaim the ‘Divine Message’ anew; and (3) to deliberate
on the tasks which still needed to be accomplished during the remaining years of the Nine
Year Plan (MU#34.7). Further definition was given in Ridván 1967, the House expressing the
hope that the conferences would prove to be ‘focal points of the love and prayers’ of the
Baha’is everywhere, as well as ‘magnets’ which would attract the spiritual powers which
alone could confirm their work, and ‘potent sources of unity, spiritual enthusiasm and
realistic planning’. Surely, the conferences would again demonstrate ‘the spirit of joy’ which
pervaded such gatherings and reinforce the Baha’is determination ‘to seize whatever means
and opportunities’ they might find to ‘raise the Divine call’. In addition to having a
significant role in inaugurating the proclamation period, the conferences were to be used for
the discussion of the remaining goals of the Plan. National assemblies should ensure that they
were represented at them (MU#42.19).
Altogether the conferences were attended by some 9,200 Baha’is (MU#47.2).129 The House of
Justice was officially represented at each of the conferences by one of the Hands of the Cause
(Tarázu'lláh Samandarí at Chicago/Wilmette;130 Paul Haney at Frankfurt; `Alí-Akbar Furútan
at Kampala; Abu'l-Qásim Faizí at New Delhi; Rúhiyyih Khánum at Panama City; and Ugo
Giachery at Sydney). Most of the other Hands were also present, albeit only briefly in some
cases because of ill health: Zikrullah Khadem (Dhikru'lláh Khádem) and John Robarts at
Chicago; John Ferraby, Adelbert Mühlschlegel and (briefly) Hermann Grossmann at
Frankfurt; Enoch Olinga and (briefly) Músá Banání and William Sears at Kampala;
Shu`á`u'lláh `Alá'í, Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir and `Alí-Muhammad Varqá at New Delhi; Jalál
Kházeh at Panama; and Collis Featherstone at Sydney. Only two of the Hands (out of the then
21) – Agnes Alexander and Hasan Balyuzi – were unable to attend at all. All the conferences
were attended by members of the national spiritual assemblies and Auxiliary boards for their
region, in addition to local Baha’is and visitors from other parts of the Baha’i world.
In addition to consultations about such matters as teaching the Faith, proclamation, and the
work towards winning the goals of the Nine Year Plan, an experimental intercontinental
radio-telephone linkage was attempted that succeeded in briefly linking up attendees at most
of the conferences, enabling a representative from each conference to convey greetings to the
participants at the other conferences.131 A slide show produced at the Baha’i World Centre,
128. The Wilmette conference was mostly held in various venues in the neighbouring city of Chicago.
129. Over 3,000 at New Delhi; 3,000 at Chicago- Wilmette; 1,600 [or 1,700] in Frankfurt; 660 [or over 700] at
Panama; over 450 in Kampala; and over 350 in Sydney (BW 14: 223, 229, 232, 239, 243, 249, 253).
130. Originally Leroy Ioas was to have been the House of Justice’s representative at the Chicago/Wilmette
conference, but he died shortly after being given the assignment and was replaced by nonagenarian,
Tarázu'lláh Samandarí (MU#24.17, 42.10).
131. The African and Asian conference link-ups encountered problems. In Kampala, the audio linkage had to go

Carmel, the Mountain of God, and a CBS film about the Faith, And His Name Shall Be One,
were widely shown. Many participants volunteered to become pioneers. Extensive publicity
was also achieved and meetings and receptions for national dignitaries were held. The
gathering in Panama had particular significance it was it the first Baha’i intercontinental
conference ever held in Latin America, and included the ceremonial laying of a cornerstone
for the projected Panama Baha’i temple (BW 14: 221-58).
Writing to the conference participants, the House called upon the Baha’is to consider ‘the
urgent needs of the Cause today’. At a time when humanity as a whole was entering ‘the dark
heart’ of an ‘age of transition’, the course which the Baha’is should follow was clear: to
achieve the assigned goals of the Nine Year Plan and to proclaim the Baha’i message. The
House would pray that the conferences would act as ‘centers of spiritual illumination’ which
would inspire the Baha’is to ‘redouble their efforts in further expanding and consolidating the
Faith ...’; arise to fill the remaining pioneer goals; undertake travelling teaching projects; and
offer generous contributions to the various Baha’i funds, particularly to ‘the vital project’ of
erecting the Panama temple. It was the House members’ ‘ardent hope’ that as a result of the
conferences, ‘valiant souls’ would emerge who would arise ‘with noble resolve’ and ‘in
loving service’ so as to ensure ‘the successful and early accomplishment’ of the ‘sacred tasks’
which lay ahead (MU#46.3; 46.5-6).
Commenting on the conferences success, the House of Justice noted the large number of
attendees, and the fact that this included almost all of the Hands of the Cause, as well as large
numbers of Board members and representatives of nearly all of the national assemblies. The
House also noted the presence of members of many tribal groups from Asia, Africa and the
Americas. The participants had had what the House described as the ‘INESTIMABLE
PRIVILEGE’ of viewing copies of a portrait photograph of Bahá’u’lláh. The Hands
representing the House brought with them the spirit of both the Holy Land and Edirne. The
conferences had been distinguished by the making of some of the initial presentations of the
proclamatory messages of Bahá’u’lláh to heads of state; the ‘FRUITFUL DELIBERATIONS’
which had been held about the accomplishment of the remaining goals; the expression of
international Baha’i solidarity through the use of an ‘INGENIOUS’ scheme linking the
conferences together for a period through a telephonic exchange; the laying of the
cornerstone of the Panama temple by Rúhiyyih Khánum – reinforcing the ‘SPIRITUAL
POTENCIES’ of the new phase; and the large number of pioneer offers (over 230) which had
been made. The House members offered their prayers that the Baha’is in every land would be
endowed with a ‘FRESH MEASURE’ of ‘CELESTIAL STRENGTH’ so that they would be
able to pursue with ‘INCREASED VISION’ the goals which had been set and thereby
contribute to the establishment of God’s kingdom in the hearts of men (MU#47). Cables were
also sent to each of the conferences individually (BW 14: 228, 238, 242, 245, 252, 258).
5. The Palermo Conference and the mass pilgrimage (1968).
via London and New York, and whilst the Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga was apparently able to transmit
a message, no message was received in return. In New Delhi ‘emergency-use’ taped telephone messages
were played when communications broke down (BW 14: 246, 254). The telephone linkage was timed for
the late morning in the Americas, late afternoon in Germany, evening in Uganda and India, and 2 a.m. in
Sydney (BW 14: 241).

5.1. Announcement. The first of the second series of conferences called by the House
resembled the conferences at the beginning of the proclamation period in that it was also a
commemoration of an event in Baha’i history. The basic details were announced by the
House of Justice in November on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the birth of
Bahá’u’lláh on 12 November 1817: the conference would be held in Palermo, Sicily in
August 1968 – in the heart of the sea on which Bahá’u’lláh himself had sailed a hundred
years previously prior to his incarceration in the prison of Akka.132 The conference would
have a double purpose: to consider the ‘MOMENTOUS FULFILMENT’ of the ‘AGE-OLD’
prophecies regarding the triumph of God’s messenger over every ‘GRIEVOUS
CALAMITY’, and to consult on plans for the propagation of the Baha’i Cause throughout the
islands and bordering lands of the Mediterranean Sea. After the conference, the participants
were invited to travel on to the Holy Land to attend the commemoration of Bahá’u’lláh’s
arrival in Akka (on these ‘SACRED SHORES’), and to ‘RECONSECRATE’ themselves at
the threshold of his shrine in preparation of prosecuting the ‘GLORIOUS TASKS’ which lay
ahead (MU#53).
5.2. The conference. The conference itself extended over four days (22-25 August). Over
2,300 Baha’is from 67 countries were in attendance. In addition to Ugo Giachery, the only
Italian Hand and the House of Justice’s representative, another ten Hands were present (Faizí,
Ferraby, Furútan, Haney, Khadem, Kházeh, Muhájir, Mühlschlegel, Olinga and Sears). The
programme included speeches from various of the Hands; reports on the progress of the Faith
around the world, progress on the Panama temple project, the proclamation activities of
several national spiritual assemblies and of Baha’i activities in the Mediterranean region; and
an appeal for pioneers. A public meeting was also held at which various local officials were
guests, and the provincial governor was given a copy of the book, The Proclamation of
Bahá’u’lláh (BW 15: 73-79).
5.3. The message from the House of Justice. The House’s message to the Palermo
Conference began by describing the significance of Bahá’u’lláh’s voyage on the
Mediterranean Sea a century before. Forced upon him by ‘the two despots who were His
chief adversaries’ (i.e. the Ottoman Sultan Abdulaziz and the Iranian Shah Násiru’d-dín), this
was his fourth banishment, and came at a time when ‘the tide of His prophetic utterance was
in full flood’. In Edirne, Bahá’u’lláh had already begun the proclamation of his message to
humankind; the ‘sun of His majesty had reached its zenith’; and, as witnessed by the devotion
of his followers, the respect accorded him by the general population, and the esteem with
which he was held by some Ottoman officials and by representatives of foreign powers, ‘His
ascendency had become manifest’. He was now sent, however, in what was a determined
attempt to extirpate his Cause ‘once and for all’, to ‘a remote, obscure and pestilential outpost
of the decrepit Turkish empire’. This was a major crisis with potential for disaster.
‘Consigned to a prison cell’, separated from the majority of his followers, unable to associate
with even his fellow exiles, and debarred from access to those to whom his message was to
be addressed, ‘it was apparent that by all earthly standards the ship of His Cause must
founder’, and ‘His mission wither and die’ (MU#63.1-2).
132. Bahá’u’lláh and his companions had left Edirne on 12 August 1868 and travelled to Gallipoli on the north
shore of the Dardanelles, and then, after a few days wait, been shipped to Akka, arriving in that city on 31
August (BKG 255-79; GPB 179-82). The Palermo conference was held on 23-25 August 1968, and the
mass pilgrimage to Haifa and Bahjí (the first and so far only one of its kind) on 26-31 August.

This was not to be. It was ‘the Lord of Hosts’ with whom his enemies were dealing.
‘Knowing the sufferings which faced Him’, he sought to instill ‘confidence and fortitude’ into
his followers, immediately sending them ‘sublime Tablets’ which asserted ‘the power of His
Cause to overcome all opposition’. ‘All the afflictions which men could heap upon Him were
thrown back from the rock of His adamantine will like spray from the ocean’. Through his
fortitude and his ‘patient submission to the affronts of men’, his ‘divine genius transformed
the sombre notes of disaster into the diapason of triumph’. Whilst his worldly fortunes were
at their nadir he raised ‘His standard of victory’ above the prison city of Akka and ‘poured
forth’ the ‘healing balm’ of Book of Laws, the Kitáb-i Aqdas, upon mankind (MU#63.3).
Bahá’u’lláh’s exile from Edirne to Akka was unique then in religious history. The journeys of
the prophets of the past – Abraham’s migration from Ur to the region of Aleppo, Moses’
passage towards the Promised Land, Mary and Joseph’s flight into Egypt with the infant
Jesus, and even the emigration (Hegira) of the Prophet Muhammad from Mecca to Medina –
could not compare to it (MU#63.1).
For the House of Justice, Bahá’u’lláh’s exile and its consequences was an ‘awe-inspiring’ and
‘supernal’ episode, contemplation of which provided the basis for ‘a clearer understanding of
our own times’, a ‘more confident view of their outcome’, and a ‘deeper apprehension’ of the
part which the Baha’is had to play in the midst of what evidently a period of increasing
‘moral decay and disorder’ in the wider world (MU#63.4-5).
The Jewish, Christian and Islamic civilizations had all flourished in the islands and
surrounding lands of the Mediterranean, and it was thus befitting that this first Baha’i oceanic
conference was held on one of the chief islands of this ‘great sea’. These were lands of
ancient civilizations which had witnessed the heroic and self-sacrificial deeds of the early
Christians and the glory of Islam’s golden age. Now they had been endowed with a ‘spiritual
potentiality’ which could dissolve the ‘encrustations’ of what had once been glorious but were
now ‘moribund social orders’, and so radiate once again ‘the light of Divine guidance’. Thus,
Bahá’u’lláh (‘the King of kings’), `Abdu’l-Bahá (the Centre of his father’s Covenant), and
Shoghi Effendi (‘the Sign of God on earth’) had all journeyed upon this sea. Within its depths
were enshrined the remains of the Hand of the Cause Dorothy Baker,133 and around its shores
lay the dust of Baha’i apostles, martyrs and pioneers. During the Ten Year Crusade some 46
pioneers (‘Knights of Bahá’u’lláh’) had opened 7 of its islands and 5 of its territories. As to
the future, eight national assemblies had been established here during Shoghi Effendi’s
ministry, and even more would be established in forthcoming plans, including assemblies on
the major islands as envisioned by Shoghi Effendi (MU#63.6-8).
Future progress depended upon the outcome of the present plan, however, and a dramatic
upsurge in ‘effective teaching’, together with more pioneers, travelling teachers and funding
were all now needed. The House hoped that the enthusiasm, prayers and ‘spirit of devotion’
generated amongst the participants at this conference would lead to ‘a great spiritual
dynamic’ which would help ensure victory. Again, those who would soon be privileged to
133. Dorothy Baker (1898-1954) was a well-known American Baha’i public speaker and administrator. She also
travelled extensively internationally to promote the Faith. She died in January 1954 after her plane
exploded whilst flying near the island of Elba. See Freeman; Harper 191-201.

participate in the observance of the centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in Akka in a few days
time should pray to him that ‘such bounties and favors’ would descend upon the Baha’is
everywhere that they would demonstrate their love for him by such ‘deeds of sacrifice and
devotion’ as would outshine those of the past and sweep away all obstacles in the way of the
‘onward march’ of the Faith (MU#63.9-10).
5.4. The mass pilgrimage. Over 1,800 Baha’is travelled from Palermo on to Haifa to
participate in the largest mass pilgrimage ever made to the Baha’i holy sites in the Haifa-
Akka area (26-31 August). Apart from visiting the shrines and other holy places, the pilgrims
were able to view the portraits of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb in the Archives Building and on 31
August attend a commemorative meeting at Bahjí for Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in the Holy Land
(BW 15: 81-86).134 Two days after the formal ending of the pilgrimage, on 2 September,
Tarázu'lláh Samandarí, the nonagenarian Hand of the Cause who had been in one of the last
remaining Baha’is to have met Bahá’u’lláh, died, having been on his sick bed in hospital
during the commemoration. Many of the pilgrims were able to return to attend the funeral,
which with almost a thousand people in the cortège became one of the largest and most
impressive to have taken place in Haifa since the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá (BW 15: 415-16).
5.5. The House’s comments on the conference. Commenting on the results of the Palermo
Conference in September 1968 shortly after it had ended, the House praised the ‘burst of
eager enthusiasm’ on the part of ‘determined and dedicated’ Baha’is in attendance who had
pledged to contribute their share to the winning of the remaining goals of the Nine Year Plan.
These included over 125 who offered to pioneer and more than 100 who volunteered to travel
teach. There had also been a ‘generous outpouring’ of financial contributions. Surely, it
mused, if the ‘entire Baha’i world’ had been present at the conference – and so shared in its
enthusiasm – all the remaining plan goals would have been quickly won. Those who had not
attended were assured that they too could share in the winning of the goals (MU#66.1-2).
The House referred to the Palermo Conference and more particularly to the mass visitation to
the Holy Land which had followed it in its Ridván message of 1969. Paying homage to the
founder of their Faith, over 2,000 Baha’is had commemorated his arrival in the Holy Land
with ‘deep awareness’ of the ‘spiritual import’ of this ‘long prophesied’ event. It had been an
‘inexpressibly poignant contrast’ to Bahá’u’lláh’s actual arrival one hundred years previously,
rejected by the world’s rulers and derided by the local people. Such was his ‘conquering
power’ and ‘undefeatable might’ (MU#68.3). Again, at Ridván 1973, the House identified the
mass pilgrimage – held close to Bahá’u’lláh’s burial place, the qiblih of the Baha’i world – as
one of the most important events which had occurred during the Nine Year Plan, marking the
arrival of
‘the Promised One of all ages’ in the Holy Land, this arrival itself having been promised in
the scriptures of past religions (MU#128.17).
6. The conferences of 1970-71.
134. The total number of Baha’is in attendance at the commemoration of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in the Holy Land
is alternatively given as “nearly” and “more than” 2,000 (MU#67.2; 68.3). This figure will have included
people who were not part of the pilgrimage group from Palermo such as the World Centre staff and the
group of youth helpers who had come to Haifa to act as guides to the pilgrims.

6.1. The conferences. In its Ridván message of 1969, the House had announced the number
and scheduling of the other oceanic and continental conferences that would be held during the
Plan. Altogether, there would be eight, arranged in four pairs and spaced out over a thirteen
month period between August 1970 and September 1971. The conferences held were as
follows:
1. For the Indian Ocean at Rose Hill, Mauritius and South America at La Paz, Bolivia
(both 14-16 August 1970);
2. For Africa at Monrovia, Liberia and the South China Seas (and Southeast Asia in
general) at Singapore [Originally planned for Jakarta] (1-3 January 1971);
3. For the Caribbean at Kingston, Jamaica and the South Pacific at Suva, Fiji (21-23
May 1971); and
4. For the North Pacific at Sapparo, Japan and the North Atlantic at Reykjavik,
Iceland (3-5 September 1971).
There was a two year gap following the Palermo Conference before the first two of these
conferences were held.
These eight conferences resembled those held earlier in the Plan.135 As previously, the
conferences were attended by a large number of Baha’is (almost 6,000) from a diversity of
ethnic backgrounds.136 The House of Justice sent one of the Hands of the Cause to each
conference as its representative: William Sears to Mauritius; Rúhiyyih Khánum to Bolivia;
Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir to Liberia; Enoch Olinga to Singapore; Zikrullah Khadem to Jamaica;
Collis Featherstone to Fiji; `Alí-Akbar Furútan to Japan; and John Robarts to Iceland.
Although most of the conferences were attended by more than one Hand, these included only
two of the Hands (Kházeh and Haney) who were not official representatives – several of the
Hands attending more than one conference. The fact that only ten of the Hands attended these
conferences presumably reflects the increasing frailty of many of them. The extra attendees
were: Kházeh and Muhájir at Rose Hill; Rúhiyyih Khánum at Monrovia; Featherstone at
Singapore; Robarts at Kingston; Muhájir at Suva; Featherstone and Muhájir at Sapporo; and
Haney at Reykjavik. Large numbers of Continental Counsellors and members of the
Auxiliary Boards and national spiritual assemblies were also in attendance. In addition to the
customary speeches, reports and discussions, there was at least one concert (in Jamaica) of
Baha’i artistes, reflecting the greater role that the performing arts had recently come to play
in the public activities of many Baha’is.137 Several of the conferences were also the occasion
135. Bahá’í World provides “A pictorial report” of the conferences adapted from a slide/filmstrip programme
prepared by the Audio-Visual Department at the Baha’i World Centre (BW 15: 296-316). It is not very
informative.
136. For the figure of almost 6,000 see BW 15: 314. These included over 1,000 in Mauritius; 641 in Bolivia;
500 in Liberia; over 1,200 in Jamaica; over 400 in Fiji; 625 in Japan; and over 750 in Iceland: a total of at
least 5,116. No figure is given for the Singapore conference (BW 15: 300, 301, 304, 306, 308, 309, 312).
137. There was a significant change in the role of music in Baha’i meetings in many parts of the world from
roughly the late 1960s onwards. This was particularly marked in the West, where it was associated with a
large-scale influx of young Baha’is and in North America of minority group members which had an impact
on the ‘cultural style’ of the Faith (See Smith, ‘The Baha’i Faith in the West’). The Jamaican Baha’i concert
included American entertainers: the jazz musician Dizzy (John Birks) Gillespie, the opera singer Geraldine
Jones, and the popular musicians Seals and Crofts (BW 15: 307).

for making useful contacts with prominent people and gaining extensive publicity. As in
1967, telephonic greetings were exchanged between conferences being held at the same time.
6.2. The House of Justice’s messages. The House sent messages to each of the conferences.
Although many of points made refer to the specific conditions in the regions concerned (and
will therefore be discussed in the regional chapters below), there are many common themes,
most notably an insistence on the urgency of completing the various goals of the Nine Year
Plan. The more general points included the following:
(i) The House’s message sent jointly to the first two conferences (in Bolivia and Mauritius in
August 1970) expressed its members’ ‘eager expectancy’ regarding the results of the
conferences. The recent centenary of the martyrdom of Mírzá Mihdí (23 June 1970) was a
reminder that ‘the promotion and establishment’ of the Faith had always been achieved
through ‘sacrifice and dedicated service’. Indeed, these conferences were themselves a
testimony to the ‘creative power’, ‘fruitfulness’ and ‘invocation of Divine confirmations’
which resulted from ‘sacrificial service to the Cause of God’. Thus, whilst both countries had
been specifically mentioned by `Abdu’l-Bahá in his Tablets of the Divine Plan, the Cause had
remained ‘virtually unknown’ in these regions as recently as thirty-five years ago. Yet, now,
both were the venues for ‘these historic Conferences’. The participants at both conferences
were charged with ‘the redemption of mankind’ from its godlessness, ignorance, confusion
and conflict. This should be their aim, and they would succeed – as those before them had
succeeded – ‘by sacrifice to the Cause of God’. The deeds and services that were now
required of them would shine in the future even as the work of their ‘spiritual predecessors’ in
establishing the Faith in those regions shone today (and would shine forever ‘in the annals of
the Cause’). The members of the House of Justice shared the participants’ ‘spiritual delight’ at
their gatherings, and prayed that their deliberations on the objectives of the Plan and the
‘spiritual fellowship’ which they would enjoy would result in ‘immediate and determined
plans’ to complete the assigned tasks, and so prepare the way for still greater triumphs in the
future and the eventual establishment of God’s kingdom on Earth (MU#82).
(ii) In its message to the Monrovia conference in January 1971, the House expressed the hope
that the conference would become ‘a sun’ from which ‘rays of spiritual energy and
inspiration’ would ‘stream forth’ to all parts of that ‘vast continent’, galvanizing the Baha’is
to action in teaching the Faith and pioneering so that they would rapidly achieve the assigned
goals of the Plan (MU#88.5). Its hopes for the Singapore conference being held at the same
time were that its deliberations would ‘engender a new wave of enthusiasm’; cement the
bonds of love between the various national communities of the region ever more firmly; and
result in practical planning for the implementation of the newly assigned additional goals.
The House looked forward eagerly to the report on the conference (MU#89.5-6).
(iii) At Ridván 1971, the House noted with pleasure the ‘wonderful spirit’ that had been
released and ‘practical benefits’ which had accrued at the four oceanic and continental
conferences that had so far been held. Their success reinforced the House members’ ‘high
hopes’ that the remaining four conferences would each be a resounding success and result in
more pioneers and travelling teachers; a greater proclamation of the Baha’i message; and ‘a
raising of the spirits and devotion’ of the Baha’is (MU#96.5).
(iv) In its message to the Caribbean Conference in May 1971, the House emphasized that

time was now short. The Nine year Plan was fast approaching its ‘triumphant end’, but the
needs of the Faith remained great and many. ‘No effort’ could be foregone; ‘no opportunity’
should be wasted. The conference participants had gathered to consult on the ‘vital
requirements’ of the Plan at a ‘highly significant moment’, and it was the House members’
prayer that ‘every session of this historic meeting’ would attract divine blessings, and that
‘each soul’, ‘armed with the love of God’ and imbued with God’s purpose for a struggling
humanity, would arise to activate – ‘beyond all present hopes’ – the ‘vast spiritual
potentialities of the Americas’ (MU#97.2, 97.4). A similar message was sent at the same time
to the participants at the South Pacific Conference.
(v) In September 1971, the House referred to the final conferences at Reykjavik and Sapporo
as bringing the series of gatherings to a ‘triumphant close’. The House members also prayed
that ‘untold blessings and confirmations’ might be showered upon the participants at
Reykjavik as they laboured to advance the Cause, and that their ‘brows be crowned with
victory’ (MU#100.7, 101.6).
7. The Panama temple dedication (1972). The final conference of the Nine Year Plan was
that for the second temple dedication: at Panama, the dedication of the temple (28-30 April
1972), being followed by an International Teaching Conference (1-2 May). Over 4,000
Baha’is were in attendance, including Rúhiyyih Khánum, as official representative of the
House of Justice, Ugo Giachery and Zikrullah Khadem. Counsellors, Board members and 26
representatives of national spiritual assemblies were also present; so too were many
Amerindian Baha’is. Proceedings included prayers, a viewing of the portraits of Bahá’u’lláh
and the Báb, music and singing, the reading of congratulatory messages from around the
Baha’i world, speeches and discussion about aspects of service to the Faith, and a call for
pioneers (103 volunteered). A public meeting and a banquet for local dignitaries were
arranged (BW 15: 632-41)..
8. An overall assessment. It is difficult to come to an overall assessment of these eighteen
conferences. It is likely that their primary value for many Baha’is was emotional and spiritual
rather than intellectual. Although the Hands of the Cause travelled extensively visiting
national Baha’i communities, the conferences provided one of the main opportunities for
gaining inspiration from the surviving members of this small group of dedicated Baha’is who
had worked so closely with Shoghi Effendi. Often the Hands referred to Shoghi Effendi in
their speeches, helping newer Baha’is to identify more closely with one who had had such a
forceful role in the development of the Faith in recent times. Again, for those Baha’is who
were unable to undertake the pilgrimage to the Baha’i World Centre, the conferences
provided perhaps the only opportunity to view the sacred photograph of the founder of their
religion. There was also the emotional impact of meeting other Baha’is from around the
world, whether old friends or new. In this, the conferences reinforced what we might term the
spirit of ‘international Baha’i solidarity’, helping believers who might otherwise live in often
small local groups to further develop their sense of being part of an international
movement.138 Those who attended the conferences were also able to help relay something of
138. The total cumulative attendance was in the region of 17,000 for the 15 ‘regular’ conferences (i.e. excluding
the London Congress and the two temple dedications) (MU#128.8), but this figure doubtless includes many

the ‘spirit’ they had felt whilst attending back to their local communities.
At an intellectual and administrative level, the conferences also provided a useful means of
learning the latest news of developments in the Baha’i world, and of discussing various
aspects of Baha’i work dealing with the various goals and new ideas of the Nine Year Plan.
The conferences also came to have an increasing practical value as occasions for gaining
publicity and proclaiming the Faith to dignitaries (the House of Justice itself noted this as a
major accomplishment of the conferences (MU#128.8)). Again, they generated large numbers
of pioneer offers and significant cumulative contributions to the Baha’i Funds.
individuals who went to more than one conference.

13. Temples.
1. Baha’i Houses of Worship. Apart from the Baha’i shrines, the buildings of the Baha’i
World Centre, and the various places of religious significance related to the lives of the Báb,
Bahá’u’lláh, and `Abdu’l-Bahá, the most important Baha’i buildings are the temples or
Houses of Worship.139
These are as yet few in number – only two had been constructed prior to the Ten Year
Crusade: at Ashkhabad (`Ishqábád), in what is now Turkmenistan, and at Wilmette, Illinois,140
and it was initially one of Shoghi Effendi’s goals in the Ten Year Crusade to double the
number of temples through the construction of additional edifices in Tehran and in Germany
(MBW 42, 54). In the event, a major wave of persecution directed against the Iranian Baha’is
in 1955 caused Shoghi to substitute Kampala in Uganda for Tehran as the site of a new
temple, and later to add Sydney in Australia as a fifth site (MBW 90, 111). Of these three new
temples, work on the Kampala and Sydney temples proceeded briskly, and both were
dedicated for worship in 1961. The first temple dependency – a home for the aged at
Wilmette – was also opened (1959). Work on the German edifice (at Langenhain in the
Taunus Hills, near Frankfurt-am-Main), proved more difficult, however, a long string of legal
problems, seemingly caused by church opposition to the project, delaying the start of
construction until 1960, so that it was not until the Spring of 1963 that the temple structure
was finally completed, and by the time of the establishment of the Universal House of
Justice, it had not yet been opened for worship (BW 13: 704-48).
2. The Frankfurt and Ashkhabad temples. Almost immediately upon taking office, the
House of Justice had to deal with temple issues. The first of these concerned the Frankfurt
temple – designated by Shoghi Effendi as the ‘Mother Temple of Europe’ (MBW 100), and
one of the few unfulfilled goals of the Ten Year Crusade. Accordingly, the House made
completion of the temple an urgent priority, referring to it in its first message to national
conventions in May 1963. Although the structure of the building was finished, the interior
decoration still had to be done, utilities installed, access roads laid, the grounds landscaped,
and a caretaker’s house built. Rapid completion of these tasks was imperative, especially as
any delay was likely to add considerably to the estimated $210,000 now required for the
139. The Baha’i temple or ‘House of Worship’ ideally forms part of a larger complex of institutions, collectively
referred to as the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár (Ar. ‘Dawning-place of the remembrances [or mention (dhikr)] of
God’). The term was used by both Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá, the later specifying that the central house
of worship should be linked to a number of subsidiary buildings, including a hospital, drug dispensary,
traveller's hospice, school, and university, these philanthropic institutions being open to those of all
religions. See CEBF Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, loc. cit. LG 605-11; SWAB 94-100.
140. Both of these were started during the ministry of `Abdu'l-Bahá. Construction work on the first, at
Ashkhabad (`Ishqábád), in what is now was then, Russian Turkestan, started in 1902, the external
decoration finally being completed in 1919. Work on the second temple, at Wilmette, began in 1920, but
due to financial problems, it was not until 1931, that the actual superstructure was completed – the interior
ornamentation was not completed until twenty years later, in 1951. Meanwhile, in 1928, the Ashkhabad
temple had been expropriated by the Soviet authorities, and then, in 1938, converted into an art gallery,
leaving the American temple as the only one in Baha’i hands. Further news of the Ashkhabad temple, and
of the once flourishing Baha’i community which had once used it, effectively ceased until the 1960s.

work. National assemblies were accordingly directed to allocate substantial budgets so as to
ensure immediate completion (MU#2.9).
The work to complete the required tasks proceeded rapidly, and by the Summer of 1964, the
temple was ready for use. The dedication ceremony was held on 4 July, the House of Justice
hailing the construction as ‘a project of untold significance and tremendous potential’ for the
spread of the Baha’i Cause in Europe. As a major goal of the Ten Year Crusade, the temple’s
dedication during the opening months of the new plan made it a ‘striking link’ between the
two crusades, and as such was an example of the ‘organic progress’ of the Faith, in which the
seeds sown in one period bore fruit in the next. It endowed the Baha’i community with ‘new
and greater capacities’ so that it could win ‘still greater victories’ (MU#17.1).
Just a few months after taking office, in August 1963, the House also had to announce the
latest news it had received about the Ashkhabad temple. It transpired that it had been
seriously damaged in an earthquake in 1948, leaving it vulnerable to cumulative damage
caused by the annual heavy rains. Finally – presumably in 1963 – the Soviet authorities had
decided to demolish the entire building and clear the site.141 The House noted that according
to a report it itself had recently received, the building had eventually become so unsafe that it
endangered surrounding houses, so that even if the Baha’is had been able to regain control of
it, they would have had no choice but to raze it themselves (MU#4). The House sent an
appeal to the Soviet Communist Party Chairman Nikita Krushchev asking him to set aside the
grounds of the former temple as a public park and to erect a suitable marker indicting the
significance of the site to the Baha’is but received no reply (BW 14: 480).
3. The Panama Temple. The Nine Year Plan itself called for the construction of two new
temples: at Tehran and Panama City. As in the Ten Year Crusade, circumstances made it
impossible to proceed with temple construction in Tehran, but the Panama project went ahead
smoothly, the House of Justice announcing the opening of a construction fund at Ridván
1966, and itself contributing an initial $25,000 for the new fund. Baha’is worldwide were
asked to contribute ‘liberally and continuously’ towards this ‘significant and inspiring
project’, contributions being sent directly to the Panamanian Baha’i national assembly. Fifty
designs had already been received, and the House was already considering the
recommendations made by the Panamanian assembly (MU#34.8).142 A year later, at Ridván
1967, the House announced that a design had been chosen (by the non-Baha’i English
architect Peter Tillotson) and an architectural consultant (Robert McLaughlin143) appointed to
advise the House on the construction. Detailed planning work on the temple by the two men
had already started (MU#42.11). Two years later again, at Ridván 1969, the House was able
to report that the temple site had been prepared for construction and all was now set pending
141. The date of demolition was not specified, but a 1963 photograph of the ruined building is reproduced in
Bahá’í World (BW 14: 481).
142. The Panamanian Baha’i national spiritual assembly opened the competition for temple designs in 1965, and
eventually received designs from a total of 54 architects (BW 15: 648).
143. McLaughlin, Dean Emeritus of the School of Architecture at Princeton University, had formerly been a
member of the American Baha’i national assembly and had been a member of the technical advisory board
for the construction of the interior of the Wilmette temple.

the approval of final plans and specifications and the placing of building contracts
(MU#68.7).
The foundation stone of the new temple was laid by Rúhiyyih Khánum on Sunday, 8 October
1967 during the international conference held in Panama at the start of the proclamation
period, the sacredness of the event being marked by the placement within the stone of dust
and roses brought from the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh (BW 14: 224, 494; MU#46.5; 47.2). The
House announced that the event marked the beginning of the next phase in ‘the planning and
construction of this important edifice’. Final working plans and specifications now had to be
drafted, bids obtained, and contracts for construction placed, culminating in the planned
commencement of building work in January 1969. Ever-increasing amounts of money would
be needed to support the work, and to this end, the House appealed to all national assemblies
to now consider how much of their budget they were going to allocate to the temple during
the current year, and to inform the Panamanian Baha’i assembly of the amount pledged and
by what date it would be transmitted. The national assemblies should also encourage all local
spiritual assemblies and individuals under their jurisdiction to contribute to this project. All
allocated funds should be transmitted directly to Panama as soon as was possible (MU#50).
By Ridván 1971, the House was able to announce that the temple was scheduled to be
completed by December, and that its formal dedication for worship would take place in a
year’s time, at Ridván 1972 (MU#96.4). The formal dedication of the temple was held in
March 1972 (BW 15: 632-41). In its message to the gathering, the House lauded the
completion of this ‘historic project’, which had been ‘one of the most important goals’ of the
Nine Year Plan. The Baha’is were reminded that this was the ‘Mother Temple’ for the whole
of Latin America, and was built at a place specifically identified by `Abdu’l-Bahá as having
special significance.144 The temple was a ‘Silent Teacher’ that glorified the Faith and brought
‘untold joy’ to the hearts of the Baha’is everywhere. Those whose ‘loving generosity and
sacrifice’ had helped raise it were privileged. It was ‘a crown’ to the labours of all those who
had striven to establish the Faith in Latin America, and a ‘rallying point’ for all the Baha’is in
those lands, both those who belonged to ‘the blessed [American] Indian peoples’ and those
others who enriched the ethnic diversity of the region. It was a ‘mighty achievement’ which
would be ‘a fountainhead of spiritual confirmations’, endowing the Baha’i community with
‘new and greater capacities’, and enabling the Baha’is – ‘particularly in this privileged land
of Panama’ – to win victories that would ‘eclipse all their past achievements’ (MU#108.1-2).
In its Ridván message, the House offered ‘loving congratulations’ to the Panamanian Baha’i
assembly on behalf of the Baha’is worldwide for the completion of the project. The
‘imaginative and inspiring concept’ of the architect had been ‘wonderfully realized’
(MU#110.2).
144. The House made the same points (that the Panama temple would be the ‘Mother Temple’ for the whole of
Latin America, and gained further significance from being situated in a country specifically identified by
`Abdu’l-Bahá as having great future importance) in its letter to the Baha’is gathered at an international
conference for the Caribbean region held in Jamaica in May 1971 (MU#97.1). `Abdu’l-Bahá had twice
stressed the future importance of Panamanian Republic in his Tablets of the Divine Plan. This was where
the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans came together via the Panama Canal and it was a centre for travel from the
Americas to the other continents of the world. It was where “the Occident and the Orient” found each other
united, and once the Baha’i teaching had been established there, they would unite East and West and North
and South (TDP 33, 96).

The temple itself – “on its mountaintop between the two greatest oceans and the two
American continents” (MU#97.1) – was built on a site some seven miles north of the centre
of Panama City at an elevation of 225 metres above the City, and could be seen from both the
Pacific Ocean, the Panama Canal and the Inter-American Highway. The original Panamanian
temple site had been purchased in 1954, but on closer examination in 1966 was judged to be
insufficiently accessible and at too high an altitude for the temple, and after extensive
negotiations it proved possible to exchange it for a site of the same size (25,804 sq m) on top
of Cerro Sonsonate (Singing Mountain).145 After agreeing to cover the cost of an access road
the Baha’is were able to purchase an additional plot of 92,160 square metres, giving them a
total area of 117,964 square metres (28.73 acres). Preparatory work included the construction
of a 1,800 metre long access road from the Trans-isthmian (Inter-American) Highway (1967)
and lowering the basaltic hilltop by 11 metres (36 feet) to provide a large level shelf for the
temple and its surrounding gardens, together with a car park, lodge, public rest rooms and a
meeting-room (BW 15: 643-49).
In addition to the general requirement that all Baha’i temples be nine-sided and domed, the
House of Justice specified that the Panama temple should incorporate indigenous
characteristics and seat between five and six-hundred people (BW 15: 645).146 With Mayan
and other Meso-American designs in mind, the architect designed a two-unit structure
consisting of a base in the shape of an elongated nine-pointed star truncated on the inside and
surmounted by a parabolic dome. The base has an outer diameter of 61 metres (200 feet) and
encloses an auditorium 26 metres (85 feet) in diameter. The separate arms of the star are
linked together by a 5 metre (16 feet) high balcony overlooking and surrounding the
auditorium. The shell-like 20 metre (65 feet) high dome begins at the balcony level, giving
the building an overall height of 28 metres (92 feet) including the entrance steps. Using a
computer to generate its exact complex shape and employing modern construction methods
enabled the dome to be built as a thin (about 4-inches thick) single solid structure. The whole
building is made out of reinforced concrete – utilizing the ‘Gunite’ concrete extrusion method
for the first time in Panama, and the outside of the dome is covered in mosaic tile whilst the
inside is covered with acoustic plaster. The floors of both the auditorium and balcony are
covered with terrazo (a polished surface of marble chips set in mortar) and the seating (for
550 people) is made out of native mahogany. Light enters the temple through the open grille-
gated doorways and the arched openings at the base of the dome. There is no glazing – so that
breezes and rain clouds can pass through the temple (BW 14: 642-49).
4. Tehran. Although a large area of land had been obtained for the future Baha’i temple in
Tehran – the design of which had been approved during the Ten Year Crusade147 – the
construction of the building was one of the few major goals of the Nine Year Plan that proved
145. The published temple statistics give a figure of 25,804 sq m (6.37 acres) for both the original and
replacement sites (BW 15: 647). Robert McLaughlin gives a slightly lower figure for the replacement site
(25,570 sq m, about 6.3 acres) (BW 15: 643).
146. That is roughly the same range as the temples in Uganda (over 400), Australia (500), and Germany (450-
600), and appreciably smaller than the American temple (over 1,100), or the later (1986) Indian temple at
New Delhi (1,200) (CEBF 241).
147. For a drawing of the temple design by the architect (C. M. Remey) see BW 14: 495.

impossible to accomplish due to the hostility of the environing society. Nevertheless, by the
end of the Plan, the House was able to report that everything had been made ready ‘for
immediate action’ whenever the Iranian situation became propitious. This included the
signing of initial contracts and the preparation of detailed drawings. Geological surveys of the
site were also being made (MU#128.16). A wall had also been built around the property (BW
14: 495). The temple remains unbuilt to the present day.

14. Commemorations
1. The importance of commemorations.
One aspect of the structuring of time which was closely followed by the House of Justice – as
by Shoghi Effendi before it – was to link contemporary Baha’is with the events of ‘their’
Baha’i past, thus both sacralizing the present and providing a basis for identity – as well as
sometimes a focus for activity.148 In this regard, the 1963-73 period saw a number of
significant centenaries, as well as fiftieth anniversaries and a hundred-and-fiftieth anniversary
(sesquicentenial) (Table 15.1).
Table 15.1. Chronology of significant commemorations, 1963-73
Centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration of mission in the Garden of Ridwán in Baghdad (April
1963).
Fiftieth anniversary of the composition of the first of the Tablets of the Divine Plan [26 March-22
April 1916] (MU#32).
(27 September) Centenary of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh’s Súri-yi Mulúk [1867].
(12 November) Sesquicentennial of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh [1817].
(31 August ) Centenary of the arrival of Bahá’u’lláh in Akka [1868].
(23 June) Centenary of the death of Mírzá Mihdí [1870].
(28 November) Fiftieth anniversary of the death of `Abdu’l-Bahá [1921].
Centenary of the revelation of the Kitáb-i Aqdas [c.1873].
Most of these commemorations concerned the life of Bahá’u’lláh, notably the
sesquicentennial of his birth in 1817 (1967), and the centenaries of his Ridván declaration in
1863 (1963), his arrival in Akka in 1868 (1968), and the revelation of his Tablet to the Kings
(Súri-yi Mulúk) and Most Holy Book (Kitáb-i Aqdas) – commemorated by the House of
Justice in 1967 and 1973 respectively. The centenary of the death of Bahá’u’lláh’s son, Mírzá
Mihdí, was also commemorated (1970), as were two fiftieth anniversaries linked to `Abdu’l-
Bahá: the composition of the first of his Tablets of the Divine Plan in 1916 (1966) and his
passing in 1921 (1971).
Some of these commemorations were used as important structural elements both in the
development of the Faith and the patterning of the Nine Year Plan. The Ten Year Crusade
itself, of course, was designed to run until the centenary of the Ridván declaration, and the
decision by the Hands of the Cause to call for the election of the Universal House of Justice
at that time gave the event an added spiritual significance – which the House of Justice noted
(above). In its turn, the House chose to end its own first plan with the 1973 centenary of the
revelation of the Aqdas, and used the 1967 centenary of the start of Bahá’u’lláh’s
proclamation to the kings as the initial focus for the worldwide proclamation campaign which
it initiated. It also drew attention to what it saw as the signal significance of Bahá’u’lláh’s
exile from Edirne to Akka and marked the 1968 centenary of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in Akka
with organizing what became the largest mass-pilgrimage hitherto made to the Baha’i shrines
148. The same process of identity formation and maintenance is seen in the emphasis on learning about Babi-
Baha’i history as part of ‘deepening’ in the Faith. Thus, contemporary Baha’is, including both those of
Baha’i descent and later converts, could gain a sense of common descent from their ‘spiritual ancestors’ in
the heroic period of their religion – as in the formation of ‘Dawn-Breaker’ Baha’i youth singing groups
formed in several parts of the world during the 1960s who took their name from Shoghi Effendi’s epithet
for the heroically-portrayed early Babis.

(Chapter 13, sec.5.4).
2. The fiftieth anniversary of the passing of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Of the other anniversaries, the
one which received the most emphasis was in November 1971, with the fiftieth anniversary
of the passing of `Abdu’l-Bahá on 28 November 1921. Writing to all national assemblies
prior to this event in July, the House of Justice noted with approval that some national
assemblies had already begun to plan a ‘befitting’ commemoration, and asked that all
assemblies devote three days – from the Day of the Covenant on 26 November to the
anniversary of the passing on 28 November – to a series of activities commemorating the
event. These should include special gatherings and conferences, organized at either national
or local level or both, and should focus on three main themes: (1) the Baha’i Covenant; (2)
the ‘Formative Age’; and (3) the life of `Abdu’l-Bahá. On the ‘memory-laden’ night of the
commemoration itself, the Hands of the Cause and the members of the Universal House of
Justice, together with resident and visiting Baha’is at the Baha’i World Centre would visit the
Shrine of `Abdu’l-Bahá on behalf of all Baha’is throughout the world and would pray both
for ‘the stalwart champions of the Faith’ who were winning fresh triumphs in ‘so many fields
of service’; for the ‘self-sacrificing’ Baha’is without whose ‘sustained assistance’ most of
those victories could not be achieved; and for those who were ‘inspired to join the ranks’ of
‘the active and dedicated promoters’ of the Cause ‘at this crucial stage in the development of
the Plan’. The House members hoped that these gatherings would intensify the consecration
of the Baha’is everywhere and provide them with an opportunity – especially during ‘the
watches of the night’ at the hour of the passing itself149 – to renew their ‘pledge to
Bahá’u’lláh’, and to ‘rededicate themselves’ to the accomplishment of those Plan goals that
still remained unwon (MU#99).150
3. The ‘Formative Age’. It is of note that the House called upon the Baha’is not just to
commemorate the passing of `Abdu’l-Bahá, but also to examine and study the significance of
the ‘Formative Age’ which Shoghi Effendi declared had begun after that passing.151 In its
Ridván message earlier in the year, the House had reminded the Baha’is that the passing of
`Abdu’l-Bahá had simultaneous marked both the end of the ‘Heroic Age’ and the opening of
149. The passing – often referred to as ‘the Ascension’ – of `Abdu’l-Bahá is commonly commemorated at the
actual hour of his death at about 1 a.m. As with the commemoration of the ‘Ascension’ of Bahá’u’lláh
(about 3 a.m on the 29 May), the commemoration lends itself to a night-time vigil which for those
participating may reinforce the sense being present at a meeting of special spiritual significance. Although
the term ‘Ascension’ is of Christian origin, its Islamic and Baha’i usage is an extremely respectful way of
referring to the natural death of a revered religious figure – it is the spiritual reality of the deceased which
has ‘ascended’ to heaven and not their bodily remains. See Walbridge 243, 247.
150. For accounts of commemorations in several countries see BW15: 126-28.
151. Shoghi Effendi distinguished between three great ‘Ages’ of the Faith. During the first of these, the ‘Heroic’
or ‘Apostolic’ Age of the Faith (1844-1921), two Manifestations of God – the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh – had
brought divine revelations; the Baha’i Covenant had been established; and `Abdu’l-Bahá had provided the
Baha’is with an exemplar for their lives. This age ended with the passing of `Abdu’l-Bahá, and was
followed by a new Formative Age (1921-), during which the ‘spiritual fecundity’ and ‘creative energies’ of
the revelatory period were crystalized and shaped in the form of Baha’i administrative institutions. This
was to be a lengthy period of transition which would eventually lead to a future ‘Golden Age’, which was
the promised Kingdom of God on Earth (CF 4-6; GPB xiii-xv, 324).

the ‘Formative Age’ of the Faith’s development and the birth of the Baha’i ‘Administrative
Order’, ‘the nucleus and pattern’ of the future World Order of Bahá’u’lláh (MU#96.1).
Commenting on its own message, the House called upon all national assemblies to ‘formulate
and implement’ plans to educate the Baha’is about the significance of the ‘Formative Age’. If
the Baha’is were to understand this matter then their faith would be greatly strengthened, and
at the same time they would be better able to present the Baha’i message to the ‘waiting
world’. The House provided a short compilation of extracts from Shoghi Effendi writings on
the subject to help further study,152 advising the national assemblies that the subject should be
examined at Summer Schools and special teaching institutes and conferences, or as the
assemblies thought best (MU#95.1-3).
The House also pointed to the tremendous achievements that had been made during the first
fifty years of the Formative Age, most of it under the leadership of ‘the dynamic and beloved
figure of Shoghi Effendi’, and dominated by him. Shoghi had dedicated his life to the
‘systematic implementation’ of the provisions of the two ‘charters’ for action provided by
`Abdu’l-Bahá: his Will and Testament for the development of Baha’i administration, and the
Tablets of the Divine Plan for the campaigns of teaching. The results were the ‘fruits’ of these
charters: the growth of the Baha’i community worldwide from a few hundred localities
(‘centres’) in 35 countries in 1921 to over 46,000 localities in 135 independent states and 182
significant territories and islands by 1971; the raising of the Baha’i Administrative Order
throughout [much of] the world; the resultant recognition of the Faith by many governments
and civil authorities; accreditation ‘in consultative status’ to the United Nations’ Economic
and Social Council; and the beginning of large-scale Baha’i conversions (`Abdu’l-Bahá had
promised ‘entry by troops’ into the Baha’i community) in many parts of the world
(MU#96.1). The Baha’is should never forget that the current Nine Year Plan, like Shoghi
Effendi’s Ten Year Crusade before it, and all the other plans which would follow it, were but
phases in the implementation of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan set out by him in the fourteen
letters by that name to the North American Baha’is (MU#96.2).
4. Other commemorations. Three other commemorations are of note:
4.1. The 50

th   anniversary of the first of the

Tablets of the Divine Plan

(March 1966)

. The
fiftieth anniversary of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s revelation of the first of the Tablets of the Divine Plan,
addressed to the North American Baha’is in 1916-17,153 was celebrated in March 1966. Unlike
the other commemorations, it was essentially a regional event confined to the successor
communities of the original recipients. In its cable marking the event, the House members
stated that they would pray that the observance of the anniversary by the American and
Canadian Baha’is would be a source of “RENEWED ENTHUSIASM” and “DEDICATION”
both to accomplish the remaining goals of the Plan, and to win “FRESH LAURELS” of
victory (22 March 1966, MU#32).154
152. See MU#95.4-24.
153. There were fourteen letters in all, an initial series of eight composed between 26 March and 22 April 1916,
and a second series of six letters composed between 2 February and 8 March 1917. See CEBF, ‘Tablets of
the Divine Plan’, loc. cit.
154. The cable was sent to the American national spiritual assembly (chronologically the senior North American
national assembly), with instructions that it should share it with the assemblies of Canada, Alaska and

4.2. The 150

th   anniversary of Bahá’u’lláh’s birth (November 1967)

. The sesquicentennial
of Bahá’u’lláh’s birth (12 November 1817) was celebrated in November 1967. In addition to
the commemoration, the House of Justice encouraged the Baha’is to use the event to attract
publicity, noting that the coincidence of the anniversary of such an event – that had been ‘so
momentous to the fortunes of humanity’ – and the start of the global proclamation campaign
provided the Baha’is with a ‘splendid opportunity’ to bring ‘both the spiritual and social
import’ of the Faith to public attention. They should emphasize not just the message of the
Faith but also ‘the historical fact of a new Revelation, with all its implications of a new and
worldwide civilization’. Accordingly, non-Baha’is should be welcomed to the Baha’is’
celebrations of this event, including to their devotional meetings, so that non-Baha’is could
be attracted by the prayers and the Baha’is’ fervour as well as the ‘exalted tone’ of the Baha’i
writings (MU#44). On the day of the commemoration, the House referred to the
‘INESTIMABLE BOUNTIES’ which God had conferred through Bahá’u’lláh (His
‘SUPREME MANIFESTATION’). These bounties would ensure the fulfilment of the
‘GLORIOUS’ and ‘LONG PROMISED’ Kingdom of God on Earth which was now evolving
in the womb of a ‘TRAVAILING AGE’, and which was destined to confer undreamt of peace
and felicity upon mankind (MU#53).
4.3. The centenary of the death of Mírzá Mihdí (June 1970). In 1970, the Baha’i world
commemorated the centenary of the death of one of Bahá’u’lláh’s younger sons, Mírzá Mihdí
(1848-70), entitled by him ‘the Purest Branch’ (ghusn-i athar). Apart from `Abdu’l-Bahá, the
only son born by Bahá’u’lláh’s first wife Navváb to survive infancy, Mihdí had served as one
of his father’s amanuensis and had been with him in barracks of Akka. Praying one night on
the roof of the building, he had fallen through an open skylight on to a wooden crate below,
dying of his injuries the following day (23 June 1870). Bahá’u’lláh had been greatly grieved
by the boy’s death, equating it with an act of martyrdom, and agreeing to his son’s dying
request that he should accept his life ‘as a ransom’ for those Baha’is who wanted to attain his
presence but were unable to. Bahá’u’lláh also referred to the death as a sacrifice made so that
the Baha’is might be ‘quickened’ and ‘all that dwell on earth’ united (GPB 188; MA 33-34;
Ruhe 35-37).
Writing to all national assemblies in March 1970, the House announced that there would be
an observance at Mihdí’s grave in Haifa155 on the day of he commemoration, at which time
‘his pure example and sacrifice for all mankind’ would be remembered. Baha’is worldwide
should commemorate this ‘highly significant event’ by uniting in prayer ‘for the regeneration
of the world and the unification of its peoples’ (GPB 348). It was up to individual assemblies
whether or not they organized national commemorations (MU#80).
Hawaii (its ‘daughter’ assemblies, formed respectively in 1948, 1957, and 1964).
155. The body of Mírzá Mihdí was initially buried in a cemetery outside the Akka city wall, but was transferred
to Haifa by Shoghi Effendi in December 1939, together with the remains of Navváb (Rabbani, Priceless
Pearl 259-63).

Part III. ASPECTS OF BAHA’I LIFE.
15. The Role of the Individual
Like Shoghi Effendi, the Universal House of Justice repeatedly emphasized the role of the
individual in the work of the Faith. In particular, the House stressed the importance of
‘universal participation’, of living the Baha’i life, and of freedom from prejudice and the
negative impacts of tribalism.
1. Universal Participation. The importance of the individual was emphasized at the very
outset of the Nine Year Plan in April 1964, when the House of Justice made ‘universal
participation’ in the life of the Cause by all Baha’is one of the twin overall objectives of the
Plan – the other being the expansion of the Faith (MU#14.4, 14.8). Specifically, the healthy
development of the Baha’i religion required the involvement and ‘dedicated effort’ of each
individual Baha’i in terms of four elements: (1) teaching the Baha’i Faith to others; (2) living
a Baha’i life; (3) contributing to the Baha’i fund; and, most particularly, (4) the constant
endeavour to increase one’s understanding of the significance of Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation
(MU#14.7).
In September 1964, the House provided the Baha’is with a general letter explaining the
significance and scope of ‘universal participation’ (MU#19). Bahá’u’lláh had compared the
world to a human body (ESW 62): in the same way, the Baha’is of the world – ‘the army of
God’ – could be seen as members of a single body, in which each individual cell and organ
had its part to play. No cell, no matter how humble, lived apart from the body as whole,
whether in terms of serving it or receiving from it. Indeed, when every cell played its part, the
body as a whole would be healthy, vigorous, radiant and able to respond to all the demands
made on it. The Baha’is were a global community, an organic collectivity, united in its
aspirations and methods, seeking assistance and confirmation from the same divine source,
and illumined ‘with the conscious knowledge of its unity’. In such a body, the participation of
every individual Baha’i was of the ‘utmost importance’, constituting ‘a source of power and
vitality’ that was as yet unknown to the world. It was doubtful that every single Baha’i had as
yet found his or her ‘fullest satisfaction in the life of the Cause’, but as the Faith pressed on
towards its maturity the situation would develop in which ‘every soul’ lived for the Cause,
receiving from it health and assurance, together with ‘the overflowing bounties of
Bahá’u’lláh’ which were diffused through his divinely-ordained order (MU#19.4).
Having enthusiastically started to work for the expansion of the Faith (the other objective of
the Nine Year Plan), the Baha’is should now turn with equal enthusiasm to ‘the requirements
of universal participation’. Not everyone was called upon to give public talks or serve on
Baha’i administrative bodies, but, in addition to engaging in teaching the Faith to others,
every Baha’i could pray, fight his or her own spiritual battles – trying to make their own
‘inner life and private character’ mirror forth the principles of the Faith, and contribute to the
Baha’i funds. If each and every Baha’i carried out these three ‘spiritual duties’, there would
be an astonishing ‘accession of power’ experienced by the community as a whole. The ‘real
secret’ here lay in `Abdu’l-Bahá’s frequently expressed wish that the Baha’is should love
each other, offer each other constant encouragement, work together, and be ‘as one soul in
one body’. Every individual would then receive ‘spiritual health and vitality’ from the

community as a whole – itself an illumined spiritualized body (MU#19.2, 19.5-6).
The House turned again to the role of the individual in its Ridván message in 1966, linking
the ‘inescapable’ duties of the Baha’is to the worsening plight of humanity. At a time when
there was a ‘growing hunger for spiritual truth’, the Baha’is should take up the task that had
been given them of ministering to the crying needs of an afflicted world. This was their
opportunity. In this context, ‘(t)he challenge to the individual Baha’i was ‘never-ending’. This
was true in ‘every field of service’, but most particularly in teaching, when the longed-for era
of Baha’i expansion seemed to have arrived. The Baha’is should remember that Shoghi
Effendi had written: that if they neglected their mission then ‘others’ would take it up
(MU#34.15; BA 66).
Again, in December 1970, the House stated that universal participation ‘in every aspect of the
Faith’ – contributing to the Baha’i funds; teaching the Faith; deepening; living the Baha’i life;
administering the affairs of the Baha’i community; and, most of all, the life of prayer and
devotion to God – would endow the community with such strength that it would be able to
overcome ‘the forces of spiritual disintegration’ that were ‘engulfing the non-Baha’i world’,
and itself become ‘an ocean of oneness’ that would ‘cover the face of the planet’ (MU#87.7).
2. Living the Baha’i life. One fundamental aspect of universal participation was for the
Baha’is to try to live lives of virtuous conduct and devoted service to the Baha’i Cause: to
‘live the life’.156
The need for such behaviour was much emphasized in the Baha’i writings, and was explicitly
linked to the progress of the Faith, as in an oft-quoted passage from the writings of Shoghi
Effendi in 1924 (cited by the House of Justice in April 1964) that ‘One thing and only one
thing will unfailingly and alone secure the undoubted triumph of this sacred Cause, namely,
the extent to which our own inner life and private character mirror forth ... the splendour of
those eternal principles proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh’ (BA 66).
The importance of this principle of the Faith was reiterated by the House on a number of
occasions, as in its initial announcement of the Nine Year Plan in October 1963, when it
advised the Baha’is that in preparation fo the forthcoming plan, they should ‘deepen in
spiritual understanding’ and ‘show to the world a mature, responsible, fundamentally assured
and happy way of life, far removed from the passions, prejudices and distractions of present
day society’. This could be accomplished by ‘constant study’ of the ‘life-giving’ Baha’i
scriptures combined with ‘dedicated service’. Reliant only upon God, the Baha’is could
promote his cause and establish the divine kingdom on Earth. Only thus could they prove
their love for the founders of the Faith, prove the truth of their divine mission, and
demonstrate the validity of their sacrifices (MU#6.10).
The challenge to the individual. Again, at Ridván 1966, when discussing the ‘inescapable’
duties of the Baha’is to ministering to the crying needs of an afflicted world, the House bade
the Baha’is to ponder Bahá’u’lláh’s admonition to them that as they were the first to be
156. One of the earliest uses of the phrase seems to be in a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi on 14
February 1925. See 2CC: 3.

recreated by the divine spirit in this day, their behaviour towards their neighbours should be
such ‘as to manifest clearly the signs of the one true God’ (GWB 316-7). In a world in which
humanity was plunging ever deeper into a condition so terrible that Bahá’u’lláh had refused
to describe it, the Baha’is had to be distinctively different, and to increasingly ‘stand out as
assured, oriented and fundamentally happy beings’, conforming to a standard of behaviour
which directly contrasted with ‘the ignoble and amoral attitudes of modern society’. The
Baha’is’ behaviour should be the source of their ‘honor, strength and maturity’. The Baha’i
community as a whole should be distinguished by its ‘vigor, unity and discipline’. The wider
society was ‘doomed’, and during the ‘turbulent years’ ahead, it would be subject to
‘increasing confusion’ and ‘despair’. In this context, the contrast between the Baha’i
community and the wider society (with its ‘feverish tempo’) would grow more marked,
drawing ‘the eyes of humanity to the sanctuary of Bahá’u’lláh’s world-redeeming Faith’
(MU#34.16).
Again, at Ridván 1969, the House referred to the vital importance of every Baha’i constantly
endeavouring to conform their own inner lives to the ‘glorious ideal’ which had been set for
human beings by Bahá’u’lláh and had been exemplified in the life of `Abdu'l-Bahá. In
particular, `Abdu'l-Bahá provided a ‘divine example’ of a life that was an ‘inevitable and
spontaneous expression’ of his inner self. His actions were not based on ‘a pattern of
expediency’. Similarly, Baha’is would only be able to model themselves on his example if
their own inner spirits became the ‘wellsprings’ of their ‘attitudes and actions’. The
‘disciplines’ of prayer and the practice of the Baha’i teachings would help their inner spirits
to mature and grow. Thus would they ‘promote the accomplishment of God’s purpose’,
ensure the triumph of his Faith, and not only gain victory at the end of the Plan in 1973, but
carry the community forward to ‘the as yet unapprehended vistas of the Most Great Peace’
(MU#68.13).
The Pattern of Baha’i Life. As another example of the House’s concern with this principle,
in November 1972, it arranged for the British Baha’i assembly to send one copy of an old
compilation of theirs – The Pattern of Baha’i Life (1948) – to each of the other national
assemblies in the world. The House also sent out an addendum of its own from the writings
of Shoghi Effendi to accompany the British compilation, asking the assemblies to use the
materials to help their Baha’is to develop a ‘fuller understanding of what it means to be a
Baha’i’ and guide and assist them ‘to pattern their personal lives’ in accordance with the
Baha’i teachings.157 The national assemblies were to use the material as they best thought fit
(e.g. purchasing and distributing copies of the British compilation and mimeographing or
printing the House’s addendum, or preparing a compilation of their own), but whatever they
did, it was important that ‘the moral and spiritual admonitions’ contained in the Baha’i
writings were widely disseminated amongst the Baha’is and properly understood and that the
Baha’is were encouraged to follow these teachings. The Baha’is should remember Shoghi
Effendi’s admonition that the Baha’i Faith would only triumph to the extent to which the
Baha’is own inner life and private character mirrored the eternal principles of Bahá’u’lláh
(MU#122, citing BA 66).
3. Freedom from prejudice. In July 1972, the House addressed all national assemblies on
157. For a revised (1990) version of the House’s compilation see 2CC: 1-27.

the subject of prejudice. The fundamental purpose of the Baha’i Faith was ‘the realization of
the organic unity of the entire human race’, and Bahá’u’lláh had taught that prejudice in its
various forms destroyed ‘the edifice of humanity’. It was necessary then for Baha’is to
eliminate all forms of prejudice from their lives. For the House, this included prejudices of
race, religion, political party, nation, tribe, class, culture, education and age. To be a Baha’i
entailed not allowing prejudice in any form to be manifest in one’s life. One’s outer life
should mirror one’s beliefs, and one should endeavour ‘with a fierce determination’ to
eliminate any defect from one’s thoughts and acts. If Baha’is followed this teaching, their
lives would be distinguished from their ‘non-Baha’i associates’. Baha’is should not allow
fear of rejection by others to deter them from their goal of living a Baha’i life. Other people
should be able to see that the Baha’is lived their lives according to the tenets of their faith and
did not follow ‘each passing whim or current fashion’. Baha’i institutions should inculcate
this principle ‘in the hearts’ of the Baha’is through every means at their disposal – including
Summer schools, conferences, institutes and study classes (MU#117.2-3).
Living a Baha’i life became increasingly important as the Faith spread worldwide, the
number of Baha’is increased and Baha’i institutions became ‘more perfected’. The Baha’is
should mirror forth the teachings of the Faith each day in their lives, so that their acts,
attitudes and words became a magnet which drew sincere people to the Baha’i teachings. To
allow prejudice of any kind to enter one’s life would mean that one was ‘guilty before God’
of causing a setback to the progress and ‘real growth’ of the Faith (MU#117.1, 117.3).
4. Tribalism. In a long letter to African national spiritual assemblies in February 1970
reminding the Baha’is of the need to avoid involvement in party politics (see below), the
House also dealt with the topic of tribalism as a particular difficulty which faced African
Baha’is at the present time: its comments readily relate to any ‘tribal’-type conflict anywhere
in the world.
The House noted that tribal tensions were now increasing across the African continent, and
the Baha’is might therefore find themselves not only living in an atmosphere characterized by
intertribal fear, mistrust and hatred, but also themselves come under pressure from their non-
Baha’i fellows to give their first loyalty to their own tribe and aggressively pursue its
interests. This presented them with an immediate challenge because as Baha’is they would be
‘convinced that mankind is one and must be viewed as one entity’ (MU#77.7-11).
The Baha’i attitude towards tribal identity and the like was straightforward: Baha’is could be
attached to their tribes and clans just as they could be to their families and their nations, but
they could not allow these attachments to conflict with their ‘wider loyalty’ to humanity as a
whole. Thus, as Shoghi Effendi had indicated, the Faith advocated ‘unity in diversity’. It did
not seek to suppress diversity based on ethnicity, history, language and tradition, but called
for such differences to be subordinated to ‘the imperative claims of a united world’
(MU#77.8-9).
At a time of increasing tribal tension, therefore, the Baha’is should be vigilant lest – God
forbid – ‘any trace’ of prejudice or hatred entered their midst. Their endeavour should be to
bring into the Faith ‘an ever larger representation of the various tribes in each country’, and,
at the same time, through a ‘complete lack of prejudice’ and the love which they had both for

their fellow Baha’is and for their non-Baha’i neighbours, demonstrate the power of the ‘Word
of God’ to their countrymen. In this way, they would provide – for the scrutiny of their
national leaders – ‘a shining example of a unified community’ which worked together ‘in full
concord and harmony’ and which demonstrated ‘a hope that is attainable’ and a pattern that
could be emulated (MU#77.10). The Baha’is should call on their fellows to ‘forget and forgo
their differences and join them in obedience and service to God’s Holy Command in this
Day’ (MU#77.2).
The Baha’is should also remember that any discrimination against a tribal or other minority
group within the Baha’i community was a violation of the spirit of the Faith. It was an
obligation to protect the just interests of minorities within the community and to ensure that
they were able to enjoy equal rights and privileges. Indeed, in Baha’i administrative matters,
minority group members were to be accorded priority. This was a ‘noble standard’ and the
Baha’is should never deviate from it, even if ‘the course of events or public opinion’ brought
pressure to bear on them because of it (MU#77.11).
As in other matters, the principles of the Faith regarding tribalism were clear. If the Baha’is
were uncertain what the correct course of action should be in specific situations, they should
consult with their national spiritual assembly as to how the general principles should be
applied. The House hoped and prayed that the national assemblies, acting in ‘full
collaboration’ with the Continental Boards of Counsellors and the Auxiliary Boards, would
act as ‘loving shepherds to the divine flock’, and protect the Baha’is from ‘the evil
influences’ which surrounded them, guiding them ‘in the true and right path’, and assisting
them to attain ‘a continuously deeper understanding’, ‘a firmer conviction’, and ‘a more
consuming love’ for the Baha’i Cause which they were ‘so devotedly seeking to promote and
serve’ (MU#77.12-13).

16. Youth.
1. Youth activities. Young people – mostly young men in their twenties – played an
important role in the emergence of Babism in the 1840s, and to a lesser extent in the
subsequent development of the Baha’i religion. The category (and concept) of ‘Baha’i youth’
only seems to have emerged in the 1930s, however.158 Specific developments at that time
included the establishment of a national Baha’i youth committee for the United States and
Canada and of local youth groups in London and Baghdad (all in 1933), and the institution of
a henceforth regular section on “Youth activities in the Bahá’í world” in the biennial Bahá’í
World volumes, commencing with that for the 1932-34 period (BW 5: 370-88). Activities
specifically involving youth thus became an established part of Baha’i community life and
teaching endeavour, even though their role seems to have remained overshadowed by other
Baha’i activities. This situation changed in the 1960s, and the period covered by this book.
There is as yet no proper study of the extent and role of youth activity in the various Baha’i
communities of the world during the 1963-73 period,159 but it is evident that there were major
increases in the number of Baha’i youth in many countries at this time, and that these large-
scale influxes of new Baha’is made a significant contribution to Baha’i activity worldwide.160
Much of this activity formed part of wider community endeavour, but many activities were
also organized specifically for youth, including youth teaching teams, projects and singing
groups. Specific youth teaching plans were also formulated in some communities, and in
many parts of the world, Baha’i clubs at universities and colleges were established and youth
magazines and bulletins published. Many youth also became international travelling teachers,
and the “greater percentage”of the 3,553 international pioneers who served during the Nine
Year Plan were youth (BW 15: 326).
Organizationally, national youth committees played an important role, and those national
assemblies which had not already done so now appointed such bodies. A large number of
158. There is no precise definition of Baha’i youth in universal use. In terms of Baha’i membership and
administration, the important ages are 15 (when an individual is deemed to have attained spiritual maturity
and is therefore subject to adult religious duties such as obligatory prayer and fasting) and 21 (when an
individual can receive his or her voting rights and take part in the Baha’i electoral system and be eligible
for election to spiritual assemblies). The 15-21 age group has therefore tended to become the ‘core
constituency’ of Baha’i youth, but in sociological terms, those a little older or younger easily constitute part
of the same group. Conscious of the modern dislike of many younger teenagers to be labelled as children,
some Baha’i communities have invented a category of ‘junior youth’ (those aged 13 and 14 in the UK). In
general, individuals aged 21 and over remain ‘youth’ for as long as they wish to define themselves as such
and continue to participate in Baha’i youth activities.
159. On youth activities during this period see BW 14: 259-76; 15: 326-47.
160. For example, some 60 percent of those who became Baha’is in Ireland in [Baha’i year] 1964-65 were
youth, and many of the most “important and difficult goals” of the Nine Year Plan in Ireland were
accomplished by them (BW 14: 272). Again, there was a 35 percent increase in the number of Baha’i youth
in the USA in 1966-67 – compared to a 13 percent increase for the community as a whole (BW 14: 259n).
Other indications of the importance of youth are provided by sample surveys of Baha’i communities in
Britain and Los Angeles in 1979: the number of people in the 15-30 age group being respectively 46.6 and
39.8 percent (out of totals of 148 and 118). By contrast, a sample of North American Baha’is in 1936-37 (N
= 542) included only 13.8 percent in the 15-30 age group (Smith, ‘West’, p.40).

youth conferences were also held – presumably as a means of enthusing and directing youth
activity. Many countries which had not previously conducted national Baha’i youth
conferences now began to do so, including: Brazil (from 1965); the United States and
Honduras (both 1968); Australia and Japan (both 1969); Botswana (1970); and Pakistan
(1972). Several transnational conferences were organized, often under the aegis of the
appropriate Continental Board of Counsellors, including the first European continental youth
conference (in Madrid in 1969); the first regional conference for the South Pacific Islands (in
Apia in 1970); the first International Baha’i Youth Winter School in Salzburg (over the new
year period in 1970-71); the first regional conference for Western Asia (in New Delhi in
1971); and the first Youth Summer School for Southern Africa (in Swaziland in 1972). In
Latin America, four separate international conferences were organized in various parts of the
region (Paramaribo, Surinam; Cali, Columbia; Rosario del Tala, Argentina; and Puebla
City/Acatepec, Mexico, 1972-73) (BW 14: 267; 15: 327-43).
2. The wider context. The reason for the relatively sudden and certainly dramatic increase in
the importance of Baha’i youth activities during the 1960s is undoubtedly related to
contemporary wider social trends, specifically the emergence of an assertive and semi-
autonomous youth culture, centred in the West but exerting an attraction to teenagers and
young adults in many parts of the world. In part a matter of cultural expression, particularly
in music, appearance and dress, the emergent ‘youth culture’ was also linked to political
dissent and protest in several countries. Multi-faceted in nature, the new youth culture mixed
youthful exuberance and alienated rebellion against traditional norms with social concerns.
Again, there was a new openness to experimentation, not only in matters of sexual behaviour
and drug use, but also in adhesion to unconventional forms of religiosity. In this context,
relatively large numbers of young people became Baha’is in a number of countries and the
Baha’i youth as a group began to play a more significant role in the development of the
Baha’i communities in many parts of the world.
3. ‘Three fields of service’: the message of June 1966. Clearly wishing to canalize the
energies of the increasing numbers of young Baha’is, the Universal House of Justice chose to
address two general messages to ‘the Baha’i youth in every land’, the first (“Three fields of
service’) dated 10 June 1966, and the second (‘Pioneering and education’) dated 9 October
1968.
3.1. The importance of youth. In its message of June 1966, the House noted that the
increasing achievements of Baha’i youth in “country after country” in advancing the work of
the Nine Year Plan were arousing the admiration of their fellow Baha’is. This was as it should
be. Indeed, throughout the history of the Faith young people had played a ‘vital part’ in its
promulgation. Thus, the Báb himself had only been twenty-five years old when he declared
his mission and many of his inner circle of disciples, the Letters of the Living, had been even
younger; `Abdu’l-Bahá had shouldered heavy responsibilities in the service of his father
whilst still a young man from the days of the Iraq exile onwards;161 Mírzá Mihdí, the ‘Purest
161. According to Baha’i tradition, `Abdu’l-Bahá was born on 23 May 1844. This would have made him 8 years
old at the time of his father’s arrest and imprisonment in the Black Pit of Tehran and 12 when Bahá’u’lláh
returned to Baghdad from Kurdistan. From this time onwards he seems to have begun to start assisting his

Branch’ (1848-70), a younger son of Bahá’u’lláh, had offered up his life as a sacrifice that the
Baha’is might ‘be quickened’ and ‘all that dwell on earth be united’ at the age of 22 (GPB
188); Shoghi Effendi had still been a student at Oxford when his grandfather died and he was
‘called to the throne of his guardianship’;162 and many of the pioneers during the Ten Year
Crusade (the ‘Knights of Bahá’u’lláh’) had been young people. It should therefore never be
imagined that an individual had to wait until he or she was of mature years before rendering
‘invaluable services’ to the Cause (MU#37.1).
As to the present generation of Baha’i youth and their successors, the House noted the
opportunities which were available to them and outlined the ‘fields of service’ which they
could pursue.
Baha’i youth, like all young people, were likely to make many decisions which would set the
course of their future lives. This was when they would probably choose their career, complete
their education, begin to earn their own living, marry and start to raise their own families.
Most importantly of all, it was during their youthful years when a person’s mind was at its
most questing and the spiritual values which would guide his or her future life would be
adopted. These general factors presented Baha’i youth with their ‘greatest opportunities’ – as
well as their greatest challenges and tests. The opportunities were to ‘truly apprehend’ the
teachings of the Faith and give then to their contemporaries. The challenges were ‘to
overcome the pressures of the world’ and ‘to provide leadership’ for their own and
succeeding generation. The tests were to enable them ‘to exemplify in their lives the high
moral standards set forth in the Baha’i Writings’. As Shoghi Effendi had stated, it was the
Baha’i youth who could contribute particularly decisively to the virility, purity and ‘driving
force’ of the Baha’i community; and upon them depended both the ‘future orientation’ of the
community’s destiny and ‘the complete unfoldment’ of its divinely-endowed potentialities
(MU#37.2, citing ADJ 22).
Apart from these general characteristics of youthfulness, young people in their teens and
twenties now faced a ‘special challenge’ and were able to ‘seize an opportunity’ that was
‘unique’ in the whole of human history. They were living in a time of change, both within the
Faith and in the wider environing society. During the Ten Year Crusade, the Faith had
expanded ‘with the speed of lightening’ over the world’s major territories and islands and
enormously increased its manpower and resources; entry of new converts had occurred ‘by
troops’; and the structure of the Baha’i administrative order had been completed. The result
was that the Faith had become ‘firmly established in the world’. A further process of change
was now beginning, in which the Baha’i religion was ‘perceptibly emerging’ from the
obscurity which had surrounded it for most of its history and was ‘arising to challenge the
outworn concepts of a corrupt society’ and to ‘proclaim the solution for the agonizing
problems of a disordered humanity’. More than this was involved, however, and both the
condition of the world and the place of the Faith in it would change ‘immeasurably’ during
the near future, in what was ‘a highly critical phase’ in an era of transition (MU#37.3).
father, eventually as a secretary and copyist, and had already penned a well-received treatise (a
commentary on a Quranic verse) before the family left Baghdad in 1863 – when he was aged 18. By the
time the family arrived in Syria in 1868, on the final stage of their exile, he was 24 years old and already
responsible for the practical arrangements for the entire Baha’i exile group.
162. Shoghi Effendi was aged 24 when he became Guardian.

3.2. The three fields of service. Young people now faced three ‘great fields of service’ in
which they could simultaneously remake ‘the character of human society’ whilst at the same
time preparing themselves for their careers (MU#37.4).
(1) First was their study of the Baha’i teachings, the spiritualization of their lives, and the
forming of their characters according to Baha’i standards (Their ‘inner life’ should grow
‘through prayer, meditation, service and study of the teachings’). This constituted the
foundation of all other accomplishments. As the moral standards of environing societies in all
parts of the world collapsed and decayed, the Baha’is should increasingly stand out ‘as pillars
of righteousness and forbearance’. A Baha’i’s life should be characterized by truthfulness and
decency. He or she should ‘walk uprightly’ amongst others, dependent only upon God, but
linked ‘by bonds of love and brotherhood’ with all human beings, simultaneously detached
from ‘the loose standards’, ‘decadent theories’, ‘frenetic experimentation’ and ‘desperation of
present-day society’, whilst at the same time looking upon his or her neighbours ‘with a
bright and friendly face’, acting as a ‘beacon light’ and ‘haven’ for those who would emulate
the Baha’i’s ‘strength of character’ and ‘assurance of soul’ (MU#37.5, 37.9).
(2) The second field of service was teaching the Faith, particularly to their fellow youth. This
was intimately linked to the first. Like other young people, youthful Baha’is had not yet
acquired the responsibilities of a family or of a long-established home or job. As such, it was
much easier for them to choose where they would live, study or work. In the wider world,
youth travelled around seeking amusement, education and experiences. For their part,
youthful Baha’is could harness this mobility into service for mankind and the Faith, choosing
where to live or travel and what work to do on this basis. Again, they should remember that
amongst the non-Baha’i youth they met were ‘some of the most open and seeking minds in
the world’, and as such ready to learn of the Faith (MU#37.6).
(3) The third field of service was preparation for their later years. Baha’i parents had an
obligation to educate their children, and it was likewise the duty of the children to become
educated and learn a trade or profession, so that they in turn could earn a living and support
their families. For a Baha’i youth, such preparation was itself a service to God. They should
also think in what ways they could best develop their own ‘native abilities’ for service to
humanity and the Baha’i Cause (for example, as farmers, teachers, doctors, artisans, or
musicians). The Baha’i community needed men and women of many skills and qualifications,
particularly as it grew in size and in the extent and diversity of its involvement in the life of
wider society. Again, preparation for a career could also be combined with teaching the Faith
and pioneering (MU#37.7).
3.3. Other matters. Whatever they might choose to study, Baha’i youth had the advantage of
being the recipients of God’s revelation for the present age. Because this revelation shone
‘like a searchlight’ on so many aspects of human life and knowledge and of the problems
which baffled modern thinkers, Baha’i students at school or university might often find
themselves ‘in the unusual and slightly embarrassing position of having a more profound
insight into a subject than their instructors’. Again, Baha’is had to learn, at an earlier age than
most, to weigh the information they received rather than to accept it blindly. With this
attitude, they should develop the ability ‘to learn everything’ from their teachers, showing
‘proper humility’, whilst at the same time, relating everything that they learned to the Baha’i

teachings so that they would be enabled ‘to sort out the gold from the dross of human error’
(MU#37.8).
Alongside these fields of service, Baha’i youth should take part in the life of the Baha’i
community as a whole, helping to promote a society in which all generations – the elderly,
middle-aged, youth and children – were ‘fully integrated’ and made up ‘an organic whole’. In
so doing, they should refuse to carry over the generational antagonisms and mistrust which
bedevilled modern society and demonstrate ‘the healing and life-giving nature of their
religion’. Again, the Baha’i youth had the opportunity to learn the practice of Baha’i
administration through participation in conferences, Summer schools and nineteen day feasts
and through service on committees. Thus they could learn the ‘wonderful’ but difficult skill
of Baha’i consultation – in which all egoism and unruly passions were subjugated, and
frankness, freedom of thought, courtesy, openness of mind, and wholehearted acquiescence in
majority decisions were all cultivated. By demonstrating the efficiency, vigour, and ‘access of
unity’ which arose out of true consultation, they could trace ‘new paths of human corporate
action’. At the same time, they would show ‘the futility of partisanship, lobbying, debate,
secret diplomacy and unilateral action’ which characterized modern affairs (MU#37.9).
The youth should consider all these matters, both individually and collectively, consulting
about them and taking steps to deepen their knowledge of the Baha’i teachings, develop their
characters in emulation of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s life, and acquiring those skills which would enable
them to best serve both God, the Baha’i Cause and humanity (MU#37.10).
4. ‘Pioneering and education’: the letter of October 1968. Over two years after its first
general letter to Baha’i youth, the House sent out a second (9 October 1968). It noted that one
of the ‘many remarkable advances’ which had been made in the fortunes of the Faith over the
previous two years had been the enrollment of ‘a growing army’ of young Baha’is who were
eager to serve the Faith. The zeal, enthusiasm, steadfastness and devotion of these young men
and women ‘in every land’ was a source of joy and assurance (MU#67.1).
The House members themselves had had a chance to observe at first hand the qualities of
‘good character, selfless service and determined effort’ exemplified in the youthful volunteer
helpers who had served at the Baha’i World Centre during the recent mass pilgrimage, and
the House expressed its gratitude for the example they had shown as well as their ‘loving
assistance’.163 Many of these youth helpers had offered to pioneer, but over and again they
were perplexed by the question of whether to finish their education before pioneering.164 No
doubt every young Baha’i who wanted to dedicate their life to the advancement of the Faith
asked themselves the same question (MU#67.2-3).
163. The House of Justice invited 60 Baha’i youth volunteers to help in work related to the mass pilgrimage of
August 1968 – registration, guiding the pilgrims at the Baha’i holy places, etc. The volunteers came from
Iran, Turkey, Western Europe (Britain, France, Germany, Ireland), Ethiopia and the United States. (BW 15:
327).
164. The House was placing great emphasis on the urgent need for pioneers and travelling teachers at this time,
as in its message to the Palermo Conference (August 1968, see MU#63.9) and its general letter to the
Baha’is of the world on 8 September 1968 (MU#66).

There was no ‘stock answer’ to this question which applied to all situations. Circumstances
varied from one person to another, and Shoghi Effendi himself had given different answers to
different individuals. Each individual had to decide for themselves how they could best serve
the Faith. Nevertheless, there were a number of general factors which should be considered:
-1. When one became a Baha’i, one should dedicate one’s whole life to the progress
of the Baha’i Cause, with every talent or faculty being ‘ultimately committed to this
overriding life objective’. Choices about education and pioneering should be made within this
framework. Thus, by continuing one’s education one might later become a more effective
pioneer. Alternatively, the present urgent need for pioneers, ‘whilst possibilities for teaching
are still open’, might outweigh the advantages of further education in increasing pioneering
effectiveness. It was not an easy decision, and often it was the spirit which prompted the
pioneering offer which was more important than the individual’s academic attainments.
-2. One’s liability to military service might be a factor in the timing of a pioneer offer.
-3. Outstanding obligations to others, including those who were dependent on one for
support, might have to be discharged.
-4. It might be possible to combine a pioneering project with a programme of
academic study, or a period of pioneering might be regarded as a useful gap in one’s
education, enabling one to return later to education with a more mature outlook.
-5. One might be particularly qualified to fill a specific and urgent pioneer goal for
which there were no other offers.
-6. The need for pioneers would remain for many generations, and there would
undoubtedly be many future calls for service [so that an individual could wait].
-7. The principle of consultation applied. One might be obligated to consult others –
such as one’s parents, one’s local or national assembly, or a pioneering committee.
-8. One should pray and meditate on what one’s course of action should be. Indeed,
this was often the only way in which the answer would come. In this, one should remember
the Baha’i principle of ‘sacrificial service’ and the ‘unfailing promises’ which Bahá’u’lláh
had ‘ordained’ for those who arose to serve his Cause.
The House members were ‘mindful’ of the many important decisions which Baha’i youth had
to make ‘as they tread the path of service to Bahá’u’lláh’, and prayed that all would be
divinely guided and attract divine blessings (MU#67.3-4).
5. Further comments by the House. In its letter of greetings to the European Baha’i Youth
Conference at Fiesch in Switzerland in July-August 1971, the House referred to the “course
of history” as having brought the present generation of young Baha’is “an unprecedented
opportunity and challenge”. Around the world all youth shared a common rejection of the
“old world”. Unlike their non-Baha’i contemporaries, however, Baha’i youth had something
to put in its place – Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order. The Baha’i youth had already demonstrated

that they were “fully capable of meeting the challenge” which “evolution” had placed before
them. They should also consider that the more they understood “the purpose of Bahá’u’lláh”
and “the method” by which he would achieve his purpose, the greater would be his success
(BW 15: 336).
The House also made reference to youth in its Ridván message of 1972, describing the recent
surge of the Baha’i youth into the vanguard of the teaching and proclamation work as being
‘one of the most encouraging and significant trends in the Faith’ (MU#110.9). Again, at
Ridván 1973, at the close of the Nine Year Plan, the House identified the ‘advance of youth to
the forefront of the teaching work’ as one of the most ‘portentous developments’ which had
occurred during the Plan. This ‘upsurge’ had been ‘heartwarming’, and had changed ‘the face
of the teaching work’. Previously ‘impenetrable barriers’ had been broken down or
overpassed by teams of eager, dedicated and prayerful young Baha’is who had presented the
divine message in ways that were ‘acceptable to their own generation’, and from this
beginning, the message had spread – and was still spreading – ‘throughout the social
structure’. The entire Baha’i world had been ‘thrilled’ by this development. Baha’i youth who
had rejected ‘the values and standards of the old world’ were ‘eager to learn and adapt
themselves to the standards of Bahá'u'lláh’, and so offer the Baha’i message to fill the gap
‘left by the abandonment of the old order’ (MU#128.12-13).
6. Music and culture. Closely associated with the increasing role of youth in the Baha’i
community was the greater emphasis that was placed on music, both as an element in Baha’i
community life and as an increasingly important teaching medium. The latter included both
“musical firesides” by various singers and instrumentalists and a variety of singing groups.165
One of the most well-know of these groups was the “California Victory Chorus” organized in
1966, and similar groups were soon established in a number of other countries. Young,
enthusiastic, and often interracial, such groups readily became “musical ambassadors” for the
Baha’i community to the wider world, gaining media attention, appearing in formal concerts
and public places, and in “a dissonant age” conveying a “message of hope, joy and
confidence” (BW 14: 275). The House of Justice responded enthusiastically to these
developments, encouraging Baha’i institutions to help promote them, and issuing a
compilation of Baha’i writings on music in March 1972 (2CC 73-82; MU#107). Also of note
were a few prominent musicians who publicly announced that they were Baha’is and
sometimes referred to the Baha’i teachings during their performances – most famously the
jazz trumpeter John Birks “Dizzy” Gillespie, but also the American pop duos England Dan
and John Ford Coley and Jimmy Seals and Dash Crofts (BW 15: 344; CEBF 164, 256).
The large-scale influx of youth into the Faith also led to cultural changes in a number of
national Baha’i communities – perhaps particularly noticeably in the formerly rather staid
communities of Europe, North America and Australasia, where the new youth converts
included those whose dress and demeanour were more unconventional, a development which
led to a greater diversity of cultural styles within many communities.166
165. For a brief overview see BW 14: 272-75; 15: 343-46.
166. There is a marked difference in the appearance of the Baha’i youth pictured in the 1963-68 and 1968-73
volumes of Bahá’í World, with those in the earlier volume looking conventionally respectable – with many
of the young men wearing neckties, whilst many of those in the later volume are clearly less conventional

in dress and, in the case of the men, hair length (BW 14: 261-75; 15: 325-47). In retrospect, the comment
by the editor of the 1963-68 volume of Bahá’í World which included “excesses in deportment and dress”
amongst the evidences of “the wave of immorality and permissiveness” that was sweeping through the
youth of the world and to which Baha’is were opposed (BW 14: 259) seems rather dated.

17. Law and administration.
Contents:
A. QUESTIONS OF BAHA’I LAW.
B. MATTERS OF BAHA’I ADMINISTRATION.
A. QUESTIONS OF BAHA’I LAW.
Although empowered to enact new Baha’i laws in the light of the changing circumstances of
the world, during its first decade, the Universal House of Justice seems to have largely
confined itself to reiterating principles already enunciated in the Baha’i writings, particularly
those of Shoghi Effendi.167 Particular issues which were examined were sexuality and the
need for obedience to the law of God in one’s personal life; Baha’i holy days; non-
involvement in politics; and self-defence.
5. Sexuality and obedience to the law of God in one’s personal life. In February 1973, the
House sent a copy of part of a letter it had recently sent to an individual Baha’i to all national
assemblies as the letter judged to be of general interest. It concerned the need for obedience
to Baha’i law, particularly in matters of sexual behaviour (MU#126).168
5.1. The law of God. The House stated that ‘our spiritual lives’ were governed with laws
which were directly comparable to the laws which governed a human being’s physical life –
just as when the well-being of the body depended upon supplying it with certain foods and
maintaining it within a certain temperature range. These spiritual laws were the laws revealed
in each age by the successive Manifestations of God, and obedience to them was of vital
importance if each human being was to develop ‘properly and harmoniously’. Obedience to
these laws also impacted on humanity in general, The development of the individual and of
the wider society were interdependent. An individual who violated the spiritual laws would
cause injury both to his own development and to that of the environing society. Similarly, the
condition of a society had a direct effect on the condition of the individuals who lived within
it (MU#126.2).
It was the task of the Baha’is to obey ‘the law of God’ in their own lives, and gradually win
the acceptance of the rest of humanity to this law as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. This was a
challenge, particularly in present-day society, when it was difficult to follow the laws of
Bahá’u’lláh because the standards of the Faith were so much at variance with accepted social
practices. Nevertheless, there were some laws which were ‘so fundamental’ to the ‘healthy
functioning’ of society that they had to be upheld regardless of the circumstances. In
recognition of human frailty, some Baha’i laws would be applied only gradually, but these too
had to be followed once they had been applied. Only by following Baha’i law could society
be reformed and prevented from sinking into an ‘ever worsening condition’ (MU#126.3).
For the Baha’is, the purpose of the present life was to prepare one’s soul for the afterlife. One
167. In this regard, it does not seem to have made much distinction between general letters penned personally by
Shoghi Effendi and letters to individual Baha’is, many of which were written on Shoghi’s behalf by one of
his secretaries.
168. Bahá’í World includes this letter in the section on “Youth activity” (BW 15: 348-51).

had to learn to control and direct one’s ‘animal impulses’ and not be a slave to them. Life in
this world consisted of ‘a succession of tests and achievements’. Sometimes one fell short,
but at other times one made new spiritual advances. The course sometimes seemed very hard,
but it was evident that, time and again, the individual who steadfastly obeyed the law of
Bahá’u’lláh, no matter how hard it seemed, grew spiritually, whilst the person who
compromised obedience to the law for the sake of ‘his own apparent happiness’ was
eventually seen to have been ‘following a chimera’ – not attaining the happiness he sought,
whilst at the same time retarding his spiritual advance and perhaps bringing new problems
upon himself (MU#126.4).
By upholding Baha’i law ‘in the face of all difficulties’ one both strengthened one’s own
character and influenced others. A common example of this was obedience to the Baha’i law
which required parental consent for marriage. It was not uncommon for consent to be
withheld by non-Baha’i parents for reasons of bigotry or racial prejudice, but over and again,
the parents became profoundly influenced by their children’s firm obedience to the Baha’i
law, and eventually not only gave their consent to the marriage but came to have a closer
relationship with their child (MU#126.5-6).
5.2. Sexual behaviour. Applying this principle of obedience to divinely ordained law, the
House of Justice reiterated some of the Baha’i teachings regarding sexual behaviour.
-(i) Chastity. The Baha’i teaching on sexual intercourse was very clear: it was only
permissible between a married couple. Baha’is should therefore be chaste before marriage
and faithful within it (MU#126.8). In this regard, whilst marriage was highly desirable for
Baha’is (in part as a means of channelling sexual impulses), and Bahá'u'lláh had strongly
recommended that they marry, it was not ‘the central purpose of life’. If a person had to wait
a long time before finding a spouse, or if they remained single, it did not mean that they
would be unable to fulfil their life’s purpose (MU#126.9).
-(ii) Homosexuality. According to the Baha’i teachings, homosexuality was ‘a distortion’ of
the individual’s nature which should be controlled and overcome. Like transsexuality, it was a
‘sexual problem’ which might have a medical aspect, in which case medical assistance should
certainly be sought. In any case, an individual should never reconcile themselves to such a
condition, but should struggle against it. This might be hard to do, but so might the struggle
of a heterosexual person to control his or her desires. In both cases – as in much else in life –
the exercise of self-control itself had a beneficial effect on the progress of the soul
(MU#126.9).
5.3. Breeches of the law. Breach of the Baha’i laws on these matters would lead to sanctions,
and in the annex to his book of laws, Bahá’u’lláh stated that the one of the functions of the
Universal House of Justice would be to determine the punishments for different degrees of
offence against the prohibition on immorality. In this regard, the attitude of a spiritual
assembly was quite different from that of an individual. Whilst individuals were enjoined to
exercise ‘loving forgiveness’ and ‘forbearance’ in their relations with others, concerning
themselves with their own sins and not the sins of others, assemblies had a duty ‘to
administer the law of God with justice’ (MU#126.8).

6. Professional opinion. This letter on obedience to divine law is also interesting in its
attitude towards professional opinion in psychology. The individual to whom the House had
originally sent the letter was evidently a doctor who worked mostly as ‘a counsellor in family
and sexual problems’. As the House noted, most of the people who turned to this person for
counselling would not be Baha’is, and therefore would not accept the laws of Bahá’u’lláh,
nor see any reason to follow them. The counsellor would no doubt advise them according to
his or her own study and professional experience – ‘a whole fabric of concepts about the
human mind, its growth, development and proper functioning’. This was not sufficient,
however. As a Baha’i, the counsellor knew what Bahá’u’lláh had taught about the purpose,
nature, and proper conduct of human life. This was divinely revealed ‘and therefore true’. It
would inevitably take time before the counsellor had both studied the Baha’i teachings so that
he/she clearly understood them and also worked out how they modified his professional
concepts. Over time, he would ‘undoubtedly’ find his understanding of the human problems
involved changed and developed as the light of his growing knowledge of the Baha’i
teachings illumined the guidance of his own professional knowledge and judgement. By this
means, he would come to see ‘new and improved ways’ of helping the clients who came to
see him (MU#126.10).
Of course, it was not uncommon for a scientist to have reevaluate his or her thinking as a
result of discovering some new factor in the course of research that necessitated ‘a revolution
in thinking over a wide field of human endeavour’. In this context, psychology was still ‘a
very young and inexact science’, and as a consequence of this, Baha’i psychologists who
knew ‘the true pattern of human life’ from the Baha’i teachings would be able to make ‘great
strides’ in its development and at the same time ‘help profoundly in the alleviation of human
suffering’ (MU#126.10).
7. Baha’i holy days. Writing to national assemblies in January 1966, the House of Justice
drew attention to the importance of Baha’is observing the Baha’i law of abstaining from work
on nine Baha’i holy days. Shoghi Effendi had indicated that those who had independent
businesses or shops should certainly not work on those days, and that those who were
government employees should seek to be excused from work on religious grounds, or, if this
was not possible, at least seek to have the independent status of their religion recognized and
their right to observe their own holy days acknowledged. It was a matter of conscience, and
as such binding upon all Baha’is. Those with children should also seek to have them excused
from their school on such days. National assemblies should consider this question carefully,
bringing it to the attention of the Baha’is under their jurisdiction so that the ‘mass of
believers’ would uphold and observe these laws. The House also stated that obedience to this
law would facilitate and enhance the Nine Year Plan goal of gaining official recognition of
Baha’i holy days, a goal which the House linked directly to gaining the recognition by the
civil authorities of the Baha’i Faith as ‘an independent religion enjoying its own rights and
privileges’ (MU#29).
8. Politics. One topic of major and continuing concern to the House was the relationship of
Baha’is to politics. Shoghi Effendi had insisted that Baha’is should strictly avoid involvement
in political matters, banning Baha’i membership in political parties and the making of public
comments on current political disputes and personalities (LG 441-43, 445, 451; WOB 63-7,

198-9), and the House sought to reinforce the Baha’is’ adherence to this principle.
8.1. The first statement: the Baha’is’ task. The House’s first major statement on politics
came in December 1967 in the form of the circulation of a lengthy extract from a letter sent
in response to an individual’s question on this subject. The House’s view was that the
question of political involvement, and indeed of all Baha’i conduct in relation to ‘the
problems, sufferings and bewilderment’ of others should be seen in the light both of ‘God’s
purpose for mankind in this age’ and of the processes which God had set in motion for the
achievement of his purpose. Central here was the understanding that according to Bahá’u’lláh
the first essential step towards achieving ‘the peace and progress of mankind’ was its
unification’. Second was union of all the world’s peoples into ‘one universal Cause’ – the
religious message embodied in the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh. Only thus could ‘the revivification of
mankind and the curing of all its ills’ be achieved. Most people today, however, took a very
different point of view: not only did they not accept the Baha’i teachings, but they saw the
[preliminary] step of world unity as an ‘ultimate’ and ‘almost unobtainable goal’, and
concentrated instead on remedying the other ills from which humanity suffered – unaware
that these other ills were merely the ‘symptoms and side effects’ of the basic problem of
disunity (MU#55.2-4).
The major and minor plans. Shoghi Effendi had referred to two great processes as being at
work in the world. The first of these was the ‘great’ or ‘Major’ Plan of God’, which, working
through humanity as a whole, would ‘in God’s due time’ lead to the political unification of
the world – the ‘Lesser Peace’. The second process was the ‘Minor Plan’ that had been given
to the Baha’is to accomplish, and would eventuate in the establishment of the Kingdom of
God on Earth (the ‘Most Great Peace’). Under the first plan, humanity would become like a
united but lifeless body. The second process would cause life to be breathed into this lifeless
body, creating true spiritual unity. The first plan was ‘tumultuous in its progress’, ‘tearing
down barriers to world unity and forging humankind into a unified body in the fires of
suffering and experience’. It proceeded ‘mysteriously’, in ways directed by God alone. The
Minor Plan, by contrast, was clearly delineated, requiring the Baha’is to consciously labour to
erect the framework of the divine kingdom in accordance with the ‘detailed instructions’ and
‘continuing divine guidance’ which they received via the head of their religion [i.e. nowadays
through the Universal House of Justice] (MU#55.5-6).
According to this framework, the primary obligations of the Baha’is were clear – they were to
devote all their energies to the work of establishing the divine kingdom. This was their ‘most
important and fundamental work’, and there was no one else to undertake it. Thus, whilst
Baha’is should feel love and compassion for their fellow humans as well as anguish in the
face of their immediate sufferings, and indeed should help them ‘whenever’ the occasion
presented itself, they should not allow these feelings and activities to divert them from their
primary task. They should remember that whilst there were hundreds of thousands of people
who were ‘well-wishers of mankind’, who devoted their lives to relief work and charity, there
were only ‘a pitiful few’ to undertake the work which God wanted most: to accomplish the
spiritual awakening and regeneration of humanity.
When Baha’is involved themselves in politics, it was often because they believed that they
could somehow aid their fellows better by some activity outside the Faith. This was both a
mistaken belief and ‘a dangerous delusion’. Shoghi Effendi’s guidance was clear: at a time

when society itself was ‘rapidly disintegrating’ and formerly straightforward moral issues
were becoming ‘hopelessly confused’, the Baha’is could only help humankind by building up
the Faith as the only remedy for the world’s ills. It was not possible for the Baha’is [or
anyone else] to change ‘the faulty systems of the world’ from within. The Baha’is should
study the Guardian’s instructions on this matter (MU#55.9). The House also noted its
pragmatic concern that at a time when the world situation was very confused, ‘unwise’
political acts or statements by a Baha’i in one country could lead to grave setbacks to the
Faith there or elsewhere, even including loss of Baha’i lives (MU#55.1).
8.2. The second statement: the necessity of non-interference. The House returned t the
topic of politics in a lengthy letter to African national spiritual assemblies in February 1970.
The Baha’is should know that whilst the ‘Army of the Cause’, advancing to conquer ‘the
hearts of men’ at the bidding of Bahá’u’lláh, could never be defeated, its rate of advance
could be slowed down by ‘acts of unwisdom and ignorance’ on the part of the Baha’is
themselves. For this reason, the House wished to clarify some of the issues that seemed to
have ‘blurred the vision’ of some of the Baha’is in the past, causing them to commit ‘errors of
judgement’ which had ‘retarded the progress of the Faith in their countries’ (MU#77.3).
The most important issue of concern was a lack of appreciation of the Baha’i principle of
‘noninterference in political affairs’. `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi had given the Baha’is
‘clear and convincing reasons’ why they should uphold this principle, and these could be
summarized as follows:
-1. The ‘true cause’ of the ills from which humanity suffered from was disunity. It was
a poison ‘sapping the vigor of present-day society’. These ills could not be cured by any
political union devised by world leaders, no matter how perfect. Only the Baha’i Cause –
‘God’s Faith’ – could cure the present ills. It was the ‘sole source of salvation’ for humanity.
In this context, the Baha’is should devote themselves to the work of the Faith, as this was ‘the
greatest aid and only refuge for a needy and divided world’. There were many humanitarians
who devoted their efforts to adding to the people’s material well-being through charity and
relief work, but only the Baha’is could do the work which God most wanted done.
-2. The Baha’i Community was a worldwide organization which was aiming ‘to
establish true and universal peace on earth’. If a Baha’i worked for one political party in
order to defeat another, it was a negation of the spirit of the Faith. Party political involvement
necessarily entailed repudiation of some or all of the Baha’i principles of peace and unity. As
`Abdu’l-Bahá stated: the Baha’is didn’t belong to any party, they were the party of God.
-3. If Baha’is were given the right to support a particular political party, that right
would have to extend to all regardless of their political persuasions. The result would be that
within the ranks of a religion whose primary mission was to unite all the world’s people as
‘one great family under God’ there would be Baha’is opposed to each other on party political
grounds. This would make it impossible for them to set ‘the example of unity and harmony’
which the world was seeking.
-4. If Baha’i institutions became involved in politics, then they would arouse
antagonism rather than love. By taking a particular political stand in one country, they would
necessarily change the perceptions which people in other countries had of the Faith’s aims

and purposes. By becoming involved in political disputes they would no longer be able to
change or help the world, but would themselves become ‘lost and confused’. The Baha’is
would best serve ‘the highest interests of their country’ and ‘the cause of true salvation for the
world’ by giving their full support to ‘the divine system of Bahá’u’lláh’. In a world situation
which was now so confused, and in which ‘moral issues which were once clear’ had become
mixed up with ‘selfish and battling factions’, the Baha’is should ‘sacrifice their political
pursuits and affiliations’ (MU#77.4).
Whilst Baha’is should strictly refrain from becoming involved in politics, this did not mean
that they were against any party of faction. The Faith held aloof, however, ‘from all
controversies’, transcending them all. Nor was the Baha’i Faith opposed to the ‘true interests’
of any nation. Rather, the Baha’is were enjoined to be loyal to the government of their
country and sanely patriotic. Their love for their country should be shown by serving its well-
being in their daily activities, or by working through the ‘administrative channels of the
government, however, instead of through party politics or in diplomatic or political posts’.
Again, they were encouraged to mix with all strata of society, including its ‘highest
authorities’ and ‘leading personalities’, as well as the mass of the people. They should bring
the knowledge of the Faith to them all, but in so doing they should strictly avoid identifying
themselves or the Faith with ‘political pursuits’ or ‘party programs’ (MU#77.4e).
The House hoped that this summary would help the Baha’is both to follow the Baha’i
teachings on this matter ‘intelligently and radiantly’ and to explain the Baha’i attitude to
anyone who questioned its ‘wisdom and usefulness’ (MU#77.4).
9. Self-defence. In May 1969, the House replied to a request by the Canadian national
assembly for guidance ‘on individual conduct in the face of increasing civil disorder in North
American cities’ (MU#69). The House noted two general principles which were found in the
Baha’i texts:
-1. Writings of Bahá’u’lláh which were already widely available stated that it was
preferable to be killed ‘in the path of God’s good pleasure’ than to kill. In the case an
organized religious attack directed against the them, the Baha’is should therefore never turn
to any kind of warfare as this was strictly forbidden.169
-2. In a previously untranslated letter, `Abdu’l-Bahá stated that in the case of attack by
robbers or highwaymen, Baha’is should not surrender themselves, but should try – as far as
circumstances permitted – to defend themselves, later lodging a complaint with the
government authorities. Similarly, Shoghi Effendi had written that a Baha’i should resist an
assault by ‘an irresponsible assailant’, and that in these circumstances, one would be justified
in protecting one’s life. Again, a letter on his behalf indicated that Baha’is were justified in
defending their lives in emergency situations in which there was no legal force at hand to
appeal to.
The House stated that the same principles applied in cases of civil disorder. However, in the
specific case of the United States, it had recently advised the national assembly there that
169. Bahá’u’lláh explicitly forbade holy war (jihád). See CEBF, ‘holy war’, loc. cit.

under present circumstances it was preferable if Baha’is did not buy or own firearms for the
protection of themselves and their families. Other than this, for the present, it did not wish to
go beyond these general guidelines. Responses to attacks were a matter of conscience, and
one had to use one’s own judgement as to how far self-defence should go, and when to stop
lest it ‘deteriorate into retaliation’ (MU#69).
B. MATTERS OF BAHA’I ADMINISTRATION. Again, with the exception of the major
innovations of drafting its own Constitution, declaring the appointment of further guardians
and Hands of the Cause impossible, and creating the new institution of the Boards of
Counsellors, the House largely reiterated established Baha’i policies on most administrative
matters. In addition to circulating many compilations of Baha’i texts on administrative
matters, the House issued statements on consultation; recordings of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s voice;
Baha’i publishing; the definition of a functioning local spiritual assembly; and newsletters.
10. Compilations. The House of Justice’s (‘conservative’) practice of largely restating
established administrative policy was embodied in its distribution of an increasing number of
compilations of the relevant Baha’i texts on various matters – a practice which it has
continued to follow up to the present day.
10.1. The compilation on local spiritual assemblies. One of the earliest examples of this
practice was provided in August 1970, when the House circulated a short compilation of
passages from the Baha’i writings on local spiritual assemblies, in part because the principles
involved were new to many Baha’is who were now being called upon to serve on local
assemblies.170
Commenting on the compilation, the House noted that no attempt had been made to provide a
complete collection of relevant texts, but it was hoped that the passages provided would both
‘suffice as an introduction to a more profound study of the subject’, and ‘lead to a more
efficient functioning’ of local assemblies everywhere. National assemblies should share the
compilation with the Baha’is under their jurisdiction as quickly as possible, having the
passages translated into local languages as necessary and ensuring in particular that members
of local assemblies received copies. The House also noted that as the system of Baha’i
administration expanded worldwide, it behoved everyone associated with it to familiarize
themselves with its principles, ‘understand its import’, and ‘put its precepts into practice’.
Only as individual local assembly members deepened themselves ‘in the fundamental verities
of the Faith’ and in the ‘proper application’ of Baha’i administrative principles regarding the
operation of the local assemblies would this institution ‘grow and develop toward its full
potential’ (MU#84).
10.2. Other compilations. The House also circulated a number of other compilations on
various topics in Baha’i administration and practice during this period. In all cases, the House
sent copies of the compilation to national assemblies, and then left the manner of its
distribution up to them. The compilations included:
-1. In January 1970, a compilation of Shoghi Effendi’s letters about contributions to
170. For a revised (1990) version see 2CC 39-60.

the Baha’i funds (MU#76).171
-2. In November 1971, a compilation of Shoghi Effendi’s writings about ‘the
spiritual character of Baha’i elections’ (MU#103).172
-3. In March 1972, a compilation on Baha’i writings on ‘music and singing’ (released
at this time because music and singing were now playing ‘such an important and effective
part’ in the work of teaching the Faith) (MU#107).173
-4. In April 1972, a compilation of extracts from letters written by Shoghi Effendi or
on his behalf on the objectives and operating principles of Baha’i ‘summer schools’, together
with quotations from messages form the Universal House of Justice on ‘Teaching Institutes’
(The House noting the ‘increasing importance’ of such schools) (MU#109).174
-5. In June 1972, a compilation of extracts from letters written by Shoghi Effendi or
on his behalf about the ‘National Spiritual Assembly’, so that both assembly members and
others could appreciate this ‘vital institution’ better (The House noted that it was not ‘a
complete compilation of all the available texts on the subject’) (MU#114).175
-6. In August 1972, a compilation from Shoghi Effendi’s writings on Baha’i national
‘newsletters’ (MU#120; see below).
11. Consultation. In March 1970, the House replied to a letter form the Canadian national
assembly about the process of decision-making on spiritual assemblies. It emphasized that the
Baha’i process of consultation was very different from the decision-making processes found
in the wider world. Ideally, Baha’is who consulted together would arrive at a unanimous
decision, and only when this was not possible decide the matter by prayerful voting. The
majority decision of the assembly arrived at in this way then became the decision of the
whole assembly, and not just of the majority who had voted for the measure. If an individual
assembly member felt that he needed to be given more information or listen to further
discussion about a matter before he could properly and intelligently make a decision, then he
should voice his concerns, and the assembly would then decide if further consultation was
needed before putting the matter to a vote (MU#79.1-5).
In cases of majority voting, all that was necessary was for a majority of those present to vote
for the motion in order for it to be carried. If a majority was not in favour, the motion was
defeated. There was no question of formally ‘abstaining’. If an assembly member felt unable
to vote for a motion for whatever reason (including not yet having made up his mind), then he
was effectively voting against it (MU#79.6).
171. For a revised (1989) version see 1CC 529-50.
172. For a revised (1989) version see 1CC 315-18.
173. For a revised (1990) version see 2CC 73-82.
174. For a revised (1990) version see 1CC 25-44 (under the heading ‘Centres of Baha’i Learning’).
175. For a revised (1990) version see 2CC 83-136.

12. Recordings of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s voice. In February 1971, the House noted that the recent
ready availability of tape and cassette recorders in almost country of the world created new
means for the dissemination of Baha’i talks and other audio materials, and thus provided ‘a
powerful new instrument’ for both teaching the Faith and deepening the Baha’is’
understanding of it. One caution was necessary, however, namely the playing of the recording
of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s voice. As Shoghi Effendi had stated, the Baha’is should only play this
recording on special occasions and should listen to it ‘with the utmost reverence’. This was a
precious relic, and it should be treated in a way that preserved the dignity of the Faith
(MU#93).
13. Baha’i publishing. In March 1971, the House issued a memorandum on the principles of
Baha’i publishing and related matters. This followed extensive consideration of these matters,
and was done in recognition of the need for a ‘great increase’ in the provision of Baha’i
literature worldwide, and in the hope that a clear set of guidelines would both ‘stimulate the
supply of new works’ and ‘liberate the channels of publication and distribution’ (MU#94.1).
The House encouraged Baha’i authors to provide ‘a constant stream of new works’, including
introductions to the Faith, commentaries on the Baha’i writings, dissertations on various
aspects of the Baha’i teachings, textbooks, histories, reviews, and audiovisual works. All
were needed, either to stimulate the study of the Faith or to help promote the work of
teaching the Faith (MU#94.3q).
13.1. Review. The House regarded it as essential that at this ‘early stage’ in the development
of the Faith all creative works by Baha’is on Baha’i subjects were subject to official review
prior to ‘submission for publication’. This included books, pamphlets, translations, poems,
songs, radio and television scripts, films and recordings, and applied whether the intended
publisher was Baha’i or not. Material that was purely for local consumption should be
approved by the responsible local assembly, other material which was of national interest fell
under the aegis of the national spiritual assembly and should be examined by its reviewing
committee. Review was a ‘temporary’ measure and would eventually be abolished when the
Faith was more firmly established (MU#94.3a-b).
The purpose of review was to ‘protect the Faith from misrepresentation and to ensure dignity
and accuracy in its presentation’. To this end, national assemblies could appoint reviewing
committees of two or three Baha’is who had both an adequate education and knowledge of
the Faith. They should check that the submitted work was adequate, in conformity with the
Baha’i teachings, and dignified in style. As promptly as they could, the reviewers should
prepare a report on the submitted work for the final approval of the national assembly. They
might if they wished call attention to grammatical and spelling mistakes, but such editorial
matters were not really their concern, but rather for the publisher and author to deal with
(MU#94.3c, 3f).
13.2. Translations of Baha’i texts. Shoghi Effendi’s translations of Baha’i sacred texts from
Persian and Arabic into English were generally to be regarded as the standard for all Baha’i
scriptural translations. Thus, an author writing in English would normally use Shoghi
Effendi’s translations as these were the most authentic. Works by other translators could only

be used if these had already appeared in an approved publication. Newly translated passages
had to be approved by the Universal House of Justice itself, as did any use of translations
which had not been given official approval. Again, with the exception of some oriental
languages (e.g. Turkish, Urdu), new translations into languages other than English had to be
made from Shoghi’s English language translations where these existed, or otherwise from
already approved translations by others. Translations from sources other than these could
only be made with the approval of the House of Justice (MU#94.3d-e).
13.3. International review. Each national assembly had the right to review any work
published or republished within its area of jurisdiction with the sole exception of works by
Hands of the Cause which were reviewed at the Baha’i World Centre. National assemblies
were encouraged to accept reviews of work which had been carried out by other national
assemblies but they were not bound to. Assemblies receiving manuscripts from outside their
own area of jurisdiction should inquire whether or not the submitted work had already been
reviewed by another assembly, and if it had previously been refused approval, the reasons for
this refusal (MU#94.3g-h).
13.4. Baha’i publishers. Baha’i publishers could only publish a work about the Faith if it had
already been approved for publication by the national assembly of the country where it was to
be published. They were not required to print an approval notice in the published work, and
were under no obligation to publish a work just because it had been approved for publication
by the responsible national assembly (MU#94.3i-j, n).
13.5. Matters of style. Baha’i publishers would adopt their own house style and make their
own arrangements for editing works prior to publication. Any changes in an approved
manuscript (including additions and deletions) which changed the meaning of a passage
would have to be re-reviewed, however. In transliterating oriental terms into a language using
the Roman alphabet, the publisher would also have to ensure that the transliteration system
adopted by Shoghi Effendi was used.176 Cables in English should be printed exactly as
received, without interpolating any of the implied words (MU#94.3k-m).177
13.6. Baha’i authors. Baha’i authors could submit their works for review to any national
assembly in the world and send the reviewed work to any publisher for consideration for
publication (As long as approved for publication by the national assembly of the country
where it was to be published had been given). When a work was being published by a non-
Baha’i publisher, the author should ensure that the Baha’i system of transliteration was used.
Authors should welcome review and could facilitate the process by submitting sufficient
copies for each member of the reviewing (MU#94.3o-p).
176. In 1923, Shoghi Effendi initiated a policy of having a uniform system of transliteration of Persian and
Arabic terms in English, and insisted that it be used in all Baha’i publications (BA 43). The main elements
of this system are given in all volumes of the old series of Bahá’í World from volume 2 onwards. The
system itself is based on one adopted by the Tenth International Congress of Orientalists at Geneva in
September 1894. See Momen, “The Baha’i system of transliteration”.
177. In subsequent messages in 1974 and 1981, the House of Justice stated that in editing cables, it was
permissible to add transliteration to oriental words, add apostrophes and correct transmission errors of
spelling where appropriate, capitalize according to publisher’s house style, and replace the word ‘STOP’
with a period mark at the end of a sentence (MU 188n).

13.7. The sale and distribution of Baha’i literature. Baha’i publications which had been
reviewed and published in one country could be offered for sale anywhere in the world, and it
was hoped that Baha’i publishers and those involved in distributing Baha’i books and other
published works would cooperate in supplying Baha’is, the commercial book trade and
libraries with publications from any country.
Baha’i publishers had the right to advertise their publications and to promote their sales
amongst the Baha’is in all countries in any legitimate manner. Publishers did not have the
right to insist that a national assembly or its publishing committee or trust stock, promote or
advertise any work, however. Nor did they have a right to receive mailing lists of Baha’is
from any national assembly, although they could compile lists of their own if they wished.
If a national assembly felt that a particular book would be damaging to the best interests of
the Faith in their country, then they could ask the publisher and author not to promote it there.
The assembly could not ban distribution or purchase, however, as all Baha’is had the right to
purchase approved books from anywhere in the world.
Baha’i publishers should send copies of every new book and every new edition to the Baha’i
World Centre (MU#94.3r).
14. Local spiritual assemblies. In July 1972, the House replied to questions from the
Bolivian Spiritual Assembly about what exactly a ‘functioning’ local spiritual assembly was.
The reply was evidently judged to be of wider interest and was given general circulation
(MU#118). The House began by stating that at the present both local and national spiritual
assemblies were ‘newly born’ institutions, which were only ‘embryos’ of the ‘majestic
institutions’ which they would eventually become. For the most part, they were still
struggling to establish themselves ‘both in the Baha’i community and in the world’. Thus,
whilst local spiritual assemblies had been given a ‘lofty station’ in the Baha’i writings, it
should be realized that their development would be gradual and at times painful (MU#118.1-2).
In this context, it was perfectly proper for national assemblies to encourage local assemblies
to achieve the lofty ideal set out in the Baha’i writings, and to specifically tell them what
certain of the minimum requirements for their functioning were, but the national assemblies
should not use non-attainment of these standards as grounds for withholding recognition from
weak local assemblies. Indeed, the standards which assemblies should achieve would change
over time in response to changing conditions: the assemblies would follow a path of
evolutionary change. The Universal House of Justice could outline ‘the most salient
objectives’ which should be followed by local assemblies, but it would not be useful for it to
lay down minimum standards of assembly functioning which were applicable in every
country in the world. The standards for proper functioning would necessarily differ from one
country to another, and might even differ from one district to another within the same country
(MU#118.3).
The pattern of assembly functioning and the objectives which assemblies should aspire to
attain were laid out in the compilation on local spiritual assemblies which the House of
Justice had sent out to all national assemblies in August 1970 and in the published assembly

by-laws,178 and these documents should be restudied and discussed with the responsible
Continental Counsellors. The ‘most salient’ objectives were as follows: (i) to ‘act as a loving
shepherd to the Baha’i flock; (ii) to promote ‘unity and concord’ amongst the Baha’is; (iii) to
direct the Baha’i teaching work; (iv) to ‘protect the Cause’; (v) to arrange for nineteen day
feasts, anniversaries and regular community meetings; (vi) to familiarize the local Baha’is
with its plans and invite the community to offer its recommendations; (vii) to promote the
welfare of youth and children; and (viii) to participate, as far as circumstances permitted, in
humanitarian activities. In relationship to individual Baha’is, the local assembly should
‘continuously invite and encourage’ each one to (i) study the Faith; (ii) deliver its ‘glorious
message; (iii) live in accordance with its teachings; (iv) contribute ‘freely and regularly’ to
the Baha’i fund; (v) participate in community activities; and (vi) ‘seek refuge’ in the
assembly for advise and help when needed (MU#118.4; 118.7).
In terms of its own administration, the assembly should (i) meet regularly; (ii) ensure that all
members were currently informed of its activities; and (iii) ensure that its secretary and
treasurer carried out their duties properly, and that the treasurer held and disbursed all Baha’i
funds to its satisfaction, keeping proper accounts and issuing receipts for all contributions. In
the meetings of the local assembly, the members should endeavour to develop the skills
required for the ‘difficult but highly-rewarding’ art of Baha’i consultation, a process which
required both great self-discipline on the part of all members and ‘complete reliance’ on the
power of Bahá’u’lláh. Many assemblies found that it was useful to appoint special
committees responsible to it to deal with such matters as teaching, observance of feasts and
anniversaries, and consulting about personal problems. In all cases submitted for its
consideration, the assembly had to ‘uphold the standard of justice in delivering its verdict’,
and in relationship to both the Baha’i community and the outside world, it should ‘strive to
evince the qualities of leadership’179 (MU#118.5-6).
15. Newsletters. In August 1972, the House distributed a compilation of extracts from the
letters of Shoghi Effendi or written on his behalf on the subject of newsletters. By way of
commentary, it noted that ‘the initiation, regular publication and distribution of a Baha’i
newsletter’ was one of the ‘vital functions’ of every national assembly. Such newsletters were
a means of (i) ‘promoting understanding and unity’ amongst the Baha’is; (ii) ‘stimulating
their interest and deepening their knowledge of the teachings’; and (iii) ‘coordinating the
activities of the Faith’. Each national assembly should study the compilation and take
‘effective steps’ to ensure that such a newsletter was ‘issued and widely distributed’ amongst
the Baha’is, and consider how the standard of any newsletter might be improved. It was
recognized that in some countries it was necessary to issue the newsletter in more than one
language, and in some countries, it might also be desirable for responsible local assemblies to
issue local newsletters (MU#120).
178. When the New York local assembly obtained legal incorporation in 1932, it also adopted a set of by-laws to
describe its functioning (BW4: 159-65), and this became the model for all subsequent local assembly by-
laws. It was republished in its original or amended form in the sequent volumes of the old series of Bahá’í
World.
179. According to Shoghi Effendi the ‘first quality of leadership’ was ‘the capacity to use the energy and
competence that exists in the rank and file’ of the followers (MU#118.6a).

Part IV. THE BAHA’I WORLD CENTRE
18. The Development of the Baha’i World Centre
1. The Baha’i World Centre.
The ‘Baha’i World Centre’ is the spiritual and administrative centre of the Baha’i Faith. It
physically consists of a number of Baha’i holy sites, administrative buildings, surrounding
gardens and various other places in the Haifa-Akka area of what is now northern Israel.180
The area became important for Baha’is as soon as Bahá’u’lláh first arrived in the Ottoman
prison city of Akka in 1868, all places subsequently associated with his life there becoming
holy places for Baha’is. The most important of these is the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh himself,
located in a small building next to the mansion of Bahjí, where Bahá’u’lláh resided from
1879 until his death in 1892, and about three kilometres north of Akka. The modern city of
Haifa – located along the ridge of Mount Carmel to the south of Akka, and across a large bay
– also became important for Baha’is, particularly after `Abdu’l-Bahá enshrined the remains
of the Báb there (1909), established his residence in the city (1910), and was interred in a
vault of next to that of the Báb (1921), thus giving that shrine added holiness for the Baha’is.
In Haifa, other places of Baha’i significance include the House of `Abdu’l-Bahá (and later of
Shoghi Effendi), a Baha’i burial ground, and a stretch of land above the Báb’s Shrine which
Shoghi Effendi designated as an ‘Arc’ along which various major Baha’i buildings would
eventually be built.181
2. Developments under Shoghi Effendi. At the time of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s death in November
1921, the extent of Baha’i property holdings in the Haifa-Akka area was relatively limited. In
the Akka area, the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh was under the control of the Baha’is, but the
adjoining mansion of Bahjí was occupied by `Abdu’l-Bahá’s antagonistic half-brother,
Muhammad `Alí, and his partisans. The mansion was also subject to a complex ownership
agreement in which several of Bahá’u’lláh’s rival descendants had shares. The House of
`Abbúd, in which Bahá’u’lláh had resided for several years (1871-77) was occupied by the
Baha’is, and there were also several Baha’i-owned gardens (the Ridván, Firdaws and Ashraf
gardens) close to the city along the small Na`mayn river, which Bahá’u’lláh had liked to visit
(Ruhe 101-104). In Haifa, Shoghi Effendi had ownership of his grandfather’s house, the joint
shrine of the Báb and `Abdu’l-Bahá, two house in which pilgrims could stay, and various
plots of land. There were also properties owned by Baha’is in the area of the Sea of Galilee
(RPP 228; Ruhe 57).
One of the major accomplishments of Shoghi Effendi’s guardianship was the physical
180. For convenient summaries see CEBF, ‘Akka’; ‘Arc’; ‘Bahjí’; ‘Haifa’; and ‘Shrine of the Báb’. See also
‘Baha’i World Centre’, loc. cit. For more detail see Ruhe.
181. The first building on the Arc was the International [Baha’i] Archives, completed in 1957. This was
followed by the Seat of the Universal House of Justice (formally occupied in 1983), and later the
International Teaching Centre and Centre for the Study of the Tests, now both nearing completion. An
international Baha’i library will be constructed in the future. See CEBF, ‘Arc, buildings of’; ‘International
Archives’, loc. cit.

development of the Baha’i World Centre.182 This task involved a number of separate projects,
including the regularization of legal ownership; the acquisition of the mansion of Bahjí
(1929), and its subsequent renovation; the extension of the Shrine of the Báb (1929) and the
later construction of an elaborate enveloping golden-domed superstructure (1948-53); the
establishment of the ‘Monument Gardens’ at the centre of the ‘Arc’ above the Báb’s shrine
(from 1932); the construction of the International Baha’i Archives building (1955-7); and the
acquisition of extensive areas of land so as to provide space for future Baha’i building
projects and to ensure that the immediate vicinities of the Baha’i shrines retained their
peaceful calm and were protected from the encroachments of urban development. With
regard to land acquisition, Shoghi Effendi’s widow estimated that Baha’i holdings in 1921
probably amounted to less than 10,000 square metres in Haifa and a mere 1,000 square
metres at Bahjí, whilst by 1957 these areas had increased to 230,000 and 257,000 square
metres respectively (RPP 267).183
3. The Baha’i buildings and gardens in the Nine Year Plan.
3.1. Plan goals. The major goals of the Nine Year Plan included ‘the preparation of a plan for
the befitting development and beautification of the entire area of Baha’i property’
surrounding the Baha’i shrines in Haifa and Bahjí, as well as ‘extension of the existing
gardens on Mount Carmel’ (MU#14.5).
This goal was evidently given low priority initially, with the House of Justice directing the
attention of the Baha’is to other more urgent tasks. Then, in March 1967, the House
announced that it was now time to devote greater effort to the physical development of the
Baha’i World Centre and to other World Centre goals (7 March 1967; MU#40). Since the
establishment of the House in 1963, its primary concerns at the Baha’i World Centre had
comprised the following work on physical structures: (1) basic minimum essential repair
work on the Baha’i holy places; (2) establishing the House of Justice’s own administrative
offices; (3) reorganizing pilgrimage accommodation; (4) developing a suitable housing
program for those who worked at the World Centre (including the Hands and House members
and their families); and (5) formulating plans for the expansion of the Baha’i gardens and
‘taking the first steps in their initiation’.184 These were all essential things that had to done, but
the House had endeavoured to keep the expense of these activities to a minimum so that the
maximum resources could be directed towards the teaching work worldwide (MU#40.3-4).
It was now time to turn to the World Centre goals. Work on the other major projects of the
Plan (pioneer settlement, teaching work, property acquisitions, etc.) was proceeding well, and
work on major tasks at the World Centre could no longer be postponed. In terms of ‘buildings
and grounds’, the work required was of ‘(e)xtensive beautification’ of the lands surrounding
182. See Giachery; RPP 228, 231-47, 259-67, 285-86, 290.
183. By 1963, Baha’i land holdings dedicated to the Shrines of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb also included almost 2.4
million square metres in the Jordan Valley and 10,530 square metres in the district of Gaza. In addition,
35,700 square metres of land had been purchased as a site for the future construction of a Baha’i temple on
Mount Carmel (Hands 30).
184. The House had also been involved with the tasks of gathering its support staff, collating and indexing the
Baha’i sacred texts and the writings of Shoghi Effendi, and of fostering relations with the Israeli
government and the United Nations (MU#40.3).

the shrines in Haifa and Bahjí, as well as of the site for the future Baha’i temple on Mount
Carmel. This was necessary both for its own sake and in order to protect these lands from
encroachment by the rapidly growing cities within the boundaries of which they lay. It was
also necessary to make plans for providing for an ever-increasing number of Baha’i pilgrims
(MU#40.5).
3.2. Bahjí. Developments at Bahjí included the rerouting of an unpaved sand road which had
run close to the mansion on the eastern side and bisected the Baha’i property. This was finally
accomplished in 1968 (several earlier unsuccessful attempts had been made to have it closed
from about 1951 onwards), its removal enabling the formal gardens to be extended to the east
of the mansion and a second quadrant of gardens laid out in the northeast, similar in design to
the first quadrant. [nb. Ruhe 119 shows road as it was]. The removal of the road also made it
possible to erect a fence around the perimeter of the Baha’i property, giving the gardens
greater protection (BW14: 87). Later, gardens were also developed in the southeastern
quadrant, and the garden directly south of the mansion was extended to `Abdu’l-Bahá’s
teahouse (see below), with plantings and paths under the old olive trees. A new 400 metre
entrance path was constructed between a gate on the northern boundary to the Collins Gate,
and beautified with shrubs, trees and lamp-posts. A new western gate was also built, leading
to a car park – facilitating the arrival of larger numbers of pilgrims. Altogether, by the end of
the Plan over 125,000 square metres of land had been developed (BW15: 174).185 Basic
repairs and maintenance were also carried out: the roof of the mansion was retiled and the
whole mansion repainted; the portico of Bahá’u’lláh’s shrine was rebuilt; the pilgrim house
was re-roofed; and the ornamentation on the Shrine was re-painted and re-gilded, as were the
gates and ornaments in the gardens (BW14: 88).186
Figure 18.1. The Bahjí properties.
N
185. The gardens of the southeast quadrant amounted to 25,000 square metres (Statistical 3).
186. The House of `Abbúd in Akka was also repainted (BW14: 88).

Northwest Quadrant
(Haram-i Aqdas) [1]
Northeast Quadrant
[2]
Shrine
Mansion
Formal garden
Olive grove
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s
teahouse
Southeast Quadrant
[3]
S
One particular component of these developments was noted in November 1969, when the
House of Justice was pleased to announce the acquisition of further ‘VITALLY NEEDED’
and ‘MUCH DESIRED’ land at Bahjí. The newly acquired land was adjacent to the mansion
property and surrounded the ‘teahouse’ of `Abdu’l-Bahá.187 Added to the existing Baha’i
property it provided an ‘additional safeguard’ to the Bahjí property and enabled the gardens
to be extended. Formal negotiations to acquire the land had been initiated by Shoghi Effendi
almost two decades previously and had now finally been concluded by means of an even
exchange with some other Baha’i land originally given to the Faith by Hájí `Alí Yazdí in
1933 as an endowment property dedicated to the shrine of Bahá’u’lláh. The important role
played by this property in the acquisition of the land surrounding the teahouse represented a
‘glowing tribute’ to the memory of this venerable and devoted servant of Bahá’u’lláh
(MU#74.3-4).188
3.3. Mount Carmel. The basic plan of development of the Baha’i properties in the vicinity of
the Shrine of the Báb had been laid down by `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi: (i) there
would be nine terraces below the Shrine and another nine above it, and (ii) the Baha’i world
administrative centre and other important buildings would be constructed on the ‘far-flung
arc’ which centred on the graves of members of `Abdu’l-Bahá’s family (sister, brother,
mother and wife). At the House’s request, an eminent Baha’i architect was asked to prepare
tentative plans, first for the gardens above the Shrine, and subsequently for the whole area in
consonance with the basic plan. These plans were approved by the House and used as the
basis for a town planning scheme which was to be submitted to the Haifa municipality.
Extensive repairs and maintenance of the existing buildings and gardens, together with a
number of substantive improvements to the existing properties were also made: the Pilgrim
House was re-roofed; the ornamentation of the Shrine and garden gates and ornaments were
re-painted and re-gilded; the flat roof section of the Shrine was repaired; the eastern wing of
the terrace in front of the Shrine was extensively repaired following the collapse of a
retaining wall; new soil was added to higher levels of the gardens which had become eroded;
a fence was built around the Baha’i property (including the temple site – see below); the
garden and parking space next to the Pilgrim House was developed; the Arc and the main
entrance were paved; a wall was built along the southern side of UNO Avenue on the
187. `Abdu’l-Bahá lived in Akka and did not have a room in the Bahjí mansion. After his father’s death, he used
a building on the southern perimeter of the property as somewhere to stay when he visited his father’s
shrine. This was his ‘teahouse’ (Ruhe 114, 225-6 n.19.1).
188. On Yazdí see BW9: 624-25. The teahouse itself had been acquired during the ministry of Shoghi Effendi.

perimeter of the Baha’i gardens, and the pavement was extended along the same stretch of
road; the hillside immediately above this wall (the future site of the first upper terrace) was
covered by a temporary informal rock-garden; the floodlighting of the Archives Building,
which had been envisaged by Shoghi Effendi, was implemented and the floodlighting of the
Shrine and Monument Garden extended; all the electrical circuits in the gardens were
rewired; the main gate to the Shrine (from UNO Avenue) was closed to vehicles because of
the steady increase in the number of visitors to the Shrine; and a wrought iron gate was
erected at the entrance to the path which `Abdu’l-Bahá had used for a time to approach the
Shrine. A new formal garden to the immediate southwest of the Shrine was completed in
1971 (BW14: 87-88; 15: 174-77).189
4. Supplementary achievements. Several projects which were supplementary to the goals of
the Nine Year Plan were also achieved:
4.1. The purification of the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh. For Baha’is, the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh
at Bahjí is the most sacred place on Earth – the Baha’i qiblah, towards which they turn in
prayer.190 Correspondingly, the area surrounding the shrine is regarded as an area of great
sanctity, the integrity and spiritual purity of which must be preserved. From this perspective,
the complex has undergone a series of ‘purifications’, as the presence and remains of
Covenant-breaking members of Bahá’u’lláh’s family have been removed. At the time of
Bahá’u’lláh’s passing, `Abdu’l-Bahá’s half-brother, Muhammad-`Alí, and other Covenant-
breaking relatives had been in occupation of the mansion of Bahjí and other adjacent
buildings. Shoghi Effendi had finally acquired possession of the mansion in 1929 after it had
fallen into a state of disrepair and Muhammad-`Alí had left (Shoghi had then set about the
considerable task of repairing and refurbishing it). The Covenant-breakers had remained in
occupation of some surrounding buildings, however, and it was not until 1957, that Shoghi
Effendi gained possession of the last of these, the Hands of the Cause overseeing the
demolition of these houses and their replacement by gardens some months after his death
(BW13: 248-49; MC 51; RPP 231-34).191
One further act of purification remained, however. Muhammad-`Alí’s younger brother, Mírzá
Díyá’u’lláh (Zia’ullah) had been buried in the inner precincts of Bahá’u’lláh’s shrine itself.
To the House of Justice’s pleasure, Díyá’s relatives finally asked for the remains to be moved
for reburial elsewhere. Communicating this news to the Baha’i world on 11 November 1965,
the House referred to the history of the successive stages whereby Bahjí had been purified of
any remaining symbols of the Covenant-breakers’ former presence. This ‘CLEANSING’ of
189. Taken together the Baha’i lands at Bahjí and on Mount Carmel amounted to almost 550,000 square metres
by 1968. Of these, less than half had then been developed into gardens, the House acknowledging that the
development of the remainder would take many years and require ‘vast financial resources’ (BW14: 87; 15:
174; Statistical 3).
190. The qiblah (Ar.) is the ‘point of adoration’ to which believers turn in prayer. For Muslims, this is the Ka`ba
in Mecca, but for Baha’is it is the tomb of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí. See CEBF, ‘Qiblah’, loc. cit.
191. Shoghi Effendi described the expropriation of the final house as marking the ‘purification’ of the Haram-i-
Aqdas from the ‘trace’ of the ‘contamination of the Covenant-breakers (MBW 124). He used the term
Haram-i-Aqdas (the ‘most holy sanctuary’ or precincts) to refer to the area immediately surrounding the
tomb, and more specifically to the northwestern quadrant of gardens.

the ‘INNER SANCTUARY’ from ‘PAST CONTAMINATION’ marked the consummation of
the process, and presaged the eventual construction of a ‘BEFITTING MAUSOLEUM’ as
anticipated by Shoghi Effendi (MU#26).
4.2. The Carmel Obelisk. In December 1971, the House announced that after many years of
difficult negotiations, the obelisk marking the site of the future Baha’i temple on Mount
Carmel had been erected. The project had been started by Shoghi Effendi during the early
years of the Ten Year Crusade, and the materials (over 20 tons of marble) fabricated in Italy
and shipped to Haifa at his instructions. The structure was erected in August 1971, and was
almost 11 metres in height. A small formal garden was subsequently developed around its
base (BW15: 177; MU#105).
4.3. Mazra`ih. In March 1973, the House announced the purchase of the mansion of
Mazra`ih after several years of ‘PATIENT’, ‘PERSISTENT’, and ‘DETERMINED’
negotiations. This was the first house in which Bahá’u’lláh had lived after he was able to
move out of the walled prison city of Akka, staying there for two years (June 1877-September
1879) before settling in the Bahjí mansion. The Mazra`ih property was only rented, however,
and it was not until 1950, after a lapse of over fifty years, that Shoghi Effendi had been able
to reacquire control over the property when he secured a lease on the building.192 Thereafter,
the lease was extended until the 1973 purchase. The House noted that this new addition to the
Baha’i endowments in the Holy Land included approximately 24,000 square metres of land
extended into the plain on the mansion’s eastern side which was highly suitable for
cultivation as gardens (MU#127; 128.18; Ruhe 87-94).193
4.4. Seat of the Universal House of Justice. As noted above, in June 1972, the House of
Justice announced that it had decided to begin to plan for the construction of a building to
serve as its own Seat. This project would be the first major new Baha’i building on Mount
Carmel since the completion of the International Archives Building [in 1957] and had been
envisaged by Shoghi Effendi as one of a number of buildings along the ‘FAR FLUNG ARC’
centring on the burial sites of the sister, brother and mother of `Abdu’l-Bahá. Thanks were
due to Robert McLaughlin for his ‘OUTSTANDING SERVICES’ in preparation for this
‘HISTORIC UNDERTAKING’. The House members prayed that the project would be able to
progress without interruption so that it could be completed quickly (MU#115).
5. Pilgrimage. During the lifetime of Bahá’u’lláh, many Baha’is undertook the often long
and arduous journey to visit him, ‘attaining the presence’ of a personage who was the centre
of their faith and devotion. After his death,`Abdu’l-Bahá in turn became a focus of devotion,
192. The house was occupied from 1931 until 1947 by a British Baha’i lady, Mrs. Lilian McNeill, who helped
persuade her husband, a retired Brigadier-General, to rent the place. The house was initially in a state of
considerable disrepair, but the McNeills restored it and planted a garden (Ruhe 91–93).
193. On 24 September 1980, the Universal House of Justice announced that almost 50,000 square metres of
additional land had been acquired so as to provide ‘PROTECTION’ for the mansion in the face of rapid
development in the area (MU#264.2).

but Baha’is now also visited the Haifa-Akka region in order to pray at the shrines of
Bahá’u’lláh and later of the Báb as well as to gain an audience with the head of their Faith.
Something of the same pattern has continued to the present day, but during the guardianship
of Shoghi Effendi pilgrimages to the shrines and holy places of the Baha’i World Centre
became organized into the form of small groups of pilgrims who would come for an assigned
period of time. As had become the practice under `Abdu’l-Bahá, the pilgrims were normally
divided into separate ‘Eastern’ and ‘Western’ groups so as to facilitate communication within
each group – Shoghi Effendi could speak to the Iranian pilgrims in Persian and to the Western
pilgrims in English or French.194 Several changes were made in these practices following the
election of the Universal House of Justice.
One decision that was made almost immediately was to combine the formerly separate
Eastern and Western pilgrimage groups into one. This was necessitated by the House’s choice
of the former Western Pilgrim House as its official office and its use of the former
accommodation space. This amalgamation of the groups had been anticipated by Shoghi
Effendi. All pilgrims now met as a single group and were accommodated together in the
former Eastern Pilgrim House and its adjacent buildings close to the Shrine of the Báb
(MU#3).
The House also needed to respond to the growing numbers of Baha’is from around the world
who were now able to apply for permission to come on pilgrimage. Thus, at Ridván 1969, the
House announced a major change in arrangements for pilgrims. Fulfilling a long-held hope, it
now wished to make it much easier for all Baha’is who wanted to make the pilgrimage to the
Baha’i World Centre to do so. The new arrangements would begin in October 1969: the size
of each pilgrimage group would be quadrupled and the number of groups invited each year
would be increased so that nearly six times the present number could come. Shoghi Effendi
had described the pilgrims as the ‘lifeblood’ of the World Centre, and the House anticipated
that this great increase in their numbers would ‘greatly augment’ the spiritual development of
the ‘Baha’i World Community’ as a whole. The pilgrims would be able to pray at the sacred
shrines; visit the places ‘hallowed by the footsteps, sufferings and triumphs of Bahá’u’lláh
and `Abdu’l-Bahá’; and meditate in the ‘tranquillity of these sacred precincts’, ‘beautified
with so much loving care’ by Shoghi Effendi (MU#68.9-10).
Although clearly separate from the regular pattern of pilgrimage, the period covered by this
book also saw four large-scale visitations of Baha’is to the Baha’i World Centre. Three of
these were the successive international conventions called to elect the Universal House of
Justice, the 288 national assembly members who attended the first (in 1963) constituting ‘the
greatest mass pilgrimage’ that had ever been made to the World Centre up to that date
(BW14: 427).195 This figure was massively surpassed in August 1968, when over 1,800
Baha’is came to Haifa to join in the commemoration of Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in Akka a
hundred years before (BW15: 85.
194. Possible cultural clashes were also minimized: Middle Eastern Baha’is normally displayed extreme
reverence towards Shoghi Effendi and in their visits to the shrines, whilst Westerners tended to be far more
informal in their interactions and devotions.
195. At the Third Convention, in 1973, 412 delegates attended (BW16: 392).


19. Work on the Baha’i Texts
The major goals of the Nine Year Plan included two relating to Baha’i texts: (i) the
publication of a ‘synopsis and codification’ of Bahá’u’lláh’s book of laws, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,
and (ii) ‘continued collation and classification of the Baha’i Sacred Scriptures’ and of the
writings of Shoghi Effendi (MU#14.5).
1. The synopsis and codification of the

Kitáb-i Aqdas

. Bahá’u’lláh’s book of laws, the
Kitáb-i Aqdas (the Most Holy Book) was completed in about 1873. Shoghi Effendi described
it as perhaps ‘the most signal act’ of Bahá’u’lláh’s ministry, and as the ‘Mother Book’ of the
Baha’i dispensation and the ‘Charter’ for Bahá’u’lláh’s ‘future world civilization’ – his ‘New
World Order’ (GPB 213, 214), and in his own book, God Passes By, provided a short
summary of its contents (1944) (GPB 213-16). Despite the Aqdas’s importance, Shoghi
Effendi did not translate it into English, nor did he circulate it outside the Middle East (IND
210; see below). He did, however, instruct the Egyptian Baha’is to prepare a codification of
the Baha’i laws relating to ‘personal status’ (marriage, divorce, inheritance, and the like) as a
legal document to be submitted to the Egyptian government (BW14: 84), and set himself the
goal of producing a codification of the ‘laws and ordinances’ of the Aqdas as part of the Ten
Year Crusade (MBW 42), later noting that a synopsis of the book was ‘an essential prelude to
the eventual translation and publication of its entire text’ (MBW 78). Preparation of the
synopsis had apparently begun by April 1955, but it remained uncompleted by the time of
Shoghi Effendi’s death, and the Hands of the Cause handed on his handwritten notes to the
House of Justice after its election (BW13: 252; 14: 84). These consisted of a synopsis and
codification in English, together with supplementary notes in Persian (SCA 7).
Although ‘considerable progress’ had been made on the synopsis by Shoghi Effendi
(MU#128.5), completion of the work on the Aqdas codification during the Nine Year Plan
proceeded slowly. At Ridván 1967, the House merely reported that work on it was continuing
(MU#42.8), and a 1968 report on the progress of Plan goals noted that ‘(p)reliminary studies’
had been completed, but that studies of ‘supplementary documents’ to the Aqdas had yet to be
made. In addition to the ‘Annex’ to the book (the ‘Questions and Answers’),196 which had
already been included in Shoghi Effendi’s draft, these comprised: (i) tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
which elaborated and elucidated some of the laws; (ii) ‘(s)ubsidiary ordinances’ in other
tablets which were designed to supplement the provisions of the Aqdas; and (iii) letters and
writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi which interpreted Aqdas laws.197 There was also
the Egyptian codification of the laws of personal status referred to above, as well as several
196. The ‘Questions and Answers’ comprise the responses to a number of questions posed to Bahá’u’lláh
regarding the details of his laws by Mullá Zaynu’l-Ábidín (‘Zayn’ul-Muqarrabín’), an eminent Baha’i who
was qualified as an Islamic jurist (see Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís, pp. 274-76; CEBF, ‘Zayn’ul-Muqarrabín’,
loc. cit.).
197. Similarly, in a letter of 6 December 1965, the House listed the necessary tests that might need to be
included with the published text as follows: (1) the ‘Annex’ to the Aqdas, the ‘Questions and Answers’, the
series of replies by Bahá’u’lláh to questions about the book posed by Zaynu'l-Muqarrabín; (2) other
writings of Bahá’u’lláh which elaborated and elucidated the Aqdas laws or which established ‘subsidiary
ordinances’ to supplement those of the Aqdas; and (3) those letters and writings of `Abdu’l-Bahá and
Shoghi Effendi which interpreted the Aqdas laws. The House also indicated that it might be necessary to
add explanations and footnotes to elucidate the book’s provisions (MU#27.4b).

[Persian language] compilations by Baha’i scholars which attempted to classify the laws and
collate writings connected with those laws (BW14: 84).
In January 1973, the House was finally able to announce that the synopsis and codification of
the book had been completed. It would be published at Ridván, synchronizing with centenary
celebration of the revelation of the Aqdas by Bahá’u’lláh. The publication of this book would
surely constitute ‘ANOTHER SIGNIFICANT STEP’ in the Path leading the Baha’i
community to ‘FULL MATURITY’ and the establishment of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh
(MU#125). The Synopsis and Codification itself is a 19-page document (SCA 35-53), to
which have been appended 9 pages of notes, and which is prefaced by a compilation of the
passages of the Aqdas already translated and published by Shoghi Effendi in various works
(SCA 11-30). As the House noted, the work had been completed ‘according to the pattern’ set
by Shoghi Effendi in his notes, and constituted ‘an essential prelude’ to the publication of the
full text. The translation of the Aqdas should be made ‘by a competent body of experts’, and
be ‘copiously annotated with detailed explanations’– including reference to other relevant
writings of Bahá’u’lláh, `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, as well as elucidations of some
passages in the book and explanations of religious, cultural and historical contexts (SCA 6-
7).198
2. Questions about the delay in translation of the

Aqdas

. The fact that the Aqdas was
obviously a central Baha’i text but had not yet been officially translated into English by the
Baha’is mystified some Baha’is outside the Middle East, perhaps particularly after a
literalistic non-Baha'i translation was published in 1961.199 Having received a number of
enquiries about this matter, the House issued a general statement on the subject on 6
December 1965. First, they cited a 1941 letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to the
Indian Baha’is which stated that the reasons the Aqdas had not yet been circulated were that:
(1) the Faith was neither yet ready nor sufficiently mature to put all the legal provisions of the
book into effect, and (2) the book needed to be supplemented by detailed explanations and
translated by a competent body of experts (IND 210). Commenting on this letter, the House
observed that Shoghi Effendi had also stated that many of the Aqdas laws (fasting, obligatory
prayer, the consent of parents before marriage, the avoidance of alcoholic drinks, monogamy)
were already universally applicable to the Baha’is and should be strictly observed, whilst
others would only apply in the future when the state of society had changed. It also listed a
number of supplementary texts which might have to be included with the Aqdas when it was
published, all of which required careful research and translation’ (MU#27). The House also
noted that not only was a synopsis of the book in the process of preparation, but that a
significant proportion of it had already been translated into English (a list of these was
provided) (MU#27.3).
The House provided further commentary in its introduction to the Synopsis and Codification,
198. The official Baha’i translation of the Aqdas into English was published in 1992.
199. Mírzá Husayn `Alí Bahá’u’lláh, Al-Kitáb al-Aqdas, or the Most Holy Book. [Mīrzā Husayn `Alī
Bahā’u’llāh, Al-Kitāb al-Aqdas ....]. Trans. and ed. Earl E. Elder and William M. Miller. London: Luzac,
Royal Asiatic Society, 1961. Miller, a long-time Presbyterian missionary in Iran, was later the author of an
extremely hostile account of the Baha’i Faith – The Baha’i Faith: Its History and Teachings. South
Pasadena CA: William Carey Library, 1974.

describing the ‘divinely-purposed delay’ in the revelation of Baha’i law, and the subsequent
‘gradual implementation’ of its provisions as examples of the Baha’i ‘principle of progressive
revelation’ which applied within the ministry of each prophet. Thus, Bahá’u’lláh himself had
likened each successive religion to the rising of the Sun, its rays growing in intensity from
dawn till noon so that humanity was able to gradually adapt to its heat. In this manner, it had
been twenty years after the initial intimation which Bahá’u’lláh had received of his mission
before he revealed the Aqdas, and even then he had not distributed it immediately. Then,
`Abdu’l-Bahá had ‘revealed interpretations’ which were ‘of fundamental importance in
understanding the laws of the Aqdas’. He had also ‘delineated the features of the
Administrative Order’, ‘the laws and principles of which Bahá’u’lláh had already
formulated’. Again, Shoghi Effendi had only started ‘to apply and enforce’ those laws of the
Aqdas which he regarded as ‘timely and practicable to apply’ and ‘which were not in direct
conflict with civil law’. Both `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi had also directed most of
their attention to the spread of the Faith rather than the application of Baha’i law (SCA 5-6).
No doubt in keeping with this concept of progressive revelation, the House also announced
that the publication of the Synopsis and Codification did not increase the number of laws that
were binding on the Baha’is. It would inform the Baha’is when additional laws became
binding, and provide whatever ‘guidance and supplementary legislation’ as would be
necessary for their application. The Baha’is were reminded that Shoghi Effendi had stated
that certain laws were in any case formulated for application in a future society, and not in the
‘chaotic conditions’ that prevailed today (SCA 7). The House made two additional points: (i)
although Bahá’u’lláh’s writings on his laws and ordinances were voluminous, he had
deliberately left gaps that were to be filled later by the House, and (ii) certain passages in the
Aqdas referred to laws and practices of ‘previous dispensations’, and as such could be easily
‘misconstrued’ by anyone who was not ‘thoroughly informed’ of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings and
‘fundamental purposes’. Thus, ‘inadequate translations’ could be ‘seriously misleading’ (SCA
4,6).
3. The collation and classification of the Baha’i writings. One of the goals of the Nine Year
Plan was the ‘continued collation and classification’ of the Baha’i sacred writings, together
with those of Shoghi Effendi. As the House itself emphasized, this was important because the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá were not just sacred Baha’i scripture but were also
sources for its own decisions on the ‘application of Baha’i laws’ and ‘the elucidation and
extension of basic administrative principles’. Their study also informed the House in its ‘all-
important function’ of legislating on matters not explicitly recorded in the Baha’i writings. In
all these matters, the ‘illuminating interpretations and directions’ of Shoghi Effendi (not
themselves regarded as scripture) were also of crucial importance (MU#54.2).
Writing at Ridván 1973, the House reported that the collation and classification of Baha’i
scripture and of the writings of Shoghi Effendi had been ‘carried forward in ever increasing
volume’ at the Baha’i World Centre (MU#128.4). Elsewhere, the progress towards this goal
was described as ‘remarkable’ (BW15: 171). By 1973, a total of 10,900 original documents
(manuscript books, letters, etc.) had been collected in Haifa, together with authenticated
copies of another 18,600 documents – a combined total of 29,500 items. Of these, almost half
(14,430) were from Shoghi Effendi, a third (10,690) from `Abdu’l-Bahá, and the remainder
(4,380) from Bahá’u’lláh (BW15:171).

Table: Baha’i texts collected in Haifa by 1973.
Source
Originals
Copies
Totals
Bahá’u’lláh
2,600
1,780
4,380
`Abdu’l-Bahá
6,000
4,690
10,690
Shoghi Effendi
2,300
12,130
14,430
Totals
10,900
18,600
29,500
Source: Calculated from BW 15: 171.
All of these documents had been studied and important passages excerpted and classified
under 400 general subject headings (MU#128.4). There had already been considerable work
on the classification and collation of the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá during the
guardianship of Shoghi Effendi, both by Shoghi himself and by Baha’is in Iran who had
responded to his call for help. A special committee of the Iranian national assembly continued
to work ‘assiduously’ on this task as part of the activities of the Nine Year Plan (BW 14: 85;
MU#54.3).
4. The letters of Shoghi Effendi. Writing to national assemblies in December 1967, the
House of Justice alerted the Baha’is that one major weakness in the present collection and
collation of Baha’i texts concerned Shoghi Effendi’s writings. Whilst much work had already
been done on the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and `Abdu’l-Bahá, no such similar work had yet
been done on the writings of the Guardian apart from on those of his letters which had
already been published. At best, there was only partial collation. There were also apparently
many extant letters which were not yet included in the House’s collection of Shoghi Effendi’s
unpublished letters. Such a lack was significant because newly discovered letters might well
add additional nuances to the understanding of some Baha’i principle or the application of a
law (MU#54.3).
The national assemblies were therefore instructed to carefully check through their own
archives and correspondence files to find any letters by Shoghi Effendi or letters written on
his behalf by one of his secretaries which had not yet been forwarded to the Baha’i World
Centre – a checklist of letters already in the House’s possession was included for reference.
The assemblies should also check if any of their committees had such letters in their files as
well as appealing to the Baha’is under their jurisdiction to send any such letters which they
not already sent to Haifa (MU#54.4-5).
In this later regard, individuals had an inherent right to keep any letters which they had
received and in turn pass them on to their families, but the House asked that in those cases
where individuals wished to retain the original, photostatic copies be forwarded to Haifa
either directly or via the appropriate national assembly. Where necessary the assembly should
undertake the photocopying on the individual’s behalf or even make careful typed or
handwritten copies where photocopying facilities were not available. The House would
respect individual’s requests to preserve the confidentiality of letters dealing with personal
subjects (MU#54.5).

This success of this appeal can be judged by the predominance of Shoghi Effendi’s letters in
the collection of documents amassed by 1973 (above). As to the collation of Shoghi Effendi’s
writings, a department of the House of Justice itself was permanently involved in making
extracts from his writings and indexing important passages. The Hands of the Cause in Haifa
had also rendered ‘invaluable help’ in this regard. The materials studied included extracts
from his letters published in the American periodical Bahá’í News, compilations made by
several assemblies and individuals, and the copies which Shoghi kept of all outgoing cables.
Also studied were the letters and cables which Shoghi Effendi had received, most of which he
had preserved. These comprised some 26,000 items – 20,000 from the West and 6,000 from
Iran and the East. These had also been sorted into chronological order, classified according to
subject matter, and collated with Shoghi’s replies. By examining the reports and questions in
the incoming mail, it was possible to come to a much greater understanding of the replies.
The fact that Shoghi had made notations in pencil on the margins of the letters from the East
instructing his secretary how to answer the letters was also of great importance, and these
marginal notes had been typed up and added to the collection of extracts from his writings
(BW14: 85-86; 15: 171).
The value of this work on the Baha’i texts was enormous. For the House itself, it provided a
growing corpus of material to which it could refer in the process of considering ‘the manifold
problems’ with which it was faced (BW 14: 85). The assemblage of texts had also enabled the
House to prepare and distribute fifteen compilations on various topics of interest to the
Baha’is (by 1973), and these had been shared with either all national assemblies, or in some
cases with selected assemblies (BW 15: 171).200 It is also noticeable that the House’s letters
are often peppered with quotations from the Baha’i writings, increasingly including
previously unfamiliar passages translated into English from Persian.
5. Major publications of the House of Justice. During the Nine Year Plan, the House
published several other important works in addition to the Aqdas synopsis described above.
5.1. The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh. One ‘compilation’ of particular importance made by
the House was of already published translations of Bahá’u’lláh’s messages to the kings and
rulers of his day. These were published together for the first time in the book, The
Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh (1967; see also BW14: 1-29), which was prepared as part of the
proclamation campaign that began in that year. Editions were prepared in English, French,
German, Italian, and Spanish (MU#42.16).
5.2. Bahá’í Holy Places at the World Centre. A second significant work was a compilation of
passages related to Baha’i pilgrimage and the various important Baha’i sites in the Haifa-
Akka area (Bahá’í Holy Places at the World Centre, 1968).
5.3. Bahá’í World. The House also continued publication of the Bahá’í World series which
200. These included compilations on: ‘teaching the masses’ (May and October 1967, MU#43; 52); the work of
the Auxiliary Board members (March 1969, MU#72.5); Baha’i funds (January 1970, MU#76); local
spiritual assemblies (August 1970, MU#84); ‘the spiritual character of Baha’i elections’ (November 1971,
MU#103); ‘music and singing’ (March 1972, MU#107); Summer schools (April 1972, MU#109); the
national spiritual assembly (June 1972, MU#114); Baha’i national newsletters (August 1972, MU#120);
and the pattern of Baha’i life (November 1972, MU#122).

had been started under Shoghi Effendi’s direction during the 1920s. Thus, volume 13,
covering the nine year period, 1954-63 (almost the whole of the Ten Year Crusade) was
prepared under the House’s supervision and published in 1970. The volume was unusually
lengthy and included a long essay on Shoghi Effendi by his widow, Rúhiyyih Rabbání
(pp.58-205), effectively the first detailed account of the Guardian’s life.

20. External Relations
1. External affairs. Any religious movement must necessarily exist in some sort of
relationship with the wider world. Although the actual range of relationships which may
develop are very varied, and are partly defined by agencies in the wider world, all religious
movements are forced to make decisions about such questions as the attitudes they adopt
towards individuals who are not believers, as well as towards other organizations and towards
the state. Again, religions may be forced to decide how to respond to persecution by
outsiders. These various decisions may be explicitly articulated by the religion’s leadership or
may develop in more implicit form as a result of the actions and beliefs of the adherents as a
whole.
In the case of the Baha’i Faith, policies towards the wider world have been explicitly
articulated by the successive leaders of the Faith, and for the most part go back to the
religion’s founder. In this regard, Bahá’u’lláh’s stance towards the wider world was very
clear: the Baha’is should pursue a policy of wise and peaceful teaching of their religion to
others; all forms of militant action in religion (jihád) – including defensive struggle – were
strictly prohibited; both religious and secular leaders in Iran were to be morally condemned
for their persecution of the Babis and of the Baha’is, but no attempted action was to be taken
against them; endeavour should be made to gain toleration from the state authorities; Baha’is
were to be obedient to established governments; the Baha’i message was universal in its
scope and Baha’i missionary endeavour should eventually be global in its reach; and
traditional Shi`ite notions of the ritual impurity of unbelievers were rejected and kindness
towards the followers of all religions advocated.201 One additional element in the Baha’i
stance towards the wider world emerged later under Shoghi Effendi: strict non-involvement
in political action, especially when it involved party-politics.202
The Nine Year Plan included two goals relating to what we might term the Baha’i Faith’s
‘external affairs’: (i) continued efforts to emancipate the Faith ‘from the fetters of religious
orthodoxy’ and to gain recognition for it as an independent religion; and (ii) development of
the relationship between the Baha’i International Community and the United Nations.
2. Recognition and freedom At the present time, Baha’i communities around the world
range widely in terms of their degree of freedom to conduct their activities. At one end of the
continuum are those countries in which Baha’is are free to teach their religion to others; form
spiritual assemblies; and gain legal recognition (so that spiritual assemblies can gain
corporate status and hold property, etc.). At the other extreme are those countries (at the
moment most notably Iran) in which the Baha’is are liable to suffer severe persecution, with
Baha’i activity (or even membership) being illegal, and individual Baha’is being subject to
possible arrest and even execution on the basis of their religious beliefs, and in which extra-
judicial killings of Baha’is may go unpunished. In between these extremes are (i) those
201. See CEBF, ‘Bahá’í Faith and other religions’; ‘government, Bahá’í attitude towards’; ‘interfaith dialogue’;
‘holy war’; ‘tolerance’, loc. cit.
202. See CEBF, ‘politics’, loc. cit.

countries in which Baha’i activities are allowed but legal recognition is not possible; and (ii)
those countries in which Baha’i activities are subject to some degree of restriction (e.g.
individual Baha’is are free to practice their religion and small-scale Baha’i meetings can be
held, but no public teaching of the Faith is permitted). The Baha’is’ objective in every
country is to gain both as much freedom for their activities as possible, to achieve official
recognition of the Faith as an independent religion, and to obtain legal status.
During the 1963-73 decade, considerable gains were made in achieving official recognition
and legal status in many countries (see Chapter 7.C), and the worldwide proclamation
campaign led to some notable achievements in raising the public profile of the Faith, but
there were also a number of countries where the Baha’is encountered difficulties. Five
countries occasioned particular concern. Four of these were referred to in the House’s Ridván
letter of 1966: (i) Iran, where the Baha’is were denied their ‘elementary rights’ and the Faith
was still ‘largely proscribed’; (ii) Iraq, where the national Baha’i centre and one of the local
centres had been seized, and Baha’i activities had been severely restricted; (iii) Egypt, where
Baha’i properties remained confiscated [since 1960], and a number of Baha’is had been
recently arrested and were now awaiting trial; and (iv) Indonesia, where new oppression had
broken out, the national Baha’i centre having been seized and organized Baha’is activities
forbidden (MU#34.9). The fifth country of concern was Morocco, where a number of Baha’is
had been arrested in 1962, but subsequently released. As the House noted, the Baha’is in
various other countries were also subject to ‘restrictions and surveillance’ (MU#34.9).203 In
most of the Communist world Baha’i activity was completely impossible.
Short summaries of the situations in these countries will be provided in the relevant chapters
on regional developments. The difficulties experienced by the Baha’is in some countries had
an impact on the Nine Year Plan, of course. Thus at Ridván 1971, the House referred to the
restrictive measures directed against the Faith in various (unnamed) countries, as varying in
severity from ‘outright oppression’ to the ‘imposition of disabilities’, and noted that these
made the completion of Plan goals in these countries almost impossible (MU#96.8).204
In some countries, the Baha’is experienced only temporary difficulties, but in others they
faced well-entrenched opposition. In this context, the anonymous author of the Bahá’í World
report for 1968-73, summarizing the achievements of the Nine Year Plan, stated that the
Baha’i writings clearly indicated that the emancipation of the Faith ‘from the fetters of
religious orthodoxy’ was an objective that would have to be pursued ‘over a prolonged
period’, culminating in the future ‘universal recognition of the Faith and the emergence of its
World Order’ (BW15: 172).
3. Relations with the United Nations. After the United Nations came into being in 1945, as
203. In all cases, it reported, the Baha’is were ‘steadfast and confident’, and looked forward to their future
emancipation and the ‘eventual triumph’ of the Cause (MU#34.9).
204. Although the countries referred to are not named, the relevant geographical regions are (the Middle East,
Northwest Africa, “the fringes” of East Africa, “certain areas” of Southeast Asia), and it is therefore
possible to suggest which countries had probably attracted the House’s concern: Iran, Iraq, Egypt,
Morocco, Algeria, Libya, the Sudan, Brunei, Indonesia, Laos – all countries in which Baha’i expansion
plans met with difficulties at this time.

an evidently stronger version of the old League of Nations, Shoghi Effendi hailed its
formation as a further step in the process that would eventually lead to the global political
order of the Lesser Peace (CF 33). He also valued Baha’i involvement with the work of the
new body, and welcomed the accreditation which it accorded to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States and Canada in 1947, and more particularly UN
recognition in 1948 of the ‘Baha’i International Community’ as an international non-
governmental organization representing all the existing Baha’i national assemblies, seeing
this as heralding ‘world recognition for a universal proclamation’ of the Faith (CF 48).205 The
Baha’i International Community was initially only given observer status, however, and
functioned as an agency under the American national assembly
Subsequent Baha’i involvement with the United Nations included representation as observers
at various conferences of the UN and related bodies; the preparation of privately circulated
Baha’i position papers on topics such as human rights, UN charter revision and genocide; and
the use of the UN as a means of trying to influence world opinion in defence of the Baha’is
under attack in Iran (1955-56) and Morocco (1962) (BW15: 358-64).
One of the tasks which the House of Justice set itself during the Nine Year Plan was the
development of the relationship between the Baha’i International Community (today often
known as the BIC) and the United Nations. As an initial step towards this goal, the BIC
established its own offices in New York in 1965. Then, in 1967, the House decided that the
time had come to apply for the BIC to be raised from observer to consultative status as a non-
governmental organization. In this connection, the House also took over the function of
representing the BIC from the American assembly and for the first time appointed a full-time
observer, Dr. Victor de Araujo (BW15: 364-5).206 News of this ‘SIGNIFICANT STEP’ was
communicated to the national assemblies worldwide in October 1967 (MU#49). Consultative
status (to ECOSOC, the UN’s Economic and Social Council) was finally achieved in May
1970, thereby enabling the BIC to participate in all sessions of ECOSOC and its subsidiary
bodies as well attending all conferences and seminars organized under its aegis (BW15: 366).
As the House noted when it ‘JOYFULLY’ announced news of this achievement, the new
status accorded to the BIC gave the Faith both greater prestige, influence and recognition.
Not only was the Nine Year Plan goal thereby attained, but Shoghi Effendi’s ‘LONG
CHERISHED HOPE’ was fulfilled, and the twenty years of ‘PERSISTENT EFFORTS’ by
the Baha’is at the UN finally rewarded (MU#78).207 Further institutional developments were
the appointment of a BIC representative to attend UN-related meetings in Geneva (Mrs. Janet
Lindstrom, August 1971); a BIC representative for Africa (Dr. `Azíz Navídí, 1971); and an
205. See CEBF, ‘Bahá’í International Community (BIC)’, loc. cit.
206. Araujo replaced Mrs. Mildred Mottahedeh, who had served as part-time Baha’i observer at the UN for
almost twenty years (BW15: 364). BIC’s consultative status (Category II) was that given to “organizations
which have a special competence in, and are concerned with, only a few of the fields of activity covered by
the Council [i.e. ECOSOC], and which are known internationally within the fields for which they have or
seek consultative status” (BW 15: 366).
207. The House’s announcement of the achievement of consultative status was dated 18 February 1970, and as
such predates the formal decision of ECOSOC (27 May). It came shortly after the unanimously favourable
decision taken by ECOSOC’s Committee on Non-Governmental Organizations (12 February), however,
and it must therefore be assumed that final approval of the Committee’s decision was almost a foregone
conclusion (BW15: 366; MU#78).

Executive Assistant to the New York representative (July 1972). To cope with the increasing
volume of work an alternate for the Geneva representative was also appointed (February
1973 – the New York representative already had one) and New York’s BIC office moved into
a larger office space (BW 15: 369).
4. Baha’i activities linked to the UN. The United Nations’ own concerns provided the
Baha’is with opportunities to disseminate their views on various matters. The BIC itself first
participated in a UN-related session in an official capacity in late Summer 1970, when it
participated in the 23rd session of the Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination
and Protection of Minorities. It subsequently attended further meetings of the Sub-
Commission in addition to the annual sessions of the Economic and Social Council; the
Commission on Human Rights; and the Committee on Non-Governmental Organizations, as
well as the biennial meetings of the Commission for Social Development and the
Commission on the Status of Women. It was also invited to send representatives to special
seminars for UN member-states for the International Year for Action to Combat Racism and
Racial Discrimination (1971) and the UN Conference on the Human Environment
(Stockholm, 1972), and to contribute its first position statement (on Development and
Decolonization) in 1972. Contact with the UN Office of Public Information (OPI), begun in
1948 was also continued, the BIC in this instance working together with individual national
Baha’i communities – as “member-affiliates”, as in two OPI-sponsored Regional Conferences
of Non-Governmental Organizations in Addis Ababa (February 1970) and Buenos Aires
(August 1972), in both of which large and multi-national Baha’i delegations were a
significant presence. A further indication of the Baha’i “presence” at the UN was the election
of the Baha’i representative on to the Executive Committee of Non-Governmental
Organization with OPI and his two stints of service as an officer of the Committee (BW 15:
366-73).
Baha’is at a local and national level also increased their involvement with UN-related
activities during this period, the BIC acting as a central office of information to provide
national spiritual assemblies with suggestions and materials for the observance of the annual
United Nations and Human Rights Days, as well as the various thematic “International Years”
for Human Rights (1968), Education (1970), and Action to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination (1971). Again, many national assemblies became informally accredited with
the various overseas branches of the OPI (United Nations Information Centres) (BW 15: 372-
73).
BIC involvement with the work of the UN and the greater public profile which this gave the
Faith also gave the Baha’is easier access to national missions as well as UN officials, contacts
which proved to be of use both in relationship to the global proclamation campaign and the
sensitive matter of trying to secure support for action to curtail or prevent instances of anti-
Baha’i discrimination (BW 15: 372-73).

21. The Baha’i Funds
1. The need for funding. The activities of the Baha’i Faith are funded by the voluntary
contributions of the Baha’is, whether to the various local, national and international funds or
via the payment of Huqúqu’lláh (‘the Right of God’) (see below). Financial contributions
from non-Baha’is for the direct work of the Faith are not accepted.208
Given the voluntary nature of Baha’i contributions, the Universal House of Justice made a
number of general appeals to the Baha’is, reminding them of the importance of supporting
the Baha’i funds and advising them as to the particular financial needs of the time. Thus, in
its very first letter to national Baha’i conventions in May 1963, the House emphasized the
importance of adequate funding for the work of the Faith – all the expansion and
development of the Faith envisaged in the Nine Year Plan depended upon it. Every Baha’i
should be conscious of “this vital and pressing matter”, and each national assembly should
pay particular attention to “the principle of universal participation”, whereby each Baha’i
could make some offering to the fund – whether small or large – and thus identify himself
with the work of the Cause throughout the world. (MU#2.11).
Again, in November 1963, the House called upon each national assembly to seek to develop
its own national fund. It was understood that many Baha’i communities still did not have
sufficient resources to fully sustain their administrative and teaching work, but all should
seek to devise a program and budget which would enable them to become self-sustaining as
rapidly as possible. In order to do this, the Baha’is needed to gain an appreciation of the
bounties which came from ‘regular and systematic’ contributions to their national fund. The
amount that was contributed was less important than the universality of participation – as
emphasized by a letter of Shoghi Effendi to a relatively poor African national assembly in
1957. The House members prayed that God’s bounties would be granted to the growing
Administrative Order so that it would be able to take his healing message to all the world’s
peoples (MU#9).
Similarly, in December 1963, the House addressed the Baha’is worldwide about the
individual’s responsibility to support the Baha’i funds (MU#13). With the rapid approach of
the Nine Year Plan, it wanted all Baha’is to be aware of the financial needs of the Faith at all
levels: local, national, continental, and international. As the Faith continued to expand and
diversify, its financial needs increased, and it became ever more necessary for the individual
Baha’i to consider how much he or she could contribute. This was a spiritual responsibility, in
which what was important was the degree of sacrifice on the part of the giver, the love with
which the gift was made, and unity of the Baha’is in the service of giving. It was not the
amount contributed as such which was important: both rich and poor could give to equal
spiritual effect – and receive the ‘spiritual confirmations’ which giving would entail
(MU#13.1-13.2). In the midst of a civilization that was ‘torn by strifes and enfeebled by
materialism’, the Baha’is were building a new world. They now faced ‘opportunities and
responsibilities of vast magnitude and great urgency’. Each Baha’i should resolve not to
allow himself to be ‘seduced’ by the ‘ephemeral allurements’ of the environing society, nor to
be drawn into ‘its feuds and short-lived enthusiasms’. Rather, he or she should transfer all
208. See CEBF, ‘funds’, loc. cit.

that they could from the ‘old world’ of the wider society to that new world which they were
building and which constituted the ‘vision’ of their longing (MU#13.7).
As further encouragement, in January 1970, the House provided the Baha’is worldwide with
a compilation of extracts from Shoghi Effendi’s letters on the Baha’i funds – in order ‘to
assist the friends everywhere in the proper appreciation of the importance and meaning of
contributing’ to the funds, as well as to remind them of the ‘underlying principles’ that should
govern ‘the offering and administration of these funds’. National assemblies were encouraged
to use the compilation as they thought best, whether in conferences, Summer schools,
deepening classes, or newsletters and the like (MU#76).209
2. The International Fund. Shoghi Effendi had established a central fund in Haifa to support
the work of the Baha’i World Centre and where necessary to subsidize those national
assemblies which had little money of their own – such as many of those in the ‘Third World’.
As the House noted in May 1963, this International Fund then had particular importance
because of the need to build up “sufficient reserves” so as to be able to launch the Nine Year
Plan in 1964 (MU#2.11).
The House also emphasized the importance of the International Fund in a general letter on
Baha’i funds in December 1963. The importance of this central fund were particularly great
at the present time because the rapid expansion of the Faith was taking place in areas in
which the Baha’is were extremely poor. In such circumstances, no matter how much the local
Baha’is sacrificed, they would never be able to produce sufficient funds to support Baha’i
activities, and the House therefore used the International Fund to help support activities in
these relatively impoverished areas. The monies available were not adequate, however, and
several times in the past few months, requests for assistance had had to be refused. Yet, these
were the very areas in which teaching was most successful, with a ten- or perhaps
hundredfold greater result than in other parts of the world in terms of new Baha’is for a given
amount of money expended on Baha’i activities. The International Fund was also used by the
House to help newly established national assemblies start their work; to contribute to major
international undertakings such as the projected oceanic conferences; and to develop and
beautify the lands surrounding the Baha’i shrines in the Haifa and Bahjí (MU#13.4-13.5).
The House’s concern with support for the International Fund grew as it turned increasingly to
the task of accomplishing the various Nine Year Plan goals that were to be centrally funded.
Thus, in its Ridván message of 1966, it made a further general appeal for support of the
Baha’i funds, writing that ‘The onward march of the Faith’ was dependent upon ‘a very great
increase in contributions to the various funds’, but noting that there was now a particular need
for more money so as to meet the increasingly heavy expenditures entailed by various
forthcoming projects. The most expensive of these were likely to be the development and
beautification of the Baha’i shrines and the gardens on Mount Carmel and the building of two
new Baha’i temples (later reduced to one), but the called-for intensification of ‘the worldwide
process of teaching and consolidation’, further pioneering needs, and the development of
international travel teaching would all require financial support. The flow of funds needed to
be ‘uninterrupted’. The Baha’is should remember that only those who were openly declared
209. A revised version of the compilation is in 1CC 529-50.

members of the Faith were ‘privileged’ to contribute financially to the building of a new
world order. Because this group was small, much more was required of them – their
responsibilities in this matter being commensurate with ‘the bounty’ they received by being
‘the bearers of the Name of God in this day’ (MU#34.14).
A further appeal for funds was made in March 1967, when the House alerted the national
assemblies to the pressing needs of the International Fund. The development of various
Baha’i World Centre goals (beatification of the Baha’i lands in Haifa-Bahjí; the development
of the auxiliary institutions of the House; work on the Baha’i texts) had so far been delayed
so that Baha’i resources could be concentrated on the teaching work, but it was not possible
to delay these projects any longer. Again, the House needed to pay for the forthcoming
international conferences and the Second International Convention, and to give ‘vital’
financial assistance to the work of the Hands of the Cause and the national assemblies
(MU#40.5). The ‘minimum budget requirements’ of the International Fund had already nearly
doubled since the time of the House’s establishment in 1963, and an even greater flow of
funds would be needed to support the additional tasks which now had to be attended to.
Every national assembly should therefore consider how much it could allocate to the
International Fund in its budget for the forthcoming year – in some cases, the assemblies
might decide to double, triple, or even further increase their contributions. Each assembly
should notify the House of its decision by 21 April. This was a ‘vitally important matter’, and
the House members would pray that the Baha’is worldwide would respond ‘wholeheartedly’
to this call (MU#40.6-8).
Again, in their Ridván message for 1967, the House called the Baha’is to note the ‘pressing
and ever-growing needs’ of the Baha’i fund. There were ‘great projects’ which were already
underway or would soon be started which required ‘very large amounts of money’ for their
realization.210 Sustained and ‘sacrificial’ contributions were needed from the Baha’is – ideally
by means of ‘universal participation in giving’, whereby every Baha’i contributed something
according to his or her personal circumstances. The national and local assemblies were urged
to pursue this goal with ‘vigor and imagination’, and the Baha’is were reminded that the fact
that only they could contribute to the fund was both their honour and their challenge
(MU#42.14).
3. Increasing inflation and the budgetary crisis of 1970. The increasing costs which had to
be borne by the International Fund led to a brief budgetary crisis in 1970. One factor in this
crisis was undoubtedly the rising levels of inflation in the world economy which both
increased the costs of many items and for some people presumably lowered the amount of
monies they might have available for contributing to the Baha’i funds.211
210. The projects included the building of the Panama temple; the physical development of the Baha’i World
Centre; support for teaching programs in many parts of the world; and the development of new national
assemblies (MU#42.14).
211. One estimate for inflation in the seven leading “advanced capitalist countries” (i.e. the USA, Canada,
Japan, West Germany, France, Italy and the UK) gives an average rise in consumer prices of 3 percent per
annum in 1965 rising to 7.8 percent by 1973 (Armstrong et al. 264). In 1960-63, US consumer prices had
been increasing on average by 1.3 percent per annum, but by 1970 they were increasing by 5.9 percent
(Wee 80). Inflation in these nations would in turn have an effect on the world economy as a whole.

3.1. Inflation and property acquisition. The House of Justice was conscious of the impact
of inflation from the beginning of the Nine Year Plan onwards and counselled the Baha’is
accordingly. This was most obvious in relation to of the numerous property goals which the
House had set the Baha’i world as part of the Plan – the acquisition of national Baha’i centres
(Hazíratu'l-Quds), sites for future Baha’i temples, ‘national endowments’, and teaching
institutes. Necessarily, property acquisitions were particularly subject to the impact of
inflation. Thus, in its May 1964 guideline notes on aspects of the Plan, the House reminded
the national assemblies that property prices were soaring virtually everywhere, and called on
the responsible national assemblies to therefore purchase appropriate properties as soon as the
funds became available (MU#16.6).
Again, at Ridván 1965, the House urged the Baha’is to complete their property goals quickly.
Hinting at the impact of future inflation, it noted that the speedy completion of these projects
would not only later save major expenses, but would endow the Faith with properties that
would become increasingly valuable. An additional advantage to early completion of these
goals would be that this would leave the Baha’is free to concentrate their energies and
resources on other goals in the later stages of the Nine Year Plan (Presumably this meant
teaching the Faith and financing the World Centre goals). These ‘basic possessions’ would be
‘embryos’ of mighty future institutions’, but it should be this generation who acquired them –
both ‘for its own protection’ and as ‘gifts to prosperity’. Accordingly, those national
assemblies which had been given property goals should give high priority to their acquisition
(MU#24.13). The House reiterated the urgency of acquiring the remaining property goals in
its Ridván letter for 1966: growing inflation was now affecting ‘nearly the whole world’, and
if the Baha’is waited too long, then the financial burden of obtaining what they needed would
become excessive (MU#34.8).
The House also noted the impact of inflation on the Baha’i funds in general. Thus, in its 1967
Ridván message, it referred to the worldwide spread of inflation, which ‘inevitably and
seriously’ affected the expenses which had to be borne by the Baha’i fund. Only by larger
donations and by the involvement of a larger number of contributors could this problem be
solved. Also of note was the impact of inflation on the more affluent: causing personal
incomes as well as the costs of living to increase (MU#42.14).
3.2. The crisis. The documents presently available do not enable us to describe the exact
details and timing of the crisis in the International Fund.212 Certainly, in December 1970, the
Contributory factors included heavy American expenditure on the Vietnam War, social welfare payments,
wage rises and increasing business credit (Armstrong et al. 263-68; Wee 69-70, 80-81). Inflation is
invariably unequal in its impact, enabling some people to become richer whilst making others relatively
poorer.
212. It seems probable that there was a period of increasing pressure caused by the rising demands that were
being placed on the International Fund long before the crisis point was reached. Thus, at the time of the
Palermo Conference in August 1968, the House announced that henceforth the International Deputization
Fund, which so far had been used only to support pioneering moves and travel teaching, would now also be
available to assist in any national projects which were vital to the completion of the Plan (MU#66.3), that
is, to act as an additional source of funding for what had previously been a responsibility of the
International Fund, and presumably to make up for a shortfall in that fund.

House reported a ‘grave crisis’ in the state of the Fund caused by a marked growth in
necessary expenditures coinciding with a ‘steep reduction in contributions’. It was to be noted
that since 1963, the work at the Baha’i World Centre and internationally had expanded so
much that the House had had to more than quadruple the International Fund’s annual budget
in the following years. In the present year (1970-71), some 58 percent of the Fund was being
expended outside the World Centre on such projects as assistance to national spiritual
assemblies (56 out of the present 94 assemblies were not financially self-supporting and
received a large part or even all of their funding from the World Centre); contributions to the
work of the Hands of the Cause and Continental Boards; defence of the Faith in lands in
which the Baha’is were facing persecution; and the expanded activities of the Baha’i
International Community at the United Nations. Meanwhile, recently established national
assemblies were busy acquiring the Baha’i centres, temple sites, national endowments and
teaching institutes that were essential for the ‘proper development’ of the Baha’i
administration and the deepening of the Baha’is. Again, several hundred thousand dollars
were required to complete the work on the Panama temple. The material resources of the
Faith were thus ‘stretched to their uttermost’ (MU#87.1-3).
It was a ‘crucial’ and ‘critical’ moment in the progress of the Plan. In many countries,
multitudes of people were eager to become Baha’is, whilst in others, great efforts were
needed to awaken people in societies which were ‘materially advanced but spiritually
backward’. The activities of the Baha’is and the expenditure of funds needed to be increased
in order to ‘seize the opportunities’ which presented themselves, but could not be due to the
decline in income (MU#87.1-2).
As an emergency response to the present crisis, the House had decided to postpone certain
projects at the World Centre – including further development of the gardens at Bahjí, the start
of an extension of the terraces below the Shrine of the Báb, and the development of
additional office facilities. Other work could not wait, however, notably improvements in the
International Archives Building to protect valuable original Baha’i scriptures and relics from
the high humidity and increasingly polluted atmosphere in Haifa. Reluctantly then, the House
was compelled to reduce its next two quarterly remittances to those national assemblies it was
helping financially by 10 percent, and the assemblies involved should therefore reduce their
own budgets to take account of this. Such cuts and restrictions in Baha’i activities were not
the real answer, however. They could only be a temporary measure at a time when humanity
as a whole stood ‘in such dire need’ of the Baha’i message. Rather, what was needed was
‘universal participation’ of every Baha’i in the work of the Cause (MU#87.4-5).
In this context, the House noted that globally poor Baha’is ‘vastly’ outnumbered wealthy
ones, and that this majority would grow rapidly as mass teaching [which was largely
concentrated in poorer areas] continued to spread. Necessarily, Baha’is from richer
communities would continue to be the main supporters of the International Fund for the
immediate future, and would thereby also continue to assist mass teaching work by poorer
communities. This said, it became increasingly urgent for the Baha’is in the mass teaching
areas ‘to finance their own activities to an ever greater degree’. Ultimately, the ‘backbone’ of
the Fund had to be regular contributions by every Baha’i. Baha’is who were poor would only
be able to make small contributions, but a large number of such small amounts combined to
form ‘a mighty river’ that could carry forward the work of the Cause. Universal participation
in giving involved the Baha’is in a unity in sacrifice which drew divine confirmations upon

them (MU#87.6).
All Baha’is were asked to ‘ponder these matters deeply’, and to join the members of the
House of Justice in ‘fervent prayer’ that ‘this momentary crisis’ would prove to be ‘a
providential test’ that would spur the Baha’is to ‘new heights of dedication and triumphant
achievement’. Worldwide economic difficulties were undoubtedly one factor in the decline in
contributions, but sacrificial endeavour was needed so as to ensure that the work of the Faith
went forward without impediment (MU#87.2, 87.8).
The crisis seem to have been quickly over. Thus, at Ridván 1971, the House was able to
report that there had already been a ‘magnificent response’ to its December appeal from some
parts of the Baha’i world, and that if this ‘manifestation of devotion and sacrifice’ continued
and became more widespread, the threat to the achievement of the remaining Plan goals
would be removed. The House also noted that the serious condition that it had reported in
December was due to ‘various unforeseen [and unmentioned] circumstances’ (MU#96.6).
4. A retrospective view. Writing at the end of the Nine Year Plan, at Ridván 1973, the House
expressed delight at the financial support the Baha’is had given, identifying the ‘vast increase
in the financial resources of the Faith’ as having been one of the most ‘highly portentous’
developments during the Plan. The House had appealed for support for the International
Fund, and there had been a ‘heartwarming response’, but the Baha’is had also sacrificially
supported the local, national and continental funds. This support was a ‘practical proof’ of the
Baha’is’ love for the Faith, and it had enabled the work of the Plan to go forward, with the
support of pioneers and travelling teachers; the raising of [a] Baha’i temple; the acquisition of
Baha’i properties; the purchase of Baha’i holy places in Iran and the Holy Land; and ‘the
development of educational institutions’ and of ‘all the multifarious activities of a vigorous,
onward-marching, constructive world community’ (MU#128.12, 128.14).
Other significant developments regarding Baha’i funding during the Plan were the
strengthening of the administration of the Huqúqu’lláh prior to its extension to other parts of
the world (below), and the establishment of an International Deputization Fund to assist
pioneers and travelling teachers – later extended to the funding of important national projects
(below) (MU#128.14).
The House also noted that contributions to all of the various funds of the Faith would never
cease to be a service that was open to all Baha’is, and that the future growth of the Faith
would require further and ‘ever-increasing’ contributions. Specifically regarding the
International Fund, the House stated that some 60 percent of all its monies went to assist the
work of [the poorer] national spiritual assemblies, promote the teaching work, and defend the
Faith in those countries where it was under attack. This was vital, for without this support, the
expansion and deepening work of many national assemblies would be paralyzed
(MU#128.14).
5. Some practicalities. On several occasions, the House noted practical aspects relating to
the efficient and effective use of Baha’i moneys.

-1. Thus, in November 1963, the House instructed those poorer assemblies which
were in need of financial assistance to contact it directly, rather than appealing to other
national assemblies for help. Mutual assistance between assemblies needed to be authorized
by the House (MU#9.3).
-2. Again, in December 1963, the House counselled the Baha’is that every local and
national assembly should endeavour to become self-supporting and to expend its funds with
‘wisdom and economy’. If they did this then they would be able to make substantial
contributions to the international and continental funds, thus (i) enabling the House to provide
vital assistance to the work of new and impoverished Baha’i communities and meet
international goals, and (ii) supporting the work of the Hands of the Cause and their Auxiliary
Boards – institutions “assiduously fostered” by Shoghi Effendi which were destined to render
‘increasingly important services’ in the forthcoming years (MU#13.5-13.6).
-3. The House itself responded to perceived need in the establishment and definition
of funds, as most obviously in the creation in 1965 of the International Deputization Fund to
assist pioneers and travelling teachers (MU#24.11), and the later extension of this fund in
August 1968 to help cover any national projects which were vital to the completion of the
Plan (MU#66.3).
6. Huqúqu’lláh. Huqúqu’lláh (‘the Right of God’) is effectively a payment on capital gains
ordained by Bahá’u’lláh in his Kitáb-i Aqdas and offered to the head of the Faith – at the
present time the Universal House of Justice. Payment is voluntary, but is regarded as a
spiritual obligation for Baha’is. The payment basically consists of nineteen percent of new
capital gains for anyone who has more than a certain minimum level of wealth.213
Payment of Huqúqu’lláh was made universally applicable to the Baha’is worldwide in 1992,
and until then was regarded as an obligation for Middle Eastern Baha’is only. An English-
language compilation of Baha’i writings on the subject was issued by the Universal House of
Justice in 1985 (MU#430; 1CC 489-527), and included translated passages from Persian letters
of the House written during the 1963-73 period. These mostly reiterated the basic Baha’i
teachings relating to the Huqúqu’lláh, viz., that payment is a binding spiritual obligation and
privilege which purifies the individual’s wealth and is a means of spiritual confirmation; that
it is payable only to the centre of the Cause; that it is distinct from and takes precedence over
other contributions to the Baha’i funds; and that whilst solicitation of payment is not
allowable, the Iranian national assembly should issue general appeals to the Baha’is
reminding them of their obligation to pay. The House also asserted its own control over the
Huqúqu’lláh (October 1963) and asked the Trustee of the Huqúqu’lláh (the Hand of the
Cause `Alí-Muhammad Varqá) to designate local and provincial representatives in Iran and
“neighbouring countries” to facilitate payment (1CC 518-22). In other letters written during
this period the House reiterated that Western Baha’is were not yet required to make these
payments – although they could if they wished; that payment was a matter of conscience –
including cases where individuals deliberately sought excuses to justify not paying; and that
the details and computation of payment were left up to the individual (1CC 522-23).
213. The minimum level of wealth is set at 19 mithqáls (i.e. 69.2 grams) of gold excluding residence, place of
business and household furnishings. See CEBF, ‘Huqúqu’lláh’; ‘mithqál’, loc. cit.