AUSTRALIAN
BAHÁ’Í STUDIES
ISSN 1442-2875
Section One: The Creative Inspiration
Creativity & Spirituality - Are They Related? – Negin Sanaei
The Beautiful Flight Toward the Light:
Reflections on an Artist’s Life – Robin M. Chandler
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism & Seeing
Karel Fontaine
Of Paramount Importance - Addressing the Paucity of
Music in Bahá’í Devotional Practice – Michael Knopf
The Passionate Artist – Ron Price
Building Creative Communities – Robin M. Chandler
Arts Can Move the Youth – Mahyar Amjadi
Letters Inscribed Upon His Sacred Scroll : An Anthology of
Poetry by Australian Bahá'ís 1999 – Belinda Belton
Remembrance of Clara & Hyde Dunn
Hooshang Eshraq-Khavari
The Bot Series – Vahid Payman
Section Two: On the Road to Reconciliation
Something Regal: Uncle Fred Murray. A Compilation of
Tributes, Photographs and Stories – June Perkins
A Lonely Road to Native Title Determination – Walter Waia
Section Three: History
Mr Faizi and Mr Furútan in Australia: The Yerrinbool Tapes
Hands of the Cause, Mr Abdul Qasim Faizi
and Mr ‘Ali-Akbar Furútan
Women and Religious Change: A Case Study in the
Colonial Migrant Experience – Miriam Dixson
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the
Babí and Bahá'í Religions – Sepehr Manuchehri
Section Four: Research and Literature
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s” – Suggested
in Particular for Bahá'í Libraries – Paul Gerard
Report on Scholarship
Volume 2, 2000

AUSTRALIAN
BAHÁ’Í STUDIES
Editors:
Graham Hassall, Natalie Mobini-Kesheh, Ladan Rahmani
Association for Bahá’í Studies Australia - Board:
Ahmad Aniss, Colin Dibdin, Sima Hashemi, Sandra Langshaw,
Vahid Payman, Ladan Rahmani, Felicity Rawlings, Shannon
Woodcock
Australian Bahá’í Studies is a publication of the Association
for Bahá’í Studies Australia.  The views expressed in this
Journal are those of the authors and do not necessarily
reflect the opinions of the Editors or the Board of the
Association.
Editorial policy
Australian Bahá’í Studies promotes analysis of issues relevant to
the Australian Bahá’í community. It encourages exploration of
the history, teachings, and philosophy of the Bahá’í Faith in
systematic, reflective, or artistic ways. It thus offers itself as a
medium of communication for anyone who is interested in the
development of the Australian Bahá’í community. In view of the
Bahá’í vision of scholarship as an activity accessible to all, rather
than one limited to a small academic community, Australian
Bahá’í Studies seeks input from people of diverse backgrounds
and viewpoints, in a way that assists in redefining what is meant
by scholarly practice. The readers of the journal have an interest
in teaching the Bahá’í Faith, serving its administrative organs, and
participating in its community life. It is also of interest to those
studying the model that the Bahá’í community offers for the
resolution of contemporary problems.
Note to Contributors
Australian Bahá’í Studies is open to submissions on all
subjects. But it particularly seeks articles of practical
relevance to the Australian Bahá’í community, and which
might not be readily published elsewhere. These may
(continues on inside back cover)
ISSN 1442-2875

Contents
Editorial..................................................................................3
Section One: The Creative Inspiration
Creativity and Spirituality - are they related? .......... 6
Negin Sanaei
The Beautiful Flight toward the Light:
Reflections on an Artist’s Life.................................. 10
Robin M. Chandler
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing......19
Karel Fontaine
Of Paramount Importance - Addressing the Paucity
of Music in Bahá’í Devotional Practice.................... 42
Michael Knopf
The Passionate Artist .............................................. 48
Ron Price
Building Creative Communities: approaching the
arts as social & economic development through
professionalizing, training, and networking
internationally.......................................................... 56
Robin M. Chandler
Arts Can Move the Youth........................................ 66
Mahyar Amjadi
Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll : An
anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999..... 71
Belinda Belton
Remembrance of Clara & Hyde Dunn..................... 92
Hooshang Eshraq-Khavari

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
The Bot. Series......................................................... 94
Vahid Payman
Section Two: On the Road to Reconciliation
Something Regal: Uncle Fred Murray. A compilation
of tributes, photographs and stories ..................... 97
June Perkins
A lonely road to native title determination ......... 109
Walter Waia

Section Three: History
Mr Faizi and Mr Furútan in Australia:
the Yerrinbool tapes.............................................. 125
Hands of the Cause, Mr Abdul Qasim Faizi and
Mr ‘Ali-Akbar Furútan
Women and Religious Change: a case study in the
colonial migrant experience.................................. 211
Miriam Dixson
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí
and Bahá’í Religions.............................................. 219
Sepehr Manuchehri
Section Four: Research and Literature
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s” –
Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries.......... 253
Paul Gerard
Report on scholarship............................................ 282
Editorial

This volume of Australian Bahá’í Studies focuses on three subjects of
enduring significance to the Australian Bahá’í Community: the role of the
arts, the response of indigenous Australians to the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh,
and glimpses at the historical context in ‘the present’ is experienced. It also
includes a stimulating fourth section addressing issues of classification and
organization of Bahá’í literature.
Since its inception in Australia, the Association for Bahá’í Studies has
striven to respond to Bahá’í Writings on the significance of the arts, particu-
larly by including performance and presentation in as many of its activities as
possible.  From the earliest scholarship conferences at Yerrinbool, through the
annual conferences held in cities and towns across Australia, the Association has
sought to provide performing artists with opportunities to share their artistry.
The challenge of hosting a conference specifically on the role of the arts,
however, was always a daunting prospect, and it was not until 1999 that ABS
Australia felt it could provide artists with the venues that did justice to their
craft.  The 18th Annual ABS conference ‘The Creative Inspiration: Arts and
Culture in the Bahá’í Faith’, held in Melbourne in September 1999, allowed
more than 50 presenters and performers to show their visual and performing
arts, in such appropriate venues as Melbourne University’s Gryphon Gallery
and Melba Concert Hall, and RMIT’s Kaliede Theatre.
While the papers in the present volume cannot convey the full impact of
the conference’s musical performances and visual displays, it nevertheless
provides one further opportunity for discussion of the role of the artist, whether
visual, literary, or performing.
The present volume’s second section, ‘On the road to reconciliation’, fo-
cuses on encounters between indigenous Australia and the Bahá’í Teachings.
Walter Waia offers an autobiographical account of his quest for justice, and
June Perkins pays tribute to the life of Fred Murray.
A third section brings together some historical studies, and includes rare
documentation of an early visit to Australia by Mr A.Q. Faizi and Mr A.A.
Furútan.  Miriam Dixson, renowned Australian author and Professor of His-
tory at the University of New England, explores the life of her grand-mother
Margaret Dixson, one of the early Melbourne Bahá’ís, and an inspiration for

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Section 1
Prof. Dixson’s own life’s journey.  Sepehr Manuchehri’s paper focuses on
an aspect of Bábí history (Taqiyyih) which has hitherto been subject to little
scholarly consideration. It reminds us also that insightful scholarship in Bábí
and Bahá’í history using original sources is being undertaken within Australia.
Volume 2 of Australian Bahá’í Studies commenced under the editorship
of Graham Hassall and Natalie Mobine, but its completion was only due to
the additional support of Ladan Rahmani, Stephen Beale, and the members of
the Committee of the Association for Bahá’í Studies.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
imaginative endeavours. It will be referred to later in an attempt to find a better
method of how we can be more ‘successful’.
Spirituality may seem to be a mystic word; it takes on many facets.  The
definitions in the Bahá’í Writings vary.  Poet, Jack McLean defines spirituality
for Bahá’ís as “to be involved with the life of society in order to preserve and
promote its finest heritage.”2
Spirituality and religion are often used interchangeably.  Spirituality, in
fact, is an aspect of religion and perhaps the most important aspect.  Shoghi
Effendi states: “no amount of administrative procedure or adherence to rules
can take the place of this soul-characteristic, this spirituality which is the
essence of man”.3
At the Bahá’í World Congress in 1992, David Hofman observed:
The world today is starving for spiritual food.  It is dying of spiritual
thirst.  In the innermost private life of every man, woman and child on
the planet, there is this inner frustration, this inner lack, this hunger, this
yearning for something other than what the world is offering for them
today or what they can discover in the world.  When all the activities of
mankind turn against him, his economics doesn’t feed, clothe or shelter him,
his religion doesn’t inspire him to kindliness and goodwill, his politics are
unmentionable and his recreations are debased.   Nothing today gratifies
this longing, this yearning in the individual human soul.4
This inner yearning can illustrate why Deepak Chopra or James Redfield’s
books are among the best sellers.  It is not hard to become more spiritual, as
Bahá’ís believe that man is in reality a spiritual being and only when he lives
in the spirit, is he truly happy.  So how do we live in this spirit?  Perhaps by
using our spiritual power.  What is our spiritual power?  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has
said our imagination along with other faculties like thought, comprehension
and memory are parts of our spiritual power.5   The more we utilise any of
these faculties, the more would we enhance our spiritual growth.  This is not
to say that if one person commits to memory all the books in the world, s/he
is an especially spiritual person. That person also needs to use other faculties
of their spiritual power.  Just like the body which needs food, water, exercise
and fresh air to survive, our spirituality needs to use all four faculties of our
spiritual power mentioned above.
Jack McLean writes in his book Dimensions in Spirituality that “imagina-
tion can transcend time and space and directly go into the world of eternity
2.
J.A. McLean, Dimensions in Spirituality, Oxford: George Ronald, 1994, p.126.
3.
Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer, April 25,1945,quoted in Helen Hornby, Lights
of Guidance (2nd rev. ed.), New Dehli: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988, p.542.
4.
Bahá’í World Congress video, 1992.
5.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990, pp.210-211.
Creativity & Spirituality:
Are they related?
Negin Sanaei
The definition of creativity is very broad as it encompasses many things.
Everyone is creative, even those of us who think otherwise.  Every dream, every
fantasy that we have all had as children and even those we have as adults are
the manifestations of our creativity and imagination.  Whether we appreciate
all kinds of creativity, it surrounds us everywhere.  We may ask ourselves why
some creative works of certain creative and imaginative people last longer than
others.  We could ask why the works of Shakespeare have lasted so long, and
why have the creative theories of Plato, the findings of Socrates, the imagina-
tive discoveries of Galileo, the contributions of Einstein have made such a
big impact on our civilisation?  Perhaps the answer lies in the fact that Shake-
speare’s plays appeal to a majority of the population or perhaps the thoughts
behind those ideas and works were spiritual or perhaps both.
Bahá’u’lláh states:
Consider Hippocrates, the physician.  He was one of the eminent phi-
losophers who believed in God and acknowledged His sovereignty.  After
him came Socrates who was indeed wise, accomplished and righteous...
What a penetrating vision into philosophy this eminent man had!… He
had a profound knowledge of such sciences as were current amongst men
as well as of those which were veiled from their minds…  He it is who
perceived a unique, a tempered, and a pervasive nature in things, bearing
the closest likeness to the human spirit…  After Socrates came the divine
Plato who was a pupil of the former... Then came Aristotle, the well-known
man of knowledge…  These men who stand out as leaders of the people
and are pre-eminent among them, one and all acknowledged their belief
in the immortal Being Who holdeth in His grasp the reins of all sciences.1
This quotation explains to us why such men were ‘successful’ in their
1.
Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i-Hikmat in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Wilmette: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1988, pp. 146-147.
Creativity & Spirituality : Are they related?

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
destroying our self-worth and dignity.  We are constantly probed to buy lottery
tickets so we can ‘spend every minute of everyday, of every year’.  This leads
us to think that money can come easily and we therefore have no respect for
the time which we have spent working hard.  Nuclear power has the potential
to help humanity but unfortunately it has had a major adverse result of de-
stroying parts of the world and some members of its family.  Einstein had said
that if he had any vision of his energy theory being used as bombs he would
never have discovered it.  These examples show our spiritual development
being threatened, when creativity is not used to advance human civilisation.
As an individual, however, I suggest that we acknowledge the negative and
find out what we can learn from it and try to make amends by concentrating
on the positive side of it.  Let’s utilise all the great talent we have around us
and appreciate its importance.  Bahá’u’lláh states: “It hath been revealed and
is now repeated that the true worth of artists and craftsmen should be appreci-
ated, for they advance the affairs of mankind,”11  and further, that, “Arts, crafts
and sciences uplifts the world of being, and are conducive to its exaltation.”12
11.	 Bahá’u’lláh quoted in The Compilation of Compilations, The Arts, Maryborough: Bahá’í Publications
Australia, 1991, p. 3.
12.	 Ibid.
with its ethereal, airy spirits.”6  Imagination is a constituent of our spirituality,
therefore it has implications for spiritual growth.  It also has sure implications
for our spiritual detriment.  Creativity has two dimensions.  On the one hand,
when it is focused on unveiling knowledge, the advancement of civilisation and
the promotion of harmony and unification of the world, it becomes a powerful
ally of spiritualisation.  On the other hand, when its energies are harnessed in
the service of the frivolous and self-focused gains, it can pose a serious threat
to spiritual development.7   It becomes a threat when our creativity is used for
our own materialistic purposes rather than for the portrayal of spiritual inspi-
ration.  Therefore imagination can be viewed as a power of the soul which
may either focus on higher and abstract spiritual realities or on lower objects
of self-gratification.
Recall the quote about Hyppocrates, Socrates, Plato and Aristotle.  In that
quote Bahá’u’lláh asserts that they all believed in God and praised Him and
recognised that without the help of God we are not worth as much.  Even
someone contemporary, like Einstein, insisted that religion and science should
move forward together: “Science without religion is blind, religion without
science is lame.”8
‘Abdu’l-Bahá expands on this point in Paris Talks: “By the power of the
Holy Spirit, working through his soul, man is able to perceive the Divine Real-
ity of things.  All great works of art and sciences are witnesses of this power
of the spirit”.9   And Bahá’u’lláh states:
All art is a gift of the Holy Spirit.  When this light shines through the
mind of a musician, it manifests itself in beautiful harmonies.  Again, shining
through the mind of a poet, it is seen in fine poetry and poetic prose.  When
the light of the Sun of Truth inspires the mind of a painter, he produces
marvellous pictures.  These gifts are fulfilling their highest purpose when
showing forth the praise of God.10
Does this mean that if we do not write or paint about God and the Divine,
our efforts are useless?  I think not!  I think the success of our art depends on
our intentions and our purposes.  Our intentions should be spiritual and want-
ing to portray what is in our spirit and inspiration for the sake of presenting
and displaying our inspiration and not what that demonstration may pave the
way for.
There are many demonstrations of decadent creativity, for example, creativ-
ity used in marketing campaigns for achieving their materialistic goals while
6.
J. A. McLean, op.cit., p.176.
7. 	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, op.cit., pp. 210-211.
8.
Richard Tarnas, The Passion of Western Mind – Understanding the Ideas that Have Shaped Our World
View, New York: Ballantine Books,1993. pp.355-356.
9.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, (10th Ed.), London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1961, p. 85.
10.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, op.cit., p.192.
Creativity & Spirituality : Are they related?

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
peers, I was an American Howdy-Doody TV kid who watched the Russians
launch the Sputnik, making us all irreversible technologues.
Then there was literature.  Blessed with endomorphic genes, Daddy had
season tickets to the living room sofa where he hulked over novels which he
had read so often the spines had dissolved.  Newspapers, milk cartons, classi-
cal literature; he read anything with words.  ‘No Decameron’, he said. ‘You’re
too young.’  ‘No’ means ‘do it’ to adolescents.  I thought he knew the rule.
Skulking under my pillow at night with a flashlight and Boccacio, I could
draw imaginative and irrational parallels between its characters and the nuns
and priests at Catholic school.  Boccacio’s fantasies (or facts) were fodder for
balancing out the equally incomprehensible celibate life of the religious clergy.
So I put the metaphors and symbols of twelve years of parochial education
behind me - grotesque uniforms and saddle shoes, daily mass, Gregorian chant
and Verdi’s Requiem, crucifixes with magic potions, Latin orations of Cicero’s
and Caesar’s conquests, the Virgin Mary and the ‘Immaculate Deception’,
poison yard sticks for bad kids, ashes on the forehead, and endless, endless
processions for endless holy days and fetes, along with a healthy respect
for God and being taught by feminist intellectuals - and at nineteen years of
age became a Bahá’í.  Since my parents were always on us kids like a cheap
suit, there was no chance of invoking the Hague Convention.  There was no
chance, imprisoned by all this creative imagination, I would become a nuclear
physicist, or so I thought.
‘Babe’ (my father’s nickname) was my first music mentor.  Beginning,
he might say to me, ‘now let me see if I can explain something to you’, and
proceed with a lecture demonstration about various popular dances.  Perhaps
he would say ‘listen to the rhythm, the melodic structure ... and count’, as he
twirled me around the floor to Duke Ellington, then asked me to sing a few
lines of Gregorian Chant, and hum a few bars from Stravinsky or Schubert
and asked if I could ‘see’ the music!  Sometimes he would simply pull out a
rare book edition, explain it as family patrimony and threaten to return from
the dead if I ever lost or sold his precious books in which he forgetfully and
peripatetically hid money.  Was it the books or the money, I often wondered,
that he was more worried about?  ‘You can always get more money’, he would
insist, ‘but a good book is hard to find’. In retrospect, these were outrageous
expectations to lay on a child and from time to time it crossed my mind that
he might be nuts, definitely different from the other, more normal dads.
It was not until my late 30’s that I realized many artists pass their lives
without mentors and, often, outside stimulating environments.  In that third
decade of my artistic life, American painter Lois Mailou Jones became a second
mentor to me, equally relentless and exacting, until she died, an octogenarian,
at the end of the twentieth century.  She had ridden the waves of all the major
movements of that century.  The Indian art historian Ananda Coomaraswamy
(1877-1947) and many others have waxed poetic about the uses of art, the
The Beautiful Flight
toward the Light:
Reflections on an Artist’s Life
Robin M. Chandler
I would like to share a few subjective reflections about the nature of creativ-
ity from my own point of view, training and experiences as a social scientist
and as an artist.  When I was no more than seven years of age, my late father
would pull out his compasses and drafting tools. Quietly seated next to him,
legs dangling from the sofa far from the floor in those days, I now ponder
the many intellectual rituals of mentoring which took place between he and
I throughout my life.
My father was my first mentor.  It was his interest in passing on to an eager
6-year-old the geometric procedures of three-point perspective which set me
on a course in art production.  In retrospect, his broader aim was to convey
a type of analytical view of the world as a set of structures, but always fore-
grounding his apprentice with the consciousness that humanism, globalism,
and reconciling apparent opposites was the key to unlocking the meaning of
life.  I drew horses.  I painted horses.  He gave me crits.  ‘Fabulous! Good!
More! More!’ he would say.  I cut out paper dolls and threw them away after I
was sure my scissors-hand could precision-cut, since the dolls didn’t interest
me, only the cutting.  My parents could track me by the trail of paper cuttings
and I earned an extra cleaning-up chore.  I put it together in my head too late.
No ‘due process’ in childhood.
A Depression kid, post-World War II fifties parent, my dad was, naturally,
a gadget junkie.  Turn a corner in the house and the Bell and Howell movie
camera was glaring up your nose with Ahmad Jamal’s Poinciana cooing from
his new hi-fi.  For ten years after coming home from dance class, Tchaikovsky
and Schumann echoing in my eardrums, I climbed the front hallway stairs,
sweaty and bunion-footed from too many pirouettes en pointe.  I was rarely
in the mood for being filmed since I was often en route to Irish step dancing
rehearsals for St Patrick’s Day or some school performance.  There are reels
of 8mm film somewhere of family, friend, and stranger alike doing mundane
or zany things, and I hope these remain lost forever.  Like my baby-boomer
The Beautiful Flight toward the Light: Reflections on an Artist’s Life

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
collage, poetry and installation work which interrogates the boundaries of
aesthetics and social science.
Since 1978 I have been developing collage as a medium/technique as a
non-traditional form of fine art expression in the visual arts.  For the past ten
years I have been revisiting an interest in the visual text and the written text.
Subsequently, several collages were produced with accompanying poems
which I have read publicly when my own work as a studio artist was being
showcased.  In 1993 I also began to exhibit installation work on occasion
and to produce photography for exhibition: the use of the photograph as an
extension of collage themes.  Creative productivity falls over two categories -
studio art and inter-arts.  My interest in creating collages functions on several
multi-dimensional tracks.  The creation of two and three-dimensional work
represents an intellectual and aesthetic reciprocity between my field research
as a social scientist and my art, constituting the link between theory and
praxis.  So powerful and important are the ‘ideas’ that they demand material
production as works of art and as published written texts.  This occurs at three
stages - technical method, style, and the life of art.
In collages such as Genesis, Genesis (1994) and Capoeira (1988), I explore
the layering and the repetition of form as a technique to create the illusion of
depth of field, or alternately to convey a sense of the flat dimension, using
colour as a magnet.  However, these works revise cultural history through
their thematic content by, respectively, re-situating women at the centre of
early history, and re-presenting an Afro-Brazilian martial art form brought by
Angolan slaves during the slave trade as a syncretised dance form.  The works
are narrative, telling stories as a visual text to be read.

Technical method: drawing with the scissors
Collage is a technique practised as early as the 14th century by the Japanese,
described first by the French as papiers collé - cut and pasted paper - and later
popularised by the Cubists.
Evolving over twenty years, my production technique involves an
exploration and subsequent mastery of perspective drawing, composition,
painting, design and collage.  The ‘drawing-with-scissors’ technique describes
my initial efforts to draw free-hand with the scissors a selection of abstract
and minimalist forms which have become my ‘signature’ as a collagist: forms
including plant and botanical forms, gingko leaves, priestesses, diffuse horizon
lines and vanishing points, cultural icons, and experimenting with optical
illusions, three-point perspective, fluid horizon lines, free-floating forms,
design asymmetry, and geometric pattern.
Creating the illusion of depth of field using a ‘layering’ technology has
been the goal of showing how two-dimensional space can be transformed
into multi-dimensional space through the experimental use of colour, form,
and multimedia - paper, paint, thread, copper tooling, artefacts, and my own
lineage created between teacher and student-apprentice, and the power of art
to transform artist and audience.
However, ‘no chance’ is a challenge to God, as I later became a social
scientist, closing the circle of my training and all the forms of cultural edu-
cation I had absorbed.  God always has the final word, the final melody, the
final brushstroke as we try to set boundaries for our own universe of creativity
and, at the same time, break all the rules in an effort to produce that ineffable
artwork which also has substantive form and meaning.
In retrospect, I realise I lived in an intellectual paradise with a renaissance
man who worshipped and respected the powers of the mind, loved knowledge,
and stopped in his journey to see that the ecstasy of intellectual and aesthetic
discovery was passed on to me.  This is our charge, our mission, those of us
who labour in the unfallowed fields of the knowledge industry in the informa-
tion age: to discover it ourselves, whatever concept, theory or evidence, and
to pass it on.  How much the better to pass it on with the love of knowledge
with which genius is endowed.
The visual text and the written text
With such an upbringing, who would expect my work to be anything but
an interdisciplinary or global enterprise?  I was an early convert thrown to
the lions of mono-disciplinary complacency where learning ends when you
get letters after your name.  Like many others, I refused to study ‘just one
thing.’  I could ‘see’ the links, the theoretical networks, the elegant structures
connecting idea and practice!  What was wrong with everybody else?  Social
science, educational methodology, studio production and art history!  Why not?
It always seemed so natural.  Yet one quickly discovers that the first order of
business in scientific creativity and creative science, if one wishes to be taken
seriously, is to develop a ‘language’, a means whereby communication with
others is possible.  The expression of thought in form.  Not merely the written
text, but oral tradition which relies heavily on the power of memory (an ancient
high art we have dispensed with), and the visual text, the ‘language’ through
which an artist speaks, drawing the spectator’s gaze into pictorial, architectural
space, or cyberspace. The ‘language’ of music, theatre, dance: each enraptures
us through the configuration of sound, literary dramatisation, or gesture.
I have pursued this path as a permanent calling.  Consequently, ‘returning’
to science through doctoral work in sociology, cultural theory, and epistemology
after many years in the arts constituted an affirmation of my early training;
the idea that designing ‘bridges’, ‘walkways’, ‘reservoirs’, and ‘airways’ was
a means by which seemingly disparate knowledge bases could be bridged
and linked.  Borrowing from this architectural model for thinking about the
interdisciplinary and artist-scholar complexities of my work, I will devote my
remarks to the forms of intelligence which have become central to my projects.
What follows is a description of my creative production philosophy and
The Beautiful Flight toward the Light: Reflections on an Artist’s Life

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
However, my seminal influences as an intellectual observer began in 1966 in
South America and the Caribbean.  Subsequently, the world as a social unity
became my production matrix.
As an artist matures, the question is extended to include ‘... and how might
I pass on the traditions of art and the ideology of creativity and contribute to
an ever-advancing civilisation?’  In this way, an artist may choose to link the
insular life of solitude (the studio) with the social and political events of their
time.  It was for this reason that I migrated to the world of social science,
having experienced and observed social spaces from an artistic vantage point.
Democratisation movements and the art/artist later became the logical extension
of my own participation as an artist - not only my studio work, but including
arts administration, policy advising, and the launching of CARAVAN and The
Peace Doors Project.  Knowledge about how art worlds emerge and function
represents a large database from which I tap for my teaching and course devel-
opment, and which validates an intrinsic relation between the workplace and
the classroom.  I have been especially interested in art as a tool for spiritual
transformation and stimulating the notion of global citizenship.
Finally, as a recent example of the consolidation of my art activities, I
have been honoured with an international tour of my collage work with the
US State Department’s Arts in Embassies Program (1996-1999, 2000-2003)
touring embassies in Gabon, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and South
Africa.  This occurred within the same period as two artist residences - Johan-
nesburg (1994) and Cape Town (1996) - and exhibitions in Durban (1996)
and  Johannesburg (1997).  Thus embedded in the fabric of the South African
art world, I was able to gain valuable insights into this arts community and
include those experiences in a book on South Africa dealing with the politics
and institutionalisation of art among the creative communities of South Africa,
pre- and post-apartheid.
Principles, procedures and the language of collage
Scanning the particular thematic content or ‘signature’ of my collage-style
genre, I mention the recurrence of other stylistic influences - the minimalist
abstraction of African art, the geometric symmetry of Islamic ornamental
design, and the laws and principles of Japanese painting regarding proportion
and design and colour field harmony.  Over twenty years, the process of collage-
making has suggested a life metaphor; one in which we piece together the
fragments of our lives and ride the universal wave of human experience.
As a physicist attempts to explain the nature of life by reconfiguring sets
of equations, hopefully leading to some unified theory, my visual work seeks
a coherence, an elegant means for organising complex visual data on a two-
dimensional plane according to some inner question, some leap of imagination.
Following a period of mastery-of-technique, my iconography began to
emerge as a signature style by 1984.  The period during which an artist masters
photography.  Basic conservation issues, aided by high school chemistry,
dictated the construction of experimental test boards on which I tested the
chemical interaction of various papers and glues.  Since most of my baseline
materials (paper and glue) are handmade and/or imported, it was necessary,
in the early stages of my career, to be able to anticipate what tactile and visual
effects would result.  Just as social science methodology is concerned with the
reproducibility of experimental method, so is art method.  For example, the
production of handmade paper was facilitated by a grant from the National
Endowment for the Arts (NEA) at Pyramid Atlantic (MD).  However, I had
been making paper prior to the receipt of that grant.  Since 1995 my work has
evolved into computer and digital areas and includes commitments for the
development and interpretation of my work onto ‘Immersadesk’ technology,
a process involving the creation of interactive, three-dimensional projections
of selected collages onto three-dimensional or virtual spaces.
Style: collage as symbolic narrative
The research and selection of thematic content which elevates the medium
and illuminates the expressive possibilities of collage is derived from my field
work.  I get ideas from the social landscape and attempt to reinterpret space
from the third dimension into the two-dimensional format.  Exploring the
space-time continuum through the juxtaposition of form in space shows how
the faculty of creative imagination can extend itself from ‘virtual’ space into
‘real’ space.  In this respect, the science of collage-making demands a ‘visual
language’ of its own to convey cultural meaning.
Thus, the aesthetic and intellectual strands of multimedia and cross-
disciplinary projects converge in the ‘collage-as-symbolic narrative’.  Poems
often accompany collage works or installation pieces.  Works range from colour
intensive, to create a sense of motion on the flat surface, to a black and gold/
silver palette (also my ‘signature’ style) to play with the ‘world of black as a
colour’.  Symbolism plays a big part in the style and energy of the works and
most contain ‘visual codes’ which will only be comprehended as a new, more
global paradigm takes hold.  The idea of visual codes and secrecy is integral
to the awakening of artist and audience alike.
The life of art: the artist as artefact
The artist is a participant in the creation of social worlds, the first concentric
world being the art world.  As each artist develops, s/he may subsequently
create social space as a conscious advocate of a set of values or beliefs about
the role of art, social life, and the artist. One of the first questions an artist
asks is, ‘what is the meaning of my work and for what and whom do I create
(paint, compose, film, choreograph)?’  My early artistic influences included Da
Vinci, painter-collagist Henri Matisse, Lois Mailou Jones, collagist Romare
Beardon, Gauguin (whom I studied as a child), and my father’s drafting work.
The Beautiful Flight toward the Light: Reflections on an Artist’s Life

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
with their genre.  Art is a means, then, for perpetuating personal expression
and defying mediocrity, and it keeps us thinking about who we are as human
beings. It is a life commitment for me and a ‘calling’: an urge which began
with my father’s tutelage.
The socialisation and informal training of an artist have many elements
which are linked with personal satisfaction and occupational success.  Men-
toring is an integral, though sometimes absent, aspect of an artist’s career
mobility.  For some of the most formative years of my creative productivity
I was fortunate to have Jones as a mentor.  She aggravated, assaulted, role-
modelled, encouraged, advocated, titillated, chastised, questioned, and praised
my career and creative output with the goal of making me a better artist.  I only
hope she is proud that another generation has accepted the mantle of leader-
ship in a profession which has always been a long and thorny, but spiritually
redemptive, road.
Along with the need to create a body of work that exemplifies a certain
identifiable style, mastery of skills, and other aspects of an artist’s informal
training and growth, public recognition also determines the public reception
of an artist’s productivity and career longevity.  This acceptance into the
fold is challenging.  Historically, screening and legitimation is conducted in
an exclusive way across race, gender, and lifestyle.  Entrance and exit from
the art world operate against an artist, and resilience in the face of frequent
rejection is an unfortunate practice in getting work recognised, exhibited and
reviewed.  I have chosen to focus my exhibition practice at multiple venues,
sometimes designated at a niche market/client, in order to maintain public
representation of my work.  For the most part, I have never been formally
represented by a gallery, except for a consignment period with the former
Isobel Neal Gallery in Chicago.  From my first exhibition in 1978 to the current
three-year international tour of my collages, I can say that the tortoise always
wins the race.  I have attained the rewards, achievements, and ‘status creation’
which many artists never achieve.  While my work has been purchased for
institutional and private collections, the thrill of the studio experience remains
fresh and it is my true identity as a professional.  Coming out of the studio
into the public sphere was sparked by community-based organising popular
in the United States and abroad in the 1970s and, later, social and economic
development initiatives.
CARAVAN and the Peace Doors Project
When multiculturalism and the arts were first being launched at the state and
federal level in the early 80s, CARAVAN, Inc. made a substantive contribution
to public school education in the Boston, Cambridge and Lynn public schools
under state and federal grant protocols.  Later, CARAVAN was incorporated
and listed with the Massachusetts Department of Education.  It continues
to offer consulting services in training to corporations and school systems.
individual technique conforms to a scientist learning advanced mathematics
and theory as tools of speculation, investigation, and experimentation.  Artists
are concerned with the poetic treatment of that same conceptual space, only in
tactile or plastic form.  Using abstraction as an approach to form - human and
anthropomorphic creatures, lush images of vegetation - and a colour palette
from highly saturated colour to a black-gold/silver palette, I amassed a set of
repeated forms which rush through the picture plane.  My work seeks a sym-
metry and a depth of field through a ‘layering’ of forms across a space-time
continuum creating a ‘visual language’.  Working with an assortment of papers
- mostly handmade or imported - and testing and mixing several adhesives, the
task was then to devise a logistical means for sequencing and arranging each
layer of each dimension on the picture plane to create an illusion of hyperspace
or depth of field.  Three means resulted: one, the use of clear sheets of acetate
to lay out and separate each layer; the second, using a Spectra Polaroid insta-
matic to take instant photos of each layer; and the third, and more recent, has
resulted from the use of computer scans of existing works from color slide
format to pict file format.  Filtering tools allow the reconfiguration of a work in
such a way that the same composition can be visualised through many different
treatments.  This latter technology has triggered infinite possibilities for my
own work.  Further, computer graphic and sound applications as well as the
internet have opened up opportunities in a wide range of fields from theatre
set design to creating published research for electronic journals.
The topics of my work in collage and poetry line up with on-going commit-
ments to global projects, the use of the arts and cultural exchange to advance
the peace process by getting people, particularly urban students, to think dif-
ferently about puzzle-solving the great issues of our time.
Depicting cross-cultural myths and tales, family portraiture, and social
themes such as the establishment of world peace (the nine-part Peace Series,
1989-90), I have attempted to invoke a mood which, I hope, inspires the
viewers with an elegance of form and a more universal coverage of the
varying meanings of humanism.  As such, social issues often find their
most discomforting but necessary presence in my work.  Two more recent
installation works are Morningsong for a Tillian King (1993), a commentary
and poem on the Rodney King incident, and Freedom and Madness (1994),
concerning the tensions of living the truly democratic life.  Exhibited at the
Federal Reserve Bank in Boston (1993) and the Mills Gallery at the Boston
Centre for the Arts (1995), public response to Morningsong was particularly
compelling given the brutality of the installation piece as a manifestation of
violence and brutality.  This work represented a marked departure from the style
and medium of my ‘signature’ work. However, many artists would agree that
the process of art-making is an eternal struggle with experimentation.  As an
individual passes through different stages in their life, the expression of artistic
messages and their execution must undergo transformation, lest the artist die
The Beautiful Flight toward the Light: Reflections on an Artist’s Life

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
The Creative Inspiration:
Symbolism and Seeing
Karel Fontaine
Hallowed be the Lord in whose hand is the source of dominion. He
createth whatsoever He willeth by His Word of command ‘BE’ and it is ...
Unto Him pertaineth all glory and majesty in the kingdoms of Revelation
and Creation and whatever lieth between them ... He is the Creator of the
heavens and the earth and whatever lieth between them, and He truly is a
witness over all things.1
Every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God is endowed with
such potency as can instil new life into every human frame ... Through
the mere revelation of the word ‘Fashioner’, issuing forth from His lips
and proclaiming His attribute to mankind, such power is released as can
generate, through successive ages, all the manifold arts which the hands
of man can produce. This, verily, is a certain truth. No sooner is this
resplendent word uttered, than its animating energies, stirring within all
created things, give birth to the means and instruments whereby such arts
can be produced and perfected.2
The creative impulse is a gift from God. Each of us is endowed with its
magic. When I was a little girl in wintry London, wrapped in yellow fog that
turned my world into a mysterious, swirling Turner painting, I would spend
hours, even days, creating washing peg people clothed in Mother’s sewing
scraps and stitched with her cottons and threads.  Other times, racked by
asthma and struggling to breathe, my distress was soothed by the soft scratch
and rub of pencils colouring pages of outline drawings in my Windsor &
Newton books of people in historical or national costumes or flowers, plants,
birds and butterflies.
I’d sit up and look from my little bed down the length of a narrow base-
1.
The Báb, excerpts from a prayer for protection in Bahá’í Prayers, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1991, pp. 133-135.
2.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, No. LXXIV in Writings of Bahá’u’lláh , a
Compilation, New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,  1986, p. 448.
By 1994, an appointment as a Fellow in the Center for Innovation in Urban
Education (1994-95) at Northeastern University (where I teach) enabled me
to write and ultimately publish an account of the CARAVAN model as a book
chapter in The Promise of Multiculturalism: Education and Autonomy in the
Twenty-First Century1 .
Thirteen years later in 1993, I launched The Peace Doors Project (incor-
porated under CARAVAN) as an international initiative in arts, architecture
and peace education, a project which replicates the CARAVAN model in its
emphasis on the education and training of young people for peace through the
arts; that is, to influence change by promoting a shift from cultures of violence
to cultures of peace.  The PDP is currently under review by the Department
of Public Works, Government of South Africa, where it was ‘workshopped’,
along with Australia at the InSEA (International Society for Education through
Art) World Congress in 1999 in Brisbane.
Conclusion
None of this happens to any artist unless, in the last analysis, one remains
very close to one’s spiritual roots.  My roots are not merely Native American/
Irish/German Jewish/African American blood lines, but the blood lines of my
lineage as a Bahá’í.  Thoreau’s words have had deep resonance for me as a
fellow New Englander: ‘If a man does not keep pace with his companions,
perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer.  Let him step to the music
which he hears, however measured or far away.’  For Bahá’ís, Bahá’u’lláh is
the Drummer for this age.  Clinging to the hem of His robe is the only way to
fly.  And what a glorious ride it has been!
1.
George Katsiaficas and Teodros Kiros, (Eds.), New York: Routledge Press, 1998, pp. 101-114.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
of God to a degree that no other created being hath excelled or surpassed.
All these names and attributes are applicable to him.  Even as He hath
said: ‘Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery.’4
For me, the creative impulse is inherent, subtle and shy.  The influences
upon it accrue.  It is harboured within us and naïvely manifests itself in
childlike ways and in many active forms until it either shrivels for lack of
encouragement or we become too self-conscious or secretive, if criticised, to
be productive.  Then the force becomes latent, or pustulates and erupts in other
activity, ill-guided or disruptive.  But the creative impulse which blossoms into
mature self-expression through a profession, or becomes an adjunct to day-to-
day life, is satisfying, encouraging, health-giving and lauds its Source.  The
creative impulse is a driving force which inspires, stimulates and informs the
obsessions and passions of achievement.  The journey of life, with its changes
born of inner alchemy and circumstance, is the only constant, and the periodic
metamorphoses are what is so exciting about the process of making art from
the raw materials of experience.
When I found the following quotation from Tolstoy, it thrilled me to know
that my beliefs on the nature of art were the same as his:
All human life is filled with works of art of every kind - from cradle-
song, jest, mimicry, the ornamentation of houses, buildings, monuments
and triumphal processions.  It is all artistic activity ... To evoke in oneself a
feeling one has once experienced, and having evoked it in oneself, then, by
means of movements, lines, colors, sounds, or forms expressed in words, so
to transmit that feeling that others may experience the same feeling - this
is the activity of art.5
As an artist who is a Bahá’í, I have a responsibility to make art that em-
bodies divine principles and spiritual qualities, and offers to the onlooker an
ennobling and enriching experience.  It is the onlooker who will interact with
the art and who will, according to their capacities, read, feel and understand
what is contained therein.
It hath been revealed and is now repeated that the true worth of art-
ists and craftsmen should be appreciated for they advance the affairs of
mankind.6
4.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, op.cit., No. XC, p. 464.
5.
Leo Tolstoy, What is Art? And Essays on Art, trans. Aylmer Maude, New York: Liberal Arts Press, 1960,
pp. 49-51.
6.
Bahá’u’lláh quoted in The Compilation of Compilations, The Arts, Maryborough: Bahá’í Publications
Australia, 1991, p. 3.
ment room to French doors which gave onto a long narrow garden dominated
by a giant horse chestnut tree, grass, and a bomb shelter under a pile of earth.
Above my head the rest of the mid-Victorian town house rose five more storeys
to attics with their gabled windows.  It was all bomb-blast damaged, run down,
and the fifteen rooms were rented.  A motley assortment of Jewish refugees,
eccentric artists, women of dubious morals, ex-servicemen, Russian émigrés
and elderly impoverished gentry shared their lives closely with me and my
parents.  I was always the only child around.  The sounds of gramophone and
radio, as well as piano being played, filled the dark stairways where the light
bulbs seldom worked.  The smells of tenants’ meals prepared by candlelight
in makeshift kitchens on dark stair landings wafted throughout the building.
Two bathrooms served us all, second floor and fifth floor, and three pence in
an ancient ‘Ascot’ geyser - turn on the water and look out when you strike the
match! - gave a tolerable bath once a week.  I shared with mother to a certain
age and then went it alone.  Everything I did was done alone.
The richness of experience in my growing up, the curiosity for otherness
engendered by the location and time of my youth, the cultural opportunities at
hand - only a six penny bus ride in those days to the Tate Gallery or Science
Museum or Zoo - all compounded my fascination with the inventiveness of
human endeavour and the diversity of existence.
Again among His signs is the dawning sun of His knowledge, and the
rising moon of His arts and skills, and His demonstrating perfection in all
His ways, as testified by the learned and accomplished of many nations.3
Little did I know when I was six, eight or ten that at fifty I would produce
a suite of costumes representing my understanding of the progressive stages
made by the human soul in its journey towards its Divine Creator, as articu-
lated by Bahá’u’lláh in The Seven Valleys.  Those eight costumes incorporate
influences born of old, new and growing interest in earthly subjects such as
geology, land form, environment, architecture, as well as the more esoteric
area of symbolism, philosophy and the arts.
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth is a direct
evidence of the revelation within it of the attributes and names of God,
inasmuch as within every atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent
testimony to the revelation of that Most Great Light ... To a supreme degree
is this true of man, who, among all created things, hath been invested with
the robe of such gifts, and hath been singled out for the glory of such dis-
tinction.  For in him are potentially revealed all the attributes and names
3.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1997,
para. 4.15, p.18.
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
delicate wines of the spirit ... Only heart to heart can speak the bliss of
mystic knowers; No messenger can tell it and no missive bear it.12
1995 Bahá’í Studies Course at Yerrinbool, Sydney
My textiles work is aimed at off-the-wall structures, free standing tapes-
tries woven with copper wire and silk.  I am also excited by the notion of the
body being a moving canvas - that costume can become mobile art expressing
form from nature and abstract ideas of energy or emotion.  I am fascinated
with dress as the maker and concealer of identity; how it can elicit responses
from the body, influence the mind and mirror the soul; how the individual and
society can transform, as witnessed in history through religious revival (eg. the
Reformation and Puritanism) or social upheaval and its attendant practicalities
(eg. World War I and the lifting of the hemline above the ankle and even to
the knee by the 1920s).
During the 1995 Yerrinbool Bahá’í Studies Certificate Course, in the in-
spired atmosphere of group study and contemplation of the Sacred Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh, it occurred to me that metaphysical, numinous and spiritual
concepts might be represented in the phenomenal world by deriving structure
from non-object based inspiration.  To represent, in concrete form, in costume,
the states of being experienced during the spiritual journey described by
Bahá’u’lláh in The Seven Valleys became an all consuming and compulsive
desire.  After Summer School, back in Tasmania, I was overcome with a pure
creative impulse of design and production which consumed my life, filling me
with joy, excitement and a passion that replaced sleep or relaxation.  Like the
gestation of a baby, the work was completed in nine months and displayed in
an art gallery to delighted acclaim.  Every aspect of making the work, even
construction difficulties, were challenges met with rapture.  I seemed to be
endowed with super-consciousness, working with both creative intuition and
intellectual insight, analysing and unifying the symbolic and material aspects
of each of the eight costumes I designed and made: one for each Valley, and
the eighth figure, The Beloved, The Friend.
... eternity is in love with the productions of time13
Impulse, Integrity and Intuition
Rigour is a part of artistic creativity, and an artist employs the God-gift
of creative impulse together with their capacity for synthesis, evaluation and
metacognition.  Through an integrated centre of being, an artist may delight,
entertain, educate, provoke thought, chronicle, influence, open and illuminate
pathways to the sub- and unconscious of individual and collective.
12.	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991, p. 30.
13.	 Erdman, The Poetry and Prose of William Blake, New York: 1965, p. 35.
The theologian Paul Tillich declared that:
Art strives to communicate ideas about ultimate meaning, the most
profound apprehension of reality ... [the 20th century] is a period in
which the religious dimension has appeared with astonishing power in
non-religious works.7
And the potter, Cecilia Davis Cunningham, stated:
In that rather large task of world salvation, the artist plays a modest
but real role; to create epiphanies of beauty in the mundane surroundings
of every day life.8
French author Anaïs Nin wrote:
Art must be for women like a personified ancient ritual where every
spiritual thought is made visible, enacted, represented.  Art must be like a
miracle.  Art is a miracle.9
The writer Nietzsche said: ‘One must have chaos inside to give birth to a
dancing star.’10
I started at sixteen as a painter, but very little remains of that thirty-year
period.  Now I work in textiles.  My work is about turmoil and resolution, light
and movement, form, gender, diversity and unity.  In all my work the textile
surface, with its colour and texture, becomes a canvas ripe for embellishment
and manipulation.  Through form, line and textural contrast I build up the
emotion, ambience and symbolic language of the piece.
It is important for the artist to gauge his position correctly, to realise
that he has a duty to his art and to himself, that he is not a king but a serv-
ant of a noble end.  He must search his soul deeply, develop it and guard
it, so that his art may have something on which to rest and does not remain
flesh without bones.11
Although to outward view, the wayfarers in this Valley may dwell upon
the dust, yet inwardly they are throned in the heights of mystic meaning;
they eat of the endless bounties of inner significances, and drink of the
7.
Paul Tillich, The Dilemma of the Artist quoted in Ann Gordon Atkinson in The Creative Circle, Los
Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1989, p. 58.
8.
Cecilia Davis Cunningham, quoted in ibid., p. 58.
9.
Anaïs Nin quoted in ibid., p. 58.
10.	 Nietzsche quoted in ibid., p. 69.
11.	 Wassily Kandinsky, Concerning the Spiritual in Art, New York: Wittenborn Art Books, 1947, p. 75.
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
itself a spiritual process, one in which the human mind and heart have
created progressively more complex and efficient means to express their
inherent moral and intellectual capacities.16
Surviving the pressure of the creative impulse by exerting will over cir-
cumstance, artists tend towards the ‘outside’ of ordinary society and their
endeavours often become the guide-posts of history and innovators of change.
The imagery of Hieronymous Bosch (1450-1516), for example, indicates an
unusual perception.  Although he lived a quiet life, Bosch was accused of
heresy and madness, but worked on steadily as allegorist.  Bosch’s symbology
is rooted in European tradition and religious history.  His ‘abnormality’ may
be seen in the intensity of his message against hypocrisy, greed, treachery and
folly.  Bosch’s work acknowledges his own potential madness if the battle
against evil be fought and lost.
Of Mark Tobey, painter and Bahá’í, Marzieh Gail writes:
To him, the artist was the eyes of the community, his function being to
teach others to see ... ‘After all,’ he said, ‘that is the essence of art: revealing
the concealed ... I want to paint what nobody else sees,’ he told us.  ‘The
ignored and forgotten things.  The unregarded.’17
Presentation - Melbourne 1999
Visual culture has always been central to the life of most societies, and the
attentive eye is the focal means through which understanding, representation
and consciousness become manifest.  Symbols are the time-proven forms that
characterise and represent important markers for societal groups and cultures;
mnemonics of secrets and hidden knowledge understood by the initiated, sel-
dom explained and held in awe by the populace.  Today, with the reward of
open access to information sought since the Renaissance and demanded during
the 20th century (the Century of Light, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá described it), we can
interpret symbols through our individual education, experience and insight
and use them as a short-hand for expression and description.
My presentation at the 1999 Bahá’í Studies Conference, Melbourne was
titled ‘The Creative Impulse, Symbolism and Seeing’.  Using two projectors
and 180 slides, I offered a visual journey for the observer who was asked to
watch the relationships and correspondences between images in each section
of slides.  The watcher would be looking at a mind-scape of the textile artist,
Karel Fontaine, and also at a sketchy representation of human progress and
social evolution.  The presentation was designed to be given without speaking
other than to answer specific questions arising out of images and should have
16.	 Bahá’í International Community, Who is Writing the Future?, Mona Vale: Bahá’í Publications Australia,
1999, p. 5.
17.	 Marzieh Gail, Other People, Other Places, Oxford: George Ronald, 1982 , pp. 206, 209-10.
Being an artist is hard work.  As the potter and poet, Bernard Leach, said,
writing of his painter friend, Reginald Turvey: ‘The genuine artist is usually
speaking a language which the average man does not understand’.  Both men
were Bahá’ís dedicated to their art disciplines and creating an art paradigm
for the New Era.  Of his own art, Leach said: ‘If a pot does not speak, what
can a potter say?’
The impulse to create is compulsive, ideas are revolutionary, boundaries
of normative perception are pushed and stretched, social morés are questioned
and values are condemned or reinforced. Art’s history is a saga of brave
discoveries, triumphs, passion, poverty, revolts, heresies, isolation, suicide,
mystery and rejection.  To maintain their integrity, artists in all disciplines
employ introspection, contemplation, intellect and vision. Working with their
intuition they manifest the creative impulse that drives them.
Likewise, reflect upon the perfection of man’s creation, and that all these
planes and states are folded up and hidden away within him.
Dost thou reckon thyself only a puny form,
When within thee the universe is folded?14
And the museums and galleries of the world are crowded with remnants
from past glorious civilisations as well as more contemporary movements in
artistic expression.  Theatres and opera houses resound with the marvels of
the stage arts, both past and present.  Libraries are stacked with volumes of
the written word.
A primal creative urge belongs to all human beings, but has been sub-
merged by the development of civilisation.15
Cardinal uses the words ‘submerged by the development of civilisation’.
Perhaps Cardinal’s view relates to his perception of ‘the masses’ being sub-
verted and crushed by the manipulations of an immoral political, religious and
economic structure with the attendant vicissitudes of a contemporary lifestyle.
This perception differs markedly from the Bahá’í perspective, which believes
fundamentally in the advancing evolution of human civilisation and spiritual
enlightenment as the individual’s goal.
The mainspring of Bahá’u’lláh’s message is an exposition of reality as
fundamentally spiritual in nature, and of the laws that govern that reality’s
operation.  It not only sees the individual as a spiritual being, a ‘rational
soul’, but also insists that the entire enterprise that we call civilization is
14.	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, op. cit., p. 34.
15.	 Roger Cardinal, Outsiders - Singular Vision, London: Studio Vista, 1979, p. 24.
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
cosmography for architectural decoration).  Symbology is now regarded as a
science with a long history and future.
A prophet however much he may appear to be in opposition to his age,
yet in a peculiar way represents that time.  He is the antidote, or balance,
the complement, and his is the voice which awakes all those who are ready
to be like minded.  If he is wholly successful, and his teaching is absorbed,
it may afterwards hardly be understood how anyone might have believed
otherwise. The flashing inspiration becomes a common place.  It is the
prophet’s aim to be thus absorbed.20
From the towering temple constructions of incised plinth and slab in ancient
Egypt to the aspiring spires and arches of Gothic architecture, symbolism has
been at the core of religious building design - at the inner heart of ancient
buildings were wonder, worship, magic and symbols.  Modern design, asserts
Lethaby, must now be for human service, intelligible purpose, and verifiable
science.
All architecture - that is, all that is worth the name - is one vast sym-
bolism; symbolism controlled by and expressive of structure might be the
definition of architecture in the higher sense.21
Architecture began when the world was likened to a building with ‘heav-
enly vaults’ and ‘azure domes’, ‘gates of sunrise’, and ‘canopies of light’ - all
survivors of a time when the earth was deemed the immovable centre of the
universe, the floor on which the sky was built and the whole a chamber lit by
the sun, moon and stars.
The idea of the temple incorporated cosmic symbolism founded on
notions of sacred geometry and acting as heaven on earth, observatory and
almanac.  The foundations, placed four square and solid, reflected the ‘walls
of the firmament’ - still seen in modern churches. These edifices served the
initiated for sacred ceremony, together with their regalia and robes, and the
uninitiated with guidance, whether through awe, fear, or crushed imagination.
The massive and grand of the past was cemented with the blood and sweat
of suffering humanity.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states: ‘there will be a new art, a new
architecture, fused with all the beauty of the past, but new.’22  And as W. R.
Lethaby states:
What, then, will this art (architecture) of the future be?  The message will
20.	 Godfrey Rubens, Introduction to Architecture, Mysticism and Myth, op cit., p. v.
21.	 W. Lethaby, Architecture, Mysticism and Myth, op cit.
22.	 Star of the West, Vol. V, (facsimile reprint), Oxford: George Ronald, 1984.
been accompanied by music (very carefully chosen and timed but forgotten
in the anxiety of the moment!)  It was for the observer to look, perceive and
intuit their interpretation, understanding and feelings.  The eight image sec-
tions were titled as follows: Genesis; The Dualities; Creative Impulse at Work;
Sign, Symbols and Communication; Structures; Form, Time and Progress;
The City; The Spirit.
Images were drawn from printed sources (by taking slide photographs from
books), friends’ travels and art (especially the brilliant macro photography of
fellow Bahá’í, Mark Keeman), my personal collection of travel slides, and
images of my work, in particular details from the suite Veils of the Spirit.
Augmenting the images were quotations from Bahá’í Sacred Writings, other
writers and artists.
For the present purpose, however, I have adapted that presentation and have
chosen a few examples of visual art through which to demonstrate seeing the
creative impulse at work together with the overt and subtle symbolism inher-
ent in the pieces.  I have chosen work by André Derain (1880-1954), Georgia
O’Keefe (1887-1986), Mark Keeman (b.1948), Martin Schaffner of Ulm (d.
circa 1549), Mick Gubargu (b.1926) and Karel Fontaine (b.1943).
Symbols
Are there symbols which may be called constant; proper to all races,
all societies, and all countries?18
The old account in the Book of Genesis had, however, the advantage
of indicating by a few bold strokes of symbolism the essential spiritual
meanings of the story, as a master painter may, by a few strokes of the
brush, convey expressions which the mere plodder with the most laborious
attention to details may utterly fail to portray.19
All symbols are a dynamic and polysymbolic reality, imbued with emotive
and conceptual values - with true life.  A symbolic element is present in all
art, in that art is subject to psychological interpretation.  Much in arts of all
forms has moved from the representation of an objective reality towards the
expression of subjective states of feeling.  It has been suggested that man is
a symbolising creature, and that science and technology have not freed him
from his dependence.  Indeed man’s need for and use of symbols began at
his naissance (eg. fertility statuettes and cave paintings) and has increased
with his intellect and social constructs (eg geometric symbols used in Islamic
18.	 César Daly in Lethaby, Architecture, Mysticism and Myth, London: The Architectural Press, 1974.
19.	 J E Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,  (4th ed), 1974, pp. 188-
189.
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
still be of nature and man, of order and beauty, but all will be sweetness,
simplicity, freedom, confidence and light; the other is past, and well is it,
for its aim was to crush life: the new, the future, is to aid life and train it,
‘so that beauty may flow into the soul like a breeze.’
Perhaps Lethaby, writing in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, foresaw
something of the ideal to be realised in Bahá’í Houses of Worship around the
world.
Symbolism and seeing
Through the impetus of the Islamic Revelation, the European Renais-
sance gave rise to a regional renewal of arts and letters.  It began in Italy and
moved across Europe, ushering the dawn of ‘the Modern Age’: man-centred,
outward-looking and technologically innovative.  As stated by the humanist
writer Lorenzo Valla (1407-57):
The arts of painting, sculpture, modelling and architecture had degener-
ated for so long and so greatly that they almost died with letters themselves,
but in this age they have been aroused and come to life again.23
This renewal was informed by the secret teachings of the Cabbalists, He-
brew Scriptures, writings of Plato and the Gnostics and Hermetic texts (first
brought to Florence in 1460 and translated by order of Cosimo de Medici).
Although science and superstition were still inextricably blended in the
16th century, it is interesting to see the visual symbols employed to illustrate
contemporary thinking and the progress of the age.  The ‘Painted Table Top’,
1533 (illustration 1) was made by the German painter and wood engraver,
Martin Schaffner of Ulm (d. 1549).  It shows, in schematic form, the cosmic
harmonies thought to hold good between the planets (in the centre), the days
of the week and Liberal Arts (seated women), the virtues (their attributes),
the colours (their dresses) and the metals (the vessels standing next to them).
Beginning at the top left with a scholar, possibly the owner of the table, who
is drawing up the whole scheme, and continuing in anti-clockwise order, come
the Sun (Sunday, Grammar, Hope, yellow, gold); the Moon (Monday, Rhetoric,
Faith, white, silver); Mars (Tuesday, Arithmetic, Strength, red, copper);
Mercury (Wednesday, Logic, Love, grey, quicksilver); Jupiter (Thursday,
Geometry, Justice, blue, tin); Venus (Friday, Music, Holiness, green, lead);
and Saturn (Saturday, Astronomy, Prudence, black, iron).
Incorporated in the landscape of the table painting are numerous symbolic
forms such as flowers (transitoriness and beauty); rabbits (fertility); mountains
23.	 Peter Murray, ‘A New Vision’, in The Age of the Renaissance, Denys Hay (ed), London: Thames & Hudson,
1967, p. 76.
Illustration 1
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing
Illustration 2

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Illustration 3
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing
Illustration 4

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
(loftiness of spirit and ideal, aspiration); forests (the female principle - Great
Mother/Earth - luxuriant vegetable life free from control or cultivation, and
symbol of the unconscious); rivers (ambivalent symbol of fertility and irrigation
of the soil as well as the irreversible passage of time, loss and oblivion); bridge
(connecting two worlds, heaven and earth; what can be perceived and what is
beyond perception; the Covenant between God and Man; transition from one
state to another and desire for change); globe (the sphere is a whole - the mystic
‘Centre’; symbolic of the soul, perfection and felicity); books (Chinese symbol-
ogy - power to ward off evil spirits; allegory of written inside and out - esoteric
and exoteric - linked to symbolism of weaving); farm - cultivation (associated
with the mysterious world of seeds, buds, flowers and fruits following cosmic
order; guardian of rites and regeneration); winding road (the journey of life).
The image of a castle - and there are many forts and castles depicted on the
table - symbolises the transcendent soul and the heavenly Jerusalem.  The
height of the hill also adds to the level of meaning. Shape, form and light all
play an important part in defining the symbolism of the castle image, which
generally depicts the ever watchful and embattled spiritual power.  Castles
usually protect ‘treasure’ and signify the will for salvation.
All symbols are functions and signs of things imbued with energies, and
the serpent or snake is, by analogy, symbolic of the pure energetic force.  The
snake has a great variety of symbolic meanings which relate to its multitude of
characteristics: undulating and sinuous movement, its association with trees, its
shed skin and darting tongue, speed, stealth, hiss and capacity to kill.  The snake
is associated with temptation facing those who have overcome the limitations
of the material and have entered the realm of the spirit and resurrection.  In
this way the serpent is symbolic not only of personal sin but of the principle of
evil and the equal and opposite principle of mastery or control over dark forces
and the spiritual development of humanity.  In the middle of the marvellous
Sistine Chapel ceiling, Michelangelo depicted Adam and Eve’s Temptation
and Expulsion from the Garden of Eden.  The Tree of Knowledge is entwined
with a massive serpent epitomising the symbolic and ambivalent energies of
the snake, offering knowledge tempered by the wisdom of insight.
In the symbolist painter André Derain’s work ‘La Dance’, 1906 (illustra-
tion 2) serpentine symbolism is not only blatant (the huge bright green snake
coiled around the dancers’ legs) but is also implied in tree form, body form
and dress decoration.  Emblematic creatures, such as the gryphon-like bird
(top left corner) symbolise guardianship of the road to salvation and hover
near a sinuous, fruit-bearing tree (the Tree of Life).  In psychological terms it
symbolises the relationship between psychic energy and cosmic force.  The
gryphon in mediaeval Christian art represented both the Saviour and the
Antichrist (Cirlot).  Derain’s painting of the three ecstatic dancers therefore
contains many statements relating to the three women enjoying their outdoor
dance, the dance of life, amongst the trees.  Perhaps he suggests the diverse
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing
Illustration 5
Illustration 6

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
and ominous colour.  Is the sun of an old religion setting for ever and will the
dawn of the new day bring with it a brighter prospect?
To my eye there is something both shocking and exciting in the use of colour
in ‘Black Cross’.  The elements of realism and landscape in the picture make it
the more powerful.  The horizon line of bright yellow (the sun and life), hills
of red (blood and Church hierarchy) and the steep organic undulations of the
tightly packed hills - like penitents kneeling before it - contrast in a stark way
with the linear outline of the dark cross.  The pale blue sky with its tiny white
day-moon (top edge right) suggests mercy and grace.
Colors are forces, radiant energies that affect us positively or negatively,
whether we are aware of it or not.25
The word and its sound, form and its color, are vessels of a transcen-
dental essence that we dimly surmise. As sound lends sparkling colour to
the spoken word, so colour lends psychically resolved tone to form. The
primeval essence of color is a phantasmagorical resonance, light becomes
music.26
By contrast, could the cross in Mark Keeman’s ‘Photographic Study, Tas-
mania’, 2000 (illustration 4), suffused as it is with the bright light of morning,
signify the dawn of that new day?  Although in close foreground and dark it
is delicate and lightweight; the edge is lit by bright ambient light.  Suspended
in the middle of the picture plane is a flower, withered and dead, discarded,
blown by the wind into a light-trapping cobweb strung across the glass pane.
The alive green background is dappled and indistinct, unlike O’Keefe’s care-
fully outlined and focussed hills.  Although the flower is faded it retains much
of its rich pink colour and, held by gossamer, hangs down as it might have on
its bush, stamens stretched out in natural welcome.
Like O’Keefe’s painting, this is a moment of vision caught and frozen in
the frame.  It is a threshold point between worlds forming the ether between
the viewer, reality and the numinous beyond.  Keeman’s cross is rough edged,
the cross in Mexico is smooth, yet emotionally in each the opposite is true.
The searching eyes of both Keeman and O’Keefe have captured the mundane
but each artist’s work is redolent with emotional sensitivity, ambient light,
colour and spiritual meaning, indicative of the universal quest for harmony
and resolution.  Seventy years and different continents separate their work and
each artist is representative of their time and place, O’Keefe in the old world
and Keeman, the Bahá’í, in the new, but both images speak of ensnarement
and redemption, both images capture the essence of life, death and renewal.
25.	 Johannes Itten, The Elements of Color, New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1970, p. 12.
26.	 Ibid, p. 8.
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing
opinions and interpretations that might be made about their activity.  Derain’s
symbolist palette, inspired by Delacroix and influenced by Gauguin, is rich in
deep, pure and forceful colour ranging from lemon yellow in the sky to brilliant
orange and purple in the garment of the left side figure.  The composition of
flat areas of colour broken by forceful line and the colour of deep shadow is a
direct relationship with the artist’s state of mind.  Swirling with movement and
figures drawn from erotic Indian and Romanesque sculptural forms, Derain
has composed a painting steeped in correspondences between line, colour and
emotion and a combination of spiritual references and corporeal classicism
of the 16th and 17th centuries. By this means he creates a synthesis between
tradition and modernity, the fixed and eternal, offering lyric and theatrical
qualities for the beholder’s eye to absorb and interpret.
The Cross
Complex in its symbolism, the cross is represented in a multitude of forms.
In primitive cultures the two sticks were associated with kindling fire by rub-
bing the one stick (male) on the other (female) giving rise to the cross as a
symbol of fire and suffering.  Pre-dating Christianity the cross, like the Tree of
Life, stands for the ‘world-axis’.  Placed in the mystic Centre of the cosmos,
it becomes the bridge or ladder by which the soul may reach God.  There are
some versions which depict the cross with seven steps, comparable with the
cosmic trees which symbolise the seven heavens.  In addition the horizontal
(or diagonal) arm cutting across the upright stands for the conjunction of op-
posites, joining the spiritual (vertical) principle with the phenomenal world.
The vertical cross is also the simplest graphic depiction for a human.24  The
cross is also a potent symbol of unity.  In Celtic symbology the circle joining the
four arms of the cross signifies taking a step out from the centre and travelling
the journey of life which the circle, like the wheel of life, describes.
In her 1929 painting ‘Black Cross, New Mexico’ (illustration 3) Georgia
O’Keefe has painted a structure in a profound and pensive dark colour which is
nearly black.  The cross almost fills the picture plane, it looms in the absolute
foreground, top to bottom, side to side, leaving only small quarters in each
corner.  Where the two arms join there are four small round marks, a tone
lighter in colour - nails.  This is the cross of the Catholic Church, the sign of
the crucifixion, suffering and supposed salvation.  O’Keefe has experienced
a particular and local cross which epitomised for her the oppressive effects
of the Church upon a people.  Her portrayal of the cross is like a silhouette
against a relentless desert landscape seeming impossible to inhabit.  The
cross, so predominant in view, bars movement into the beyond.  It is a point
of threshold but seems insurmountable and unpassable.  The landscape beyond
is pathless and barren, and save for the far sunlit horizon is suffused with dark
24.	 J E Cirlot, London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1962, p. 68.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
So far between the flash and boom
Still the earth resounds and moves a little.
Strike! Axe antennaed termite head!
Namarrkon - you empty eyed electric ghoul - strike!
Set ablaze one tarry greengold grassy mass
Black billows rise pushed up by leaping vortex flame.
The knowing conjure Namarrkon
To split heads when vengeance needs
And Namarrkon engenders fear
While coitus comfort begets his fecund name.
I know you Namarrkon!
Colonial arrogance explains your physics -
No mystery here - you will wane and pass.
That special thunder light will fade,
The mood will change.
I will see you small and green again
Where no black char remains.
And nine months on new voices mewl in rebuilt camps
By river beds or outcrop water hole.
While Namarrkon awaits his season time
His chirrups guise the grind of sharpening stone.27
Tomorrow
A never-ending continuum links the heritage of the past and gives stimulus
to the creativity of the present in a practical demonstration of evolution.  Py-
thagoras, born between 600 and 590 BC, coined the word philosopher, meaning
one who is attempting to find out.  Pythagoras defined knowledge as the fruit
of mental accumulation. He believed it would be obtained in many ways, but
principally through observation.  Wisdom was the understanding of the source
or cause of all things and this was obtained by raising the intellect to a point
where it intuitively cognised the invisible manifesting outwardly through the
visible - bringing itself into rapport with the spirit of things rather than merely
their form.  Pythagoras taught that both man and the universe were made in
the image of God, and that the understanding of one predicated the knowledge
of the other.  Of his thirty-nine symbolic aphorisms the following are two:
‘Declining from the public ways, walk in unfrequented paths’, by which is
implied those who desire wisdom must seek it in solitude and meditation;
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing
Yesterday and today
During 1971, in the wilds of the Eastern Pilbara region of Western Aus-
tralia, I spent four months assisting in a dingo ear-tagging mission.  No made
roads, no running water, pregnant and with a young baby I experienced bush
life as the ‘off-sider’ to two men, one a dog trapper and the other my husband.
We found nine dingo puppies and I saw much out there to awe me.  Tropical
storms off the coast loomed black and menacing over us, hundreds of kilo-
metres inland.  The sun glancing out from under the slate grey cloud billows
turned the spinafex grass plains to green-gold.  Silence was palpable but for
crickets.  Carvings stood out pale and large on the billabong rock walls.  Hu-
man figures with enlarged genitals, animals and spiral symbols were incised
in abundance on rocks at ground level and in high outcrops silhouetted against
the blackened sky.
Namarrkon is Lightning Spirit in Kunwinjku mythology (illustration 5).
He disguises himself as a grasshopper and is responsible for electrical storms,
thunder and lightning.  His storms can wreak heavy damage, destroying camps
and even killing people.  Twin circuits of lightning pass through Namarrkon’s
elbows, ankles, lower torso and genitals.  Lightning Spirit is associated with
sexuality and procreation.  Stone axes protrude from his knees and hips and
he makes lightning by striking his axes on the ground.  His malevolent and
menacing aspect is shown directly by the stingray barb emerging from his
head.  It is believed that marrkidjbu, ‘clever men’, can conjure Namarrkon at
will to strike a particular person whom they wish to harm.
Following is my 1991 poem informed by my experience of that land and
in response to the bark painting of ‘Namarrkon, the Lightning Spirit’, 1973 by
Mick Gubargu (Kulmaru clan, Kubumi, western Arnhem Land).
Namarrkon, the Lightning Man
Namarrkon!
Come Namarrkon!
Cleave the outcrop!
Your stone axe giant knees create the scene
For your rampage.
Rend the green grey sky!
Barbed forks discharge your glaring threats.
Plains-hopper!
Strike Plains-hopper!
Jump about the bilious spinafex sea storm-sun lit
Deep and broad between the granite edges of a dream.
Deep and still the light and heat.
You promise rain but never here -
Grasshopper tease!
27.	 Karel Fontaine, 1991, Personal Collection.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
are expanded and our minds broadened, our capacity for enjoyment, appre-
ciation, inference and perception will likewise increase.  Our vision becomes
unveiled to the Light.  The desire in us to seek and to know is our life force
bestowed on us by Him. As we Bahá’ís say: ‘I bear witness, O my God, that
thou hast created me to know thee and to worship thee’.32  Those spiritually
inclined will interpret the multitude of visual interests around them in moral
and spiritual terms, desiring more knowledge and gaining more wisdom,
translating and learning from their insights.  The Creator desires us to know
Him and He is the Source of all Knowledge.  This is ‘seeing’ and through this
awareness the creative impulse is stimulated to concretely manifest the Light
through an artist’s capacity to make art.  Essentially, creative arts practice is
religious practice. It is therefore an artist’s role and responsibility to perfect
their skills and technique, stimulate others to see, encourage inquiry and offer
beauty, joy and illumination.
Bahá’u’lláh stated in His Writings:
Knowledge is one of the wondrous gifts of God. It is incumbent upon
everyone to acquire it. Such arts and material means as are now manifest
have been achieved by virtue of His knowledge and wisdom which have
been revealed in Epistles and Tablets through His Most Exalted Pen -- a
Pen out of whose treasury pearls of wisdom and utterance and the arts
and crafts of the world are brought to light.33
32.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Noon obligatory prayer in Bahá’í Prayers, op.cit., p. 4.
33.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tarazat in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh  in The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, op cit, p. 189.
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing
‘Speak not about Pythagoric concerns without light’, which is a warning not
to interpret the mysteries of God and the secrets of science without spiritual
and intellectual illumination.28
…man should know his own self and know those things that lead to
loftiness or to baseness, to shame or to honor, to wealth or to poverty.29
O people of Bahá! The source of crafts, sciences and arts is the power
of reflection. Make ye every effort that out of this ideal Mine there may
gleam forth such pearls of wisdom and utterance as will promote the well
being and harmony of all the kindreds of the earth.30
Illustration 6 shows ‘Breastplate, Valley of Search’, 1995.  It is beaten
copper, lined in suede leather and forms a part of the red, flame filled costume
designed to represent the Valley of Search in my performance piece, ‘Veils
of the Spirit’.
For artists today and tomorrow, especially those who are Bahá’ís, develop-
ing a new artistic paradigm is both challenging and invigorating.  Rather than
relying on existential agony and the reconstruction of perceived and known
data, art today and in the future can be a living and evolving dialogue between
the artist, their heritage, culture and society.
Inhibited by the climate of non-commitment and defensiveness in
which our twilight generation lives and moves, we have yet to discover,
to our perpetual delight, that art is one of the forms of expression wait-
ing to serve this Cause, waiting to dance with us along the knife-edge in
a condition of self-abandonment. ...The power of eloquence, the dancing
beauty of utterance, the mysterious subtleties of image and sign, symbol
and metaphor, that attend this Revelation are some of its most significant
characteristics.31
Primarily it is the experience and education of an individual that informs
their vision and allows them to see.  Via the mechanics of the eye the messages
received by the brain are interpreted by the mind and understood using ac-
quired skill sets.  We possess skills of discrimination, but we also possess skills
determined and limited by our environment.  If our experience and education
28.	 Manly P Hall, LXV-LXVIII, The Secret Teachings of All Ages, Los Angeles: The Philosophical Research
Soc. Inc., 1977.
29.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of Tarazat in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh in Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, New Delhi: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1986, p. 187.
30.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Kalimat-i-Firdawsiyyih in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh in Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, op.cit., p. 206.
31.	 Bahíyyih Nakhjavání, Artist, Seeker and Seer, Bahá’í Studies, Ottawa:  Association for Bahá’í Studies,
1982, p. 5.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ, Some Answered Questions, Wilmette, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981
‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ, The Secret of Divine Civilization, Wilmette, Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1990
‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ, Selections from the Writings of Abdu’l-Bahá, Haifa, Bahá’í World
Centre, 1978
Above Australia, A Salute to our Land,  New South Wales, Weldon Russell Publishing,
ADAM, J-P, Roman Building, Materials & Techniques, London, B T Batsford Ltd, , 1994
BAHÁ’Í INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, Who is Writing the Future, Sydney,
BPA, 1999
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH, The Seven Valleys & The Four Valleys, Illinois, Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1991
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH, The Hidden Words,  New Delhi, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,  1973
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, New Delhi,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust,  1986
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH  and  ABDU’L-BAHÁ Bahá’í World Faith: Selected Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh and Abdu’l-Bahá Wilmette, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1956
BAHÁ’U’LLÁH, The Kitab-i-Iqan, London, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,  3rd ed. 1982
BAXANDALL, Michael, Painting and Experience in Fifteenth Century Italy, Oxford,
OUP, 1988
BLAIR, Lawrence, Rhythms of Vision, The Changing Patterns of Belief, England,
Paladin, 1976
BRIGANTI, Giuliano, Fantastic and Visionary Painting, London, Bloomsbury Books,
BRONOWSKI,  Jacob,  The Ascent of Man,  London, BBC, 1973
BUSSAGLI, Mario, Bosch, London ,1967
CAMPBELL, Joseph, Primitive Mythology, The Masks of God, Arkana (Penguin) 1991
CARDINAL, Roger, Outsiders, Singular Vision, London, 1979
CIRLOT, J E, A Dictionary of Symbols, London, Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1962
COLLINS,  William P,  Sacred Mythology and the Bahá’í Faith,  Ottawa, Journal of
Bahá’í Studies, Vol 2 #4 1990
COMPILATION, The Importance of the Arts in Promoting the Faith, Compiler, date
and place of publication unknown www.bahai-library.org/unpubl.compilations/
importance.arts.html
COMPILATION, Japan Will Turn Ablaze, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
CONSTANTINO, M, Picasso Posters, London, Bison Group, 1991
COURTNEY-CLARKE, Margaret, Imazighen, The Vanishing Traditions of Berber
Women, London, Thames & Hudson,  1996
COURTNEY-CLARKE, Margaret, Ndebele, New York, Rizzoli,  1986
CSIRO MARINE LABORATORIES, Hobart, Tasmania, 4 postcards Diatoms
DAHL, Arthur L et al, Mark Tobey, Art and Belief, Oxford, George Ronald, 1984
DRURY, N, Images 2 Contemporary Australian Painting, Sydney, McGraw Hill, 1994
ERDMAN, David C (Editor) The Poetry and Prose of William Blake, New York, 1965
ESSLEMONT J.E., Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, London, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
London
FITZGERALD, Michael (Editor), The Creative Circle, Los Angeles, Kalimát Press, 1989
GLIMCHER, M (Ed), The Art of Mark Rothko, London, Barrie & Jenkins, 1992
GLUCKMAN, Dale C & TAKEDA Sharon, S, When Art Became Fashion, New York/
Tokyo Weatherhill, 1992
HALL, Manly P, The Secret Teachings of All Ages, Los Angeles, The Philosophical
research Soc. Inc, 1977
HAY, Denys (Ed), The Age of the Renaissance, London, Thames & Hudson,  1967
HERBERT, T & HUGGINS, K, The Decorative Tile in Architecture and Interiors,
London, Phaidon Press Ltd, 1995
HOLLEY, Horace, The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh in World Order Vol 12 #3, Wilmette,
NSA Bahá’ís of the United States, 1978
HOPSON,  Eliane A,  The Bahá’í Faith and the Arts, World Order Vol 4 #3, Wilmette,
NSA Bahá’ís of the United States, 1970
ITTEN, Johannes, The Elements of Colour, New York, Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1970
JUNG, Carl, Man and his Symbols, London, Picador,  1978
KANDINSKY, Wassily, Concerning the Spiritual in Art, New York, Wittenborn Art
Books, 1947
KEYNES, Sir Geoffrey,  William Blake,  London, Methuen, 1965
KING, G, Origins and New Perspectives / Contemporary Australian Textiles (Catalogue),
Launceston, Tasmania, Queen Victoria Museum & Art Gallery, 1999
KOERNER, L J, Caspar David Friedrich and the subject of landscape, London, Reak-
tion Books, 1990
LANGFORD, Ros Keepers of the Land, 1995 (Poster)  Tasmania, Dept of Education
& The Arts, 199?
LARKIN, D (Ed), Fantastic Art, London, Pan/Ballantine, 1973
LEE, JANE, Derain,  Oxford, Phaidon, 1990
LETHABY, W R, Architecture, Mysticism and Myth, London, The Architectural Press,
London 1974
LOVATT-SMITH, L & MUTHESIUS, A, Moroccan Interiors, Cologne, Taschen, 1995
MAGNIN, A (Ed),  Contemporary Art of Africa, New York, Harry N Abrams Inc, 1996
MARSH, G, (Ed), The Cover art of Blue Note Records, London, Collins & Brown, 1991
M.C.Escher Grafiek Entekeningen,  Zwolle, Koninklijke Uitgeverij J.J. Tijl NV, 1959
McGRATH, S & OLSEN, J, The Artist & The Desert, Sydney & London, Bay Books,
MEYER, Laure, Black Africa, Masks, Sculpture, Jewelry, Paris, Terrail, 1992
NAKHJAVÁNÍ,  Bahiyyih  Artist, Seeker and Seer Ottawa, Journal of Bahá’í Studie,
O’KEEFE, Georgia, Georgia O’Keefe, England, Penguin Books, 1976
OLSEN, J et al, The Land Beyond Time, Melbourne, Macmillan, 1984
PIETRANGELI, Carlo et al, The Sistine Chapel, The Art, the History and the Restora-
tion, New York, Harmony Books, 1986
PLATT, Colin, The Architecture of Medieval Britain, New Haven & Lonodn, Yale
University Press, 1990
ROBINSON, J, The Brilliance of Art Deco,  Sydney, Bay Books, 1987
RYAN, Judith,  Spirit in Land, Bark paintings from Arnhhem Land, Melbourne, National
Gallery  of Victoria, 1990
SCOTT, Rosemary, Imperial Taste, Catalogue,  San Francisco, Chronicle Books, 1989
SHIMELD,  Dennis W,  The Presence of the Arts, World Order Vol 6 # 3, Wilmette,
NSA Bahá’ís of the United States,  1972,
SINGH, Madanjeet, The Sun in Myth and Art, London, Thames & Hudson, 1993
SUARES, J-C & CHWAST, S,  The Illustrated Cat, Sydney, ANZ Book Co, 1977
TOLSTOY, Leo, What is Art? And Essays on Art, trans. Aylmer Maude, New York, NY
Liberal Arts Press, 1960
TUMAN, Ludwig,  Mirror of the Divine, Oxford, George Ronald, 1993
ZERBST, Rainer, Antoni Gaudí, Cologne, Taschen, 1991
The Creative Inspiration: Symbolism and Seeing

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
forms, rather are they encouraged, especially in the light of the fact that a new
Bahá’í art cannot be forthcoming until the religion has had a major impact
on the world.  In the Bahá’í Writings however, distinction is made regarding
the use of music in community activities like the Nineteen Day Feast and the
devotional practice required by the intent of the House of Worship.
Music at the Nineteen-Day Feast
Shoghi Effendi saw music as being an “important element of all Bahá’í
gatherings”, but emphasized that it should lead to “spirituality”.2  In many
places in the Writings of both ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the Guardian, the role of
music is seen as a medium for the upliftment of the hearts and that joy and
attraction to God should be the outcome.  The intent is to assist in creating an
atmosphere of spirituality.  Here, in the Feast, instruments can be used and
the style of musical practice can vary.  This can be seen from the guidance of
Shoghi Effendi that he thought it
“advisable that the believers should make use in their meetings of
hymns composed by Bahá’ís themselves, and also of such hymns, poems
and chants as are based on the Holy Words.”3
The other consideration is what texts are used.  From the above quotation,
it is evident that individual creations are welcome as long as they reflect a
basis in Scripture.  Texts to be used in musical renderings must hold a balance
between the above and the following statement also by the Guardian.
“During the devotional part of the Nineteen Day Feast any part of the
writings of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh and the Master can be read, also from
the Bible and Qur’an, and other sacred scriptures.”4

Music in the Mashriqul-Adkár
As is well-known amongst the Bahá’í Community, only the voice is allowed
in the Houses of Worship.  Texts for the readings and for the music have a dif-
ferent criteria from other Bahá’í devotional meetings.  Only the Sacred Books
of the World’s revealed religions and those of the Bahá’í Faith are permitted.
Also, a distinction is made between the Writings and public talks of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and his prayers.  The former are omitted from devotional programs in
the House of Worship whereas the latter is welcomed.
2.
Shoghi Effendi quoted in Compilation of Compilations, Music, Maryborough: Bahá’í Publications Australia,
1991, p. 80.
3.
From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer, April 7, 1935, cited in Helen
Hornby (compilation), Lights of Guidance  (2nd ed.), New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988, pp. 245-
246.
4. 	 Ibid.
Of Paramount Importance : Addressing the Paucity of Music in Bahá’í Devotional Practice
Of Paramount
Importance
Addressing the Paucity of
Music in Bahá’í Devotional
Practice
Michael Knopf
The use of music in Bahá’í devotional practice, whether private or com-
munal, has been of perennial concern since the Bahá’í Faith arrived in the
West in the early days of the twentieth century.  The Eastern believers have
had a continuous practice and understanding of the use of music in devotions
descending directly from the Islamic tradition of chant known as tilawat or
tartil.  The Western Bahá’ís on the other hand, were faced with a new Revela-
tion that had no fixed tradition of musical rendering that would not be totally
foreign to their own cultures, and this provided a challenge to the community
in its search for devotional musical expression.  There was some frustration
with older, established forms of musical worship precisely because they were
derived and not new, and this caused a certain degree of discomfort.  Nonethe-
less, established musical forms of worship were adopted by the early Bahá’ís,
including hymns, spirituals, and renderings of classical and romantic songs
with new words.
From early on in the history of the Bahá’í Faith, western communities have
also used music in a variety of forms mostly derived from popular culture but
aimed more at community singing rather than a true devotional approach. The
exception was the music used in the Houses of Worship where more formal
approaches were undertaken to maintain the qualities of sacredness, dignity and
universality specified by Shoghi Effendi.1   Bahá’ís recognize the importance of
music because of the prominence it is given in the Bahá’í Writings. But there
is confusion in regard as to what sort of music is appropriate for where.
Nothing in the Bahá’í writings points to the exclusion of past musical
1.
Shoghi Effendi. Bahá’í Administration. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974, p.77.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Current music-making in Bahá’í Feasts and Bahá’í Holy Days
There is undoubtedly, much anecdotal evidence of the paucity of music in
Bahá’í Feasts and Holy Days, and especially live music and group singing.
To ascertain to what extent music is currently used in Bahá’í devotional gath-
erings, a survey was conducted via the internet.  The survey establishes the
paucity of live and particularly vocal music in Bahá’í community devotions,
but it also demonstrates a real concern on the part of the respondents for having
music in the meetings.  The apparent strategy in addressing this concern was
to have recorded music.  However, it was encouraging to see that 19% of the
respondents said that vocal music was used in the majority of their meetings.
The questions aimed at discovering the extent of the use of music at meetings,
whether its was live, recorded, or both, what proportion of it was vocal music,
and whether there was any vocal or choral training in the community.
This survey was conducted via the internet with a brief questionnaire aimed
at ascertaining the level of the use of music and particularly vocal music in
Bahá’í devotional gatherings. These were defined as the Nineteen-Day Feast
and the Holy Days. Respondents were mostly from Australia, but also from
New Zealand, the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and the Netherlands.
The results of sixty-two questionnaires are compiled below.
•
Community size in population including adults and children.
64.5% lived in communities of less than fifty Bahá’ís
14.5% lived in communities of fifty to a hundred
21% lived in larger communities of over a hundred
•
Ninety–eight percent of all respondents stated that there was some music
at the Feasts and Holy Days.
•
Of the twenty-eight meetings in the category of Feasts and Holy Days,
music was present in the following percentages.
27.5% had music in up to ten meetings per annum
16% had music between ten to fifteen meetings per annum
16% had music between fifteen and twenty meetings per annum
40.5% had music in most of the meeting i.e. twenty to twenty-eight
•
Asked whether the music in these meetings consisted of live or recorded
music, the following results were given.
13% indicated that only live music was used
36% indicated that only or mostly recorded music was used
51% indicated that a combination of live and recorded music was used
•
The proportion of vocal music used at these gatherings was distributed as
follows.
Of Paramount Importance : Addressing the Paucity of Music in Bahá’í Devotional Practice
“Prayers revealed by Bahá’u’lláh and the Master [‘Abdu’l-Bahá],
as well as the sacred writings of the Prophets, should be read or chant-
ed…”5
Bahá’í texts for use in the House of Worship are defined then, as the Writ-
ings and prayers of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh and the prayers of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
(but not his public talks or letters).6   Fundamental to musical practice in the
Bahá’í House of Worship is the clarification from the Universal House of
Justice as to congregational participation in the program.

“Regarding singing in the Temple, we must bear in mind the reference
made by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas to the need for the person who
enters the Temple to sit silent and listen to the chanting of the verses of God,
as well as the statements made by the Guardian regarding “the reader”
or “ a number of readers” or a “choir”. 7
This statement indicates that the “congregation” itself does not sing during the
program within the House of Worship as those in attendance must sit in silence
and listen to the Scriptural renderings. Listening to and understanding the texts
is the extent of the participation of the congregation. Only specific readers and
singers will do the rendering whether it be spoken or sung.
As to the subject of music itself, it is of interest to note that the musical
style and form to be used for music in the House of Worship is left up to the
artists themselves.8   Thus, style is of secondary importance, though undoubt-
edly it must meet the standard of any activity in the House of Worship which
is to be characterised by the qualities of sacredness, dignity and  universality.9
Such musical rendering of the text should also allow for the audibility and
comprehensibility of the Texts being sung. Singing, like speaking is a form of
recitation. The text comes first.
It appears from a consideration of the above, that the devotional practice in
the Houses of Worship is of a special nature and is totally reliant on the need
for the attendees to hear the Word of God read or sung.  By contrast, singing
by all in attendance at the Feasts and other devotional meetings would be ap-
propriate and encouraged. 10
5.
From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States
and Canada, April 2, 1931, quoted in Lights of Guidance, op.cit., p. 607.
6.
See Shoghi Effendi quoted in Lights of Guidance, op.cit., pp. 608-610.
7.
From a letter of the Universal House of Justice to the National Spiritual Assembly of Uganda and Central
Africa, August 19, 1965, quoted in Lights of Guidance, op.cit., p. 609.
8.
“Chanting or singing will be the only sound (aside from reading) and what forms this will take must depend
on the artists who create the music itself” From a letter  written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi July 3, 1949.
from Extracts on the Institution of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkar, Haifa: Universal House of Justice, publication
available from Bahá’í World Centre.
9.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í  Administration, op.cit., p. 77.
10.	 “Music is permitted during the spiritual part - or any part - of the 19 Day Feast.”  From a letter written on
behalf of the Guardian to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States, June 30, 1952, quoted in
Lights of Guidance, op.cit., p. 245

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
(perhaps one person resolving to be trained in methods of music learning, e.g.
Kodaly), and a bit of enthusiasm and direction from Spiritual Assemblies, a
portion of the Feast could be set aside to learn some simple musical skills and
some new devotional songs that the community could sing together in unison
for the spiritual part of any gathering.11   The Kodaly system is fairly ubiquitous
and very useful.  Literature and resources can be found in libraries, schools
and on the internet.
The need for vocal music in devotional gatherings needs to be steadily ad-
dressed.  Communities can consult on a diverse variety of options in gaining
new skills that will greatly enhance their community life. There are musicians
and composers who are friends of the Bahá’ís who can prepare some music
for Holy Day observances. Communities can also consider the option of hir-
ing a choral workshop clinician to conduct a fun weekend of music learning
and singing.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that music is of paramount importance. Singing the Holy
Writings is one area where this importance can be readily substantiated. “In the
world of existence” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also says, “physical things have a connection
with spiritual realities. One of these things is the voice, which connects itself
to the spirit; and the spirit can be uplifted by this means-…”12  The voice then,
is of importance to our individual and communal worship.
Conclusion
Whatever barriers prevent Western Bahá’í communities from consistently
using the medium of music in their devotional practice, a commitment will need
to be made to address the problem in a systematic way.  Such an undertaking
can in real terms address the quality of community living and so warrants the
effort. An understanding of what the Bahá’í Writings actually do say is of help,
and the lack of musical skills within the community can be easily addressed
over a period of time. It is essential that the will to do something about the
inadequate use of music and particularly vocal music in Bahá’í devotional
practices be maintained by a vision of the joy it can release in dispirited hearts,
and of the social cohesion it can provide to a community.
11.	 The current writer has produced a volume of devotional songs entitled The Paramount Project intended
for use at Bahá’í devotional meetings. Some of the songs would be appropriate for the Houses of Worship
and the majority use texts from the Writings of  Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The collection is somewhat
eclectic, drawing on traditions of hymns, spirituals, eastern chants, folksong, and classical approaches.
It was prepared using standard notation and the Tonic Sol-fa system that is found in the Kodaly music
learning method in current use in most primary schools in Australia. The volume also contains fourteen
pages of information aimed at assisting the reader to gain some skill and understanding in the reading of
music.
12.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Music, op.cit., pp.78-79. See also Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1978, p. 143, where human speech is described by
Bahá’u’lláh as an “essence which aspireth to exert its influence”.
Of Paramount Importance : Addressing the Paucity of Music in Bahá’í Devotional Practice
27%  had no vocal music
24% had vocal music one to five times per annum
17% had vocal music five to ten times per annum
13% had vocal music ten to twenty times per annum
19% had vocal music over twenty times per annum
The forms or styles of music mentioned most often were Persian chants,
European music (including choral music and almost always recorded), Bahá’í
songs (children’s songs and folk settings), folk music, recorded music, and
some ethnic styles. Original music was prepared in four of the sixty-two com-
munities surveyed.
Of sixty-two communities surveyed only 13% (eight) had any form of musi-
cal training.  This ranged from regular learning of songs in children’s classes
to small, organized choirs that rehearsed consistently. Seventy-five percent of
respondents used music in private devotional practice, usually singing prayers
and other Sacred Writings.
Ninety-eight percent of the respondents saw music as a part of their
gatherings (some of these were one or two occasions out of the year), which
indicates a healthy concern for its use.  However, eighty-seven percent of
communities surveyed have had no musical training.  This indicates a lack of
musical human resources to initiate training aimed at encouraging singing at
such gatherings.  It may also indicate a lack of will to do so.  With seventy-five
percent of respondents using music in their private devotions, what also may
be missing is a sense of confidence to sing in a group.  Training would assist
in eliminating this hurdle.
Paths for Community Devotional Music Making
Two of the major contributing factors in the paucity of vocal music in Bahá’í
devotions is the lack of musical training and the non-existence of a Bahá’í
musical tradition. (The latter, of course, we would not really want. The aim is
universality and diversity!). So, how can communities remedy this problem?
Two paths are immediately available. The first is to adopt and adapt the tradi-
tion in current use within the wider community. Australians and other Western
Christian societies can feel at home with such hymns and devotional songs
whose words are appropriate to Bahá’í teachings. Hymns and like music can
be found in bookstores and on the internet.
The second path is for communities to resolve to learn musical skills and
sing new music.  We live in a country that has a multitude of resources ready
for use.  (The reason we don’t use them may well lie in the “quick fix” solu-
tion.  This demands little from individuals and communities but does little for
community development.  With this solution one simply plays recorded music
from a CD.  Perhaps a few sing along with the machine.)  With resources,

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
life, as represented by my parents and grandparents, I think, have played a role,
partly undefinable, in whatever inspiration has come into my life in poetry.
Secondly, there is the influence of my religion which I have been a member
of now for forty years (and attending its various functions for forty-six years).  A
poetic literature, a long line of artistic and intellectually endowed associations,
listening to people talk and talking with people from an infinitely wide range of
paths in life, an exposure to books, to reading, to hearing people read, visible
commitments, etc.  These and other aspects of my connection with the Bahá’í
Faith have all contributed to definable and indefinable influences on my creative
inspirations.  In this connection I would like to mention the invocation Alláh-
u-Abhá or Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá which has special significance to Bahá’ís around
the world. I have been using these invocations for over forty years. They are part
of the core of ‘spiritual enrichment’ for Bahá’ís. There is a spiritual growth that
is generated by the use of these simple words in worshipful devotion. Prayer in
general has been an important part of my Bahá’í experience as far back as the
1950s.  When one has many prayers memorized one can pray in an unfettered
sense walking in the bush, along the beach, indeed, wherever one has privacy. I
am confident this contributes to the devotional attitude and has effects on your
life in mysterious ways. In purely quantitative terms I am sure I have spent more
time in my life ‘talking to God’ through the revealed prayers than I have talk-
ing to any human being I have known, except perhaps my wife. It is, of course,
difficult to measure the results of this process over many decades: an increase
in the sense of intimacy with the Source of one’s light and life and a feeling that
words, phrases, specific prayers, passages, indeed, many pages of the Writings
have become old friends. If I recite them more quickly they feel like a mantra;
if I slow down they feel like a deep meditation.
Thirdly, ill-health and personal difficulties: manic-depression in the 1960s
and 1970s, divorce and employment difficulties which turned me toward seek-
ing special inspiration. By 1980 I frequently read the following passage from
Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and sought the intercession of the
departed Hands of the Cause on my behalf:
The soul that hath remained faithful to the Cause of God and stood
unwaveringly firm in His Path shall, after his ascension, be possessed of
such power that all the worlds which the Almighty hath created can benefit
through him. Such a soul provideth, at the bidding of the Ideal King and
Divine Educator, the pure leaven that levaneth the world of being, and
furnisheth the power through which the arts and wonders of the world are
made manifest.2
I began writing poetry about 1981, a year or so after I began reading this
The Passionate Artist
The Passionate Artist
Ron Price
In some ways I see this paper as a continuation of the paper I delivered
in 1990 at the ABS Conference that year in Perth on “The Inner Life and the
Environment”.  It is a continuation of that paper in the sense that what I want
to stress here is the same thing: the inner lifer and private character.  For it is
here that ‘the creative inspiration’ finds its origins.  I can not begin in a better
place than quoting a passage of Shoghi Effendi, a passage that has gained in
strength and meaning as the decades have passed since his passing in 1957:
Not by the force of numbers, not by the mere exposition of a set of new
and noble principles, not by an organized campaign of teaching - no matter
how worldwide and elaborate in its character  - not even by the staunch-
ness of our faith or the exaltation of our enthusiasm, can we ultimately
hope to vindicate in the eyes of a critical and sceptical age the supreme
claim of the Abhá Revelation. One thing and only one thing will unfailingly
and alone secure the undoubted triumph of this sacred Cause, namely, the
extent to which our own inner life and private character mirror forth in
their manifold aspects the splendour of those eternal principles proclaimed
by Bahá’u’lláh.1

The creative inspiration is clearly associated in manifold ways with this “inner
life and private character.”  Before we begin to examine the inner life and creative
inspiration, though, I would like to say a few things about ‘where I am coming
from.’  What are the origins of my own creative inspiration? What are some of
the perspectives and themes that inform it in relation to poetry which is but one of
the many outward forms, manifestations of this creative imagination, inspiration
and the inner spiritual powers?  There are several sources and perspectives which
illustrate something of what I want to say about my own creative inspiration. It
would require a book to properly outline them. I will focus on a few here.
Firstly, there are the influences of socialization. Both my mother in the 1950s
and my grandfather in the 1920s, began to write extensively in their late forties
and fifties.  My father had an immense energy and drive.  The two sides of my
1.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration – Selected Messages 1922-1932, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1995, p. 66.
2.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976, p.161.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
solid thinking about the organic change in the very structure of society that the
world has been preparing for but has not yet experienced—can be examined.
In thirty-two hundred poems, a massive corpus, this search for a context for
the examination of fundamental questions may not be so obvious. I try to do
a great deal in this poetry.
The fluid and elastic qualities that underpin the expression of freedom
assume a different latitude from one mind to another.  Indeed in this Faith
there are “unique methods and channels”5  for the exercise and maintenance
of freedom.  The very meaning of freedom has been deepened, its scope ex-
tended.  The very fact that my writing poetry, an expression of art, is elevated
to an act of worship augers well for the “enormous prospects for a new birth
of expression in the civilization anticipated by His World Order.”6
Much, if not virtually all, of my poetry is about personal experience, a per-
sonal view of some sociological or historical process or fact.  I see this poetry
as essentially lyrical, as capable of expressing a sense of commonality and, for
me, unparalleled intimacy.  Some of what I write could be termed confessional.
The first person “I” is vulnerable, dealing as it does with varying degrees of
self-revelation.  But even in the second and third persons there is the poet’s
view, less direct, self-revelation less obvious.  The poetry is self-serving; the
reader is invited to share in my experience, in my thoughts.  The poetry also
serves the community, however self-focussed my poems are.  They deal with
the universal and with the growth and development of that universal Force, the
Cause.  They deal with community.  And the quest for community, it would
seem, has always involved some conflict, some anxiety.
I strive, of course, for moderation, refinement, tact and wisdom in any of
my poetic expressions of human utterance.  For everything there is a season.
Thus far, the season of my poetic writing in public has been minimal.  I have
been quite happy that the public utterance of my poetry, at poetry readings, has
been minimal.  I have written about this before in the five interviews recorded
in previous booklets of poetry.  Bahá’u’lláh, Himself, reinforces this idea in
the maxim that: “Not everything that a man knoweth can be disclosed ...nor
can every timely utterance be considered as suited to the capacity of those
who hear it.”7   As the Universal House of Justice says in its expatiation on the
theme of speech and freedom “an acute exercise of judgement” is called for.8
Perhaps when, and if, I become “public property” I will have acquired more
of that quality of acute judgement.
The freedom of the poet, the writer, to declare his conscience and set forth
his views is at the root of the foundation of this Order, but poetry of a negative
5. 	 Universal House of Justice, letter to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America, 29
December 1988 in Rights and Responsibilities, Ontario: Bahá’í Canada Publications, 1997, p. 12.
6. 	 Ibid., p. 13.
7. 	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976, p. 176.
8. 	 Universal House of Justice, letter to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America, 29
December 1988 in Rights and Responsibilities, op. cit., p. 13
The Passionate Artist
passage on a regular basis.  Although I saw no association between this passage
and my first poems, by the 1990s I began to wonder at the possible connec-
tion with my poetic output and these leavening influences. By the year 2000
I had written over two million words of poetry and five thousand poems and
wondered where it all came from.
Fourth, the influence of other poets: Roger White in the 1980s and the
western intellectual tradition since Wordsworth, more generally.  For a dozen
years, 1981 to 1992, I had ‘company defined by letters’, company with the
most delightful letter writer I have ever known and a poet whose influences
has had primacy.3   In the years 1993 to 1999 my poetic friends were in books.
I read dozens of books about poetry since Wordsworth started writing in the
1780s.  I read publicly in cafes, restaurants, in colleges and at Bahá’í functions
but did not find it inspirational, although people enjoyed my reading due to my
ability to entertain.  But I had grown tired of the public domain after nearly
thirty years of teaching and what seemed like an endless variety of meetings.
I had dried up.  Poetry functioned like a new lease on life, a new leaven that
leavened my world of being.
Fifth, the possible influence of the Holy Year, 1992-1993.  My Bahá’í life
had occupied the span between the two Holy Years, the other being 1952-1953.
I think this influence is most mysterious.  My life as a Bahá’í had spanned these
two special years and a flood of poetry was unleashed after this forty-year hiatus.
Was this something of those ‘mysterious dispensations of Providence?’
Sixth, the particular view of time, space and history in the Bahá’í teachings.
Time: 13.6 billion years; space: infinite, a general scientific view; and history: a
ten stage process (Shoghi Effendi, 1953, Chicago) with plans, eras, cycles, epochs,
stages and phases.  All of this helped to give my life, my age and all of history a
new, a quite specific, time focus and this plays a role in my poetry. Time frames
seem to have taken on an especial meaning in poem after poem.
You will see from the above influences something of that inner life which I
speak of and something of the creative inspiration which is at the centre of this
article.  My poetry tells a great deal about my inner life; indeed, I often feel
quite naked in giving my poems to people. I don’t really mind not having them
published. Writing them is the real buzz.
Poetry as a Source of Social Good
If these booklets of poetry, some twenty-seven now,4  help to establish
nothing else it will be my search for a context in which relevant fundamental
questions about the undoubted right of the individual to self-expression, the
societal need for legitimate and just authority and our need as individuals for
3.
Robert Creeley, The American Poetry Review, Sept. 1999, p.18.
4. 	 The last booklet I sent to the Bahá’í World Centre Library was called The Art of Glorification.  For the period
9 January to 4 September 1997 I sent no poetry.  The developments on Mt. Carmel are like a lodestone to
human hearts.  I continue sending my poetry as an expression of the intense attraction of the heart.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Spontaneity, initiative and diversity must be encouraged, but everything in
its time, the right time under heaven, so to speak.  The individual in this Cause
is “the focus of primary development”,14  but within the context of the group;
for the individual is essentially subordinated to the group.   The individual
should be seen as a source of social good.  This is his most supreme delight.
This is the essential context for poetry.  When, and if, this occurs my poetry
will find its right and proper place in community life.  Dealing as my poetry
does with the fragile, confused and ever-to-be-rediscovered and redefined self,
the place of the inner life and private character, the delight to which I refer
will, hopefully, be associated with understanding, with intellect and wisdom,
the two most luminous lights in the world of creation.15
Ron Price
28 November 1997
Autobiography: Analysis Yet Again
I have provided a succinct narrative account of my life (in a 40,000 word
autobiographical narrative elsewhere).  It is chronological; the factual material
is ordered, sequential.  But, clearly, sharpness of detail, revealing anecdote,
even suspense and analysis of motivation are given with insight and style much
more effectively in my poetry.  There is so much poetry now, some 4 000 poems
spread over at least 2 000 pages, that this collected and compendious mass of
material, if it is ever to provide a basis for biography in the future, must be
shaped, interpreted, given perspective, dimension, a point of view.
Such a biographer must provide the creative, the fertile, the suggestive and
engendering fact, an imaginative, a referential dimension.  Such an analyst must
enact a character, a place, a time in history.  He will do this through language,
through imposing a formal coherency on my material, although inevitably there
will be present the incurable illogicalities of life, as Robert Louis Stevenson
called the inconsistent, the unresolved paradoxes of life.  He will give the
reader a portrait not an inventory. This is what any biographer must do. I do
this in my autobiographical poetry. But I provide many pictures, many moods,
many sides.  Details balloon; they repeat; they illuminate.
I discover things about my life, but I do not invent them.
As Plutarch and Boswell, two of history’s most famous biographers,
demonstrated:  “anecdote rather than history teaches us more about the
subject.”16  I see my narrative as the home of history and my poetry as a source
of rich anecdote.  It was for this reason I turned to poetry as a reservoir of
autobiography; it seemed to teach, to convey, much more than narrative.  Claude
14. 	 Ibid., p. 22.
15. 	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970, p.1.
16. 	 Ira Nadel, Biography: Fiction, Fact and Form, New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1984, p.60.
The Passionate Artist
quality should be strictly avoided to prevent confusion and discord reigning in
community life and to remedy divisiveness.  The process of criticism is baneful
in its effect and, therefore, the nature of my poetry is intended to counteract
dissidence which I see as “a moral and intellectual contradiction of the main
objective animating”9  my words.  But often what I write is simply ordinary
speech, sometimes emotionally loaded, raised to a high level, the highest level
I can, of expressiveness.  I strive for what the Greeks called kairos: tact, dis-
cretion, prudent restraint, maturity, for the quality the poet Pindar expressed.10
For humanity today needs that communitas communitatum and this Faith, the
Bahá’í Faith, has an important role to play in this unifying process. This poetry
is part of that wider process, that wider phenomenon.
I seek a judicious exercise in my writing.  I try to be sensitive to content,
style, sound, tact, wisdom, timeliness in order to “give birth to an etiquette
of expression”11  worthy of that term ‘maturity’, which Pindar possessed, and
which this age must strive to attain.  There must be a discipline in this poetry
if it is to attain the status of being a “dynamic power in the arteries of life.”12
If my words are to attain “the influence of spring” and cause “hearts to become
fresh and verdant”, they shall have to be seen as “acceptable to fair-minded
souls.”13   I can not make such a claim of my poetry, yet. In this complex age
with so much competition from the intense sounds of media and other art
forms, I may never attain to such an influence.
I am sensitive to my poetry’s tenderness, as I am to the tenderness of the
Cause which motivates so much that underpins my poetry.  The rigorous
discipline that must be exerted when putting print before the public eye, I
have not exerted, not entirely. For I have assumed that, for the most part, the
public will not see most of my poetry, at least for some time to come. But I
strive to speak the words of both myself and my fellow human beings as part
of a whole; this autobiographical poetic serves the whole.  It resonates in the
immediate and the concrete, in the inner and the outer values of my life, or in
the socio-historical frameworks in which it is couched.
However idiosyncratic and autobiographical a particular poem may appear
it is related to the totality, the cosmic, the grand-scale, the great system of time
and place provided by the teachings and a generally scientific view of human-
kind.  For mine is the poetry of a meta-narrative.  Hopefully different readers
will be cheered or saddened in different ways as my poems drift through the
diverse human situations they describe.
9. 	 Universal House of Justice, letter to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America, 29
December 1988 in Rights and Responsibilities, op.cit., p. 17.
10. 	 Joan Aleshire, “Staying News: A Defense of the Lyric”, Poets Teaching Poets: Self and the World, in
Gregory Orr and Ellen B. Voigt (eds.), Michigan: University of Michigan Press, 1966, pp. 28-47.
11. 	 Universal House of Justice, letter to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America, 29
December 1988 in Rights and Responsibilities, op.cit., p. 17.
12. 	 Ibid., p. 18.
13. 	 Ibid.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
months.  I feel, with Rilke, a great inner solitude and that life and history is
itself a beginning: for me, for my religion and for the world.  I want to suck
the sweetness out of everything and tell the story.
I sigh a deep-dark melancholy, but keep it in as far as I am able.  I am
lonely and attentive in this sadness.  My poetry gives expression to this proc-
ess and to my destiny which comes from within.  My poetry is the story of
what happens to me. For the most part “life happens” and one must respond
to the seeming inevitability of it all, although the question of freedom and
determinism is really quite a complex one.  Reality, I record in my poetry,
comes to me slowly, infinitely slowly.  My poetry records this process.  My
poetry is an expression of a fruit that has been ripening within me: obscure,
deep, mysterious.  After years it now comes out in a continuous preoccupation
as if I have, at last, found some hidden springs.  It is as if I have been playing
around the edges, with trivia, with the surface.  Finally something real, true, is
around me. I stick to my work. I have a quiet confidence, a patience, a distance
from a work that always occupies me.  And so I can record a deep record of
my time.  I am preparing something both visible and invisible, something
fundamental. And there is joy.
Ron Price
25 September 1998
The Passionate Artist
Levi-Strauss helps us to understand why several poems about one object, or
person, provide more significance or meaning than a narrative when he writes:
To understand a real object in its totality we always tend to work from
its parts.
The resistance it offers us is overcome by dividing it...Being smaller,
the object as
a whole seems less formidable....it seems to us qualitatively simpli-
fied.17

One can not know everything about anyone, even oneself. The mountain of
detail would sink a ship and would not enlighten anyone.  The task of achiev-
ing comprehensiveness not only is impossible, it is irrelevant.  But there are
intelligible dimensions of one’s life and it is these dimensions that my poetry
deals with best.  Imagination is critical in writing biography. Some writers
see invention more important than knowledge.  Inevitably, there is anelement
of invention, of moving beyond the factual, but my own preference is to use
imagination in a framework of factual experience, as far as possible.  To
read my poetry should be to immerse oneself in the first several decades of
Bahá’í experience in what the Bahá’ís see as ‘the tenth stage of history’ and,
especially, that time when the spiritual and administrative centre on Mount
Carmel received its richest, its definitive, elaboration and definition, in the half
century 1951 to 2001 and especially the recent decade or so.  There are several
unifying nodes of experience for my poetry, in addition to the above.  I have
drawn them to the reader’s attention from time to time in the introductions to
some of my poems.
From a Bahá’í perspective my poetry will undoubtedly possess a moral
appeal associated with overcoming hardship, a quality that characterized most
nineteenth-century biography and some of its poetry.  But the moral framework,
while retaining a certain simplicity, is expressed in a portrait of complexity,
refinement, mystery, a slumbering world, my own idle fancies and vain im-
aginings and the streaming utterance of a new Revelation.
Freud commented that biographers choose their subjects ‘for personal rea-
sons of their own emotional life.’18  I am sure this is equally, if not more, true
of autobiographers.  After criss-crossing Australia as an international pioneer
and teaching in the northernmost and southernmost places in Canada - all of
this over thirty-six years, I have watched this emerging world religion grow
perhaps thirty times (two hundred thousand in 1953, to six million in 2000).
I have taught in schools for nearly thirty years and feel, now, a certain fatigue.
I must write this poetry for the same reason a foetus must gestate for nine
17. 	 Ibid.
18. 	 ibid, p.122.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
and lordly confirmations will rush to his support and reinforcement. He will
behold all the doors open and all the strong fortifications and impregnable
castles razed to the ground. Singly and alone he will attack the armies of
the world, defeat the right and left wings of the hosts of all the countries,
break through the lines of all the legions and carry his attack to the very
center of the powers of the earth. This is the meaning of the Hosts of God.4
That which belongs to the spirit of the future can only be realized in
feeling, and to this feeling the talent of the artist is the only road.5
Those of us who are career professionals in the arts understand the power
of the arts. The calling to art as a vocation is second nature. Others have to
be convinced of its significance beyond entertainment, beyond the glamour,
beyond escapism, beyond the celebration which lies at its heart. At best the
artist perfects him/herself and, ultimately, perfects culture as a whole. Striving
to perfect one’s craft and oneself reveals divine attributes. In the presentation
and performance of art, the artist reveals a transcendent moment, transmut-
ing audiences and reminding them of the possibilities of human perfection,
the promise of peace. Yet, as spiritual awakening requires a Divine Teacher,
artistic talent requires an initiation process guided, formally or informally, by
a teacher, a master, a guru.
In 1986 I was on my second pilgrimage to the Bahá’í World Centre in Haifa,
this time with my daughter, Nuri.  I met my Bahá’í brother, Ika Tutualepu, a
descendant of the Tongan royal family, who was also on pilgrimage with his
mother and family members.  He had brought with him several sets of Tongan
bark paintings intended as gifts to the members of the Universal House of
Justice. In my conversations with him, he strongly identified with comments I
was making regarding the growing consciousness and solidarity among people
of colour as a precursor to global unity.  Suddenly, in that moment of solidar-
ity, I found myself the proud recipient of two exquisite paintings charting his
family crest and history.  In a long history of international travel, they remain
among my most prized possessions: not as artifacts, but as talismans, social
indicators of the power of the arts to preserve the stories of life, the visions
and hopes of humanity across many millennia.
Artists are educators, narrating the myths of the past in story form and within
artistic formats. From this emerges most of what we call a world-embracing
global vision of civilisation. As such, the Sistine Chapel tells us no more or
less than the Dogon Sigi ritual or Indian raga music. It is through the legacy of
multicultural artistic traditions that we frame human life, rationalise our human
culture, and build the infrastructure for future civilisation, thus advancing it.
Just as the visual narratives of Ika’s family histories were entrusted to bark,
so will art inscribe our future Bahá’í communities.
4.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969, p. 424.
5.
Wassily Kandinsky, Concerning the Spiritual in Art, New York: Dover Publications, 1977, p. 12.
Building Creative Communities: Approaching the Arts as Social and Economic Development
Building Creative
Communities:
Approaching the Arts
as Social and Economic
Development
Robin M. Chandler
This essay describes GATI1  (Global Arts Training Institute), a model for
building professionalism in the visual and performance arts which can be
implemented in Bahá’í communities and incorporated into teaching plans
to develop the next generation of arts practitioners and professional manag-
ers.2   As part of the One Year and Five Year Plans, the author is suggesting a
comprehensive training model which further develops and expands the Youth
Workshop Model as a global model fusing Bahá’í principles, the principles
of social and economic development, and a 21st Century vision which adapts
the best in art, science and technology to training and educational programs.
The GATI described below relies on support from the Bahá’í Administration
and the private sector as a development partners.
Time is Short3
Each one is holding in his hand a trumpet, blowing the breath of life
over all the regions... These souls are the armies of God and the conquerors
of the East and the West. Should one of them turn his face toward some
direction and summon the people to the Kingdom of God, all the ideal forces
1.
For information about GATI (Global Arts Training Institute) contact the author by email at CIC370@aol.
com or at the Caravan for International Culture website at www.caravan-inc.com, or write to Dr. Robin
M. Chandler, Caravan, PO Box 370, Cambridge, MA 02238 USA.
2.
The expression ‘arts practitioners and professional managers’ embraces the three emergent interdiscipli-
nary fields including the cluster of music, dance, theatre, the visual arts, film, literature and writing, oral
tradition, and performance ritual; the computer and digital media; and corporate arts management.
3.
Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith – Messages to America 1947-1957, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1995, pp. 85-6.
This essay is dedicated to the Aboriginal artists of Australia.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Educational reports from international agencies identify four phenomena
which enhance education and training.  One is that media and technology are
indispensable learning tools in job and life preparation.9   The second is that
the rigors of cross and interdisciplinary learning revitalises standard educa-
tion by showing learners the benefits of critical thinking in many different
disciplines.  Third, content-focused learning without spiritual (moral, ethical,
character) education may produce a superior scientist, accountant, or even art-
ist, but learners so educated will not be able to function in a more global and
diversified world.  Fourth, and most relevant to this essay, learners who have
had significant long-term arts study not only score higher on standardised tests,
but display expanded interpersonal skills, self-awareness, and social stability
due to the expressive demands of artistic training and production.  In other
words, the educated child who is arts-literate in interpersonal, intercultural,
and interreligious experiences will be more capable of negotiating transactions
which acknowledge the demands of globalism.
Bahá’í educational contexts (children’s classes, Year-of-Service) ideally
prepare learners for the expanding concentric loyalties which will define hu-
man communities in the future.  Broadly speaking, trained arts practitioners
revitalise Bahá’í community life, provide important role models for younger
children, and assure administrative cohesiveness as a dynamic counterpoint
of service action. Further, through touring and travel teaching, arts institutes
seed and cross-fertilise with other sites and spawn new methods, new projects,
and more institute experimentation.
What does all this mean for the twenty-first century?  All art is a text,
whether written, oral, aural, kinaesthetic or visual.  As the divine worlds of
God are many, we can begin to imagine with new faculties that real and virtual
spaces await new forms of art production which address these newly understood
realities across the four kinds of time alluded to by Bahá’u’lláh in The Seven
Valleys and the Four Valleys.10   There is, for example, a great deal of modern
art which benefits from or utilises technology, and yet much of both art and
technology is profane, amoral, and fragmented in both medium and message.
By virtue of our identity as Bahá’ís, then, deepening in the Bahá’í Writings
will not only unlock the spiritual doors of space-time with which both art and
science are preoccupied, but will offer emerging Bahá’ís  who seek professional
arts careers a new imagination.  With this new imagination, new forms of art
production will be generated, culturally diverse amalgamations of performance
practice will evolve, and challenging literacies of knowledge will be sculpted
from the rocks of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation.  It is already happening.  What is
most critical at this juncture in global transformation, however, are the ways
9.
The United Nations University Millennium Project, UNESCO, and numerous departments and ministeries
of education worldwide have on-going studies and projects which track emerging trends in education, arts,
science and technology.
10.	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1978, p. 25.
Building Creative Communities: Approaching the Arts as Social and Economic Development
Every dance ritual ever devised, every song, chant or hymn ever sung,
every poem ever recited, every form and shape moulded, cast or painted has
had a human creator.  Since every culture participates in human evolution, we
look to each culture for the guidance, inspiration and vision encoded in their
musical compositions, choreography, architecture, wall art and sculpture, praise
poems and plays, all now joined by the promised collaborations provided by
the computer and digital revolutions.  I recall Shoghi Effendi’s remarks in The
Individual and Teaching on encountering diversity: ‘We should meet them
[indigenous people] as equals, well-wishers, people who admire and respect
their ancient descent and who feel that they will be interested, as we are, in a
living religion - and not in the dead forms of present-day churches.’6
GATI might be a bridge linking old Bahá’í Youth Workshop (BYW) models
with more traditional art forms.  The challenge to Bahá’í communities, institu-
tions, and individuals, then, is to encourage new career paths in the arts through
social programs linked with economic support, both private and institutional.
Through such systematic support, the Bahá’í world community validates the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá whereby ‘[He] acknowledges the
indebtedness of the peoples of the world to scientists and craftsmen,’ states
that ‘the possessors of sciences and arts have a great right among the people
of the world’, and urges that ‘the people of Bahá should treat craftsmen with
deference.’7
Professionalising the Arts and Training Artists
Teach them to dedicate their lives to matters of great import, and inspire
them to undertake studies that will benefit mankind.8
The arts, as a professional career path, are ‘of great import’, ‘benefit man-
kind’, nurture talent and attract genius.  It is often assumed that such Writings
relate only to training in those careers which are traditionally thought to be
‘professional’ - medicine, law, business, and so forth - due to parental and
community fears that arts careers are leisure activities, economically unsustain-
able, and are less valued as worthwhile activities for making a living.  Such
attitudes represent too narrow an interpretation of the Writings and suggest a
disdain for the arts which stifles career development and, thus, teaching.  Ca-
reer counselling by families and educators might benefit from recent statistics
regarding the feasibility and sustainability of arts careers which have undergone
interdisciplinary diversification.
6.
Shoghi Effendi, The Individual and Teaching, p. 31. [refer to “Africa Calls”, U. S. Office of Pioneering,
Wilmette, Ill.)
7.
Shoghi Effendi quoting Bahá’u’lláh in God Passes By, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1965, p. 218;
Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’í World Faith, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1969, p. 189; and Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets
of Bahá’u’lláh, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978, p. 38.
8.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978, p. 129.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
in my travels, that I finally plopped back into my seat and thought ‘now how
do we build creative communities?’
The following model would operate at the international level as a training
centre, permanent and yet mobile, which would have numerous trainers and
satellites around the world.  The intention is not to standardise arts practice nor
to stultify human creativity, but rather to consolidate and tap into the critical
success factors which have made the arts a powerhouse of teaching and a train-
ing ground for new ideas and emerging artists. In fact, a new culture is brewing
and mature artists might have a hand in shaping a future Bahá’í art world which
has yet to emerge, but which is inevitable as a central feature of global society.
This can only happen through an effective collaboration between social and
economic development praxis now evolving in the international development
community, and the theory and methodology embedded in every phrase and
fragrance of the Sacred Texts.  Courses in arts management and proposal writ-
ing, accompanied by studio training and more enhanced deepening methods
than exist at present, would contribute to a rigorous institute.
Clearly, management training is encouraged in the Writings: ‘Managing art
with propriety will become the means of sociability and affinity; and sociabil-
ity and affinity tends to guide others to the Truth.’12   Such an institute would
provide practical development skills and technical assistance to emerging
individuals and organisations who would love to serve the Faith through the
arts, but who have limited human resources.   In the development community
lingo, a GATI institute would be described as partnership-based, job-enhancing,
technology-transferring, and enterprise-empowering!  Evolving within the
framework of Bahá’í principle and Divine Policy, a GATI could spin off
an infrastructure mandated by Bahá’í administrative institutions which was
theoretically and empirically grounded in the Writings, and people-driven
by a cross-cultural team of administrators/teachers and a working advisory
board.  Professionalism in the arts in Bahá’í communities would employ the
MATRIX Model (MATRIX is an acronym) which would focus on four goals:
global citizenship, community development, service, and the notion that the
soul has a right to be educated.
MATRIX
‘M’: mentoring and multi-skilling - Intergenerational knowledge has been
passed down from teacher to apprentice, from gurus and master artists in
every society for thousands of years. Mentoring works as an indispensable
strategy. As knowing God derives from a personal relationship with the
Creator, knowing one’s craft is best achieved through information-sharing,
particularly in ‘the information age’ of which we are all students.
12.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Bahá’í World Faith, op.cit., p. 377.
Building Creative Communities: Approaching the Arts as Social and Economic Development
in which emerging Bahá’í arts practitioners are able to sustain personal lives
which are ethical, spiritually-centred, and which exemplify the radiance that
the Bahá’í message is intended to convey. It is an exciting time to be alive, an
innovation gateway which may only remain open for a short time.
GATI and the MATRIX Model
Fundamentally, this is a call for a GATI (Global Arts Training Institute).
This endeavour might begin with an assessment of the social and institutional
impact of Bahá’í Youth Workshops as they exist at varying stages of develop-
ment throughout the Bahá’í world.  In most communities and countries they
exist through community and institutional mandates, but few receive the vigor-
ous support they need to evolve into the twenty-first century at this dawning of
the Bahá’í era.  For example, the ‘twenty-somethings’ and ‘thirty-somethings’
who attended BYW ten years ago constitute a distinct age cohort of ‘youth’ who
are now adults, as compared with current youth who may face a less enthusi-
astic BYW process now that its novelty has worn off.  What do these trends
mean for Bahá’í development in the arts and for teaching?  Financial support
has registered as an on-going challenge.  What successes and new funding
priorities have affected our rethinking of how to fund Bahá’í projects, not as
religious organisations, but as community-based organisations which may be
eligible for not-for-profit grants and which greatly contribute to the quality of
life in cities, towns, and villages around the world? Is this information being
systematised and shared?
After observing the art world for thirty years as a participant observer,
artist and sociologist, as well as following the enthusiastic progress of Bahá’í
Youth Workshops on several continents, it seems timely, given the admonitions
of the Universal House of Justice and the Plans now in place, to provide the
intergenerational support needed for the social and economic development
of the arts focused on the professionalism of the Bahá’í youth through an
international training institute.  As I stood in a University of Melbourne
audience in September 1999 watching a performance by ‘Artworks’ (as one
of a handful of standing ovators who truly appreciated the potential power of
this multimedia form), I realised the principles of ‘workshopping’ were a key
factor in formulating a model for action in the arts.11   It was at this moment,
recalling Ika’s Tongan paintings, revisiting my childhood memories of learning
to reconcile Tchaikovsky, Ellington, and Gregorian chant, and having observed
the endless procession of both western and traditional dance, theatre, film et al
11.	 Workshopping first appeared outside modern Bahá’í community life. Continents that underwent persistent
political repression devised workshopping beyond their national borders, or ‘underground’, as a means
of developing liberation arts as a progressive strategy for training and developing the arts in service to
social and political freedom. For further reading see Robin Chandler, ‘The Role of Culture in Democracy
Movements in the Black Expressive Tradition: Artist Performance Practice in Brazil, South Africa and
the United States’, in Ran Greenstein (ed.), Comparative Perspectives on South Africa, New York: St.
Martin’s Press, 1998.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Multicultural:
Let all be set free from the multiple identities that were born of passion
and desire, and in the oneness of their love for God find a new way of life.14
Technological:
They shall reveal the mysteries of the Kingdom, and manifest unto
everyone the signs of God.15
Day and night you must strive [to realise] that this world has a creator, a
vivifier, a provider, an architect, knowing this through proofs and evidences
and not through susceptibilities ... through decisive arguments and real
vision ... visualizing it as clearly as the outer eye beholds the sun.16
Spiritual:
The artist must train not only his eye but also his soul.17
Conclusion
Every man who steeps himself in the spiritual possibilities of his art is a
valuable helper in the building of a spiritual pyramid which will someday
reach to heaven.18
We do not yet know what ‘Bahá’í art’ is, nor what it means to be a ‘Bahá’í
artist’ in the information age.  As Kandinsky said in the beginning of the last
century: ‘At the present time any attempt to define this new art would be as
useless as pulling a small bud open so as to make a fully blown flower.’19   In the
first quarter of the year 2000, we would still be pulling buds to try and define
these terms.  For the moment we remain ‘artists who are Bahá’ís’, attempting
to distil the inner meaning of the Bahá’í Writings in order to achieve justice
and peace on our small planet inside an under-explored universe. We are also
deeply influenced, as is the general art world, by the materialism, violence,
prejudices, and misery which contaminate the spiritual atmosphere within
which we try to operate. However, GATI is designed to focus on preparing
emerging artists in studio, technology, and arts management praxis through a
14.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá , Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978, p. 76.
15.	 Ibid., p. 251.
16.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Foundations of World Unity, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1968, p. 65.
17.	 Kandinsky, Concerning the Spiritual in Art, op.cit., p. 46.
18.	 Ibid., p. 20.
19.	 Ibid.
Building Creative Communities: Approaching the Arts as Social and Economic Development
‘A’: the art world - understanding how art worlds have functioned in the
past in both traditional and modern societies and how they might look in
the future influenced by Bahá’í principles. GATI would extract the best
educational, training, management and public relations elements of the
existing art worlds and redefine them toward the goals of the Faith, the
principles of justice, unity, and work as worship. Concepts such as networks
of cooperation, collective action, status creation, subsidisation, public and
private sector interaction, patronage, and many other aspects of community
development would be taught.
‘T’: training and education - which includes conventional instruction in art
modalities (music, dance, theatre, the visual media, etc) linked with spiritual
education as an over-arching framework. Training-of-trainers techniques
would dispatch highly skilled experts to the Bahá’í world community,
particularly areas where mass teaching is either in process or anticipated.
‘R’: the residency or ‘studio’ experience - an essential incubation context for
conceptualising, rehearsing, and testing both the power and resilience of
the art form and the substance of the artist.
‘I’: Bahá’í identity - the core of artistic conduct and productivity. The develop-
ment of individual identity as shaped by the Bahá’í Faith is both social and
economic. The aim of the artist is to interact and influence society toward
social unity and to secure an economic base from which to make a living.
The dreams and visions of Generation X’ers are closely linked with the
dreams and visions of the three Central Figures of the Faith.
‘X’: the four points of the letter ‘x’ as interrelated elements of the model, that is,
interdisciplinary, multicultural, technological, and spiritual. The objective
is to gradually inculcate the importance of these four aspects of progressive
contemporary educational practice. In the arts, they are transferable tech-
nologies. Most conventional ways of thinking about educational method
are being replaced by these four ideas, prevalent in our global culture, but
deeply embedded in Bahá’u’lláh’s Divine Plan and in art theory.
Interdisciplinary:
There reside, therefore, in arts which are outwardly different, hidden
forces equally different, so that they may all work in one man towards a
single result, even though each art may be working in isolation.13
13.	 Kandinsky, Concerning the Spiritual in Art, op.cit., p. 43.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Elsewhere, I have mentioned that:
the more successful projects in interdisciplinary study and research
occur and go on to spawn anomalies and revolution when one field and its
practitioners are willing and enthusiastic about exploring the theoretical,
methodological, and practical procedures of another field. This is manifest
(1) in contemporary fields such as eco-geology, neurobiology, or computer
graphics; (2) in projects such as space exploration, the Human Genome
Project, or digitally transmitted photojournalism; and (3) in innova-
tions such as community medicine (socially responsive health practices
that thrive on shared strategies between home-bred rural herbalists and
western-trained physicians collaborating in disease prevention and control)
as well as music technologies which invent new, merger products and/or
devices such as digitizers, synthesizers, and novel forms of dance notation
using customized computer programming methods ... If more opportuni-
ties for gifted scientists and artists are made available to all echelons of
these communities (not merely to those with access to scarce and exclusive
sources of funding), then more practical but nonetheless revolutionary
applications of the science-art matrix will yield spiritual solutions to the
economic, social, logistical, and environmental problems of our planet.21
21.	 Robin Chandler, ‘Creative Parallel Spaces in Science and Art: Knowledge in the Information Age,’ Journal
of Arts Management, Law and Society, vol. 29, no. 3 (Fall 1999), pp. 163-176.
Building Creative Communities: Approaching the Arts as Social and Economic Development
composite of educational technology transfer, distance education, and applied
Bahá’í theory and deepening through a one-year, intensive, certified course
of study bringing together two generations of Bahá’í arts practitioners for
professional development, service, and teaching.
In Australia, the mainstream art world has been critically influenced by the
current political focus on reconciliation and the human rights of Indigenous peo-
ple. Several public events pursued these cross-cultural agendas which were less
taken with western-based art production. They included ‘Beyond the Future:
The Third Asia-Pacific Triennial of Contemporary Art’, held at Queensland
Art Gallery; ‘Generations: The Stolen Years of Fighters and Singers’ at the
University of Western Australia’s Centre for Indigenous History and the Arts;
Dance North and Woomera Aboriginal Corporation’s production of Luuli,
a cross-cultural collaboration performed at the Lyric Theatre in Brisbane’s
Performing Arts Centre; and ‘Focusing the Blur’, a travelling community
photography exhibition produced during Refugee Week by the Queensland
Program of Assistance to Survivors of Torture and Trauma, Australian refugee
teenage students from Serbia, the Sudan, Bosnia, Yugoslavia, and the Bahá’í
Institute for the Performing Arts (BIPA).
In many other countries the flower buds emerge, including ‘Spirit of Africa’
in southern Africa, and in those regions and cities in which BYW continues
to struggle toward service through the arts in the United States, Asia, South
America, and Europe. The small and humble steps taken by individuals to
develop arts institutes have left large footprints. They lead forward and must
be taken to their next logical stage of development, socially and economically,
through support from the upper echelons of the Bahá’í Administration as in any
corporate community. Shoghi Effendi’s cautionary and penetrating remarks
guide GATI’s urgent call to action:
Time is short. Opportunities, though multiplying with every passing
hour, will nor recur, some for another century, others never again. However
severe the challenge, however multiple the tasks, however short the time,
however somber the world outlook, however limited the material resources
of a hard-pressed adolescent community, the untapped sources of celestial
strength from which it can draw are measureless in their potencies, and
will unhesitatingly pour forth their energizing influences if the necessary
daily effort be made and ... willingly accepted ... Nor should it be forgotten
that in the hour of adversity and in the very midst of confusion, peril and
uncertainty, some of the most superb exploits, noising abroad the fame of
this community have been achieved.20
20.	 Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, op.cit., pp. 85-6.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
the behavioural patterns of youth. Other studies have demonstrated the effect
that education has on modifying or changing the behavioural patterns of ado-
lescents. Hansen and Graham found the effects of education to be greater than
the effects of methods to overcome peer pressure in programs aiming to reduce
smoking in school children.2  Others, however, such as Meijer et al, have found
that in a similar case, peer pressure is the issue that needs to be addressed.3
The effects of peer pressure on modifying the behavioural habits and long or
short-term patterns of social responses are well documented in a host of other
areas. These cover a vast array of aspects of human conduct, from sexual
behaviour and orientation4  to eating habits,5  from academic performance6  to
wearing of helmets,7  from perceptions of beauty8  to incidence of sport injury.9
There is little doubt that peer pressure plays a great role in presenting the
youth with tests and challenges capable of shaping their life. The Bahá’ís, who,
in many facets of their individual and collective lives, have to swim against
the flow of the forces of the society, seem to have an inherent potential for
susceptibility to negative peer pressure. As the effects of these pressures are
more pronounced in youth than in adults, and as the Bahá’í youth are asked
to uphold standards that are in most cases in direct contrast and opposition to
those held by their peers in the wider community, the effects of peer pressure
on them become greater. The way to preserve the Bahá’í standard, and turn
the peer pressure on the youth in the wider community, inviting them to share
in the wonders of a Bahá’í life, as well as reclaiming the disillusioned Bahá’í
youth and winning back their trust, has been outlined in the Bahá’í writings.
References to youth and arts in recent messages of Universal
House of Justice
There has been increasing reference to the arts and the importance of their
application in teaching in the recent messages from the Universal House of
Justice. These have also been linked with the youth and their presence in the
teaching arena. Since the beginning of the Four Year Plan this trend has become
2.
W. H. Hansen & J. W. Graham, ‘Preventing Alcohol, Marijuana, and Cigarette Use among Adolescents:
Peer Pressure Resistance Training versus Establishing Conservative Norms’, Preventative Medicine, vol.
20, no. 3 (May 1991), pp. 414-30.
3.
B. Meijer, D. Branski, K. Knol, & E. Kerem; ‘Cigarette Smoking Habits among School Children’, Chest,
vol. 110, no. 4 (October 1996), pp. 921-6.
4.
J. F. De Gaston, S. Weed, & L. Jensen, ‘Understanding Gender Differences in Adolescent Sexuality’,
Adolescence, vol. 31, no. 121 (Spring 1996), pp. 217-31.
5.
M. Grigg, J. Bowman, & S. Redman, ‘Disordered Eating and Unhealthy Weight Reduction Practices among
Adolescent Females’, Preventative Medicine, vol. 32, no. 6 (November-December 1996), pp. 581-92.
6.
A. Bandura, C. Barbaranelli, G. V. Caprara, & C. Pastorelli. ‘Multifaceted Impact of Self-Efficacy Beliefs
on Academic Functioning’, Child Development, vol. 67, no. 3 (June 1996), pp. 1206-22.
7.
P. Logan, S. Leadbetter, R. E. Gibson, R. Schieber, C. Branche, P. Bender, D. Zane, J. Humphreys, & S.
Anderson, ‘Evaluation of a Bicycle Helmet Giveaway Program - Texas’, Pediatrics, vol. 101, no. 4, part
1 (April 1998), pp. 578-82.
8.
G. R. Adams, ‘Physical Attractiveness, Personality, and Social Reactions to Peer Pressure’, Journal of
Psychology; vol. 96, 2nd half (July 1977), pp. 287-96.
9.
D. T. Bernhart & G. L. Landry, ‘Sports Injuries in Young Athletes’, Advances in Pediatrics, vol. 42 (1995),
pp. 456-500.
Arts Can Move the Youth
Arts Can Move the Youth
Mahyar Amjadi
Bahá’í education places the greatest emphasis on the families, so much so
that if the children’s education is neglected, parents forfeit their right to parent-
hood.1  Meanwhile, there are clear and detailed guidelines for the education of
the young in schools, outlined by the Central Figures of the Faith. This article,
however, deals with the option that the Faith presents society when the child
has reached the age when the parental input is having less and less influence. It
puts forward the theory that the arts are the ‘what-to-do-if’ of Bahá’í education.
The Bahá’í Faith has provided its followers with clear and detailed guidelines
on the education of children. These guidelines give instructions on the essential
requirements for education of children, from the moment of conception to the
hour of marriage, when the consent of the parents remains instrumental in shap-
ing the advancement of their children. The duty also remains with the children
throughout their lives to serve their parents, thus further reinforcing the value of
the family and the need for the children to keep in close contact with the parents.
Be that as it may, there still remains a growing number of youth in the Bahá’í
community who, for a variety of reasons, were deprived of the blessings of a
Bahá’í upbringing. The fact remains that the challenges that the Bahá’í youth
are facing today, universally as well as within Australia, are not different to
those that the youth in the wider community have to face. From the number
of youth who have gradually become aloof from the Bahá’í community and
divorced from the Bahá’í way of life, it appears that there is more than one
family in Australia that has shown hesitancy in delivering the principles of
Bahá’í education to their children. This paper aims to examine the solution that
the Faith has to offer in such instances. The paper will first survey the possible
solutions offered by non-Bahá’í sources, then mention the recent messages from
the Universal House of Justice, and finally explore some of the writings of the
Central Figures of the Faith.
Common methods of retraining youth
From the psychological point of view, the effects of peer pressure have
always been considered of primary importance in theories aiming to explain
1.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Q. 105, p. 138.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
There is, however, another side to the story. Considering the fact that teach-
ing the Faith is a bounty - ‘Of all the gifts of God the greatest is the gift of
teaching’13  - and the fact that there can be no teaching without learning - ‘As
ye have faith so shall your powers and blessings be’14  - there are therefore
two synergistic processes in action here. The first is the fact that youth in
particular have been encouraged to use the arts in their teaching efforts; and
the second is the undeniable essence of teaching, which is conceived to be
conducive to the spiritual growth of the teacher apart from its consequences
in spreading the Word.
Thus it can be established that the exertions of the Universal House of
Justice in encouraging the youth to participate in art-related activities have
the twofold action of advancing the process of teaching, as well as creating a
Bahá’í youth culture which will prevent submission of the youth to pressures
exerted by peers and common cultures.
References of Bahá’u’lláh to the use of the arts
Bahá’u’lláh has made numerous references in His Writings to the impor-
tance of the arts and their application:
It hath been revealed and is now repeated that the true worth of art-
ists and craftsmen should be appreciated, for they advance the affairs of
mankind.15
Great indeed is the claim of scientists and craftsmen on the peoples of
the world. Unto this beareth witness the Mother Book in this conspicuous
station.16
The Writings also mention the importance of arts and crafts in the
development of the individual.  Bahá’u’lláh Himself asserts this point on
numerous occasions:
Arts, crafts and sciences uplift the world of being, and are conducive
to its exaltation. Knowledge is as wings to man’s life, and a ladder for his
ascent. Its acquisition is incumbent upon everyone.
At the outset of every endeavour, it is incumbent to look to the end of
it. Of all the arts and sciences, set the children to studying those which
will result in advantage to man, will ensure his progress and elevate his
13.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, Baha’i Administration – Selected Messages 1922-1932, Wilmette:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1995, p. 12.
14.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, cited in Bahiyyih Khanum, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1984, p. 225.
15.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988, p. 27.
16.	 Ibid., pp. 26-7.
Arts Can Move the Youth
more and more evident.  The aspect which is of great interest to this paper,
however, is the link that the House of Justice seems to increasingly emphasise
between youth and the arts. There are instances when direct mention of the
youth in relation to the arts has been made:
Involvement of the youth in music and the arts as a means of proclaiming
and teaching the Cause distinguished their exertions in many places, the
spread of dance and drama workshops was particularly effective.10
In the Ridvan message of BE 156, the mention of the arts is again associ-
ated with youth:
But a word too must be said in recognition of the prominent part being
played by youth all over the world in their employment of the arts in the
teaching work, renditions by their dance workshops, in particular, have
acquired renown within and outside the Bahá’í community.
These references prompt a speculation that there exists a special power in
the arts which is capable of being specifically beneficial to the youth. A search
in the sacred Writings was therefore conducted with the intention of finding
this connection.  Why the direct association between youth and the arts?  The
transparent answer to the above question is obviously to advance the process
of entry by troops. The Universal House of Justice repeatedly mentions that
the main purpose is teaching and proclamation of the Cause:
The Four Year Plan aims at one major accomplishment: a significant
advance in the process of entry by troops ... In all their efforts to achieve
the aim of the Four Year Plan, the friends are asked to give greater atten-
tion to the use of the arts, not only for proclamation, but also for work in
expansion and consolidation.11
Similarly in the Ridvan Message of BE 154, we find reference to ‘the
widening efforts to make use of the arts in the teaching work and community
activities’.
Other central figures of the Faith have also emphasised the importance of
the arts in the proclamation and teaching of the Cause:
The day will come when the Cause will spread like wildfire when its
spirit and teachings will be presented on the stage or in art and literature
as a whole.12
10.	 Universal House of Justice, Ridvan Message BE 153
11.	 Ibid.
12.	 Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, cited in the Ridvan Message, BE 153.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Letters inscribed upon
His sacred scroll
An anthology of poetry by
Australian Bahá’ís 1999
Compiled by Belinda Belton
“Oh Friends!  Be not careless of the virtues with which
ye have been endowed, neither be neglectful of your high
destiny…  Ye are the stars in the heaven of understanding,
the breeze that stirreth at the break of  day,  the soft-flowing
waters upon which must depend the very life of all men,  the
letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll…”
Bahá’u’lláh
rank. Thus the noisome odours of lawlessness will be dispelled, and thus
through the high endeavours of the nation’s leaders, all will live cradled,
secure and in peace.17
Conclusion
There seems to be a subtle assertion by the Universal House of Justice
offering a solution to the issues related to the youth. Arts can indeed be in-
strumental, not only in establishing a sustainable sense of belonging and unity
amongst the youth, encouraging them to participate in Bahá’í activities, and
cultivating the initial practical steps towards the evolution of a Bahá’í youth
culture; but also to provide a security zone for the youth being torn between
the demands of living in a materialistic society and the obligations of leading
a life as a Bahá’í.
The challenge upon the community is therefore twofold. First, it is to direct
the youth and guide them in establishing new Bahá’í art groups, particularly
dance groups as these have been specifically mentioned by the House of Jus-
tice.  Secondly, it is to overcome the test of drawing a line between guiding the
youth in the path in line with the principles of the Faith, and interfering with
the creative potential of the youth. The whole-hearted, continuous, and reli-
able support of these initiatives is an indispensable part of the organic growth
of such establishments. The job of being a Bahá’í is hard enough, facing the
pressures from non-adherents, without the pressures from inside the Faith.
The establishment of methods of teaching using the arts which reflect Aus-
tralian culture, as well as proclaiming the principles of the Faith, is of crucial
importance. In this span of history in this country, when a national identity
is in the process of being sought and established, the presence of the Bahá’í
youth and their world-moving influence on the collective consciousness can
undoubtedly have everlasting ramifications for the future of Australia.
17.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1978, pp. 168-169.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Night flight over Sydney
Vast glittering net,

beaded, bejewelled
cast across the twisted depths of darkness.
Autumn is falling…
(for Terry, 1992)
Autumn is falling
night comes early
and chill.
let me creep to your hearthstone-
let me warm myself by your heart
Belinda Belton

Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
Call to the Youth
On God’s Sacred Mountain,
from holy white steps
a trumpet was raised
and the clarion call sent forth

- high and sweet and clear -

into the stillness.
You, at your desk
paused until the last pure note had disappeared,
then putting your books aside,
went forth to discover

love and loneliness

laughter and tears

doubt and faith
and the knowledge of self.
And in the quiet I can hear
a nightingale singing in your heart.


Belinda Belton
“There are stars on the ground.”
Three year old passenger, one evening, gazing on the city lights
of India far below.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
I am the one you torture
for taking the “wrong view”
In your regime of terror
I get in your way as you’re
squaring your circles and bashing
square pegs into round holes.

I am the bludger you resent
having to pay the dole to
The hopeless poor among the rich
A child who lives on the streets
a helpless mother in a home of want
The homeless drunk under a bridge.
You sneer at me for selling my blood
My body or bits of it to a surgeon
I live in the gutters of Pakistan
of Moscow, Lima or in India:
I am one of the ten percent planned
unemployed here in lucky Australia.

Les Endrei
Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
I am the One...
I am the one you’re persecuting
I am the one you’ve called
the killer of Christ then
the betrayer of Muhammad
I am the ugly, the crippled, the sad
the hungry, and the dispossessed.
I am the beggar on the corner
and the lonely king in the palace
I am the one you are persecuting
And the one whom you reject.
I am the poor, unfortunate child
whose house you’ve just wrecked.
I am the land you call occupied
The one whom you’ve kept captive
the one whose rights you have denied
I am the Ancient City of Peace...
I am the innocent babe on the bus
in your blind hatred you’ve just killed
I am the one you segregate
with contempt into ghettos in Africa,
I am the tin miner in Chile,
the cocaine grower, Columbia
I am Harlem, I am Redfern
and I am Fitzroy, Victoria.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
How I long for
Your good pleasure,
The unseen miracles
of Your Essence,
How I desire Your Charm,
Your Fairness,
Your Chastity,
Your Innocence...
Heal me, O Holy Maiden,
of my passion for power
and for gold
The festering
cancer
of wars...
Here are my gifts:
of Tribes
The Sacred Sites,
The jewel of Krishna,
From David the King
The Golden Star
The Sacred Fire
of Zarahustra,
The Wheel of Buddha
the Glowing Cross
The Crescent of Islam
and the most precious jewel,
The Greatest Name!

Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
Come forth Beautiful Maiden...
Come forth beautiful maiden,
the time is here
For reunion with the world,
Awake
From your age long sleep
I am the Planet Earth.
Come forth, O Spotless
Maiden
Hold your kind,
cool, soothing hand
Over my burnt forests,
wipe from my brow
The acid rain
the radiation
And soothe the
smouldering deserts.
Stroke my white hair
with loving hands
Caress the azure blue
of my face,
Hold my hand and lead me
on my limitless Path
Through the star studded
mysteries of space.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
The Suns Of The Seasons
Do you deny

that the sun exists,
Because the night

is dark?
Do you see

in the winter’s lifelessness,
The end, forever,

of summer?
And believe that if the moon

is sometimes slim
It will never again

shine full at night?
That the harvest

of  autumn leaves
Forbids the new

spring’s blooms?
That, if love grows dim

in the clouds of life,
It will never, as the sun,

blaze again in the summer sky?
Day after night

each next month


merges into seasons



and mounting years;
Life flows on

by invisible law


and as certain as its presence,

is the promise of its continuance.
Love, like the suns of the seasons,

will return.
Jane Hunt
Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
Come forth, Beautiful,
Holy Maiden,
The time is now
for your union
with the Earth,
Awake from your
age long sleep,
This is the life giving Kiss
Of the Prince of Peace,
the Redeemer of the world...
Come forth, Beautiful.
Holy
Maiden
The time is here
for your marriage
with the world,
Make your home
forever
with me,
I am the Planet Earth!
Les Endrei

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Just below the surface
Of this society so driven by money
Lies a subterranean stream of kindliness,
Of thoughtful consideration
For the personal impact of life.
Just below the surface
Of this angst-ridden metropolis,
Lies the wistful hope of an aching multitude
Who long for the end of care and trouble;
The cessation of violence; the beginning of peace.
Just below the surface
Of this confident young city,
Astride its harbour, through which
Have entered myriad different races,
Lies a new world of unity of love.
Jane Hunt
Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
The Hope Of The City
Just below the surface
Of the near millennial city
Lies a world of lush green pastures,
Of clean air, soft breezes
And heady, sunny days.
Just below the surface
Of the stony-faced city-dwellers;
Below the hard self-centredness
Of the carefully-clocked, crisply dressed,
Androids of the city:
Just below the surface
Of the glazed eyes of the masses,
Lies the intuitive care of countless mothers,
The loyalty and devotion of fathers and brothers,
The tender affection of new brides.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
As their shining vehicles move out at the
appointed hour, their slow procession
passes a migrant youth roller-blading in
the opposite direction.  His baggy jeans,
baseball cap and flowing T-shirt emblazoned
with a star and the word UNITY do not
attract their eyes for more than the moment
it takes to file a quick description just in
case.  They would not consider that such
an exotic might know their Lord’s current
name and address.  Their slow convoy
winds down towards a red brick hall.
Oh, how the youth flies to meet mates
who create new dances to hip hop
soul plus rap.
Allan Lake
Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
Neighbourhood Watching
They do not miss Sunday services.
Conservatively attired, Bible wielding,
the clan gathers across from our house
for the weekly drive down to their hall.
The kids are clad as adult miniatures,
little guys in ties, girls in pretty dresses
and patent leather shoes.  Sometimes
while waiting the younger ones stray
across the street to ride on our tireswing
before they are recalled and rebuckled
into a van or sedan by vigilant mothers.
My neighbours are certain that the return
of Christ is imminent – signs abound,
study confirms and every professional
prophet they attract cites further evidence.
These are decent people who live abut as
well as Christians can in the last year of
the 20th century of their Christian calendar.
They like animals, keep watch on our
house when we’re away, notice things
like left-on headlights.  Good neighbours.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Children
Precious gift of life
All dreams.
No evil thoughts.
Just hope,
And Love,
And eagerness,
To be
And to become.
Ray Meyer



Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
Poems are like trees
I think that poems grow like trees,
subject to whim and sun,
object of moon and stares.
Something wakes the one
with ear to the breeze –
perhaps it’s W.B.,
T.S. or dear Emily
throwing a line from just over (t)here.
Poems are strange as this day
when I can lose or gain faith,
fall in the river or love, rhyme
or write against the current.
Shall I decide me or
let the spirit guide me?
Poems, I see now, know
where they need to grow
to find a path to the  light.
Allan Lake

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Life Lines
imagine you gone

no you to share this life

spread out in the palm of

our tiny son’s hand
no life lines

leading me to see the world

in his grasp which comes so easily

to trust us
each finger folds

you and me

in a single stroke

he leads us to guide him
he touches our cheeks

and leaves his affinity deep

within our grasp
our heartlines joined

have caused him to appear

as if he has always been

the answer which we sought
he recreates our fortunes

in curtain fig trees

stretched along the strand
as we read the stretch of lines in

each other’s hands

& hold this phenomenon

so dear

so fragile
one day to be a strong spiritual warrior

grasping the fate of the world

with his love for the Eternal Beloved
the palmistry

of this beloved

unfurls

the universe
June Perkins
Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
The Language Of The Soul
What language does the soul speak?
English, French, Swahili, Urdu?
Oft-times silence!
The knower knows without words.
Two souls understand, and nothing is said.
Waves communicate: no word restricts.
Rainforests, silent: wonder filled.
Mists form and disperse without sound.
Vast sweeps of earth
Knarled rocks
Wind
Leaves stir
Flowers open
Hearts pound
Eyes well with tears,
Or sparkle with laughter,
Lovers touch.
Where are the words to limit life’s experiences?
The language of the soul
is empathy,
One with another.
Harmony,
Vibrating together;
Love,
Fulfilment,
Silence.
Ray Meyer

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Beyond Last Gasp
One life of so much Consequence!
——
One pearl -to me-so signal-


——to take it-
Would cost me-just a life!
-Emily Dickinson, Poem Number 270
One can not measure consequence
on this earthly side,
except through hints.
There are strong hints, too,
in His Word
about the other side.
It would seem the soul
needs this life
to define that consequence.
Gem or pearl or monarch
need time to shape their form
and you never know
until beyond last gasp
just what shape
you’ve taken
that befits
immortal clasp.
Ron Price
Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
One Colour
One day death will make
the final adjustment,
after years and years of changes
along the way.
Dynasties and systems,
defined and redefined,
lives sown and resown
with different colours.
Death, at last, will yield
one colour, unheralded,
mixed with joy
and this old body
will make its final move
into that hole for those
who speak no more.*
Ron Price
(*expression used by the Báb in Selections of the Writings of the
Báb.)

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Hunters
We all hunt happiness, as well we might
with any bait that comes to hand, trying
to coax it nearer, forever buying
things we hope will cage up light
and love and flight.  Hopeless,
we chase on, lunge, grab and miss,
fingertips brushing the feathers of bliss.
Blinded by tears, we fail to notice
that  happiness is the hunter, setting snares –
perhaps what we need to master
is not the task of running faster
but the art of being taken unawares.
Shirin Sabri
Letters inscribed upon His sacred scroll: An anthology of poetry by Australian Bahá’ís 1999
Flying
Children often dream of skies,
of wingless soaring, a gasping swoop
through cold cloud into the eye-aching
sun, warm in the bright play
Of air; or long to see clear,
released from the clattering sway
of Times railed carriage, and from
those nervous plans which should defend
Us from the thing that waits
around the next blind bend;
and they wish that images seen
vivid in the mind might glow
Clean from the world’s dust
in the wordless speech that spirits know.
I still dream, as caged birds do,
who with each song affirm
That such dreams of skies are only
dreams of going home.
Shirin Sabri

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Remembrance of Clara and Hyde Dunn
Remembrance of Clara
and Hyde Dunn
Hooshang Eshraq-Khavari
This design is created to be considered as a remembrance item, glorify-
ing the 75th anniversary of the arrival of the Bahá’í Faith and the Dunns, in
Australia.  It also commemorates their valuable services to the Cause of God
throughout the country.  It contains several important points as follows (from
the lower area to the upper area):
1. 	 A bunch of 15 flowers dedicated by two abstracted shapes of Hands (to the
one who sees)
2. 	 The Hands recalls the Title of the Hands of the Cause of God, granted as
a blessing to Father and Mother Dunn by Shoghi Effendi.
3.	  Two figure “9” round motifs are placed in suitable area of the lower part
of the design as commemorative items.
4.	  An ornamental abstracted geographical shape of Australia is located in the
central part of the design, dominated by a deep orange colour.
5.  	Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá in the centre of the drawing is surrounded by 19 small
green rose leaves and 15 green branches, brought to their end by 15 red
dots, connected to 15 abstracted forms of flowers.
6.	 The 75th Anniversary is presented by the above-mentioned 15 flowers,
which each have 5 parts, so 15 x 5 = 75.
7.	 Seven flowers (left to right) include seven combinations of the letters of
the words “Bahá’í Faith”.
8.  	A vertical form of the “Greatest Name” is placed in the eighth flower.
9.  	The last seven flowers include combinations of the letters of the words
“Abhá Kingdom”.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
The Bot. Series
VADO  (Vahid Payman)
The following comes from the catalogue for Vahid Payman’s first exhibition,
at Melbourne’s Botanical Gardens in December 1999.
In the major cities of this big brown body of land, Botanical Gardens have
played a crucial civic and spiritual role. As a green oasis in the midst of steel
structures, as a sanctuary far from the madding crowd, as a haven in which to
contemplate, ‘the Bot.’ (as it is affectionately known) is unsurpassed.
I first became aware of the Bots’ delights in my final year of school when,
as senior students, we were granted permission by our headmaster to enter
its grounds during lunchtime. Within its walls, my harassed soul often found
calm and comfort. A few precious moments allowed me to discard the soiled
garment of my psyche for a fragrantly fresh new attire. The Bot’s spring and
autumn colours would reawaken my parched and frozen senses. It was here
that I fell in love and found my True Beloved.
Like the garden of our hearts, the Bot is a place of love - love of God, love
of spouse and family, love of humanity and of nature.
Ever since that time, I have always returned to the Bot. During dark nights
of the soul, or early mornings of gladness, I have returned to refill my cup and
to “attain that share of the flood of grace which God poureth forth” for me.
We have to cherish and adore our Bot. For close to its precincts are ominous
symbols of an unhappy civilization. Shrines of death, towers of greed, and coli-
seums of violence lie on the margins of its happy landscape, forever intruding
upon its otherwise serene centre. Like the eye of a cyclone, the Bot. is a point
of stillness in an unceasing revolution of joggers, cars, and careers.
Let us make sure that the gardens of our hearts turn not into Gethsemanes of
betrayal, but rather into Edens of purity and Ridvans of kindliness and radiance,
that therein, hyacinths and myrtles of wisdom continually spring forth fresh
and green, and nightingales of holiness eternally sing their sweet melodies.
Far right : VADO, “Marvellous Bot”.
The Bot. Series

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Something Regal: Uncle
Fred Murray Extracts from
a compilation of tributes,
photographs and stories
June Perkins
WARNING : The author wishes to advise that in some communities it is
distressing for photographs of people who have passed on to be featured. The
following article contains such images from the Australian Bahá’í archives and
people’s personal photographic records.
This is an extract from a larger work which includes the following:
Introduction
Something Regal, June Perkins
On the way to the World Congress- Margaret Bluett
Coming home from the World Congress-David Podger
My story-Uncle Fred as scribed by Howard Harwood
Pelican Peter- by June Perkins
Tributes - Universal House of Justice, Hands of the Cause, Howard Harwood.
Recollections of early Indigenous believers, Madge Williams, audio inter-
views.
Fred Murray Institutes- to request photographs and report for inclusion*
Extracts from the Tape of the World Congress-still to locate*
Photographs, from various sources
Introduction
This collection began as extended research for a play composed in draft
form five years ago. The play was inspired by the story of Fred Murray as
told by Howard Harwood in a pamphlet.  It resulted in a short poem and a
correspondence with Howard Harwood, which lasted right up until his passing.
Section 2

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Portrait of Fred Murray (From National Australian Bahá’í Archives)
It also resulted in a few kind Bahá’ís sending me their stories, an interview
with Madge Williams, meeting Betty Hindson, and being in touch with her
on a regular basis.
Several times I have tried to write the script of Fred Murray’s life, and
ended up wanting to research more of the history of his life.  As a result I have
ended up with a compilation of memories, of stories gathering in the process
of the desire to bring such a story to life- and several unanswered questions.
The image I have of this play is that it will consist of the people whom
Uncle Fred had touched, entering a museum. Into that museum comes a big
light that indicates such a story does not belong in an archive or in a few
peoples unrecorded memories but they must tell the story.  They then escape
the museum to live and tell us the story.
So out comes the foster mother, the young George, brother of Fred, the
Crowder brothers, Tindale, Howard and Myrtle, Collis, his wife Winnie, his
son Fred Junior and others characters as well as Fred himself, to help build
a picture for us.
Enacted before us are some of the scenes of these stories, we are in the
outback, along the River, in Rome, Paris, London, Murray Bridge, the House
of Worship….
Excerpts from the text of this compilation were performed at the Schol-
arship Institute at Yerrinbool in 1998. Howard, Fred, David, and Margaret
“told” their stories.  It was moving to hear those accounts.  The play will one
day happen, but the process of collecting the stories is ready to be shared
now and if more stories should come forth perhaps there will be a second
edition of this one day.
The script is writing itself, and if it should ever come to a movie screen
or theatre near you, that will be wonderful, but for now it has life as a book.
And also in the work of those Aboriginal Bahá’ís who wish to continue the
work of Fred Murray and Howard Harwood, and Harry Carter and others
who wanted to share the message of Bahá’u’lláh with the Aboriginal people
of Australia.

“Something Regal”
He loved to watch Westerns.  He would cover his eyes when there was a
lot of violence and ask whoever was sitting next to him to tell him when it
had stopped.
There was something regal, about Uncle Fred.  He was the sort of person
who would say,  “Could you please get me a cuppa”, unlike his friend Harry,
who would get up and ask everyone, “well who’d like a cuppa, I’m about to
make one”
So different, yet great mates. Petite Fred, tall and large framed Harry
Carter.
Uncle Fred Murray Extracts from a compilation of tributes, photographs and stories

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
his life.  He would speak or write to anyone who asked about Uncle Fred and
these accounts provide some moving moments from Uncle Fred’s life.
Howard recalls his first meeting with Uncle Fred, at the Aboriginal settle-
ment of Gerard, which was situated on the River Murray South of the Fruit
growing area:
“We went to Gerard seeking pure souls and we found Fred.  He was in
grave trouble and very sad.  He had lived on the settlement for some years
with his wife Winnie and their three children, Annette, Fred and Rhonda.  His
wife had died so his daughter Annette became the lady of the house- sadly
her husband drank heavily and caused a lot of trouble on the settlement.  The
Superintendent banned him from living there.  So Fred had to leave his house
and move into the single men’s quarters.  Rhon[d]a and Fred Junior were
separated from him and moved into dormitories.  Their house was allotted
to another family… sometime later there was an epidemic on the settlement
and one day I received a telephone call from an Aboriginal Friend of Beiru,
15 miles out of Gerard, saying that he had seen Fred walking and Fred was
walking from ... to my place.”
Howard then explains how he went to out to get Fred, and found him
soaked, as it had been raining.  He found Uncle Fred 30 miles from … and
picked him up to drive him home with him.  From the story Fred told him of
the Reserve Howard concluded that it sounded very much like a concentration
First Aboriginal Bahá’í Conference  (From National Australian Bahá’í Archives)
These are some of the memories of Madge Williams, who was present
when Uncle Fred became a Bahá’í.
His life, like a dramatic movie, had rousing crowd scenes in which the
central character gets to speak before hundreds of people, sacred spaces like
the House of Worship, travel across the land and continents.  He lost a family
and found a family.
Many people have said, “I was touched by a small pamphlet about his life.
It made me want to know about the Bahá’í Faith. “ Sue Obah, states ”it was
the reason I became a Bahá’í” That small pamphlet has enabled Uncle Fred’s
spirit to walk the dreaming tracks of this land.
It was his mate Howard Harwood, who served as a Member of the Conti-
nental Board of Counsellors for Australasia, who helped him put it together.
Uncle Fred couldn’t read or write, but he could tell stories, and he had a life
that made a great story.
Anywhere where his story is told, you can sure his spirit is there. Maybe
he is adding incidentals, smiling, and happy that he can continue to reach
people through its rich tapestry.  This collection of stories, is a development
of that pamphlet- a filling in of some details and pictures to illuminate more
the mystery of one human soul.
Howard Harwood a friend of Uncle Fred’s, close to the next life and recently
having passed on, spoke of Uncle Fred and the hardships he had throughout
Photograph of Harry Carter (From National Australian Bahá’í Archives)
Uncle Fred Murray Extracts from a compilation of tributes, photographs and stories

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Fred, in his regal manner, and with a sense of timing, accepted the Faith
at a large gathering at Murray Bridge.  In his heart he had been a Bahá’í for
sometime, but the moment and occasion were right and he declared his belief
in Bahá’u’lláh.
There were to be other moments of occasion throughout his time as a
member of the Bahá’í community.  One of these was to make the front page
of the Adelaide News “World’s Longest Walkabout”. Uncle Fred gathered
with Bahá’ís from around the globe in London, for the First Bahá’í World
Congress. Also there was Elizabeth Hindson, the first Aboriginal Bahá’í, a
young woman from Queensland.
Somewhere in the Archives is a recording of Uncle Fred giving a speech
at that Congress.
For the journey to and from the congress Uncle Fred had travelling compan-
ions.  Their accounts of their time with Uncle Fred give us glimpses of some
of the highlights of that journey.  Less close to him, perhaps, than Howard,
they are touched in a different way by his personality.
Margaret Bluett and David Podger’s stories tell us a lot about their emo-
tions at the time with Uncle Fred.
David was recovering from the loss of his first wife and this permeates his
story.  Something about Uncle Fred gave him some solace at that time.    He
recalls a request Uncle Fred made to go to the World Centre, and his absolute
acceptance that it was not possible at that time for him to be granted a visit.
Margaret’s account gives us a vivid picture of Fred’s travels on the way
to London.  Margaret does not seem to be that experienced a traveller, and
misses planes, and gets lost whilst being Uncle Fred’s “guide”.  It’s all such a
big experience for her, and Uncle Fred, seems to be the calmer one- although
not that keen on sleeping in tall buildings.
We learn of Alessandro Bausani, a Professor of linguistics at the University
of Rome recording an account of Uncle Fred’s life as the last surviving member
of his tribe.   Maybe that account is somewhere in the archives of the National
Spiritual Assembly of Rome.
The World Congress is a place where many people may remember Uncle
Fred.  Margaret remembers that he was not overwhelmed by the size of the
Albert Hall rather he was looking forward to sharing his story.
From a campfire under the starlight to a large global audience of thousands
of people, gathered in Albert Hall; Fred’s ability to always be himself shone
though.
According to Margaret, he began by stating,  “I have come like a gi-
ant kangaroo across the world to stand on this stage and tell the world how
happy I am to be a Bahá’í.”  In other accounts he said, “ When I was a baby
my people died, I thought I have no people! But now I am a Bahá’í you are
all my people”.  The story of his suffering and persecution because he was
camp.  Not surprisingly Uncle Fred asked if he could please live with Howard
and his wife Myrtle.
However, Howard was to find that responding to this request was not so
straightforward due to the law at the time.  All Aboriginal people were wards of
the state and could not choose where they wanted to live.  Also, Fred suffered
from diabetes and needed insulin.  Nevertheless Howard kept his promise and
telephoned the Chief of the Aboriginal Department in Adelaide, who agreed
to this.  Fred’s pension went to Howard, and Howard also got Fred switched
from needles to tablets for his insulin.
Fred bought many bounties to Howard’s family by coming to live with
them; and there were many discussions of the Bahá’í Faith to which a lot of
other Aboriginal people came.  The connection of the Harwood family and
Fred’s did not begin with their meeting at Gerard though, but much earlier.
Hand of the Cause, Collis Featherstone and Madge and Morris Williams
attended some of these discussions.  Many of them took place around a fire,
in the starlight. Up to 40 Aboriginal people would be there.
Margaret Bluett and Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khánum also met Uncle
Fred.
Elizabeth Hindson First Indigenous person to serve on the National Spiritual
Assembly (From National Australian Bahá’í Archives)
Uncle Fred Murray Extracts from a compilation of tributes, photographs and stories

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
became too much for them and they ran away.  Did their Foster mother know
of this ill treatment, if she did how she viewed it, whether she ever attempted
to help them we do not know?  Did she grieve when she found them gone?
“They travelled by foot many hundreds of miles overland to Yalata sheep
station in South Australia, living of the land” Yalata station was on the border
between Western Australia and South Australia.
Howard elaborates on this account from Bahá’í World and explains, that it
took Fred and his brother George 18 months to travel from Western Australia
to South Australia.  At Yalata Station Fred and his brother came into contact
with the Murray family, who were kind and caring people.  George and Fred
must have been happy here, they chose to adopt the name of Murray as their
surname.   On Yalata station the Murray brothers learned about Christianity.
Fred had an interest in all Spirituality and his investigation of many stories,
including the stories of Aboriginal peoples he met was something he held in
his head, and shared with others.  We have snippets of this in the pamphlet he
produced with Howard.
Sometime later, the Crowder brothers came to Yalata Station and the Mur-
ray brothers went with them as horse boys.  The Crowder brothers had a sister
Annie, Howard’s grandmother.  This link between Howard and Fred went
At the World Congress- sitting with William Sears (Photo provided by Margaret
Bluett)
Aboriginal, the journey before he became a Bahá’í are mostly recorded for us
by Howard Harwood.
In scribing Fred’s story for him Howard recognised a bridge builder and
wanted to help him build that bridge.
Fred Murray, was born “beneath a shady tree somewhere along the coast
of Esperance Bay in West Australia” in 1884.  His mother was of the Minen
people.    When he was around two years old and his brother was one, their
parent died in a measles epidemic.  They were orphaned... He and his brother
were fostered by a European women, the wife of a sheep station manager who
lived in the area”.
It is a mystery to Howard why Fred and his brother were not fostered by
the tribe.  At the time a lot of Aboriginal children were being taken from their
parents, and a lot of Europeans felt that Aboriginal people couldn’t care for their
children. Howard states that
this sad event of separation
from the tribe, which would
have included other family
members,  “This proved the
means of saving their lives”
as soon after there was a
drought and then the drink-
ing water of the Minen was
poisoned.
Howard, suspects that
they would have been sent
back to the tribe after once
they were older, but because
they were so tiny they were
saved.  This is theoretical,
as there was no tribe for
them to go back to, or be
sent back to.
Who told Fred and his
brother the story of the
poisoning we don’t know,
but they did learn who did
it- and this same man was
beating them up, and gener-
ally ill-treating them on the
station where they lived.
They endured this treatment
for 9 years or so, until it just
Uncle Fred Murray Extracts from a compilation of tributes, photographs and stories
Newspaper cutting of Fred Murray’s trip to London.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
where people could see it.  Fred, for his part, called her “the dear lady who
sent out the love from Haifa”.
The World Congress experience’s effect on Uncle Fred was profound,
and according to Howard, he was so inspired by it he wanted to go and live
in Adelaide to teach the Bahá’ís there about Aboriginal people and to help in
bridging the gap between Aboriginal people and others.  His project was bold
and ahead of its time, well before Reconciliation councils, but Fred was to
live only a few months at the Salvation Army hostel before quietly passing
away in his sleep.  Elizabeth Hindson was also greatly affected by the World
Congress, and went to live in a small community to assist the development of
the Bahá’í Faith in Australia.
There is bronze bust of Uncle Fred in the South Australian Art Gallery and
the American National Museum made when he was thirty-five.
On his passing, messages came from both the Universal House of Justice
and the Hands of the Cause residing in the Holy Land.
Portrait of Fred Murray (From National Australian Bahá’í Archives)
back longer than their first meeting on Gerard Station.  Perhaps this explains
why Uncle Fred walked in the rain to Howard’s house.  He was going to stay
with “family”.
Life for a number of years consisted of herding sheep and cattle, rising
horses and prospecting.  Fred’s brother died one day whilst taming wild horses.
One can only imagine what it must have felt like for Fred to lose him, with
them both having been through so much together.
Fred’s marriage was apparently arranged. Howard thinks this was by
Professor Tindale.  Fred married a woman from Lake Victoria, Winnie Reed.
No one seems to know where they spent their first few years of marriage, but
it was during this time that Harwood says Fred began to hear the spiritual
stories of his own people, and develop a deeper interest in them.  He learned
about Ngurenderi.
Fred went to live along the Murray and he worked on the paddle steamers
and picking fruit.  Although earlier, Howard speaks of three children, in later
letters he states that Fred and his wife had 9 children, but only three of them
survived the rest dying of gastroenteritis.
Fred’s family lived a tribal life.  What Winnie, Fred’s wife, went through
as he went up and down the river, and she lost child after child one can only
wonder at. She passed away well before her husband.   In fact, a short time
after Uncle Fred retired from working and just after they had moved to Gerard
settlement.  The settlement had been a model reserve once, but gradually it
had become an unpleasant place to live.
In 1998 Howard mentioned that one daughter of Uncle Fred’s could still
be alive and living at Gerard Settlement.
Life was challenging for Uncle Fred’s children with the Australian laws
the way they were and the effects of alcohol in Annette’s family.   More de-
tails about Fred Junior reveal that he had two sons but the government took
them.
Apparently, Howard thinks Fred junior’s children were raised in European
homes, but eventually left to go and live in the bush again.
It seems a source of sorrow that the descendants of Uncle Fred’s family
for the moment remain away from the new family their father had found for
them. And maybe one day these children will come home too.
Uncle Fred, loved to share the spirit of the Bahá’í Faith, he went travel
teaching with Dr Muhajir and Howard and Myrtle and his great friend Harry.
Uncle Harry and Uncle Fred would sit having long chats with Dr Muhajir.  One
wonders how wonderful it would be to have listened to those conversations.
He also met Rúhíyyih Khánum at the dedication of the House of Worship
in Sydney and at Murray Bridge as well.  Rúhíyyih Khánum was quite taken
with Fred Murray, she sent a photograph of him at the World Congress, and
requested that the National Spiritual Assembly place it at the House of Worship
Uncle Fred Murray Extracts from a compilation of tributes, photographs and stories

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
A Lonely Road to Native
Title Determination
Walter Waia
Prologue
This is my brief personal account of the Saibai Island Native Title Claim.
The story does not in any way exclude others who have been important sources
in the course of the claim process.  It does not even aim to offend individuals
or the general Saibai Island community.  This account has been prepared in
genuine interest to show to the reader a path guided by a spiritual domain of
the writer.  It is a story of an Indigenous Australian who walked a learning
road to fulfill his obligations to his family, his clan and to the community as
a whole.  It is one’s test of his own capacity to achieve what he believed in
whilst resting his faith on his spiritual belief, in order to succeed.
As for those of you who have chosen to walk this road, will find this account
with similarities and may even sympathise with this story, if your experiences
have given you growth.  It certainly did for me.
The writer lays down his uttermost respect for the land rights struggle of his
predecessors in Australia; and the most recent being the historic High Court’s
Mabo decision as a result of the struggle of the Meriam plaintiffs.   In respect
of Saibai Island and the Torres Strait community, the writer owes his work to
them, because he is an Ilanmun. As the old saying goes, “only a community
can stand to make it happen”.
Introduction
My mind opened to the perspective of Indigenous land and sea rights in
1990.  However, looking back, it actually began during the early years of my
life.  Or perhaps I should say, I was prepared for it, or from a totally different
angle, it may be seen as predestination.  Whatever it is, now today, I believe
that my direction on this path have been led by Bahá’u’lláh, which is my
spiritual foundation.   Because, I believe that certain individuals who serve as
catalyst for change are assisted by higher forces that are made available for
contact to initiate a “that what needs to happen” at a particular life span.  His-
tory has repeatedly told this tale. The change is inevitable and will be forever
so because, change is a natural process and is a process of growth.
“Praying his example will open way rapid spread of Faith, his long
suffering people” (Hands of Cause)
“We recall Mr Murray’s attendance at the World Congress in London
and we are very grateful that he was permitted to observe this historic
event before his passing to the Abhá Kingdom.  Please assure members of
his family we have offered prayers at the Holy Shrines for the progress of
his soul”. (Universal House of Justice)
Howard Harwood, said that it was Fred’s wish that all the Aboriginal peo-
ple should learn about Bahá’u’lláh and he was doing all he could to fulfill his
wish”.  Recently Howard Harwood passed away.
We sat with him and prayed for him as requested.  He was getting ready
to go and meet old friends.  Maurice Nicholson a local indigenous Bahá’í had
come into see him as well and as we sat around his bed even to his last breath
he was passing on bits of Fred’s story.
The text of the pamphlet in which Howard took down Fred’s words is
produced in this collection in full.
In it, Uncle Fred, speaks about how he and is brother learned the wisdom
of tribal elders of other areas, although they could not learn it from their own
people.   His work represents the first translation of Bahá’í concepts into
Aboriginal cosmology.  It is almost certain that Uncle Fred knew more, and
had more work to do in this area, as his move to Adelaide indicates.  The Fred
Murray Institute represents another chapter in such work.
The dreaming track of Uncle Fred stretches from Western Australia to South
Australia, and along the flow of the Murray River.  His greatest wish was that
more of his people would learn of the significance of the Bahá’í message.
Acknowledgements
Thanks to Margaret Anderson and Wahidah, Year of Service volunteer
from Indonesia for locating images.  Thanks also to Graham Hassall for
reading drafts and providing encouragement, and also to all those who have
contributed to the collection.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
I grew up as a happy child who loved the freshness of sea, the swamp and
all there is on my island.  Playing model boats in the water, playing warrior
games in the low shrubland using miniature clubs, bow and arrows were the
center of my world.  My father was a traditional dance choreographer and
dancing came naturally to me.  My father was also a song composer and a
painter and I realized that these talents were innate in me.  That is why later
I became a poet.
I was not expecting it but it came and shuttered my childhood world of
happiness and bliss.  Looking back today, I have treasured those wonderful
memories.  Sometimes I think I wished I were like the other island kids whose
home was Saibai.  But my father had other plans for me.  His father Waia had
did the same for him to prepare him to carry the family name.  He was sent to
a teachers college at Mabuiag Island.  He started his career as a school teacher,
then an Island Industries Board Store Manager, and then a community leader
as Council Chairman of the Saibai Island Council.
I still remember his words, not as instructing but calm with depth and
wisdom, “ Son I will send you away to the other world so that you too will be
wise one day to come”.   I did not cry at that time but just gazed far into the
distant sky, and I recall looking east then south at that precise moment.
In 1968, my parents sent me away from Saibai to attend State primary school
at Thursday Island.  This took place during the tender years of my life.  I was
only 8 years old then.  Boarding at Torres Strait College for Islander boys and
tending for myself, was a blast for emotional and psychological development
at this age.  It was as if I was dropped in the sea and I had no choice but to
swim to survive.  It was a pretty tough start in life for a young boy.  From this
time onwards, my struggle for identity began because I was an Ait Kadal liv-
ing in a totally different environment.  The Island school students would not
see their parents between January and November each year because funding
requirements and transport facilities were restricted during those days.  When
I am home over the December holiday period, my father would instill in me
the knowledge, songs and dances, myths and legends of the Saibailgal, and
my mother would give warmth and care.  That is why, I think, I did make it
through my teen years and was not a social misfit because of my struggles
during those tender years.  From 1973 onwards the Commonwealth Educa-
tion provided funding assistance to Islander students and was able to fly the
students to their home islands during semester breaks.  On the same year, the
Torres Strait College move from Thursday Island to Bamaga on Cape York
Peninsula.  After completing Year 12 at Bamaga High School in 1976, there
was no turning back and I was determined to go ahead.  The early start in
life had toughened me up to face the challenge and the unknown.  I made a
choice to attend university schooling in Adelaide in 1979.  There, I was a bit
of a loner because of my obvious cultural background, so wandering about
The Ait Kadal Clan
I am a descendant of the Ait Kadal Augad clan of Saibai Island.  It is one
of the clans of Migi Buway tribe.  Besides the Ait Kadal, there are three other
clans in Migi Buway.  The other tribe is called Koey Buway and it has three
clans.  I should be frank to say that the essence of tribes and clans is slowly
losing its meaning of unity, because the times have changed.  And the culture
and tradition of Saibai Islanders is fading quickly in the face the twenty-first
century.
Ait is an island in the open swampland on the eastern end of Saibai.  There
are other small islands such as Augar, Abalmudh and Uruil Kawa.  There are
also garden places called as Wati Nguki, Somanapai, Kuthapai, Bin and Igelai.
Other Migi Buway smaller clans that lived around here were Sui, Baidham
and Karbai Waithuka.
The Kadal clan occupied the islands of Ait, Augar and Abalmudh.  Ait was
split into two parts. The major area of eastern part was owned by the Kadal
clan and small part of the western area of the island was owned by the Sui clan.
Augar and Abalmudh were predominantly Kadal clan.  The Kadal clan was
the dominant clan and oral history says that all the people that lived around
this district were known as the “Ait Kadal Augad”.
The Ait Kadal were subsistent gardeners, and dugong hunting was their
regular practise because of the grazing seagrass on the flats of the reef on the
eastern end of the island, which is the Ait Kadal territory.  In the late nine-
teen century, when the Christian missionaries arrived at the current village
of Saibai, the Ait Kadal were asked to leave their beautiful swamp island to
join the other tribe and clans at the current site.  They were given land by the
Saibai Kadal clan because of same totem identity.  That particular stretch of
land was initially given to the Saibai Kadal by the Burum clan in a form of
customary exchange.  Burum and Karbai Ialaithi and Karbai Waithuka are
subclans of Thabu Augad.
As was the custom, once the land is given it is given for good.  The Saibai
Kadal was the owner of that parcel of land and it gave the Ait Kadal that
property. So in actual fact, the Ait Kadal were outsiders to the current village
site.  I wondered later that maybe that was why their knowledge was intact
and identity strong because the historical circumstances had led to this aspect.
Otherwise, the Ait Kadal were by bloodline a clan of strong identity because
of their warrior-like nature and their knowledge of dugong hunting practise.
Ngau Lag Kapu Yawa
“Good-bye to Home,
Faraway towers are tall,
The old bell of chimes is still ringing forever thee”
(These are some lyrics from my song, relating to this event of my leaving home.).
A Lonely Road to Native Title Determination

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
of the vision while a legal expert utilises and practises the concept.  In regards
to formal learning, I think the basic qualification I obtained is enough for me.
I do not know whether I will ever have a desire to further my western quali-
fications.  As it is, I am already highly qualified in the Ait Kadal knowledge
and its ceremonial dances and songs.  That is why in maturity, I am willing to
do what is natural to me and that is artwork in painting and carving, and writ-
ing poetry and composing traditional/contemporary songs, and choreograph
Saibai Island dances.  Or even build a model and a real size Saibailgau racing
canoe.  The mentioned is my father’s and our family tradition. This is my only
inner feeling now.
The Career-path
By 1983 with my tertiary study completed, my challenge and my career-
path took me from Adelaide to Central Australian desert country as a school
teacher in Pitjantjatjara Aboriginal community of Amata.  The decision for
this ocean man to be with the desert people was to learn about their ancient
culture and to study and focus on his own Islander heritage.  I discovered a
lot of cultural similarities of identity of moiety groups or clan groups, and the
dreaming stories which made the fabric of their society.  A society shaken by
the coming change and like mine, had to make adjustments.  I was aware of
their social and spiritual affiliation and connection to the land; and I learnt
about their struggle for their land rights.  In my observations of the Pitjantjatjara
people, I was an outsider and lived in my own world by drawing comparisons
or conclusions to the society of my Island home.  It was a lone view.
In Amata, I met my close friend who became my brother.  He is Steve
Hillan and he was also a school teacher on this first time outback experience.
Steve is of Caucasian Australian background.   He was a traveller of his own
and on his own quest.   We were both outsiders to the Pitjantjatjara and bat-
tlers in our own ways, so we had lots of things in common.  We assisted each
other and gave advise to each other for our well being.  We loved our beer and
shared good laughs out of making many mistakes in someone else’s culture
and society.  We had good times mixing with the local folks and we were well
accepted into their group and we had great respect for them.  Those were the
good ol’ days which I will treasure as number one memories.   Our compan-
ionship is one that will last for this lifetime.
In 1985, I chose to take a leap from the desert country to Canberra as
Research Officer in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission.
This choice was to learn about the bureaucracy and the government.  Here
again, challenge was the name of the game.  Besides, adjusting to the demands
of the western society, I also learnt the competitive nature of the western
professional world.  Thus, igniting the ambition and determination to aim for
goals, whilst developing performance standards. Standards such as striving for
“what am I doing here and where am I going” was easy for me to tap into.  I
became very independent.  So, the development of my character took shape
according to my view of the world.
Learning Experience
My learning experiences of the western schooling was a hard strenuous
task.  This is because the elements of learning are the very garments of the
western society.  This means the moment I make contact by using the English
language as the medium of communication and of transmitting knowledge,
my world view is totally changed because I had to think in English, which is
foreign to me.  This aspect in itself questions my identity of self.   The more I
venture into the higher levels of the western learning styles through aiming for
a formal qualification, the more my sense of self is being questioned.   During
the challenging journey of my western learning, I made sure I was not lost
but held onto my identity.  Being in the early years of development, it was an
extremely painful process which usually led me to consuming alcohol as a
form of short-term relief.  Under the influence of alcohol, I had my share of
being in strife with the law and order of the community.   I learnt my lessons
very well in this area, and I will never walk that street again.
In fact, in Adelaide, I was joined later by my brothers Jeff, Cedric and
Henley.  This was another learning trend of hard drinking in the earlier years.
There were a lot of pub fights, silly arguments and I got into a lot of trouble
with the police.  Jeff and I were worst and we carried this bad reputation in
those younger days.  Cedric and Henley were just as bad.   That is why it was
difficult for me in the later years to carry a public office.  But, as by nature, I
was always a fighter in many ways and strived to win, and I did succeed.
In tertiary education, I did a Diploma of Teaching, which is a very basic
qualification.  Due to the above learning trend, I had great difficulty accepting
outside acquired knowledge, especially the world-view commanded by the
western society, in particular, the English world.   In my later years, I tried
to upgrade my qualifications in Education and other fields but with no suc-
cess because the interest was not there.  In 1993, I even endeavoured to do
a Bachelor of Laws Degree at the Australian National University, Canberra.
The funding of study was supported by my success in the Commonwealth’s
professional development award during my employment with the Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islanders Commission in Canberra.  Acceptance into the
law school was a clear-cut case and even my studies were a “meant to be”
attitude.  The only hindrance was that the Saibai Island 7 clans asked me to
head the community’s Native Title Claim.  I had to make the choice whether
my ambition on the selected career-path or the aspirations and desires of my
clansfolk.  Obviously, I chose the latter.  I was now determined to achieve the
community goal.  My tact was then to hold the vision and govern the concept
A Lonely Road to Native Title Determination

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
stories, our myths and legends.  All over the world, every race has the same
in their society.  One quiet evening, my father said to me, look at the moon
on the eastern horizon, from there you can see that the earth is so clear and
alone in the universe.  Two things happened to me at once.  This powerful
moment opened my eyes to seek for equal land justice and I saw a universal
picture of earth as one home of all human race.  Contemplating over this mo-
ment later, it became known to me that my father was giving me a message by
communicating on a higher plane.  He knew that the change had come during
his time and he had to make cultural adjustments to suit the change, and he
knew I was old enough to take the challenge of what needs to be done.  My
father, the late Wagea Waia OAM (contemporary medal of service recogni-
tion), bestowed with traditional title of Gudamulamai Pui (meaning “ceiling
joist of a Great House”), was the last Chief Elder of Ait Kadal clan and his
wisdom was just and true and of course, he was the central part of my life.
The year was 1990.  (My father’s statement reflected the wisdom of many
ancient societies of the world).
In 1991, I went back to Canberra and again served as a Research Officer
at the Office of Torres Strait Islander Affairs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander Commission (ATSIC).  There I met Phillip Mills who was the then
Manager of the Office.  At that time, Phil was also doing a research study of his
family clan of Naghi Island.   He passed onto me his wisdom and understand-
ing of the social change that is taking effect across the country, in particular in
relation to Indigenous people.  He advised that you should do something about
it before the change will sweep all the old knowledge away; we Islanders need
it for other purposes in the future.  I will never forget this wisdom coming from
a visionary and a pace-setter.  In his time, Phil had inaugurated the push for
the establishment of the Island Coordinating Council.  He had also established
the above Office (only recently, Phil had established the major State Health
facility on Thursday Island and across the Strait).  Phil’s vision was similar to
my father’s but however, elevated to an immediate and a modern scale.  No
doubt, Phil was also a traveller on that lonely road.  It was as if this generous
man who I have great respect for, was placed on my path for a reason and it
was, to show me the way.  By then, I had already experienced the plight of
the Pitjantjatjara people, and I had learnt the bureaucracy and the government
system.  So it was then that I took up the burden of initiating the land claim
process of the Ait Kadal clan.
The Native Title Path
On 24 May of that year, my father passed away and it even made me more
eager to pursue my goal.  I applied for a grant to the Institute of Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander Studies in Canberra to engage an anthropologist to
do research on the Ait Kadal land tenure.  Phil had introduced me to Nicolas
Peterson, the then Head of Anthropology Department of the Australian National
excellence in developing skills of competency, efficiency, diligence and being
persistent and effective in delivery of services; being concise and clear in both
oral and written expression.  Creativity came naturally to me because of its
innate ability in me.  In addition to this drive, my purpose was ‘engined’ by
yet another source, the quest for identity in the general Australian community.
After soiling my feet into the bureaucratic competitive world, my personal
development had gained new found confidence and it was I am “me” an Ait
Kadal whether you accept me or not, it does not really matter; as far as I am
concerned you are okay anyway, no big deal.
Around this time I had made contact with my spiritual foundation, the
Bahá’í Faith. Uncle Satto and Aunty Ira Williams of Toowoomba in Queens-
land, showed me this path and gave me time to consider.
Opening the Door
While in Canberra from 1985, my Ait Kadal elders sent me the warning
signals to consider pursuing land rights for our clan property. Uncle Giwai
Kusu, my father’s close cousin, advised me accordingly that I should look at
such concepts seriously because the time has allowed for such matters to be in
place.  He said, “all your Ait Kadal brothers have chosen to take to the sea and
we your fathers have chosen you to fight for us with your pen”. I was already
burdened with heavy responsibility.  Because Bab Yugom, Uncle Giwai was
known as, gave me this advise with trust and faith. I saw that he knew I was
the right person for such responsibility. He was reflecting on his experiences
of World War 2 and the pearling days and how the Islanders were treated by
the government of the day, and what was the Islanders’ place in the wider
community.  It made me really sad to hear such stories coming from a proud
Ait Kadal man.
My father, however, was light on this type of advice, maybe because he
knew I was still young and not serious about life in general. Uncle Giwai did
not stop but continuously advised me on this subject until he passed away on
19 July 1990.  I was really hurt because I was close to him and he taught me
a lot about the Ait Kadal clan and Saibai Island in general.
Early that year, I took another leap from the Public Service sector of Can-
berra to Saibai to undertake a teaching post at the local State primary school.
This decision was due to my father’s maturing age and I wanted to be with
him during his last years of life. (My mother had already passed on in 1985).
It was during my short stay at Saibai, in the years 1989 to 1990 that my father
imparted to me our traditional ancient knowledge of all people being equal
and that all natural cycles happen to regenerate life.  The point was that human
beings world over are part of the earth and part of the cosmos.  This means
that though we may be different, we are all the same regardless of race, colour
or creed.  He said, here, the Saibai Island land and the seas, the winds and
the stars, all belong to us because they are part of our songs and dances, our
A Lonely Road to Native Title Determination

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
like a kite in the wind, covered with sea spray and our clan’s yellow-blue flag
proud and high in the mast.  Sadly enough, my famous Uncle and my father
were the last Waia brothers of their generation.
The dance knowledge of kamiyaks and techniques, such as the “kulap” and
“deisel” etc., and the knowledge of the racing canoes and model boats was
passed onto me and my brothers Terry, Jeff and Cedric.  In respected of canoe
knowledge, Enosa Waigana of Ait Kadal said to my father “whichever spoon
you use for your children, use the same spoon to give to my children”.  Enosa
was implying the canoe knowledge.   So when all of this knowledge was been
given, my father made sure that Pili, Enosa’s son was present to acquire this
as well.  When all was done, my father gave a sigh of relief and said, “Ngath
ngau zageth mura muasin” (meaning, I have accomplished all my work.)  So,
it is evident in a cultural practice that this ancient knowledge and wisdom has
been handed down to the next generation.  After the session, it was very obvi-
ous that my father was left with absolutely nothing.  All the knowledge and
energy that made him who he is, has finally expired.  These were his last days
and he had imparted this knowledge because it was his responsibility to hold
it for part of the 70 years of his life to the last moments on earth.
The above event of handing down the canoe knowledge happened when I
was in Canberra.  My brothers told me of the event in detail.  My father actually
instructed the brothers to make sure that Walter must know this knowledge,
and Jeff in particular, wrote everything for me, so that I will not be left out.
I think my father and Uncle Kala knew that I was attending another matter in
Canberra in the best interest of the family and the Ait Kadal clan.
However, after Uncle Kala’s departure, three figures rose on my Native Title
path.   They were the Tabuai brothers naming Barry, Edrick and Walter.  They
were younger than Uncle Kala and took the total responsibility of directing the
clan.  They were the knowledge holders and my instant advisers on the claim
process.  As one can observe that the status and knowledge of the clan is passed
down the line.  Uncle Barry, the closest to my father, completed his history to
me and gave me his last words to him, saying, “Bala, I have sent our son, our
arrow, called “Kimusal Thayak “ (a special chosen arrow used by warriors to
aim for target), was sent far faraway and will return when the time is right.”
Uncle Edrick had also taught me well and gave further me the knowledge of
the Ait Kadal clan and also the history of Saibai Island.  He passed onto me
Waia’s wisdom.  Unlce Edrick was Waia’s adopted and a special son.  Uncle
Walter, whom I am named after, was my close guardian on this strenuous path.
Uncle Walter who had since became an Anglican priest, guided my steps in his
prayers.  In our custom, I am his son because he gave me his name and for that
matter I have carried his name.  These Tabuai brothers were also well known
Ait Kadal dancing men.  They were trainees of both Wagea and Kala. Uncle
Barry and Uncle Edrick passed onto me (and my brothers Jeff and Cedric)
their individual dance, song and kulap techniques.  Song and dance plays an
University.  Nic was doing the research for Phil’s Naga clan of Naghi Island.
On 28 October 1991, the Ait Kadal clan received a grant from the Institute and
I engaged Richard Davis to do the work.  Richard was doing a Ph.D degree and
did the project under academic supervision of Nic.  Richard was to commence
his work in February 1992.  So, I met with John Gayler, a Federal Labour
Member for Leichhardt, at the Parliament House seeking assistance to secure
a teaching position for Jenny (Richard’s wife) at the State primary school at
Saibai.  My proposal was successful and Jenny, being a school teacher, was
given a part-time position at the Saibai Island school.  When Richard and Jenny
arrived at Saibai in February 1992, they were instantly adopted into the Ait
Kadal families as part of the Island custom, so they were not strangers in the
community.  Towards the end of that year, the other Saibai clans represented
by Dana Ober wanted to do the same type of land tenure research to their
properties.  The Ait Kadal clan agreed that Richard should do the research on
the whole clan community for the sake of the whole Island claim.  Richard
had done an excellent job on the report.  As for me, my father, who was my
backbone, had fallen and my only way now was on what he had taught me
and of course my intuition.  It was a very lonely road.
After my father had passed away, his young brother Kala Waia introduced
the land claim process of the Ait Kadal to its clansfolk.  He also welcomed
Richard and Jenny into the clan and officially opened the research project for
Richard to commence work. Uncle Kala, however, was already weakened by
my father’s passing because they were very close.  On 25 June 1992, my fa-
mous renown Dhibal dancer Uncle passed away.  Once again, I was really hurt
because I was just getting over my father’s passing.  Some say I lightly took
my Uncle’s features, but as for Saibai Island dance, innately, I was his photo
image.   He further taught me his deadly technique which I carry on today.  In
the ancient Ait Kadal law, the Dhibal is danced by special and famous dancers
who are the top leading men.  Uncle and my father were the number one men
of this calibre.  Uncle and my father had passed onto me their “kulap” a dance
rattle instrument and their general dance status.  My father had initially choreo-
graphed the “diesel”, the fabulous Saibai Island rattle dance of the community.
In fact, Elia Fauid of Poruma Island, a leading dancing man, passed onto my
father the rattle kulap.  (My father was a school teacher at Poruma during this
time.)   My father multiplied the kulap technique to a finer detail and a more
faster rate.   Since then, the “diesel” was born.  “Diesel” came from the diesel
motors of the 1900s.  My Uncle was the status man of the “diesel” dance and
carried that distinguished profile in the dance field.  Both men, created dance
instruments called “zamiyak” for using in dances, and composing dancing
songs.   A zamiyak can be a clan’s totem or a star constellation for use in cer-
emonies.  Both mastered the racing canoe knowledge and techniques, in fact,
their decorated racers were swift and fast and well known in the community.
It was their family tradition.  I will always recall  their colourful racers, flying
A Lonely Road to Native Title Determination

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Heading an Island Native Title claim was my biggest test and challenge.  It
meant no mucking around, only serious business.  This was where my intellec-
tual and intuitive powers were at the very best of their ability.  In other words,
what I had in me was all concentrated to the fullest.  There were lots of silent
nights of careful strategic planning and tactful thinking to deal with each clan
and to deal with the government bureaucracy.  I was carrying on my shoulders
the name of my Island home. I was extremely careful not to have the clans
lose confidence in me.  I made sure I did not lose the sight of my vision and
it was focused all the time.  The Bahá’í prayers became my morning, midday,
evening and midnight companions.  It dawned to me that answers to solving
my problems and the foresight into the distant future came during the moments
of my “dozing-off” to sleep or waking.  Realising this fact, I quickly sent it
back to the Universe in thanks because it belonged there and it did not come
from me.  Well, the more I was honest that these clear thoughts are not from
me, the more they came.  I knew I had a role to complete a particular task in
this major plan of things.  For my limited understanding, there was certainly
a “divine providence” at play.  Otherwise, this whole affair would never have
happened.  Strange it may seem.  Native Title was raw and brand new and it
was the trend of the nineties.  And so it was, being the original, I became part
and parcel of the trend.
Vision and Goal
When I first introduced the concept of land rights to the Saibai Island com-
munity, I started from the very beginning that no one actually owned this land
and we all came to this place from somewhere.  This had happened to all races
of the world that they do not belong to what they call their home today.  But
rather their home and the society began from their stories and legends of long
ago.  So, a birth of a society manifests from the very first story of that place.
In actual fact that place belonged to no one before we came here.  Then who
does it belong to?  It belonged to the one who created it from the very begin-
ning.  My vision was based on my spiritual principles of the Bahá’í Faith and
in itself a one that I cannot share with anyone else because it is not easy for
a political and spiritual path to go together.  I knew I was setting yet another
mark on the lonely road.
The above approach had instantly eliminated the Saibailgal’s restriction
to their land.  I led their view on a higher world level that the earth belonged
to all races and to its creator.  Even consultation amongst various clans at the
community level was done in a just manner.  At the government and interest
party level the consultation was where all involved in the process of Saibai
Island land claim had a fair and just result.  The process had respect to those
in authority and there were no arguments but a negotiated land agreement.
I knew from the very beginning that the Native Title path, which gives
recognition to some form traditional land ownership, would heal the wounds
integral part of ceremonies in the Saibai Island clan society and its way of
life.  (Since my initiation of the Saibai Island claim, Uncle Edrick gave me
a new name, “Ngagalaig” the eagle, meaning the strong wings with strong
claws, to lead the community on a unravelled terrain).  These traditional Ait
Kadal ceremonial titles are bestowed on me for my personage and spirit.  In
the traditional world, knowledge is handed down the generation through the
spirit of the person.  The elders can tell and foresee that a particular person is
liable of carrying that knowledge to the next generation.
On the date of my father’s departure (24/05/91), I officially accepted the
Bahá’í  Faith.  The significance of this event was that his departure date was
a day after the declaration of the Báb, a Prophet and the Forerunner of the
Faith.  The Faith became my backbone and a powerhouse to my intuition.
I also recalled on his advise of Saibai which certainly reflected the Bahá’í
perspective of the oneness of humankind and the earth as one home of the
whole human race.
As mentioned above, toward the end of 1992, I was joined by Dana Ober
of the cassowary clan, representing the rest of the clan community of Saibai to
pursue the whole Island claim.  It was good and beneficial for various reasons.
One is that Dana is from a dominant tribe known as the Koey Buway and
who are major land-holders at Saibai.  The Ait Kadal clan belong to a Migi
Buway tribe which consists of clans owning smaller parcels of land; and the
Ait Kadal came to the current village from their homeland in the eastern end
of the island.  The other reason was that being rebellious, I did not have a good
standing character in the community when I was young, and to hold a public
office was not easy.  Whereas, Dana had the whole community support and he
had a respective background, and he was also a senior member in the claim
process.  So, he was the right person for the process.  Early in 1993, Dana and
the Saibai Island Council held a community meeting to address Native Title
issues.  The community unanimously agreed that a position within the Council
should be created for me to administer the claim.  With funding secured from
ATSIC in Canberra, in September 1993, we established an office within the
Council to administer the claim and I took up the position of being the Man-
ager of Saibai Island Native Title Claim.  I instantly engaged Dale Treanor of
Cairns as the solicitor, Bryan Keon-Cohen of Melbourne as the experienced
Mabo case barrister, and Jan Butland of Sydney as the third legal counsel who
had wide experience in the Indigenous community.  The Saibai Island Council
consisting of Terry Waia as the Chairperson, Waba Waigana as the Deputy and
Keri Akiba as the Councillor were all very supportive of the claim process.
During the following meeting the community again unanimously agreed for
Terry Waia (my eldest brother), Dana Ober and Walter Waia to be the techni-
cal applicants on the Saibai Island claim application.   It was understood that
three persons plus the legal representatives was just and fair to negotiate the
claim on behalf of the community.
A Lonely Road to Native Title Determination

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
said, “you will know for sure, your inner being will tell you and also because
I will no longer be here, I will be gone by then”.  So, I was also expecting my
soul mate.  I wrote, yearning in anticipation and with great excitement, a short
story depicting the beautiful Ait Kadal “woman of the mat” called, “Usalal”,
whom I saw in my vision as the dream girl foretold by my old man.  Also, in
anticipation, I composed songs and wrote poetry for this mysterious woman
who will one day carry my family name.
Anyway, while working very hard on the claim, another “meant to be”
episode happened.  Now, whether it was a blessing from my Saibai ancestors
for the struggle that I endured to gain their tribal property, or a blessing from
the twin Prophets of my Faith.  Maybe it was both.  Whatever it was, Uncle
Satto and Aunty Ira introduced me to Ritu, my beautiful Bahá’í wife of Indian
background.  “God willing”; by then, I had just completed my work at Saibai.
The year was 1995.  This meant, my “cowboy” days were over and to settle
down and start a family. Again, in tears I remembered my father foretelling
“the summer rain or the coming season’s rain.”  The rest is another story.
TSRA Native Title Office
By early 1996, the TSRA Board commissioned me to establish its Native
Title Office.  On 18 March that year the Office came into existence and I contin-
ued to lead to completion the Saibai Island claim from here.  Again, I engaged
the above legal advisers to the TSRA.  I was the Executive Officer and there
was an administrative support officer to do administrative work.  The period
from April 1996 to 1997 was heated with local political opinions in respect of
who should best govern the Native Title Office, the TSRA or another body.  It
was also the period where I was running hard against the opposite views and
trying to secure funding to resource the Office.  Finally, by 1998, the Native
Title Office had a resident solicitor and a resident anthropologist and a team
of consulting anthropologists, who joined the staff.  We have since submitted
an application for an increased funding for financial years 1998/1999 and
1999/2000 for the additional workload on the Torres Strait Native Title claims.
In April 1999, the Commonwealth informed that the submission was successful.
This was great news for the Office and the Islander community.
On 12 February 1999, the Federal Court of Australia recognised in common
law the Determination of Native Title of Saibai Island.  During the celebration
of the Court’s decision at the Island community on 13 March, I stood in the
back with my lovely wife.  As the Attorney General of the State of Queensland
served the seven clan representatives with the Determination documents, our
tears were flowing for my efforts of 9 years of hard work.  My tears were for
my father whose voice of tribal wisdom was the burning fire that kept me going
for these years.  This was it, an accomplishment of major responsibility and a
success in flying colours, because I always remember my father’s advice: “son,
don’t talk, speak with action because action speaks louder than words”.  My
of the past of the Islander society.  I seized at this opportunity knowing that this
path will create a paradigm shift in the Indigenous community and the Aus-
tralian society in general.  I also knew that I alone cannot do it, the Saibailgal
had to stand up and shake off the government dependency and be industrious
like our generations of the yesteryears.  I also knew that if the independent
thinking did not sink into the Saibailgal, then I was some light years ahead of
time.  Perhaps, they will catch up one day.  Or maybe I was only a dreamer.
I knew that the Mer Island plaintiffs of the infamous Mabo case have
walked before me and my path was made easier because of their strenuous
efforts, and I lay down my utter respect and gratitude for their struggle. As a
result of this case, the Federal Government passed legislation called the Na-
tive Title Act 1993 to recognise Indigenous peoples traditional and customary
land ownership.  But my path was in itself a new road because the concept of
the model I was to initiate would benefit the rest of Torres Strait communi-
ties under the State’s Deed of Grant in Trust land tenure.  This was because
the Mer Island was not under the mentioned State’s land tenure and the High
Court’s Mabo decision did not reflect this particular land tenure.  The Saibai
model was prepared under the Native Title Act and was designed to encompass
all communities in the region. The Torres Strait Regional Authority (TSRA)
provided funding for the claim as its test case on the above mentioned land
tenure.  My burden was even heavier because on top of Saibai sat the whole
of Torres Strait.  I fine-tuned my focus to success only.  With the brilliant legal
mind of Dale Treanor, and the experienced handling of the matter by the legal
counsel, plus the grassroots advise and guidance of Dana, the model took
fruition on a negotiated table between the Saibai Mura Buway Torres Strait
Islanders Corporation (representing the land holders), the State Government,
the Telstrar and the Far North Queensland Electricity Corporation.  My goal
was finally reached.  A power balance.  The Indigenous landholders recognised;
the corporate entities were not hindered but included in the deal; the Govern-
ment acknowledged for its jurisdiction.
A Soul Mate
On 31 March 1989, my father foretold my wife as “the summer rain or the
coming season’s rain.”  It was during the event of separation from my ex-wife
when I sat beside him, hurt with shame.  After a moment silent and looking into
the distant sky, he said, “this event is for you to learn, and by the way whose
son are you to jump the gun, give your wholehearted service to the community
first and have patience for she will come.   Before the monsoon season begins,
the thunder and lightening speaks on the northern skies of Dhaudhai (Papua
New Guinea), signaling that the rains are coming.   Your first marriage is that
signal, now wait for the rains to fall because the season’s timing will be and
is always right”.  Being modern in contemporary terms or should I say my
intuitive senses were still developing; I asked, “but how will I know”, and he
A Lonely Road to Native Title Determination

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
The End Ina Kuth
With my father’s careful nurturing, like lovingly designing a sea racing
craft, I had the carriage of carrying the ancient flaming torch from his time
through the rough and rugged oceans of change to the end of the twentieth
century. (I was given a tribal name, Tauk, meaning, a spark of flame.  Perhaps,
I was to spark a flame, which will burn, throughout the Strait.  Mabo had done
so, otherwise.  But as for mine, it will remain a mystery.  My father had also
given me his personal name even before I was born.  Perhaps, he chose that I
would carry the flame from his time to mine, for the purposes of identity.  Well
for that part, it is obvious).  On this journey, I was a solitary traveller on the
lonely road.  At an early age of 39 years, I achieved and reached the pinnacle
of my career as an initiator of a particular land claim model, and an answer to
my identity struggle in this contemporary world.  I know I have been too hard
on myself, all these years, just to get here.  It is time to take it easy now.  I feel
I have conquered myself by winning in the western system and by conquering
my Island home.  The first page of my history is over now and I look beyond
2000 for a new beginning.
My path was a silent one and my goal was justice.  I believe I have served
my purpose for the human race.  On my spiritual plane, I believe I have served
Bahá’u’lláh.
As to date, I am still involved in Native Title issues in the Torres Strait as
being the Manager of the Native Title Office of Torres Strait Regional Authority.
Until, my ancestor’s tribal East Wind the “Sager Gub” will blow again.
My Foundation
“O SON OF SPIRIT!
The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice.......”
Hidden Words, Bahá’u’lláh.
tears were for Bab Yugom and my famous Dhibal dancer Babudu.  My tears
were for our forefathers who had first met the change with great difference;
and my tears were for saying good-bye to my Island home and its people.
Because I know that I have fulfilled the wishes of my ancestors and the clans,
and from now onwards, my journey will be that which belongs not only to a
particular group but the whole human race.
Humility
Once again as a Bahá’í, I was really trying very hard to give humility to
the community even at the main event of the ceremony.   Because by nature, I
am fiery, ambitious and straight to the point and always in the frontline.  But
during the ceremony I took the back stand and gave my 9 years of work to the
community.  The sad part of the event was, I did not get the full recognition
for the heavy burden that I had carried because the “limelight” went to the
elected leaders and the seniors of the community.  That was okay.  Maybe that
was the way it was meant to be.  I suppose Saibai folks took me for granted
because I was one of them and I did all of this for everyone.  Then again, I felt
so used and I felt so empty.  My energy that had fired me since 1990 or even
before then had finally dropped down below zero.  The climax had hit and
with a flash the story was over.  With deeper hurt, I asked my wife, and what
was it all about?  Why did I choose to walk this hard lonely road since I was
only 8 years old?  Why did my father sent me on this path?  Why me?  But
my dear wife encouraged me and said, you were chosen and your blessings
are in the Abhá Kingdom.  At 4.45pm of that day, we left Saibai to Thursday
Island.  Among many personal tests and lessons of life’s teaching, this was the
biggest lesson I had learnt.  Grasping over this event later, opened my eyes
to my blessings that are right before me, my beautiful caring wife and our
lovely child coming whom I have waited in my longing dreams; and my son
of previous marriage who I struggled hard for joint-custody and who resides
with his mother in Sydney, now questions his Indigenous identity and who
will inevitably join me soon.  My feelings had found peace.
On a Bahá’í plane and to my surprise, the whole process completed in
exactly 9 years.  The number 9 is revealed in Bahá’í Writings as the number
of great significance because it is the final and the last numeral.  Even, the
National Native Title Tribunal’s registered number of Saibai Island Commu-
nity was QC 95/13, which adds to 9.  I saw the potential and I went for it, and
who knows may be the Saibailgal sit on an energy that will fully develop their
community.  They should run with it.  And as for me, whatever was destined
has been achieved and completed.
The Saibai Island model, which I have guided and steered through those
dangerous reefs, will be used as a template for the Torres Strait communities
in the region and also as a national resource.
A Lonely Road to Native Title Determination

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan
in Australia: the Yerrinbool
tapes
Introduction by Graham Hassall
At the commencement of the Ten Year Crusade, in 1953, Shoghi Effendi
requested Hand of the Cause ‘Ali-Akbar Furútan to visit the Australian Bahá’í
community.  As Mr Furútan was not proficient in English at this time, Mr Ab-
dul Qasim Faizi (who was also, three years later, appointed one of the Hands
of the Cause) travelled with him to serve as his translator.  Mr Faizi and Mr
Furútan were given a welcome reception at Hazíratu’l-Quds in Sydney on 9
December.  They had arrived from Auckland, New Zealand, the previous day,
and were to travel to Queensland before turning south again to Yerrinbool,
where the summer school was scheduled to start late in the month. Earlier, they
had visited South Australia. Shoghi Effendi wrote to Leila V. Clark, secretary
of the Local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Payneham:
He was most happy to hear of the visit made to the Groups of St. Peters
and Stirling and to your own Community by the honoured Hand of the
Cause of God, Dr. Furútan, and Mr. Faizi. These believers have rendered
a great service to the Faith in visiting the various Centers in that land. The
Guardian feels assured that your meeting with them has been the cause
of great inspiration to all the friends, and is confident that they will arise
and assist in accomplishing all the tasks set before them for the period of
this historic Ten-Year Crusade, both in their own homeland, and beyond
its confines. (17 December 1953)1
Some seventy Bahá’ís attended the 1953-54 summer school.  They came
from most states of Australia, and from New Zealand to hear the two distin-
guished Bahá’ís from Persia.  For most, Mr Faizi and Mr Furútan were the
first Persian Bahá’ís they had met.  On the first evening Mr Furútan spoke on
1. 	 Messages to the Antipodes – Communications from Shoghi Effendi to the Bahá’í Communities in Australasia,
Mona Vale: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 1997, pp. 350-351.
Section 3

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
There were, of course, other significant aspects to the 1953-54 Summer
School.  In addition to the presence of two special visitors, five Bahá’ís de-
scribed their recent pilgrimages to the Holy Land, and their meetings with the
Guardian.  Alvin and Gertrude Blum were present, prior to their departure for
the Solomon Islands.  Excitement at the tasks facing the Australian and New
Zealand Bahá’ís was considerable, and there was an atmosphere of expecta-
tion.
When the National Spiritual Assembly reported to Shoghi Effendi on the
completion of Mr Faizi and Mr Furutan’s visit to Australia, the Guardian replied
through his secretary on 16 June 1954:
He feels sure that the visit of the dear Hand of the Cause, Mr. Furútan,
accompanied by Mr. Faizi, did a tremendous amount of good. Mr. Furútan
has since made the pilgrimage to Haifa, and spoke very highly to the
Guardian of the believers in that part of the world, whom he grew to love
and admire very much during his visit.4
In the course of time the tape recordings made of the talks of Mr Faizi and
Mr Furútan were forgotten, and only years later rediscovered in the National
Bahá’í Archives at Mona Vale.  The process of retrieving the talks then took a
number of years.  Robert Mannell transferred the recordings from the original
“reel to reel” format to cassettes.  Alan Waters made the first transcripts. Mr
Ghodratollah Ahmadian then compared the transcripts with the audio tapes,
checking the text with the Persian and Arabic of Mr Furútan, and the English
of Mr Faizi.  Mr Ahmadian also annotated the text to make it more accessible
to the reader. The collaborative nature of this project is clear, and the labours
of each participant are acknowledged with gratitude.
OPENING REMARKS
Mr Stanley W. Bolton
A few years ago, the friends wished to build a dormitory here, and plans
were drawn up as you will see, and the friends donated funds and we had quite
a lot of money. Well you know, the building of the Shrine of the Báb was so
important, and each donor was asked if they would care to send the money
which they donated for the dormitory to the Shrine of the Báb and they said
- yes. And all the money went to the shrine.
This is the first time that one person has been missing from the Summer
school. And that is our dear Mother Dunn as we all know her. Clara Dunn,
Hand of the Cause of God. She has always been at our schools, but this time
she is attending the Summer School in New Zealand. But we shall all think of
her, the Hand of the Cause of God for Australia.
4.
Ibid., p. 364.
the importance of summer schools.  He said Australia was in a fortunate posi-
tion, having the Yerrinbool school to develop into the future.  The participants
cabled to Shoghi Effendi:
YERRINBOOL SCHOOL SEND DEVOTED GREETINGS BELOVED
GUARDIAN JOYFUL THANKS HAND CAUSE FURUTAN RECORD
YOUTH ATTENDANCE
To which the Guardian replied:
LOVING APPRECIATION SUPPLICATING ATTENDANCE SCHOOL
ABUNDANCE BLESSINGS GREAT VICTORY2
Because of Mr Faizi’s Persian background, the school committee reported
that his talks on the Dawnbreakers “were absorbed with rapt attention - a
new horizon opened, flooding hearts with devotion and awe, as the series
progressed through the history of Christianity, Islam, and the early Bahá’í
Faith. The students were eager to further their studies of Nabil’s Narrative,
the Dawnbreakers”. On four successive nights, Mr Furútan spoke on the Will
and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and the youth requested special sessions with
him. Mr Furútan was asked to encourage its members in the work they were
beginning, and to deepen them in the fundamentals of their Faith.
Stanley W. Bolton knew well the importance of this opportunity to have
such distinguished Bahá’ís on the program, and arranged for the talks to be
recorded.  Following the school the Yerrinbool school committee reported on
its success to Shoghi Effendi, who replied through his secretary:
He was very happy that the honoured Hand of the Cause, Mr. Furútan,
and Mr. Faizi, could be with you at this session of your Summer School,
and he is sure they were the cause of great happiness and deep enkindle-
ment of the friends present.
The Guardian has high hopes for the dear Australian and New Zea-
land believers, and he urges you, one and all, to persist in your labours,
no matter at what cost, until all the goals set before you for the Ten Year
Crusade, have been attained.
With warm Bahá’í greetings, R. Rabbani.
May the Almighty bless you and your dear co-workers in your highly
meritorious endeavours, and enable you to win great victories in the
service of His glorious Faith. Your true brother, Shoghi. (24 January
1954)3
2. 	 Report of the 18th Bahá’í Summer School, 31 December 1953 - 10 January 1954. Correspondence.
0241/0060.
3.
Messages to the Antipodes, op.cit., p. 352.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Cause from the Cradle of the birth of our Faith, in this opening year of the 10
year World Crusade. In the world of being, physical signs represent spiritual
realities. The Bahá’í Temple in Wilmette is a physical sign of a spiritual reality.
The Shrine of the Báb is a physical sign of a spiritual reality. All throughout the
world, Bahá’í schools, this school Bolton Place, is a physical sign of a spiritual
reality. And even here at the school itself, in the grounds of the school, we have
an oak tree which itself is a physical sign of a spiritual reality. I’m referring
to the oak tree planted by Father Dunn, Hand of the Cause, and pioneer, with
his wife Clara Dunn to Australasia. I remember many, many years ago, Father
Dunn planting that tree out in front, a very tiny oak tree at that day and veri-
tably a tree amongst scrub. The gardens were not landscaped and the grounds
were not laid out. I remember what a struggle that little oak had. I remember
at one time we thought it was going to die. But somehow it seemed to pull
through. And that tree today is flourishing and will continue to flourish. And
that tree to me is a physical sign of a spiritual reality of the growth of the Faith
in Australia. It was planted by Father Dunn as the Faith was planted. It had a
slow beginning. It took several years for mother and father Dunn to make the
first Bahá’í in Australia. The Faith went through hard times just as that tree
did, strenuous and difficult times, but now today we can see evidences that
the Faith is flourishing and will continue to flourish.
Mr Furútan has consented during his visit here to plant a tree. And that
tree, too, will be a physical sign of a spiritual reality. It will grow tall, straight
and high. It will shade many people. Many people will rest under its boughs
and it will represent the visit of Mr Furútan to this school. And its height will
stand for the height of his intellect and its grandness, the grandness of his spirit.
There, in that tree will be a physical sign of a spiritual reality. It gives me great
pleasure to introduce Mr Furútan, Hand of the Cause of God.
Mr Faizi
Session One
I have been invited to address the friends on the subject of Nabil’s Narrative.
I thought it over and came to the conclusion that we must first understand what
we as Bahá’ís mean by history. It is one of those very attractive subjects that
mankind has always studied. But those people who have written the histories
of the world have never come to a conclusion of what they meant by history.
In our Faith, many difficult questions have been answered; and what is meant
by history has fortunately been solved most beautifully in the Bahá’í Writings
and now we as Bahá’ís know what the study of history is. To know perfectly
well what the Bahá’ís mean by history, let us survey the ideas of historians in
different ages, because by having that in mind we will understand the compre-
hensiveness and the beauty of the definition given in the Bahá’í Writings.
In the olden days, mankind started to write events, either on reeds or on
Now we are very privileged indeed. We should be very thankful to our
Beloved Guardian Shoghi Effendi in extending the time of Mr Furútan here
in Australia and New Zealand to come and attend this school. In fact I want
to tell you what the Guardian said about this school when I was in Haifa. The
Guardian was asked if he would be coming to Australia. He said “If I come
to Australia, Bolton Place will be the first place I shall visit, because it is the
first national institution established in that part of the world.” So we are very
privileged indeed to have with us Mr Furútan, Hand of the Cause of God from
Iran to teach us here at this school.
In speaking to one of the Persians who was serving the Guardian so well
in Haifa, the name of Mr Furútan arose. He said “If there were six Bahá’ís in
the world who know Bahá’í administration, Mr Furútan ranks as the first.”
....Mr Schopflocher, Hand of the Cause from Canada visited this school
when the residence was being built. He said many things, he predicted many
things and he named this school. Fred passed to the Abhá Kingdom a month
ago.
Mrs Mariette Bolton.
This hall is dedicated to Hyde Dunn, Hand of the Cause for Australia. He
used to come here many, many times to get away from the noise of the city, the
trams, the bustle which he said used to eat into his heart, his very core. He loved
the drive from Sydney. He was such an advanced soul, so highly developed
spiritually. How he loved to get out in the woods, to get out into nature. And
Father and Mother Dunn would just lie on the ground on red cushions with us,
and while we were resting, we would walk this place and we would plan and
think what we would do for the Cause, and all we thought, and all we did, and
all we lived for was to some-day raise the school here, and one day Father Dunn
laid the foundation stone of the residence. It has been such a joy. You youth
will be happy here in the future. You have so much to do to carry this Faith
forward. So this hall was raised in memory of Father Dunn when he passed
on, and the Hilda Gilbert cabin was named after another early pioneer whom
we loved very much. And so it went on. Freddie Schopflocher stood on the
rafters of the residence as it was being built and he said “Mariette and Stanley,
here some day this place will be crowded with cars, it will be all developed,
it will all be for the school, for the Bahá’í Faith. Bahá’u’lláh’s revelation will
be taught here.” Now we begin to see those souls that had a vision, how right
and how true they were. And in the future it will be tremendous. Tonight we
will say a prayer for the departed, because as Stanley mentioned, this place
was named by Freddie Schopflocher.
Stanley P. Bolton
It is significant that we should have a visit from Mr Furútan, Hand of the
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
source of truth.
This idea of biography as a record of history spread all over the world, and
you know that Emerson the great writer and poet of America was a friend of
Carlyle, and he imitated Carlyle and wrote of representative men. The critics
also attacked this idea, and said that although it is true that great men make
the time, the country and the century, but if we write only of them, then the
connection of history will be lost. There will be no continuity to history. There-
fore they were lost again as to what they should do. Now one of the writers
started with the idea that the best fruit of humanity is its thoughts, let’s write
about the history of the thoughts of men. And it was very well received by
many people, and really in this way you could have continuity. But the seri-
ous insatiable thirst of human beings was not quenched by this idea until our
recent times when they came to think that real history is the slow evolution
of the civilisations of the world: let’s find the different civilisations and study
them, then we will find the real achievements of mankind. And if you study
the history written by H.G. Wells, especially the introduction, it shows the
different stages of human civilisation. But please remember that H.G. Wells
in his reference book about Muhammad has always referred to books of the
missionaries and not to real sources. He is very rude and cruel on the topic
of Muhammad. [text unclear] There is a more reliable source and that is the
study of history by Toynbee.
And yet Bahá’í students are not satisfied with that. It is true that civilisa-
tions are the best output of humankind and yet we don’t find continuity, and
what is neglected is how these civilisations came into existence. And here is
the place where the Bahá’ís will have a definite reply. Here we come to our
definition of history. For that, we have many Tablets written by Bahá’u’lláh
at different times. His intention was not to define history, but we understand
from the Writings of our Faith what history is. One of these Tablets has been
translated into English and it appears in the addresses of the Báb translated
by Edward G. Browne. You know in the addresses of the Báb there are two
Tablets translated, one Tablet to the King of Iran which is in the middle of the
book and another is at the end of the book.  Now in the beginning of the Tablet
Bahá’u’lláh says God has created human beings as mines full of jewels and
precious stones and gems. At different intervals he sends His manifestations
to bring out these gems, out of the human minds. Now if we thoroughly study
this sentence we come to understand what is the history of man. We see that at
different times, different Prophets come and immediately after the appearance
of these prophets a new civilisation comes into existence. That prophet like the
plant sown on the earth of existence of human beings and flowers of civilisa-
tion, precious stones of thoughts, useful achievements came into existence.
Therefore we Bahá’ís believe that the history of mankind is the unfoldment
of the Divine Plan for the purpose of human beings on this earth. God has a
stones or at a later time, on paper. Most of these events were written down by
the command of powerful and strong men. Hence all these records are only the
forced praises of those men of power, and the writers had to obey the wishes
of those authorities. Therefore, if we read these events and descriptions we
are not studying history. Later on when printing presses came into existence
and they started to think independently and to write the history of the world,
then different definitions began to appear. Some of the philosophers believed
that if someone could write the history of wars, he had definitely written the
history of mankind. Their reason is this: that during wars all the feelings, senti-
ments and intellectual powers of mankind are at tension. They pour out more
than ever from the store of their knowledge; they invent more for the sake of
victory. Therefore, if we write the history of wars, we have really written the
history of man’s achievements.
And this was the case with many histories written along that line. But later
on, this idea was attacked by many critics. They said “If we really want to
write the history of man, it is like writing the history of humankind, and if we
write the history of humankind, and limit it only to the history and events of
wars, it is like writing a biography of a man and concentrating the whole thing
on how many times the man was diseased, how many times he had typhoid,
when he contracted malaria, how many times he was operated on and things
like that. This is not the true history of a man. Wars are like diseases, and if
we concentrate our history on wars, then we are writing about the diseases
of mankind. And we don’t want that.” Therefore they changed and searched
for a better way of writing history. At the beginning of the 19th century, there
appeared the great English historian Carlyle5 who said that if we write the bi-
ographies of great men, then we have written the history of mankind. Because
it is the great men who create and bring into existence the country, the time,
the century. If we want to know the history of France between 1789 and 1821,
we must know the history of Napoleon. And if we know all about Napoleon,
we know all about France during those years [text unclear]....
Now, for a point of interest to the Bahá’í scholar, we must know that it
was Carlyle who, in the whole of Europe, first mentioned anything real about
Prophet Muhammad. Before him, the Christian writers in their books, tried
to change the history of Muhammad and to represent him only as a simple
Arab camel-driver and nothing else. As a matter of fact, many of the people
in the middle ages thought that Muhammad was not a human being, he was
only an idol worshipped by the Arabs. [text unclear] Even Trotsky, a great
literary man, thought that Muhammad was an idol. Carlyle was attacked by
the people of the time because he mentioned Muhammad as a man and a great
5.
Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881), Scottish essayist and historian. He attended the University of Edinburgh,
but left in 1814 without taking a degree in divinity. According to Carlyle, history is merely the essence of
innumerable biographies. Among his works are: The French Revolution, On Heroes, Hero-Worship and
the Heroic in History, and Chartism. The references here are to his work On Heroes.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
saw many of the prophets of Israel. And they studied with those people and
learnt many things from them. Amongst them was Socrates, who came there
and learned of the one God and the eternity of the soul. He returned to Greece,
to his own people and started to preach to his own people - for them to turn
their mind from worshipping gods and goddesses in the mountains and told
them there is one God and that our soul will, after death, be everlastingly
living. That was the cause of his condemnation and his being poisoned, and
that was the reason he took the poison very bravely, for he firmly believed
that his soul would live after him. One of the greatest bounties of God which
has ever been explained, or given to anybody by God, is given to Socrates in
the Tablet of the Philosophers6 from the Pen of Bahá’u’lláh. He said it was
as if he had drunk from the cup of prophethood. He brings him very near to
the prophets and he really was at that time a demi-prophet for the people of
Greece. This is one of the points which may be disputed by scholars. “Oh we
haven’t read in any book that Socrates made a trip out of Greece and went
to Israel!” Well it is not written in any history book, but we believe that it is
true because ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá said it and we believe that whatever He said was
true and some day the documents will appear and the school students will be
satisfied. We need a human document to prove that God is right. That is the
shortcoming of our minds really.
The civilisation that was brought about by Moses, when we study it
thoroughly, continued till the time of Jesus Christ. Now we see how the links are
connected together. If we study history in this light, the links will be connected
to the Law of the Messiah. All teachings of Moses were centred around one
central principle - the unity of God. Jesus came at a time when the Jews knew
about the oneness of God, but they did not know about the Kingdom of God and
were very materialistic in their life. You read in Matthew that the Synagogue
was the place where they used to trade. They would bring their tables for money
changes, even the doves would be brought to the Synagogue to be sold. They
could not think that this was a sacred place, a place for the worship of God.
They used to believe in God, but not consider this place sacred. We know that
Jesus came to the Synagogue and cleaned that House of these people. It was
the time when the attention of the people should be turned to the Kingdom of
God. There was no need for Jesus to establish the unity of God, it was already
established by Moses, but He had to teach about the Kingdom of God. And
there is nothing more attention paid in the Bible than the Kingdom of God. In
more than 90 places Jesus says the Kingdom of God is like this, like that and
so on, so that if they did not understand one example, they could understand
another one. He has given every sort of example, from trees, gems, pearls,
the girls who have taken the lamps to be invited to the wedding of somebody,
from the banquet of the King, all sort of things have been given so that their
6.
Bahá’u’lláh, Lawh-i-Hikmat (Tablet of Wisdom) in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1978, pp. 135-153.
certain plan by creating mankind on this earth and little by little, gradually, He
unfolds His plan by giving us great manifestations, great teachers who bring
into existence what God means by our existence on this earth - by educating
and making manifest the gems in our mind.
Now let us study this divine history in more detail. Let’s study Moses, who
appeared in Egypt amongst the people of Israel. We know that the people of
Israel had been for three or four hundred years living in Egypt. Because these
people were in contact with the Egyptians, they accepted their customs and
habits and forgot to worship their God, the one and only God Jehovah. They
started to worship animals as the Egyptians used to do. And God sent Moses,
and ordered him to take out these people from Egypt as it was impossible for
them to worship the one God while they were surrounded by people who were
immersed in worshipping animals. He brought them out of that place and took
them back to their original country.
Now the most interesting part of this trip was that they remained in the
desert for forty years. Have we ever thought why God made these people linger
in the desert for forty years. It would take them no longer than one month to
reach Palestine, even if they were on foot. But it took them forty years to pass
that short distance to Palestine because God wanted the old generation, those
people who had been infected with the worship of animals, to die away so that
Palestine would be inhabited by a new generation who had a new thought of
worshipping one God - new emphasis, new energy and absolutely worshipping
God and nothing else. It took them forty years to change the generation - when
they were captives in the hands of the Pharaohs and the Egyptians, they were
worshipping animal gods, but when they came to Palestine, they started a new
way of life. A new civilisation was started by them.
Have you also ever thought why in the Old Testament, particularly in the
early chapters, we see “I am Jehovah your God”? It is always repeated to pound
this idea into the minds of a new generation coming into existence. For every
ceremony, for every feast, he ordered them to sacrifice some sort of animal,
so that these animals which had been worshipped by them will be degraded
by them. Their attention will be turned only to God and not to animals or any-
thing else. Just think, for 40 days Moses left them and went into the mountain,
and when he came back they had made an animal to worship. The worship of
animals was so deeply impressed into their hearts and minds that Moses did
not want them to go to Palestine, till they were ready.
Now as the morning sun rises in the east and casts its first light in the west,
so the sun of the religion of Moses shone in the east and its first reflection
appeared in Greece. That’s why we see that the civilisation of Greece was so
great. In one little town in Greece there had been forty different philosophers
living at the one time - this was all due to the reflection of the Sun of Truth.
Now here is another point; at that time, many people in Greece migrated to
the Holy Land and came into contact with the Israelites, and most of them
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
come, and each one brings some teachings and after them material civilisation
is created in the world. Each one is a link connected to the previous one and
each one tries to lift mankind from one level of progress to a higher one.
Now before entering into a discussion of Nabil’s narrative and some his-
torical aspects from that, I feel that there is a great need for us to know some
details about the history of Islam, because it is so cruelly treated in the history
written in the European languages (mostly done by missionaries). It is one of the
most fascinating subjects, perhaps very new to the scholars of the West. Some
are trying to eliminate those obstacles from the books written by those who
had really cruelly treated Islam. Before we start we must know a little about
the geography of this Arabian peninsula, enclosed by the Red Sea, the Indian
Ocean and the Persian Gulf. Only from one side is it connected to land. Most
of us know that Arabia is a barren country. There is plenty of rain in Arabia,
but as the land is covered by sand, all the rain soaks into the sand and there are
some subterranean rivers underneath which take the water to other places but
Arabia itself remains barren, and that is why Arabs are scattered all over the
place at the oases. They roam from oasis to oasis, and that is why they live a
nomadic life. Before Islam, they had been obliged to raid other places of the
neighbouring places for provisions and food. Therefore, the Arab onslaught
on other countries had always been a natural part of life for the Arabs. Please
remember this point when we come to the history of Islam.
Arab onslaught on other countries had always been a natural thing done by
them before the coming of Islam. Some of them had been living on the borders
of Persia and some on the borders of the Roman Empire. You know from the
history of the olden days that Persia and Rome had always been fighting against
each other. Both Rome and Persia conquered parts of the Arabian peninsula,
and these two great Arab kingdoms were used as buffer states. When the two
kingdoms would come to clash these two Arab states would firstly clash, and
if they needed help, Persia and Rome would interfere. We all remember from
our Bible stories that Abraham was living somewhere in Mesopotamia and
He pioneered to Palestine, and we know that he took his first son Ishmael and
brought him to what is now known as Mecca and he built for him a house.
That house still remains, and it is that house which is the point of adoration
and worship by the Muslims. The whole history of Islam circles around this
house. In the beginning, of course, they were worshipping the One God, but
little by little their religion deteriorated and they began worshipping gods and
goddesses. All these tribes scattered around Arabia represented themselves in
this big house in Mecca by one god, and they used to come to the house to
worship their god, and were always fighting with each other on the superior-
ity of their gods. This fighting used to take place often until at last some of
the leaders came to a settlement, a truce. They said let us have wars for nine
months of the year and stop it for three months.
thought would focus on the Kingdom of God. Christ was the first Prophet who
told about the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth, therefore He
was the first one who gave the glad tidings of the Manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh
who was to establish the Kingdom of God on this earth.
Then Christ came and it took a long time for the establishment of His Faith
in Europe and elsewhere, and after a time there came the Renaissance and a
renewal of civilisation in Europe. Now after Him comes the Prophet Muham-
mad, another link to this great world civilisation. Muhammad came to the Arabs,
and the central teaching was the establishment of the unity of God because the
Arabs were worshipping idols, gods and goddesses. Another point He added
was surrender to the Will of God. Islam in Arabic means surrender to the Will
of God. He established His religion and civilisation and hence three great links
were joined until modern civilisation was brought about. As we are going to
have two more lessons on Islam, I will not dwell on this subject, but Islamic
civilisation was the foundation of our present civilisation; how three great
religions, hand in hand brought about the civilisation of our present time.
This line of the prophets just mentioned, was the Semitic line, meaning that
they are of the line of Abraham. But we have other lines of prophets, it is very
difficult to trace them now, but some traces remain. We have Zoroaster in Persia
who came between Moses and Jesus, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá testifies, he appeared in
Iran. The pivot of His teachings is the fight that always exists between good
and evil. He says in everything you find this fight. One of the most interesting
things that He says is that in the day of the King of Kings, good will prevail
and bad will be conquered. His glad tidings about the coming of Bahá’u’lláh
are the most clear. He says to the Persians that the Arabs will bring a religion,
but that religion will be divided into so many sects that if the prophet comes
back He would not recognise it. He mentions the Báb as the door of knowledge,
He mentions Bahá’u’lláh as the King of Kings and ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá as the great
branch. This is why we initially had so many people of Zoroastrian background
coming into the Cause because of these clear references. The man who found
these references was Abul Fadl, the great Bahá’í historian and learned man,
whom the Guardian describes as the greatest literary man in the Bahá’í Cause.
After the Pen of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, he says the pen of Abul Fadl
is the greatest. And He said if he had been living now he would find many
things from the Writings of the Báb about the current period.

Session Two
We will all remember that different scholars have defined history as the
history of wars, histories of individuals, great people of the world, history of
thoughts and history of civilisation up to our present time. We said that accord-
ing to what we understand from the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
we believe that history means the unfoldment of God’s Plan for humanity on this
earth. We are told that idea because we see that at intervals, different prophets
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
We mention these things because they pertain to the Cause. Some of
these things remained obscure for the Muslims, but either ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or
Bahá’u’lláh explained them. I’m sure that in the films you have seen a Muslim
go up to the minaret and call to prayer. In Nabil’s Narrative, Mulla Husayn
orders somebody to go to the minaret and give the call to prayer. He goes up
and with a loud voice they call that God is great and the prophet Muhammad
is messenger of God. But most usually they go around the minaret to several
places and shout, with their hands covering their ears. Most people say that
they do not want to hear their own bad voice, but this is not the explanation.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has given the explanation which has remained obscure through-
out the ages. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that when the Prophet ordered the Negro slave,
Bilál, to go up to the minaret the people of Arabia started to throw stones at
him, and to protect his face from the stones first of all he would not stand in
one place, then secondly he would cover his face until he had finished the
prayer. That is the reason for it.
Now we come back again to our history. We come to Husayn, who is the
most important character. Muhammad died after twenty-three years of ministry,
and when he died, he did not have many believers from the family of Umayyah.
Very few came to him. Before His death he had appointed Ali as his successor.
He said he reared Ali by His own hand. Before going to Mecca for His last
pilgrimage He said of whomsoever I am the master, Ali will be his master.
Anyone who obeys him obeys God and anyone who denies him denies God. It
was a very clear statement, and all the people came and congratulated Ali for
the great rank given to him by the prophet Muhammad. But when Muhammad
died, Ali and some others of his relatives went to the Prophet’s house to bury
him, but others went to another place. First of all, some of them said Muham-
mad has disappeared, but Abu-Bakr, one of the early followers said no, the only
one who doesn’t die is God. Muhammad was a man, and he died, although he
was a Prophet of God. They chose Abu-Bakr as the first Caliph. Right at the
time of the death of Muhammad a schism started, some few people followed
Ali and the rest followed Abu-Bakr. After him Omar was appointed and after
him Uthman, who belonged to the family of Umayyah. In order to have their
earthly supremacy most of the family of Umayyah eventually came to Islam
but not with pure intentions. It was Uthman who appointed as governors to the
various regions, members of his own tribe who were mostly belonging to the
Umayyah family. He especially appointed in Damascus, Mu‘awiyah. All these
people who were appointed as rulers came from a powerful family and now
they had supremacy in Islam also. Now, it was time for them to do something
against their old rival family of Hashim, and of course, Ali was from the house
of Hashim. After Uthman, the Muslim community elected Ali as their succes-
sor, although he had already been appointed initially by the Prophet. They did
not accept him as the infallible successor of Muhammad, as designated by the
During those three months of truce they used to gather in one place, start
another sort of war, not with their swords, but with their tongues. Members
from each tribe used to come and the poets used to recite poems in the honour
their own tribe, their ancestors and so on. The poet from another tribe would
recite some more elaborate poem on the same themes. That literary war started
in Arabia. It is also interesting to note that amongst them were Christians
and Jews. One of the greatest orators of pre-Islamic days was a Christian,
and the Jews were there to teach the children how to read and write, for the
Jews were the learned. In the house of Mecca, there were two important jobs
which belonged to two very great families. One of the families had the key of
the house, the other had the honour to give water to the pilgrims. These two
great houses (tribes, families) were the House of Hashim and the House of
Umayyah. It is also very important for us to know that these two houses had
always been rivals because each one wanted to have both jobs.
Let us remember this, they had always been rivals. Let us remember it from
an historical point of view and an administrative point of view. If we see that
some of the things are strictly forbidden in the Bahá’í Cause and our beloved
Guardian is extremely, emphatically hard on some little problems, we must
search for the reasons of these things in history. Now we see that the rivalry
of these two families continued all through history before Islam and even after
Islam, because there was nobody to stop them fighting on these very insignifi-
cant problems of the key and the water. If there was someone to put them into
accord, the whole history of Islam might have been written otherwise.
But from the House of Hashim came the prophet Muhammad. Muhammad
as a word means the most praised. When he rose to educate the Arabs, the
first to oppose him were from the House of Umayyah. It was due to a latent
animosity within the family and due to the fact that Muhammad was winning
the popularity with the people of his time. Muhammad had very few follow-
ers in the beginning; there were his cousin Ali, his wife Khadijah, and an old
Arab, a wealthy man. A Negro who was an illiterate man and a slave to one of
the Umayyids believed in Muhammad, and his master used to beat him every
day for believing in Muhammad. After beating him with a hundred lashes of a
whip, he said now, what do you say. He would say Alláh’u’Akbar. God is great
and Muhammad is the Messenger of God. So he would start to beat him again
until this poor slave would become unconscious. Then again when he became
conscious, he would say, God is great and Muhammad is the Prophet of God.
At last he drove him out of the house and the slave went to the Prophet, who
loved him very much. He could not speak well, he had a lisp, but he was the first
man who Muhammad appointed to go up to the minaret and call the believers
to prayer, and some of the believers said to prophet Muhammad, why don’t
you send another who can pronounce the words correctly. Muhammad replied
that he did not find anyone who said it as sincerely as this man - Bilál.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
was the great division in Islam, and after that lots of sects everywhere in Islam.
The second point is that if we do not prevent some little things in history they
will grow bigger and bigger, and the results will be detrimental. A small rivalry
between two families was not prevented before Islam, was allowed to grow
in Islam and resulted in the bloodshed of the holy members of the family of
the prophet Muhammad.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that in the future, the martyrdom of the Báb will simi-
larly be looked upon - the fact that in the time of the Báb the people said that
we have the book of God, we don’t need anybody.
Now Husayn is mentioned many times in our Writings and in the history
of Nabil, so I wanted to mention how Husayn came into existence and how
his martyrdom took place. Caliph means in place of, the one who comes after.
Imam means the man who is in front.
Question: what is the significance of the twelve Imams?
Answer: I do not know the significance of twelve, but all through history
we have had twelve. Twelve families of Israel, twelve disciples of Christ and
twelve Imams of the Shi‘ah, and you know in this Cause we will have twenty-
four. The twelve princes in the Old Testament refers to the twelve Imams.
The two witnesses who rule over the holy of holies for 1260 days refers to
Muhammad and ‘Ali.
The Christians say that because Hagar was cast out into the desert, her
family were outcast from God and hence Muhammad and Islam should be
shunned. This was not so. In fact Abraham took Hagar and Ishmael to what
is now Mecca, which was a desert, and left them there. Hagar ran from place
to place trying to find water for her son who was thirsty. The boy was playing
with his finger in the sand and a stream gushed forth. That stream, known as
Zam Zam is still in existence. God blessed Hagar and promised that from her
family, twelve princes would appear.

Session Three
To illustrate the purpose of the summer school, let me tell you a story. Once
there was a king in India who had four sons, and he brought a tutor to come
and educate his sons so that they would be enabled to rule that country. The
tutor started to teach them, and the very first lesson he taught was that under
any affliction, one should never give way to self, but be brave and courageous.
Then he said tomorrow, I want you to write down this passage and memorise it.
The next day three of the sons showed the tutor their penmanship and repeated
the passage. The other said I haven’t yet learned this lesson. He was slightly
rebuked, but the lesson was continued. For three months, the particular prince
could not memorise the passage. He was called the black sheep of the family,
Prophet, but as the elected leader. After him, Ali appointed his first son Hasan
and then Husayn, the second son of ‘Ali. This is a most important feature in
the history of Islam. If you want to know the meanings of these names, because
all the Arabic names have meaning, Ali means a high person (exalted), Hasan
means good and Husayn is the diminutive of Hasan.
These four great Caliphs of Islam stand on their own. After them no one was
elected. Already there is division. At the time of Hasan, Mu’áwíyah was the
governor of Damascus, and Hasan was in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina.
Mu’áwíyah was a very shrewd politician. He said that in a situation where you
can do your work with a whip, never use a sword, and the place where you can
do it with your tongue, never use a whip. He was always executing his ideas
of policies and politics and won the hearts of many by money, giving them
honours, titles etc. All around he had his own agents and spies and he always
made everything impossible for Imám Hasan. Therefore, Hasan said I will be
in the corner, you do whatever you like, just let me leave. He permitted Hasan
to leave, but he sent one of his Negresses to serve in the House of Hasan and
she poisoned Hasan with the dust of diamonds. After Hasan, Husayn was the
successor, and he said to both families, I want my right. I am the true successor
of the Prophet and I am not going to leave it to anyone. Now many people in
Mesopotamia were followers of Ali, and they wrote him letters saying come to
Mesopotamia, to Iraq, and we will support you. Husayn started with seventy of
his followers, by the time he reached there, the whole situation had changed,
and they proved to be infidels and turned against him. Mu’áwíyah had sent
thousands of soldiers to fight against him. No one will ever dare to fight against
thousands of soldiers with seventy followers, but Husayn decided to give his
life, to sacrifice himself for the unity of Islam, for the glory of Islam; and it
took ten days until all the followers were killed. Husayn was killed on the last
day and that is why Husayn is considered the martyr of Islam. All the family
were captured and all the male members of the family were killed except a
little boy who was so sick they thought he would die anyway.
It is really through the blood of Husayn that Islam got its power again, and
it created a certain zeal and enthusiasm in the hearts of its followers through-
out the other parts of the world, and after some years they united together to
destroy the Umayyah family and established a kingdom - a Muslim Caliphate
in Iraq. So finally the Umayyah family was destroyed. Now you see how the
rivalry which existed between these two families before the coming of Islam
continued in Islam right through the Caliphates, and when they had power in
Syria they had Hasan in a corner, killed him, then Husayn and all the family
of Husayn. This little bit of history proves to us two great things. Firstly, that
even though the people had a centre of the covenant, they did not want to go
to him. They had Ali, appointed as the centre of the covenant, but they never
cared for him, they went on following their own imaginings. The result of that
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
bury him, they will let him die in the desert. This refers to the Umayyid fam-
ily living in Damascus. They killed the spirit of Islam but they did not bury
it. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says they did not let the name be forgotten altogether. They
were Muslim in name, but not in spirit.
The blood of the Imam Husayn guaranteed the renewal of Islam, even
though there would be two major sects. We know from the Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh, written by our beloved Shoghi Effendi, that as Bahá’ís, we rec-
ognise the claim of Shi‘ism in the same way that we recognise in Christianity,
the theory of Catholicism. That means we accept that after the passing of the
messenger, there must be one who is the centre of the covenant, one who can
explain the difficult passages of the writings.

Session Four
Today I want to give you something of the Qur’án, the great book of the
Prophet Muhammad. Qur’án means that which is readable. An Arab will not say
I am reading this book, he will say I am reading in this book. Please remember
that in the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, there is another name for Qur’án - Furqán
it means that which divides between truth and falsehood. The book of God
shows the people what is right and what is wrong.
When you read the Qur’án you will not find it a relevant book, that means
it is not like a story. You read one verse here with one theme, then another
verse about a different topic. It’s due to the fact that the Prophet Muhammad
did not write it and did not relate it like a story. He revealed it to his followers
at different times and repeated it several times until his followers memorised
it. That is why it is said that the Qur’án was written first in the hearts of men
- they had first to memorise it. Sometimes he would be asked different ques-
tions, he would answer them and again the followers would memorise it. Then
at different times he would want to bring the Arabs close to the past religions.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that the very first thing that Prophet Muhammad said was
why didn’t you believe in Christ?  Why didn’t you believe in Moses? They
were the great prophets of God, the great educators sent by God and he told
the Arabs their stories from the beginning of Adam to the time of Christ.
Now some of the Christians may object when we speak about Islam, because
there are some points about the history of the prophets of the past which are
not the same as in the Bible. First of all, Prophet Muhammad did not want
to teach history, he wanted just to bring an example to expose the Arabs to
history and then to advise them, give them glad tidings. This was his purpose
mainly, not as historian, but as a Prophet who wanted to take an example and
then consider the results out of that. And if your Christian friends object any
farther than that, you will please refer them to their own Bible and in many
places there are accounts which are absolutely different from the Old Testament.
And if they still object further, please refer them to their own four Gospels,
the stupid one.
One day the king and his ministers wanted to see what this tutor had done
for the princes. So the tutor asked the forth prince could he kindly memorise
the first lesson for the next day, when the king and the court will examine and
see what you have done. Well, the next day, the class room had been beautifully
decorated, there was a special chair for the king and other appropriate places
for the ministers, and the teacher showed very boastfully the achievements of
the three, but that the fourth, only yesterday remembered the first lesson. The
king was very angry, and rebuked the prince in front of all the people. But
the little boy stood there smiling. The ministers said that it was not worthy
of a prince to be so lazy and stupid, but still he stood there smiling. The king
ordered that the fourth prince be beaten, and he was beaten in front of all the
people, but still he was smiling, he never said anything, never lamented.
Then one of the wisest of the ministers came to the king and said this prince
is the only one who has really learnt the first lesson. It is not only writing and
memorising; he has learned it thoroughly, he has practised this lesson, he has
let this lesson penetrate his soul. You see whatever you do, you rebuke him,
ridicule him, he never gives way in his courage, he is always smiling. Then
they understood that the fourth prince really wanted to learn.
This is the way we must learn our lessons in the Bahá’í schools. Not only
reading and listening. Do we ever think when we say “Oh God, I am standing
in front of you in absolute self abnegation, selflessness” - how very hard that
lesson is? It takes us many years of practise to reach that stage with which we
can audaciously declare to God “I am standing in front of you, selfless”. Let
us learn our lesson this way. Let it penetrate our soul, let it give exercise to our
soul and heart and then our lives will really be worthwhile living.
I remember one of our very old teachers who had been the grandson of
the arch enemy of Bahá’u’lláh, the one who stood against Bahá’u’lláh in the
city of Baghdad, the one who challenged Bahá’u’lláh with all the clergymen
of the holy cities of Iraq. Bahá’u’lláh sent a message saying “that if you all
agree upon a miracle that you want Me to perform, I will do it, so long as all
the clergymen sign that after that they will not oppose Us”. Of course they did
not dare to do it. Bahá’u’lláh said “even if you want the Tigris river to flow
backwards, agree and sign and I will do it”. The grandson of this man became
a Bahá’í and was a great teacher. He was a very alert man, always making
jokes, even with his inquirers. He would get up in the morning and say “you
pour some tea, I will just tell some lies to God and come back. Then he would
??? say the long Obligatory Prayer. Well we don’t want to tell lies to God!
We remember that we defined history as the unfoldment of God’s plan
through the prophets sent at intervals. Yesterday we saw how two great Arab
families had been rivals and how this affected the course of the history of
Islam. There is a prophecy that the witness will be killed, but they will not
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
searched through for the most important problems discussed in that chapter
and named the chapter after that. The titles were not given by God.
Then, we have a chapter called “Mary” which is all about Mary, the mother
of Jesus Christ and so on and so forth. Now in relation to the Bahá’í Faith,
we have one chapter called the chapter of Joseph, which is considered to be
the most beautiful story amongst the Arabs. Many of the commentators on
the Qur’án, wrote explanations on the meanings of the verses, but this special
chapter veiled its explanation until the time of the Promised One, that means
the Báb should come and explain it.  Now, you all know from Nabil’s Narra-
tive that the first thing He wrote for Mulla Husayn was the first chapter of His
commentary on the Surah of Joseph, the “best story”.  And why did He do so.
Why had they been waiting for one thousand years for the commentary on the
Surih of Joseph?   First of all, when you read it from the very beginning, the
very moment when the Báb declared His mission, he started with the praise of
Bahá’u’lláh.  He started to foretell the coming of Him.  He started to imbue in
every one the expectation of Bahá’u’lláh. And then He lamented the sorrows
of Bahá’u’lláh.  He says as Joseph was wronged at the hands of his brothers,
so will Bahá’u’lláh be, so will the Master be, and so will the Guardian.  That’s
why the Báb mentioned it, and explained it so that there would not be any
controversy, because the controversy had been great in the past ages - others
went against the covenant. In this dispensation, the most near relations had
been against Him, and the Báb wanted to create this concept in his follow-
ers so that they would be ready for such a great catastrophe. That’s why he
mentioned it and explained it.
Now, here is a little story. There was a Bahá’í in Isfahan. You know the
people of Isfahan are extremely funny, they always make jokes. Well, this
Bahá’í had many letters from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. And then once he received a
very short letter from the Master, at the time when the Cause had spread
in Europe and in America. He wrote to the Master and said when Prophet
Muhammad had not many followers he used to reveal for them the Surih of
Baqarah (Cow), the longest surah in the Qur’án. And when the Prophet had
many followers, he revealed the shorter chapters which are at the end of the
Qur’án. Well now that the Cause has spread to America, it seems that you are
forgetting me, and writing me short letters. And the Master sent him a very
long letter in response to that.
In the Qur’án, besides the stories, exhortations and wisdom of God there
is a great deal about learning. He encourages the Arabs to learn, to go around
the world seeking knowledge and learn from different people. In the Qur’án
it is written (in Arabic) “hit the ground”, meaning go to all the places. And He
orally also told them “Seek knowledge, even if it is in China”. The Arabs did
so, and went to China and learnt from them. Seek knowledge even if it is in
heaven. He encouraged them. Seeking knowledge is compulsory for men and
all of which are written about their own prophet; but the four Gospels have
differences and are written quite differently. For instance there is the story of
feeding the five thousand. John has written it one way, Matthew has written
it absolutely another way. Then you ask them why there is difference here?
Well, the same thing is true about the Qur’án. Now as I said, the Qur’án was
memorised by the people, but there were seven people who knew it absolutely
by heart; they were called the readers or the reciters of the Qur’án. First of
all they knew it by heart, secondly they could chant it in a beautiful Arabic
melody. They are famous for their reading and still when you listen to the radio
and you hear them reading or chanting the Qur’án from Egypt or Baghdad or
Palestine, they will say that they are chanting it after so and so, it means one
of the first readers, after that fashion.
When the prophet Muhammad died, the Muslims were scattered all around
the east, and there were several problems posed to the Caliphs about various
matters. But the Caliphs elected by the people did not know the answers. They
were not appointed by the Prophet as the interpreters of His Word. The Word
of God was not revealed to them. They had no authority to explain. Therefore
they could not expound or explain. In that case they came to Ali, who was really
appointed by the Prophet and asked what should we do now. He said at least
gather together the Qur’án in one book, and give to the believers. They must
have a book in their hand. If they do not have the centre of the covenant, let
them at least have the Qur’án. And so they started to gather the Qur’án. And
this point is very important for us to know. If anybody questions the authenticity
of the Qur’án, please remember that the first people who had memorised the
Qur’án did not give their consent to sit down and write those words, they said
it will be much below the sanctity of these words if we put them down. They
were not ready to do this. But after much persuasion by the Caliph and much
advice given to them, then they gave their consent. Now these people who
would not have willingly given their consent to writing down the word of God
would never write it wrongly, and therefore they were very sure and certain
that the words were the Words of God and they wrote them down. There is no
question about the authenticity of the book of the Qur’án.
They wrote down from those who had memorised and there had been some
written down in the time of the Prophet on the leaves of palm trees, or on the
bark of the tree or on the skin of animals, just a few fragments, not the whole
complete book. They wrote it down and arranged it into chapters. They put
the long chapters first and they went on and on to the small ones. And they
named the chapters according to the most important point mentioned in the
chapter. Please remember this, because some of the chapters appear to have
funny names and the Christians laugh at them. They saw the first chapter of
the Qur’án is called “cow”. What is this, could it be the book of God? Please
remember that it was given the name by the people who wrote it down and they
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
their civilisation due to the influence of Zoroaster. They went to Asia Minor
- Turkey and Greece. There they came to the source of knowledge, the books
written by the great philosophers of Greece (referred to previously) in the
times of Moses, the books written about philosophy, science, mathematics
etc. were all stored in monasteries, churches and similar places, some of them
untouched, some of them indexed as to what to read and what not to read.
The Arabs bought them, and brought them back. They contained knowledge
of medicine, geometry and chemistry, and many sciences. They took them
back and started to encourage their own people to work on these things and it
resulted in a great civilisation.
(Referring to a map and mentioning Spain, North Africa, Palestine, and
Italy). Now Baghdad gathered all these books and translated them into Arabic.
They added their own inventions and their own discoveries to all these sciences
brought to the universities of Baghdad in books from China, India, Persia,
Asia Minor, Greece and North Africa. You know that from about the eleventh
century, the crusades took place. For about three hundred years the Christians
used to come in flocks to Palestine. When they came they did not only fight,
but they came into contact with the Muslims and the scientists and with men
of learning. They began to realise how much knowledge the Muslims had, and
they got some parts of the Arabic civilisation and Arabic learning. When they
got into North Africa they did the same. Really the most interesting point about
the history of Islam is the basis of our civilisation of today. Muslims gathered
all the ancient civilisation together in one melting pot of Baghdad - the great
centre of learning. Now the Europeans, due to the crusades and their contact
with the Muslims in North Africa and in Spain, wanted to have these things,
therefore they wanted the Arabic books translated into their own languages
and there were many Jews who had been living in all these places. The Jews
started to translate all these books into the European languages - it was a great
service that the Jews did to European civilisation. So the Jews translated, and
the Christians got these books, read them and added to them. Now we see
the followers of three great messengers working together in the time of Islam
to bring about the basic foundations of a world civilisation, and that is the
civilisation upon which the whole world is living now. This is a very interesting
point that we can find written only in the books and Tablets of the Master. He
makes slight references to these things which allows us to realise aspects of
this subject. There is another interesting point which I want to mention. I said
the Europeans were using these Latin numbers and the Arabs used to have
their alphabet for their numbers. And the alphabet were not letters, they would
not say a,b,c,d and like that. They would say Abjad, Hawaz etc.. Now these
were used for numbers and for writing also. And of course with this method,
progress in mathematics would never be possible. It is interesting for us to
know this because it will allow us to understand many things in our religion.
women in Islam. Well after that the Arabs dispersed around the world and learnt
many things from many different people, and it was as if Islam was composed
of all the different civilisations of the past, brought by all the past prophets,
poured them into a melting pot from which a new civilisation emerged.
They went to China and brought back paper, the compass and gun powder. I
wish they had never brought back gun powder, but they brought it anyhow. But
you know paper was the great revolution that was brought to the knowledge of
mankind. When the people had more paper, they were encouraged to write more
and to give more of their knowledge. And the compass encouraged people to
go to the middle of the sea and discover other countries. The Americans must
be grateful for the compass the Muslims brought from China. As a matter of
fact compass in Persian and Arabic means that which shows the mausoleum,
you know they want to pray towards the Ka‘bah, and by that they found the
direction. They only had it for that, but the Europeans got hold of it and sailed.
The Arabs went to India, and from India they brought the most useful thing
ever brought to the hands of mankind., i.e. numbers, amongst other things.
Before that time they only had Latin numbers, and you know what a
clumsy way of writing that is. Having these Latin numbers only, the whole of
mathematics would not have developed. If you want to multiply two numbers
in Latin, a whole board would not suffice. But the Arabs went to India and got
numbers from them. It is very interesting to know how the Indians got their
numbers. They got it from a circle with two diameters perpendicular to each
other. Now we consider nine the highest number, the climax of all numbers,
because whatever you write after that is composed of other numbers. There
is no number higher than nine. The Arabs wanted more than this and they
invented zero. In fact the Arabs called it Sefer, and zero is a mispronunciation
of the Arabic word “sefer”.
Now, when they made progress in numbers, mathematics came to them
and they invented algebra. In Arabic they call it Algabr, and the word algebra
has come to the English and other European languages. Now, “gabr” means
“force”, meaning a subject which is not studied by the students by their own
free will, but they are forced to do it. Then we have many mathematicians in the
Muslim world and the word log (logarithm) also comes from the Arabic world.
There was a Persian who made a schedule, by which he could find the result
of the multiplication of two numbers, two big numbers. First of all schedule
is an Arabic word, in Arabic it is called Jadwal and secondly the name of the
man who invented it was Kharazmi. Now I can’t blame the Europeans for not
being able to pronounce this, but little by little it was shortened logically. But
please remember that it was from the Muslim mathematicians.
Anyway, they got many other things from India. Then they went to Persia
and from Persia they got the books, literary books, Fables and the administra-
tion of countries, written at the time when the Persians were at the height of
Mr Faizi & Mr Furútan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
follower. Islam the religion says surrender your will to the Will of God, and
the Muslim says I have surrendered my will to the Will of God. Sometimes
the historian does not want to write Islam or Muslim, he wants to nominate
them after the founder of the religion so he designated them Muhammadan or
Muhammadanism like Christianity. It’s an English term, not Arabic - so exists
in the English translation and not in the Arabic language.
Hind (Hend) is the name of India. When you say Hindi, it means a man
from India, whether Muslim or Hindu or Christian. But when you say Hindu,
it means the follower of the Hindu religion in India.
Question: Did the Muslims originate medicine or did they get it from
somewhere else?
Answer: No it originated at the time of wars. And this is a very important
point. Muhammad the prophet did not order his followers to fight, but He said
you must only defend yourselves and your Cause. Because if those bands of
followers were to be all killed at once in a battle against the powerful tribes
of the times, the whole Cause of Islam would be forgotten. He said defend
your Cause and yourselves. In these wars of defence He said women should
also participate. Now, women had three great jobs. Firstly to give water to the
men. They had these large skin bags, filled with water, and the women would
go around and with cups in their hands, give water to the thirsty ones. Second
to dress their wounds, which is where nursing started, and thirdly to encourage
them by singing poems and thrilling words.
Question: The accusation made against Muslims that Islam was spread by
the sword, was that in the time of Muhammad or did it ever take place?
Answer: It took place after the Prophet Muhammad. We have said that
they elected their leaders after the Prophet’s death. These Caliphs were first
politicians and then leaders of their religion. They sent armies to other lands,
but what they did first was to mix it with religion. They sent missionaries, for
example to Persia, and told them that if they became Muslims, they would be
under the protection of Islam. And they said if you do not become Muslims
then you have to pay a sum of money, a tribute. If you pay a tribute, well and
good. If you are not willing to pay a tribute, they would send armies there to
oblige them to pay tributes. It is amusing to read in the original writings and
commandments of those first four Caliphs, that they preferred that the people
pay tributes and not become Muslims; they wanted the money more than
people becoming Muslims. But under the successorship of Ali, the tribute was
not demanded and Muslims did not wage war, they only defended themselves
when attacked by others.
Now can you calculate the word Bahá from this. That is why we have Bahá as
nine. Can you calculate the word Báb = Five. It is very useful for us to know
these things and very interesting.

Question: I thought all the Qur’án was written on leaves and bark.
Answer: No, only fragments, otherwise there would have been no trouble
in collecting them afterwards.
Question: Were there just seven who knew the Qur’án by heart?
Answer: No there were more than seven, but these seven were outstanding
and reliable and their memory was beyond doubt.
Question: Are there any recommended translations of the Qur’án for
Bahá’ís?
Answer: The Guardian recommended two, the translation by Sale and
that by Rodwell. But please note that the translation only was recommended,
not the footnotes etc. We must not trust the whole translation either, there are
many errors. You know, the Arabic language has many expressions which can’t
be translated into any other language. For example, you say the wife of the
Guardian. We never say that. In Arabic and Persian we have a special word
which is used only for that purpose which is Haram. I can’t translate that. It
doesn’t mean holy, it doesn’t mean this or that, it is specially for the wife of
the Guardian. Or the wife of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. It is not a new word, it existed in
Arabic. And suppose this is translated into the Qu’rán, the translator will say
the wife, but it does not mean the wife really. And in the Qur’án you will read
statements about men and women. He says to men you are their clothings,
and they are your clothings. By that He means you two are one body with one
sort of covering clothing the body, you must be united in your family. With
my apologies to all, one of the translators translated it as you are their trousers
and they are your trousers. That was the closest he could do, but if he had put
the spirit of the word, it would have been much better of course. And in many
other places there are their funny mistakes as well.
Question: What do the words Islam, Muslim Mohammadan and Hindu
mean?
Answer: Islam means to surrender. Muslim is the nominative form derived
from Islam which means the one who has surrendered his will to the will of
God. Therefore Islam is the name of the religion, Muslim is the name of the
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
This is one reference from the Báb. And in another place, in Nabil’s Narrative:
“In one of His Writings revealed in the Year A.H. 1260, the Báb declares
the following: “The spirit of prayer which animates My soul is the direct
consequence of a dream which I had in the year before the declaration of
My Mission. In my vision I saw the head of the Imam Husayn, the Siyyidu’-
sh-shuhadá, which was hanging from a tree. Drops of blood dripped pro-
fusely from His lacerated throat. With feelings of unsurpassed delight, I
approached that tree and, stretching forth my hands, gathered a few drops
of blood of that sacred blood, and drank them devotedly. When I awoke, I
felt that the Spirit of God had permeated and taken possession of My Soul.
My heart was thrilled with the joy of His divine presence, and the mysteries
of His Revelation were unfolded before my eyes in all their glory.7

So two great references to Imam Husayn; and the craving for martyrdom
on the part of the Báb. He wanted to be martyred for the sake of Bahá’u’lláh.
On page 231 of Iqan we read:
Gracious God! In His book, which he hath entitled “Qayyumu’l-
Asma’,” - the first, the greatest and mightiest of all books - He prophesied
His own martyrdom. In it is this passage: “O thou Remnant of God! I have
accepted curses for Thy sake; and have yearned for nought but martyrdom
in the path of Thy love. Sufficient witness unto me is God, the Exalted, the
Protector, the Ancient of Days!”

He desired and craved for martyrdom in the path of Bahá’u’lláh. In another
passage of the Qayyumu’l-Asma, He addresses Bahá’u’lláh when He says I
want to be martyred for Thy path. Now here is the most interesting point about
the relationship between Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb. Whatever Bahá’u’lláh did for
the sake of the Báb, the Báb did the same for the sake of Bahá’u’lláh. Whatever
we read in the Writings of the Báb referring to Bahá’u’lláh, He did the same
thing, for Him. Whatever physical thing happened to the Báb, the same thing
happened to Bahá’u’lláh, Now there we read that He craved to be martyred
in the path of Bahá’u’lláh and here Bahá’u’lláh says (at the time before His
declaration), at the time when He was a Bábí, a follower of the Báb:
“We stand, life in hand, ready; that perchance through God’s loving
kindness and grace, this revealed and manifest Letter may lay down his
life as a sacrifice in the path of the Primal Point, the Most Exalted Word.”8

Question: In the Muslim Faith I have heard that when they are killed for
their Faith they go to paradise? Is that true.
Answer: Yes, that is true. He says defend your Faith and yourself. When
you are aggressively attacked by others, and if you are killed in that defence,
you will go to paradise. They needed that in those days.
I will tell you some of the books on this subject. First there is “The stories
of the Saracans” by Amir `Ali. It is one of the most authentic histories written
about Islam. He had been an Indian, and the book is written in superb Eng-
lish. It is used as a textbook on Islam in many of the countries of the world.
Second is the “History of Science” by Dr. Sauter. He is an American who has
studied the history of Science and after 30 years investigation recently wrote
a book. He is very much in favour with the idea that the basic foundations of
our civilisation are Islamic. And he gives four waves of civilisation coming
from the east to the west going back to the east and coming back to the west
again. Very interesting treatment of the subject.
Session Five : Islam and the Dawnbreakers of the Bahá’í Faith
First successor of the Prophet Muhammad who was appointed by Him,
was called ‘Ali. The second one, his son, Hasan, and the third Husayn - the
two being the sons of Ali. These successors were called Imams. Now at the
same time that the line of the Imams was going down to the descendants of
Ali, there was another line of the Caliphates, also descending - those who did
not believe in or accept the authority of the Imams, but stood against them
until every one of them were killed by them. But the most important Imam was
Husayn, who voluntarily went to martyrdom, who said if my blood is shed,
the religion of Islam will be fed with it and will stay forever. That is why we
have so many references to Imam Husayn in the Bahá’í Faith, and also in the
history of the Cause. In the Book of Certitude, the Book of Iqan, pages 231
and 232 we read Bahá’u’lláh’s words regarding the Báb:
“Likewise, in His interpretation of the letter “Há,” He craved martyr-
dom, saying: “Methinks I heard a Voice calling in my inmost being: `Do
thou sacrifice the thing which Thou lovest most in the path of God, even
as Husayn, peace be upon him, hath offered up his life for My sake’ And
were I not regardful of this inevitable mystery, by Him, Who hath my being
between His hands even if all the kings of the earth were to be leagued
together they would be powerless to take from me a single letter, how much
less can these servants who are worthy of no attention, and who verily are
of the outcast....”

You see how very important Husayn stands in our religion. The Báb Himself
said “I heard in my innermost self a voice which told Me sacrifice like Husayn”.
7.
Nabíl-i-A‘zam, The Dawn-Breakers, (trans. Shoghi Effendi), Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974, p.
177.
8.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Íqán, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974, p. 252.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
what they have been studying. It is at the top of the page. For instance he men-
tions history, traditions, Qur’án, the science of words, the science of rhetoric,
character, philosophy, ancient philosophy, things like that. All the Islamic
terms are written down by the pen of the Guardian. Now, what is the situation
in these places. I want you to visualise how they are living there. Suppose
this is a shrine. Around it are houses of the people and very small lanes go-
ing here and there - narrow, small, dirty lanes. All the cities are alike, except
that Karbila is more green and prosperous than these two, namely, Najaf and
Karbila. Here and there you will find mosques, and it was a custom amongst
the Muslims that wherever they had a Mosque, they would also have a school
near it. This school had rooms around it where the students would have one
room per student. The rooms were quite tiny, but sufficient for a student to
be comfortable.
There is one man who is the head clergyman of the city. If the students are
from wealthy families, they finance themselves. If they do not have enough
finance, he will finance them to study. Sometimes the school is quite large,
and on every corner of the school (not a regular class like this), a teacher will
sit down. Now, the students coming out of their rooms, know which teacher
teaches philosophy, traditions, the Qur’án, and rhetoric. In another school
there is one who teaches history. So if they wish to study history, they go to
this man and sit around him on the floor and he will discuss the lesson. There
is no regular classes, no teaching program, no regular examination, but when
they study all these different courses here and there, they will go to the head
clergyman and say they have studied all these courses then he will examine
them. When he is satisfied that they know all the rules and science of religion,
he will give them a certain paper and the student will go to his own country
and become the head of the city for religious affairs.
This is the situation. Having this in mind, please remember that a very
great learned man rose up from this place called Ahsá which is between Iraq,
Arabia and Persia. It is an Arabic region. This great man’s name was Shaykh
Ahmad. You know that Shaykh in Arabic means old man, and as the old men
had been the head of the tribes and families therefore it has come into the
Arabic language to mean the Headman. But they also use Shaykh to refer to a
learned man. Shaykh Ahmad means the learned man whose name is Ahmad.
Now he rose from this place and taught the coming of the Promised One to
the people of his time. He made a trip to the little island of Bahrain and he
wrote some of his very great books in that island. When the great priest of that
island was approached by the Shaykh for his examination, the priest wrote on
Shaykh Ahmad’s paper that verily he is the examiner and not the examined
one. This is what he has written. He found him so superbly conversed in all
the teachings of Islam. It is interesting to note that our first believer in Bahrain
was named Shaykh Ahmad also.

The Primal Point and the most Exalted Word both refer to the Báb. The
Báb said He wished to be martyred for the sake of Bahá’u’lláh and Bahá’u’lláh
repeats the same sentiment. In Nabil’s Narrative we read again,
“....The Báb, whose trials and sufferings had preceded, in almost every
case, those of Bahá’u’lláh, had offered Himself to ransom His Beloved from
the perils that beset that Precious Life; while Bahá’u’lláh, on His part,
unwilling that He who so greatly loved Him should be the sole Sufferer,
shared at every turn the cup that had touched His lips. Such love no eye
has ever beheld, nor has mortal heart conceived such mutual devotion.
If the branches of every tree were turned into pens, and all the seas into
ink, and earth and heaven rolled into one parchment, the immensity of
that love would still remain unexplored, and the depths of that devotion
unfathomed.”9
So we begin to understand the real importance of Husayn, as a sacrifice
in Islam.
Now this is the map of the place where our Cause first started. This is
Persia, here is Shiraz, and here is Teheran. One in the south, one in the north.
This is the country of Iraq, which is also called Mesopotamia, a Greek word
which means between two rivers - Euphrates and the Tigris. Sometimes you
read in the Tablets, “the Euphrates stream of Thy love” - it means this river,
figuratively speaking. Now we know that all the fights of Husayn’s martyrdom
took place in an area here. Now the city where the body of Husayn is buried is
in this place called Karbila. It is composed of these two words “Karb”, which
means calamity and “bila” which means disaster. Calamity and disaster because
such a great calamity, Husayn’s martyrdom took place on this plain.
Is there any other place called Karbila in the Bahá’í World today? Well it
is interesting to know that a Central American lady offered her own place for
an institution (for the use of the Faith) and she called that place Karbila after
reading Nabil’s narrative. The Guardian has been extremely pleased and he
told the Persian believers to tell the priests of Islam how much we magnify the
name of the martyrs of Islam, even a believer in Central America has given
her possessions and called it Karbila.
So this is Karbila. There are two other places, Najaf and Kazimayn. These
three places are very famous. Karbila is the place where Husayn is buried,
Najaf is the place where Ali is buried and Kazimayn is another holy place.
Why do we mention these names? - well they are the great centres of learning.
All those who want to study theology go from Persia, Iraq, India etc. to these
three centres of learning and study theology.
In the book “The Promised Day is Come”, there is one page about the
clergymen of Islam and the Guardian there mentions everyone of these places,
9.
Nabíl-i-A‘zam, Nabil’s Narrative, op.cit., pp. 268-269.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
silently sitting there without any movement, without any pretence. Siyyid
Kazim pointed to him. He said Mulla Husayn you get up. That was the first time
we hear the name Mulla Husayn in our history, uttered by the mouth of Siyyid
Kazim. He said you get up and go and he went, firstly to Isfahan. Without any
delay, he went directly to the classroom of the great learned man of that city,
and when he entered the class, without any attention to the learned men, he
went forward and sat down in front of him and said why are you silent. Why
don’t you work for the Cause of God. Why don’t you make people ready for
the Cause of God, for the Promised One? The leading priest was so afraid of
this brave approach by this young man. Also note that daily he went to the
priest, and the students laughed at him because he was so young.
The leading teacher said I have seen some differences between the sayings
of Shaykh Ahmad and Siyyid Kazim. Mulla Husayn said no they are not differ-
ent, they were both brought forward for the same purpose. Bring books and I
will prove it. They brought books, he proved it to him so the teacher promised
that he would write pamphlets and work for the Cause of God. Mulla Husayn
left the room and went to the mosque. The man sent a servant after him. The
servant came back and said that Mulla Husayn went to a certain mosque, went
to a pond of water, took ablutions (it means he washed his hands and face),
said his prayers, laid down on a mat and pulled his aba, his big long cloak,
on him and slept.
The great man gave him 100 tumans, which is almost equivalent to 300 or
400 pounds of today, and told the servant to give it to him. He went back and
presented the money to Mulla Husayn but he did not accept it. He said that
he did not need money, and urged him to tell his master to fulfil his promise
and that will be sufficient.
From there, we read in Nabil’s Narrative, he went to Khurasan and did the
same thing to another higher clergyman. Made him also an ally and brought
him back to life so that he would work for the Cause of God. My purpose in
telling you this story is not just to tell a story, rather to make us think. When
Siyyid Kazim told Mulla Husayn, get up and go, have you ever thought how
he went? Did he say I have family to support now, what about my brothers
and sisters there. He had his own family, brothers and sisters. How can I go,
what about them?. Where can I get some money to go on this long trip. He
did not even ask his master what shall I tell this man, which way should I go.
Immediately when he got the command, he got up and went and everything
was done well. We do not know how he was financed, it is not mentioned in
our history. Perhaps he sold all his possessions to do the work of God.
And when he returned from that trip he did not find his master alive. You
have all read the history. And then again another point to all this that Mulla
Husayn was a youth. It is especially the privilege of the youth to do these
things when they are quite light and unburdened, they are not yet entangled
with the difficulties of life.
Question: Was he a Bahá’í before you went there?
Answer: No, no. There were no Bahá’ís there, but after a few years he
accepted the Cause. When I asked his name he said Shaykh Ahmad.
Back to the original Shaykh Ahmad. He found this place very small for his
work. Where could he find a better place than these three places of learning we
mentioned above? That is why in Nabil’s narrative you read that he departed
from his place (Ahsá ) and went to the places where there are representatives of
Persia, Iraq, India, and all the Muslim countries gathered there for the science
of religion. They wanted to learn something, to get something.
They gathered there and Shaykh Ahmad started his teachings. As he started,
firstly there were 10, in the afternoon there were a hundred students. His fame
went far and wide very rapidly. All those little clergymen became jealous of
him and started to work against him, and you will read in Nabil’s narrative
all the things that happened to him by the clergymen of his time. Now you
know the reason why, because they found their classes empty. All the students
rushed to him.
After him, he named one of his students to be his successor and that one
was from the north part of Iran, Siyyid Kazim. You see, the Báb from the south,
Bahá’u’lláh from the north; Shaykh Ahmad from the south, Siyyid Kazim from
the north. South and north, just overwhelming the whole country.
So Siyyid Kazim took over and became the leader after the Shaykh’s death.
Now I have made all this introduction because of this little point. One day,
Siyyid Kazim sat in his class, and a number of students came in. His students,
who were of the very famous people of the time, the greatest poets, the greatest
literary men of his time, the princes, the learned men of the time, those who
were taking certificates were sitting in his class. One day he came to the class
and said there had been some of the great learned people at the time of Shaykh
Ahmad who used to help our cause and make the people ready for the coming
of the Promised One, and those great and learned men are now in the cities
of Iran but are silent now. They do not help us. I want one from amongst you
to get up and go to Iran and talk to these people and bring them back to the
Shaykhi School and make them help our cause. We need them now. We need
some people to make the populace of these countries ready for the Promised
One so that they will not be inflicted by the flame of the wrath of God. They
will be ready to accept the Promised One. Now there arose from the midst of
the students a very fat man, the greatest poet. Siyyid Kazim said sit down, it’s
not your work. Another man said I will go. He said to him, it is a lions cage,
don’t play with it, you are not worthy of that, sit down. The third one arose,
he said I will go. No, you are not worthy of that.
Now in the corner of the room, behind the students, there was a young
man from this part of Iran, Kurasan. About 21 or 22 years of age. He was just
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
very kind to him, especially one of the old believers who had been posted by
Bahá’u’lláh to take care of him and to accept him in his own house. After about
10 days the man came to the presence of Bahá’u’lláh and said I had about
40 gold pounds with me when I came and last night the owner of the house
stole it from me. Bahá’u’lláh called the old believer and said go and give him
his 40 pounds. He immediately went and sold his things and borrowed some
money and after some hours gave him 40 pounds. And he started to repent and
say prayers for sinners. Later the visitor went to Bahá’u’lláh, with a scornful
laugh in his mouth and said I wanted to test you. The man has not stolen the
money from me, and when I told you I wanted to see if you could tell me that
he has not stolen the money. But you believed my word. How do you say you
are a prophet of God? Bahá’u’lláh said I wanted to show you what kind of
faithful believers I have. And the Bahá’ís said to the old man, how come you
immediately paid the 40 pounds. He said, Bahá’u’lláh said I had stolen, I was
sure that I had stolen. There was no doubt, I must have done something with
it, I didn’t know what, but I was sure that I had dome something with it. This
is the stage of certitude that we wish to reach some day, through prayers. That
was I think our lesson for this morning.
I was thinking about explaining about the power of the Word of God, but
I was not sure where to find the translation of that work. But most happily the
devotions arranged by Miss Dobbins had that subject I had in mind. Bahá’u’lláh
says any word issued by the pen of the manifestation of God has certain power
and potentialities emanating from that word and at different times certain
souls receive those emanations and bring about sciences, arts, knowledge of
mankind. It’s one of the most interesting parts in the Bahá’í literature to show
the origin of arts and sciences of human kind on this earth.
I wanted to explain this as I had it in mind to tell you. Yesterday we
started saying about the manifestation of God, the Báb, the forerunner to this
stupendous revelation of Bahá’u’lláh - that the Báb declared in 1844 or 1260
AH. We must know both these dates as in the books of the past, both dates are
given, when the manifestation of God declares His mission. Now let us bear in
mind that this year (1844) is the turning point in human history, arts, sciences,
literature. Before that humanity was the same as at the time of Christ. Please
read “One Earth” by Hemmerick Seller. In that book you see the changes
which took place at the time of the manifestations. He brings a very beautiful
example. Before Caesar when Christ was born, when someone wanted to go
from Rome to London it took him twelve days on a horse. In 1839, the British
ambassador to Rome wanted to go to England, which is the same distance,
it took him twelve days also. It is the best example to give of how the world
was the same until about 1844.
Now, when this year dawned, the Sun of Truth appeared and shone on the
hearts of men. With the release of it by the Words of God, little by little every-
thing sprouted out and new art, new literature, new thoughts, new inventions
They say once a king of India wanted to choose a great treasurer for him-
self. He invited his ministers to his court and after giving them something to
drink he said that door leads to my treasures. You go inside that and see all the
things exposed to you. The rubies, the pearls diamonds, everything. Then from
the end door go out to your houses. When they went in and there was no one
to control them or able to see them (and they thought from the next door they
would go to their homes), there was no one to bother them, well they made
free of all those things and gathered in their pockets as much as they could.
Some got pearls, diamonds, silver, gold in their pockets everywhere. And they
went out and entered a certain court and there was the king standing in front
of them. He gathered them all together in the court, and ordered his appointed
musicians to play. “Now, all of you must dance to this music and I want to see
which one of you dances the lightest,” commanded the King. Those who had
been heavy with all the things they had carried on themselves of course could
not dance nimbly, could not go on their tip toes. There was only one young
man amongst them who was dancing and jumping and bouncing. Well, the
king chose him as his treasurer.
Now the Guardian wants us to be like that. The music of the world is go-
ing on, the Guardian says come on and show your art, show that we are not
entangled by the world, that we are light, not heavy. Please remember this
passage of Bahá’u’lláh which should always stand in front of us. He says be-
tween God and his created, between God and man there is only one ladder of
three steps. He said that the first step is names and all that belongs to it. In one
of His prayers Bahá’u’lláh says “O God, save us from the oceans of names”.
The second step is the world and all its pleasures. Any kind of pleasure in the
world. And the third, the next world with all the promises. Even that should
not stand between us. He says any one who passes these three steps will im-
mediately see himself with his beloved. If he does something, he must not
think of the material aspects or the next world’s bounties of God. He must do
it for the love of God and that only.
How can we do that? We will do it if we have certitude. You know that
there is a difference between faith and certitude. Suppose we are all thirsty in
this room and there is a spring of water over there. We look at this spring of
water. We have faith that there is a spring of water. But perhaps that spring
of water is salty, we can’t drink the water, it does not satisfy our thirst. If we
go there and drink of that water then we will come to the stage of certitude.
Now when we know the Cause of God, we know history, we know teach-
ings. When we practice that, put it into our everyday life, then we will reach
the stage of certitude. And in that state, we can do everything and surmount
everything in our path.
Let me tell you a story about one of the first believers who had reached the
state of certitude. Once there came a man from some part of the world to the
presence of Bahá’u’lláh. He pretended to be a Bahá’í and all the people were
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
me he said. This little girl happened to be one of the daughters of a senator,
and she went and insisted that her father do something, for this man. So then a
telegraph was established between two near cities in America. When this had
been done, Mr Morse went to this little girl and said you did all for me, now I
leave it in your hands. I want the first message to be given by you. You give me
the message and I will send it. She went to her grandmother who was always
reading the Bible and the grandmother said it is written in the old testament
that on that day these words will be spoken “What hath God wrought”,12 and
she gave it to Mr Morse, and what time do you think this was transmitted,
on the morning of the night when the Báb declared His mission. At night He
declared His mission in the East, next morning when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was born,
the first telegraphic message was given in the West, “What hath God wrought”.
There are very many interesting facets when you study the history of the
Cause along with the history of the times. You will find the history of the Cause
supplementary to all these histories. The history books tell us that this year is
the year of the industrial revolution. History does not explain what overtook
the minds of the people of Europe, or what the source was. But now the Bahá’ís
know, it was because of the coming of the Sun of Truth which brought to life
all these latent powers within humanity.
Likewise with previous religions, whenever a religion came from the East,
in the West material civilisation was brought into existence to help with the
propagation of the spiritual powers.
Yesterday we studied about Mulla Husayn. After Mulla Husayn had become
a believer in the Báb, went a second time from the region of Khurasan to visit
the Báb who was incarcerated in Mah-Ku. It is a mountain, semicircle in form,
like a ball broken in half. When you are in the mountain it is like you are under
a ceiling. The Báb was incarcerated in that place. In His Writings He says that
the king has imprisoned Him in this place which has no light, except a small
candle and there is no one with Him except some dogs. That was all He had.
It is also very interesting to note a reference in the Old Testament that when
the Ark of Noah was settled down it was on the mountain of Ararat, and that
mountain stands in front of the mountain of Mahku.
Mulla Husayn took a trip from Khurasan along all the northern borders of
Persia, to this place which is the neighbouring part of Russia. We always say he
went, but in every step he had difficulties. He took this trip on foot, that means
he had been walking in the desert, and at night he would reach a certain place
called caravanserai. Of course not as comfortable as your caravan here. By
caravanserai, they mean a small house in the middle of the desert with rooms
inside. Those passing by night come inside, take a room for the night then
go the next morning. But Mulla Husayn who was such a well known person
throughout Iran that he could never go into one of these caravans because he
10.	 Victor Hugo (1802-85), French poet, novelist, and playwright. His most well-known works are Les Mis-
erables, The Hunchback of Notre Dame and The King Amuses Himself - which was adapted by Verdi for
the opera Rigoletto.
11.	 Alfred Victor de Vigny (1797-1863), French poet, novelist and dramatist.
came . If you study English literature, you will know that this year is given
as the year of the coming of romanticism in English literature. The romantic
poets in English, French and German literature all over Europe wanted to
break off those strict rules of classicism, and they wanted to be free to express
their own ideas; ideas about nature, about mother child, parents. You know the
words of Wordsworth, you have read Coleridge, Byron, Keats, Shelly. Great
figures in romantic literature appeared after 1844. All those great figures of
the French literature such as Victor Hugo10 and the rest, appeared at this hour
of the century. The greatest novel that has ever been written, Les Miserables,
was started by Victor Hugo in 1844, and finished in 1863. He started it when
the Báb declared his mission and finished it when Bahá’u’lláh declared His
mission at Ridván Garden.
It was in the year 1843 when the great French poet wrote a poem called
Respoir, the meaning of which is “hope”. At the end of that poem it said “Oh
God, humanity is in darkness, isn’t it time that you come to take away the veil
from your face and show yourself to us. This is our last hope in life”. I will
now read to you the dates of the poem, please note these dates and you will
find many interesting things written about the Cause by those great literary
figures who received the rays of the sun of truth. You will be surprised to know
that Alfred de Vigny11 one of the French poets, on the day of the martyrdom
of the Báb wrote a poem on the crucifixion of Christ. And he said “what right
have you to do that”? He said that you must worship God. As if he was talking
about the martyrdom of the Báb. He felt the great sorrow, the great tragedy in
human history and wrote of the name of Christ - with which he was familiar.
One of the prophecies of the Báb is this, that the gospels should be taught all
around the world, and our Hand of the Cause, Mr Townshend has said that
it occurred in 1843, because the Bible had been taken to all the countries of
the world except Tibet. It was taken to Tibet in 1843, and a year after that the
Báb declared.
Then, if you look into inventions, you see the steamers, cars, planes, radios,
everything else came into existence after that year. It was in this year when
medicine too made sick people unconscious for operations. And the most out-
standing of these inventions was the Telegraph. You know Morse was the man
who invented Telegraph and this man tried his best in order to get telegraph at
least between two cities in America to show the practical ways of transmitting
news, but no one ever helped. When he had been friends with a little girl, a girl
of about twelve or fourteen years old, and he did not have anybody else to open
his heart to except this little girl. He told her of his troubles, of his tragedy in
life and showed her how this wonderful machine works, but no one will help
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
12.	 Old Testament, Numbers 23:23.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
There is another story about the same man. Once the same king took a
great part of his treasury with him and went hunting. He specially ordered his
servant to make a hole in the sack which contained these precious stones and
these fell out on the way. Some parts had been strewn with these diamonds
and pearls and other things. The King galloped away on his horse and went on.
Suddenly he looked back and he found only this young man Iyaz with him. The
king asked where are the rest? He answered they are collecting your precious
stones. “Why didn’t you collect some?” asked the King. Iyaz replied that he
had never wanted anything in his life, only to be with the king. This is what
the youth can do really. It is within their power as they are not yet entangled
in life. They are like birds whose wings are not in the mud of the earth - they
can soar with their beloved wherever the beloved says to go - and they will
follow. If we get such lessons from history, then it will be a living history. To
relate the dates of history - what date did that man come, how many were his
followers. These are childish things. Let’s learn one incident from the history
of mankind, history about any religion, and make the lesson in our own soul,
and let the soul exercise with these things till it shows its perfections which are
latent, and then we will be so happy that we will be more ready to give whatever
comes to us for the pleasure that we get out of those stages of perfection.
Friends, Foes, Followers
In Pharaoh’s Egypt, as you remember that the Israelites had become
worshippers of animals. That was the greatest difficulty that Moses had. He
stood against it, and we also remember that he kept the Israelites in the desert
of Trans-Jordan for forty years so that all the old generation would die away,
and a new generation, those who were firmly believing in the One God would
enter into the Promised Land.
If you study the Old Testament you will come across so many difficulties
that Moses encountered with his own people. Please when you study it, study
it in a comparative way with other religions. You remember that one of the
greatest difficulties was that He went away for forty days and when He returned,
they had made a statue of an animal and had started to worship it. When he
neglected them even for a little while they returned to their old beliefs.
Now we understand how difficult it is to cleanse one’s soul from previous
ideas, habits and customs. It is difficult for all of us who have come to the
Bahá’í Faith from different backgrounds; we bring in our own customs and
habits and we want to sometimes adapt the Bahá’í Faith to our own habits.
And it is very hard to adapt ourselves to the Bahá’í teachings.
Now in the time of Jesus, He had one great difficulty, and that was the
three classes of the clergymen of the Israelites. The Pharisees, the scribes and
the Sadducees. You know that the Israelites themselves were ready to accept
the Messiah, but their leaders were always preventing them. You refer to the
Gospels and see in many different places, the people come to the pharisees
would never come out of it. Those people would kill him so he had to go from
one place to another until he reached the presence of the Báb. You read all the
details of this in Nabil’s Narrative.
The Báb told Mulla Husayn to go back and visit the friends everywhere and
send them His regards. The very same thing that the Guardian is doing now.
Whoever visits him he says send the friends my love, my regards and assure
them of my prayers. The very same thing the Báb told Mulla Husayn. He gave
the friends power and energy as he went to Khurasan. On another occasion he
knew that there was some help to be given to Quddus in Mazindaran and he
said to the Bábís of those days we want to go to Quddus. Many people followed
him. But when he came out of the city, he passed some miles and stopped the
followers and said, those of you who have any attachment in their hearts such
as wealth, riches, family, dear ones in life without any hesitation go back, we
want only those who have not the least doubt in their heart.
We only want those who are ready for the worst thing coming in life. Some
of them were very frank and returned. Another time he stopped and again he
did the same thing, and some others went back. By this he sieved his follow-
ers. He had the cream of youth under his hand and the third time he stood up
on his horse and said I know that all of you have changed whatever you had
in your possessions into precious things such as diamonds, rubies, emeralds
so that wherever we go and we need something you may sell them. You have
little things but costly. Now I want you to purify yourselves. I don’t want you
to have any of these things: possessions. Throw them out, into the desert.
And the very first man to obey him, had two bags of precious stones, was the
father of Badí the one Mr Furútan spoke about. He was the one who took the
letter of Bahá’u’lláh to the King of Iran, his father was one of these followers.
He immediately dismounted his horse, went to the desert and threw away the
precious stones and the others followed: they obeyed.
[text missing] said to the second one - “you look to know about it.” He said
something about the inside of the bird and how it was created, but yet he was
not satisfied. He said, “if you can break it I will see the inside.” The man said
“it is a precious gift from one of the kings of the earth to you. If you break it
the whole relation is broken up.”
He gave it to the third one and he did something. Everyone found excuses.
He gave it to Iyaz, who was enamoured with the king. He said “Iyaz, what do
you think?’ He immediately took the stone and smashed it into pieces and said
“this is the inside.” But the king said “how did you dare to break this most
precious pearl? Didn’t you see my ministers, how they described this bird?”
He said “Your majesty, your word is more precious than this. Had I not broken
this I would have broken your word, your command. I don’t want to do this.”
Then let’s try to be like that with the Guardian. Let’s never break his word.
Break other things, then we’ll have more precious things of course.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
This is an interesting story that may help us in our pioneering. Once the
Prophet sent His cousin Ali who was appointed as His successor also, to cer-
tain parts of Arabia. He said “you go there to the city of Yemen and teach the
Cause. Give a speech there in the square of the city and come back.” He went
there and you know Yemen had many Jews there, still it is one of the greatest
centres of the Jews. He went and called the people to come into the square and
he spoke to them. One of the things he spoke was this: some of the people do
not see in the daytime, but they see at night. Some do see in the daytime and
some see neither in the daytime nor in the night. This was one of the things
he mentioned in his speech. Well after his speech was over and the people
dispersed to their houses, one of them went to a very learned Jew who was
living in a secluded place and asked what was the matter in the city. He said
“a certain man by the name of Ali came and spoke to us and he said that there
is a prophet in Mecca. And amongst the things he said was about the people
who do not see in the daytime, but they see at night and some who see in the
daytime and some who see neither in the daytime nor in the night.” And the
man immediately prostrated himself towards Mecca and said “I believe in
Muhammad the Prophet of God.”
They brought this news to Ali. None of the people who had heard him
ever came to him, only the news of this man. He returned to the Prophet Mu-
hammed, and He said “what happened?” “Nothing, thousands of people were
there, only one who was not there believed.” Muhammad said “I have sent you
for that man only.” You see you may go pioneering and many people come to
you, but the one the Guardian has in mind may never come to you. But those
people who are between you and him may go and give him the message and
bring him to the Cause. Our job is to go there and proclaim the Message of
God; we do not know what will happen there.
One of the believers of Iran before I went to Bahrain came to me and said
“I am too old to go, you are going for pioneering.” He said never worry. The
Guardian has made the house of the Cause in that Island. He has arranged
everything, has brought electricity to that house also, but that house is now
dark. The only job for the pioneer is to turn the switch, and everything will
be light. I went there and wrote him back that he (the Guardian) turned the
switch for me, because really everything is done by him for those who go and
do his bidding.
Now we come back to our subject again. These were the difficulties of the
prophets of old. Now, we come to the Báb and His time. Well, the Báb faced
difficulties unsurpassed in history. First, when he claimed His mission the
clergymen of Iran who had the possession of everything stood against Him.
And then the government also helped them. In other ages we did not have
governments interfering, but at the time of the Báb both hand in hand stood
against Him. When I say the clergymen of Iran, please remember this point.
and say Jesus is doing wonderful things, he is telling us beautiful words of
God, there is nothing wrong with Him; but then immediately before they had
finished their words, the Pharisees said “never approach Him. He is the leader
or the prince of the devils and he is working with the devil and not with the
spirit of God.” In some of the Gospels you see that the people are at a loss
what to do. They don’t know which way to turn. Jesus passes in the streets,
goes into houses and Synagogues, cures the people, exhorts them, explains to
them difficult passages of the Books of God, and yet here is that power stand-
ing against Him. There is the power of God also, but that government was
Roman. Palestine was part of the Roman Empire. They did not have anything
directly to do with Jesus. Their action against Jesus was only at the instigation
of the Pharisees. Therefore Jesus also had one difficulty to face, and that was
the people of Israel.
Government was interfering, but not very much. Moses had likewise
one difficulty, his own people. Jesus had the people of Israel and a part of
the government, but not very seriously, at the time when Pharisees used to
instigate. You remember reading in the Gospels, when they go to the Roman
governor and they take Jesus to him and he questions Jesus and comes out
and says I haven’t found any fault with this man, so that I could kill him. But
the Pharisees said that from head to foot he is full of faults and he must be
crucified. Well then the Roman governor, Pilate, brings water and washes
his own hands. He says I wash my hands of the whole affair before anything
happens to this innocent man.13 See how mild the governor is towards Jesus
Christ. It was all the insistence of the pharisees. That is why in the Gospel of
Matthew you see so many “beautiful” things said by Jesus to the Pharisees.
He calls them vipers and the sons of vipers. He calls them graves, inside full
of dirt, but outside full of ornaments. Please study them. It is very useful for
us to know how these people stood against Him.
Now at the time of Muhammad the Prophet as we remember, his own kinsmen
were against him. That family were always against Him; stood against him with
one force. In Arabia, there was no government to interfere with these matters,
but it was the collective force of the people that aimed to stop Him preaching
His Cause. His greatest enemy was His own uncle who was called Abu Hakim,
the father of all philosophers. He was a great man, a very learned man, but he
could not believe in the Prophet Muhammad. The prophet called him Abu Jahl,
which means the father of all ignorance; and he was really because he could
not see the truth of the Prophet Muhammad. For 23 years, Muhammad used
to go from town to town, even to villages and He used to preach and recite the
verses of the Qur’án, and brought many families into the new Faith, tribes who
used to be antagonistic, he united them. But the forces from inside His family
were always against Him, but no government.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
13.	 Matthew, 27:24.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
amongst the people, to sit with them, talk to them, but the Báb did not have
this freedom. The followers were not free to see Him. After He left Shiraz,
the governor of Shiraz proclaimed and said “In whatever house I find a page
of the Writings of the Báb, the owners should be sure that the house will be
destroyed to dust.” And that is why in those days, anyone who had a Writing
of the Báb used to bring it to the House of His wife and mother and for many
months, they used to wash away the ink on the pages. Many of the Tablets of
the Báb we no longer have because they were destroyed.
And yet with all these great difficulties, the government and the priests
hand in hand stood against the Báb: Let’s see what the friends and followers
brought about. The followers of Moses were from his own people, nation, one
sort of idea, and yet with all the miracles they saw from Moses, all through the
forty years they were objecting to Him. Why did you bring us out of Egypt,
we were comfortable there. Why do you command us to do this, why that?
Why do you want our gold for the altar of God? Always why, why, why? And
the followers of Jesus, who counted less than fifty, of which twelve were the
chosen ones. These twelve did not know him. Once He asked them who am I.
Only one said “I believe you are the son of the living God.” Another interesting
point in the gospel is this. When Jesus was proclaiming His message, doing
His miracles, and he had gathered some followers here and there, who came to
Him - two members of the followers of John the Baptist, who was at that time
in prison. And they said “are you the Messiah, or should another one come?”14
There was a doubt there, He was not even sure about Him. Jesus said, “go to
him, and report whatever you have seen here.” Even Jesus did not say go to
him and say that I am the Messiah.
And then at the time of the Prophet Muhammad, His followers were so
meek, so humble, thereofore all the people were saying paradise is for the
foolish ones - they were making fun of the paradise Muhammad described
for His followers, because only a very limited number of humble, illiterate
ones were coming to Him. And then they told Him if you are a prophet, why
is it that only these low ones with limited thought come to you?15 And they
were calling him a mad poet,16 and His followers were very very few at the
beginning, mostly illiterate, and as I told you one was that Negro from Abyssinia
who could not even pronounce the words. There was another one who was
a shepherd. That shepherd was tending his sheep in the fields and someone
passed by and the shepherd asked what was the matter in these days. “It is
nothing,” he answered, “There is someone by the name of Muhammad who
has come to our city and brought confusion to the city.” He immediately bent
down and prostrated and said immediately “I bear witness that Muhammad
is the prophet of God.” He was a shepherd, but his heart was mirror-like, and
We have two sorts of clergymen. There are those who wear green or black
turbans and those who wear white turbans. Both are extremely dangerous, but
there are some differences between them. Those who wear green and black
turbans believe that they are descendants of the Prophet Muhammad, and as
such they have the right to possess one fifth of your property. They even go
to such extremes that they say one of the five fingers of your hand belongs to
them. When they go at a certain time of the year they go to the farm and collect
their one fifth and sometimes with chains in their hands they go and collect
this from the poor villagers. Anywhere that they went and passed, the people
were afraid for they knew something would happen, for they had this power
in their hands.
Now the white turbaned people believed that the Qa’im,
the Promised One is the real king of the world and as he is absent they are his
representatives, therefore the kings of Iran are subdued to them. Please refer
to the Promised Day Is Come written by our beloved Guardian, in the place
where he explains the power of the clergy in Iran, he very fully deals with this
subject. As they claim that the kings were under their rules and obedience,
therefore whatever they said the kings had to do. Obey.
I remember one day, one of the old believers in a village in Isfahan told me
all his property had been taken by a certain cruel man because he was a Bahá’í.
He said “I went to Tehrán and I went to the court and lodged a complaint and
I got a decree from the King that he must give me back my property. I was so
happy that I returned and showed him my decree from the King. He said that
it is true that it is signed by the King, but what will our clergyman say?” They
took the letter to the clergyman, who said that the decree did not matter at all,
because he had not signed it. So the Bahá’í could not retake his own property
as the clergyman had not signed the King’s decree.
Well, these two great forces, the Kings and the Clergy, hand in hand stood
against the Báb from the very moment He returned from Mecca, they put
Him in prison; He was never freed, and from town to town they took him as
a prisoner - they took him from Shiraz to the borders of Russia, and they kept
Him there until they put Him to death.
Now is there any comparison between this and the life of other prophets?
Moses was free to go to his own people, educate them, tell them about the
Words of God. The people could see Him, could be magnetised by His presence.
Jesus was going to the houses, seeing people in the streets, making miracles
for the people. Going to the Synagogues - you remember He went one day to
push out all those commercial people from the Synagogue. He had this freedom
that the Báb did not. Muhammad the prophet for 23 years used to go here and
there from village to village, though they tortured him very much. One time
an Arab came and gave Him such a blow to the head that it caused a row of
teeth to fall out. They used to pour ashes of fire on His head, they used to cover
His road with thorns, they did everything to Him, but yet He was free to go
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
14.	 Matthew, 11:2-4.
15.	 Qur’án, 11:29; 37:35.
16.	 Qur’án, 37:35.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
on these things when they teach the Cause, they must never boast about these
things. These are not proofs to the people. One and only one thing will attract
the people, that is the life of the Bahá’ís. No matter how much he relates history,
no matter how much he describes the world order or administrative principles
or the laws detailed in the books of Bahá’u’lláh, they are of no effect unless
they are followed by a mirror-like life. He says his life must become a mirror
into which the sun of these teachings will reflect and his life will show to the
people all those principles in his daily life. It is a precious Cause, we must try
our best to see if there is a trace of character, we must try to do our best for
the sake of the Cause.
Now you see that all these believers came from all parts of Iran - we don’t
want to go into all the details of these things, but some came from very small
villages, villages of one-hundred people for example. Villages that are abso-
lutely destroyed now - destroyed because there were Bahá’ís there, but they
came to the call of God, they gathered around the Báb, they gathered wherever
there was something to do. They gathered in Nayriz, in Zanjan, in Tabarsi, in
Khurasan, all these great centres of activities, they went there. Whatever was
to be done they did it. They neglected their properties, wealth, fame, learning,
everything and ‘life in hand’ as we say, they went to the battle-field. There is a
story about a bird, I heard it in India, and I find it very useful to illustrate this.
I don’t know if you have heard it before. There is a bird, the eggs of which
are very much hated by other birds. Wherever the bird has its nest and lays its
eggs, other birds will attack and destroy the eggs. In order to have little ones,
this poor bird goes to different nests of other birds in the forest and lays eggs
in different places. And they are hatched under different mothers. But when
she is sure that the little ones can fly, she just goes to the top of a tree and sings
a certain song and all these little children will come back to her.
So that you will be taken back to the conditions of those days so you can see
how they accepted the faith, how they lived for it, under what circumstances
they used to teach, and how they died for it. ‘This is the story that I have heard
from the man himself. Once I was living in a village, I was there for 5 years.
The village had a population of 30,000 people, only 2,000 were Bahá’ís, but
these Bahá’ís were so stalwart, staunch and steadfast that all the people in those
surroundings used to say that all the people in this village are Bahá’ís. Though
only 2 out of 30 were Bahá’ís. It was such a beautiful community. Every night
we had a public meeting, all the farmers used to come back from their farms, to
the Hazirat’ul-Quds. No formal program was made for it. But tea was served
by the committee of service and usually they were asked to tell stories of the
past, and for 5 years I heard these stories every night and sometimes during
the day and the stories were not ended. We had always some visitors from
other parts of Persia for the believers in that village were well known for their
hospitality. It was in that village that I first started to become fat. I remember
the name of Muhammad brought him to faith. None of Prophet Muhammad’s
followers except Ali, His cousin, was a learned man. None of the followers of
Jesus was a learned man, you know Peter the greatest of all was only a simple
fisherman; Matthew was a tax collector and so on and so forth. But the Báb
with all the restrictions He had, with all those enemies of the clergymen and
the government, look at the list of His followers - none of them is illiterate.
All were learned and erudite in those days.
Mulla Husayn was a great learned man of his time, Quddus also, Mulla
Ali also. Every one of them, and the greatest amongst them - Tahirih, the great
woman of that age, a miracle of her time, in a country where still the majority
of women are illiterate, where the majority of women are neglected, are not
considered to be anything equal to men. To have such a woman is one of the
miracles of the Cause of God.
She is known by her poems, but she has something else which is much
greater than her poems. There are pieces written by her in pure, beautiful
Arabic and Persian, in answer to the questions of the clergymen and leaders
of thought. She was so pure and had such insight that in one of her letters
addressed to Bahá’u’lláh she says “Why don’t you ask ‘who is your God?’
so that I can reply ‘you are’”. She knew Bahá’u’lláh from then, even though
Bahá’u’lláh never showed anything in those days regarding His station and
He was considered one of the followers of the Báb.
Think of the great Vahíd, who was sent by the King of Iran. You know if
the King wanted to send a representative he chose the best - his name signi-
fies that, it means ‘unique’. Without any doubt of his erudition, they sent him
to Shiraz, and the king said “go and investigate into the matter and bring me
the news”. He went and met the Báb, became a follower, and did not even
go back to the court - he sent a message that he had become a follower, and
he was martyred. Hujjat, from Zanjan in the northern part of Iran, who had
a great school of learning, sent one of his students to the Báb to bring some
sign about the truth. He brought back a letter. When Hujjat read the letter, he
closed the books and said “we read these books to find our Beloved. Now that
we have found Him, close the books, we no longer need them. Now is the time
of action.” He believed in the Báb and we know that he was martyred in the
north of Persia. And thousands of these people gave their lives for the Báb in
those early days. Amongst the early believers we can find none who really
were from humble origins or who were illiterate completely. They were men
of learning, men of erudition, especially in divine theology and they found
their beloved and they established the Cause of God and sealed the Faith with
their pure blood.
Now, here I remember something, one of the beautiful passages of our
beloved Guardian. He said the Bahá’ís when talking about the history, teach-
ings, the administration, the principles, world order, they must never depend
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
left Islam and became a Bahá’í.” He said “One night, the four of us gathered
together, we were so poor, we gathered four pence. One penny was spent for
charcoal, and one penny for tea and two pennies for something to sweeten our
tea with.” He said “We had only this much, and we made a nineteen-day feast.
Just as we started to say prayers, a group of people came in to our feast and
scattered us.” And due to that, one of the Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, one of the
greatest that He has revealed, was for these four people who had nineteen-day
feast in those days. He said “The name of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had always been in
my mind and I wanted to meet him. Suddenly there arose something in my
mind and I wanted to see Him. And at this time I had worst saw in the log, the
dust of this saw came to my eyes and I had very terrible eye disease, and at
this moment I decided I had to go on foot to ‘Abdu’l Bahá.” His eyes were so
bad that he had to open them, go three or four steps, “then open them again till
I reached the first city where I worked as a mason. When I had some money
I went to the next village and so on, village by village, town by town till I
reached Baghdad. When I reached Baghdad I dreamed of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and
he went like this twice to me, I said I am sure that He is accepting me. I passed
through the Arabian desert, an extremely difficult desert to pass through with
guides, means of transport still in difficulty.”
He passed through the desert on foot until he reached Beirut. In Beirut he
saw Muhammad-i-Baghdadi, one of the believers at the time of Bahá’u’lláh,
who was there to receive the visitors and guests of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and he went
to his house. He said “Have you written to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá?” The man replied,
“No, something told me I had to come.” Muhammad-i-Baghdadi said you don’t
have permission and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says that everyone must have permission
before they come. He said but he gave me permission in my dream, but the
man said that that is not a document, we must be orderly and the Master said
that no-one can come without the permission. He told him where is the house
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá , he said “You must cross the sea.” He said he was so mad
he wanted to throw himself into the sea and swim to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. And then
he understood that he was enamoured by ‘Abdu’l Bahá, so he said “You can
stay in my house and I will write to the Master.” He wrote to the Master and
the answer was that the visitor is permitted, let him come. He said “I went on
foot to the House of the Beloved. I went in, they said ‘the Master is in this
room, you must go in.’ He said “Suddenly I saw all the things I did in this life.
I saw the moment I stroked my sister with a piece of wood. I saw the time I
scaled the wall and saw something when I was a Moslem. I saw the time when
with a hammer in my hand I hit against the people who were always fighting
in those days.” And he said “I don’t want to go in, I want to go back.” At this
moment the doors opened and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá embraced him. Yes. He said “I
didn’t know, I don’t remember the moment ‘Abdu’l-Bahá embraced me, I only
know after perhaps hours I appeased of it and I heard the words of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá - ‘you are welcome, be assured, you are welcome.’”
once there was a Tablet that belonged to the city of Kashan. Someone was
chanting it, he chanted the first two lines and one man said “here are twenty-
five of them”. Twenty-five friends from that city of Kashan had just come to
see us the moment we had just started to read the tablet. And they came in and
the rejoicing was really complete. One day came to us, an old man, very old,
hugely built, and from his face you could read great sufferings he had gone
through, and from his lips you could see what a beautiful smile he had, passed
through all these ordeals. The friends’ joy had no end when he came to us. He
came from the same city where I was born as I came to the Bahá’í religion at
the age of 17 or 18 very easily, I really kissed his feet because I said it was due
to your suffering in our city that this gift of God was given so easily. I loved
this man intensely. Then, one night the Spiritual Assembly asked would you
like that we bring some inquirers for you to speak to them about the Cause.
He said “when I was in the presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá he said go and teach the
Cause of God, I told him Master, I am a simple carpenter, how can I tell them
about the Faith. He said tell them your life story, that will be a great teaching.”
That is why I am giving you his life story now.
He was a simple carpenter in the city of Qum. It is the city where in Nabil’s’
narrative we find that Qum was the city that the Báb did not want to go in.
Somebody came to him and told him little by little about the Cause. It took
him ten complete years to understand what Bahá’u’lláh said. He said “I didn’t
know anything about my own religion, I didn’t know how to read and write,
how could I understand this great Cause of God? From the moment I started
talking to the man about the cause, I knew there was something in it, but I
wanted to grasp it, but I couldn’t, I didn’t have the capacity - it took me ten
years to develop that capacity within myself.” But he said “The moment I said
I am a Bahá’í, I immediately stood up for teaching. And I started to teach. The
whole city rose against me, and the very first week I became a Bahá’í they put
me in prison.” He said “Now I tell you something about the prison, but you can
only have a conception of it, you can’t imagine it.” He was telling to the people
who were also suffering and said “they opened my legs as far as they could
and they tied one leg to one end of a log and the other leg to the other end. And
then they laid me down and tied my head to the log. The man that was there
started to beat me every day.” The first three beatings each day I mentioned
Ya Ali’u’Ala, Ya Baha’ul-Abhá and Ya Bahá’u’l-Abhá - I mentioned the Báb
and Ya Bahá’u’l-Abhá - mentioned Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and then
I didn’t feel anything.” These three words. He said “The friends in that city
tried to bring me out - there were only three Bahá’ís at the time, and one went
to Tihrán and went to the outstanding Bahá’ís and they approached the Prime
Minister and then a telegram came that they should release him from prison.”
He said “My mother saw me one day in the street and she hit her breasts
so hard that blood came out and said that I will never forgive you that you
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
letter to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and seek confirmation from Him, because we were the
first people to work at the shrine.” And they wrote their names, and because
they were eight and wanted to make it nine, they wrote the name of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá because they said “You are always with us.” And they started to walk to
Akka. At about five in the morning they saw the balcony that Bahá’u’lláh used
to walk on. The Master had been walking there and He asked them to come
up. He asked, “Did you plant the seeds?” They said “yes.” “Well,” He said, “I
wish that you had counted me as one of yourselves”. So they brought out the
letter and showed Him. He read the letter and immediately wrote the answer
for it and He called them the sowers of flowers. And he told Mishkin Qalam
to write nine copies of the answer and He gave each one of them a tablet.
This is one of the incidents. Well, he went to Ishqabad and worked at the
Temple. If you have seen the picture of the Temple in Ishqabad in the Bahá’í
World, the tallest man standing with something on his shoulder, well he is the
man of whom I have told you in this story.
All through his life he was full of love, he never stopped showing his enthu-
siasm, even to the end of his life. Sometimes you would see him dancing in the
street. I would say, “Ismail, why are you dancing?” He would say, “Sometimes
when I am walking, I think that I am living in an age when Bahá’u’lláh has
declared His mission, and I have seen His son, I can’t control myself and I sing
and dance wherever I am.” Once he had lunch with me, I said: “Don’t you just
want to stretch?” He said, “If I stretch a little more I will reach heaven.”
Now, another traveller who had been there at the same time told me this
beautiful story, because it was at the same time that the body of the Báb was
enshrined. He was from the city of Nayriz, the place where some upheavals took
place at the time of the Báb - you will remember this from Nabil’s Narrative.
He was at the conference - do you remember the old man Mr and Mrs Blum,17
well this is the one.
His name was Vahíd. He said one day before Naw-Rúz, the Master said “I
want to go to the shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, but my carriage has places for only
three persons. And I only want from amongst you three persons to come.”
Then he asked Haji Mirza Haydar ‘Ali, who is called the angel of Mt. Carmel,
“Draw lots and whoever has lots will come with me.”
They drew lots and three persons from the same city of Nayriz had been
written on their papers - carriage. They went with the Master from Haifa to
Akká and then to the shrine.  On the way ‘Abdu’l-Bahá suddenly started talking
and said “It’s tempest, it’s storm”. We looked at the ocean and there was not
even the sign of a small wave. He said the time of Bahá’u’lláh was good; every
day we had a new disaster, a new calamity, but these days things are quiet. We
don’t have ordeals and difficulties these days - how can we be happy. When
he said this I was so frightened within myself I knew something must have
And then ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asked his own barber to take some blood out of this
man, yes he took a little of his blood and then he said I felt a little bit better.
Now there was a man who used to work in the pilgrim’s house. This man used
to say to the visitors, “Now it is one month you are here, now you must go
tomorrow.” The other one next day, next month and so on. He said “I went to
him and said the friends come here and become alive when they see the master.
You are the angel of death when you come and say you must go tomorrow.
By His own life if you come and tell me this I will strangle you here or throw
you in the sea. If the Master tells you, tell him I am not ready. Let the Master
come and tell me I must go.” He said one day also, the Master was standing at
the door, you know when they used to eat with their hands, they used to wash
them first. Well the Master would pour water on the friends’ hands to make
them clean and then the Master from His own shoulder would give each one
a towel. He said “I took the towel, folded it, put it in my pocket and sat down
at the table. When the man came to collect the towels, he said ‘you did not
give it to me, the Master did, let Him come and take it back.’ Well, this man
promised never to tell me to go out from the presence of the Master. Then
some weeks passed and the Master one night said ‘the friends in Ishqabad are
building a Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, they are going to start. We will send them some
money, each one, as much as we have.’ So all the friends gathered the money
and gave it to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. One of the friends didn’t have any money, so he
borrowed some money from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá then said ‘write the
name of Muhammad Hasan on the list and note that he borrowed nine shillings
from ‘Abdu’l Bahá.’ And they wrote it down. And then the Master said, “Oh
how I wished that I could go to the Temple and work there as a mason, as a
labourer. I want to take mud from one place to another, stone from one place
to another, I want to work as a labourer. But I am imprisoned in this place, I
cannot move from this place, but how I wished to go.’ This man stood up and
said ‘I will go’. Then I thought that I had become the angel of my own death,
the man didn’t tell me to go, but I stood up and said I would go.”
Well the Master said, “alright you can go, but we have something to do
yet, and then you can go.” That thing that they had to do was this; The body
of the Báb had been carried from place to place, village to village until it had
reached the city of Haifa. Now it had been Naw Ruz when this man was there
and the Master said we have to enshrine the body of the Báb. And this man
was appointed to take the marble coffin from the House of the Master to Mt
Carmel. And when they did it, you have read the account of how the Master
went there and took off his shoes and His turban. Well on that night, the Master
returned from Haifa to Akká, but there were eight persons there, and we worked
on the shrine, we made the gardens, sowed the seeds so that flowers would
grow, we were so happy chanting prayers, singing songs and telling stories, and
suddenly at about 3am in the morning, one of the believers said “let us write a
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
17.	 Alvin and Gertrude Blum were listening to Mr Faizi.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
am paid seventeen shillings. Please give me ten shillings and give him seven
shillings, but do not tell him you are giving it to him from my salary. Just
give me ten and give him seven and say this is from the factory. The master
said alright, if you want it that way, and it was arranged for one year. During
that year he learned the work, and we established by then two persons. They
worked so well and so faithfully that they said if he wanted to go and get his
family, they would give him a passport.
They gave him a permit and he brought his family - his wife and his little
son. And they hired a house. Their house became a centre amongst the friends
and they were most wonderful. And then after that there were lots of pioneers
- now we have about twenty five, due to the faithful service of this first one.
When they were many, the Shaykhs, the clergy, the religious leaders were
against them and wanted to send them out. They were afraid of their influence.
They called the first pioneer and said you must go out. He said by what order.
They said by the order of the governor of this city. He said I will go out but I
will be responsible in front of our International Bahá’í Council - he frightened
them by this word. He said we have this international administrative council
they will say why have you been sent out, what have you done, have you killed
somebody, have you stolen something? If I say it is because I am a Bahá’í,
they will not accept this reason. They were frightened for one whole month,
they wrote to us that they were in difficulty and every night we prayed for
them the remover of difficulties. And after one month they said you can stay,
and they even gave them passports and allowed them to go to the conference
and we met them there.
Another outstanding figure, a young man who was a graduate from the
agricultural college, he decided to go pioneering. He came in to another part
of Arabia where the Arabs from the desert come out of the desert just to eat
something, and then go back in.
Mr Furútan
After twenty years serving in the Central Administration of the Bahá’ís
in Iran, it is a great pleasure for me to be at this Summer School. I think that
it is one of the best Bahá’í Summer Schools in the world, first, because it is
established near the first Bahá’í Spiritual centre which was established in this
country.  Second, it has for 18 years served the followers of Bahá’u’lláh. And
third, the order and beauty which I have witnessed everywhere. I have been
to some of the Bahá’í summer schools all over the world, but this one has a
special place in my heart. The greatest gift that I can offer this institution is
my heartfelt prayer and request to the threshold of Bahá’u’lláh so that He by
His unlimited bounties will enlarge the school and services rendered by this
institution.
Those persons who are singled out by the Hands of Bahá’u’lláh to establish
happened somewhere. In order to save the situation, I said to the Master that
before I came from Nayriz, someone by the name of Husayn asked me to ask
permission for him to come and to be honoured. Suddenly the Master looked
at me and said he is already honoured. I grew with enthusiasm and excitement,
I did not know what to do in that situation. We went to the Shrine and prayed,
and then the next day the Báb’s entombment was finished. Sunday after that we
wanted to go back to our own city. The Master gave him a letter and said when
you get back to Nayriz, open it and read it for the friends. I went to Nayriz,
opened the letter and read it. It was about the entombment of the remains of
the Báb in Mt Carmel and then he says that later he found out that on the day
the Master was saying there is a tempest, that calamity is good, twenty seven
of the believers in Nayriz were martyred, and the Master had written that the
blessed body of the Báb had been entombed in Mt Carmel, it needed sacrifice,
and the honour had been given to the friends in Nayriz. And one of them was
Husayn, the one who asked to go on pilgrimage, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said he
was already honoured.
I thought of giving you these two stories to show how it took them years
and years of growing within themselves before they could accept the Cause.
How they worked for it, how they died for it and how they passed through
the thorny road with love to the Master and the Cause. And we just see a
shrine these days, with a body in the shrine but we must always think of the
mysterious powers, mysterious events that have taken place step by step till
the shrine had been realised.
The most delicious times in our life in Bahrain were when the pioneers
passed through Bahrain to go to different parts of Arabia. They had to go from
different ports so that people did not suspect they came from one country. It
was not allowed by the Spiritual Assembly of Bahrain for us to meet in one
place. They had to come at least after 10pm, because they were going to the
most [text unclear] places in the world. If they were found out to be Bahá’ís
they would be dragged back. One day a young man came and said he wanted
to go to Qatar, where there were no pioneers. And it was very difficult for any
one to go there. There were no boats or aeroplanes going there in those days.
And we asked him was alone and he said, “No I am married, and my wife
has sent me - we are tired of living in that city and we want to pioneer. I have
come to pave the way.” Well he remained there for about one week and then
we found a sailing ship that used to take petrol to Qatar, and he sat on tanks
of petrol all the way. He entered and most fortunately they wanted a carpenter
and he volunteered for that. One week after that he sent word that he wanted
another one to come, even if he doesn’t know carpentry, it doesn’t matter, let
him come. So we sent another one immediately. When the second one arrived
at the factory he said he didn’t know any work, he hadn’t worked as a carpenter.
Well the first pioneer went to the master of the works and said every day I
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Bahá’u’lláh. Now during this time there are different elements coming to the
boat. Some are from a Muslim background, some from Jewish and Christian
backgrounds, some Persian, some American, Arab, European, all have different
backgrounds, all come into this boat and bring some traces of their previous
education and spiritual understanding. We must do our best to cleanse ourselves
of those traces, and be pure Bahá’ís before we reach the next shore.
Schools are melting pots where all these traces and unnecessary elements
will be melted and washed away. They are like a polish on the mirror. If we
follow the instructions and steps then of course we will get the best result out
of them. Therefore we know that we come to the summer school to mould
our thoughts and spiritual understandings according to the stupendous Cause
of Bahá’u’lláh.
Session One : The real cause of divisions in religion
The lessons that will be given here are quite different from those at a confer-
ence. I will arrange it in such a way so that if there is anyone in the audience
who wishes to take notes or refer to a book, he can easily do so. The subject
I wish to discuss is what has been the cause of sects in other religions. All
the previous religions of the past have been divided into many divisions and
sects - what has been the cause of it.
If we thoroughly study the religions of the past, we see that some years after
the ascension of every one of the prophets, all the toils and troubles resulted in
nothing, in vain. The messengers of God came to unite the different members
of humankind, and they did succeed in uniting them. But, after a short while,
they were again dispersed. They came to collect them under the banner of love.
After a little while they were divided into divisions. They came to create love
in the hearts of the people, but after their ascension, that love was changed
into utter hatred amongst the same members and followers.
Again, if we study the reasons for sects forming after the passing of the
prophets and come close to the roots of those events we will understand that
the followers did not want to recognise the centres of the covenant. They did
not want to come to the centre of the Covenant in times of difficulties and
everyone of them followed his own whimsical ideas and imaginations. They
neglected the words of God and they were dispersed.
To illustrate this basic fact I will go through the history of the dispensa-
tions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam and will explain for you some of the
reasons and some of the subjects which resulted in the formation of differences
amongst themselves. This is something that I am sure you have studied, but I
will briefly remind you of the same.
After Moses, for 450 years the Israelites were governed by elected people
called judges. And the government had been very just and good - so good that
the neighbouring countries respected the Israelites and the form of their govern-
ment. And no division took place amongst them. After that, they changed the
Bahá’í administrative centres on this earth, and He enabled them to achieve
charitable deeds during their life, must always stand out as shining examples
in front of all the Bahá’ís, because it is only the sacred deeds which always
shine like eternal stars from the horizon of the Abha Kingdom and from the
horizon of this earthly life.
I know that you all realise that one of the great principles of the Bahá’í
religion which is the most outstanding is that religion and science must al-
ways be in accordance with each other and must always go hand in hand in
the service of humanity. One of the greatest miseries of mankind throughout
the ages is that science and religion have been kept always apart. Science has
divorced religion altogether, and religion has always hated science. The world
of humanity has remained with one wing entangled in the mud of this world.
But during this dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, the two wings are even.
The two sides, those who divorced religion and those who hated science
have always been the cause of great misery and both are responsible for
the many wars and bloodshed which have taken place during the history of
humanity. Of course, you all remember the two great wars, these two great
catastrophes which took mankind to the abyss of misery were the result of the
conflict which existed and still exists between science and religion, and their
followers. Some of these wars were very long - 300 years, and resulted in so
much bloodshed. e.g. the crusades. For the first time in history, Bahá’u’lláh
wants to bring these two powers together so that they can work for the prosper-
ity of mankind. The place where these two powers will meet is in the schools.
I have spent all my life as a teacher. I have studied the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on the topic of education, and both advise humanity to have
these two subjects taught to the children, so that they will be brought up by
these two great powers.
Of course the time will come when the Bahá’ís will have their own educa-
tional institutions. Until such time, we must place great emphasis and impor-
tance on the summer schools. This is where we receive real Bahá’í education.
That is why the beloved Guardian has said these summer schools all over the
world are the introductory steps toward the establishment of Bahá’í universi-
ties in the future. One of the examples by which we can understand the nature
of these schools is this: If we wish to make some soup, first we bring a pot,
and then into the pot we place many elements. We are those many elements
placed in the pot of the summer school. By the heat of the love of God, we
will be boiling and will produce something wholesome for every adult, youth
and child. The result of such institutions will be great for all.
You all realise that the Cause has reached a certain stage. Let us suppose
that all the Bahá’ís are passengers in a certain boat, the boat of the Cause of
God. The boat has left the shore, that stage was the Heroic Age of the reli-
gion of Bahá’u’lláh. Now it is on a tempestuous ocean, passing through very
stormy days and nights to reach the shore of the Golden Age of the Cause of
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
their whole power was taken away from them so that they became so weak
and feeble that they were the lowest people of the world, and were scattered.
The same history you will find amongst the Christians. It is unfortunate
that this happened in all these religions. You all know that when Jesus was
crucified, he had about 120 to 150 very poor followers, and it took them about
three centuries to become well known or officially recognised in the Roman
Empire. And it was only in the time of Constantine the Great, a believer in
Christ, through whom Christianity was known in the Roman Empire. After three
centuries they came to life and were known throughout the Roman Empire.
Then they became free and they started to teach the Cause of Christ in Eu-
rope, Africa and Asia. And wherever they went, of course they had priests and
clergymen. But the one who was living in Rome became the head of all of these
priests and clergymen of different continents and countries of the world and he
was supposed to be the most learned of them all and was elected Pope.
After the seat of the Roman Empire was transferred to Constantinople,
the great clergymen of that country who were under the mercy and bounties
of the Empire did not want to obey the rules and regulations issued by the
Pope in Rome and tried to make themselves independent of him. It was the
struggle between them and the Pope that broke Christianity into two great
churches of the east and the west. And that was the starting point for all the
divisions thereafter.
The dispute was first about the authority of which one should be the great-
est clergyman of the Empire and then the scientific and theological disputes
started. And the first thing they disagreed on was the trinity - the Father, the
Son and the Holy Spirit. These became subjects of great discussion amongst
them. In the beginning they used to explain it very concisely and briefly say-
ing that the son existed in the father like mind exists in the human being. As
human being has a soul and one of its effulgences is the mind, so does the
Son live in the Father. And the holy spirit is just a mediator between the two.
They were discussing this and explaining it to the followers and there was no
dispute about it. But afterwards they began to say now, between these three,
which one was the greatest, Father, the Son or the Holy Spirit. Are we going
to have all three on the same level, on different levels, which one is lower and
which one is higher? And this became the starting point for divisions.
Arius,19 one of the theologians of the first part of the fourth century declared
that there was no resemblance between father and son. Father is everlastingly
living in his high position and sent his son as a manifestation amongst mankind
for the education of mankind. And we must absolutely have them separated
from each other.
elected judges into the kings on the throne. And the first king Saul was put on
the throne of the Israelites to govern them. After Saul was killed there came
David on the throne of Israel. And after him, Solomon. These two, David and
Solomon were both prophets and kings. And it was during their reigns that the
followers of Moses reached the climax of their progressive spiritual and mate-
rial civilisation. The Mosaic civilisation was really established in their time.
But unfortunately, after Solomon, the followers were divided as to who
should be the successor of Solomon. You know the Israelites were comprised
of twelve branches. Ten branches accepted Jeroboam as their king and followed
him. Only two accepted Rehoboam, son of Solomon, as their king. And it was
the first time that division started in the family of Israel.
Now, those who followed Rehoboam the son of Solomon had their central
root in Jerusalem and the holy of holies was there. And that was the centre
of all of the Jews in those days, but his competitor Jeroboam chose as his
centre the city of Shamron, and in order to persuade his followers not to go
to Jerusalem to pay a visit to the holy of holies, he made a temple for gods
and goddesses. When they were divided, they became weak and they had to
find support from wherever they could. So each one of the rival kings tried to
flatter the kings of Phonecia and the kings of Egypt. In order to attract their
attention to themselves, they brought into the temples the gods and goddesses
and idols worshipped by the Phoenecians and the Egyptians and thus a great
competition started between these two kings of Israel in bringing the idols
into their temples.
Well, God was patient with them for some years, but this patience came
to an end and he became angry. He brought upon them destruction. First
the Assyrian kings destroyed Shamron, and secondly the Babylonian kings
destroyed Jerusalem and brought the Jews into captivity and to the city of Babel
keeping them there for seventy years, after which the king of Persia - Cyrus
the Great - delivered them from their captivity and caused them to return to
their native land.18
Now, during this time of course, they were again divided into different sects
and divisions and their whole power was scattered and they became weak and
feeble so that they could not withstand any force from outside. At that time
the great Roman Empire came and scattered the Jews all over the world and
this time was contemporary to the time of Jesus Christ.
Now, consider this fact about the history of the Jews. Moses with very many
difficulties brought them out from the land of Egypt and delivered them from
their troubles in that country. They were slaves, he made them the masters of
their own land. He made them learned men. He gave them the kingship of
Solomon and David. He made them the centre of material civilisation. But
due to the whimsical fancies and imaginings, they were divided into sects and
19.	 Arius (256-336) was originally a native of Libya. His beliefs concerning the trinity and the divinity of
Christ caused him his exile to Illyria (the ancient region of the eastern and northern coasts of the Adriatic
Sea, known afterwards as Yugoslavia). His doctrine caused agitation for the whole church for more than
half a century.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
18.	 See the Old Testament, the Book of Ezra I.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
since the time of Christ. And it was in that century that the crusades started,
and began three hundred years of fighting between the Christians and the
Muslims over their Holy Places.
After that the Reformation started, Luther appeared and Protestants came
into existence. And after that Protestants and Catholics became divided into
still smaller sects and today you will find in every country more than 400 sects
of Christianity. From then until now there have been more sects but there is
no time to look at those new ones.
Now you see very clearly that the history of Christianity has been written
down by the blood of its followers from the very beginning until now. For a very
long time, there have been theological subjects to dispute about and to fight for.
Now those things have been forgotten, there are political, national and racial
prejudices bringing war between the Christian nations. One Christian nation
is destroying the houses, cities and civilisation of another Christian nation.
Most unfortunately, one of the subjects they utterly neglected was the
subject of women amongst the Christians. They did not rank them equal to
men, and they neglected this great part of humanity. They did not realise that
at least half of the population were women and they did not want to confess
that they were equal to men, and they brought the reasons from their holy
books. They went even farther than that, and discussed whether women had a
human soul or not. Should they be considered as human beings or not. With
apologies to the ladies at this meeting, they all decided that only men had hu-
man souls, and not women.
To support their own ideas, they opened their holy books. Of course, I don’t
say that the holy books said such things, but it was due to their ignorance of
the meaning of the Word of God, and the wrong explanations of the Words of
God. They opened the book where it said that God took some clay and moulded
it into the figure of man and breathed into him the soul or the breath of life.
And then He made him sleep and took out one rib and made it into women.
But they contended that in the book of God, it is not written that He breathed
into women the breath of life. Therefore, she has no human soul.
Some dared to question the clergy of those days “how come they move like
men”. They said, “well, there is a devil by the name of Beelzebub21 living in
them and making them move like human beings, and that is why in paradise,
Eve became first friendly with Satan and that was the cause of their expulsion
from paradise.” Open the third chapter of Genesis,22 where it says “now that
you have become with Satan, you must have children with great many dif-
ficulties, and your husband will be your master and you must obey him.” The
same story has been repeated in the Qur’án, and that is why amongst the Arabs
and the Muslim world, when they want to mention their wives they say “my
21.	 Beelzebub, Beelzebul and Baal-Ze-Bub: see 2 Kings 1:2,3,6,16 and Matthew 10:25.
22.	 The Book of Genesis, 3:16.
Now, when he expressed this idea amongst the followers, it was utterly
against what the great book believed and propagated in those days. Pope and his
followers, Arius and his followers began to dispute this fact, and quarrelled to
such an extent that the emperor was obliged to gather most of these clergymen,
in Nicaea,20 in Asia Minor to settle the disputes amongst themselves.
It was in this congress where the basic principles of Christianity were for-
mulated. And up to now they still believe the doctrines which were formulated
at that congress in the first part of the fourth century. They said Father and Son
are equal in degree, in origin and in qualities. Of course, we must never think
that when one congress outlined the basic principles of Christianity they all
followed it immediately and that there was no dispute or argument. They had
great disputes and great wars and strifes amongst themselves by pen, by tongue
and by sword. The history of these different congresses have been written by
the blood of the followers of these great theologians.
In the fifth century, another calamity started, and that was the calamity
of the Nestorians. The Nestorians said that Jesus sometimes called himself
the Son of Man and sometimes the Son of God. Therefore we can call Mary
the mother of man or the mother of God. And another church in Alexandria,
stood against this idea, saying that Mary is the mother of God and that is all.
Now when Christianity reached the borders of England, at about the sixth
century, the division and differences between the two churches of Rome and
Constantinople reached its climax. There was no end of quarrels. Sects were
created every day as a result of different views and different ideas between
these two different churches.
In the eight century of Christianity another thing started, and that was this:
should the Christians worship the pictures, icons and statues representing the
Christ, God or the Holy Spirit? Now at Alrius in Sophia, which was a great
temple near the country of Turkey, the king decided that he must have some,
but the Pope was against it and ordered that he must resign his job. And that
started wars between those different sects. Now the two sects became known
as the worshippers and non-worshippers of the pictures, icons and statues of
God, Christ and the Holy Spirit.
In the ninth century another problem started, this time between the Greeks
and the Romans. They said from which one of the two does the Holy Spirit
emanate, from the father or from the Son. Now the Latin people said both of
them, the Greeks said from God only. And another series of strifes and wars
started between the two countries.
In the tenth century, Christianity reached Russia, after one thousand years
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
20.	 Situated on the eastern shore of Lake Ascania, Turkey. It is especially famous for two religious councils
held there, the first of which was convened by Constantine in 325. 318 bishops out of 1800 met to settle the
Arian dispute concerning the question of nature of Jesus Christ. The Nicene Creed, which defined the Son
as consubstantial with the Father, was adopted as the official position of the church regarding the divinity
of Christ. The second council was convend in 787 by Irene, Empress of the East, and 350 bishops. The
council ordered the veneration of images and their restoration in churches throughout the Roman Empire.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
we make ablution for prayers with it or not”. Their minds, especially the minds
of the theologians of Islam, were, as we say in Persian, frozen. They could not
think independently by themselves and they could not think about the serious
problems of life. They were the same as the theologians of Christianity.
Now, for one example, I mention the name ‘Abul Fadl, the greatest literary
man and historian in the Cause. I want to give you an example of his life when
he was a Muslim, how he was thinking and then when he became a Bahá’í,
what a great change was brought upon him. When he was a Muslim priest - he
was a great clergyman in Islam, and very learned too, he used to go and visit
a holy place outside of Tihran on Thursday evenings, and he used to go on a
donkey. One day he took his donkey to a blacksmith who used to live at the
gates of Tihran who happened to be a Bahá’í. This blacksmith was illiterate.
When Abul Fadl took the donkey to the blacksmith, the blacksmith started a
certain discussion with him. The Bahá’í blacksmith said to him, “from the
size of your turban, I understand that you are a big, learned man. I have a
question for you. Is it true that the drops of rain are brought down by angels?
We have heard that each drop of rain is brought by angels, they fly down to
bring one drop of rain, then they fly up to get another one. Thousands of them
fly up and down to bring this rain. Is it true or not? And Abul Fadl said, yes I
have read it in one of our books. Then he asked from him, I have also heard
that wherever there is a dog (for a dog is unclean to the Muslims) in a certain
house, then the rain will not fall on that house or seven houses around it. Is
it also true or not? He said yes, it is true, I have read this in our books. Then
he asked him, please give this answer, if every drop of rain is brought down
by an angel, and if angels don’t come to houses with dogs, then there must
be some houses without rain. How is it that we have rain everywhere, if this
is the case. Well, Abul Fadl was really startled by this. He was a teacher of
logic and philosophy, and he had read all these books without any serious at-
tention to them, and now this question by this illiterate blacksmith had made
him think and he was surprised and did not know what to answer. This was
the introduction of him for becoming a Bahá’í. A blacksmith was the reason
for him becoming a Bahá’í.
Just to bring our lesson to a conclusion, I want to give a final picture of
the whole situation. There is the book of God given by a certain prophet to
mankind for their instruction, education and guidance. He also appoints a
certain man to interpret for him, but they did not want to pay any attention to
him. Now this huge ocean of divine knowledge was divided by the ideas of
different individuals into many little streams, weakening the ocean and weak-
ening themselves and starting to fight against one another. This is a picture
of all the religions of the past when they did not turn their attention to their
centres of the Covenant. Well, this age is called the pride of all ages, and in
the next lesson we will study how the covenant of God was established by
Bahá’u’lláh in this age.
rib”. Mr Furútan has a letter from his friend and he says my rib sends you her
love. He says some of the Muslims are more fortunate and they say my ribs.
And Paul the great disciple also repeats and says these things in another
form. He says God is the head of Christ and Christ is the head of man, and the
ornament on man. and man is the head of woman. And then he goes on and
says that man is not created for woman, but woman is created for man. As he
is the glory of God, when he is going to the Church, he must take off his hat
and have his head open in the presence of God, but women must cover their
heads because they are not the glory of God, they are the glory of man.23 Thus
you see in every day in the history of Christianity, we have had some sort of
schism brought about in that religion, even today. You will be surprised to know
that sects are made for very insignificant reasons. One says: “what do you call
God? You must call him Jehovah”, and so they form a sect by themselves who
don’t use any other name for God but Jehovah. Another says: “which day shall
we have holiday, Saturday or Sunday? So, they make another sect where they
have Saturday as their holiday and things like that.
It is most surprising that they all say God is love. And we ask them if there
is God then there must be love and not division. If there is division there is
hatred, no love and hence no God. And that is why we say wherever there is
division, hatred and schism, there is no God there and we do not want it.
The same thing is true in the religion of Islam. The moment Muhammad
died, the religion was divided into two sects. Ali, his cousin and his son-in-law
had to be recognised as his successor, but Omar, one of His followers did not
let this be realised, and they elected an old man, Abu Bakr, as His successor,
and this caused the two great sects, Shiah and Sunni, and now there are more
than seventy different sects in Islam. With the exception of some years at the
beginning of the Islamic dispensation, all the Muslims spent their time in wars
against each other. If we really want to explain these things, we must explain
1000 years of warfare, civil wars amongst themselves.
The same subjects, and even things worse than that have been discussed
by the followers of Muhammad, the prophet. Firstly, one of them said “is Ga-
briel, the one who was the mediator between Muhammad and God, a higher
personage in the presence of God or is the servant of the House of Ali higher?”.
They said angels are made of the essence of things, since they are essence, let
us see and count how many could gather together at the tip of a needle. They
wanted the exact number and they fought over these numbers. Some said ten
thousand, some said fifteen thousand, and thus they discussed all the days and
hours of their lives for these insignificant problems.
You know they had Imams as sacred personalities and they called them
sacred and pure. Well, they said: “our Imams are sacred and pure; when they
sweat, is their sweat clean or not. If they are gathered in a certain place, can
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
23.	 1 Corinthians, 11:3-9.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Now, it is interesting to know that the Heroic Age which begins with the
declaration of the Báb and ends with the ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is exactly
equivalent to the lifetime of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, because as you will remember
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was born on the morning preceding the declaration of the Báb’s
mission. He was born with the birth of the Heroic Age, and with His passing,
it came to an end. This is a very interesting point.
Now, in the life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, you find the history of the Heroic Age, the
exemplary life of a hero in the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh, and the greatest example
of servitude to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.
In the first part of the Heroic Age, the Kingdom of God descended from the
heaven to the earth. The religion of God was established. By the three great
personages of the Cause, the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and the
victory of the Faith was guaranteed by the blood of 20,000 martyrs.
Due to the cause of the power of Bahá’u’lláh, and the receptive power of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, something new was brought into existence, and that was the
Tablets of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. This was a child born by the
power of Bahá’u’lláh, and the receptive nature of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Guardian
says that this document is an outline of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. The
Guardian also said that the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are supple-
mentary notes of the Kitab-i-Aqdas.24
When this first Age, the Apostolic Age, came to an end by the ascension of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, it meant that the law giving power of God came to an end, and
the second stage, the Formative Age began. In this second Age two powers
are needed: protective power of God and executive power.
Whatever was necessary for 500,000 years of humanity was laid down by
the pen of Bahá’u’lláh in His books and Tablets, and whatever should not be
changed in 1,000 years was also written down by His pen. But those things
which would be affected by time, were left unwritten, but it was left to those
elected legislative bodies to develop rules for the parts not written by the pen
of Bahá’u’lláh.
Those things that would be affected by years and days were left for the
boards that would be elected by the people, and they have legislative powers.
Now, these will be of three kinds - international for the whole world, national
for one country and local for one place. This shows the elasticity of the reli-
gion of God. It is steadfastly having roots in the principles of Bahá’u’lláh, but
growing according to the needs and to protect, rules and regulations that will
be laid down by legislative bodies.
There are two points worthy of attention. First, those legislative powers are
boards, the members of which are not there by inheritance. They are elected
by the people -international, National and local. And elections in the Bahá’í
religion are absolutely free from all the destructive elements. That means there
Session two : The Bahá’í Dispensation
Whatever I want to refer to tonight, you will have already studied in the
books and Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. I only want to repeat them
to emphasise some important points. I am sure that you have come across the
words “Cycle” and “Age” in the Tablets. Bahá’u’lláh is the founder of this
Cycle, which will last at least 500 thousand years. And He is at the same time
the founder of an Age which will last at least 1,000 years.
In this new Cycle which will last for 500,000 years, there will be many
“ages” or “dispensations”. The first one is that of Bahá’u’lláh himself and at
regular intervals, every 1,000 years or so, a prophet will arise to renew the
spirit of the Cause, all these prophets will be the propagators of the general
principles of humanity laid down by the pen of Bahá’u’lláh.
When I say that this new Cycle will last for 500,000 years, and the general
principles of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh will not change, please remember
that those general principles such as world peace, the Most Great Peace, will
not change. Do you imagine that by the coming of any prophet will this great
principle be changed? Or that prejudices of all kinds should not be abolished?
Do we think that this principle could ever be altered? Or education should not
be compulsory? These principles will be carried on for evermore. As long as
mankind is on this planet, he will be in need of these principles, and at intervals
the prophets will come and give these principles new impetus, to penetrate
these teachings further into the hearts and souls of the people.
The world will be united by the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, and never will
the time come when the people say let’s go back to the time when we were
divided into sects. We have been divided into little countries’ fighting. These
teachings will progress mankind from one stage to a higher stage and this will
continue for evermore.
When a man reaches the age of maturity he never goes back to the age of
childhood. He will go on. The same thing will occur with mankind as a whole .
Under the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, humanity will pass into the age of maturity,
the wheel of history will ever be marching on and never goes back.
Now this “Age” which belongs to Bahá’u’lláh himself is divided into three
great parts. First part is the Heroic Age. Second part is the Formative Age, and
the third is the Golden Age. Now the Heroic Age is divided into three parts.
Firstly, the time of the Báb, nine years. Secondly the time of Bahá’u’lláh, 39
years, and thirdly, the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 29 years. Altogether, 77 years.
Now the first period, the time of the Báb, which lasted nine years, starts with
the declaration of the Báb, and ends with secret declaration of Bahá’u’lláh
in the dungeon of Siyah-Chal (Black Pit) in Tihran. And that of Bahá’u’lláh
starts with the declaration of Bahá’u’lláh and ends with his ascension in Bahji,
thirty nine years later. And the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá from the time when they
read the Will and Testament of Bahá’u’lláh till the ascension of `Abdu’l-Bahá.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
24.	 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944, p. 328.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
the book of God. This is important for us to study.
Do you remember in our previous lessons that we discussed how in previous
religions, they were always divided into sects and divisions and we explained
why this was so - many people tried to explain the verses of God according to
their own imaginations and limited understandings of the complete meaning
of the Book of God. And everyone tried to bring followers to himself and thus
the religion was divided. But we must be glad and rejoice in our hearts that
this door is forever closed in the Bahá’í religion.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has clearly said in His Tablets of Will and Testament, that
no one of these Houses of Justice whether International, National or Local, no
one of the family of Bahá’u’lláh or the Báb, no one of the most learned people
in the Bahá’í community and no one of the Hands of the Cause has any right
to expound or explain the meanings of the Book of God according to their
own understandings. This refers to only one person, and that is the centre of
the Covenant of God.
I have often said that if you put all the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá on one part of the balance, and only this Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá on the other side, this will be equal to all of those writings. The reason is
this, the religion of God came to establish the unity of humanity. Bahá’u’lláh
says I came primarily for this purpose. Twenty thousand people gave their lives
for this purpose. And the only thing that guarantees that unity is the Will and
Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Had it not been for this, the Bahá’í Faith would
by now be divided into thousands of sects around the world.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has said that no sin will ever be equal to making divisions
and differences amongst the friends. The powers of understanding of the people
are different. Should we refer to the power of understanding of the people, a
beautiful, constructive, prosperous house will immediately be changed into a
desolated, destroyed house. Light will vanish immediately, and a night full of
darkness will come in its place.
Many have asked me what is the guarantee for the unity of the Bahá’í
world. I have often told them it is the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Has he said it clearly, they ask? Yes, everything is written extremely clearly
and declared by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. I read you some parts:
Firstly, this is what the Master says about the person of the Guardian. He
says:
“O my loving friends! After the passing away of this wronged one, it is
incumbent upon the Aghsán (Branches), the Afnan (Twigs) of the Sacred
Lote-Tree, the Hands (pillars) of the Cause of God and the loved ones of
the Abhá Beauty to turn unto Shoghi Effendi - the youthful branch branched
from the two hallowed and Sacred Lote-Trees and the fruit grown from the
union of the two offshoots of the Tree of Holiness, - and he is the sign of
are no candidates, no propaganda, no speeches and none of these other childish
things done in the world today. It is the sacred religious duty of every believer
to freely elect whomever from among his own community who is sincere, ac-
tive and wise. The second element which is worthy of attention, is that there
are parts that are not written by the pen of Bahá’u’lláh, but have been left to
a board which are elected by the people. That board will put down rules and
regulations for the whole world.
Now, within that legislative power, the international one will come into
existence by three processes. First, all the local communities of every country
will elect representatives to go to the capital city of each country to form the
convention. The convention from all the believers in that country will elect
the nine members of the National Spiritual Assembly. The members of the
National Assemblies will elect from all the Bahá’ís of the whole world the
members of the International House of Justice. These members must be the most
active, the most wise and the most sincere. Three times the communities will
be sieved to have the most pure in the International House of Justice working
for the whole of the world.
The International House of Justice will be established on Mount Carmel.
It is from there that the streams of the knowledge of God, and the laws of God
will flow down to all the countries. The National Spiritual Assemblies of the
countries will receive laws and regulations from the International House of
Justice, and the rules and regulations that have not been decided by the Inter-
national House of Justice but are needed in their own countries will be decided
by them. And they will convey all messages to the local assemblies, and the
local assemblies will adopt regulations not mentioned there according to the
demands and necessities of their situation. Now you see how the legislative
power comes down from the highest International House of Justice to the local
assembly which may be just 9 people, but yet they receive that regulation from
the great House of Justice of the world. And how the friends are connected by
their Local Assembly to their National and International Houses of Justice.
That a world order will be established, we can say that the world is under
the commandment of God. Above all is the Book of God, under that the Interna-
tional House of Justice, then the National Assemblies and then the local Houses
of Justice, all working together, and the individuals will put them into action.
Now, above all is the Word of God. Whatever legislation is laid down by
the International House of Justice must not be against what is written in the
book of God. At the head of the House of Justice is the Guardian who leads
the legislative power to the Guardianship, that is whoever, to the one who has
the power of expounding the book of God on this earth.
The legislative power is one of the pillars of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh
and we say that this legislative power is under the word of God. But who is the
one to expound the Book of God, to see that nothing will be laid down against
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
and always will protect the unity of humanity under his unerring guidance.
We don’t say that there are no differences existing in the Bahá’í Cause. The
differences which exist have been much greater than those of the religions of the
past, but the only thing that safeguarded the unity of the people of Bahá’u’lláh
was this document and nothing else.
These are the last lines of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
“It is incumbent upon you to take the greatest care of Shoghi Effendi, the
twig that hath branched from and the fruit given forth by the two hallowed
and Divine Lote-Trees, that no dust of despondency and sorrow may stain
his radiant nature, that day by day he may wax greater in happiness, in joy
and spirituality, and may grow to become even as a fruitful tree.”
“For he is, after `Abdu’l-Bahá, the guardian of the Cause of God, the
Afnan, the Hands (pillars) of the Cause and the beloved of the Lord must
obey him and turn unto him. He that obeyeth him not, hath not obeyed
God; he that turneth away from him, hath turned away from God and he
that denieth him, hath denied the True One. Beware lest anyone falsely
interpret these words, and like unto them that have broken the Covenant
after the Day of Ascension (of Bahá’u’lláh) advance a pretext, raise the
standard of revolt, wax stubborn and open wide the door of false interpreta-
tion. To none is given the right to put forth his own opinion or express his
particular conviction. All must seek guidance and turn unto the Centre of
the Cause and the House of Justice. And he that turneth unto whatsoever
else is indeed in grievous error.
The Glory of Glories rest upon you!28

These Tablets of the Master were written when the Beloved Guardian
was 9 years old. I congratulate the Bahá’í community for having been given
a document by which their unity is forever safeguarded. Whenever I read the
Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, my soul soars in the oceans of beauty
and happiness.
Questions and Answers
Question: Was the Guardian ready at the age of 9?
Answer: There is a short time for us to think of the future and less to think
of the past. If the guardian at the age of 9, he would be the guardian of the
Cause of God, he could control the Cause. At that age of 9 he was fully ready
to accept that responsibility, and that is why the Master wrote it down. Of
28.	 Ibid., p. 38.
God, the chosen branch, the guardian of the Cause of God, he unto whom
all the Aghsán, the Afnán, the Hands of the Cause of God and His loved
ones must turn. He is the expounder of the words of God and after him will
succeed the first-born of his lineal descendents.”25
Here He describes the Guardian, and gives him five different ranks. Some
people may say, well ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is describing him as a very good person,
yet they do not have to obey him. This is also addressed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in
another part, when he describes the Guardian as:
“The sacred and youthful branch, the Guardian of the Cause of God
as well as the Universal House of Justice to be universally elected and
established, are both under the care and protection of the Abhá Beauty,
under the shelter and unerring guidance of His Holiness, the Exalted One,
(may my life be offered up for them both... Whoso rebelleth against him
and against them hath rebelled against God; Whoso opposeth him hath
opposed God;... Whoso denieth him hath denied God; whoso disbelieveth
in him hath disbelieved in God; whoso deviateth, separateth himself and
turned aside from God. May the wrath, the fierce indignation, the vengeance
of God rest upon him!...It is incumbent upon the members of the House of
Justice, upon all the Aghsán, the Afnán, the Hands of the Cause of God...
to turn unto him and be lowly before him.26
Now, some people may say if we disobey the Guardian, let the wrath of
God rest upon us. But they are not left on that point only, the Master has writ-
ten about them. He says:
“...the Hands of the Cause of God must be ever watchful and so soon
as they find anyone beginning to oppose and protest against the guardian
of the Cause of God, cast him out from the congregation of the People of
Bahá and in no wise accept any excuse from him. How often hath grievous
error been disguised in the garb of truth, that it might sow the seeds of
doubt in the hearts of men!”27
Now having this document in our hands, we must remain assured and cer-
tain that never will the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh have the same destiny of other
religions. No east church and west church. No Omar or Abu Bakr or other
covenant breakers as in the age of Islam will ever come into existence. In the
House of Justice the two great powers will unite, the power of legislating and the
power of expounding. The Guardian will be the head of that legislative power,
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
25.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Sydney: Bahá’í Publications Australia, 1992, p. 18.
26.	 Ibid., p. 19.
27.	 Ibid., p. 20.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
period, and we don’t know when we will reach the golden age of Bahá’u’lláh.
The first period was divided into three parts, first the Báb’s nine years, second
Bahá’u’lláh’s 39 years and third ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s 29 years. The world order
of Bahá’u’lláh is based on two great pillars. First the pillar of expounding,
and second the pillar of legislation. We also mentioned that expounding the
Book of God is only in the hand of one central figure and that is the centre
of the covenant of God. No-one in the Bahá’í world community, no Local or
National Assembly, no Hand of the Cause of God and no international House
of Justice will ever have the right to do that. Legislation divides into three
kinds: the international, national and local. What we said now is the revision
of last night’s lesson.
Tonight’s lesson will centre around these two problems. First, the rela-
tion between the power of expounding and the power of legislation. Then the
problems, miscellaneous problems, which come out of these two.
This point is extremely important for the Bahá’ís to know, that the duties
of the guardians of the Cause and the duties of legislative powers are explicitly
written down by the pens of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. We want to know
the duties of these two great powers, of the Guardian and of the House of
Justice, because they are not left alone by themselves to do whatever they
like, but their duties are appointed, and according to those duties they must
work, decide and act.
Now, the first and foremost duty of the Guardian of the Cause is expounding.
Please have in mind that this word never means explanation. By expounding
the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh or the Book of God it is meant that when there
is diversity of understanding about something in the book, there are several
people who have a different understanding, then they refer to the Guardian
and he says this verse means this and only this. The people should not follow
different ideas, but that which is expounded by the Guardian. But sometimes
there is a different word in the book, and I may go and ask somebody for the
explanation. He says what it does mean; he does not expound. He says it means
this word, it is a synonym to that word. Some parts may refer to an historical
thing. He says this refers to that. And then the meaning will be clear. But in
other places where expounding of the problem is concerned, it is only in the
hand of the Guardian.
One day the Guardian read for me a verse from the book of Aqdas in which
Bahá’u’lláh addresses Tihran. He says, soon, all the affairs will be revolu-
tionised in the land of Tehran. ‘Now here is a word in the second part, a word
which may mean that public will rule on you or there will be a confusion on
you and your country. And two or three different meanings can be made on
this word. That word in Arabic is Jomhoor, the public will rule. Then he asked
me “what do our teachers say about this verse of the book of the Aqdas? How
do they give the meaning?”. “Well,” I said, “so far the teachers have told me
course for those persons who are confirmed from the high ranks of God, we
never count years. Even from amongst the students of the schools, we find a
child of nine who has the capacity of a child of the age 15, 16 and more. Also
children of age 15 or 16 who did not have the capacity of those aged 5 or 6
after the intelligence test was given to them.
We have heard of many children, precocious ones, who have been showing
great intellectual capacity at the age of 9, who have conducted great orchestras
for example. And then a person who is divinely appointed, divinely supported
is like a machine through which God works, no matter at what age he is.
Question: Some Christians believe, probably from the Book of Revelation,
which mentions a millennium at the end of which the devil will be loose for a
while, that there will be a period, a short period of difficulty, before the next
manifestation is accepted.29
Answer: You see, it exactly happened at the time of Bahá’u’lláh. Millen-
nium refers to the coming of Muhammad. His revelation was for 1000 years,
and when Bahá’u’lláh declared his mission there were devilish spirits who
stood against Him as covenant breakers and against the Master, and they had
a free time in those days and they were free. But in the time of the Guardian,
as it is written in the fables of the East, a great power will put the devils in a
bottle and seal it. Now he has done so, and they will never come out.
Question: Our communities are not very large, and since our voting is
through prayer and not through nomination, how are we to know those who
are best qualified?
Answer: As the community will grow in number, the means will increase
also such that the friends will know each other better than now. If now we meet
only 19 days a time, in the future we will have better time to meet and oftener
than now, more occasions more places and know each other much better than
now. The means will be newspapers, radio, television, and many other things
which will help us altogether.

Session Three : The powers of Expounding and Legislating
We remember from our last lesson that the prophetic cycle established by
Bahá’u’lláh for 500,000 years and this cycle is divided into several ages and
we are now in the first age, the age of Bahá’u’lláh himself which will last for at
least 1000 years. We also said that this age is divided into 3 periods. Apostolic
or heroic, formative and golden period. We all remember that the first period
lasted for 77 years, the life age of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, now we are in the formative
29.	 Revelation 20:1-3.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
(text missing) ...and regulations for the whole world is the International
House of Justice and the only place where we believe that their decisions are
divine and divinely protected and we know why the Guardian should be the
chairman of the House of Justice - so they should always be under his guard,
so that the weakness of humanity may never enter the decisions and may never
have anything to do with their study of cases. Always they will be under the
unerring guidance of the Blessed Perfection and the Báb. That is why ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá said in His Will and Testament, that their decisions will be divine, eve-
rybody has to obey them and whosoever disobeys them has disobeyed God.
Now, you see very clearly how the two powers have their own duties to
perform and none will have the power to interfere with the other one, and join-
ing them will be the person of the Guardian of the Cause. Well, their duties of
legislative power are also very clearly written down. Those things that are not
mentioned in the Book of God and in the Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, they may
make rules about them according to the circumstances of the time and whenever
it necessitates to change it, they themselves may change the rules.32
Another duty of the Guardian is to nominate and appoint Hands of the
Cause. It is not a title given by any other person, it is the duty given to them
by the Guardian. “The Hands of the Cause of God must elect from their own
number nine persons that shall at all times be occupied in the important services
in the work of the guardian of the Cause of God. The election of these nine
must be carried either unanimously or by majority from the company of the
Hands of the Cause of God...”33 Now, whoever may be appointed Hand of the
Cause, as many as the Guardian appoints, then in a certain time they will elect
nine from amongst themselves who must be in the service of the Guardian.
The duties of these Hands of the Cause are also explicitly written down in the
Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
“The obligations of the Hands of the Cause of God are to diffuse the Di-
vine Fragrances, to edify the souls of men, to promote learning, to improve
the character of all men and to be, at all times and under all conditions,
sanctified and detached from earthly things. They must manifest the fear
of God by their conduct, their manners, their deeds and their words.”34
The Guardian will encourage each and all of them to different services
which he has in mind, such as teaching, education and other things. Therefore,
we understand the duties of everyone, the Guardian, the House of Justice, the
members of the Hands of the Cause and others are fully and explicitly written
down in this Will and Testament of the Master, so that no-one will ever deviate
from his duties.
that there will be a great confusion in Tehran and then the people will rule and
there will be anarchy.”
He said “no, it does not mean that. Bahá’u’lláh says revolutions will take
place in Iran and then the public will rule over the land. It means when the
public of Iran will elect their representatives and then the NSA or the House
of Justice of Iran will have the full representation and will rule over Iran.”30
Well, I gave you this example so that you will know the difficulties that
will arise and had it not been for the sake of one who would give his decisive
meaning about the word, then there would be confusion amongst the friends.
But he gives the real meaning of the word and everyone will be satisfied.
I give you an example from the Master. There is a verse in the Qur’án that
says “God had a trust and he wanted to entrust it to the world of creation. He
gave his trust to the mountains, they did not accept it, he brought it upon all
the very heavy strong things, and suggested to them to accept this trust of God,
they did not accept. But he suggested to man, you accept it and man accepted it.
Because He was the Wronged-one and the commentators of the Qur’án wrote
because man was oppressor and ignorant. Well, there arose a great difficulty
amongst them for that trust is the trust of prophethood. And the most perfect
man of every age accepted that trust of God. Well, they said if the prophets
who are the most perfect of all creation accepted the trust of God, how could
they be called ignorant and oppressors? They were at a loss and are still at a
loss, and they don’t know how to solve this problem.31
Well, the Master solved it in one simple sentence. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says refer
to the grammatical rules of the Arabic language and you will very obviously
find the meaning. In this case, it does not mean oppressor, it means oppressed
one, wronged one; it does not mean ignorant one, it means ignored one. They
accepted as they were the most wronged ones on earth, the prophets, and those
whose values were always ignored by mankind. It means that. It solved the
whole problem. Well, wherever such problems arise we must refer to the centre
of the covenant and he will expound it for us and we will clearly understand
the meaning.
Now, the same centre of the Covenant in whose hand lies the authority to
expound, is the chairman of the legislative power. Hence by the one person,
the two powers will be connected to each other. The power of expounding is
the chairman of the power of legislating. The chairman of the House of Justice
must be the Guardian of the Cause, thus the two pillars will be connected to
each other. The Guardian has no interference in the work or opinions of the
members of the House of Justice. He is there so that if it ever happens that
a decision is passed by the House of Justice that may be against the explicit
Writings of the Book of God, the Guardian will put his finger there and says
it is against that rule of God and it should not pass.
32.	 See Shoghi Effendi, The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1947, pp. 55-65.
33.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, op.cit., pp. 20-21.
34.	 Ibid., p. 21.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
30.	 See Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992, p. 54.
31.	 Qur’án, 33:72.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
I specially explained these things as several of the friends have asked me
what is the difference between the institution of the Guardianship and the
Institution of the Pope. It is a very interesting question and the explanation
is quite easy. Now, first I ask what is the difference between Jesus Christ
and all those clergies at His own time: such as pharisees, Saducees, the
Heads of the Synagogues and others? The difference is that Jesus Christ was
supported, guided, aided and protected by God and the others were not. The
same difference exists between the Guardian of the Bahá’í Cause and any
other person who claims to have the power in his own hands. The Guardian
is appointed by the Master and the Master is appointed by Bahá’u’lláh. He
is divinely appointed. The others are self appointed. He is appointed by the
revealed Pen of the manifestation of God, the others are not. About him it is
said that he is always under the protection and guidance of God but about them
such things are not said.
What is the difference between Peter and the Pope? Peter was appointed
by Christ. He said to him you are the rock and upon this rock I will build my
church.36 It is an oral saying of the Manifestation of God and we accept it as
such that he was appointed as the centre of the covenant of Christianity. But
nothing has been said about the Pope; nothing has even been said about the
Pope by Peter or people like him.
There is a living example. Suppose I say to you that I am the governor of
Yerrinbool. Will you accept it? You say “never”. And I say, “Why don’t you
accept it?” What is the difference between me and the person who calls himself
Mayor or governor? You will say that he has something in his hand from the
central government to show that he is appointed by the government but you
do not have that paper. The difference is very small, but the reality is great.
The same difference exists between the Pope and the Guardian. Guardian has
something in his hand written down by the revealed pen of God but the Pope
does not have anything.
Now people come here and tell you they are doctors. Will you accept
them as such? You will never accept them, but only the ones who have their
diplomas in their hands, then you say they are doctors. In every little thing we
want something in the hand of those who claim things. I say look here now,
we accept Peter as the Centre of the Covenant in Christianity only because
Jesus Christ has said it. We accept it only because of that. But when the others
do not have such a thing then of course we do not accept them as the central
figures of a great power on earth.
The difference between the Guardian and the Pope is like the difference
between man and the manifestation of God, the difference between Pope
and Christ. If the same document had been produced to us by any person we
would accept it, we don’t have the Guardian because he is Shoghi Effendi.
36.	 Matthew, 16:18.
Now that the Guardian is expounding the Book of God, the House of
Justice makes rules and regulations, but who is to execute these things. The
governments of the world will be the power of execution of all these laws passed
by the House of Justice. The governments will also be international, national
and local and each will be the executive power of this great legislative power.
We have a judicial court also to solve the disputes occurring between different
nations of the world. The great powers of the world expounding, legislating
and executing are found explicitly in the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Now, you remember we explained how religions have been divided into
different sects because they have been quarrelling over what they should
believe and what should be the basic beliefs of the religion. What should we
call Jesus? What should we believe in the Holy Ghost? What is the rank and
station of the mother of Jesus? What should we believe in God? The same
thing happened in the history of Islam. Now, to prevent all these hows, whys
and wherefores in the Bahá’í religion, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has fully and completely
written down the basic beliefs of all the Bahá’ís and no one has the right to
change these beliefs in the course of the years to come.
This is the foundation of the belief of the people of Bahá (may my life
be offered up for them): “His Holiness, the Exalted One (the Báb), is the
Manifestation of the Unity and Oneness of God and the Forerunner of the
Ancient Beauty. His Holiness the Abhá Beauty (may my life be a sacrifice
for His steadfast friends) is the Supreme Manifestation of God and the Day-
spring of His Most Divine Essence. All others are servants unto Him and do
His bidding.” Unto the Most Holy Book every one must turn and all that is
not expressly recorded therein must be referred to the Universal House of
Justice. That which this body, whether unanimously or by a majority doth
carry, that is verily the Truth and the Purpose of God Himself.35
Now, please ponder on these facts so far explained and see how everything is
lawfully written down and we have everything according to the law of religion
and if there is any way that they may create a certain schism or division in the
Cause of God, please mention if there is any, all are closed up for centuries.
If you think there is any chance for any man to make a new scheme to create
a schism in the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh you may mention it now and that will be
shown in the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that this door is also closed.
The International government will be the representative of all the gov-
ernments of the world working with the House of Justice so that none will
deviate from the rules issued by that board. National governments may have
kings at the head for instance but that government should work according to
the issues of the National Assemblies and local governments will be the same
under local Assemblies.
35.	 Ibid., pp. 29-30.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
he is the one to expound the Book of God for the people, but the Pope is the
head of the clergymen of the earth and the clergymen are commanding the
people and their powers have no limit.
You see, even some money which goes to the Guardian, Bahá’u’lláh in
the Kitab-i-Aqdas and some other Tablets has definitely and explicitly said to
which lines and ways this money should be spent. Therefore the Guardian is
obliged to follow these rules and duties.
When we see the Guardian in his daily life we see that he follows all these
rules and regulations of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. His clothing
are extremely simple and years and years old, but very clean. He has full 24
hours job, he sleeps only 4 to 5 hours every day, he has no holidays, no off
days, no long breaks, no amusement, just work and work and work. Why? He
has all the authority in his hand, but he never thinks of himself, just works
for the Cause throughout his life. This shows that he is holy, he is under the
protection of God and he is confirmed by God.
We have nine days during which we do not work. These nine days are
worst for the Guardian, because during those days he receives telegrams from
all around the world and he replies to each and every one of them. Therefore,
receiving and answering these telegrams means additional work during those
holy days. I say that the guardian is self imprisoned in his library or studio
where he always is and lives and works.
Of course, I find such questions as what is the difference between the Pope
and the Guardian very reasonable. The world is afraid of such a station and
when we say we have a Guardian, they are afraid of another sort of papacy in
the Bahá’í religion. As we say in Persian, a man who is bitten by a snake is
afraid of a black and white thread (a burnt child dreads the fire). Those who
have been under that authority are afraid of having such a thing in the Bahá’í
religion. But if they ask and you explain these things point by point, they will
understand and I believe, if they understand well they will be thankful and
grateful to God for having given us a Guardian who is under the unerring
guidance of God himself.
Not all that glitters is gold, but it is only gold that glitters. Of course, when
we say that the Guardian is the head of our religion it does not mean that he
is like the Pope, we must see to the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá and
understand the difference between these two powers.
Another example. The sun has set. The world is in darkness. If the moon
shines, which one is better - the moon-shine or without it? The guardianship
is the moon that receives light from the sun and reflects it to the earth after the
absence of the sun of truth. All through this age of Bahá, due to the guardians,
we will never have a dark night.

No, because in this document it is written you should refer to this person.
Anyone who has a divine document, a divine certificate in his hand we accept
him as the centre of the covenant.
How do we know that Bahá’u’lláh is the manifestation of God? We know by
his word that he has been appointed. And the same man who was appointed by
God has singled out ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the Centre of the Covenant and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá has singled out Shoghi Effendi as his Centre of the Covenant and the
Guardian of the Cause. It is one link connected to another one.
It is a school and we want everything to be logical and scientific. Now, the
popes claim to be infallible, this station of infallibility is given to them by God
or is it a self appointed privilege? They do not have any document to show
that it is given to them by God, but some years ago they thought of having this
power in their own hands and they claimed it to be infallible.
We had a king in Iran who used to issue decrees and medals for himself.
Every week the order would be issued and medals would be worn by him. Well,
it is very easy for him to do that, but if it is given to him by another authority
then it would be appreciated. The same thing applies to these people. They
give themselves authority, privileges, infallibility and other things.
Read the Gospel all through and see if you can find anywhere in the Gospel
where it is said by Jesus Christ that in the future, some people will be the heads
of my church and they will be infallible and we will accept it. There is no refer-
ence like that in all the Bible. We read this before and we read it again:
The sacred and youthful branch, the guardian of the Cause of God
as well as the Universal House of Justice...are both under the care and
protection of the Abhá Beauty, under the shelter and unerring guidance of
His Holiness, the Exalted One (may my life be offered up for them both).
Whatsoever they decide is of God. Whoso obeyeth him not, neither obeyeth
them, hath not obeyed God...37
It is a divine document in our hand. Whenever there is such a divine
document in our hand we accept it and say the others may also have the same
power. It is like flowers. Wherever it grows it is a flower. We will accept it as
flower. The first difference between the Guardian and the Pope is this: that the
Guardian was divinely appointed and he is not. The second is that the Guardian
is divinely appointed as infallible and the Pope is not. The third, he has duties
to perform and he has only to see to those duties written down for him, but
these duties are written down by a higher authority, the pen of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
but the Pope has no such duties, no one has outlined his duties, everything is
in his own hand and his powers have no end and no limit.
The Guardian is only the Chairman of the House of Justice and of course
37.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, op.cit., p. 19.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
This is what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has said about governments in his Will and
Testament. We read it first and then the explanation will be given.
This House of Justice enacteth the laws and the government enforceth
them. The legislative body must reinforce the executive, the executive must
aid and assist the legislative body so that through the close union and
harmony of these two forces, the foundation of fairness and justice may
become firm and strong, that all the regions of the world may become even
as Paradise itself.38
You read here clearly that the Master states two forces. He means the leg-
islative power and the executive power. And he emphatically says that these
two must harmoniously work together - legislative must aid the executive and
the executive must assist the legislative. Another term that he uses for these
two forces is government.
You remember, we have three kinds of legislative centres - international,
national and local. And here ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says the government should put
into action what is enacted by legislative power. Therefore, we will have three
forms of government - international, national and local.
The executive power or the international government is to put into power
the laws and regulations of the International House of Justice. And it is an-
other duty to perform and that is to supervise the national governments, lest
sometimes they stand aggressive against another government. In that case the
international government should see to it and subdue the aggressive nation or
the nation who does not want to execute the laws of the international House
of Justice.
A national government will be the executive power of whatever is issued
by the International House of Justice and by its own national House of Justice.
And whatever is issued by the local assemblies, local House of Justices, the
local government will be the executive power. Whatever the national govern-
ment gives the right to them to follow the rules and regulations issued by the
local government, they will perform.
The details of these governments are not put down, therefore it will be
the duty of the Guardian and the House of Justice to put down the details and
forms of these three kinds of international, national and local governments.
The International Tribunal
The international tribunal of Justice is only to see to the disputes that hap-
pen between international governments, and that is what is written in the Will
and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The exact quotation is:
Question: What if the guardian cannot attend a meeting of the House of
Justice?
Answer: It is written in the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that if
the Guardian can not go to the House of Justice and be the chairman, he will
send by his own appointment, a representative as such. This also is written
there so that in the future, they will not question it in the House of Justice. It
is written down.
Question: The guardian who comes after the present guardian, will he be
of the same station?
Answer: It’s not the first guardian, it is for all the guardians; all will be
under the protection and guidance of God.
Question: Will he have more authority than any form of government in
Italy or Rome?
Answer: Since the middle ages the pope was extremely powerful. The kings
could not become kings in their own countries unless their crowns had been
put on their heads by the pope and they should have been blessed by him too.
In the churches of Rome, there are statues of the kings kneeling down and the
Pope is blessing them. That shows the power in the olden days. But as there
were fights between the Popes and the states, little by little the power decreased,
but now in Rome his power is so that government is under his influence.
Question: Do you have any information about when the International
House of Justice will be established?
Answer: I have not seen anything written down, but as I collect from here
and there, my personal feeling is that by 1963 we will have our International
House of Justice.
Question: When will we have world peace?
Answer: Lesser peace? Yes. You know we have lesser peace and Most
Great Peace. The lesser peace will be by 1963.
No Governments of the Future
There are three more subjects about the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and I want to dwell upon them tonight. First, the states in the future; govern-
ments. Second, the judicial power of the Bahá’í administration or the course
of Justice. Third, our keeping apart from the Covenant breakers.
38.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, op.cit., p. 24.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Anyone who does not abide by these covenants will of course be counted as
one who has broken these covenants.
As this is very important and I have been asked about it many times, I want
to explain it as fully as possible so that every part of this question will be fully
explained. Let’s suppose one of the followers of the Báb. The person says I am
a Bábí, a follower of the Báb. And as such I don’t want to accept Bahá’u’lláh
as the manifestation of God, I don’t recognise Him as the one promised by
the Báb, we call such a man as the one who has broken his covenant with the
Báb. But if the same man says for some years I studied the teachings of the
Báb and I accepted them. But now I think they are wrong, I don’t want this
line of religion to be adopted by myself and I will go back to my previous
Islamic religion. We don’t call a man who has gone back a covenant breaker,
he has backslided.
The same thing is true for anyone who says I accept Bahá’u’lláh and His
teachings but I do not accept ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the centre of His covenant. This
means that he has accepted everything except the most important document of
Bahá’u’lláh - His Will and Testament which is written by His own hand. Such
a person is called one who has broken the covenant of God. The same man, if
he goes back to be a Christian and does no longer accept Bahá’u’lláh as the
manifestation of God, we do not call him a covenant breaker.
I again explain the meaning of covenant breaker. The covenant breaker is
the one who accepts the writer of the Will and Testament, but does not accept
his writings, i.e., his Will and Testament. It is like the one who says so and so
is my father but I will never accept his written will after his death. The same
thing is true about the one who says I accept Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
but I don’t want to abide by the rules of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, I don’t want to accept Shoghi Effendi as the Guardian of the Cause, he
is a covenant-breaker but if he goes back and does not accept anyone of these,
we do not call him a covenant breaker.
In brief, we can never accept a man who says, well, in the process of my
spiritual experiences, I have come as far as Bahá’u’lláh but I do not accept
‘Abdu’l-Bahá or I have come as far as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá but I do not accept Shoghi
Effendi. Such a thing is absolutely wrong in all the religions of the world and
is not to be accepted by anyone
The first part of the Tablet of the Will and Testament will be read and
please pay attention as to how ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes the covenant breakers.
All praise to Him Who, by the Shield of His covenant, hath guarded
the Temple of His Cause from the darts of doubtfulness, Who by the Hosts
of His Testament hath preserved the Sanctuary of His most Benificent
Law and protected His Straight and Luminous Path, staying thereby the
onslaught of the company of Covenant-breakers, that have threatened to
39.	 Ibid., pp. 21-22.
This body of the Hands of the Cause of God is under the direction
of the Guardian of the Cause of God. He must continually urge them to
strive and endeavour to the utmost of their ability to diffuse the sweet
savours of God, and to guide all the peoples of the world, for it is the
light of Divine Guidance that causeth all the universe to be illumined.
To disregard, though it be for a moment, this absolute command which
is binding upon everyone, is in no wise permitted, that the existent world
may become even as the Abhá Paradise, that the surface of the earth may
become heavenly, the contention and conflict amidst peoples, kindreds,
nations and governments may disappear, that all the dwellers on earth may
become one people and one race, that the world may become even as one
home. Should differences arise, they shall be amicably and conclusively
settled by the Supreme Tribunal, that shall include members from all the
governments and peoples of the world.39
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in other Tablets has explained how this international tribunal
may be formed. He says the members should be from all countries and when
they come to this tribunal, they should have credentials from their parliaments
and from their governments so that they will really represent their nations and
their governments and in that case whatever they vote and whatever they say
and decide will be fully accepted by their own nations and their own govern-
ments.
That is what we have about the international judicial power and how it
will be formed. More than that, details of other judicial centres are not writ-
ten down therefore this is something that will be explained and laid down in
the future.
Some preliminary steps have been taken so far. For instance, the interna-
tional council that we have in Haifa now, the Guardian says, is an introduction
to the international judicial power. And if you study the 10 year plan, you will
see in 5 or 6 Islamic countries the Guardian has ordered that in their capitals
a judicial court should be formed and this is another step of judicial powers
to be brought into existence by the Bahá’í world during the next 10 years.
The Avoidance of Covenant-Breakers
The third section deals with abstaining from contact with the Covenant
breakers.
I first want to explain what is a covenant breaker, who is a covenant breaker.
Could a man count himself a Bahá’í and also a covenant breaker. Could these
two gather together in the same person. The covenant breaker is one who has
broken the covenant of the Báb or Bahá’u’lláh or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. You know
each one of them had a certain covenant made with the people of the world.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
advice of the Master and have been extremely serious about it, they left them
alone to themselves and never had anything to do with them. But we have in
Persia, people who came to the Assembly and said, we don’t want to be Bahá’ís,
please cross out our names from the list, we want to live as Muslims - well,
they remain friends as they were before, but they will no longer participate in
the Bahá’í activities.
If in the ages gone and the past religions, in the very beginning had they
been as severe as this with the covenant-breakers, the history of the world
would not have been written with the blood of the followers of these religions.
We would have been much more prosperous and happier now. The wisdom of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in writing these severe words is that the history of the past will
not be repeated in the religion of Bahá’u’lláh.
If we want to show compassion to a wolf, would it not be an open cruelty
to many many lambs and sheep? Should we be kind to snakes and let them be
free in the society of mankind, what shall we do to protect our own children? If
the Bahá’í administration acts against three or four of these spiritually diseased
persons, it is just to protect so many other healthy ones in the community. I
have found an example which illustrates the Bahá’í world. I believe the Bahá’ís
throughout the world are like a band of musicians who want to give a certain
performance. Everyone of them has a special musical instrument. Everyone has
a special part of the music. All are playing their parts. If everyone is playing
his own part by himself regardless of the conductor, no one will ever want to
go and listen to them perform. But the moment the conductor goes in the front
and all look to his hand, and all wait for the start of his movement, though
everyone has a different instrument, and different notes of music, the result of
the music played under the guidance of one conductor will be most beautiful
music that will delight everyone and everyone will listen. This is the station
of the Guardian with the Bahá’ís one in the south, one in the north, one in the
east and one in the west, everyone with different backgrounds, yet working
harmoniously together.
When I reached Australia and saw some of the cities, I could never compare
the life in Australia to the life I have seen in the East. But when I meet the
friends in different centres, it is as if I met the friends from other parts of the
world. They had the same idea, the same purpose, the same plans, the same
enthusiasm and the same faith and all working harmoniously together the same
as the people of the East. Apparently different, but spiritually the same. Had it
not been for that divine guidance we would not have such harmony amongst
the friends. Australia would work in one way, the east another way, and none
of them would ever resemble each other.
Man has a soul, and one of the reflections of the soul is the power of the
brain. The brain keeps all the members of the body in equilibrium, even though
the members appear absolutely different to each other yet they work harmoni-
ously together in keeping up the body of man. Now, the same man, suppose
subvert His Divine Edifice; Who hath watched over His Mighty Stronghold
and All-glorious Faith, through the aid of men whom the slander of the
slanderer affect not, whom no earthly calling, glory and power can turn
aside from the Covenant of God and His Testament, established firmly by
His clear and manifest words, writ and revealed by His All-Glorious Pen
and recorded in the Preserved Tablet.40

Again, the covenant breakers are described as such: covenant breakers
that have threatened to subvert His Divine Edifice. Can we ever call a man
who wants to destroy this divine edifice from the very foundation, can we call
such a man a Bahá’í?
And now, one of the greatest and most fundamental principles of the
Cause of God is to shun and avoid entirely the Covenant-breakers, for they
will utterly destroy the Cause of God, exterminate His Law and render of
no account all efforts exerted in the past. O friends! It behoveth you to call
to mind with tenderness the trials of His Holiness, the Exalted One, and
show your fidelity to the Ever-Blest Beauty. The utmost endeavour must be
exerted lest all these woes, trials and afflictions, all this pure and sacred
blood that hath been shed so profusely in the Path of God, may prove to
be in vain.41
Here you see, he says, one of the most important fundamental principles
of the Cause is to shun and avoid the covenant breakers and last night we read
another part of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. He said anyone who
stands against the Guardian of the Cause must immediately be expelled from
our community.
Now, you understand why the Bahá’í religion will ever be safeguarded
against division and schism. Now, you understand why corruption will never
find its way to this divine institution. The hardest point and the most severe
treatment in the Bahá’í religion is found only in this case and that is the case
of the treatment of the covenant breakers who always try to destroy the divine
edifice from its very foundation.
The man who says I accept the Bahá’í religion but I do not want to obey the
rules and regulations of the Guardian, he will not be considered to be a healthy
man. In many tablets we read that such a disease of the spirit is like leprosy.
As leprosy is most dangerously contagious, so the disease of the covenant
breakers is also contagious. And that is why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, wanting to keep us
healthy in body and spirit, has advised us to avoid and shun all these people.
Wherever persons of this nature have been found, covenant breakers, they
have been treated very faithfully and seriously. The friends have followed the
40.	 Ibid.,  p. 7.
41.	 Ibid., p. 31.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
because I am back-biting, the worst thing ever described in the Bahá’í religion.
As it was explained, my first duty is to go directly to my administrative body
and report it and bring proofs of what I say so that the doors may be open for
them in their investigation. Suppose I drink and a Bahá’í sees me drinking. If
he reports this to his wife or his friend he is backbiting, and then he will be
worse than I am. He must directly go to his Assembly, report to them and then
bring the proof as to where and when I was drinking, leave the matter there and
go out and keep absolutely silent. Then the Assembly will investigate it, take
its course of action. The individual’s duty is concluded by that. Of course you
all know that backbiting is absolutely forbidden in the Bahá’í Cause because
it absolutely destroys the foundation of the Cause. The communities where
the individuals do not commit this great sin, flourish, increase in number and
strength every day.
Question: How do we reconcile that the Cause is impregnable?
Answer: Well, the question is extremely easy. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says it is im-
pregnable. No one can ever destroy this great fortress of God. Why? Because
he has ordered his soldiers to be vigilant, to be prepared for the onslaught.
If He had not said this, of course they could have come in and destroyed it.
But as he has put soldiers on every place, told them to safeguard the fortress
of God, then those who want to destroy it can never approach it. The one is
supplementary to the other. The covenant breakers desire the destruction of
this. Potentially they could destroy it, but the Bahá’ís will be defending it. It
is like a bomb, it has the power to destroy, but ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says never let it
fall here and the Bahá’ís keep watch against it.
Question: Do all try to destroy the Cause or are some just inactive?
Answer: This desire of destruction is the second nature of all these people
who become covenant breakers. It is just like a snake biting. When it is cold it
can not do anything, but whenever it is warm and it finds a suitable situation it
bites. The same thing is true about the covenant breakers. In a place where the
friends are very strong, they are frozen, they can’t do anything, but the moment
they find an opportunity, then they bite and want to destroy. If you find that they
are quiet and don’t do anything, it is due to the strength of the friends and they
can not find a suitable situation to destroy the Cause. Bahá’u’lláh especially
in His Book of Aqdas says beware lest you be overtaken by pity in the Cause
of God. He says pity can sometimes be a cause of harm. We have to obey the
injunction of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and exactly comply with it. We should have pity
on the sacred blood of the Báb and the Ancient Beauty.
something happens to him so that his brain does not work sanely, healthily.
The hand which is supposed to take a morsel of bread to feed the body will
take a huge stone and hit it’s own head and hurts it. The man who has been
healthy and using his teeth for the purpose of chewing, will chew his own
hands rather than the thing that is given to him. Other religions of the past
did not obey the centres of their covenants therefore the central power of the
brain stopped working and the whole body started to do work but detrimental
to the body itself. Now, we are fortunate that we have that divine, spiritual
leader and all the members of this body of humanity under his guidance are
working harmoniously together.

Question: What do we do to help covenant breakers?
Answer: There is no door closed to anybody in the Bahá’í Faith. The
Guardian has left this door open. He says anyone who is cast out of the com-
munity because he has deliberately broken the Covenant of God, he must refer
to myself in any difficulty. If he wants an answer to a question, he must refer
to myself. If he wants to repent, he must refer to myself. If he wants to return
to the Bahá’í community, he must write to myself and I am always ready to
help such people, to assist them, to bring them out of their plight. He says the
others are not able to help them. It is the same as a doctor who says that this
man has T.B. If you are his nearest relative and go to him, you will catch it
too. Please don’t have anything to do with him because I can defend myself
and I can cure him. Is it clear?
Question: How do we discover a covenant breaker and what authority says
they are a covenant breaker?
Answer: I thank you for this delicate question. Individuals have no right
to protest against anyone. It is the duty of the administrative centres, local and
national. When the institutions are sure of the conduct of some people and
recognise them as such they inform their Local Assembly, they report it to
the National Assembly who at this time, report it to the Guardian. Now, if an
individual sees the traces of ill-conduct or things that lead to being a covenant-
breaker, detrimental to the spirit and foundation of the Cause, his religious
duty, conscientious duty is this. First of all not to say anything to anybody,
even his nearest relatives and friends. He should go directly to the assembly
and report what he has witnessed with his own eyes. And after that he should
keep quiet about it and feel sure that he has done his religious duty and he has
nothing more to do about it. Why should he not say anything to someone else?
If I should see something wrong from a friend of mine and he is committing
some sort of sin which is not worthy of a Bahá’í, detrimental to the Cause of
God, if I go and explain it to another person, I will be worse than the first one
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
He means Bahá’u’lláh, if he tells you that this is heaven and that is the earth
you do not have the right to question Him why and how. Now he says we have
to reconcile these two. Apparently they are opposite to each other, opposite to
independent investigation of truth.
Bahá’u’lláh in the Aqdas and in many other Writings says the essence of
faith is this, that every believer should know God as this: He does whatever
He likes. He orders whatever He wills and He is never to be questioned by the
believers. He says that if you ever want to be protected against transgression of
any of the rules of God, you must always have this in mind. He does whatever
He likes. He goes on further - make it a standard, a flag, let it go ahead of you
always, follow it so that you will always be on the right path of God, you will
never be a transgressor of the rules of God.
Apparently, these two seem contradictory. But, if we understand these two
orders we will find out that they are not contradictory, they are two screws
of one machine, placed in their own places. The machine of our Faith will be
steadfast by these two screws and the explanation will be given. Bahá’u’lláh
says Independent investigation of truth, this means a preliminary step to reach
the truth. You do your best, examine, read question, criticise as much as you
can until you reach the truth, and then you say now I have found it. When you
have found it then the stage of obedience will start. There is a rule in logic
which says when you have found something and you keep searching for it
there must be something wrong with you. He says now it is day and if we see
someone with a lamp in his hand walking around the garden we say why do
you have a lamp in your hand. He says I want light. You say it is daytime, we
have light, you don’t need a lamp, there must be something wrong with you.
When you have the truth, when you find the manifestation, then you don’t need
to search after the truth any more. You have the truth in your hand. Therefore,
whatever is written, ordered, commanded by Him is the truth and nothing else.
Now suppose someone says I have found the truth, then he does something
against what the truth is telling him, it is a deviation from the truth. We don’t
call it faith, we don’t call it anything. And we don’t find that claim to be true,
it means that he has not really found the truth. If he has found it, then he must
follow it.
Now, I give several examples so that this principle of our faith will be clear
to everyone. Suppose someone has an illness. Now, suppose before he goes
to the doctor he may write to the ministry of health and ask for the name of a
good doctor. He may ask his friend and inquire here and there about the best
doctor. He may read all the signboards for the doctors and when he has found
the right one, he goes in and explains about his health problem. After that, he
starts the stage of obedience to the doctor. The doctor commands whatever he
likes, and there is no right for the patient to ask him anything. If he asks him
why do you do this, the doctor explains to him and will say this is my place as
Personal Investigation of Truth
I believe that the topic for this evening, personal investigation of truth, is
a very important one which we are asked about in our daily lives. One of the
Great principles of the Bahá’í Cause is investigation of truth and we often
very proudly say independent investigation of truth. It means that the Bahá’ís
search for the truth, they try to find it wherever it is, they are not imitators of
others and they do not accept things as inheritance from their parents. Often it
happens that about some little subjects or important ones there will be created
misunderstandings. To avoid such a thing I want to make this subject quite
clear by giving some illustrations. First we believe that God has given every
individual enough power and capacity to understand the truth for himself. He
has the power to investigate after the truth, find it, grasp it and comprehend it
absolutely. As far as fundamental principles of any religion are concerned, blind
imitation is absolutely forbidden. It means that as God has given individuals
the capacity to search and find the truth, he must fulfil whatever God has given
him. He must use his gifts, divine gifts, to seek the truth for himself and never
blindly follow the others, no matter how close those persons may be to him.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in one of His addresses has clearly stated that blind imitation
has always been the first and the greatest obstacle between the people and the
Manifestations of God. The Jews did not accept Christ because they had been
told by their fathers and grandfathers or their clergymen. The Muslims did
not understand the Manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh because they had the same
disaster in their creeds and ideas and social life.
In the Qur’án sometimes God explains, by the verses written there, the
behaviour of the deniers of the manifestation of God. For instance, when Mu-
hammad declared His mission to them and called them to worship the one God.
Now, these are the words as if it were the words of the deniers: “we found the
beliefs of our fathers and grandfathers and we have to follow their footsteps.”42
That is why Bahá’u’lláh has made this independent investigation of the
truth one of the fundamental principles of the Cause, so that the people would
not follow their clergymen, will not follow the learned men of their own time,
will not follow the religion of their fathers and grand-fathers. They would
search and find the truth by themselves.
Now, I explain another principle of the Bahá’í religion, which may ap-
parently appear opposite to this independent investigation of truth. And we
want to know how to reconcile these two together. Now in another part of the
writings of Bahá’u’lláh he says anything revealed and written in the Books
of God must be accepted and obeyed by all the followers. Faith has no other
meaning but obedience. He says we must know God as this: He does whatever
He wills and He orders whatever he likes and He is never to be questioned.
The Báb says if the Manifestation of God who will come after me and by that
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
42.	 Qur’án, 43:21.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
programme runs smoothly and we get benefits out of it.
Let’s consider the other side of it. Suppose we are all in bed and we hear
the bell ringing. Well, one says I must investigate to see if there is any truth
in the ringing of the bell. Is there any necessity for the bell to be ringing and
who is ringing the bell? Who has made the bell? Another one will say we need
a bigger bell for ringing. Another one will say no, we don’t need it, we will
wake up by ourselves. And so on, and so forth, the day will be finished and
we will be dispersed in beds and baths, in the dining room, and in the parks
and gardens and no class will ever be formed.
Investigation after truth was till the door of the school. Up until then we
were free to learn about the rules and regulations of the school but when we
entered and wrote our names down as students of the school then it is the stage
of obedience and that is why we see our classes in order and our lessons going
on from the beginning of the day.
That is why in the Bahá’í administrative order we give papers to people to
sign. They come to the assembly and say “we have found the truth. We are fully
convinced that the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh are manifestations of God and the Will
and Testament of `Abdu’l-Bahá is our rule and order of life” and so on.
Session Four : Temples
You all know or have read that we already have two temples in the world.
One in Ishqabad and the second at Wilmette in America. The second one is
the holiest of all temples that we have had or will have in the history of the
Bahá’í Cause, because the cornerstone of this Temple have been laid down
by the hands of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and no temple will have such an honour in the
whole world. That is why we call the Temple at Wilmette the holiest of all
temples and the mother temple of the West.
You all know things in their own right have no value, but they have value in
proportion to something else. When anything is related or belongs to a person,
that thing will have a certain value to us. The greater the person the greater
the value of that thing, therefore something that belongs to God, the greatest
of all things must have the greatest of all values.
For example, there are plenty of houses in the world, but we have a cer-
tain value for a certain house because we say in that house a great poet, some
great man had been living. As it belonged to that man, therefore it has value
to us. When I was in Germany, I went to Frankfurt and found many houses
that were ruined during the war. Laws had been laid down that they had to be
demolished, except for one house, which had been repaired, remodelled and
that house had belonged to the great German poet Goethe43 and every day 50
or 60 people used to go and visit the house because it had been the house of
a great poet of the country.
a doctor and this is your place as a patient. You must obey. If he says take this
medicine, we will obey, because we believe that he will cure all our diseases.
When he gives you the medicine and he wants to explain why he has
given you the medicine, it is his kindness and bounty and if you understand
then it will add to the pleasure of taking the medicine against the disease. But
suppose there is no understanding, it is beyond the understanding of the man
why he should take these drugs, then the only thing for him to do is to obey
the doctor and wait for his cure.
Suppose, I want to take a trip by boat. I go to the different companies and
find one that comes from Bombay to Australia. In Bombay I am sure about
the boat and the captain, I go to the boat. As soon as I enter the boat I must
obey the captain. The boat goes this way and suddenly goes that way. Shall
I go upstairs and knock on the door of the captain and say why was the boat
going that way yesterday and this way today. And if again I go to the captain
and say yesterday the boat was going very fast and today it is going very slow,
why and why. The first time he will be very kind but by the fourth time he
will send me to somebody and tell him to keep me aside until we reach the
shore and then deliver me to an asylum, because there is something wrong
with me. And he is right to do so because he says you understood well about
the ship and the captain and the capacity of the ship, and since you honoured
us with your presence on the ship you must rest assured, be comfortable that
you will reach your shore. Have a good time here and never bother yourself
about what the captain does.
It is the most surprising thing that we know everyone on the earth does
whatever he likes and says whatever he likes except God Himself. The least
thing that we do represents the point. The minute I reached Sydney I took a
taxi to Lang Road, the headquarters. The driver took me from this lane to that
lane, down this street and that street. It took me three quarters of an hour to
get there but I never said to him why do you go this way, why that way. He
does whatever he likes, I had my life in his hands, but I was sure that after
some minutes I would reach where I wanted to get to. In such little things we
surrender everything, but not to God. We send our children to the school, to
the teachers. And if our children do not obey their teachers we punish them
because the children do not recognise that the teachers say whatever they like
and do whatever they like.
The same thing exists in our school. We gather together in the summer
school and they give us a certain programme. And they tell us whenever you
hear the bell ringing you must come to the class. We all obey. Suppose we did
not have this attitude. One would say it is better to start at five o’clock in the
morning. Another would say ten o’clock, another would suggest eight o’clock.
There would be no system, no order, no benefit out of the whole school. But as
we surrender our will to the one who is the manager of the school, the whole
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
43.	 Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749-1832), German poet, dramatist and novelist. His famous works are
Faust, The Sorrows of Youth Werther, and Westeasterly Divan.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
be a prophet and ordered the man to be brought to him again. They went and
brought him back to the court. The Calif found the man happy, well off, fat
and quite all right in health too. He said: “are you still a prophet?”. “Yes”.
“Do you still receive inspiration?” He said: “yes, I received one that said
‘don’t leave this place it is very good for you’”. Now, this is the story of
my going home, and the Summer School and the kindness of the friends - I
really must not leave this place.
I believe that you have read or have heard that the Báb in one of His
Writings said “Well be it of the one who looks at the order of Bahá’u’lláh
and thanks His God”. It is extremely important as He clearly mentions the
name of Bahá’u’lláh in this verse of His Book. And in the Book of Aqdas,
there is a verse, and I am sure that you have all read the translation, what I
say is not the exact translation. He says the World Order is confused by this
great order which God has brought to mankind. The world order is again
mentioned in the Works of Bahá’u’lláh. There are two very important words in
this verse, please be careful to study them. First, He says “new” world order,
and the second is the eyes of heaven and earth have never seen similar to it.
This world order is explained by Bahá’u’lláh in His many books and
Tablets such as the Aqdas, the tablet of the World, the Tablet of Effulgences,
Splendours, Ornaments (Tajalliyyat, Ishraqat, Tarazat, etc.) and many other
Tablets. But these are the most important ones, in which He has given the
basic principles of the world order.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in many of His Tables has explained and given the details of
this world order especially in the Will and Testament of `Abdu’l-Bahá which
is supplementary to the Aqdas. He has given the framework, the foundations
of the world order. And as you have seen in the letters of the Guardian, he
gradually showed us the practical ways of putting it into action: “this World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh.” Now, the importance in this World Order lies in
the fact that the one who foretold it was the Báb, a great Manifestation of
God, He first foretold in His Writings the order which would be founded by
Bahá’u’lláh. The founder of this order is the Promise of all Ages, the great
manifestation of God, Bahá’u’lláh himself. The expounder of this World
Order, is the mystery of God, `Abdu’l-Bahá, the exemplar of the Bahá’í life.
And the one who established it is the Guardian of the Bahá’í Cause.
The Guardian has especially warned us in many of his writings that we
must never say that it is similar to any prevailing order in the world. It is
never resembling aristocracy, democracy or autocracy or any other divisions
of these three great systems of government in the world. It is none of these
orders, and yet it is an order by itself, the similar of which has not yet been
created in the world.
It is the nature of man, that whenever he hears something new, he com-
pares it with his own self or some near one. If you say to a child that Einstein
Therefore, we understand that the value of things depends upon to whom
they belong. The higher the person, the greater the value. Now a House is built
in the name of God, and they say this House belongs to God. That shows how
great the house is in our hearts, and what a great value the house has in the
history of mankind.
Bahá’u’lláh in his book of Aqdas says that whenever you build a House in
the name of God, you must decorate it to the best possible manner that you can
because it belongs to God, to a great power ruling all over the world. You all
know that these Temples that we have built to the best decoration, but by deco-
ration I mean it has the words of God inscribed on the entrances, on the inside
and outside. We are forbidden to put pictures or statues in our Temples.
All the Houses of God that have been built in all the religions of God have
been for the same purpose but you know as religion corrupts the main purpose
little by little fades and disappears.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá said that when it is finished, that will be a new decade, a new
age in the struggle of the Cause all through the world. We must expect such
a great resolve as the Temple itself is a great silent teacher. I was there when
it was completed and dedicated. Hundreds of newspaper men were gathered
there and they all wrote about different aspects of the Temple, how it was
constructed and when it was finished. They also said from different broadcasts
from different centres in America and they also showed it by television to dif-
ferent parts of America. These articles will be written down again and again
and the news of the Temple will be broadcast from different centres, therefore
you see it is not a simple building that is being built, it is a divine construction
for the propagation of the unity of mankind. It introduces the Bahá’í religion
to everyone who sees it and it introduces the basic principles of the religion of
God as they pass by every day.
In conclusion I want to say that these pictures are taken with exquisite
beauty and talent and yet you must not be satisfied with this, pictures will
never do justice to this building, you must go and see it with your own eyes.
I congratulate you and the whole Bahá’í world community for having such
a great Temple of light and such a great divine edifice in this age of God.
Before I start my lesson, and as all the friends are glad that they are going
home, I must tell you a story. In about 850 AD it is written that once a man
came to the court of one of the Califs44 and claimed to be a prophet. The
Calif asked him: “do you also receive inspiration?” The man said: “yes.” The
Calif said: “but we had a prophet some time ago by the name of Muhammad
who said: “there is no escape and I receive inspiration and I am a prophet.”
The Calif said: “put this man in prison now,” but he ordered the gaoler not
to treat him as a common prisoner as the man claimed to be a prophet. After
a few months the Caliph remembered that there was a man who claimed to
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes
44.	 Calif Mámun, son of Harun-El-Rashid (Aaron the upright) from the Abbasid of Baghdad.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
revealed to Him by God and it will be the best at keeping the world in order
in the future ages, belonging to the Age of Bahá’u’lláh.
Please remember at present we say Administrative order of Bahá’u’lláh
and then we have another term World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. We want to make
sure that we know the exact differences between these two. Administrative
order of Bahá’u’lláh is what we are practising now. We are putting the World
Order on a very small scale - for ordering the affairs of the Bahá’ís themselves.
But as time passes and the communities will grow and the Cause of God
will spread and will be world embracing, then the time will come when all
these administrative institutions will give their place to the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. It is in the embryonic state of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
It is the first step for the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh at a time when all the
world will live under the order given by Bahá’u’lláh in His books and tablets.
There is no difference between these two - the difference is only in size.
Both are perfect systems, but one is very very small. It is like the earth com-
pared to the sun. We are practising in this Bahá’í Administrative order until
the time when we will give it to the world as the World Order.
When we say that in 1963, as it is promised by Daniel thousands of years
ago, the Bahá’í Faith will be established in the world, we don’t mean that
in the world at that time we will not find any non-Bahá’í. What we mean is
this, the child is gathering all the limbs of the body and all things required
for growth. In that year the child will have everything that it needs, the child
of the Cause will be perfect in everything, will have eyes, hands, limbs and
then he will be ready to grow, to march on. This is what we mean by being
well established in the world and nothing else.
The world order of Bahá’u’lláh is not yet born, it is still in it’s embryonic
stage. It is growing, is gathering strength, and in the year 1963 the child will
be born and that is why we celebrate that year, the birth of the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh. For instance, in our Administrative Order now, we don’t have
the International House of Justice, some of our National Assemblies are not
yet formed, the Institution of the Hands of the Cause is not yet complete - the
Guardian says he gives them gradually. During these 10 years, little by little
all the details of this great edifice will be completed by the Guardian and
from 1963 on the child of the World Order will be born and will start to grow.
Now, when we say the child will be born, let us not think that really it
will be a child and will grow very slowly, steadily and lazily. No, this child
will do the work of 100 years in one day, and you must take some gifts for
this child when he is born. From now, get ready and prepare your gifts of
faith, of pioneering, of steadfastness, of certitude, bravery and encourage-
ment that you have and bring them all to the great celebration that will be in
Baghdad for the birth of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.
In conclusion, I want to thank all of you for the kindness that you have
is the greatest physicist in the world today, he will say that he is like my dad.
Or if you tell him more than that, the child will say, alright a little bit more
than him. If you say to a villager about Newton and the great discoveries
he made in science, he will say he must be like the Mayor of our city. If not
equal to him, a little bit higher than him. He will never be able to enlarge his
ideas and reach the high station of these people. This is the nature of man.
The same thing takes place when we first hear about the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh. We immediately say it is like our own country, like France,
like England. We resemble it to something we know, but we must not do
this before we study it thoroughly. We remember and we believe that all the
civilisations of the past have been created by the manifestations of God.
Therefore there will be found some good elements in all these systems of
government. In the Bahá’í World Order you will not find any one of the
institutions or systems of government, but a mixture of the best elements
drawn from these systems; a beautiful mixture of all these things which have
been created as a new and beautiful order.
I am sure that you know all these expressions, but I only repeat them so
that you will remember them better. Democracy is derived from two Latin
words - demo and cracy. Demo means “the people”, “cracy” means govern-
ment.45 Therefore it means government of the people on the people. And it
has several different forms and shapes. It may be in public, it may be like the
election system that takes place in Russia, a general sort of election which
takes place in America or any other part, which is called democracy or the
elected who rule over the people and who are chosen by the people.
An aristocracy means the government of the best. It is the sort of govern-
ment which Plato advised in his book The Republic, and he said the people
should be divided into two parts, the good and the best - the best must
always be the rulers. The best in oratory, the best in genealogy, the best in
ideas, learning, science must be the rulers of the people, therefore they call
it aristocracy.
Autocracy means self styled government - someone makes himself the
ruler of a country and rules without restraint - such as the rule of Nicolai in
Russia or the rule of Wilhelm in Germany.
Please remember these three forms of government, study them in your
leisure time and see the forms they have. You will find that every one of
them has many sides of corruption. Then, compare it with the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh and you will find the best elements are gathered here. When
I say the best elements are gathered here, I don’t mean that Bahá’u’lláh laid
out these three forms in front of Him and chose the best elements - no - all
these systems are the remnants of the civilisations which have been the di-
rect result of the manifestations of God and now this is a new World Order
45.	 The root of the word comes from the Greek language as: demos, “the people” and kratein, “to rule” and
so demotrakia (democracy) means rule or government by the people.
Mr Faizi & Mr Furutan in Australia: the Yerrinbool tapes

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Women and Religious
Change: a case study in the
colonial migrant experience.1
Miriam Dixson
Foreword
In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, currents of religious
change long perceptible in the west became far more pronounced.  Long es-
tablished religions lost adherents to agnosticism on the one hand and, on the
other, to newer, more individualistic religions which were less institutionally
and liturgically oriented.  From as early as the mid-eighteenth century, women
had bulked increasingly large in the church congregations of the west as men
tended to stand aside from religion and dedicate themselves to a more and
more secularised public world of work and politics.  This trend too became
more pronounced in the late nineteenth century, but a new feature now came
to the fore: women rose to striking public visibility in organised religious
activity, assuming organisational and leadership roles on a scale surpassing
even that of the radical religious turmoil associated with mid­-seventeenth
century Protestantism.
Against this European background I want to take up the story of Margaret
Dixson in Australia.  Her shift from Anglicanism, via numerology, astrology
and commitment to the world ideals implicit in Esperanto, to the teachings of
Bahá’í, on the one hand reflects the widespread change occurring in western
Protestant religion we have noted.  But beyond that it also traces out a far from
uncommon pattern the historian is able to discern among Australian religious
women of her time.
My grandmother Margaret Dixson was born Margaret Bertha Shann on
Wednesday, 11 July 1877 at 12.50 pm (her horoscope, 1926) and died at the
age of sixty two in Melbourne, 1939.  My grandmother’s life, and that of my
father, was deeply shaped by the circumstances of my great-grandfather’s story,
above all by the breakup of his marriage somewhere in the 1880s.
My great-grandfather Frank Shann, Margaret’s father, was the twelfth
1 This paper was first presented at the ABS Annual Conference in Melbourne in 1988.
bestowed on both of us. If there have been any shortcomings in my services
to you I apologise for that. I always consider myself as a humble, weak and
meek servant in front of the friends of God, and I am sure that I can not do
what they deserve. I need your prayers. Alláh-u-Abha.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
they migrated, but Margaret Dixson’s mother, Frances, was born in New South
Wales, possibly in Monaro, on 24 April 1851 and subsequently christened in
the Church of England on 5 June that year.
Frances, as we’ve said, married Frank Shann, and the couple had four
children.  Then - a most unusual thing in that day and age, particularly among
what in the phrase of that time would have been called ‘respectable’ citizens,
they divorced.
Margaret Bertha Dixson had one sister, Elizabeth (called Leischen, with
the nickname ‘Fuss’), and two brothers, Edward and Frank: the girls’ names,
like those of the boys, were typical Shann names.
In Australia, Frank Shann worked at various occupations.  Between about
1889 and 1896, for example, we find him editing the Nhill Mail and publish-
ing the first poems of John Shaw Neilson.  His sons Frank and Edward went
to school at Nhill state school, SS2411, as it was designated.  Frank Shann
also established a school in Hobart, Tasmania.  Here he became friendly with
L.F.Giblin, the economist later to play an important part in helping the Austral-
ian federal government to fashion its responses to the 1929 depression.  As
token of his affection for Giblin, Frank Shann called his second son by the name
of ‘Edward Owen Giblin’.  Frank Shann’s letters to Margaret Dixson reveal
him as a deeply religious man, and in 1909, at the age of seventy one, we find
him still active in local church affairs in Albert Park, a suburb of Melbourne,
writing for the church newspaper.  At that time Margaret, then a busy young
mother and farmer’s wife, wrote regretting that she “had so little time to read
and study God’s Word”.  In response Frank advised her to “ask for His Holy
Spirit and ‘He will teach you all things...”’
In the late nineteenth century when the parents split up, Frances, the mother,
took the two girls, Margaret and ‘Leischen’, and Frank, the father, took the two
boys, Edward and Frank.  The stories of each side then diverge quite markedly:
that of the boys is one of hard work, steady success and upward social mobility;
that of the mother and girls one of hard work, lack of success and downward
mobility.  One could perhaps explain this entirely by recalling the tragically
scarce paid work-options then available to the unskilled woman, especially
one who’d been initially a mother and wife and then became a sole parent.
Such options are very limited today, but at the time Margaret Dixson’s mother
had to rear her girls, there was not even a safety-net social welfare system.
Family legend has the mother earning their income by selling jewellery from
a horse-drawn buggy.  Neither daughter seems to have received significant
formal education.
Edward and Frank, the brothers, by contrast received a good education.
Edward’s postgraduate experience at the London School of Economics played
no small part in shaping his later attitudes towards economics.  As a postgradu-
ate student, Edward described as ‘particularly helpful’ a letter of introduction
Women and Religious Change: a case study in the colonial migrant experience.1
or thirteenth son of a Yorkshire clothier family, the Shanns.  Strips of land
belonging to Shanns can be seen in maps of the villages outside Leeds from
the 16th century onwards.  During the expansive eighteenth century, Margaret
Dixson’s branch of the Shanns moved into Leeds, set up as textile manufactur-
ers, and became citizens of substance.  They played a part in church and civic
life: Shann daughters, for example, taught the children of barge-­dwel1ers, the
‘bargees’, and a notable Shann male was prominent in the affairs of the Leeds
library.  Margaret Dixson’s passion for things of the mind took one of its points
of departure from the traditions of her English and Australian Shann bourgeois
family.  But, as we shall see, it was her destiny to be and feel estranged from
them and much of the nourishment they might have given her.
Various Shanns migrated to America and New Zealand, but since Margaret
Shann Dixson’s immediate family is our quarry here, I’ll confine myself now to
the Australian branch.  The Australian Shanns, like the English, number some
well-known citizens: Edward Owen Giblin Shann, Australia’s first prominent
economic historian and professor of economic history at the University of
Western Australia; Frank Shann, a former headmaster of Trinity Grammar,
Kew, Victoria.  Frank’s son, Edward, has been head of the Economic Division
in the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet; an Australian representative
at the International Monetary Fund in Washington; Chief Economist with Shell
Australia, and Director of Policy and Research with the Business Council of
Australia.  After many years as a paediatrician in the New Guinea Highlands,
his brother Athol spent some of his time setting up international programs and
lecturing on third world infantile disease for the World Health Organisation.
He was also the Director of Intensive Care at the Royal Children’s Hospital
and Senior Lecturer in Paediatrics at the University of Melbourne.
Margaret Shann’s father Frank was born in 1836, and married Elizabeth
Anne Barry in 1858.  She died giving birth to their second child, and next
year (1864), we find the young widower following his elder brother Richard
to Australia.  Richard found his way to Queensland and there established a
family.  Frank, who divided his time between Victoria and Tasmania, married
Frances Wood, whose name was given to my father: John Francis Dixson.
Frances Wood’s parents were John Wood and Anne Davenport, both Irish
Protestants.  John was the son of John Wood and Annie Knox, of the same reli-
gious persuasion, and they lived in Fermanagh county.  Frances’s mother, Anne
Davenport, was the Tipperary-born daughter of an army captain.  Frances’s
father John was at various points in his career an overseer, a tollgate keeper,
and finally a farmer.  John and Ann Wood married at St. Andrew’s church,
Dublin, on 23 June 1837.  Arriving in Australia about 1845, they stayed for
some thirteen years in New South Wales and many more in Victoria.  John
died in Victoria at the age of eighty-five in December 1890.
Several of John and Ann’s eleven children had been born in Ireland, before

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
water into the house to boil water over the fire.  As a careful housekeeper she
had to bear it with equanimity when storms deposited layers of fine dust over
her dinner table.  An excerpt based on Doris’s information about her from my
book on Australian women, The Real Matilda, fills out the picture of Margaret’s
life on the farm a little more:
My own grandmother, Margaret Bertha... was a deeply intellectual
women.  But because she married a farmer in north-east Victoria, the life
of the mind was often denied to her, for example, by the need to cook for
farm labour during harvest, by tasks such as carrying water to the kitchen
(Grandfather was reluctant to ‘waste’ money for capital improvement by
piping water to the kitchen) and hand sewing clothes for Dad and my
aunts.  Though Grandma died when I was nine, she had a crucial influ-
ence on my life...
Margaret Dixson might have thought herself starved for the life of the
mind, but she was far from entirely cut off from it.  Mrs Hilda Morrison of
Numurkah tells us that ‘Dickie’, as Margaret was known around Numurkah
in the early years of the century, studied numerology and astrology, attend-
ing lectures on these given by that great stalwart of early twentieth-century
country town culture in Australia, the local school headmaster.  Hilda Mor-
rison can also remember conversations in Esperanto between her own mother
and Dickie, and I remember Grandma teaching the language to me when she
lived with my family in St. Kilda, a suburb of Melbourne, not long before
her death.  From her childhood, Doris recalls parcels of books on Milton and
Shakespeare arriving at the farm homestead, and Molly tells of her mother’s
musical evenings there.
In 1916 or 1917 Walter Dixson’s story ended tragically, and as a result,
Margaret’s life changed dramatically, taking her finally to Melbourne where
she would encounter the young Bahá’í movement.  On the home farm Walter
and Margaret weathered the severe droughts of 1915-1916, and had a bumper
crop ready to harvest.  Facing severe wartime labour shortage, Walter tackled
the crop only to collapse and die ten days later from cerebral haemorrhage.
The bereaved family left the farm and finally found its way to Melbourne.
Doris was old enough to work, and left home.  Despite some help from Doris,
Margaret found it extremely hard to earn enough money to raise Jack and
Molly.  At some point Margaret took her children to Echuca, Victoria, where
she worked as housekeeper for her cousin, Ruby Dixson, a former singer and
one-time protege of Dame Nellie Melba.  However Margaret Dixson pined
for the city and the 1ife of the mind, and found her way back as soon as she
could.  In the Melbourne suburb of South Yarra (Margaret was fond of South
Yarra, and the family lived in rooms in several different locations here), she
Women and Religious Change: a case study in the colonial migrant experience.1
his father procured from the distinguished Australian politician Alfred Deakin.
In later life, when as we noted, he was to become a leading economic historian,
Edward corresponded actively with John Maynard Keynes whom one surmises
he met during his years in London.  His elder brother, Frank, at one point a
teacher at Wesley College, Melbourne, as we saw became headmaster of the
Anglican boys’ school, Trinity Grammar, Kew.
My story of Margaret Shann’s life now shifts to north-eastern Victoria, to
farming country near Numurkah.  At some time in the early twentieth century,
Margaret Shann became governess in the home of one of the five brothers of
Walter Dixson.  It was no doubt through that position that she met the handsome,
dark haired and blue-eyed Walter Dixson.  At about nineteen she married him,
at the time a moderately successful farmer.  My photo of the marriage shows
a reflective and quite strikingly attractive Margaret and a debonair, a dashing
Walter, then thirty-seven.  Walter’s father was English.  His mother was Anne
Wilson, a Scottish woman whose own father was a sea captain.  The Dixsons
were early settlers in the Goulburn Valley, and though Walter had five brothers,
there were no sisters.  In sixteen-inch rainfall country well-suited to wheat, he
raised wheat and some sheep.  With his brother Harry, who lived about two
miles away, he also worked an area of good wheat country on the banks of the
Murray some miles from the home farm.  The brothers further grazed cattle
on another largish area in a horseshoe bend of the river for many years called
Dixson’s Bend.  Walter Dixson’s wheat won a prize at the Numurkah District
Agricultural Society annual competition in 1904, and on occasion his horse,
Silvermane, won competitions.
Margaret, dark-haired and dark-eyed, with her ‘humorous sort of mouth’,
was an eternal optimist who could only see the good side of people.  She
bounced when she walked, she whistled, she loved to sing.  Her daughter Molly
described her as ‘something of a dreamer’, ‘so spontaneous in her feelings’.
She ‘loved to laugh’, and ‘didn’t care if people looked at her’.  Some detail
of Margaret’s life with Walter on the farm outside Numurkah comes from her
elder daughter, Dorothy Ann (‘Doris’).  Her first babies were twins and died.
Then came Doris, John Francis (‘Jack’, my father), and Molly. Margaret seems
to have been an excellent sewer, for pictures show the children in fine flowing
babies’ dresses - baby Jack is quite elegant - and sturdy Doris at about nine,
long beribboned tresses and a frilled, fetching dress.  Margaret seems to have
been a good cook and housekeeper.  She was an enthusiastic pianist, it seems,
and Doris tells us she played her children to sleep. Later when fourteen year
old Jack was learning the saxophone, she would sit by his side ‘for hours’
while he practised, beating time for him.
Farm life in the early twentieth century demanded a lot of women, even
more than it does now.  For example Doris recalled that her mother had to
wind up water from a deep well to feed the draft horse, and carry buckets of

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
hereabouts were built of stones carefully and laboriously built one upon
another) standing monuments of the forming of the qualities of Patience
and Perseverance in the souls who made them.  So it appeared that whereas
pilgrims may set out through what appears to be a pleasant and easy path,
sooner or later the hard stones of the self wil1 come to light. . . (But) we in
this wonderful day of swiftly-moving events do not have to live a life-time
among the stones, as did those old pioneers, but can move rapidly on to
the Desired Land.
REFERENCES
PRIMARY SOURCES
Dixson, Dorothy Ann, undated diary excerpt.
Shann, Frank, ‘Town v.Country’ (labelled by Margaret Dixson, ‘By My Dear
Father’, c.1909.)
Letters.
Blake, L.J, President of the Royal Historical Society of Victoria, 17.6.71, to
writer.
Charlton, Margaret (nee Shann), 5.8.1970, to writer.
Dixson, Dorothy Ann, Mt. Beauty, Victoria, 1968-1970, to writer.
Hassall, Graham, Canberra, 20.1.88, to writer.
Morrison, Hilda, Numurkah, Victoria, 1977, to writer.
Seymour, Colin, Shann Hall, Methley, England, 28.1.76, to Kaye Dixson
Schuster.
Enid Shann, Malvern, Victoria, 1968-1988, to writer.
Frank Shann to ‘My own darling Bertha’, Margaret Dixson, 1907-1908.
Writings by Margaret Dixson.
“‘The Four Causes”. A Bahá’í Story for Children.’ Herald of the South (Austral-
ian and New Zealand Bahá’í publication), April-May 1927, pp.11-13.
‘An Australian Pilgrimage to the Australian Pilgrim House. ‘Herald of the
South, June-July 1928, pp.8-13.
SECONDARY SOURCES
Copland, D.B., ‘Edward Shann’, in D.B.Copland and C.V.Janes, Cross Currents
of Australian Finance, Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 1936.
Dixson, Miriam, The Real Matilda.  Woman and Identity in Australia 1788 to
the Present.  Penguin, Australia, 1999 (1976).
Graham Hassall, ‘Hyde and Clara Dunn and the Victorian Bahá’ís’, Bahá’í
Studies conference, Bahá’í House, Melbourne, 1987.
Jill Roe, ‘Theosophy and the Ascendancy’, in Jim Davidson (ed.), The Mel-
bourne Sydney Book, Allen and Unwin, Sydney, 1986, pp. 208-217.
Women and Religious Change: a case study in the colonial migrant experience.1
found further work as housekeeper.  But she took other kinds of work wherever
she could find them.  For example we know that at one stage, in a converted
tram situated in the backyard of a home in Ormond, she taught Esperanto to a
seventeen-year-old youth struck down with polio.  She also set up a tiny nursery
school at an Ormond girls’ school, ‘Kilvington’, owned by her friend Miss Fish.
Margaret charged twelve shillings a week for each child, and had five pupils.
Margaret’s interest in numerology, astrology and Esperanto took her into
the New Civilisation Centre, in Collins Street, Melbourne in the early twenties.
The Centre was based on New Thought, a philosophical and mental therapeutics
movement developed in North America.  ‘Individualistic and non­-liturgical’, it
emphasised the power of constructive thinking, and to some extent recalls the
Theosophical Movement which also had a branch in Melbourne at that point.
At this time a newspaper advertises Margaret Dixson as teaching numerol-
ogy classes at the New Civilisation Centre.  It is reasonable to surmise she
first encountered the infant Australian Bahá’í movement here, for we know
the founders of the Australian movement, Clara and Hyde Dunn spoke at the
Centre at this time.  She became secretary to the Melbourne Bahá’í group.
In the early 1920s, Margaret and her two children accompanied the Dunns to
Sydney, where they shared a house at Randwick.  We find her mentioned as
secretary to the Sydney group during her brief stay there.
Margaret Dixson, born into the Church of England, drew enormous sat-
isfaction from her later commitment to the Bahá’í movement.  Her son and
daughter register her years as sole parent as a time of great material hard-
ship, and considerable ill-health: according to her daughter Molly, she often
seemed ‘too weak ... just worn out.’ But she was never downcast, and never
complained.  Margaret Dixson was a seeker.  We can see signs of this in the
discussion evenings she held at the farm near Numurkah; in her studies from
much the same period in numerology, astrology and Esperanto; and finally in
her involvement with the Bahá’ís.  Graham Hassall describes her as ‘an ardent
worker for nearly twenty years’ with the Bahá’í movement in Melbourne, and
in that work he suggests she displayed qualities of ‘genuine self-effacement,
or humility...’
Finally, she had a love of the Australian country, and we end this tribute
to her life with an excerpt from an article she wrote in 1928 which conveys
something of the f1avour of that love and of her sense of what it meant ‘to
be a pilgrim’:
Leaving the beautiful agricultural districts behind us, we passed now
into a barren and rocky belt of country called ‘Stony Rises’, where noth-
ing was in evidence but the mineral kingdom, and the country seemed
to be covered with strange-looking mounds, which as we came nearer
turned out to be stone outcrops of all sorts of queer shapes.  All the fences

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
The Practice of Taqiyyih
(Dissimulation) in the
Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
Sepehr Manuchehri
“Beware that in this divine dispensation testimony is not limited by
speech and belief is not entrusted on the tongue. The sign of faith is the
preparedness for being sacrificed in the path of the Lord. You can not
claim to be a Bábí unless you reach the ultimate stage of detachment from
personal welfare, material comforts and family life. Now return to your
home and ponder in solace: At the time of reckoning the mob will attack
your house, confiscate your life possessions, take your wife, massacre your
children and force you to recant in exchange for freedom. In that hour if
you have the resolve to take in all of the afflictions and remain steadfast
in the Cause, only then are you considered to be a Bábí.”
Mulla Jalil Urumi (Letter of Living) to Haji Nasir Qazvini1
Introduction
Many customs and traditions that are prevalent amongst the followers of
various Islamic sects today are not based on the fundamental principals of the
Islamic belief. Rather they have gradually been instilled in the sub-culture
during centuries. Taqiyyih or dissimulation of one’s true belief has been a
common practice amongst the followers of Ismailiya, Wahhabiya, Haydari,
Nemati and Shaykhi schools of thought during the Qajar era.2
The citizens of the (then) Persian Empire did not accept Mohammedan
Islam voluntarily. The Khalifs forcibly defeated it in to submission. Islamic
teachings were adopted not through genuine spiritual transformation, but
through force and decree by the first generation of Persians after a series of
heavy defeats from the Arab forces. The psychological impacts of this defeat
amongst the general populations was far heavier than the political overthrow
of the Sassanite King and physical destruction of the economic resources and
1.
Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq Vol 3., H-\Bahá’í, Michigan: Lansing, 1998.
2.
Abbas Amanat, Resurrection & Renewal, New York: Cornell University Press, 1989, p. 205.
Interviews.
Cox (nee Dixson), Molly, Williamstown, Victoria.  Interview by Graham Has-
sall and Mrs. McLaughlin Chew, 1988.
Henry (Hilary) John, and Mary (phone), by writer, 1988.
Sherren (Wood), Myra, at Uralla, N.S.W., with writer, 1968.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
to postpone the coming of Mahdi in their literature to a distant future. Various
stories and legends became popular concerning the intimate details surrounding
his lengthy ‘disappearance’ and his likely ‘reappearance’. Scholars who did
not support such myths viewed the coming of Mahdi in a more humanistic
sense. They remoulded the concept of Taqiyyih to the dissimulation of the
personal details of Mahdi. Numerous traditions and literature were released
concerning the practice of Taqiyyih on His name and the details of his coming
in the writings of Shaykh Abbas Qumi and Mohamed Baqir Majlissi.6 The
majority of these traditions were attributed to Imam Ja’afar Sadiq the sixth
Holy Imam.7
It is interesting to note that by the time of the Qajar period the practice
of Taqiyyih was widespread amongst the followers of alternative Islamic
Schools (Ismailiya, Wahhabiya, Shaykhi and Sufi) as a safeguard against
the dominant and powerful Usuli Shiite Ulama. Taqiyyih was even used
by minorities such as Jews and Bábís to protect their numbers against the
constant harassment of mainstream Islam. This paper briefly traces the use
of Taqiyyih in Shaykhi School of thought and its application in the progress
of Bábí and Baha’i religions.
Taqiyyih in Shaykhi Thought
The practice of Taqiyyih confined Shaykhi eschatology to philosophical
arguments. Shaykh Ahmad Ahsai’s frequent references to the necessity of
Taqiyyih owing to the limited capacity of the ordinary believer to grasp the
true meaning of the secrets of religion indicates his hesitation to declare his
more controversial views.8  Moreover, his configuration of the “Perfect Shi’a”
did not necessarily affirm the immediate resurgence of the Hidden Imam. The
“Perfect Shi’a” was a protomessianic figure. But his guidance to the extent
that it was recognised by the public did not herald the return of the Imam
Mahdi, at least in consistent theological language.
The same approach can be observed in the works of Ahsai’s successor
Siyyid Kazim Rashti. Rashti acknowledges:
“Elaboration on the secrets of the subject of Ma’ad would lead us to
raise various matters which are not appropriate to our time. Since the
people of this age can not tolerate them and this would accelerate their
denial. As our Lord Sadiq, Peace be up on him, has said ‘Not all that
is known is to be said, and not the right time has come for all that is to
be said, and not all appropriate sayings should be said to those who are
incompetent of understanding’.  Therefore, owing to their complexity,
6.
Mohamed Baqir Majlissi, Baharu’l-Anvar, Tehran: Intesharat-e Amir Kabir 1982, p 26.
7.
Abbas Amanat, Resurrection & Renewal, op.cit.,  p. 200.
8.
Ibid., p. 56.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
achievements of the Persian Empire. Such impacts manifested themselves in
Persians ignoring their rich heritage in favour of adopting an Islamic iden-
tity, remoulding their creativity through ‘Islamic Arts and Culture’ and the
establishment of a new class of ‘Ulama’ (clerics). All of which signalled the
extinction of their self-reliance and the open acceptance of the foreign rule by
all classes of the society3.
The establishment of Islamic rule did not remain unchallenged. A string of
relatively small uprisings in various provinces sought to obtain self-reliance
from the rule of Khalifs. Some even threatened to overthrow the ruling hier-
archy. The determination shown by the Khalifs in the violent suppression of
these movements gradually convinced the masses that Islam is the victorious
ideology and the dominant force in the whole region. Participation in the new
religion thus became vital for their social and economic survival. Hundreds of
mosques were constructed, recital of Quranic verses became customary and
an increasing number of the masses enrolled in Islamic Schools (Madrassa).
Self-Denial (Taqiyyih) of their earlier Zoroastrian beliefs and pretence in prac-
ticing the Islamic Faith became a common practice. The degree of this pretence
was such that the children of former Zoroastrians were now competing in
mastering recitations of Arabic verses and traditions from the Holy Imams.4
However the version of popular Islamic thought promulgated in Persia
was at odds with that of the other countries under Islamic rule. The major
point of difference lay in the excessive praise and importance placed in Imam
Ali  (son in law of the Prophet Mohamed) and the adoption of an alternative
version of the early Islamic history. The political rivalries between the Safa-
vid Kings and the Othoman Rulers during the early 18th century forced the
Safavid Kings to reconsider their Islamic credentials. They allocated huge
resources to local ‘Ulama’ in order to promote Shiite thought and to blend it
in with the Persian sub-culture. Shiite philosophy was in direct competition
to the Ottoman beliefs and quickly obtained majority support with assistance
from the political establishment. Built on accepting the guardianship of the
12 Holy Imams, the Shiite theology emphasised subjugation and promised
taking revenge against the forces of infidel oppression at the coming of the
promised Mahdi.5
Shiite thought established Taqiyyih as a mean to safeguard the believers
from the Oppressors of the time. This was seen as a tactical manoeuvre
designed to protect and consolidate their numbers in order to assist and
support the promised Mahdi in due time and rise up against the established
and corrupt world order. However the circumstances surrounding the coming
of Mahdi and differing opinions concerning the Day of Resurrection caused
major disagreements within the Shiite hierarchy. This caused many scholars
3.
Shojau’l Din Shafaa, Dar Peykar Ahriman, (1st Edition), Paris: Khavaran Publishing, 1984, p. 35.
4.
Dar Peykar Ahriman, Shojau’l Din Shafaa, op.cit., p. 35.
5.
Ibid., p. 223.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
“Do not reveal the word of your Lord to those who would deny it.
Observe the practice of Taqiyyih in order to avoid persecution and im-
prisonment”14
Mulla Husayn appreciated the practical importance of this approach. For
instance, he refused in the first weeks after his conversion, to diclosed the
personal details of the Báb to his Shaykhi compatriates in Shiraz. This caused
resentment amongst some of them who took their grievance to the newly arrive
Quddus: “Jinab-i Akhund has attained the presence of the Lord, recognised
His station and remains unwilling to disclose His details”. Mulla Husayn was
forced to explain instructions from the Báb requiring the concealment of His
name. At this time the Báb was seen to be passing by. Quddus immediately
looked up and said: “ I do not see this Cause as distinct from this young Siyyid”
Mulla Husayn then responded by a verse from Rumi “I desire a sharp vision
who recognises the King in disguise”.15
The Báb in his early correspondence with his disciples strongly forbade
them to divulge his identity 16. On a few occasions He quoted well-known
traditions from Imam Ja’far Sadiq on the necessity of Taqiyyih:
“Taqiyyih is my faith and the faith of my forefathers. Anyone who does
not practice Taqiyyih has no faith.”17
also:
“By your refined wisdom my Lord, you made Taqiyyih your command.
Thus people practiced it from the beginning of occultation up to now. And
that practice was the testimony to [people’s] eagerness to come to your
presence.”18
After his return from Mecca, the Báb was arrested in Bushihr and taken
in to custody to the residence of Husayn Khan Nazimu’l Dowla the Governor
of Fars. On the same Friday, the Báb was pressured by the Ulama particularly
the Imam Jumha of Shiraz to publicly renounce His earlier claims in the grand
Mosque of Vakil in front of a congregation of the faithful. The Báb attended
the prayer session and publicly denied his claim to the position of ‘Deputy-
ship” of the Hidden Imam. This renunciation no doubt saved his life from
the evil intentions of the Shirazi Ulama who had earlier encouraged Husayn
Khan to execute Him. The public renunciation although pleased Shaykh Abu
14.	 Letter from the Báb adressed to Mulla Husayn, INBA, no. 91, IV, op.cit., pp. 10-14.
15.	 Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq, Vol. 3, H-\Bahá’í, Michigan: Lansing, 1998. p. 418.
16.	 Letter from the Báb adressed to Mulla Ibrahim Shirazi, INBA, no. 91, XXXVI, op.cit., pp. 170-176.
17.	 Letter from the Báb adressed to the Nahi brothers, INBA, no. 91, IV, op.cit., p. 137.
18.	 Letter from the Báb adressed to believers in Qazvin, INBA, no. 91, XL,op.cit., p. 193.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
reference to thee matters without full explanation are beyond public
comprehension. This is the reason why the Holy Imams and the adepts
among Shiites constantly covered the delicate details of this subject under
the cloak if outward expressions so that the secret gem would be safely
protected from the encroachments of the ignorant.”9
Prudence and secrecy inspired an allegorical language. Signs of meta-
phorical speculations can be detected in Ahsai’s works which on one oc-
casion specify the date of birth and the date of revelation of the Qa’im in
a codified message.10  Perhaps this triggered the followers of the Shaykhi
school to refer to Shaykh Ahmad and Siyyid Kazim as ‘Hamil’ or ‘Carrier’.11
A title that points to a knowledge of hidden secrets and a responsibility to
protect them.
The Shaykhi thought became popular in Iran and the Atabat. Advocation
of this thought by the political establishment (represented by Haji Mohamed
Karim Khan Kirmani a leading student of Ahsai and an influential member
of the Qajar clan) and the renounced Mujtahids in major cities (such as Mulla
Mohamed Mamaqani in Tabriz) popularised discussions on the intimate details
of the return on Mahdi and his proposed reappearance.
Taqiyyih thus became an important tool for the promulgation of the
Shaykhi thought on the one hand, and the concealment of their hidden “se-
crets” on the other. Shaykh Ahmad used this dual approach during his travels
in Iran whilst promoting his vision.
Revelation of the Báb
The Báb initially laid claim to the position of the ‘Deputy’ of the Hidden
Imam. Many early Bábís were ordered to transmit this claim to the public and
other believers.12  This approach was intended to create a sense of anticipation
for the appearance of an unidentified promised person. In His work Dala’il
Sab’a the Báb declares:
“Since I was aware of the limits of the public, I ordered the conceal-
ment of my name”13
In December 1844 he instructed Mulla Husayn in the following words:
9.
Siyyid Kazim Rashti, ‘Risala’ in INBA, vol II no 4, hand written manuscript not dated. pp. 216-263, also
see Abbas Amanat, Resurrection & Renewal, op.cit., p. 57.
10.	 Shaykh Ahmad Ahsa’í, Kitabu’l Reja’a, who wrote this in response to a certain Siyyid Husayn who wrote
a treaties regarding the day of ressurection. This is detailed in Qatil Karbalai, hand written manuscript no
date, p. 53 and cited in Resurrection & Renewal, op.cit., p. 57.
11.	 Haji Mohamed Karim Khan Kirmani,  Izhaqu’l Batil, Tehran, publisher and year unknown.
12.	 Abbas Amanat, Resurrection & Renewal, op.cit., pp. 56-58.
13.	 The Báb, Dala’il Saba’a, Published in Tehran 1944, Publisher unknown, p. 29.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
“This weak soul has no desire contrary to the will of the Lord and the
Guardians of His Cause. Though my being is mere nothingness but since
my heart is able to recognise the true meaning of the oneness of God, the
manifestation of His prophet and the Guardianship of His Imams, and my
tongue confesses to all that has been revealed by Him. I hope for His mercy
and have no desire save His contentment.
If certain words – contrary to His will – have been revealed from my pen,
my purpose has not been that of rebellion. In any event I seek forgiveness
of His Excellency. This servant has no knowledge to warrant any claims
.. Certain prayers and words that have been revealed from the tongue do
not represent any concerns.
And the claim to the deputyship of His Excellency Hujaullah – peace
be up on Him – is void. This servant has not laid such a claim or any other
one. Request is made for clemency from His Royal Excellency (king) and
your Excellency to honour this servant with your mercy, kindness and
forgiveness.”22
A quick comparison between the above letter and His earlier repentance
in Shiraz reveals a familiar pattern:
1.	 The Báb regards any claims to the position of Deputyship of the Hidden
Imam as void. In fact He repeatedly spoke of being the Hidden Imam and
an independent manifestation from God during His exile to Azarbayijan.
Such claims were far greater than His early position of ‘Bábíya’ or Gateship
which he adopted only months earlier in Shiraz. The Báb had bestowed the
title of ‘Bábíya’ and Deputyship to Mulla Husayn as early as the Shiraz
period. The title of Bábu’l-Báb further illustrates Mulla Husayn’s new
transformation. Therefore theologically from that point onwards the Báb
was no longer the Deputy to the Hidden Imam.
2.	 The Báb rejects any suggestion of leading a rebellion against the State. The
Qajar establishment were seriously concerned about the hidden agenda of
the Báb. Overtures and suggestions of possible revolt were made by the
Ulama keen to form an alliance with the State in suppression of the Bábí
movement. After the involvement of the Royal troops in the Tabarsi and
Zanjan uprisings – events that Ulama had created – many Bábís openly
supported a revolt against the oppressive forces. This in turn increased the
suspicion of the officials.
3.	 The Báb rejects any notions of having acquired knowledge. This issue was
floated by the Ulama to belittle His reputation in revealing verses in speed
22.	 Mirza Abul Fadl and Mirza Mehdi Golpayegani, Kashfu’l Qita’a, op.cit., pp. 204-205.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
Torab the Imam Jumha, failed to impress the new Shaykhi converts and early
believers in general.19
In the early phase of His revelation, the Báb revealed His position as that
of ‘Bábíya’ or the Gate leading to the presence of the Hidden Imam and clearly
instructed His followers to conceal His name.20  Haji Siyyid Javad Karbalai
recounts a lengthy interrogation of his friend and colleague Mulla Ali Bastami
(Second Letter of Living) in Karbila, in an effort to learn the name of the Báb.
The conversation as recorded in Kashfu’l Qita indicates the loyalty of Mulla
Ali to this instruction from the Báb.
After a few months the Báb observed a greater acceptance and readiness
amongst His people and gradually moved His claim to that of ‘Zikryya’ and
‘Qaiemyya’ meaning that of the Hidden Imam in its entirety. In the final years
of His life He publicly announced the station of ‘Mazhariah’ meaning that of
a manifestation from God.
The reception of His message was not free from confusion. A number
of early believers instantly recognised His true station right from the onset.
This naturally resulted in confusion and disagreement amongst the Bábí
community during the early phase of the revelation. At a time when the Báb
intended to convey his message with caution, many of his leading followers
(eg. Tahirih, Vahid and Hujjat) openly declared the coming of the promised
Mahdi and proclaimed His message linking it to the earlier Shaykhi prophe-
cies. No doubt the adoption of such a cautious policy by the Báb managed to
attract the maximum attention with the minimum possible controversy during
the early months. However the scope and impact of His revolutionary claims
would eventually draw the full wrath of the Ulama. Bahá’u’lláh mentions this
fact in one of His tablets:
“The Báb in response to the weakness of the people revealed His mes-
sage with wisdom. In one instance He writes This revelation is the point
of Quran in its entirety.. on another occasion he reveals If people were not
weak the word Mashiyya would not have been mentioned. No doubt these
utterings were made in wisdom. If He had revealed what was revealed in
His final years during the early period, the fire of opposition and denial
would have inflicted in the early days what was inflicted on Him in the
final days.”21
The Báb openly declared His station as the promised Qa’im during the
public trial in Tabriz. After the punishment handed to Him following the trial,
He wrote a letter to Prince Nasiru’l Din Mirza:
19.	 Nabil Zarandi, Talkhissi As Tarikh-e Nabil Zarand - Mataleh u’l Anvar, India: Bahá’í Publication Press,
1973, pp. 156-158.
20.	 Mirza Abul Fadl and Mirza Mehdi Golpayegani, Kashfu’l Qita’a, Tashkent, 1919, p. 242.
21.	 Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq, Vol 3, H-\Bahá’í, Michigan: Lansing, 1998, p. 287.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
•
Mirza Mohamed Zakir (Rowza Khan) Yazdi was a leading Shaykhi student
who had accompanied Mulla Husayn to Shiraz. He became one of the
Letters of Living and was ordered to spread the new message in the city
of Yazd. His arrival and initial enthusiasm was met with severe opposi-
tion by the intolerant Ulama who immediately issued a Fatwa to take his
life. He became disillusioned and searched for means to save his life. He
relied on his Shaykhi credentials and claimed to be a devoted follower of
Haji Mohamed Karim Khan Kirmani. He even married a woman from the
Kirmani clan. With a combination of Taqiyyih and support from his new
family he managed to spare his life and maintain his reputation amongst
the Mullahs. Privately he remained a Bábí and taught the faith secretly to
close confidants. He continued to practice Taqiyyih until the end.24
•
Qahr’ullah was a Dervish from India who had travelled to Persia and
became a Bábí. He met the Báb in Chihriq and was instantly transformed
to such an extent that he openly declared the coming of Mahdi various
villages in Azarbayijan. His open proclamation caused a stir in the city of
Khoy and as a result many Bábís were persecuted. The Báb ordered him to
leave Iran. He returned to India only to come back to Chihriq after a few
months and sought refuge in close proximity to Báb’s cell. When the Báb
was taken to Tabriz for execution, Qahr’ullah followed Him barefooted. He
was present at the hour of execution. After the execution he was arrested
and interrogated. During the process, he practiced Taqiyyih and claimed
to be a Sufi follower and was subsequently released. He was later killed
in Tehran.25

•
Many of the Bábí women who visited Tahirih whilst she was held captive
at the residence of Kalantar Khan observed Taqiyyih. They pretended to be
housemaids and carried back and forth correspondence between the Bábís
and Tahirih.26
Prominent Bábí leaders never encouraged other believers to practice
Taqiyyih. In situations where a Bábí questioned his loyalties or doubted his
beliefs, they were advised to make a personal choice. Buddas on a number of
occasions told his followers during the Tabarsi uprising:
“The Lord is detached from any form of assistance from His followers.
If all of you leave I shall reveal the Lord through my walking-stick.”27
24.	 Ibid., p. 458.
25.	 Ibid., p. 458.
26.	 Ibid., p. 338.
27.	 Author  unknown, Nuqtatu’l Kaaf, E.G. Browne, (ed.), Leiden: EJ Brill, 1910, pp. 184-187.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
and writing in a style similar to that of Quran. Ulama claimed that the Báb
had earlier acquired such knowledge from their peers. In effect claiming
that the Báb was repeating what they had taught Him earlier.
4.	 The Báb refers to His thorough understating of the fundamental Shiite
principles. These are namely Tawhid (Oneness), Nabuvva (Prophethood)
and Velaya (Guardianship). This was partly in response to Ulama’s claim
that he had developed a psychological disorder and confused the basic
concepts of religion. The Báb in effect conveyed his appreciation of the
popular understanding of Shiite teachings and his intimate knowledge of
these issues.
Taqiyyih Amongst the Early Disciples
Many of the Báb’s loyal followers observed his instructions on the practice
of Taqiyyih and became the source of invaluable service to the new Cause.
Others used Taqiyyih to selfishly protect their livelihood. Some went further and
actually provided assistance to the officials in persecuting the other Bábís.
•
Siyyid Hassan and Siyyid Husayn Yazdi both met the Báb whilst in Isfahan.
Siyyid Husayn immediately became His scribe and recorded many of the
divine tablets and letters revealed by Him. The two brothers continued to
serve the Báb in this capacity until His exile to Maku. Siyyid Hassan was
ordered by the Báb in Maku to recant his faith, retire from service and
return.  Siyyid Husayn stayed until the end and similarly followed Báb’s
instructions, practiced Taqiyyih and was saved from the enemies after His
execution. A short time after the Báb’s execution, Siyyid Husayn went to
the Russian Consul General in Tabriz and conveyed certain information
on the final hours of Báb’s life and Bábí teachings in general. The Russian
Consul General took Siyyid Husayn to Tehran with himself under diplo-
matic protection.  Siyyid Husayn was well respected in the Bábí community
as the only disciple who personally witnessed the final four years of the
Báb’s life and was a privy to the secrets of the Cause. He was known as
‘Aziz’ (favourite) ‘Katib’ (scribe) and Katib-ul-Bayan (scribe of Bayan).
Bahá’u’lláh refers to the two brothers in one of His tablets:23
“In the presence of the Compassionate Lord in Azarbayijan were two
souls. He sent away Husayn according to His mercy and expelled Has-
san according to His justice. Although he was held in high regards by my
Forerunner and Beloved” 23
23.	 Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq, Vol. 3, op.cit., pp. 459-460.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
to protect the identity of the Báb or His position. This requirement was largely
superseded after the execution of the Báb. These Bábís represented the prosper-
ous class of Ulama and Bazari merchants who were in some way dependent
on the Ulama or the ruling establishment for their survival.
It is interesting to note that many from this group later changed their ways,
declared their faith and lost their life for the cause. Clearly they had an inter-
nal struggle between conscientious belief and human desires. A struggle that
resulted in them abandoning the practice of Taqiyyih.
•
Haji Mulla Baqir Ardakani was the Imam Jumha in the city of Ardikan. He
became one of the first disciples of Vahid. He continued to practice as a
Mullah in the local mosque after becoming a Bábí. He led the mass prayers,
conducted religious ceremonies and preached Islamic traditions. Gradu-
ally rumours began to circulate about his hidden loyalties. Rival Mullah’s
and ambitious officials rose in his opposition and signed an open petition
calling him an infidel and requesting his removal. The petition was sent
to the Governor of Kirman. Haji Mulla Baqir Ardakani subsequently met
the Governor, practiced Taqiyyih and convinced him that the allegations
are not correct. The Governor became fond of the Haji and paid for his
expense to travel to Karbila in order to become a Mujtahid. He spent two
years in Karbila and returned to his native Ardikan. Such was the Gover-
nor’s respect for him that a welcome party was dispatched to the outskirts
of Ardikan to greet him. Upon his arrival he instantly received recognition
from the leading Mullah’s of Yazd and Ardikan to engage as a Mujtahid. He
returned to his duties as the Imam Jumha and publicly distanced himself
from the Bábí faith. He continued to assist Bábís in secret and later became
a Bahá’í.32
•
Mullah Mohamed Ja’far Kirmani was a leading cleric in the city of Kirman
practicing as an Islamic teacher in that city. He became a Bábí after he
met Mullah Sadiq Muqaddas Khorassani in Kirman. He was considered
as one of the learned Bábís. When Haji Mohamed Karim Khan Kirmani
the Shaykhi leader found out about his conversion, he organised a public
campaign forcing Mullah Mohamed Ja’far to be sidelined and isolated by
his former followers. Mullah Mohamed Ja’far resorted to the local Muj-
tahids and Imam Jumha for assistance. They publicly announced that he
is not a Bábí. After a short while he re-commenced his duties as a teacher
in the mosque, occasionally standing in as the acting Imam Jumha. Mul-
lah Mohamed Ja’far Kirmani continued to assist the Bábís in secret but
refused to meet any of the prominent Bábí leaders. He sent a letter to the
Báb and received a tablet in response. He continued to practice Taqiyyih
32.	 Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq, Vol. 3, op.cit., p. 482.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
•
Following the martyrdom of Mulla Husayn and increasing hardships inside
the fortress, a number of Bábís lead by Mirza Mohamed Husayn Motavalli
Qumi decided to leave the fortress. Qumi became their spokesman and met
with Quddus. Upon hearing his intentions Quddus replied: “Very well, leave
whenever you can.”28

Mirza Mohamed Husayn Motavalli Qumi surrendered to the government
forces claiming: “I had initially approached Bábís to investigate their
cause. After spending some time with them I observed many words and
no action. I did not see any truth in their claims and left”.29  A short time
later he became disillusioned. Openly praising the Bábís and at other times
questioning their resolve. When the Prince learnt about his state of mind, he
sent Qumi to the nearby city of Sari fearing that he was a Bábí infiltrator.30
•
Defection of Qumi instantly intensified the official propaganda encourag-
ing the Bábís to surrender. This in turn caused more Bábís to reconsider
their situation. Aqa Rasul Behnamiri and thirty of his companions left
the fortress after they obtained permission from Quddus. They were not
lucky. All were sprayed with bullets in the vicinity of the fortress. Their
bodies were taken to nearby towns and publicly beheaded. Quddus would
repeatedly say:  “We passed over the actions of Aqa Rasul and God forgave
him.”31

Mirza Mohamed Husayn Motavalli Qumi was arrested years later in Tehran
following the unsuccessful attempt on the life of the Shah. After torture he
recanted his faith and cooperated with the officials in the identification of
other Bábís in order to save his life. He survived the ordeal and later met
Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad only to become an Azali at a later date.
Taqiyyih Amongst the Second Generation of Bábí Notables
Many learned and respected Bábís practiced Taqiyyih before and after
the martyrdom of the Báb in order to avoid involvement in various uprisings,
persecutions and afflictions. Such Bábís were fully aware of the significance
of their actions. Many chose to assist their fellow Bábís secretly in times of
need. The scope of such assistance was limited to their degree of caution and
Taqiyyih.
It appears that these Bábís were not ready to sacrifice their positions, titles
and life comforts for their faith. Taqiyyih amongst them was no longer a tool
28.	 Ibid.
29.	 Ibid.
30.	 Ibid.
31.	 Ibid.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
•
Haji Mirza Hassan Shirazi was considered to be the Grand Mujtahid of
Shiites and an expert in Islamic philosophy. He exercised considerable
influence over the general Shiite population including officials in the Royal
court of Nasir’ul-Din Shah. His famous Fatwa on banning the use of Tobacco
caused the political turmoil at the time. Haji Mirza Hassan Shirazi was a
second cousin of the Báb and had met Him in the house of the Imam Jumha
in Isfahan. After observing the power of His words, he declared his faith.
From that period onwards, Haji Mirza Hassan exercised extreme caution
in his contacts with the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh and other believers. He managed
to save himself by practicing Taqiyyih. He is known to have intervened on
at least one occasion to assist the Bábís in captivity.38
•
Haji Mulla Mohamed Hamzih Shariatmadar was a respected old cleric in
the City of Bábol (Bar-foroosh). He constantly assisted and protected the
Bábís and in response to questions from the general public would say “I do
not consider them bad and will not make negative comments about them.”39
He set out to join the Bábís in Shaykh Tabarsi and was unable to get there
due to the military embargo. Under instructions from Quddus, the 85 year
old married his sister in order to protect her and a number of tablets and
writings from Quddus. He performed final prayers for the funerals of Bábí
martyrs and sought forgiveness for their killers. Other Mullah’s became
furious and called him a traitor and an infidel. Haji Mulla Mohamed Hamzih
Shariatmadar managed to free the body of Quddus and bury it in the out-
skirts of the city. When his rival counterpart Saeedu’l Ulama provoked the
mob to dig up and burn his remains, Haji complained vehemently to the
Governor and warned of the wrath of God comparing this to the actions of
the oppressors of Imam Husayn in Karbila. The Governor issued an order
preventing Saeedu’l Ulama from carrying out his wish.40
•
The Mirza Mohamed Riza Abrari in Yazd was an influential senior Mullah.
He was a former student of Siyyid Kazim Rashti who later believed in Báb.
He practiced Taqiyyih to such an extent that his son was unaware of his
belief. In the final hour of his life, he called his sim Shaykh Zinul’Abedin
to his bedside and encouraged him to investigate and accept the claims and
teachings of the Báb.41
•
Aqa Shaykh Sadiq was a well-known scholar and teacher in Yazd and
enjoyed a great deal of respect from the Ulama. He practiced Taqiyyih and
never declared his faith in public. This caused him to continue teaching in
38.	 Ibid., Vol. 6, p. 1013.
39.	 Ibid., Vol. 3 , p. 441.
40.	 Ibid.,Vol. 6 , p. 817, and Vol. 3, p 441.
41.	 Ibid., Vol. 6, p. 817.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
and maintained his Islamic credentials choosing to remain a Mullah until
the end of his life.33
•
Shaykh Mohamed Taqi Hashtroudi was a former Shaykhi student and
considered as a learned Bábí. He was extremely conservative, living and
practicing a life of Taqiyyih. It was acknowledged amongst the Bábís
that he “Ran miles away” at the mention of the name Bábí. He enjoyed
particular respect and influence within the Shaykhi followers. Mulla
Mohamed Mamqani (one of the Shaykhi Mullah’s who signed the Báb’s
execution order) displayed sincere affection towards Shaykh Mohamed Taqi
and would invite him to his house every time he visited Tabriz. Shaykh
Mohamed Taqi Hashtroudi would secretly meet with the Bábís during the
night. His counterparts never found out about his real convictions.34
•
Haji Mirza Ibrahim Sabzevari was one of the grand Mujtahids in the city
of Sabzevar and enjoyed enormous powers as the religious head and Imam
Jumha of that city. He had met the Báb whilst He was in Isfahan and se-
cretly believed in Him. However he practiced Taqiyyih and dissimulated
his thoughts. He assisted the Bábís of that city during desperate times.35
•
Aqa Mirza Ahmad Azqandi was a leading student of Shaykh Ahmad and
Siyyid Kazim. He enjoyed the respect of the Shaykhi community. He de-
clared his faith in the Báb following a meeting with Mullah Husayn and
wrote a treatise in support of Báb’s claims. Following a series of persecu-
tions in Yazd, he suffered an enormous financial loss, battered reputation
and threats to his personal safety. In the following decades he refused to get
involved in Bábí cause and practiced Taqiyyih to save his life. Following
the execution of the Báb, he became reinvigorated abandoning the practice
of Taqiyyih in order to assist his fellow Bábís.36
•
Abu’l Hassan Mirza Haj Shaykhu’l Rais was a Qajar Prince and a leading
poet who enjoyed recognition in the literary circles in the City of Mash-
had. Mirza Saeed Khan was a former Foreign Minister who was seconded
to administer the Imam Rida estate in the City of  Mashhad during his
retirement. Both practiced Taqiyyih in order to protect their life from what
they called “the savagery of the mob particularly the Mujtahids”. They
are known to have assisted the Bábís on a number of occasions. In at least
one instance, they requested the Bábís to observe Taqiyyih to escape the
presecutions.37
33.	 Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq, Vol. 3,  op.cit., pp. 401-402.
34.	 Ibid., pp. 73-74.
35.	 Ibid., p. 129.
36.	 Ibid., p. 154.
37.	 Ibid., p. 39.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
and became a Bahá’í at the age of 20. Upon his return to Naraq, the people
appointed him as their Imam Jumha. He continued in this capacity and
practiced Taqiyyih for a further year. One day he became wary of Taqiyyih
and during his daily ceremon thought to himself: “Taqiyyih and caution
is not the path of the lovers of religion. The days in this life will pass and
there will be no recourse but regret.” Immediately he began to speak on
the importance of the fundamental teachings and their priority over minor
religious issues and promised the crowd that he will re-commence his du-
ties in the mosque on another day. He then left the mosque and returned
to Baghdad immediately.46
Form Taqiyyih to total Denial
For many Bábís the practice of Taqiyyih was a forerunner to their eventual
abandonment of their faith. Most of these Bábís had cautiously adopted Taqi-
yyih and then gradually moved on to severe ties with the Cause even refusing
to assist other Bábís.
•
Mulla Hadi Qazvini was a Shaykhi student of Siyyid Kazim Rashti who
later came toShiraz and became one of the Letters of Living. He did not
get involved in the Tabarsi uprising and shielded his life through Taqiyyih.
Following the open declaration of Bahá’u’lláh, Mulla Hadi became a de-
vout Azali and rose in His opposition. Mulla Hadi was expelled from the
community by Bahá’u’lláh during the Adrine period and spent his final
days in oblivion.47
•
Mulla Mohamed Taqi Horavi was a leading Mujtahid of his time. Islamic
clerics in Isfahan relied on his knowledge and understanding of Shiite the-
ology. He handled the judicial matters in that City. Later he became a Bábí
and translated His ‘Sahifeh Adliya’ from Arabic to Farsi. He sent a number
of letters to the Báb in Maku and in reply received many tablets from His
pen. Months later fear and insecurity caused him to practice Taqiyyih and
he gradually distanced himself from the Bábís. He spent his final days in
Karbila isolated and suffered a lonely death.48
•
Mulla Ali Akbar Ardistani was one of the early Bábís who accepted the
faith during Mullah Husayn’s stay in Isfahan. He then followed Mulla
Sadiq Muqaddas to Shiraz. They were arrested, heavily tortured and carried
around the Bazaar. After that event he adopted Taqiyyih and never again
involved himself at times of danger.49
46.	 Ibid., p. 678.
47.	 Ibid., Vol. 3, p. 306.
48.	 Ibid., p 96.
49.	 Ibid., p. 103.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
the Shaf’ite school in Yazd for another 12 years. When rumours began to
spread, he was banned from teaching all together.42
•
Haji Mulla Mohamed Ali was another scholar and teacher who was the
acting Imam Jumha on the locality of Dih Abad close to the City of Yazd.
He became a Bábí in secret and was known for practicing Taqiyyih. He
encouraged the Governor to build a special school for the young children
in that locality. Once the school was built, he became the senior teacher.
When rumours of his faith spread, he left his job and escaped to Yazd.43
•
Mirza Riza Quli Hakim brother of Bahá’u’lláh practiced as a Physician
in the Royal Court in Tehran. His persistence in Taqiyyih was such that
he refrained from mentioning His name or declaring His relationship with
himself.44
•
Haji Mirza Yahya Dowlat-Abadi was a leading Bábí figure in Isfahan. After
allegations of his Bábí affiliations surfaced, he was taken in to custody.
In order to please the Shaykh Najafi the Mujtahid of Isfahan and protect
his financial interests, Haji Mirza Yahya Dowlat-Abadi agreed to attend a
number of his ceremons and publicly denounce and slander the faith. His
denunciation came during a heavy round of persecutions in nearby Najaf
Abad in which many Bábís were arrested and killed. Later he announced
his allegiance to Azal and began to persecute the local Baha’is. Bahá’u’lláh
devotes a full section in the Epistle to the Son of Wolf to his activities and
treason.
•
Mirza Aqa Rekab-Saz was a renowned Bahá’í in Yazd. The enemies pro-
voked his wife – who was biased against the faith – to make an official
complaint against him to the Governor. She agreed and alleged that Mirza
Aqa was a Bahá’í engaged in copying Bahá’í
Scriptures and regularly
met with other notable Bahá’í’s. Mirza Aqa decided to quell the rumours by
practicing Taqiyyih. He became a regular participant in the daily prayers
in the mosque of the senior Shaykh in the city. Gradually he gave the im-
pression that he is not a Bábí and saved his life. He was later martyred in
another round of persecutions.45
•
Haji Mirza Kamalul’Din Naraqi was a leading Imam Jumha and mullah of
his native town of Naraq. He had travelled to Baghdad, met Bahá’u’lláh
42.	 Ibid., p. 819.
43.	 Ibid., p. 823.
44.	 Mirza Abul Fadl and Mirza Mehdi Golpayegani, Kashfu’l Qita’a, op.cit., p. 398.
45.	 Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq, op.cit., Vol. 6, p. 874.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Treaties and Compilations
In many instances the learned Bábís who practiced Taqiyyih left behind
significant literal works in support of the new revelation. Unfortunately in
some cases the opposition of their children to the Faith resulted in the loss
of most of these treaties. The impact of these treaties in guiding the general
population to the Cause is difficult to verify. However their very existence
indicates the internal struggle within the learned class of Bábís who chose to
practice Taqiyyih.
•
Shaykh Mohamed Taqi Hashtroudi wrote a book entitled ‘Abvab-Al-Hoda’
in support of the Bábí cause from a Shaykhi perspective. This work includes
the author’s detailed personal recollections from the classes of Shaykh Ah-
mad Ahsai and Siyyid Kazim Rashti in detail. In certain sections he resorts
to abusive language whilst condemning the enemies of the faith such as
Mulla Mohamed Mamaqani (ironically one of his ardent followers!). He
submitted this book during his final days to Mulla Mostafa Tabrizi one of
his Bábí contacts in Tabriz.54
•
Aqa Mirza Ahmad Azqandi whilst observing Taqiyyih and caution wrote
a treaty in support of Báb’s claims at the request of his Bábí friend.55
•
Haji Mulla Mohamed Hamzih Shriatmadar published a book entitled ‘Asrar-
Al- Shahada’ five years after the martyrdom of the Báb. He writes:
“Báb means the Gate. As the Prophet (Mohamed) was the City of
knowledge and Ali – Peace be up on him – was the gate to that city ...
Similarly the first gate was Jinab-i Mirza Ali Mohamed who was from a
merchant family. Although I never met him, I have read a book written by
Him when he was 27 years of age. In His younger days He spent less than
a year in Karbila in the company of Jinab-i Haji Siyyid Kazim (Rashti). He
only studied elementary subjects and developed an extraordinary power
to write and an incredible mental capacity to create (works) ...He wrote
6 or 7 volumes in a style close to the Quranic verses and many powerful
‘Khotab’ similar to ‘Sahifeh Sajadieh’ (written by Imam Ali). He wrote a
commentary to the Sura of the Cow ‘Baqarah’ with difficult and strange
combinations of words. These works were delivered to me. They were writ-
ten with a pleasant style of handwriting. He had a quick pen and wrote
in style. He claimed the position of Bábíya and named himself the Báb
... The second Báb after Him was Jinab-i Haji Mohamed Ali the son of
54.	 Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq, Vol. 3, op.cit., pp. 73-74.
55.	 Ibid., p. 154.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
•
Mirza Husayn Yazdi was an influential Mullah in the city of Yazd. He copied
and distributed many of the Báb’s treaties. When rumours circulated about
his Bábí affiliations, he practiced Taqiyyih and ordered his followers to
inflict lashes on an arrested Bábí (Mulla Ali Naqi Rowza Khan). He survived
a major upheaval against the Bábís in that city and was subsequently ap-
pointed as the head of the Islamic school and amassed considerable wealth.
On another occasion he ordered two other Bábís to be beaten until such
time that they recant their faith.50
•
Mirza Aqa Khan Kirmani was a leading Azali and the son in law of Mirza
Yahya Azal. He practiced Taqiyyih and on many occasions publicly humili-
ated teachings of the Báb and the character of Azal. His famous book ‘Sad
Khatabeh’ is a testimony to his open adoption of Taqiyyih.51

•
Taqiyyih amongst the rank and file Bábís was a personal choice. Many
Bábís openly engaged in other unlawful activities and yet called themselves
a Bábí. Ustad Mohammad Ali Salmani recalls his early days as a Bábí:
“The majority of Bábís had no ethics and many were involved in un-
acceptable behaviours. I visited Aqa Mohammad Javad Najafabadi – a
genuinely honest Bábí – at his house on 21st Day of Ramadan. He was
a good Bábí but happened to drink wine. He was filtering wine in his
residence where the odour had alerted the neighbours. They surrounded
the house, arrested us and took us to the prison ... We were five in total.
Mohamed Javad - a good old man who used to travel to nearby districts
and teach - Abdul’Karim Isfahani who has now become a covenant breaker,
Mohamed Sadiq the brother of Abdul’Karim who displayed little conviction
in the cause, Mulla Ali my teacher who was a genuine and well natured
individual and myself.”52

He continues:
We consulted amongst ourselves in jail and agreed to exclude Mohamed
Sadiq from our ranks because he was not stable. We told the authorities
that he has been arrested by mistake and they later released him. Thus we
then became four in number and decided against dissimulation (Taqiyyih)
as it was not desirable. We agreed that it was best to say the same thing
(during interrogations) and maintain consistency.”53
50.	 Ibid., Vol. 4 , p. 110.
51.	 Mirza Abul Fadl and Mirza Mehdi Golpayegani, Kashfu’l Qita’a, op.cit., p. 398.
52.	 Ustad Mohamed Ali Salmani, Sharh-i Hal, H-Bahá’í, Michigan: Lansing, 1997, p. 3.
53.	 Ibid., p. 4.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Contrary to Bahá’ís who had begun to discard the practice of Taqiyyih
with the passage of time and gradually moved to stamp out this practice from
their ranks, Azali’s stayed loyal to the Taqiyyih and praised its adoption in
their literature. Azali leaders such as Haji Mirza Hadi Dowlatabadi, Mirza Aqa
Khan Kirmani and Shaykh Ahmad Ruhi all had publicly renounced the Báb
and Azal in a series of formal meetings with Ulama, officials and common
people. However in the case of Mirza Aqa Khan Kirmani and Shaykh Ahmad
Ruhi their repeated Taqiyyih were never believed by the general public and
government authorities.
•
Aqa Khan Kirmani allocated a considerable section to raising the status
of Taqiyyih in the Bábí religion in his book Hasht Behesht. He regards
those who practice Taqiyyih as true believers. This may have been aimed
at countering the negative impressions created in the minds of most Bábís
following the flagrant manner which Azali leaders used in public to slander
their faith. Hasht Behesht lists the advantages of Taqiyyih:
“Taqiyyih is a sign of true religion and if (a follower) of an aborted
religion practices Taqiyyih, he will be destroyed instantly. Aborted religions
have no features other than some superficial customs and ceremonies ...
Aborted religions do not possess any hidden secrets or truths. Therefore
practicing Taqiyyih in these religions will cause them to be destroyed and
annulled.  The more the hidden secrets, Taqiyyih and concealment in a
religion, the more the authencity and truth of that religion ... believer is the
person who displays more Taqiyyih. Increased concealment in a religion
will cause greater power, influence and respect in its teachings … Secrets
and truths are like roots and bases. The healthier the root and base, the
greater the appearance of a tree. It has been said by the learned that a
tree without a firm base will not produce green branches. Hiding a secret
will hasten the prosperity of the revelation. Just as a plant will not grow if
the seed is not hidden inside the ground ... Whosoever keeps secrets will
experience an eternal joy in his heart ...”58
Aqa Khan ventures further and classifies secrets in to four levels. The
concealers of secrets in the upper level cannot disclose their message to those
from a lower level. The highest level is level 4 where Aqa Khan claims “even
they do not know what secret they are concealing” 59
According to Aqa Khan one must behave in a cordial fashion with the
enemies and not share ‘secrets’ with them. In his more political work ‘Sad
Khatabeh” Aqa Khan contradicts his earlier claims:
58.	 Mirza Aqa Khan Kirmani, Hasht Behesht, printed in Tehran: year unknown, pp. 62-65.
59.	 Ibid., pp. 62-65.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
a Mazandarani farmer who lived at the same age and appeared slightly
older than Him. He accompanied (the Báb) to Mecca ... and similar to
(the Báb) had not studied conventional theory. After returning from Mecca
He wrote an incomplete commentary on the Surah of Oneness (Tawhid).
I read approximately 5 to 6 thousand verses revealed by Him at a quick
pace. The slope and message if this work were solely on the oneness of
God ... The third Báb was Jinab-i Akhund Mulla Husayn Bushruieh. He
was competent in the conventional theory, theology, fundamentals and
grammar. He considered his knowledge of Bábíya a mere drop of ocean
in comparison to the other two. He was quite brave, had a fighting spirit
and was skilled with the sword ... (after Shaykh Tabarsi) they brought
Haji Mohamed Ali and several of his followers to town. Haji was taken
to Sabzeh-Maydan and was set on fire. When the public questioned me
about my opinion of the oppressor / oppressed parties, or regarding their
infidelity or Islam, I used to remain silent. Not writing a response or ut-
tering an answer ...This was a summary of their story. Although they are
now stamped out and forgotten, but life has many turns and twists. Must
ponder on the consequence (of actions) and its implications ... Others al-
leged that prophets and Imams were witches and considered them mentally
unstable, infidel or mad. This was due to their own stupidity and deficiency
in understanding and comprehension. How can it be that a knowledgeable,
honest, learned, respected and perfect man born as a Shiite in a Shiite
family and raised amongst the shiites seeking the religion of Siyyid Al
Mursalin (Mohamed) would lie and lean towards blasphemy? Insane and
mentally ill will not do what he does ... If people are investigating, they
must ask him or remain quiet and leave Him to His Lord. They must not
denounce Him according to their imperfect minds...56”
•
Mulla Alyaz was a Jewish Physician in the City of Hamadan who secretly
declared his faith following a meeting with Tahirih in that City. He then
practiced Taqiyyih in order to protect his life and the security of the
Jewish minority in Hamadan. He subsequently assisted Conte Gobineau
in compiling information and detailing certain events relating to Bábí
history.57
Unfortunately not all of the compilations and writings were complimentary
to the Cause. The Azali Bábís and in particular Mirza Aqa Khan Kirmani and
Shaykh Ahmad Ruhi showed little hesitation in alteration and falsification of
Bábí teachings and history in their works. Azali Bábí’ regarded Taqiyyih as
an imperative requirement.
56.	 Ibid., pp. 439-441.
57.	 Ibid., Vol. 6, p. 700.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Bahá’u’lláh writes to Haji Siyyid Javad Karbalai in these words:
“Certain souls who confess to recognising the Lord ... if they fail to
observe certain actions or do not consider them in accordance with wis-
dom, [one] must not treat them in harshness ... There are certain teachings
that compliance with them will cause no harm to the individuals. It is a
duty of all to observe them ... in this age the important necessity is for all
to recognise the manifestation of God and be steadfast in His Cause.”64
•
The conflicting statements made by Azali Bábís in regards to the Báb caused
Mirza Abu’l Fadl Golpayegani to write these words to Edward Browne:
Are they (Aqa Khan & Shaykh Ahmad Ruhi) proclaiming the Islamic
Faith or the Azali Faith? Unless we assume that they are practicing Taqiyyih
and have concealed their religion in disguise. This excuse is contrary to Mr
Browne’s view of the Azali’s, considering them as brave and independent
people. This excuse is also in variance with their  (Aqa Khan & Shaykh
Ahmad Ruhi) initiative in setting up a United Islamic Front. Therefore we
can either say that they are genuine Moslems and Mr Browne has por-
trayed them as Azali. Or that they are genuine Azali’s ... and their open
invitations for a united Islam and concern for the Islamic religion stems
from Taqiyyih ... Mr Browne claims to be an independent observer. How
can he ignore these apparent contradictions? ...these two souls are either
hardline Shiites or wayward infidels.”65
Pressure from the Family
In many cases the emotional pressure and physical harassment by the mem-
bers of the immediate family coerce the new converts into observing Taqiyyih.
Some chose not to disclose their new affiliation with the family right from
the start. From the family’s point of view, public disclosure of their member’s
new faith was an open invitation for unwanted persecutions. It was a preamble
to provoking the enmity of their neighbours and imposition of economic and
social embargos on the whole family. The easiest way out of the crisis was
encouraging the ‘wayward’ member to observe Taqiyyih.
Recognition of the new faith caused many families to be disrupted, sepa-
rated or even destroyed. The other members of the family with reputation,
business or influence in the old system, those who wanted to achieve a higher
status in the existing order or those who simply wanted to protect the status
quo did not want to be drawn in to a raging conflict over religion. Whence they
treated the ‘wayward’ family member with the utmost contempt.
64.	 Ibid., pp. 69-70.
65.	 Ibid., p. 130.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
“One of the evils of conversion by force and declaration without thought
which manifests itself amongst the Iranians is Taqiyyih. Curse on Taqiyyih
... though Iranians contend themselves by taking this course, they neglect
the fact that half of  the moral values of this nations have been corrupted
due to Taqiyyih which was originally instilled in their veins through the
sword of the Arabs ...”60
During this work he switches from Taqiyyih to outright opposition to the
Báb and personal insult:
“The philosophical teachings of Mulla Sadra, theologies of Shaykh
Morteza, Irfan of Shaykh Ahmad and Bayan of the Báb: How have they
benefited this beleaguered country? They have not increased government
revenue, increased their standard of living or removed the threats of Rus-
sian and British influence. Though every day their poverty is increased and
their plight becomes more sorrowful…”61
Also:
“Siyyid Báb had no warships to support his claims. Despite his ar-
rogance, his people displayed no bravery or grandeur. Despite his self-
praise, he possessed no considerable knowledge or power. Therefore he
based his government on Islam and staked his reputation on the love of
the Holy Imams.”62
And:
Siyyid Báb has called himself the Lord of all in the Heavens and in the
Earth. We can say that such arrogance is not new in the Islamic nation ...
rotten Dervishes and forgotten leader have made such claims but non have
dared to call themselves God.” 63
Mirza Aqa Khan and other Azalis claimed loyalty to the Báb and his teach-
ings. Yet they attributed such falsities and attacks on His character. This duality
in approach reduced their moral credentials amongst the Bábís and nullified
their vehement campaign against Bahá’u’lláh.
•
In contrast the Bahá’ís were clearly instructed by Bahá’u’lláh to consider
“Steadfastness in the Cause of God” to be above all of the teachings.
60.	 Mirza Abul Fadl and Mirza Mehdi Golpayegani, Kashfu’l Qita’a, op.cit., pp. 159-160.
61.	 Ibid.
62.	 Ibid.
63.	 Ibid.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Following the ill-fated attempt on the life of Nasiru’l Din Shah, an official
order was issued to all Governors and Regional Rulers to “vehemently attempt
to arrest them and destroy their numbers. Ulama are reminded to issue Fatwa’s
for their execution and consider their possessions Hallal”72.
•
The number of mass Taqiyyih cases amongst the Bábís reached such a
proportion that according to Nabil writes: “it caused the ignorant to as-
sume that there are no more believers left.”73 . Similarly Browne records
that despite his best efforts he was unable to obtain Bábí literature during
his travels in Iran.
•
The numerous children and grandchildren of Aqa Siyyid Ismail Kashfi –
one of the devoted disciples of Vahid – following his return from Nayriz,
moved away from this cause and displayed little resolve in investigation
and participation in (Bábí) acitivities.74
•
Many of the Bábís in Qum followed the example set by Mirza Mohammad
Husayn Motavalli Qumi, refusing the take part in uprisings and were thus
protected from the afflictions for years.75
•
Many Bábís in the city of Yazd practiced Taqiyyih following the persecu-
tions there after the ill-fated attempt on the life of the Shah (year 1268 HQ).
Many more practiced Taqiyyih during another round of persecutions in the
year 1300 HQ.76
•
Many Bábís in Zanjan practiced Taqiyyih after the violent crushing of the
Zanjan uprising and again following the attempt on the life of the Shah. The
children and grand children of the martyrs in Zanjan distanced themselves
from the faith and refused to meet other Bábís or disclose their relationship
to the martyrs. They continued to live in hiding, isolated from one another
and in a state of total concealment.77
•
Many Bábís practiced Taqiyyih during the persecutions in Tehran following
the crack down by Prince Kamran Mirza in 1300 HQ.78 In Hamadan many
Bábís observed Taqiyyih in order to protect their lives.79
72.	 Ibid., Vol. 4 , p. 107.
73.	 Ibid., Vol. 6 , p. 23.
74.	 Ibid.
75.	 Ibid., Vol. 3 , p. 392.
76.	 Ibid., p 392.
77.	 Ibid., p. 184.
78.	 Ibid., Vol. 5, p. 279.
79.	 Ibid., Vol. 6 , p. 700.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
•
Mirza Abu’l Fadl conveyed this point to Prince Kamran Mirza who planned
to massacre the Bahá’í’s in Tehran: “Many Bahá’ís conceal their faith to
such an extent that their immediate family members remain unaware of
their faith. Their identification is not possible by peaceful means.”66
•
Mulla Alyaz was a Jewish Physician in Hamadan. When he declared his
interest in the faith to his father, his family became alarmed. His father
– the influential leader of the local Jewish Community in Hamadan - con-
cerned at the potential danger facing the Jewish minority at the hands of
the Ulama and the mob, insisted that his son reconsider this matter. Mulla
Alyaz became a Bábí without his father’s knowledge and concealed this
matter from him for a considerable period of time.67
•
Mirza Aqa Ismu’llah Moniru’l Monib had a merchant father who was
a hardline Shiite. He was extremely opposed to the Báb and the Bábís.
When Monib became a Bábí, he initially practiced Taqiyyih and concealed
the matter from his father. A short time later he experienced a spiritually
transformation, spending a considerable time in meditation and displaying
outward signs of emotional attachment to the Cause. When his father found
out, he took his son to the outskirts of Kashan in the company of a few of
his colleagues. He then ordered them to kill his own son and abandon his
body. After Monib pleaded with his father, he reluctantly agreed to free
him on the condition that he leaves the city and never returns.68
•
Mirza Aqa Rekab-Saz was forced to practice Taqiyyih in Yazd after his
wife made a formal complaint to the Governor.69
•
Mulla Abul’Hassan Ardikani observed Taqiyyih and concealed his beliefs
from his immediate family until the final day of his life.70
•
The relatives of Shaykh Zainu’lAbidin Abrari encouraged him to practice
Taqiyyih in public.71
Mass Taqiyyih
Many instances of mass Taqiyyih have been recorded in various Bábí
accounts. Mass Taqiyyih occurred in localities where the persecutions and
opposition to the Cause were particularly intense. A major disadvantage of mass
Taqiyyih was the abandonment of the faith by their children and grandchildren.
66.	 Ibid.
67.	 Fadil Mazandarani, Zuhur Al-Haqq, op.cit., Vol. 6 , p. 700.
68.	 Ibid., p. 641.
69.	 Ibid., p. 874.
70.	 Ibid., p. 869.
71.	 Ibid., p. 817.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Rasul Mehrizi – formerly a devout follower of Vahid – and attacked their
fellow Bábís. The same individual later provoked the Ulama in Yazd in
organising another persecution against the Bábís. At least on one occasion
he lashed the Bábís with his own hands.85
•
Another Bábí was Aqa Siyyid Ismail Maranjani. He initially requested
Vahid for his consent to marry his daughter. When this was refused, Aqa
Siyyid Ismail Maranjani attacked and looted the Bábís, stole Vahid’s horse
and joined the opposition forces and eventually assuming the leadership
of the hardline Mullah’s in Nayirz.86
•
Following the ill-fated attempt on the life of Nasiru’l Din Shah, prison of-
ficials were busily interrogating Azim. Mirza Mohamed Husayn Motavalli
Qumi – a defected Bábí – intervened saying “there are souls greater that
Azim under His shadow” pointing to Bahá’u’lláh. On another occasion he
cut off the ear of Azim to please his interrogators.87
•
In the year 1300 HQ two Bábí defectors named Karbalai Mohamed and
Mirza Qulam Husayn actually initiated the persecutions in Tehran. They
visited Aqa Siyyid Sadiq Tabatabai the grand Mujtahid, formally made a
number of complaints from the Bábís and submitted a list of more than
1000 Bábís within the Tehran province to the Mullah. During the meeting
they advised the Mujtahid that the Bábís call him ‘Dajjal’. This infuriated
Aqa Siyyid Sadiq Tabatabai to such an extent that he immediately drafted
a letter to Prince Kamran Mirza requesting the massacre of all Bábís. He
enclosed the list of Tehrani Bábís with the letter. Following the receipt of
the letter, Prince Kamran Mirza arranged a private meeting with the two
Bábís and questioned them about the activities of the Bábís in Tehran
and specifically Siyyid Mahdi Dahaji. Finally he advise them to continue
their associations with the Bábís and Bahá’ís. They were to inform him of
potential Bahá’í gatherings so he could dispatch his troops for their mass
arrest.

The Bahá’ís learnt of the wickedness of Karbalai Mohamed and Mirza
Qulam Husayn and refused to associate with them. After a short time
Karbalai Mohamed again visited Aqa Siyyid Sadiq Tabatabai the grand
Mujtahid complaining that “the Prince has not acted on your earlier
correspondence”. The Mujtahid wrote a second letter to Kamran Mirza
threatening that “if you do not arrest and execute the Bahá’ís, the masses
will take the initiative in to their own hands”.
85.	 Ibid., Vol. 4 , p. 110.
86.	 Ibid., Vol. 3 , p. 300.
87.	 Ibid., Vol. 4, p. 113.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
•
A great majority of the Bábís in the locality of Hendijan publicly practiced
Taqiyyih and convinced the Mujtahids that they have converted back to
Islam. Whilst many became Moslems over time, a number of them con-
tinued to uphold Taqiyyih for a considerable period of time.80
•
After the martyrdom of the Báb, many of His relatives in Shiraz lived in
fear of their lives. They practiced Taqiyyih for years until such time that
Bahá’u’lláh dispatched His teachers to Shiraz.81
•
Mirza Ahmad Kashani was one of the early believers in Kashan. He had
met the Báb whilst He was staying in the house of Haji Mirza Jani Kashani.
During the persecution of the Bábís following the attempt on the life of
the Shah, the mob attacked his house in order to arrest him. He remained
hidden for a while and then decided to leave for Baghdad. He joined a
fellow Kashani on the way. At Baghdad he observed that his travelling
companion in the House of Bahá’u’lláh and realised that they were both
concealing their intentions from one another earlier during their journey
from Kashan.82
•
Mulla Ali Akbar Shirazi practiced Taqiyyih to conceal his true affiliations
from his friends Mulla Qulam Hosayn and Mulla Mohammad Riza. Later
he abandoned Taqiyyih and began to talk to them about the Cause.83
•
Haji Shaykh Zainu’l Abedin Abrari recalls meeting a Bábí in Karbila who
had escaped the persecutions in the City of Yazd. When asked about further
information about the Cause, the Bábí pleads with him: “Haji this is not
the place for such conversation” and asks him to practice Taqiyyih.84
Cooperation with the Officials
A number of Bábís cooperated with the authorities in the identification, ar-
rest and persecution of their fellow Bábís in return for saving their lives. Such
Bábís had to prove their ‘sincerity’ to the authorities by implementing tough
sanctions against their colleagues. In certain instances it is difficult to ascertain
whether their cooperation was done voluntarily or under duress.
•
Vahid managed to convert many of the Ulama in the township of Istahbanat
on his way to Nayriz. Many of them sensing that the government troops
were planning an attack, joined forces and under the leadership of Haji
80.	 Ibid., Vol. 6, p. 905.
81.	 Ibid., p. 871.
82.	 Ibid., p. 804.
83.	 Ibid., p. 913.
84.	 Ibid., p. 817.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
dervishes follow a style not a religion.” The Governor asked him to insult
Subh-i Azal. Mohamed Khan Baluch used a humorous tome to condemn the
morning (subh), noon and night of Eternity (Azal). The audience became
amused and the Governor arranged for his freedom.90
•
Aqa Mirza Mahdi was a respected Mulla in the city of Rasht. He had become
a Bábí following a series of discussions with Andalib. In the year 1297 HQ
the enemies provoked the Mujtahid of that city Aqa Mirza Abdu’l Baqi to
capture and execute him. The Mujtahid invited Aqa Mirza Mahdi to his
house. When he entered the house, Aqa Mirza Mahdi observed crowds of
people had gathered awaiting on receiving orders from the Mujtahid to
persecute him. He immediately embraced the Mujtahid and greeted him in
a warm and friendly manner. The Mujtahid became surprised and told the
audience: “I had suspected that such rumours are false. I have no doubts
regarding the faith and loyalty of Mirza Mahdi”. Mirza Mahdi replied:
“Let me begin by explaining why some people think that I am a Bábí:
I met up with a Dervish accidentally a short time ago. He was a pleas-
ant talker and I socialised with him.
After a few days he asked me: Is it true that you followers of Ithna
Ashari Shiism are awaiting the appearance of the Qa’im in the year 1260
according to the traditions and Ahadith from the Holy Imams?
I answered: Yes we are waiting for His coming. But I have not heard
traditions regarding the year 1260.
He recited the famous tradition from Abi Labid Makhzoumi. I did not
believe him. He requested a copy of the book Baharu’l Anvar. I gave him
the book. He opened a particular page and showed me the exact tradition.
I became disillusioned and started to debate the matter. I asked about
Dajjal and miracles and this is how he responded (lengthy summary of
discussions).
As hard as I tried I failed to prove his errors. He produced some damn-
ing answers and prevented me from stating my convictions.
Anyhow we did not see one another afterward. I took my concerns to
the teacher of my school who is an expert in tradition and Ahadith. Others
learnt of the discussions and called me a Bábí.
Now I request your expertise to give me sufficient answers so that I
could debate and defeat the Bábís in the future.”91
•
Aqa Mirza Mahdi used this opportunity to relay what he had heard from
Andalib prior to his declaration. His words had a deep effect on the stunned
90.	 Ibid., pp. 940-941.
91.	 Ibid., pp. 961-963.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions

Finally the government officials led by Karbalai Mohamed raided the houses
of the Bahá’ís. Karbalai Mohamed started by questioning the owner and
would go inside and collect the Bahá’í literature as evidence. Amongst
the seized items were the Bayan-i Farsi, Commentary on the Surah of
Kowthar, Commentary on the Surah of Baqarah, Tablets from Bahá’u’lláh
and a photograph of Sutanu’l Shohada. Karbalai Mohamed delivered these
items directly to the house of the Mujtahid.

Simultaneously Mirza Qulam Husayn led another group of government
officials in another part of Tehran. He caused the capture of many includ-
ing Mirza Abul Fadl Golpayegani.  A total of 37 Bábís and Bahá’ís were
arrested during this round of persecutions.88
Clever Responses Under Pressure
Many Bábís used a combination of vague and two-sided satirical language
in order to trick the authorities in to believing they were not a Bábí.
•
Mulla Abdullah Fadil was one of the learned Bábís (formerly a respected
Mullah) captured by the Hissamu’l Dowla the Governor of Fars on orders
from Shaykh Husayn the Mujtahid of the City in 1287 HQ. In response to
the question of whether you are a Bábí, he replied:
“What can I say. May God never bring afflictions to His creatures.
Every man has rivals and enemies in his own class and occupation. The
creed of Ulama are no exception. The majority of the respected people of
Fars hold me in high regards and this has caused their jealousy. In the
past they have alleged that I am a Sufi simply because I had referred to the
words of Shaykhu’l Rais and Sadru’l Mota’ahelin. Now they have alleged
in the presence of His Excellency that I am a Bábí.”
The Governor asked “So what they allege about you and others is
untrue?”. Mulla Abdullah Fadil replied “I search after the truth and have
not yet reached the essence of the matter. I have no knowledge of the super
natural and hidden secrets”. This reply convinced the Governor who ar-
ranged for his freedom.89

•
Mohamed Khan Baluch was a sufi from the southern Balushistan prov-
ince who had met Bahá’u’lláh in Akka and became a Bahá’í. During the
persecution in Shiraz in 1287 HQ he was captured. The Governor asked
him “Are you a Bábí?”. He replied “It is obvious that I am a Dervish. And
88.	 Ibid., Vol. 5, p. 269.
89.	 Ibid., Vol. 6, p. 878.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
purpose is to prevent the masses from becoming Bábís, this approach is
wrong. Because when a soul renowned for his steadfastness and honesty is
killed, he becomes more important and attracts many others. Therefore it is
appropriate that this committee makes the following resolution: to punish
those who make allegations against others, and to treat the alleged Bábís
with kindness. So the masses will not be attracted to the and not become
terrorised by our actions. This introduction managed to quell the fire of
hatred and anger in the gathering to an extent that they abandoned the
thought of killing Shaykh Sadeq.”95
•
Following the murder of Mulla Taqi Borqani in Qazvin, the general as-
sumption was that it was planned by Aqa Hadi Farhadi. The mob attacked
his house but could not find him. Aqa Hadi managed to conceal his identity
and was busily planing to free Tahirih. The angry mob captured his brother
Aqa Mahdi, took him to the main square and began inflicting lashes on his
bare body. They wanted to find out the whereabouts of Aqa Hadi. At the
same time the disguised Aqa Hadi approached the perpetrators and asked
with a Yazdi accent “Who is this person and why are you torturing him ?”.
They replied: “His brother has murdered Haji Mulla Taqi and has gone in
to hiding. He will not reveal where”. Aqa Hadi answered: “Do not torture
this poor soul. I witnessed a caravan arriving in Yazd coming from this City
two days ago and amongst them was a certain Aqa Hadi. He is probably
the same person that you are looking for.” 96
•
Haji Mulla Mohamed Hamzih Shari’atmadar always assisted and supported
local Bábís in the city of Barforoosh. Whenever the public asked about the
Bábí claims and ideas he would reply “I do not consider them bad and will
not make negative comments about them.”97
•
Haji Mulla Baqir Ardakani the Imam Jumh’a of Ardikan was secretly a
Bábí. The rival mullah’s found out about his conversion and submitted a
petition to the local Governor asking for his execution. When he met the
Governor, Haji Mulla Baqir Ardakani resorted to pleasantries and managed
to attract the mind and heart of the Governor. The Governor then ignored
the petition, sent the Haji to Karbila for two years and arranged an elaborate
welcome party after his return.98
95.	 Ibid., p. 817.
96.	 Ibid., Vol. 3 , p. 375.
97.	 Ibid., Vol. 6, p. 441.
98.	 Ibid., Vol. 3, p. 482.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
audience. The Mujtahid said to him: “If you had asked me earlier I would
have provided the answers and punished the Dervish accordingly. However
today time is short and we must leave the full answers to another time.”
He then allowed Mirza Mahdi to walk free.92
•
In Bushruieh following one of the upheavals a Mulla Mohamed Taqi was
captured and told to recant his faith to save his life. He went to the local
mosque and declared:
“Some people are known to be Bábís and the public in particular the
Mujtahids curse them. Therefore I curse them”.

He then  stood down and returned to his house. This infuriated the local
Mujtahid who claimed that Mulla Mohamed Taqi had effectively cursed
him. He wrote to the Ulama in Tabass and received a reply saying “What
has transpired is sufficient. Do not take any further actions.” 93
•
Haji Mirza Kamal’ul Din Naraqi after a year of practicing Taqiyyih went to
the mosque and addressed the congregation on the importance of observing
the fundamental principles of the faith and their priority over the details,
stood down from the pulpit and abruptly left the mosque. Many called
him “mentally disturbed” and others suggested that he may have become
a Bábí.94
•
Haji Shaykh Zinu’l Abidin Abrari one of the (secret Bábí) Mujtahids in the
city of Yazd was invited by the Ulama to attend a grand meeting in order
to consider the fate of one of the captured Bábís. He recalls:
“They discussed the execution warrant and considered his infidelity
and religion.. I remained quiet and internally bemused throughout. The
chief of Ulama Shaykh Sabzevari asked: Why are you silent? The religion
of the Lord is under threat. It is not the place for silence.
I replied: “Islam is in the utmost strength and its teachers have the
utmost courage. As there are innocent lives being lost. Today the real
protectors of religion, that is the Chief Mujtahids and Ulama and depu-
ties of the Imam are present in the Atabat and remain unaware of such
conflict and bloodshed. It is best to convey the present situation to them
and await their orders prior to taking any actions. In addition I can not see
the logic in killing Shaykh Sadiq. If the purpose is to kill one Bábí, what is
the result? So many have been massacred, what has been achieved? If the
92.	 Ibid., Vol. 5, p. 371.
93.	 Ibid., Vol. 6, p. 62.
94.	 Ibid., p. 678.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
•
On one occasion Haji Mirza Rida Quli Hakim the brother of Bahá’u’lláh
visited Mirza Husayn Khan Moshirul’Dowla the Premier. The Premier in-
troduced him to the guests as the brother of Bahá’u’lláh. Hakim protested:
“Why didn’t you introduce my relationship with my famous father?” Mirza
Husayn Khan replied:
“You must be proud of having such a brother. Thousands of souls from
all backgrounds recognise his station with utmost respect. How is it that
you run away from such a privilege? ... Your brother is the one individual
who saved my face in front of the Ottoman authorities. The reason is that
every time Iranian dignitaries and Princes visited Istanbul they would im-
mediately go around to every Ottoman minister and official seeking money.
This had caused the Ottoman authorities to assume that Iranians are all
beggars by nature. When your brother was brought in to Istanbul, He did
not visit the house of any of the Ottoman official except those who came
to His house. This convinced the Ottoman authorities that there are grand
personalities amongst the Iranians.”103
•
On another occasion Haji Mirza Rida Quli Hakim went to the house of
Mirza Husayn Khan Moshirul’Dowla. He was entertained by the host, his
two brothers and other member of the Qatar establishment. Mirza Husayn
Khan asked him: “What is the news from the Gentlemen?” Hakim who
claimed to be a follower of Mulla Ali Kani, started to talk about this Mulla.
Mirza Husayn Khan intervened saying: “I meant the brothers”. Hakim
replied: “I have no links or correspondence with them. Mr Ala’ul Malek
can testify to this fact”. Mirza Husayn Khan became infuriated and said:
“Hakim, did you assume that I had an ulterior motive from asking this
question? This is not true. Although during my term as Ambassador certain
actions were implemented in Istanbul but they were wrong. The (former)
Premier Mirza Aqa Khan committed a great treason to this country. For
years and years enormous cash reserves from this country were sent to
Saudi Arabia. God intended to finally channel this wealth back to Iran.
However the Iranian Government did not realise this fact. I am telling
you the position and station of His Cause is far greater than the personal
servitude of people like me and you.”104
•
During a personal visit, Mirza Abdul’s Khan Ala’ul Malek one of the
Qajar officials told Mirza Fadlu’llah Khan Nizamu’l Mamalek (niece of
Hakim):
103.	Ibid., pp. 398-399.
104.	Ibid., Vol. 6 , p. 504.
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
Embarrassment in the Presence of Officials
Taqiyyih and dissimulation did not always save the lives of the Bábís.
•
Aqa Rasul Behnamiri and thirty of his followers left the Tabarsi fortress
and intended to convey their allegiance to the government forces. As they
surrendered they were sprayed with bullets. Their bodies were taken to
nearby towns and beheaded in public view.99
•
During the interrogations the government officials repeatedly asked Mirza
Aqa Khan Kirmani, Shaykh Ahmad Ruhi and Haji Mirza Husayn Khan
whether they are Bábí or Bahá’í. They all concealed their beliefs and used
a combination of abusive terms and hate words to distance themselves from
the Cause. When asked: “You are the Son in Laws of Azal. How can you
not be a Bábí or Azali?” They replied by swearing at the Báb and Azal. A
short time later the same officials beheaded all three and sent their heads
to the Royal Court in Tehran.100
In other instances the Taqiyyih of the individuals became the object of
redicule for the interrogators:
•
During the interrogations of the Bábí captives following the attempt on the
life of the Shah, Siyyid Husayn Motavalli Qumi became one of the Bábís
who recanted their faith and wanted to save his own life. As the officials
were questioning Azim, Qumi intervened saying: “There are souls greater
that Azim under His shadow” pointing to Bahá’u’lláh. The chief interroga-
tor became infuriated and hit him in the face saying: “Your mischievous
actions are obvious to all. Shut your mouth and be quite.”101
•
During the interrogation of the Bábís in Tehran in year 1300 HQ, Mirza
Zinu’l Abidin Jarrah claimed to be a Sufi and a follower of Mirza Kouchak
Hamadani. He added: “I also curse the Bábís”.  Prince Kamran Mirza
became angry and after a heavy round of verbal insult told him: “Do you
assume that I am ignorant about your affairs, pursuing a line of trickery?”
He then imprisoned Mirza Zinu’l Abidin Jarrah along with the other cap-
tives. On another occasion Kamran Mirza addressed the Bábí recanters
with these words: “During the times of peace and comfort you are firm
Bahá’ís and at times of difficulty and distress you make false allegations
against decent people.”102
99.	 Ibid., p. 447.
100.	Ibid., Vol. 6, p. 929.
101.	Ibid., Vol. 4 , p. 113.
102.	Ibid., Vol. 5, p. 279.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
9.	 There are a number of treaties and compilations written by Bábís who
practiced Taqiyyih. It is difficult to ascertain their success in assisting the
Cause. Such works were indicative of the inner struggle within the Bábís
in proclaiming their true identity.
10.	Taqiyyih was in many instances used to conceal one’s faith from the threats
posed by the immediate family members.
11.	Taqiyyih did not always result in saving one’s life. It was largely a cir-
cumstantial confession. Many Bábís lost their lives even though they had
earlier recanted their faith.
12.	Bahá’u’lláh clearly announced that the recognition of the manifestation of
God and ‘steadfastness’ His Cause is more important than observing any of
the other teachings. Gradual abandonment of Taqiyyih amongst the Bahá’ís
was one of the distinguishing feature of the new religion from the Bábí era.
After this time the practice of Taqiyyih became unofficially superseded.
13.	In contrast the Azali Bábís glorified Taqiyyih in their literature. Taqiyyih
was considered a virtue and classified into various levels of concealment.
Prominent Azali leaders openly recanted their faith and even abused Báb
and Azal in the process. The extent of Taqiyyih in their words and actions
caused Mirza Abu’l Fadl to question Edward Browne’s method of portray-
ing of Azali Bábís. Taqiyyih became one of the distinguishing features of
the Azali-Bahá’í split.
Provisional Translations into English by the Author
The Practice of Taqiyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
“Your uncle (Mirza Rida Quli) assumes that our friendship is based
on superficial worldly matters. However as I sense that you are a clever
young man, I confine in you that I associate with this family for certain
other considerations. I can see that the likes of you people will not associ-
ate with us in the future.”105
Conclusions
1.	 Taqiyyih has its roots in Iranian psyche. It was a wide spread practice
amongst the defeated Zoroastrians after the devastating series of defeats
they suffered at the hands of Islamic warriors.
2.	 Taqiyyih was formally included as part of the Shiite theology in the early
part of the 17th century. As early as the Safavid period certain Mujtahids
promoted certain traditions from the Holy Imams in relation to the com-
ing of the Mahdi. Their purpose was to safe guard his identity against the
ferocity of the opposition.
3.	 The Founders of Shaykhi school used Taqiyyih to promulgate their antici-
pation for the coming of the “Perfect Shi’a”. Shaykhi literature contain
numerous references to ‘secrets’ of resurrection and the inability of the
common people to understand them.
4.	 At the time of the revelation of Báb, the ferocity of prejudice and hatred
was such that He first revealed His position as the Deputy to the Hidden
Imam. Taqiyyih was an essential requirement during the early phase of the
revelation simply because the level of prejudice within the society could
have totally crushed the movement before it had a chance to spread.
5.	 The Báb even ordered many of his followers to practice Taqiyyih in order
to spread the cause and carry out importance services for the faith.
6.	 As the Bábí cause progressed and their numbers grew, the Báb revealed
his true identity as the Hidden Imam and a manifestation from God. This
claim effectively made the Bábí faith independent from other Shiite sects.
Mulla Husayn was now appointed to the position of Deputy of the Hidden
Imam.
7.	 After the martyrdom of the Báb and the severe persecutions that followed
in the ensuing years, the practice of Taqiyyih became popular amongst the
Bábís. There were many instances of learned Bábís concealing their faith
and evidence of Mass Taqiyyih in a number of cities.
8.	 Many of those who recanted their faith continued to support and assist other
Bábís in times of need. For others the practice of Taqiyyih was a forerun-
ner to their eventual abandonment of their faith. A few even engaged in
the active persecution of their former colleagues. On the other hand many
abandoned Taqiyyih and later lost their life for their Faith.
105.	Ibid.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
A “Phoenix Schedule”
for the Dewey “200s”–
Suggested in particular for
Bahá’í Libraries
Paul Gerard
Melvil Dewey first proposed the classification that bears his name in
1876. It is still the most widely used library subject classification in the
world - although many large, general libraries (most notably those attached
to universities) prefer the classification used by the United States Library of
Congress (LC), while highly specialised libraries of various kinds often use
their own schemes.
DDC is (as might be expected after 125 years!) very old fashioned in many
respects - but it has the great advantage over LC of having been conceived as
a unified whole by an undoubted genius, rather than having grown like topsy
out of a hodgepodge of ad hoc decisions by ordinary librarians; and the great
advantage over specialised schemes of being instantly familiar to librarians
and library users all over the world.
DDC is now in its 21st edition - which is of course many times larger
than the original (42 page) proposal. Over the years, it has been changed in
two basic ways. The first method has been to expand existing schedules to
accommodate new subjects. The simple “decimal” notation used by DDC is
admirably adapted to this procedure, up to a point. Eventually new numbers
become very long indeed, and ultimately, of course, they become unworkably
long. This is most noticeable in the “500s” and “600s” - (science and technol-
ogy) where many new subjects have arisen since 1876.
The other method has been to simply scrap a whole section of the clas-
sification that is palpably out of date and insert an entirely new schedule. The
Dewey people themselves have called this kind of thing a “Phoenix Schedule”
(after the legendary bird born anew out of the flames). The current section for
music is a fairly recent example.
What is different about this particular “Phoenix” is that it is NOT an official,
Section 4

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
“220” (the Bible), which is surely an aspect of Christianity, rather than an
independent subject, even though some Jewish scripture finds a place in the
Old Testament. Very simply, “religion” is considered to be the same thing
as Christianity, and, even worse, Christianity the same thing as religion!
•
Finally – the Bahá’í Faith not only nestles in an obscure corner of the
290s – it still, after years of complaint from the Bahá’í community, has a
number that clearly implies that it is a sect of Islam!
Nor is this the worst of it! Because of the piecemeal way in which the
schedules for the Dewey 200s have evolved there are in fact four different
arrangements used for particular religions. First there is Christianity – which,
as we have seen, sprawls over 80% of the available number base. The overall
arrangement is firmly based in Melvil Dewey’s first thoughts on the subject –
and is frankly rather poor. Then there are the schedules for Christianity’s close
relatives, Judaism and Islam. These are later, and overall rather more sensibly
arranged. They are however quite different from the Christian arrangement,
and from each other. Finally there are all the real “others” – originally lack-
ing any kind of subdivision at all. These have been given a standard, fairly
sensible, but unfortunately far from comprehensive arrangement – that is,
once more, different.
To illustrate the effect of this inconsistency – here is an entry from the
alphabetical index to standard DDC:

Prayers (Private devotions)

291.433

Buddhism



294.344 33

Christianity



Hinduism



294.543 3

Islam



297.382 4

Sufi



297.438 24

Judaism



296.45
“Private prayer” is indicated for comparative religion, and some particular
religions as “-433” but this is far from consistent - within the schedule for Islam,
for instance, it is evidently “-3824”, in Judaism “-45”. There is no way for the
library user to work out where to find works on private prayer in a particular
religion – and in fact even for the cataloguer it is far fiddlier than it need be!
To summarise the position - in “fixing” the Dewey 200s, - so that a Bahá’í
library can make effective use of this great classification - we face three
problems:
•
The basic outline of the scheme at this point is grossly biased towards one
religion. Even for a library in an entirely “Christian” country this is rather
poor – for a country where other religions form an important part of the
local culture it is obviously intolerable.
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
standard “Dewey” bird, but a “foreign exotic” - designed, at least initially, for
a particular library.
The original Dewey scheme divided all knowledge into nine major classes
(plus a tenth class for “miscellaneous” subjects that did nor fit easily into any of
the other classes). Each major class received a block of one hundred numbers.
Initially Dewey considered a thousand different subjects would be plenty, in
fact his scheme was very widely criticised at the time for being too detailed!
The block of numbers between 200 and 299 were reserved for “Religion”.
In comparison with the 500s (“science”) and 600s (“technology”) - the Dewey
200s have NOT grown spectacularly over the years – in fact, they remain
relatively close to Dewey’s original outline. And yet, time has caught up with
the Dewey 200s too!
In 1876, Melvil Dewey was very properly concerned with the needs of the
particular library for which he was responsible, for other libraries in the United
States, and, perhaps, other English speaking countries.
In the world as he knew it, or at least in the world in which he envisioned
his classification being used, “religion” meant Christianity.
In spite of praiseworthy attempts over the years by the publishers of the
scheme to improve DDC’s coverage of at least some non-Christian religions,
the resulting fundamental bias, excusable as it is in historical context, limits
the value of the Dewey 200s, and thus of DDC as a whole, for any library
concerned with “religion” in anything but a narrowly Christian sense, and
particularly for a Bahá’í library.
Here is a copy of the official “Second Summary” of the Dewey 200s:





Religion



Philosophy and theory of religion



Bible



Christian theology



Christian moral and devotional theology



Christian orders and local church



Social and ecclesiastical theology



History of Christianity and Christian church



Christian denominations and sects



Comparative religion and other religions
•
Apart from the 210s (basically, “religion in general”) and the 290s (reserved
for “comparative religion” as well as well as all “other” religions - i.e.
those “other” than Christianity) the numbers are all reserved for Christian
topics!
•
In fact there is really no specific number for Christianity at all, unless
we take “230” as the general Christian number. BUT this comes AFTER

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000

228	 Buddhism

233	 Confucianism

235	 Taoism

244	 Shinto

250	 Zoroastrianism

260	 Judaism

270	 Christianity

280	 Islam

290	 Bahá’í Faith
Our allocation of numbers still cannot be absolutely even-handed, in
that the “Middle Eastern” religions are defined by two digits, the major “Far
Eastern” ones by three, and the others by five or more. Something like this
is forced on us by the fact that there are only nine digits in our numbering
system – and more than nine religions. Overall, however, the improvement
is obvious.
Many topics will mean something rather different in the context of the
various religions – but since the different religions amount to differing perspec-
tives on, and answers to, the same set of questions – the outline, at least, of a
classification of one religion can be applied to any other. It is hard to escape
the conclusion that Mr. Dewey himself would have wanted it done this way,
at the beginning of the 21st century.
The following is our equivalent index entry to the standard Dewey one
considered above:


Prayers (Private devotions)
[-833]


(examples)



Buddhism

228.833



Christianity

278.33



Comparative religion
208.33



Hinduism

222.833



Islam


288.33



Sufism

288.538 33



Judaism

268.33
Not all topics apply to all religions – for instance, a religion might con-
ceivably forbid personal prayer – in this case the relevant number is simply
not used. Nor will a particular topic (or number) necessarily have exactly
the same meaning in the context of another religion. None the less, a subject
common to more than one religion has the same number, regardless of the
religion concerned – and is thus arranged on the shelf in the same relation to
other topics.
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
•
The subdivision of the different religions is inconsistent. This makes the
scheme unnecessarily hard to follow for both cataloguer and user.
•
The Faith (and, far from unimportantly, most other “Non-Christian” reli-
gions as well) are either not covered at all, or very badly covered.

To be fair – the problem of Christian bias in the Dewey 200s has been recog-
nised for many years: even the Dewey people themselves (OCLC Forest Press)
would not go so far as to say that the standard form of the Dewey 200s would
be suitable for (say) a library in a Muslim country. A suggestion made in old
editions of DDC to alleviate this problem was that for such a library, a special,
“private” schedule should be inserted for the “home religion”. For instance,
such a schedule has been prepared for the Bahá’í World Centre Library, which
is to be inserted before the regular 200s, at B200, and lists specifically Bahá’í
topics. It should be noted that the BWC do not use this schedule themselves,
preferring the LC classification to Dewey.
The great drawback of using an extra “pre-location” schedule like this
is that one is still stuck with the regular Dewey 200s for all religions except
one’s own! For a Bahá’í library, in particular, this leaves several of our primary
objections intact.
In fact, this suggestion no longer forms part of DDC. Instead, Edition 21
proposes a series of options to “give preferred treatment or shorter numbers
to a religion other than Christianity”. These, to a large extent, simply replace
the Christian bias of Dewey with a similar bias toward another religion! This
is, of course, fundamentally opposed to the Bahá’í principle of the oneness
of religion, but it is also inconsistent with the universal intent of the Dewey
classification as a whole. To an even greater extent than the old idea of the
special “prelocated” schedule, these options displace, but do not remove, the
fundamental flaw in the current Dewey 200s.
The idea of a Phoenix schedule is of course “Burn it, and let a new one be
born”.  The new outline follows the theories of the great Indian mathematician
and librarian Ranganathan – in that it classifies by one thing at once – in this
case “religious system”. Something like this:

200	 Comparative religion, works concerned with several religions

210	 Tribal, folk, quasi religions and historical religion

213	 Religions of pre-literate peoples, folk religion

215	 Ethnic and localised religion

216	 Anti religions, cults, quasi religions

217	 Historical religions

222	 Hinduism

223	 Jainism

226	 Sikhism

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
autobiography written for purposes other than introducing the Faith in
an appropriate number under 293.
.4	 Value of the Bahá’í Faith
.43	Apologies, proofs.
.48	Works attacking the Faith (polemics).
Class works written by covenant breakers under 292.7 – works written
from the point of view of a particular religion, either under the religion
of the author – or, optionally, and especially for a Bahá’í library, under
291.6
.6	 Other religions from a Bahá’í perspective
To the base number 291.6 add notation following 2 in 200 that serves
to define the religion to which the Faith is compared – see the examples
below.
.622
The Bahá’í Faith and Hinduism
.628
The Bahá’í Faith and Buddhism
.67
The Bahá’í Faith and Christianity
.68
The Bahá’í Faith and Islam
Include here other religions considered or discussed in the light of the
Faith, and works on relations between Faith and other religions. Also
(optionally, but especially in a Bahá’í library) use for apologies for (and
attacks on) the Faith in relation to the teachings of a particular religion.
.7	 The Bahá’í Faith compared or opposed to other (secular) sub-
jects
Add to the base number 291.7 the Dewey class number for the subject
concerned (without trailing zeros or decimal points).
291.7 numbers refer to treatment of a subject (in a general way) from a
Bahá’í standpoint. For instance, use 291.75 for “The Bahá’í Faith and
science” in a general sense, BUT prefer 295.414 for the unity of science
and religion as a Bahá’í principle. 291.765 might be used for “General
administration from a Bahá’í standpoint” BUT use 299.1 for “Bahá’í
administration”. Use 291.737 for “The Bahá’í Faith and education”
BUT Education in the faith (i.e. deepening) is 298.7. If the distinction is
NOT a useful one - prefer the specific number to the 291.7 one. Another
alternative, which will quite often apply, is simply to class the work
in question with its own subject, outside the 200s! In particular, avoid
classing a work here simply because its author happens to be Bahá’í,
or because it includes a few references to the Faith.
In any case, do not class specific religious teachings at this point – use
a heading under 295.
See also the note at 201.7
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
Many other topics – such as specific holy days, scriptural books, or idi-
osyncratic doctrines are not common to all religions, but are still grouped under
the same common heading in each religion. For instance:


Scripture


[-4]


(examples)



Bahá’í scripture



Buddhist scripture
228.4



Christian scripture



Hindu scripture
222.4



Muslim scripture



Jewish scripture
The “4” in each case is followed by “non-common” notation to specify the
particular Holy Book involved. Thus the Bhagavad Gita is classed at 222.455,
with other examples of Hindu scripture - St. Luke’s Gospel at 274.4726, The
Kitab-i-Aqdas at 294.54.K6.
After a good deal of consultation with Bahá’í librarians around the world –
especially Mr William Collins – who was responsible for setting up the Bahá’í
World Centre Library in Haifa, this Phoenix schedule is nearing completion
– at least to the stage that it could be applied to a Bahá’í library. In fact the
ultimate intent is that it be brought up to a standard that any library could “slot
it in” to the regular Dewey Decimal Scheme, to improve their arrangement
of religious materials.
290  The Bahá’í Faith

Class encyclopaedias and other fully comprehensive works on the Bahá’í
Faith at 290. Class works on Bábism as a separate entity at 292.72 – OR
alternatively at 282.76.


General division of this subject follows the pattern set by 201-209. In
contradistinction to the schedules for some other religions, however, this
schedule is set out more or less complete. In the rather unlikely event that
a subject be required that is not specifically enumerated below, but does
occur in 201-209, it should be built by adding to the base number 29 nota-
tion following 20 in 201-209.
291  General introductions, apologetics, comparisons
.3	 General introductions to the Bahá’í Faith
Class comprehensive works, encyclopaedias etc. at 290.
Class works on the faith in particular countries in 292.6.
.33	Anecdotal autobiography
For instance, “God loves laughter”. Class “serious” biography and

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Use Cutter numbers for specific covenant breakers and covenant
breaking groups, as here, under appropriate classification.
.74	Disputing station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
.76	Disputing station of the Guardian
.76.F3
Free Bahá’ís
.78	Disputing the authority of Institutions
.78.B6
Baha’is under the protection of the covenant
.78.O7
Orthodox Bahá’ís
Biography of (and general works about):
For 293.05 and 293.5 - 293.9 use Cutter numbers for specific people
.05
Precursors of the Faith
.1
The Báb
.2
Bahá’u’lláh
Short works about Bahá’u’lláh primarily intended as an introduction
to, or as an apology for, the Bahá’í Faith – are best gathered under
“291.3” or “291.4”.
.3
‘Abdu’l-Bahá
.4
The Guardian
.5
Hands of the Cause of God
.6
Knights of Bahá’u’lláh
.7
Martyrs
.8
Other Bahá’ís
.9
Non-Bahá’ís relevant to Bahá’í history
The Writings (Holy books, scripture and quasi scripture)
Note that headings for 294.1 to 294.3 are used repeatedly for 294.4 -
294.9
Class the reading of scripture as an aspect of religious life at 298.3
.1	 Works about Bahá’í holy books and scriptures
.11
Authorship, origins, authenticity
.12
Inspiration – revelation
.123
Infallibility of scripture
.13
Concordances
.15
Textual studies
.16
Study - scriptural criticism (Exegesis)
.164
Symbolisms & typology
.165
Harmonies
.166
Literary criticism
.167
Historical criticism
.17
Commentaries
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
292  Historical and geographical treatment of the Bahá’í Faith
.5	 General Bahá’í history
Class history of particular subject with the subject - e.g. history of
teaching at 299.8. Class history of the Faith in particular countries
(apart from history belonging to a particular period) in “292.6”. Class
Bahá’í biography in 293.
.52	Heroic age (up to 1921)
.522
Preparation for revelation (Pre-1844)
.522 5
Shaykhis
.523
Ministry of the Báb (1844-1853)
.524
Ministry of Bahá’u’lláh (1853-1892)
.524 2
Baghdad period (1853-1863)
.524 3
Constantinople/Adrianople (1863-1868)
.524 4
‘Akká period (1868-1877)
.524 5
Mazra’ih/Bahjí period (1877-1892)
.525
Ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1892-1921)
.53	Formative age (1921-    )
.533
Guardianship of Shoghi Effendi (1921-1957)
.534
Stewardship of the Hands (1957-1963)
.535
From election of U.H.J. (1963-    )
.6	 The Bahá’í Faith in particular places, countries, geographic
regions
Add to the base number 292.6 notation 4-9 from Table 2 – as in the
following examples:

.652
The Faith in Japan

.68

The Faith in Latin America

.694
The Faith in Australia
If a work treats the history of a particular period in a particular country
(say, the faith in Japan during the guardianship of Shoghi Effendi) then
class with the period rather the country. In particular, DO NOT use
“292.655” (the faith in Iran) or “292.656” (the faith in the Middle East)
for the early history of the faith!
.7	 Covenant breakers etc
Include here literature produced by particular covenant breaking
groups, if held, as well as works written from a mainstream Bahá’í
standpoint. Works on the general subject of covenant breaking are
classed at 298.13.
.72	Disputing station of Bahá’u’lláh
Class here all Bábis post 1853 – or, alternatively, class Bábism at
282.76.
.72.A8	Azalis

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.44.K3
Khasa’il-Sab’ih
.44.K5
Kitab-i-Asma’
.44.K7
Kitab-i-Panj-Sha’n
.44.K9
Kitabu’r-Ruh
.44.L32
Lawh-i-Haji Mirza Aqasi
.44.L34
Lawh-i-Hurufat
.44.L36
Lawh-i-Muhammad Shah
.44.Q3
Qayyumu’l-Asma (Ahsanu’l-Qisas)
.44.R3
Risaliy-i-’Adliyyih
.44.R4
Risaliy-i-Dhahabiyyih
.44.R5
Risaliy-i-Fiqhiyyih
.44.R6
Risaliy-i-Furu’-i-’Adliyyih
.44.S2
Sahifatu’l-Haramayn
.44.S3
Sahifiy-i-Ja’fariyyih
.44.S4
Sahifiy-i-Makhdhumiyyih
.44.S5
Sahifiy-i-Radaviyyih
.44.S8
Suriy-i-Tawhid
.44.T3
Tafsir-i-Nubuvvat-i-Khassih
.44.Z5
Ziyarat-i-Shah ‘Abdu’l-Azim
.5	 Works of (or recorded teachings of) Bahá’u’lláh
.51	Works ABOUT the writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Add to base numbers 294.51, 294.53 notation following 294.1, 294.3
.52	General Collections
.53	Special Collections
.54 Specific works revealed by Bahá’u’lláh
(Arranged alphabetically, using Cutter numbers - as follows)
.54.A3	Alvah-i-Laylatu’l-Quds
.54.A5	Asl-i-Kullu’l-Khayr (Words of Wisdom)
.54.A9	Az Bagh-i-Ilahi
.54.B2	Baz-Av-i-Bidih-Jami
.54.B4	Bisharat (Glad Tidings)
.54.C4	Chihar Vadi (Four Valleys)
.54.H3	Haft Vadi (Seven Valleys)
.54.H4	Halih Ya Bisharat
.54.H7	Hur-i-’Ujab
.54.H8	Hurufat-i-Allin
.54.I7	 Ishraqat
.54.K2	Kalimat-i-Firdawsiyyih (Words of Paradise)
.54.K3	Kalimat-i-Maknunih (Hidden Words)
.54.K4	Kitab-i-’Ahd
.54.K6	Kitab-i-Aqdas (Most Holy Book)
.54.K7	Kitab-i-Badi’
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.18	Secular  subjects in Bahá’í scripture
Add to the base number 294.18 the Dewey class number for the subject
concerned (without trailing zeros or decimal points). Thus, “Medicine
in Bahá’í scripture”  becomes 294.1861
.19	History of scripture
.195
History of translations
.2	 General collections of scriptural works
.3	 Special collections
.32 Collections compiled for a specific purpose
.322
Collections compiled for specific classes of reader
.322 3	Young people
Include here stories from Holy writings retold for children
.325
Prayers
OR, perhaps, prefer 298.3 for prayer books of all kinds
.326
Personal devotions
.327
For feasts and/or holy days
Add to the base number 294.327 the notation following 297 – for ex-
ample: Scriptural readings for Ridvan  294.3276
.328
For deepenings etc.
Add to the base number 294.328 the numbers following 298.75. For
example Scripture for deepening new believers: 294.32873
Note that collections of scripture prepared for deepenings on a particu-
lar subject should be classed at 294.34 rather than here
.33	Collections linked by form (e.g. “Tablets”)
.34	Collections linked by subject (e.g. “Love”)
.36	Collections linked by date or period
Add to the base number 294.36 the notation following 292.52 to define
the period.
.4	 Works of (or recorded teachings of) the Báb
.41	Works ABOUT the writings of the Báb
Add to base numbers 294.41, 294.43 notation following 294.1, 294.3
.42
General Collections
.43
Special Collections
.44
Specific works revealed by the Báb
(Arranged alphabetically, using Cutter numbers - as follows)
.44.B3
Bayán, Arabic
.44.B5
Bayán, Persian
.44.D3
Dala’il-i-Sab’ih

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.54.L62
Lawh-i-Mawhid
.54.L63
Lawh-i-Mubahilih
.54.L64
Lawh-i-Napulyun I (First Tablet to Napoleon III)
.54.L65
Lawh-i-Napulyun II (Second Tablet to Napoleon
III)
.54.L66
Lawh-i-Nasir
.54.L67
Lawh-i-Nuqtih
.54.L68
Lawh-i-Pap (Tablet to Pope Pius IX)
.54.L69
Lawh-i-Pisar ’Amm
.54.L72
Lawh-i-Qina’
.54.L73 	 Lawh-i-Quds
.54.L74
Lawh-i-Rafi’
.54.L75
Lawh-i-Ra’is
.54.L76
Lawh-i-Raqsha
.54.L77
Lawh-i-Rasul
.54.L78
Lawh-i-Ruh
.54.L79
Lawh-i-Ru’ya
.54.L82
Lawh-i-Sahab
.54.L83
Lawh-i-Salman I
.54.L84
Lawh-i-Salman II
.54.L85
Lawh-i-Samsun
.54.L86
Lawh-i-Sayyah
.54.L87
Lawh-i-Shaykh Fani
.54.L88
Lawh-i-Sultan
.54.L89
Lawh-i-Tawhid
.54.L92
Lawh-i-Tibb
.54.L93
Lawh-i-Tuqa
.54.L94
Lawh-i-Yusuf
.54.L95
Lawh-i-Zaynu’l-Muqarrabin
.54.L96
Lawh-i-Ziyarih
.54.M2
Madinatu’r-Rida
.54.M3
Madinatu’t-Tawhid
.54.M4
Mathnavi
.54.M8
Munajathay-i-Siyam
.54.Q2
Qad-Ihtaraqa’l-Mukhlisun (Fire Tablet)
.54.Q3
Qasidiy-i-Varaqa’iyyih
.54.R3
Rashh-i-’Ama
.54.R5
Ridvanu’l-’Adl
.54.R6
Ridvanu’l-Iqrar
.54.S2
Sahifiy-i-Shattiyyih
.54.S3
Salat-i-Mayyit
.54.S4
Saqi Az Ghayb-i-Baqa
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.54.K8	Kitab-i-Iqan
.54.L12
Lawh-i-’Abdul’l-’Aziz va Vukala
.54.L13
Lawh-i-’Abdul’l-Vahhab
.54.L14
Lawh-i-’Abdu’r Razzaq
.54.L15
Lawh-i-Ahbab
.54.L16
Lawh-i-Ahmad (Tablet of Ahmad)
.54.L17
Lawh-i-Amraj
.54.L18
Lawh-i-Anta’l-Kafi (Long Healing Prayer)
.54.L19
Lawh-i-Aqdas
.54.L22
Lawh-i-Ashraf
.54.L23
Lawh-i-Ashiq va Ma’shuq
.54.L24
Lawh-i-Ayiy-i-Nur
.54.L25
Lawh-i-Baha
.54.L26
Lawh-i-Baqa
.54.L27
Lawh-i-Basitatu’l-Haqiqah
.54.L28
Lawh-i-Bismilih
.54.L29
Lawh-i-Bulbulu’l-Firaq
.54.L32
Lawh-i-Burhan
.54.L33
Lawh-i-Dunya
.54.L34
Lawh-i-Fitnih
.54.L35
Lawh-i-Ghulamu’l-Khuld
.54.L36
Lawh-i-Habib
.54.L37
Lawh-i-Haft Pursish
.54.L38
Lawh-i-Hajj
.54.L39
Lawh-i-Hawdaj
.54.L42
Lawh-i-Hikmat
.54.L43
Lawh-i-Hirtik
.54.L44
Lawh-i-Huriyyih
.54.L45
Lawh-i-Husayn
.54.L46
Lawh-i-Ibn-i-Dhi’b (Epistle to the Son of the Wolf)
.54.L47
Lawh-i-Ittihad
.54.L48
Lawh-i-Jamal
.54.L49
Lawh-i-Karim
.54.L52
Lawh-i-Karmil (Tablet of Carmel)
.54.L53
Lawh-i-Kullu’t-Ta’am
.54.L54
Lawh-i-Malikih (Tablet to Queen Victoria)
.54.L55
Lawh-i-Malik-i-Rus (Tablet to Czar Alexander II)
.54.L56
Lawh-i-Mallahu’l-Quds (Tablet of the Holy Mari-
ner)
.54.L57
Lawh-i-Manikji Sahib
.54.L58
Lawh-i-Maqsud
.54.L59
Lawh-i-Maryam

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.54.S987	 Suriy-i-Zubur
.54.S989	 Suriy-i-Zuhur
.54.T2
Tafsir-i-Hu
.54.T3
Tafsir-i-Hurufat-i-Maqatta’ih
.54.T4
Tafsir-i-Suriy-i-Va’sh-Shams
.54.T5
Tajalliyat
.54.T6
Tarazat
.54.Z3
Ziyarat-namih (Tablet of Visitation)
.54.Z4
Ziyarat-namiy-i-Awliya
.54.Z5
Ziyarat-namiy-i-Bábu’l-Báb va Quddus
.54.Z6
Ziyarat-namiy-i-Bayt
.54.Z7
Ziyarat-namiy-i-Maryam
.54.Z8
Ziyarat-namiy-i-Siyyidu’sh-Shuhada
.6	 Works of (or recorded teachings of) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
.61	Works ABOUT the writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Add to base numbers 294.61, 294.63 notation following 294.1, 294.3
.62	General Collections
.63	Special Collections
.64 Specific works revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
(Arranged alphabetically, using Cutter numbers - as follows)
.64.A5
Alvah-i-Tablighiy-Imrika (Tablets of the Divine
plan)
.64.A6
Alvah-i-Vasaya (Will and Testament)
.64.L12
Lawh-i-Aflakiyyih
.64.L14
Lawh-i-’Ahd va Mithaq
.64.L16
Lawh-i-’Ammih
.64.L18
Lawh-i-Ayat
.64.L22
Lawh-i-Du Niday-i-Falah va Najah
.64.L24
Lawh-i-Duktur Fural (Tablet to Dr. Forel)
.64.L26
Lawh-i-Haft Sham’
.64.L28
Lawh-i-Hizat Bayti
.64.L32
Lawh-i-Khurasan
.64.L34
Lawh-i-Lahih
.64.L36
Lawh-i-Mahfil-i-Shawr
.64.L38
Lawh-i-Muhabbat
.64.L42
Lawh-i-Tanzih va Taqdis
.64.L44
Lawh-i-Tarbiyat
.64.M3
Madaniyyih (Secret of Divine Civilization)
.64.M4
Maqality-i-Sayyah (Traveller’s Narrative)
.64.M8
Mufavidat (Some Answered Questions)
.64.S3
Sharh-i-Fass-i-Nigin-i-Ism-i-A’zam
.64.S4
Sharh-i-Shuhaday-i-Yazd va Isfahan
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.54.S5
Shikkar Shikan Shavand
.54.S6
Subhana Rabbiya’l-’Ala
.54.S7
Subhanika Ya Hu
.54.S8
Suratu’llah
.54.S911	 Suriy-i- Ahzan
.54.S913	 Suriy-i-Amin
.54.S915	 Suriy-i-Amr
.54.S917	 Suriy-i-A’rab
.54.S919	 Suriy-i-Ashab
.54.S921	 Suriy-i-Asma
.54.S923	 Suriy-i-Bayan
.54.S925	 Suriy-i-Damm
.54.S927	 Suriy-i-Dhabih
.54.S929	 Suriy-i-Dhibh
.54.S931	 Suriy-i-Dhikr
.54.S933	 Suriy-i-Fadl
.54.S935	 Suriy-i-Fath
.54.S937	 Suriy-i-Fu’ad
.54.S939	 Suriy-i-Ghusn (Tablet of the Branch)
.54.S941	 Suriy-i-Hajj I
.54.S943	 Suriy-i-Hajj II
.54.S945	 Suriy-i-Haykal
.54.S947	 Suriy-i-Hifz
.54.S949	 Suriy-i-Hijr
.54.S951	 Suriy-i-’Ibad
.54.S953	 Suriy-i-Ism
.54.S955	 Suriy-i-Ismuna’l-Mursil
.54.S957	 Suriy-i-Javad
.54.S959	 Suriy-i-Khitab
.54.S961	 Suriy-i-Ma’ani
.54.S93
Suriy-i-Man’
.54.S965	 Suriy-i-Muluk (Tablet of the Kings)
.54.S967	 Suriy-i-Nida
.54.S969	 Suriy-i-Nush
.54.S971	 Suriy-i-Qadir
.54.S973	 Suriy-i-Qahir
.54.S975	 Suriy-i-Qalam
.54.S977	 Suriy-i-Qamis
.54.S979	 Suriy-i-Sabr
.54.S981	 Suriy-i-Sultan
.54.S983	 Suriy-i-Vafa
.54.S985	 Suriy-i-Ziyarih

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.123
Knowability of God
.123 1
Unknowable in essence
.123 2
Knowable through logic
.123 4
Knowable through faith
.123 6
Knowable through tradition
.123 8
Acceptance through revelation by manifestations
.125
Attributes of God
.125 2
Goodness of God
.125 3
God the creator
.125 4
Just ruler of the universe
Include here Theodicy (vindication of God’s justice in permitting evil
and suffering to exist).
.125 41
Sovereignty, kingdom of God
.125 42
Wisdom, omniscience
.125 43
Mercy of God
.125 5
Other attributes and titles
Including omnipotence, transcendence etc.

.129	 Greatest Name
.15	Love of God
.18	Primal will, Holy Spirit
.2	 Spiritual Beings
.21	Manifestations of God
Use “293.1” for The Báb and “293.2” for Bahá’u’lláh – unless the
nature of Manifestation itself is the primary subject
.211
Unity of the manifestations of God
.212
Relation of Manifestation to God
.213
Most Great Infallibility
.214
Revelation, progressive revelation
For works specifically on authorship, inerrancy of scripture, see under
294.1
.215
Miracles
.216
Prophethood
.217
Previous manifestations from a Bahá’í standpoint
Add to the base number 295.217 notation following 2 defining the
religion founded by the manifestation concerned – for example:
.217 6
Moses
.217 7
Jesus
.217 8
Muhammad
.219
Future Manifestations
.25	Spirit beings
.255
Good spirits, Angels etc.
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.64.S5
Siyasiyyih
.64.T2
Tadhkiratu’l-Vafa (Memorials of the Faithful)
.64.T3
Tafsir-i-Bismi’Ilahi’r-Rahmani’r-Rahim
.64.T4
Tafsir-i-Kuntu Kanzan Makhfiyyan
.64.Z5
Ziyarat-namih (Tablet Of Visitation)
.7	 Other authoritative Bahá’í writings
Include here only writings with a “quasi-scriptural” authority. 294.72
– 294.78 naturally follow the same pattern as 294.71.
.71	Works of (or recorded teachings of) Shoghi Effendi
.711
Works ABOUT the writings of Shoghi Effendi
Add to base numbers 294.711, 294.713 notation following 294.1,
294.3
.712
General Collections
.713
Special Collections
.714
Specific works revealed by Shoghi Effendi
Where appropriate – use Cutter numbers for specific works of Shoghi
Effendi, as for the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
.72	Works of Hands of the Cause of God
.73	Messages from, rulings by the U.H.J.
Add to base numbers 294.731, 294.733 notation following 294.1,
294.3
.75	Recognised rulings by N.S.A.s
.76	  “            “         “          L.S.A.s
.78	Recognised rulings by other Administrative bodies
295  The Teachings (God, ethics, principles)
[.0	Schools and kinds of theology]
Do not use 295.0 – class all “deviant” Bahá’í works under 292.7 (cov-
enant breakers).
.1	 God
.11	Oneness of God
Class Bahá’í discussions or refutations of Trinitarian, polytheistic,
pantheistic etc. conceptions of God under 295.11 – adding to the base
number 295.11 notation following 205.11 as appropriate.
.12	Existence, knowability, attributes of God
.121
Existence of God
.121 2
Proofs
[.121 3
Agnosticism]
[.121 5
Atheism]
Do NOT use 295.1213 or 295.1215. Class Bahá’í discussions, refuta-
tions of atheism, agnosticism at 291.61633, 291.61634.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.4	 Principles, morals, personal ethics
Class at 295.4 general works on “living the life”. For religious occu-
pational ethics see 295.5.
In this schedule, vice is seen as a deficiency of its corresponding
virtue. E.g., a work on pride (as a vice) is classed at the number for
humility
.41	Justice, fair-mindedness
Use a number under 296 for Bahá’í law on any 295.4 subject.
.412
Independent investigation of truth
.414
Harmony of religion and science
For general works about the relationship between the Bahá’í Faith and
science, prefer 291.75. Use this number for the oneness of Science and
religion as a virtue or principle.
.415
Prejudice and intolerance  (Elimination of)
.415 1
Religious intolerance
.415 3
Racism and Ethnicism
.415 5
Sexism
.415 7
Ageism
.415 8
Intolerance of people suffering from illnesses and
handicaps
.42
Honour, purity
.421
Self-respect, honour
.422
Honesty, ethical dealing
.423
Thrift
.424
Truthfulness
.426
Trustworthiness
.427
Matching words with deeds
.428
Chastity, sexual morals
.429
Purity
.43	Kindliness and related virtues
.432
Concern for the environment
.432 5
Kindness to animals
.432 7
Vegetarianism
.433
“Golden Rule”
.433 3	Sympathy and empathy
.433 7
Respect for others’ rights
.434
Generosity, charity, care for the poor and sick
.435
Encouragement
.436
Courtesy and tact
.437
Hospitality
.439
Forgiveness, tolerance
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.3	 Humanity
.31	Creation, purpose, relation to God
.311
Faith, belief and doubt
For proofs of the existence of God use 295.121 – for faith as a virtue,
use 295.472
.312
Man created to know and love God
.313
Recognition of Manifestation
.315
Dependence
.315 5	Submission to the will of God
.32	Nature of humanity and human society - relation to natural
world
For the virtue of love and respect for the natural world use 295.432.
.321
Oneness of humankind
For racial prejudice and racism use 295.4153
.322
Equality of men and women
For Sexism use 295.4155
.324
Immortality of the human spirit
For works on Heaven and Hell use 295.344. Class here works on
death.
.324 2
Reincarnation, karma (Fallacy of)
For the effect of good works on salvation, use 295.34855
.325
Free will and predestination
.326
Relation of humankind to the natural world
For Oneness of religion and science in general - use 295.414
.326 3
Nature of creation
.326 35
Eternal
.326 37
Kingdoms
.326 5
Evolution
For the relationship between the Bahá’í Faith and science, use 291.75
.33	Eschatology
.333
Resurrection, return
.335
Day of God; last days
.337
Calamity
.34	Salvation etc.
.342
Good and evil
.344
Heaven and Hell
.348
Salvation, divine forgiveness
.348 5
Grace and good works
.348 53
Grace
.348 55
Good works

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.64	International standards
.643
International standard measure
.645
International standard script
.646
Universal second language
.65	Government
.653
Individuals and the state
.653 2
Obedience to government
.653 23
Military service
.655
International cooperation, world federation
.655 2
International executive
.655 3
International legislature
.655 4
International law
.656
Political systems
.656 3
Republicanism
.656 5
Royalism
.66
Teachings concerning economics
For the specific virtues of justice, honesty, thrift, generosity etc. see
numbers under 295.4
.663
Spiritual solution to the economic question
.67
Teachings concerning social life, customs and change
.673
Social life and customs
.675
Social change
296  Laws, prescriptions and proscriptions
For scriptural and legislative sources of Bahá’í law use appropriate
division of  “294” - e.g. The Kitab-i-Aqdas  at 294.54.K6.
3	 Personal laws
.31	Membership of the Bahá’í  community
.311
Declaration
.312
Suspension of voting rights
.313
Expulsion
.314
Resignation
.315
Membership of (or involvement with) non-Bahá’í
bodies
.315 2
Interfaith bodies
.315 3
Charitable and “service” organisations
.315 5
Other religious bodies
.315 7
Secret societies etc.
.315 8
Political parties etc.
Here include participation in partisan politics.
.316
Obligations and privileges
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.44	Love and related virtues
.443
Love
.445
Friendliness, friendship
.45 Selflessness and related virtues
.452
Sacrifice
.454
Service
.46	Humility and related virtues
.461
Humility
.463
Reverence
.465
Obedience
.466
Patience
.468
Dignity
.47	Faith and related virtues
.472
Faith
.473
Courage
.474
Happiness
.475
Hope
.476
Steadfastness and perseverance
.477
Sincerity
.478
Zeal
.49
Other qualities and virtues
.5	 Occupational ethics
Add to the base number 295.5 the Dewey number for the discipline
involved – e.g. medical ethics 294.561. Class honesty at 295.422.
.6	 Social teachings
Works treating the practical relationships between the Faith and social
questions should generally be classed under 291.73 .
Class teachings concerning the social nature of humanity under 295.32
Use 296.5 for social laws.
.63	Teachings concerning Peace and War
.633
Pacifism
Doctrines absolutely forbidding war in any circumstances.
.634
Lesser peace
.634 5
Collective security
For international cooperation in general use 295.655
.635
Most Great Peace
.636
Warfare
.636 3
Just war
War necessarily waged, for a just cause.
.636 8
Holy war

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.553
Marriage
For laws of sexual conduct and adultery etc. see 296.322
.553 1
Monogamy – plurality of spouses
.553 3
Courtship, betrothal
.553 4
Parental consent
.553 6
Dowry
.553 8
Divorce
.553 83
Year of patience
.554
Law concerned with death
.554 3
Treatment of human remains, burial
.554 5
Laws of inheritance
.555
Responsibility for children
.555 7
Responsibility for education of children
.57
Crime and punishment
.572
Religious sanctions
.575
Fines and confiscations
.578
Imprisonment
.578 9
Life imprisonment
.579
Capital punishment
297  Feasts & holy days - the Bahá’í calendar
Collections of scriptural readings suitable for a particular occasion, are
classed at 294.327, 294.4327 etc. Works on the preparation of worship
for particular occasions, including specific programs, are classed at
298.857.
.3	 The Nineteen Day Feast
.331
Bahá (Splendour)
.332
Jalal (Glory)
.333
Jamal (Beauty)
.334
‘Azamat (Grandeur)
.335
Nur (Light)
.341
Rahmat (Mercy)
.342
Kalimat (words)
.343
Kamal (Perfection)
.344
‘Izzat (Might)
.351
Mashiyyat  (Will)
.352
‘Ilm (Knowledge)
.353
Qudrat (Power)
.354
Qawl (Speech)
.354
Masa’il (Questions)
.361
Sharaf (Honour)
.362
Sultan (Sovereignty)
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.316 4
Contributions to the cause
.316 5
Obligatory prayer and repeating holy verses
For comprehensive works on Bahá’í personal devotions use
.316 7
Privilege of voting in Bahá’í elections
For loss of voting and administrative rights see “296.312”.
.32
Laws of personal conduct
.322
Laws affecting sexual conduct
Class rape at 296.32474. For marriage laws use 296.553 – for chastity
as a virtue, use 295.427
.322 2
Adultery and fornication
.322 4
Homosexuality
.322 6
Birth control; abortion
.324
Laws concerning respect of the body, of human life
.324 5
Use of alcohol and other drugs
.324 7
Violence
.324 72
Assault
.324 74
Rape
.324 75
Murder and manslaughter - suicide
.324 77
Warfare
.324 778	 Holy War
.326
Laws concerning respect of property
.326 3
Theft
.326 5
Fraud
.326 7
Malicious damage, arson etc.
.327
Laws of respect for other’s rights
.327 6
Backbiting
.327 8
Discrimination
.328
Other “personal” laws
.328 2
Gambling
.328 4
Involvement with psychic phenomena
.5	 Social laws
.53
Theocracy, religious government
For the relationship between the Faith and the secular state use 291.732
– for teachings on relations with secular government use 295.65.
.532
Laws governing international matters
.532 5
Laws relating to U.H.J.
.533
Laws governing communities
.533 5
Laws relating to N.S.A.s and L.S.A.s
.55
Laws of family life
.552
Duties of children to parents
For duties of parents to children use 296.555.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.261 13
House of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
.261 2
Holy places at Bahjí
.261 23
The Mansion
.261 25
The Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh
.261 3
Holy places in ‘Akká
.261 32
The Barracks
.261 321	 Cell of Bahá’u’lláh
.261 35
The house of Udi Khammar
.261 37
The house of Abbud
.261 38
The house of ‘Abdu’llah Pasha
.261 39
Bahá’í  cemeteries in ‘Akká
.261 9
Elsewhere in the Holy Land
.261 92
Mazra’ih
.261 95
Gardens near ‘Akká
.261 953	 Ridvan garden
.261 955	 Firdaws
.261 957	 Ashraf
.262
In Iran (Persia)
.262 1
House of the Báb (Shiraz)
.263
In Former Ottoman Empire
.263 2
House of Bahá’u’lláh (Baghdad)
.264
Elsewhere
.3	 Personal Devotions
.33
Prayer
.35
Reading, reciting scripture
.4	 Ritual self-denial – fasting – asceticism
.44
Dietary self-denial
.443
Fasting
Class periods of fast in 297
.5	 Meditation and mysticism, religious experience
.53
Meditation
.58
Mysticism
.6	 Other Mystic Practices
.62
Religious healing
.68
Divination, prophecy
For prophecy enshrined in scripture, see 294 – for prophecies of Mani-
festation see 295.21.
.7	 Deepening – religious education (Bahá’í)
Class here Bahá’í learning, the Bahá’í Faith as an academic subject.
Class teaching, pioneering under 299.8.
.72
Importance in general spiritual development
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.363
Mulk (Dominion)
.364
Ala (Loftiness)
.4	 The days of Ha (Intercalary days)
.5	 Naw Ruz (Bahá’í New Year)
.6	 Ridvan
.601
First day of Ridvan
.609
Ninth day of Ridvan
.612
Twelfth day of Ridvan.
.7	 Holy Anniversaries.
.73
The Declaration of the Báb
.74
The Passing of Bahá’u’lláh
.75
The Martyrdom of the Báb
.76
The Birth of the Báb
.77
The Birth of Bahá’u’lláh
.78
The Day of the Covenant
.79
The Passing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
.8 Other specifically Bahá’í anniversaries
.9	 Other anniversaries etc.
.93
World Religion day
.94
Race Unity Day
.95
World Peace Day
.96
United Nations Day
.98
Human Rights Day
298  Religious life and practice
.1	 The Covenant
.11
Eternal (Greater) Covenant
.12
Specific (Lesser) Covenant
.13
Covenant-breaking
For specific covenant-breakers or covenant-breaking groups, see under
292.7.
.2	 Pilgrimage and Holy places
.21
Bahá’í Pilgrimage
.213
Accounts of particular pilgrimages
.215
Pilgrim’s notes
For authoritative notes of talks by (for instance) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá or Shoghi
Effendi consider classing in appropriate subdivision of 294.
.26
Bahá’í Holy places
.261
In the Holy Land (Israel/Palestine)
.261 1
Holy places in Haifa
.261 11
Shrine of the Báb
.261 115	 Shrine of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
of scripture suitable for the celebration of particular feasts, holy days
– see 294.
.858
Times of the day
Including dawn prayers
.89
Unity feasts, Temple services and other interfaith worship
.9	 Charity, donations to the Cause
For the virtue of generosity, charitableness, use “295.434” – for the
obligation to contribute to the cause under Bahá’í law use 296.3164.
299  Institutions and organisations, administration
.03
Directories
.06
Statistics
1	 General Administrative Topics
.11
General administration
For subjects not allowed for below - add to the base number 209.11 the
numbers following 65 in 651-659 – e.g. General Office administration
299.111. For public relations, advertising use proclamation at 299.53,
rather than 299.119.
.15
Bahá’í elections
For the privilege of voting in Bahá’í elections, and removal of this
privilege, see 296.3167.
.158
Conventions etc. called for the purpose of holding elec-
tions
.18
Conferences and regional meetings
.2	 Administrative Centres and Houses of Worship
.22
The World Centre (Haifa)
.24
National & Local centres
(e.g.) Australian National Centre  299.2494
.26
Houses of worship
(e.g.) The Indian Temple  299.2654
.3	 Administrative Institutions
Committees or sub-organisations of any institution are numbered after a
0 (zero) - the numbers 2-8 are used to locate the committee (where this
is appropriate) thus a committee of the U.H.J. might be 299.34202 - a
committee of the N.S.A. of Australia might be 299.3439403.
.34
Governing institutions (the Rulers)
.341
The Guardianship
For works specifically on Shoghi Effendi, use 293.4 – for works on
other “Guardians”, class under covenant breakers, at 292.78.
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.73
Methods of deepening
.731
Self deepening
.732
Informal gatherings, firesides
.733
Formal institutes etc.
.734
Bahá’í summer schools
.75
Deepening particular groups of people
.753
By age group
.753 3
Young people
.753 33
Children
Including “Rose Gardens” (Children’s classes)
.753 35
Youth
.755
By socio-economic class
(Include deepening indigenous people.)
.756
By ethnicity, nationality
.757
New and isolated believers
.757 3
New believers
.757 5
Isolated believers
.76
Deepening on particular subjects
Add to the base number 298.76 the numbers following 29 in 291-299
– e.g. learning about scripture 298.764 – Deepening on the covenant
298.7681. Actual deepening materials would in most cases be best
classed with the subject concerned, or under the appropriate division
of  294.
.8	 Bahá’í Worship
Including individual and community praise of God, celebration of
nineteen day feasts, holy days, special occasions – temple services
(unity feasts) and other interfaith worship.
Class personal prayer, reading of scripture at 298.3.
.81
Essentially non-ritual nature
.82
Prayer and scriptural readings in acts of worship
.823
Congregational prayer
.824
Reading, reciting, chanting of scripture in worship
.84
Use of music in worship
Class religious music in general at 781.7 or 782.22
.844
Song books, “Hymnals” etc.
.85
Celebration of particular occasions
.853
Bahá’í weddings
.854
Bahá’í funerals
.857
Feasts, Holy days etc.
Add to the base number 298.857 notation following 297. For collections

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
.81
Plans & campaigns
For history, achievements etc. of particular plans – see appropriate
heading under 292.5 or 299.82.
.82
History of teaching
.83
Proclamation & Advertising
.835
Advertising the faith, publicity
.837
Formal proclamation
.84
Particular teaching methods
.842
Personal teaching
.844
Firesides
.845
Travel teaching
.846
Public meetings
.847
Mass teaching
.847 3
“Street preaching”
.847 5
“Door-knocking”
.848
Use of the media
.85
Teaching particular groups of people
.853
By age group
.853 3
Young people
.853 33
Children
.853 35
Youth
.855
By socio-economic class
(Include teaching indigenous people.)
.856
By ethnicity, nationality
.858
Teaching people of particular religious background
.86
Consolidation
.862
Community Development
.863
New believers
Use this number for the general care and nurture of new believers,
especially as part of the consolidation process. For deepening new
believers, use 298.7573.
.867
Isolated believers
Use this number for the general care and nurture of isolated believers.
For deepening isolated believers, use 298.7575. For the place of isolated
believers in the administrative structure, use 299.346.
.87
Pioneering
For works about individual pioneers (including Knights of Bahá’u’lláh)
and all biography in this area, use appropriate division under 293.
.872
History of pioneering
.876
In particular  countries, regions etc
A “Phoenix Schedule” for the Dewey “200s”–Suggested in particular for Bahá’í Libraries
.342
The Universal House of Justice
.343
National Spiritual Assemblies
(e.g.) The NSA of the United States   299.34373
.345
Local Spiritual Assemblies
.346
Isolated believers and communities too small or immature
to form an L.S.A. (Groups)
.38
Protective & teaching institutions (the Learned)
For teaching itself use 299.8.
.382
The Hands of the Cause of God
For consideration of Hands as individuals, including biography, use
293.5. For general consideration of Bahá’í history during the period
of the stewardship of the Hands – prefer 292.534.
.383
International teaching centre
.384
Continental Boards of Counsellors
.386
Auxiliary Boards
.386 3
For propagation
.386 5
For protection
.4	 Bahá’í clubs, societies etc.
.42
General
.422
International
.424
National and Local
.425
Institutional
.425 7
University Bahá’í societies
.45
Special interest groups
.450 2
Bahá’í library groups & associations
.451
Bahá’í philosophical societies etc.
.452
Bahá’í religious, theological societies etc.
.453
Bahá’í social welfare & educational societies
Including Women’s groups.
.454
Bahá’í Esperanto clubs etc.
.455
Bahá’í scientific associations etc.
.456
Bahá’í technical groups (e.g. computer clubs)
.457
Bahá’í artistic societies
.458
Bahá’í literary societies
.459
Bahá’í historical societies
.8	 Teaching, Consolidation & Pioneering
Define “teaching” as the introduction of non-Bahá’ís to the Faith – for
religious education of Bahá’ís use “deepening” (298.7). Class institu-
tions of the Faith connected with teaching under  299.38
.801
Importance of
.802
Role in spiritual development

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Sen McGlinn........................................................... 328
Moojan Momen..................................................... 328
Vera B. Moreen...................................................... 328
Fariborz Moshirian................................................. 329
June Perkins........................................................... 330
Brent Poirier........................................................... 331
Sholeh Quinn......................................................... 331
Nozomu Sonda...................................................... 332
Peter Terry............................................................. 332
Will C. van den Hoonaard...................................... 332
Robert Weinberg................................................... 333
Reports on Conferences held in 1999....................................334
ABS Australia – 18th Annual Conference ............. 334
ABS Australia Scholarship Institute ...................... 336
ABS-Japan - Eighth Conference ............................ 337
ABS North America – 23rd Annual Conference.... 338
Science and Religion at Tempe.............................. 338
ABS Singapore 4th Annual Conference ................ 340
Bibliography of publications in Bábí and Bahá’í Studies, 1998-1999......341
A.  A remark on Reference services....................... 341
B: A Partial Bibliography........................................ 343
General and Reference.......................................... 343
Apologetics............................................................ 343
Arts......................................................................... 343
Bahá’í Community and Institutions....................... 343
Bahá’í Studies ........................................................ 344
Biography............................................................... 345
Comparative Religion............................................ 345
Economy and prosperity........................................ 346
Education............................................................... 347
Family and gender................................................. 347
Governance............................................................ 347
History.................................................................... 348
Human Rights ....................................................... 348
Law and Justice...................................................... 349
Language and Literature....................................... 349
Psychology and Mental Health............................. 350
Sociology and social theory................................... 350
Philosophy and Theology...................................... 350
C: Internet Reports................................................ 351
Bahá’í Faith Index............................................... 351
Bahá’í Library...................................................... 352
H-Bahai............................................................... 354
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Report on Scholarship..........................................................281
Affiliate Associations for Bahá’í Studies................................282
Australia................................................................. 282
English Speaking Europe....................................... 284
India....................................................................... 290
Japan...................................................................... 294
Malaysia................................................................. 295
New Zealand.......................................................... 297
North America....................................................... 301
Philippines.............................................................. 302
Singapore............................................................... 302
Institute/School/Foundation Reports....................................304
Afnan Library......................................................... 304
The Bahá’í Academy, Panchgani............................ 304
Bahá’í Association for the Arts.............................. 304
Irfan Colloquium.................................................... 305
Landegg Academy................................................. 306
Wilmette Institute.................................................. 308
Hebrew University of Jerusalem............................ 311
Research Office, National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States of America................ 311
Reports by Individuals..........................................................315
Ratnam Alagiah...................................................... 315
Sheila Banani......................................................... 315
Mieko Bond............................................................ 315
Christopher Buck................................................... 316
Rodney Clarken...................................................... 318
William P. Collins.................................................... 318
Lynn Echevarria...................................................... 318
Cheshmak Farhoumand-Sims................................ 319
Sandra Sims Fotos.................................................. 320
Dale Grider............................................................. 320
Daniel Jalal Grolin.................................................. 320
Graham Hassall...................................................... 321
John Hatcher.......................................................... 322
Humaida Jumalon.................................................. 323
Charles Lerche........................................................ 323
Thellie Lovejoy....................................................... 324
Marlene Mackie..................................................... 327

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Affiliate Associations for
Bahá’í Studies
Australia
Committee: Dr Ratnam Alagiah, Dr Graham Hassall, Dr. Vahid Payman, Mr
Colin Dibdin, Mrs Sima Hashemi, Mrs Sandra Langshaw, Ms Ladan Rahmani,
Dr Natalie Mobini-Kesheh
Highlights and Achievements:
1.	 The Association’s 18th Annual Conference, on the theme “The Creative
Inspiration: Art and Culture in the Bahá’í Faith”, was held at the Uni-
versity of Melbourne. The conference attracted more than 50 presenters
and performers, and approximately 150 participants. The event included
workshops and seminars, a dinner, an exhibition, a play, and a concert.
Its aim was to provide an opportunity for those involved in the arts in the
Australian Bahá’í Community to meet each other and become informed
of each others’ work, and to bring the arts to the wider community, and to
foster discussion of critical issues facing Bahá’í’s in the arts at the present
time.
2.	 Thirty-seven participants attended all or part of the third Scholarship Insti-
tute at Yerrinbool over the Easter period, 2-4 April. The institute program
was based on discussion of current research interests and participants
were invited to speak about what they are interested in and how they are
undertaking their research. Graham Hassall presented the ABS Report on
Scholarship for 1998, which is a 56 page report including contributions from
affiliate ABS’s and individual researchers, and an extensive bibliography
of works published in 1998.
3.	 The ABS Newsletter was produced in February, June, September and
December 1998, and distributed to members and a large complimentary
list comprising tertiary Bahá’í societies, national committees, Counsellors,
regional National Assemblies, all ABS affiliate organizations, and Centres
of Learning.
4.	 The first issue of the Association’s journal, Australian Bahá’í Studies was
published and sent to all members. Complimentary copies were also sent
to a large list of individuals and organizations to promote subscriptions.
Australian Bahá’í Studies is open to submissions on all subjects. But it
particularly seeks articles of practical relevance to the Australian Bahá’í
community, and which might not be readily published elsewhere. These
may include analyses of specific teaching methods, projects, and outcomes;
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Report on Scholarship
This is the third annual ‘Report on Scholarship’ produced by ABS Australia.1
Our purpose in compiling this Report is to bring into one location a survey of
recent publications, and accounts by scholars of their current research projects
and interests.  In gathering together information on activities on Bahá’í scholar-
ship in diverse parts of the world from 1999, the Report provides an indicative
survey of subjects under investigation, and approaches to research.  Bringing
together reports from individuals, institutions, courses, and Associations for
Bahá’í Studies, will allow a picture of general trends to emerge.  The report
also acts as a ‘clearing house’ for information.
It is hoped that this Report will be the stimulus for a more complete as-
sessment of Bahá’í scholarship, on a global scale, at regular intervals.  Should
it be possible to identify a team of contributing editors, the Report could in
future years provide an annual survey of developments in each discipline of
interest to Bahá’í scholars.  For instance, editors with expertise in such fields
as education, the environment, peace studies, history, etc, could be called on
to assess developments in their respective fields for the year in review.  In this
way, the Report would contribute a periodic global survey of a number of fields
of scholarship, thus allowing the reader to remain informed of developments
across an increasingly diverse field of information.
1.
Reports for 1997 and 1998 are available on the ABS Australia website, http://www.bahai.org.au/abs/

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
groups. This development requires the active interest and collaboration of
ABS members.
5.	 ABS is continuing its use of the Internet, and is benefiting collaboration
with specialists in this field. The web site is at www.bahai.org.au/abs. A
design enhancement is in progress.
6.	 The “Introduction to Bahá’í Studies” course will be run in Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and possibly Perth during 2000. This course
introduces basic scholarship and presentation skills and the basics of a
Bahá’í approach to scholarship, and offers participants assistance in car-
rying out a personal research project into an aspect of the Faith of their
choosing.
7.	 Further progress is expected towards the publication of the talks of Mr
Furútan and Mr Faizi given at Yerrinbool.
8.	 We anticipate that a national framework for supporting and providing
leadership for teaching in universities will be established during 2000, in
collaboration with the National Youth Committee and with the support of
the National Spiritual Assembly. In the meantime a temporary part-time
paid position is being established to carry out the routine but necessary
management tasks required for Baha’is Studies society coordination.
English Speaking Europe
Committee: Masoud Afnan (chairman), Seena Fazel (vice-chair), Jane
Aldred (from June 99), Nazila Ghanea-Hercock (secretary), Robert Ghanea-
Hercock (treasurer), Roger Kingdon (until July 99), Parvine Foroughi (until
October 99), Iarfhlaith Watson, Sahba Akhavan, Augusto Lopez-Claros (from
October 99), Vafa Payman (from December 99)
NSA Liaison members: Wendi Momen (UK), Mr Seosamh (Joe) Watson
(Republic of Ireland)
COLLABORATION
Consultation with the National Spiritual Assembly (September 99)
The ABS benefited greatly from a consultation with the National Spiritual
Assembly on 12 September 1999, and was encouraged by the thoughtful dis-
cussion and helpful advice that ensued.
Collaboration with the Appointed Arm
Shahriar Razavi consulted with the ABS on 12 June 1999, and there have
been a number of occasions during the year where informal discussions have
continued with the Appointed Arm with Shahriar Razavi and Counsellor
O’Mara on issues of mutual concern. Shahriar Razavi expressed the importance
Report on Scholarship for 1999
reports on issues of management, leadership, and administration; applica-
tion of the Bahá’í Teachings to issues of concern in Australian society;
community histories; biographies; literary essays; and essays on Bahá’í
theology and religious studies. The second issue had reached printing stage
by December. Members will receive two issues of the journal per year,
along with the ABS newsletter, as their membership entitlement.
5.	 We had direct communication with all Bahá’í Societies at universities
from December 1998 to February 1999, and put together a short institute
on society functioning which was well received by several universities.
Financial assistance was also offered to support teaching activities at Curtin
University and UTS Sydney. Later in the year we examined practical pos-
sibilities with the National Youth Committee with the aim of realising the
unfulfilled potential for Bahá’í activity in universities.
6.	 ABS recognises and congratulates the initiative of the University of West-
ern Australia Bahá’í Studies Society, which promotes Bahá’í scholarship
through its “SPEAK” conference and journal.
7.	 ABS established financial scholarships for the participation of Baha’is at
scholarly conferences, and youth and indigenous participation in Bahá’í
studies conferences.
8.	 Our strategy for promoting Bahá’í scholarship at the ‘grassroots’ level
was reassessed, with the result that regional Bahá’í Studies coordinating
committees were discontinued, and initiatives such as the “Introduction to
Bahá’í Studies” course were developed.
9.	 Collaboration with overseas ABS affiliates was continued, especially with
ABS Japan.
Concerns and Issues:
1.	 It has been difficult to find volunteers who have time to support the vari-
ous activities of the Association such as the library, mail-outs and journal
production.
2.	 The ABS library, books stocks, records and files are difficult to access in
their current location (in boxes in the basement of the House of Worship).
A permanent office is needed.
Hopes and Opportunities:
1.	 ABS will hold its annual conference, on Health, Healing and Religion, in
Toowoomba from 29th September – 1st October, 2000.
2.	 ABS will hold its fourth annual scholarship workshop at Yerrinbool over
21-23 April (Easter) 2000.
3.	 ABS is collaborating with the External Affairs Office to organise the 2nd
Human Rights and Religion seminar in Canberra in mid-2000.
4.	 In the longer term, ABS seeks to increase the number of active interest

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
EVENTS
Sidcot Summer School & Arts Academy
The ABS-ESE contributed programmes to the Sidcot summer school and
the Arts Academy. At Sidcot, 4 sessions were held over 2 days on ‘Bahá’í
studies a survival course’, and over 2 days on ‘Science and Religion’. At Arts
Academy a one-day conference was held on ‘Citizenship’ at the Arts Academy.
The ABS is particularly grateful to the services of Roger Kingdon in enabling
these opportunities and wishes him well in his research.
Youth Convention at Bahá’í National Convention 157 B.E.
The Association of Bahá’í Studies contributed to the programme of Youth
Convention by highlighting the possibilities of service to the Faith through
a commitment to Bahá’í Studies, and particularly the opportunities provided
through the work of Bahá’í Societies at institutions of Higher Learning.
The importance of responding to the Bahá’í Institute for Higher Education
in Iran campaign was emphasised, with a detailed explanation from Ramin
Badii about the activities of the Local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Leicester.
ABS annual conference
The theme of the next ABS annual conference will be pre-empting the
theme of the United Nations for the year 2001: ‘Dialogue Among Civilisa-
tions’.  The ABS welcomes a wide variety of contributions under this overall
theme: contributors old and new are most welcome.
Activities in the Republic of Ireland (National Convention, Irish Sum-
mer School)
The number of ABS members in the Republic of Ireland trebled through
a strong encouragement of membership at the Irish National Convention.
Furthermore, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the Republic
of Ireland invited the ABS to organised 4 afternoon sessions at the Irish Sum-
mer School in August 1999. These were considered a success by the National
Assembly and ABS participation has been encouraged again this year.
Covenant Meeting “Challenges to the Covenant”
The ABS decided to hold a one-day conference on the Covenant – an
issue that is particularly being emphasised by the Appointed Arm at pre-
sent.  An excellent programme of speakers and discussion on the above
theme has been scheduled for 24 June 2000, and is the result of consulta-
tions with Shahriar Razavi of the Appointed Arm as well as the National
Spiritual Assembly.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
of creating a sense of excitement about learning in the community as a challenge
before both the Appointed Arm and the ABS.
Collaboration with the Bahá’í Councils regarding ABS contribution
to schools
After its experience of contributing to the wider Bahá’í community through
3 summer school programmes last summer (Irish Summer School, Sidcot and
Arts Academy), the ABS is keen to continuing serving and reaching out to the
community in this way. All Bahá’í Councils have therefore been approached
with the offer of our services in this regard.
Proposed joint conference in collaboration with a number of Agencies
of the National Spiritual Assembly: the Office of External Affairs and the
Office for the Advancement of Women
As a result of the consultation with the National Spiritual Assembly in
September, the ABS decided to suggest the holding of a joint conference in
collaboration of other Agencies of the National Assembly: the Office of Ex-
ternal Affairs and the Office for the Advancement of Women. The aim would
be to bring together the various expertise, networks and experiences of these
agencies to hold a conference on one of the 4 areas of Bahá’í ‘External Af-
fairs’ work – as outlined in the October 1994 letter of the Universal House of
Justice: moral development, human rights, global prosperity and the status of
women. The aim would be to hold a conference that could attract both non-
Bahá’í academics as well as appropriate NGOs and activists. The ABS eagerly
looks forward to the outcome of these consultations.
PUBLICATIONS
The Associate Newsletter
Issue 28 came out in Summer 1999, and Issue 29 will be due out in
early 2000. The ABS welcomes the new editor of the ‘Associate’ Iarfhlaith
Watson.
The Bahá’í Studies Review Journal
The Association of Bahá’í Studies continues to benefit from the review
process (the Academic Review Panel) set up by the National Spiritual Assembly
for all its publications, and is grateful for the input and advice of this agency.
Issue 8 of ‘The Bahá’í Studies Review’ came out during this year, and Issue
9 will be going to press in the near future. We are grateful to the services of
John Danesh and Seena Fazel as the editors of this journal, which remains the
leading Bahá’í studies periodical. Substantial material from back issues has
been put on our website <http://www.breacais.demon.co.uk/abs/ through the
tireless efforts of Chris Manvell, who also typesets the journal for free.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Religious Studies
The Religious Studies Special Interest Group hosted a conference in New-
castle in December 1999, and its next conference is being held at the London
School of Economics, 14-16 July 2000.
Education
A number of Bahá’ís are exploring the possibility of setting up a Special
Interest Group on Education.
The ABS welcomes all initiatives to set up Special Interest Groups, and is
happy to provide some funds, share its experience, and advertise the events
of such groups through its networks and publications.  These groups are very
much led from the grass roots, and merely facilitated and encouraged by the
ABS Executive.  Suggestions for the setting up of a Science and Religion,
Gender, Arts and other Special Interest Groups are outstanding – and await-
ing the initiative of an interested individual, group of youth, local community
or Bahá’í Society.  These groups can be crucial in deepening the interest,
facilitating the research, bringing together the expertise, leading to publica-
tions, attracting the interest and sharpening the knowledge of Bahá’ís and
non-Bahá’ís over time.
OVERVIEW
It has been a challenging year in terms of the turnover of the membership
of the ABS itself, but also one of great opportunity.  The ABS continues to try
to create an atmosphere and culture of learning and Bahá’í scholarly activ-
ity in the UK, Ireland and beyond.  Whilst many in our community are quite
legitimately concerned with the immediate needs of our Faith here and now,
and are quite weary of intellectualism in the wider society that is not neces-
sarily targeted at service; there is a healthy balance that needs to be struck in
the Bahá’í community about the scholarship ethos.  Although, the immediate
needs of the Faith are tremendous, we cannot lose sight of the urgent longer
term needs of the Faith, and delay the potential of this Revelation to transform
the arts and sciences. How can we claim, for example, that Bahá’u’lláh is
the return of the Shah Bahram, where there is so little research on the Bahá’í
Faith and Zoroastrianism that can convincingly support such a claim? How
can we effectively share the message of ‘Who is writing the future?’ when
we do not adequately understand the processes unfolding at present? Clearly,
as the National Spiritual Assembly has emphasised, our community should
celebrate difference and encourage the various talents in its midst – including
that of scholarship and the equivalence of this path of service to other means
of teaching such as pioneering, administering projects, etc.
There are many levels of ‘scholarship’ – in the least it is a means by which
Report on Scholarship for 1999
OTHER
Bahá’í Societies
Active Bahá’í Societies exist up and down the country including: Man-
chester, Nottingham, Sheffield, Edinburgh, London (including SOAS and
LSE), Cranfield, Cambridge and Oxford.  Oversight for the activities of these
Societies rests with the respective Local Spiritual Assembly.  However, the
ABS has responsibility for co-ordination, an annual Bahá’í Societies confer-
ence, encouragement and general guidance – which is carried out by the Bahá’í
Societies Co-ordinators: Ramin and Sonja Farzanafar <ramfar@hotmail.com.
The Bahá’í Student Handbook, second edition (as compiled by Jenny Semple
and Ian Holland), was reprinted during the year and remains an invaluable
resource for Bahá’í Societies.  It is also made available free of charge on our
website; and copies have been requested, amongst others, by the US National
Youth Committee as well as the European Bahá’í Youth Council.
Marketing & website
The ABS-ESE responded to the National Assembly’s ‘Web of Faith’ project
and is now linked on that service, as well as being linked to the Council for
England website. The ABS is very grateful to the services of Chris Manvell
in maintaining its site.
Membership
Current paid membership of the ABS-ESE is around 250, although the ABS
takes on itself the responsibility of sending its publications free of charge to a
wide range of libraries and non-Bahá’í academics throughout ‘English Speak-
ing’ Europe, such that around 350-400 individuals and institutions receive our
material.  A number of senior non-Bahá’í academics have written to share their
appreciation of receiving these publications.
Special Interest Groups
BIPOLIG (Bahá’í International Politics and Law Special Interest
Group)
The last BIPOLIG conference was held at the London School of Economics
in June 1999, and plans are underway for planning the next conference.  Also
during this year, 2 editors have been compiling a number of the contributions
to BIPOLIG conferences over the past 5 years into a publication “Processes
of the Lesser Peace” to be published by George Ronald later this year.
A number of Bahá’í youth in London have also taken the initiative of
examining the whole BIPOLIG area of Bahá’í contributions to current affairs
through weekly gatherings in London.  This will undoubtedly contribute to the
development of Bahá’í scholarship and skills of correlating Bahá’í teachings to
the matters of the day among the youth, and also be of interest to non-Bahá’ís
who want to explore these issues more thoroughly.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
India
Moral Education Workshops
The Association for Bahá’í Studies organized six Moral Education Work-
shops for Primary School Teachers through Local Assemblies.  Such workshops
were held at Mumbai, Delhi, Chandigarh, Gorakhpur, Goa and Bangalore.
One of the workshops in Mumbai was initiated by a non-Bahá’í school and
teachers from 10 different schools participated in it.  A special workshop was
held for  training the trainers for Moral Education Teachers for South India in
Bangalore and friends from four different states numbering about 30 attended
this workshop for 3 days.
ABS-India Chapters
Subsequent, to this activity, ABS-India opened this year 4 (four) Chapters
at different places namely, Kerela, Delhi, Nagpur and Gwalior. However, these
chapters need further follow-up work to activate them.
Personality Development Workshops
Two workshops on “Personality Development” held at the Bahá’í Centre,
Mumbai, were attended by some fifty participants (post-graduate and graduate
students of Engg. Colleges).  Each was presented with a “Participation Certifi-
cate”, and one of the Resource Persons declared his Faith in Bahá’u’lláh.
Art Group Programme
This was possible due to earlier introduction of ABS-India to UDCT stu-
dents.  For this programme we had around 2000 students present.  As a strategic
plan using an indirect way of teaching, some friends interacted with the people
of capacity and presented the Faith at the All India Textile Conference as well
as at the National Seminar in UDCT through paper presentation on “Role of
Technology and Ethics on Development”.  A number of City Assemblies were
contacted and encouraged to take up City Teaching Activities.
Research Fellowships
Three of 17 applicants were awarded ABS-India research fellowships, to
undertake research on a Bahá’í topic for one year.
Activities undertaken by ABS-India in Four Year Plan (1996-
2000)
In the initial years of the Plan, a lot of emphasis was given on consolida-
tion of ABS-India and its executive committee.  A newsletter, “Pragnya” was
Report on Scholarship for 1999
every Bahá’í can be better grounded in her Faith and more effective in convey-
ing it to the wider community, whether in clearer thinking in one’s own mind,
verbally or in writing. At another level, it is encouraging the publication of
a ground-breaking work that may serve for hundreds of years as a milestone
in terms of the Bahá’í contribution to knowledge. Both are necessary, and
the Association of Bahá’í Studies hopes it can continue to support both these
processes in the UK community, and welcomes your suggestions of how it
may more effectively be able to do so in the future.
WHAT NEXT?
YOUTH
In consultations with the Appointed Arm, the ABS has realised the impor-
tance of particularly encouraging research on Bahá’í issues to be undertaken
by youth. A list of topics have been highlighted by Dr Khan in Issue 3.2 of the
Bahá’í Studies Review. It is for this reason that the ABS has been particularly
heartened to encourage the initiatives of the London weekly BIPOLIG youth
gathering, precisely to facilitate such research; and the plans of the Edinburgh
Bahá’í Society to hold a Scottish Universities Bahá’í Conference in the near
future.
Obviously there is a long way to go before there is the facility for regional
clusters of Bahá’í youth to regularly be gathering throughout the UK in such
scholarship groups (whether as facilitated in Bahá’í Societies, Special Inter-
est Groups or other gatherings) but this is the long-term vision of the ABS in
working towards a sustainable culture of Bahá’í scholarship in the UK. It is for
this reason that the possibility of free ABS membership to all Bahá’í students
during their Higher Education years, and permanently for functioning Bahá’í
Societies, is currently being investigated.
MEMBERSHIP
The ABS is keen to ease the process of joining the ABS-ESE and is putting
processes into place to do so through direct debit facilities, multiple-year
memberships and through the liaison of discounts when applying for multiple-
membership of a number of Associations of Bahá’í Studies. The ABS is also
keenly aware that there is a far greater potential of membership than the cur-
rent number around 250, but is strictly enforcing the procedure of cancelling
over-due memberships after 2 reminders. The ABS is planning some market
research to be done to promote/explore the membership of the ABS.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Punjab, MP, and Orissa.  This programme will crystallize into an independent
project called SANSKAR supervised by ABS-India.  Besides this ABS-India
helped the Universal Educational Forum, an organization of Bahá’í Inspired
Schools.
Training of Trainers
There were eight workshops conducted for Training of Teachers in Pan-
chgani (two), Gwalior, Mumbai (two), Bangalore, Deolali and Cochin.  The
Universal House of Justice appreciated this activity of ABS-India and the LSAs
are thus encouraged to concentrate on this goal of moral education. Indeed,
our experience says, we, the Bahá’í community of India is in the best position
to offer yeomen services in Moral Education to this vast country.
Government Level Interaction
In the district of Satara (Maharashtra), the Education Officer and the Col-
lector initiated a program of moral education for 100 Principals of Primary
Schools in his area to attend the same at New Era High School, Panchgani and
ABS-India gave them orientation / lecture-cum-demonstration to introduce this
program. We are following up this activity through New Era High School and
Bahá’í Academy and possibly we may get and opportunity to train teachers
from 500 schools in this area.
Interaction with Textile Association of India, Mumbai
ABS-India conducted a Moral Education Workshop with the Textile As-
sociation of India for their members at Bahá’í Centre, Mumbai.  This activity
was widely published in Textile periodicals and magazines and the Textile
Association of India appreciated the activities of ABS-India.
Other Training Workshops:
a. Dynamics of Team building: ABS-India organized two well-attended
workshops on “Dynamics of Team Building in Bahá’í Administration at
Deolali and Panchgani.
b.  Personality Development: We organized five workshops on “Personality
Development” for College/University students and the response to these work-
shops was tremendous.  On the average about 40 students (mainly Engineering
and technology, doing their post-graduate and some college teachers) attended.
The participants were given participation certificates and it also provided a
good opportunity to share the message with them.
c.  Fortress of Well-Being: Thirty youth attended a two-day national seminar
organized in association with the Bahá’í Academy.  A number of key issues
concerning Marriage as an Institution, Chaste and Holy Life, Criteria for
Report on Scholarship for 1999
started to create a link between the members and ABS-India. This requires
further regularisation.
The Annual National Conference
In 1996, a 3-day international conference was arranged taking the advan-
tage of the friends attending the 10th year celebration of the OPENING of the
House of Worship. The conference theme was “Eradication of Poverty”.  About
80 friends including friends from abroad especially, USA, UK, Sri Lanka,
Malaysia and Bangladesh participated.  Subsequently, every year, we had
an Annual Conference on topics like Oneness of Mankind, the Bahá’í Faith
and Contemporary Issues, at the New Era High School, Panchgani, the City
Montessori School, Lucknow, and Bahá’í House, Delhi.
In general, on the average 35 papers were presented from different parts
of the country.  There is increasing enthusiasm among the Bahá’ís to write
papers for the Annual Conference and signs are quite apparent that if encour-
aged properly, interest in the Bahá’í scholarship can take strong roots among
the friends in India. The proceedings of these conferences are compiled in
Book form for distribution and sale.  Over 200 friends were contacted to write
papers for such annual conferences. During these years, ABS-India also started
getting due recognition through such programmes.
Research Fellowships
In order to have well researched papers at such conferences, ABS-India
announced 15 Research Fellowships of Rs.2000/- each year and so three can-
didates have been selected from national level contest for this fellowship.  We
are sure, their work will be of great significance for subsequent publication of
Journal of Bahá’í Studies.
City Teaching
During this period, ABS-India with the encouragement of the NSA, printed
a number of brief statements on various issues, originally brought out by the
Bahá’í International Community.  This material was sent to more than 30 LSAs
and a number of ABMs with a special request to use the same in their efforts
in City Teaching or Teaching the People of Capacity. From time to time such
encouragement has gone from ABS-India.   At National Conferences, City
Teaching subject was presented and explained to the Baha’is of Capacity
and a number of communities were subsequently helped to undertake such
programmes.
Moral Education Workshops
Moral Education Workshops for primary school teachers organized by
ABS-India were very successful.  Approximately 600 teachers attended 24
Workshops, in states including Kerela, Karnataka, Maharashtra, UP, Delhi,

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Japan
ABS-Japan has two ABS Executive Committees, Japanese and English,
with S. Fotos as general ABS coordinator and member of both committees:
Japanese Executive Committee: H. Tsunoi, A. Hayashi, N. Fuji, M. Noguchi
English Executive Committee: S. Friberg (left Japan in 12/99), K. Riggins,
S. Strain

Officers and Committees
A. 	Chair: H. Tsunoi
B. 	Secretary: S. Fotos
C. 	Treasurer: A. Hayashi
D. 	Publications Committee
1. Newsletter: A. Hayashi, N. Fuji & J. Strain; two issues, April and De-
cember 1999
2. Proceedings: S. Fotos & M. Noguchi; Proceedings of the Sixth and Sev-
enth Annual Conferences were completed 12/1999; distributed 1/2000.
E. 	ABS-Japan website maintained and updated by S. Fotos: http://www2.gol.
com/users/sfotos
F. 	 Special Interest Group (SIG) and University Club Committee: J. Strain,
M. Noguchi, S. Friberg (left Japan 12/99)

Activities in 1999
A. Special Interest Groups (SIGs)
1. 	 ABS-J has seven SIGs: English, Arts, Religious Studies, Translation,
Education, Moral Education, Community Development
2. 	 Report from Religious Studies SIG.

One meeting at Tokyo Baha’i Center in 1999 :

a. June 27: Sylvia Karlsson, Bahá’í from Sweden and Ph.D. student in
environmental policy, spoke on: “Facing the environmental crises: the
need for a global ethic.”
3. 	 Report from Moral Education SIG:

a. Two Virtues Project workshops were held in Hokkaido.  The first, May
19 to July 7, met eight times for two hours each (16 hours) and the second,
September 24-Nov. 12, met eight times for two and a half hours each (20
hours). There were six participants in the summer workshop and nine in
the fall workshop. The participants were equally divided between Japanese
and foreigners and Bahá’ís and non-Bahá’ís.
4. 	 ABS-Japan representative at ABS-North America conference in Tempe,
Arizona, June, 1999 a. Stephen Friberg attended; on June 14 a new SIG
for ABS-NA Science and Religion SIG, was established
Report on Scholarship for 1999
selecting a life partner, Balancing Family life and Bahá’í activities, Spiritual
parenting of children, True Happiness etc were discussed. There is a lot of
demand for this course and we need to replicate it at different places with the
help of NBYC-India.
d. Workshop on Teaching Techniques: This workshop was held to train the
friends in “Introducing Bahá’í Faith to people of specific professions.

e. Workshop for Prominent Bahá’ís –Our Encounter with Bahá’u’lláh:  A
high level workshop on “Teaching the People of Capacity” was held 7th and 8th
Nov. 1998 at Mumbai for Baha’is of recognized ability and capacity, to discuss
the issues of teaching People of Capacity and becoming self-sufficient in Bahá’í
Funds.  This gathering of 40 Baha’is from different parts of the country was one
of the highly successful programs ABS-India had organized.  At this meeting
the following groups were formed: Bahá’í Business Forum, Bahá’í Doctors
Forum (reactivated), Bahá’í Lawyers Forum, and Bahá’í Educationist Forum.
CONCLUSION
In conclusion, it could be said that ABS-India is making a steady but
modest contribution in the field of Moral Education as mentioned by The
Supreme Body.  The efforts of the Association to train believers in a variety
of fields are particularly appreciated by the House of Justice, and it is hoped
that the skills, knowledge and understanding gained by the participants in
the Association’s activities will be conveyed to the wider community. The
endeavours of all those involved in the organization of these praiseworthy
and valuable activities are warmly commended”.  This activity of ABS-India
has been considered Socio-economic development activity and is recognized
by OSED.  The encouragement of Bahá’ís to undertake writing of papers is
also slowly bearing fruits and now friends are coming forward to show their
inclination towards Bahá’í Scholarship.  Training of manpower through special
workshops such as Personality Development, Dynamics of Team Building,
Fortress of well-being etc., has been instrumental in building the capacity of
the friends. Proper encouragement of Bahá’í Professionals will also help them
to be integrated in Bahá’í activities.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
the College was accepted in principle by the Spiritual Assembly, and a
College Board appointed in September 1999 to look into the operational
structure of the College.
* 	 Scholarship Skills Workshop held in September 1999. The workshop
covered topics on Bahá’í Scholarship, Reading, Writing and Research
Skills, and identifying research areas from the document Who is Writing
the Future? (these will be taken up at the annual conference in May 2000).
Participants were of all ages, but the majority was from the young adults
group (18-25), one of the targeted groups for ABS activities.
* 	 Hosting of Panel Discussion on “Mental Tests” at the Winter School in
December 1999. Each of the 4 panellists spoke for 5 minutes, outlining
one aspect of mental tests. This was followed by a one hour long Question-
Answer session, which saw active participation from the crowd.
* 	 Series of ABS Dialogues:

Dialogue 1 :  Issues on the Internet (February 2000)

Dialogue 2 :  Responses from the House of Justice (March 2000)

Dialogue 3 :  Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh (April 2000)

The topics were chosen based on interest shown and questions raised at both
the scholarship skills workshop and the Winter School panel discussion.
* 	 The new ABS newsletter will be distributed electronically. To be launched
on 21 April 2000.
* 	 Annual Conference of the ABS with the theme “Challenges of the 3rd Mil-
lennium: Towards One World” to be held in May 2000. Target participa-
tion of 100, mainly Bahá’ís, although non-Bahá’í speakers will be invited.
The papers will explore further the topics outlined in the document Who
is Writing the Future? (This will include the research questions raised at
the Scholarship Skills Workshop in September 1999).
* 	 The setting up of an ABS web-site is being looked into. If all goes well,
the web-site will be launched at the Annual Conference.
* 	 To offer courses on Bahá’í Scholarship for the College for Bahá’í Stud-
ies, starting with one module for the Young Adults Programme for their
2000/2001 year.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
B. Special ABS Program, Tokyo Bahá’í Center, December 25 & 2
1. 	 Dec. 25: ‘An Analysis of “Who is Writing the Future”’

Speaker: Dr. Graham Hassall, member of National Spiritual Assembly of
the Bahá’ís of Australia and Chair of ABS-Australia
2. 	 Dec. 26: One-Day Symposium on the Kitáb-i-Aqdas

Speakers: Auxiliary Board Member Dr. Toshio Suzuki, Dr. Graham Has-
sall
C. No annual conference was held in 1999
Malaysia
Committee: Chandra Sekar, Ong Eng Eng, Sobhana Kumaran, Vahid
Bhaskaran, Bhaskaran (left for India November 1999), Bala Ramasamy, Lim
Sim Beow, Antonisamy, Natheson and Pragasam.
Introduction
Attempts have been made in the past 10 years to get ABS activities go-
ing in Malaysia, and a number of events have been held over the years with
varying degrees of success. In the past 3 years or so, scholarship activities
came under the purview of the Dept for External Affairs and/or the Institute
for Development.
This year, however, a new Executive Committee was appointed by the
Spiritual Assembly. Most members of the Committee are serving in this ca-
pacity for the first time.  It has thus been a year of learning for the Executive
Committee, even as we have enjoyed exploring the various aspects of Baha’i
Scholarship together and looking into activities that would address our needs
and requirements in this area. The group has worked together well, and look
forward to the coming year to move Baha’i scholarship activities in Malaysia
a step further.
Activities, Projects and Plans
* 	 Talk on “Bahá’í Scholarship” by Dr Graham Hassall of ABS Australia in
June 1999 at the National Centre.
* 	 Meeting between Dr Graham Hassall and the newly-formed ABS Execu-
tive Committee in July 1999 which consulted on various aspects of Bahá’í
Scholarship, the responsibilities of the Executive Committee and the ex-
periences of the Australian ABS.
* 	 ABS proposal put forward for a College for Bahá’í Studies at the dialogue
on Bahá’í Education called for by the National Spiritual Assembly’s
Director of Education, in August 1999. The proposal outlined the set-up
of the College and the complementary role of the ABS. The formation of

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
injury or illness, a model programme for youth at risk, glimmerings of the
future world economy,
4. 	 Phased plan for developing Baha’i scholarship created in August 1997

The ABS Executive had the blessing of meeting the beloved National
Spiritual Assembly in August 1999 to help plan our plan to develop Baha’i
scholarship.
4a.	Promote a deep appreciation amongst the believers of the true nature and
purpose of scholarly endeavour [1] to create a “new model for scholarly
activity...animated by the spirit of enquiry into the limitless meaning of the
Divine Teachings...characterized by the welcome it offers to all who wish
to be involved in it, each in his or her own way, by mutual encouragement
and cooperation among its participants, and by the respect accorded to
distinguished accomplishment and outstanding achievement.”

[2]

We have been successful in preventing Baha’i scholarship from becoming
infected by academic materialism as has occurred in North America

[5]

The cultivation of a new model of scholarly activity is a gradual process
which cannot easily be measured.
4b. Ensure an atmosphere of love and cooperation, upliftment, positive growth
and open-minded inquiry [3]

Present at the 1999 ABS conference but we cannot quantify this.  Dr Dor-
othy Marcic, visiting scholar from Vanderbilt University and keynote ABS
speaker, set a wonderful example of humility and radiant positivity.  ABS
conference dinner in July 1999 displayed extremely pleasant fellowship
between presenters and other participants.
4c. Bahá’í scholarship should aim to alleviate the problems confronting hu-
manity [1] & [3]

Global prosperity was the theme of the 1999 ABS conference (see response
3b)

Requested collaboration on 1999 ABS conference from Te Ao Kotahi Social
and Economic Development Trust
4d. Promote the external affairs strategy of the Faith

ABS conferences have focused on one of the four themes of external af-
fairs.

Invited non-Baha’i academics to participate in ABS conferences.

Close collaboration with National Office of External Affairs particularly
Report on Scholarship for 1999
New Zealand
Annual Report of the Executive Committee of the Association for Baha’i
Studies to the National Spiritual Assembly of New Zealand
We have referenced this report to the numbered items in terms of reference
from the beloved National Spiritual Assembly and to these documents:
[1] denotes the National Spiritual Assembly letter of 14 April 1999 to the
ABS Executive.
[2] denotes the Universal House of Justice letter to selected National Spiritual
Assemblies on 10 February 1995.
[3] denotes the National Spiritual Assembly letter of July 1999 to the ABS
conference participants.
[4] denotes the National Spiritual Assembly letter of 7 October 1999 to the
ABS Executive.
[5] denotes the Universal House of Justice letter of 7 April 1999 to National
Spiritual Assemblies.
3a.	Liaise with National Institute, Summer Schools, and conferences to ensure
there is a co-ordinated programme of learning offered to the New Zealand
Baha’i community (National Four Year Plan action 1 / 1 / 4).

The National Human Resource Development Institute has primary re-
sponsibility for core training for New Zealand Baha’i community; Baha’i
scholarship assists in developing programmes for National Institute.

Sent National Human Resource Development Institute Baha’i scholarship
articles that related to the Institute’s programme for Spiritual Assembly
development.

Summer school committee has implemented workshops to practise ap-
plication of Baha’i Teachings to situations.

Ruhi Institute process endorsed by the National Assembly in their Feast
letter for 7.2.99 will stimulate a scholarly approach to the Writings.
3b.	Provide the means for the friends to acquire a greater understanding of how
the Teachings of the Faith relate to the issues of society (National Four
Year Plan Action 2/2/3).

ABS Conference in July 1999 on the theme of Global Prosperity included
presentations on applying spiritual principles to the workplace, human
resource development, the role of business in the development of a global
society, work is worship, unity and prosperity, supporting people in distress,
education as the foundation for global prosperity, the role of regional and
international organizations in global prosperity, the Virtues Project, achieve-
ment, a Baha’i framework for employment and income replacement after

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
4k.
Mentoring Bahá’í scholars

Creating a network of ABS members as the prerequisite for mentoring; the
ABS conferences will build many useful relationships.
4l. 	Pacific Island participation in ABS conferences

One presentation at the July 1999 ABS conference
4m. Bahá’í participation in non-Bahá’í conferences - individual Bahá’ís have
done this but ABS has not been involved.
4n.
Other means for stimulating development of Bahá’í scholarship

Collaborated with Bahá’í Office of External Affairs in selecting non-Bahá’í
speakers for ABS conference in July 1999

Collaborated with the Arm of the Learned
4o.
Collaboration with the University of Waikato Continuing Education
division in promotion of ABS 2000 conference to the general public at
University of Waikato
4p.
Appeal to the believers in “unwaveringly positive and encouraging
tones” [1]

Achieved via quarterly newsletter to ABS members since December 1997
and articles in NZ Bahá’í News
4q.
Collaboration with NZ representative for the Wilmette Institute

The Wilmette Institute offers outstanding non-residential courses relating
the Faith to other religions (e.g. Christianity, Chinese religions) and in
developing Baha’i scholarship skills.

We have planned conferences carefully to ensure that fees are low so that
participation is open to the majority of believers ($25 per day includes
registration, lunch, morning and afternoon tea)

One of the bounties of serving on the Executive Committee for ABS is that
the members are always willing to take on committee work and complete
it on time and to a high standard.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
with recruiting overseas keynote speakers.

Held ABS conferences at Universities to improve the credibility of Baha’i
scholarship and the Baha’i Faith as a religion that can generate major
insights into world problems.

Assisted in planning Professor Dwight Allen’s visit to New Zealand in
June 2000 to use his scholarship as a means of promoting the Faith.
4e.
Strive for excellence in both research and quality of presentations at
ABS conferences [1]

As a result of methodical collaboration with presenters, presentation quality
at the 1999 ABS conference was rated as substantially improved over the
1998 conference.

ABS conference chairing raised the standard of presentation and flow to
a highly professional level consistent with the Toastmaster training of the
chairperson.
4f. 	Exemplify unity in diversity at ABS conferences [4]

ABS needs to work harder to widen the ethnic diversity at ABS confer-
ences.

Poster sessions at ABS conferences would be suitable for people reluctant
to present a paper.
4g.
Local ABS representatives

Only a minority of local ABS representatives in LSA areas have joined
ABS. Sadly the majority of representatives cannot function fully without
joining ABS (the subscription of $15 per year is affordable and covers the
cost of duplicating and posting four newsletters per year). Could the friends
wishing to serve as local representatives please join ABS!
4h.
Regional Bahá’í studies conferences

Deferred until the number of ABS members and their conference publi-
cations expand; insufficient numbers to justify regional conferences in
1999.

Encouraged Local Assemblies in University towns to host a regional ABS
conference during Professor Dwight Allen’s visit to New Zealand in June
4i. 	Published July 1999 ABS conference papers
4j. 	Disseminating information helpful to Baha’i scholars via our ABS newslet-
ter

Loaned Journal of Bahá’í Studies to National Baha’i Reference library

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Philippines
The 6-member Board of Trustees of ABS-Philippines was reappointed by
the National Spiritual Assembly in June 1999.  The first project we focused
on was the creation of a library.   The Board has requested the NSA to give it
responsibility for the National Baha’i Library.  We also initiated a campaign
to gather donated books from Bahá’í friends, local and foreign, to augment
the volume of our acquisition.  This will encourage future researchers to do
their research here at the National Bahá’í Center where a portion of the second
floor is allocated as the library.
Another project in mind is to make a directory of expertise from among
the Bahá’ís all over the country.  A questionnaire is being prepared by one of
the Board members.  This directory will be distributed to all the ten Regional
Bahá’í Councils for their reference when they will be in need of resource
persons for their external affairs efforts.
A project for students (high school and college) concerns making a His-
tory of Bahá’í Faith in the Philippines.  The Bahá’í youth will research how
the Bahá’í Faith started in their respective communities: who were the first
teachers, the first Bahá’ís, first members of Institutions, teaching strategies
used, etc.  This will include gathering of documents, written, oral, pictures,
records, interviews, etc.  We do have fragmented accounts of the Faith in the
Philippines but a wealth of information is still very much wanting.  We are
constructing a questionnaire to guide the youth in gathering data.
We haven’t called for a conference or a seminar yet but plan to have a
general membership meeting first.  Also producing a newsletter seems to be
premature yet at this point in time.
Singapore
The Singapore Association for Bahá’í Studies is a committee of the Spiritual
Assembly of Singapore whose members are Dr A. Khursheed, Dr Phyllis Chew
and Mrs Antonella Khursheed. In the past four years the Association organized
four annual conferences.
So far four volumes of the proceedings have been published in a journal
called The Singapore Bahá’í Studies Review. The journal has a MITA number
which means that it is a publication approved by the Ministry of Information
of Singapore. The first volume is out of stock. More than 660 copies of the first
three volumes have been sold or donated.  The journal is available through the
Bahá’í US Distribution Service and is swapped with the journals with other
ABSs around the world.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
North America
Committee: Anne Pearson (Chair), Lynn Echevarria (Executive Secretary),
Mehran Kiai (Treasurer), Susan Stark Christianson, Niloofar Ahmadzadeh, Ridvan
Moqbel, Wendy Heller, and John Hatcher.
Publications
During the past year the Association has published: 4 issues of the quarterly
international Bulletin; the Journal of Bahá’í Studies volume 9, numbers 1, 2, and
3; and the book Planning Progress: Lessons from Shoghi Effendi by June Manning
Thomas (April 1999). A plan was initiated to reorganize the editorial structure
of the Journal of Bahá’í Studies in order to create a streamlined and responsive
system of handling manuscript submissions and to eliminate delays.
Web Site
ABS–NA has acquired its own web domain at <http://www.bahai-studies.ca>.
Continued expansion of the web site is planned, and the Science and Religion
SIG has begun development of its section of the site.
Regional Committees
There are currently 5 Regional ABS Committees in the United States.  The
Mid-Atlantic region organized an exciting conference at Princeton University on
April 10, 1999. This conference entitled “Spiritualizing Civilization: Exploring
Arts, Knowledge, and Wonders” was attended by 90 people, mostly Bahá’ís, from
10 states.  It incorporated a blend of participatory workshops in poetry, collage,
and music, artistic presentations and formal academic presentations.
Annual Conference
The 24th Annual Conference will take place in Mississauga, Toronto, Ontario
on August 31–Sept 3rd. The theme, “A Century of Light: Who is Writing the
Future?”  has been chosen to stimulate a retrospective and prospective analysis of
the state of civilization at century’s end and the potential for humanity’s future.
Goals and Functions:
During the year, the Executive Committee, with guidance from the National
Spiritual Assembly of Canada, and encouragement from the NSAs of Alaska and
United States, have engaged in some creative thinking regarding the goals and
functioning of the Association. A statement on the next stage in the evolution
and development of the Association was published in March and is available on
the ABS–NA web site.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Institute/School/Foundation
Reports
Afnan Library
During 1999, the Afnan Library succeeded in moving its books to a build-
ing that has been purchased for the library. Shelving has been put up for the
books. Due to a failure to obtain the services of a librarian, however, it has
not yet proved possible to put the books onto the shelves or to catalogue them
completely.
The Bahá’í Academy, Panchgani
The Bahá’í Academy, established in 1982, is a Centre dedicated to advanced
higher studies of the teachings of the Faith and training teachers, pioneers,
administrators and future scholars for the Cause of God. It offers a number of
short and long Courses every year on different themes, each geared to training
a particular human resource.
The Bahá’í Academy has programs of study in the form of short term
courses, long term courses (1 year - some of which involves independent
research), distance learning courses, Bahá’í research fellowship, an extensive
Bahá’í library, and “learn and serve” volunteer positions.
The Bahá’í Academy site http://bounty.bcca.org/orgs/schools/bha-
canet/index.html is in the process of being revamped, and the new one is
expected to go live sometime this Spring.  In the near future, the Baha’i
Academy would like to expand it’s distance learning programs to include
web-based courses.
Bahá’í Association for the Arts
The Publication:
We have been producing a quarterly on a regular basis since 1986. Now
called Arts Dialogue, since this year it comes out three  times a year in a
magazine format of 24 pages with numerous black and white illustrations and
photos. The only global magazine on the arts run by Bahá’ís.  An index list of
the latest issue can viewed at: http://bahai-library.org/bafa/c-indx00.htm  Each
issue contains articles, essays, creative writing, poetry, reviews, letters/readers
comments, artist profiles, and of course, many illustrations. Subscription for
Report on Scholarship for 1999
The Singapore Bahá’í Studies Review is a journal dedicated to correlating
Bahá’í principles and beliefs to the different cultural traditions of Asia. It sets out
to promote religious and cultural harmony. The journal is the main publication
of the Singapore Association for Bahá’í Studies. The Association, a committee
of the Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Singapore, was formed in April
1996. The papers published in the journal, are usually initiated as talks given at
the annual Singapore Bahá’í Studies conference. The Singapore Bahá’í Stud-
ies Review is the first journal of its kind to appear on the Asian continent.  The
journal is open to Bahá’ís and their friends. So far four volumes of the journal
have been published. Volume 1 (1996), is already out of stock, volumes 2 (1997)
and 3 (1998) are still available.
The second volume of the Singapore ABS journal is on the “Fundamental
Unity of Religions” and the third volume is on the “Never-ending Journey of
the Soul”.
The theme of volume four is “Challenges for the New Millennium”, and
it includes papers on the role of religion in the rise of the women’s movement
in Singapore, the status of moral values in modern society, moral education in
schools, parallels between Bahá’í and Confucian approaches to human nature,
and a study of the modern interfaith movement and its prospects for the future.
Also appearing in volume 4 of the Singapore Bahá’í Studies Review is a
special Interfaith Supplement consisting of talks by various religious leaders and
scholars from around the world on inter-religious issues. Each talk was chosen
for its historical importance. The Supplement features talks by Vivekananda on
Hinduism made at the first Parliament of World’s Religions conference held in
Chicago in 1893, an address by the present Dalai Lama on religious harmony, a
talk by the renowned Quranic scholar Yusof Ali, an address by Chief Rabbi Elect
Jonathan Sacks, a talk given by the present Archbishop of Canterbury Robert
Runcie, and a speech by Pope John Paul II in India. Also included is the historic
statement, “Nostra Aetate” prepared by the Second Vatican Council in 1965 which
signalled an important change in the Catholic Church’s position with respect to
other religions. The Bahá’í contribution in the supplement is from the famous
George Townshend paper delivered at the World Congress of Faiths in 1936, edited
and approved by Shoghi Effendi. This paper is one of the first Bahá’í statements
to be made in a modern interfaith setting. All in all, the supplement is a valuable
interfaith resource, and is helpful in arriving at a greater degree of understanding
and fellowship between Bahá’í s and people of other faiths. 276 pages
The price of the journal is S$10 (Vol.2 and Vol.3) and S$12  (Vol.4) per copy
(shipping and bank transaction expenses are not included).   Order forms can be
obtained from your book agency, Association for Bahá’í Studies or directly from:
The Association for Bahá’í Studies of Singapore*, c/o Dr. Anjam Khursheed, 105
Clementi Road, Kent Vale, Blk B #09-02, Singapore 129789. Tel./Fax +65 - 779
8415.  e-mail: khur@pacific.net.sg

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
and (in English) it will be held at the London School of Economics (Bankside
House), London, 14-16 July. Irfan Colloquium in North America will have
concurrent sessions in Persian and English at: Louhelen Bahá’í School, Davi-
son, Michigan, 6-8 October; and Bosch Bahá’í School, Santa Cruz, California,
23-26 November.  There are two other Irfan activates, in addition to holding
Colloquia and Seminars:  Providing scholarship and fellowship grants, and
Publications.
SCHOLARSHIP AND FELLOWSHIP
Modest financial assistance, when needed, are provided in order to facilitate
participation of accepted papers at Irfan Colloquia and Seminars.
IRFAN PUBLICATIONS:
1. 	 THE LIGHTS OF IRFAN, annual volumes of the papers presented in the
English language sessions.
2. 	 SAFINIH-YI IRFAN, annual volumes of the papers presented in Persian
language sessions.
3. 	 Volumes of selected papers related to a general theme published by George
Ronald.
4. 	 Abstracts of the papers presented at various sessions of the colloquium.
5. 	 Guidebooks on the Study of the Wrings of Bahá’u’lláh
6. 	 Occasional papers, monographs and booklets.  For further information
contact Irfan Colloquium, c/o Iraj Ayman, Bahá’í National Center1233
Central Street Evanston, IL 60201-1611, USATel: 847-733-3501FAX:
847-733-3502.
E-Mail: iayman@usbnc.org
Landegg Academy
Applied Spirituality:  Scholarship in the Service of Development
In 1996 the Canadian psychiatrist, writer and educator, Dr. Hossain Danesh,
along with a small cohort of scholars, administrators, philanthropists and
volunteers began deliberations toward the establishment of a university that
would be located in the heart of Europe, but would be world embracing in its
curriculum, faculty, staff and student body.  The institution would be unique –
not only because of its global reach, but because it would be Bahá’í-inspired and
founded on the philosophy of applied spirituality — a revolutionary approach
to all fields of study that seeks to integrate the empirical, analytical, ethical and
spiritual dimensions of knowledge. This approach, noted its founder, “is based
on the conviction that true human development and civilization are only pos-
sible when scientific research and technological advancement are harmonized
Report on Scholarship for 1999
one year is $AUS 32 or $NZ 32 or $US 20 email: forumbahai@es.co.nz for
more details or go to our website: http://bahai-library.org/bafa
The New Website: http://bahai-library.org/bafa
We launched our new website in March 2000 and is gradually being added
to as we find time.  It’s major purpose is to provide a database of work by
artists from all disciplines found under  the rubic, ‘profiles’. Currently, those
who have been featured in an issue of Arts Dialogue are being added first,
going back from the latest issue. This is slow work because it must be done
voluntarily. Only about 80 artists are currently on the database.  Another part
of the site is the ‘contents’ where going from the last issue, summaries and
excerpts from Arts Dialogue can be viewed with links to the artist’s pages.
Under ‘participate’ and ‘subscribe’ can you see how you can participate in our
activities and everyone is welcome to submit material for the ‘art news’ rubic
which is updated monthly.  Then there is ‘ who is BAFA’ where you can read
about who we are and what we do.
Art’nSoul email list
There is an email discussion group on the arts.  Anyone can join. It is an
open forum.  The address for joining is: <art-nsoul-list-request@tarazat.nl>
Then type ‘’subscribe’’ in the subject line.
There is also an email list for Musicians who are Bahá’ís. This is not organ-
ized by BAFA but you might like to add it in as a resource.  More info from:
http://joyfulnoise.freeservers.com

Sonja van Kerkhoff
website designer
check out: http://members.tripod.com/~huia
Irfan Colloquium
The Irfan Colloquium is devoted to the promotion of research and studies
in the scriptures and particularly Bahá’í holy Writings, principles of Bahá’í
theology, and the World religions and the Bahá’í Faith.  Irfan activities are
under the auspicious of the National Spiritual Assemblies of the countries
where they take place. They are cosponsored by Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial
Fund; Nadia Saadat Memorial Scholarships; Persian-American Affairs Office
of the National Bahá’í Centre, USA; Asr-i-Jadid Publishers (Germany); and
Nureddin Momtazi Memorial Grants.
This year, 2000, Irfan gatherings will be held, in both Persian and in English
languages, in Europe and North America. In Europe, Irfan Colloquium (in
Persian) will be held at the Centre for Baha’i Studies, Acuto, Italy, 23-28 June

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Leadership & Management, and Psychology; and the Bachelor of Arts degree
in Economics & International Development, Political Science and International
Relations, Psychology, Human Development and Education, and the Integrative
Study of Religion.  In consultation with a faculty advisor, students may also
design their own majors.
Landegg Academy draws its faculty from a range of institutions around
the world, including Harvard University, Carleton College, UCLA, American
University, the University of Michigan and Franklin & Marshall College in the
United States; the University of Ottawa, the University of Toronto, and Laval
University in Canada; the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and Shandong
University in China; Seinan Gakiun University in Japan; the Norwegian State
Academy of Music in Norway; the University of Copenhagen in Denmark;
and others.  Its graduates have been admitted to distinguished universities,
including Cambridge University in England, the University of Pennsylvania in
the United States, the University of Alberta in Canada, Jagelonian University
in Krakow, Poland, and Harbin University in China, among others.  For more
information on Landegg Academy and its programs, please contact Info@
Landegg.edu.
Wilmette Institute
The Wilmette Institute was established in 1995 to offer courses and other
educational programs.  It seeks to raise up diverse, knowledgeable, articulate
teachers and administrators of the Bahá’í Faith by imparting knowledge;
developing various skills, particularly teaching skills; and fostering Bahá’í
identity.  It receives no direct financial support from the Bahá’í National Fund,
but funds its programs through tuition fees and donations.
1.  Accomplishments over the Last Four Years.
When the Four Year Plan began, the Institute was just a year old and had not
completed its first course.  During the plan it accomplished the following:
Spiritual Foundations for a Global Civilization Program. The four-year
Spiritual Foundations program held all four of its summer sessions during the
plan, with an average annual attendance of thirty. The students studied all major
aspects of the Bahá’í teachings, history, and scripture; attended workshops
on public speaking, creative writing, conflict resolution, and public relations;
and participated in seminars on teaching the Faith every year. Students also
completed ten months of home study every year on the subjects covered during
the summer session, including giving firesides and deepenings. The majority of
students report a great increase in their self-confidence, many additional efforts
at teaching the Faith and leading deepening classes, and enrollments (about
100 over the four years that they attributed to the Institute). Much experience
Report on Scholarship for 1999
with universal spiritual and ethical principles.”
In the brief period since its establishment as an international center of
higher learning, Landegg Academy has attracted to its Swiss campus profes-
sors, administrators, students and staff from scores of countries, and from
every continent.  It has established bi-lateral relationships with other respected
universities in China, Israel, the United States, Canada, South America and
Europe, and has begun to articulate a body of scholarship dedicated to an
explication of the relevance of applied spirituality to a variety of academic
and professional fields.
Applied spirituality is an approach to scholarship that seeks to place knowl-
edge at the service of development.  It assumes that knowledge of complex
phenomena is best derived from a diversity of methods, and that there are often
technical, as well as ethical dimensions to most human endeavors.  Applied
Spirituality thus assumes a position of epistemological and methodological
openness – ever mindful of the fact that “nature gives most of her evidence
in answer to the questions we ask.”2  Applied Spirituality recognizes an es-
sential complimentarity between the empirical and rational demands of sci-
ence and the ethical conduct required of human beings if our relationships to
one another and to nature are to secure life and promote development. It is,
therefore, not simply a new paradigm from which to view the problems of the
world, but is an approach to living in the world which unites the philosopher
and the practitioner and makes of these two – one.  From this perspective, the
spiritual qualities that characterize the student, scholar or practitioner are as
critical to securing human happiness and progress as are his or her knowledge,
skills and insights.
At the heart of applied spirituality is an ethical commitment to the oneness
of the human race and the conviction that life and development are sustained
by the creation and maintenance of unity within the context of diversity.  In
contrast to a materialistic perspective, it affirms that all forms of progress
result from “the expression of spirit in the world of matter,”3 and thus the
Academy affords consideration of spiritual principles vital in all of its classes,
publications and academic undertakings. These principles are derived from
the world’s religions, as they constitute the primary reservoir of humanity’s
spiritual heritage.
In pursuance of its pedagogical mission, Landegg Academy publishes an
academic journal, known as: Converging Realities: A Journal of Art, Science
and Religion, which appears electronically on a quarterly basis, and in printed
form once a year. Submissions to the journal may be directed to Converge@
Landegg.edu.  In addition, the institution offers the Masters degree in six
disciplines, including: Conflict Resolution, Education, Ethics, Religion,
2.
C.S. Lewis, The Discarded Image. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1964, pp. 223-224.
3.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 12th edition. 1995, p.90.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
assistance, occasional full or part-time support, and help by volunteers has
kept the administrative work going. Because some part-time work has been
off-site, telephone and internet communication has been vital to maintaining
efficient coordination.
Financial Developments. Supporting the work of the Institute is the
Afsharian Endowment and the Orlando Nunez Endowment, which provide
financial aid to needy students. Semiannual fundraising efforts have begun to
build up the Institute’s modest endowment.
International Outreach. The Institute has provided study materials or
advice to national, regional, or local training institutes in Alaska, Australia,
France, the Gulf States, India, Pakistan, and the United Kingdom.  In late 1999
the National Spiritual Assembly of New Zealand recognized a Wilmette Insti-
tute representative, who coordinates publicity of Wilmette Institute courses,
registers local students, and collects tuition in the local currency for the Institute
under the National Spiritual Assembly’s supervision.
2.  Priorities for the Immediate Future.
The Wilmette Institute has begun to develop a Twelve Month Plan and a
Five Year Plan. Among their features are the following:
1. 	 Responding to the National Spiritual Assembly’s priorities for study by
creating courses in 2000 on The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, The Advent
of Divine Justice, and The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. In 2001 the Institute
will offer courses on The Secret of Divine Civilization and The Epistle to
the Son of the Wolf.
2.  	Utilizing the pool of study materials developed for the Spiritual Foundations
for a Global Civilization program in the development of new distance-
learning courses.  It is hoped that over the next four years (2000-2003)
the Institute will be able to launch 39 new distance-learning courses in
such diverse areas as the life of Bahá’u’lláh; the life, writings, and talks
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; the life and writings of Shoghi Effendi; Bahá’í History;
Bahá’í theology and philosophy; individual development; marriage and
family life; development of the Bahá’í community; Bahá’í teachings on
global issues; and teaching the Faith.
3.  With the creation of a Bahá’í satellite broadcasting system, the Institute
will explore ways it can create courses in that medium.
4.  The Institute wants to collaborate with the National Youth Committee in
Report on Scholarship for 1999
has been gained over the last four years and the next four-year cycle (which
begins in May 2000) will feature a shorter summer session, fewer months of
home study, more focused classes, and the options of taking distance-learning
courses in subjects of special interest to the student.
Distance-Learning Courses. The internet and worldwide web have revo-
lutionized delivery of courses to students scattered across the United States.
The Wilmette Institute launched its first distance-learning course in January
1998 and has offered courses on sixteen distinct subjects since (six surveying
the writings of Bahá’u’lláh historically and one each on the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,
Kitáb-i-Iqán, Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh, Advent of Divine Justice, Judaism,
Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, Chinese Religions, and Zoroastrianism).
Each course has a listserver for student and faculty discussion; conference
calls so that they can talk together; students give firesides, deepenings, or
institute courses as part of each course’s requirements; and students complete
written exercises of their choice. Approximately 300 students have enrolled
in Wilmette Institute courses during the plan. Surveying of the students is
not complete, but many have recounted numerous teaching opportunities as
a result of Wilmette Institute courses; many describe heightened enthusiasm
and confidence in teaching; and about ten enrolments attributable to efforts
related to Wilmette Institute courses were reported.
Publicity and Marketing. The Institute has had to develop a systematic and
ongoing effort to raise the Bahá’í community’s awareness of the Institute, its
purposes, and its offerings. Over the last four years it has developed a public-
ity plan consisting of annual publicity mailings, regular press releases to The
American Bahá’í and other news organs, mailing of “ambassador kits” to many
of its students before unit conventions, and a regular presence at the Grand
Canyon, Desert Rose, Rabbani Trust, Greenlake, and Association for Bahá’í
Studies conferences, as well as the National Convention. The selection of a
logo and creation of stationery, a banner, and other “identity materials” have
given the Institute a consistent “look.”  A website that is now one of the most
popular Bahá’í websites has given the Institute visibility.  A toll-free number
(877-WILMETTE), newly acquired in early 2000, will make the Institute and
its far-flung staff easier to reach. Its quarterly newsletter, The Lamp, is now
mailed to about 900 people in ten countries.  Its listserver of current and former
students and friends has some 500 subscribers and provides a means for rapid
dissemination of news. An annual Catalog has been developed and regularly
updated and a Faculty Handbook released.
Administrative Developments. All the above has been accomplished
by an institution with no permanent full-time staff. Youth year of service

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
authors and researchers, as well as the spreading use of e-mail (acquired by
the office in September1993).
Prepublication Review.  The Office’s reviewing work has also expanded
since 1990-91, when it completed prepublication review of 64 written works.
The statistics for the last four years are as follows:
Literature Review:
Year
Total Works
Pass
Changes Req
Reject
No Rating
Special Materials Review:
Year
Total Works
Pass
Changes Req
Reject
No Rating
The figures show no trends in terms of numbers of works submitted to
review except that the numbers fluctuate considerably. The quality of submis-
sions also seems to vary from year to year, although usually at least 60-70%
of those that receive a rating, pass without changes.
Support of the National Spiritual Assembly’s Research Needs. Every
year the Research Office collects and edits the information for the annual report
of agencies of the National Spiritual Assembly and organizes statistical data
requested annually by the Universal House of Justice.  In addition, every year
it puts together one or two additional reports; in 1999-2000 the Office prepared
a study of Social and Economic Development projects.
Support of Academic Research on the Faith. The Research Office has
become a major center of information for researchers (Bahá’í and non-Bahá’í)
who are studying the Faith.  The Office plans the Bahá’í program at the Ameri-
can Academy of Religion each year, involving one or two panels of talks on
aspects of the Faith and a book display in the exhibit hall.  A staff member is
a Bahá’í representative to the Pluralism Project, which studies the diversity
of religion in the United States. For the last three years the Research Office
has coordinated the Bahá’í involvement in the Cooperative Congregational
Survey Project, a research effort to study 700 or more congregations in each of
40 denominations in the United States.  The survey, to coincide with the 2000
Report on Scholarship for 1999
creating an introductory course on the Faith that college students could take
for credit toward their degrees, and with the National Teaching Committee
on courses suitable for the growing pool of seekers.
Hebrew University of Jerusalem
A Chair for Bahá’í Studies was established at The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem in March 1999.  In the introduction to its formal proposal for the
establishment of the Chair, the University thus explained its motivation: “Three
years ago, Professor Moshe Sharon began to teach the History and Sacred
Literature of the Bahá’í Faith, on a regular basis, at the Institute of Asian and
African Studies in the Faculty of Humanities of The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem.  As a result of Professor Sharon’s pioneering work, the University
has become convinced of the importance of the field and of the need to provide
an institutional basis for the continuation and development of this work on
both the teaching and research levels.”
Research Office, National Spiritual
Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United
States of America
The Research Office of the National Spiritual Assembly was established
in 1989 with a single thirty-hour per week staff member. In 1994 the staff
expanded to two full-time persons, where it stands today. Its principal respon-
sibilities (prepublication review of manuscripts and special materials; assisting
and encouraging research on the Faith; correcting published information about
the Faith; interfacing with academia; collaborating with other Bahá’í scholarly
efforts) have steadily expanded over the last eleven years.
1.  Accomplishments During the Four Year Plan.
Communications. The Research Office’s output of letters and e-mails has
steadily increased, from about 700 in 1990-91 (the first year for which data is
available) to 3,600 communications in 1997 and 7,191 communications in 1999.
No data is subsequently available because of the complexity of calculation.
The increase reflects the Bahá’í community’s steadily expanding interest in
scholarly matters and the Office’s growing network of contacts with Bahá’í

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
like-minded researchers and disseminating research and scholarly requests.
Developing Research Resources in Wilmette. The Office has helped
expand the Bahá’í National Center library and its finding aids over the last
four years.  An important development was the contribution of a collection of
works on Judaism in mid 1999.
2.  Priorities for the Immediate Future.
Over the next year the Research Office hopes to acquire more staffing,
allowing it to focus more energy on protection of the Faith; responding to
attacks and inaccurate publications; networking Bahá’í researchers; and train-
ing more Bahá’ís to be able to answer difficult scholarly questions about the
Faith.  The Office also hopes to make more effort to educate Bahá’ís about the
prepublication review process, especially of special materials.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
government census, was mailed to all local spiritual assemblies in January;
already 500 have completed the survey. In the last four years staff members
have published Bahá’í related articles in two encyclopedias and one c.d. rom;
the journal Nova Religio; a sociological series on religions; and a volume on
religions’ views about the millennium. In 1999 the Office helped find Bahá’í
presenters at a conference on new religious movements in Pennsylvania and
a staff member attended and spoke. The Office answered research queries
directed to it by about five non-Bahá’í scholars.
Support of Research by Bahá’ís. The Office has been centrally involved
in most efforts in the United States to support scholarship by Bahá’ís. Staff
members serve or have served on the boards of the Bahá’í encyclopaedia
project, World Order magazine, the Association for Bahá’í Studies, and the
Journal of Bahá’í Studies. Reviewing or editing articles for the encyclopaedia
and World Order, drafting interchanges and editorials for World Order, and
planning special issues of World Order are a major focus of the Research Of-
fice. The staff is heavily involved either in planning three Irfán Colloquia per
year (which focus on scripture and world religions from a Bahá’í perspective),
in editing the abstracts and papers, or in publishing the program booklets. The
Institute for Bahá’í Studies (based in the Research Office) sponsored several
conferences for Bahá’ís interested in specialized research topics during the Plan,
the most recent one being “Revealing the Splendors of His Light: Exploring
Spirituality in Bahá’í Life.”  It was held in Evanston in August 1999 and was
attended by about 60 people.  Most of the planning for the conference was
done by the Research Office.
The Research Office is also the home of the Wilmette Institute, which
offers courses on aspects of the Faith. While research and publication are
not the focus of Wilmette Institute courses, they have resulted in one or two
published articles on the Faith that otherwise would not have been produced.
The Institute has also helped create an environment in the American Bahá’í
community that is supportive of scholarship.
Protection of the Faith. The Research Office (through the Institute for
Bahá’í Studies) has become a center for correcting errors in academic publica-
tions and responding to unwarranted criticisms or attacks.  Every year it has
sought to correct three or four works. Lack of staff has hampered the effort and
a backlog of about 15 works needing comment has developed.  The Research
Office was also central to rallying support for the Bahá’í Institute for Higher
Education (BIHE) in Iran, when Iranian government agencies attempted to
shut it down in the fall of 1998.  The Office became a clearing house for infor-
mation and developed two listservers (one for Bahá’í college professors, the
other for students and staff) to keep them informed of the latest developments.
Since then the two listservers have become a valuable conduit for networking

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Christopher Buck
drchristopherbuck@usa.net
PUBLICATIONS
BOOKS
Forthcoming
God and Apple Pie: Visions of America’s Spiritual Destiny, Albany: State
University of New York Press. [under advance contract]
Paradise and Paradigm: Key Symbols in Persian Christianity and the
Bahá’í Faith. Albany: State University of New York Press. Resold as: Studies
in the Babi and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 10. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press
ENCYCLOPEDIA ARTICLES
Forthcoming
“Baha’is”, Encyclopaedia of the Qur’án, Ed. Jane McAuliffe et al.  Leiden:
E.J. Brill.
MULTI-AUTHOR WORKS
Forthcoming
“The Baha’i Faith in the World and in America.”, In World Religions in
America, Third revised edition.  Ed. Jacob Neusner, Los Angeles: Westminster
John Knox Press.
JOURNAL ARTICLES
“33 Baha’i Principles of Unity,” Bahá’í Studies Review 9 (1999).
“Bahá’u’lláh as Zoroastrian Saviour,” Bahá’í Studies Review 8 (1998):
14-33.  [published in 1999]
“A Symbolic Profile of the Bahá’í Faith.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 8.4
(1998): 1-48. [published in 1999]
REVIEWS
Review of Will C. van den Hoonard, The Origins of the Bahá’í Com-
munity of Canada, 1898-1948.  University of Toronto Quarterly 69.1 (Winter
1999/2000).
Review of Moojan Momen, The Phenomenon of Religion.  Baha’i Studies
Review 9 (1999).
ELECTRONIC PUBLICATIONS
“Native Messengers of God in Canada?: A Test Case for Baha’i Universal-
ism.” Bahá’í Studies Review 6 (1996): 97-133. Web site:
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Reports by Individuals
Ratnam Alagiah
r.alagiah@mailbox.gu.edu.au
Alagiah, R., An ethical theory for International Accounting: World Order and
Uniform Accounting Standards Worldwide, Paper accepted and presented
at the 5th Critical Perspectives on Accounting Conference, Hosted by the
City University of New York, New York, 22-24 April, 1999.
Alagiah, R., Theory leading Practice: World Order and Uniform Accounting
Standards Worldwide, Paper accepted and presented at the Emerging Issues
in International Accounting Conference, Center for International Account-
ing Education and Research, Niagara University, August, 5-7, 1999.
Sheila Banani
banani@ucla.edu
In November 1999 I participated in the nationally-sponsored Irfan Col-
loquium held at the Bosch Baha’i School and delivered a paper which will
be published in the Irfan Proceedings in English this year (2000) to be titled
LIGHTS OF IRFAN.  My article is entitled: “The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh
and Farid ud-Din Attar.”
Mieko Bond
mmmmbond@hotmail.com
In 1998 I submitted a thesis at Landegg Academy on Bahá’í Consultation
and Alternative Dispute Resolution’.  It was a critique of the alternative dispute
resolution procedures in North America showing that they have a different
process but the same underlying theory of justice and human nature, which
produces tensions that are inherent in the North American legal system already.
I then presented the Bahá’í theory of justice and consultation as I understand
it, demonstrating that it could solve the tensions and problems with the legal
system and criticism of the dispute resolution procedures at present (ie power
issues in negotiation). I am interested in liasing with others with the same
interest and I do have a bibliography in the area.  I have written a thesis on
‘why are there gender differences in violence? a criminological and Bahá’í
approach’ and papers on socio- biological evolution, human nature, comparison
of the weberian work ethic and the Bahá’í work ethic, etc.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
GUEST LECTURES
“Race against Time: The Millennium in Black and White.” Department of
African-American Studies University of Illinois at Springfield
ADVISORY BOARDS
Editorial Advisory Board, African American Studies, Collegiate Press
Editorial Advisory Board, Journal of Baha’i Studies
Rodney Clarken
rclarken@nmu.edu
I am coordinating a study course on the Dispensation of Baha’u’llah through
the Wilmette Institute. We have 108 students currently taking this course. You
may want to visit its site at http://www.wilmetteinstitute.org I continue to try to
develop educational ideas based on Bahá’í  principles and ideals.  Web page:
www.nmu.edu/staff/rclarken
William P. Collins
wcol@erols.com
Bill Collins has a 5-page article on the Baha’i Faith appearing in The En-
cyclopedia of Millennialism and Millennial Movements edited by Richard A.
Landes, to be published in May 2000 by Routledge.  He is continuing work
on his book on millennialism and time prophetic interpretation in the Bahá’í
Faith.  He is also preparing reviews for Library Journal, some of which are
for Bahá’í works.  Bill continues also to maintain a site for a network of
Bahá’í librarians at http://www.bcca.org/librarians including an annual web
newsletter entitled Scriptum.  He assisted the Bahá’í World Centre Library as
a consultant in March 2000.
Lynn Echevarria
Lynn.E@sk.sympatico.ca
Ms. Lynn Echevarria, a SSHRC fellow (Social Sciences and Humanities
Research Council of Canada) successfully defended her doctoral thesis in so-
ciology at Essex University, United Kingdom in 1999.  Dr. James Beckford of
Warwick University, sociologist of religion,  presided as the external examiner.
The dissertation focuses on the construction of women’s religious identity in
the Baha’i Faith, and the social processes inherent in Baha’i community life.
The study is based upon the collection and analysis of a large amount of data
Report on Scholarship for 1999
http://www.breacais.demon.co.uk/abs/bsr06/66_buck_messengers.htm
[published online in 1999]
“The Kitab-i Iqan:  An Introduction to Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of Certitude,
with Two Digital Reprints of Early Lithographs.”  Occasional Papers in Shay-
khi, Babi and Bahá’í Studies 2.5 (June 1998).  Web site: <http://h-net2.msu.
edu/~bahai/bhpapers.htm  [Note: The following appendices were published
in late 1998 or in early 1999.]
Appendix 1
Facsimile of 1310/May-June 1893 Iqan Lithograph Book of Certitude
(Kitáb-i-Iqán).  Bombay: n.p., 1893 Reprinted Lansing, MI: H-Bahai, 1998.
Web site: <http://h-net2.msu.edu/~bahai/areprint/baha/G-L/I/iqan1893/
iqan1893.htm   [Digital reprint of image files of rare Bombay lithograph of
Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-I-Íqán in the hand of Mishkín-Qalam (Dhu’l-Qa‘dah 1310
A.H./May-June 1893).]
Appendix 2
Baha’u’llah’s Book of Certitude (Kitáb-i-Iqán): 1882 Bombay Lithograph,
Bombay: n.p., 1882, Reprinted Lansing, MI: H-Bahai, 1998.  Web site: <http://
h-net2.msu.edu/~bahai/areprint/baha/G-L/I/iqan1882/iqan1882.htm
“Note: This is the first printed Baha’i book.... Thanks to the current owner,
Payam Afsharian,  for sharing a photocopy for digital reproduction,  and to
Christopher Buck, who donated the photocopy as part of his 1998 Occasional
Paper on the Book of Certitude.”
ABSTRACTS
Religious and Theological Abstracts 29 (1987).   Published in 1998 CD-
ROM (Abstract #608).  Abstract: “The Identity of the Sabi’un: An Historical
Quest.” The Muslim World 74.3-4 (July-Oct. 1984): 172-86.

COMPUTER SOFTWARE
New World Transliterator (shareware).  Web site for download: <http://
hyperarchive.lcs.mit.edu/HyperArchive/Archive/edu/lang/new-world-trans-
literator.hqx
CONFERENCE PAPERS
“A Multidimensional Approach to Teaching World Religions: The
DREAMS Paradigm.” Chicago: Midwest Region Conference American Acad-
emy of Religion [March 2000]

“Thirty-Three Baha’i Principles of Unity.” Baha’i Studies Colloquy, 1999
Annual Meeting. American Academy of Religion (Boston).

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Sandra Sims Fotos
sfotos@gol.com
Recent Bahá’í Scholarship:
1998.
Commentary on Susan Brill’s “Conversive relationality in Bahá’í
scholarship: Centering the sacred and decentering the self.” Journal of
Bahá’í Studies 8 (3): 81-85.
1999.
Strategies for spiritualization. Journal of Baha’i Studies 9 (1):
1-25.
Work as Editor:
1999.
Proceedings of the Sixth and Seventh Annual Conferences, Associa-
tion for Bahá’í Studies-Japan
Dale Grider
Howdybud@bellsouth.net
I think the following websites constitute an invaluable perspective that
illuminates issues of credibility and validity within Baha’i scholarship, and
the paradigm as a whole. The material found here should provide impetus for
serious study for the true seeker.
The Fireside Letters: http://personal.sdf.bellsouth.net/~howdybud
A critical review of the Fireside Letters by Bahá’í Daniel Grolin, and
rebuttal by Dale Grider;
http://www.ozemail.com.au/~cdibdin/rebuttal.htm
Daniel Jalal Grolin
dgrolin@yahoo.com
Forthcoming publication:
The New Dialogue, George Ronald; August 2001.
The book presents an extensive treatment of the Gospels and what they tell
us about the Historical Jesus and Early Christianity as well as some reflections
on how this could figure into a new type of Bahá’í/Christian dialogue.
Forthcoming articles:
“A comparison of religious practice in the Bahá’í Faith and Early Christi-
anity”. For Bahá’í Studies Review.
“The soul’s journey from God and back. A comparison of a hymn of Early
Persian Christian and the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.”
Odense, Denmark
Report on Scholarship for 1999
gleaned from 20 full life histories of Baha’i women and men, additional inter-
views, and archival and statistical resources.  Using concepts rooted in symbolic
interactionism, life history perspectives and feminism, the author analyses the
processes through which a sample of Baha’i women (mid-twentieth century)
make meaning of the Baha’i teachings and translate that meaning into action
in their lives.  Working Through The Vision: Religion and Identity in the Life
Histories of Baha’i Women in Canada Department of Sociology, University
of Essex, Ph.D. dissertation, 2000, 277 pages.  This study is available through
the British Library System and at the National Library of Canada, Ottawa,
after April 2000.  It will also be available for reference at the Association for
Baha’i Studies Library in Ottawa.
Cheshmak Farhoumand-Sims
cheshmak@yorku.ca
PhD candidate, York University, Department of Political Science.
Major: International Relations / Minor: Comparative Politics
Dissertation Research: UN Human Rights Mechanisms and the Protection of
the Rights of Women.
ABS Affiliate: Canada
Chapters in Books Published in 1999/2000
“Bahá’í Conceptions of World Order” with Charles Lerche. In Dorn, W. (Ed),
World Order for a New Millennium: Replacing the Law of Force with the
Force of Law. New York: MacMillan Press, 1999.
“Reconciliation: Insights from the Bahá’í Writings.” Forthcoming in Lerche,
C. (Ed.) Religion and Conflict Resolution: Healing the Body Politique.
New York: One World Publications, 2000.
Conferences Attended and Presented Papers at:
March 2000: International Studies Association Convention Paper Presentation:
The Bahá’í international Community, the United Nations and the Protection
of the Bahá’í Community of Iran.
May 1999: Centre for Austrian Studies, University of Minnesota Paper Pre-
sented: Reconciliation Theory and Practice.
September 1998: Association for Bahá’í Studies Conference, Montreal Paper
Presented: The Hidden Words: Linking Human Rights to the Covenant.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
“Persian Integration in Western Communities”, in Seena Fazel & John Danesh
(eds), Challenges and Controversies in the Bahá’í Community, Oxford:
George Ronald
“The Future of Bahá’í Studies”, Bahá’í Studies Review
John Hatcher
hatcher@chuma.cas.usf.edu
WORK PUBLISHED:
Journey of the Soul (Bahá’í Canada Publications, 1999).  Monograph
The Divine Art of Revelation.  Wilmette, Illinois: the Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1998 (60 pages)
“The Theme of Alienation in the Poetry of Robert Hayden,” at The First
International Conference on Kahlil Gibran, University of Maryland, De-
cember 9-12.
WORK COMPLETED BUT NOT YET PUBLISHED:
The Poetry of Táhirih. Book length manuscript scheduled for publication in
August 2001.  Translation of poetry and scholarly introduction and notes.
(Oxford: George Ronald Publishers)
“The Perspective of the Bahá’í Faith on the Child, the Family and the Com-
munity. (a monograph to be published by Palabra Publications.
WORK IN PROGRESS:
Close Connections: The Bridge Between Realities.  Completed second draft
of manuscript (ca. 300 pages).  Is now being reviewed by publisher.  Con-
tract attached.
OTHER SCHOLARLY ACTIVITIES:
* 	 appointed to the executive committee for the Association for Bahá’í stud-
ies.
* 	 appointed Associated Editor for the Journal for Bahá’í Studies.
* 	 helped edit translation of Desinformation als Methode by Dr. Udo Schaefer
into English contract with George Ronald (Oxford).  Recently published
as The Crooked Made Straight.
* 	 helped teach a course on The Kitáb-i-Íqán for the Wilmette Institute.
* 	 talk on “Mysticism and the Quest for Transcendence” at the Selby Library
January 7, 1999.
* 	 poetry Reading from translations of Tahirih’s verse at Selby Public Library
September 7, 1999.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Graham Hassall
grahamh@bahai.org.au
1999 was another busy year for ABS Australia (see the report for ABS
Australia above), and for other writing and teaching projects. In January I
taught in the Certificate in Bahá’í Studies program at Yerrinbool.  I partici-
pated in the Scholarship Institute at Yerrinbool in April, and the ABS annual
conference in Melbourne in September, and at other times participated in ABS
activities in Malaysia and Japan.  Toward the end of the year I established a
website for published and unpublished papers: www.bahai-library.org/asia-
pacific.  Publications that have appeared in print since last year’s Report on
Scholarship include:
(with Seena Fazel), “100 Years of the Bahá’í Faith in Europe”, Bahá’í Studies
Review 8 (1998), 35-44.
“Fazel Mohamad Khan (in Memoriam)”, The Bahá’í World Vol XX: 1986-1992,
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1998, 839-843.
“Hamuel Hoahania (in Memoriam)”, The Bahá’í World Vol XX: 1986-1992,
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1998, 843-844.
“Thelma Perks (in Memoriam)”, The Bahá’í World Vol XX: 1986-1992, Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre, 1998, 903-907.
“Rose Hawthorne (in Memoriam)”, The Bahá’í World Vol XX: 1986-1992,
Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1998, 914-916.
“The Bahá’í Community of Randwick: A Survey of 75 Years”, Australian
Bahá’í Studies, 1999.
(with Nancy Ackerman) “The Bahá’í Faith in Russia”, The Bahá’í World
1998-1999
Forthcoming:
“Contemporary Governance and Conflict Resolution: A Bahá’í Reading”,
in Charles Lerche (ed.) Healing the Body Politic: Aspects of Conflict
Resolution in the New World Order (London:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
forthcoming)
“Dunn, Clara and Hyde”, Contributions to an Encyclopaedia of the Bahá’í
Faith (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, forthcoming)
“In Memoriam: James Heggie”, Bahá’í Studies Review
The Bahá’í Faith in Hong Kong, Hong Kong: Hong Kong Bahá’í Publishing
Trust.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Journal Articles – Refereed:
“Us and Them:  A Study of Alienation and World Order”, The Journal of
Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 17-22, Dec. 1993-March 1994;
“Statecraft, Globalization and Ethics”, The Journal of Bahá’í Studies, Vol.9,
No. 2, pp 71-90, June 1999
Website: http://colerche.virtualave.net (several conference papers and other
things)

Thellie Lovejoy
alovejoy@tfb.com
The Dwight Barstow Collection:
Where do I begin!  Through the Grace of God, through a Bahá’í I did not
even know, I was given 70 boxes and 13 filing cabinet drawers full of unorgan-
ized papers and periodicals that had belonged to a Mr. Dwight Barstow, then
deceased, about 15 years.  That’s a lot of paper!  We had to rent a small moving
truck to cart it to our home.  About half of the bulk was not worth saving.  I
threw that half out, page by page, paper by paper, looking at each one.  What
was left is the most incredible private archive imaginable!
Dwight Barstow never married and left no heirs.  His life-time accumulation
of papers were stored for the fifteen years in a garage of a friend who finally
decided to give it to someone who would sort them, store them, save them,
whatever was best to be done with the material.  My name was suggested to
her by a mutual friend and I agreed to do it.  That was February 1999 and I’ve
been busy with the material ever since.
History:
Dwight became a Bahá’í and moved to the LA area in the late 40’s.  He
began to collect old Bahá’í periodicals such as Stars of the West which led him
to a position where he could help others collect such things as well.  That grew
into an operation he called the Bahá’í Periodical Exchange (BPE).  Through
the BPE, he helped dozens of folks complete their periodical collections.  He
indorsed having them professionally bound, once the collection was completed.
In his effort to collect Bahá’í periodicals, he made a habit, I was told, of be-
friending “little old ladies” in the greater LA area.  He befriended particularly
the ones who had no Bahá’í heirs to whom to leave there Bahá’í papers, books
and periodicals.  And so his collection grew.  I now have the remnants of his
collections (not the books) which include tens of thousands American Bahá’í
News, as well as, Star of the West and the older World Order magazine, as
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Humaida Jumalon
nsaphil@skyinet.net
I have developed a Module for Moral Development (Universal Values
Education) for non-Bahá’ís.  This is actually patterned after Book I of the
Ruhi Training Institute with modifications to suit to non-Bahá’í participants.
I have added quotations from other major religious Scriptures and one more
section (to the original three) on the Golden Rule.  Questions under exercises
are also modified.  Right now, I have a group composed of more than ten new
friends from at least five other different religious affiliations who volunteered
to take the module.  We are meeting once a week (one to one and a half hours)
for this and it will be our third meeting next week.  We call our group “The
Peacemakers’ Circle.”
Charles Lerche
colerche@vub.ac.be
Books – Edited:
Emergence:  Dimensions of a New World Order (London:  Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1991);
Towards the Most Great Justice: Elements of Justice in the New World Order
(London:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996);
Healing the Body Politic:  Aspects of Conflict Resolution in the New World
Order (London:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust, forthcoming 2000
Chapters in Books:
“The Global Agenda” in Anthony Lee (ed.), Circle of Peace (Los Angeles:
Kalimat Press, 1986);
“Human Nature and the Problem of Peace” in Charles Lerche (ed.), Emer-
gence:  Dimensions of a New World Order (London:  Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1991);
“Justice as a Theme in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh” in Charles Lerche
(ed.), Towards the Most Great Justice (London:  Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1996);
co-author with Cheshmak Farhoumand, “The Bahá’í Vision of World Order”
in Walter Dorn (ed.), World Order for a New Millennium:  The Political
and Spiritual Dimensions of Peace-building, St. Martin’s Press, 1999;
“Globalization and its Conflicts” in Charles Lerche (ed.) Healing the Body
Politic:  Aspects of Conflict Resolution in the New World Order (London:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, forthcoming 2000)

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Reading and e-mail:
The next step was to actually read these photocopies.  I was reading the
same generation of photocopies as the ones I had shipped, so if a word was
undecipherable on the copies I could look it up on the original, for those who
received copies, I made an e-mail list.  Via e-mail, I sent information regard-
ing undecipherable words, tips about how to store and read the photocopies,
the history of the pages which I call the “Barstow Collection” or BC.  I e-mail
information when I identify where one is published.  I also notify them if I find
duplicate documents within the collection.  If I learn the document is available
on the internet, I send them the link to find it electronically.  Additionally, I
sent by e-mail the few of the documents that I have reproduced by typing.  If
anyone on the list has information to share about one of the documents they
can share it with the list, also.
Indexing:
I made an index-type of table of contents as I read, so that I will be able
to find quotes I liked again.
Fan mail:
Seldom when I send notices out to the BC list was there reason for anyone
to respond.  Nevertheless, a few have written to say thanks.  I call it “fan mail”
and I love it!  This is my favourite.
“I will never be able to adequately thank you for this work you are
sharing with me.  My schedule has only permitted me to get through the
first few documents.  But your stream of information and clarifications has
kept me anxious to really dive into this collection.  Thank you a thousand
times a thousand times!”
Comment:
Before reading these documents, I had read every book published in English
of the Bahá’í Writings.  Every book I read gave me new information that is
not in any other book.  It took me 30 years to endeavor to resolve undertake
such a fete as finding and reading all those books as before I had thought, each
book would have basically the same information as every other book but just
restated in a different letter.  What I found was, every book, although does
have some restated material, also has different material found nowhere else,
answers to questions I did not even know had been answered in the Writings.
I was once told by a seeker that they had been told by their friend, “One thing
about the Bahá’ís is they sure don’t know much about what is in their Writ-
ings.”  How profound!
The Bahá’í Writings are a huge and vast ocean, wonderful and exciting and
impossible to define, at this point, exactly how vast.  Now, I have learned so
Report on Scholarship for 1999
well as some other periodicals, more rare.  (Do you know anybody who could
use some old Bahá’í News? alovjoy@tfb.com)
The Project:
One of the most surprising items I found while sorting through his boxes
was typed-copies of Tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Baha to the early American be-
lievers, particularly surprising to me, because he had hundreds of them.
These pages of typed, copied Tablets, I put altogether and photocopied.  The
documents are so old that when handled, little pieces of paper flake off.  I
wanted to photocopy them, so I could read them without damaging the pages.
Also, having come upon these wonderful, mostly-unpublished documents so
undeservedly as I had, I did not feel they were mine to keep without sharing
them with others.  I thought they looked like something at least some Bahá’ís
would like to read, rather than putting them in an archive where few, if any,
would have access to them.  The stack of photocopies is a little more than
three and one half inches high, 868 pages, a little less than two reams of
paper, 9 pounds of paper!
Numbering:
I created a system of numbering the documents so that it is easy for me
to identify the documents within the collection in order to correspond with
others regarding the documents and to keep them separate from my other col-
lections.  I numbered each photocopied document with a different number,
while with pencil, I marked the same number on the back side of each original
corresponding document.  That way, I can go directly to the original of any
photocopied document, or refer to any document easily with others whom I
have given copies.
Every page I numbered starts with “BC#” (Barstow Collection) that way
there is no confusion with other numbers found on some of the documents
made by previous owners.  If a document has more than one page, each page
it is marked with the same document number and different letters behind it,
for example document #200 is marked BC#200A, & BC#200B, etc., until end.
Behind the last page of the document, I put a dash to indicate that is the last
page, as it is not always obvious. This system for numbering documents with
code letters first, has proven to be rather serendipitous, as I am now using it
to keep all of my other collections organized and separated.
Once having photocopied and numbered them, I wanted to offer them to
Bahá’ís, so I made an offer on Bahá’í Announce to see if anybody wanted
them.  I did get about 50 requests.  I then photocopied the now numbered
photocopies, making copies for Baha’is who wanted them, and shipped them
world-wide, charging for costs and postage.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Sen McGlinn
Sen.McGlinn@Bahai.NL
Student of Islamic Studies and Persian at the University of Leiden, the
Netherlands. Previously studied English literature and Christian theology at the
University of Otago, New Zealand. Research interests focus on the theology
of social relations and community structures (ie., political theology), covering:
Political theory in the Bahá’í Writings, politics and religion, the Mashriqu’l-
Adhkár, the Bahá’í administrative order, the Guardianship and the House of
Justice, the covenant as constitutional law, the individual and the collective,
the nature of Bahá’í religious law.
Journal Articles - Refereed
A theology of the state from the Bahá’í writings’, Journal of Church and State,
Vol. 41, Autumn 1999. Reprints available from the author, Sen.McGlinn@
Bahai.NL
Reference Works
The Leiden List of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets’, current edition, at http://bahai-library.
org/resources/leiden.list/.
A variety of articles have also been posted at the bahai-library site.
Moojan Momen
momen@northill.demon.co.uk
During this year a book entitled The Phenomenon of Religion: A Thematic
Approach by Dr Momen was published by Oneworld Publishers, Oxford.  Dur-
ing the remainder of the year Dr Momen worked on two projects: a paper on
Jamal Effendi which will be published in Bahá’í  Studies Review and a book
Islam and the Bahá’í Faith to be published by George Ronald, Oxford.
Vera B. Moreen
verissimam@hotmail.com
Swarthmore College
I am embarking on a project on the conversion of Iranian Jews to Bahá’í.
I am particularly interested in when/how/why specific individuals and fami-
lies decided to convert.  I would be grateful if you could guide me to sources,
written and/or oral, that might be of help in this investigation.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
much more from reading these Tablets.  Answers to questions I had not read
anywhere else, just like in every other book of Bahá’í Writings.  So much is
not published!  So much that is published is so vastly under read.  So many
solutions and answers are already given but lost obscurity.  If we do not know
the teachings, how can we found a civilization built upon them?  I leave you
with this quote, something in the BC, written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to
an individual by Rúhíyyih Khánum, dated July 5, 1947:
“It is very easy indeed for him to understand how you, with your training
[a psychologist], are often tested and irritated by your contact with some
of the believers.  But then you must remember that your advantages of a
reasonable mind and a scientific education, have not been given to all, and
you cannot expect acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh’s Teachings to endow people
with these things automatically.  But think of the kind of human beings, if
brought up in the society He envisages, and taught in the homes, schools
and universities which were the mirror and product of His teachings, which
would be produced!  There you would really have a new race of men.
“Shoghi Effendi has for years urged the Bahá’í (who have asked his
advise, and in general also), to study history, economics, sociology, etc. in
order to be au courant with all the progressive movements and thoughts
being put forth today, and so that they could correlate these to the Bahá’í
teachings.  What he wants the Bahá’ís to do is to study more, not to study
less.  The more general knowledge, scientific and otherwise, they pos-
sess, the better.  Likewise he is constantly urging them to really study the
Baha’i teachings more deeply.  One might liken Baha’u’llah’s teachings
to a sphere; there are points poles apart, and in between the thoughts and
doctrines that unite them.”
Marlene Mackie
mmacke@execulink.com
I am writing a biography of distinguished Canadian Bahá’í, Laura R. Davis,
who died in 1990.  I’m seeking stories and recollections about Laura.  If you
went to firesides in her home, or met her during any of her international trav-
elling teaching trips or otherwise knew her, please contact me at <mmacke@
execulink.com>.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
practical solutions to people of capacity and policy makers in this process of
globalisation and the establishment of world peace.
June Perkins
junep@aus.bahai.org.au
Undertook one year break from PhD, to work for National Office, as in-
digenous community development officer.  Returned to studies January 2000
(Due to complete in 2001).  During 1999- for the National Bahá’í Teaching
committee, and National Spiritual Assembly, researched issues in translation
for Indigenous languages in Australia, and undertook consultations with many
indigenous Bahá’ís on various issues to do with institutes, teaching etc. Also
put together a compilation of indigenous Bahá’í photographs from Austral-
ian Bahá’í archives 1960-2000 compiled with help of Wahidah Sijaya, David
Perkins, Neda Rahmani and archives left with Archives as ongoing develop-
ment as a resource.
Publications in 1999
“Surfing the News Waves, A Bahá’í Newsreel for the Pacific and Asia,” Aus-
tralian Bahá’í Studies, Vol 1: 1.  1999
“Heart to Heart”, “Pupil of the Eye”, “Indigenous Teaching kit” Documents/
compilations/Workshops and educational kits compiled for Indigenous
Desk to support pioneering, teaching, education, deepening- distributed
to Regional Teaching Committees. 1999.
Workshop- “Sharing stories” given at Brisbane Women’s Conference.  Partner-
ships in the New Millennium. Sept 1999.
As it is In Music insert: compiled 3 editions Australian Bahá’í Bulletin. Indig-
enous Desk, 1999. Editor. June Perkins.
Upcoming- October 2000, Australasian Drama Studies: Interview with Wesley
Enoch. (Utilises Seven Valleys in analysis)
Upcoming- Interview with Bob Maza, Herald of the South (2000)
A report on current interests and activities in Bahá’í scholarship.
Current thesis topic PhD: University of Sydney English dept/ Perform-
ance Studies:
Womb Weavers: indigenous women and cultural and spiritual transmission
in the new millennium. Interested in chatting with indigenous women, mothers,
daughters, granddaughters, about this issue. Study to involve 2 in depth case
studies as well.  email jper3046@mail.usyd.edu.au
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Fariborz Moshirian
fariborm@bahai.org.au
I am an associate editor of the Journal of Multinational Financial Man-
agement (JMFM), an internationally well-known finance journal published
by the Elsevier publisher in North Holland. This journal reaches 8500 aca-
demics, practitioners and all major international institutions such as the UN,
the IMF and the World Bank. In 1998, I was the editor of two issues of this
journal, which selected some articles for presentation at the 10th Australasian
Finance and Banking conference. I entitled this issue of the journal “ The
Asia-Pacific Financial Axis” and wrote an article explaining the concept of
the Asia-Pacific financial axis and the importance of regional institutions such
as an Asia-Pacific parliament, a regional court, a single Asian currency and
an Asian Central Bank.
In 1999, I called the issue that I was the editor of  “Challenges for Fur-
ther Global Financial Integration” in which I elaborated on the significance
of an international single currency and the importance of new international
institutions for a global society. I also alluded to the importance of a world
government. I have just completed the issue of this journal for the year 2000.
I entitled this issue “Financial Challenges for the New Millennium” in which
my introductory article goes into some detail as to how a world central bank,
responsible for an international single currency and one single interest rate,
could create macroeconomic stability, prosperity and certainty for long term
investment and for the development of all nations and people. Furthermore, I
elaborated on how a world federal government and its agencies and ministries
could facilitate the process of globalisation in which workers and employers’
rights, the global environment, human rights, universal health and education
etc could be protected and promoted and how all people could then see glo-
balisation as no threat to their jobs, environment or national sovereignty. I have
also elaborated on the significance of  “localisation” where, in the last 10 years
or so, in more than 80 countries local/regional governments have emerged and
how these local governments are playing a key role in the national economy
of these countries  (could Bahá’í regional councils be considered as a parallel
to this development?) and how a sound world federal government requires
effective local/regional and national governments and how the members of
international institutions such as a world government, a world parliament or a
world central bank could be more  relevant, respected and accepted if people
and institutions at the local and national levels participate in this process.
While these concepts are familiar to Bahá’ís, I think these three issues
of the JMFM and the practical steps suggested in them as to how a global
society could operate, gives us as Bahá’ís more opportunity to argue that
we are not only have the vision of a global society but are also able to offer

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Nozomu Sonda
oneworld@mve.biglobe.ne.jp
I have recently published an introductory book on the Bahá’í Faith in
Japanese, which was a revision of a previously published one.  It presents the
Bahá’í teachings in view of the philosophical and psychological framework of
the Japanese people and their culture.  The concept of God, image and attitudes
towards religion are quite different from those of the West; that is why a book
like this was needed.  I am also working on other related subjects: concept of
reincarnation and life after death in Japan; comparative studies of the Bahá’í
Faith and some prominent religious movements in Japan; prophecies for the
21st century and beyond; and an introductory book on comparative religions.
(For the reader’s reference, my background is as follows:  I studied Social-
Psychological and Cross-Cultural Psychology as well as English as a Second
Language.  Have taught English, Japanese and Cross-Cultural Studies includ-
ing at Maxwell International Bahá’í School.  Currently director of a language
school/translation business in Japan).
Peter Terry
peterry@megalink.net
In 1999 I did not complete any works, and spent an inordinate amount of
time on the Internet, writing literally thousands of messages related to Bahá’í
scholarship.  I wrote two papers, delivered at the 1999 ‘Irfan Colloquium at
Louhelen Bahá’í School:  “Chronological Issues in the Lawh-i-Hikmat” and
“‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh” which will
be published by the Colloquium in due course.  Also, I have participated on
h-bahai, bahai-st, tarjuman, bahai-apologetics and soc.religion.bahai during
1999, posting much material related to research interests of mine.
Will C. van den Hoonaard
will@unb.ca
University of New Brunswick
We worked on Bahá’í studies on several fronts this year—quite different
from the past years.  The matter of the Bahá’í Institute for Higher Studies in
Iran was brought to the attention of numerous university authorities and agen-
cies in Canada, involving university presidents and such governing councils as
university Senates.  Some 15 universities voiced their protests with UNESCO
and Iranian authorities and the Iranian Embassy in Ottawa.  Not less significant
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Also working on workshop series on indigenous religions of spiritual axis
region for Community Development course at Yerrinbool Centre of Learning.
Other interests include parenting, Bahá’í education for young children and
children in general, especially developing the partnership between institutions
and parents, and integrating children and families into the whole community.
Research on Fred Murray story started in 1995, being completed in 2000
and made available to Australian Bahá’í community in some form during 2000.
Brent Poirier
brent@bci.org
1.  	I am revising and extending for publication as a pamphlet my article “The
Flow of Divine Authority” on the Covenant of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and the au-
thority in the Sacred Texts for the Universal House of Justice to function
without the presence of a Guardian.
2.	 I have an abiding interest in the verses of the Bible interpreted by the
Bahá’í Writings, particularly the Kitab-i-Iqan.  Some are on my website
http://web.nmsu.edu/~bci which is soon being moved to http://www.bci.
org/pilgrim
3.  For some years I have been collecting materials related to the Master’s
visit to the Western United States and forwarding them to the Archives.
Recently a recording by Sachiro Fugita came to light, including his recol-
lections of travel with the Master in 1912 — the only audio recording I
am familiar with, recounting eyewitness accounts from a member of the
Master’s travelling party.  This is on the above website.
4.  I have an interest in the development of international law.
5.  I am interested in correlating the Bahá’í teachings on mysticism, with the
other aspects of the Faith, such as administration and teaching.
Sholeh Quinn
quinn@oak.cats.ohiou.edu
My book entitled Historical Writing during the Reign of Shah ‘Abbas is
due to be published by the University of Utah Press later this year.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Reports on Conferences held
in 1999
ABS Australia – 18th Annual Conference
‘The Creative Inspiration’: Arts and culture in the Bahá’í Faith.
Melbourne University 21st - 26th September 1999
The Association’s 18th Annual Conference on the Arts and Culture attracted
more than 50 presenters and performers, and approximately 150 participants.
The conference included workshops and seminars, a dinner, an exhibition, a
play, and a concert. Its aim was to provide an opportunity for those involved
in the arts in the Australian Bahá’í Community to meet each other and become
informed of each others’ work, and to bring the arts to the wider community, and
to foster discussion of critical issues facing Bahá’í’s in the arts at the present
time.  The first three days consisted of workshops in drama, the visual arts,
creative writing, dance, and music. Sessions were conducted by Jan Coker,
Maxien Bradley, Grant Hindin Miller, the Centre Theatre Company, Ruth
Park, Artworks Visual Arts Theatre, Greg Parker, Shirin Lagha’i, Kath Podger,
Michael Knopf, Ron Price, and Michael Phillips.
The Visual Arts Exhibition, held in the Gryphon Gallery in the University’s
splendid 1888 Building, was officially opened on the evening of 23rd September,
with a reception and music by the Melbourne choir, “Breezes of Harmony”.
Over the next three days the work of twenty artists attracted hundreds of visitors.
The exhibition include work by Jannu, Karel Fontaine, Steve & Angela Clark,
Vahid Payman, Ruth Park, Chris Reid, Kath Podger, Diane Arjomand, Katayoun
Mottahedin, Claus Barabbas Mayrhofer, Anne Williams, Yvonne Chapman,
Terry Eichler, Lorni Hyland, Sonja Van Kerhofff, Ebrahim Malekzadeh, Haifa
Mehdizadeh, Mehrzad Mumtahan, and Carolynn Newport.
From Friday to Sunday participants chose between some forty sessions,
almost all focused on the arts.  These included performances and seminars on
poetry (Ron Price - “The Passionate Artist”; Belinda Belton - “Bahá’í Poetry:
the Power of the Word”, Narelle Kinneally Tolstoff - “Spiritual Symphonies”),
Literature (Jamshid Fanaian; Camilla Fligelman “Is it nearly impossible for
a mere human being to write a good work of art with a religious theme?”;)
and Music (Michael Knopf); artists presentations about their own work (Kath
Podger; Sonya Van Kirkhoff, Jan Coker “Mnemonic”, Steve & Angela Clark
“Making a living whilst maintaining artistic integrity – The Artists Dilemma”;
Karel Fontaine “The Creative Impulse: Symbolism and Seeing”, Robin Chan-
dler: This Artist’s Life: A presentation of 25 years of life and work as artist,
Report on Scholarship for 1999
was the interests taken by the Canadian Association of University Teachers.
It published in their national news organ for two successive months accounts
in English and French about the closing of BIHE, in addition to a letter of
thanks from the Office of External Affairs of the NSA of Canada.  Over 27,000
university faculty were thus directly informed of the Faith.
On a more personal level, we are happy to report that Lynn Echevarria has
successfully defended her Ph.D thesis at Essex University which deals with
religious identity among Canadian Bahá’í women.  Lynn is now the Secretary
of the ABS-North America.  Deborah van den Hoonaard, a professor of sociol-
ogy and gerontology at St.Thomas University in Fredericton, New Brunswick,
has completed her new book, The Widowed Self: The Older Woman’s Journey
Through Widowhood (Wilfrid Laurier University Press, Fall 2000), which
promises to be a significant contribution to her field.  She and her husband,
Will, have also completed an empirical study of how Canadian Bahá’ís are
doing in promoting the equality of women and men.  Wilfrid Laurier Univer-
sity Press and the Canadian Society for the Study of Religion are currently
reviewing the ms for publication.  The couple organized in May 1999 the 16th
Annual Qualitative Analysis Conference in Fredericton, New Brunswick, which
brought together a number of Bahá’í scholars within the context of qualita-
tive research being presented by 120 other scholars.  The van den Hoonaards
are organizing the 17th Conference, 18-21 May 2000.  Will continues to be a
member of the international Bahá’í Encyclopedia Project  (of which he has
been a member since 1984).
Robert Weinberg
weinberg@dircon.co.uk
My major area of interest at the moment is the life of Sara Louisa, Lady
Blomfield. I am preparing a full-length biography for George Ronald Publish-
ers. I am also involved in plans to restore Lady Blomfield’s resting-place and
to befittingly commemorate her services to humanity.  I have an ongoing book
project looking at how nature is used as a metaphor in the writings of the world
religions for spiritual growth and how this metaphorical use of the natural world
represents an area where the unity of religion can be demonstrated.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
ABS Australia Scholarship Institute
ABS Australia’s third scholarship institute was held at Yerrinbool 2-4 April
1999.  After getting to know each other a little better on the Friday evening,
and discussing the aims of the institute, the program commenced the next
morning. The institute program is based on discussion of current research
interests.  Participants are not required to present “finished research”, but are
invited to speak about what they are interested in, and how they are undertak-
ing the research.  Thus the institute focuses on the creative process, rather than
on the creative output.
In the first session ABS Australia presented the “Report on Scholarship” for
1998. This report on scholarship activities in Australia and elsewhere provided
a basis for discussion on the nature and purpose of Bahá’í Scholarship, what
is currently being undertaken, and what projects might usefully be undertaken
in the future.  Presentations were then made by Vahid Payman “Aboriginal
religion and the Bahá’í Faith”; Nastaran Habibi “Food Safety”; Kaye Water-
man “Report on research projects”; and Nushin Burwell “The operation of the
International Goals Committee”.  The afternoon continued the presentation of
individual projects. Roger Le Lievre spoke on “Iranian Bahá’ís and Austral-
ian refugee policy”; followed by Ahmad Aniss’s Report on Current Projects;
Ladan Rahmani on “International Law and Human Rights”, and Glen Duncan
on “Knowledge Management”.  On Saturday evening the participants viewed
rare film of the Yerrinbool School and of the Hands of the Cause in Haifa,
taken in the 1950s by Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone, introduced by
Mrs Madge Featherstone.
The Sunday session commenced with group discussion of a paper by
Jef Clark about “learning community”, published in the Association’s new
journal, Australian Bahá’í Studies.   This was followed by presentations by
Graham Waterman, on his current research projects; Cath Holt “Research-
ing the Christian-Bahá’í Nexus”, and Babak Mohajerin, who also reported
on Current Projects.  The final session of the institute included reports on
individual projects, as well as discussion of a course on Bahá’í Scholarship
being developed for ABS by Colin Dibdin.  Being the final session, it also
includes an opportunity assess the results of the weekend.  Presentations were
made by Erin O’Connor, on “The Earth Charter”, and by Natalie Mobini, on
Current Projects.
The success of the institute demonstrated the depth of scholarly activity
currently taking place within the Australian Bahá’í Community, and encour-
aged ABS to continue with this format for dialogue amongst those who are
interested in it.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
administrator, sociologist, and CEO as one model of integrate the life of art
into spiritual service & teaching”, Monir Rowshan “Inspiration/ Visualisation
of Dreams”)  and thoughts on the artistic process (Phillip Hinton “The Search
for the Beloved: The Artist as Spiritual Voyager”, Ben Hinton “An explora-
tion of the diverse concepts of creativity, imagination, and inspiration”; Negin
Sanaei “Creativity and Spirituality - are they related?”; Simon Hinton “Will
Celine Dion Eat the World? - Globalisation and The Cultural Marketplace”).
There were also papers on the position of the arts in the Bahá’í Community
(Mahyar Amjadi “Arts Can Move the Youth”; Bahá’í Institute of Performing
Arts “Performance: A Sacred Act”, Simon Hinton  “Artists, Institutions and
Money - An Unholy Trinity? - Arts Funding and Infrastructure Support in
the Bahá’í Community”; Robin Chandler “Building Creative Communities:
approaching the arts as social & economic development through professional-
izing, training, and networking internationally.
There were also presentations on other subjects (Sepehr Manuchehri, “The
Practice of Taqiyah (self-denial) in the Bábí & Bahá’í Religions” and Graham
Hassall “Current issues in Bahá’í Scholarship”). Neda Rahmani presented
“The Asia Pacific Newsreel”, and there was a display by fashion designer
Afsoon Missaghi.
Lunch times were given over to the launching of publications (Michael
Knopf “The Paramount Project - New Bahá’í Devotional Songs for Com-
munity Singing”) and a website (the Victorian Bahá’í Community Website
official Launch), and a demonstration of wood carving by South Australian
artist Chris Reid.
On the evening of Friday 24th September the Association presented an
evening of performance at Performance - Melba Hall. Those present were
privileged to experience a three hour program featuring Amir Farid, Artworks,
John Grey, Greg Parker, Alice Chew, Jamshid Hatami, Behzad and Anis
Khoshmashrab,  Vafa Ferdowsian, Michael Knopf, Grant Hindin Miller, Ruth
Rowshan and Bernardo Soler (Nougat).  Special thanks to Erfan Khadem for
assistance at the concert, and to Master of Ceremonies Omid Master.
The Conference Dinner attracted more than 100 guests, who enjoyed an
outstanding premier of jazz classics performed by Kylie Richardson and Grant
Hindin Miller’s personal journey into the creative life. In the closing session
of the conference, Phillip Hinton performed his one-man play “Portals to
Freedom” at RMIT’s Kaleide Theatre.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
ABS North America – 23rd Annual
Conference
The 23rd Annual Conference of the Association took place in Tempe, Ari-
zona, June 17-20 1999.  The Conference theme was “Sacred Justice: Uniting
the Human Family.”  Plenary speakers included experts in the field of American
Indian contributions to law and justice. The Hasan M. Balyuzi was given by
Dr. Richard W. Thomas, who spoke on “The State of Race Relations in the
American Bahá’í Community: Challenges, Progress and Future Directions”.
The first Louis G. Gregory Symposium on Law and Justice was deeply ap-
preciated by the participants who focused on the role of culture in law, and
issues leading to a united family. Music and arts were integrated throughout the
program and outstanding presentations were given by American Indian artists
and Canadian First Nations storytellers and performers.  A unique feature of this
conference was the Town Meeting held to discuss “Alternatives to Violence in
the Schools. A panel of prominent community leaders, made up of primarily
non-Bahá’ís, discussed this topic with the participation from an audience of
400 people, half non-Bahá’ís.  The press from CNN, CBS, a local Hispanic
TV station, and the daily Arizona newspaper covered the event.
Science and Religion at Tempe
1999 Annual Meeting of the Science and Religion Special
Interest Group (SIG) of the Association for Bahá’í Studies - North
America (ABS-NA)
ABS-NA Science and Religion SIG members and their guests enjoyed
animated discussions on evolution, the relationship between science and
religion, and the difficulties facing Bahá’í college students at their annual
meeting on June 17 in Tempe, Arizona.  Held the day before the Association
for Bahá’í Studies 1999 Annual Conference, the meeting attracted a diverse
audience in excess of 30 people. The morning session, cool and welcoming
in a room away from the Arizona heat, focused on the relationship between
science and religion.  Science and religion are different approaches to the
same reality, according to the Bahá’í writings.  Given this, how then are they
related?  The writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the prophet/founder of the Bahá’í Faith,
say that nature and the creation educate us about God.  “Every created thing,”
Bahá’u’lláh wrote, “is a sign of the revelation of God.”  The implication of this
is that scientific knowledge leads to the knowledge of God, argued Stephen R.
Friberg, a physicist working in Japan.  Science has other lessons for religion,
contended Safa Sadeghpour, a student of medicine and neuroscience at Harvard
Report on Scholarship for 1999
ABS-Japan - Eighth Conference
Towards True Peace and Harmony: The Eighth ABS-Japan
Conference, January 14-16, 2000
Venue: Kyoto
Site chair: Mary Noguchi
Conference Report by Janet Sono
With presenters and presentations from Australia, Papua New Guinea, Okinawa
and Japan on the theme of “Japan and the Development of True Peace” to light
the way, the Asia-Pacific Spiritual Axis momentarily turned ablaze at the 8th
Annual ABS-Japan Conference held in the ancient Japanese capital of Kyoto
from January 14th -16th, 2000. After prayers in both Japanese and English, bi-
lingual Site Chair Mary Noguchi opened the Conference, followed by a World
Citizenship Workshop organized by Jerris Strain. Presentations on the conference
theme included “The Bahá’í View of Japan’s Role in the World Peace Process”
(by Counselor N. Iwakura), “How the Bahá’í Community Can Assist Japan in
Peace Initiatives” (NSA Secretary K. Schwerin), “Unique Contributions of the
Asia-Pacific Region in Achieving a Lasting Peace” (Australian NSA member
G. Hassall), a panel discussion by three Japanese Bahá’í mothers on “Educating
Bahá’í Youth in a Non-Bahá’í World”, and “English Education and World Peace”
(by K. Arai). On Saturday evening, there was also a panel discussion open to the
public on “Japan and the Development of True Peace”, with non-Bahá’í guest
Ritsumeikan University Professor A. Fujioka, who is Director of the of the World
Peace Development Center in Kyoto, Dr. G. Hassall, Auxiliary Board Member
Z. Moghbel, and ABS-Japan Chair H. Tsunoi serving as moderator. Afterward,
a group of four women from Japan and Iran, dressed in exquisite traditional gar-
ments, played the koto (a Japanese stringed instrument that somewhat resembles
the harp).  Attendees also enjoyed presentations on human rights education (by
NSA Member J. Goldstone), aspects of the Bahá’í community in Japan (N.
Sonda and K. Suda), Bahá’í perspectives on psychosocial health and healing (D.
Trautmann), and how the indigenous people of New Ireland, Papua New Guinea
have embraced the Faith and made it part of their culture (C. Volker).  The Con-
ference took place in full view of a lovely mountain that houses a famous Zen
temple, making those in attendance feel that we were on sacred and holy ground.
Especially during the koto concert on Saturday evening, it seemed as if angels
had come down from the Concourse on High to bless the conference with their
heavenly music, encouraging the participants to strive gently but firmly for true
peace and harmony in the world.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
component of the process of developing a mature and intellectually compelling
understanding of the Bahá’í teachings about science and religion.
To contact the Science and Religion Special Interest Group (SIG) of the
Association for Bahá’í Studies - North America (ABS-NA) for membership
or to inquire about its activities, please e-mail Ron Somerby at <somerby@
ns.net>, Stephen R. Friberg at <srfriberg@worldnet.att.net>, or visit the ABS-
NA website at http://bahai-studies.ca/srsig/index.html
ABS Singapore 4th Annual Conference
The 4th Annual Conference of the Singapore Association for Bahá’í Studies
was held on 17th April 1999 in the setting of the Lounge/Seminar room of the
Faculty of Arts and Social Science in the National University of Singapore
(NUS). Copies of the 3rd Singapore Bahá’í studies Review, as well as ABS
journals produced by the UK, Japan and Australia were displayed and sold.
The conference was attended by a total of 27 people. The five speakers
delivered talks related to the main topic of the Conference: “Challenges for
the New Millennium”.  Dr Habibul Khonder, a lecturer in the department of
sociology at the NUS, spoke on the need to find common ground between
various religious and secular groups in Bangladesh. Dr Phyllis Chew spoke
on the role of religion in the rise of the women’s movement in Singapore. Dr
Anjam Khursheed described modern trends towards religious pluralism and
interfaith activity. Dr Suresh Sahadevan described the limitations of moral
relativism  and science with respect to moral values. Mr Kwek Yi Hsing
presented various models of moral education, stressing the need to recognise
spiritual dimensions to human nature.
All the talks aroused interest and questions among the participants in rela-
tion to Bahá’í views on many current issues. One inquirer sent a thank you
card to the conference organizers, declaring that the conference had inspired
him to attend “the activities of Bahá’í at all times”.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
and MIT.  Science requires faith.  Without faith in the explicability of nature
and the belief that phenomena obey fixed and discoverable laws, science
cannot move forward.  The implications of modern irreligious culture for
Bahá’í students was addressed by Kelly Snook, a recent Stanford University
Ph.D. in planetary sciences at NASA Ames Research Center.  Confronted in
universities with secular understandings that enshrine science and denigrate
religion, Bahá’í youth sometimes have a hard time sheltering their maturing
beliefs.  Bahá’ís knowledgeable about the sciences should offer a helping
hand, she argued.
The afternoon session focused on evolution, a topic figuring prominently
in the Bahá’í writings on science and religion.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the renowned
son of Bahá’u’lláh, commented frequently on evolution in his speeches in the
salons and churches of Paris and London in the first decades of the century
and in his visits to North America.  An overview of his comments was given
by Courosh Mehanian, a physicist working in the San Francisco Bay area.
We came into existence by evolutionary processes occurring over great spans
of time, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Although we have passed though the
animal kingdom in the process of evolution, our powerful mind – the “rational
soul” - sets us apart from the animals.  We have moral, ethical, and spiritual
responsibilities.  Current perspectives on biological evolution were described
by Ron Somerby, an evolutionary biologist/taxonomist with the state of Cali-
fornia.  He described how the oneness of life can be seen in the shared genes
and development pathways of life’s diverse organisms.  Molecular genetics
now allows detailed decoding of genes, developmental biology has shown how
genes interact and embryos develop, and studies of bacteria have revealed a
wealth of new information about simple cells.
The closing talk of the conference revisited the issue of the relationship
between science and religion.  Renowned scientist/writer Stephen Jay Gould in
a widely read new book has written of science and religion as “non-overlapping
magisteria” with separate spheres of authority.  Mark Foster, a sociologist now
teaching in Kansas, suggested that we seek further for better understandings
of the relationship between these two most important institutions.  Describing
`Abdu’l-Bahá’s comments on evolution and ether as requiring further thought,
he urged us to discard simplistic interpretations.  Questions, responses, and
discussions responding to his comments continued for an hour.
A final comment: although Bahá’ís have long known that science and
religion are compatible, it is only recently that the chill between the two has
begun to ease in the world of intellectual opinion.  This presents both oppor-
tunities and a challenge.  The opportunities arise because of a new climate
of openness to a centrally important aspect of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.  The
challenge is to present those teachings well and to be able to present them in a
manner befitting the needs of a sophisticated and critical scientific community.
Meetings like the Science and Religion SIG meeting in Tempe are an important

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
catalogue on 10th October 1999 yielded 682 references to Bahá’í.  Redo the
UNESCO search – 25 references at UNESDOC.  Only one reference was
found in a search of the 6,800 theses/dissertations and conference papers in
the Theological Research Exchange Network.5  A Database named Emerald
comprises full text access to approximately forty titles in marketing, general
management, human resources, quality, property, operations, production &
economics, library & information services, information management, training
& education and engineering.
A subscription called FirstSearch grants access to a large number of data-
bases.6  The firstsearch database called “Papers first” includes “Papers included
in every congress, conference, exposition, workshop, symposium, and meeting
received at The British Library.”
The netfirst database consists of  “Bibliographic citations including ab-
stracts, subject headings, and classification codes.”  It includes a variety of
Internet accessible resources including World Wide Web pages and Listservs,
and will soon also encompass Usenet newsgroups, FTP sites, Gopher servers,
and electronic publications in other formats.  A search in March yielded 212
records for “Bahá’í”.
Services such as “-eLibrary” will track subjects and notify the researcher
of new publications.7

(footnote 4, cont.) ProQuest Computing (computing journals); ProQuest Medical Library (more than
100 key medical titles); ProQuest Telecommunications (full-text for publications in the telecommuni-
cations industry); and  Social Science Plus (addiction studies, gerontology, econometrics,  international
relations, minority studies, urban studies, etc).
5.
http://www.tren.com/search/. The reference found is Beckwith, Francis J., Baha’ism: A Presentation And
Critique Of Its Theological Tenets And Apologetic Use Of The Christian Scriptures, Simon Greenleaf
School Of Law, M.A. 1984, 126 pages.
6.
FirstSearch has “General Databases” and Specialist Databases. There are six “General Databases”: World-
Cat (Books and other materials in libraries worldwide); Article1st (Index of articles from nearly 12,500
journals); Contents1st (Table of contents of nearly 12,500 journals); FastDoc (Index of articles with text
online or by email); NetFirst (OCLC database of Internet resources) and UnionLists (OCLC Union Lists
of Periodicals).

The Specialized Databases searched for this report on scholarship were AHSearch (Arts & Humanities
Search. A citation index); BiographyInd (Guide to wide range of biographical material); BookRevDigst
(Reviews of fiction and nonfiction books); BooksInPrint (R. R. Bowker’s Books In Print); ContmpWom-
enIss (Contemporary Women’s Issues with full text); DataTimes (An index of regional newspapers); Diss
(Dissertation Abstracts Online); EducationAbs (Leading publications in the field of education); FactSearch
(Facts and statistics on topics of current interest); GPO (U.S. government publications); IndxLegalPer
(Index to Legal Periodicals & Books);  LibraryLit (Materials on libraries and librarianship); NewsAbs
(Newspaper Abstracts From over 25 newspapers); NYT (The New York Times daily and Sunday editions);
PapersFirst (An index of papers presented at conferences);  PerAbs (Periodical Abstracts with full text);
PerContentsIndx (Periodicals Contents Index - 1961-1991); Proceedings An index of conference publica-
tions; ReadGuideAbs (Abstracts of articles from popular magazines); SIRSResearcher (SIRS Researcher
with full text online); WilsonSelect (H.W. Wilson Select Full Text); WorldAlmanac; and  World Book
Encyclopedia.
7.
<www.tracker.elibrary.com> According to the website, eLibrary Tracker “is a unique service that searches
our Electric Library database each day for any topic you want and e-mails you the latest headlines auto-
matically. eLibrary Tracker searches through Electric Library’s extensive database of popular newspapers,
magazines, reference books, pictures, maps, and radio and TV transcripts. We add new content every day
so you’ll always get the most current information. …Registration is Free... Simply tell us which topics
you’d like us to keep track of, how often you’d like to receive the information, and give us your e-mail
address. We do the rest...”
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Bibliography of publications
in Bábí and Bahá’í Studies,
1998-1999
An ever-increasing body of literature on the Bahá’í Faith is being produced
by Bahá’í publishers, and such other bodies as Associations for Bahá’í Stud-
ies.  A list of current Bahá’í Publishers can be found in editions of The Bahá’í
World.  Systematic posting of essays on the world wide web is also widely
regarded as “publication”.  Significant references to the Faith appear in the
literature of religious studies and the social sciences generally, as well as in
current affairs literature.  The following is a partial listing of recent literature
that either refers to, or focuses on, the Bahá’í Faith.  It is compiled through
searches in bibliographic reference available on cd-rom and on the internet.
A.  A remark on Reference services
The rapid emergence of electronic information services is revolutionising
access to information on the Bahá’í Faith.  Electronic sources range from web-
sites that are freely accessible, to databases available only by subscription (eg
Lexis), to discussion groups that allow researchers to communicate back and
forth.  By combining these sources the researcher may learn not only of such
traditional sources of scholarly information as books and academic papers,
but of such other sources as news services and newspaper articles.  Judicial
and other official records such as those of the United Nations Organization
are also becoming available, as are book lists supplied by book-sellers.  A
search at the on-line bookstore “Amazon.com”, for example, found 264 ref-
erences to “Bahá’í” in March 1999 and 304 references in October 1999.  A
CD ROM from Newsbank called REDEX has an “Index to UN Documents”
which when searched in March 1999 yielded 209 references to “Bahá’í”. A
search in the EBSCO database, in the “World Magazine Bank” file, yielded
107 references.
The vast quantity of data that is searchable on some subscription databases
is breathtaking. UMI, for instance, includes eight sub-databases, each of which
includes a constellation of information.4  A search in the Library of Congress
4.
The eight databases are ABI/INFORM Global, a business and management database covering advertising,
marketing, economics, human resources, finance, taxation, computers, etc; Applied Science & Tech Plus
(Wilson’s authoritative Applied Science & Technology indexing combined with UMI full-text and images
for the leading periodicals in science and technology. Subject coverage includes computers, engineering,
physics, telecommunications and transportation); Health Module (covering medical conditions, substance
abuse, insurance, health policy, etc); Education Plus (H.W. Wilson’s Education Abstracts database and
UMI full-text images covering adult education, homeschooling, language and linguistics, special education,
etc);  — (footnote continues next page)

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
collection. India - A collection of pamphlets published during 1987-1998.
Contents list arranged alphabetically by title; index by publisher. Additional
materials with other dates of publication may be found in this collection.
Collected and organized by the Library of Congress Office, New Delhi.
Master microform held by: DLC.
Bartos, Ethan R., Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the dawning place of the mention of
God: a Bahá’í house of worship,1999, 99 p., [25] p.
Bikman, D. (1999). Unity in Action: Models of Bahá’í Community Life. The
Bahá’í World 1997-1998. Haifa, World Centre Publications.
Cepeda, Rafael, et al, Religion in Cuba. Non-Christian publications and general
publications (1961-1999) 90 items : p., ill. Spanish. Microfilm. Princeton,
N.J. Princeton University Library, 1999.  microfilm reel ; 35 mm.
Mobini-Keksheh, N. (1999). “Bahá’í Faith - Religion without a clergy.” The
Australian Funeral Director (June): 16.
Mottahedeh Development Services (1999). Developing Patterns of Community
Life: A Guide to Consultation: The Process of Social and Economic Develop-
ment for Bahá’í Communities. Atlanta, Mottahedeh Development Services.
Pikman, D. (1999). Unity in Action: Models of Bahá’í Community Life. The
Bahá’í World 1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record.
Haifa, World Centre Publications: 203-216.
Rhodenbaugh, Molly Marie, The Ngöbe Bahá’ís of Panama, 1999. (M.A.),
Texas Tech University, 1999.
Richards, E. G., Mapping time: the calendar and its history, New York: Oxford
University Press, 1999, 1998.chap 18. Islamic and Bahá’í calendars.
Rosser, Leanna Kristina, Globalization and revitalization in the Belizean Bahá’í
community, 1999. 68 leaves; p., 28 cm., Honors paper Macalester College;
Dept. of Anthropology.
Samimi, Catherine, Firesides, Oxford: George Ronald, 1999.
Thomas, June Manning, Planning progress: lessons from Shoghi Effendi, Ot-
tawa, Canada: Bahá’í Studies Publications, 1999.
Warburg, M. (1999). “Bahá’í: A religious approach to globalization.” Social
Compass 46(1): 47-56.
Bahá’í Studies
(1999). A Dialogue on Spirituality and Development. The Bahá’í World 1997-
1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record. Haifa, World Centre
Publications: 61-70.
Bahá’í International Community (1999). “Who is Writing the Future? Reflec-
tions on the Twentieth Century.” (February).
Cole, Juan R. 1., Modernity and the Millennium: the genesis of the Bahá’í
Faith in the nineteenth-century Middle East: New York: Columbia Uni-
versity Press.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
These are just a few of the extensive resources now available to the
researcher.  In time, a systematic project to monitor such open source
information will provide the field of Bahá’í studies with unprecedented access
to scholarly information pertinent to the progress of all aspects of Bahá’í
studies.
B: A Partial Bibliography
General and Reference
(1999). The Bahá’í World 1997-1998. Haifa, World Centre Publications.
(1999). The Bahá’í World  Vol XX 1986-1992. Haifa, Bahá’í World Centre.
(1999). The Year in Review. The Bahá’í World 1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í
Era: An International Record. Haifa, World Centre Publications: 89-153.
Appiah, K. A. and H. L. G. Jr., Eds. (1999). The Dictionary of Global Culture.
New York, Vintage.
Smart, Ninian, Atlas of the World’s Religions, Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1999.
Smith, Peter, The Bahá’í Faith: a short history, Oxford: Oneworld, 1999.
Apologetics
Matthews, G. L. (1999). The Challenge of Bahá’u’lláh. Oxford, George
Ronald.
Rutstein, N. (1999). To Serve Humanity: Teaching Our Faith. Wilmette, Bahá’í
Publishing Trust.
Arts
“Orison.” Orison VII:  Beauty and the Sublime  (1999).
Sabri, S. (1999). “Crystallizations: 20 Works by Bahá’í Artists edited by Ross
Woodman - review.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(1): 71-73.
Bahá’í Community and Institutions
(1999). Mount Carmel Projects: Progress 1997-1998. The Bahá’í World 1997-
1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record. Haifa, World Centre
Publications: 79-88.
Arbob, F. (1999). The Bahá’í International Community: Activities 1997-98.
Knowledge and Civilization: Implications for the Community and the
Individual. Haifa, World Centre Publications: 157-178.
(1999). The Bahá’í International Community: Activities 1997-98. The Bahá’í
World 1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record. Haifa,
World Centre Publications: 3-18.
Bahá’í and Bahaism in South Asia, Part 2, New Delhi: Library of Congress
Office; Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress Photoduplication Service,
1999.  39 microfiches. English, Hindi, and Urdu. South Asia ephemera

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and IPRA.
Chryssides, George D., Exploring New Religions, London & New York: Cas-
sell, 1999.
Hick, John, The Fifth Dimension: An Exploration of the Spiritual Realm,
Oxford: Oneworld, 1999.
Kursheed, A. (1999). “Selected Talks and Statements on Interfaith Issues by
Religious Leaders and Scholars.” Singapore Bahá’í Studies Review 4(1):
191-271.
Kursheeed, A. (1999). “Crossing Religious Boundaries: Interfaith Challenges
for the Future.” Singapore Bahá’í Studies Review 4(1): 105-189.
Momen, M. (1999). The Phenomenon of Religion: A Thematic Approach.
Oxford, Oneworld.
Reviews: Sandra Collins, Library Journal; New York; Aug 1999; 124:13, p.
101.
Matlins, Stuart M. & Magida, Arthur J., How to be a perfect stranger. Vol. 2: a
guide to etiquette in other people’s religious ceremonies, Woodstock, Vt.:
Skylight Paths Pub., 1999.
McLennan, Scotty, Finding Your Religion: When the Faith You Grew Up
with Has Lost Its Meaning 1999 Cahners Publishing Company Harper
San Francisco.
Tweed, T. A. and S. Prothero, Eds. (1999). Asian Religions in America: A
Documentary History. Oxford and New York, Oxford University Press.
Wilson, B. and J. Cresswell, Eds. (1999). New Religious Movements: Chal-
lenge and Responses. London & New York, Routledge.
Economy and prosperity
Bahá’í International Community (1999). Valuing Spirituality in Development:
Initial Considerations Regarding the Creation of Spiritually Based Indica-
tors for Development. The Bahá’í World 1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era:
An International Record. Haifa, World Centre Publications: 233-260.
Henck, D. (1999). Business and Ethics: making the right choices. Mona Vale,
Bahá’í Publications Australia.
Huddleston, J. (1999). Standing Up for Humanity: Thoughts on the World
Economy, the Politics of World Peace, and the Role of Religion. New Delhi,
Bahá’í Publishing Trust.
Noyce, J. (1999). Religion and Development. A Bibliography on Buddhist,
Christian, Confucian, Hindu, Islamic, Jain, Jewish, Sikh, Tao, Zoroastrian
and Bahá’í views and perspectives on Development, Economics, finance
and trade, Environment, Science and Technology. Melbourne, Noyce
Publishing.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Reviews:  MacEoin, D. (1999). “New prophet, new law.” Times Literary Sup-
plement (5016): 30, 1999 May 21; Pucelik, T M, Choice, 3:5, January 1999;
Metcalf, B., Journal of Interdisciplinary History 30(3): 566-568.
Khan, P. J. (1999). “Some Aspects of Bahá’í Scholarship.” Journal of Bahá’í
Studies 9(4): 43-64.
Maneck, Susan Stiles (1999) “Revisioning the Sacred (review)”, Journal of
Bahá’í Studies 9(2), 791-991-90.
Who is writing the future? reflections on the twentieth century.  London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1999.
Biography
Asdaq, R. (1999). One Life, One Memory In the Presence of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Haifa, January 1914. Oxford, George Ronald.
Chan, F. (1999). Freedom to Soar. Hervey Bay, Langford Publications. (in-
cludes chapters on Australian Bahá’í Margo Bates).
Fitzpatrick-Moore, Bonnie, My African heart, Johannesburg: Bahá’í Pub.
Trust, 1999.
Gilstrap, D. F. (1999). From Copper to Gold: The Life of Dorothy Baker.
Wilmette, Bahá’í Publishing Trust.
Khadem, R. (1999). Shoghi Effendi in Oxford. Oxford, George Ronald.
Matchett, Patricia, Down memory lane, Bangor, Co. Down, 1999.
Morrison, G. (1999). “A New Creation: The Power of the Covenant in the Life
of Louis Gregory.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(4): 1-18.
Perkins, M. (1999). Servant of the Glory: The Life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Oxford,
George Ronald.
Shipton, A. (1999). Groovin’ High: The Life of Dizzy Gillespie, Oxford, Oxford
University Press.
Tamas, Sophie, Greater boldness: radical storytelling with Canadian Bahá’í
women, M.A., Carleton University, 1999.
Comparative Religion
Alagiah, R. (1999). “An Ethical Theory For International Accounting: World
Order And Uniform Accounting Standards Worldwide.” Critical Perspec-
tives on Accounting 1999 Conference.
Ankerberg, John, Encyclopedia of cults and new religions: Jehovah’s Wit-
nesses, Mormonism, mind sciences, Bahá’í, Zen, Unitarianism, Eugene,
Or.: Harvest House Publishers, 1999.
Beckwith, F. J. (1989). “Bahá’í-Christian Dialogue: Some Key Issues Con-
sidered.” Christian Research Journal Winter/Spring: 15.
Bouma, G. D. (1999). “From Hegemony to Pluralism: Managing Religious Di-
versity in Modernity.” Australian Religion Studies Review 12(2): 7-27.
Bushrui, S. (1999). “World Peace and Interreligious Understanding”, Peace
Education: Contexts and Values, J. Calleja and A. Perucca, United Nations

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
History
Alízád, Asadu’lláh, Years of silence: the Bahá’ís in the USSR, 1938-1946; the
memoirs of Asadu’lláh ‘Alízád, Oxford: George Ronald, 1999.
Chew, P. G. L. (1999). The Singapore Council of Women and the Women’s
Movement. Singapore, Association of Women for Action and Research.
Chew, P. G.-L. (1999). “The Bahá’í Faith and the Singapore Women’s Move-
ment: Challenges for the new Millennium.” Singapore Bahá’í Studies
Review 4(1): 3-32.
Garlington, W. (1999). “The Development of the Bahá’í Faith in Malwa: 1941-
1974.” Occasional Papers in Shaykhi, Bábí and Bahá’í Studies 3(1).
Kashani-Sabet, Firoozeh, Frontier Fictions: Shaping the Iranian Nation, 1804-
1946, Princeton University Press, 1999.
Keddie, Nikki R., Qájár Iran and The Rise of Reza Khan 1796-1925, Costa
Mesa, Cal: Mazda Publishers, 1999.
Lacroix-Hopson, Eliane, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in New York: The City of the Covenant,
New York: New Vistade Sign, 1999.
Lerche, Charles (1999) “Statecraft, Globalization, and Ethics”, Journal of
Bahá’í Studies 9(2), 71-90.
Meyer, R. K. (1999). The Three Great Spiritual Crusades of Shoghi Effendi.
Mentions Awakening the Sleeping Giant - South America. Valparaiso,
Chile, Kath Meyer.
Human Rights
(1999). Fiftieth Anniversaries in Spain and Luxembourg. The Bahá’í World
1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record. Haifa, World
Centre Publications: 71-78.
(1999). Update: the situation of the Bahá’ís in Iran. The Bahá’í World 1997-
1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record. Haifa, World Centre
Publications: 19-60.
Abrahamian, Ervand, Tortured Confessions. Prisons and Public Recantations
in Modern Iran, Berkeley, Los Angeles, London: University of California
Press, 1999.
Bahá’í International Community (1999). Protection Of Minorities. The Bahá’í
World 1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record. Haifa,
World Centre Publications: 265-267.
(1999). “United States: International Religious Freedom Act of 1998.” Inter-
national Legal Materials 38(1).
(1998). “Symposium: Shifting Grounds For Asylum: Female Genital Surgery
And Sexual Orientation.” Columbia Human Rights Law Review 29(467).
1999/C 320/172 Persecution of the Bahá’í Faith in Iran Official journal of
the European Communities. Information and notices. 42, no. 320, (1999):
1999/C 118/177: E-2792/98 by Viviane Reding to the Council - Subject: Per-
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Education
(1999). Profile: The New Era Development Institute, India. The Bahá’í World
1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record. Haifa, World
Centre Publications: 217-222.
Arbab, F. (1999). Knowledge and Civilization: Implications for the Com-
munity and the Individual. The Bahá’í World 1997-1998. Haifa, World
Centre Publications.
Boyles, A. (1999). World Watch: Moral Education in a Global Society. The
Bahá’í World 1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record.
Haifa, World Centre Publications: 179-202.
Hsing, K. Y. (1999). “The Human Spirit in Moral Education.” Singapore Bahá’í
Studies Review 4(1): 55-68.
Sahadevan, S. (1999). “The Missing Moral Dimension.” Singapore Bahá’í
Studies Review 4(1): 33-54.
Family and gender
Bahá’í International Community (1999). “Women and Health Written state-
ment to the 43rd Session of the UN Commission on the Status of Women
Provisional Agenda Item 3c: Women and Health New York, USA1-19
March 1999.”
Bahá’í International Community (1999). Empowering the Girl Child. The
Bahá’í World 1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record.
Haifa, World Centre Publications: 261-264.
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States (1999). Two
Wings of a Bird: The Equality of Women and Men. The Bahá’í World
1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era: An International Record. Haifa, World
Centre Publications: 223-228.
Governance
Farhoumand, C. and C. Lerche (1999). The Bahá’í Vision of World Order.
World Order for a New Millennium: Political, Cultural and Spiritual Ap-
proaches to Building Peace. A. W. Dorn, Cornell University.
Farhoumand, C. (1999). “The Bahá’í vision of world order.” Peace Research
Abstracts 36(1).
Huddleston, John (1999) “Another Look at Achieving Peace by the Year 2000”,
Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(2), 47-69.
Kriss, G. (1999). Bahá’ís: In Search of World Commonwealth. New York
Times. Feb 14,
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of South Africa (1999). A Pathway
to Peace and Justice. The Bahá’í World 1997-1998. 154 of the Bahá’í Era:
An International Record. Haifa, World Centre Publications: 229-232.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Bahá’í Studies 9(4): 19-42.
Tovey, David Alan, Naghme-yeh eshgh: a composition with analysis and survey
of existing literature, 1999.

Psychology and Mental Health
Peterson, P. K. (1999). Assisting the Traumatized Soul: Healing the Wounded
Talisman. Wilmette, Bahá’í Publishing Trust.
Sociology and social theory
van den Hoonard, W. C. (1996). The Origins of the Bahá’í Community of Can-
ada, 1898-1948. Waterloo, Ontario, Wilfred Laurier University Press.
Reviews:  J. Graham Morgan, The Canadian Review of Sociology and Anthro-
pology, Feb 1999 v36 i1 p154(2); Warburg, M. (1999) Studies in Religion/
Sciences Religieuses 28(2): 232-233.
King (1999). Orientalism and Religion: Postcolonial Theory, India and the
“Mystic East”, Routledge.
Philosophy and Theology
Allen, Aseyeh, Introductions to the Bahá’í revelation Being a series of talks
given during the summer of 1919. Washington, D.C., 1920.  111 p. p., 19
cm. History of religions preservation project.  Microfilm. Chicago, Uni-
versity of Chicago Library, 1999. 1 microfilm reel ; 35 mm.
Boyles, A. (1999). “Unveiling the Hidden Words: The Norms Used by Shoghi
Effendi in His Translation of the Hidden Words by Diana Lorice Malouf.”
Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(3): 62-63.
Buck, Christopher, Paradise and Paradigm: key symbols in Persian Christi-
anity and the Bahá’í Faith, Albany, N.Y.: State University of New York
Press, 1999.
Fotos, S. S. (1999). “Strategies for Spiritualization.” Journal of Bahá’í Stud-
ies 9(1): 1-25.
Hatcher, W. S. (1999). “Love, Power, and Justice.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies
9(3): 1-24.
Hong, S. T. (1999). “The Language of the Heart: Parallels between Chinese
and Baha’i Approaches to the Spiritual Self.” Singapore Baha’i Studies
Review 4(1): 69-104.
McLean, J. A. (1999). Under the Divine Lote Tree: Essays and Reflections.
Oxford, George Ronald.
McGlinn, Sen, A Theology of the State from the Bahá’í Teachings, Journal of
Church and State, Fall 1999 v 41 n 4, 697.
Bader, C. (1999). “When prophecy passes unnoticed: new perspectives on failed
prophecy.” The Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion 38(1): 119.
McMullen, M. (1999). “Sacred Acts, Sacred Space, Sacred Time by John
Walbridge - Review.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(1): 65-68.
Report on Scholarship for 1999
secution of the Bahá’í community in Iran, Official journal of the European
Communities. Information and notices. 42, no. 118.
Carnes, T. (1999). “Religious Freedom Panel in Place”. Christianity Today.
43: 15-.
Cole, J. R. I. (1999). “The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
Bahá’í Scriptures.” Occasional Papers in Shaykhí, Bábí and Bahá’í Stud-
ies 3(2).
Ellis, W. (1999). “Religious Freedom Abroad.” World Order 30(4): 31-35.
Guela, C., M. S. Guella, et al. (1999). “Health Care in a Persecuted Community:
The Iranian Bahá’ís.” World Order 30(4): 39-48.
Smith, G. (1999). “Protecting the weak: Religious liberty in the twenty-first
century.” Brigham Young University Law Review (2): 479-502.
Spickard, James V. (1999) ‘Human Rights, Religious Conflict, and Globaliza-
tion. Ultimate Values in a New World Order’, MOST Journal on Cultural
Pluralism, 1:1, <http://www.unesco.org./most/vl1n1spi.htm>.
Stahnke, T. (1999). “Proselytism and the Freedom to change Religion in Inter-
national Human Rights Law.” Brigham Young University Law Review.
Steven, L. A. (1999). “Genocide and the Duty to Extradite or Prosecute: Why
The United States is in Breach of its International Obligations.” Virginia
Journal of International Law (Winter).
Stockman, R. (1999). “The American Defense of Iran’s Bahá’í Institute for
Higher Education.” World Order 30(4): 7-28.
Law and Justice
Davis, P. W. (1999). “Corporal punishment cessation: Social contexts and
parents’ experiences.” Journal of Interpersonal Violence 14(5): 492-510.
Gonzales, Stephen, (1999) “The Conflict Resolution Movement”, Journal of
Bahá’í Studies 9(2), 1-46.
Ricigliano, R., T. Johnson, et al. (1999). “Problems without a Process: Using
an Action Dialogue To Manage racial Tensions.” Harvard Negotiation Law
Review (Spring): 83-.
Tai, S. (1999). “Gurdip Singh, Environmental Law: International and National
Perspectives (1995).” Georgetown International Environmental Law Re-
view (Winter).
Language and Literature
Fitzgerald, M. (1999). “For the Lord of the Crimson Ark by Ian Kluge.” Journal
of Bahá’í Studies 9(4): 65-66.
Kluge, I. (1999). “Legacies of the Heart by Larry Rowdon.” Journal of Bahá’í
Studies 9(3): 64-68.
Meyjes, G. P. P. (1999). “Language and Universalization: A “Linguistic Ecol-
ogy” Reading of Bahá’í Writ.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(1): 51-63.
Perrakis, P. S. (1999). “Spiritual Oppression in Frankenstein.” Journal of

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
I don’t only link to other sites’ content - I have some of my own.  For
instance:
The Dawn-Breakers
http://www.bahaindex.com/DAWN/
A 700-page history of the early Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths, fully illustrated
and annotated, as well as searchable
Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era
http://www.bahaindex.com/NewEra/
A classic introduction to the Baha’i Faith by J.E. Esslemont.
Huqúqu’lláh converter:
http://www.bahaindex.com/huq.html
Allows one to calculate Huqúqu’lláh in one’s currency of choice.
There is, of course, much more to mention, but that can be discovered by
simply browsing through the site.
—Casper Voogt
webmaster
http://www.bahaindex.com/
cvoogt@bcca.org
Bahá’í Library
DEFINITIONS
*	 The Baha’i Academics Resource Library is an online archive of primary
and secondary sources and scholarly tools and resources.
*	 I, Jonah Winters, run it as an individual and self-proclaimed executive edi-
tor. I would prefer to run the Library as but one member of a collaborative
body, but thus far individuals sufficiently dedicated to the project have
not stepped forward to help form such a body. At any one time I have as-
sistance in formatting and proofreading documents from any half-dozen
volunteers.
*	 My material comes almost exclusively from submissions, usually from
authors (or, in the case of letters from the Universal House of Justice, from
recipients). Though I have permission to scan and post a large number of
other materials, simple time constraints prevent this.
REPORT OF ACTIVITIES AND GROWTH IN 1999:
I am pleased to report a productive year. First, I moved the Library from
its initial home at my old ISP to its own dedicated server, http://bahai-library.
org. This has provided the Library with a range of facilities, disk space, and
server reliability which has allowed for significant growth, both in terms of
content and mandate.
From its humble origins in early 1997 as a venue for personal academic
work — i.e., a typical grad student homepage — it has become the Internet’s
largest collection of Baha’i academic material and primary sources. In 1999
Report on Scholarship for 1999
Milani, K. and N. Fananapazir (1999). “A Study of the Pen Motif in the Bahá’í
Writings.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(1): 27-49.
Saiedi, N. (1999). “Concealment and Revelation in Bahá’u’lláh’s Book of the
River.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(3): 25-56.
Winters, J. (1999). “Symbol and Secret: Qur’an Commentary in Bahá’u’lláh’s
Kitab-i-Iqan by Christopher Buck.” Journal of Bahá’í Studies 9(3): 69-
75.
C: Internet Reports
Bahá’í Faith Index
http://www.bahaindex.com
The Bahá’í Faith Index can be defined as a Bahá’í internet portal, meaning
that it is a search engine, web page directory by category, discussion area, news
source, online bookstore, software resource, and chatroom all rolled into one.
Primarily it is a search engine, containing at any given moment roughly 3,000
links.  There is also a “random link” function.
A main aspect of the site is the discussion area, known as the “Bahá’í
Forum”.  This is open to the public, but there is always the possibility of set-
ting up usernames and group restrictions so that individual communities can
privately discuss matters.   The Bahá’í Faith Index is the Bahá’í equivalent
of Yahoo!  The site’s primary aim is to index all Baha’i links into a search
engine and directory.  This means that all 3,000 links or so are hand-edited,
and are not only put in the right categories in the search engine, but are put
in whatever other categories they may belong in the directory listings.  Every
month I send out a “Bahá’í Internet Update” about new links and resources.
This is an opt-in mailing list.  Additionally I maintain a “What’s New” page to
document new additions to my search engine. The Bahá’í Faith Index is also
the home page for the Baha’i Ring, a world-wide collection of Bahá’í web
pages linked together with common navigation buttons (part of the Webring
network at www.webring.com).
Ideally, one would be able to find information relevant to one’s search after
at most two or three clicks.
The Index is an Amazon Associate, meaning that one can search for Bahá’í
books at Amazon.com and buy them, giving the webmaster of the Baha’i Faith
Index a small commission on each sale (usually 2% or 3%).  Per year this adds
up to about $40, which is used to pay for the domain name “bahaindex.com”
and to make backups of the site on cd-rom.
The site also features a prominent section for languages other than English.
The internet is international, and therefore I want to provide an opportunity
to those whose native tongue is not English to read about the Baha’i Faith in
their own language.

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
the Baha’i Library. The Baha’i Academics Resource Library is not affiliated
with the International Baha’i Library, http://library.bahai.org.
To help proofread, format, or post material, or to contribute material, please
write to me at winters@bahai-library.org.
Sincerely,
Jonah Winters, executive editor
H-Bahai
In 1999, the H-Bahai subscribers discussed, among many other things,
the following: the Báb’s Surat al-Hamd; Bahá’u’lláh’s Ishráqát, Surah of the
Companions, Tablet of Maqsúd, Persian Tablet of the Holy Mariner, Tablet of
the Temple, and Tablet of the Vision; they also discussed arranged marriage,
Yale historian Abbas Amanat’s book on the Bábí movement, Resurrection
and Renewal; the biography of the BÁB’S wife, Khadijih Begam; issues in
religious fundamentalism; philosophical theology and the status of proofs
for the existence of God, as well as science and reason; the Buddha and non-
theism; the Indian Bahá’í community and issues in the Indian Census and
their relationship to Bhakti Hinduism; the meaning of intellect/wisdom and
the maturation of the world; the human rights situation of Bahá’ís in Iran;
and Vance Salisbury’s views concerning the textual history of Esslemont’s
Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era.
H-Bahai also digitally published large amounts of text that is freely avail-
able on the World Wide Web, including:

William Garlington. “The Development of the Bahá’í Faith in Malwa: 1941-
1974.” Occasional Papers in Shaykhí, Bábí and Bahá’í Studies, vol. 3,
no. 1 (February, 1999).
Juan R. I. Cole. “The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Bahá’í
Scriptures.” Occasional Papers in Shaykhí, Bábí and Bahá’í Studies, vol.
3, no. 2 (April, 1999).
both at http://www2.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/bhpapers.htm ;
and
Juan R. I. Cole Bahá’u’lláh’s Commentary on a Verse of Rumi Research Notes
in Shaykhí, Bábí and Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, no. 1 (January 1999)
Frank Lewis Scripture as Literature Research Notes in Shaykhí, Bábí and
Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 3, no. 2 (April 1999)
Sepehr Manuchehri, The Practice of Taqíyyih (Dissimulation) in the Bábí and
Bahá’í Religions, Research Notes in Shaykhí, Bábí and Bahá’í Studies,
Vol. 3, no. 3 (September 1999)
Report on Scholarship for 1999
the Library grew to encompass all published Sacred Writings and a number
of related primary source items, from provisional translations to original com-
pilations to transcriptions of talks by notable Baha’i figures. As well, it has
either published or re-published hundreds of secondary-source items, includ-
ing academic articles, essays, books, and book reviews. Finally, a number of
resource tools such as bibliographies and academic study guides have been
contributed, including materials prepared for the Wilmette Institute. As well as
“premiering” works online, the Library seeks to mirror any and all academic or
primary source material appearing at any other website online. As there is still
relatively such material on the internet, I believe that we have been successful
at mirroring at least 95% of all such material posted at other sites.
The Bahá’í Academic Resource Library’s mandate is simple, if ambitious.
It seeks to make available any and all material on or related to the Bahá’í Faith
which is either academic in origin or of potential use in academic research.
The four criteria I use in deciding what to include are whether an item is (1)
scholastically useful; (2) historically significant; (3) is a primary source, e.g. the
Sacred Writings; or (4) has been published by reputable, scholastically-oriented
agencies. This is usually regardless of content. That is, materials are neither
accepted nor rejected on the basis of the author’s belief or the relevance of the
material to promoting entry by troops. However, the four criteria outlined above
do tend to exclude deepening material, promotional items, and the majority of
apologia on the one hand, and polemical or excessively tendentious material
on the other hand. The Library’s mandate is not exclusively an “academic
exercise,” if the double entendre will be forgiven. Exceptions to these four
criteria have been made when it was deemed necessary to favor community
sensibilities over academic utility. For example, material that might pass one
or even all four of these criteria that could yet be excessively controversial or
inflammatory, or of a highly personal or sensitive nature, has been omitted. I
do not view this as renouncing academic principles, but rather as necessary
deference, a bow to the delicacies of working in an intra-faith environment in
which one must honor both the primary audience and the contributors.
The Library’s goals for the next two or three years are twofold. In the near
future, I will simply continue adding material as it gets contributed, and as
well I am gradually — as time allows and volunteer help appears and fades
away — revising and improving the archive of published Sacred Writings.
The more distant goal is to categorize and formalize the structure of the Li-
brary, using as a starting point the Library of Congress classification scheme
expanded upon by William Collins and currently under implementation at the
Baha’i World Center archives.
The Library also provides space to other, thematic collections of material
maintained by other individuals, such as the Baha’i Association for the Arts,
Baha’i materials in Russian, and Baha’i materials on East Asia. These are
independent projects which are housed at but not maintained by the editors of

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Bahá”). Volume 75. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran,
1978. Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999. Prayers.
Maqalih-’i Shakhsi Sayyah kid dar qadiyyih-i Báb nivishtih ast [A Traveller’s
Narrative] Ed. and Trans. E. G. Browne. 2 vols.: Persian Text Volume 1.
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891) Reprinted, H-Bahai:
Lansing, Mi., 1999.
and:
Ardikani, Sadri Navabzadih. “Matalibi dar barih-’i Tarikh-i Nabil-I Zarandi”
(Issues in the Study of the Chronicle of Nabil Zarandi). Mutali`i-i Ma`arif-
i Baha’i no. 18. (Tehran: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 134 B.E./C.E. 1978).
Reprinted, Lansing, Mi.: H-Bahai, 1999.
And the following works by the Báb (http://www2.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/
index/albab.htm ):
Majmu‘ih-’i Athar-i Hadrat-i A‘la (“Collected Letters of the Báb”). Volume 40.
Iran National Baha’i Archives Private Printing: Tehran, c. 1977. Reprinted,
H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999. Notes: Contains Tafsir Surat wa’l-‘Asr, Ithbat
an-Nubuwwah al-Khassah, Dar Bayan-i I‘tiqadat, Javab-I Su’al-i Hadrat-i
Vali, Javab-i Su’al-i Mirza Sa‘id Ardistani, Javab-I Su’al-i Hadrat-i Mu-
hammad ‘Ali Mudhhib, Risalat al-‘Alamin al-Ukhra.
Majmu‘ih-‘i az athar-i Nuqtih-’i Ula va Subh-i Azal Tehran, n.d. (1950?).
Digitally reprinted (Lansing, MI: H-Bahai, 1999).
Risalah fi an-Nubuwwah al-Khassah (Treatise on the Special Prophethood of
the Prophet Muhammad) MS in private hands. (Lansing, MI: H-Bahai,
1999).
Tafsir Surat al-Baqarah (Commentary on the Surah of the Cow).. Iran National
Baha’i Archives, Private Printing, no. 69, Tehran, 1977. Digital publication
of manuscript facsimile. (Lansing, MI: H-Bahai, 1999).
Tafsir Surat al-Hamd (Commentary on the Fatihah) Iran National Bahá’í
Archives, Private Printing, no. 69, Tehran, 1977. Digital publication of
manuscript facsimile. (Lansing, MI: H-Bahai, 1999).
Tafsir Surat al-Qadr (Commentary on the Surah of Power [Qur’án 97]). Iran
National Bahá’í Archives, Private Printing, Tehran, 1977. Digital publica-
tion of manuscript facsimile. (Lansing, MI: H-Bahai, 1999).
Tafsir Surat at-Tawhid (Commentary on the Surah of Unity [Qur’án 112]). Iran
National Bahá’í Archives, Private Printing, Tehran, 1977. Digital publica-
tion of manuscript facsimile. (Lansing, MI: H-Bahai, 1999).
Tasbih Fatimah (In Praise of Fatimah). Digital publication of manuscript
facsimile. (Lansing, MI: H-Bahai, 1998);
Report on Scholarship for 1999
at http://www2.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/notes/research.htm ;
and
Denis MacEoin “Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of the Bell (Lawh an-Naqus) for the
Báb.” Arabic Text appended. Translations of Shaykhí, Bábí and Bahá’í
Texts (Reprint Edition). vol. 3, no. 1 (February, 1999).
Juan R. I. Cole “Shoghi Effendi on the Charity Fund.” Translations of Shaykhí,
Bábí and Bahá’í Texts, vol. 3, no. 2 (March, 1999).
Juan R. I. Cole “Bahá’u’lláh’s Surah of the Companions (Surat al-Ashab): Text,
Introduction and Translation.” Translations of Shaykhi, Bábí and Bahá’í
Texts, vol. 3, no. 3 (November, 1999).
Juan R. I. Cole “Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets of the Holy Mariner: Text and Trans-
lation.” Translations of Shaykhi, Babi and Bahá’í Texts, vol. 3, no. 4
(December, 1999).
It reprinted:
Browne, Edward Granville. A Year Amongst the Persians. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1927. [First published A & C Black, Ltd.,
1893].
Browne, Edward Granville. A Traveller’s Narrative (Makala-i-Shakhsi Sayyah]
Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb. By Abbas Efendi, Son of
Bahá’u’lláh. Volume 1: Persian Text. Volume II: English Translation and
Notes. (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891).
————. “Personal Reminiscences of the Bábí Insurrection at Zanjan in 1850”
Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society Vol. 29 (1897): pages 761-827.
————. “Autobiography and Silence: The Early Career of Shaykhu’r-Ra’is
Qajar,” in Johann Christoph Bürgel and Isabel Schayani, eds., Iran im 19.
Jarhundert und die Entstehung der Baha’i-Religion (Zürich: Georg Olms
Verlag, 1998), pp. 91-126.
at :  http://www2.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/index/diglib/diglib.htm
It also digitally posted, in Arabic and Persian:
The following works by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá  (http://www2.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/
abtext.htm ):
Makatib-i Hadrat-i ‘Abdu’l-Baha khitab bih Yuhanna Da’ud (“Letters of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Yuhanna Da’ud”). MS. Digitally Published, H-Bahai:
Lansing, Mi., 1999.
Majmu‘ih-’i Makatib-i Hadrat-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá  (“Collected Letters of ‘Abdu’l-

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
Notes on Contributors
Mahyar Amjadi is practicing as a dentist in the state of Victoria. He has
a keen interest in the arts and its impacts on society. The implications of the
life in the Bahá’í community as well interactions with the society at large,
have been the points of inspiration for the on-going thinking process outlined
in this paper.
Belinda Belton grew up in New Guinea and Rhodesia, before settling in
Perth. She studied and worked in Japan for two and a half years and received
a B.A. in Asian Studies from Curtin University in 1991.  Her poem ‘Sixteen’
was awarded in the West Australian Young Writer’s Award when she was in
year eleven.  She has had poetry included in anthologies by the Poet’s Union
and UNE.  Cognizant of the passion and the poignancy with which the early
Baha’i believers expressed their faith through poetry, Belinda looks forward
to a flourishing of all the Baha’i arts, including verse, in the years ahead. She
works as a flight attendant for Qantas and lives in the Blue Mountains with
her husband Terry.
Robin Chandler is a tenured Associate Professor at Northeastern Univer-
sity in Boston. An artist and sociologist, Dr. Chandler has conducted research
in the U.S., Brazil, southern Africa, and Australia for more than 20 years. A
proponent of action research in the areas of globalism and identity, cultural
policy advising, multimedia applications, and micro-enterprise development in
rural arts, crafts, and cultural tourism has earned her grants from the NEA, NSF,
the Fullbright Commission, and numerous awards and honors. As founding-
director of Caravan for international Culture (CIC-1980) Chandler’s reputation
as an educational consultant and teacher-trainer has focused on education for
global citizenship. Widely published in the area of popular culture and the
arts, Chandler is an exhibiting artist with the U. S. State Departments’ Arts in
Embassies Program, and director of The Peace Doors Project.
Miriam Dixson, B.A. History Hons.(Melbourne); M.A. (History Hons.
Melbourne); Ph.D. (Australian National University); D.Litt. (hon.causa. Uni-
versity of New England.); Hon.Fellow (University of New England). Miriam
Dixson has taught history in the History Departments at the Universities of
Melbourne, New South Wales, Monash, and the University of New England.
She has been a Fulbright Senior Research Scholar, a Visiting Scholar at Harvard
University and a member of the Federal Government’s Commission for the
Future. In August 1999, the University of New South Wales Press published
Dixson’s most wide-ranging analysis of Australian identity to date, The Imagi-
nary Australian. This book has  drawn considerable acclaim. In addition, she
Report on Scholarship for 1999
The following works by Bahá’u’lláh (http://www2.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/
bahatext.htm ):
“Majmu`ih-’i Athar-i Qalam-i A`la” (“Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh”).
Volume 26. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran, 1976.
Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999.
“Majmu`ih-’i Athar-i Qalam-i A`la” (“Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh”).
Volume 35. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran, 1977.
Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999.
“Majmu`ih-’i Athar-i Qalam-i A`la” (“Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh”).
Volume 42. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran, 1977.
Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999.
“Majmu`ih-’i Athar-i Qalam-i A`la” (“Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh”).
Volume 48. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran, 1977.
Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999.
“Majmu`ih-’i Athar-i Qalam-i A`la” (“Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh”).
Volume 49. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran, 1977.
Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999.
“Majmu`ih-’i Athar-i Qalam-i A`la” (“Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh”).
Volume 57. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran, 1977.
Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999.
“Majmu`ih-’i Athar-i Qalam-i A`la” (“Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh”).
Volume 61. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran, 1977.
Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999.
“Majmu`ih-’i Athar-i Qalam-i A`la” (“Collected Letters of Bahá’u’lláh”).
Volume 66. Iran National Bahá’í Archives Private Printing: Tehran, 1977.
Reprinted, H-Bahai: Lansing, Mi., 1999.
Panj Kanz (“The Five Treasures”). Oral discourse of Bahá’u’lláh in early
1860s in Baghdad to a handful of Iranian expatriate princes, recorded by
Nabil Zarandi. Published in Ahang-i Badi` (Publication details not avail-
able). References: Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh 4 vols.
(Oxford: George Ronald, 1974-1987), 2:140-143.
and
Fadil Mazandarani, Tarikh-i Zuhur al-Haqq (History of the Babi-Bahá’í
Religions in Iran), Volumes 5 and 6. Lansing, Michigan: H-Bahai, 1999 at
http://www2.h-net.msu.edu/~bahai/index/diglib/mazand1.htm
Zanjani, ‘Abd al-Ahad. Account of the Siege of Zanjan (in Persian). Persian
MS. (Lansing, MI: H-Bahá’í Digital Publications, 1999).

Australian Bahá’í Studies, Vol. 2, 2000
June Perkins is a devoted parent of two, writer & academic whose poetry
has appeared most recently in publications such as ANU Poet’s Lunch Com-
pilation (2000) and Ulitarra.  She has worked on a number of collaborative
dramas with women and youth in theatre and radio and served in a variety of
committees within the Bahá’í community at national, local and regional levels
since her youth.  Her parents declared as Bahá’ís in Tasmania in 1975. Through
them she is a world citizen whose heritage includes Mekeo, English, Irish and
French ancestors. Her present goals are to finish her doctorate at University of
Sydney, learn to drive, get more sleep, and move into filmmaking.
Ron Price is 57 and has just retired after a thirty-year career as a teacher in
primary, secondary and post-secondary schools. He lives with his wife and son
in Tasmania. He became a Bahá’í in Canada in 1959. Forty of his booklets of
poetry, entitled ‘Pioneering Over Three Epochs,’  are now in the Bahá’í World
Centre Library. They are part of the celebration of the Mt. Carmel Project and
of the ‘befitting crescendo’ to the achievements of the Bahá’í community in
the twentieth century.
Negin Sanaei graduated from Macquarie University in 1997 with a
Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Economics. She currently works for Chal-
lenger International Ltd as the Training Coordinator for the Unit Trust Area.
Her scholarly interests include global economic affairs and the international
political economy climate.
Walter Waia is originally from Saibai Island in the Torres Strait, Qld.
He and his family currently live on Thursday Island where he works as an
Executive Officer of the Native Title Office, Torres Strait Regional Authority.
Walter is a poet and a writer. In 2000, he participated in the Queensland Writers
Centre’s first Indigenous Mentorship Program. He is currently completing his
autobiography. He was introduced to the Bahá‚í Faith in 1986 and declared
his belief in 1991. Since that time he states that: “My life took a new direction
and my perspective to the world realised a real journey.”
Notes on Contributors
is the author of many other publications including books, monographs, book
chapters and journal articles.
Karel Fontaine was educated to matriculation and then secretarial training.
She worked in advertising, publishing, and art gallery management. Emigrated
to Canada in 1967; again managed an art gallery. Travelled and taught English
in South America, 1969; married an Australian; arrived Australia 1971. Mother
to three, grandmother to one, traveller, geographer, artist - currently exploring
textiles, in particular felt. Bahá’í since 1983. Lives in the bush in Tasmania.
Paul Gerard is a retired librarian, living in Tasmania. He was introduced
to the Australian National Bahá’í Centre’s library, and its problems, by his
daughter, June Perkins. Nowadays, Mr. Gerard’s most important job is caring
for his handicapped son - but he finds some spare time to work on projects
like this one.
Michael Knopf has a Bachelor of Music with Honours in composition. He
currently works as a lecturer in music at James Cook University in Cairns. He
has self-published over 30 original works for solo instruments and vocal pieces
including The Mountain of God for soli, chorus, and orchestra. He became a
Bahá’í in 1971 and has served in various capacities since that time. He cur-
rently serves as an Auxiliary Board Member for Propogation.
Sepehr Manuchehri is an Electrical Engineer - Curtin Unviersity of
Technology MBA (Human Resources) - University of Western Australia. His
research Interests are Bábí history, theology and thought. Published: “Fea-
tures of the Bábí Resistance at Shaykh Tabarsi” in Journal of Bahá’í  Studies
Australia 1998. Translated many extracts from primary Bahá’í sources which
are about to be digitally published. He is currently working on a biography of
Mirza Yahya Subh-i Azal, the half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh. This paper started
off as a Chapter to this book and gradually expanded to become an independ-
ent work. It relies mostly on primary source material, most of which have not
been translated in to English before. Understanding the process of Taqiyyih
gives a better insight in to the survival of the Bábí religion and dynamics of
the early Bahá’í communities.
Vahid Payman is a psychogeriatrician and a cartoonist. His main inter-
est is the human psyche and its pictorial representation. Under the name of
“VADO”, he held his first major exhibition called “The Bot Series” in Mel-
bourne, December 1999.

(continued from inside front cover)
include analyses of specific teaching methods, projects,
and outcomes; reports on issues of management,
leadership, and administration; application of the Bahá’í
Teachings to issues of concern in Australian society;
community histories; biographies; literary essays; and
essays on Bahá’í theology and religious studies.
Contributions may be in the form of essays, review articles,
case studies, and reports on research in progress.
The editors are seeking papers that have the following qualities:
•  The paper has clearly defined and properly focussed aims
•  The paper makes a contribution to thinking on the subject
•  The paper is presented in a coherent manner
•  The paper provides an appropriate review of existing literature

on the subject
•  The paper provides appropriate and accurate citations for all

material referred to
All submissions are subject to editorial review and should
be submitted in IBM-compatible electronic form or on
paper, in duplicate, to:
The Editors
Australian Bahá’í Studies
173 Mona Vale Rd,
Ingleside NSW 2101
email: abs@bahai.org.au
Layout & cover design: Stephen Beale

Australian Bahá’í Studies promotes analysis
of issues relevant to the Australian Bahá’í
community. It encourages exploration of
the history, teachings, and philosophy of
the Bahá’í Faith in systematic, reflective, or
artistic ways. It thus offers itself as a medium
of communication for anyone who is
interested in the development of the
Australian Bahá’í community.
In view of the Bahá’í vision of scholarship
as an activity accessible to all, rather than
one limited to a small academic community,
Australian Bahá’í Studies seeks input from
people
of
diverse
backgrounds
and
viewpoints, in a way that assists in
redefining what is meant by scholarly
practice. The readers of the journal have an
interest in teaching the Bahá’í Faith, serving
its administrative organs, and participating
in its community life. It is also of interest to
those studying the model that the Bahá’í
community offers for the resolution of
contemporary problems.