THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-07-04

translations to publication in books and pamphlets, provided that they are of adequate quality, without involving the delays which would be required to have them thoroughly reviewed, corrected and polished.

305-2. See no. 302, pp. 674–76.305.2

305.3

305.4

305.5

305.6

305.7

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

6811. Tablets, or extracts therefrom, translated into english for use

or publication by the bahá’í world center will continue to be

reviewed by an ad hoc translation and review committee at the

world center and designated as authorized translations.

2. individual believers are free to translate into english any of the

holy writings for their own use. Such translations may also

be issued electronically, and may be published in circulars or journals without review by anyone other than the editors of the publications, but they must, in all cases, be clearly labeled as “provisional translations.”

3. if such translations are to be included in books or pamphlets in-

tended for publication by a bahá’í publisher, the T rust or private

publisher involved should forward the manuscript to the bahá’í

world center for clearance, together with copies of the Arabic or

persian texts used in the translation. if the publisher is not a bahá’í

agency, the authors or translators themselves should forward the manuscript and the Arabic or persian texts to the bahá’í world

center for consideration prior to the involvement of any non-bahá’í publisher. if the translations are found to be of a quality

adequate for publication, the manuscript will be returned to the sender with a note to this effect. Such translations should be identi-

fied as “provisional translations.” if the translations are found not

to be of acceptable quality, they will be returned to the translator

for reworking. This procedure does not replace the normal review

process for the book as a whole, which remains the responsibility

of the National Spiritual Assembly within whose area of jurisdic-tion the book or pamphlet is to be published.

Appendix iii

POLICIES GOVERNING THE PUBLICATION AND TRANSLATION

OF BAHÁ’Í HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]